 Case Number:  23STCV02798    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2024    Dept:  29 Kham v. Morlin
Asset Management
23STCV02798
Motion to Continue Trial filed by Defendant ABM Industry Groups, LLC.
Tentative
The motion is granted.
Background
On February 8, 2023, Shaheriav Kham (“Plaintiff”) filed a
complaint against Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (“LACMTA”),
Morlin Asset Management, LP (“Morlin”), and Does 1 through 20, asserting a
cause of action for premises liability arising out of an alleged slip and fall
at Union Station in Los Angeles on June 20, 2022.
 
On April 27, 2023, County of Los Angeles (erroneously
sued as LACMTA) (“County”) filed an answer. 
 
On August 30, 2023, Morlin filed an answer.
 
On June 7, 2024, Plaintiff amended the complaint to name ABM
Industries, Inc. as Doe 1. 
 
On July 12, 2024, ABM Industry Groups, LLC (erroneously
sued as ABM Industries, Inc.) (“ABM”) filed an answer.
 
On October 3, 2024, ABM filed this motion to continue
trial. A joint stipulation to continue was filed the same day. No opposition
has been filed.
 
Legal Standard
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 128, subdivision (a)(8),
provides that the court has the power to amend and control its process and
orders so as to make them conform to law and justice. “The power to determine
when a continuance should be granted is within the discretion of the trial
court.” (Color-Vue, Inc. v. Abrams (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 1599, 1603.) 
 
“A trial court has wide latitude in the matter of
calendar control including the granting or denying of continuances.” (Park
Motors, Inc. v. Cozens (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 12, 18.)  
“To ensure the prompt disposition of civil
cases, the dates assigned for trial are firm. 
All parties and their counsel must regard the date set for trial as
certain.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1332(a).)
“Although continuances of trials are
disfavored, each request for a continuance must be considered on its own
merits.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1332(c).)  “The court may grant a
continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the
continuance.”  (Ibid.)  Circumstances that may support a finding of
good cause include:  
“(1) The
unavailability of an essential lay or expert witness because of death, illness,
or other excusable circumstances;  
(2) The
unavailability of a party because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances;  
(3) The
unavailability of trial counsel because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances;  
(4) The
substitution of trial counsel, but only where there is an affirmative showing
that the substitution is required in the interests of justice;  
(5) The addition
of a new party if: (A) The new party has not had a reasonable opportunity to
conduct discovery and prepare for trial; or (B) The other parties have not had
a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial in regard
to the new party's involvement in the case; 

(6) A party's
excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material
evidence despite diligent efforts; or  
(7) A
significant, unanticipated change in the status of the case as a result of
which the case is not ready for trial.”  
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(c).)  
“In ruling on a motion or application for
continuance, the court must consider all the facts and circumstances that are
relevant to the determination.”  (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d).)  California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d) sets forth a non-exhaustive list of factors that
the court may consider:  
“(1) The
proximity of the trial date;  
(2) Whether
there was any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to
any party;  
(3) The length
of the continuance requested;  
(4) The
availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the
motion or application for a continuance; 

(5) The
prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance;

(6) If the case
is entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status and
whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; 
(7) The court's
calendar and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending trials; 
(8) Whether
trial counsel is engaged in another trial; 

(9) Whether all
parties have stipulated to a continuance; 

(10) Whether the
interests of justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the
matter, or by imposing conditions on the continuance; and  
(11) Any other
fact or circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or
application.”  
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d).) 
“A trial court may not refuse to hear a summary judgment
motion filed within the time limits of section 437c.” (Sentry Ins. Co. v.
Superior Court (1989) 207 Cal.App.3d 526, 529; accord Cole v. Superior
Court (2022) 87 Cal.App.5th 84, 88.)
Discussion
ABM requests
a trial continuance.  The parties have
signed a joint stipulation to continue trial to June 9, 2025.
As set forth in
the recitals of the stipulation, ABM appeared in this action in July 2024 and
has not yet received responses to discovery from Plaintiff.  In addition, there is some uncertainty
regarding whether County (which has been served and appeared) or LACMTA (which
was named in the complaint but has not been served) is the correct defendant in
this action.  
No opposition has
been filed.
The Court finds that
good cause has been shown.  The motion is
granted.
Conclusion
The Court GRANTS the motion to continue trial.

The Court CONTINUES trial to a date on or
after June 9, 2025.  The Final Status Conference and all deadlines
are reset based on the new trial date.
Moving Party is ORDERED to give notice.