 Case Number:  23STCV10191    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2024    Dept:  29 Williams v. Los Angeles Dodgers, LLC
23STCV10191
Motion to be Relieved as Counsel, filed by Plaintiff’s
Counsel Nineli Sarkissian, Esq.
Tentative
The motion is granted.
Background
On May 5, 2023, Donald Williams (“Plaintiff”)
filed a complaint against Los Angeles Dodgers, LLC, Dodger Tickets, LLC, Dodger
Tickets Manager Corp., LA HoldCo LLC, LA Stadium Partners LLC, LA Real Estate
Holding Company, LLC, Blue Landco, LLC, Guggenheim Partners Investment
Management, LLC, Mark Walter, and Does 1 through 100, asserting causes of
action for (1) negligence, (2) premises liability, (3) negligent hiring,
retention and supervision, (4) negligence infliction of emotional distress, (5)
assault, (6) battery, (7) false imprisonment, and (8) intentional infliction of
emotional distress, all arising out of an alleged physical altercation that
took place at Los Angeles Dodger Stadium on July 26, 2022.
On June 23, 2023, Plaintiff amended the
complaint to name Steven Cohen, America Media & Entertainment LLC, MGSL
Holdings LLC, LA Real Estate LLC, Chavez Ravine Company LLC, Dodger Land
Company, LLC, and McCourt Chavez Ravie Member LLC as Does 1-7.
On October 9, 2023, Los Angeles Dodgers, LLC
filed an answer.
On January 23, 2024, Plaintiff filed requests
to dismiss Guggenheim Partners Investment Management, LLC, LA Real Estate LLC,
Dodger Tickets Manager Corp., LA HoldCo LLC, Mark Walter, LA Stadium Partners
LLC, LA Real Estate Holding Company, LLC, Blue Landco, LLC, and Dodger Tickets,
LLC.
On September 30, 2024, Nineli Sarkissian, Esq. of Morgan & Morgan Los
Angeles, LLP (“Counsel”) filed this motion to be relieved as counsel. No
opposition has been filed. 
Legal
Standard
The court may order that an attorney be changed or
substituted at any time before or after judgment or final determination upon
request by either client or attorney and after notice from one to the other.
(Code of Civ. Proc., § 284, subd. (b).) An attorney is permitted to
withdraw where conflicts between the attorney and client make it unreasonable
to continue the representation. (See Cal. Rules of Prof. Conduct
3-700(C)(1).) “The determination whether to grant or deny a motion to
withdraw as counsel lies within the sound discretion of the trial court.” (Manfredi
& Levine v. Superior Court (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 1128,
1133.)   
 
An application to be relieved as counsel must be made on
Judicial Counsel Form MC-051 (Notice of Motion and Motion) (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1362(a)), MC-052 (Declaration) (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.136(c)), and MC-053 (Proposed Order) (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1362(e)).   
 
Further, the requisite forms must be served on the client
and all other parties who have appeared in the case. (Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 3.1362(d).) The court may delay effective date of the order relieving
counsel until proof of service of a copy of the signed order on the client has
been filed with the court. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362(e).) 
 
Discussion
 
Counsel has
filed the Notice, Declaration of Order to be Relieved as Counsel on all parties
in this matter as well as filed proof of personal service of the motion on
Plaintiff. Counsel contends there has been a breakdown of the attorney-client
relationship and seeks to be relieved as Plaintiff’s attorney of record. 
The Court finds
Counsel has established good cause to be relieved as attorney of record for
Plaintiff due to the breakdown to the attorney-client relationship.
Therefore, the
motion to be relieved as counsel is GRANTED.
Conclusion
The motion to be
relieved as counsel is GRANTED. 
The order is
effective upon filing with the Court a proof of service showing service of the
signed order (not just the minute order) on the client.
Moving counsel
to give notice.