 Case Number:  22STV18602    Hearing Date:   January 7, 2025    Dept:  73 01/07/2025
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf M. Treu,
Judge presiding
 
Veronica Avery v. Catherine Belanger,
et al. (22STCV18602)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff/opposing party: Stone & Sallus, LLP
Counsel for
Defendant/moving party: Business Litigation Lawyers and The Ginder Law Group
 
Motion to Vacate the court’s order
deeming requests for admissions admitted (filed 11/06/2024)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Defendant’s Motion to Vacate the Court’s Order Deeming Requests for
Admissions Admitted is DENIED.
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On June 7, 2022, Plaintiff Veronica Avery (“Plaintiff”) filed a
Complaint against Defendant Catherine Belanger (“Catherine”), Benjamin Belanger
(“Benjamin”), and Kannella, Inc. dba Re/Max All-Pro (“Re/Max”) and Does 1
through 10, inclusive, alleging causes of action for: (1) Elder Financial
Abuse, (2) Breach of Fiduciary Duty, (3) Fraud, (4) Violation of Bus. &
Prof. Code § 17200, and (5) Declaratory and Injunctive Relief.
 
On January 10, 2024, Plaintiff filed an Amendment to her Complaint
that identified Defendant Only Escrow, Inc. (“Only Escrow” or “Defendant”) as Doe
1. On March 6, 2024, Only Escrow filed its Answer to Plaintiff’s complaint.
 
On or about June 7, 2024, Plaintiff served on Only Escrow her Requests
for Admission, Set One (the “RFAs”). On August 5, 2024, after not receiving any
responses to the RFAs, Plaintiff filed and served its Motion to Deem Requests
for Admission Admitted (the “RFA Motion”), for hearing on September 12, 2024.
 
Only Escrow did not file an Opposition. But, three days before the
hearing on the RFA Motion, on September 9, 2024, Defendant served its responses
to the RFAs.
 
On September 12, 2024, at the hearing on the RFA Motion, Defendant failed
to appear. The Court ultimately granted the Motion and found the RFAs deemed
admitted. The Court also granted Plaintiff sanctions against Defendant in the
amount of $1,515.
 
On November 6, 2024, Defendant filed the instant Motion to Vacate the
Court’s Order Deeming Requests for Admissions Admitted, arguing:
·               
When Plaintiff served its RFAs on
Defendant, Plaintiff improperly failed to serve all counsel for Only Escrow,
which caused Defendant to miss the deadline for response.
·               
Nonetheless, Only Escrow served
responses to Plaintiff’s RFAs on September 9, 2024, before the hearing on
Plaintiff’s RFA Motion.
·               
Plaintiff’s counsel failed to inform the
Court that Defendant’s responses to the RFAs had been served prior to the
hearing to gain an undue advantage, which resulted in the Court’s issuance of
an erroneous and prejudicial order.
·               
Plaintiff’s counsel’s actions wasted
judicial resources by necessitating the Court’s consideration of an avoidable
motion.
·               
Plaintiff’s counsel’s conduct forced
Defendant to file the instant motion, resulting in unnecessary costs and
expenses.
·               
Plaintiff’s counsel’s actions constitute
bad faith, a violation of professional duties, and warrant the imposition of
monetary sanctions in favor of Defendant.
In opposition, Plaintiff argues that:
·               
Plaintiff’s motion does not provide any
authority that supports its request for the Court to vacate its prior order.
·               
Defendant’s
argument regarding improper service of the RFAs were previously heard by this
Court in a different discovery motion hearing on September 13, 2024, and the
Court was not persuaded by them. (Carpinelli Decl., ¶ 6.)
·               
Defendant
failed to file an Opposition to Plaintiff’s RFA Motion, which could have
obviated the need for this motion.
·               
Defendant’s
failure to attend the hearing on the RFA Motion caused the issuance of the
Court’s prior order, and any arguments raised in the instant motion are tardy.
·               
If the
Court granted Defendant’s Motion to vacate, it would significantly prejudice
Plaintiff.
Defendant has not filed a Reply.
 
II. ANALYSIS
 
A.      Legal
Standard for Motion to Deem Requests for Admission Admitted
 
A party must
respond to requests for admissions (“RFAs”) within 30 days after service of
such requests. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.250, subd. (a).) “If a party to whom
requests for admission are directed failed to service a timely response … (a)
[that party] waives any objection to the requests, including one based on
privilege or on the protection for work product….” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2033.280, subd.(a).) “The requesting party may move for an order that the
genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in the
requests be deemed admitted, as well as for a monetary sanction under Chapter
7.” (Id. at subd. (b).) 
 
If the
requesting party moves to deem the RFAs admitted, “[t]he court shall make this
order, unless it finds that the party to whom the requests for admission have
been directed has served, before the hearing on the motion, a proposed response
to the requests for admission that is in substantial compliance with Section
2033.220. It is mandatory that the court impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) on the party or attorney, or both,
whose failure to serve a timely response to requests for admission necessitated
this motion.” (Id. at subd. (c).)
 
B.      Defendant’s
Motion to Vacate
 
Here,
Plaintiff correctly observes that Defendant has not presented any legal
authority sufficient to justify the Court’s vacation of its prior order deeming
the RFAs admitted. Defendant relies exclusively on the legal standard to deem
requests for admissions admitted, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
2033.280, subdivision (c), and argues that, since it had served responses on
Defendant three days before the hearing on the RFA Motion, the Court’s order
deeming the RFAs admitted was erroneous.
 
In St.
Mary v. Superior Court (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 762 (“St. Mary”), the
Court of Appeal, interpreting Code of Civil Procedure section 2033.280,
subdivision (c), reversed a trial court’s decision to deem a set of RFAs
admitted when they were only served four days late. (Id., at pp. 767,
769.) The St. Mary Court held as follows:
 
Unless the court determines that the responding “has
served, before the hearing on the motion, a proposed response to the requests
for admission that is in substantial compliance with Section 2033.220,” it must
order the RFAs deemed admitted. ([Code Civ. Proc. section 2033.280], subd.
(c).) … But a responding party’s service, prior to the hearing on the “deemed
admitted” motion, of substantially compliance response, will defeat a
propounding party’s attempt under section 2033.280 to have the RFAs deemed admitted.
[Citation.] As one court put it: “If the party manages to serve its responses
before the hearing, the court has no discretion but to deny the motion. But woe
betide the party who fails to serve responses before the hearing. In that
instance the court has no discretion but to grant the admission motion, usually
with fatal consequences for the defaulting party. One might call it ‘two strike
and you’re out’ as applied to civil procedure. [Citation.]
 
(Id.
at p. 776.)
 
Here, the
undisputed facts show that Defendant failed to submit an opposition to
Plaintiff’s RFA Motion and failed to appear and the hearing on such motion,
despite having notice of such motion since August 8 (Ginder Decl. ¶ 6 “My
office only became aware of Plaintiff’s RFAs and the subsequent motion … on
August 8, 2024”; Carpinelli Decl. ¶ 5 “Counsel for Defendant Only Escrow, Inc.
did not appear for the hearing. … The court called for Defendant’s counsel
multiple times, but they did not appear, and the Court granted the motion and
deemed the Requests for Admissions, Set One admitted. … The minute order for
the hearing states that counsel for Only Escrow did appear and that they
stipulated to the tentative ruling being granted.”)) These undisputed facts obviate
Defendant’s argument that Plaintiff should have presented Defendant’s responses
to the RFAs at the September 12, 2024 hearing pursuant to the duty of candor.
Defendant had the opportunity to assist the court’s determination that it
served responses to the RFAs and missed it. Further, these facts directly
distinguish St. Mary. (St. Mary, supra, 223 Cal.App.4th at p.
770-771 (“Hollingsworth, on behalf of St. Mary, filed opposition to the Motion
on August 3. … [¶] … [¶] At the hearing on the Motion on August 17,
Schellenberg personally appeared and Hollingswoth appeared by telephone.”)
 
Accordingly,
the Court finds that Defendant has not presented a sufficient basis to justify
vacating its prior order deeming Plaintiff’s RFAs admitted as against
Defendant. On this basis, the Court also denies Defendant’s request for
monetary sanctions.
 

III. DISPOSITION
 
Defendant’s Motion to Vacate
the Court’s Order Deeming Requests for Admissions Admitted is DENIED. 
 
Further, the Court DENIES
Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions against Plaintiff.
 
Counsel for Defendant is to
give notice