 Case Number:  24STCV21285    Hearing Date:   January 7, 2025    Dept:  73 01/07/25
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge presiding
 
DANIEL
LITMAN, et al. v. LOWLY PALACE, LLC (24STCV21285)
 
Counsel
for Plaintiffs/opposing party:  Daniel
Litman and Paige Lopynski (Pro Per) 
Counsel
for Defendant/moving party:  Elliot
Gipson (Elliot Gipson PC)
 
demurrer AND
MOTION TO STRIKE PORTIONS OF THE complaint (filed 12/02/24)
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
Defendant’s demurrer is SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend.
 
Defendant’s motion to strike is DENIED.
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On August 20,
2024, Plaintiffs Daniel Litman and Paige Lopynski, collectively known as
“BONNIE X CLYDE” (“Plaintiffs”), filed this action against Defendant Lowly
Palace, LLC.
 
The Complaint
alleges the following. On September 9, 2022, Plaintiffs and Defendant entered
into a Recording Agreement (hereinafter “Agreement”) for the production and
promotion of music by Plaintiffs. On June 9, 2023, the Agreement was amended
(hereinafter “Amendment”) to increase the Recording Commitment and Marketing
Fund for the Option Period. The Agreement, as amended, provided for a total
Marketing Fund of $440,000, requiring mutual written approval for all marketing
expenditures. Section 5B of the Agreement stipulates that the Marketing Fund
shall be expended within 18 months of the final commercial release, which is
now defined as August 2, 2024. Despite Plaintiffs’ repeated requests for
written confirmations of expenditures, Defendant has explicitly stated their
refusal to spend the marketing funds unless a mutually agreed upon plan, which
Defendant has consistently obstructed, is reached. On August 12, 2024,
Plaintiffs issued a formal Notice of Termination of the Recording Agreement
dated September 9, 2022, as amended on June 9, 2023, between the Plaintiffs and
Defendant. This termination notice was necessitated by the Defendant’s
continued and material breaches of the Agreement.
 
The body of
Plaintiffs’ Complaint alleges the following
causes of action: 
C/A 1:  Anticipatory
Breach of Contract 
C/A 2:  Preliminary Injunction 
C/A 3:  Declaratory Judgment
C/A 4: Contract Termination
C/A 5: Revocation of Licenses
 
 
On September 25,
2024, Defendant filed its demurrer and motion to strike.  
 
On October 30,
2024, the Court sustained Defendant’s demurrer with 20 days leave to amend and
granted Defendant’s motion to strike. 
 
On October 30,
2024, Plaintiffs filed their operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against
Defendant with the same allegations as above. However, Plaintiff’s FAC alleges
the following causes of action: 
              C/A 1: Anticipatory Breach 
              C/A 2: Breach of Contract
              C/A 3: Breach of the Implied
Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
              C/A 4: Declaratory Relief
 
On December 2,
2024, Defendant filed the instant demurrer and motion to strike, arguing: 
·      
Defendant
demurs to the fourth cause of action for declaratory relief on the grounds that
it does not allege facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action as it is
duplicative of the first cause of action for anticipatory breach of contract. 
·      
Defendant
moves to strike the second cause of action for breach of contract on the
grounds that it was not asserted in the initial Complaint.  Plaintiffs did not request permission from
the Court to assert new causes of action, and Plaintiffs were not granted such
permission in the Court’s order granting leave to amend their initial
Complaint. 
·      
Defendant
moves to strike the third cause of action for breach of the implied covenant of
good faith and fair dealing for the same reason as above. 
 
Plaintiffs filed
an opposition, arguing:
·      
The
relation back doctrine and the Court's October 30, 2024 order, which granted
leave to amend with a 20-day time limitation but imposed no restrictions on
scope, permit adding new related claims. 
·      
The
fourth cause of action for declaratory relief is not duplicative of the first
cause of action for breach remedies but rather serves the distinct and
essential function of preventing future harm through prospective clarity.
 
Defendant filed a
reply, arguing: 
·      
The
relation back doctrine is inapplicable here because Defendant is not demurring
or moving to strike pursuant to any statute of limitations. 
·      
The
Court did not explicitly grant Plaintiffs permission to add new causes of
action. 
·      
Plaintiffs’
claim for declaratory relief is both unnecessary and improper because it is
duplicative of their claim for anticipatory breach, and it seeks adjudication
of the same, with similar remedies afforded through damages and injunctive
relief.  The Court previously dismissed
Plaintiff’s declaratory relief cause of action as duplicative. 
 
II. ANALYSIS
 
A.     
Meet
and Confer Requirement 
 
“Before filing a demurrer pursuant to
this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by
telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for
the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would
resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41, subd. (a).)  
 
Here,
counsel for Defendant filed a declaration stating that he met and
conferred with Plaintiffs by telephone and could not reach an agreement
resolving the matters raised by the demurrer and motion to strike.  (Declaration of Elliot Gipson Regarding Meet and
Confer.)
The Court finds the moving party satisfied its meet and confer obligation. Thus, the Court proceeds on
the merits.
 
B.     
Legal
Standard for Demurrer
 
A demurrer tests the sufficiency of
whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007)
147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the
allegations liberally and in context—any defects must be apparent on the face
of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins.
Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the pleading alone,
and not the evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc.
Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes the
truth of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Id.)
The only issue a demurrer is concerned with is whether the complaint, as it
stands, states a cause of action. (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p.
747.)
 
C.     
Fourth
Cause of Action: Declaratory Relief
 
Defendant argues that Plaintiffs’ fourth
cause of action for declaratory relief is duplicative of their first cause of
action for anticipatory breach of contract.
 
“To qualify for declaratory relief, a
party would have to demonstrate its action presented two essential elements:
(1) a proper subject of declaratory relief, and (2) an actual controversy
involving justiciable questions relating to the party’s rights or
obligations.”  (Jolley v. Chase Home
Finance, LLC (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 872, 909, cleaned up.)  “[T]here is no basis for declaratory relief
where only past wrongs are involved.”  (Osseous
Technologies of America, Inc. v. DiscoveryOrtho Partners LLC (2010) 191
Cal.App.4th 357, 366, cleaned up.)
 
The FAC alleges that a present
controversy exists regarding the parties’ ongoing rights and obligations under
the Agreement, specifically: 
i)                   
Whether
Defendant must immediately expend remaining Marketing Fund amounts
ii)                 
Whether
Defendant may continue to exploit recordings
iii)               
Whether
Plaintiffs may enter new agreements with third parties 
iv)               
Whether
Defendant is obligated to expend the full Marketing Fund within eighteen (18)
months.
v)                 
Whether
Plaintiffs have the right to terminate the Agreement due to Defendant’s
material breaches.
vi)               
Whether
Defendant must cease exploiting Plaintiffs’ recordings following the
termination.
(FAC ¶ 50.) The FAC further provides
that Plaintiffs desire a judicial determination and declaration of the parties’
rights and duties under the Agreement.  (Id.
at ¶ 52.)
 
Defendant argues that “Plaintiffs’
statement of facts and the derivative causes of action are seemingly grounded
in one ultimate claim: Defendant’s alleged failure to ‘fulfill it contractual
obligation to expend a $440,00 Marketing Fund within the specified timeframe.’”
(Demurrer p. 5.) Plaintiff’s request is repeated from Plaintiff’s complaint,
and the Court previously dismissed Plaintiff’s declaratory relief claim “on the
basis that it did not amount to anything more than a claim for anticipatory
breach.” (Ibid.)
 
The Court agrees.  The FAC alleges anticipatory breach of
contract as the first cause of action; and per the FAC, “[t]he Marketing Fund
is central to the Agreement; failure to expend it constitutes a material
breach.” (FAC ¶ 41.)  This allegation
(that Defendant failed to expend the Marketing Fund) is also at the center of
Plaintiff’s claim for declaratory relief. Specifically, the FAC alleges under
the declaratory relief claim that “[a] present controversy exists regarding the
parties’ ongoing rights and obligations under the Agreement, specifically: i)
Whether Defendant must immediately expend remaining Marketing Fund amounts …
iv) Whether Defendant is obligated to expend the full Marketing Fund within
eighteen (18) months.” (FAC ¶ 51.) Moreover, Plaintiff’s prayer for relief under
declaratory relief provides, “Defendant’s express refusal to expend the
Marketing Fund constitutes anticipatory breach – Plaintiff’s August 12, 2024
termination was valid and effective.” (FAC Prayer for Relief p. 23.) Similarly
to the Complaint, the Court finds that Plaintiffs fail to show how the claim
for declaratory relief in the FAC amounts to anything more than a claim for
anticipatory breach. 
 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the third
cause of action is sustained.
 
D.    
Motion to Strike 
 
A motion to strike lies only where the
pleading has irrelevant, false or improper matter, or has not been drawn or
filed in conformity with laws. (Civ. Proc. Code § 436.) The grounds for moving
to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.
(Id. § 437.) 
 
Following
orders sustaining demurrers, or granting motions for judgment on the pleadings,
with leave to amend, complainants may amend only as authorized by the court's
order, and cannot add new parties or claims outside the scope of the order,
unless that would directly respond to reasons for sustaining the
demurrer. (Harris v. Wachovia Mortg., FSB (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th
1018, 1023.)
 
Defendant requests the Court to strike
portions of the Complaint as follows: (1) second cause of action for breach of
contract; and (2) third cause of action for breach of the implied covenant of
good faith and fair dealing. Defendant argues that Plaintiffs did not assert
these claims in the initial Complaint, Plaintiffs did not request permission
from the Court to assert new causes of action, and Plaintiffs were not granted
such permission in the Court’s Order of October 30, 2024 granting leave to
amend the initial Complaint. 
 
Here,
Plaintiffs filed their FAC due to Defendant’s demurrer (filed on September 25,
2024) to the initial Complaint. In the order sustaining Defendant’s demurrer,
the Court granted leave to amend with respect to the original five causes of
action: Anticipatory Breach of Contract; Preliminary Injunction; Declaratory
Judgment; Contract Termination; and Revocation of Licenses. Plaintiffs added
two new causes of action without leave of Court, and the FAC was filed due to
the ruling on the previous demurrer.  A pleading challenge to an entire cause of action is by demurrer
rather than a motion to strike under CCP section 436: “While under section 436,
a court at any time may, in its discretion, strike portions of a complaint that
are irrelevant, improper, or not drawn in conformity with the law, matter that
is essential to a cause of action should not be struck and it is error to do
so.¿ [Citation.]¿Where a whole cause of action is the proper subject of a
pleading challenge, the court should sustain a demurrer to the cause of action
rather than grant a motion to strike. [Citation.]”¿(Quiroz v. Seventh Ave.
Center (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 1256, 1281.) ¿ Defendant asks the Court
to strike two entire causes of action, but such a challenge must be made in
demurrer.  
 
Accordingly,
the motion to strike is denied. 
 
 
III.
DISPOSITION

 
Defendant’s
demurrer is SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend.
 
Defendant’s
motion to strike is DENIED.