 Case Number:  24STCV04657    Hearing Date:   January 7, 2025    Dept:  73 1/7/2025
Dept. 73 
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding 
 
GARCIA v. SEE’S CANDIES, INC. (24STCV04657)
 
Counsel for Defendant/moving
party:  Taryn McLaughlin (Jackson Lewis
P.C.)
Counsel for Plaintiff/
opposing party: N/A
 
DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO:
FORM INTERROGATORIES – GENERAL, SET ONE;  FORM INTERROGATORIES – EMPLOYMENT LAW, SET ONE;
DEMAND FOR INSPECTION OF DOCUMENTS, SET ONE; special interrogatories, set one;
and request for sanctions
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
Defendant’s unopposed
Motion to Compel Responses to Form Interrogatories – General, Set One; Form
Interrogatories – Employment, Set One; Demand for Inspection of Documents, Set
One; and Special Interrogatories, Set One is GRANTED. Plaintiff Emma Yolanda
Garcia is ordered to provide verified responses without objections within 30
days of this order.
 
Defendant’s request
for monetary sanctions is GRANTED. Plaintiff and counsel of record are ordered
to pay sanctions in the reduced amount of $850, jointly and severally, within 30 days of this order.
 
Defendant is also ordered to pay filing fees in the amount of
$180 to the court within 30 days of this order.
 
Defendant is ordered to provide notice of the court’s order
and file a proof of service of such.  
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On February 26, 2024, Plaintiff Emma Yolanda Garcia brought this
action against Defendant See’s Candies Shops, Inc. (erroneously sued as See’s Candies,
Inc.), alleging causes of action for: (1) wrongful termination (breach of
contract); (2) wrongful termination (public policy violation); (3) harassment
in violation of the FEHA; (4) failure to prevent discrimination and harassment
(FEHA); (5) breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing; (6)
disability discrimination in violation of the FEHA; (7) failure to provide
reasonable accommodation in violation of the FEHA; and (8) age discrimination. 
The complaint alleges that Plaintiff is a 63-year-old
Hispanic female. Further, the complaint alleges that after 35 years of
employment, Defendant terminated Plaintiff because Plaintiff repeatedly
complained about her conditions of work, discrimination based on her age, and medical
condition, and in retaliation for her numerous complaints and reports regarding
the Defendants’ refusal to comply with the sick/medical leaves, refusal to
accommodate Plaintiff, and failure to prevent harassment, among other things. 
Specifically, the complaint alleges that Plaintiff
reported to Defendant that Plaintiff had diabetes and made several requests and
complaints for accommodation on medical grounds but received none. Instead, the
complaint alleges, Plaintiff was taunted, harassed, retaliated and
discriminated based on her age and medical condition. 
On December 10, 2024, Defendant filed this Motion to Compel Responses to Form Interrogatories –
General, Set One; Form Interrogatories – Employment, Set One; Demand of
Inspection of Documents, Set One; and Special Interrogatories, Set One.
Defendant also seeks monetary sanctions. No
opposition has been filed.
 
II. ANALYSIS
 
A.      Legal
Standard 
 
If a party to
whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response, the
propounding party may move for an order compelling responses. (Code Civ. Proc.
§ 2030.290 (b).) Failure to timely respond waives all objections, including
privilege and work product, unless “[t]he party has subsequently served a
response that is in substantial compliance” and “[t]he party’s failure to serve
a timely response was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable
neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290 (a)(1), (a)(2).) The statute contains no
time limit for a motion to compel where no responses have been served and no
meet and confer is required when a party does not respond to discovery
requests. All that need be shown in the moving papers is that a set of interrogatories
was properly served on the opposing party, that the time to respond has
expired, and that no response of any kind has been served. (Leach v.
Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902, 905-906.)  
 
Where there has been no timely response to a demand for the
production of documents, the demanding party may seek an order compelling a
response.  (Code Civ. Proc. §
2031.300(b).)  Failure to timely respond
waives all objections, including privilege and work product.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300(a).)  Thus, unless the party to whom the demand was
directed obtains relief from waiver, he or she cannot raise objections to the
documents demanded.  There is no deadline
for a motion to compel responses. 
Likewise, for failure to respond, the moving party need not attempt to
resolve the matter outside court before filing the motion.
 
If a motion
to compel responses is filed, the Court shall impose a monetary sanction
against the losing party “unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction
acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the
imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290 (c), 2031.300(c).) Further,
“[t]he court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a party
who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no opposition to the motion
was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or the requested
discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion was filed.” (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1348(a).) 
 
B.      Discussion
 
On August 5,
2024, Defendant served for Form Interrogatories – General, Set One; Form
Interrogatories – Employment, Set One; Demand of Inspection of Documents, Set
One; and Special Interrogatories, Set One on Plaintiff. (McLaughlin Decl. ¶ 4,
Exhs. B-E.) Responses were due on or before September 6, 2024. (Id. ¶ 5.)
On October 9, 2024, Defendant’s counsel emailed Plaintiff’s counsel a meet and
confer letter regarding the failure to respond. (Id. ¶ 7, Exh. H.) To
date, no responses have been served. (Id., ¶ 12.)  
 
As Defendant
properly served discovery requests on Plaintiff, and Plaintiff has failed to
serve verified responses, the motions to compel are granted.  
 
Defendant also requests $11,790 in monetary sanctions against
Plaintiff and counsel of record. As Plaintiff failed to provide responses to
the discovery and also failed to provide substantial justification for the
failure to respond, Defendant’s request for sanctions is granted but in a
significantly reduced amount. There is no reason to have spent 15 or more hours
on such a straightforward motion. Thus, the court awards sanctions in favor of
Defendant and against Plaintiff and counsel of record in the amount of $850
($395 per hour, for 2 hours, plus $60 filing fee), jointly and severally, to be
paid within 30 days of this order.
 
Lastly,
the court also orders Defendant’s counsel to pay $180 in filing fees to the
court as only one motion to compel was filed for four sets of discovery. Thus,
three filing fees have been unaccounted for.
 
III. DISPOSITION

 
Accordingly,
Defendant’s unopposed Motion to Compel Responses to Form Interrogatories –
General, Set One; Form Interrogatories – Employment, Set One; Demand for
Inspection of Documents, Set One; and Special Interrogatories, Set One is GRANTED.
Plaintiff Emma Yolanda Garcia is ordered to provide verified responses without
objections within 30 days of this order.
 
Defendant’s
request for monetary sanctions is GRANTED. Plaintiff and counsel of record are
ordered to pay sanctions in the reduced amount of $850, jointly and severally, within 30 days of this order.
 
Defendant is also ordered to pay filing fees in
the amount of $180 to the court within 30 days of this order.
 
Defendant is ordered to provide notice of the court’s
order and file a proof of service of such.  