  Case Number:  20STCV41155    Hearing Date:   September 29, 2023    Dept:  31 TENTATIVE 
 
Defendants Soha Idriss, M.D. and White Memorial
Neonatal Medical Group’s unopposed motion for summary judgment is GRANTED. 
 
Legal Standard 
 
The function of a motion for summary judgment or adjudication is to
allow a determination as to whether an opposing party cannot show evidentiary
support for a pleading or claim and to enable an order of summary dismissal
without the need for trial. (Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) CCP Section 437c(c)
“requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence
submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and
uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable
issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment
as a matter of law.”  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)  “The function
of the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of
the issues; the function of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose
whether there is any triable issue of fact within the issues delimited by the
pleadings.”  (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima
(1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367, 381-382.)
 
As to each claim as framed by the complaint, the defendant moving for
summary judgment must satisfy the initial burden of proof by presenting facts
to negate an essential element, or to establish a defense. (CCP § 437c(p)(2); Scalf
v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520. ) Courts
“liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary
judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that
party.”  (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide,
Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)
 
Once the defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff
to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that
cause of action or a defense thereto.  To
establish a triable issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion must
produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68
Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)
 
Discussion 
 
Defendants
moves for summary judgment on the basis that (1) Defendants met the standard of
care in their care and treatment of Matthew; (2) No act and/or omission on the
part of Defendants in their treatment to Plaintiff Matthew caused or
contributed to Plaintiffs’ injuries; (3) Defendants are immune from liability pursuant to Health
& Safety Code Section 1317(f) for the care and treatment rendered to
Plaintiff; and (4) Defendants did not render care to Plaintiff Michelle
Rodriguez.
 
The elements of a cause of action for
medical malpractice are: (1) a duty to use such skill, prudence, and diligence
as other members of the profession commonly possess and exercise, (2) a breach
of the duty, (3) a proximate causal connection between the negligent conduct
and the injury, and (4) resulting loss or damage. (Lattimore v. Dickey
(2015) 239 Cal. App. 4th 959.)
 
Whenever the plaintiff claims
negligence in the medical context, the plaintiff must present evidence from an
expert that the defendant breached his or her duty to the plaintiff and that
the breach caused the injury to the plaintiff. (Munro v. Regents of
University of California (1989) 215 Cal.App.3d 977.) When a defendant moves
for summary judgment and supports his motion with expert declarations that his
conduct fell within the community standard of care, he is entitled to summary
judgment unless the plaintiff comes forward with conflicting expert evidence. (Id.
at 985.)
First,
Defendants argue that they were not involved in the care and treatment of, and
owed no duty of care to Plaintiff Michelle Rodriguez. As a
neonatologist who arrived in response to the delivery of the infant Plaintiff,
Ceballos, on November 2, 2019, at seven (7) minutes of life, the neonatology
care team including but not limited to Dr. Idriss, were not tasked,
responsible, nor involved, in the care and treatment of Michelle Rodriguez pre
or post-delivery, nor were they involved in the delivery or management of the
infant’s delivery. (Dr. Friedlich, Decl., ¶ 5a.) 
Next, Defendants
argue that their care and treatment of Ceballos
was well within and above the community standard of care. In support of their
argument, Defendants present the expert declaration of Philippe Friedlich,
M.D., who has Board Certifications from the American Board of Pediatrics
and Neonatal-Perinatal Medicine. Dr. Friedlich establishes, to a reasonable
medical probability, based on his background, education, training, experience,
literature review and records review, that at all times, Defendants Dr. Idriss
and White Memorial Neonatal Medical Group (“WMNMG”)
met the standard of care in all of their care and treatment rendered to the
patient, plaintiff Matthew Ceballos. (Decl. of Dr. Friedlich, ¶ 6.) 
Dr. Friedlich opines Defendant Dr. IDRISS arrived
promptly and timely, at seven (7) minutes of life, and began receiving
information as to the infant’s condition upon arrival. Dr. IDRISS was not
familiar with the infant patient until the time of Defendant Dr. Idriss’ arrival
in the midst and in continuation of resuscitative care. (Id., ¶ 7.) 
Dr. Friedlich opines that the baby appeared grayish,
which alerted Defendant Dr. IDRISS to the risk of a potential hypoxic ischemic
event and potential brain damage from oxygen insufficiency. Defendant Dr. Idriss
immediately activated the hypothermia protocol, which involves keeping the
infant’s temperature down. This entails turning off the radiant warmer that the
child was placed in immediately at birth. Hypothermia protocol is recommended
to begin within six hours of birth, and in this case, started much sooner. (Id.,
¶ 8.) 
Dr. Friedlich opines that on November 3,
2019, an EKG was performed and interpreted, confirming the infant’s condition
upon delivery was due to the infant’s enlarged fetal organs. When a neonate or
infant’s organs are hypertrophic due to the effect of maternal insulin
(enlarged), the heart muscle can be too large for effective ejection of blood
flow to perfuse the organs. In such condition, the presence of electrical
activity but ineffective cardiac output is known as electromechanical
disassociation. Dr. Idriss appropriately administered epinephrine at nine
minutes post-delivery, and upon observing no response, administered a second
dose of epinephrine through umbilical IV; no response to either dose informed
Dr. Idriss that volume was needed. At sixteen minutes, Dr. Idriss a9dministered a volume of sodium bicarbonate, which
successfully resuscitated the child by increasing volume and effecting a heart
rate of 184. (Id., ¶ 9.) 
Dr. Friedlich opines that duration of the infant’s
NICU course was uneventful. As the infant having a hard time nipple feeding,
treaters wished to avoid placing an invasive gastrointestinal tube and
therefore, the patient remained admitted for a period a little over a month to
give the infant time to learn to eat. As required by the standard of care, Dr. Idriss
appropriately informed her patient’s family of his condition, treatment options
and concerns regarding his prognosis. The care and treatment by Dr. Idriss and
WMNMG during the infant’s the post-delivery NICU admission was thorough,
appropriate, and well within the standard of care. (Id., ¶ 10.) 
As summarized by Dr. Friedlich, the infant was
delivered with no to minimal signs of life, with an Apgar score of 0 persisting
through almost twenty (20) minutes of age; the infant was successfully
resuscitated by the timely efforts of the Code Blue NICU team led by Dr. Idriss,
then monitored and treated appropriately and uneventfully during his NICU
admission through the time of his discharge in stable condition, with
appropriate instructions including follow up with a pediatric neurologist. (Id.,
¶ 11.) 
Further, as to causation, Dr. Friedlich opines, to a
reasonable degree of medical probability, no improper or negligent act or
omission by Defendants Dr. Idriss and WMNMG caused or contributed to
Plaintiffs’ alleged injuries. Dr. Idriss and WMNMG’s care was timely,
appropriate and well within the standard of care. (Id., ¶ 6.) 
Therefore, Defendants have presented evidence
sufficient to carry their burden to show that there are no triable issues of
fact as to the elements of the standard of care and causation. Defendant
presents evidence that Dr. Idriss arrived promptly, and was alerted to the risk of a potential
hypoxic ischemic event and potential brain damage from oxygen insufficiency. Upon
arrival, Dr. IDRISS immediately activated the hypothermia protocol. The infant
was delivered with no to minimal signs of life, with an Apgar score of 0
persisting through almost twenty (20) minutes of age; the infant was
successfully resuscitated by the timely efforts of the Code Blue NICU team,
then monitored and treated appropriately and uneventfully during his NICU
admission through the time of his discharge in stable condition, with
appropriate instructions including follow up with a pediatric neurologist. The EKG
confirmed the infant’s condition upon delivery was due to the infant’s enlarged
fetal organs. Thus, no act or omission by Defendants caused his injuries.
Further, Defendants did not treat Plaintiff Michelle. The burden shifts to Plaintiff to show a triable issue
of fact exists.
However, Plaintiff has not filed an
opposition and therefore, has not provided any conflicting evidence by an
expert as to these medical malpractice elements. As such, Defendant’s motion
for summary judgment is granted.
 
Conclusion 
 
Defendants’ motion for summary judgment is GRANTED. 
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice.   
 
 