 Case Number:  24TRCV01512    Hearing Date:   November 6, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
JESSICA
  CARRILLO, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
24TRCV01512




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
RYAN
  HETCHLER, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          November 6,
2024
 
Moving Parties:                      Defendant Ryan Hetchler
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiff Jessica Carrillo
Motion to Strike Portions
of First Amended Complaint
 
            The Court considered the moving, opposition,
and reply papers.
RULING
            The motion to strike is GRANTED WITHOUT
LEAVE TO AMEND.  The Court strikes paras.
48, 49, and 51, and prayer for punitive damages in the FAC.
BACKGROUND
            On May 2, 2024, plaintiff Jessica
Carrillo filed a complaint against Ryan Hetchler, Dean Hetchler, and Kay
Elledge for (1) motor vehicle negligence, (2) statutory liability of motor
vehicle owner, Vehicle Code §17150, and (3) negligent entrustment.
            On August 30, 2024, the Court
granted defendant’s motion to strike punitive damages with leave to amend.
            On September 17, 2024, plaintiff
filed a FAC.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
Strike
“The court may, upon a motion . . .
, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper:  (a) Strike any irrelevant, false, or improper
matter inserted in any pleading.  (b)
Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity
with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.”  CCP §436(b).
CCP §431.10 states:  “(a) A material allegation in a pleading is
one essential to the claim or defense and which could not be stricken from the
pleading without leaving it insufficient as to that claim or defense.  
(b) An immaterial allegation in a
pleading is any of the following:  (1) An
allegation that is not essential to the statement of a claim or defense.  (2) An allegation that is neither pertinent
to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense.  (3) A demand for judgment requesting relief
not supported by the allegations of the complaint or cross-complaint.  
(c) An ‘immaterial allegation’
means ‘irrelevant matter’ as that term is used in Section 436.”
The grounds for moving to strike
must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.  CCP §437.
            Punitive
damages
Civil Code §3294 authorizes the
recovery of punitive damages in non-contract cases where “the defendant has
been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice . . . .”  
To state a claim for punitive
damages under Civil Code §3294, a plaintiff must allege specific facts showing
that the defendant has been guilty of malice, oppression or fraud.  Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal.
App. 4th 1033, 1042.  The basis for
punitive damages must be pled with specificity; conclusory allegations devoid
of any factual assertions are insufficient. Id. 
 A motion to strike may lie where
the facts alleged, if proven, would not support a finding that the defendant
acted with malice, fraud or oppression.  Turman
v. Turning Point of Central California (2010) 191 Cal. App. 4th 53, 63.
The Court in Taylor v. Superior
Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 894-95, found that “[s]omething more than the
mere commission of a tort is always required for punitive damages.  There must be circumstances of aggravation or
outrage, such as spite or ‘malice,’ or a fraudulent or evil motive on the part
of the defendant, or such a conscious and deliberate disregard of the interests
of others that his conduct may be called willful or wanton.” 
“’Malice’ means conduct which is
intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others.” 
Civil Code §3294(c)(1).   
As the Court noted in College
Hospital v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 713, Section 3294 was
amended in 1987 to require that, where malice is based on a defendant’s
conscious disregard of a plaintiff’s rights, the conduct must be both
despicable and willful.  The Court in College
Hospital held further that “despicable conduct refers to circumstances that
are base, vile, or contemptible.”  Id.
at 725 (citation omitted).
DISCUSSION
            Defendants Ryan Hetchler, Dean
Hetchler, and Kay Elledge request that the Court strike paras. 48, 49, 51, and prayer
for punitive damages from the FAC as to defendant Ryan Hetchler.
            The FAC alleges that the motor
vehicle collision occurred on May 23, 2022, at around 5:30 p.m., around the
intersection of South Prospect Avenue and Torrance Boulevard in Redondo
Beach.  FAC, ¶¶9-11.  Plaintiff was the properly seat-belted driver
and owner of a 2020 Subaru Forester. 
Id., ¶12.  Defendants were the
drivers and owners of multiple vehicles involved in this motor vehicle
collision.  Id., ¶13.  Robert Smith was the driver and owner of a
2021 Karma GS-6.  Id., ¶14.  Defendants were the drivers and owners of a
2011 Chevrolet Impala.  Id., ¶15.  Prior to the collision, plaintiff was
traveling northbound on South Prospect Avenue and Ryan was exiting a parking
lot immediately after colliding with the 2021 Karma GS-6.  Id., ¶¶16-17. 
After colliding with the 2021 Karma GS-6, Ryan attempted to flee the
scene of that crash.  Id., ¶18.  As Ryan was traveling in excess of the speed
limit, driving recklessly, and fleeing the scene of the crash with the 2021
Karma GS-6, Ryan collided into the passenger’s side of plaintiff’s vehicle.  Id., ¶19. 
Ryan’s collision with plaintiff occurred approximately less than five
minutes after they had collided with the 2021 Karma GS-6.  Id., ¶20. 
Instead of being observant of the traffic conditions, Ryan was instead
focused solely on escaping from being caught for the 2021 Karma GS-6.  Id., ¶21.
The FAC also alleges that the
collision caused significant bodily injury and property damage to
plaintiff.  Id., ¶22.  Following the collision with plaintiff, Ryan
once again fled the scene of the motor vehicle collision.  Id., ¶23. 
After crashing into plaintiff, Ryan left the scene of the crash in their
car.  Id., ¶24.  Ryan did not check on plaintiff before they
fled the scene of the crash, did not render medical aid to plaintiff before
they fled the scene of the crash, and did not contract any emergency services
or the police department before they fled the scene of the crash.  Id., ¶¶25-27. 
Due to the fact that Ryan fled the scene of the collision, plaintiff
became emotionally and mentally distraught. 
Id., ¶29.
The FAC further alleges that
plaintiff knew that she had limited insurance coverage and was concerned that
if the person who fled the scene was not found, her insurance would not be able
to fully pay for her vehicle damages or injuries.  Id., ¶30. 
Because Ryan fled the scene of the second crash, when the police arrived
at the scene of the crashes, they initially questioned and interrogated
plaintiff as if she was the person that caused the initial crash.  Id., ¶31. 
Plaintiff was treated as if she was the criminal.  Id., ¶32. 
Plaintiff was concerned that the police were not going to believe that
she also was struck by the same hit and run driver and thus she would be placed
under arrest.  Id., ¶33.  After a significant amount of time, Ryan was
caught and it was clarified that Ryan was the one responsible for the
crashes.  Id., ¶34.  Plaintiff is a single mother to an autistic
child with special needs.  Id., ¶35.  Plaintiff was driving home when she was
struck by Ryan.  Id., ¶36.  Due to the fact that Ryan’s conduct was
criminal, the police had to do additional investigation and questioning, which
significantly delayed plaintiff in getting home to her son.  Id., ¶37. 
The delay in getting home caused plaintiff additional distress because
she knew her caretaker would be charging her additional money and she is on a
fixed budget and because it interrupted her routine, which is a trigger to her
son’s condition.  Id., ¶¶38-39. 
            As to punitive damages, the FAC
alleges that in doing the acts alleged herein, Ryan’s conduct was malicious,
oppressive, and fraudulent, in that such conduct was intended to cause, and did
cause, injury to plaintiff and was done with a conscious disregard for plaintiff’s
rights, thereby warranting the assessment of punitive damages against Ryan, in
an appropriate amount to punish Ryan for their conduct.  Id., ¶48. 
Ryan’s conduct is despicable in that not only did he violate Vehicle
Code §§21804, 23103, and 20001, but he knew they caused a motor vehicle
collision that resulted in injuries but failed to take any responsibility for
the collision.  Id., ¶49.  Ryan fled from two motor vehicle
collisions.  Further, based on the nature
and severity of the impact with plaintiff’s vehicle, it was clear that someone
was injured.  Nevertheless, Ryan fled
from the scene without care or compassion for the harm they brought upon
plaintiff.  Id., ¶50.  At the time of the motor vehicle collision, Ryan
was familiar with the intersection of Torrance Blvd. and South Prospect Ave.
and knew it was a major and busy intersection. 
Nonetheless, Ryan intentionally, consciously, and recklessly engaged in
erratic and dangerous driving at the peril of multiple persons.  Id., ¶51. 

            Defendant argues that plaintiff
cannot recover punitive damages against defendant Ryan under the alleged facts
because the allegations are conclusory and wholly insufficient to demonstrate
that defendant acted with malice, oppression, or fraud.  Further, defendant asserts, flight
immediately after an accident is not even enough to impose civil liability
based on a “hit and run” accident.  Karl
v. C.A. Reed Lumber Co. (1969) 275 Cal. App. 2d 358, 362 (as to failure to
stop and render aide, “[a]lone, it is not sufficient to establish liability,
but flight immediately after an accident is a circumstance that may be
considered with other facts in the case as tending to show a consciousness of
responsibility for the accident”).  Defendant
further argues that gross negligence and even recklessness is not enough to
support punitive damages.
            In opposition, plaintiff argues that
the allegations are sufficient to support a claim for punitive damages as
plaintiff alleges more than a simple hit and run incident, including that less
than five minutes of fleeing the scene of a collision, defendant crashed into
plaintiff and then fled again; instead of observing traffic rules and
conditions, defendant was instead solely focused on fleeing the initial crash
by traveling at an excessive rate of speed and driving recklessly, which is why
he crashed into plaintiff; defendant was familiar that the intersection of the
crash was a major intersection with a lot of people and cars around, but still
chose to drive recklessly. 
            In reply, defendant reiterates their
argument that the allegations are insufficient to support a claim for punitive
damages.
            The Court rules as follows:  Although generally routine negligent or even
reckless traffic law violations will not justify punitive damages,
circumstances of a particular case may disclose such willful or wanton driving
behavior that punitive damages are warranted. 
See Taylor v. Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal. 3d 890, 899-900.  The plaintiff must plead specific facts from
which it can be inferred that there was a conscious disregard for injury that
was probable rather than merely foreseeable. 
Dawes v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal. App. 3d 82, 89-90.
“[I]t is not enough that the
defendant has acted with an intent which is tortious or even criminal, or that
he has intended to inflict emotional distress, or even that his conduct has
been characterized by ‘malice,’ or a degree of aggravation which would entitle
the plaintiff to punitive damages for another tort.”  Cochran v. Cochran (1998) 65 Cal. App.
4th 488, 496.  “Liability has been found
only where the conduct has been so outrageous in character, and so extreme in
degree, as to go beyond all possible bounds of decency, and to be regarded as
atrocious, and utterly intolerable in a civilized community.”  Id. 

Taylor is instructive, although plaintiff
does not allege that defendant was intoxicated. 
The Court in Taylor fell short of holding that punitive damages
are always appropriate in cases involving driving while intoxicated.¿ The Taylor
Court noted, “we have concluded that the act of operating a motor vehicle while
intoxicated may constitute an act of ‘malice’ under §3294 if performed under
circumstances which disclose a conscious disregard of the probable dangerous
consequences.”  Id. at 892.¿  In the subsequent decision Dawes, the
Court of Appeal held that driving while intoxicated does not always give rise
to a claim for punitive damages:  “[W]e
do not agree that the risk created generally by one who becomes intoxicated and
decides nevertheless to drive a vehicle on the public streets is the same as
the risk created by an intoxicated driver’s decision to zigzag in and out of
traffic at 65 miles per hour in a crowded beach recreation area at 1:30 in the
afternoon on a Sunday in June.  The risk
of injury to others from ordinary driving while intoxicated is certainly
foreseeable, but it is not necessarily probable.”  Both Taylor and Dawes were
decided prior to 1987, at which time the Legislature added the requirement to
Civil Code §3294 that conduct be “despicable” in order to support imposition of
punitive damages under a malice/willful and conscious disregard of the rights
or safety of others standard.  
Based upon the discussion set forth
above, the Court finds that the allegations contained in the FAC are
insufficient to support a claim for punitive damages.  Plaintiff is seeking punitive damages from
defendant for his failure to properly operate his vehicle.  Plaintiff has pled that defendant fled two
collisions.  There are no allegations as
to his speed or other aggravating circumstances, except that defendant drove
“in excess of the speed limit, driving recklessly,” which are conclusory.  See FAC, ¶19. 
There are no factual allegations to show that defendant’s driving at the
time of the incident equates to “despicable conduct.”  Further, plaintiff’s conduct as alleged may
be said to be criminal but not that the risk of injury was probable.
As for plaintiff’s allegations of a
hit and run, they go toward the issues of duty and liability.  A hit and run may constitute a tort (leaving
the scene of an accident without rendering aid) if the act itself causes the
plaintiff additional injury above and beyond the damages caused by the
collision that precedes fleeing the scene. 
See Brooks v. E.J. Willig Truck Transp. Co. (1953) 40 Cal. 2d
669, 679 (fleeing the scene of an accident is not a separately actionable tort
unless the act of fleeing causes additional injuries above and beyond those
caused by the accident).  Brooks
did not address whether punitive damages can be imposed based on a hit and run
and plaintiff has not cited any authority for punitive damages being awarded in
hit and run cases.  Plaintiff’s
additional allegations in the FAC go toward her emotional damages after the hit
and run, not any additional physical damages. 
Even if such emotional damages on their own constitute “additional
injuries,” such allegations still do not support the prayer for punitive
damages.
The motion is GRANTED WITHOUT LEAVE
TO AMEND.
 
ORDER
            The motion is GRANTED WITHOUT LEAVE
TO AMEND.  
The Court strikes paras. 48, 49,
and 51, and prayer for punitive damages in the FAC.
Moving defendant is ordered to give
notice of the ruling.