 Case Number:  23STCV23841    Hearing Date:   March 22, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     March
22, 2024                                  TRIAL DATE:  Not set
                                                           
CASE:                         Libra Securities
Holdings, LLC, et al. v. Jennifer Robles
 
ASE NO.:                    23STCV23841
 

 
MOTION
TO COMPEL ARBITRATION

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiffs
Libra Securities Holdings, LLC and Jess Ravich
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Defendant
Jennifer Robles
 
 
I.          FACTUAL AND
PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND
 
            Jess Ravich
(“Ravich”) and Jennifer Robles (“Robles”) began working together in the early
2000s.  At some point, they were both
hired by TCW.  Robles was hired as Ravich’s
personal assistant.  In June 2019, TCW
fired Ravich.  Robles was terminated as
well. 
 
            In August
of 2019, Ravich, who was CEO of Libra Securities Holdings, LLC (“Libra”), hired
Robles as the Chief Operating Officer.  Robles signed an Employment
Agreement (“Agreement”) and Release with Libra. 
As relevant here, the Agreement contains an arbitration provision.  
 
            In 2020,
Ravich discovered Robles stole $1.8 million from Libra.  Ravich fired
Robles.  In 2023, Robles contacted TCW
and accused Ravich of misconduct.  Robles
made several financial demands to settle claims against Ravich.  Ravich refused her demands. 
 
            On August
10, 2023, Plaintiffs (Libra and Ravich) sued Defendant Robles in Nevada
District Court (hereafter, the “Nevada Case”), for damages relating to her
alleged theft and injunctive relief to prevent her from breaching the
confidentiality and non-disparagement clauses of the Agreement. 
 
            The parties
agreed to bring the case to Los Angeles.  On October 2, 2023, Plaintiffs
filed a Complaint seeking damages and injunctive relief in this court.  
 
            On October
31, 2023, Plaintiffs filed this motion to compel arbitration.
 
            Robles
filed an opposition.  Plaintiffs filed a
reply and sur-reply.[1]    
 
            At the
hearing on February 28, 2024, the court requested further briefing.  Robles was given the opportunity to respond
to Ravich’s Declaration that was filed along with Plaintiffs’s Reply, and Ravich
was given the opportunity to respond to Robles’s “failure to pay the arbitration
fees” argument.  The court continued the
hearing to March 22, 2024.  Robles
submitted a supplemental declaration and Ravich submitted a brief re: payment
of arbitration fees.  
 
With the briefing concluded, the court issues its tentative
as follows:  
 
II.        LEGAL
STANDARD
 
California
law incorporates many of the basic policy objectives contained in the Federal
Arbitration Act, including a presumption in favor of arbitrability.  (Engalla v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc.
(1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 971-72.)  Under
both the FAA and California law, arbitration agreements are valid, irrevocable,
and enforceable, except on such grounds that exist at law or equity for voiding
a contract.  (Winter v. Window
Fashions Professions, Inc. (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 943, 947.)  Arbitration agreements can be invalidated by “generally
applicable contract defenses, such as fraud, duress, or unconscionability.”  (AT&T Mobility LLC v.
Concepcion (2011) 563 U.S. 333, 339.)
 
The petitioner bears the burden of proving the existence of
a valid arbitration agreement by a preponderance of the evidence, the party
opposing the petition then bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of
the evidence any fact necessary to demonstrate there should be no enforcement
of the agreement, and the trial court sits as a trier of fact to reach a final
determination on the issue.  (Rosenthal
v. Great Western Financial Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394,
413.)  Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2, the court can
compel parties to an arbitration agreement to arbitrate their
dispute.  
 
III.      APPLICATION
 
            There is no dispute Robles signed an arbitration agreement.  There is also no dispute the Federal
Arbitration Act applies.  The court must
decide two issues: (1) does this court or the arbitrator decide whether the
arbitration provision is enforceable? (The delegation clause question) and (2)
if this court decides, is the arbitration provision enforceable? (The
enforceability question). 
 
A.    Who Decides – the Delegation Clause Question
 
“Although threshold questions of¿arbitrability¿are
ordinarily for courts to decide in the first instance under the [Federal
Arbitration Act (FAA)], the ‘[p]arties to an¿arbitration agreement¿may agree
to¿delegate¿to the arbitrator, instead of a court, questions regarding the
enforceability of the agreement.’”  (Pinela v. Neiman Marcus Group,
Inc. (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 227, 239 (Pinela) quoting¿Tiri v.
Lucky Chances, Inc. (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 231, 241.)  “Just as the
arbitrability of the merits of a dispute depends upon whether the parties
agreed to arbitrate that dispute, … so the question who has the primary power
to decide arbitrability turns upon what the parties agreed about that matter.”  (Aanderud v. Superior Court (2017) 13
Cal.App.5th 880, 891 (Aanderud).) 
The delegation issue is a “gateway” question.  (Rent-A-Center, West, Inc. v. Jackson (2010) 561 U.S.
63, 69 (Rent-A-Car).)   
 
“There are two prerequisites for a delegation clause to be
effective.  First, the language of the
clause must be clear and unmistakable. Second, the delegation must not be
revocable under state contract defenses such as fraud, duress, or
unconscionability.  The ‘clear and
unmistakable’ test reflects a ‘heightened standard of proof’ that reverses the
typical presumption in favor of the arbitration disputes.”  (Aanderud, supra, 13¿Cal.App.5th
at p. 892 (cleaned up).)  Thus, “[u]nless
the parties clearly and unmistakably provide otherwise, the question of whether
the parties agreed to arbitrate is to be decided by the court, not the
arbitrator.’”  (Pinela, supra,
at pp. 239-40 (cleaned up).) 
 
Plaintiffs argue the parties clearly and unmistakably agreed
to commit questions of arbitrability to the arbitrator.  In support, Plaintiffs point to the arbitration
provision which states that “[t]he arbitrator shall have exclusive authority to
resolve any dispute relating to the interpretation, applicability or
enforceability of this Agreement … any Claim that all or part of this Agreement
is void or voidable.”  (Ravich Decl., Ex.
1, Agreement, § 10.2.)  
 
Robles disagrees. 
Robles argues the delegation clause is not clear and unmistakable
because the Agreement includes contradictory language in the severability
clause.  The law favors Robles’s
position.[2]  “As a general matter, where one contractual
provision indicates that the enforceability of an arbitration provision is to
be decided by the arbitrator, but another provision indicates that [a] court
might also find provisions in the contract unenforceable, there is not
clear and unmistakable delegation of authority to the arbitrator.  Even broad arbitration clauses that expressly
delegate the enforceability decision to arbitrators may not meet the clear
and unmistakable test, where other language in the agreement creates an
uncertainty in that regard.”  (Jack v.
Ring LLC (2023) 91 Cal.App.5th 1186, 1197 (Jack).) 
 
The string cite in Jack makes the point: “in Pinela v. Neiman Marcus Group, Inc. (2015) 238
Cal.App.4th 227, 240–241, 190 Cal.Rptr.3d 159, an arbitration agreement
provided “the arbitrator is to decide enforceability questions,” but a
severability provision recognized a court may decide the same issue;
Division Four of this court found the agreement “point[ed] in two directions”
and, as a result, “there [wa]s no clear and unmistakable delegation.”  (Accord Najarro v. Superior Court
(2021) 70 Cal.App.5th 871, 877, 880, 285 Cal.Rptr.3d 700 [where a delegation
clause gave the arbitrator “exclusive power” to resolve disputes relating to
“enforceability” including whether the agreement was void, but a severability
clause allowed a court to determine issues such as unconscionability, there was
“no clear and unmistakable delegation to the arbitrator to decide
enforceability”]; Dennison, supra, 47 Cal.App.5th at pp. 209–210, 260
Cal.Rptr.3d 675 [where “a contract includes a severability clause stating a
court of competent jurisdiction may excise an unconscionable provision, there
is no clear and unmistakable delegation to the arbitrator to decide if the
arbitration agreement is unconscionable”]; Peleg v. Neiman Marcus Group,
Inc. (2012) 204 Cal.App.4th 1425, 1444–1445, 140 Cal.Rptr.3d 38 [where a
“delegation provision states that the arbitrator is to decide whether the
Agreement is enforceable while the severability provision contemplates that a
court has the same authority,” “the severability provision that a court
may decide the question of enforceability creates an ambiguity as to whether an
arbitrator should decide if an arbitration contract is enforceable”]; Parada
v. Superior Court (2009) 176 Cal.App.4th 1554, 1565–1566, 98 Cal.Rptr.3d
743 [where an arbitration agreement provided that any dispute relating to
enforcement or validity of the agreement “ ‘shall be submitted to final and
binding arbitration’ ” but a severability provision contemplated a “ ‘trier of
fact of competent jurisdiction’ ” may find a provision of the agreement
unenforceable, the agreement “did not ‘ “clearly and unmistakably” reserve’ ”
the threshold issue of enforceability to arbitration].)”  (Jack, supra, 91 Cal.App.5th at
p. 1198.)
 
For example, in Parada, to
determine if the delegation clause was clear and unmistakable, the appellate
court looked to the severability provision in the relevant account agreement
and compared it to the delegation clause found in the arbitration
provision.  (Parada,
supra, 176 Cal.App.4th at p. 1566.)  The
severability provision states “’[i]n the event that any provision of this Agreement
shall be determined by a trier of fact of competent jurisdiction
to be unenforceable in any jurisdiction, such provision shall be unenforceable
in that jurisdiction and the remainder of this Agreement shall remain binding
upon the parties as if such provision was not contained herein.’  (Italics added.)”  (Id.)  The delegation clause states, “‘The parties
agree that any and all disputes, claims or controversies arising out of or
relating to any transaction between them or to the breach, termination, enforcement, interpretation or validity of this
Agreement, including the determination of the scope or applicability of this
agreement to arbitrate, shall be submitted to final and binding arbitration
before JAMS....’” (Italics added.)” (Id. at p. 1565.)  The Court of Appeal found that “[u]se of the
term ‘trier of fact of competent jurisdiction’” (in the severability clause)
instead of “arbitration panel” or “panel of three (3) arbitrators” (as used in the
delegation/arbitration clause) “suggests the trial court also may find a
provision, including the arbitration provision, unenforceable.”  (Id. at p. 1566.)  The Parada Court held that the
delegation clause did not clearly and unmistakably reserve to the arbitration
panel “the issue whether those arbitration provisions were unenforceable.”  (Ibid.) 
 
So too here.  The
language and the ambiguity are virtually identical to that in Parada.
The result must therefore be the same.[3]  The delegation clause does not clearly and
unmistakably reserve to the arbitrator the issue whether the agreement is
enforceable.  The court must therefore
decide the enforceability of the arbitration agreement.   
 
B.    
The
Enforceability Question
 
“California
law strongly favors arbitration.  Through
the comprehensive provisions of the California Arbitration Act (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1280 et seq.), the Legislature has expressed a ‘strong public policy
in favor of arbitration as a speedy and relatively inexpensive means of dispute
resolution.  As with the FAA (9 U.S.C. §
1 et seq.), California law establishes a presumption in favor of
arbitrability.  An agreement to submit
disputes to arbitration “is valid, enforceable and irrevocable, save upon such
grounds as exist for the revocation of any contract.” (OTO, L.L.C. v. Kho (2019) 8 Cal.5th 111, 125 (OTO).)

 
 Robles raises several challenges to the
enforceability of the arbitration clause. 
First, she argues the entire Agreement is unenforceable because it was
entered into for an illegal purpose.  If
this argument fails, she argues the entire Agreement and/or the arbitration
clause are unconscionable.  Next, she argues
the Ending Forced Arbitration of Sexual Assault and Sexual Harassment Act
precludes arbitration.  And finally, she
argues Plaintiffs waived their right to arbitrate because they failed to pay
the required arbitration initiation fees. 

 
The court will address the unconscionability question
first.   
 
C.  Unconscionability
 
            In general, the doctrine of unconscionability refers to
“an absence of meaningful choice on the part of one of the parties together
with contract terms which are unreasonably favorable to the other party.” 
(Sonic-Calabasas A, Inc. v. Moreno (2013) 57 Cal.4th 1109, 1133 (Sonic)
(cleaned up).)  If unconscionable,
the arbitration agreement is not a valid contract and therefore is
unenforceable.¿ (Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000)
24 Cal.4th 83, 114 (Armendariz).)   


             “Unconscionability
consists of both procedural and substantive elements.  Procedural unconscionability addresses the
circumstances of contract negotiation and formation, focusing on oppression or
surprise due to unequal bargaining power. 
Substantive unconscionability pertains to the fairness of an agreement's
actual terms and to assessments of whether they are overly harsh or one-sided.)
 Both elements must be present for a
court to refuse to enforce an arbitration agreement.  However, the elements do not need to be
present in the same degree and are evaluated on a sliding scale.  [T]he more substantively oppressive the
contract term, the less evidence of procedural unconscionability is required to
come to the conclusion that the term is unenforceable, and vice versa.” (Magno v. The College Network, Inc. (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th
277, 284–285 (Magno) (cleaned up).) 
 
                        1.  Procedural Unconscionability
 
            “Procedural unconscionability pertains to the making of
the agreement and requires oppression or surprise. Oppression occurs where a
contract involves lack of negotiation and meaningful choice, surprise where the
allegedly unconscionable provision is hidden within a prolix printed form.”  (Magno, 1 Cal.App.5th at p. 285 (cleaned up).)  
 
                            a.  Surprise
 
            “ ‘[T]here are degrees of procedural unconscionability.
At one end of the spectrum are contracts that have been freely negotiated by
roughly equal parties, in which there is no procedural unconscionability....
Contracts of adhesion that involve surprise or other sharp practices lie on the
other end of the spectrum.’ ”  (Baltazar v. Forever 21, Inc. (2016) 62 Cal.4th 1237,
1244, 200 Cal.Rptr.3d 7, 367 P.3d 6.)  The
procedural unconscionability analysis, therefore, “begins with an inquiry into whether
the contract is one of adhesion” and a finding of a contract of adhesion is
essentially a finding of procedural unconscionability.  (Armendariz, supra, 24
Cal.4th at p. 113.)  “An adhesive
contract is standardized, generally on a preprinted form, and offered by the
party with superior bargaining power ‘on a take-it-or-leave-it basis.’ ” (OTO, supra, 8
Cal.5th at p. 126.)  
 
Surprise
occurs where the arbitration agreement is “written in an extremely small font”
with “ ‘visually impenetrable’ ” paragraphs “filled with statutory references
and legal jargon.” (OTO, supra, 8 Cal.5th at
p. 128.)  It may further be shown when
“the agreement appears to have been drafted with an aim to thwart, rather than
promote, understanding,” thereby undermining the non-drafting party's informed
consent.  (Id. at p. 129.)  “[I]n the case of preemployment arbitration
contracts, the economic pressure exerted by employers on all but the most
sought-after employees may be particularly acute, for the arbitration agreement
stands between the employee and necessary employment, and few employees are in
a position to refuse a job because of an arbitration requirement.”  (Armendariz, supra, 24
Cal.4th at p. 115.) 
 
            Here, the Agreement bears several telltale signs of
surprise.  The Agreement is long (twelve
pages) followed by a nine-page Release agreement.  The Agreement is thick with legal terms and
jargon.  The arbitration agreement is not
located in a separate document or set off by any distinct notation.  The arbitration agreement does not bear its
own signature line.  The arbitration clause
is located towards the end of the document on page 10.  These factors provide a basis to believe Robles
may have been surprised to learn she signed an arbitration agreement.  
 
On
the other hand, the Agreement is not a classic adhesion contract.  The Agreement and the arbitration clause are not
written in small font.  The document is
not visually impenetrable.  The Agreement
is not printed on a standardized form, nor used and implemented by an employer
hiring teams of employees.  To the
contrary, this was an agreement drafted and modified specifically for Robles, as
evidenced by the various red-line versions. 
Most importantly, the Agreement was not sprung on Robles during the
onboarding process.  The Agreement did
not come as a “surprise” to Robles.[4]  Ravich sent her the Agreement nine months
before she signed it.  The terms of the
agreement, including her title and role as Chief Operating Officer (COO) and
Executive Assistant to the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Libra, along with a
$250,000 salary, and a $750,000 severance package, set her apart from the mine-run
of employees who sign adhesion contracts.  Robles was a “highly sought after” employee.
 
                        b. 
Oppression 
 
            “ ‘The circumstances relevant to establishing oppression
include, but are not limited to (1) the amount of time the party is given to
consider the proposed contract; (2) the amount and type of pressure exerted on
the party to sign the proposed contract; (3) the length of the proposed
contract and the length and complexity of the challenged provision; (4) the
education and experience of the party; and (5) whether the party’s review of
the proposed contract was aided by an attorney.’ ”  (OTO, supra, 8 Cal.5th at pp. 126-127.)
 
            Time to
consider the Agreement.  Ravich
provided Robles with various versions of the Agreement over the course of nine
months.  Ravich attached to his
January 29, 2024 Declaration various drafts of the Agreement, including red-line
versions.  (See Ravich Decl., (1/29/24) Exhs.
4, 5, 6.)  This factor weighs heavily in
Ravich’s favor. 
 
            Pressure
to sign the Agreement.  Robles argues
she was pressured to sign the Agreement. 
She points out that Ravich came to her apartment in August 2019, presented
the final Agreement to her, and told her to sign and initial the documents.  According to Robles, she had little choice
because Ravich was her boss, and her continued employment as well as her future
employment with Libra was contingent upon her signing the Agreement.  Ravich counters that she had months to review
and consider the Agreement and her continued at-will employment was not
contingent upon her signing the Agreement. 

 
This factor weighs in Robles’s favor.  Ravich does not dispute he went to her
apartment to obtain her signature.  Arriving
at Robles’s door with the written Agreement in hand departs from standard
business practices.  It’s also an
intrusion into Robles’s space and adds a physical urgency to the signing.[5]  That, coupled with the parties’ prior sexual
relationship and Ravich’s position as her employer raises concerns over Ravich pressuring
Robles to sign the Agreement. 
 
            Length
and Complexity of the Agreement.  The
Agreement and Release are long and dense. 
The Agreement contains numerous provisions and subparts.  The Agreement covers a wide variety of employment
related terms – accrued obligations upon termination, for cause and without
cause termination provisions, voluntary resignation, parachute provisions,
conflicts of interest, confidentiality, injunctive relief, Department of
Treasury Regulation section 409A, representation and warranties, taxes, choice
of law, arbitration. The Release Agreement attached as Exhibit A continues for
nine more pages with the same difficult legal terms and language.  This factor weighs in Robles’s favor.  According to Robles, Ravich did not explain
the numerous terms of the Agreement with her; never explained that she was
waiving her right to a jury trial and agreeing to arbitration. Ravich does say
otherwise.            
      
            Education
and Experience of the Parties.  Robles
is a high school graduate while, according to Robles, Ravich graduated from The
Wharton School and Harvard Law School. 
This factor weighs in Robles’s favor. 

 
            Assistance
from Counsel.  Robles asserts that
she did not have counsel advise her, but she certainly had time to obtain
counsel.  Indeed, the Agreement
specifically states the parties had “a full opportunity to negotiate the terms
of this Agreement and, respectively, to review this Agreement with legal
counsel.”  (Ravich Decl., Ex. 1, Agreement,
§ 9.5.)  Robles might not have engaged counsel,
but it was not for lack of opportunity.[6]  This factor weighs slightly in Ravich’s
favor.    
            
                All in all, the court finds a low degree of procedural
unconscionability.  The Agreement is not
the standard adhesion contract, and Robles is not the standard adhesion
contract employee.  She was a highly
compensated and sought after employee.  Robles
had the Agreement for months and could have sought assistance from counsel.  Nonetheless, the circumstances under which
the Agreement was signed (including consideration of their prior sexual
relationship, Ravich’s appearance at her apartment, and Ravich’s status as her
employer), the length and complexity of the Agreement, and Robles’s education
level raise concerns about whether this Agreement was a freely negotiated by
roughly equal parties.  The court turns
to the substantive terms of the arbitration provision.  
 
                                2.  Substantive Unconscionability
                
            “Substantive
unconscionability examines the fairness of a contract’s terms. . . . [The]
doctrine is concerned not with a simple old-fashioned bad bargain, but with
terms that are unreasonably favorable to the more powerful party.  Unconscionable terms impair the integrity of
the bargaining process or otherwise contravene the public interest or public
policy or attempt to impermissibly alter fundamental legal duties.”  (OTO,
supra, 8 Cal.5th at p. 130 (cleaned up); accord, Baltazar, supra,
62 Cal.4th at pp. 1244-1245; Lange v. Monster Energy Co. (2020) 46
Cal.App.5th 436, 448.)   
 
                “In evaluating
substantive unconscionability, courts often look to whether the arbitration
agreement meets certain minimum levels of fairness.  In Armendariz, our Supreme Court instructed that, at a
minimum, a mandatory employment arbitration agreement must (1) provide for
neutral arbitrators, (2) provide for more than minimal discovery, (3) require a
written award that permits limited judicial review, (4) provide for all of the
types of relief that would otherwise be available in court, and (5) require the
employer to pay the arbitrator's fees and all costs unique to arbitration. [Citation.]
‘Elimination of or interference with any of these basic provisions makes an
arbitration agreement substantively unconscionable.’[Citation.]”  (Murrey v. Superior Court (2023) 87 Cal.App.5th 1223,
1247-1248 (Murrey).)[7]

 
                Robles argues many of
the terms of the arbitration agreement are substantively unconscionable.  She is correct. 
 
                Confidentiality.  Section
10.2 contains a confidentiality clause.  It
states, “Claims shall be submitted exclusively to confidential and binding
arbitration.”  Section 10.3, entitled
Confidentiality of Disputes, states “All proceedings conducted pursuant to this
Section 10, including any order, decision or award of the arbitrator, shall be
kept confidential by all parties.”  While
the confidentiality provision shares a certain sense of mutuality (both
Ravich’s claims regarding Robles’s theft and Robles’s claims of sexual
harassment and retaliation are both subject to the confidentiality provision),
case law supports the conclusion that confidentiality provisions in an
employment case involving claims of sexual harassment are substantively
unconscionable.   
 
                The confidentiality
provision favors the employer in an employment related sexual harassment case.  For example, in Murrey, supra, 87 Cal.App.5th at p. 1254, the
appellate court observed that “our Supreme Court has determined a
confidentiality provision in an arbitration agreement is not per se
unconscionable when it is based on a legitimate commercial need (such as to
protect trade secrets or proprietary information). [Citation.] [The employer] has
not identified a commercial need for the proceedings to remain confidential.”  (Id.)  So too here.  Ravich has not identified the need to maintain confidentiality.[8]  
 
            The Murrey Court went further.  The appellate court found the confidentiality
provision substantively unconscionable because it “serve[d] no purpose other
than to benefit [the employer].  Future
employees cannot take advantage of findings in past arbitrations or prove a
pattern of discrimination and/or retaliation.... In addition, keeping past
findings secret undermines an employee’s confidence in the fairness and honesty
of the arbitration process and thus potentially discourages that employee from
pursuing a valid discrimination claim.” 
(Murrey, supra, 87 Cal.App.5th at p. 1255 (cleaned up).)  
 
            In Hasty v. American Automobile
Assn. etc.
(2023) 98 Cal.App.5th 1041, 1062, the appellate court, following Murrey’s
lead, also found the confidentiality clause problematic.    
The court found the
confidentiality provision essentially barred plaintiff from conducting informal
discovery and hampered future plaintiffs’ ability to prove a pattern of discrimination.  The court agreed with Murrey that keeping
findings secret also undermined confidence in the fairness and honesty of the
arbitration process and would potentially discourage future employees from pursuing
claims.  Moreover, the Hasty Court
found that the language in the confidentiality provision that states that the
provision “applies to only the ‘extent permitted by law’ does not save it because
the employee would have no way of knowing what would be covered or not covered
by this provision.” (Id.) 
 
            Sections
10.2 and 10.3 of the Agreement make the arbitration process as well as the outcome
confidential.  As such, the
confidentiality provision makes Robles’s efforts to obtain discovery more
difficult.  In Haydon, supra, 97 Cal.App.5th at p. 1290, the appellate court found the
confidentiality provision barring the parties from “disclos[ing] the existence,
content, or results of arbitration” substantively unconscionable.  The Haydon Court wrote, “as in the employment
context, confidential arbitration of claims like Haydon’s
tilt[s] the scales of justice against potential victims of abuse by denying
[them] access to any information about other claims against the facility.”  (Id. at p. 1290 (cleaned up).)  The Haydon Court found the
confidentiality requirement to be unconscionable to a “high degree” because it
is at odds with the Legislature’s declaration that “confidential settlement
agreements are disfavored in actions involving violations of the Elder Abuse
Act.”  (Ibid. (cleaned up).)  The Legislature reached the same conclusion
with respect to a “nondisparagement agreement or other document that
purports to deny the employee the right to disclose information about unlawful acts
in the workplace, including, but not limited to sexual harassment.” (See Former
Gov. Code, § 12964.5, subd. (a)(2)(A), added by Stats.
2018, ch. 955, § 4, and amended by Stats. 2021, ch. 638, § 2, eff. Jan.
1, 2022, bold italics added.) 
In
Ramos, supra, 28 Cal.App.5th at p. 1066, the appellate court found the
confidentiality provision unconscionable because it would “prevent an employee
from contacting other employees to assist in litigating (or arbitrating) an
employee’s case.  An inability to mention
even the existence of a claim to current or former [] employees would handicap
if not stifle an employee’s ability to investigate and engage in
discovery.”  (Id. at p. 1066, quoting,
Davis v. O’Melveny & Myers (9th Cir. 2007) 485 F.3d 1066,
1078.)  The Ramos Court concluded
that “[I]t is hard to see how she could engage in informal discovery or contact
witnesses without violating the prohibition against revealing an ‘aspect of the
arbitration.’”  (Ibid.)  The appellate court concluded “the provisions
requiring all aspects of the arbitration be maintained in strict confidence is
substantively unconscionable.”  (Id.
at p. 1067.)  So too here. 
  
                Choice
of Law –  Section 10.2, the
arbitration clause, states that “[t]he arbitrator shall apply the substantive
law of the State of Delaware, federal law or both, as applicable….”  This language violates Labor Code section
925.  Section 925(a) states “An employer
shall not require an employee who primarily resides and works in California, as
a condition of employment, to agree to a provision that would …. (2) Deprive
the employee of the substantive protection of California law with respect to a
controversy arising in California.”  Section
925(b) goes on to say that “[a]ny provision of a contract that violates subdivision
(a) is voidable by the employee, and if a provision is rendered void at the
request of the employee, the matter shall be adjudicated in California and
California law shall govern the dispute.” 
And “for purposes of this section, adjudication includes litigation and
arbitration.”  (Lab. Code, § 925, subd. (d).)[9]  The choice of law provision is substantively
unconscionable because it requires the arbitrator to apply the law from
Delaware or federal law or both in contravention of Labor Code section
925.  
 
                Allocation of Costs
– Section 10.4 states that the “non-prevailing party in respect to any Claim
shall bear all costs and expenses of the arbitration that are actually incurred
by the parties, unless otherwise determined by the arbitrator in accordance
with California or federal law; provided, however, that each party shall bear
its own attorney fees and expenses in any dispute unless a statutory section at
issue, if any, authorizes the award of such costs to the prevailing party.”  This provision is both confusing and,
depending upon how it is read, runs afoul of the law.  As the California Supreme Court stated in Armendariz,
supra, 24 Cal.4th at pp. 110-111, “we conclude that when an employer
imposes mandatory arbitration as a condition of employment, the arbitration
agreement or arbitration process cannot generally require the employee to bear
any type of expense that the employee would not be required to bear if he or
she were free to bring the action in court.” 
The Armendariz Court went on to say, “”we therefore hold that a
mandatory employment arbitration agreement that contains within its scope the
arbitration of FEHA claims impliedly obliges the employer to pay all types of
costs that are unique to arbitration.”  (Id.
at p. 113.)  
 
            Here,
the allocation of costs shifts all costs and expenses of the arbitration on to
Robles if she loses.  This runs afoul of Armendariz.  The fact the arbitrator may determine
otherwise is of no solace to Robles and provides no assurance the arbitrator
will reach the same conclusion regarding the law.  Worse still, the provision requires Robles to
pay arbitration expenses, which although not specified, presumably includes the
arbitrator’s fees and expenses associated with arbitration.  As described in the Declaration of Edmund
Espinoza, the arbitrator’s fees far exceed the type of expenses Robles would
bear if she brought her case in court.  (Espinoza
Decl., ¶ 8; see Haydon, supra, 97 Cal.App.5th at p. 1291 (requirement
that parties bear their own costs and fees in connection with the arbitration
was substantively unconscionable).)  Moreover,
in FEHA cases, a prevailing plaintiff is ordinarily entitled to an award of
attorney’s fees, which is another statutorily recognized remedy not accounted
for in the allocation of costs provision because the allocation of costs as
described in Section 10.4 provides for an award of costs to the prevailing
party, but not fees.[10]    


Based upon the foregoing the court finds a low degree of procedural
unconscionability but a sufficiently high degree of substantive unconscionability
to render the arbitration agreement unenforceable. 


                D.  Severance
 
            The Agreement contains a severability provision.  Civil Code section 1670.5, subdivision (a),
also provides that “[i]f the court as a matter of law finds [a] contract or any
clause of the contract to have been unconscionable at the time it was made[,]
the court may refuse to enforce the contract, or it may enforce the remainder
of the contract without the unconscionable clause, or it may so limit the
application of any unconscionable clause as to avoid any unconscionable
result.”  
 
            “In deciding whether to sever terms rather than to
preclude enforcement of the provision altogether, the overarching inquiry is
whether the interests of justice would be furthered by severance; the strong
preference is to sever unless the agreement is ‘permeated’ by
unconscionability.... An agreement to arbitrate is considered permeated by
unconscionability where it contains more than one unconscionable provision.”  (De Leon v. Pinnacle Property Management Services, LLC
(2021) 72 Cal.App.5th 476, 492 (cleaned up).) 
“Such multiple defects indicate a systematic effort to impose
arbitration on [the nondrafting party] not simply as an alternative to
litigation, but as an inferior forum that works to the [drafting party's]
advantage.”  (Armendariz,
supra, 24 Cal.4th at p. 124.)  An arbitration agreement is also deemed
“permeated” by unconscionability if “there is no single provision a court can
strike or restrict in order to remove the unconscionable taint from the
agreement.”  (Id.
at pp. 124-125.)  If “the court would
have to, in effect, reform the contract, not through severance or restriction,
but by augmenting it with additional terms,” the court must void the entire
agreement.  (Id. at p. 125.)
 
            Here, the court finds at least three substantively
unconscionable terms in the arbitration provision.  To remove the unconscionable taint, the court
would have to reform the arbitration agreement – delete and/or rewrite the confidentiality
provision, rewrite the Choice of Law provision and rewrite the allocation of
costs provision.  As the California
Supreme Court stated in Armendariz,
“Because a court is unable to cure this unconscionability through severance or
restriction and is not permitted to cure it through reformation and
augmentation, it must void the entire agreement. [Citation.] ¶ Moreover,
whether an employer is willing, now that the employment relationship has ended,
to allow the arbitration provision to be mutually applicable, or to encompass
the full range of remedies, does not change the fact that the arbitration
agreement as written is unconscionable and contrary to public policy. Such a
willingness “can be seen, at most, as an offer to modify the contract; an offer
that was never accepted. No existing rule of contract law permits a party to
resuscitate a legally defective contract merely by offering to change it. [Citation.]”  (Armendariz, supra, 24 Cal.4th at p. 125.)
 
IV.       CONCLUSION
 
             Given the foregoing, the court need not
address the remaining issues at this time.[11]  The motion to compel arbitration is DENIED.  The court sets a status conference in approximately
30 days.  The court will discuss
available dates with counsel.   
 
Defendant to give notice. 

 
 
Dated:   March 22,
2024                                  




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior
  Court 




 
 
 
 


