


[1] At the hearing on February 28,
2024, the court indicated it was not inclined to consider Plaintiffs’s
sur-reply, which was filed without leave of court.  Plaintiffs argued the sur-reply was
appropriate because Robles served Plaintiffs with two oppositions, and the
sur-reply addressed the second opposition. 
Plaintiffs are technically correct. Robles served Plaintiffs with her opposition
timely, but, due to under-seal filing complications, Robles was unable to file
her opposition.  Having received Robles’s
opposition, Plaintiffs timely filed their reply to the served opposition.  After Plaintiffs filed their reply, Robles successfully
filed her opposition.  Plaintiffs
took that filing as an opportunity to file their sur-reply.  With this background in mind, the court
stated that if Robles’s two oppositions contained different information, the
court would consider the sur-reply.  If
they were the same document, however, the court would not.  The court gave Plaintiffs the opportunity to compare
the two documents and asked Plaintiffs report back to the court. On March 4,
2024, Plaintiffs responded: “the words of Defendant’s Opposition are the same.”  (3/4/24 Response, p. 3:1, italics added.)  Accordingly, the court will not consider
Plaintiffs’ sur-reply.  “A court has
broad discretion to accept or reject late-filed papers, and the general rule is
that new evidence is not permitted even on reply.”  (Haydon
v. Elegance at Dublin (2023) 97 Cal.App.5th 1280, 1289 (Haydon).)  


[2]
Plaintiffs argue Robles did
not specifically challenge the enforceability of the delegation clause.  In Rent-A-Center, supra, 561 U.S. at p.
71, the High Court made clear that judicial consideration of a challenge to the
enforceability of the delegation clause is triggered only if the challenge is
directed specifically to the delegation clause. 
(See also Nielsen Contracting, Inc. v. Applied Underwriters, Inc.
(2018) 22 Cal.App.5th 1096, 1109 [court resolves challenge to a delegation
clause only “when a specific contract challenge is made to the delegation
clause”].)  Contrary to Plaintiffs
contention, however, Robles does in fact challenge the enforceability of the
delegation clause.  (See
Opp., p. 7:17-23.)  


[3] A side by side comparison between
the language in the agreement considered in Parada and the language at
issue here is illustrative:  In Parada
the two clauses at issue state: Delegation: “‘The parties agree that any and all disputes, claims or
controversies arising out of or relating to any transaction between them or to
the breach, termination, enforcement, interpretation or
validity of this Agreement, including the determination of the scope or
applicability of this agreement to arbitrate, shall be submitted to final and
binding arbitration before JAMS....’” Severability:
“‘[i]n the event that any provision of this
Agreement shall be determined by a trier of fact of competent
jurisdiction to be unenforceable in any jurisdiction, such provision shall be
unenforceable in that jurisdiction and the remainder of this Agreement shall
remain binding upon the parties as if such provision was not contained
herein.’  (Italics added.)”  (Parada, supra, 176
Cal.App.4th at p. 1566, bold italics added.)             
 
In
this case the delegation and severability clauses state:  Delegation: “[t]he
arbitrator shall have exclusive authority to resolve any dispute relating to
the interpretation, applicability or enforceability of this
Agreement … any Claim that all or part of this Agreement is void or voidable.”  (Ravich Decl., Ex. 1, Agreement, §
10.2.) Severability: “In the event any provision of this Agreement is
found to be unenforceable by an arbitrator or court of competent
jurisdiction…. If a deemed modification is not satisfactory in the
judgment of such arbitrator or court, the unenforceable provision
shall be deemed deleted, and the validity and enforceability of the remaining
provisions shall not be affected thereby.”  (Ravich Decl., Ex. 1, Agreement, § 9.4, bold
italics added.) 
 
 


[4]  Robles
states in her Declaration, dated 1/23/24, that she “was not given any
meaningful opportunity to review [the Agreement] or to have it reviewed by my own
counsel.”  (Robles Decl., ¶ 11.)  She reiterates this position in her
supplemental Declaration dated 3/8/24.  (Robles
Decl., ¶ 10.)  These are not credible
positions.  She was in possession of the
Agreement for months -- since October 2018. 
    


[5]  Neither
party indicates the time when Ravich arrived -- day or night.  Similarly, neither party indicates whether
Ravich told Robles he was coming over before he arrived.  Robles’s Declaration presents Ravich’s
arrival as a surprise, Ravich does not counter Robles’s characterization.   
 


[6]
 Robles
presents herself as unsophisticated and unfamiliar with the legal system.  However, attached as Exhibit F to her March
15, 2024, Declaration is a signed joint retainer agreement with the law firm,
Theodora Oringher.  While the subject
matter of the retainer relates to the Tirschwell subpoena, Robles was at least
familiar with the process of retaining counsel. 
Interestingly, the other client identified in the joint retainer
agreement is Libra, with a signature line for Ravich, which appears to contradict
Ravich’s statement that “Robles’s attorney has never represented Libra or
me.”  (Ravich Decl., 1/29/24, ¶ 17.)     


[7]  Plaintiffs
argue Armendariz does not apply because Robles is not “preemployment,”
in the sense that she is not walking in off the street hoping to land a job
with Libra or with Ravich.  However, Armendariz
is not restricted to preemployment arbitration agreements.  As noted by the Supreme Court in Sonic,
supra, the law governing mandatory employment arbitration agreements
encompasses “arbitration agreements that are conditions of new or continuing
employment.”  (Sonic, supra,
57 Cal.4th at p. 1130.) (Emphasis added.) 
Further, Plaintiffs read “preemployment” too narrowly.  In Wherry v. Award, Inc. (2011) 192
Cal.App.4th 1242, 1249-1250, the appellate court affirmed the trial court’s
refusal to compel arbitration of a salesperson’s FEHA claims.  The court observed the fact “[t]hat
plaintiffs are independent contractors and not employees makes no difference in
this context” because the “contract by which they were to work for defendants
contained a mandatory arbitration provision.”  (Id. at p. 1249.)  Similarly, in Ramos v. Superior
Court (2018) 28 Cal.App.5th 1042,
1046 (Ramos), the appellate court applied Armendariz where
the plaintiff was excluded “from opportunit[ies] for career advancement.”  There is no doubt Robles’s hiring as COO was
contingent upon her signing the Agreement and Release. (See, e.g., Release
Agreement, § 1.2.)            
 


[8] 
The Murrey Court went on to find that
the two cases relied on by the employer, Sanchez v. Carmax Auto Superstores California,
LLC
(2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 398, 408 and Woodside Homes of Cal., Inc. v.
Superior Court (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 723, 732, were “not persuasive
in the context of a workplace sexual harassment complaint.”  (Murrey, supra, 87 Cal.App.5th at p. 1254.)  Here, Plaintiffs rely on the same two unpersuasive
cases.       


[9] 
To confuse matters further Section 10.1, entitled, Choice of Law, states
that the Agreement shall be interpreted under the “substantive laws of the
State of California applicable to contracts executed and performed entirely in
such State.”  The venue provision for any
trial is equally problematic and in violation of California law.  Section 10.6 states that if the arbitration
provision “is unenforceable for any reason, all claims shall be decided by
trial before the court and not by a jury. 
The venue for any such trial shall be in the state or federal courts
located in Clark County, Nevada.” 
(Agreement, § 10.6, emphasis added, and text changed to lower
case.)        


[10] The court recognizes that Robles
has not filed her answer or cross-complaint.  Nonetheless, the parties consider, as does the
court, the impact of Robles’s potential FEHA claims, including her claims for
sexual harassment, on the merits of the motion to compel arbitration.  Whether Robles’s potential causes of action survive
scrutiny is left for another day.  


[11] 
Robles challenges whether Plaintiffs paid the JAMS initiation fees in
compliance with Code of Civil Procedure sections 1281.97 and 1281.98.  (See Doe v. Superior Court of
City and County of San Francisco (2023) 95 Cal.App.5th 346, 350 [“we
strictly enforce the 30-day grace period in section 1281.98(a)(1) and conclude
fees and costs owed for a pending proceeding must be received by the arbitrator
within 30 days after the due date”]; Cvejic v. Skyview Capital, LLC
(2023) 92 Cal.App.5th 1073, 1078 [“The statute provides recourse when the party
that pressed for arbitration fails to pay its arbitration fee.  The statute deems this failure to be a
material breach and entitles the claimant to withdraw unilaterally from
arbitration.”].)  The court is satisfied Plaintiffs
complied with their obligations to initiate arbitration.  (See Ede Decl., Exs. B and C.)

