 Case Number:  23NWCV02213    Hearing Date:   January 25, 2024    Dept:  1 23NWCV02213 PAULA JOHNSON vs CITY OF LONG BEACH, et al.
Defendant City of Long Beach’s Unopposed Motion to
Transfer Case to the Appropriate Judicial District  
TENTATIVE RULING: 
Defendant City of Long Beach’s Motion to Transfer Case to the
Appropriate Judicial District is GRANTED and 23NWCV02213 is ordered reassigned
to the Governor George Deukmejian Courthouse in the South District of the Los
Angeles Superior Court.  Notice of case
reassignment shall issue shortly.  Clerk
to give notice.
On July 17, 2023, Plaintiff Paula
Johnson filed this action against City of Long Beach, City of Lakewood, County
of Los Angeles, Robert Locke, and Charlotte Locke arising out of allegations
that Plaintiff struck a damaged portion of sidewalk while riding her bicycle,
causing significant leg injuries. The complaint asserts causes of action for:
(1) dangerous condition on public property; (2) premises liability; and (3) negligence.

 
On September 8, 2023, the court entered Plaintiff’s request
for dismissal as to Defendant County of Los Angeles. On October 10, 2023, the
court entered Plaintiff’s request for dismissal as to Defendant City of
Lakewood. 
 
On November 16, 2023, the parties’ submitted a stipulation
to transfer the action to the South District of the Los Angeles Superior Court.
On November 17, 2023, Judge Olivia Rosales issued an order denying the
stipulation and directing the parties to file a motion in Department 1.  
 
Motion to Transfer Between Districts
 
Standard 
 
The Local Rules of the Los Angeles Superior Court govern
the assignment of cases between its districts and departments. (Code Civ. Proc.
§ 402.) LASC Local Rule 2.3(b)(2) authorizes Department 1 to transfer civil
cases from one judicial district to another via a noticed motion on three
enumerated grounds: (1) when the case was filed in an improper district; (2)
for the convenience of witnesses; or (3) to promote the
ends of justice. (LASC Local Rule 2.3(b)(2).) A transfer under the Local
Rules is discretionary. 
 
The
Action Was Filed in the Wrong District and the Parties Stipulated to a Transfer
 
Defendant seeks to transfer this action from the Norwalk
Courthouse in the Southeast District to the South District of the Los Angeles
Superior Court. Defendant contends the case was filed in the wrong district
under the applicable local rules. 
 
In “Step 4” of the civil case
cover sheet addendum where the filing party is asked to “[c]heck
the appropriate boxes for the numbers shown under Column C for the type of action
that you have selected. Enter the address, which is the basis for the filing
location including zip code,” Plaintiff
selected Reason 1, which is inapplicable, and Reason 4, which corresponds to “Location
where bodily injury, death or damage occurred.” Plaintiff listed the
relevant address as “The rear of property located at  Street 100 feet from Gondar Tilbury Street,
which is along side Carson Street, Lakewood, CA 90712.” The complaint also
alleges the injury occurred “on the sidewalk to the rear of private property
located at 5742 Tilbury Street, Lakewood, CA 90713, which is alongside Carson
Street. (Compl. at 2:4-6.) 
 
In Step 5 of the civil case cover sheet addendum, where the
filing party is asked to certify the proper filing location, Plaintiff’s
counsel indicated the Southeast District was the appropriate filing location. 
 
Pursuant to Local Rule 2.3(a)(1)(A),
“[e]very unlimited civil tort action for bodily injury,
wrongful death, or damage to
personal property (hereinafter referred to as ‘Personal Injury Action’) must be
filed in the judicial district where the incident arose. The filing court
locator on the Los Angeles Superior Court website (www.lacourt.org) should be
used to determine the appropriate filing location.” 
 
Counsel for Defendant states in his declaration that
“[a]fter the Answer was filed and further investigation, defense counsel
learned that the sidewalk where cause of action arose is actually within a
public right of way within the City of Long Beach, which is in the South District.”
(Zinger Decl. ¶ 3.) The parties agree the proper district is the South District
and provided a stipulation for the transfer between Plaintiff and Defendant
City. (Id. ¶ 4, Ex. A.) Using Long Beach as the city in filing court locator
yields a result for the  Governor George
Deukmejian Courthouse in the South District for all unlimited civil actions.
Accordingly, the case was filed in the wrong district and the motion is
GRANTED. 
 