 Case Number:  23AVCV00247    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2023    Dept:  A14 Background
 
This is an action regarding real
property. Plaintiff Dennis Bretches (“Plaintiff”) alleges that on or about
January 02, 2009, he took out a mortgage loan against the real property located
at 1910 Shamrock Avenue Palmdale, California 93550 (the “Property”) from
Instamortgage.com in the amount of $199,350.00. Plaintiff further alleges that
in or around June 2020, he entered into a forbearance agreement to last 18
months and, on or around December 2021, the forbearance ended. Plaintiff
presents that he continued to make his regularly scheduled mortgage payments
starting in December 2021. Plaintiff contends that on or around August 2022,
Defendant Nationstar Mortgage, LLC dba Mr. Cooper (“Defendant”) stopped
accepting payments from Plaintiff. Plaintiff alleges that over the next several
months, he would regularly seek non-foreclosure alternatives from various
agents of Defendants, but all efforts were rebuffed and, on or around January
2023, Plaintiff submitted a complete loss mitigation application to Defendant for
review and is still awaiting the results. 
 
On March 06, 2023, Plaintiff
filed his Complaint alleging four causes of action for: (1) Negligent
Misrepresentation, (2) Intentional Misrepresentation, (3) Violation of Business
and Professions Code § 17200, and (4) Promissory Estoppel. 
 
On April 13, 2023, Defendant
filed a Demurrer, subsequently granted.
 
On June 13, 2023, Plaintiff filed
his First Amended Complaint (“FAC”).
 
On July 11, 2023, Defendant filed
a Demurrer to the FAC, subsequently granted.
 
On September 08, 2023, Plaintiff
filed his Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”), alleging the same four causes of
action as the Complaint and FAC. 
 
On October 04, 2023, Defendant
filed a Demurrer to the SAC.
 
On October 18, 2023, Plaintiff
filed his Opposition.
 
On October 23, 2023, Defendant
filed his Reply. 
 
-----
 
Legal Standard
 
Standard for Demurrer – A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether
the complaint states a cause of action.¿ (Hahn v.¿Mirda¿(2007) 147 Cal.
App. 4th 740, 747.) ¿When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations
liberally and in context.¿ (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and
Power¿(2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.)¿ In a demurrer proceeding, the
defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or by proper judicial
notice.¿ (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 430.30(a).)¿A demurrer tests the pleadings
alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters.¿ (SKF Farms v.
Superior Court¿(1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.)¿ Therefore, it lies only
where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially
noticed.¿¿(Ibid.)¿¿The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is
whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,
states a cause of action.¿ (Hahn,¿supra,¿147 Cal.App.4th at
747.)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
A general demurrer admits the truth of all
factual, material allegations properly pled in the challenged pleading,
regardless of possible difficulties of proof.¿¿(Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39
Cal.3d 311, 318.)¿ Thus, no matter how unlikely or improbable, plaintiff’s
allegations must be accepted as true for the purpose of ruling on the
demurrer.¿¿(Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co.¿(1981) 123
Cal.App.3d 593, 604.)¿ Nevertheless, this rule does not apply to allegations
expressing mere conclusions of law, or allegations contradicted by the exhibits
to the complaint or by matters of which judicial notice may be taken.¿¿(Vance
v. Villa Park¿Mobilehome¿Estates¿(1995) 36 Cal.App.4th 698, 709.)¿A general
demurrer does not admit contentions, deductions, or conclusions of fact or law
alleged in the complaint; facts impossible in law; or allegations contrary to
facts of which a court may take judicial notice.¿¿(Blank,¿supra,
39 Cal.3d at p. 318.)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
Pursuant to¿Code Civ. Proc.¿§430.10(e), the
party against whom a complaint has been filed may object by demurrer to the
pleading on the grounds that the pleading does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action.¿ It is an abuse of discretion to sustain a
demurrer without leave to amend if there is a reasonable probability that the
defect can be cured by amendment.¿¿(Schifando¿v. City of Los Angeles¿(2003)
31 Cal.4th 1074, 1082,¿as modified (Dec. 23, 2003).)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
 
-----¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
Meet and Confer Requirement – Before filing a demurrer or a motion to strike, the demurring or
moving party is required to meet and confer with the party who filed the
pleading demurred to or the pleading that is subject to the motion to strike
for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be reached through a
filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the objections to be raised in
the demurrer.  (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §§ 430.41 and 435.5.)  
 
The Court notes that Defendant, the moving
party, attempted to meet and confer via email correspondence on September 18,
2023; however, no agreement was reached between counsels. (Decl. Jared D.
Bissell ¶¶ 3-4.) 
 
-----
 
Discussion
 
Defendant demurs to all four
causes of action.
 
As an initial matter, Defendant
argues that the causes of action are time-barred. 
 
The SAC alleges:
 
In June 2020, MR.
COOPER made the following representations: (1) at the end of the 2020
FORBEARANCE, PLAINTIFF would simply need to resume making regular monthly
mortgage payments, (2) any and all payments made after December 2021 would be
accepted so long as PLAINTIFF makes regular monthly mortgage payments, and (3)
if PLAINTIFF is unable to make the monthly payments after the expiration of the
2020 FORBEARANCE, then MR. COOPER would automatically place PLAINTIFF into loan
modification review or other non-foreclosure alternatives.
 
(SAC ¶ 13.) 
 
Plaintiff argues that his cause
of action is not time barred by the statute of limitations as a contract cause
of action does not accrue until the breach occurs and the statute of
limitations for written contracts is four years. 
 
Defendant’s Reply argues that Plaintiff
cannot point to any representation of a past or existing material fact made in
June 2020 and that Plaintiff has failed to provide that the representations
were made in writing to allow for a four-year statute of limitations period. 
 
First, the argument that Plaintiff
cannot point to any representation of a past or existing material fact made in
June 2020 was not presented in moving papers.” It is well established that new
arguments presented in reply briefs will not be considered. (See In re
Marriage of Khera & Sameer (2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 1467, 1477-78 [“
‘Obvious reasons of fairness militate against consideration of an issue raised
initially in the reply brief of an appellant. [Citations.]”]; Varjabedian v.
City of Madera (1977) 20 Cal.3d 285, 295, fn. 11 [. . .“Obvious reasons of
fairness militate against consideration of an issue raised initially in the
reply brief of an appellant.”]; People v. Smithey (1999) 20 Cal.4th 936,
1017, fn. 26 [“ ‘[T]he rule is that points raised in the reply brief for the
first time will not be considered, unless good reason is shown for failure to
present them before. [Citations.]’ [Citation.]”].) Defendant had only discussed
this argument as to the Negligent Misrepresentation claim. As such, the Court
will not consider this new argument for the purposes of the time-barred
argument. 
 
The Court notes that Defendant’s
Reply argument concedes that, at most, Defendant failed to disclose the alleged
impact of Plaintiff’s 2020 forbearance on future mortgage payments after the
end of the forbearance period. Disclosure is discussed, infra. 
 
It is unclear why both parties
are arguing that the misrepresentation claims are covered under contract law. The
SAC does not allege a breach of contract nor does it indicate any written
instrument is involved. 
 
Discussing negligent
misrepresentation, the Second District Court of Appeal stated: “Negligent
misrepresentation is born of the union of negligence and fraud. If negligence
is the mother and misrepresentation the father, it more closely resembles its
mother.” (Ventura County Nat. Bank v. Macker (1996) 49 Cal.App.4th 1528,1531.)
The statute of limitations for negligence is two years from injury. (Ibid;
see also So v. Shin (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 652, 662 [“The limitations
period for a cause of action for ordinary negligence is two years (Code Civ.
Proc., §§ 335, 335.1)”]. Regarding intentional misrepresentation, the statute
of limitations for fraud is three years. (Code Civ. Proc. § 338(d).)
 
Here, it is alleged that the
discovery of the misrepresentation occurred in August 2022. Two years from
August 31, 2022, the last date in August, is August 2024, and three years from
August 31, 2022 is August 31, 2025. Plaintiff filed his Complaint on March 06,
2023. Accordingly, the misrepresentation actions are not time barred. 
 
 
i.               
First Cause of Action (Negligent
Misrepresentation)
 
Defendant argues that there is no
misrepresentation as: (1) Plaintiff does not identify any alleged
misrepresentation of a past or existing material fact; and (2) Plaintiff concedes
that Defendant accepted payments after the end of the forbearance and reviewed
Plaintiff’s loan modification application, meaning that Plaintiff was placed
into loan modification review; (3) the SAC lacks specificity as it does not
identify the individual who made the misrepresentation or a date upon which the
misrepresentation was made; and (3) a financial defendant does not owe a duty
of care to a borrower when the institution’s involvement in the loan
transaction does not exceed the scope of its conventional role as a mere lender
of money. Defendant presents that the SAC is contradictory because it alleges
that Defendant did not allow Plaintiff to resume making regular mortgage
payments, but accepted payments from Plaintiff after the end of the
forbearance. Defendant believes that this amendment is precluded under the sham
pleading doctrine.  
 
Plaintiff presents that he has
alleged a misrepresentation in the SAC and that the pleadings show that there
was an oral agreement that was broken, so there is no contradiction; that all
facts were pled with specificity; and that Defendant does owe Plaintiff a duty
of care because Defendant is a financial institution and its representations
created a reliance by Plaintiff. 
 
Defendant reiterates that the
sham pleading doctrine applies as Plaintiff has conceded that certain payments
were accepted and that a false promise to perform in the future does not
support a cause of action for negligent misrepresentation as there was no
representation of a past or material fact when the representations were made in
June 2020. 
 
Regarding whether there was no
representation of past or material fact, Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto.
Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 159 (“Tarmann”) states:
 
Certain broken
promises of future conduct may, however, be actionable. Civil Code section
1710, subdivision (4) defines one type of deceit as "A promise, made
without any intention of performing it." As Witkin explains, "A false
promise is actionable on the theory that a promise implies an intention to
perform, that intention to perform or not to perform is a state of mind, and
that misrepresentation of such a state of mind is a misrepresentation of fact.
The allegation of a promise (which implies a representation of intention to
perform) is the equivalent of the ordinary allegation of a representation of
fact." (5 Witkin, Cal. Procedure (3d ed. 1985) Pleading, § 670, p. 120,
italics in original.)
 
To maintain an
action for deceit based on a false promise, one must specifically allege and
prove, among other things, that the promisor did not intend to perform at the
time he or she made the promise and that it was intended to deceive or induce
the promisee to do or not do a particular thing. ( Hills Trans. Co. v.
Southwest Forest Industries, Inc. (1966) 266 Cal.App.2d 702, 708 [72
Cal.Rptr. 441]; Regus v. Schartkoff (1957) 156 Cal.App.2d 382, 389 [319
P.2d 721].) CA[5b] [5b] Given this requirement, an action based on a false
promise is simply a type of intentional misrepresentation, i.e., actual fraud.
The specific intent requirement also precludes pleading a false promise claim
as a negligent misrepresentation, i.e., "The assertion, as a fact, of that
which is not true, by one who has no reasonable ground for believing it to be
true." ( Civ. Code, § 1710, subd. (2).) Simply put, making a promise with
an honest but unreasonable intent to perform is wholly different from making
one with no intent to perform and, therefore, does not constitute a false
promise. Moreover, we decline to establish a new type of actionable deceit: the
negligent false promise.
 
The factual allegations presented
by Plaintiff are:
 
On or about January
2, 2009, PLAINTIFF took out a mortgage loan against the PROPERTY from
Instamortgage.com in the amount of $199,350.00 (the “LOAN”). (A true and
correct copy of the Deed of Trust (“DOT”); recorded on January 9, 2009 with the
Los Angeles County Recorder’s Office as Document Number 2009-0029965; is
attached hereto as Exhibit A and is herein incorporated by reference. See
Exhibit A. 
 
In or around June
2020, PLAINTIFF entered into a forbearance agreement offered by Mr. Cooper to
last 18 months (“2020 FORBEARANCE”). 
 
In June 2020, MR.
COOPER made the following representations: (1) at the end of the 2020
FORBEARANCE, PLAINTIFF would simply need to resume making regular monthly
mortgage payments, (2) any and all payments made after December 2021 would be
accepted so long as PLAINTIFF makes regular monthly mortgage payments, and (3)
if PLAINTIFF is unable to make the monthly payments after the expiration of the
2020 FORBEARANCE, then MR. COOPER would automatically place PLAINTIFF into loan
modification review or other non-foreclosure alternatives.
 
The above
representations were not true because (1) at the end of the 2020 FORBEARANCE,
DEFENDANTS did not allow PLAINTIFF to resume making regular mortgage payments,
but rather gave PLAINTIFF the following ultimatum: make a lump sum payment of
the entire past due balance or face foreclosure; (2) some of the payments made
after December 2021 were rejected, specifically Defendants rejected any
payments made by PLAINTIFF after August 2022; (3) MR. COOPER failed to place
PLAINTIFF into loan modification review or other nonforeclosure alternative,
rather MR. COOPER proceeded with the foreclosure process and as a result
PLAINTIFF was forced to sell his home for undervalue so as to avoid
foreclosure.
 
MR. COOPER made the
above representations without reasonable ground for believing them to be true.
 
MR. COOPER made
these representations, in order to induce PLAINTIFF into accepting the 2020
FORBEARANCE. The 2020 FORBEARANCE was designed to lull PLAINTIFF into inaction
and to face foreclosure.
 
On or around
December 2021, the 2020 FORBEARANCE ended.
 
PLAINTIFF continued
to make his regularly scheduled mortgage payments starting December 2021.
 
On or around August
2022, MR. COOPER stopped accepting payments from PLAINTIFF.
 
Over the next
several months, PLAINTIFF would regularly seek non-foreclosure alternatives
from various agents of Defendants. However, PLAINTIFF’s efforts to seek
non-foreclosure alternatives were systematically rebuffed by Defendants’
agents.
 
On or around January
2023, PLAINTIFF submitted a complete loss mitigation application to MR. COOPER
for review (“JANUARY 2023 APPLICATION”).
 
PLAINTIFF did not
receive notification from MR. COOPER that any additional documents were
required for review during the application process, leading PLAINTIFF to
believe that a complete loss mitigation application had been provided.
 
PLAINTIFF is still
awaiting the results of the JANUARY 2023 APPLICATION.
 
On or around May 15,
2023, PLAINTIFF was forced to sell the PROPERTY at a low rate due to the damage
in equity caused by MR. COOPER.
 
(SAC ¶¶ 11-24.)
 
Thus, at issue, is a case of
intentional misrepresentation, not negligent misrepresentation. 
 
ii.             
Second Cause of Action (Intentional
Misrepresentation)
 
Defendant reiterates similar
arguments to the Second Cause of Action as to the First Cause of Action:
 
·      
There was no misrepresentation as Defendant
allegedly promised to allow Plaintiff to forbear some of the loan, accept
post-forbearance payments, and put the loan into a loan modification review,
which it did. 
·      
Defendant did not promise to forgo its rights to
reject Plaintiff’s payments if the payments were insufficient to bring the loan
current.
·      
The SAC lacks specificity as it is s devoid of
supporting allegations that reflect what, exactly, Defendant’s employees
conveyed that constituted misrepresentations.
 
Plaintiff reiterates his previous
arguments: (1) there has been a misrepresentation, and (2) Plaintiff has pled
all facts with specificity. 
 
Defendant in Reply, once again,
argues that there has been no misrepresentation or past or existing fact. The
Court has addressed this ante.
 
Defendant’s Reply next argues
that Plaintiff is presenting a false narrative that Defendant failed to place
Plaintiff into a loan modification while admitting that Plaintiff submitted a
loan modification application that was being reviewed at the time of the
lawsuit. The Court reiterates that the allegations are such that Defendant
informed Plaintiff that he would “automatically” be placed into a loan
modification or review. (SAC ¶ 13.) Based on the allegations, this was not the
case as Plaintiff himself had to complete and submit a loss mitigation
application to Defendant. (SAC ¶ 21.) 
 
Finally, Defendant’s Reply argues
that (1) Plaintiff’s Opposition does not address specificity, including the
names of the individual who made the representation and their authority to
speak; and (2) Defendant never promised to forgo its rights to reject
Plaintiff’s payments if they were insufficient to bring the loan current. 
 
Defendant is Nationstar who does
business as Mr. Cooper. It is apparent that Defendant had authority to speak. 
 
“The elements of fraud that will
give rise to a tort action for deceit are: “ ‘(a) misrepresentation (false
representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity (or
‘scienter’); (c) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d) justifiable
reliance; and (e) resulting damage.’ ” (Engalla v. Permanente Medical Group,
Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 974 [internal quotation marks omitted].)
 
Plaintiff, in the Intentional
Misrepresentation Cause of Action states, in relevant part:
 
In June 2020, MR.
COOPER made the following representations to PLAINTIFF that: (1) at the end of
the 2020 FORBEARANCE, PLAINTIFF would simply need to resume making regular
monthly mortgage payments, (2) any and all payments made after December 2021
would be accepted so long as PLAINTIFF makes regular monthly mortgage payments,
and (3) if PLAINTIFF is unable to make the monthly payments after the
expiration of the 2020 FORBEARANCE, then MR. COOPER would automatically place
PLAINTIFF into loan modification review or other non-foreclosure alternatives.
 
The above
representations made by MR. COOPER were false because (1) at the end of the
2020 FORBEARANCE, DEFENDANTS did not allow PLAINTIFF to resume making regular
mortgage payments, but rather gave PLAINTIFF the following ultimatum: make a
lump sum payment of the entire past due balance or face foreclosure; (2) some
of the payments made after December 2021 were rejected, specifically Defendants
rejected any payments made by PLAINTIFF after August 2022; (3) MR. COOPER
failed to place PLAINTIFF into loan modification review or other
non-foreclosure alternative, rather MR. COOPER proceeded with the foreclosure
process and as a result PLAINTIFF was forced to sell his home for undervalue so
as to avoid foreclosure.
 
MR. COOPER knew that
the representation was false when they made it, or that they made the
representation recklessly and without regard for its truth. 
 
MR. COOPER intended
to make these representations, in order to induce PLAINTIFF into accepting the
2020 FORBEARANCE. The 2020 FORBEARANCE was designed to lull PLAINTIFF into
inaction and to face foreclosure.
 
PLAINTIFF was harmed
in that he was forced to sell his house for undervalue to avoid foreclosure. 
 
PLAINTIFF’S reliance
on MR. COOPER’S representation was a substantial factor in causing him harm.
Had PLAINTIFF not relied on MR. COOPER’S representation, he would have been
able to refinance while his credit was still good, and while the interest rates
were better; or in the alternative he would have listed the PROPERTY way in
advance of the foreclosure proceedings and would have avoided the urgent
undervalue sale of the PROPERTY.
 
(SAC ¶¶ 35-40.)
 
The Court notes that whether
Defendant had a right to reject Plaintiff’s payments if the payments were
insufficient to bring the loan current is not an issue for this Demurrer. 
 
The Court has reviewed the
Complaint, the FAC, and the SAC. There does not appear to be an application of
the sham pleading doctrine as the new allegations regarding the specifics of
the misrepresentation were absent from the previous pleadings. 
 
First, the Court must address
several of Defendant’s arguments in conjunction with the Complaint:
 
·      
A demurrer admits all factual allegations of the
pleading; however, this rule does not
apply to allegations expressing mere conclusions of law, or allegations
contradicted by the exhibits to the complaint or by matters of which judicial
notice may be taken.¿¿(Vance v. Villa Park¿Mobilehome¿Estates¿(1995) 36
Cal.App.4th 698, 709.) Though Defendant asserts that the statement “On or
around January 2023, PLAINTIFF submitted a complete loss mitigation application
to MR. COOPER for review” is conclusory, Defendant has not provided exhibits to
contradict the statement.  
·      
Though
Defendant argues that Plaintiff fails to identify the person that
purportedly made the misrepresentations, all pleadings clearly identify “Mr.
Cooper” as the individual making these representations. 
 
The various pleadings concede that Defendant accepted mortgage payments
from December 2021 to August 2022. (Complaint ¶¶ 14-15, FAC ¶¶ 15-16,
25-26; SAC ¶¶ 18-19.) The Court notes that the SAC includes some conflicting
allegations. Specifically, despite stating that certain payments were accepted,
the SAC also states “at the end of the 2020 FORBEARANCE, DEFENDANTS did not
allow PLAINTIFF to resume making regular mortgage payments, but rather gave
PLAINTIFF the following ultimatum: make a lump sum payment of the entire past
due balance or face foreclosure.” (SAC ¶ 14.) The Court will consider the
December 2021 to August 2022 payments as received as that is what is alleged
and has been alleged in various iterations of the pleadings. 
 
Based on the Court’s analysis of
the pleadings, the SAC states: (1) Defendant made a representation that “any
and all” payments made after the end of the 2020 forbearance would be accepted
so long as they were regular monthly mortgage payments and if Plaintiff was
unable to do so, he would place automatically into a loan modification review
of other non-foreclosure alternative and this representation was false as
payments stopped being accepted in August 2022 and Plaintiff was not placed
into a loan modification review or other non-foreclosure alterative as Cooper
proceeded with the foreclosure process (SAC ¶¶ 13-24, 25-32); (2) Defendant
made the representation without reasonable ground for believing it to be true (SAC
¶ 28); (3) Plaintiff justifiably relied on the representation because Defendant
is experienced in real estate matters as a lending dealer and had the loan
account for the Property (SAC ¶ 29); and (5) Plaintiff suffered resulting
damages in the form of selling the Property at a low rate (SAC ¶ 24, 31).
 
Regarding intent to deceive
Plaintiff, the SAC pleads: “MR. COOPER made these representations, in order to
induce PLAINTIFF into accepting the 2020 FORBEARANCE. The 2020 FORBEARANCE was
designed to lull PLAINTIFF into inaction and to face foreclosure.” (SAC ¶ 30.)
Read liberally, the Court believes that this is sufficient to show intent. 
 
As to duty, Defendants’ cases are
distinguished. Eddy v. Sharp (1988) 199 Cal. App. 3d 858 discusses the
duty of care an insurance broker has when undertaking to prepare an insurance
proposal. Nymark v. Heart Fed. Savings & Loan Assn. (1991) 231 Cal.
App. 3d 1089 has been superseded by statute. (See Hatton v. Bank of Am.,
N.A. (E.D. Cal. July 08, 2015) 2015 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 89448 at *26
[discussing California law; “While Nymark is still good law, it was
decided in 1991, long before the California Legislature passed the Homeowner
Bill of Rights in 2013, which enunciated a ‘rising trend to require lenders to
deal reasonably with borrowers in default to try to effectuate a workable loan
modification.’ Jolley, 213 Cal.App.4th at 903 (‘these measures indicate
that courts should not rely mechanically on the “general rule” that lenders owe
no duty of care to their borrowers’)”].) Sheen holds:
 
Specifically,
plaintiff asserted a negligence claim against Wells Fargo, alleging that the
bank “owed Plaintiff a duty of care to process, review and respond carefully
and completely to the loan modification applications Plaintiff submitted.”
Plaintiff alleged that Wells Fargo breached this duty, causing him to “forgo
alternatives to foreclosure,” and hence Wells Fargo is liable for monetary
damages relating to the loss of his house, including the value of the home, the
hotel and storage costs plaintiff incurred when he had to vacate the property,
and the damage to his credit rating. Wells Fargo demurred, arguing that it owed
plaintiff no such duty. The Court of Appeal affirmed the lower court‘s decision
to sustain the demurrer but noted that “[t]he issue of whether a tort duty
exists for mortgage modification has divided California courts for years.” (Sheen
v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2019) 38 Cal.App.5th 346, 348 [250 Cal. Rptr. 3d
677] (Sheen).)
 
In this case, we
address the issue dividing the lower courts: Does a lender owe the borrower a
tort duty sounding in general negligence principles to (in plaintiff's words)
“process, review and respond carefully and completely to [a borrower's] loan
modification application,” such that upon a breach of this duty the lender may
be liable for the borrower's economic losses—i.e., pecuniary losses
unaccompanied by property damage or personal injury? (See, e.g., Southern
California Gas Leak Cases (2019) 7 Cal.5th 391, 398 [247 Cal. Rptr. 3d 632,
441 P.3d 881] (Gas Leak Cases).) We conclude that there is no such duty,
and thus Wells Fargo's demurrer to plaintiff's negligence claim was properly
sustained.
 
Neither plaintiff's
assertion of a “special relationship” between himself and Wells Fargo nor his
invocation of the factors articulated in Biakanja v. Irving (1958) 49
Cal.2d 647, 650 [320 P.2d 16] (Biakanja) provides a compelling basis to
recognize such a duty. Plaintiff's claim arises from the mortgage contract he
had with Wells Fargo, and as such, falls within the ambit of the economic loss
doctrine. That judicially created doctrine bars recovery in negligence for pure
economic losses when such claims would disrupt the parties' private ordering,
render contracts less reliable as a means of organizing commercial
relationships, and stifle the development of contract law. (See, e.g., Robinson
Helicopter Co., Inc. v. Dana Corp. (2004) 34 Cal.4th 979, 988–989 [22 Cal.
Rptr. 3d 352, 102 P.3d 268] (Robinson); Rest.3d Torts, Liability for Economic
Harm (June 2020) § 3, com. b., p. 13 (Restatement).)
 
(Sheen, supra, 12
Cal.5th 905.)
 
However, though the context of Eddy
is different from the action at hand, the Eddy holding made clear that
negligent misrepresentation may be imposed by contract. (Eddy, supra,
199Cal.App.3d at 864.) The question that remains is whether, in the context of
the interactions between the parties, a legal duty for negligent
misrepresentation exists. “The determination of whether a duty exists is
primarily a question of law. [Citation.]” (Ibid. [internal citations
omitted].) “ ‘One party to a business transaction is under a duty to exercise
reasonable care to disclose to the other before the transaction is consummated,
. . . facts basic to the transaction, if he knows that the other is about to
enter into it under a mistake as to them, and that the other, because of the
relationship between them, the customs of the trade or other objective
circumstances, would reasonably expect a disclosure of those facts.’ (Rest.2d
Torts, § 551, subd. (2)(e); Wells v. John Hancock Mut. Life Ins. Co.
(1978) 85 Cal.App.3d 66, 72, fn. 8 [149 Cal.Rptr.171]; Westrick v. State
Farm Insurance (1982) 137 Cal.App.3d 685, 691, fn. 3 [187 Cal.Rptr.214].)”
(Ibid.)
 
In this case, both parties
describe the underlying misrepresentation as an oral contract. The Court
believes a duty is imposed as (1) such an oral contract would be part of the
parties’ private ordering, (2) the statement by Defendant was in addition to the
written mortgage contract, and (3) the circumstances between the two parties
would lead to an expectation of disclosure of Defendant’s ability to reject
payments despite the oral agreement. Further, as discussed ante, “the
California Legislature has expressed a strong preference for fostering more
cooperative relations between lenders and borrowers who are at risk of
foreclosure, so that homes will not be lost. (Civ. Code, §§ 2923.5, 2923.6.)
These provisions, enacted in 2008, require lenders to negotiate with borrowers
in default to seek loss mitigation solutions[]” (i.e., a residential lender
owes a common law duty of car to offer, consider, or approve loan modification,
or to explore and offer foreclosure alternatives).  (Jolley v. Chase Home Finance, LLC
(2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 872, 903-05 (“Jolley”).) While Jolley has
been questioned by federal courts, it has not been questioned by California
courts and this Court is bound by it. That is, Defendant went beyond his role
as a silent lender in dealings with Plaintiff during negotiations and the oral
contract made was somewhat misleading to Plaintiff regarding the status of his
loan. 
 
Unlike the First Cause of Action,
the Second Cause of Action focuses solely on the issue of acceptance of
payments. Thus, it appears the alleged misrepresentation at issue is the representation
that Defendant would accept the resumed mortgage payments. Plaintiff concedes
in the SAC that Defendant accepted payments until August 2022. (SAC ¶¶ 19, 36.)
Here, because Plaintiff alleges that the misrepresentation included a statement
that “any and all payments made after December 2021 would be accepted so long
as PLAINTIFF makes regular monthly mortgage payments,” there appears to be a
misrepresentation. (See SAC ¶ 13.)
 
The SAC states: “MR. COOPER
intended to make these representations, in order to induce PLAINTIFF into
accepting the 2020 FORBEARANCE. The 2020 FORBEARANCE was designed to lull
PLAINTIFF into inaction and to face foreclosure.” (Complaint ¶ 38.) Unlike the
previous statement the Court found conclusory (“When aforesaid Defendants made
these representations, they knew them to be false and made these
representations with the intention to deceive and defraud PLAINTIFF and induce
PLAINTIFF to act in reliance on these representations in the manner
hereinafter, or with the expectation that PLAINTIFF would act.”), there is a
showing that such actions were done with an expectation as to how Plaintiff
would act in regards to the forbearance to support an inference that the
misrepresentation was made with the intent to defraud. It is the province of
the jury to find intent. (See Beckwith v. Dahl (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th
1039, 1061 [“[F]raudulent intent is an issue for the trier of fact to
decide.”].) 
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff has
sufficiently pled the Second Cause of Action (Intentional Misrepresentation) as
the pleadings allege: (1) Defendant made a misrepresentation (SAC ¶¶ 13, 26), (b)
Defendant knew the misrepresentation to be false (SAC ¶ 37); (c) Defendant had intent
to defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d) Plaintiff relied on Defendant’s
misrepresentation because Defendant is a lender dealing with the loan of the
Property (SAC ¶ 29); and (e) resulting damage in the form of a forced sale of
the Property (SAC ¶ 40).
 
 
i.               
Third Cause of Action (Violation of California
Business & Professions Code § 17200)
 
Defendant argues that Plaintiff
lacks standing as he cannot establish that Defendant’s conduct caused any
pending foreclosure as he had been delinquent on the loan since 2020. Further
Defendant presents that it has not acted unlawfully, fraudulently, or unfairly
as here is no predicate act upon which to base a violation of Business &
Professions Code § 17200. 
 
Plaintiff argues that the
argument that he lacks standing is moot as he has established valid claims. Plaintiff
further argues that he has alleged the elements of an unfair, unlawful, and/or
fraudulent business practice. Plaintiff presents that the Demurrer should be
overruled as it fails to raise any legitimate objections to the SAC. 
 
Defendant argues that the UCL
does not apply as Plaintiff was already in default at the time of the purported
misrepresentation, so Plaintiff has admitted that he lacks standing. 
 
“Unfair competition” includes any
unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business act or practice and unfair, deceptive,
untrue or misleading advertising and any act prohibited by the Business and
Professions Code. (See Cal. Bus. & Prof. Code § 17200.)
 
“ ‘The scope of the UCL is quite
broad. [Citations.] Because the statute is framed in the disjunctive, a
business practice need only meet one of the three criteria to be considered
unfair competition. [Citation.]’ (McKell v. Washington Mutual, Inc.
(2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 1457, 1471 [49 Cal. Rptr. 3d 227] (McKell).) In
addition to pleading facts sufficient to show that the defendant's acts
constituted an unlawful, unfair, or fraudulent business practice, a plaintiff
alleging a UCL cause of action must also plead facts sufficient to establish he
or she has standing to bring an action under the UCL as amended by Proposition
64.” (Morgan v. AT&T Wireless Services, Inc. (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th
1235, 1253.)
 
“A private plaintiff has standing
to bring a UCL claim if the plaintiff ‘has suffered injury in fact and has lost
money or property as a result of the unfair competition.’ (Bus. & Prof.
Code, § 17204.) In other words, the plaintiff must have suffered a ‘loss or
deprivation of money or property sufficient to qualify as injury in fact, i.e.,
economic injury … .’ (Kwikset Corp. v. Superior Court (2011) 51 Cal.4th
310, 322 [120 Cal. Rptr. 3d 741, 246 P.3d 877] (Kwikset)). . .‘There are
innumerable ways in which economic injury from unfair [**19]  competition may be shown. A plaintiff may (1)
surrender in a transaction more, or acquire in a transaction less, than he or
she otherwise would have; (2) have a present or future property interest
diminished; (3) be deprived of money or property to which he or she has a
cognizable claim; or (4) be required to enter into a transaction, costing money
or property, that would otherwise have been unnecessary.’ (Id. at p.
323.)” (Moore v. Centrelake Medical Group, Inc. (2022) 83 Cal.App.5th
515, 527.)
 
The SAC states, in various
paragraphs, that the actions of Defendant resulted in a forced sale of the
Property due to the damage in equity. (SAC ¶¶ 14, 24, 27, 31, 36, 39, 53.)
 
It appears the SAC alleges an
economic injury as a result of the misrepresentation(s) by Defendant. As
mentioned, ante, a demurrer admits all factual allegations of the
pleading; however, this rule does not
apply to allegations expressing mere conclusions of law, or allegations
contradicted by the exhibits to the complaint or by matters of which judicial
notice may be taken. The exhibits of which the Court took notice show: (1)
Assignment of DOT to MERS on May 27, 2022; Grant Deed from Plaintiff and his
wife to Paiz Investments, a California Corporation; (3) Transfer of Rights in
the Property signed by borrower Paiz Investments, a California Corporation; and
(4) Full Reconveyance of Title to First American Title. The Court cannot
address the issue of standing as nothing in the Requests for Judicial Notice
contradict Plaintiff’s allegations that the economic loss suffered by Plaintiff
was caused by the misrepresentations of Defendant. 
 
The SAC alleges:
 
Defendants violated the Unfair
Competition Law by engaging in unlawful, unfair, and fraudulent business acts
or practices, including but not limited to: 
a. Breaching their duties to
collect mortgage loan payments after August 2022 by refusing to accept payment
from PLAINTIFF; and 
b. Failing to provide Plaintiff
with various loss mitigation options after the expiration of the 2020
FORBEARANCE;
 
(SAC ¶ 43.)
 
It appears that the “conduct”
that Plaintiff is alleging to be unfair, deceptive, untrue, and/or misleading
may be the purported misrepresentations. 
 
a.     Unfair
 
“In consumer cases, the
[California] Supreme Court has not established a definitive test to determine
whether a business practice is unfair. [Citations.]” (Drum v. San Fernando
Valley Bar Assn. (2010) 182 Cal.App.4th 247, 256.) There are three types of
tests for unfairness in consumer cases: (1) “that the public policy which is a
predicate to a consumer unfair competition action under the ‘unfair’ prong of
the UCL must be tethered to specific constitutional, statutory, or regulatory
provisions[;]” (2) “whether the alleged business practice ‘is immoral,
unethical, oppressive, unscrupulous or substantially injurious to consumers and
requires the court to weigh the utility of the defendant’s conduct against the
gravity of the harm to the alleged victim[;]’ ” and (3) a three-part test that
requires the consumer injury be substantial, that the injury must not be
outweighed by any countervailing benefits to consumers or competition, and the
injury must be an injury that consumers themselves could not reasonably have
avoided. (Id. at 256-57.) 
 
Applying the first test, no
specific constitutional, statutory, or regulatory provisions is alleged in the
Third Cause of Action. In discussing the second test, the Court must look to
case law. The court in Smith v. State Farm Mutual Automobile Ins. Co.
(2001) 93 Cal.App.4th 700, 719 stated “ ‘[e]xamples of unfair business
practices include: charging a higher than normal rate for copies of deposition
transcripts (by a group of certified shorthand reporters), where the party
receiving the original is being given an undisclosed discount as the result of
an exclusive volume-discount contract with two insurance companies [citation];
placing unlawful or unenforceable terms in form contracts [citation]; asserting
a contractual right one does not have [citations]; systematically breaching a
form contract affecting many consumers [citation], or many producers
[citation]; and imposing contract terms that make the debtor pay the collection
costs [citation].’ ” Here, it is alleged that Defendant entered into an oral
agreement regarding the forbearance and breached that agreement. However, there
is no showing that the conduct affected many consumers. As to the third test, a
reasonable conclusion can be made that the injury was substantial as Plaintiff
had to sell the Property, there has been no presentation that there are any countervailing
benefits to consumers or competition, and the injury is one that Plaintiff
could not have avoided as it involved reliance on Defendant’s representation. 
 
Accordingly, the allegations
satisfy the third test for an unfair business practice. 
 
b.     Fraudulent
 
Case law has held “ ‘In order to state a
cause of action under the fraud prong of [section 17200] a plaintiff need not
show that he or others were actually deceived or confused by the conduct or
business practice in question. ‘The “fraud” prong of [section 17200] is unlike
common law fraud or deception. A violation can be shown even if no one was
actually deceived, relied upon the fraudulent practice, or sustained any
damage. Instead, it is only necessary to show that members of the public are
likely to be deceived.’ [Citations.] (Schnall v. Hertz Corp. (2000) 78
Cal.App.4th 1144, 1167–1168 [93 Cal. Rptr. 2d 439].)” (Progressive West Ins.
Co. v. Superior Court, 135 Cal.App.4th 263, 284.) “Unless the challenged
conduct ‘ “targets a particular disadvantaged or vulnerable group, it is judged
by the effect it would have on a reasonable consumer.” ’ [Citation.]” (Puentes,
supra, 160 Cal.App.4th 638, 645 [citing Aron v. U-Haul Co. of California
(2006) 143 Cal.App.4th 796, 806].)  
 
Proposition 64 was passed on November 2,
2004 in an effort to curb “ ‘[f]rivolous unfair competition lawsuits [that]
clog our courts[,] cost taxpayers” and “threaten[] the survival of small
businesses. . .’ [Citations.] ” (Californians for Disability Rights v.
Mervyn's LLC (2006) 39 Cal. 4th 223, 228.) Current law requires that one
“suffer[] injury in fact and has lost money or property as a result of such
unfair competition” to have standing to bring a UCL claim. (Id. at 227.)
“Therefore, the holding that “damages are unnecessary” is no longer good.” (Sanchez
v. Bear Stearns Residential Mortg. Corp. (2010) 2010 U.S. Dist. LEXIS
46043, 18, fn 4.)  
 
There has been no presentation
that members of the public are likely to be deceived as the focus on
Plaintiff’s damages. (See SAC ¶¶ 41-44.) 
 
c.      Unlawful
 
An unlawful business practice under section
17200 is “ ‘an act or practice, committed pursuant to business activity, that
is at the same time forbidden by law. [Citation.]’ ” (Bernardo v. Planned
Parenthood Federation of America (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th 322, 351; See
also Smith v. State Farm Mutual Automobile Ins. Co. (2001) 93
Cal.App.4th 700, 717-718; Progressive West Ins. Co., supra, 135
Cal.App.4th 263 at 287.)   
 
As mentioned, ante, no
specific constitutional, statutory, or regulatory provisions is alleged in the
Third Cause of Action. Thus, there has been now showing that the alleged
misrepresentations are part of a business activity that is forbidden by law. 
 
Accordingly,
Plaintiff has sufficiently pled a UCL cause of action as to only unfair
business practices. 
 
 
ii.             
Fourth Cause of Action (Promissory Estoppel)
 
Defendant argues that Plaintiff
cannot allege a cause of action for Promissory Estoppel as Plaintiff fails to
detail a promise as Plaintiff’s SAC fails to detail a promise (i.e., Plaintiff
has failed to attach the purported promise—if it was in writing—to the SAC,
detail how the promise was relayed, indicate by whom it was relayed, and
provide an accounting of when it was relayed). Defendant highlights that
Plaintiff has conceded acceptance of payments after the forbearance and that
Plaintiff has suffered no injury because the need to avoid foreclosure is
separate and distinct from a foreclosure process. 
 
Plaintiff argues that the
agreement offered by Defendant and accepted by Plaintiff is clear and
unambiguous on its terms, Defendant rejected after the forbearance, and
Plaintiff suffered injury by selling the Property at a low rate due to the
damage in equity caused by Defendant. 
 
Defendant argues on Reply that
the Opposition attempts to amend the SAC by altering the basis of the fourth
cause of action and highlights that “the only promise detailed in the fourth
cause of action in SAC was made from Plaintiff to Defendant regarding
Plaintiff’s ongoing mortgage payments after the end of the forbearance.” (Reply
5:17-19.) Defendant believes that the SAC does not provide any kind of promise
from Defendant to Plaintiff. Alternatively, Defendant further argues that it
kept its promise by accepting payments after the forbearance. Defendant also
reiterates that damage in equity without a foreclosure does not constitute
damages.
 
The Court notes that Defendant
has an argument that Plaintiff attempts to go beyond the pleadings by asserting
that “the JANUARY 2023 application was never answered to the PLAINTIFF[]” in
lines 25-26 of page 15. However, the SAC states clearly: “PLAINTIFF is still
awaiting the results of the JANUARY 2023 APPLICATION.” (SAC ¶ 23.) 
 
The elements of an action for
promissory estoppel are: (1) a promise clear and unambiguous in its terms; (2)
reliance by the party to whom the promise is made; (3) [the] reliance must be
both reasonable and foreseeable; and (4) the party asserting the estoppel must
be injured by his or her reliance. (Granadino v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2015)
236 Cal.App.4th 411, 416.)
 
While it appears, the SAC
describes a promise from Plaintiff to Defendant regarding Plaintiff’s ongoing
mortgage payments, it also reflects two statements by Defendant’s agent, Mr.
Cooper: (1) acceptance of “any and all” mortgage payments after the forbearance
ended, and (2) automatic placement into loan modification review or other
non-foreclosure alternatives. 
 
Plaintiff’s SAC states, in
relevant part:
 
PLAINTIFF claims
he was harmed, because MR. COOPER made a false promise. 
 
Defendants made
PLAINTIFF a promise that was clear and unambiguous on its terms, to wit:
PLAINTIFF would resume his monthly mortgage payments after the 2020 FORBEARANCE
ended. 
 
MR. COOPER did
not intend to perform this promise when they rejected mortgage payments
starting August 2022. 
 
The true facts
are as follows: (1) PLAINTIFF made his regular mortgage payments starting
December 2021; (2) MR COOPER accepted the payments starting December 2021; and
(3) MR COOPER stopped accepting payments starting August 2022. 
 
MR. COOPER
intended to make these promises, in order to induce PLAINTIFF into accepting
the 2020 FORBEARANCE. The 2020 FORBEARANCE was designed to lull PLAINTIFF into
inaction and to face foreclosure. 
 
PLAINTIFF was
harmed in that he was forced to sell his house for undervalue to avoid
foreclosure. 
 
PLAINTIFF’S
reliance on MR. COOPER’S representation was a substantial factor in causing him
harm. Had PLAINTIFF not relied on MR. COOPER’S representation, he would have
been able to refinance while his credit was still good, and while the interest
rates were better; or in the alternative he would have listed the PROPERTY way
in advance of the foreclosure proceedings and would have avoided the urgent
undervalue sale of the PROPERTY.
 
(SAC ¶¶ 48-54.) 
 
Accordingly, the Demurrer is Plaintiff
detailed that Defendant made a promise in clear and unambiguous terms,
detailing the acceptance of “any and all” mortgage payments after the
forbearance ended and automatic placement into loan modification review or
other non-foreclosure alternatives; reliance by Plaintiff due to Defendant’s
standing as a lender involved with the Property; the reliance was reasonable
and foreseeable, again due to Defendant’s position; and injury in the form of
the sale of the house. Neither party cites to case law to show whether selling
a house to avoid foreclosure constitutes injury. However, at the pleading
stage, the Court finds the allegations sufficient to proceed as the general
principles underlying damages would seem to support financial loss as damage.
 .
-----
 
Leave to Amend
 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v.
Kennedy¿(1976), 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) While under California law leave to
amend is liberally granted, “leave to amend should not be granted where, in all
probability, amendment would be futile.” (Vaillette v. Fireman's Fund Ins.
Co. (1993), 18 Cal. App. 4th 680, 685).¿ “A trial court does not abuse its
discretion when it sustains a demurrer without¿leave to amend¿if either (a) the
facts and the nature of the claims are clear and no liability exists, or (b) it
is probable from the nature of the defects and previous unsuccessful attempts
to plead that the plaintiff cannot state a claim.” (Cantu v. Resolution
Trust Corp.¿(1992)¿4 Cal.App.4th 857, 889.)¿¿¿
 
The Demurrer was sustained as to
the First Cause of Action (Negligent Misrepresentation). Based on the Tarmann
holding, an amendment would not rectify this deficiency. 
 
-----
 
Conclusion
 
Defendant Nationstar Mortgage LLC dba Mr. Cooper’s
Motion Demurrer is SUSTAINED in part as the First Cause of Action (Negligent
Misrepresentation) without leave to amend and OVERRULED in part as to the
Second Cause of Action (Intentional Misrepresentation), Third Cause of Action (Violation
of California Business & Professions Code § 17200), and Fourth Cause of
Action (Promissory Estoppel).