  Case Number:  19STCV05254    Hearing Date:   January 3, 2025    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     January 3, 2025                     TRIAL
DATE: April 8, 2025
                                                           
CASE:                         Nicole Mehringer v. City of Los Angeles
 
CASE NO.:                 19STCV05254            
 
MOTION
FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant City of Los Angeles.
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Nicole
Mehringer
 
CASE
HISTORY:

02/15/19:
     Complaint filed.
01/11/22:
     First Amended Complaint filed

 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            Plaintiff was terminated by the
Los Angeles Police Department following a Board of Rights hearing regarding
misconduct by Plaintiff. Plaintiff alleges that her termination was in
retaliation for whistleblowing regarding misconduct of other police officers. 
 
Defendant moves for summary
judgment. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendant’s Motion for Summary
Judgment is DENIED.
 
Moving Party to give notice.
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Defendant moves for summary
judgment. 
 
Legal Standard
 
The function of a motion for summary
judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing
party can show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and, if not, to
enable an order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Code of Civil Procedure
Section 437c(c) “requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the
evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’
and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)  “The function of the pleadings in a motion
for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the function of the
affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable issue of
fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.” (Juge v. County of
Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI Development, Inc. v.
Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367, 381-82.)
 
As to each claim as framed by the
complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial
burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to
establish a defense. (Code Civ Proc. § 437c(p)(2); Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes,
Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Courts “liberally construe the
evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts
concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide,
Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.) The lack of opposition by a plaintiff is
not grounds to grant a motion for summary judgment if a defendant cannot meet
their initial burden of proof. (See Thatcher v. Lucy Stores, Inc. (2000)
79 Cal.App.4th 1081, 1087.)
 
            Once the
defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that
a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action
or a defense thereto. To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party
opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster
v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)
 
Defendant’s Improper Response to Separate Statement
 
            Defendant
has submitted a document entitled “Responses to Plaintiff Nicole Mehringer’s
Additional Material Facts” alongside its reply brief. No such filing is
authorized by the Code of Civil Procedure, nor by the Rules of Court. The Court
therefore refuses to consider this improper filing.
 
Plaintiff’s Evidentiary Objections
 
            Plaintiff
objects to portions of the evidence submitted by Defendant in support of its
motion. The Court rules on these objections as follows:
 
            Objection
No. 1: SUSTAINED as inadmissible hearsay to the extent Exhibit Q is offered
to prove the truth of the allegations against the Plaintiff. (Evid. Code §
1200.) However, this exhibit is admissible to demonstrate that the
recommendation was made and is neither conclusory nor lacking in foundation in
that regard. 
 
            Objection
Nos. 2-6: SUSTAINED as inadmissible hearsay to the extent they are offered
to prove the truth of the allegations or the accuracy of the Board of Rights’
findings. (Evid. Code § 1200.) However, this evidence is admissible to prove
that the findings were made and to establish the justifications given by the
Board of Rights for those findings, true or not. In that regard, the statements
are neither conclusory nor lacking in foundation. 
 
Requests for Judicial Notice
 
            Defendant
requests that the Court take judicial notice of (1) the Complaint in this
action; (2) the First Amended Complaint in this action; and (3) Plaintiff’s
March 14, 2024 Pitchess Motion. Defendant’s requests are GRANTED pursuant to
Evidence Code section 452(d) (court records). 
 
Factual History
 
            Plaintiff
commenced her employment with the Los Angeles Police Department in 1996, and,
by December 2016, had been promoted to the rank of Commander of LAPD’s Employee
Relations Group. (Amended Separate Statement of Undisputed Material Facts Nos.
1-2; Response to Separate Statement Nos. 1-2.) In May 2016, Plaintiff began a
romantic relationship with a subordinate. (Id. No. 3.) Plaintiff ended
the relationship in the summer of 2017, but resumed the relationship that
autumn, after selecting the same subordinate as her direct-report aide. (Id.
Nos. 5-6.) On or about April 26, 2018, Plaintiff and her subordinate went out
on a dinner date in Malibu, where they consumed multiple alcoholic beverages.
(No. 9.) Plaintiff and her subordinate then drove to a bar in Glendale and
continued drinking. (No. 10.) Throughout the evening, Plaintiff was using her
LAPD-issued vehicle. (No. 11.) Sometime after midnight, on April 27, 2018,
Glendale police came upon Plaintiff’s vehicle, which had collided with a parked
Mercedes-Benz. (No. 12.) Plaintiff and her subordinate were found unconscious
in the vehicle, and it is undisputed that Plaintiff was intoxicated. (Nos.
14-15.) 
 
Plaintiff was arrested and
criminally charged, and LAPD initiated an internal investigation, alleging that
Plaintiff (1) was drunk in a public place; (2) allowed an intoxicated
subordinate to operate her City-owned vehicle; (3) failed to cooperate with on-duty
personnel at the Glendale Police Department during her arrest and booking; and
(4) failed to notify her superiors that she was involved in a romantic
relationship with a subordinate. (Nos. 17-18.) Following the internal
investigation, then-LAPD Chief of Police Charlie Beck recommended Plaintiff’s
removal following a Board of Rights proceeding. (Amended SSUMF No. 20.) Plaintiff
pled guilty at the Board of Rights to failing to notify LAPD of her romantic
relationship with a subordinate but pled not guilty to the remaining charges.
(No. 21.) As part of her defense during that proceeding, Plaintiff argued that
she was being treated differently from male LAPD officers who had been charged
with similar misconduct. (See Amended SSUMF No. 22; FAC ¶ 12.) In support of
that position, Plaintiff filed a Pitchess Motion with the Board of
Rights, seeking the disclosure of certain officers’ and supervisors’
disciplinary records to obtain evidence supporting the defense. (See
Plaintiff’s Statement of Additional Facts Nos. 6-7, 9-10.) At the conclusion of
the proceeding, the Board of Rights concurred with the Chief’s recommendation
for termination. (Amended SSUMF No. 23.) As set forth in the operative First
Amended Complaint for whistleblower retaliation, Plaintiff alleges that she was
terminated in retaliation for pursuing the Pitchess motion because that
filing threatened to unearth other officer misconduct and lenient treatment
which would have embarrassed the Department. (FAC ¶ 13.) 
 
Government Tort Claim Requirement
 
            Defendant
first attacks Plaintiff’s operative First Amended Complaint for failing to
comply with the claim presentation requirement of the Government Tort Claims
Act. 
 
            Any claim
against a public entity for personal injury must be presented within six months
of accrual of a cause of action. (Gov. Code § 911.2.) The claim presentation
requirement is a mandatory prerequisite to maintaining a cause of action
against a public entity. (E.g. State v. Superior Court (Bodde) (2004) 32
Cal.4th 1234, 1239.) A claim must state ““[t]he date, place and other
circumstances of the occurrence or transaction which gave rise to the claim
asserted” and “[a] general description of the indebtedness, obligation, injury,
damage or loss incurred so far as it may be known at the time of presentation
of the claim”, as well as “[[t]he name or names of the public employee or
employees causing the injury, damage, or loss, if known.” (Gov. Code § 910.) However,
the claim “need not specify each particular act or omission later proven to
have caused the injury.” (Stockett v. Assn. of Cal. Water Agencies Joint
Powers Ins. Auth. (2004) 34 Cal.4th 441, 447.) “A complaint's fuller
exposition of the factual basis beyond that given in the claim is not fatal, so
long as the complaint is not based on an ‘entirely different set of facts.’”  (Id., at 447.) The claim presentation
requirement is satisfied so long as the claim “gives adequate information for
the public entity to investigate.” (Id. at 449.) 
 
            Defendant
states that Plaintiff submitted two government claims with the original
Complaint in this action. The first, dated July 23, 2018, complains that the
Department was pursuing administrative claims against Plaintiff where other
male officers who had committed more serious offenses were not. (Defendant’s
Exhibit H.3, Compendium p. 195-199.) Although the July 2018 government claim relates
to Plaintiff’s defense in her Board of Rights, it does not, even under the most
favorable construction, support a finding that Defendant was or should have
been on notice of the facts which give rise to the instant whistleblower claim.
Nor could it have done so, as Plaintiff’s Pitchess Motion was first
presented in September 2018, after that administrative complaint. (Statement of
Additional Facts Nos. 6.) 
 
Plaintiff’s second complaint,
submitted on January 31, 2019, claims discrimination, harassment, and
retaliation under the Fair Employment and Housing Act, as well as other related
claims. (Defendant’s Exh. H.3, Compendium p. 201.) The January 2019 complaint
does not expressly claim retaliation in violation of Labor Code section 1102.5.
(See Id.) Plaintiff contended in the 2019 government claim that
Defendant’s refusal to provide the transcripts from her Board of Rights hearing
denied her constitutional rights to due process and hindered her ability to
pursue a petition for writ of mandamus as to the Board of Rights’ decision. (Id.
p. 202.) The January 2019 complaint claims: “Defendant is angry at Plaintiff
because she filed a Pitchess motion in her Board of Rights” because the materials
sought by the Pitchess Motion pertained to embarrassing and scandalous
misconduct on the part of various senior LAPD officers. (Id.) The claim
also states that Plaintiff suffered job loss as a result of Defendant’s alleged
misconduct. (Id.)
 
As Defendant states, the January
31, 2019 complaint does not directly reference Labor Code section 1102.5, nor
does it directly contend that Plaintiff was terminated in retaliation for
bringing her Pitchess motion. However, the complaint identifies the Pitchess
motion and the information sought, sets forth a theory of retaliation
against Plaintiff by the Department, and states that she was terminated as a
consequence of that conduct. Applying the liberal construction commanded by
settled precedent, the Court cannot conclude that the claims set forth in the
January 31, 2019 complaint are so far removed from Plaintiff’s theory of
whistleblower retaliation that Defendant did not have adequate information to
investigate her contentions. The Court therefore finds that Plaintiff’s January
31, 2019 complaint is substantially compliant with the claim presentation
requirement with respect to her claim for whistleblower retaliation. Defendant
is therefore not entitled to summary judgment on this basis.
 
Prima Facie Case
 
Defendant next argues that
Plaintiff cannot establish a prima facie case for whistleblower retaliation in
violation of Labor Code section 1102.5. 
 
Labor Code section 1102.5(b)
states:
 
An employer, or any person acting on
behalf of the employer, shall not retaliate against an employee for disclosing
information, or because the employer believes that the employee disclosed or
may disclose information, to a government or law enforcement agency, to a
person with authority over the employee or another employee who has the
authority to investigate, discover, or correct the violation or noncompliance,
or for providing information to, or testifying before, any public body
conducting an investigation, hearing, or inquiry, if the employee has
reasonable cause to believe that the information discloses a violation of state
or federal statute, or a violation of or noncompliance with a local, state, or
federal rule or regulation, regardless of whether disclosing the information is
part of the employee’s job duties.
 
(Labor Code § 1102.5(b) [emphasis added].) Defendant
contends that Plaintiff cannot establish that she engaged in any protected
activity under this section because (1) the disclosure was made by her
attorney, and not herself; and (2) Plaintiff did not have a reasonable belief
that her motion disclosed any unlawful conduct. 
 
            With
respect to the first contention, Defendant asserts that any protected activity
must be conducted by the Plaintiff personally, and not through her counsel. Defendant
relies on Stiesberg v. State of California, a 1996 opinion from the
Ninth Circuit affirming dismissal of a wrongful termination claim on the
grounds that the plaintiff, also a police officer, had done nothing
constituting a “disclosure” under section 1102.5. (Stiesberg v. State of
California (9th Cir. 1996) 80 F.3d 353, 358.) In that case, the Ninth
Circuit found that the only example of any report of illegal conduct alleged
was the issuance of traffic tickets by the plaintiff’s subordinates. (Id.)
Nothing in that opinion stands for the proposition that a motion made by a
party’s attorney and bearing the party’s name and on that party’s behalf falls
outside the scope of Labor Code section 1102.5. In fact, Defendant’s
interpretation would lead to the conclusion that an employer could not be
liable for terminating an employee in retaliation for the commencement of a
lawsuit—a patently absurd result. Defendant’s reliance on subdivision (h) of
section 1102.5 is unavailing, as that section merely protects family members
from being targets of retaliation for actions by their relations. (See Labor
Code section 1102.5(h).) Nothing in that statute states that filings by an
attorney on behalf of their client are, per se, not protected activity
undertaken by the client. The Court categorically rejects Defendant’s argument
in this respect. 
 
            As to
Defendant’s second argument, Defendant asserts that Plaintiff, in deposition, refused
to discuss the information giving rise to her Pitchess motion on the
grounds of attorney-client privilege, while simultaneously conceding that the Pitchess
motion was factually unsupported and based on “rumors.” (SSUMF Nos. 27-28.)
Neither assertion is an accurate characterization of Plaintiff’s deposition
testimony. More precisely, Plaintiff refused to answer “who provided Brad Gage
[Plaintiff’s counsel] with that information” [in the Pitchess motion]
because that inquiry directly and facially invaded the attorney-client
privilege. (Defendants’ Exh. B p.128:16-130:19.) When asked directly to state
what information she possessed regarding the disciplinary matters identified in
the Pitchess Motion, Plaintiff recounted her knowledge concerning nearly
a dozen male LAPD supervisors. (Id. Exh. B. pp. 166:5-178:23.) As
Defendant states, Plaintiff admitted that her knowledge of these events were
grounded in “rumors . . . all through just -- the department rumors.” (Id. p.
171:7-8.) However, Plaintiff also testified that this information was widely
repeated and circulated among both rank-and-file and command staff. (Id.
p. 171-7-11.) Construed in the light most favorable to Plaintiff, the Court
cannot say that this testimony establishes the absence of a reasonable belief that
her Pitchess motion disclosed any illegal conduct. Rather, Plaintiff
testified as to matters which were reportedly public knowledge within the
Department. At minimum, whether Plaintiff had a reasonable belief that her
Motion pertained to unlawful conduct appears to be a genuine issue of fact.
Defendant is therefore not entitled to summary judgment on this basis.
 
Defendant also asserts that the
Pitchess Motion could not constitute a “disclosure” because it sought evidence
and did not disclose illegal conduct, but at most, constituted a threat to
disclose illegal conduct. Defendant offers no authority in support of the
assertion that a Pitchess motion cannot constitute a “disclosure” under
the Labor Code. Moreover, section 1102.5(b) expressly encompasses not only
actual disclosure, but where an employer perceives a threat of disclosure by
the employee. (Labor Code § 1102.5(b).) The Court is therefore unpersuaded by
this argument and does not find that Defendant is entitled to summary judgment
on this basis.
 
Legitimate Reasons for Termination
 
            Defendant’s
final argument is that Plaintiff’s whistleblower retaliation claim fails
because the evidence establishes that Defendant would have terminated Plaintiff
regardless for legitimate, independent reasons. 
 
            When an
employee establishes a prima facie case for retaliation, “the burden shifts to
the employer ‘to demonstrate by clear and convincing evidence’ that the alleged
adverse employment action would have occurred ‘for legitimate, independent
reasons’ even if the employee had not engaged in protected whistleblowing
activities.” (Lawson v. PPG Architectural Finishes, Inc. (2022) 12
Cal.5th 703, 712.) 
 
            Defendant
contends that it would have terminated Plaintiff notwithstanding her Pitchess
motion based wholly on the severity of her conduct and her refusal to take
responsibility for those actions. Defendant’s position is premised entirely on
the Board of Rights’ findings themselves, which state that the decision to
terminate Plaintiff was grounded on a pattern of poor judgment, endangering the
well-being of her subordinate and the public, and gave no indication of
contrition or responsibility for her actions. (SSUMF Nos. 23-25.) While the Board
of Right’s statement of reasons during the hearing would likely be sufficient
to satisfy Defendant’s burden of showing a legitimate non-retaliatory reason
for Plaintiff’s termination under the McDonnell-Douglas standard
governing claims under the FEHA, such a standard is not applicable to
whistleblower claims under Labor Code § 1102.5. (Lawson v. PPG Architectural
Finishes, Inc., supra, at p. 717.) 
Instead, an employer’s defense to a § 1102.5 is predicated on the
employee’s initial showing by a preponderance of the evidence that retaliation
was a contributing factor in a contested employment action.  In the face of this finding, an employer must
offer proof by clear and convincing evidence that it would have taken the same
action even if the employee had not engaged in protected activity.  (Id., at p. 718.)  
 
The Board’s announced findings,
standing alone, do not meet this benchmark, as they say nothing about whether
the Board would have reached the same conclusion to terminate Plaintiff absent
the Pitchess motion. Such a showing is necessarily be grounded on a
comparison of the weight of Plaintiff’s evidence of retaliation against the
substance of Defendant’s justification for the termination decision. This is
what it means to launch a rejoinder to a finding that retaliatory intent
contributed to Plaintiff’s harm. Rather than offering this evidence and
argument in its moving papers, Defendant addressed Plaintiff’s evidence of
retaliation for the first time in its reply papers, thus depriving her of the
notice and opportunity to respond mandated under Code of Civil Procedure §
437c.  
 
Because Defendant’s motion is not
grounded on clear and convincing evidence that it would have made the same
termination decision even in the face of a finding that retaliation was a
contributing motivation for that decision, the Court concludes that Defendant’s
evidence is insufficient to shift the burden to Plaintiff to demonstrate a
triable issue of fact in this respect. 
As a result, the Court denies the motion for summary judgment on this
ground as well. 
 
Conclusion
 
            As the
Court has not found Defendant’s various attacks on the First Amended Complaint
persuasive or sufficient to carry Defendant’s burden, Defendant is not entitled
to summary judgment.
 
CONCLUSION:
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s Motion for
Summary Judgment is DENIED.
 
Moving Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  January 3, 2025                                  ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 