 Case Number:  22STCV38959    Hearing Date:   January 3, 2025    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     January 3, 2025                     TRIAL
DATE: NOT SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Central Village Retail, LLC v. Central
Village Apartments, LP
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV38959            
 
MOTION
TO BE RELIEVED AS COUNSEL (x2) 

 
MOVING PARTY:               Attorney Daniel L. Germain, counsel for Defendants
Central Village Apartments, LP and Deep Green Housing and Community Development
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): No response on
eCourt as of 12/30/24
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for breach of contract that was filed on December 15,
2022. Plaintiff owns the first floor of a four-story mixed-use building.
Defendants own and manage the upper three stories. Plaintiff alleges that
Defendants have failed to repair persistent leaks from the second floor into
the first-floor spaces. 
 
Attorney Daniel L. Germain, counsel
for Defendants Central Village Apartments, LP and Deep Green Housing and
Community Development, moves to be relieved as counsel. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Attorney Daniel L. Germain, counsel
for Defendants Central Village Apartments, LP and Deep Green Housing and
Community Development, moves to be relieved as counsel. 
 
Moving counsel filed all three required forms (MC-051,
-052, and -053) as to both parties and filed proof of service by mail with the
Court. Moving counsel served the motions on the Defendants by mail and
confirmed that the addresses were current by telephone conversation. (MC-052 ¶
3(b).) 
 
In general, an attorney may withdraw with
or without cause so long as the withdrawal would not result in undue prejudice
to the client’s interest – i.e., counsel cannot withdraw at a critical point in
the litigation, because that would prejudice client, but can withdraw
otherwise. (Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21 Cal. App. 4th 904,
915.) The court has discretion to deny an attorney’s request to withdraw where
the withdrawal would work an injustice or cause undue delay in the proceeding,
but the court’s discretion in this area is one to be exercised reasonably. (Mandell
v. Superior Court (1977) 67 Cal.App.3d 1, 4.)   
 
            Here, trial in this matter has not
yet been set, and the only other hearing in this matter is a Case Management
Conference set for January 14, 2024 at 8:30 AM. The risk of prejudice to these
Defendants is therefore low. Moving Counsel states that withdrawal is necessary
because of an irretrievable breakdown in the attorney-client relationship.
(MC-052 ¶ 2.) In light of the low risk of prejudice to the parties at this
juncture, the Court finds that Moving Counsel has demonstrated good cause for
withdrawal. 
 
Accordingly, Attorney Daniel L.
Germain’s Motion to be Relieved as Counsel for Defendant Central Village
Apartments, LP is GRANTED.
 
Attorney Daniel L. Germain’s Motion
to be Relieved as Counsel for Defendant Deep Green Housing and Community
Development is GRANTED.
 
The Court sets a Status Conference
Re: Retention of Substitute Counsel for February 3, 2025 at 8:30 AM, and
continues the Case Management Conference to the same date and time.  
 
This ruling is conditioned on Moving Counsel giving notice to
all parties and filing proof of service with the Court. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  January 3,
2025                                  ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 