 Case Number:  20STCV42104    Hearing Date:   January 3, 2025    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     January 3, 2025                     JUDGMENT:
August 8, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         Ozelia Harris v. Pomona Unified School
District, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 20STCV42104            
 
(1)  
MOTION
FOR ATTORNEY’S FEES; 
(2)  
MOTION
TO TAX COSTS

 
MOVING PARTY:               (1) Defendants Pomona Unified School District and
Rebecca Norwood; (2) Plaintiff Ozelia Harris
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): (1) Plaintiff
Ozelia Harris; (2) Defendants Pomona Unified School District and Rebecca
Norwood
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
11/03/20: Complaint filed. 
·        
05/30/24: Jury verdict rendered for Defendants
and against Plaintiff.
·        
08/08/24: Judgment entered on special verdict. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for employment
discrimination. Plaintiff alleges that Defendants engaged in retaliation and
harassment against her based on her use of medical leave and/or her perceived
disability. On May 30, 2024, the jury returned a verdict for Defendants and
against Plaintiff, finding that Plaintiff was not subjected to an adverse
employment action and was not harassed on the basis of a perceived disability. 
 
            Defendants
move for an award of attorney’s fees. Plaintiff moves to strike Defendants’
Memorandum of Costs. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendants’ Motion for Attorney’s
Fees is DENIED.
 
            Plaintiff’s
Motion to Tax Costs is GRANTED. Defendants’ Memorandum of Costs is stricken in
its entirety. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Motion for
Attorney’s Fees
 
            Defendant moves for an
award of attorney’s fees in the amount of $149,054 and costs in the amount of
$31,323 pursuant to Government Code section 12965 subdivision (c)(6).
 
Timing of Motion
 
A motion for attorney’s fees
following judgment must be served and filed within the time specified for a
notice of appeal. (Cal. Rules of Court Rule 3.1702(b)(1).) A notice of appeal
ordinarily must be served and filed within 60 days of service of the notice of
entry of judgment, or within 180 days of the entry of judgment itself,
whichever is earlier. (Rule 8.104(a).) The filing and service of a motion for
new trial, a motion to vacate judgment, or a motion for judgment
notwithstanding the verdict extends the deadline to appeal to the earliest of
(1) 30 days after service of an order or notice of entry of an order denying
the motion; (2) 30 days after denial of the motion by operation of law; or (3)
180 days after entry of judgment. (Rule 8.108 (b)-(d).) Here, the Notice of
Entry of Judgment was served and filed on August 8, 2024. (Notice of Entry of
judgment.) Plaintiff filed a motion for new trial on August 22, 2024, which was
denied by the Court on October 4, 2024. (October 4, 2024 Minute Order.) Notice
of that ruling was served on all parties that same date. (October 4, 2024
Certificate of Mailing.) As the 30th day
from that order was Sunday, November 3, 2024, Defendants’ deadline to bring
this motion was the next day, Monday, November 4, 2024.  (Code Civ. Proc. §12a.) This motion was served
and filed on Friday, November 1, 2024, so Defendants’ motion is timely.
 
Procedural Posture
 
Plaintiff filed the Complaint in
this action on November 3, 2020, against Defendants Pomona Unified School
District and Rebecca Norwood, alleging (1) retaliation in violation of the Fair
Employment and Housing Act for taking medical leave and filing a complaint
regarding alleged harassment (Complaint ¶¶ 32-36) and (2) harassment on the
basis of a perceived disability. (Complaint ¶¶ 19; 37-40.) Defendants answered
the Complaint on December 14, 2020, and moved for summary judgment on February
15, 2022 on the basis that (1) Plaintiff did not experience retaliation for
taking medical leave; (2) Plaintiff did not experience retaliation for filing a
complaint regarding alleged harassment; and (3) could not prevail on a
harassment claim because she did not have a disability and did not allege any
harassing conduct. (See February 15, 2022 Motion for Summary Judgment.) The
Court issued its ruling on Defendants’ Motion on August 11, 2022. With respect
to the first cause of action, the Court concluded that Defendants had failed to
address the totality of the conduct alleged to support the retaliation claim
(August 11, 2022 Minute Order pp. 6-7), failed to establish that the conduct
which was addressed could not constitute an adverse employment action as
a matter of law (Id p. 8), and failed to demonstrate that Plaintiff’s
internal complaint did not constitute protected activity under FEHA. (Id.
pp. 8-9). As to the second cause of action, the Court found that Defendants’
arguments were based on two misconceptions: first, that Plaintiff’s claim was
grounded in harassment for an actual disability when it had always been
premised on harassment for a perceived disability (August 11, 2022
Minute Order p.10) and, second, that the alleged conduct could not constitute
harassment because Defendants erroneously contended that only verbal harassment
constituted legally-recognized harassment. (Id.) The Court denied
Defendants’ motion based on these findings. (August 11, 2022 Minute Order.)
 
A jury trial in this action
commenced on May 15, 2024. (May 15, 2024 Minute Order.) The jury reached a
verdict on May 30, 2024 in favor of the Defendants on both causes of action.
(Special Verdict entered May 30, 2024.) The jury found that although Plaintiff
had engaged in protected activity (Special Verdict No. 1), Defendants did not
engage in conduct which, taken as a whole, materially and adversely affected
the terms and conditions of Plaintiff’s employment (No. 2), and that Plaintiff
was not subjected to harassing conduct based on a perceived disability. (No.
6.) Plaintiff’s post-trial motions were heard on October 2, 2024 and denied on
the merits on October 4, 2024. (October 4, 2024 Minute Order.) 
 
Entitlement to Fees
 
Defendant moves for an award of
attorney’s fees in the amount of $149,054 and costs in the amount of $31,323
pursuant to Government Code section 12965 subdivision (c)(6).
 
            Subdivision
(c)(6) of Government Code section 12965 states that, for civil actions brought
under the Fair Employment and Housing Act; “the court, in its discretion, may
award to the prevailing party […] reasonable attorney’s fees and costs,
including expert witness fees, except that, notwithstanding Section 998 of the
Code of Civil Procedure, a prevailing defendant shall not be awarded
fees and costs unless the court finds the action was frivolous, unreasonable,
or groundless when brought, or the plaintiff continued to litigate after it
clearly became so. (Gov. Code § 12965(c)(6) [Emphasis added].) As the language,
purpose, and intent of California and federal anti-discrimination statutes are
“virtually identical,” California courts “have adopted the methods and
principles developed by federal courts in employment discrimination claims” (Cummings
v. Benco Building Services (1992) 11 Cal.App.4th 1383, 1386-87.) The
Supreme Court’s decision in Christianburg Garment Co. v. EEOC sets forth
the standard for awarding prevailing defendants attorney’s fees and costs,
stating “such awards should be permitted ‘not routinely, not simply because he
succeeds, but only where the action is found to be unreasonable, frivolous,
meritless or vexatious.’” (Christianburg Garment Co. v. EEOC (1978) 434
U.S. 412, 421, quoting Carrion v. Yeshiva University (2d. Cir. 1976, 535
F.2d 722, 727.) As the court elaborated:
 
[T]he term “meritless”
is to be understood as meaning groundless or without foundation, rather than
simply that the plaintiff has ultimately lost his case, and that the term “vexatious”
in no way implies that the plaintiff's subjective bad faith is a necessary
prerequisite to a fee award against him. In sum, a district court may in its
discretion award attorney's fees to a prevailing defendant in a Title VII case
upon a finding that the plaintiff's action was frivolous, unreasonable, or
without foundation, even though not brought in subjective bad faith. 
 
In applying these
criteria, it is important that a district court resist the understandable
temptation to engage in post hoc reasoning by concluding that, because a
plaintiff did not ultimately prevail, his action must have been unreasonable or
without foundation. This kind of hindsight logic could discourage all but the
most airtight claims, for seldom can a prospective plaintiff be sure of
ultimate success. No matter how honest one's belief that he has been the victim
of discrimination, no matter how meritorious one’s claim may appear at the
outset, the course of litigation is rarely predictable. Decisive facts may not
emerge until discovery or trial. The law may change or clarify in the midst of
litigation. Even when the law or the facts appear questionable or unfavorable
at the outset, a party may have an entirely reasonable ground for bringing suit[…]
 
To take the further
step of assessing attorney's fees against plaintiffs simply because they do not
finally prevail would substantially add to the risks inhering in most
litigation and would undercut the efforts of Congress to promote the vigorous
enforcement of the provisions of Title VII. Hence, a plaintiff should not be
assessed his opponent's attorney's fees unless a court finds that his claim was
frivolous, unreasonable, or groundless, or that the plaintiff continued to
litigate after it clearly became so.
 
(Christianburg Garment Co., supra, 434 U.S. at
421-22.) 
 
            Defendants
claim that the groundlessness of Plaintiff’s claims was apparent from the
outset and was further emphasized by subsequent developments in the litigation.
First, Defendants assert, without explanation or evidence, that Plaintiff was
aware that her claims lacked merit from the inception of the lawsuit, and that
she was apprised of that fact by a February 10, 2021 letter from Defendants’
counsel attacking the merits of her claims. The arguments of the Defendants’ counsel
are not evidence of the lack of merit of Plaintiff’s claims, whether they are
presented in the moving papers or in correspondence to the opposing party. 
 
Next, Defendants contend that
Plaintiff admitted that she did not experience an adverse employment action in
her October 7, 2021 deposition, but that contention is belied by Defendants’
own evidence. Close examination of the partial transcript produced by
Defendants reveals that, first, Plaintiff testified only that she had not been
suspended or demoted and had not received a reduction in pay. (Defendants’ Exh.
8 p. 99.) That testimony does not, itself, establish that Plaintiff was not
subjected to conduct which could, in aggregate, constitute a “substantial and
detrimental” change in the terms and conditions of her employment. (Horsford
v. Bd. of Trustees of California State Univ. (2005) 132 Cal.App.4th 359,
373.) Second, the deposition transcript cuts off immediately after Plaintiff
testified that she had information that she should have—but did not—receive a
raise after October 6, 2020. (Defendants’ Exh. 8 p. 99:19-24.) While that
deposition testimony is not wholly favorable to Plaintiff, the Court does not
consider it to be indicative of a total lack of evidence.
 
Third, Defendants assert that Plaintiff
had no basis for her harassment claim because her Complaint concedes that
Plaintiff had no disability as of April 2020, and she returned to work without
restrictions on April 8, 2020. (See Complaint ¶ 13.) Therefore, Defendants
claim, there was no basis for Defendants to perceive Plaintiff as having a
disability. This argument is specious. The absence of a disability is not evidence,
conclusive or otherwise, that Defendants did not or could not perceive
Plaintiff as having a disability. 
 
Fourth, Defendants contend that the
parties’ showing at trial established that Plaintiff’s claims lacked merit
because (1) Plaintiff did not produce evidence of a termination, suspension, denial
of promotion, or reduction of wages, and (2) Defendant Norwood testified that
she had no knowledge suggesting that Plaintiff might have a disability, had
never seen Plaintiff’s internal complaint, and had no control over any of the
other events for which Plaintiff blamed Defendant Norwood. (Declaration of
Dominic Quiller ISO Mot. ¶¶ 12-17.) Defendants assert that the Court, in
response to this showing, reconsidered its ruling on the Motion for Summary
Judgment and “sua sponte modified that ruling by ordering that Plaintiff could
only pursue a perceived disability claim.” (Motion p.10:15-16.) No such finding
is reflected in the Court’s Minute Orders, and Defendants do not produce a
trial transcript evidencing such a ruling. Moreover, the putative ruling
described by Defendants would be illogical and unnecessary, as the Court’s
August 11, 2022 ruling plainly states that the Complaint alleges harassment
based on a perceived disability, not an actual disability. (August 11,
2022 Minute Order.) The erroneous recitation of the record notwithstanding, Defendants,
in essence, assert that Plaintiff’s claims were groundless because Defendants elicited
favorable testimony at trial and ultimately prevailed. This argument is exactly
the type of post hoc reasoning discouraged by the Supreme Court. 
 
Contrary to Defendants’ assertions,
this was not a case where the only evidence of misconduct was the Plaintiff’s
wholly unsupported opinion (Robert v. Stanford University (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th
67, 73 [awarding attorney’s fees where only evidence of discrimination was
plaintiff’s unsupported belief],) or where the course of discovery revealed the
complete absence of evidence (Galen v. County of Los Angeles. (9th Cir.
2007) 477 F.3d 652, 666-68.) Rather, this was a case where, as Defendants’
showing on this motion demonstrates, some evidence supported Plaintiff’s
position and, as reflected in the August 11, 2022 ruling, the conduct alleged
could have risen to the level of actionable harassment or retaliation. That the
jury ultimately found for Defendants is not sufficient. 
 
The Court therefore finds that
Defendants are not entitled to attorney’s fees and costs pursuant to Government
Code section 12965(c)(6).
Conclusion
 
            Accordingly,
Defendants’ Motion for Attorney’s Fees is DENIED.
 
Motion to Tax Costs
 
            Plaintiff
moves to strike Defendants’ entire memorandum of costs solely on the basis that
Defendants have not demonstrated their entitlement to costs under Government
Code section 12965(c)(6). 
 
            As Plaintiff
states, and for the reasons set forth above, Defendants are not entitled to
costs under Government Code section 12965(c)(6). Moreover, our Supreme Court has
held that this code provision is an express exception to the general rule
entitling prevailing parties to costs set forth in Code of Civil Procedure
section 1032. (Williams v. Chino Valley Independent Fire District (2015)
61 Cal.4th 97, 105.) Consequently, and contrary to Defendants’ argument in
opposition, Defendants are only entitled to costs upon a finding by the Court
that Plaintiff’s action was frivolous. (Williams, supra, 61 Cal.4th at
115.) As the Court declines to make such a finding for the reasons stated
above, Defendants are not entitled to recover their costs. 
 
            Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s Motion to Tax Costs is GRANTED. 
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            Accordingly,
Defendants’ Motion for Attorney’s Fees is DENIED.
 
            Plaintiff’s
Motion to Tax Costs is GRANTED. Defendants’ Memorandum of Costs is stricken in
its entirety. 
 
            Moving
Parties to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  January 3,
2025                                  ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 