  Case Number:  22STCV30200    Hearing Date:   March 8, 2024    Dept:  I We are here again on motions to compel to which there has
been no opposition.  Apparently the
court’s chat with defense counsel at the last hearing has not had the desired
effect.  The court will therefore GRANT
the motion (except for request for production 1, as to which the motion is
DENIED).  Complete, code compliant
responses without objection will be served within 2 court days.  Documents will be produced at that time.  All objections INCLUDING PRIVILEGE are
waived.  This is not a situation of an
honest error.  The court is now convinced
that defendants have elected simply to ignore their discovery obligations and
force plaintiffs to bring a motion for every item of discovery that is
propounded.  Further, the court has lost
confidence in defendants’ good faith as well as counsel’s good faith.  The court thought that maybe the discussion
at the last hearing would suffice to turn the defense around, but it has
not.  Defendants’ decision, apparently
made in conjunction with counsel, to act in bad faith is sufficient to waive
privilege and the privilege is deemed WAIVED. 
There is a question as to the scope of the waiver, but the court need
not address that now. 
The court warns defendants that it is likely, at this point,
to conclude that defendants’ discovery responses are not trustworthy given
their consistent behavior in this matter. 
That means that the court could be willing to draw the inference that
defendants are just not trustworthy, which could in turn have an effect on
their upcoming motion for summary judgment.
The court will discuss this with counsel and defendants at
the hearing, but the court will need some tangible assurance that defendants
are acting in good faith, and that their counsel is acting ethically and in
good faith as well.  The court also notes
that the motion for terminating sanctions is looking stronger.  At the last hearing, the court indicated that
such a sanction would be unlikely, but the court was assuming at that time that
defendants would take the court’s discussion to heart and begin acting in good
faith rather than that defendants truly were employing this as a bad faith
strategy.  Neither they nor their counsel
has done so.  It might well be that only
terminating sanctions, and not any lesser sanction, will solve the prejudice to
the plaintiffs.
The request for sanctions is GRANTED as against defendants
and their counsel in the amount of $2129.30 (for all motions combined).  Payable within 30 days.