 Case Number:  23SMCV01463    Hearing Date:   October 16, 2024    Dept:  I This is a motion for a preliminary injunction.  Plaintiffs contend that they bought property
that is landlocked; that is, there is no way for them to access a public
highway lawfully.  They claim that they
have been using a particular road (which the court will call the “Southern
route”) to get in and out, but recently defendants, who own the property on
which the Southern route sits, have put up a locked gate that denies plaintiffs
access (or perhaps they only recently locked the gate).  According to plaintiffs, they are entitled to
a prescriptive or equitable easement so that they can get to and from a public
road.  Defendants, in opposition, state
that plaintiffs do have a way to the public road system, which the court will
call the “Northern route.”  Defendants
state that plaintiffs have been using that route and that in the leases that
plaintiffs have with tenants on the property, the tenants are expressly told
that they can use the Northern route. 
Defendants at least suggest that either that route is public or there is
an easement favoring plaintiffs’ land that so allows, or that the owner of the
land is allowing such access.  In reply,
plaintiffs say that there is no easement for the Northern route, and that use
of that route is trespass, although they do not explain why they tell their
tenants to commit trespass.  Plaintiffs
also say that the injunction will maintain the status quo.  Defendants deny that, saying that the gates
were placed on the road two years before the litigation.  Plaintiffs reply that although the gates were
there since 2021, they were not locked until after this lawsuit was filed. 
 
The court will CONTINUE the hearing to obtain more
information.  From the defense, the court
will want evidence that there is an easement allowing plaintiffs to use the
Northern route.  The nice thing about
easements is that we record them, so defendants ought to have no difficulty
proving up the assertion that they at least implied in opposition.  From plaintiffs, the court will want to know
what they have been doing since the gate was locked.  Have plaintiffs (or their tenants) been stuck
on the property other than by foot or bicycle? 
Are they unable to get to the property? 
And the court will also want to know from the plaintiffs whether they
have some sort of agreement or understanding of any type—whether or not it is
an easement and whether or not it is a formal contract—allowing them to use the
Northern route.  From both parties, the
court wants to know the actual hardship. 
For plaintiffs, that means a statement—supported by admissible
evidence—that if the gate remains locked, they will be harmed and how.  Is it that they have to drive a greater
distance to use the Northern route?  Is
it that they or their tenants will be forced to stay on their property except
by bicycle or on foot (or cannot get to the property except in that manner), so
they or their tenants are likely to starve unless they can grow their own food
and they will die of thirst if the plumbing breaks?  From the defense, the court would like to
know whether plaintiff’s use of the road is really likely to cause any hardship
given that if one wanted to enter the land to do mischief, one merely needs to
stop the car at the gate and walk right in. 
The court would also like to know from plaintiffs exactly what five (or
more) year period they contend supports their claim for a prescriptive
easement.  Finally, the court would
appreciate a joint map showing all of the properties and all of the roads,
noting where the property lines are, where the gates are, who owns what
property, and where the public roads are. 
The road in question should be marked as well as the Northern route.
 
The court also notes that defendants’ collective prior bad
conduct in terms of service of process and discovery is not helpful to them
here.  While the court will resolve this
motion on its merits and not based on past history, prior conduct is not a good
indicator of defendants’ collective good will.
 
The court will discuss the briefing with the parties and a
mutually convenient hearing date. 
Whether the court will order the gates to be opened in the interim will
depend on whether plaintiffs truly cannot get to their property (or leave it),
or whether they do have a way to do so.
 
The real answer, of course, is for the parties to have a
meeting and reach an accord.  The court
will also therefore discuss mediation or an MSC in the immediate future.  No matter the result of this motion or the
case, the parties will still be neighbors. 
This sort of blood feud is not going to be helpful in the long run, and
an order from this court—in whatever form—will not really make good neighbors.
 