  Case Number:  23BBCV00484    Hearing Date:   April 23, 2024    Dept:  A  
LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

CONTINUANCE
APRIL 23, 2024

MOTION FOR
SUMMARY JUDGMENT/SUMMARY ADJUDICATION

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV00484

 



MP:  


Eileen Lademar (Plaintiff) 




RP:  


Carmen Risiglione (Defendant)



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Eileen Lademar
(Plaintiff) brings this action against Carmen Risiglione aka Rachel Carmen
Esteban dba In2rekovery Foundation (Defendant). Plaintiff alleges that she has
been a tenant of Defendant in a sober living home for the past four years.
Plaintiff alleges, among other things, that Defendant’s negligence caused
multiple incidents of assault upon Plaintiff from other tenants. Plaintiff
alleges further that Defendant kept the property in a derelict condition. 
 
Plaintiff’s Second
Amended Complaint states causes of action for (1) Elder Abuse, (2) Negligence,
(3) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress (IIED), (4) Vicarious
Liability, (5) Negligent Hiring, Supervision, Retention, (6) Breach of Warranty
of Habitability, and (7) Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress (NIED). 
 
Plaintiff now moves
for summary judgment as to the entire Complaint. In the alternative, Plaintiff
requests summary adjudication as to each cause of action.  Although Plaintiff moves for summary judgment,
she does not brief any overarching issue which would necessitate the entry of
judgment on the matter as a whole. Instead, Plaintiff individually briefs each
cause of action with respect to the existence of a triable issue of fact. As
such, the Court construes Plaintiff’s motion as one for summary adjudication as
to each cause of action and will rule accordingly lest all causes of action are
bereft of a triable issue of fact. 
 
Plaintiff also moves
for summary adjudication of each cause of action in Defendant’s
Cross-Complaint. 
 
Defendant
opposes the motion and Plaintiff replies.  The Plaintiff objects to the late filing of
Defendant’s opposition; however, the Court has discretion to consider a late
filing and does so here. CRC Rule 3.1300(d).
  
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.               
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Summary
Judgment
 
The Court
notes that Defendant’s opposition does not comply with Rule 3.1350.  In some instances a matter is disputed, albeit
without stating “disputed,” and in other instances objections and argument is
included in the column which is not code compliant.  In one instance the recitation to a movie “Pacific
Heights” was included which is not appropriate.
 
Likewise,
Plaintiff’s papers are also not code compliant.   Plaintiff’s Separate Statement of Facts
simply lays out 49 undisputed facts, but fails to set forth which causes of action
they apply.  CRC Rule 3.1350(d) expressly
requires the Separate Statement of Facts to set forth each cause of actions and
each supporting material fact claimed to be without dispute.  This was not done.  From having reviewed the 49 facts, the Court
does not believe that all the asserted undisputed material facts apply to each
and every cause of action, and the Court is not charged with the responsibility
to determine which facts apply to which cause of actions; it is the moving
party’s responsibility to do that.
 
For
example, Undisputed Fact 9 states, “Other people in the housing unit would go
to the dumpsters and bring garbage to be kept in the housing unit.”  The Court is unable to determine what causes
of action the Plaintiff believes this undisputed material facts applies.   From reviewing the causes of action, the
Court does not believe it would apply to all of them.
 
The Court
finds that both parties failed to file code complaint motions and the matter
will be continued for the parties to file code compliant briefs.   The Court is not requesting additions to the
papers other than presenting them in a code compliant manner.
 
The
matter is continued to May 8, 2024 at 10:00 AM. 
Code compliant papers shall be received by the Court no later than May
3, 2024 by 4:00 PM.
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Eileen Lademar’s
Motion for Summary Judgment came on regularly for
hearing on April 19, 2024 was continued to April 22, 2024.  The matter is continued again to permit the
parties to file code compliant papers. 
The Court rules as follows: 
 
THE MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT AND/OR SUMMARY
ADJUDICATION IS CONTINUED TO MAY 8, 2024 AT 10:00 AM. 
 
PARTIES ARE ORDERED TO FILE CODE COMPLAINT DOCUMENTS
NO LATER THAN MAY 3, 2024 BY 4:00 PM. 
COURTESY COPIES ARE REQUESTED BY THE COURT.
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, PLAINTIFF TO
GIVE NOTICE.
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
April 23, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 