 Case Number:  24NWCV00839    Hearing Date:   December 17, 2024    Dept:  C 1)   CUEVAS-ROBLES, ET AL. v. UBER TECHNOLOGIES, INC. ET
AL.
CASE NO.: 24NWCV00839
HEARING: December 17, 2024 @ 10:30 a.m.JUDGE: RAUL A. SAHAGUN
 
#6
TENTATIVE ORDER
 
1)   Uber Technologies, Inc., Rasier-CA, LLC,
and Rasier, LLC’s Motion to Compel Arbitration and Request to Stay Litigation
is GRANTED.
 
2)   Defendant Curtis Johnson’s Motion to Compel
Arbitration and Request to Stay Litigation is GRANTED.
 
Moving parties to
give notice. 
 
Background
 
This is a personal injury action. On March 20, 2024,
Plaintiffs Rigoberto Cuevas-Robles (“Mr. Cuevas”) and Maria Auxilio De Lira De
Cuevas (Mrs. Cuevas”) (“Plaintiffs”) filed this action against Defendants Uber
Technologies, Inc. (“Uber”), Rasier-CA, LLC, Rasier, LLC (collectively, “Uber
Defendants”), Curtis Doe (later amended to Curtis Johnson)(“Johnson”), and Does
1 to 100. The Complaint alleges Mr. Cuevas requested a vehicle through Uber, a
ride-sharing app, at 6713 Templeton 24 Street, Huntington Park, Los Angeles, CA
90255 on May 2, 2022. The Complaint alleges Johnson picked up Mr. Cuevas in the
scope of his employment with Uber as a driver. When Mr. Cuevas was exiting the
vehicle at the conclusion of the ride, Johnson allegedly pushed Mr. Cuevas out
of the vehicle, causing him to fall onto the ground and sustain injuries (“Incident”).
The Complaint alleges the following causes of action: 1) Assault, 2) Battery,
3) Negligence, and 4) Loss of Consortium.
 
On May 8, 2024, Uber Defendants filed an answer to the
Complaint. On August 28, 2024, Johnson filed an answer to the Complaint. 
 
Uber Defendants and Johnson now move separately to compel
arbitration and request to stay the action. 
 
Legal Standard
 
Parties may be compelled to arbitrate a dispute upon the
court finding that: (1) there was a valid agreement to arbitrate between the
parties; and (2) said agreement covers the controversy or controversies in the
parties’ dispute.¿ (CCP § 1281.2; see also Omar v. Ralphs Grocery Co. (2004)¿118
Cal.App.4th 955, 961.) A party petitioning to compel arbitration has the burden
of establishing the existence of a valid agreement to arbitrate and the party
opposing the petition has the burden of proving, by a preponderance of the
evidence, any fact necessary to its defense. (Banner Entertainment, Inc. v.
Superior Court¿(1998) 62 Cal.App.4th 348, 356-57.)¿ 
 
¿“If a court of competent jurisdiction. . .has ordered
arbitration of a controversy which is an issue involved in an action or
proceeding pending before a court of this State, the court in which such action
or proceeding is pending shall, upon motion of a party to such action or
proceeding, stay the action or proceeding until an arbitration is had in
accordance with the order to arbitrate or until such earlier time as the court
specifies.” (CCP § 1281.4.)¿¿ 
 
Discussion
 
1)  
Defendant Uber’s Motion to Compel
Arbitration
 
The parties dispute 1) whether there is a valid agreement
that applies to the Plaintiffs, 2) whether Plaintiffs’ battery claims are
covered by the agreement, and 3) whether right to compel arbitration was
waived. The Court will discuss each issue in turn.
 
          Valid
Agreement
 
Uber Defendants argue there is a valid agreement to
arbitrate that can be applied to non-signatory Plaintiffs. Uber Defendants argue
that Nathaly Cuevas, Uber account holder and Plaintiffs’ daughter, ordered the vehicle
for Mr. Cuevas that is the subject of the Incident. (Nourmohammadi Decl., ¶ 3.)
Plaintiffs concede to this fact. (Yazdi Decl., ¶ 3.) Uber Defendants argue this
case is wrongly brought because Plaintiffs assert claims arising from the
Incident, which are subject to an arbitration agreement consented to via her
use of her Uber account. (Yu Decl., ¶¶ 8-11, Exhs. A-E.) 
 
Uber Defendants argue that Plaintiffs, as non-signatories,
are bound by the arbitration agreement firstly because a non-signatory may be
estopped from refusing to arbitrate where the claims asserted are intertwined
with the contractual obligations of the agreement. Specifically, Plaintiffs
claims are intertwined with their daughter’s use of the Uber account. Secondly,
Mr. Cuevas is a third-party beneficiary of the agreement—Mr. Cuevas benefitted
from the agreement when he agreed to ride in the Uber vehicle. Lastly, both
Plaintiffs had a pre-existing parent-child relationship with a signatory to the
agreement. Uber Defendants assert that where there is a pre-existing
relationship between a non-signatory and a party to the arbitration agreement,
the non-signatory may be compelled to arbitrate the claim. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs argue that a valid arbitration
agreement does not exist between Plaintiffs and Uber Defendants. (Yazdi Decl.,
¶¶ 12-13.) Plaintiffs do not dispute that an agreement exists between
Plaintiffs’ daughter and Uber. Plaintiffs argue they are not third-party
beneficiaries because the terms of the contract evidence no intent to benefit
Plaintiffs as third parties.
 
As to the issue of whether Plaintiffs are bound as
non-signatories, the Court initially finds Plaintiffs are not bound as third-party
beneficiaries because the agreement evidences no intent to benefit them.
(See Prouty v. Gores Technology Group (2004) 121 Cal.App.4th 1225, 1232
(“The test for determining whether a contract was made for the benefit of a
third person is whether an intent to benefit a third person appears from the
terms of the contract.”).) Nevertheless, the Court finds Plaintiffs are bound
through the principles of estoppel and pre-existing relationships. 
 
Equitable estoppel applies here. “[A] party may be estopped
from asserting that the lack of his signature on a written contract precludes
enforcement of the contract's arbitration clause when he has consistently
maintained that other provisions of the same contract should be enforced to
benefit him. . .[¶] A nonsignatory is estopped from refusing to comply with an
arbitration clause ‘when it receives a “direct benefit” from a contract
containing an arbitration clause.’” (Boucher v. Alliance Title Co., Inc. (2005)
127 Cal.App.4th 262, 269 (citing International Paper Co. v. Schwabedissen
Maschinen & Anlagen GMBH (4th Cir. 2000) 206 F.3d 411, 418 (finding
equitable estoppel applied to preclude nonsignatory Plaintiff from arguing it
was not bound to arbitration agreement with a signatory defendant)).) The Court
finds that Mr. Cuevas accepted the benefits of the agreement between Uber and
his daughter when he rode in the vehicle. Mr. Cuevas would not have benefitted
from Uber’s services but for the agreement between Uber and his daughter. The
Court finds Mr. Cuevas is estopped from arguing he is not bound to the
agreement. 
 
The principle of pre-existing relationships also applies to
bind both Plaintiffs as parents for the signatory. A nonsignatory may be bound
to arbitrate where “a preexisting relationship exist[s] between the
nonsignatory and one of the parties to the arbitration agreement, making it
equitable to compel the nonsignatory to also be bound to arbitrate his or her
claim.” (County of Contra Costa v. Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc. (1996)
47 Cal.App.4th 237, 242.) The Court finds Plaintiffs have a preexisting relationship
to the signatory, their daughter. (Nourmohammadi Decl., ¶ 3.) Their daughter
ordered the Uber for the benefit for her father, Mr. Cuevas. (Ibid.)
Considering the claims by both Plaintiffs are so closely tied to the agreement
made by their daughter, the Court finds it equitable to bind Plaintiffs to the
agreement.
 
Finding that Plaintiffs are be bound by the agreement, Court
now turns to the validity of the agreement between Nathaly Cuevas and Uber.
 
Under both the Federal Arbitration Act and California law,
Arbitration Clauses are valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, except on such
grounds that exist at law or equity for voiding a contract. (Winter v.
Window Fashions Professions, Inc. (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 943, 947.) The
party moving to compel arbitration must establish the existence of a written
arbitration agreement between the parties. (Code of Civ. Proc. § 1281.2.) In
ruling on a motion to compel arbitration, the court must first determine
whether the parties actually agreed to arbitrate the dispute, and general
principles of California contract law help guide the court in making this
determination. (Mendez v. Mid-Wilshire Health Care Center (2013) 220
Cal.App.4th 534, 541.) 
 
“With respect to the moving party’s burden to provide
evidence of the¿existence¿of an agreement to arbitrate, it is generally
sufficient for that party to present a copy of the contract to the court. (See¿Condee
v. Longwood Management Corp.¿(2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 218, 105
Cal.Rptr.2d 597 (Condee¿); see also Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1330 [“A
petition to compel arbitration or to stay proceedings pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure sections 1281.2 and 1281.4 must state, in addition to other required
allegations, the provisions of the written agreement and the paragraph that
provides for arbitration. The provisions must be stated verbatim, or a copy
must be physically or electronically attached to the petition and incorporated
by reference”].) Once such a document is presented to the court, the burden
shifts to the party opposing the motion to compel, who may present any
challenges to the enforcement of the agreement and evidence in support of those
challenges. [Citation.]” (Baker v. Italian Maple Holdings, LLC¿(2017) 13
Cal.App.5th 1152, 1160.)
 
Here, Uber Defendants have incorporated the Terms of the
arbitration agreement in the Motion and have attached the original and updated
agreements, including evidence that Nathaly Cuevas agreed. (Yu Decl., ¶¶ 8-12;
Exhs. A, C, E; Mot. p. 9, lines 16-26.) The Court finds a valid agreement
exists.
 
          Claims
Covered by the Agreement
 
Plaintiffs argue, in the case the Court finds a valid
arbitration agreement, that the battery-related causes of action are not
arbitrable. Plaintiffs did not intend to agree to arbitration all tort claims
that arise from Uber’s services. In the reply, Uber Defendants argue that the
terms of the agreement state that “incidents or accidents resulting in personal
injury. . .that you allege occurred in connection with your use of the Services”
are covered by the agreement. (Yu Decl., ¶ 12; Exh. E.)
 
The Court finds that the battery claims are expressly
covered by the arbitration agreement. Further, the fact that that an action
involves tort claims does not bar valid arbitration against nonsignatories. “‘[C]laims
framed in tort are subject to contractual arbitration provisions when they
arise out of the contractual relationship between the parties.’ [Citations.]
The same principle applies in cases involving nonsignatories: ‘That the claims
are cast in tort rather than contract does not avoid the arbitration clause.’”
(Molecular Analytical Systems v. Ciphergen Biosystems, Inc. (2010) 186
Cal.App.4th 696, 715–716.)
 
          Waiver 
 
Plaintiffs argue Defendants waived their right to
arbitration because Defendants participated in litigation—Defendants filed an
answer, participated in a Case Management Conference, requested a jury trial
and mediation, and participated in written discovery. (Yazdi Decl., ¶ 8, 10-11,
Exhs. 2, 4.) In the reply, Uber Defendants argue their counsel attempted to
reach out to Plaintiffs’ counsel on two occasions to discuss arbitration, but
Plaintiffs disregarded such requests. (Nourmohammadi Decl., ¶¶ 4, 6.) Further,
Uber Defendants have not propounded any discovery, produced documents, or
designated experts.
 
“[T]he court shall [compel arbitration]. . .unless it
determines. . .[t]he right to compel arbitration has been waived.” (Code Civ.
Proc. § 1281.2.) A party seeking to prove a waiver may do so by showing “(1)
knowledge of an existing right to compel arbitration; (2) acts inconsistent
with that existing right; and (3) prejudice to the party opposing arbitration
resulting from such inconsistent acts.” (Richards v. Ernst & Young, LLP (9th
Cir. 2013) 744 F3d 1072, 1074 (internal quotes omitted).) In
determining waiver, courts consider: whether the party demanding arbitration
has taken action inconsistent with the right to arbitrate,
whether litigation machinery “has been substantially invoked” and the
parties “were well into preparation of a lawsuit” before the party demanding
arbitration notified the opposing party of an intent to arbitrate, whether the
party demanded arbitration close to the trial date or delayed for a long
period before seeking a stay, whether a defendant seeking arbitration
filed a counterclaim without asking for a stay of the proceedings,
whether important intervening steps have taken place (e.g., taking
advantage of judicial discovery procedures not available in
arbitration), and whether the delay “affected, misled, or prejudiced the
opposing party.” (Wagner Const. Co. v. Pacific Mechanical Corp. (2007)
41 Cal.App.4th 19, 31 (internal quotes omitted).)
 
The Court finds that Uber Defendants have not waived their
right to arbitrate. Plaintiffs have not proven that Uber Defendants’ delay in
seeking arbitration would result in prejudice against them. Uber Defendants’
have engaged in no discovery, and a trial date has not yet been set. Further,
Uber Defendants attempted to meet with Plaintiff regarding arbitration and
included arbitration as an affirmative defense in the answer. (Nourmohammadi
Decl., ¶¶ 4-6.) Therefore, the parties were not “well into preparation of a
lawsuit” before Uber Defendants notified Plaintiff of their intent to
arbitrate. (See Wagner, supra, 41 Cal.App.4th at p. 31.) The Court thus
finds there is no waiver at this juncture. 
 
Accordingly, the Court grants Defendant Uber’s Motion to
Compel Arbitration and request to stay the litigation. 
 
2)  
Defendant Curtis Johnson’s Motion to
Compel Arbitration
 
Johnson argues he may compel arbitration as a non-signatory
under the principles of agency and equitable estoppel. Johnson argues
Plaintiffs have alleged that he acted as an agent of Uber, allowing him to
invoke agency principles to compel arbitration as a nonsignatory. Johnson
further argues that equitable estoppel allows him to compel arbitration where
Plaintiffs’ claims against him are based on the same facts as the arbitrable
claims against Uber Defendants. All of Plaintiffs’ causes of action against
Johnson are asserted against Uber on the basis of vicarious liability, and
thus, are inseparable. If the Court denies Johnson’s Motion to Compel
Arbitration, Johnson requests the Court to stay the proceedings pending
Plaintiffs’ arbitration with Uber.
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs assert many of the same arguments
against Johnson as they did against Uber Defendants. Plaintiffs assert 1) there
is no arbitration agreement between Plaintiffs and Johnson, 2) the battery
claims are not arbitrable, and 3) Johnson waived his right to arbitration by
participating in litigation.
 
In reply, Johnson notes that Plaintiffs did not address his
arguments regarding agency and equitable estoppel. Further, Johnson argues he
did not waive his right to arbitrate—Johnson only filed an answer and a case
management statement, which stated his intention to file a motion to compel
arbitration. Johnson has not propounded any discovery to Plaintiffs or
otherwise engaged in the litigation process. 
 
The Court agrees with Johnson. The Court finds that the
agency and equitable estoppel exceptions to the general rule that
nonsignatories may not enforce arbitration agreement apply here. 
The agency principle applies “when a plaintiff alleges a
defendant acted as an agent of a party to an arbitration agreement.” (Garcia
v. Pexco, LLC (2017) 11 Cal.App.5th 782, 788.) Here, the Complaint alleges
the Johnson acted as an agent of Uber. (Complaint ¶ 19.) Further, Plaintiffs
claims against Uber Defendants are asserted on the basis of Uber Defendants’
vicarious liability for the actions of Johnson. (Complaint ¶  11.) The Court accepts such allegations as
true for the purposes of this Motion, and thus, the agency exception applies
here. 
 
The equitable estoppel exception applies where “the causes
of action against the nonsignatory are intimately founded in and intertwined
with the underlying contract obligations” and “where the claims are based on
the same facts and are inherently inseparable from the arbitrable claims
against signatory defendants.” (Garcia, supra, 11 Cal.App.5th at p. 786
(internal citations omitted).) Here, as mentioned previously, Plaintiffs’
claims against Uber Defendants are asserted on the basis of Uber Defendants’
vicarious liability for the actions of Johnson—the claims are thus inseparable.
(Complaint ¶  11.) The Court finds the claims
against Johnson are so “intertwined” with Plaintiffs’ daughter’s contractual
agreement with Uber, which binds Plaintiffs, so as to make it equitable to
require Plaintiffs to arbitrate their claims against Johnson. (See id.) 
 
In sum, the Court finds Johnson may bind Plaintiffs to
arbitration as a nonsignatory through the principles of agency and equitable
estoppel. Accordingly, the Court grants Johnson’s Motion to Compel Arbitration
and Request to Stay.