  Case Number:  22NWCV01091    Hearing Date:   December 17, 2024    Dept:  C SIMMONS, ET AL. v. COLIMA PROFESSIONAL BUILDING,  LLC, ET AL. CASE NO.: 22NWCV01091 HEARING:  December 17,  2024 @ 10:30 a.m.JUDGE: RAUL A. SAHAGUN   ADD-ON  TENTATIVE ORDER   Attorney Michelangelo  Tatone’s Motion to be Relieved as Counsel is GRANTED.    Counsel to give  notice.    Background   This is a breach of lease action. Attorney Michelangelo  Tatone of Tatone Law, APC, presently counsel for Defendants Colima Professional  Building and Victor Fahmy Khalil, now moves to be relieved as counsel. The  motion is unopposed as of December 13, 2024.   Legal Standard   Good cause exists to grant a motion to be relieved as  counsel based on any of the grounds under Rules of Professional Conduct Rule  3-700(c). Rule 3-700(c) provides that an attorney may withdraw based on any of  the following: (1) The client (a) insists upon presenting a claim or defense  that is not warranted under existing law and cannot be supported by good faith  argument for an extension, modification, or reversal of existing law, or (b)  seeks to pursue an illegal course of conduct, or (c) insists that the member  pursue a course of conduct that is illegal or that is prohibited under these  rules or the State Bar Act, or (d) by other conduct renders it unreasonably  difficult for the member to carry out the employment effectively, or (e)  insists, in a matter not pending before a tribunal, that the member engage in  conduct that is contrary to the judgment and advice of the member but not  prohibited under these rules or the State Bar Act, or (f) breaches an agreement  or obligation to the member as to expenses or fees; (2) The continued  employment is likely to result in a violation of these rules or of the State  Bar Act; (3) the inability to work with co-counsel indicates that the best  interests of the client likely will be served by withdrawal; (4) The member's mental  or physical condition renders it difficult for the member to carry out the  employment effectively; (5) The client knowingly and freely assents to  termination of the employment; or (6) The member believes in good faith, in a  proceeding pending before a tribunal, that the tribunal will find the existence  of other good cause for withdrawal.    California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1362 requires that the  following be submitted in support of an attorney’s motion to be relieved as  counsel pursuant Code of Civil Procedure section 284, subdivision (2): (1) a  notice of motion and motion directed to the client (made on Notice of Motion  and Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil (Judicial Council Form, MC-051));  (2) a declaration stating in general terms and without compromising the  confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship why a motion under Code of  Civil Procedure section 284, subdivision (2) is brought instead of filing a  consent under Code of Civil Procedure section 284, subdivision (1) (made on  Declaration in Support of Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil  (Judicial Council Form, MC-052)); (3) a proof of service evidencing service of  the notice of motion and motion, declaration, and proposed order on the client  and on all other parties who have appeared in the case; and (4) a proposed  order relieving counsel (prepared on Order Granting Attorney’s Motion to Be  Relieved as Counsel—Civil (Judicial Council Form, MC-053)). (Cal. Rules of  Court, rule 3.1362, subds. (a), (c), (d), (e).)    Discussion   Attorney Michelangelo Tatone filed a Notice of Motion and  Motion to be Relieved as Counsel. (See Form MC-051.) Attorney Tatone also filed  a proposed order. (See Form MC-053.) Attorney Tatone’s declaration demonstrates  good cause for withdrawal based on a breakdown of communication and the  clients’ failure to comply with contractual obligations required for  representation. (Tatone Decl., ¶ 2.) Attorney Tatone states that the clients  were served copies of the motion papers by mail at the clients’ last known addresses,  which were confirmed by telephone in the past thirty (30) days. (Tatone Decl., ¶ 3.)   Accordingly, the Motion to be Relieved as Counsel is  GRANTED. 