 Case Number:  23NWCV00990    Hearing Date:   December 17, 2024    Dept:  C CARDOZA  v. CITY OF COMPTON CASE NO.: 23NWCV00990 HEARING:  December 17, 2024 @ 9:30 a.m.JUDGE: RAUL A. SAHAGUN   #1 TENTATIVE ORDER   1)    Plaintiffs’  Motion to Compel the Deposition of Blake David Jr. is GRANTED.   2)    Plaintiff’s  Motion to Compel the Deposition of Isaac Jacob Galvan is GRANTED.    Plaintiffs to give notice.    Background   This is a wrongful  death action. On March 30, 2023, Plaintiffs Elida Cardoza, Julio Cesar Cardoza,  and Isaac Isaiah Galvan, through his guardian ad litem, Michelle Cardoza  ("Plaintiffs") against Defendants City of Compton and David Blake  Jr., (“Defendants”) and Does 1 to 50. The Complaint alleges Defendant David  Blake, Jr. shot and killed Decedent Julio Moises Cardoza (“Decedent”) while in  the course and scope of his employment with Defendant City of Compton  (“Incident”). The Complaint alleges the following causes of action: 1) Negligence  (Wrongful Death), 2) Battery (Wrongful Death), 3) Negligent Infliction of  Emotional Distress, and 4) Violation of The Bane Act (Civ. Code § 52.1).   On May 17, 203,  Defendant City of Compton filed a cross-complaint against Defendant David Blake  Jr.    Plaintiffs now move  to compel the depositions of Isaac Jacob Galvan, party affiliate, and David  Blake Jr., Defendant. The motions are unopposed as of December 13, 2024.    Legal Standard   “The service of a deposition notice under Section 2025.240  is effective to require any deponent who is a party to the action or an  officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party to attend and to  testify, as well as to produce any document or tangible thing for inspection  and copying.” (CCP § 2025.280 (a).) A deposition subpoena is not  required to compel the attendance and testimony of a person who, although not a  named party, is either an officer, director, managing agent or employee of a  party. (CCP § 2025.280(a).)     “If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the  action. . .without having served a valid objection. . .fails to appear for examination.  . .the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s  attendance and testimony. . .The motion shall set forth specific facts showing  good cause justifying the production for inspection of any document or tangible  thing described in the deposition notice [and]. . .shall be accompanied by a  meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when the deponent fails  to attend the deposition and produce the documents or things described in the  deposition notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted  the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.” (CCP §  2025.450.)      Discussion   Motion to Compel Deposition of  Isaac Galvan    Plaintiffs move to compel the deposition of Isaac Jacob  Galvan (“Galvan”), an employee of Defendant City of Compton. Plaintiffs seek to  discover evidence regarding the Incident and his employment with Defendant City  of Compton at the time of the Incident.    On May 20, 2024, Plaintiffs personally served Galvan with a  Notice of Deposition and Deposition Subpoena for deposition on June 20, 2024.  (Contreras Decl., ¶ 2; Exh. 1.) A few days prior to the deposition, Galvan  asked Plaintiffs’ counsel for a continuance. (Contreras Decl., ¶ 3.)  Plaintiffs’ counsel attempted to contact Galvan multiple times to reschedule  the deposition but was unable to reach him because he refused to provide his phone  number, and the email he provided was incorrect. (Contreras Decl., ¶ 4.)  Plaintiffs’ counsel against noticed the deposition for August 15, 2024.  (Contreras Decl., ¶ 5; Exh. 2.) Galvan failed to appear for the deposition.  (Contreras Decl., ¶ 6.)   The Court finds Plaintiffs have properly noticed the  deposition and attempted to reach out to the deponent to no avail. Accordingly,  the Court grants the Motion to Compel Deposition of Issac Galvan.    Motion to Compel Deposition of  David Blake Jr.   Plaintiffs move to compel the deposition of David Blake Jr.  (Blake), through which Plaintiffs seek to discover evidence regarding the  claims and defenses in this case.   On July 11, 2023, Defendant City of Compton (“Defendant  City”) first noticed Blake’s deposition set for August 1, 2023. Plaintiffs  served a cross-notice of Blake’s deposition. (Contreras Decl., ¶  3, Exh. 1.) Defendant City advised that Blake  was evading service, and the deposition did not take place. (Contreras Decl., ¶  4.) On February 15, 2024, Plaintiffs noticed Blake’s deposition, set for  February 29, 2024, which was served via personal service. (Contreras Decl., ¶  5, Exh. 2.) On February 29, 2024, Blake failed  to appear for his deposition. (Contreras Decl., ¶ 6.)    The Court finds Plaintiffs have properly noticed the  deposition and attempted to reach out to the deponent to no avail. Accordingly,  the Court grants the Motion to Compel Deposition of David Blake Jr. 