 Case Number:  21STCV19983    Hearing Date:   January 12, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
JRK PROPERTY HOLDINGS,
  INC.,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
COLONY INSURANCE
  COMPANY, et al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  21STCV19983
  Hearing Date:  January 12, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
plaintiff’s motion to lift stay 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On May 27, 2021, JRK Property
Holdings, Inc. (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against various insurance
companies (“Defendants”), asserting breach of contract and declaratory relief
for Defendants’ refusal to pay out insurance policies. JRK is a real estate
investment company that owns various hotel and apartment properties. Defendants
contend that COVID-related business losses are not covered by the policies. 
Defendants moved for judgment on the pleadings
on the grounds that the language of the policies precludes Plaintiff’s
recovery. On April 18, 2022, the Court partially granted the MJOP, finding that
the presence of COVID on Plaintiff’s premises cannot cause “direct physical
loss” as a matter of law. This barred Plaintiff’s claims based on the Business
Interruption and Interruption by Civil Authority provisions in the insurance policy,
both of which require direct physical loss. However, the Court allowed
Plaintiff to proceed with its claim based on the Communicable Disease provision
in the policy, as that did not require direct physical loss. 
Plaintiff then appealed the Court’s ruling,
and Defendants moved to stay discovery pending the appeal. The Court granted
the stay on August 22, 2022. On October 2, 2023, the Court of Appeal issued a
ruling reversing and remanding on the issue of “direct physical loss.” (JRK Property
Holdings, Inc. v. Colony Ins. Co. (2023) 96 Cal.App.5th 1.) Defendants have
appealed that decision to the Supreme Court. On December 20, 2023, the Supreme Court
granted review and stated that “[f]urther action in this matter is deferred
pending consideration and disposition of a related issue in Another Planet
Entertainment v. Vigilant Insurance Company S277893.” (JRK Property
Holdings, Inc. v. Colony Ins. Co. (Dec. 20, 2023, No. S282657) 2023 Cal.
LEXIS 7161, at *1.) 
On December 19, 2023, Plaintiff filed the
instant motion to lift the stay given the Court of Appeal decision. Defendants
filed their opposition on December 29, 2023. Plaintiff filed its reply on
January 5, 2024.  
LEGAL STANDARD
“Courts have inherent authority to control
their own calendars and dockets . . . .” (Walker v. Superior Court
(1991) 53 Cal.3d 257, 267.) This includes “the inherent power to stay proceedings
in the interests of justice and to promote judicial efficiency.” (Freiberg v.
City of Mission Viejo (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1484, 1489.) “[O]n motion and
for good cause shown, the court may establish the sequence and timing of
discovery for the convenience of parties and witnesses and in the interests of
justice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2019.020(b).) “In general, the management of
discovery matters lies within the sound discretion of the trial court.” (Philippine
Exp. & Foreign Loan Guar. Corp. v. Chuidian (1990) 218 Cal.App.3d 1058,
1084.) 
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiff requests a lift of the
stay “so that the parties may resume litigating the portion of this case
involving JRK’s claims for communicable disease [ICD] coverage under the policy.”
(Mtn. 1:10-13.) Plaintiff argues that litigation on ICD coverage can continue because
the Supreme Court appeal relates only to the “direct physical loss” issue. Plaintiff
wishes to file a motion for summary adjudication to resolve the legal question
of what constitutes an “occurrence” under the policy’s ICD provision. (Mtn.
3:20-4:5.) Plaintiff also claims that “there are other issues relating to
discovery and damages that can be resolved pre-trial.” (Mtn. 4:10-15.)
Plaintiff contends that the Court can reinstate the stay if necessary once the
ICD claims are prepared for trial. (Ibid.) 
The Court agrees with Defendants that a
stay remains justified. As this Court held in granting the stay, there are
overlapping issues between (a) Plaintiff’s claims under the Business Interruption
and Civil Authority provisions and (b) the claim under the Communicable Disease
provision. If the Supreme Court determines that Plaintiff is allowed to proceed
on the former, all of the claims should be tried together for the sake of judicial
economy. There are issues and facts common to all claims: (1) the claims depend
on the actual presence of COVID-19 on Plaintiff’s premises; and (2) they depend
on government orders causing a restriction of access to Plaintiff’s premises. Because
the issues and discovery will be the same across these claims, the parties
should not be required to litigate the Communicable Disease provision only to repeat
the process for the remaining claims in the event the Supreme Court affirms the
Court of Appeal decision.     
            While a continued stay prolongs the
case and causes some prejudice to Plaintiff, duplicative litigation causes
greater prejudice to both parties and the Court. The reasons behind granting a
stay in the first place are equally present today because the “direct physical
loss” issue remains unresolved. Defendants’ Supreme Court petition is not a delay
tactic because there is a genuine legal question and split in authority
requiring resolution by the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court has granted review
and deferred the matter pending the resolution of Another Planet. Therefore,
the stay should remain in effect.    
CONCLUSION
            Plaintiff’s motion to lift stay is DENIED.