 Case Number:  23STCV17632    Hearing Date:   January 12, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
WENDY WAI FONG HO, et
  al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
HOI YING EUGENIE LAI,
  et al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  23STCV17632
  Hearing Date:  January 12, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendant lai’s motion for protective
  order




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On July 27, 2023, Plaintiffs Wendy Wai
Fong Ho and Raymond Ho filed this action against Defendants Hoi Ying Eugenie
Lai and Global West Real Estate Corporation. The complaint asserts causes of
action for (1) breach of fiduciary duty, (2) intentional fraud, (3) negligent
misrepresentation, (4) elder abuse, (5) financial elder abuse, (6) intentional
infliction of emotional distress, (7) negligence, and (8) unfair competition. 
            On December 13, 2023, Defendant Lai
filed the instant motion for protective order to preclude discovery into her romantic
and sexual life, as well as her financial and business dealings with third
parties. Plaintiffs filed their opposition on December 21, 2023. Defendant
filed her reply on January 2, 2024. 
LEGAL STANDARD
“The court shall limit the scope of
discovery if it determines that the burden, expense, or intrusiveness of that
discovery clearly outweighs the likelihood that the information sought will
lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. The court may make this
determination pursuant to a motion for protective order by a party or other
affected person.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2017.020(a).) “The issuance and
formulation of protective orders are to a large extent discretionary.” (Nativi
v. Deutsche Bank National Trust Co. (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 261, 316.) “[T]he
burden is on the party seeking the protective order to show good cause for
whatever order is sought.” (Id. at p. 318.)
DISCUSSION
I.
Personal Relationships
            Defendant identifies two discovery
requests as inappropriately intruding upon her privacy. Special Interrogatory
(SROG) No. 4 requests “all facts, with specificity, that RELATE TO your
romantic relationship and extramarital affair with RAYMOND HO, with specific
details on when the extramarital affair started, when the extramarital affair
ended, and how it led to the quitclaim of his interest in the Property in favor
of you on January 21, 2022.” (Buckman Decl., Ex. 11.) Request for Production
(RFP) No. 4 seeks all communications between Defendant and Raymond Ho from
January 1, 2018 to present. (Id., Ex. 13.) 
            The complaint alleges that Defendant
engaged in a romantic relationship with Plaintiff Raymond Ho and manipulated
him to sign a quit claim deed transferring the subject property to her. (Compl.
¶ 18.) Therefore, evidence pertaining to the relationship and the
communications between Defendant and Raymond Ho are directly relevant. 
II.
Financial Privacy
            Defendant identifies the following
discovery requests that she contends improperly seek the financial information
of herself, her tenants, and her clients. (See Buckman Decl., Ex. 11, 13.) 
SROG No. 11 asks Defendant to
identify the source of funds for the down payment used to purchase the
Property. SROG No. 12 asks for “all facts, with specificity, that RELATE
TO the mortgage of the Property, with details on who are the debtors and
obligors of such mortgage, who pays for the monthly mortgage, and the source of
funds of the monthly mortgage payments.” SROG No. 13 seeks “all facts,
with specificity, that RELATE TO the management of the Property, with details
on the maintenance, marketing, collection of rent and payment of expenses of
the Property.” SROG No. 14 seeks the identities of “all tenants,
sub-tenants, and people occupying the Property from purchase of Property to
present.” SROG Nos. 16-20 ask Defendant to identify all bank accounts
used by Defendant to handle money for the Property, facts related to Defendant’s
co-ownership of the Property with her real estate clients, and facts related to
Defendant’s financial arrangements with her clients to purchase real property. 
RFP Nos. 3, 5, and 8-11 seek all trust
fund accounting that relates to the Property, communications with Plaintiff
Wendy Ho, documents relating to the rental of the Property (including rental
applications, credit reports, and lease agreements), documents relating to all
bank accounts that Defendant uses to handle money for the Property, documents
relating to the rental income for the Property (including ledgers and
receipts), and documents relating to the expenses of the Property (including
mortgage statements, tax statements, and bills).
This information is relevant because Plaintiffs
allege that Defendant defrauded them out of the Property and have failed to
provide an accounting for the profits generated from the Property. (See Compl.
¶¶ 15-23.) Defendant argues that there is no dispute she rightfully owns the
Property, citing the quitclaim deed. However, the merits of the action are not properly
litigated on a discovery motion. That Defendant has evidence supporting her
position does not preclude Plaintiffs from obtaining evidence to prove the
opposite. 
While Defendant has a privacy interest in
her personal and financial information, that interest must be balanced against
Plaintiffs’ right to obtain information in litigation. (See Williams v.
Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 552.) For the particular discovery
requests at issue here, Plaintiffs’ need for the information outweighs
Defendant’s privacy interests. Additionally, a protective order addresses the concerns
over privacy and potential misuse of the information. (See Hill v. National
Collegiate Athletic Assn. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 1, 38.) The evidence sought is
discoverable even if it is not admissible. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2017.010.) Lastly,
the conduct of Plaintiffs’ counsel in a separate case, and the merits of that
case, do not determine the discoverable information in this case.   
CONCLUSION
            Defendant Lai’s motion for
protective order is GRANTED in part. The information at issue is relevant and
discoverable, but production shall be subject to a protective order. 