  Case Number:  20STCV37014    Hearing Date:   October 15, 2024    Dept:  20 Tentative Ruling
Judge Kevin C. Brazile 

Department 20 


Hearing Date:                               Tuesday, October 15, 2024 
Case Name:                                  Roland Esparza v. The Vons Companies, Inc., et al.
Case No.:                                       20STCV37014
Motion:                                         Motion for Determination of Good Faith
Settlement 
Moving Party:                      Defendant
Elan Chemical Company
Responding Party:                   Plaintiff Roland Esparza 
Notice:                                            OK 

 

 
Ruling:                                    The Motion for Determination of Good
Faith Settlement is GRANTED. 
 
Defendant to give notice. 

 

 
BACKGROUND 
On
September 28, 2020, Plaintiff Roland Esparza (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint
against Defendants The Vons Companies, Inc. and Does 1 through 50, inclusive.
The Complaint alleges five causes of action: (1) strict product liability –
manufacturing defect; (2) strict product liability – design defect; (3) strict
product liability – failure to warn; (4) negligence; and (5) breach of implied
warranties. 
On
September 25, 2023, Plaintiff amended his Second Amended Complaint to name
Defendant Elan Chemical Company, Inc. (“Defendant”) as Doe 34. Plaintiff
alleges Defendant was a manufacturer or distributor of one or more of the parts
of the product giving rise to Plaintiff’s alleged injury.
On
May 24, 2024, Plaintiff and Defendant reached a settlement. (Declaration of
Tracy M. Lewis, ¶ 4.) Defendant now moves for
Determination of Good Faith Settlement.
 
DISCUSSION 
Applicable Law 
“Any party to an action in which it is
alleged that two or more parties are joint tortfeasors . . . shall be entitled
to a hearing on the issue of the good faith settlement entered into by the
plaintiff or other claimant and one or more of the alleged tortfeasors.” (Code
Civ. Proc., §877.6, subd. (a)(1).) “The determination as to whether a
settlement is in good faith is a matter left to the discretion of the trial
court.” (Mattco Forge, Inc. v. Arthur Young & Co. (1995) 38
Cal.App.4th 1337, 1349.) The trial court’s determination of good faith is based
on “a number of factors,” including total recovery and proportionate liability,
“the amount paid in settlement, the allocation of settlement proceeds among
plaintiffs, and a recognition that a settlor should pay less in settlement than
he would if he were found liable after a trial.” ¿(Tech-Bilt, Inc. v.
Woodward-Clyde & Associates¿(1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, 499 (Tech-Bilt);
see also Far West Financial Corp. v. D&S Co.¿(1988) 46 Cal.3d 796, 816, fn.
16 [expanding on Tech-Bilt factors].)¿Nevertheless, “when no one
objects, the barebones motion which sets forth the ground of good faith,
accompanied by a declaration which sets forth a brief background of the case is
sufficient.” (City of Grand Terrace v. Superior Court (1987) 192
Cal.App.3d 1251, 1261 (Grand Terrace).) 
Application to Facts 
Defendant moves for
determination of good faith settlement based on a settlement with Plaintiff for
a confidential amount. In exchange for payment, Plaintiff released Defendant
from all present and prospective claims arising between them as a result of
Plaintiff’s alleged injuries. (Declaration of Tracy M. Lewis, ¶ 6.) The
settlement also included a provision that it was of paramount importance to
both parties to keep the settlement amount confidential, except as to the
parties involved. (Declaration of Tracy M. Lewis, ¶ 7.)
Defendant argues that it
would have very low proportionate liability, if any at all. Defendant contends
it would have avoided liability via demurrer or later summary judgment. (Motion
for Determination, pp. 3–4.) Defendant also argues it is only one of over
thirty-five named defendants in this action and it may not have even had a
single component part used in the finished product at issue, making its
potential liability a very small percentage. (Motion for Determination, p. 4.) Defendant
also argues that the confidential settlement amount is “within the ballpark” of
its potential liability. (Declaration of Tracy M. Lewis, ¶ 9.)
Here,
the court has received no objection to the proposed settlement between
Plaintiffs and Defendants. Defendant has also circulated a stipulation as to
the good faith nature of the settlement and lack of opposition by
co-Defendants. (Declaration of Tracy M. Lewis, ¶ 12, Exhibit C.)  Thus, the court has discretion to decide on
the motion based on Defendants’ setting forth of grounds of good faith with a
brief background declaration. (See Grant Terrace, supra, 192
Cal.App.3d at p. 1261.) The court also notes the lack of opposition because
there is no argument or evidence from any of the parties here that this
settlement was made in bad faith, and the party asserting bad faith bears the
burden of proof. (Tech-Bilt, supra, 38 Cal.3d at pp. 499–500.)
Additionally, there is no indication that this settlement was the result of
collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct aimed at the non-settling Defendants. The
parties negotiated at arms-length and were each represented by experienced
counsel. (Declaration of Tracy M. Lewis, ¶ 5.)
The
court finds that due to the lack of objections and evidence of bad faith, as
well as Defendant’s very low potential liability, the settlement was fairly
agreed upon and made in good faith.
CONCLUSION 
The
Motion for Determination of Good Faith Settlement is GRANTED.
Defendant
to give notice. 
 