 Case Number:  23STCV25594    Hearing Date:   October 15, 2024    Dept:  20 Tentative Ruling
Judge Kevin C. Brazile

Department 20

Hearing Date:                         Tuesday, October 15,
2024
Case Name:                            Ireli Astorga
Nevarez, et al. v. J.K. Properties Residential Services, Inc., et al.
Case No.:                                23STCV25594
Motion:                                  Motion for Reconsideration
of Order made ex parte on 7/17/2024 
Moving Party:                         Defendant Haresh Jogani
Responding Party:                  Plaintiffs
Notice:                                    OK

 

 
Ruling:                                    The Motion
for Reconsideration is DENIED.
 
Defendant Jogani
to give notice.
 

 

 
BACKGROUND
On October 17, 2023, Plaintiffs Ireli
Astorga Nevarez; Francisca Nevarez Sicairos; Juventino Garcia Gallegos; Ireli Garcia,
a minor by and through his Guardian ad Litem, Ireli Astorga Nevarez; Sandra Garcia,
a minor by and through her Guardian ad Litem, Ireli Astorga Nevarez; Sofia
Garcia Astorga, a minor by and through her Guardian ad Litem, Ireli Astorga
Nevarez; and Octavio Garcia Astorga, a minor by and through his Guardian ad
Litem (collectively Plaintiffs) filed a complaint against Defendants J.K.
Residential Services, Inc.; 7520 S. Broadway, LLC; J.K. Properties, Inc.;
Haresh Jogani; and Does 1 through 100. The complaint alleges that Plaintiffs
suffered uninhabitable substandard housing conditions in the building and unit
they rented from Defendants. The alleged conditions include structural
deficiencies, defective plumbing, flooring and weather proofing, and cockroach and
rat infestations.
On June 18, 2024, Plaintiffs propounded on
Defendant Jogani discovery requests including Form Interrogatories, Requests
for Production of Documents and Special Interrogatories.
On July 2, 2024, Defendant Jogani filed a
Motion to Dismiss for Lack of Personal Jurisdiction, or in the Alternative, for
Stay Based on Forum Non-Conveniens.
On July 5, 2024, Defendant Jogani filed an
answer denying all factual allegations and asserting thirty-seven (37)
affirmative defenses. 
On July 10, 2024, Defendant Jogani filed an
ex parte application requesting court stay discovery until September 11,
2024. On July 12, 2024, the court granted Defendant Jogani’s request. 
On July 17, 2024, the court granted
Plaintiff’s ex parte application to continue the hearing on Defendant
Jogani’s motion to dismiss and ordered that Defendant Jogani be deposed within
30 days of the order to determine whether the court has jurisdiction over him. 
On July 18, 2024, Plaintiffs served 7/17/2024
- Minute Order on Defendant Jogani. 
On July 30, 2024, Defendant Jogani filed
the instant motion for reconsideration. 
On August 5, 2024, Defendants Jogani and
J.K. Properties, Inc. filed motions seeking protective orders preventing
Defendants from responding to Plaintiffs’ discovery requests.
On August 27, 2024, the court granted
Defendant Jogani’s ex parte application to stay his jurisdiction deposition
until October 21, 2024.
On September 30, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an
opposition to Defendant Jogani’s motion for reconsideration.
On October 1, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an
opposition to Defendant Jogani’s motions for protective orders.
On October 3, 2024, Defendant Jogani filed
replies to Plaintiffs’ oppositions.
 
DISCUSSION
Applicable
Law
            Legal Standard
A motion for
reconsideration asks the court to modify, amend, or revoke its earlier order on
a prior motion to the court because of new or different facts, circumstances,
or law. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1008, subd. (a).) A motion for reconsideration may
be brought by a party or by the court on its own motion. (See Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 1008, subds. (a), (c).) 
A party may move for
reconsideration based on: (1) new or different facts, (Code Civ. Proc., § 1008,
subd. (a); see e.g., In re Marriage of LaMoure (2013) 221 Cal.App.4th
1463, 1473 [reconsideration motion granted on new evidence]); (2) new or
different circumstances, (Code Civ. Proc., § 1008, subd. (a)); and (3) new or
different law, (Code Civ. Proc., § 1008, subd. (a); Baldwin v. Home Sav. of
Am. (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 1192, 1196.) 
The moving party must
present a satisfactory explanation for failing to provide evidence or different
facts earlier. (Garcia v. Hejmadi (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 674,
690.) This requirement extends to motions brought on the basis of
“different” law. (Baldwin v. Home Savings of Am. (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th
1192, 1200.) The burden under section 1008 is comparable to that of a party
seeking a new trial on the ground of newly discovered evidence: the information
must be such that the moving party could not, with reasonable diligence, have discovered
or produced it at trial. (New York Times Co. v. Superior Court
(2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 206, 212-213.) 
A party cannot move for
reconsideration based on the court’s erroneous order, i.e., the court’s
misinterpretation of facts or law. (See Jones v. P.S. Dev. Co. (2008)
166 Cal.App.4th 707, 724.) Instead, a party can suggest to the court that it
should reconsider its erroneous order on its own motion so long as the
suggestion is not made ex parte. (Le Francois v. Goel
(2005) 35 Cal.4th 1094, 1108; In re Marriage
of Spector (2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 201, 214-15 [emails husband sent to court
about erroneous order were not ex parte because wife was copied on all
emails].) 
By contrast, the court
has statutory authority to reconsider final orders and interim orders based on
a change in law. (Civ. Proc., § 1008, subds. (c), (e).) California courts
also have a broader constitutional authority to reconsider interim orders that
are erroneous that goes beyond Code of Civil Procedure section 1008. (Brown,
Winfield & Canzoneri, Inc. v. Superior Court (2010) 47 Cal.4th 1233,
1248 [courts have constitutional authority to reconsider interim orders]; Le
Francois, supra, 35 Cal.4th at p. 1108 [“If a court believes one of
its prior interim orders was erroneous, it should be able to correct that error
no matter how it came to acquire that belief”].) 
Timeliness 
When an application for an order has been
made to a judge, or to a court, and the court has granted or granted
conditionally, on terms, the motion, “any party affected by the order may,
within 10 days after service upon the party of written notice of entry of the
order and based upon new or different facts, circumstances, or law, make
application to the same judge or court that made the order, to reconsider the
matter and modify, amend, or revoke the prior order.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1008,
subd. (a) (emphasis added).) 
Here, the court finds that Defendant
Jogani filed this motion within by the deadline. The court granted Plaintiffs’ ex
parte application on July 17, 2024. (07/17/2024 - Minute Order.) Plaintiffs
electronically served notice of the order on Defendant Jogani on July 18, 2024.
(07/18/2024 - Notice of Court Ruling.) Defendant Jogani filed his motion to
reconsider on July 30, 2024. (Motion to Reconsider, at p. 1; Code Civ. Proc. §
1010.6, subd. (a)(3)(B) [noting when motions or papers are served by via
electronic mail, the required court-days’ notice is extended by two
court days].) 
Accordingly, the Defendant Jogani’s motion
is timely. 
 
Application
to Facts
            Defendant Jogani argues he would
have presented the new facts forming the basis of his motion to the court if he
had a meaningful opportunity to oppose Plaintiffs’ original ex parte application.
Defendant Jogani also contends that if the court were aware of these facts, the
court would have decided differently on the ex parte application.
Defendant Jogani alleges the following new
facts: 
1.    
Defendant
Haresh is an Apex Deponent under the Apex Doctrine and that Plaintiffs’ fail to
meet the requirements for Defendant Jogani’s deposition. Although Defendant
Jogani is a director of J.K. Properties, Inc., he is not involved in the daily
operation of the company; he does not possess everyday knowledge of what occurs
at the property in question; he did not witness any of the alleged habitability
issues; and he has no direct, personal or factual knowledge pertaining to any
material issues in the case. (Declaration of Ritesh Desai [Desai Decl.], ¶ 2.)

 
2.    
The
court’s order failed to place limits on the ordered deposition and to set
criteria for what would be asked. (Declaration of Armand R. Vosguanian
[Vosguanian Decl.], ¶ 4.)
 
3.    
Less
intrusive discovery means exist to obtain the information Plaintiffs seek such
as interrogatories. (Vosguanian Decl., ¶ 5.)
 
4.    
Defendant
Jogani is neither a citizen nor a resident of the United States and he has no
personal assets or residence in California. (Desai Decl., ¶ 3.)
 
5.    
Defendant
Jogani is a citizen of India, is currently in India, and does not intend to be
the U.S. in the next ninety (90) days (from July 30, 2024). (Desai Decl., ¶ 4.)
 
 
Defendant Jogani’s
“new facts” regarding citizenship and personal assets are not new facts within
the meaning of Section 1008 because Defendant Jogani already had knowledge of
these facts and provided no explanation for not revealing them in prior
motions.
 
If the “new” matters
raised by the moving party’s motion consists of information the moving party
always had within his or her possession, such facts do not
“constitute new or different facts within the meaning
of section 1008.” (New York Times Co. v. Superior Court (2005) 135
Cal.App.4th 206, 213-214.) 
Here, Defendant Jogani’s citizenship
status and current physical location are not new facts because Defendant Jogani
was aware of these facts at the outset of this litigation. Defendant Jogani’s
explanation for not presenting this information sooner is that he did not have
time to brief the facts and law on Plaintiffs’ ex parte motion. However,
Defendant Jogani touched upon these facts in his motion to dismiss for personal
jurisdiction. (See Defendant Haresh Jogani’s Motion to Dismiss filed
7/02/2024.) The motion to dismiss explicitly discusses Defendant Jogani’s
citizenship, his current physical location, and challenges the court’s personal
jurisdiction over him. Thus, Defendant Jogani had knowledge of his Indian
citizenship and whether he has assets in California well before the court
granted Plaintiffs’ ex parte motion.
Accordingly, the court does not consider
these facts for the purpose of this motion.
The apex deponent
doctrine does not entitle Defendant Jogani to a reconsideration of the court’s
July 17, 2024 grant of Plaintiffs’ ex parte application for a continuance
because the doctrine is irrelevant for the purposes of this motion. 
 
Under the apex deponent doctrine, the
court may grant a protective order prohibiting the deposition of a corporate
officer if the moving party shows the officer lacks “personal knowledge of
discoverable information” and that the opposing party failed to seek
discoverable information through “less intrusive [discovery] methods.” (Liberty
Mutual Ins. Co. v. Superior Court, (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1282,
1289.) Less intrusive discovery methods include: “interrogatories directed
to the high-level official to explore the state of his or her knowledge or
involvement in plaintiff’s case; the deposition of lower level employees with
appropriate knowledge and involvement in the subject matter of the litigation;
and the organizational deposition of the corporation itself, which will require
the corporation to produce for deposition the most qualified officer or
employee to testify on its behalf as to the specified matters to be raised at
the deposition.” (Ibid.) If the opposing party exhausts these
methods and makes a “good cause” showing that the “high-level official
possesses necessary information to the case, the trial court may then lift the
protective order and allow the deposition to proceed.” (Ibid.) 
 However, Liberty Mutual does not stand
for the proposition that apex depositions cannot be taken without first
exploring less intrusive methods. Rather, Liberty Mutual held that
a protective order can be warranted in such circumstances. However, a
protective order can only be entered by noticed motion or by stipulation of the
parties. (See e.g., St. Paul Fire & Marine Ins. Co. v. Superior
Court¿(1984) 156 Cal.App.3d 82, 85-86.) It is insufficient to merely
object or oppose a motion to compel a deposition on such grounds. (Ibid.)
Here, Defendant Jogani argues that under a
different law, the apex deponent doctrine, the court cannot compel him to be
deposed. Defendant Jogani presents the declaration of co-defendant Ritesh Desai
to support a showing that Defendant Jogani is an apex deponent. Ritesh states that:
Although Defendant Jogani is a director of J.K. Properties, Inc., he is not
involved in the daily operation of the company; he does not possess everyday
knowledge of what occurs at the property in question; he did not witness any of
the alleged habitability issues; and he has no direct, personal or factual
knowledge pertaining to any material issues in the case. (Desai Decl., ¶ 2.)
Defendant Jogani also argues that Plaintiffs have not attempted less
intrusive discovery methods before seeking a deposition. Additionally,
Defendant Jogani asserts that because the court did not specify criteria or
limits on the deposition, the deposition runs the risk of going beyond the
issue of jurisdiction and running afoul of the apex deponent doctrine. 
In opposition, Plaintiffs argue that Defendant
Jogani’s use of the apex doctrine is misplaced because Plaintiffs personally
name Defendant Jogani in this suit. Plaintiffs also note that Defendant Jogani
has refused to respond to Plaintiffs’ discovery requests (interrogatories and
requests for production), propounded on June 18, 2024. Plaintiffs do not trust
Defendant Jogani to comply with other discovery measures because he has yet to
reply to the original requests even with a court-ordered extension to reply to
Plaintiffs’ initial discovery requests by September 11, 2024. Finally,
Plaintiffs assert that the criteria for the court-ordered deposition is clear
because Plaintiffs’ ex parte application specifically requested a
continuance to “have a fair opportunity to conduct discovery to investigate Mr.
Jogani’s assertion that this Court lacks personal jurisdiction over him because
he does not have sufficient minimum contacts with the State of California and
County of Los Angeles.” (Plaintiffs’ Ex Parte Application for Continue
filed 7/15/2024, pg. 2:9-12.)
Although the court acknowledges that
Defendant Jogani has presented a different law, the court finds that this law
is not relevant to the instant motion. The apex deponent doctrine’s purpose is
to prevent deposing of high-level employees lacking knowledge of an entity’s
day-to-day operations. Here, the court’s order[1] allows Plaintiffs to
exercise their right to conduct discovery regarding “the issue of jurisdiction
to develop the facts necessary to sustain [their] burden.” (Mihlon v.
Superior Ct. (1985), 169 Cal.App.3d 703, 710.) It matters not that Defendant
Jogani is a director of co-defendant J.K. Properties. Defendant Jogani is
uniquely positioned with first-hand knowledge to answer questions about his
personal connections with Los Angeles County and the Secretary of State of
California.[2]
Defendant Jogani attempts to mischaracterize and broaden the scope of the
court’s July 17, 2024 Minute Order to force the court to apply the apex
doctrine. The court did not grant Plaintiffs permission to go on a fishing
expedition, and Defendant Jogani cannot avoid this deposition by providing only
those facts which he deems are pertinent. While parties must not abuse the
discovery process, the discovery the court ordered is expressly limited to a
jurisdictional focus. 
Accordingly, the court finds that the apex
deponent doctrine, though “different” law for the purposes of this motion, does
not apply and the scope of Defendant Jogani’s deposition is limited to
questions relating to jurisdiction. Therefore, Defendant Jogani is not entitled
to reconsideration of the court’s July 17, 2024 order granting Plaintiffs’ ex
parte application to continue Defendant Jogani’s motion to dismiss.
            
CONCLUSION
            The motion to reconsider the court’s
7/17/2024 - Minute Order is DENIED.
            Defendant Jogani to give notice.


