

TENTATIVE
            Plaintiff’s Motion to Vacate Dismissal and
Enter Judgment Pursuant to CCP § 664.6 is GRANTED and judgment is
entered in favor of Plaintiff
for the settlement amount, minus credit for payments received.   
 

Background
            State
Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Company (“Plaintiff”) commenced this suit as a
subrogation action on April 24, 2022 after Annette Espino Gonzalez
(“Defendant”) caused an automobile collision with Plaintiff’s insured person,
John Payaslyan. (Complaint, ¶ 6.) The parties settled and dismissed the case
pursuant to a settlement agreement (“agreement”). The agreement stated that
settlement and dismissal was contingent on Defendant making payments of $300 a
month until the settlement amount of $7,000.00[1]
owed by Defendant was fulfilled. (Declaration of Harlan M. Reese, hereinafter,
“Reese Dec.”, Exh. A.)
 
            Defendant
defaulted on those payments and Plaintiff has now filed the current motion
before the Court, a Motion to Vacate Dismissal and Enter Judgment Pursuant to
CCP § 664.6 (“Motion”). The Motion is unopposed. 
 
Discussion
 
Legal Standard
            “If
parties to pending litigation stipulate, in a writing signed by the parties
outside of the presence of the court or orally before the court, for
settlement of the case, or part thereof, the court, upon motion, may enter
judgment pursuant to the terms of the settlement. If requested by the parties,
the court may retain jurisdiction over the parties to enforce the settlement
until performance in full of the terms of the settlement.” (CCP § 664.6(a).)
 
Analysis
            Although
the “general rule” is that “once a person has been dismissed from an action he
is no longer a party and the court lacks jurisdiction to conduct any further
proceedings as to him,” the rule has exceptions. (Wong v. Tai Jing (2010)
189 Cal.App.4th 1354, 1364.) One of those exceptions is when the parties
request the court to retain jurisdiction over the parties, as they have done
here. 
 
            Plaintiff files this Motion in
accordance with the agreement between the parties which states that Plaintiff
may file to have the dismissal set aside and have judgment entered for the
settlement amount, minus credit for payments received, if Defendant defaults. (Reese Dec., Exh. A.) In accordance with the
agreement, Plaintiff mailed Defendant a letter, informing them that they were
in default with their payments. It appears that no response nor further payment
was ever received. Therefore, the Motion is granted, and judgment is entered in
favor of Plaintiff for the settlement amount, minus credit for payments
received.   
 
Conclusion
            Accordingly, Plaintiff’s
Motion to Vacate Dismissal and Enter Judgment Pursuant to CCP § 664.6 is GRANTED
and judgment is entered in favor
of Plaintiff for the settlement amount, minus credit for payments
received.   
 
 
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice.  
 
 
 


