

TENTATIVE
 
            Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Inspection
of Vehicle and Event Data Recorder is DENIED. The current owner of the vehicle,
Erika Grisel Rodriguez, is not a party
to the action and is not subject to discovery under California Code of Civil
Procedure Section 2031.
 

Background
 
            Luis
Fido Chacon (“Plaintiff”) filed suit on April 2, 2020 against Eran Weinberg
(“Defendant”) after an automobile collision on March 6, 2019 in which Plaintiff
alleges that Defendant negligently operated their vehicle, causing the
accident. (Complaint, ¶¶ 1 & 8.)
 
            Plaintiff
has brought a motion pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure (“CCP”) section
2031 now files a Motion to Compel Inspection of the Vehicle and Event Data
Recorder (“Motion”), requesting that the Court issue an order against the now
owner of the vehicle, Erika Grisel Rodriguez[1]
(“Rodriguez”) to permit inspection by Plaintiff’s expert. 
 
            The
Motion is unopposed. (In fact, it is unclear whether the Motion was served.)  
 
Discussion
 
Legal Standard
 
            Plaintiff’s
motion is made pursuant to CCP § 2031.010, which provides: 
 
            (a)
Any party may obtain discovery within the scope delimited by Chapter 2
(commencing with Section 2017.010), and subject to the restrictions set forth
in Chapter 5 (commencing with Section 2019.010), by inspecting, copying,
testing, or sampling documents, tangible things, land or other property, and
electronically stored information in the possession, custody, or control of any
other party to the action.
 
            (b)
A party may demand that any other party produce and permit the party making the
demand, or someone acting on the demanding party's behalf, to inspect and to
copy a document that is in the possession, custody, or control of the party on
whom the demand is made.
 
            (c)
A party may demand that any other party produce and permit the party making the
demand, or someone acting on the demanding party's behalf, to inspect and to
photograph, test, or sample any tangible things that are in the possession,
custody, or control of the party on whom the demand is made. 
 
            (d)
A party may demand that any other party allow the party making the demand, or
someone acting on the demanding party's behalf, to enter on any land or other
property that is in the possession, custody, or control of the party on whom
the demand is made, and to inspect and to measure, survey, photograph, test, or
sample the land or other property, or any designated object or operation on it.
 
            (e)
A party may demand that any other party produce and permit the party making the
demand, or someone acting on the demanding party's behalf, to inspect, copy,
test, or sample electronically stored information in the possession, custody,
or control of the party on whom demand is made.
 
            In
each of these subsections, the demand is to be directed to another “party.” Here,
Rodriguez is not a party to this action. 
Accordingly, Section 2031 does not apply.
 
            The
Motion is denied.  Plaintiff’s counsel is
hereby admonished that future motions that have no legal basis will be subject
to sanctions pursuant to CCP Section 128.7. This Court has a docket of greater
than 4,000 cases; it does not have time to address motions that are clearly unsupported
by the law. 
 
Moving party is
ordered to give notice.  
 
  Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at
www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that
if you submit on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the
opposing party may nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the
matter.  Unless you receive a submission
from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others might
appear at the hearing to argue.  If the
Court does not receive emails from the parties indicating submission on this
tentative ruling and there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at
its discretion, adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off
calendar.
 


