 Case Number:  22STCV22638    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2023    Dept:  27 SUPERIOR COURT
OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY
OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



LYONELL P. HENSON; and SHARISSE V.
ARMSTRONG-HENSON, 
                   Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
BALDWIN
  GARDENS, INC.; BALDWIN
BROTHERS,
  INC.; PLS CHECK CASHERS
536 E. MANCHESTER
  AVENUE LOCATION; PLS CHECK CASHERS OF CALIFORNIA, INC.; PLS FINANCIAL
  SERVICES, INC.; DWIGHT ANTWAN GIBBS AND DOES 1-30,
 
                   Defendants.
                                                                         
  
 
PLS CHECK
  CASHERS OF CALIFORNIA,
INC.; PLS
  FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC.,
 
                        Cross-Complainants,
          vs.
 
BALDWIN
  GARDENS, INC.; BALDWIN
BROTHERS,
  INC.; and ROES 1 through 25,
 
                       Cross-Defendants.
 


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 22STCV22638
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER
  TO CONTINUE THE TRIAL DATE


 
Dept. 27
1:30 p.m.
December 12,
  2023



 
I.                  
INTRODUCTION
Lyonell P. Henson and Sharisse V.
Armstrong-Henson (“Plaintiffs”) filed their complaint against Baldwin Gardens,
Inc., Baldwin Brothers, Inc., PLS Check Cashiers 536 E. Manchester Avenue
Location, PLS Check Cashiers of California, Inc., PLS Financial Services, Inc.,
Dwight Antwan Gibbs, and Does 1 through 30 on July 13, 2022, alleging five causes
of action for (1) Battery, (2) Assault, (3) Intentional Infliction of Emotional
Distress, (4) Negligence, and (5) Premise Liability. These causes of actions
stemmed from a robbery at the premises of PLS Check Cashers at 536 E.
Manchester Ave., Los Angeles, California 90003, on July 14, 2020, in which
Plaintiffs allege Plaintiff Henson was attacked, beaten, robbed and shot by
Defendant Dwight Antwan Gibbs. 
On November 7, 2023, Defendants Baldwin
Gardens, Inc., and Baldwin Brothers, Inc. (“Defendants”) filed their motion to continue
the trial date. No opposition has been filed.
II.               
LEGAL STANDARD
Code Civ. Proc. § 128(a)(8) provides that the
court has the power to amend and control its process and orders to make them
conform to law and justice. “The power to determine when a continuance should
be granted is within the discretion of the trial court.” (Color-Vue, Inc. v.
Abrams (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 1599, 1603.) “A trial court has wide latitude in
the matter of calendar control including the granting or denying of
continuances.” (Park Motors, Inc. v. Cozens (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 12, 18.)  
Each request for a continuance must be
considered on its own merits according to California Rules of Court, Rule
3.1332(c). The court may grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of
good cause requiring the continuance. Circumstances of good cause include:  
“(1) The unavailability of an essential lay or
expert witness because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances;  
(2) The unavailability of a party because of
death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;  
(3) The unavailability of trial counsel because
of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;  
(4) The substitution of trial counsel, but only
where there is an affirmative showing that the substitution is required in the
interests of justice;  
(5) The addition of a new party if: (A) The new
party has not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for
trial; or (B) The other parties have not had a reasonable opportunity to
conduct discovery and prepare for trial in regard to the new party's
involvement in the case;  
(6) A party's excused inability to obtain
essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite diligent
efforts; or  
(7) A significant, unanticipated change in the
status of the case as a result of which the case is not ready for trial.”  
(Cal. Rules of
Court, Rule 3.1332(c).)  
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1332 sets
forth a list of non-exhaustive factors to be analyzed when determining whether
good cause for a trial continuance is present. A court considers factors such
as:  
“(1) The proximity of the trial date;  
(2) Whether there was any previous continuance,
extension of time, or delay of trial due to any party;  
(3) The length of the continuance
requested;  
(4) The availability of alternative means to
address the problem that gave rise to the motion or application for a
continuance;  
(5) The prejudice that parties or witnesses
will suffer as a result of the continuance; 
(6) If the case is entitled to a preferential
trial setting, the reasons for that status and whether the need for a
continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; 
(7) The court's calendar and the impact of
granting a continuance on other pending trials;
(8) Whether trial counsel is engaged in another
trial;  
(9) Whether all parties have stipulated to a
continuance;  
(10) Whether the interests of justice are best
served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by imposing conditions
on the continuance; and  
(11) Any other fact or circumstance relevant to
the fair determination of the motion or application.”  
(Cal. Rules of
Court, Rule 3.1332(d).)
III.            
DISCUSSION
Defendants seek an Order to continue trials in
this matter from January 10, 2024, to January 13, 2025, with the Final Status Conference
from December 27, 2023, to December 27, 2024. (Motion, 6:24-26.)
Defendants state significant discovery remains
to be completed in the case. (Declaration of Linwood Warren, Jr., ¶ 5.) Defendants
contend that no depositions have been taken and written discovery has not been
completed. (Id., ¶ 11.) The parties have not started expert discovery. (Id.,
¶ 12.)
Defendants were not aware of the lawsuit until
they were served with the Cross-Complaint on June 30, 2023. (Id., ¶ 6.) Defendants discovered the
at-fault party was Defendant Gibbs. (Id., ¶ 8.)
Defendants then filed their motion for leave to file a Cross-Complaint on
September 14, 2023, but the first available date for the hearing was January on
22, 2024. (Id., ¶ 9-10.) 
Defendants
state they filed a stipulation with the Court on October 25, 2023, which has
not been signed. (Id., ¶ 14, 1(5).) A copy of the
filed stipulation is attached as Exh. A, which has been signed by the parties.
(Exh. A.) The [Proposed Order] and Stipulation to Continue Trial, FSC (and
Related Motion/Discovery Dates) Personal Injury Courts Only was returned because
“Continuances requesting more than 120 days must be submitted with a showing of
good cause.” (Notice of Rejection of Electronic Filing, 10/25/2023.)
The Court finds Defendants show good cause to
support their motion for continuance. Defendants have only been a party to this
matter less than half a year. Further, Defendants have filed a motion for leave
to file a cross-complaint set for after the current trial date. Lastly, all the
parties appear to agree to the continuance based on the stipulation and the
fact no opposition was filed against this motion. (Exh. A.)
Therefore, Defendants motion to continue is GRANTED.
IV.            
CONCLUSION
Defendants
motion to continue is GRANTED. Trial is continued to FATD January 23, 2025.  The
Final Status Conference and all deadlines are reset based on the new trial
date.  
Moving party to give notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative
must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention
to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the
court website at www.lacourt.org.  Please
be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to appear at the
hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue
the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If
the Court does not receive emails from the parties indicating submission on
this tentative ruling and there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court
may, at its discretion, adopt the tentative as the final order or place the
motion off calendar.
       Dated this 12th day of December
2023
 




 


 




 


Hon. Lee S.
  Arian
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 




 