 Case Number:  20STCV18249    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2023    Dept:  27 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



JASON SEWARD, an individual, 
                   Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
MOUSSA MOSHFEGH; SHIDA MOSHFEGH; UDR, INC.
  dba VISION; 3D INVESTMENTS; WILSHIRE CRESCENT HEIGHTS, LLC; WILSHIRE MEDICAL
  GROUP, LLC; and DOES 1 through 50, inclusive,
 
                   Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


    
  CASE NO.: 23STCV18249
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: DEFENDANTS MOUSSA
  MOSHFEGH AND SHIDA MOSHFEGH’S MOTION TO QUASH PLAINTIFF JASON SEWARD’S
  SUBPOENA FOR PRODUCTION OF RECORDS TO NATIONWIDE MUTUAL INSURANCE COMPANY AND
  REQUEST FOR MONETARY SANCTIONS


 
Dept. 27
1:30 p.m.
December 12, 2023



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
On
August 2, 2023, Plaintiff Jason Seward (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against
Defendant Moussa Moshfegh; Shida Moshfegh; Udr, Inc. dba Vision; 3D
Investments; Wilshire Crescent Heights, LLC; Wilshire Medical Group, LLC; and
DOES 1 through 50, inclusive for (1) negligence/negligence per se and (2)
premises liability. Plaintiff alleges that on October 28, 2021, he was struck
by a vehicle driven by Defendant Moussa Moshfegh, while traversing a driveway,
resulting in severe bodily injuries and other damages.
On
September 12, 2023, Defendant Moussa Moshfegh and Shida Moshfegh (“Moshfegh
Defendants”) filed a cross-complaint against ROES 1 through 20, inclusive for
(1) negligence, (2) express indemnity, (3) implied indemnity, (4) contribution,
(5) declaratory relief, and (6) duty to defend.
On
September 25, 2023, Defendant Wilshire Crescent Heights, LLC and Udr, Inc. dba
Vision filed a cross-complaint against Moshfegh Defendants, 3D Investments, Wilshire
Medical Group, LLC, and ROES 1 to 50, inclusive for (1) express
indemnification; (2) equitable indemnification; (3) contribution; (4)
declaratory relief: duty to defend; and (5) declaratory relief: duty to
indemnify.
On
October 25, 2023, Moshfegh Defendants’ filed the instant motion to quash
Plaintiff’s subpoena for production of records to Nationwide Mutual Insurance
Company. On November 28, 2023, Plaintiff filed an opposition. The following
day, Defendant Wilshire Crescent Heights, LLC (“Defendant Wilshire Crescent”)
filed a notice of joinder to Plaintiff’s opposition. On December 5, 2023, Moshfegh
Defendants’ filed a reply. 
II.         
LEGAL STANDARD
Pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure Section 1987.1, “[i]f a subpoena requires the
attendance of a witness or the production of books, documents, electronically
stored information, or other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue
therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably
made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the court’s own motion
after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order
quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it
upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective
orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as may be appropriate
to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including
unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the person.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1987.1.)
III.       
DISCUSSION
The Subpoena
Plaintiff’s
subpoena seeks the following:
“All
records and documents regarding Policy Holder Moussa Moshfegh (DOB:1/17/1947)
and Shida Moshfegh concerning Policy No. 7204J099039, with DOL: 10/28/2021
includi but not limited to: all photographs and videos (digital and color, if
available) depicting an involved vehicle, the scene, and/or any injuries;
recorded, transcribed, and/or written statements of any individual; collision
repair estimates, records and receipts; and electroni download data regarding
braking, vehicle movements, and/or airbag module data/information concerning
any vehicle involved in the 10/28/2021 incident, including, b not limited to,
the 2019 white Mercedes sedan. All records and documents pertaining to any
other claims at any time regarding the 2019 white Mercedes sedan including but
not limited to: all photographs (digital and color, if available), collision
repair records and receipts, repair photographs (digital and in color, if
available) and repair estimates, recor statements, transcribed statements, and
written statements. The documents sought via thi subpoena exclude
attorney-client communications and attorney work product.”
 
Contentions
Moshfegh
Defendants seek an order to quash Plaintiff’s subpoena for deposition and for
the production of records from Nationwide Mutual Insurance Company. Moshfegh Defendants
argue that (1) the subpoena is not designated with reasonable particularity;
(2) the subpoena seeks grossly overbroad and irrelevant privileged information;
(3) the subpoena violates Moshfegh Defendants’ right to privacy; (4) the
subpoena is unduly burdensome and harassing; and (5) the subpoena is not
narrowly circumscribed by the least intrusive means as required. Moshfegh Defendants
also seek monetary sanctions against Plaintiff and/or his counsel of record in
the amount of $1,935.00.
Alternatively,
Moshfegh Defendants request that the Court (1) stay enforcement of Plaintiff’s
subpoena pending the Court’s in camera inspection of the requested
documents; (2) conduct an in camera inspection prior to production of
any documents requested by the subpoenas to determine whether any of the
requested documents are admissible; and (3) if the Court orders any documents
produced pursuant to the subpoena, enter a protective order. Moshfegh Defendants
seek a protective order providing that (a) confidential information not be
disclosed to any person other than Plaintiff’s attorney; (b) the information is
not to be used for any purpose other than prosecuting this litigation; and (c)
Plaintiff be forbidden from photocopying the documents and disseminating the
same. 
In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that the requested documents concern the subject
incident and the Moshfegh Defendants’ vehicle that was involved. Also,
Plaintiff argues that the subpoena requests documents that are reasonably
calculated to lead to admissible evidence because they include photographs and
videos of the scene, vehicles and/or injuries, written, transcribed, or
recorded statements, damage estimates, repair records, and electronic data. Furthermore,
Plaintiff argues that the subpoena is designated with the requisite reasonable
particularity because it provides the date of loss (“DOL”), October 28, 2021,
and the subject vehicle information, a white 2019 Mercedes. Plaintiff also
contends that the description of documents requested is less than a quarter of
a page and seeks only two separate categories. Moreover, Plaintiff argues that
the subpoena does not request financial, billing, or proprietary information
and specifically excludes documents protected by the attorney-client privilege
and work-product doctrine. Plaintiff further asserts that the subpoena is not
cumulative, and he has the right to obtain the requested documents directly
from Nationwide Mutual Insurance Company. Additionally, Plaintiff contends that
Moshfegh Defendants fail to make the requisite showing for a protective order.
Last, Plaintiff contends that sanctions are not warranted and should be imposed
against Moshfegh Defendants because this instant motion is meritless. 
In
reply, Moshfegh Defendants argue that Plaintiff has failed to show good cause
as to why records reflecting their sensitive financial information and other
insurance claims are relevant. Moshfegh Defendants further argue that there is
no language in the subpoena excluding or even limiting Moshfegh Defendants’
personal financial information. Moreover, Moshfegh Defendants contend that
Plaintiff’s opposition does not include any declaration setting forth good
cause nor has Plaintiff shown that there was no alternative source for the requested
documents. In addition, Moshfegh Defendants contend that a tripartite
relationship exists between their counsel and Nationwide Mutual Insurance
Company, which precludes a unilateral production of records by Nationwide
Mutual Insurance Company because theoretically there could be something in the
insurer’s file that is privileged. Moshfegh Defendants also assert that
Plaintiff’s analogy to a medical records subpoena is misguided and a red
herring because they have not voluntarily waived any privacy or privilege
interests in their insurance file by virtue of being involuntarily sued.
Finally, Moshfegh Defendants assert that Nationwide Mutual Insurance Company
records pertaining to Moshfegh Defendants’ financial information, insurance
premiums, and claims unrelated to the incident have no relevance to proving or
disproving whether Mr. Moshfegh was negligent nor would this information be
necessary for review by experts at trial. 
Analysis
The
Subpoena
The subpoena
is, at best, poorly written.  One could
read it to be a request for all records related to the Moshfegh Defendants’
insurance policy.  In that case, it is
overbroad.  
Instead,
the Court will read it as it was likely intended: a request for all records
specifically related to the October 28, 2021 incident.  Those records are appropriately requested,
and the Court will not quash the subpoena as to those records.  (See Cal. Code Civ. Proc. 1987.1 (court
may modify or direct compliance with subpoena on terms court declares)).  
Beyond the
production of documents responsive to that reading, the Court quashes the
subpoena.  Plaintiff has specifically
failed to address the Moshfegh Defendants’ argument regarding the relevance of
the additional request for records related to the 2019 Mercedes.  Without any basis to require the moving party
to provide that information, which, at least on its face (without additional
information, which Plaintiff did not provide) appears to be overbroad and
irrelevant, the Court quashes the subpoena as to that request. 
Moreover,
Plaintiff asserts that he does not seek Moshfegh Defendants’ financial billing
or proprietary information, but the language used in the subpoena as currently
stated does not include this limitation (as contrasted with the explicit
exclusion of documents pertaining to attorney-client privilege and/or
work-product doctrine).  Again, the Court
modifies the subpoena so that it does not deemed to request such information. 
Sanctions
The
Court finds that Plaintiff successfully opposed at least part of the instant
motion such that imposition of sanctions would be unjust. Accordingly, the
Court does not award sanctions against Plaintiff and his counsel of record. 
IV.        
CONCLUSION
Moshfegh
Defendants’ motion to quash Plaintiff’s subpoena for production of records to
Nationwide Mutual Insurance Company is DENIED in part.  Nationwide is to produce records specifically
related to the October 28, 2021 incident. 

Moshfegh
Defendants’ request for monetary sanctions in the amount of $1,935.00 is
DENIED.
 
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at
www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that
if you submit on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the
opposing party may nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the
matter.  Unless you receive a submission
from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others might
appear at the hearing to argue.  If the
Court does not receive emails from the parties indicating submission on this
tentative ruling and there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at
its discretion, adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off
calendar.
Dated this 12th day of December 2023
 




 


 




 


Hon. Lee
  S. Arian
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 