  Case Number:  23PSCV00435    Hearing Date:   November 14, 2023    Dept:  6 CASE NAME:  Shanhui  Zhu v. Shiyi Zhang Plaintiff’s Shanhui Zhu’s Motion  for Leave to File Second Amended Complaint  TENTATIVE RULING The Court GRANTS Plaintiff  Shanhui Zhu’s motion for leave to file Second Amended Complaint.  Plaintiff is ordered to file and  serve the Second Amended Complaint by November 21, 2023.               Plaintiff  is ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of  this order.  BACKGROUND This is an auto accident case. On  February 14, 2023, Plaintiff Shanhui Zhu (Plaintiff) filed this action against  Defendant Shiyi Zhang (Defendant), and Does 1 to 100, alleging causes of action  for motor vehicle and general negligence. Plaintiff then filed the operative  First Amended Complaint (FAC) on February 24, 2023.  On October 6, 2023, Plaintiff  filed the instant motion for leave to file Second Amended Complaint. The motion  is unopposed.  LEGAL STANDARD Code of Civil Procedure section  473, subdivision (a)(1) provides, in relevant part:  “The court may, in furtherance of justice,  and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or  proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a  mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may,  upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or demurrer.  The court may likewise, in its discretion,  after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an  amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like  terms allow an answer to be made after the time limited by this code.” (Code  Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a)(1).)  “This discretion should be  exercised liberally in favor of amendments, for judicial policy favors  resolution of all disputed matters in the same lawsuit.” (Kittredge Sports  Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1047.) Under Rule 3.1324,  subdivision (a) of the California Rules of Court, a motion to amend a pleading  shall (1) include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleading, which  must be serially numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or  amendments; (2) state what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to  be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph and line number, the deleted  allegations are located; and (3) state what allegations are proposed to be  added to the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line  number, the additional allegations are located. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule  3.1324, subd. (a).)  Under Rule 3.1324, subdivision  (b) of the California Rules of Court, a separate declaration must accompany the  motion and must specify (1) the effect of the amendment; (2) why the amendment  is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts giving rise to the amended  allegations were discovered; and (4) the reasons why the request for amendment  was not made earlier. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, subd. (b).)  DISCUSSION Plaintiff seeks leave to file a Second  Amended Complaint (SAC) on the grounds that the FAC fails to attach the factual  allegations and causes of action that comprise Plaintiff’s claims. Plaintiff also  seeks to add causes of action for negligence per se and fraudulent transfer.  Plaintiff contends Defendant will not be prejudiced if the motion is granted  because the original complaint in this action was filed on February 14, 2023  and the FAC was filed on February 24, 2023. Plaintiff also seeks to add a  party, Yuan Yin Fu, in connection with the fraudulent transfer claim. Plaintiff  further notes that only some written discovery has been propounded thus far,  and no trial date has been set.  Plaintiff contends the SAC is  necessary and proper to put the case at issue as it relates to the cause of  action, and since Plaintiff believes Defendant fraudulently transferred  property following the filing of the original complaint. Plaintiff states that  the reason the motion was not filed sooner was due to Plaintiff’s efforts to  obtain Defendant’s stipulation to filing the SAC in lieu of this motion.  Plaintiff further states that the effect of the SAC will be to provide properly  pleaded facts for Plaintiff’s claims and add a cause of action and another  defendant. The Court finds Plaintiff’s motion to be well-taken.  The FAC utilizes Judicial Council  forms, but fails to include the necessary attachments for the causes of action  alleged therein. (See generally FAC.) The proposed SAC should remedy these  defects. (See Mayo Decl., Ex. 1.) The Court also agrees with Plaintiff that  there does not appear to be any indication that prejudice would result to any  of the parties here considering this action was only filed earlier this year. Additionally  the Court construes Defendant’s lack of opposition to this motion as a tacit  admission that Plaintiff’s motion is meritorious. (Holden v. City of San Diego (2019) 43 Cal.App.5th 404, 418; C. Opposing the  Motion—and Rebutting the Opposition, Cal. Prac. Guide Civ. Pro. Before  Trial Ch. 9(I)-C, ¶¿9:105.10.) The Court further finds that  Plaintiff has sufficiently complied with the requirements of Rule 3.1324 of the  California Rules of Court.              Based  on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion for leave to file a Second  Amended Complaint.  CONCLUSION The Court GRANTS Plaintiff  Shanhui Zhu’s motion for leave to file Second Amended Complaint.  Plaintiff is ordered to file and  serve the Second Amended Complaint by November 21, 2023.               Plaintiff  is ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of  this order.