 Case Number:  KC069873    Hearing Date:   November 14, 2023    Dept:  6 CASE NAME:                           Yan  Li, et al. v. April Lin, et al. Cross-Defendant  Peizhen Lin’s Motion to Dismiss the First Amended Cross-Complaint  TENTATIVE  RULING The Court GRANTS Cross-Defendant Peizhen Lin’s motion to dismiss  the First Amended Cross-Complaint filed by Jui Yuan Cheng, et al.  The First Amended Cross-Complaint filed by Jui Yuan Cheng, et al.  is dismissed without prejudice as to Cross-Defendant Peizhen Lin.  Lin is ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling and file proof  of service of same within five calendar days of this order.  BACKGROUND This is a breach of contract case.  On December 12, 2017, Plaintiffs Yan Li and Mesarica Management, LLC  (“Plaintiffs”) filed this action against Defendants April Lin, Han  International Group, Inc., Shigang Li, Jui Yuan Cheng, Moon Management  Consulting, LLC and Does 1 through 10 (collectively, “Defendants”).  On January 12, 2018, Defendants  April Lin, Han International Group, Inc. Shigang Li, Jui Yuan Cheng, and Moon  Management Consulting, LLC (collectively, “Cross-Complainants”) filed a  cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants Yan Li, Mesarica Management, LLC,  Peizhen Lin, Lili Young, and Does 1 through 10 (the “Cross-Complaint”).  On March 15, 2018, after hearing  oral argument, the Court sustained the demurrer of Plaintiffs and Cross-Defendants  Yan Li and Mesarica Management, LLC to the Cross-Complaint without leave to  amend. On July 27, 2018, after hearing oral argument, the Court sustained the  demurrer of Cross-Defendant Lili Young to the Cross-Complaint with 10 days  leave to amend.  On August 6, 2018,  Cross-Complainants filed the operative First Amended Cross-Complaint (“FAXC”).[1] The FAXC sets forth causes of action for fraud, fraud and deceit by intentional  misrepresentation, fraud and deceit by concealment and nondisclosure of known  facts, negligent misrepresentation, breach of fiduciary duty, equitable  indemnity, and contribution.[2] On October 15, 2018, after hearing oral argument, the Court sustained the  demurrer of Cross-Defendant Lili Young to each cause of action in the FAXC  without leave to amend.  On July 8, 2020, Plaintiffs filed  the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against Defendants alleging  causes of action for fraud, breach of contract—listing agreement, breach of  fiduciary duty, professional negligence, breach of contract—lease agreement,  and negligence.  On October 18, 2023,  Cross-Defendant Peizhen Lin (“Lin”) filed and served a motion to dismiss the  FAXC with prejudice (the “Motion”). The Motion is made on the grounds that Lin  was not served with the summons, cross-complaint, or the FAXC in this action. Lin  asserts that the Court lacks jurisdiction over Lin’s person and  Cross-Complainants’ time to properly serve the summons and cross-complaint has  expired.  The Motion is unopposed. Any  opposition to the Motion was required to have been filed and served at least  nine court days prior to the hearing pursuant to Code. Civ. Proc. §  1005(b).   LEGAL  STANDARD “The summons and complaint shall be served upon a defendant within  three years after the action is commenced against the defendant . . . [and] an  action is commenced at the time the complaint is filed.” (Code Civ. Proc., §  583.210, subd. (a).) “Proof of service of the summons shall be filed within 60  days after the time the summons and complaint must be served upon a defendant.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 583.210, subd. (b).) If service of a complaint or  cross-complaint is not made within the time articulated in Code Civ. Proc., §  583.210 then “(1) [t]he action shall not be further prosecuted and no further  proceedings shall be held in the action [and] (2) [t]he action shall be  dismissed by the court on its own motion or on motion of any person interested  in the action, whether named as a party or not, after notice to the parties.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 583.250, subd. (a)(1)-(2).) “The requirements of this  article are mandatory and are not subject to extension, excuse, or exception  except as expressly provided by statute.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 583.250, subd.  (b).) “If a party has not appeared in the action, a summons upon the  cross-complaint shall be issued and served upon him in the same manner as upon  commencement of an original action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 428.60.) REQUEST  FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE            The Court GRANTS Lin’s request for  judicial notice. (Evid. Code, §§ 451 and 452.)DISCUSSION             Appropriateness  of Dismissing the FAXC Against Lin  Lin  attests that Lin was never served with the summons, the cross-complaint, or the  FAXC in this action. (Lin Decl., ¶ 3.) Based on a review of the court file,  Cross-Complainants have not filed any proof of service of the summons,  cross-complaint, or FAXC on Lin. At the latest, Lin should have been served by  January 2021. Almost six years have elapsed since the filing of the initial Cross-Complaint  and Lin has yet to be served. The operative FAXC was filed in August 2018—which  is over five years ago—and Lin has not been served with such pleading. Lin has  therefore shown a basis for dismissing the FAXC pursuant to Code Civ. Proc., §  583.250. Moreover, the Motion is unopposed which leads to an inference that it  is meritorious. (Sexton v. Superior Court (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 1403,  1410.)  Based  on the foregoing, the Motion is GRANTED.    CONCLUSION The Court GRANTS Cross-Defendant Peizhen Lin’s motion to dismiss  the First Amended Cross-Complaint filed by Jui Yuan Cheng, et al.  The First Amended Cross-Complaint filed by Jui Yuan Cheng, et al.  is dismissed without prejudice as to Cross-Defendant Peizhen Lin.  Lin is ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling and file proof  of service of same within five calendar days of this order.    