  Case Number:  23PSCV03425    Hearing Date:   May 29, 2024    Dept:  G Defendant Min Zhou’s Demurrer to First Amended Complaint   Respondent: Plaintiff Juan Zhao   TENTATIVE  RULING  Defendant Min  Zhou’s Demurrer to First Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED IN PART without leave  to amend as to the Fifth Cause of Action and OVERRULED IN PART as to the First  Cause of Action.   Defendant Zhou  is ordered to file an answer in ten (10) days.   BACKGROUND   This is a breach of contract and fraud action arising from  a loan agreement. In May 2023, Plaintiff Juan Zhao entered into an agreement  with Defendant Min Zhou in which Zhao agreed to loan a total of $1,500,000 to  Min Zhou in exchange for repayment within one week. After two to three weeks  later, Min Zhou told Zhao that Min Zhou would be unable to repay the loan and  claimed the money had been lost in an online scam. On June 23, Min Zhou signed  a written promissory note that acknowledged the loan, agreed to repay it within  thirty days, and listed property in Diamond Bar as collateral for the loan.  Subsequently, Zhao alleges Min Zhou failed to make any payments on the loan.   On July 25, 2023, Zhao filed a complaint in Orange County  Superior Court against Defendants Min Zhou, Bing Zhou, and Does 1-50, alleging  the following causes of action: (1) fraud, (2) promissory estoppel, (3)  fraudulent transfer, (4) breach of oral contract, (5) breach of written  contract, and (6) common counts.   On October 4, 2023, the parties stipulated to the transfer  of this action to the present court.   On February 7, 2024, the Court sustained Min Zhou’s  demurrer to the Complaint in part with leave to amend.   On February 27, 2024, Zhao filed a First Amended Complaint  (FAC) against the same defendants alleging the same causes of action.   On April 2, 2024, Min Zhou filed the present  demurrer. Prior to filing, Min Zhou’s counsel met and conferred telephonically  with Zhao’s counsel and was unable to reach a resolution. (HaCohen Decl., ¶ 2-3.)   A hearing on the demurrer is set for May 29,  2024, along with a case management conference/status conference re: ADR.   ANALYSIS  Min Zhou demurs to Zhao’s first cause of  action (­fraud) and fifth cause of action (­breach of written contract). For  the following reasons, the Court SUSTAINS  Min Zhou’s demurrer to Zhao’s fifth  cause of action without leave to amend and OVERRULES Min Zhou’s  demurrer to Zhao’s first cause of action.   Legal Standard  A party may demur to a complaint on the  grounds that it “does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of  action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) A demurrer tests whether the  complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147  Cal.App.4th 740, 747 (Hahn).) When considering demurrers, courts accept  all well pleaded facts as true. (Fox v. JAMDAT Mobile, Inc. (2010) 185  Cal.App.4th 1068, 1078.) In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent  on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v.  Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the  pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it  lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are  judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d  902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the  complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of  action.” (Hahn, supra, at p. 747.)   Fraud (First Cause of Action)   Min Zhou argues Zhao’s first cause of action  for fraud fails to plead sufficient facts to state a claim because it is not  pled with the required specificity. The court disagrees.   Legal Standard   “The elements of fraud, which give rise to  the tort action for deceit, are (a) misrepresentation (false representation,  concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity (or ‘scienter’); (c)  intent to defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e)  resulting damage.” (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 638,  quoting 5 Witkin, Summary of Cal. Law (9th ed. 1988) Torts, § 676, p. 778.) The  facts constituting the alleged fraud must be alleged factually and specifically  as to every element of fraud, as the policy of “liberal construction” of the  pleadings will not ordinarily be invoked. (Id., at p. 645.) In  alleging a cause of action for fraud, “[t]he specificity requirement means a  plaintiff must allege facts showing how, when, where, to whom, and by what  means the representations were made, and, in the case of a corporate defendant,  the plaintiff must allege the names of the persons who made the  representations, their authority to speak on behalf of the corporation, to whom  they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when the representation was made.” (West  v. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 780, 793.)   Discussion   In this case, Min Zhou first argues the FAC  fails to allege how Min Zhou allegedly made misrepresentations to Zhao. (Demurrer,  p. 3:4-16.) While the FAC alleges Min Zhou “reached out to Plaintiff by means  of telephone” on May 2 (FAC, ¶ 7), Min Zhou argues the FAC fails to specify if  the communication was in the form of a text message, call, audio recording, or  messaging app. (Demurrer, p. 3:9-14.) But the FAC goes on to provide this very  detail by alleging the telephone communication was a call. (FAC, ¶ 19.)   Next, Min Zhou contends the FAC fails to  allege how Min Zhou intended to defraud Zhao with the required specificity.  (Demurrer, p. 3:18-20.) The court finds the FAC does so by alleging that when  Min Zhou promised to repay the loan funds, Min Zhou had no intention of doing  so. (FAC, ¶ 20.) Min Zhou contends this allegation is contradicted by paragraph  ten of the FAC which alleges Min Zhou “confessed that the money had been lost  to an alleged online scam of which she claimed to be a victim.” (Demurrer, p.  4:10-17; FAC, ¶ 10.) These allegations are not contradictory. In paragraph ten,  the FAC’s use of “alleged” and “claimed” suggests Min Zhou’s confession is not  being taken as the truth but rather as Min Zhou’s excuse for nonpayment. (FAC,  ¶ 10.) Even if Min Zhou was the actual victim of a scam, the court reasons that  it does not defeat the allegation that Min Zhou had no intent to repay the loan  in the first place. Min Zhou also claims the intent allegation is an  insufficient legal conclusion. (Demurrer, p. 4:18-20.) The court disagrees as  this is a specific allegation about Min Zhou’s alleged state of mind when Zhou  requested the loan.   Finally, Min Zhou maintains the FAC fails to  allege causation and justifiable reliance. (Demurrer, p. 4:21-5:15.) However, the  FAC does so by alleging Zhao justifiably relied on Min Zhou’s representations  due to their long-standing friendship and personal history. (FAC, ¶ 22.) Min  Zhou maintains paragraph seven of the FAC establishes that Zhao had notice of  Min Zhou’s financial difficulties before making the loan. (Demurrer, p. 5:1-4.)  The FAC, however, alleges Min Zhou stated Min  Zhou needed the funds for a “short-term cash crunch.” (FAC, ¶ 7.) A reasonable  factfinder could interpret short-term to mean temporary and that Min Zhou would  repay the loan when the cash shortage issue resolved.   While Min Zhou also argues this cause of  action is barred by the economic loss rule, the Court already rejected that  argument in ruling on Min Zhou’s previous demurrer. (2/7/2024 Ruling, p. 2.)   Accordingly, Min Zhou’s demurrer to this  cause of action is OVERRULED.   Breach of Written Contract (Fifth Cause  of Action)   Min Zhou contends Zhao’s fifth cause of  action for breach of written contract fails to plead sufficient facts to state  a claim for the same reasons that the Court noted in previously sustaining Min  Zhou’s demurrer. The court agrees.   Legal Standard   To state a cause of action for breach of contract, a  plaintiff must be able to establish “(1) the existence of the contract, (2)  plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach,  and (4) the resulting damages to the plaintiff.” (Oasis West Realty, LLC v.  Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811, 821.) If a breach of contract claim “is  based on alleged breach of a written contract, the terms must be set out  verbatim in the body of the complaint or a copy of the written agreement must  be attached and incorporated by reference.” (Harris v. Rudin, Richman &  Appel (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 299, 307.) In some circumstances, a plaintiff  may also “plead the legal effect of the contract rather than its precise  language.” (Construction Protective Services, Inc. v. TIG Specialty Ins. Co.  (2002) 29 Cal.4th 189, 198-199.)   Discussion   In previously sustaining Min Zhou’s demurrer  to this cause of action, the Court found Zhao could not state a cause of action  for breach of a promissory note that was dated June 23, 2023. (2/7/2024 Ruling,  p. 3.) While Zhao tried to suggest that the promissory note was an acknowledgement  of Zhao and Min Zhou’s prior loan agreement, the Court found the contract  explicitly referenced a future loan of funds by stating “[t]he Lender promises  to loan $1,5000,000.00 USD to the Borrower and the Borrower promises to repay  this principal amount to the Lender along with $150,000.00 interest, which may  be paid separately.” (2/7/2024 Ruling, p. 3.)   Here, because the FAC failed to cure these  deficiencies and relies upon the same allegations, Min Zhou’s demurrer to this  cause of action is now SUSTAINED without leave to amend.   CONCLUSION  Based on the  foregoing, Min Zhou’s demurrer to Zhao’s FAC is SUSTAINED without leave  to amend as to the fifth cause of action and OVERRULED as to the first cause  of action.   Defendant Zhou is  ordered to file an answer in ten (10) days.