 Case Number:  22STCV17639    Hearing Date:   December 18, 2024    Dept:  B 22WONDA HALE, ET AL. VS VICTor  delgado   MOTION TO BE RELIEVED AS COUNSEL   Date of Hearing:          December 18, 2024                Trial Date:       None Department:               B                                              Case  No.:         22STCV17639   Moving  Party:             John  A. Sheehan, Esq. And the Barnes Firm, LC Responding Party:       None     BACKGROUND  This action  arises from a May 30, 2020, motor vehicle accident in which Plaintiffs Rakeem  Chadwick (“Rakeem”), Harlem Chadwick, a minor (“Harlem”), Brooklynn Dixon, a  minor (“Dixon”), by and through their guardian ad litem Wonda Hale (“Hale”)  allege that Defendant Victor Delgado (“Defendant”) operated their motor vehicle  in a negligent or reckless manner as to collide with Plaintiff’s vehicle and  cause injuries thereof. On May 27, 2022, Plaintiffs brought suit alleging two causes  of action: (1) motor vehicle negligence; and (2) general negligence.  On  June 5, 2024, this action was reassigned to the Honorable Karen Moskowitz in  Department B at Van Nuys Courthouse East, effective June 24, 2024.  On November  8, 2024, John A. Sheehan, Esq. (“Counsel”) filed the instant unopposed Motion  to be Relieved as Counsel for Plaintiff Rakeem Chadwick.  [Tentative] Ruling  The Court GRANTS the Motion to be  Relieved as Counsel filed by John A. Sheehan, Esq.  LEGAL STANDARD  The  court may order that an attorney be changed or substituted at any time before  or after judgment or final determination upon request by either client or  attorney and after notice from one to the other. (Cal. Code of Civ. Proc. §  284(2).) “The determination whether to grant or deny a motion to withdraw as  counsel lies within the sound discretion of the trial court.” (Manfredi  & Levine v. Superior Court (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 1128,  1133.)     An application to be relieved as  counsel must be made on Judicial Counsel Form MC-051 (Notice of Motion and  Motion) (Cal. Rules of Court Rule 3.1362(a)), MC-052 (Declaration) (CRC Rule  3.1362(c)), and MC-053 (Proposed Order) (CRC Rule 3.1362(e)).  The  proposed order must specify all hearing dates scheduled in the action or  proceeding, including the date of trial, if known. (CRC Rule 3.1362(e).)  Further, the requisite forms must be  served on the client and all other parties who have appeared in the  case. (CRC Rule 3.1362(d).) The court may delay the effective date of  the order relieving counsel until proof of service of a copy of the signed  order on the client has been filed with the court. (CRC Rule  3.1362(e).) The Court has discretion on whether to allow an attorney to  withdraw, and a motion to withdraw will not be granted where withdrawal would  prejudice the client. (Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th 904,  915.)    DISCUSSION Counsel declares that there has been  an irreconcilable breakdown of the attorney-client relationship. (MC-052 Attachment  2.) Counsel represents that the relationship has deteriorated to the point  where counsel can no longer effectively communicate with Plaintiff. (Ibid.) Counsel has filed and served Plaintiff  with the required documents under CRC Rule 3.1362. Plaintiff will not be  prejudiced by Counsel’s relief as they have adequate time to find alternative  representation. Therefore, Counsel’s motion to be relieved is granted. CONCLUSION The Court GRANTS the Motion to be  Relieved as Counsel filed by John A. Sheehan, Esq., effective upon filing of  the proof of service of the signed Order and   Moving party is ordered to give  notice. Petitioner
Wonda Hale’s Petitions for Approval of Compromise of Claim or Action or
Disposition of Proceeds of Judgment for Minor or a Person with a Disability 

 

Respondent:
NO OPPOSITION

 

TENTATIVE
RULING

Petitioner
Wonda Hale’s Petitions for Approval of Compromise of Claim or Action or
Disposition of Proceeds of Judgment for Minor or a Person with a Disability are
DENIED.

 

BACKGROUND

This action arises from a May 30, 2020, motor vehicle
accident in which Plaintiffs Rakeem Chadwick (“Rakeem”), Harlem Chadwick, a
minor (“Harlem”), Brooklynn Dixon, a minor (“Brooklynn”), by and through their
guardian ad litem Wonda Hale (“Petitioner”) allege that Defendant Victor
Delgado (“Defendant”) operated their motor vehicle in a negligent or reckless
manner as to collide with Plaintiff’s vehicle and cause injuries thereof. On
May 27, 2022, Plaintiffs brought suit alleging two causes of action: (1) motor
vehicle negligence; and (2) general negligence.

On June 5, 2024, this action was
reassigned to the Honorable Karen Moskowitz in Department B at Van Nuys
Courthouse East, effective June 24, 2024.

On November 1, 2023, Petitioner filed
a notice of settlement.

On November 21, 2024, Petitioner filed the
instant Petitions to Confirm Minor’s Compromise of Claim or Action or
Disposition of Proceeds of Judgment for Minor or a Person with a Disability on
behalf of Harlem and Brooklynn.

 

ANALYSIS

Petitioner
seeks court approval for a settlement under which Harlem and Brooklynn would each
receive $15,000.00 from Defendant.

 LEGAL
STANDARD

An enforceable settlement of a minor’s or
incompetent’s claim can only be consummated with court approval. (Cal. Prob.
Code, §§ 2504, 3500, 3600 et seq.; Cal. Code of Civ. Proc. § 372.) For this
purpose, a petition for approval must be presented to the court and until it is
granted, there is no final settlement. (Scruton v. Korean Air Lines Co.
(1995) 39 Cal.App.4th 1596, 1603-1606.) Any settlement agreement therefore is
voidable by the minor’s guardian ad litem. (Ibid. at 1606.) 

 

Probate Code section 3600, et seq., governs how
the settlement proceeds are to be paid. Pursuant to Probate Code section 3601,
the order shall approve payment of reasonable expenses from the settlement as
follows: 

 

The court making the order or giving the
judgment referred to in Section 3600, as a part thereof, shall make a further
order authorizing and directing that such reasonable expenses (medical or
otherwise and including reimbursement to a parent, guardian, or conservator),
costs, and attorney’s fees, as the court shall approve and allow therein, shall
be paid from the money or other property to be paid or delivered for the
benefit of the minor or incompetent person. (Prob. Code § 3601(a).) 

 

In cases pursuant to Probate Code section 3601,
“unless the court has approved the fee agreement in advance, the court must use
a reasonable fee standard when approving and allowing the amount of attorney’s
fees payable from money or property paid or to be paid for the benefit of a
minor or a person with a disability.” (Cal. Rules of Court Rule 7.955(a)(1).)
In doing so, “[t]he court must give consideration to the terms of any
representation agreement made between the attorney and the representative of
the minor or person with a disability and must evaluate the agreement based on
the facts and circumstances existing at the time the agreement was made, except
where the attorney and the representative of the minor or person with a
disability contemplated that the attorney's fee would be affected by later
events.” (CRC Rule 7.955(a)(2).)

 

DISCUSSION

 With rare
exceptions, a child who is a party to a suit must appear through a guardian ad
litem or similar representative. (CCP § 372.) CCP § 372 represents a
recognition by the legislature that whenever a minor is involved in litigation,
the minor's rights cannot be protected unless a guardian ad litem or a similar
representative act for the minor. The guardian ad litem is an officer of the
court, and he or she has the right to control the lawsuit on the minor's
behalf. Among his or her powers are the right to compromise or settle the
action, to control the procedural steps incident to the conduct of the
litigation, and, with the approval of the court, to make stipulations or
concessions that are binding on the minor, provided they are not prejudicial to
the latter's interests. (In re Josiah Z. (2005) 36 Cal.4th 664, 678.)

 Here,
Petitioner filed applications to be approved as guardian ad litem (“GAL”) for
Harlem and Brooklynn on June 22, 2022. They were both rejected, and Petitioner
has failed to file another GAL application since. Therefore, Petitioner does
not have the authority to compromise Harlem and Brooklynn’s rights in the
instant action.  

CONCLUSION

 

Based on the foregoing, the Court DENIES the
Petitions to confirm minor’s compromise.

Petitioner to give notice. 