 Case Number:  23STCV25855    Hearing Date:   June 21, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 





EDWIN
  ENRIQUE HERCULES JR, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
FCA US LLC, et al., 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.:  23STCV25855
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
 
MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO SPECIAL
  INTERROGATORIES, SET ONE
 
MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO FORM
  INTERROGATORIES, SET ONE
 
MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO
REQUESTS FOR ADMISSION, SET ONE
 
MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO
REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS,
  SET ONE
 
  
 
Date: June 21, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
BACKGROUND
            This case arises from a complaint filed by Plaintiff Edwin Enrique
Hercules Jr (“Plaintiff”) against Defendant FCA US LLC (“Defendant”) on October
23, 2023.  The complaint asserts claims
for alleged violations of the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act relating to a 2023
Jeep Grand Cherokee leased by Plaintiff and manufactured and/or distributed by
Defendant.  
 
MOTION
TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES, SET ONE
The Court
considered the moving papers filed.  The
motion is unopposed. 
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure (“CCP”) section
2030.290, subdivision (b), when a party directs interrogatories towards a party,
and that party fails to serve a timely response, the party propounding the
interrogatories may move for an order compelling response to the
interrogatories.  (CCP § 2030.290, subd.
(b).)  A party who fails to provide a
timely response waives any objection, including one based on privilege or work
product.  (Id., § 2030.290, subd. (a).)  The moving party need only show that the
interrogatories were served on the opposing party, the time has expired to
respond to the interrogatories and no responses have been served in order for the
court to compel the opposing party to respond.  (Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d
902, 906.)  “The court shall impose a
monetary sanction… against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully
makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to interrogatories, unless it
finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification
or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Id.,
§ 2030.290, subd. (c).)
 
Here, Plaintiff
served Special Interrogatories (“SIs”) upon Defendant on December 15, 2023.  (Declaration of Nadine Bedwan in Support of
Motion to Compel Responses to SIs (“Bedwan SIs Decl.”), ¶ 3.)  Defendant did not serve responses to the SIs
as of the date of filing of this motion on March 26, 2024.  (Bedwan SIs Decl., ¶ 9.)  Plaintiff now moves for an order compelling
Defendant to serve responses to the SIs.
 
The Court notes that Defendant filed a late opposition to the
motion on the SIs just two court days before the hearing and listing the wrong
department.  In its late opposition,
Defendant claims that it has served responses to the SIs, and that the lateness
of the response was caused by counsel’s inadvertence and excusable neglect.  Counsel should understand that relief from an
attorney’s inadvertence and excusable neglect must be the subject of a separate
motion and that failure to serve timely responses waives all objections.  Accordingly, Plaintiff’s motion to compel
responses to the SIs is GRANTED, to the extent that all objections contained in
the untimely responses to the SIs are stricken. 
If the responses are not otherwise complete or Code-compliant, Plaintiff
has forty-five days from the date of the hearing to file a Motion to Compel
Further.  
Since no request for
sanctions was made in the motion, no sanctions are imposed.
 
MOTION
TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO FORM INTERROGATORIES, SET ONE
The Court
considered the moving papers and opposition filed in connection with this
motion.  
 
As noted
above, when a party directs interrogatories towards a party,
and that party fails to serve a timely response, the party propounding the
interrogatories may move for an order compelling response to the
interrogatories.  (CCP § 2030.290, subd.
(b).)  A party who fails to provide a
timely response waives any objection, including one based on privilege or work
product.  (Id., § 2030.290, subd. (a).)  The moving party need only show that the
interrogatories were served on the opposing party, the time has expired to
respond to the interrogatories and no responses have been served in order for the
court to compel the opposing party to respond.  (Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d
902, 906.)  “The court shall impose a
monetary sanction… against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully
makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to interrogatories, unless it
finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification
or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Id.,
§ 2030.290, subd. (c).)
Here, Plaintiff
served Form Interrogatories (“FIs”) upon Defendant on December 15, 2023.  (Declaration of Nadine Bedwan in Support of Motion
to Compel Responses to FIs (“Bedwan FIs Decl.”), ¶ 3.)  Defendant did not serve responses to the FIs
as of the date of filing of this motion on March 26, 2024.  (Bedwan FIs Decl., ¶ 9.)  Plaintiff now moves for an order compelling
Defendant to serve responses to the FIs. 

 
On June 14,
2024, however, Defendant filed its opposition to Plaintiff’s motion to compel
responses to the FIs.  In opposition,
Defendant claims to have provided verified responses to Plaintiff’s FIs on June
12, 2024, and attached the verified responses in a declaration.  (Declaration of Gregory G. Brezovic in
Support of Opposition to Motion to Compel Responses to the FIs (“Brezovic FIs Decl.”),
¶¶ 3, 5, Exhibit (“Exh.” A.)  While
acknowledging that it is late in providing the responses, Defendant attributes
the delay in its responses to its counsel’s inadvertence, stating that “[a]midst
the exponential increase in Song-Beverly matters, a substantial increase in
emails contributed to the oversight.” 
(Brezovic FIs Decl., ¶ 4.)  The
Court notes that these factors do not constitute excusable neglect, and that
the responses contain objections, which are deemed waived due to the responses being
served late.  
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s motion to compel responses to the FIs is GRANTED
to the extent that the objections in Defendant’s responses are stricken.  If Plaintiff contends that the response is
not complete or Code-compliant, he has forty-five days from the date of the
hearing on this motion to file a separate Motion to Compel Further.  Since no request
for sanctions was made in the motion, no sanctions are imposed.
 


 
MOTION
TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO REQUESTS FOR ADMISSION, SET ONE
The Court
considered the moving papers and opposition filed in connection with this
motion.  
 
If a party
to whom requests for admission are served fails to provide a timely response,
the party to whom the request was directed waives any objections, including
based on privilege or the work product doctrine.  (CCP § 2033.280(a).)  The requesting party can move for an order
that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in
the request be deemed admitted.  (CCP §
2033.280(b).)  The court shall issue this
order unless the party to whom the request was made serves a response in
substantial compliance prior to the hearing on the motion.  It is mandatory that the court impose a
monetary sanction… on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure to serve a
timely response to requests for admission necessitated this motion.  (Id., § 2033.280, subd. (c).)  
 
Here, Plaintiff
served Requests for Admission (“RFAs”) upon Defendant on December 15, 2023.  (Declaration of Nadine Bedwan in Support of
Motion to Compel Responses to RFAs (“Bedwan RFAs Decl.”), ¶ 3.)  Defendant did not serve responses to the RFAs
as of the date of filing of this motion on March 26, 2024.  (Bedwan RFAs Decl., ¶ 9.)  Plaintiff now moves for an order compelling
Defendant to serve responses to the RFAs. 

 
On June 14,
2024, however, Defendant filed its opposition to Plaintiff’s motion to compel
responses to the RFAs.  In opposition,
Defendant claims to have provided verified responses to Plaintiff’s RFAs on
June 12, 2024, and attached the verified responses in a declaration.  (Declaration of Gregory G. Brezovic in
Support of Opposition to Motion to Compel Responses to the RFAs (“Brezovic RFAs
Decl.”), ¶¶ 3, 5, Exh. A.)  While
acknowledging that it is late in providing the responses, Defendant attributes
the delay in its responses to its counsel’s inadvertence, stating that “[a]midst
the exponential increase in Song-Beverly matters, a substantial increase in
emails contributed to the oversight.” 
(Brezovic RFAs Decl., ¶ 4.)  Again, this Court does not find this to constitute
excusable neglect.  The Court further notes
that the responses contain objections, which are deemed waived due to the
responses being served late.  
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s motion to
compel responses to the RFAs is GRANTED to the extent that the objections in
Defendant’s responses are stricken.  .  If Plaintiff contends that the response is
not complete or Code-compliant, he has forty-five days from the date of the
hearing on this motion to file a separate Motion to Compel Further.  Since no request for sanctions was made in the motion, no sanctions are
imposed.

MOTION
TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS, SET ONE
The Court considered the moving papers.  No timely opposition was filed.  The Court, on its own motion, takes judicial
notice of Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for
Production of Documents, Set One, subsequently filed with this Court on May 15,
2024.  
 
When a
party fails to serve a timely response to an inspection demand, the party
making the demand may move for an order compelling a response to the inspection
demand.  (CCP § 2031.300, subd. (b).)  A party who fails to provide a timely response
waives any objection, including one based on privilege or work product. (Id.,
§ 2031.300, subd. (a).)  “[T]he court
shall impose a monetary sanction… against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to a demand for
inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, unless it finds that the one subject
to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Id., §
2031.300, subd. (c).)
 
Here, Plaintiff
served Requests for Production of Documents (“RFPs”) upon Defendant on December
15, 2023.  (Declaration of Nadine Bedwan in
Support of Motion to Compel Responses to RFPs (“Bedwan RFPs Decl.”), ¶ 3.)  Defendant did not serve responses to the RFPs
as of the date of filing of this motion on March 26, 2024.  (Bedwan RFPs Decl., ¶ 9.)  Plaintiff now moves for an order compelling
Defendant to serve responses to the RFPs. 

 
On May 15,
2024, Plaintiff filed a Notice of Errata re Motion to Compel Further Responses
to Requests for Production of Documents, Set One, in which he stated that on
March 27, 2024, Defendant served its untimely and non-Code compliant responses
to the RFPs.  Plaintiff attached
Defendant’s responses to the RFPs to the declaration in support of the motion.  (Declaration of Nadine Bedwan in Support of
Motion to Compel Further Responses to RFPs (“Bedwan Further RFPs Decl.”), ¶ 15,
Exh. 4.)  The Court notes that the
responses contain objections, which are deemed waived due to their having been
served late.  
 
Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s motion to compel responses to the RFPs is GRANTED to the extent
that the objections in Defendant’s responses are stricken.  If Plaintiff contends that the response is
not complete or Code-compliant, he has forty-five days from the hearing on this
motion to file a separate Motion to Compel Further.  Since no request
for sanctions was made in the motion, no sanctions are imposed.
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 21st day of June 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



