 Case Number:  23VECV04593    Hearing Date:   October 15, 2024    Dept:  O  
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHWEST DISTRICT
 



ANDI YACO,
                    Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
JAGUAR LAND ROVER WOODLAND HILLS; TD AUTO FINANCE; AUTO
  NATION; AMIR MANSOUR; ERIK VANDER MEULEN; and DOES
  1 through 10, inclusive,
 
                    Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.: 23VECV04593
 
 
ORDER
  DENYING PLAINTIFF’S MOTIONS TO COMPEL AUTONATION AND JAGUAR’S FURTHER
  RESPONSES TO REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS



 
I.              
BACKGROUND 
This case
arises out of Plaintiff Andi Yaco’s (“Plaintiff”) purchase and financing of a
2018 Range Rover (“Vehicle”) from Defendant Terry York Motor Cars Ltd dba Jaguar
Land Rover Woodland Hills (“Jaguar”). (See First Amended Complaint
(“FAC”), ¶ 11.) Plaintiff alleges Jaguar and Defendants TD Bank,
National Association [erroneously sued as TD Auto Finance], Amir Mansour, Erik
Vander Meulen, and AutoNation (collectively, “Defendants”) demanded he obtain
financing through Defendants despite Plaintiff obtaining financing on his own;
as a result, Plaintiff alleges is being billed twice for the same loan. (See
FAC, ¶¶ 14-18.) 
On August 15,
2024, this Court granted Plaintiff’s request for a continuance of the hearing
on AutoNation’s Motion for Summary Judgment to allow Plaintiff to conduct
additional discovery.
Plaintiff now
seeks to compel Jaguar and AutoNation’s further responses to his requests for
production of documents, set one (“RFPS”). 
II.           
PROCEDURAL
HISTORY
On October
13, 2023, Plaintiff filed a Complaint, alleging (1) Intentional
Misrepresentation; (2) Negligent Misrepresentation; (3) Violation of Consumers
Legal Remedies Act – Injunctive Relief; and (4) Unfair Competition (Bus. &
Prof. Code Sections 17200).
On October
24, 2023, Plaintiff filed a FAC, alleging (1) Intentional Misrepresentation; (2)
Negligent Misrepresentation; (3) Violation of Consumers Legal Remedies Act –
Injunctive Relief; and (4) Unfair Competition (Bus. & Prof. Code Sections
17200).
On January 8,
2024, Defendant TD Bank, National Association filed its Answer. 
On February
28, 2024, Plaintiff served his FAC on AutoNation. 
On March 14,
2024, Defendant Amir Mansour filed his Answer. 
On May 8,
2024, Jaguar filed its Answer. 
On August 15,
2024, this Court granted Plaintiff’s request for a continuance of the hearing
on AutoNation’s Motion for Summary Judgment. 
On September
6, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant Motion to Compel AutoNation’s Further
Responses to his RFPs (“AutoNation Motion”). 
On September
6, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant Motion to Compel Jaguar’s Further
Responses to his RFPs (“Jaguar Motion”). 
On October 3,
2024, AutoNation filed its Opposition. 
On October 3,
2024, Jaguar filed its Opposition. 
On October 7,
2024, Plaintiff filed his Replies. 
III.        
LEGAL STANDARD
In responding to a request for
production of documents, a party must provide one of the following: (1) a
legally adequate statement of compliance; (2) a statement of inability to
comply; or (3) an objection to the particular demand. (See Code Civ.
Proc. § 2031.210(a).)[1] If any objections are made,
they must: (1) “[i]dentify with particularity any document …
falling within any category of item in the demand to which an objection is
being made”; and (2) “[s]et forth clearly the extent of, and the specific
ground for, the objection.”¿(Id. at § 2031.240(b).) A statement that
the responding party is unable to comply with a particular demand “shall affirm
that a diligent search and a reasonable inquiry has been made in an effort to
comply with that demand”; “shall also specify whether the inability to comply
is because the particular item or category has never existed, has been
destroyed, has been lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has never been, or is no
longer, in the possession, custody, or control of the responding party”; 
and “shall set forth the name and address of any natural person or organization
known or believed by that party to have possession, custody, or control of that
item or category of item.” (Id. at § 2031.230.) 
A party who
believes a responding party has served (1) an incomplete statement of
compliance, (2) an inadequate, incomplete, or evasive statement of compliance,
or (3) an unmeritorious objection can move for an order compelling further
responses but must “set forth specific acts showing good cause justifying the
discovery sought by the demand.” (See id. at §§
2031.310(a)-(b)(1).
///
IV.         
MEET AND CONFER
Before bringing a motion to compel further responses to any
discovery request, the moving party is required to make efforts to meet and
confer in good faith and must submit a declaration attesting to those efforts.
(See Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2031.310(b)(2), 2030.300(b)(1), and 2033.290(b)(1).)
“A meet and confer declaration in support of a motion shall state facts showing
a reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue
presented by the motion.” (Id. at § 2016.040.) However, a discovery
motion should not be denied automatically based upon the reason that the moving
parties failed to meet and confer in good faith. (See Obregon v.
Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 424, 434.) 
Plaintiff provides a meet and confer declaration attesting to the
parties meet and confer efforts, which consists of an exchange of meet and
confer letters. (See, e.g., Jaguar Motion Declaration of Michael Debenon
filed September 6, 2024 (“Debenon Decl.”), ¶¶ 10-14, Exs. D-H.) 
The Court finds Plaintiff has fulfilled his meet and confer
requirements and thus turns its attention to the merits of the motions. 
V.            
ANALYSIS
There are two
discovery motions presently before this Court. The Court will address
AutoNation and Jaguar’s Motions together. 
A.            
The Court Denies Plaintiff’s Motions.
1.              
Plaintiff’s Motions Are Timely.
Notice of a
motion to compel further responses must be given within 45 days of service of
verified responses or supplemental responses, or on or before any specific
later date to which the parties have agreed in writing. (See Code Civ.
Proc. §§ 2031.230(c),
2030.300(c),
2033.290(c).) When responses are served by mail, that time is extended by five
days. (See id. at 1013(a).) If such notice is not given timely, the
propounding party waives any right to compel a further response. (See id.)¿¿ ¿¿
Here, AutoNation
and Jaguar served supplemental responses on August 22, 2024, and Plaintiff
filed the instant motions on September 6, 2024, 15 days later and well within
the time to serve notice of a motion to compel further responses. (See, e.g.,
Debenon Decl., ¶¶ 11-12, Ex. E; Jaguar Motion.) Therefore, the motions are
timely.
2.              
RFPs
Plaintiff
moves to compel AutoNation and Jaguar’s further responses to his RFPs Nos. 9-14
and Nos. 3-7, 9-14, respectively. (See AutoNation’s Separate Statement
(“SS AutoNation”); Jaguar’s Separate Statement (“SS Jaguar”).) 
Plaintiff’s
AutoNation RFPs request all communications between AutoNation and any customer,
vendor, director, officer, employee, and independent contractor of Jaguar. (See
SS AutoNation RFPs Nos. 9-14.)
Plaintiff’s
Jaguar RFPs request all advertising materials, employee handbooks, training
materials, and letterhead or business cards provided to Jaguar by AutoNation
(RFPs Nos. 3-4, 6, 9) and all employee handbooks and training materials provided
by Jaguar to its own directors, officer, or employees (RFPs Nos. 5, 7). (See
SS Jaguar RFPs Nos. 3-7, 9.) Like Plaintiff’s AutoNation RFPs, Plaintiff’s
Jaguar RFPs also request all communications between AutoNation and any
customer, vendor, director, officer, and employee of Jaguar. (See id.
at RFPs Nos. 10-14.)
To each,
AutoNation and Jaguar responded by objecting that each request is overly broad,
irrelevant, and/or seeks trade secrets. (See, e.g., SS AutoNation RFP
No. 9; SS Jaguar RFP No. 3.) After their objections, AutoNation and Jaguar also
provided a brief synopsis of AutoNation and Jaguar’s relationship to each other
and general corporate structure. (See id.) 
Plaintiff is
not entitled to further responses from AutoNation or Jaguar. As an initial
matter, the Court overrules AutoNation’s and Jaguar’s objections on the grounds
that the requests seek irrelevant information or information protected by trade
secrets. However, the Court sustains, AutoNation’s and Jaguar’s objections that
each request is overbroad. (See, e.g., SS AutoNation RFP No. 9.)
Plaintiff made no attempt to reasonably tailor his requests, nor does
Plaintiff’s argument in support of his motions provide any additional
information about what he is seeking such that the Court could limit his
requests to a narrower universe of documents. (See id.) The Court
declines to tailor Plaintiff’s requests without such guidance and thus finds it
appropriate to sustain AutoNation and Jaguar’s objection as to Plaintiff’s
overly broad requests. 
Accordingly, the
Court DENIES Plaintiff’s AutoNation Motion and Jaguar Motion.
VI.         
CONCLUSION
Based on the
foregoing, the Court DENIES Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel AutoNation’s Further
Responses to his RFPs and his Motion to Compel Jaguar’s Further Responses to
his RFPs.
Finally, the
Court appreciates that counsel were apparently so professional throughout their
interactions on the instant Motions that Plaintiff’s counsel felt it appropriate
to forego seeking sanctions. That this sort of professionalism is the exception
rather than the rule is a sad reflection on the state of our profession but the
Court is hopeful others will follow counsels’ examples.
          IT
IS SO ORDERED.
DATED:      October 16, 2024



Hon. Michael R. Amerian
Judge,
  Superior Court



 


