  Case Number:  20STCV09649    Hearing Date:   April 5, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
MARCUS LAUN,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
JAMES PAKULIS, et al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  20STCV09649
  Hearing Date:  April 5, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendant james pakulis’ motion to
  disqualify counsel 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On March 9, 2020, Plaintiff Marcus
Laun filed the present action against James Pakulis, Arnie Johansson, and
TransCanna Holdings, Inc. The complaint asserts causes of action for breach of
contract, breach of fiduciary duty, fraud, constructive trust, declaratory
relief, interference with contract, and unfair competition.
            The complaint alleges that Plaintiff
and Defendant Pakulis formed a partnership called MarJa for the distribution of
marijuana products. Plaintiff and Pakulis purchased Geopulse Exploration, Inc.
through which to operate their cannabis production and distribution business.
Thereafter, Pakulis allegedly betrayed Plaintiff by stealing Plaintiff’s
proprietary information for use in a competing venture. Pakulis allegedly
formed TransCanna Holdings with Defendant Johansson.  
            On March 23, 2021, TransCanna filed
a cross-complaint against Plaintiff, Geopulse, and MarJa for declaratory
relief. On March 29, 2021, Pakulis filed a cross-complaint against Plaintiff,
Geopulse, and Growth Circle, Inc., asserting fraud, unjust enrichment, and
declaratory relief.     
In a statement of decision following a
bench trial, the Court made the following findings. Plaintiff and Pakulis
formed a partnership. Pakulis breached the partnership agreement and his
fiduciary duties to Plaintiff, and committed constructive fraud. Plaintiff and
Pakulis were entitled to share equally in TransCanna, but Plaintiff was not
entitled to any equitable remedy against TransCanna. The Court awarded
Plaintiff $1.23 million against Pakulis. Pakulis failed to establish fraud but
was entitled to restitution from Geopulse and Growth in the amount of $25,000.
Judgment was entered accordingly on September 25, 2023. Pakulis has since
appealed the judgment. 
            On March 7, 2024, Pakulis filed the
instant motion to disqualify Harrison Kordestani, Craig Chisvin, Kordestani
Legal Partners, and CLC Law Group from representing Plaintiff and MarJa.
Plaintiff filed his opposition on March 20, 2024. Pakulis filed his reply on
the same day.   
LEGAL STANDARD
“A trial court's authority to disqualify
an attorney derives from its inherent power to ‘control in furtherance of
justice, the conduct of its ministerial officers, and of all other persons in
any manner connected with a judicial proceeding before it, in every matter
pertaining thereto.’” (Clark v. Superior Court (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th
37, 47, quoting Code Civ. Proc., § 128(a)(5).) “The power is frequently
exercised on a showing that disqualification is required under
professional standards governing … potential adverse use of confidential
information.” (Ibid.) “When ruling on a disqualification motion, the
paramount concern must be to preserve public trust in the scrupulous
administration of justice and the integrity of the bar. The important right to
counsel of one's choice must yield to ethical considerations that affect the
fundamental principles of our judicial process.” (Id. at pp. 47-48.) 
 
DISCUSSION
I.
Waiver of the Motion
            “[A] disqualification motion can be
waived if not timely filed.” (City and County of San Francisco v. Cobra
Solutions, Inc. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 468, 473.) “The delay has to be
extreme or unreasonable before it operates as a waiver. It has been held that
when the party opposing the motion has made a prima facie showing of
unreasonable delay causing prejudice, disqualification should not be ordered, and
the burden shifts to the moving party to justify the delay. It has also been
held that the prejudice to the opponent must be extreme.” (Id. at pp.
473-74.) 
            Here, Pakulis waited until nine
months after judgment was entered to file this motion. This is an unreasonable
delay that results in extreme prejudice to Plaintiff because the parties have
already litigated the matter to conclusion. Therefore, the burden shifts to
Pakulis to justify the delay. 
On September 17, 2021, Plaintiff and MarJa
filed their answer to TransCanna’s cross-complaint. Harrison Kordestani of
Kordestani Legal Partners filed the answer on behalf of Plaintiff and MarJa. Pakulis
points out that the proof of service attached to that answer does not list
service on Pakulis. Pakulis therefore argues that there is no indication he was
aware of the dual representation of Plaintiff and MarJa. However, Pakulis does
not contend that he was actually unaware of the dual representation or that the
September 17, 2021 answer was the only indication of the dual representation.
Pakulis also does not state when he did find out about the dual representation.
It is not credible that Pakulis litigated the case to conclusion without
realizing that Plaintiff and MarJa were represented by the same counsel. The
Court finds that Pakulis has failed to satisfy his burden of justifying the
delay. Therefore, Pakulis has waived his right to move for disqualification. 
 
II.
Conflict of Interest
            “A lawyer shall not, without
informed written consent from each client and compliance with paragraph (d),
represent a client if the representation is directly adverse to another client
in the same or a separate matter.” (Cal. Rules of Prof. Conduct, Rule 1.7(a).) 
            Relying on this rule, Pakulis seeks
to disqualify the abovenamed counsel from representing Plaintiff and MarJa. The
rule only precludes representation of clients with adverse interests.
Therefore, Pakulis must demonstrate a conflict between Plaintiff and MarJa that
warrants disqualification. Pakulis’ argument on the existence of a conflict is
as follows: “This court adjudicated Marcus Laun and James Pakulis to be the two
partners of Marja. Marcus Laun claims to have suffered damages due to James
Pakulis’ breach of duty as a partner of Marja. Marja and Marcus Laun are both a
named party to this proceeding. Even assuming, without agreeing, that two
parties in the same court action is not necessarily a conflict of interest, both
Marja and Marcus Laun may have an opportunity to claim damages as a result of
James Pakulis’s acts or omissions.” (Mtn. 5:14-19.)
            This does not demonstrate a conflict
between Plaintiff and MarJa. Pakulis’ speculation that both MarJa and Plaintiff
may claim damages against him is insufficient to create a conflict. The case
has already concluded, and MarJa has in fact not claimed any damages against
Pakulis. Even if Plaintiff and MarJa both claimed damages against Pakulis, that
would mean that Plaintiff and MarJa are aligned, not adverse. The fact that
both are named parties is also not dispositive. Plaintiff and MarJa are both
cross-defendants in TransCanna’s cross-complaint, meaning they are on the same
side. Pakulis does not explain how his status as a partner in MarJa creates a
conflict between Plaintiff and MarJa. Therefore, even assuming Pakulis has not
waived his right to seek disqualification, his motion fails on the merits. 
III.  Lack of Jurisdiction.
While this is not raised by the parties,
the court notes that the trial in this matter has concluded, and this matter is
currently pending on appeal.  The Court
is also uncertain of its jurisdiction over the matter given that an appeal is pending.
  
 
CONCLUSION
            Defendant James Pakulis’ motion to
disqualify is DENIED. 
 