 Case Number:  22STCV25751    Hearing Date:   April 5, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
MANUEL PERFECTO VALDEZ,
  et al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
BEKINS A-1 MOVERS, INC.,
  et al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  22STCV25751
  Hearing Date:  April 5, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendant mayelyn swayze’s motion for
  determination of good faith settlement  




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On August 10, 2022, Plaintiffs
Manual Perfecto Valdez and Jose Perfecto Valdez filed this action against
various defendants arising from an auto accident that occurred on August 13,
2020 on Interstate 5 in Los Angeles. The accident occurred when a vehicle owned
by Bekins A-1 Movers, Inc. and driven by Jorge Salcido collided with
Plaintiffs’ vehicle. The Bekins vehicle allegedly made an unsafe lane change
after colliding with another vehicle driven by Moises Medina and owned by
Mayelyn Swayze. Plaintiffs also claim damages from being rear-ended by a
vehicle driven by Mario Ulloa and owned by Maria Ulloa. 
            On December 12, 2023, Defendant
Swayze filed the instant motion for determination of good faith settlement.
There is no opposition to the motion. 
LEGAL STANDARD
Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6
governs the procedure for determining whether a settlement was made in good
faith. The statute provides that a settling party may file an application for
determination of good faith settlement by indicating the settling parties and
the basis, terms, and amount of the settlement. (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6,
subd. (a)(2).) The issue of good faith may be determined by the Court based on
affidavits filed with the application and other evidence presented at the
hearing. (Id., § 877.6, subd. (b).) A determination of good faith by the
Court bars any other joint tortfeasor from any further claims against the
settling tortfeasor for equitable comparative contribution, or partial or
comparative indemnity, based on comparative negligence or comparative fault. (Id.,
§ 877.6, subd. (c).) 
In Tech-Bilt, Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde
& Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, 499, the California Supreme Court
concluded that a number of factors must be taken into account in assessing a
settlement’s good faith under Section 877.6, including: (1) a rough
approximation of plaintiffs’ total recovery and the settlor’s proportionate
liability, (2) the amount paid in settlement, (3) the allocation of settlement
proceeds among plaintiffs, (4) a recognition that a settlor should pay less in
settlement than he would if he were found liable after a trial, (5) the
financial conditions and insurance policy limits of settling defendants, and
(6) the existence of collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to injure the
interests of non-settling defendants. These factors are not exhaustive and may
not apply in all cases. (Dole Food Co., Inc. v. Superior Court (2015)
242 Cal.App.4th 894, 909.) Further, “[p]ractical considerations require that
[their] evaluation be made on the basis of information available at the time of
settlement.” (Ibid.)
Where a settlement’s good faith is
contested, the moving party must make a showing that the Tech-Bilt
factors are satisfied. (City of Grand Terrace v. Superior Court (1987)
192 Cal.App.3d 1251, 1261.) But “when no one objects, the barebones motion
which sets forth the ground of good faith, accompanied by a declaration which
sets forth a brief background of the case is sufficient.” (Ibid.) 
DISCUSSION
            As a result of mediation, Plaintiffs
entered into a settlement agreement with Defendants Swayze and Medina wherein
Plaintiffs would each receive $72,000. (Stone Decl. ¶¶ 13-14.) Defense
counsel’s uncontested declaration demonstrates that the agreement resulted from
arms-length negotiations overseen by a neutral mediator. (Id., ¶¶
22-23.) Furthermore, the settlement amount is within the ballpark of Defendants’
potential liability. (Id., ¶ 22, 24.) There is no indication of bad
faith or collusion. Therefore, the Court finds that the settlement was entered
into in good faith. 
CONCLUSION
            Defendant Mayelyn Swayze’s motion
for determination of good faith settlement is GRANTED. 
 