  Case Number:  23SMCV04589    Hearing Date:   January 2, 2025    Dept:  S TENTATIVE RULINGDefendants Arizona State University and the Arizona Board of Regents’ Demurrer to Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.Defendants Arizona State University and the Arizona Board of Regents shall prepare, serve, and submit a proposed judgment as per statute.Defendants Arizona State University and the Arizona Board of Regents to give notice. REASONINGRequest for Judicial NoticeDefendants Arizona State University and the Arizona Board of Regents (“Defendants”) request judicial notice of 17 cases and two Arizona Revised Statutes. Defendants’ request is GRANTED pursuant to Evidence Code section 452, subdivision (a).Legal Standard“[A] demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.) A demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (See Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 [in ruling on a demurrer, a court may not consider declarations, matters not subject to judicial notice, or documents not accepted for the truth of their contents].) For purposes of ruling on a demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed to be true (Aubry v. Tri-City Hosp. Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967), but the Court does not “assume the truth of contentions, deductions, or conclusions of fact or law” (Moore v. Regents of University of California (1990) 51 Cal.3d 120, 125).Leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (See Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349 [court shall not “sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is any reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment”]; Kong v. City of Hawaiian Gardens Redevelopment Agency (2002) 108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1037 [“A demurrer should not be sustained without leave to amend if the complaint, liberally construed, can state a cause of action under any theory or if there is a reasonable possibility the defect can be cured by amendment.”]; Vaccaro v. Kaiman (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 761, 768 [“When the defect which justifies striking a complaint is capable of cure, the court should allow leave to amend.”].) The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)AnalysisFirst, Defendants argue that Defendant Arizona Board of Regents (“ABOR”) is not a proper party to Plaintiff Steven Cain (“Plaintiff”)’s First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) because Plaintiff simply named ABOR in the FAC without filing a Doe amendment. The Court is not so convinced because there is no argument that the claims against ABOR are barred by the statute of limitations, thus making the analysis required under Code of Civil Procedure section 474 irrelevant. (Davis v. Marin (2000) 80 Cal.App.4th 380, 387 [if party had filed an amended complaint naming party as a defendant, Code of Civil Procedure section 474 analysis would have been irrelevant].)Defendants next argue that Defendant Arizona State University (“ASU”) is incapable of suing or being sued. Plaintiff does not directly respond to this argument, and it is axiomatic that “[e]xcept as otherwise provided by statute: . . . [a] public entity is not liable for an injury, whether such injury arises out of an act or omission of the public entity or a public employee or any other person.” (Gov. Code, § 815, subd. (a).) Plaintiff fails to state a statutory basis for suit against ASU.Defendants also argue that Plaintiff has failed to comply with Arizona’s Notice of Claim Statute, which requires that a Notice of Claim by a plaintiff be filed with the public entity within 180 days after the cause of action accrues, and Plaintiff filed the Notice of Claim with the Arizona Attorney General’s Office, not ABOR. Plaintiff argues that Arizona Rule of Civil Procedure 4.1(h)(1) allows the Attorney General to be served where the claim is against the State of Arizona, but Plaintiff has provided no basis to conclude that ABOR is the same entity as the State of Arizona. However, Defendants appear to concede they are the State by arguing they enjoy sovereign immunity. Thus, the Court considers the notice requirements met for the purposes of demurrer.Defendants also argue that they are immune from suit in California because they have sovereign immunity. The United States Supreme Court has made clear that “States retain their sovereign immunity from private suits brought in the courts of other States.” (Franchise Tax Board ofCalifornia v. Hyatt (2019) 587 U.S. 230, 236.) Plaintiff argues that a state may waive sovereign immunity and be subject to suit in another state, which occurred here because Arizona Regulations expressly provide that ABOR may sue or be sued. The case upon which Plaintiff relies, Farmer v. Troy University (N.C. 2022) 382 N.C. 366, found that such waiver had occurred because the university had conducted business in another state while knowing it was subject to the other state’s sue and be sued clause, and it had requested a certificate of authority to do business in that state, thus consenting to being treated like a domestic corporate of like character. (Id. at pp. 375-376.) Those facts are not present here. Thus, the Court lacks a basis to conclude that either Defendant has waived its sovereign immunity, and that defect cannot be remedied with amendment. Accordingly, Defendants Arizona State University and the Arizona Board of Regents’ Demurrer to Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED without leave to amend. Defendants Arizona State University and the Arizona Board of Regents shall prepare, serve, and submit a proposed judgment as per statute.