 Case Number:  21STCV06704    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2023    Dept:  29 TENTATIVE
 
Plaintiff’s Motion to Set Aside or Vacate Dismissal pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b), is DENIED as untimely.  
 
Background
 
On February 19, 2021, Plaintiff Keinor Eli
Ruiz Jimenez (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint alleging a single claim for motor
vehicle negligence against Defendant Sylvia Tracy Courtney and Alama Rental Car
based on an alleged automobile collision that on November 1, 2018. Defendant
Courtney was allegedly driving a rental vehicle leased from Alamo Rental
Car.  
 
On February 17, 2023, Plaintiff voluntarily
dismissed Defendant Courtney.  
 
On May 15, 2023, Enterprise Rent-a-Car
filed an answer to the complaint, stating that it had been erroneously sued as
Alamo Rental Car Company.  
 
On September 25, 2023, Plaintiff filed a
motion to set aside the dismissal of Defendant Courtney pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b). Plaintiff’s attorney submitted a
declaration in support of the motion explaining that the request to dismiss
Defendant Courtney was based on a mistake. Defendant Courtney has not appeared
in the action. Defendant Enterprise was served but did not file an
opposition.  
 
Legal Standard
 
“The court may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or
her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding
taken against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall be accompanied by a copy
of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed therein, otherwise the
application shall not be granted, and shall be made within a reasonable time,
in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment, dismissal, order, or
proceeding was taken.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).) 
 
“Notwithstanding any other requirements of this section, the court shall,
whenever an application for relief is made no more than six months after entry
of judgment, is in proper form, and is accompanied by an attorney's sworn
affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect,
vacate any…(2) resulting…dismissal entered against his or her client, unless
the court finds that the default or dismissal was not in fact caused by the
attorney's mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.” (Ibid.) 
 
“This six-month time limitation is jurisdictional; the court has no power
to grant relief under section 473 once the time has lapsed.” (Austin v. Los
Angeles Unified School Dist. (2016) 244 Cal.App.4th 918, 928.)
 
Discussion
 
Plaintiff’s request for dismissal of Defendant Courtney was filed with
the Court on February 17, 2023, and the dismissal was entered on February 21,
2023. The deadline to file any application for relief from the dismissal under
Code of Civil Procedure section 473 was six months later – on August 21, 2023. 
 
Plaintiff did not file the instant request until September 25, 2023, more
than one month after the deadline. Accordingly, the motion must be denied.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b); Austin, supra, 244 Cal.App.4th at p.
928.)
 
Conclusion
 
For these reasons, Plaintiff’s Motion to Set Aside or Vacate Dismissal
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b), is
DENIED.  
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice.  
 
 