 Case Number:  21STCV37338    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2023    Dept:  29 TENTATIVE
The Court GRANTS in part Defendant
Geoffrey Thomas Craighead’s motion for an order requiring Plaintiffs
Rolando Enrique Restrepo and Nina Restrepo to file an undertaking pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure section 1030. 
 
Background
 
This case arises out of an alleged motor
vehicle accident on August 17, 2019, on the I-105 Freeway, west of Imperial
Highway. 
 
On October 8, 2021, Plaintiffs Rolando
Enrique Restrepo and Nina Restrepo (“Plaintiffs”) filed the Complaint against
Defendants Geoffrey Thomas Craighead (“Defendant”) and Does 1-50, asserting causes
of action for auto negligence and loss of consortium; in the Complaint,
Plaintiffs allege that Defendant drove his automobile negligently and collided
with the motorcycle on which Plaintiff Rolando Enrique Restrepo was riding. 
 
On May 11, 2022, Defendant filed his Answer.
Liability is disputed.
 
On September 28, 2023, Defendant filed a
motion for an order requiring Plaintiffs to file an undertaking pursuant to
California Code of Civil Procedure section 1030, subdivision (a). On October
11, 2023, Plaintiffs filed an opposition. On October 18, 2023, Defendant filed
a reply. 
 
Trial is set for February 5, 2024. 
 
Legal
Standard
 
“When the
plaintiff in an action or special proceeding resides out of the state, or is a
foreign corporation, the defendant may at any time apply to the court by
noticed motion for an order requiring the plaintiff to file an undertaking to
secure an award of costs and attorney’s fees which may be awarded in the
action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1030, subd. (a).) 
 
To obtain an
order requiring an undertaking, the defendant must show [1] “that the plaintiff
resides out of the state”; and [2] “that there is a reasonable possibility that
the moving defendant will obtain judgment in the action.” (Id., subd.
(b).) 
 
If the motion is
granted, the plaintiff must file the undertaking within 30 days after service
of the court’s order requiring it; if plaintiff fails to do so, the action is
subject to dismissal.  (Id., subd.
(d).)
 
“The
determinations of the court under this section have no effect on the determination
of any issues on the merits of the action or special proceeding and may not be
given in evidence nor referred to in the trial of the action or proceeding.” (Id.,
subd. (f).)
 
“The purpose of [section
1030] is to enable a California resident sued by an out-of-state resident to
secure costs in light of the difficulty of enforcing a judgment for costs
against a person who is not within the court’s jurisdiction.” (Alshafie v. Lallande (2009) 171
Cal.App.4th 421, 428.)
 
Discussion
 
Defendant seeks an order requiring Plaintiffs to file an undertaking. 
 
First, Defendant must show Plaintiffs reside outside of California. Defendant
has submitted evidence showing that both Plaintiffs live out of state. (Mendoza
Decl. ¶¶ 9-10 & Exhs. 11-12.) Plaintiffs concede the point. (Opp. at 3.)
 
Second, Defendant must show that he has a “reasonable possibility” that
he will prevail. Plaintiffs argue that the standard is higher, and that Defendant
must show that Plaintiffs’ claim is frivolous or that they will not prevail
(Opp. at 3-6), but that is not the law. The plain language of the statute
requires only a “reasonable possibility.” As the Court of Appeal has explained,
all that is required is a showing that it “was reasonably possible that
[defendants] would win.” (Baltayan v. Estate of Getemyan (2001) 90
Cal.App.4th 1427, 1432.) A plaintiff is “not required to show that there [is]
no possibility that [plaintiff] could win at trial.” (Ibid.)
 
In attempting to make the required showing, Defendant relies heavily on
the declaration of Henricus P. Jansen, an expert in vehicular
collision and accident reconstruction analysis with a Master of Science in
Civil Engineering who specializes in mechanics and dynamics of bicycle and
motorcycle collisions with sub-specialties in safety and human factors of
bicycle and motorcycle riding and use. (Jansen Decl., ¶1.) Jansen declares that
based on a review of the discovery responses, deposition transcripts,
photographs and repair estimates of all vehicles involved, Plaintiff’s speed
and lane position were the causative factors for this collision. (Id., ¶¶
4-7.)
 
In opposition,
Plaintiffs argue that Jansen is not qualified as an expert witness, he lacks
licensing and accreditation by the Accreditation Commission of Traffic Accident
Reconstructionist, and he may be engaging in the practice of engineering
without a license. (Opp. at 6-8; Abkarian Decl., ¶¶ 3, 7.) Plaintiffs also
argue that his opinion is based on nothing more than speculation, conjecture,
and improper methodology. (Opp. at 8-12.)
 
The Court has carefully considered
the evidence and argument from both sides and concludes that Defendant has made
a showing that there is a “reasonable possibility” that Defendant will prevail that
is sufficient under Code of Civil Procedure section 1030. To be clear, this is
not a finding on the merits. (Code Civ. Proc., subd. (f).) It is not a
determination that it is more likely than not that Defendant will obtain a
judgment in his favor. It is not a determination that it is unlikely that
Plaintiffs will obtain a judgment in their favor. It is a determination that it
is reasonably possible that Defendant will obtain such a judgment. Whether it
is through the testimony of Jansen or some other expert with different
qualifications, there is sufficient admissible evidence in the record for the
Court to conclude that liability is reasonably in dispute, and it is reasonably
possible that Defendant will prevail. That is all that is required under Code of
Civil Procedure section 1030. There is no indication that the Legislature
intended that a section 1030 hearing should or must take on the attributes of a
mini-trial or an evidentiary hearing under Sargon Enterprises, Inc. v.
University of Southern California (2012) 55 Cal.4th 747. 
 
Third, and finally, the Court
turns to the amount of the undertaking that will be required. The purpose of
the undertaking is to secure recovery of allowable attorney’s fees and costs.
There is no indication, and Defendant does not argue, that attorney’s fees are
recoverable in this action. Instead, Defendant seeks an undertaking to cover
$18,150.70 in past or future “ordinary” litigation costs (such as court
reporter fees, filing fees, and deposition costs); $4,900 in expert fees for
Jansen; and $71,800 in other future fees for potential defense experts and deposing
plaintiff’s experts. (Mendoza Decl., ¶¶ 12-13.) 
 
The Court has considered this evidence and orders
Plaintiffs to file an undertaking in the amount of $23,050.70. That amount covers
the costs and expert fees that Defendant has already incurred and $10,000 in “ordinary”
costs that Defendant has shown are reasonably expected to be incurred by the
conclusion of the matter. The other projected costs are not properly or reasonably
substantiated in Defendant’s moving papers and are, on this record, hypothetical
and speculative.  
 
Conclusion
 
The Court GRANTS in
part Defendant Geoffrey
Thomas Craighead’s motion for an order requiring Plaintiffs Rolando Enrique
Restrepo and Nina Restrepo to post an undertaking pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 1030. 
 
Plaintiffs
Rolando Enrique Restrepo and Nina Restrepo are ORDERED to post an undertaking
in the total amount of $23,050.70 no later than thirty (30) days after service
of this order. If Plaintiffs fail to file the undertaking within the time
allowed, their action is subject to dismissal. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1030,
subd. (d).) 
 
Moving party is
ordered to give notice. 
 