 Case Number:  22STCV26309    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2023    Dept:  29 TENTATIVE 
 
Defendant’s
motion to continue trial is DENIED without prejudice.
 
Background
 
On August 15, 2022, Plaintiff Deborah Lopez
(“Plaintiff”) filed the complaint in this action against Defendants Forest Lawn
Mortuary, Forest Lawn Memorial-Park Association (“Defendants”), and Does 1
through 50, asserting a cause of action for general negligence and premises
liability, arising out of Plaintiff’s injuries from stepping in a hole in the
lawn on Defendants’ property. 
 
On September 6, 2022, Defendants filed
their answer.
 
On September 28, 2023, Defendants filed
this motion to continue trial. No opposition is filed.
 
Trial is currently set for February 13,
2024. 
 
 
Legal
Standard
California Rules of
Court, rule 3.1332, subdivision (c) states that although disfavored, the trial
date may be continued for “good cause,” which includes (without limitation):
(1) unavailability of trial counsel or witnesses due to “death, illness, or
other excusable circumstances”; (2) the addition of a new party depriving the
new party (or other parties) from conducting discovery and preparing for trial;
(3) “excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other
material evidence despite diligent efforts”; or (4) “[a] significant,
unanticipated change in the status of the case” preventing it from being ready
for trial. (Id., Rule 3.1332(c).) 
Other relevant
considerations may include: “(1) The proximity of the trial date; [¶] (2)
Whether there was any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of
trial due to any party; [¶] (3) The length of the continuance requested; [¶]
(4) The availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise
to the motion or application for a continuance; [¶] (5) The prejudice that
parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance; [¶] (6) If the
case is entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status
and whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; [¶]
(7) The court's calendar and the
impact of granting a continuance on other pending trials; [¶] (8) Whether trial
counsel is engaged in another trial; [¶] (9) Whether all parties have
stipulated to a continuance; [¶] (10) Whether the interests of justice are best
served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by imposing conditions
on the continuance; and [¶] (11) Any other fact or circumstance relevant to the
fair determination of the motion or application.” (Id., Rule 3.1332(d).)  Each request to continue trial must be
evaluated on its own individual merits. 
Code of Civil
Procedure section 2024.050 allows a court to grant leave to complete discovery
proceedings. In doing so, a court shall consider matters relevant to the leave
requested, including, but not limited to: (1) the necessity of the discovery,
(2) the diligence in seeking the discovery or discovery motion, (3) the
likelihood of interference with the trial calendar or prejudice to a party, and
(4) the length of time that has elapsed between previous trial dates. (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2024.050.)
Discussion
 
Defendants move to continue trial from February 13, 2024 to a new
date, and request that all
discovery and motion cut-off dates be based upon the new trial date. Defendants
argue good cause exists because the motion for summary judgment is currently
set for hearing after trial and discovery has not concluded on this case.  Defendants assert a trial continuance is
necessary for Defendant to conduct outstanding discovery and take necessary depositions
to prepare for trial and to have the motion for summary judgment heard before
trial. 
 
The Court
finds that Defendants have not shown good cause to continue trial.  Defendants assert a failure to complete discovery
in only general terms, and they do not explain why, despite their diligence,
discovery in what appears to be a straightforward negligence/premises liability
case has not been completed in the year since the case has been at issue.
 
As to the
summary judgment, Defendants cite the case law holding that a party generally
has a right to have a hearing, before trial, on a timely filed summary judgment
motion.  Defendants, however, have not
filed a summary judgment motion.  Rather,
all that they have done so far is to reserve a hearing date for a summary
judgment.  Whether Defendants will or
will not file a summary judgment in timely fashion remains to be seen.
 
Accordingly,
the motion to continue trial is denied without prejudice.  Defendants may renew the motion if they
timely file a motion for summary judgment or if other circumstances warrant a
renewed motion. 
 
Conclusion
 
The Court
DENIES the motion to continue trial WITHOUT PREJUDICE.
 
Moving parties
are ordered to give notice.
 
 
 