 Case Number:  21STCV31619    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2023    Dept:  29 Tentative
 
The motion for
summary judgment is granted. 
 
Background 
 
On August
25, 2021, Plaintiff Fredy Alvarez (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against
Defendants Richard Roe, M.D., Retina Vitreous Associates Medical Group
(collectively “Defendants”), and Does 1 through 50.  On December 20, 2021, Plaintiff filed the First
Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against the same defendants asserting a claim for
medical negligence against all defendants and a claim for negligent
supervision, hiring, and training against Retina Vitreous Associates Medical
Group.  Defendants filed an Answer on
March 8, 2022. 
 
On July 18,
2023, Defendants filed the instant motion for summary judgment.  Plaintiff has not filed any opposition. 
 
Legal Standard 
 
“The purpose of the law of summary judgment
is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in
order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact
necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Code of Civil
Procedure section 437c(c) “requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment
if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from
the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that
there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is
entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp.
(1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) “The function of the pleadings in a motion
for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the function of the
affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable issue of
fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.” (Juge v. County of
Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI Development, Inc. v.
Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 381-382.) 
As to each cause of action as
framed by the complaint, a defendant moving for summary judgment or summary
adjudication must satisfy the initial burden of proof by presenting facts to
show “that one or more elements of the cause of action ... cannot be
established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); see also Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at
pp. 850-851; Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510,
1520.) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing
summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that
party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.) 
Once the defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to
the plaintiff to show that a “triable issue of one or more material facts
exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
437c, subd. (p)(2); see also Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at pp. 850-851.)
To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion
must produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau
(1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)
Discussion 
 
Plaintiff
alleges that Defendant Richard Roe, M.D., committed medical negligence during
eye surgery on December 13, 2019, that caused (among other things) damage to Plaintiff’s
retina, pain, and vision problems.  (FAC,
¶¶ 12-24.) 
 
Defendant
moves for summary judgment on the grounds that Plaintiff’s cause of action for
medical negligence fails to raise a triable issue of material fact because the
care and treatment complied with the requisite standard of care, and that Dr.
Roe is and has at all relevant times been a competent and well qualified
opthamologist and retinal specialist.  
 
In a
medical negligence action a plaintiff must establish the following elements: “(1)
the duty of the professional to use such
skill, prudence, and diligence as other members of [the] profession commonly
possess and exercise; (2) a breach of that duty; (3) a proximate causal
connection between the negligent conduct and the resulting injury; and (4)
actual loss or damage resulting from the professional’s negligence.”  (Galvez
v. Frields (2001) 88 Cal.App.4tha 1410, 1420; Simmons v. West Covina
Medical Clinic (1989) 212 Cal.App.3d 696, 701-02.)  “Both the standard of care and defendants’ breach must normally be
established by expert testimony in a medical malpractice case.” (Avivi v.
Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008), 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.) 
 
A medical professional breaches the duty of
professional care by failing to act in accordance with the prevailing industry
standard of care. (See Folk v. Kilk (1975) 53 Cal.App.3d 176, 186.) “The standard of care against which the acts
of a physician are to be measured is a matter peculiarly within the knowledge
of experts; it presents the basic issue in a malpractice action and can only be
proved by their testimony …, unless the conduct required by the particular
circumstances is within the common knowledge of the layman.’” (Landeros v.
Flood (1976) 17 Cal.3d 399, 410.) 
A defendant moving for summary judgment in a medical
malpractice action must “present evidence that would preclude a reasonable
trier of fact from finding that it was more likely than not that their
treatment fell below the standard of care.” 
(Johnson v. Super. Ct. (2006) 143 Cal.App.4th 297, 305.)  “When a defendant moves for summary judgment
and supports [the] motion with expert declarations that [their] conduct fell
within the community standard of care, [the defendant] is entitled to summary
judgment unless the plaintiff comes forward with conflicting expert
evidence.”¿¿(Munro v. Regents of University of California¿(1989) 215
Cal.App.3d 977, 984-985.)¿ An expert declaration, if uncontradicted, is
conclusive proof as to the prevailing standard of care and the propriety of the
particular conduct of the health care provider.¿¿(Starr v.¿Mooslin¿(1971)
14 Cal.App.3d 988, 999.)¿
Here, Defendants present the declaration of Mark Smith, M.D. (“Dr. Smith”), a board certified
medical doctor in Ophthalmology since 1989 specializing in the diagnosis and
treatment of diseases of the eye including diseases involving the retina and
vitreous.  (Declaration of Mark Smith,
M.D., ¶ 1.)  Dr. Smith is familiar with the standard of
care applicable to ophthalmologist who treat retinal disease, including
detachments.  (Smith Decl., ¶ 3.)
Dr.
Smith testifies that the materials he has reviewed include the deposition of Plaintiff,
the Declaration of Richard Roe, M.D., and medical records regarding Plaintiff.  (Id., ¶ 2.) Dr. Smith recounts that Plaintiff
saw Dr. Roe on November 20, 2019 for a retinal check.  Defendant “diagnosed a chronic (old) total retinal detachment in the right eye
with proliferative vitreoretinopathy (PVR) and choroidals.”  Defendant “recommended a vitrectomy and noted the likely need for
additional surgeries to stabilize the eye with a poor visual prognosis.”  (Id., ¶ 5.)  It is Dr. Smith’s opinion that a vitrectomy
was indicated.  (Ibid.)  “Absent surgery, [Plaintiff]
would not have experienced any improvement with vision in the right eye and the
condition of the eye was likely to deteriorate further.  Even with surgery, however, the visual
prognosis was poor based on the existing pathology and the patient was at high
risk of again developing PVR.”  (Ibid.)

 
On
December 13, 2019, Dr. Roe “performed
a vitrectomy, lensectomy, scleral buckle, membrane peel, endolaser and silicone
oil placement.”  Defendant followed the
standard of care as Defendant “placed a buckle around the eye and used a
vitrector to remove the lens and the vitreous”; Defendant “peeled scar tissue
from the retina”; “[b]reaks in the peripheral retina were treated with
diathermy and laser was applied to surround the peripheral breaks”; and
“[s]ilicone oil was injected into the eye.” 
(Id., ¶ 6.)  
 
On January 14, 2020, Dr. Roe diagnosed a
new retinal detachment in the right eye and recurrent PVR.  (Id., ¶ 7.)  According
to Dr. Smith, “[t]hese findings are known to recur even with
appropriately performed surgery.”  (Ibid.)  Further, it is Dr. Smith’s opinion that
“surgery was an appropriate treatment option to repair the new retinal
detachment and to remove the scar tissue which had recurred in the back of the
eye. Absent surgery, the condition of the eye was likely to deteriorate
further.”  (Ibid.)
 
On
February 21, 2020, Dr. Roe performed a vitrectomy, membrane peel, endolaser and silicone oil
exchange.  (Id., ¶ 8.)  Defendant
followed the standard of care as Defendant “removed scar tissue out to the
periphery”; “[t]he silicone oil was removed”; “[a] 180 degree inferior
retinectomy was performed”; Defendant “cauterized focal areas of bleeding and
hemorrhaging”; “[h]eavy perfluorocarbon liquid was placed onto the surface of
the retina out to the periphery to flatten the retina”;  Defendant “placed laser photocoagulation at
the border of the retinectomy”; and “[s]ilicone oil was placed in the
eye.”  (Ibid.)  
 
On
September 4, 2020, Dr. Roe surgically removed the silicone oil from the right
eye.  (Id., ¶ 9.)  It
is Dr. Smith’s opinion that this was consistent with the standard of care
“because of the risks when oil is permanently left in the eye.”  (Ibid.)  Further, “[p]ostoperatively, [Defendant]
observed corneal edema and Descemet’s folds involving the right eye. Corneal
edema is a recognized occurrence after complex vitrectomies with placement of
silicone oil even with appropriately performed surgery. [Defendant] referred
[Plaintiff] to a different doctor for consideration of a corneal transplant.” (Id., ¶ 10.)   
 
Based on Dr. Smith’s education, training,
experience as an ophthalmologist, and review of the materials, Dr. Smith opines
that Defendant complied with the requite standard of care.  (Id., ¶ 4.)  
 
This is “evidence which, if
uncontradicted, would constitute a preponderance of evidence that an essential
element of the plaintiff’s case cannot be established.”  (Kids’ Universe v. In2Labs (2002) 95
Cal.App.4th 870, 879.)  The expert
opinion testimony of Dr. Smith is evidence that Dr. Roe complied with his
duties under California law and the standard of care for a reasonably careful
medical professional under similar circumstances.
 
With this evidence, Defendants
have satisfied their initial burden of showing that one or more elements of each
of the causes of action in the FAC cannot be established.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)  This shifts the burden to Plaintiff to show
that there is a triable issue of one or more material facts as to the causes of
action.  (Ibid.)
 
Plaintiff has not filed an
opposition or other evidence making this showing.  Accordingly, Defendants’ motion for summary
judgment is GRANTED.
 
Conclusion 
 
Defendants’
motion for summary judgment is GRANTED. 
Moving
parties to give notice.
 