 Case Number:  21STCV34734    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2023    Dept:  29 Tentative
 
The motion
is granted.
 
Background¿ 
 
Plaintiff Lavel Flowers (“Plaintiff”) filed
a Complaint against Defendants Lyft, Inc., and Nassor Whitehead for negligence,
assault, battery, and negligent hiring and supervision arising from a bicycle
versus motor vehicle incident in September 2019.  
 
On October 3, 2023, Plaintiff’s counsel Plaintiff’s Counsel Theida Salazar of Law Offices of Theida Salazar (“Counsel”) filed this instant motion to be
relieved as counsel.  No opposition has
been filed.
 
Legal Standard 
 
The court may order that an attorney be
changed or substituted at any time before or after judgment or final
determination upon request by either client or attorney and after notice from
one to the other.  (Code of Civ. Proc., §
284.)  An attorney is permitted to seek
to withdraw where conflicts between the attorney and client make it
unreasonable to continue the representation. 
(See Cal. Rules of Prof. Conduct 3-700(C)(1).)  “The determination whether to grant or deny a
motion to withdraw as counsel lies within the sound discretion of the trial
court.”  (Manfredi & Levine v.
Superior Court (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 1128, 1133.) 
 
An application to be relieved as counsel
must be made on Judicial Counsel Form MC-051 (Notice of Motion and Motion), MC-052
(Declaration), and MC-053 (Proposed Order).  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, subd. (a),
(c), (e)). 
 
Further, the requisite forms must be served
on the client and all other parties who have appeared in the case.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, subd. (d).)  The court may delay effective date of the
order relieving counsel until proof of service of a copy of the signed order on
the client has been filed with the court. 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, subd. (e).)
 
Discussion 
 
Counsel has shown a sufficient basis to be relieved as
counsel and has satisfied all substantive and procedural requirements.

 
 Accordingly, the
motion to be relieved as counsel is GRANTED. 
 
Conclusion 
 
Motion to be relieved as counsel filed by Theida Salazar of Law
Offices of Theida Salazar
is GRANTED.  
 
The order is effective upon filing proof of service with the
Court showing service of the signed order on the client.  
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice. 
 