..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 23SMCV02804
Plaintiff's Name: 
Defendant's Name: Dominic Cirincione
People-Names: Devonn Burress, Dominic Cirincione
Company-Names: 
Places: 
Dates: June 29, 2022, January 16, 2024
Events: Vehicle accident, Motion to Strike, Request for punitive damages
Money: 
Intentions: Plaintiff seeks punitive damages, Defendant moves to strike references to punitive damages
Facts: Defendant allegedly drove under the influence, Plaintiff alleges despicable conduct
Disputes: Whether Plaintiff's allegations are sufficient to support a claim for punitive damages
Acts: Driving under the influence, Request for punitive damages
Agreements: Civil Code section 3294, Code of Civil Procedure section 435
Laws: California Rules of Court, Civil Code section 3294, Code of Civil Procedure section 436
Case Citations: Clauson v. Superior Court, Stafford v. Shultz, College Hosp., Inc. v. Superior Court, G. D. Searle & Co. v. Superior Court, Anschutz Entertainment Group, Inc. v. Snepp, Grieves v. Superior Court, Taylor v. Superior Court
Statutes: Civil Code section 3294, Code of Civil Procedure section 435, Code of Civil Procedure section 436
Roles: Judge, Plaintiff, Defendant
Significant Statements: "Judges read allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts in their context, and assume their truth." "One who voluntarily commences, and thereafter continues, to consume alcoholic beverages to the point of intoxication, knowing from the outset that he must thereafter operate a motor vehicle demonstrates, in the words of Dean Prosser, “such a conscious and deliberate disregard of the interests of others that his conduct may be called wilful or wanton.”"
```

And here is a summary of the judge's tentative ruling in English text:

The judge has issued a tentative ruling on a motion to strike references to punitive damages from a complaint filed by a plaintiff. The plaintiff alleges that the defendant, Dominic Cirincione, drove under the influence and is seeking punitive damages. The defendant has moved to strike the references to punitive damages, arguing that the plaintiff has failed to provide sufficient factual support for the claim.

The judge has granted the motion in part, striking the prayer for punitive damages from the complaint. The judge has also denied the balance of the motion, allowing the plaintiff's allegations of despicable conduct to stand.

The judge has ordered the defendant to file an answer to the complaint on or before February 2, 2024. The judge has also ordered the defendant to provide notice of the court's ruling and file a proof of service regarding the same.

The judge has concluded that the plaintiff's allegations are not sufficient to support a claim for punitive damages under California Civil Code section 3294. The judge has noted that the plaintiff has failed to provide factual support for the claim and has not met the burden of showing how the complaint could be amended to state a cause of action.
