 Case Number:  23SMCV03311    Hearing Date:   January 16, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


January 16, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV03311




MOTIONS


Demurrer and Motion to Strike Portions of First Amended
  Complaint




MOVING PARTY


Defendant Svetlana Vodolazhskaya




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Rone Oren



 
MOTIONS
 
This action stems from a dispute over a broker’s commission between Plaintiff
Rone Oren (“Plaintiff”), a real estate broker, and Defendant Svetlana
Vodolazhskaya (“Defendant”), Plaintiff’s client.  
 
In the First Amended Complaint (“FAC”), Plaintiff asserts three causes
of action: (1) breach of contract; (2) common counts; and (3) fraud.  
 
Defendant demurs to all three causes of action and moves to strike the
request for punitive damages in the FAC.  Plaintiff opposes the demurrer and motion, and
Defendant replies.
 
REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
            Defendant requests the Court to take
judicial notice of Plaintiff’s original complaint filed in this action.
 
Judicial notice may be taken
of records of any court in this state. 
(Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d)(1).) 
Because the complaint is part of the Court’s record for this case, the
Court may take judicial notice of it.  (Ibid.)   However, “while courts are free to take
judicial notice of the existence of each document in a court file, including
the truth of results reached, they may not take judicial notice of the truth of
hearsay statements in decisions and court files.  Courts may not take judicial notice of
allegations in affidavits, declarations and probation reports in court records
because such matters are reasonably subject to dispute and therefore require
formal proof.”  (Lockley v. Law Office
of Cantrell, Green, Pekich, Cruz & McCort (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 875,
882 [cleaned up].)  Accordingly, the
Court takes judicial notice of the existence of the original complaint filed in
this matter as a court record, but not the truth of the allegations contained
therein.
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.      DEMURRER
 
Defendant demurs to all three causes of action in Plaintiff’s Complaint
on the basis that they failed to state facts sufficient to constitute causes of
action against Chan under Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10(e).
 
“It is black letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of
the allegations in a complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015)
235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In testing the sufficiency of a cause of
action, a court accepts “[a]s true all material facts properly pled and matters
which may be judicially noticed but disregard contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.  [A court
also gives] the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole
and its parts in their context.”  (290
Division (EAT), LLC v. City & County of San Francisco (2022) 86
Cal.App.5th 439, 450 [cleaned up]; Hacker v. Homeward Residential, Inc.
(2018) 26 Cal.App.5th 270, 280 [“in considering the merits of a demurrer,
however, “the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however
improbable they may be”].)
 
Further, in ruling on a demurrer, a court must “liberally construe”
the allegations of the complaint “with a view to substantial justice between
the parties.”  (See Code Civ. Proc., §
452.)  “This rule of liberal construction
means that the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not
the defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)   
 
In summary, “[d]etermining whether the complaint is sufficient as
against the demurrer on the ground that it does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action, the rule is that if one consideration of all the
facts stated it appears the plaintiff is entitled to any relief at the hands of
the court against the defendants the complaint will be held good although the
facts may not be clearly stated, or may be intermingled with a statement of
other facts irrelevant to the cause of action shown, or although the plaintiff
may demand relief to which he is not entitled under the facts alleged.”  (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193
Cal.App.2d 636, 639.)
 
A.   
FAILURE TO STATE A CAUSE OF ACTION
 
                                                                   
i.           
First Cause
of Action – Breach of Contract
 
“To prevail on a cause of
action for breach of contract, the plaintiff must prove (1) the contract, (2)
the plaintiff's performance of the contract or excuse for nonperformance, (3)
the defendant's breach, and (4) the resulting damage to the plaintiff.”  (Richman v. Hartley (2014) 224
Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186.)  
 
Defendant argues the breach of
contract claim fails because (1) the allegations of the FAC contradict those of
the original complaint, and therefore the FAC constitutes a sham pleading; (2) Plaintiff
fails to either include the written agreement or plead its legal effect; and
(3) the statute of frauds bars Plaintiff’s claim because Plaintiff did not
attach the contract to the Complaint.
 
Sham Pleading
 
“Under the sham pleading
doctrine, plaintiffs are precluded from amending complaints to omit harmful
allegations, without explanation, from previous complaints to avoid attacks
raised in demurrers or motions for summary judgment.”  (Deveny v. Entropin, Inc. (2006) 139
Cal.App.4th 408, 425.)
 
Here, in relevant portion, the
original complaint alleged
 
3. In or about January 2021, Defendant enlisted
Plaintiff to help her purchase a residential real property located at 650
Resolano Drive, Pacific Palisades, Ca 90272 (the “Resolano Property”). 
 
2.[1] On
or about January 26, 2021, the former owner and seller of the Resolano paid
Plaintiff a commission of $55,000.00. A true and correct copy of the Seller’s
instructions to pay Plaintiff a $55,000 commission is attached hereto as
Exhibit 1. 
 
3. On or about January 28, 2021, Defendant
learned that she needed additional cash to purchase the Resolano Property.
Defendant asked Plaintiff to give him his $55,000 so she could close escrow for
the Resolano Property. Plaintiff agreed to give Defendant $55,000 so she could
close escrow. In consideration for the loan, Defendant, in writing, agreed that
Plaintiff could list and sell the Resolano Property. 
 
4. On January 28, 2021, Plaintiff and Defendant
executed an amended escrow instruction instructing escrow to credit Defendant
his $55,000.00 commission. A true and correct copy of the amended escrow
instruction signed by Defendant is attached hereto as Exhibit 2. 
 
5. On February 2, 2021, Defendant closed escrow
utilizing Plaintiff’s $55,000 to pay for her purchase and acquisition of the
Resolano property. A true and correct copy of the Defendant’s estimated
settlement statement is attached hereto as Exhibit 3. 
 
6. On February 3, 2021, Defendant confirmed, in
writing, that Plaintiff could list and sell the Resolano Property. A true and
correct copy of Defendant’s confirmation is attached hereto as Exhibit 4. 
 
7. From February 3, 2021 through September 2022,
Defendant assured Plaintiff that she was rehabilitating the Property and she
would soon be ready to list and sell the Property. 
 
8. Defendant stopped responding to Plaintiff’s
request that she list and sell the Property in January 2023. 
 
9. On or about June 6, 2023, Defendant accused
Plaintiff of stalking and harassing her. Defendant informed Plaintiff that she
would not allow him to list and sell the Resolano Property.
 
10. Plaintiff is informed and believes that the commission
he would earn if he listed and sold the Resolano Property in July 2023 would
exceed $150,000.00.
 
(Original
Complaint at ¶¶ 3-10.)
 
            By contrast, the FAC alleges:
 
3. In January, 2021, Defendant wanted to purchase
a residential real property at 650 Resolano Drive, Pacific Palisades, Ca 90272
(the “Resolano Property”). Defendant required the services of a real estate
broker to purchase the Resolano Property. 
 
4. On January 19, 2021, Defendant told Plaintiff
that he would receive a broker’s commission if he served as her real estate
broker and she was able to acquire the Resolano Property. Plaintiff agreed to
be Defendant’s real estate broker in exchange for a broker’s commission. 
 
5. On January 19, 2021, Defendant signed the
Disclosure of Regarding Real Estate Agency Relationship attached hereto as
Exhibit 1. On January 19, 2021, Defendant signed the California Residential
Purchase Agreement and Joint Escrow Instructions (“Purchase Agreement”)
attached hereto as Exhibit 2. ¶ 2(B) of the Purchase Agreement identifies
Plaintiff as Defendant’s Real Estate Broker. ¶ 18 of the Purchase Agreement
provides that Plaintiff will receive his real estate commission at Close of
Escrow. Plaintiff is a third party beneficiary of the Purchase Agreement. 
 
6. On or about January 26, 2021, the seller of
the Resolano Property instructed escrow to pay Plaintiff a commission of
$55,000.00. A true and correct copy of the Seller’s instructions to pay
Plaintiff a $55,000 commission is attached hereto as Exhibit 3. 
 
7. On or about January 28, 2021, Defendant told
Plaintiff that she would give Plaintiff the listing to sell the Resolano
Property after escrow closed if Plaintiff would advance her his $55,000
commission so she could close escrow for the Resolano Property.
 
8. On January 28, 2021, in consideration for
Defendant’s promise to allow Plaintiff to list and sell the Resolano Property
after escrow closed, Plaintiff signed an escrow instruction instructing escrow
to credit his $55,000 commission to Defendant. A true and correct copy of this
escrow instruction is attached hereto as Exhibit 4. 
 
9. On January 28, 2021, Defendant used
Plaintiff’s $55,000 commission to acquire the Resolano Property as evidence by
the Closing Statement attached hereto as Exhibit 5. Escrow closed on February
2, 2021.
 
10. On February 3, 2021, Plaintiff sent a text
message to Defendant requesting that Defendant acknowledge her agreement to
give Plaintiff the listing to sell the Resolano Property. Defendant
acknowledged that she would give Plaintiff the listing. A true and correct copy
of this text message exchange is attached hereto as Exhibit 6.
 
11. From February 3, 2021 through September 2022,
Defendant and Plaintiff spoke about the Resolano Property and Defendant’s
promise to allow Plaintiff to list and sell the Property. Defendant told
Plaintiff that she was fixing up the Property and Defendant showed Plaintiff
that she was fixing up the Resolano Property. Defendant told Plaintiff that she
would be ready to list and sell the Property soon. Plaintiff reminded Defendant
that she still owed him the $55,000 broker’s commission. 
 
12. Defendant stopped responding to Plaintiff’s
inquiries in January 2023. 
 
13. On or about June 6, 2023, Defendant accused
Plaintiff of stalking and harassing her. Defendant informed Plaintiff that she
would not allow him to list and sell the Resolano Property and would not pay
him his $55,000.00 commission.
 
The Court finds that the
underlying facts between both versions of the complaint are essentially the
same.  Namely, Plaintiff was Defendant’s
real estate broker in connection with Defendant’s purchase of real property, Plaintiff’s
commission on that purchase was $55,000, Plaintiff either loaned or advanced
that $55,000 to Defendant so Defendant could complete the purchase of the
property in exchange for Plaintiff’s agreement to allow Defendant to list the
property for sale after Plaintiff renovated it. 
While the FAC contains more clarifying details, the Court does not find
that the FAC fundamentally contradicts the initial complaint or is otherwise a
sham pleading.
 
Written Agreement
 
Defendant next emphasizes that
Plaintiff does not attach any purported written contract to the complaint, and
therefore the pleading fails to state a cause of action for breach of written
contract and also violates the statute of frauds.  The Court disagrees.
 
As Defendant acknowledges, it
suffices to plead the legal effect of the written agreement.  Plaintiff has done so here with detailed
factual allegations.[2]  In addition to the above allegations, the FAC
alleges:
 
20. Defendant and Defendants have materially
breached and failed to perform the condition of their Agreement to pay
Plaintiff his real estate commission for acting as their real estate broker
during the purchase and acquisition of the Resolano Property. 
 
21. Plaintiff has performed each covenant and
condition of the Parties agreement. 
 
22. As a direct, proximate and foreseeable result
of the Defendant and the Defendants breach of her written agreement to pay
Plaintiff his broker’s commission, Plaintiff has suffered and sustained damages
in the sum of $55,000.
 
(FAC ¶¶ 20-22.)
 
Therefore, Plaintiff has
adequately pleaded a cause of action for breach of contract.  Ultimately, whether an agreement in fact
exists or is barred by the statute of frauds are factual questions to be
resolved at later stages of the litigation. 

 
Therefore, the Court overrules
Plaintiff’s demurrer to the first cause of action.
 
                                                                 
ii.           
Second
Cause of Action – Common Counts
 
The elements of a common count
are (1) statement of indebtedness in a certain sum; (2) consideration; and (3)
nonpayment.  (Allen v. Powell
(1967) 248 Cal.App.2d 502, 510.)  
 
Defendant argues that
Plaintiff fails to allege a common count cause of action because there was no
agreement for Defendant to repay the $55,000. 
The Court disagrees.  Plaintiff
alleges an indebtedness in the amount of $55,000.  Whether Plaintiff can ultimately prove that element
of indebtedness is a factual issue to be determined at later stages of the
litigation.
 
Therefore, the Court overrules
Plaintiff’s demurrer to the second cause of action.
 
                                                               
iii.           
Third
Cause of Action - Fraud
 
“In a promissory fraud action,
to sufficiently alleges [sic] defendant made a misrepresentation, the complaint
must allege (1) the defendant made a representation of intent to perform some
future action, i.e., the defendant made a promise, and (2) the defendant did
not really have that intent at the time that the promise was made, i.e., the
promise was false.”  (Beckwith v. Dahl
(2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 1039, 1060.)   
 
“In California, fraud must be
pled specifically; general and conclusory allegations do not suffice.”  (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12
Cal.4th 631, 645.)  “This particularity
requirement necessitates pleading facts which show how, when, where, to whom,
and by what means the representations were tendered.”  (Ibid.)  
 
“One of the purposes of the
specificity requirement is notice to the defendant, to furnish the defendant
with certain definite charges which can be intelligently met.”  (Alfaro v. Community Housing Improvement
System & Planning Assn., Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1356, 1384.)  As such, less specificity is required “when
it appears from the nature of the allegations that the defendant must
necessarily possess full information concerning the facts of the
controversy[.]”  (Ibid.)  “Even under the strict rules of common law
pleading, one of the canons was that less particularity is required when the
facts lie more in the knowledge of the opposite party.”  (Ibid.)
 
Here, Plaintiff alleges:
 
27. On January 21, 2021, Defendant told Plaintiff
that he would be paid a buyer’s broker’s commission if he acted as Defendant’s
real estate broker. Plaintiff relied upon Defendant’ representation that he
would be paid his broker’s commission when escrow closed. Plaintiff agreed to
act as Defendants real estate broker in exchange for a buyer’s broker’s
commission. 
 
28. Defendant intended that Plaintiff rely upon
their representation that he would be paid a commission for acting as her real
estate broker. 
 
29. Defendant’s representation that Plaintiff
would be paid a real estate commission for acting as her real estate broker was
false. Defendant knew that her representation was false when she made the
representation to Plaintiff on January 21, 2021. 
 
30. Defendant and Defendants did not pay
Plaintiff his buyer’s brokers commission on February 2, 2021 or at any time
thereafter. On June 6, 2023, Defendant told Plaintiff that Defendant and
Defendants would never pay Plaintiff his buyer’s brokers commission. 
 
31. Plaintiff’s reliance on Defendant’s promise
to pay him a broker’s commission was a substantial factor in causing
Plaintiff’s harm. Plaintiff would not have acted as Defendant’s real estate
broker in the transaction if he was not going to be paid a commission for his
broker services. 
 
32. Immediately prior to the closing of escrow on
January 28, 2021, Defendant deceived Plaintiff into believing that Plaintiff's
$55,000 commission would be paid to him, along with an additional sales
commission, after escrow closed. Defendant falsely told the Plaintiff that his
commission (including the additional sales commission) would be immediately
paid from her subsequent sale of the Resolano Property if the Plaintiff allowed
her to use the $55,000 commission, which Defendant had promised the Plaintiff
he would receive, to acquire the Resolano Property. 
 
33. Defendant falsely assured Plaintiff that as
soon as escrow closed, she would list the property for sale and provide the
Plaintiff with the listing, ensuring he would receive both a buyer's broker's
commission and a seller's broker's commission. The Defendant even claimed that
the Plaintiff could expect to make over $150,000.00 when he listed and sold the
Resolano Property for the Defendant post-escrow closing. 
 
34. After escrow closed on February 3, 2021,
Plaintiff wrote to the Defendant, asking her to re-affirm her promise to let
Plaintiff list and sell the Resolano Property. Defendant again confirmed her
promise in a text message on February 3, 2021. 
 
35. Defendant conspired with the other Defendants
before January 21, 2021, to defraud the Plaintiff. Whenever Plaintiff contacted
Defendant to inquire about the listing and\or his commission, Defendant would
claim that she was renovating the Property, even inviting the Plaintiff to the
Resolano Property to show him the renovations to deter him from asking for his
broker's commission. In January 2023, the Defendant ceased responding to the
Plaintiff's inquiries, likely due to the Plaintiff persistently seeking his
broker's commission. On June 6, 2023, Defendant informed Plaintiff that she
would never pay his broker's commission or permit him to list and sell the
Resolano Property. In an attempt to discredit the Plaintiff and dissuade him
from demanding the compensation that the Defendant had initially agreed to pay,
Defendant accused Plaintiff of stalking her, a criminal offense. 
 
36. The Defendant's actions, as described in this
Third Cause of Action for Fraud and specifically in ¶ 31-36, constitute fraud,
malice, and oppression, as defined in Cal. Civil Code § 3294. Consequently, the
Plaintiff is entitled to recover not only actual damages but also punitive and
exemplary damages, the amount of which will be determined according to the
evidence, to make an example of and punish the Defendant for her reprehensible
and fraudulent behavior.
 
(FAC ¶¶ 27-36.)
 
Therefore, Plaintiff
adequately alleges with the requisite specificity that Defendant’s promises to
pay Plaintiff’s $55,000 commission in connection with Defendant’s purchase of
the property and to let Plaintiff earn a commission for subsequently listing
the property for resale were both false when made, causing Plaintiff’s damages.
 
Defendant argues that the
allegations regarding the first allegedly false promise fail because the
$55,000 commission was originally paid to Plaintiff, and the second allegedly
false promise is speculative and unripe. 
The Court disagrees.
 
Plaintiff has adequately
pleaded sufficient facts with particularity indicating that Defendant never
intended Plaintiff to retain the $55,000 commission on Plaintiff’s purchase
because Plaintiff allegedly lacked the funds to complete the purchase without
that $55,000 commission.  Furthermore,
the FAC alleges that Defendant has affirmatively reneged on the agreement to
allow Plaintiff to list the property for sale, making that alleged false
promise ripe for adjudication.
 
Therefore, the Court overrules
Plaintiff’s demurrer to the third cause of action.
 
2.      MOTION
TO STRIKE
 
Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading, may serve
and file a motion to strike the whole pleading or any part thereof.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1); Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1322, subd. (b).) 
On a motion to strike, the court may: (1) strike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or
any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of
California, a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767,
782.)  Here, Chan moves to strike from the complaint,
references to and claims for punitive damages. 
  
 
In ruling on a motion to strike punitive damages, “judges read
allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts
in their context, and assume their truth.” 
(Clauson v. Superior Court
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.)  To
state a prima facie claim for punitive damages, a plaintiff must allege the
elements set forth in the punitive damages statute, Civil Code section 3294.  (College
Hosp., Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 721.)  Per Civil Code section 3294, a plaintiff must
allege that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).)   As set forth in the Civil Code, 
 
(1) “Malice” means conduct which is intended
by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which
is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard
of the rights or safety of others.  (2)
“Oppression” means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and
unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person's rights.  (3) “Fraud” means an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.
 
(Civ.
Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1)-(3), emphasis added.)  
 
Further, a plaintiff must assert facts with specificity to support a
conclusion that a defendant acted with oppression, fraud or malice.  To wit, there is a heightened pleading
requirement regarding a claim for punitive damages.  (See Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10
Cal.App.4th 1033, 1041-1042.)  “When
nondeliberate injury is charged, allegations that the defendant’s conduct was
wrongful, willful, wanton, reckless or unlawful do not support a claim for
exemplary damages; such allegations do not charge malice.  When a defendant must produce evidence in
defense of an exemplary damage claim, fairness demands that he receive adequate
notice of the kind of conduct charged against him.” (G. D. Searle & Co.
v. Superior Court (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 22, 29 [cleaned up].)  In Anschutz Entertainment Group, Inc. v.
Snepp, the Court of Appeal noted that the plaintiffs’ assertions related to
their claim for punitive damages were “insufficient to meet the specific
pleading requirement.”  (Anschutz
Entertainment Group, Inc. v. Snepp (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 598, 643
[plaintiffs alleged “the conduct of Defendants was intentional, and done
willfully, maliciously, with ill will towards Plaintiffs, and with conscious
disregard for Plaintiff's rights. Plaintiff's injuries were exacerbated by the
malicious conduct of Defendants. Defendants' conduct justifies an award of
exemplary and punitive damages”]; see also Grieves
v. Superior Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 166 [“The mere allegation an
intentional tort was committed is not sufficient to warrant an award of
punitive damages.  Not only must there be
circumstances of oppression, fraud, or malice, but facts must be alleged in the
pleading to support such a claim”].)   
            
Here, as discussed above, because Plaintiff has adequately alleged
fraud, the allegations also support Plaintiff’s claim for punitive
damages.  Therefore, Plaintiff’s motion
to strike is denied.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the reasons stated, the Court overrules Defendant’s Demurrer to
all three causes of action in its entirety. 
The Court also denies Defendant’s motion to strike the request for
punitive damages from the first amended complaint.  
 
Further, the Court orders Defendant to file an Answer to the First
Amended Complaint on or before on or before February 2, 2024.  
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service regarding the same.  
 
 
DATED:  January 16, 2024                                                    ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court


