 Case Number:  23SMCV02804    Hearing Date:   January 16, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


January 16, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV02804




MOTION


Motion to Strike




MOVING PARTY


Defendant Dominic Cirincione




OPPOSING PARTY


none



 
MOTION
 
This case arises from an alleged vehicle accident.  Defendant Devonn Burress (“Defendant”) has
moved to strike from the Complaint references to and requests for punitive
damages.  No opposition was filed.
 
ANALYSIS
 

MOTION TO STRIKE

 
Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading, may serve
and file a motion to strike the whole pleading or any part thereof.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1); Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1322, subd. (b).) 
On a motion to strike, the court may: (1) strike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or
any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of
California, a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subds. (a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767,
782.)
 
In ruling on a motion to strike punitive damages, “judges read
allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts
in their context, and assume their truth.” 
(Clauson v. Superior Court
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.)  To
state a prima facie claim for punitive damages, a plaintiff must allege the
elements set forth in the punitive damages statute, Civil Code section 3294.  (College
Hosp., Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 721.)  Per Civil Code section 3294, a plaintiff must
allege that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).)   As set forth in the Civil Code, 
 
(1) “Malice” means conduct which is intended
by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which
is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard
of the rights or safety of others.  (2)
“Oppression” means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and
unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person's rights.  (3) “Fraud” means an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.
 
(Civ.
Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1)-(3), emphasis added.)  
 
Further, a plaintiff must assert facts with specificity to support a
conclusion that a defendant acted with oppression, fraud or malice.  To wit, there is a heightened pleading
requirement regarding a claim for punitive damages.  (See Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10
Cal.App.4th 1033, 1041-1042.)  “When
nondeliberate injury is charged, allegations that the defendant’s conduct was
wrongful, willful, wanton, reckless or unlawful do not support a claim for
exemplary damages; such allegations do not charge malice.  When a defendant must produce evidence in
defense of an exemplary damage claim, fairness demands that he receive adequate
notice of the kind of conduct charged against him.” (G. D. Searle & Co.
v. Superior Court (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 22, 29 [cleaned up].)  In Anschutz Entertainment Group, Inc. v.
Snepp, the Court of Appeal noted that the plaintiffs’ assertions related to
their claim for punitive damages were “insufficient to meet the specific
pleading requirement.”  (Anschutz
Entertainment Group, Inc. v. Snepp (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 598, 643
[plaintiffs alleged “the conduct of Defendants was intentional, and done
willfully, maliciously, with ill will towards Plaintiffs, and with conscious
disregard for Plaintiff's rights. Plaintiff's injuries were exacerbated by the
malicious conduct of Defendants. Defendants' conduct justifies an award of
exemplary and punitive damages”]; see also Grieves
v. Superior Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 166 [“The mere allegation an
intentional tort was committed is not sufficient to warrant an award of
punitive damages.  Not only must there be
circumstances of oppression, fraud, or malice, but facts must be alleged in the
pleading to support such a claim”].)   
            
In Taylor v. Superior Court,
the California Supreme Court held: “We consider whether punitive damages are
recoverable in a personal injury action brought against an intoxicated
driver.  As will appear, we have
concluded that the act of operating a motor vehicle while intoxicated may
constitute an act of “malice” under section 3294 if performed under
circumstances which disclose a conscious disregard of the probable dangerous
consequences.”  (Taylor v. Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 892 [cleaned
up].)  The California high court further
held that “[o]ne who voluntarily commences, and thereafter continues, to
consume alcoholic beverages to the point of intoxication, knowing from the
outset that he must thereafter operate a motor vehicle demonstrates, in the
words of Dean Prosser, “such a conscious and deliberate disregard of the
interests of others that his conduct may be called wilful or wanton.”  (Id.
at p. 899.)  But the California high
court also stated, “Although the circumstances in a particular case may
disclose similar wilful or wanton behavior in other forms, ordinarily, routine negligent or even reckless disobedience
of traffic laws would not justify an award of punitive damages.”  (Id.
at pp. 899-900.)  
 
            Here, the Complaint alleges, in
relevant part:
 
10. At all times mentioned in this complaint,
defendant DOMINIC CIRINCIONE , WERE driving and operating the automobile
UNDER THE INFLUENCE (despicable conduct) with the consent, permission,
and knowledge of defendant, DOMINIC CIRINCIONE, and/or or
authorized agents. 
 
11. On JUNE 29, 2022, defendant DOMINIC
CIRINCIONE, and/or, negligently operated a certain automobile, UNDER
THE INFLUENCE, (despicable conduct) […]
 
(Complaint
at ¶¶ 10-11, emphasis original.)
 
            Defendant argues that these
allegations that Defendant was driving “under the influence” and the request
for punitive damages should be stricken because Defendant was neither charged
with nor convicted of a DUI, and there are no facts supporting Plaintiff’s
assertion that Defendant drove under the influence.  
 
            The Court agrees in part that
Plaintiff’s conclusory allegation that Defendant drove and operated the
automobile under the influence without any other supporting factual detail is
not pleaded with sufficient particularity to support a claim of punitive
damages under Civil Code section 3294 and as instructed by Taylor v. Superior Court.  
 
As to striking paragraphs 10 and 11,[1]
the Court finds that there is no legal basis to strike those allegations as the
Court must “read allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike as a
whole, all parts in their context, and assume their truth” at this point in the
litigation.
 

LEAVE TO AMEND

 
            A plaintiff has the burden of showing in what
manner the complaint could be amended and how the amendment would change the
legal effect of the complaint, i.e., state a cause of action.  (See The Inland Oversight Committee v City
of San Bernardino (2018) 27 Cal.App.5th 771, 779; PGA West Residential
Assn., Inc. v Hulven Int'l, Inc. (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 156, 189.)  The plaintiff must not only state the legal
basis for the amendment, but also the factual allegations sufficient to state a
cause of action or claim.  (See PGA
West Residential Assn., Inc. v Hulven Int'l, Inc., supra, 14
Cal.App.5th at p. 189.)  Moreover, a
plaintiff does not meet his or her burden by merely stating in the opposition
to a demurrer or motion to strike that “if the Court finds the operative
complaint deficient, plaintiff respectfully requests leave to amend.”  (See Major Clients Agency v Diemer
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1116, 1133; Graham v Bank of America (2014) 226
Cal.App.4th 594, 618 [asserting an abstract right to amend does not satisfy the
burden].)  
 
            Here, Plaintiff failed to meet that burden to demonstrate
additional facts that could be added to the Complaint to support Plaintiff’s
claim for punitive damages because Plaintiff did not file a brief opposing the
motion.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court grants in part Defendant’s Motion to Strike and
orders the prayer for  punitive damages stricken
from the complaint.  The Court denies the
balance of Defendant’s motion.  
 
Further, the Court orders Defendant to file an Answer to the complaint
on or before February 2, 2024.
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service regarding the same.  
 
 
DATED:  January 16, 2024                                                    ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 


