  Case Number:  23SMCV01199    Hearing Date:   January 16, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE ruling
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


January 16, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV01199




MOTION


Motion for Attorneys’ Fees
  and Costs




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiff Princeton Lofts,
  Inc.




OPPOSING PARTY


(none)



 
MOTION
 
Plaintiff Princeton Lofts, Inc.
(“Plaintiff”) brought suit against Defendant Gamma Investors, Group, LLP (“Defendant”)
to abate a barking dog nuisance on the property.  Default was entered against Defendant on May
9, 2023.  Subsequently, Defendant agreed
to and did abate the barking dog nuisance, but has refused to settle with
Plaintiff regarding the legal fees Plaintiff expended in bringing the instant
lawsuit.  
 
On November 30, 2023, Plaintiff
filed a motion seeking $12,000 in attorneys’ fees and $744.96 in litigation
costs as the “prevailing party” pursuant to Civil Code section 5975, subdivision
(c).  Defendant did not oppose the
motion.  At the hearing, Plaintiff made
an oral motion to dismiss with prejudice the suit against Defendant, in light
of the fact that the nuisance had been abated, which the Court granted.[1] The
Court denied the original motion for attorneys’ fees without prejudice on the
basis that it had not been noticed sufficiently in advance of the hearing.
 
Plaintiff now moves again for
$12,000 in attorneys’ fees and $744.96 in litigation costs.  No opposition was filed.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
Civil Code
section 5975 provides:
 
(a) The
covenants and restrictions in the declaration shall be enforceable equitable
servitudes, unless unreasonable, and shall inure to the benefit of and bind all
owners of separate interests in the development. Unless the declaration states
otherwise, these servitudes may be enforced by any owner of a separate interest
or by the association, or by both.
 
(b) A governing
document other than the declaration may be enforced by the association against
an owner of a separate interest or by an owner of a separate interest against
the association.
 
(c) In an action
to enforce the governing documents, the prevailing party shall be awarded
reasonable attorney’s fees and costs.
 
ANALYSIS
 
“Prevailing
Party”
 
“The Davis-Stirling Common Interest
Development Act (Davis-Stirling Act or the Act) governs an action to enforce
the recorded CC&Rs of a common interest development.”  (Champir, LLC v. Fairbanks Ranch Assn.
(2021) 66 Cal.App.5th 583, 590 (hereinafter Champir).)  “In determining the prevailing party under
the Davis-Stirling Act, the trial court should compare the relief awarded on
the claim or claims with the parties' demands on those same claims and their
litigation objectives as disclosed by the pleadings, trial briefs, opening
statements, and similar sources. The prevailing party determination is to be
made by a comparison of the extent to which each party has succeeded and failed
to succeed in its contentions.”  (Id.
at p. 592.)
 In other words, the test for determining
whether a party is a “prevailing party” for purposes of Civil Code section 5975
“is a pragmatic one, namely whether a party prevailed on a practical level by
achieving its main litigation objectives.” 
(Artus v. Gramercy Towers Condominium Assn. (2022) 76 Cal. App.
5th 1043.
 
Here, as the
Court has previously noted, Plaintiff achieved the main purpose of the
litigation, namely Defendant’s cessation of the barking dog nuisance.  Therefore, Plaintiff is the “prevailing
party” for purposes of Section 5975.  
 
Timeliness of
Motion
 
Code of Civil
Procedure section 1005, subdivision (b) provides:
 
Unless otherwise
ordered or specifically provided by law, all moving and supporting papers shall
be served and filed at least 16 court days before the hearing. The moving and
supporting papers served shall be a copy of the papers filed or to be filed with
the court. However, if the notice is served by mail, the required 16-day period
of notice before the hearing shall be increased by five calendar days if the
place of mailing and the place of address are within the State of California,
10 calendar days if either the place of mailing or the place of address is
outside the State of California but within the United States, 12 calendar days
if the place of address is the Secretary of State's address confidentiality
program (Chapter 3.1 (commencing with Section 6205) of Division 7 of Title 1 of
the Government Code), and 20 calendar days if either the place of mailing or
the place of address is outside the United States, and if the notice is served
by facsimile transmission, express mail, or another method of delivery
providing for overnight delivery, the required 16-day period of notice before
the hearing shall be increased by two calendar days. Section 1013, which
extends the time within which a right may be exercised or an act may be done,
does not apply to a notice of motion, papers opposing a motion, or reply papers
governed by this section. All papers opposing a motion so noticed shall be
filed with the court and a copy served on each party at least nine court days,
and all reply papers at least five court days before the hearing.
 
The court, or a
judge thereof, may prescribe a shorter time.
 
The Court notes
that no proof of service was filed indicating that Defendant was served with the
notice of motion and moving papers.  
 
As the Court
highlights in Footnote 1 above, the dismissal with prejudice of Defendant bars
further litigation of the action.  Thus,
there may be a procedural question as to whether Plaintiff may now seek its
attorneys’ fees.  As such, the Court
determines that Defendant should be afforded with procedural due process –
notice and an opportunity to be heard. 
Defendant may wish to challenge Plaintiff’s position that it is entitled
to attorneys’ fees under Civil Code section 5975, or Defendant may choose not to.  But the Court is uncertain about Defendant’s
position because it apparently has no notice of the motion.  
 
Conclusion
 
Therefore, the
Court finds that Plaintiff has failed to comply with Code of Civil Procedure
section 1005.  Consequently, the Court
continues the hearing to February 20, 2024 at 8:30 A.M. in Department
207.  
 
Further, Plaintiff
shall provide notice of the continued hearing to Defendant and comply with Code
of Civil Procedure section 1005 by serving the moving papers on Defendant with
the notice.  Thereafter, Plaintiff shall file
with the Court the notice of continued hearing along with a proof of
service.  
 
 
 
DATED:  January 16, 2024                                                    ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 
 


