 Case Number:  23STCV16113    Hearing Date:   January 6, 2025    Dept:  29 Kim v. Los
Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
23STCV16113
Defendants’ Motion to Continue Trial 
Tentative
The Court will call this matter.
The Court’s tentative ruling is to grant a very
brief continuance of the trial date and not to extend or reset any discovery deadlines.
Background
On
July 11, 2023, Hee Jung Kim (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Los Angeles
County Metropolitan Transportation Authority and Shamon Michael Todman
(collectively “Defendants”) for negligence arising out of an alleged vehicle accident
on November 1, 2022.
 
Defendants
filed their answers on August 10 and November 13, 2023.
 
On December 2,
2024, Defendants filed this motion to continue trial. Plaintiff filed an
opposition on December 24, and Defendants filed a reply on December 30.
The case has an
unusual procedural history.  On filing,
the case was assigned to Department 30. 
When Department 30 was closed on May 13, 2024, the case was reassigned
to Department 31.  When Department 31 was
closed on June 24, 2024, the case was reassigned to Department 32.  When Department 32 was closed on December 9,
2024, the case was reassigned to Department 29.
At the time of
reassignment, trial was (and is) scheduled for January 7, 2025, with a Final
Status Conference scheduled for December 24, 2024.  On December 10, this Court continued the
Final Status Conference to the time of trial.
Legal Standard
Code of Civil Procedure section 128,
subdivision (a)(8), provides that the court has the power to amend and control
its process and orders so as to make them conform to law and justice. “The
power to determine when a continuance should be granted is within the
discretion of the trial court.” (Color-Vue, Inc. v. Abrams (1996) 44
Cal.App.4th 1599, 1603.) “A trial court has wide latitude in the matter of
calendar control including the granting or denying of continuances.” (Park
Motors, Inc. v. Cozens (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 12, 18.)  
“To ensure the prompt disposition of civil
cases, the dates assigned for trial are firm. 
All parties and their counsel must regard the date set for trial as
certain.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1332(a).)
“Although continuances of trials are
disfavored, each request for a continuance must be considered on its own
merits.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1332(c).)  “The court may grant a
continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the
continuance.”  (Ibid.)  Circumstances that may support a finding of
good cause include:  
“(1) The
unavailability of an essential lay or expert witness because of death, illness,
or other excusable circumstances;  
(2) The
unavailability of a party because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances;  
(3) The
unavailability of trial counsel because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances;  
(4) The
substitution of trial counsel, but only where there is an affirmative showing
that the substitution is required in the interests of justice;  
(5) The addition
of a new party if: (A) The new party has not had a reasonable opportunity to
conduct discovery and prepare for trial; or (B) The other parties have not had
a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial in regard
to the new party's involvement in the case; 

(6) A party's
excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material
evidence despite diligent efforts; or  
(7) A
significant, unanticipated change in the status of the case as a result of
which the case is not ready for trial.”  
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(c).)  
“In ruling on a motion or application for
continuance, the court must consider all the facts and circumstances that are
relevant to the determination.”  (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d).)  California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d) sets forth a non-exhaustive list of factors that
the court may consider:  
“(1) The
proximity of the trial date;  
(2) Whether
there was any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to
any party;  
(3) The length
of the continuance requested;  
(4) The
availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the
motion or application for a continuance; 

(5) The
prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance;

(6) If the case
is entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status and
whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; 
(7) The court's
calendar and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending trials; 
(8) Whether
trial counsel is engaged in another trial; 

(9) Whether all
parties have stipulated to a continuance; 

(10) Whether the
interests of justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the
matter, or by imposing conditions on the continuance; and  
(11) Any other
fact or circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or
application.”  
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d).) 
“A trial court may not refuse to hear a summary judgment
motion filed within the time limits of section 437c.” (Sentry Ins. Co. v.
Superior Court (1989) 207 Cal.App.3d 526, 529; accord Cole v. Superior
Court (2022) 87 Cal.App.5th 84, 88.)
Discussion
Defendants request a trial continuance, arguing that they need more time to complete
discovery and that the trial should be reset as a jury trial, as Defendants
each demanded a jury trial with their answers and the jury fees have been. When
the motion was filed the depositions of Plaintiff and Defendant Todman still
needed to be taken. (Doroshow Decl., ¶¶ 4, 5.)
Plaintiff opposes the
motion.  Between the filing of the motion
and the filing of the opposition, the depositions were completed. (Rogari
Decl., ¶¶ 2, 3.)
In reply,
Defendants argue that they need more time to investigate Plaintiff’s injuries
and wish to seek an independent medical examination. (Reply, 2:8-11.)
The Court begins by
noting that there does not appear to be any dispute that the matter should be
set as a jury trial.
Due to the unusual
procedural history of the case, and for reasons relating to the Court’s own
schedule, the Court finds good cause to grant a brief continuance of the trial,
so that a Final Status Conference may be conducted during the week of January
21-24 and that the trial may be rescheduled on a date on or after February 5,
2025.
The Court does not
find good cause to extend or reset any discovery deadlines.  The parties have known of the trial date and
the discovery cutoff for more than a year, and there has been no showing as to
why this was not more than an adequate amount of time to conduct and complete
all necessary discovery.  
Accordingly, the motion
to continue trial is granted in part.
Conclusion
The Court GRANTS IN PART the motion to
continue trial.
The Court CONTINUES the trial date to a date
on or after February 5, 2025, and resets the Final Status Conference to a date
on or after January 21, 2025.
No discovery deadlines are extended or reset
by this order.The trial is reset as a jury trial.
Moving Party is ORDERED to give notice.