 Case Number:  23PSCV03696    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2024    Dept:  H Monfared v. Elliott, et al.,  Case No. 23PSCV03696   ORDER ON PLAINTIFF’S DISCOVERY
MOTIONS 1.  Plaintiff Mo Monfared’s Motion for Order that Matters Be Deemed Admitted Against Defendant Joe Panzarello is GRANTED. Pursuant to  Code of Civil Procedure § 2033.280, subdivision (b), the Court orders that the  truth of all specified matters in Plaintiff’s Requests for Admission, Set One  propounded to Panzarello be deemed admitted. Sanctions are awarded in the  reduced amount of $310.00 and are payable within 20 days from the date of the  notice of ruling. 2. Plaintiff Mo Monfared’s Motion to Compel Responses, without Objections, to Form Interrogatories (General), Set One Against Defendant Joe Panzarello is GRANTED. Panzarello is ordered to provide responses, without objections, to Plaintiff’s Form Interrogatories (General), Set One within 30 days from the date of the notice of ruling. Sanctions are awarded in the reduced amount of $310.00 and are payable within 20 days from the date of the notice of ruling. 3. Plaintiff Mo Monfared’s Motion to Compel Responses, without Objections, to Special Interrogatories, Set One Against Defendant Joe Panzarello is GRANTED. Panzarello is ordered to provide  responses, without objections, to Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatories, Set One  within 30 days from the date of the notice of ruling. Sanctions are awarded in the reduced amount of $310.00 and are payable  within 20 days from the date of the notice of ruling.  4.  Plaintiff Mo Monfared’s Motion to Compel Responses, without Objections, to  Request for Production, Set One Against Defendant Joe Panzarello is GRANTED. Panzarello  is ordered to provide responses, without objections, to Plaintiff’s Requests  for Production of Documents, Set One within 30 days from the date of the notice  of ruling. Sanctions are awarded in the  reduced amount of $310.00 and are payable within 20 days from the date of the  notice of ruling. 5. –  8. Absolute Law Group, PC has filed untimely oppositions on behalf of Defendant  Elliott as to the following four motions relating to Elliott: (a) Motion for  Order that Matters Be Deemed Admitted, (b) Motion to Compel Responses, Without  Objections, to Form Interrogatories (General), Set One, (c) Motion to Compel  Responses, Without Objections, to Special Interrogatories, Set One, and (d)  Motion to Compel Responses, Without Objections, to Request for Production, Set  One. However, it does not appear that a Substitution of Attorney has been filed.  The Court will not hear from any counsel affiliated with the Absolute Law  Group, PC at the time of the hearing unless a Substitution of Attorney is filed  at or before the time of the hearing. As to the motions, while the Court will  defer decision until the substitution of counsel issue is resolved, the Court  is inclined to grant all four motions to the extent that Elliott is ordered to  provide responses, without objections, within 10 calendar days from the date of  the notice of ruling. The Court is also inclined to award sanctions in the  reduced amount of $410.00 as to each of the four motions against Elliott.   Background  Plaintiff  Mo Monfared (“Plaintiff”) alleges as follows:  Plaintiff  owns a 1969 Chevrolet Chevelle (the “subject vehicle”). On or about April 26,  2022, Plaintiff entered into an oral agreement with Rick Elliott and Joe  Panzarello (together, “Defendants”) to have Defendants completely restore the  Chevelle. On or about November 4, 2022, Plaintiff picked up his subject vehicle  in an unfinished condition because Defendants indicated that they would not  continue the restoration unless Plaintiff paid more money than agreed upon.  Plaintiff subsequently took the subject vehicle to Xtreme Autosports SCV  (“Xtreme”) to finish the restoration. Xtreme indicated that all of the work  that had been done by Defendants had to be redone because the quality of work  was poor.  On  November 29, 2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint, asserting causes of action  against Defendants and Does 1-50 for: 1.       Breach of Contract;  2.       Breach of Covenant of Good Faith and Fair  Dealing; 3.       Fraud; 4.       Negligent Misrepresentation; 5.       Unjust Enrichment;  6.       Violations of City of Baldwin Park  Municipal Code § 111, et seq.;  7.       Violations of City of Baldwin Park  Municipal Code § 153, et seq.; and  8.       Financial Elder Abuse.  A Final  Status Conference is set for July 8, 2025. Trial is set for July 15, 2025. Pending  before the Court are eight discovery motions filed by Plaintiff where Plaintiff  seeks to deem matters admitted, compel responses to interrogatories, and compel  requests for production of documents. The Court addresses each motion in turn.   1.  Plaintiff’s Motion for Order that Matters be Deemed Admitted Re: Panzarello  Legal  Standard  A  response to requests for admission is due 30 days after service. (Code Civ.  Proc., § 2033.250, subd. (a).) “If a party to whom requests for admission are  directed fails to serve a timely response, . . .[t]he requesting party may move  for an order that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters  specified in the requests be deemed admitted. . .” (Code Civ. Proc., §  2033.280, subd. (b).)“The  court shall make this order, unless it finds that the party to whom the requests  for admission have been directed has served, before the hearing on the motion,  a proposed response to the requests for admission that is in substantial compliance  with Section 2033.220. . .” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).) “It is  mandatory that the court impose a monetary sanction . . . on the party or attorney,  or both, whose failure to serve a timely response to requests for admission necessitated  this motion.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).)   Discussion  Plaintiff  moves the Court for an order, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section  2031.280, that the matters in Plaintiff’s Requests for Admission, Set One  propounded to Panzarello be deemed admitted. Plaintiff also seeks sanctions  against Panzarello in the amount of $935.00.  Plaintiff’s counsel Jesus Hinojosa (“Hinojosa”)  represents as follows: On April 15, 2024, Plaintiff served Panzarello with the instant discovery requests.[FN1] (Hinojosa Decl., ¶ 4, Exh. 1.) Panzarello failed to serve any responses  to the subject discovery or ask for an extension. (Id., ¶¶ 5 and 6.) On  June 14, 2024, Hinojosa’s office filed a “Request for an Informal Discovery  Conference” (“Request”); the Court granted the Request on June 17, 2024 and set  an Informal Discovery Conference (“IDC”) for July 10, 2024. (Id., ¶¶ 8  and 9.) During the July 10, 2024 IDC, Panzarello made representations to the  Court that he would produce responses to the requests on or before July 19,  2024. (Id., ¶ 11). Panzarello failed to serve any of the requested responses  on July 19, 2024. (Id., ¶ 12.)[FN2]  The unopposed motion is granted. Pursuant to Code of Civil  Procedure § 2033.280, subdivision (b), the Court orders that the truth of all specified matters in  Plaintiff’s Requests for Admission, Set One propounded to Panzarello be deemed  admitted.  Sanctions  Plaintiff  seeks sanctions against Panzarello in the  amount of $935.00 [calculated as follows: 1.5 hours preparing motion, plus 2  hours reviewing opposition, preparing reply, and attending hearing at  $250.00/hour, plus $60.00 filing fee].  Utilizing  a Lodestar approach, and in view of the totality of the circumstances, the Court  finds that the total and reasonable amount of attorney’s fees and costs  incurred for the work performed in connection with the pending motion is  $310.00 (i.e., 1 hour attorney time at $250.00/hour, plus $60.00 filing fee).  Sanctions are payable within 20 days from the date of the notice of ruling.   2. Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Form Interrogatories Re: Panzarello Legal  Standard  A response to interrogatories is due 30 days after service. (Code  Civ. Proc., § 2030.260, subd. (a).) “If a party to whom interrogatories are  directed fails to serve a timely response, . . . [t]he party propounding the  interrogatories may move for an order compelling response to the  interrogatories.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (b).)  “The court shall impose a monetary sanction . . . against any  party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to  compel a response to interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to  the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances  make the imposition of the sanction unjust . . .” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290,  subd. (c).) Discussion   Plaintiff moves the Court for an  order compelling Panzarello to provide verified responses, without objections,  to Plaintiff’s Form Interrogatories (General), Set One. Plaintiff also seeks  sanctions against Panzarello in the amount of $935.00. As stated in connection with the  prior motion, Plaintiff represents that Panzarello was served with Plaintiff’s  discovery requests on April 15, 2024  and has not provided responses to any discovery, including (as relevant to this  motion) verified responses to Plaintiff’s Form Interrogatories (General), Set  One. The  unopposed motion is granted. Panzarello is ordered to provide responses,  without objections, to Plaintiff’s Form Interrogatories (General), Set One  within 30 days from the date of the notice of ruling.    Sanctions Plaintiff seeks sanctions  against Panzarello in the amount  of $935.00 [calculated as follows: 1.5 hours preparing motion, plus 2 hours  reviewing opposition, preparing reply, and attending hearing at $250.00/hour,  plus $60.00 filing fee]. Utilizing a Lodestar approach,  and in view of the totality of the circumstances, the court finds that the  total and reasonable amount of attorney’s fees and costs incurred for the work  performed in connection with the pending motion is $310.00 (i.e., 1 hour  attorney time at $250.00/hour, plus $60.00 filing fee). Sanctions are payable  within 20 days from the date of the notice of ruling.   3.  Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Special Interrogatories Re: Panzarello Legal Standard A response to interrogatories is due 30 days after service. (Code  Civ. Proc., § 2030.260, subd. (a).) “If a party to whom interrogatories are  directed fails to serve a timely response, . . . [t]he party propounding the interrogatories  may move for an order compelling response to the interrogatories.” (Code Civ.  Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (b).)  “The court shall impose a monetary sanction . . . against any  party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to  compel a response to interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to  the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances  make the imposition of the sanction unjust . . .” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290,  subd. (c).) Discussion  Plaintiff  moves the Court for an order compelling Panzarello to provide verified  responses, without objections, to Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatories, Set One.  Plaintiff also seeks sanctions against Panzarello in the amount of $935.00.  As  stated in connection with the prior motions relating to Panzarello, Plaintiff  represents that Panzarello was served with Plaintiff’s discovery requests on April 15, 2024 and, to date, has not provided  responses to any discovery, including (as relevant to this motion) verified  responses to Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatories, Set One. The unopposed motion is granted. Panzarello is ordered to provide responses, without objections, to Plaintiff's Special Interrogatories, Set One within 30 days from the date of the notice of ruling.     Sanctions  Plaintiff  seeks sanctions against Panzarello in the  amount of $935.00 [calculated as follows: 1.5 hours preparing motion, plus 2  hours reviewing opposition, preparing reply, and attending hearing at  $250.00/hour, plus $60.00 filing fee].  Utilizing  a Lodestar approach, and in view of the totality of the circumstances, the Court  finds that the total and reasonable amount of attorney’s fees and costs  incurred for the work performed in connection with the pending motion is  $310.00 (i.e., 1 hour attorney time at $250.00/hour, plus $60.00 filing fee).  Sanctions are payable within 20 days from the date of the notice of ruling.    4.  Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Requests for Production Re: Panzarello Legal Standard A response to a request for production of documents is due 30 days  after service. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.260, subd. (a).) “If a party to whom a  demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling is directed fails to serve a timely  response to it, . . . [t]he party making the demand may move for an order compelling  response to the demand.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (b).)  “[T]he court shall impose a monetary sanction . . . against any  party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to  compel a response to a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling,  unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial  justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction  unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (c).) Discussion  Plaintiff  moves the Court for an order compelling Panzarello to provide verified  responses, without objections, to Plaintiff’s Requests for Production of  Documents, Set One. Plaintiff also seeks sanctions against Panzarello in the  amount of $935.00.  As  stated in connection with the prior motions against Panzarello, Plaintiff  represents that Panzarello was served with Plaintiff’s discovery requests and, to date, has not provided responses to  any discovery, including (as relevant to this motion) verified responses to  Plaintiff’s Requests for Production of Documents, Set One.  The unopposed motion is granted. Panzarello is  ordered to provide responses, without objections, to Plaintiff’s Requests for Production of  Documents, Set One within 30 days from  the date of the notice of ruling.    Sanctions  Plaintiff  seeks sanctions against Panzarello in the  amount of $935.00 [calculated as follows: 1.5 hours preparing motion, plus 2  hours reviewing opposition, preparing reply, and attending hearing at  $250.00/hour, plus $60.00 filing fee].  Utilizing  a Lodestar approach, and in view of the totality of the circumstances, the  court finds that the total and reasonable amount of attorney’s fees and costs  incurred for the work performed in connection with the pending motion is  $310.00 (i.e., 1 hour attorney time at $250.00/hour, plus $60.00 filing fee).  Sanctions are payable within 20 days from the date of the notice of ruling.    5.  Plaintiff’s Motion for Order that Matters be Deemed Admitted Re: Elliott Legal  Standard A  response to requests for admission is due 30 days after service. (Code Civ.  Proc., § 2033.250, subd. (a).) “If a party to whom requests for admission are  directed fails to serve a timely response, . . .[t]he requesting party may move  for an order that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters  specified in the requests be deemed admitted. . .” (Code Civ. Proc., §  2033.280, subd. (b).)   “The  court shall make this order, unless it finds that the party to whom the  requests for admission have been directed has served, before the hearing on the motion,  a proposed response to the requests for admission that is in substantial compliance  with Section 2033.220. . .” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).)“It is  mandatory that the court impose a monetary sanction . . . on the party or attorney,  or both, whose failure to serve a timely response to requests for admission necessitated  this motion.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).)  Discussion  Plaintiff  moves the Court for an order, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section  2031.280, that the matters in Plaintiff’s Requests for Admission, Set One  propounded to Elliott be deemed admitted. Plaintiff also seeks sanctions  against Elliott in the amount of $1,335.00. Plaintiff’s counsel Amy A. Mousavi (“Mousavi”)  represents as follows: On April 15, 2024, Plaintiff attempted to serve Elliott with the instant discovery requests by mail[FN3];  however, the mailing with the discovery requests was returned as undeliverable.  (Mousavi Decl., ¶ 4.) Hinojosa subsequently called Elliott to obtain his  mailing or email address to serve discovery, but Elliott said he would not  provide this information unless ordered to do so by the Court. (Id., ¶¶  5 and 6.) Hinojosa then spoke with Panzarello, who provided Hinojosa with  Elliott’s mailing address. (Id., ¶ 6.) On June 14, 2024, Plaintiff  served Elliott with the discovery requests. (Id., ¶ 7, Exh. 1.)(FN4) Elliott has failed to serve any discovery responses or seek an  extension. (Id., ¶¶ 8-10.)[FN5] The Court notes that on September 16, 2024, Absolute  Law Group, PC purported to file an untimely opposition on behalf of Elliott. As  of September 20, 2024, there is no Substitution of Attorney on file. Elliott’s position that the  motion should be denied as moot because he served responses (albeit untimely  ones) on July 22, 2024, before the instant motion was even filed, ignores the  fact that these responses were made on his behalf by a firm that is not his  counsel of record. Further, Elliott failed to attach a copy of the July 22,  2024 responses to the aforesaid opposition.  Plaintiff attached a copy of the July 22, 2024  responses to his reply. These responses contain objections. Plaintiff correctly  notes that even if the Court were to overlook the Substitution of Attorney  issue, the responses remain deficient since objections have been waived.  The  Court will not hear from any counsel affiliated with the Absolute Law Group, PC  at the time of the hearing unless a Substitution of Attorney is filed at or  before the time of the hearing. Based on the above circumstances, and assuming  that a Substitution of Attorney is filed, the Court will grant the motion, to  the extent that Elliott is ordered to provide responses to Plaintiff’s Requests for Admission, Set One,  without objections within 10 calendar days from the date of the notice of  ruling.   Sanctions  Plaintiff  seeks sanctions against Elliott in the  amount of $1,335.00 [calculated as follows: 1 hour preparing motion, plus 2  hours reviewing opposition, preparing reply, and attending hearing at $425.00  /hour, plus $60.00 filing fee]. Utilizing  a Lodestar approach, and in view of the totality of the circumstances, the Court  finds that the total and reasonable amount of attorney’s fees and costs  incurred for the work performed in connection with the pending motion is  $410.00 (i.e., 1 hour attorney time at $350.00/hour, plus $60.00 filing fee).  Sanctions are payable within 20 days from the date of the notice of ruling.    6.  Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Form Interrogatories Re: Elliott Legal Standard A response to interrogatories is due 30 days after service. (Code  Civ. Proc., § 2030.260, subd. (a).) “If a party to whom interrogatories are  directed fails to serve a timely response, . . . [t]he party propounding the  interrogatories may move for an order compelling response to the  interrogatories.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (b).)  “The court shall impose a monetary sanction . . . against any  party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to  compel a response to interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to  the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances  make the imposition of the sanction unjust . . .” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290,  subd. (c).)   Discussion  Plaintiff  moves the court for an order compelling Elliott to provide verified responses,  without objections, to Plaintiff’s Form Interrogatories (General), Set One. Plaintiff  also seeks sanctions against Elliott in the amount of $1,335.00.  As  stated in connection with the prior motion relating to Elliott, Plaintiff’s  counsel represents that Elliott was served with Plaintiff’s discovery requests  on June 14, 2024 (after refusing in April 2024 to provide his email address or  mailing address) and has failed to serve  discovery responses or seek an extension. On September 16, 2024, Absolute Law Group, PC  purported to file an untimely opposition on behalf of Elliott. Again, there is  no Substitution of Attorney on file.  Elliott’s position that the motion should be denied as moot because he served  responses (albeit untimely ones) on July 22, 2024, before the instant motion  was even filed, ignores the fact that these responses were made on his behalf  by a firm that is not his counsel of record. Further, Elliott failed to attach  a copy of the July 22, 2024 responses to the aforesaid opposition.  Plaintiff attached a copy of the July 22, 2024  responses to his reply. These responses contain objections. Plaintiff correctly  notes that even if the Court were to overlook the Substitution of Attorney  issue, the responses remain deficient since objections have been waived.  The  Court will not hear from any counsel affiliated with the Absolute Law Group, PC  at the time of the hearing unless a Substitution of Attorney is filed at or  before the time of the hearing. Based on the above circumstances, and assuming  that a Substitution of Attorney is filed, the Court will grant the motion, to  the extent that Elliott is ordered to provide responses to Plaintiff’s Form Interrogatories (General),  Set One, without objections, within 10 calendar days from the date of the  notice of ruling.  Sanctions  Plaintiff  seeks sanctions against Elliott in the  amount of $1,335.00 [calculated as follows: 1 hour preparing motion, plus 2  hours reviewing opposition, preparing reply, and attending hearing at $425.00  /hour, plus $60.00 filing fee].  Utilizing  a Lodestar approach, and in view of the totality of the circumstances, the  court finds that the total and reasonable amount of attorney’s fees and costs  incurred for the work performed in connection with the pending motion is  $410.00 (i.e., 1 hour attorney time at $250.00/hour, plus $60.00 filing fee).  Sanctions are payable within 20 days from the date of the notice of ruling.    7.  Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Special Interrogatories Re: Elliott Legal Standard A response to interrogatories is due 30 days after service. (Code  Civ. Proc., §  2030.260, subd. (a).) “If  a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response,  . . . [t]he party propounding the interrogatories may move for an order  compelling response to the interrogatories.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd.  (b).)  “The court shall impose a monetary sanction . . . against any  party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to  compel a response to interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to  the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances  make the imposition of the sanction unjust . . .” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290,  subd. (c).)  Plaintiff  moves the Court for an order compelling Elliott to provide verified responses,  without objections, to Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatories, Set One. Plaintiff  also seeks sanctions against Elliott in the amount of $1,335.00. As  stated in connection with the prior motions relating to Elliott, Plaintiff’s  counsel represents that Elliott was served with Plaintiff’s discovery requests on  June 14, 2024 and has failed to serve  responses or seek an extension. On September 17, 2024, Absolute Law Group, PC  purported to file an untimely opposition on behalf of Elliott. Again, there is  no Substitution of Attorney on file.  Elliott’s position that the motion should be denied as moot because he served  responses (albeit untimely ones) on July 22, 2024, before the instant motion  was even filed, ignores the fact that these responses were made on his behalf  by a firm that is not his counsel of record. Further, Elliott failed to attach  a copy of the July 22, 2024 responses to the aforesaid opposition.  Plaintiff attached a copy of the July 22, 2024  responses to his reply. These responses contain objections. Plaintiff correctly  points out that even if the Court were to overlook the Substitution of Attorney  issue, the responses remain deficient since objections have been waived. The  Court will not hear from any counsel affiliated with the Absolute Law Group, PC  at the time of the hearing unless a Substitution of Attorney is filed at or  before the time of the hearing. Based on the above circumstances, and assuming  that a Substitution of Attorney is filed, the Court will grant the motion, to  the extent that Elliott is ordered to provide responses to Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatories, Set One,  without objections, within 10 calendar days from the date of the notice of  ruling. Sanctions Plaintiff  seeks sanctions against Elliott in the  amount of $1,335.00 [calculated as follows: 1 hour preparing motion, plus 2  hours reviewing opposition, preparing reply, and attending hearing at $425.00  /hour, plus $60.00 filing fee]. Utilizing  a Lodestar approach, and in view of the totality of the circumstances, the  court finds that the total and reasonable amount of attorney’s fees and costs  incurred for the work performed in connection with the pending motion is  $410.00 (i.e., 1 hour attorney time at $250.00/hour, plus $60.00 filing fee).  Sanctions are payable within 20 days from the date of the notice of ruling.   8.  Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Requests for Production Re: Elliott Legal Standard A response to a request for production of documents is due 30 days  after service. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.260, subd. (a).) “If a party to whom a  demand for inspection, copying, testing, or  sampling is directed fails to serve a timely response to it, . . . [t]he party making  the demand may move for an order compelling response to the demand.” (Code Civ.  Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (b).)  “[T]he court shall impose a monetary sanction . . . against any  party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to  compel a response to a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling,  unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial  justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction  unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (c).)   Discussion Plaintiff  moves the court for an order compelling Elliott to provide verified responses,  without objections, to Plaintiff’s Requests for Production of Documents, Set  One. Plaintiff also seeks sanctions against Elliott in the amount of $1,335.00. As  stated in connection with the prior motions relating to Elliott, Plaintiff’s  counsel represents that Elliott was served with Plaintiff’s discovery requests  on June 14, 2024 and has failed to serve  responses or seek an extension. On September 17, 2024, Absolute Law Group, PC  purported to file an untimely opposition on behalf of Elliott. Again, there is  no Substitution of Attorney on file. Elliott’s  position that the motion should be denied as moot because he served responses  (albeit untimely ones) on July 22, 2024, before the instant motion was even  filed, ignores the fact that these responses were made on his behalf by a firm  that is not his counsel of record. Further, Elliott failed to attach a copy of  the July 22, 2024 responses to the aforesaid opposition. Plaintiff, in reply, asserts that Elliott has not,  in fact, served any responses. The  Court will not hear from any counsel affiliated with the Absolute Law Group, PC  at the time of the hearing unless a Substitution of Attorney is filed at or  before the time of the hearing. Based on the above circumstances, and assuming  that a Substitution of Attorney is filed, the Court will grant the motion, to  the extent that Elliott is ordered to provide responses to Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatories, Set One,  without objections, within 10 calendar days from the date of the notice of  ruling.   Sanctions Plaintiff  seeks sanctions against Elliott in the  amount of $1,335.00 [calculated as follows: 1 hour preparing motion, plus 2  hours reviewing opposition, preparing reply, and attending hearing at $425.00  /hour, plus $60.00 filing fee]. Utilizing  a Lodestar approach, and in view of the totality of the circumstances, the  court finds that the total and reasonable amount of attorney’s fees and costs  incurred for the work performed in connection with the pending motion is  $410.00 (i.e., 1 hour attorney time at $250.00/hour, plus $60.00 filing fee).  Sanctions are payable within 20 days from the date of the notice of ruling.    