 Case Number:  24PSCV00710    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2024    Dept:  H Luevano-Macias v. Starbucks  Corporation, et al. (24PSCV00710)   ORDER  ON DEFENDANT’S DEMURRER Defendant Starbucks Corporation’s  Demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint is SUSTAINED. The Court is not inclined to  grant leave to amend, but will hear from counsel for Plaintiff at the hearing;  if Plaintiff requests leave to amend, the Court will require an offer of proof. Background On  or about January 23, 2024, Plaintiff Crystal Luevano-Macias (“Plaintiff”)  sustained severe burns after hot coffee spilled onto her hand and lap while  patronizing the Starbucks drive-through in West Covina. On  March 8, 2024, Plaintiff filed a complaint, asserting causes of action against  Starbucks Corporation (“Starbucks”), Eugene Weiss and Does 1-50 for: 1.       Negligence—Premises; 2.       Negligence—Supervision. Starbucks has demurred to the first cause of action  on the basis that it fails to state a claim for premises liability. The Court agrees  and thus sustains the demurrer.   Legal  Standard A demurrer  may be made on the grounds that the pleading does not state facts sufficient to  constitute a cause of action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) When  considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context. In  a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading  or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian  v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the  pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it  lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are  judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d  902, 905 [citations omitted].) At the pleading stage, a plaintiff need only  allege ultimate facts sufficient to apprise the defendant of the factual basis  for the claim against him. (Semole v.  Sansoucie (1972) 28 Cal. App. 3d 714, 721.) “[A] demurrer does not,  however, admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law alleged in  the pleading, or the construction placed on an instrument pleaded therein, or  facts impossible in law, or allegations contrary to facts of which a court may  take judicial knowledge.” (S. Shore Land  Co. v. Petersen (1964) 226 Cal.App.2d 725, 732 [citations omitted].)   Discussion Starbucks  demurs, per Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10(e) and (f), to the first  cause of action in Plaintiff’s complaint, on the basis that it fails to state  facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.  “The elements of a  cause of action for premises liability are the same as those for negligence:  duty, breach, causation, and damages.” (McIntyre v. The Colonies-Pacific,  LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 664, 671 [quotations and citation omitted].) “Premises liability is grounded in the possession of the  premises and the attendant right to control and manage the premises.” (Kesner  v. Superior Court (2016) 1 Cal.5th 1132, 1158 [internal quotations and  citation omitted]; Annocki v. Peterson Enterprises, LLC (2014) 232  Cal.App.4th 32, 37 [“Those who own, possess, or control property generally have  a duty to exercise ordinary care in managing the property in order to avoid  exposing others to an unreasonable risk of harm”]; CACI No. 1000. Premises  Liability—Essential Factual Elements [To establish a premises liability  claim, plaintiff “must prove all of the following: 1. That [name of defendant] [owned/leased/occupied/controlled]  the property; 2. That [name of defendant] was negligent in  the use or maintenance of the property; 3. That [name of plaintiff]  was harmed; and 4. That [name of defendant]’s  negligence was a substantial factor in causing [name of plaintiff]’s  harm”].) Plaintiff alleges  that on January 23, 2024, she suffered severe burns to her thigh and groin area  when she visited Starbucks in West Covina. (Complaint, ¶¶ 2 and 9-12.) Plaintiff alleges that on the date of the incident, she chose to use the  drive-through, placed her order, and drove around to the window to pay for and  receive her coffee. (Id., ¶ 10.) Plaintiff alleges that because  Starbucks’ employee did not properly secure the lid, kept his hand on the  sleeve, and “otherwise failed to hand the coffee off properly and reasonably to  [her],” the hot coffee spilled on her hand and lap. (Id., ¶¶ 10-12.) Plaintiff’s own  allegations reflect that the spill arose from Starbucks’ employee’s purported  mishandling of the coffee lid and sleeve when the coffee was handed to  Plaintiff who was sitting in her vehicle at the drive-through window. Plaintiff  has not alleged any facts supporting or relating to Starbucks’ use or  maintenance of the property or premises to support a cause of action for premises  liability and there is nothing about the property or premises to implicate  liability. Starbucks’ demurrer  is sustained. If Plaintiff seeks leave to amend, the Court will require an offer of proof.