  Case Number:  23PSCV01282    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2024    Dept:  H Ross, et al. v.  Hernandez, et al., Case No. 23PSCV01282   ORDER  ON MOTION TO STRIKEDefendants  Bryan Perez Rodriguez and Neri Rodriguez’s Motion to Strike the “Punitive”  Attachment from Plaintiffs’ Second Amended Complaint is GRANTED.  The Court will hear from Plaintiffs’ counsel whether leave to amend is  requested and if so, will require an offer of proof.  Background Plaintiffs Sheldon Ross (“Ross”) and Pamela Jones  Calcote (“Calcote”) (together, “Plaintiffs”) brought this lawsuit after  allegedly sustaining injuries in a May 2, 2021 motor vehicle accident. On  November 21, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a Second Amended Complaint (the “Operative  Complaint”) against Bryan Perez Rodriguez (“Bryan”), Neri Rodriguez (together,  “Defendants”), and Does 1-25, where they allege that Defendants negligently  collided into Plaintiffs’ vehicle and caused severe injuries and damages to Plaintiffs. Pending before the Court is Defendants’ motion for  an order striking out the “Punitive” attachment to the Second Amended Complaint.  Legal  Standard Pursuant to  Code of Civil Procedure section 436, “the court may, upon a motion made pursuant  to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems  proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in  any pleading. (b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed  in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the  court.” The grounds for a motion to strike must “appear on the face of the  challenged pleading or from any matter of which the court is required to take  judicial notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)   Discussion Defendants  move the Court for an order striking the attachment labeled “Punitive” at page  seven of the Operative Complaint on the grounds that the allegations therein do  not support a claim for punitive damages. At the outset, the Court addresses Defendants’ request for  judicial notice. Defendants request, on page five of their memorandum of points  and authorities, that the Court take judicial notice of excerpts Ross’ and  Calcote’s respective depositions. The Court declines to do so for two reasons.   First, Defendants have failed to comply with California Rules of Court, rule  3.1113(l) (i.e., “[A]ny request for judicial notice must be made in a  separate document listing the specific items for which notice is requested.”). Second, the Court must not turn a  hearing on a motion to strike “into a contested evidentiary  hearing through the guise of having the court take judicial notice of  affidavits, declarations, depositions, and other such material which was filed  on behalf of the adverse party and which purports to contradict the allegations  and contentions of the plaintiff.” (Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural  Materials Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604-05) [“The court will take  judicial notice of records such as admissions, answers to interrogatories,  affidavits, and the like, when considering a demurrer, only where they  contain statements of the plaintiff or his agent which are inconsistent with  the allegations of the pleading before the court.” (Emphasis added.]) Turning  to the merits of Defendants’ motion, Defendants contend that the allegations of  the Operative Complaint do not support a claim for punitive damages.  The Court agrees. Punitive damages may be awarded in an action  for the breach of an obligation not arising from contract upon clear and  convincing evidence that a defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or  malice. (Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (a).) “Malice” is  defined as “conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the  plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a  willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (Civ. Code  § 3294, subd. (c)(1).) “Oppression” is defined as “despicable conduct that  subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that  person’s rights.” (Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (c)(2).) “Fraud” is defined as “an  intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known  to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby  depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.”  (Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (c)(3).) A  “conclusory characterization of defendant’s conduct as intentional, willful and  fraudulent is a patently insufficient statement of ‘oppression, fraud, or  malice.’” (Brousseau v. Jarrett  (1977) 73 Cal.App.3d 864, 872.) “The mere allegation an intentional tort was  committed is not sufficient to warrant an award of punitive damages. Not only  must there be circumstances of oppression, fraud, or malice, but facts must be  alleged in the pleading to support such a claim.” (Grieves v. Superior Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 166.) The  California Supreme Court in Taylor v. Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d  890, 892 determined that “the act of operating a motor vehicle while  intoxicated may constitute an act of ‘malice’ under § 3294 if performed under  circumstances which disclose a conscious disregard of the probable dangerous  consequences.” In Dawes v. Superior Court  (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 82, 89, the Fourth District Court of Appeal noted that  driving while intoxicated does not always give rise to a claim for punitive  damages: “[W]e do not agree that the risk created generally by one who becomes  intoxicated and decides nevertheless to drive a vehicle on the public streets  is the same as the risk created by an intoxicated driver’s decision to zigzag  in and out of traffic at 65 miles per hour in a crowded beach recreation area  at 1:30 in the afternoon on a Sunday in June. The risk of injury to others from  ordinary driving while intoxicated is certainly foreseeable, but it is not  necessarily probable.” Notably, both Taylor  and Dawes were decided prior to  1987, when the Legislature added the requirement to Civil Code § 3294 that  conduct be “despicable” in order to support imposition of punitive damages  under a malice/willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of  others standard. Plaintiffs  have alleged, in relevant part, that before the collision, “Defendant  voluntarily began drinking and did in fact consume, a large quantity of alcohol  with the intention and expectation of operating a motor vehicle shortly  thereafter”; that “Defendant knew and was fully aware that he was going to be  required to drive his vehicle when he first began drinking alcohol and  nevertheless consumed a large quantity of alcohol knowing the risk that he  would be intoxicated as a result thereof’; that “[a]t the time of the  collision, defendant was driving his vehicle under the influence of alcoholic  beverage and/or drugs, or under the combined influence of alcoholic beverage  and drugs.” Plaintiffs proceed to make additional allegations that are expressly  made on “information and belief.” Specifically, Plaintiffs allege, on  information and belief, that Defendant B. Rodriguez was “recklessly traveling  at a high rate of speed estimated at 100 to 120 mph” and that he “made unsafe  lane changes while traveling at a high rate of speed and lost control of his  vehicle.” “A  plaintiff may allege on information and belief any matters that are not within  his personal knowledge, if he has information leading to believe that the  allegations are true, and thus a pleading made on information and belief is  insufficient if it merely assert[s]] the facts so alleged without alleging such  information that leads [the plaintiff] to believe that the allegations are  true.” (Gomes v. Countrywide Home Loans, Inc. (2011) 192 Cal.App.4th  1149, 1158-1159 [internal quotations and citation omitted].) Plaintiffs have  not alleged what information they have which led them to believe that the  foregoing allegations are true; as such, these allegations are disregarded as  insufficient. The  motion is granted. 