

 
BACKGROUND
 
On February 1,
2024, Petitioners School District Financial Services, LLC and John Thomas
Starling (collectively “Petitioners”) initiated this action against Respondent
Greg Beck (“Respondent”) to enforce compliance with a subpoena pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure § 2029.600. On May 22, 2024, Respondent filed his opposition
papers. Thereafter, on May 30, 2024, Petitioners filed their reply.
 
 
MOVING PARTY
POSITION
 
            Petitioners
are involved in an out-of-state action in Arkansas between them and plaintiff
Dennis Chadwick Holsclaw, and this action arises from an alleged breach of
contract claim for violating the parties’ Membership Buy/Sell Agreement,
including by Petitioners’ unilaterally retaining a business valuation expert
after terminating Mr. Holsclaw’s employment with the School District on
December 31, 2021. In their answer to the action, Petitioners allege that Mr.
Holsclaw violated the non-disparagement agreement with the School District. In particular,
Petitioners allege that Mr. Holsclaw made at least one disparaging comment
about Mr. Starling to Mr. Beck. During the course of this litigation,
Petitioners subpoenaed Respondent on October 17, 2023 for the production of
records relevant to the Arkansas action requesting all communications between
Respondent and Mr. Holsclaw from January 1, 2017 to the present that related to
Mr. Starling, the School District, or any matters alleged in the Arkansas
Action. However, Respondent did not respond.
 
            Petitioners
argue that Respondent has waived any objections because he failed to respond to
the subpoena. They further argue that this information is relevant to their
counterclaim against Mr. Holsclaw in the Arkansas Action because it would show
that Mr. Holsclaw breached his contractual obligations following his
termination. 
 
OPPOSITION
 
            Respondent
first argues that the instant petition is untimely under Code of Civil
Procedure § 2025.480(b) because it was not filed within 60 days after the date
of compliance, which was November 3, 2023. Second, Respondent argues that the
instant petition is moot because he has substantially complied by providing his
responses to the deposition officer, Veritext after being served with the
subpoena. These responses were severed again on March 26, 2024 after receiving
notice of the petition. Third, the petition is defective because the notice did
not specify the grounds on which the petition is based on. Lastly, Respondent
contends that sanctions are not warranted under the circumstances because
Code-compliant responses had been provided. 
 
REPLY
 
            In
reply, Petitioners maintain that the March 26, 2024 responses were untimely and
as a result, Respondent had waived all objections to the subpoena. Also, there
is no proof that Respondent served any responses to Veritext. Next, Petitioners
argue that the instant petition is not moot because Respondent’s claim that the
requested document never existed is false when there is proof that Respondent
sent text messages that are responsive to the subpoena. Moreover, Respondent’s
reliance on California Rule of Court rule 3.1110(a) and Code of Civil Procedure
§ 1010 regarding the lack of notice are inapplicable because Petitioners have
filed a petition, not a motion. Lastly, Petitioners argue that the petition is
not untimely because the record of deposition can only be completed when the
deponent has served his objections or responses to the subpoena. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
I.          Motion
to Compel Subpoena Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 2029.600
A.        Legal Standard 
Under the Interstate and International Depositions and
Discovery Act (Code Civ. Proc. § 2029.100, et seq.), a party to a foreign
proceeding may obtain a subpoena from the clerk of the superior court in the
county where the discovery is sought to be conducted.  See Code Civ. Proc. § 2029.300.) If a
dispute arises relating to the subpoena, the party may file a petition with the
superior court seeking a court order to enforce the subpoena.  Id. § 2029.600(a). California statutes
and court rules governing subpoenas and sanctions apply to the dispute.  Id. § 2029.500.
 
B.        Procedural Issues
 
            Respondent raises two procedural
arguments as to why the instant petition should be denied, neither of which are
persuasive. First, Respondent argues that the instant petition is untimely
because it was not filed within “60 days after the completion of the record of
the deposition.”  Opposition at pg. 7, relying on Code of Civ.
Proc. § 2025.480(b).  Respondent reasons
that, because the date of production for the subpoena was November 3, 2021, the
deadline to file the instant petition was January 2, 2024.  Ibid. 

 
However, this argument misconstrues
what “completion of the record” means. 
Courts have held that the deadline under Section 2025.480 begins to run
only when the deponent has served his objections or responses to the subpoena.  See Rutledge v. Hewlett-Packard Co. (2015)
238 Cal.App.4th 1164, 1192 (“[T]he 60-day period during which a motion to
compel must be filed, begins to run when the deponent serves objections on the
party. At the time the objections are served, the record of deposition is
complete.”)  In this instance, Respondent
claims that he served his responses to Veritext soon after receiving the
subpoena.  See Beck Decl. ¶
4.  This is a self-serving statement
because Respondent has failed to specify what day the responses were served and
does not provide any further proof to corroborate his statement.  Furthermore, Veritext has confirmed that they
did not receive any response in connection with the subpoena at issue
here.  See Suppl. Llewellyn Decl.
¶ 4.  Based on the record before the
Court, it appears that Respondent served his responses on March 26, 2024, which
was after the instant petition was filed.  See Beck Decl. ¶ 1, Exh. A. Therefore,
because the record was not completed until March 26, 2024, the instant petition
is not untimely. 
 
Second, Respondent argues that a
notice of the petition failed to identify the grounds upon which relief is
sought.  See Opposition at pg. 9,
relying on Code of Civil Procedure §1010 and California Rules of Court, rule
3.1110.  This is equally unpersuasive
because the law cited by Respondent is in reference to motions, not petitions.  Because the instant petition is brought under
Code of Civil Procedure § 2029.600, the request is treated as a petition
for relief and operates like a complaint, and there is no separate requirement
for a “notice of petition.”
 
Therefore, because the instant
petition is not procedurally defective, the Court will address the merits. 
 
C.        Merits
 
            Here, Petitioners
seek to compel Respondent to provide responses to the subpoena served upon him
on October 17, 2023.  See
Llewellyn Decl. ¶¶ 2-3, Exhs. 1-2.  The
subpoena seeks the production of records relevant to the Arkansas action
requesting all communications between Respondent and Mr. Holsclaw from January
1, 2017 to the present that related to Mr. Starling, the School District, or
any matters alleged in the Arkansas Action. 
Ibid.  
            
            In
opposition, Respondent argues that the instant petition is moot because
Code-compliant responses had been served on March 26, 2024.  Opposition at pg. 8.  The Court disagrees because, as Petitioners’
point out, these responses improperly include objections.  Because Respondent’s responses were untimely,
he has waived the ability to assert any objections. See Scottsdale
Ins. Co. v. Superior Ct. (1999) 59 Cal. App. 4th 263, 273.  Thus, these were improperly included.  
 
            Accordingly,
the instant petition is granted. 
 
 
III.       Conclusion 
            
            Based on the foregoing, Petitioners’ Petition
to Enforce Subpoena to Produce Documents Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure §
2029.600 is GRANTED. 
 
 Respondent is ordered to provide responses
without objections within 20 days of this order.  
 
Moving party
is ordered to give Notice of Ruling and
to attach a copy of the Court's Tentative Ruling , as an exhibit “A” to said
notice, as the final order of the Court.
 