

 
SERVICE: 

 
[   ] Proof of Service Timely Filed (CRC,
rule 3.1300)                     OK
[   ] Correct Address (CCP §§ 1013, 1013a)                                      OK 
[   ] 16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP §§ 12c,
1005(b))                       OK  
 
OPPOSITION:          None Filed as of June 4, 2024             [   ] Late          [X] None 
REPLY:                     None Filed as of June 4, 2024             [   ] Late          [X] None 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On April 06, 2024, Plaintiff Ocean
Network Express PTE LTD C/O Ocean Network Express (North America) Inc (“Plaintiff”)
filed a Complaint for breach of contract against Defendant CPJ Co., A
Corporation (“Defendant”).
 
Defendant filed its Answer to the Complaint on May 18,
2023. 
 
On December 1, 2023, Plaintiff filed the instant Motion
to Strike Defendant’s Answer to the Complaint. 
 
On April 18, 2024, the Court continued the hearing on the
instant motion for Plaintiff to provide proper notice of the correct date,
time, and place of the hearing. 
 
On April 22, 2024, Plaintiff filed and served a notice of
continued hearing with the correct date, time, and place. 
 
No opposition has been filed.
 
 
MOVING PARTY
POSITION
 
            Plaintiff moves
the Court to issue an order striking Defendant’s Answer to the Complaint on the
grounds that Defendant, as a corporation, does not have the legal capacity to
represent itself in this Court and enter default against Defendant.
 
OPPOSITION
 
            No
opposition has been filed. 
 
REPLY
 
            No reply
has been filed.
 
ANALYSIS
 
I.          Legal
Standard
            “Where a party is represented by an
attorney, his pleading need not be verified but shall be signed by the attorney
for the party. The signature of the attorney constitutes a certificate by him
that he has read the pleading and that to the best of his knowledge,
information, and belief there is ground to support it. If the pleading is not
signed or is signed with intent to defeat the purposes of this section, it may
be stricken.” (Code of Civ. Proc. § 1250.330.)
 
II.        Discussion 
 
            Plaintiff moves for the Court to issue and order striking
Defendant’s Answer to the Complaint. 
 
            Plaintiff asserts that that because
the Defendant is a corporation, Defendant’s Answer to the Complaint is improper
as it does not have the legal capacity to defend itself. The Court agrees as “[a]
corporation not itself being a natural person, can make a court appearance only
through a natural person obviously a person other than the corporate person. (Merco
Constr. Engineers, Inc. v. Municipal Court (1978) 21 Cal.3d 724, 731.)
Although a corporation has capacity to sue and defend, a corporation is
not a natural person, and therefore cannot appear in an action in propria
persona, it can appear only through counsel. (Id.) 
 
Here Defendant’s Answer appears to
indicate self-representation. This is impermissible since Defendant, as a
corporation, can only participate in the litigation if it is represented by an
attorney. 
 
Therefore, Plaintiff’s Motion to
Strike Defendant’s Answer is GRANTED. As to Plaintiff’s
request for entry of default, Plaintiff must file and serve a proper request
for entry of default on Form CIV-100.

 
III.       Conclusion 
            
            Plaintiff Ocean Network Express PTE LTD C/O Ocean Network
Express (North America) Inc’s Motion to Strike is GRANTED. Defendant’s Answer
filed on May 18, 2023 is STRICKEN. 
 
Plaintiff
must file and serve a proper request for entry of default on Form CIV-100.
            
Moving Party is ordered to give notice and to
attach the Tentative Ruling as Exhibit “A”. 
 