  Case Number:  23CHCP00018    Hearing Date:   March 21, 2024    Dept:  F51 
MARCH 20, 2024
 

DEMURRERS WITH
MOTION TO STRIKE

Los Angeles Superior Court Case
# 23CHCP00018

 
Demurrers and Motion to Strike Filed: 5/19/23
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendants Albert Gonzalez, Jr.; and
Albert Gonzalez, Sr. (collectively, “Defendants”) 
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Daniel Torres (“Plaintiff”)
NOTICE: OK
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: 
1.     
Defendant Albert Gonzalez Sr. demurs to the
second through fifth causes of action in Plaintiff’s complaint; 
2.     
Defendant Albert Gonzalez Jr. demurs to the
second and fifth causes of action in Plaintiff’s complaint; and 
3.     
Defendants move to strike paragraph 35 from
Plaintiff’s complaint.
 
TENTATIVE RULING: 
1.     
Defendant Albert Gonzalez Sr.’s demurrer is overruled
as to Plaintiff’s fourth cause of action, and sustained with 30 days leave to
amend as to Plaintiff’s second, third, and fifth causes of action; 
2.     
Defendant Albert Gonzalez Jr.’s demurrer is overruled;
and 
3.     
Defendants’ motion to strike is granted with 30
days leave to amend.
 
The Court hereby imposes $150.00 in monetary sanctions
against Defendants’ counsel for failing to reserve two separate hearing dates,
failing to separately file Defendants’ motion to strike, and failing to
properly bookmark declarations and exhibits.
 
ANALYSIS
 
This action involves a business
dispute between the parties, in which Plaintiff alleges that he and defendant
Albert Gonzalez, Jr. are members in nonmoving defendant ALALDA, LLC, with each
member holding a 50% membership interest therein. (Compl. ¶¶ 1, 2.) Plaintiff alleges that
despite their equal ownership in the company, “Defendant Albert Gonzalez, Jr.
made and continues to make decisions on behalf of ALALDA, LLC, without input
from remaining member Plaintiff, Daniel Torres. Defendant Albert Gonzalez, Jr.
has failed to maintain adequate corporate records such as articles of
incorporation complete with amendments; operating agreements and amendments;
financial statements and books and records related to the internal affairs of
the Company. Defendant Albert Gonzalez, Jr. has excluded Plaintiff Daniel
Torres from the affairs of ALALDA, LLC, without the consent of Plaintiff as
member and 50% owner.” (Id. at ¶ 21.) Plaintiff further alleges that “at
all relevant times, Albert Gonzalez Sr. was not a member of ALALDA, LLC
although upon Plaintiffs [sic] information and belief, Defendant Albert
Gonzalez Sr. mistakenly believes he holds a 33.3% membership interest.” (Id.
at ¶ 3.)
 
On 1/18/23, Plaintiff filed his
complaint, alleging against Defendants the following causes of action: (1)
Dissolution of Limited Liability Company; (2) Breach of Fiduciary Duty; (3)
Accounting; (4) Declaratory Relief; and (5) Conversion.
 
On 5/19/23, Defendants each filed a
demurrer with motion to strike against Plaintiff’s complaint, but reserved only
one hearing for the two separate motions. On 1/9/24, Plaintiff filed his
opposition to Defendant Albert Gonzalez, Jr.’s demurrer and motion to strike.
On 1/12/23, Defendant Albert Gonzalez, Sr. filed a reply.
 
On 1/19/24, the Court continued the
hearings on both demurrers and motions to strike to this date to afford the
parties the opportunity to file their oppositions and replies thereto. However,
no additional oppositions or replies have since been filed with the Court.
 
ANALYSIS
 
As a general matter, a party may respond to a pleading
against it by demurrer on the basis of any single or combination of eight
enumerated grounds, including that “the pleading does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action” and is uncertain, meaning
“ambiguous and unintelligible.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subds. (e) and
(f).) In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the
pleading or via proper judicial notice.¿(Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co.
(2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)¿
 
“A demurrer tests the pleading alone, and not the evidence
or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Servs.
(2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes the truth of the
complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Ibid.) The
only issue a demurrer is concerned with is whether the complaint, as it stands,
states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th
740, 747.) 
 
A.   
Meet and Confer
 
Before filing its demurrer, “the demurring party shall meet
and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that
is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can
be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.”
(Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41, subd. (a).) The demurring party must file and
serve a meet and confer declaration stating either: “(A) The means by which the
demurring party met and conferred with the party who filed the pleading subject
to demurrer, and that the parties did not reach an agreement resolving the
objections raised in the demurrer;” or “(B) That the party who filed the
pleading subject to demurrer failed to respond to the meet and confer request
of the demurring party or otherwise failed to meet and confer in good faith.” (Id.
at subd. (a)(3).)
 
Here, Defendants’ counsel declares that on 2/22/23, he sent
Plaintiff’s counsel a letter in an attempt to resolve the issues raised in the
instant demurrer and motion to strike. (Ex. A to Decl. of C. Scott Zeidman.) On
5/10/23, Plaintiff’s counsel responded, but the parties were unable to come to
a resolution. (Zeidman Decl. at ¶ 3.) Accordingly, the Court finds that counsel
has satisfied the preliminary meet and confer requirements of Code of
Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision (a).
 
B.    
Breach of Fiduciary Duty
 
Plaintiff’s
second cause of action alleges against all Defendants a Breach of Fiduciary Duty.
“The elements of a cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty are the
existence of a fiduciary relationship, breach of fiduciary duty, and damages.”
(Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811, 820.)
 
Here,
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant Albert Gonzalez, Jr. and “each of the
fictitiously named defendants” owed a fiduciary duty to ALALDA, LLC “to
exercise candor, good faith, loyalty and care in the management and
administration of the business affairs” thereof. (Compl. ¶¶ 28–30.) “Among the
breaches of Defendants’ fiduciary duties are corporate waste, the
misappropriate of corporate opportunities for his own personal gain, and upon
information and belief, self-dealing with other entities owned by Defendants
without appropriate disclosures and not for arms-length value.” (Id. at ¶ 32.)
 
Defendants
argue that “Plaintiff’s complaint fails to allege facts that there was any
fiduciary duty between plaintiff and Albert Gonzalez [Sr.]. Indeed, in his
verified complaint, plaintiff alleges that defendant Albert Gonzalez [Sr.] does
not own any interest in ALALDA.” (Dem. re A.G. Sr., 4:22–24.) Defendants
further assert that “while the complaint alleges a fiduciary duty between
plaintiff and defendant Albert Gonzalez, Jr., the complaint completely fails to
allege any essential facts to support a breach of such duty.” (Dem. re A.G.
Jr., 5:6–8.)
 
Defendants further
argue that “it is impossible, due to the vagueness and lack of factual
specificity to determine” whether Defendant Albert Gonzalez, Jr.’s alleged
conduct falls within the four-year statute of limitations for a Breach of
Fiduciary Duty cause of action. (Id. at 6:13–14, citing Code Civ. Proc. § 343.) The Court notes that
Plaintiff does not address this issue in his opposition. However, the Court
also notes that Defendants appear to concede that “there appears to be
sufficient, albeit not terribly specific, allegations made against Albert
Gonzalez, Jr. for pleading a cause of action for Breach of Fiduciary Duty.”
(Defs.’ Reply 3:19–20.)
 
Based on the foregoing, the
Court agrees with Defendants that as to Defendant Albert Gonzalez, Sr.,
the complaint fails to allege a relationship giving rise to a fiduciary duty
owed to Plaintiff, and any breach thereof. As to Defendant Albert Gonzalez, Jr., the Court is
satisfied that Plaintiff has alleged (1) the existence of a fiduciary
relationship between the parties; (2) Defendant
Albert Gonzalez, Jr.’s breach of his fiduciary duties; and (3) resulting
damages. (Compl. ¶¶
28, 30, 32, 34.)
 
Accordingly,
the Court sustains Defendant
Albert Gonzalez, Sr.’s demurrer and overrules Defendant Albert Gonzalez, Jr.’s demurrers as to
Plaintiff’s second cause of action.
 
C.   
Accounting
 
Plaintiff’s
third cause of action alleges an Accounting against all Defendants. “A cause of
action for an accounting requires a showing that a relationship exists between
the plaintiff and defendant that requires an accounting, and that some balance
is due the plaintiff that can only be ascertained by an accounting. An action
for accounting is not available where the plaintiff alleges the right to
recover a sum certain or a sum that can be made certain by calculation.” (Teselle
v. McLoughlin (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 156, 179.)
 
Here,
Plaintiff alleges that he is owed an accounting by Defendants because the
parties “had financial transactions with each other and owed each other a
fiduciary duty,” and “it is unknown to Plaintiff if Defendants have diverted
money or if the value of assets has been misappropriated as Plaintiff cannot
adequately ascertain without an accounting of the activities of ALALDA, LLC.”
(Compl. ¶¶ 37–39.)
 
Defendant
Albert Gonzalez, Sr. argues that Plaintiff has failed to allege a relationship
between the two giving that would require an accounting. (Dem. re A.G. Sr.,
5:16–17.) “Moreover, Plaintiff has not pled anywhere in his complaint that any
balance is due the Plaintiff that can only be ascertained by an accounting.”
(Defs.’ Reply 8:5–6.) The Court notes that Plaintiff does not address this
cause of action in his opposition.
 
Upon
review, the Court agrees with Defendant that Plaintiff has failed to allege
that a balance is due to him, and alleges only that “it is unknown to Plaintiff
if Defendants have diverted money or if the value of assets has been
misappropriated.” (Compl. ¶
39.) Based on the foregoing, the Court sustains Defendant Albert Gonzalez, Sr.’s demurrer as to
Plaintiff’s third cause of action.
 
D.   
Declaratory Relief
 
Plaintiff’s
fourth cause of action against alleges Defendants Declaratory Relief. “To
qualify for declaratory relief, a party would have to demonstrate its action
presented two essential elements: (1) a proper subject of declaratory relief,
and (2) an actual controversy involving justiciable questions relating to the
party’s rights or obligations.” (Jolley v. Chase Home Finance, LLC
(2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 872, 909.)
 
Here,
Plaintiff alleges that “an actual controversy has arisen and now exists between
Plaintiff and Defendant as to the operations of ALALDA, LLC,” and that “a
judicial determination as to the ownership interest in ALALDA, LLC” is
warranted. (Compl. ¶¶
41, 43.)
 
Defendant
Albert Gonzalez, Sr. argues that “as plaintiff alleges that Albert Gonzalez
[Sr.] is not a member of ALALDA, LLC, there could be no controversy between
plaintiff and defendant Albert Gonzalez [Sr.]. Absent such a controversy,
plaintiff cannot sue Albert Gonzalez [Sr.] for Declaratory Relief.” (Dem. re
A.G. Sr., 6:14–16.)
 
However,
the Court observes that Plaintiff has alleged that “Defendant Albert Gonzalez Sr. mistakenly believes he holds a
33.3% membership interest” in ALALDA, LLC, and it is therefore proper for Plaintiff
to seek a judicial determination of the ownership interest in the company.
(Compl. ¶ 3.) Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiff has
alleged facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action for Declaratory
Relief. Accordingly, the Court overrules Defendant Albert Gonzalez, Sr.’s
demurrer to Plaintiff’s fourth cause of action.
 
E.    
Conversion
 
Plaintiff’s
fifth cause of action alleges against Defendants Conversion. “Conversion is
generally described as the wrongful exercise of dominion over the personal
property of another.” (Fremont Indemnity Co. v. Fremont General Corp.
(2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119.) “The elements of a conversion claim are: (1)
the plaintiff’s ownership or right to possession of the property; (2) the
defendant’s conversion by a wrongful act or disposition of property rights; and
(3) damages.” (Lee v. Hanley (2015) 61 Cal.4th 1225, 1240.) It is not
necessary that there be a manual taking of the property; it is only necessary
to show an assumption of control or ownership over the property, or that the
alleged converter has applied the property to his or her own use. (Oakdale
Village Group v. Fong (1996) 43 Cal. App. 4th 539, 544.)
 
Here,
Plaintiff alleges that he “owns/possesses/has a right to possess a 50%
ownership interest in ALALDA LLC,” and that “Defendants substantially
interfered and continues to interfere with Plaintiff Daniel Torres’ property by
knowingly or intentionally depriving him of his full ownership rights in ALALDA
LLC” without his consent. (Compl. ¶¶
46–48.) “Plaintiff Daniel Torres was harmed and continues to be harmed by
Defendants [sic] actions. … Defendants’ conduct was and is a substantial factor
in causing Plaintiff Daniel Torres’ harm.” (Id. at ¶¶ 49–50.)
 
Defendants each contend that “nowhere
in the complaint does plaintiff plead that defendant … did anything to that
plaintiff’s alleged ownership interest.” (Dem. re A.G. Sr., 7:2–3; Dem.
re A.G. Jr., 7:25–26.) The Court agrees with Defendants only where Defendants’
argument applies to Defendant Albert Gonzalez, Sr. However, the Court observes
that Plaintiff has alleged that “Defendant Albert Gonzalez, Jr. handles the
day-to-day operations of ALALDA, LLC to the exclusion of Plaintiff” and that “Defendant
Albert Gonzalez, Jr. operates ALALDA, LLC. as if he was the only member” by
excluding Plaintiff from business affairs. (Compl. ¶¶ 20–21.)
 
Based on
the foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiff has alleged facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action for Conversion against Defendant Albert Gonzalez,
Jr. Accordingly, the Court sustains Defendant
Albert Gonzalez, Sr.’s demurrer and overrules Defendant Albert Gonzalez, Jr.’s demurrer as to
Plaintiff’s fifth cause of action.
 
MOTION TO STRIKE 
 
The court
may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems
proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any
pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a).) The court may also strike all or
any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this
state, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Id., § 436, subd. (b).)
The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by
way of judicial notice. (Id., § 437.) 
 
A.   
Punitive Damages
 
Punitive
damages may be recovered upon a proper showing of malice, fraud, or oppression
by clear and convincing evidence. (Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (a).) “Malice” is
defined as conduct intended to cause injury to a person or despicable conduct
carried on with a willful and conscious disregard for the rights or safety of
others. (Id. at subd. (c); Turman v. Turning Point of Cent. Cal.,
Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63.) “Oppression” means despicable conduct
subjecting a person to cruel and unjust hardship, in conscious disregard of the
person’s rights. (Ibid.) “Fraud” is an intentional misrepresentation,
deceit, or concealment of a material fact known by defendant, with intent to
deprive a person of property, rights or otherwise cause injury. (Ibid.)
 
Punitive
damages must be supported by factual allegations. Conclusory allegations,
devoid of any factual assertions, are insufficient to support a conclusion that
parties acted with oppression, fraud or malice. (Smith v. Superior Court
(1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1033, 1042; Anschutz Entertainment Group, Inc. v.
Snepp (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 598, 643.)
 
Here, Plaintiff
seeks to recover punitive damages in connection with Defendant Albert Gonzalez,
Jr.’s conduct[1]  in breaching his fiduciary duties to
Plaintiff. (Compl. ¶
35.) Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s factual allegations are not pled with
the requisite particularity and “do not constitute a claim for punitive
damages.” (MTS 6:20–21.) 
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that less particularity is required when, as here,
a defendant possesses equal knowledge of the relevant facts. (MTS Opp. 5:14–27,
citing Semole v. Sansoucie (1972) 28 Cal.App.3d 714, 719.) However, as
Defendants note in reply, the Semole Court’s finding that “less
particularity is required where the defendant may be assumed to have knowledge
of the facts equal to that possessed by the plaintiff” was applied to a
demurrer proceeding, whereas here, Plaintiff misapplies the finding to a motion
to strike a claim for punitive damages. (MTS Reply 4:18–20, citing 28
Cal.App.3d at 719.) The Court agrees.
 
Based on
the foregoing, and upon review of Plaintiff’s factual allegations, the Court
finds that Plaintiff has failed to allege facts to support a finding that
either Defendant acted with the requisite malice, fraud, or oppression
sufficient to warrant the recovery of punitive damages. Accordingly, the Court
grants Defendants’ motion to strike.
 
LEAVE TO AMEND
 
Where a
demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be allowed where there is a
reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy
(1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is on the plaintiff to show the court
that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.; Lewis v. YouTube,
LLC (2015) 244 Cal.App.4th 118, 226.) However, “[i]f there is any
reasonable possibility that the plaintiff can state a good cause of action, it
is error to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend.” (Youngman v. Nevada
Irrigation Dist. (1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245).
 
Here, the
Court notes that this is the first demurrer brought against Plaintiff’s
original complaint, and that Plaintiff has requested leave to amend. (Pl.’s
Opp. 8:11–13.) Therefore, under the Court’s liberal policy of granting leave to
amend, Plaintiff is granted 30 days leave to amend the complaint to cure the
defects set forth above. Plaintiff is cautioned that “following an order
sustaining a demurrer … with leave to amend, the plaintiff may amend his or her
complaint only as authorized by the court's order. … The plaintiff may not
amend the complaint to add a new cause of action without having obtained
permission to do so, unless the new cause of action is within the scope of the
order granting leave to amend.” (Zakk v. Diesel (2019) 33 Cal.App.5th
431, 456.)
 
CONCLUSION 
 
1.     
Defendant Albert Gonzalez Sr.’s demurrer is
overruled as to Plaintiff’s fourth cause of action, and sustained with 30 days
leave to amend as to Plaintiff’s second, third, and fifth causes of action; 
2.     
Defendant Albert Gonzalez Jr.’s demurrer is
overruled; and 
3.     
Defendants’ motion to strike is granted with 30
days leave to amend.
4.     
$150.00 monetary sanctions against Defendants’
counsel due within 30 days.  
 


