 Case Number:  23VECV04438    Hearing Date:   October 28, 2024    Dept:  W PAUL PINCKARD
vs LYFT, INC.
 
defendant
lyft, inc.’s motion to strike portions from plaintiff paul pinckard’s first
amended complaint 
 
Date of Hearing:        October 28, 2024                              Trial Date:       None
set. 
Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        23VECV04438
 
Moving Party:            Defendant
Lyft, Inc.   
Responding Party:     Plaintiff
Paul Pinckard   
Meet and Confer:      Yes
(Hughes Decl. ¶¶10-14.) 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On October 5, 2023, Plaintiff Paul
Pinckard filed a complaint against Defendant Lyft, Inc. for 1) General
Negligence; 2) Negligent Hiring, Supervision and Retention; 3) Common Carrier
Negligence; 4) Vicarious liability for Torts; 5) Vicarious liability for Assault
and Battery; and 6) NIED. Plaintiff alleges on October 12, 2021, Plaintiff was
battered by a Lyft driver while the driver was driving for Lyft. Moreover,
Plaintiff alleges the driver was impaired while driving. 
 
Plaintiff filed a first amended
complaint on July 8, 2024. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendant’s Motion to Strike Portions from Plaintiff Paul
Pinckard’s First Amended Complaint is GRANTED, in part.
 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
Defendant
requests this court take judicial notice of Plaintiff Paul Pinckard’s First
Amended Complaint, this court’s order sustaining Lyft’s Demurrer to Plaintiff
Paul Pinckard’s Complaint, and granting Lyft’s Motion to Strike with leave to
amend, and several other cases’ orders granting motion to strike punitive
damages. (RJN, Exh. A-H.) 
 
The court
GRANTS Defendant’s request for judicial notice. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendant Lyft, Inc. moves to strike portions of the FAC on the
ground that the complaint contains allegations that are irrelevant, improperly
asserted, and not drawn in conformity with the laws of this state. Plaintiff
seeks to strike: (1) Page 10, Paragraph 52; (2) Page 10-11, Paragraphs 54-56;
(3) Page 15-16, Paragraphs 93-94; (4) Page 16, Paragraph 95; (5) Page 18,
Paragraphs 109-110; (6) entire Seventh Cause of Action at pages 20-21,
Paragraphs 124-133; and (7) Page 21, Paragraph 3 of the prayer for relief. 
 
The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion,
and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper
matter inserted in any pleading. (CCP § 436(a).) The court may also strike all
or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of
this state, a court rule, or an order of the court. (CCP § 436(b).) The grounds
for a motion to strike are that the pleading has irrelevant, false or improper
matter, or has not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws. (CCP § 436.)
The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by
way of judicial notice. (CCP § 437.) Punitive damages may be imposed where
it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that the defendant has been
guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. (Civ. Code § 3294(a).)¿ A plaintiff must assert facts with specificity to support a
conclusion that a defendant acted with oppression, fraud, or malice.¿ To wit,
there is a heightened pleading requirement regarding a claim for punitive
damages.¿ (Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1033,
1041-1042.).)¿¿ 
 
Defendant seeks to strike Plaintiff’s improper amendments to the
vicarious liability claims as well as Plaintiff’s allegations relating to
punitive damages. First, Defendant argues Plaintiff exceeded the scope of this
Court’s Order granting him leave to amend the complaint by adding new
allegations to the FAC in support of causes of action that were never the
subject of Lyft’s Demurrer. Moreover, Plaintiff’s added “allegation” is one of
vicarious liability for assault and does not pertain to or support Plaintiff’s
negligence theories of liability. Notwithstanding that Plaintiff’s addition is
not a factual allegation, it pertains to Plaintiff’s Fourth or Fifth Cause of
Action for vicarious liability for intentional torts, which the court did not
grant leave to amend. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues they did not exceed the scope of
the court’s order. Rather, the FAC’s amendments are consistent with the court’s
instructions to clarify the basis of Plaintiff’s claims. The
allegations of vicarious liability for assault stem directly from Lyft’s
responsibility to ensure passenger safety and the risks inherent in their
business model, which involves interactions between drivers and passengers. 
 
The court finds the allegations in Paragraphs 52, 54, 93, 109,
124-133, and prayer for relief within the court’s order and sufficiently plead
(see discussion below). While the court did not explicitly give leave to amend
the fourth and fifth causes of action, the court ordered Plaintiff to clearly
plead whether Plaintiff was attempting to hold Defendant liable under a
respondeat superior theory for assault or a negligent hiring or supervision
theory. This in turn directly affected Plaintiff’s fourth and fifth causes of
action for vicarious liability. 
 
However, the court agrees Paragraphs 55, 56, 94, 95 (“Pursuant to
the holding in Flores”) and 110 improper. The addition of legal citations
exceeds the court order. Those paragraphs are stricken.  
 
Next, Defendant argues Plaintiff’s punitive damages allegations
remain insufficient because: (1) Plaintiff does not allege any facts rising to
the level of oppression, fraud, or malice required to give rise to punitive
damages; as well as that (2) Plaintiff cannot recover punitive damages for
conduct which Lyft did not know about or ratify. Defendant contends Plaintiff
does not identify any detailed allegations of Lyft’s alleged knowledge to
implement adequate safety measures and merely asserting that unspecified
“corporate leadership” was aware of undisclosed information regarding risks to
passengers isn’t enough to show oppression, fraud or malice. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues the complaint adequately alleges Lyft’s
corporate leadership knowingly failed to implement adequate safety measures,
despite being aware of the risks to passengers and that this decision was
motivated by profit, placing passengers like Plaintiff at risk. Specifically,
Plaintiff alleges the “decision to not take appropriate safety precautions was
a business decision ratified by the managing agents of LYFT” and “the that the
managing agents failed to implement safety precautions, despite being on notice
of its drivers committing assaults on its passengers, was motivated by profit
margins and the desire to employ as many LYFT drivers as possible.” (FAC ¶¶127,
128.)
 
The court finds the allegations sufficient for the purposes of a
motion to strike. Plaintiff alleges managing agents of Lyft decided not to take
safety precautions even though they were fully aware of the issue of assaults
committed by Lyft drivers and moreover, such conduct amounts more than just
mere negligence. Plaintiff alleges managing agents of Lyft willfully ignored
this information in order to maximize profits.
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s Motion to Strike Portions from Plaintiff
Paul Pinckard’s First Amended Complaint is GRANTED, in part. 