  Case Number:  23VECV02294    Hearing Date:   October 28, 2024    Dept:  W SUSAN NAIMI v. AZUL
VENTURES, LLC, et al.
 
plaintiff’s motion to compel the deposition of ron
rozillio and production of documents 
 
Date
of Hearing:        October 28, 2023                               Trial Date:       None
set. 
Department:              W                                                         Case No.:        23VECV02294
 
Moving Party:            Plaintiff Susan Naimi
Responding Party:     No opposition 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On May 24, 2023, Plaintiff Susan Naimi filed a complaint against
Defendants Azul Ventures, LLC, Ron Rozillio, and The Oaks of Calabasas
Homeowners’ Association for 1. Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress; 2.
Violation of CC&Rs and Architectural Guidelines; 3. Breach of Implied
Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; 4. Negligence; 5. Breach of Fiduciary
Duty; 6. Violation of CC&Rs and Architectural Guidelines; 7. Nuisance; and
8. Declaratory Relief. Plaintiff alleges this lawsuit arises out of the failure
of the HOA to enforce its Declaration of Covenants, Conditions &
Restrictions (“CC&Rs”) and other governing documents. Plaintiff alleges by
its failure to enforce its governing documents, the HOA has permitted Rozillio
to engage in a pattern of abusive conduct towards Plaintiff since acquiring the
neighboring property. 
 
On April 5, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Second Amended Complaint. 
 
Defendant Rozillio filed a Cross-Complaint against Roes 1-20 for
trespass to personal property, negligence, and intentional infliction of
emotional distress. Rozillio dismissed the Cross-Complaint on April 30, 2024. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel the Deposition of Ron Rozillio and
Production of Documents is GRANTED.
 
discussion
 
Plaintiff
Susan Naimi moves the court for an order compelling the deposition of Ron
Rozillio and production of documents as well as requests sanctions against
Defendant Rozillio in the amount of $3,595.00. Plaintiff makes the motion on
the grounds Defendant Rozillio did not appear at his duly noticed deposition,
refuses to appear for his deposition, and has failed to produce records in
response to the Requests for Production contained in the notice of deposition. 
 
“If,
after service of a deposition notice, a party . . . without having served a
valid objection . . . fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it,
or to produce for inspection any document . . . described in the deposition
notice, the party giving notice may move for an order compelling deponent’s
attendance and testimony, and the production . . . of any document . . .
described in the deposition notice.”  (CCP § 2025.450(a).) Where
a motion to compel a party’s appearance and testimony at deposition is granted,
the court shall impose a monetary sanction in favor of the party who noticed
the deposition and against the deponent, unless the court finds the one subject
to sanctions acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances
make the imposition of the sanction unjust.  (CCP § 2025.450(g)(1).)
 
On
August 30, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel requested dates from Defendant to take
Rozillio’s deposition and if counsel did not hear back by September 4, 2024,
Plaintiff would unilaterally notice the deposition. (Shenian Decl. ¶2.)
Opposing counsel responded stating that the deposition of Rozillio and Azul
should be taken together and he would furnish deposition dates for the two
later that week. (Shenian Decl. ¶2.) However, nothing was heard back. (Shenian
Decl. ¶2.) As a result, Plaintiff unilaterally set the deposition for October
1, 2024. (Shenian Decl. ¶2.) Prior to the deposition, on September 25, 2024,
Rozillio complained of service on his PO Box and claimed he would be
unavailable October 1, 2024. (Shenian Decl. ¶3.) Plaintiff’s counsel invited
Rozillio to furnish alternative dates to consider for rescheduling the
deposition; however, Rozillio did not give dates until 2.5 months later, the
earliest being mid-December. (Shenian Decl. ¶4.) Plaintiff kept the October 1,
2024 deposition on calendar. (Shenian Decl. ¶¶3-4.) Rozillio did not appear for
deposition or produce demanded documents on October 1, 2024. (Shenian Decl.
¶4.) Plaintiff’s counsel attempted to further meet and confer with Rozillio
regarding his discovery obligations. (Shenian Decl. ¶5.) Rozillio did not
cooperate. (Shenian Decl. ¶5.) 
 
Plaintiff
asserts good cause exists to compel the deposition of Rozillio because he has
failed to appear for his deposition without justification or produce the
demanded documents. Although Rozillio gave dates in mid-December, Plaintiff
argues discovery cut off is in March and mediation in February and accordingly,
Rozillio’s refusal to appear within a reasonable time compromises Plaintiff
ability to conduct follow-up discovery before mediation and trial. 
 
The
court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to compel deposition of Rozillio and production
of documents. The parties cannot come to an agreement. Although Rozillio gave
alternative dates, Rozillio has failed to oppose this motion and explain why
the deposition cannot occur for another two months. Currently, trial is set for
April 28, 2025. 
 
Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s motion to compel the deposition of Ron Rozillio and Production of
Documents is GRANTED. At the hearing, the parties are ordered to appear with
dates they are available for the deposition of Rozillio. 
 
The
court DENIES the request for sanctions. 