 Case Number:  22STCV01211    Hearing Date:   February 22, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




k’lem fitzgerald banner

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
city of los angeles

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


22STCV01211




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


February
   22, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
plaintiff’s motion for discovery of peace
  officer personnel records and other documents
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                Plaintiff K’lem Fitzgerald Banner

 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Defendant City of Los Angeles 
Motion for Discovery of Peace Officer Personnel Records and Other
Documents
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with
this motion. 
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff K’lem Fitzgerald Banner (“Plaintiff”) filed the operative
First Amended Complaint in this action against defendants City of Los Angeles
and Los Angeles Police Department, alleging five causes of action for (1)
discrimination in violation of the Fair Employment and Housing Act (“FEHA”),
(2) harassment in violation of FEHA, (3) retaliation in violation of FEHA, (4)
failure to accommodate in violation of FEHA, and (5) failure to engage in the
interactive process in violation of FEHA. 
Plaintiff now moves the court for an order, pursuant to Evidence Code
section 1043, directing the City of Los Angeles and the Los Angeles Police
Department, to make available documents that are responsive to the following
five categories: (1) any investigation(s) initiated as a result of Plaintiff’s
filing of this action on January 11, 2022; (2) any investigation(s) initiated
as a result of Plaintiff’s filing a claim with the Department of Fair
Employment and Housing on December 21, 2021 and his filing an amended claim
therewith on May 13, 2022; (3) all complaints and/or investigations initiated against
Sergeant Jerome Walker, Sergeant Wesley Ikeda, Officer David Hale, and/or
Commander Randy Goddard, as a result of Plaintiff’s complaints of
discrimination, retaliation, and/or harassment; (4) all documents containing
prior complaints of discrimination, harassment, or retaliation, against
Sergeant Jerome Walker, Sergeant Wesley Ikeda, Officer David Hale, and/or
Commander Randy Goddard; and (5) all documents containing or pertaining to
allegations, reports, complaints, and/or investigations related in any way to
Sergeant Jerome Walker, Sergeant Wesley Ikeda, Officer David Hale, and/or
Commander Randy Goddard (i) preparing or submitting false, misleading, or less-than-forthcoming
reports, (ii) making false, misleading, and/or less-than-forthcoming
statements,   (iii) engaging or
participating in alleged acts of planting evidence, (iv) engaging and/or
participating in alleged acts of failing to report or covering up violation(s)
of department policy or law, (v) using excessive force, and/or (vi) responding
to complaints or making statements made in connection with investigation(s)
into complaints that are false, misleading, or less-than-forthcoming.  (Notice of Mot, pp. 2:12-5:13; Faal Decl.,
¶ 9.)
LEGAL
STANDARD
There is a special two-step procedure for obtaining disclosure of
peace or custodial officer personnel records.¿ (Warrick v. Superior Court
(2005) 35 Cal.4th 1011, 1019.)¿ First, the party seeking disclosure must file a
motion that includes all of the following: 

Identification of the
     proceeding in which discovery or disclosure is sought, the party seeking
     discovery or disclosure, the peace or custodial officer whose records are
     sought, the governmental agency that has custody and control of the
     records, and the time and place at which the motion for discovery or
     disclosure shall be heard.¿ 


A description of the type of
     records or information sought.¿ 


Affidavits showing good cause
     for the discovery or disclosure sought, setting forth the materiality
     thereof to the subject matter involved in the pending litigation and
     stating upon reasonable belief that the governmental agency identified has
     the records or information from the records.¿ 

(Evid.
Code, § 1043, subd. (b).)¿ 
The “good cause” declaration must be sufficiently specific “to
preclude the possibility of [the movant] simply casting about for any helpful
information.”¿ (People v. Mooc (2001) 26 Cal.4th 1216, 1226.)¿ The
moving party need show only a “plausible factual foundation” for discovery --
i.e., a scenario of officer misconduct that might occur or could have occurred.
(Warrick, supra, 35 Cal.4th at p. 1026; see also Blumberg v.
Superior Court (2011) 197 Cal.App.4th 1245, 1248 [“‘[T]he good cause
requirement embodies a “relatively low threshold” for discovery’ [citation],
under which a defendant need demonstrate only ‘a logical link between the
defense proposed and the pending charge’ and describe with some specificity
‘how the discovery being sought would support such a defense or how it would
impeach the officer’s version of the events’ [citation].”]; Becerrada v.
Superior Court (2005) 131 Cal.App.4th 409, 413 [“A showing of good cause is
measured by ‘relatively relaxed standards’ that serve to ‘insure the
production’ for trial court review of ‘all potentially relevant documents’”].)¿
A declaration by counsel, on information and belief, may be sufficient.¿ (People
v. Oppel (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 1146, 1153, fn. 6.)¿ 
Second, if the court finds good cause, then an in camera examination
must be held.¿ (Slayton v. Superior Court (2006) 146 Cal.App.4th 55,
61.)¿ After examining the records in camera, the trial court shall order
disclosure of peace officer personnel records that are “‘relevant to the
subject matter involved in the pending litigation.’”¿ (People v. Mooc, supra,
26 Cal.4th at p. 1226.)¿ The court must exclude from disclosure “[f]acts sought
to be disclosed that are so remote as to make disclosure of little or no
practical benefit.”¿ (Evid. Code, § 1045, subd. (b)(2).)¿ “In determining
relevance where the issue in litigation concerns the policies or pattern of
conduct of the employing agency, the court shall consider whether the
information sought may be obtained from other records maintained by the
employing agency in the regular course of agency business which would not
necessitate the disclosure of individual personnel records.”¿ (Evid. Code, §
1045, subd. (c).)¿ If disclosure is ordered, the court must also order that the
disclosed information may not be used “for any purpose other than a court
proceeding pursuant to applicable law.”¿ (Evid. Code, § 1045, subd.
(e).)¿¿ 
DISCUSSION
Plaintiff contends that there is good cause to disclose the documents
requested in the five categories set forth above because (1) they are relevant
to Plaintiff’s claims that he was subjected to discrimination, harassment,
and/or retaliation by defendants City of Los Angeles and the Los Angeles Police
Department (collectively, “City”), including wrongful conduct committed by
Sergeant Jerome Walker, Sergeant Wesley Ikeda, Officer David Hale, and/or
Commander Randy Goddard, (2) they may identify witnesses or evidence not yet
discovered, and (3) they may assist the trier of fact in evaluating the
credibility of witnesses.  (Faal Decl.,
¶¶ 7, 11-14; FAC ¶¶ 22-24, 26-27 [alleging conduct involving Sergeant
Jerome Walker, Sergeant Wesley Ikeda, Officer David Hale, and/or Commander
Randy Goddard].) 
First, the court finds that Plaintiff has established that the
information sought by categories one through four are material to Plaintiff’s
claims that City and its employees (including Sergeant Jerome Walker, Sergeant
Wesley Ikeda, Officer David Hale, and/or Commander Randy Goddard) discriminated
against, harassed, and retaliated against Plaintiff in violation of FEHA.  (Evid. Code, § 1043, subd. (b)(3); Faal
Decl., ¶¶ 7, 11-14.)  Plaintiff’s counsel
has also stated their reasonable belief that City has the requested records or
information sought from the records. 
(Evid. Code, § 1043, subd. (b)(3); Faal Decl., ¶ 18.)  The court therefore finds that Plaintiff has
established good cause for this discovery. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1043, subd. (b)(3).)  
Second, the court finds that the fifth category requesting documents
containing or pertaining to allegations that Sergeant Jerome Walker, Sergeant
Wesley Ikeda, Officer David Hale, and/or Commander Randy Goddard prepared false
or misleading reports, made false or misleading statements (including in
connection with investigations into complaints), planted evidence, covered up
violations of law, or used excessive force is overbroad and includes records
that are not material to the subject matter involved in the pending
litigation.  (Faal Decl., ¶ 9.)  The court therefore finds that Plaintiff has
not established good cause for this discovery. 
(Evid. Code, § 1043, subd. (b)(3).) 
Thus, the court finds that Plaintiff has demonstrated good cause for
the production of records relating to the first through fourth categories of
information set forth in Plaintiff’s notice of motion.  (Not. of Mot., p. 2:12-4:18.)
ORDER
            The court grants in part plaintiff
K’lem Fitzgerald Banner’s motion for discovery of peace officer personnel records
and other documents as follows. 
            The court orders the custodian of
records for the City of Los Angeles and the Los Angeles Police Department to
appear and produce the documents set forth below for an in camera review by the
court on __________________, 2024, at 1:30 p.m., in Department 53.  
            The court orders the custodian of
records for the City of Los Angeles and the Los Angeles Police Department, or
its agents, to produce the following documents:
1.    
Any investigation initiated as a result of
plaintiff K’lem Fitzgerald Banner’s filing of this action (Case No.
22STCV01211), including the following:
a.     
The complaint form, complaint adjudication form,
complaint review report, letter of transmittal, and complaint investigation.
b.    
Investigation addenda and exhibits, witness
interviews and/or statements, photos, correspondence, witness lists, rough
notes, investigator’s log, materials related to the disposition of the
investigation, including but not limited to any disciplinary actions
recommended or taken, any response by the accused, military endorsement(s), and
any other follow-up or action. 
c.     
All audio, video, and/or digital recordings and
transcripts of witness interviews or statements. 
d.    
Any Professional Standards Unit “investigative
package” associated with this investigation. 
2.    
Any investigation initiated as a result of
plaintiff K’lem Fitzgerald Banner’s filing of (1) a claim with the Department
of Fair Employment and Housing on December 21, 2021, and (2) an amended claim
on May 13, 2022 (DFEH Matter No. 202122-15690121), including:
a.     
The complaint form, complaint adjudication form,
complaint review report, letter of transmittal, and complaint investigation.
b.    
Investigation addenda and exhibits, witness
interviews and/or statements, photos, correspondence, witness lists, rough
notes, investigator’s log, materials related to the disposition of the
investigation, including but not limited to any disciplinary actions
recommended or taken, any response by the accused, military endorsement(s), and
any other follow-up or action.
c.     
All audio, video, and/or digital recordings and
transcripts of witness interviews or statements.
d.    
Any Professional Standards Unit “investigative
package” associated with this investigation.
3.    
All complaints and/or investigations initiated
against (1) Sergeant Jerome Walker,  (2)
Sergeant Wesley Ikeda, (3) Officer David Hale, and/or (4) Commander Randy
Goddard, as a result of plaintiff K’lem Fitzgerald Banner’s complaints of
discrimination, retaliation, and/or harassment, including:
a.     
The complaint form (Form No. 1.28), complaint
adjudication form, complaint review report, letter of transmittal, and
complaint investigation.
b.    
Investigation addenda and exhibits, witness
interviews and/or statements, photos, correspondence, witness lists, rough
notes, investigator’s log, materials related to the disposition of the
investigation, including but not limited to any disciplinary actions
recommended or taken, any response by the accused, military endorsement(s), and
any other follow-up or action.
c.     
All audio, video, and/or digital recordings and
transcripts of witness interviews or statements.
d.    
Any Internal Affairs “Investigative Package”
associated with this investigation. 
4.    
All documents containing prior complaints of
discrimination, harassment, or retaliation against (1) Sergeant Jerome Walker,
(2) Sergeant Wesley Ikeda,             
(3) Officer David Hale, and/or (4) Commander Randy Goddard, as a result
of complaints of discrimination, retaliation, and/or harassment, including:
a.     
The complaint form (Form No. 1.28), complaint
adjudication form, complaint review report, letter of transmittal, and
complaint investigation.
b.    
Investigation addenda and exhibits, witness
interviews and/or statements, photos, correspondence, witness lists, rough
notes, investigator’s log, materials related to the disposition of the
investigation, including but not limited to any disciplinary actions
recommended or taken, any response by the accused, military endorsement(s), and
any other follow-up or action.
c.     
All audio, video, and/or digital recordings and
transcripts of witness interviews or statements.
d.    
Any Internal Affairs “investigative package”
associated with this investigation. 
The court orders that all such documents shall be produced for an in
camera examination by the court.  The court will conduct an in camera
examination of the records to determine the relevance of the materials to this
action.  (People v. Gill (1997) 60 Cal.App.4th 793, 749.)  The
scope of the in camera examination will be governed by Evidence Code section
1045, subdivisions (b) and (c).  
The court orders plaintiff
K’lem Fitzgerald Banner to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
DATED:  February 22, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court