 Case Number:  23STCP04539    Hearing Date:   February 22, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




in re PETITION OF: 

   J.G. WENTWORTH ORIGINATIONS, LLC

   ;
 
Petitioner,
 
and
 
 
robert hufstader

   ;
 
Real Party in Interest / Transferor.


Case
  No.:


23STCP04539




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


February
   22, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
petitioner’s petition for approval for
  transfer of payment rights
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Petitioner J.G. Wentworth
Originations, LLC           
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Berkshire Hathaway Life Insurance Company
of Nebraska
Petition for Approval for Transfer of Payment Rights
The court
considered the moving papers and the response filed in connection with this petition.

BACKGROUND
Claimant Robert Hufstader
(“Hufstader”) settled a personal injury claim in July 2021, which entitles Hufstader
to receive monthly payments under a structured settlement.  (Hufstader Decl., ¶ 4; Verified Petition
for Approval for Transfer of Payment Rights filed December 18, 2023 (“Pet.”)
¶ 3.)  Hufstader has agreed to sell,
and petitioner J.G. Wentworth Originations, LLC (“Petitioner”) has agreed to
purchase, 211 monthly payments of $2,890 each, beginning on March 1, 2024 and
ending on September 1, 2041.  (Pet., p.
2, ¶ 7; Pet., p. 7, ¶ 2; First Amended Exhibit A to Pet. filed February 7, 2024
(“Amended Ex. A”), ¶ 2.)  Hufstader will
receive $285,000 in exchange for the transfer of the payment rights described
above.  (Pet., Amended Ex. A, ¶ 10.)

Petitioner now seeks court
approval of the transfer agreement pursuant to Insurance Code section 10134 et
seq.  
LEGAL STANDARD
“A
direct or indirect transfer of structured settlement payment rights is not
effective and a structured settlement obligor or annuity issuer is not required
to make any payment directly or indirectly to any transferee of structured
settlement payment rights” unless the court approves the transfer in advance.¿
(Ins. Code, § 10139.5, subd. (a).)¿ To approve the settlement, the court must
make express written findings that:¿¿

The transfer is in the best
     interest of the payee, taking into account the welfare and support of the
     payee’s dependents.¿¿¿¿¿ 


The payee has been advised in
     writing by the transferee to seek independent professional advice
     regarding the transfer and has either received that advice or knowingly
     waived, in writing, the opportunity to receive the advice.¿¿¿¿¿ 


The transferee has complied
     with the notification requirements pursuant to paragraph (2) of
     subdivision (f), the transferee has provided the payee with a disclosure
     form that complies with Section 10136, and the transfer agreement complies
     with Sections 10136 and 10138.¿¿¿¿¿ 


The transfer does not
     contravene any applicable statute or the order of any court or other
     government authority.¿¿¿¿¿ 


The payee understands the
     terms of the transfer agreement, including the terms set forth in the
     disclosure statement required by Section 10136.¿¿¿¿¿ 


The payee understands and
     does not wish to exercise the payee’s right to cancel the transfer
     agreement.¿¿¿¿¿ 

(Ins.
Code, § 10139.5, subd. (a)(1)-(6).)¿¿¿¿¿ 
“When determining whether the proposed transfer should be approved,
including whether the transfer is fair, reasonable, and in the payee’s best
interest, taking into account the welfare and support of the payee’s
dependents, the court shall consider the totality of the circumstances,”
including the 15 circumstances set forth in Insurance Code § 10139.5,
subdivision (b)(1)-(15).¿¿¿¿
DISCUSSION
Based
on the Petition, the documents submitted in support of the Petition, and the
response papers filed by the annuity issuer, Berkshire Hathaway Life Insurance
Company of Nebraska (“BHLN”), the court finds and orders as follows. 
First,
the court finds that the Petition does not include all of the information
required by statute. 
“Every
petition for approval of a transfer of structured settlement payment rights,
except as provided in subdivision (d), shall include, to the extent known after
the transferee has made reasonable inquiry with the payee, all of the
following: [¶] (1) The payee’s name, address, and age.”[1]  (Ins. Code, § 10139.5, subd. (c)(1).)  The Petition and supporting documents do not
include Hufstader’s address and are
therefore incomplete.  (Pet.; Hufstader
Decl., ¶ 8 [stating only that his address “is on Hauser Blvd., Los
Angeles, CA., 90036”].)  
Thus, the Petition and supporting papers filed with the court and served
on the interested parties are incomplete. 
(Ins. Code, § 10139.5, subd. (c)(1).) 
Second, the court finds that Petitioner has not provided all of the statutorily
required information to Hufstader’s previous attorney. 
Insurance
Code section 10139.5 states that, if the payee entered into the structured
settlement at issue within five years prior to the date of the transfer
agreement, the transferee shall provide notice to the payee’s attorney of
record at the time the structured settlement is created.  (Ins. Code, § 10139.5, subd. (f)(2)(L).)  The notice shall include the language set
forth by statute and the “name, address and telephone number of [the] payee. .
. .”  (Ibid.)  
As
set forth above, Hufstader
entered into the structured settlement agreement in July 2021, i.e., within
five years of the date of the transfer agreement that is the subject of this Petition.  (Pet., ¶¶ 3 [Hufstader settled his
personal injury claim on or about July 15, 2021], 4 [Hufstader has agreed to
transfer 211 monthly payments beginning March 1, 2024].)  Petitioner
filed, on December 21, 2023, a “Notice to the Settlement Attorney of Record of
Filing of Petition for Approval for Transfer of Payment Rights,” which provided
notice to Hufstader’s former
attorney of the purchase agreement at issue in the Petition.  (Dec. 21, 2023 Notice to Settlement Attorney,
p. 2.)  As noted by BHLN, the Notice does
not set forth Hufstader’s address and telephone number.  (Ibid.)  The court notes that Petitioner has also
submitted a copy of the transmittal sheet also served on counsel with the
Notice, which includes Hufstader’s address. 
However, the transmittal sheet does not include Hufstader’s telephone
number as required.  (Feb. 8, 2024 Ramos
Decl., Ex. C, p. 1.)  
Thus, Petitioner’s notice to Hufstader’s former attorney is
incomplete.  (Ins. Code, § 10139.5, subd.
(f)(2)(L).)
Third, the court finds that Petitioner’s proofs of service on Hufstader
are incomplete and therefore defective.  
Proof of service by mail may be shown by submitting an affidavit setting
forth, inter alia, “the name and address of the person served as shown
on the envelope . . . .”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1013a, subd. (a).)  Here,
the proofs of service as to the Petition, notice of hearing on the Petition,
amended exhibit A to the petition, and declarations of Hufstader omit
Hufstader’s mailing address.  (Proof of
Service filed Jan. 4, 2024, p. 4 [Service list stating “Payee address to be provided
at hearing”]; Amended Ex. A, p. 17 [Service list stating “Payee address to be
provided at hearing”]; Hufstader Decl., p. 6 [Service list stating “Payee
address to be provided at hearing”]; Supp. Hufstader Decl., p. 4 [Service list stating
“Payee address to be provided at hearing”].) 

The court notes that, on February 8, 2024, Petitioner submitted the
declaration of Marvin J. Ramos, in which Ramos states that on December 21,
2023, he served the Petition on Hufstader at 340 Hauser Blvd., #137, Los
Angeles, California, 90036.  (Feb. 8,
2024 Ramos Decl., ¶ 6.)  While this
may cure the defect as to service of the Petition, Ramos did not state that he
also served on Petitioner, at that address, the other documents filed in
support of the Petition.  For example,
Petitioner filed its “1st Amended Exhibit ‘A’ to Petition for Approval for Transfer
of Payment Rights” on February 7, 2024, attaching an amended version of the
California Purchase Contract that is the subject of this Petition.  A copy of the proposed transfer agreement is
required to be served on Hufstader. 
(Ins. Code, § 10139.5, subd. (f)(2)(B).)  However, Petitioner has not submitted a
complete proof of service establishing that Hufstader has been served with this
exhibit.  Moreover, Ramos did not state,
in his declaration, that he served on Hufstader the notice of the hearing on
the Petition as required.  (Feb. 8, 2024
Ramos Decl., ¶ 6 [stating that he served only “the Verified Petition for
Approval for Transfer of Payment Rights” on Hufstader]; Ins. Code, § 10139.5,
subd. (f)(2)(K) [not less than 20 days before the hearing on the petition, the
transferee shall file and serve on all interested parties “Notification of the
time and place of the hearing”].) 
Thus, the proofs of service of the documents filed in support of the
Petition on Hufstader are incomplete and therefore defective.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1013a, subd. (a).)
Because
Petitioner has not complied with all the requirements set forth in Insurance
Code section 10139.5, the court denies Petitioner’s Petition, without prejudice
to Petitioner’s filing and serving an amended petition for the approval of the
transfer of payment rights that cures these defects. 
ORDER

            The court denies petitioner J.G.
Wentworth Originations, LLC’s Petition for Approval for Transfer of Payment
Rights, without prejudice. 
            The court orders Berkshire Hathaway Life Insurance Company of Nebraska to
give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
DATED:  February 22, 2024
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


