 Case Number:  23STCV03828    Hearing Date:   September 9, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
February 22, 2023, Plaintiff S.B. (“Plaintiff”), by and through his guardian ad
litem La Shae Bowen, filed this action against Defendants Los Angeles Unified
School District (“District”), Principal Gabriel Arreguin (“Arreguin”), and Does
1-20 for negligent supervision and general negligence. 
On
March 10, 2023, the Court appointed La Shae Bowen to serve as Plaintiff’s
guardian ad litem. 
On
May 15, 2023, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint. 
On
June 20, 2023, Plaintiff filed a second amended complaint against the District, Arreguin, and Does 1-20 for
negligent supervision, negligence, and punitive damages. 
On
August 21, 2023, Plaintiff filed a third amended complaint against the District, Arreguin, and Does 1-20 for
negligent supervision and negligence.  
On
August 28, 2023, the District and Arreguin (“Defendants”) filed an answer to the third amended complaint. 
On
August 8, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel Eric Edward Menoyo, The Firm LA, P.C.,
Malik C. Burroughs, and Bryan C. Winn filed a motion to be relieved as counsel.  The motion was set for hearing on September
9, 2024.  On August 26, 2024, Defendants
filed a notice of non-opposition. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for December 18, 2024. 
COUNSEL’S REQUEST 
Plaintiff’s
counsel ask to be relieved as counsel. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, provides: 
“(a) Notice 
“A notice of motion and motion to be relieved as
counsel under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(2) must be directed to the
client and must be made on the Notice of Motion and Motion to Be Relieved as
Counsel-Civil (form MC-051). 
“(b) Memorandum 
“Notwithstanding any other rule of court, no
memorandum is required to be filed or served with a motion to be relieved as
counsel. 
“(c) Declaration 
“The motion to be relieved as counsel must be
accompanied by a declaration on the Declaration in Support of Attorney's Motion
to Be Relieved as Counsel-Civil (form MC-052). The declaration must state in
general terms and without compromising the confidentiality of the
attorney-client relationship why a motion under Code of Civil Procedure section
284(2) is brought instead of filing a consent under Code of Civil Procedure
section 284(1). 
“(d) Service 
“The notice of motion and
motion, the declaration, and the proposed order must be served on the client and on all other parties
who have appeared in the case. The notice may be by personal service,
electronic service, or mail. 
“(1) If the notice is served on the client by mail
under Code of Civil Procedure section 1013, it must be accompanied by a
declaration stating facts showing that either: 
“(A) The service address is the current residence or
business address of the client; or 
“(B) The service address is the last known residence
or business address of the client and the attorney has been unable to locate a
more current address after making reasonable efforts to do so within 30 days
before the filing of the motion to be relieved. 
“(2) If the notice is served on the client by
electronic service under Code of Civil Procedure section 1010.6 and rule 2.251,
it must be accompanied by a declaration stating that the electronic service
address is the client's current electronic service address. 
“As used in this rule, ‘current’ means that the
address was confirmed within 30 days before the filing of the motion to be
relieved. Merely demonstrating that the notice was sent to the client's last
known address and was not returned or no electronic delivery failure message
was received is not, by itself, sufficient to demonstrate that the address is
current. If the service is by mail, Code of Civil Procedure section 1011(b)
applies. 
“(e) Order 
“The proposed order relieving counsel must be prepared
on the Order Granting Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel-Civil (form
MC-053) and must be lodged with the court with the moving papers. The order
must specify all hearing dates scheduled in the action or proceeding, including
the date of trial, if known. If no hearing date is presently scheduled, the
court may set one and specify the date in the order. After the order is signed,
a copy of the signed order must be served on the client and on all parties that
have appeared in the case. The court may delay the effective date of the order
relieving counsel until proof of service of a copy of the signed order on the
client has been filed with the court.” 
(Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1362.) 
DISCUSSION 
Counsel’s
notice of motion and motion (Form MC-051) states that the withdrawing attorneys
are Eric Edward Menoyo, The Firm LA,
P.C., Malik C. Burroughs, and Bryan C. Winn. 
Form
MC-052 (the declaration) and Form MC-053 (the proposed order) list only Eric Edward Menoyo and The Firm LA, P.C., as the
withdrawing attorneys. 
Counsel
should clarify which attorneys seek to be relieved as counsel. 
In
addition, the proof of service must show service on all parties that have
appeared in the action.  (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1362(d).)  Counsel’s proof
of service does not show service on Defendants. 
The
Court denies the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court DENIES without prejudice counsel for Plaintiff S.B.’s motion to be
relieved as counsel. 
Counsel
is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Counsel
is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court within
five days.