  Case Number:  24STCV02046    Hearing Date:   January 8, 2025    Dept:  73 01/08/2025
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf M. Treu,
Judge presiding
 
Claire Donahue v. 427 S Mariposa
Partners, LP, et al. (24STCV02046)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff/opposing party: Grand Park Law Group, A.P.C.
Counsel for
Defendant/moving party: Nicolson Law Group, P.C.
 
motion to compel further responses to
requests for production (filed 08/06/2024)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Defendant 427 S Mariposa Partners, LP’s Motion
to Compel Plaintiff’s Further Responses to Request for Production, Set One is
GRANTED. Plaintiff is hereby ordered to provide further verified responses,
without objections, to Defendant’s Request for Production of Documents, Set One
within 30 days of the date of this order.
 
The Court further GRANTS Defendant 427 S
Mariposa Partners, LP’s request for monetary sanctions against Plaintiff and
Plaintiff’s counsel in the reduced amount of $1,360.00. Said monetary sanctions
are to be paid to Defendant’s counsel within 30 days of the date of this order.
 
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On January 26, 2024, Plaintiff Claire Donahue (“Plaintiff”)
brought this action against Defendants 427 S Mariposa Partners, LP; LA Urban
Living LLC; Jeclim LLC; Jeremy Miller; Philip G. Miller and Annie Boxell
(collectively, “Defendants”).
 
The Complaint alleges the following. Plaintiff was an occupant of
real property located at 427 S 
Mariposa, Unit 511 Los Angeles, CA (the “Property”) as a
lessee/tenant under a written lease 
with Defendants. Plaintiff alleges that on April 6, 2020,
Plaintiff reported an active leak and 
water damage in the bedroom ceiling to management, who
acknowledged the issue but failed to 
conduct repairs despite multiple follow-ups. On January 25, 2022,
Plaintiff discovered additional 
mold growth in the bedroom after heavy rains. Plaintiff informed
the building manager and 
requested repairs. During Plaintiff’s tenancy, Defendants failed
to maintain the Property in a safe 
and habitable condition. Plaintiff was eventually forced to vacate
the Property due to health 
issues while living in the Property. Defendants constructively
evicted Plaintiff from the 
Property—having refused to make the required repairs to the
Property and ensure the Property be 
made safe and habitable, and after Plaintiff told Defendants that
Plaintiff suspected that the 
fungal growth at the Property was making Plaintiff sick. 
 
The Complaint alleges the following causes of action:
1.     
Breach of the implied warranty of habitability;
2.     
Nuisance;
3.     
Breach of contract;
4.     
Negligence;
5.     
Negligent misrepresentation;
6.     
Constructive eviction;
7.     
Premises liability;
8.     
Fraud; and
9.     
Intentional infliction of emotional distress.
 
On August 6, 2024, Defendant 427 S Mariposa Partners, LP (“Defendant” or
“Mariposa”) filed a motion to compel Plaintiff’s further responses to requests
for production, set one, and request for monetary sanctions, arguing:
·      
Defendant properly served Plaintiff
electronically with its Requests for Production of Documents, Set One (“RPDs”) on
March 22, 2024.
·      
On April 25, 2024, Defendant sent an
email to Plaintiff’s counsel to confer about Plaintiff’s failure to respond.
·      
On April 25, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel
claimed that Defendant failed to properly serve their written discovery
responses.
·      
On April 30, 2024, Defendant granted
Plaintiff an extension of time to provide Defendant with her responses based on
a service date of April 30, 2024, making Plaintiff’s responses due on or before
June 4, 2024.
·      
On June 7, 2024, after still not
receiving Plaintiff’s responses, Defendant again granted Plaintiff an extension
of time to provide Defendant with her responses until June 14, 2024.
·      
On June 18, 2024, Plaintiff
electronically served Plaintiff’s Responses to Defendant’s Requests for
Production. However, these responses were not tailored specifically to
Defendant’s RPDs. Further, Plaintiff produced only one document in response to
Defendant’s 47 requests.
·      
On July 29, 2024, Defendant sent
Plaintiff’s counsel a formal meet and confer letter identifying the
deficiencies in Plaintiff’s responses. Defendant requested code-compliant
responses by Friday 2, 2024.
·      
On Monday August 5, 2024, having not
received any communications from Plaintiff’s counsel, Defendant wrote to
Plaintiff’s counsel to arrange an informal discovery conference and an
extension of time to file any required motions to compel further responses.
·      
On Tuesday August 6, 2024, having not
received any communications from Plaintiff’s counsel, Defendant filed the
instant motion to compel further responses.
No opposition has been filed. On
December 31, 2024, Defendant filed a notice of non-opposition. 
 
II. ANALYSIS
 
A.      Legal
Standard for Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production of
Documents
 
“A party may
demand that any other party produce . . . a document that is in the possession,
custody, or control of the party on whom the demand is made.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2031.010(b).) The demanding party may move for an order compelling further
response to the demand if the demanding party deems that (1) a statement of
compliance with the demand is incomplete, (2) a representation of inability to
comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive, or (3) an objection in the
response is without merit or too general. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310(a).) 
 
“The motion
shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the discovery
sought by the demand,” and “[t]he motion shall be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration under Section 2016.040.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310(b).)
On the other hand, the respondent has the burden to justify objections in
response to a motion filed to compel further responses. (Fairmont Ins. Co.
v. Super. Ct. (2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255.)
 
To show good
cause, the movant must demonstrate specific facts showing relevance of the
requested documents. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310(b)(1); TBG Ins. Servs.
Corp v. Super. Ct. (2002) 96 Cal.App.4th 443, 448.) To satisfy this
fact-specific good cause inquiry, the movant must identify a disputed fact that
is of consequence in the action and explain how the discovery sought will tend
in reason to prove or disprove that fact or lead to other evidence that will
tend to prove or disprove the fact. (Calcor Space Facility v. Super. Ct.
(1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216, 224 (directing trial court to vacate its order
compelling the defendant to produce records because the plaintiff failed to
provide specific facts showing good cause for their production).)
 
B.      Defendant’s
Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Further Responses to RPDs
 
Here,
Defendant has presented sufficient facts to demonstrate good cause justifying
further responses to its RPDs, as well as demonstrating a good faith attempt to
meet and confer to solve the issues informally. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2031.310(b)(1); TBG Ins. Servs. Corp., supra, 96 Cal.App.4th at p. 448.)
 
In support of
its motion, Defendant presented the Declaration of Christine R. Ghattas
(“Ghattas Decl.”), Defendant’s counsel of record, which states the following
facts: 
 
On March 22,
2024, Defendant served Plaintiff electronically with its RPDs. (Ghattas Decl.,
¶ 2; Exh. A.) Plaintiff’s responses were due on April 24, 2024, 30 days
following service, plus an additional two court days for electronic service.
(Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.260(a) ; 1013 (a).) However, Plaintiff
failed to provide responses by this date. (Ghattas Decl., ¶ 3.) After
communications between counsel for Defendant and Plaintiff where Defendant’s
counsel granted Plaintiff multiple extensions to her deadline to provide
responses, on June 7, 2024, Defendant ultimately granted Plaintiff an extension
to provide her responses without objections by June 14, 2024. (Id., ¶¶
4-9; Exhs. B.) 
 
On June 18,
2024, Plaintiff electronically served her responses to Defendant’s RPDs.
(Ghattas Decl., ¶ 10; Exh. C.) However, such responses were deficient for
multiple reasons, including the following:
1.       Plaintiff’s responses listed requests that she
was purportedly responding to that are completely different than the ones
Defendants actually made. (Compare Id., Exh. A, at p. 4 (“REQUEST
FOR PRODUCTION NO. 1: [¶] Please produce all DOCUMENTS you
identified or relied on in preparing your responses to the Interrogatories
served concurrently with this Request for Production.”); Id., Exh. C, at
p. 5 (“REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 1 [¶] Please provide any and
all documents, writings, notes, records, reports and other tangible items which
support the contentions supported at paragraph 15 of your complaint.”))
2.      Plaintiff’s responses
referenced exhibits that she did not actually produce. (See Id., Exh. C,
at p. 6-11.)
3.      Plaintiff’s
responses entirely ignored Defendant’s RPDs Nos. 27-47. (See Id., Exh.
C, at p. 6-11.)
4.      Plaintiff
produced only one document in response to Defendant’s 47 individual requests
targeting documents related to Plaintiff’s medical treatment, lost income,
specific contentions made in Plaintiff’s Complaint, and more. (See Id.,
Exh. A.)
 
On July 29,
2024, Defendant’s counsel sent Plaintiff’s counsel a formal meet and confer
letter identifying Defendant’s claimed deficiencies in Plaintiff’s production
and requesting that Plaintiff provide code-compliant responses to Defendant’s
RPDs by Friday, August 2, 2024. (Ghattas Decl., ¶ 11, Exh. D.) On August 5,
2024, having not received any communications from Plaintiff’s counsel,
Defendant’s counsel sent an additional meet and confer correspondence
requesting an informal discovery conference and an extension of time to file
any motions to compel further responses. (Id., ¶ 12, Exh. E.) Again,
Plaintiff’s counsel did not provide any response.
 
This evidence
is sufficient to demonstrate good cause justifying Plaintiff’s further
response, or in some cases initial response, to Defendant’s RPDs. Further,
Plaintiff’s lack of opposition waives any potential justification for any
potential objections Plaintiff may have had to any of Defendant’s RPDs. 
 
Accordingly,
the Court GRANTS Defendant’s motion to compel plaintiff’s further responses to requests
for production, set one.
 
C.      Defendant’s
Request for Monetary Sanctions
 
In
connection with its motion, Defendant also requests the imposition of monetary
sanctions on Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s counsel for their misuse of the
discovery process. Defendant’s request totals $2,140.00, representing 4.5 hours
preparing this motion and related documents, 1.0 hours anticipated to prepare a
reply, and 2.5 hours anticipated to prepare for and attend the hearing on this
motion charged at a $260 per hour fee, as well as a $60.00 filing fee for this
motion. (Ghattas Decl., ¶¶ 14-15.)
 
Code
Civ. Proc., section 2031.310, subdivision (h), provides as follows: “[T]he
court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section
2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to compel further response to a demand, unless it finds that
the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that
other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Ibid.)
 
Code
Civ. Proc., section 2023.010, defines misuses of the discovery process to
include “[f]ailing to respond or to submit to an authorized method of
discovery[,]” “[m]aking an evasive response to discovery[,]” and “[f]ailing to
confer in person, by telephone, or by letter with an opposing party or attorney
in a reasonable and good faith attempt to resolve informally any dispute
concerning discovery, if the section governing a particular discovery motion
requires to filing of a declaration stating facts showing that an attempt at
informal resolution has been made.” (Id. at subds. (d), (f), and (i).)
Further, Code Civ. Proc., section 2023.030, provides that “[t]he court may
impose a monetary sanction ordering that the one engaging in the misuse of the
discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the
reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result
of that conduct.” (Id. at subd. (a).)
 
Here,
the facts described above, as well as Plaintiff’s failure to oppose Defendant’s
instant, justify the imposition of monetary sanctions against Plaintiff and
Plaintiff’s counsel for misuse of the discovery process. However, since the
motion is unopposed, the Court will not award Defendant’s anticipated fees for
preparing a Reply. Further, the Court finds that 2.5 anticipated hours to
prepare for and attend the hearing on an unopposed motion is unreasonable, and
that 4.5 hours to prepare a relatively simple discovery motion is not
reasonable given counsel’s level of expertise. The Court awards Defendant’s
attorney’s fees for 5.0 hours of attorney work and for the filing fee. Thus,
monetary sanctions are awarded in the reduced amount of $1,360.00.
 
Accordingly,
the Court GRANTS Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions against Plaintiff
and Plaintiff’s counsel in the reduced amount of $1,360.00.
 

III. DISPOSITION
 
Defendant 427 S Mariposa
Partners, LP’s Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Further Responses to Request for
Production, Set One is GRANTED. Plaintiff is hereby ordered to provide further
verified responses, without objections, to Defendant’s Request for Production
of Documents, Set One within 30 days of the date of this order.
 
The Court further GRANTS
Defendant 427 S Mariposa Partners, LP’s request for monetary sanctions against
Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s counsel in the reduced amount of $1,360.00. Said
monetary sanctions are to be paid to Defendant’s counsel within 30 days of the
date of this order.