  Case Number:  23TRCV00057    Hearing Date:   October 9, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                 
          Wednesday, October 9, 2024
Department M                                                                                                       Calendar
No. 13
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
            Ronald Williams v. Torrance Memorial Medical Center, et al.
            23TRCV00057
1.      Ronald Williams’ Motion to Compel Further
Responses to Demand for Production of Documents, Set 12 
2.      Ronald Williams’ Motion to Compel Further
Responses to Demand for Production of Documents, Set 14, and Request for
Sanctions 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Ronald Williams’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Demand for
Production of Documents, Set 12, is granted, in part.
 
            Ronald
Williams’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Demand for Production of Documents,
Set 14, and Request for Sanctions is denied.
 
            Background
 
            Plaintiff
filed the Complaint on January 6, 2023. Plaintiff alleges the following facts. Plaintiff’s
wife, Chionese Agee, died on November 9, 2022, after surgery at defendant’s
hospital. Plaintiff alleges the following cause of action: 1. Wrongful Death.
 
            Motions to Compel Further Responses to
Requests for Production of Documents
 
A party responding to an
inspection demand shall respond to each demand with one of the following:  a statement the party will comply with the
demand, a representation the party lacks the ability to comply with the demand,
or an objection.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.210, subd. (a).)  A response to an
inspection demand may be inadequate because it is evasive or incomplete;
contains an incomplete statement of compliance; an inadequate, incomplete, or
evasive representation of inability to comply; or meritless or overly general
objections to a demand.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (a).) 
 
If a demanding party
believes the responding party responded inadequately, the demanding party may
move for an order compelling further response. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (a).)  “Unless notice of this motion is given within
45 days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental verified
response, or on or before any specific later date to which the demanding party
and the responding party have agreed in writing, the demanding party waives any
right to compel a further response to the demand.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd.
(c).)   
 
 
            Meet
and Confer
 
Plaintiff set forth meet and
confer declarations in substantial compliance with CCP § 2031.310(b)(2).  (Declarations, Neil Howard).
 
Motions to
Compel 
 
Request for Production of
Documents, Set 12
 
Plaintiff’s motion to compel
further responses to Request for Production of Documents, Set 12, is granted,
in part. 
 
Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.280
states:
“(a) Any documents or
category of documents produced in response to a demand for inspection, copying,
testing, or sampling shall be identified with the specific request number to
which the documents respond.
(b) The documents shall be
produced on the date specified in the demand pursuant to paragraph (2) of
subdivision (c) of Section 2031.030, unless an objection has been made to that
date. If the date for inspection has been extended pursuant to Section 2031.270,
the documents shall be produced on the date agreed to pursuant to that section.
(c) If a party responding to
a demand for production of electronically stored information objects to a
specified form for producing the information, or if no form is specified in the
demand, the responding party shall state in its response the form in which it
intends to produce each type of information.
(d) Unless the parties
otherwise agree or the court otherwise orders, the following shall apply:
(1) If a demand for
production does not specify a form or forms for producing a type of
electronically stored information, the responding party shall produce the
information in the form or forms in which it is ordinarily maintained or in a
form that is reasonably usable.
(2) A party need not produce
the same electronically stored information in more than one form.
(e) If
necessary, the responding party at the reasonable expense of the demanding
party shall, through detection devices, translate any data compilations
included in the demand into reasonably usable form.”
 
Defendant served a facially
sufficient response to RFP, Set 12, Number 4. However, Plaintiff contends that
the file Plaintiff received from Defendant was likely corrupted such that
Plaintiff was not able to access all the data. Defendant contends that
resending the data would be unduly burdensome and expensive. However, any such
burden is mitigated by the specific language of CCP 2031.280(e) which states: “If
necessary, the responding party at the reasonable expense of the demanding
party shall, through detection devices, translate any data compilations
included in the demand into reasonably usable form.” Id. (emphasis added).
Further, it does not appear that resending the data would be unduly burdensome
since Plaintiff has agreed to limit the time frame for the requested data such
that it may eliminate the possibility of future corruption.
 
Therefore, the motion is
granted, in part, and Defendant is to resend the data limited to the specific
time frame sought by Plaintiff.
 
Defendant is ordered to
serve a further response within 30 days of this date.
 
 
            Request
for Production of Documents, Set 14
 
            As
to Requests 1 to 7, the motion is denied. 
 
            Defendant
has objected pursuant to the attorney work product doctrine and attorney/client
privilege and Defendant has justified its objections. 
 
            Code
Civ. Proc., § 2018.030 states:
            “(a)
A writing that reflects an attorney's impressions, conclusions, opinions, or
legal research or theories is not discoverable under any circumstances.
(b) The work product of an
attorney, other than a writing described in subdivision (a), is not
discoverable unless the court determines that denial of discovery will unfairly
prejudice the party seeking discovery in preparing that party's claim or defense
or will result in an injustice.”
 
            The
“work product” of an attorney’s employees or agents is treated as the work
product of the attorney. Rodriguez v. McDonnell Douglas Corp. (1978) 87
Cal.App.3d 626, 647-48. Work product protection also covers derivative
materials which are materials that reflect an attorney’s evaluation and/or
interpretation of the facts or law of the case. “[M]aterial of a derivative
character, such as diagrams prepared for trial, audit reports, appraisals, and
other expert opinions, developed as a result of the initiative of counsel in
preparing for trial, are to be protected as work product.” Mack v. Superior
Court In and For Sacramento County (1968) 259 Cal.App.2d 7, 10.
 
            Here,
each of the requests in question seek information specifically related to Defendant’s
contacts with Cerner, which is apparently a software company dealing with the
electronic medical record. Importantly, the documents that are requested all
seek documents regarding contacts occurring in 2024, and not at or near the date
of decedent’s injuries. In fact, Request Number 1is specifically formulated to
ask for documents regarding the manner in which Defendant responded to Request
for Production of Documents, Set 12, generated by Plaintiff in this case. Thus,
the documents requested as to the manner of contacts and communications with
Cerner may reflect an interpretation of the facts or law of the case and thus
be considered derivative materials. It is clear that the documents that are
requested seek documents specifically dealing with the manner in which documentary
evidence was obtained and generated in response to discovery requests
propounded by Plaintiff in this action, as opposed to the specific evidentiary
materials themselves, i.e, the hospital records themselves.
 
            Therefore,
Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to Request for Production of
Documents, Set 14, is denied.
 
Sanctions
 
Plaintiff’s
requests for sanctions are denied. 
 
As
to the Request for Production of Documents, Set 12, Plaintiff apparently did
not seek sanctions. 
 
Code
Civ. Proc., § 2023.040 states, in relevant part: “A request for a sanction
shall, in the notice of motion, identify every person, party, and attorney
against whom the sanction is sought, and specify the type of sanction sought.” 
 
Here,
the notice of the motion failed to identify every person, party, and attorney
against whom the sanctions are sought. The notice of motion also failed to
identify the type of sanction sought.
 
Peculiarly,
in Plaintiff’s Reply, Plaintiff requests sanctions. However, as noted above, Plaintiff’s
motion itself failed to request sanctions in the notice of motion.
 
As
to the Request for Production of Documents, Set 14, the request for sanctions
is denied as Plaintiff failed to prevail on the motion. The Court notes that
Defendant did not seek counter sanctions against Plaintiff, and, therefore, the
Court declines to sanction Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s counsel. 
 
The
Court, on its own motion, continues the matters set for October 16, 2024 –
Plaintiff’s motions to compel further responses to Special Interrogatories, Set
10 and 11 - to October 30, 2024.
 
Plaintiff
is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 