  Case Number:  21STCV10276    Hearing Date:   May 17, 2024    Dept:  T Motions for
Summary Judgment and Summary Adjudication
 
Moving Party:
                    Defendants Longs
Drug Stores California, LLC, Daria Park, and Gilbert Guerrero
Responding Party:              Plaintiff Rubabeh Baktiar
Tentative Ruling:
Defendant Gilbert
Guerrero’s Motion for Summary Judgment:  GRANTED.
Defendant Daria
Park’s Motion for Summary Judgment: GRANTED.
Defendant Longs
Drug Stores California, LLC’s Motion for Summary Judgment: DENIED.  
Defendant Longs Drug Stores California, LLC’s
Motion for Summary Adjudication:
DENIED as to the First Cause of Action for
Premises Liability; GRANTED as to remaining causes of action and claim for
punitive damages.
The Court
considered the moving, opposing, and reply papers.
BACKGROUND
On March 16, 2021, Plaintiff Rudabeh Bakhtiar
(“Plaintiff”) filed a
complaint against Defendant Longs Drug Stores California, LLC, erroneously sued as
CVS Pharmacy, Inc. (“Defendant” or “CVS”). 

On February 15, 2023, Plaintiff filed the operative fourth amended
complaint (“FAC”) against Defendant Longs, and later amended the complaint to
also name as defendants Gilbert Guerrero (Doe 3), Daria Park (Doe 5), and
Elexus Allen (Doe 51), alleging five causes of action for (1) premises
liability – negligence; (2) negligent hiring, supervision, and retention; (3)
assault; (4) battery; and (5) intentional infliction of emotional distress. 
The FAC alleges that on or about February 10, 2020,
Plaintiff presented to CVS Store # 3903 as a patron, located at 3202 Wilshire
Blvd., Santa Monica, CA 90403. While Plaintiff was picking up medication,
employees of the store called for her via overhead announcement to attend to
her dog was left in her car parked in front of the store. Upon hearing the
overhead announcement, Plaintiff ran out the door to attend to her dog.
When Plaintiff reentered the store,
CVS employee Defendant Guerrero got into an argument with Plaintiff.  Plaintiff alleged that Defendant Guerrero lunged
at her and threw a kick in Plaintiff’s direction and came within approximately
2-3 feet of Plaintiff before he was restrained from further advancing by Defendant Valle, a CVS manager,
Another patron of the store, Defendant Allen then
began arguing with Plaintiff.  Allen
punched and slapped Plaintiff’s head repeatedly, causing her falling to the
floor where the assault continued.  
On January 4, 2024, Defendants
filed their motions for summary judgment, or in the alternative, summary
adjudication. On May 1, 2024, Plaintiff filed oppositions. On May 10, 2024,
Defendants filed their replies.
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
A.   
Defendants’
objections made in the separate statement are improper and the Court declines
to rule on them.  (See Hodjat v. State Farm Mutual Auto. Ins.
Co. (2012) 211 Cal.App.4th 1, 7-9 (finding that the trial court did not
abuse its discretion in refusing to rule on the plaintiff’s evidentiary
objections made in plaintiff’s separate statement, to overlook plaintiff’s
deficiency, or to permit plaintiff the opportunity to reformat his opposing
papers).
B.     Defendants’ Procedural Objections are
OVERRULED.
C.     Plaintiff’s Objections to Defendants’
Evidence:
a.       The following objections are
OVERRULED: 1, 2
b.      The following objections are
SUSTAINED: 3
LEGAL STANDARD
The function of a motion for summary
judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing
party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an
order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) CCP
Section 437c(c) “requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the
evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’
and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)  “The function
of the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of
the issues; the function of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose
whether there is any triable issue of fact within the issues delimited by the
pleadings.”  (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima
(1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367, 381-382.) 
As to each claim as framed by the
complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial
burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to
establish a defense. (CCP § 437c(p)(2); Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005)
128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520. ) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in
support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning
the evidence in favor of that party.”  (Dore
v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.) 
Once the defendant has met that
burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable issue of one
or more material facts exists as to that cause of action or a defense
thereto.  To establish a triable issue of
material fact, the party opposing the motion must produce substantial
responsive evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151,
166.)
When
deciding whether to grant summary judgment, the Court must consider all of the
evidence set forth in the papers, except evidence to which the Court has
sustained an objection, as well as all reasonable inferences that may be drawn
from that evidence, in the light most favorable to the party opposing summary
judgment.  (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Med. Ctr. (2008) 159
Cal. App. 4th 463, 467.)   
DISCUSSION
A.    Defendant CVS’ Motion for Summary
Judgment, or in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication
Defendant CVS moves for summary judgment or
adjudication as to Plaintiff’s first, second, third, and fifth causes of action
for premises liability/negligence; negligent hiring, supervision, and training;
assault; and intentional infliction of emotional distress. Defendant CVS also
moves for summary adjudication as to the claim for punitive damages.
I.                   
First Cause of Action for Premises Liability/Negligence
The elements of negligence and
premises liability are the same: duty, breach, causation and damages.  (Castellon
v. U.S. Bancorp (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 994, 998.)  “The owner of
premises is under a duty to exercise ordinary care in the management of such
premises in order to avoid exposing persons to an unreasonable risk of
harm.  A failure to fulfill this duty is negligence.”  (Brooks v.
Eugene Burger Management Corp. (1989) 215 Cal.App.3d 1611, 1619; Annocki
v. Peterson Enterprises, LLC (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 32, 37.)  
Duty of Care
Generally,
a person has no duty to control the conduct of third parties.  (See¿Melton
v. Boustred¿(2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 521, 533.)  However, a legal duty
may arise “where the defendant, through his or her own action (misfeasance) has
made the plaintiff’s position worse and has created a foreseeable risk of harm
from the third person” or where there is a special relationship between the
plaintiff and defendant¿and defendant has failed to aid plaintiff through
beneficial intervention (nonfeasance).  (See¿id.¿at 531.) “Courts have found such a special
relationship in cases involving the relationship between business proprietors
such as shopping centers, restaurants, and bars, and their tenants, patrons, or
invitees.” (Delgado v.
Trax Bar & Grill (2005) 36 Cal.4th 224, 235.) 
In cases involving third parties,
business proprietors have an affirmative duty to take reasonable steps to
secure their premises, as well as adjacent common areas within their control,
against reasonably foreseeable criminal acts of third parties. (Id., at
228.)  A heightened foreseeability is
required “in circumstances in which the burden of preventing future harm caused
by third party criminal conduct is great or onerous” (i.e. where a plaintiff
asserts a defendant had a legal duty to provide security guards, bright
lighting, activate and monitor security cameras, provide periodic
“walk-throughs” by existing personnel, or provide stronger fencing).  (Delgado v. Trax Bar & Grill, supra,
36 Cal.4th at 243.)  Heightened
foreseeability is “shown by prior similar criminal incidents or other
indications of a reasonably foreseeable risk of violent criminal assaults in
that location.”  (Id.)
But the California Supreme Court has distinguished between
situations where a proprietor has the “special-relationship-based duty to
provide security guards or other similarly burdensome measures designed to
prevent future criminal conduct” and situations where a proprietor has
the “duty to undertake reasonable and minimally burdensome measures to assist
customers or invitees who face danger from imminent or ongoing criminal
assaultive conduct occurring on the premises.”  (Morris v. De La Torre (2005)
36 Cal. 4th 260, 270 (emphasis in original).)
Here, Defendant argues that there
is no triable issue of material fact as to whether it owed a duty to Plaintiff
because there is no evidence of prior similar incidents of violence at the
store or any evidence that any wrongful third-party acts were foreseeable to
Defendant.
The Court notes that Defendant had
a special relationship with Plaintiff as it is a business proprietor and
Plaintiff is its invitee. (See, e.g., Kentucky Fried Chicken of Cal., Inc.
v. Superior Court (1997) 14 Cal.4th 814, 819 823-824.) Further, the FAC
identifies minimally burdensome measures Defendant could have taken to prevent
the harm. The FAC alleges that Defendant’s employees were standing by and
failed to attempt to halt the altercation. 
As a general matter a proprietor's
special-relationship-based duty to its patrons or invitees includes an
obligation to  take other minimal
measures to prevent foreseeable harm. (Morris, supra, 36 Cal.4th at
277.) Given that the burden
to prevent harm is minimal in this case, Plaintiff only needs to show a lesser
degree of foreseeability as opposed to heightened foreseeability. (Morris v.
De La Torre (2005) 36 Cal. 4th 260, 271; Delgado, supra, 36 Cal.4th at 243-44, fn.
24.) As such, a showing of prior
similar criminal incidents is not required.
Defendant argues there were no indications of a
reasonably foreseeable risk of violent criminal assaults prior to this incident
relating to either Guerrero or Allen. Moreover, Defendant contends that the
physical assault itself for which Plaintiff seeks damages, occurred between
Plaintiff and another patron, not with a CVS employee. As such, Defendant
argues that Plaintiff cannot demonstrate that it was foreseeable to CVS that
Allen, a customer unknown to the CVS employees, and not an employee or agent of
CVS, would commit a random violent crime. 
Defendant presents the following evidence. While
Plaintiff was waiting for her mother’s prescription, she heard over the store
loudspeaker that the owner of a white Mini Cooper should go to the front of the
store. (UMF No. 9.) At 5:30:43 p.m., Defendant Guerrero, a CVS store associate,
proceeded outside the store. (UMF No. 10.) At 5:30:59 p.m., Plaintiff proceeded
to the outside of the store where Guerrero told her that she was “a terrible
dog owner.” (UMF No. 11.) At 5:31:31, Guerrero walked back into the store. (UMF
No. 12). The verbal exchange between Plaintiff and Guerrero outside of the
store was approximately 35 seconds long based upon surveillance video. (UMF No.
13.) At 5:31:40 p.m., Plaintiff followed Guerrero back into the store with her
dog. (UMF No. 14.) Plaintiff and Guerrero had a verbal discussion inside the
store from 5:31:41 p.m., to 5:31:48 p.m., which was approximately seven (7)
seconds. (UMF No. 15.) During the seven (7) seconds, Plaintiff asked Guerrero
for his name which is why he proceeded towards her to tell her his name. (UMF
No. 16). Guerrero did not “lunge” at Plaintiff, instead he was walking towards
Plaintiff to tell her his name and the days he works when he was pulled back by
his manager, Ricardo Valle (“Valle”), and he tripped. (UMF No. 17.) Valle told
Guerrero to go to the back and back off and Guerrero complied. (UMF No. 18.)
Valle pulled Guerrero back because he was arguing with Plaintiff. (UMF No. 19.)
Guerrero did not intend to harm Plaintiff at any point. (UMF No. 20.) During
the seven (7) seconds that Guerrero was telling Plaintiff his name and
allegedly telling Plaintiff that she is a terrible dog owner, Elexus Allen was
talking on the phone with someone who she was dating at that time, Darian, up
until the time she struck Plaintiff. (UMF No. 21.) Allen’s mother, Sonia
Benavides, told Plaintiff that she should leave the store, and Plaintiff told
Benavides to “mind her own business.” (UMF No. 22.) Allen then stepped in front
of her mother and Plaintiff told her to “mind her own business.” (UMF No. 23.)
Allen told Plaintiff to not talk to her mother that way. (UMF No. 24.) Allen
testified she felt threatened by Plaintiff because she thought Plaintiff was
acting “crazy and deranged,” so she struck Plaintiff. (UMF No. 25.) 
At 5:32:02 p.m., Allen struck Plaintiff with her
fists. (UMF No. 26.) At 5:32:07 p.m., Valle came to Plaintiff’s aid. (UMF No.
27.) At 5:32:15 p.m., Valle pulled Allen off of Plaintiff. (UMF No. 28.) Allen
hit Plaintiff approximately 15 times with her fists and she was pulled off by
the manager. (UMF No. 29.) The argument between Plaintiff and Allen escalated
quickly. (UMF No. 30.) The entire physical attack on Plaintiff by Allen lasted
approximately 13 seconds. (UMF No. 31.) 
Plaintiff has presented sufficient evidence to show
that there are triable issues of material fact as to whether it was foreseeable
an altercation would ensue and as to whether, under the circumstances of this
case, what minimally burdensome steps, if any, CVS should have taken to prevent
harm to Plaintiff.  
Plaintiff presents evidence that multiple CVS
employees, including Guerrero and Defendant’s asset protection coordinator,
Christian Carrillo, followed Plaintiff out of the store after hearing the
overhead announcement, waiting to see if Plaintiff would return. (SSUF No. 6.)
Upon her re-entry onto the interior of the subject premises, Defendant Guerrero
insulted Plaintiff about being a bad dog owner and horrible person not
deserving of a pet. (SSUF No. 7.) 
Plaintiff presents further evidence that Guerrero’s
conduct influenced Allen into believing that Plaintiff was “crazy,” “not a good
person,” and potentially dangerous, resulting in the foreseeable attack. (SSUF
Nos. 18, 21, 22.) Allen expressly testified that her attack of Plaintiff was based,
in part, by Guerrero’s behavior towards Plaintiff. (SSUF No. 17.)  Plaintiff thereafter was involved in a
further verbal exchange with Defendant Allen and Allen’s mother.  
Based
on the evidence presented, and viewing the evidence in the light most favorable
to Plaintiff, the Court finds that there are triable issues of fact as
to whether it was foreseeable that an assault would occur given that there is
evidence of an argument between Plaintiff and Defendant Guerrero outside and inside
of the store in view of other employees followed by another verbal argument between
Plaintiff and Ms. Allen and Ms. Allen’s mother. 
Based on these circumstances, there are triable issues of fact as to
whether Defendant’s employees could have and should have taken minimally
burdensome measures to diffuse the situation. 
II.                
Second Cause of Action for Negligent
Hiring, Supervision, and Retention
Defendant contends that
Plaintiff lacks sufficient evidence to establish the cause of action for
negligent hiring, supervision and retention.
 
A cause of action for
negligent hiring, supervision, or retention of an employee requires the
following elements: (1) the employer hired employee; (2) the employee
was/became unfit or incompetent to perform the work for which he was hired; (3)
the employer knew or should have known the employee was/became unfit or
incompetent and that this unfitness or incompetence created a particular risk
to others; (4) the employee’s unfitness or incompetence harmed plaintiff; and
(5) the employer’s negligence in hiring/supervising/ retaining the employee was
a substantial factor in causing plaintiff’s harm.  (Federico v.
Superior Court (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 1207, 1213-1214.)  To establish a
cause of action for negligent hiring, retention, or supervision, a plaintiff
must show that the employer knew or should have known that hiring or retaining
the employee created a particular risk or hazard and that particular harm occurs.  (See Z.V.
v. County of Riverside (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 889, 902; Doe, supra,
50 Cal.App.4th at 1054.)  Negligent hiring, retention, or supervision is a
form of direct negligence.  (Ibid.) 
In its motion, Defendant presented demonstrating that
CVS had no knowledge or that Guerrero was unfit or incompetent for his position
that might have any causal relationship to this case.  To the contrary, the only disciplinary action
he had ever faced related to cash handling. 
(UMF No. 49.)
Defendant contends that it is anticipated that
Plaintiff will argue that Valle was “aware of Defendant Guerrero’s violent
disposition as Valle quickly moved to place his arm across Defendant Guerrero’s
chest to restrain him from making any physical contact with Plaintiff.”
(FAC, ¶ 58). However, the evidence is to the contrary. Valle testified that he
never witnessed Guerrero physically assault a customer during the time they
worked together, including during the instant incident, and that he never
reported to human resources that Guerrero was a violent employee because he had
never acted in a violent manner throughout the entirety of his employment with
CVS. (UMF Nos. 47, 48.) 
In opposition, Plaintiff attempts to present triable
issues of fact as to whether Defendant knew or should have known that Guerrero
was unfit to perform the work he was hired to perform. Specifically, Plaintiff suggests
Defendant Guerrero was short-tempered, as confirmed by Defendant’s other
employees. (Carrillo Depo., pg. 184 ls. 9-14.)  However, there was no foundation for the
question asked of Mr. Carrillo.  Even
ignoring the lack of foundation, this evidence fails to provide an adequate
basis on which to raise a triable issue of fact as to whether CVS was or should
have been aware of Guerrero having a temper. 

Plaintiff argues that Valle was aware of Guerrero’s
temper and violent disposition because he restrained him. (SSUF Nos. 12-13.) Again,
the cited deposition testimony fails to support Plaintiff’s contention and
fails to raise a triable issue of fact. 
Plaintiff further argues that Defendant’s prior knowledge of the
unfitness of Guerrero is evidenced by write-ups and poor performance reviews he
received from Defendant, in which some related to his poor interactions with
customers. (Valle Depo., pg. 151-152.) 
However, the deposition testimony suggests that Guerrero received a
review of “M.E.,” commonly understood to be “meets expectations.”  There was nothing in the cited deposition
testimony supporting the conclusion that Guerrero received a poor performance
review and the only “write up” he received was related to cash handling.  
Plaintiff offers an alternative argument relating to
Guerrero’s training.  Specifically,
Plaintiff points to Defendant Park’s testimony that she did not offer training
to Guerrero.  Notably absent from
Plaintiff’s argument is any foundation to establish that it was actually Park’s
role to directly train store employees. 
To the contrary, Park testified that she had district wide
responsibility for supervising and training managers.  (Park Depo., pg. 20, 24 – 25).  Consequently, Plaintiff’s alternative theory
also fails.  
Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that
Defendant met its burden on summary adjudication to show that there are no
triable issues of material fact as to whether it can be held liable for
negligent hiring/supervision/retention and Plaintiff failed to raise a triable
issue of fact.  
III.             
Third Cause of Action for Assault
Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s Third Cause of
Action for assault is without merit because Guerrero did not assault plaintiff
and Defendant is not responsible for the criminal conduct of Allen. 
“The elements of a cause of action
for assault are: (1) the defendant acted with intent to cause harmful or
offensive contact, or threatened to touch the plaintiff in a harmful or
offensive manner; (2) the plaintiff reasonably believed he was about to be
touched in a harmful or offensive manner or it reasonably appeared to the
plaintiff that the defendant was about to carry out the threat; (3) the
plaintiff did not consent to the defendant’s conduct; (4) the plaintiff was
harmed; and (5) the defendant’s conduct was a substantial factor in causing the
plaintiff’s harm.” (Carlsen v. Koivumaki (2014) 227
Cal.App.4th 879, 890 (citing So v. Shin (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th
652, 668-69).) Physical injury is not required; rather, the tort of assault is
complete when anticipation of harm occurs. (See Kiseskey v.
Carpenters’ Trust for Southern California (1983) 144 Cal.App.3d 222,
232.) 
Defendant argues that Plaintiff alleges that she was
subjected to assault by Defendant Gilbert Guerrero when he “lunged at her [and]
kicked at her with his left foot.” (FAC, ¶¶ 20-22.) Plaintiff also alleges that
as a result of Defendant, Guerrero’s “behavior tantamount to assault,” she was
injured and suffered damages to her person. (FAC, ¶ 67.) Plaintiff further
claims “[...] Defendant Guerrero made verbal utterances and exhibited behavior
intending to cause harmful or offensive conduct[. ..] (FAC, ¶ 66.) Defendant
argues that Plaintiff’s allegations, which are not supported by the evidence in
the case, namely the surveillance video and testimony of witnesses, does not
support a claim for assault by Guerrero. 
Defendant contends that Guerrero
did not “lunge” at Plaintiff, instead he was walking towards Plaintiff and was
then pulled back by his manager.  In
addition to the deposition testimony and declarations in support of the
motions, Defendant submitted Exhibit B – the video of the incident.  In opposition, Plaintiff offers her own and
Defendant Allen’s subjective interpretations of the video and the
incident. 
Under similar circumstances, the
United States Supreme Court ruled that “[w]hen opposing parties tell two
different stories, one of which is blatantly contradicted by the record, so
that no reasonable jury could believe it, a court should not adopt that version
of the facts for purposes of ruling on a motion for summary judgment.” (Scott
v. Harris (2007) 550 U.S. 372, 380 [disregarding plaintiff's characterization
of his driving while evading police where it was “utterly discredited” by
police dashboard camera]; see, also, Weldy v. Hatch (5th Cir.2012) 481
Fed.Appx. 119, 123 [“where, as here, we have a videotape, the validity of which
is not questioned, we do not need to rely on parties' subjective construction
of events”].) 
Here, the Court concludes that the
video of the incident (Ex. B) fully supports Defendant’s contention.  While Plaintiff offers subjective
interpretations of the incident to suggesting the contrary, the Court finds
that those interpretations to be “blatantly contradicted by the record” and
therefore finds there is no triable issue of fact – there simply was no assault
by Guerrero. 
While Defendant Allen did testify
that the argument between Plaintiff and Guerrero caused her to take a dim view
of Plaintiff, there is nothing in the factual record to support the allegation
that Guerrero instigated Allen’s assault on Plaintiff.    
Consequently, Defendant is entitled
to summary adjudication of this issue. 
IV.              
Fifth Cause of Action for Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress (“IIED”)
Defendant also moves for summary adjudication of
the fifth cause of action for IIED.
“The elements of the tort of
intentional infliction of emotional distress are: (1) extreme and outrageous
conduct by the defendant; (2) the intention of causing, or reckless disregard
of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (3) the plaintiff's
suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (4) actual and proximate
causation of the emotional distress by the defendant's outrageous
conduct.”  (Christensen v. Superior
Court (1991) 54 Cal.3d 868, 903, internal quotations omitted.)  For conduct to be outrageous it must be “so
extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized
community.”  (See Ess v. Eskaton
Properties, Inc. (2002) 97 Cal.App.4th 120, 130.)  Liability does not extend to mere insults,
indignities, threats, annoyances, petty oppressions, or other
trivialities.  (Hughes v. Pair
(2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035, 1051.)  “Severe
emotional distress means . . . emotional distress of such substantial quantity
or enduring quality that no reasonable man in a civilized society should be
expected to endure it.”  (Fletcher v.
Western Nat. Life Ins. Co. (1970) 10 Cal.App.3d 376.)  
“[I]t is not enough that the
defendant has acted with an intent which is tortious or even criminal, or that
he has intended to inflict emotional distress, or even that his conduct has
been characterized by ‘malice,’ or a degree of aggravation which would entitle
the plaintiff to punitive damages for another tort.”  (Cochran v. Cochran (1998) 65
Cal.App.4th 488, 496.)  “Liability has
been found only where the conduct has been so outrageous in character, and so
extreme in degree, as to go beyond all possible bounds of decency, and to be
regarded as atrocious, and utterly intolerable in a civilized community.”  (Id.) 
The
determination of “outrageousness” is generally an issue of fact to be
determined by the trier of fact, however, “the court may determine in the first
instance, whether the defendant's conduct may reasonably be regarded as so
extreme and outrageous as to permit recovery.” (Trerice v. Blue Cross of
California (1989) 209 Cal.App.3d 878, 883.)
Here, Plaintiff contends, and it does not seem to be
disputed, that Guerrero told Plaintiff she was a horrible dog owner and a
horrible person.  There is no question
that a reasonable person might be insulted by these comments.  There is also no question that Guerrero’s
comments were not outrageous or “so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that
usually tolerated in a civilized community.” 
As such, there can be no liability for CVS based on these allegations.
Plaintiff also suggests that Defendants may be held
liable for inciting the subsequent assault by Ms. Allen.  However, as noted above, there are no facts
to suggest that Guerrero intended to incite the assault.  Further, while Guerrero’s conduct may have
elevated the tension between those present, it was not extreme and outrageous.  As such, under the facts of this case,
Plaintiff’s alternative theory has no merit.
V.                
Claim for Punitive Damages
Civil Code § 3294 provides, in pertinent
part, as follows: 
 
(a)¿In
an action for the breach of an obligation not arising from contract, where it
is proven by clear and convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty
of oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual
damages, may recover damages for the sake of example and by way of punishing
the defendant. 
*** 
            Based on the findings above, Defendants are not liable
for any intentional torts.  To the extent
that Plaintiff’s cause of action for premises liability has survived, there is
no ground for recovery of punitive damage based on that cause of action.  As a result, Defendants’ motion
for summary adjudication of this damages claim is granted.  
B.     Defendant Park’s Motion for
Summary Judgment, or in the Alternative Summary Adjudication
Defendant Park also moves for summary
judgment or adjudication as to Plaintiff’s first, second, third, and fifth
causes of action for premises liability/negligence; negligent hiring, supervision,
and training; assault; and intentional infliction of emotional distress.
Defendant Park also moves for summary adjudication as to the claim for punitive
damages.
I.                   
First Cause of Action for Premises Liability/Negligence
The elements of negligence and
premises liability are the same: duty, breach, causation and damages.  (Castellon
v. U.S. Bancorp (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 994, 998.)  “The owner of
premises is under a duty to exercise ordinary care in the management of such
premises in order to avoid exposing persons to an unreasonable risk of
harm.  A failure to fulfill this duty is negligence.”  (Brooks v.
Eugene Burger Management Corp. (1989) 215 Cal.App.3d 1611, 1619; Annocki
v. Peterson Enterprises, LLC (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 32, 37.) 
“A
defendant cannot be held liable for the defective or dangerous condition of
property which it [does] not own, possess, or control.¿ Where the absence of
ownership, possession, or control has been unequivocally established, summary
judgment is proper.”¿¿(Donnell v. California Western School of Law¿(1988)
200 Cal.App.3d 715, 720 [citation omitted].)¿ “Without the ‘crucial element’ of
control over the subject premises, no duty to exercise reasonable care to
prevent injury on such property can be found.”¿¿(Gray v. America West
Airlines, Inc.¿(1989) 209 Cal. App. 3d 76, 81 [citation omitted].)¿              
“A person
controls property that he or she does not own or lease when he or she uses the
property as if it were his or her own.¿ A person is responsible for
maintaining, in reasonably safe condition, all areas he or she controls.”¿
(CACI 1002.)¿ 
Defendant Park argues that she did not own, lease,
occupy or control the subject property. Park was the District Leader at the
Subject Property, but never owned, possessed, or controlled the Subject
Property, nor set policies related to the Subject Property. (UMF No. 50-54.)
The Court finds that Defendant Park has met her
burden to show that no triable issues of material fact exist as to whether it
owned, possessed, or controlled the property. The burden shifts to Plaintiff. 
Plaintiff has failed to address this argument in her
opposition. As such, Plaintiff failed to meet her burden to present triable
issues of material fact as to whether Park owned, controlled, or possessed the
premises. Therefore, Defendant Park is entitled to summary adjudication as to
the cause of action for premises liability.
II.                
Second Cause of Action for Negligent
Hiring, Supervision, and Retention 
As noted
above, a cause of action for negligent hiring, supervision, or retention of an
employee requires the following elements: (1) the employer hired employee; (2)
the employee was/became unfit or incompetent to perform the work for which he
was hired; (3) the employer knew or should have known the employee was/became
unfit or incompetent and that this unfitness or incompetence created a
particular risk to others; (4) the employee’s unfitness or incompetence harmed
plaintiff; and (5) the employer’s negligence in hiring/supervising/ retaining
the employee was a substantial factor in causing plaintiff’s harm.  (Federico
v. Superior Court (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 1207, 1213-1214.)  
Here, the evidence presented shows that Park, as an
individual, is not Guerrero’s employer; Defendant CVS is. It necessarily
follows that she is not personally liable for negligent hiring, supervision and
retention. 
Plaintiff’s opposition does not address this and
fails to show triable issues of material fact as to whether Park can be
personally liable for negligent hiring, supervision, and retention. Defendant
Park’s motion for summary adjudication is therefore granted as to the cause of
action for negligent hiring, supervision and retention.
III.             
Third Cause of Action for Assault
Plaintiff notes that she does not seek this cause
of action against Defendant Park. (Opp., pg. 14 n. 2.)
IV.              
Fifth Cause of Action for IIED
“The elements of the tort of intentional infliction
of emotional distress are: (1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant;
(2) the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of
causing, emotional distress; (3) the plaintiff's suffering severe or extreme
emotional distress; and (4) actual and proximate causation of the emotional
distress by the defendant's outrageous conduct.”  (Christensen v. Superior Court (1991)
54 Cal.3d 868, 903, internal quotations omitted.)  
This cause of action against
Defendants is based on a theory of vicarious liability. “Under the doctrine of respondeat superior, an employer
may be held vicariously liable for torts committed by an employee within the
scope of employment.” (Mary M. v. City of Los Angeles (1991) 54 Cal.3d
202, 208.) “[R]espondeat superior liability attaches if the activities that
cause[d] the employee to become an instrumentality of danger to others’ were
undertaken with the employer’s permission and were of some benefit to the
employer or, in the absence of proof of benefit, the activities constituted a
customary incident of employment.” (Purton v. Marriott International., Inc.
(2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 499,509. Because it can be difficult to demonstrate
“that a corporation is directly liable for the actions of its employees or
agents,” respondeat superior “can allow a plaintiff to proceed against a
corporation that could have been liable under a burdensome direct liability
theory.” (Presbyterian Camp & Conference Centers, Inc. v. Superior Court
(2021) 12 Cal.5th 493, 515) 
As addressed above, Guerrero is not liable for intentional
infliction of emotional distress. 
Consequently, there can be no vicarious liability here.  Even if there was a finding that Guerrero was
liable for intentional infliction of emotional distress, Park is not Guerrero’s
employer. While CVS, as Guerrero’s employer, may be vicariously liable for
Guerrero’s conduct, Park did not individually employ Guerrero, and therefore,
she faces no vicarious liability for Guerrero’s conduct. 
Plaintiff’s opposition does not address these
points and therefore, Plaintiff fails to show there are triable issues of
material fact as to whether Park can be personally or vicariously liable for
this cause of action.  As a result,
Defendant’s Park’s motion for summary adjudication is therefore granted as to
the cause of action for IIED.
V.                
Punitive Damages
As noted above, there are no grounds for the
recovery of punitive damages here.  Even
if there were, to the extent that Park may have ratified Guerrero’s conduct,
and to the extent that Park may be a managing agent of CVS, that ratification
was done as an employee and not as an individual. Consequently, Park cannot be liable
for punitive damages.
Based on the foregoing, Defendant Park’s motion
for summary judgment is granted.
C.   
Defendant Guerrero’s Motion for Summary
Judgment, or in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication
Defendant Guerrero moves for summary judgment or
in the alternative summary adjudication as to the third cause of action for
assault, fifth cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional
distress, and the claim for punitive damages.
The Court notes that Defendant Guerrero and
Defendant CVS have presented the same arguments and evidence. As a result, the
Court incorporates its discussion above and grants Defendant Guerrero’s motion
for summary judgment.
CONCLUSION
Defendant Gilbert Guerrero’s Motion for Summary
Judgment is GRANTED.
Defendant Daria Park’s Motion for Summary Judgment is
GRANTED.
Defendant Longs Drug Stores California, LLC’s Motion
for Summary Judgment is DENIED.  
Defendant Longs Drug Stores California, LLC’s
Motion for Summary Adjudication is GRANTED in part and DENIED in part. Defendant
Longs’ Motion for Summary Adjudication is denied as to the First Cause of
Action for Premises Liability. Defendant Longs’ Motion for Summary
Adjudication is granted as to the Second Cause of Action for Negligent Hiring,
Supervision, and Retention, Third Cause of Action for Assault, Fifth Cause of
Action for Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress, and the claim for
punitive damages.  
Defendant is ordered to give notice of this ruling.
 