 Case Number:  23STCV13776    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2023    Dept:  71 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



LACHELLE
  HARRIS,  
  
         vs.
 
AMAZON.COM,
  INC., et al.


 Case No.: 
  23STCV13776
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  October 30, 2023



 
Defendants Amazon.com,
Inc.’s, Amazon.com Services LLC’s, David Herrera’s, Elizabeth Colmenero’s,
Elisa Lopez’s, and Beth Galetti’s demurrer to Plaintiff Lachelle Harris’
complaint is overruled as to the 1st, 3rd, 8th, 12th, and 14th causes of
action, and as to the 4th cause of action for Amazon Inc. and Amazon LLC, only.

Defendants’
demurrer is sustained with 20 days leave to amend as to the 7th, 9th,
11th, and 13th causes of action.
Defendants’
demurrer is sustained without leave to amend as to the 10th cause of
action, and as the 4th cause of action for Herrera, Colmenero, Lopez, and
Galetti, only.
 
Defendants
Amazon.com, Inc. (“Amazon Inc.”), Amazon.com Services LLC [erroneously sued
as Amazon.com Services LLC, Inc.] (“Amazon LLC”), David Herrera (“Herrera”),
Elizabeth Colmenero (“Colmenero”), Elisa Lopez (“Lopez”), and Beth Galetti (“Galetti”)
(collectively, “Defendants”) demur to Plaintiff Lachelle Harris’ (“Harris”)
(“Plaintiff”) complaint (“Complaint”).  (Notice
of Demurrer, pgs. 1-2; C.C.P. §430.10(c).)[1]
 
CRC Violations
CRC, Rule
3.1113(d) provides, “[e]xcept in a summary judgment or summary adjudication
motion, no opening or responding memorandum may exceed 15 pages. In a summary
judgment or summary adjudication motion, no opening or responding memorandum
may exceed 20 pages. No reply or closing memorandum may exceed 10 pages. The
page limit does not include the caption page, the notice of motion and motion,
exhibits, declarations, attachments, the table of contents, the table of
authorities, or the proof of service.”
CRC, Rule
3.1113(e) provides, “[a] party may apply to the court ex parte but with written
notice of the application to the other parties, at least 24 hours before the
memorandum is due, for permission to file a longer memorandum. The application
must state reasons why the argument cannot be made within the stated limit.”
CRC, Rule
3.1113(g) provides, “[a] memorandum that exceeds the page limits of these rules
must be filed and considered in the same manner as a late-filed paper.”
Defendants’
memorandum exceeds the 15-page maximum stated in CRC, Rule 3.1113(d).  Defendants violated CRC, Rule 3.1113(e) by
failing to apply to the court ex parte with written notice of the application
to the other parties, at least 24 hours before the memorandum is due, for
permission to file a longer memorandum stating the reasons why the argument
cannot be made within the stated limit. 
The Court, in its discretion, will consider Defendants’ memorandum up to
the 15-page limit as defined in CRC, Rule 3.1113(d).[2]
 
Background
Plaintiff filed her
operative Complaint on June 14, 2023, against Defendants, alleging fifteen
causes of action: (1) breach of express and implied contract [against Amazon
Inc. and Amazon LLC]; (2) wrongful termination in violation of public policy [against
Amazon Inc. and Amazon LLC]; (3) violation of California Constitution [against
Amazon Inc. and Amazon LLC]; (4) harassment in violation of Government Code
§12900, et seq. [against all Defendants]; (5) retaliation in violation
of Government Code §12900, et seq. [against Amazon Inc. and Amazon LLC];
(6) discrimination in violation of Government Code §12900, et seq.
[against Amazon Inc. and Amazon LLC]; (7) intentional infliction of emotional
distress [against all Defendants]; (8) violation of Business & Professions
Code §17200 [against all Defendants]; (9) fraud [against all Defendants]; (10) negligent
misrepresentation [against all Defendants]; (11) concealment [against all
Defendants]; (12) violation of Labor Code §1198.5 [against Amazon Inc. and
Amazon LLC]; (13) negligent management [against all Defendants]; (14) violation
of Labor Code §1102.5 [against all Defendants]; and (15) violation of the
California Fair Pay Act [against Amazon Inc. and Amazon LLC].
This action
arises out of Plaintiff’s employment by Amazon Inc. and Amazon LLC as a Fulfillment
Associate and her termination on May 4, 2022.  (Complaint ¶¶1, 5.) 
Plaintiff alleges at the time she was hired and thereafter, Galetti and Herrera
offered Plaintiff employment, with a written employment agreement, representing
to her that she would have a stable employment, long term position, that she
would be treated fairly and not arbitrarily, that she would receive accrued
time off, a benefit package consisting of health insurance, the option of
medical insurance for her family, and other perks.  (Complaint ¶3.)  
Plaintiff alleges
Defendants breached their agreements and representations, harassed,
discriminated against and retaliated against Plaintiff, taking the following
adverse actions against Plaintiff: Plaintiff was discriminated against,
retaliated against and harassed because of her sex/gender, need for pregnancy
leave, baby bonding leave, family care or medical leave, disability, pregnancy,
childbirth, and/or related medical conditions, was subjected to a hostile work
environment, was discriminated against, retaliated against and harassed due to
her perceived need for disability, pregnancy or baby bonding leave, was
discriminated against, retaliated against and harassed due to association with
a member of a protected class and as a result of the discrimination was
terminated, denied hire or promotion, denied equal pay, demoted, asked
impermissible non-job-related questions, denied any employment, benefit or
privilege, denied reasonable accommodation for a disability, denied family care
or medical leave (“CLRA”), denied accommodation for pregnancy, denied employer
paid health care while on pregnancy disability leave, other, denied work
opportunities or assignments, denied baby bonding leave, among other wrongful
conduct.  (Complaint ¶4.)  Plaintiff alleges Defendants’ conduct was
oppressive, malicious, fraudulent, and caused Plaintiff extreme emotional
distress.  (Complaint ¶4.)
Plaintiff alleges
from January 2021 to the date of her termination on May 4, 2022, Plaintiff
informed Defendants she was disabled. 
(Complaint ¶5.)  Plaintiff alleges
on or about January 2021 she informed Defendants that she was pregnant. (Complaint
¶5.)  Plaintiff alleges from the period
she became disabled up to and to the date of her wrongful termination, on May
4, 2022, Plaintiff provided Defendants with restrictions related to disability
which they refused to evaluate or accommodate.  (Complaint ¶5.)  Plaintiff alleges she was required to take
unpaid leaves of absence despite the availability of other positions in which
she could have been placed.  (Complaint
¶5.)  Plaintiff alleges Defendants left her
with no means of support for herself or her child. (Complaint ¶5.)  Plaintiff alleges she repeatedly contacted
Defendants and protested that she was being treated unfairly, that she was
entitled to be accommodated, that errors in her work record and status needed
to be corrected, that she wanted to return to work, protesting violations of
law and Defendants’ policies.  (Complaint
¶5.)  Plaintiff alleges as a result she
was wrongfully terminated.  (Complaint
¶5.)  
Plaintiff alleges
after giving birth, and recovering from it, on or about January 20, 2022,
Plaintiff informed Defendants she had a disability involving post pregnancy
back pain and that she required accommodation in order to return to work.  (Complaint ¶6.)  Plaintiff alleges Defendants failed to
evaluate her for accommodation. 
(Complaint ¶6.)  Plaintiff alleges
Defendants refused to permit Plaintiff to return to work and informed her she
had been placed by them on an unpaid leave of absence which would terminate
when she informed Defendants she could return to work without
restrictions.  (Complaint ¶6.) 
Plaintiff alleges
Defendants’ refusal to return Plaintiff to work after January 20, 2022, unless
she could return to work without restriction violated the law and was intended
to result in her separation from employment because Defendants perceived
Plaintiff as a liability, that she would have to take too much time off to
attend medical appointments, care for her baby or need further leave.  (Complaint ¶7.)  Plaintiff alleges Defendants perceived
evaluating Plaintiff, and other pregnant/disabled women for accommodation, as
too costly and time consuming. 
(Complaint ¶7.)  
Plaintiff alleges
she was shocked and extremely distressed by Defendants’ conduct.  (Complaint ¶8.)  Plaintiff alleges due to her pregnancy,
having taken pregnancy/family/disability leave, she was perceived as too
costly, a potential liability, unfit and unable to do her job, which was
untrue.  (Complaint ¶8.)  Plaintiff alleges at no time did Defendants
conduct an interactive evaluation of Plaintiff to determine if she needed
accommodation.  (Complaint ¶8.)  Plaintiff alleges on information and belief
that a male employee took over her job duties. 
(Complaint ¶9.)  
Plaintiff alleges
from January 20, 2022, to April 16, 2022, she received computer generated
notices from Amazon Inc. and Amazon LLC falsely stating that she had
“attendance issues” and that she had depleted her accrued “unpaid personal
time” (“UPT”) during her leave. 
(Complaint ¶10.)  Plaintiff
alleges she was shocked and extremely distressed by Defendants’ conduct.  (Complaint ¶10.)  Plaintiff alleges she contacted Amazon Inc.
and Amazon LLC and they promised to correct their error.  (Complaint ¶10.)  
Plaintiff alleges
on April 16, 2022, she received a computer-generated notice from Amazon Inc.
and Amazon LLC falsely stating that she had “attendance issues” stating that
she was required to return to work because she had depleted her time off, which
was false, as Plaintiff was on a disability leave of absence.  (Complaint ¶11.)  Plaintiff alleges she was shocked and
extremely distressed by Defendants’ conduct, especially as Defendants had
promised their error would be fixed and that she was on leave.  (Complaint ¶11.)  Plaintiff alleges she contacted Amazon Inc.
and Amazon LLC, and they promised to correct their error and that a case
manager would follow up with her. 
(Complaint ¶11.)  
Plaintiff alleges
she was never contacted by Amazon Inc. or Amazon LLC, so Plaintiff repeatedly
contacted Amazon Inc. and Amazon LLC as to why their errors were not fixed as
promised.  (Complaint ¶12.)  Plaintiff alleges she advised Amazon Inc. and
Amazon LLC her next doctor’s appointment related to her disability for which
she was on leave was May 5, 2022. 
(Complaint ¶13.)  Plaintiff
alleges Amazon Inc. and Amazon LLC repeatedly promised Plaintiff their errors
would be corrected, and she would be assisted by a case manager relating to her
leave and disability.  (Complaint
¶13.)  
Plaintiff alleges
on May 4, 2022, while Plaintiff was on disability leave, having been informed
she had a doctor’s visit relating to her disability on May 5, 2022, Colmenero
and Lopez issued an electronic termination notice to Plaintiff for “Attendance”
which stated that she had negative 110 hours UPT, which was false, and that her
employment was “terminated for attendance.” 
(Complaint ¶14.)  Plaintiff
alleges she was shocked and extremely distressed by Defendants’ conduct.  (Complaint ¶14.)
Plaintiff alleges
on or about May 5, 2022, she contacted Defendant who advised her the
termination was in error and wrongful, however, no one corrected the error and
Plaintiff was refused further leave or employment.  (Complaint ¶15.)  Plaintiff alleges Defendants were aware that
terminating Plaintiff’s employment left her with no ability to support herself
and her baby, and no insurance for herself and her family, causing her to
suffer extreme distress. (Complaint ¶15.) 
Plaintiff alleges this conduct was oppressive, malicious, fraudulent and
caused Plaintiff extreme emotional distress. 
(Complaint ¶15.)  Plaintiff
alleges Defendants were at all times herein aware that Defendants systematically
and intentionally failed to provide adequate accommodations, modification of
job duties for pregnancy and pregnancy-related medical needs, which was a
pattern and practice of mistreatment of pregnant employees at its fulfillment
centers and used discriminatory and unfair attendance policies to penalize them
when they needed leave.  (Complaint
¶15.)  
Plaintiff alleges
at all relevant times she repeatedly requested her disability be evaluated,
requested her employment status and UPT be corrected, and requested her
personnel materials (“file”).  (Complaint
¶16.)  Plaintiff alleges Defendants
refused to evaluate her, refused to return her to work, refused to correct the
termination, reinstate her UPT, and did not provide her with her complete file.
(Complaint ¶16.)  Plaintiff alleges
initially, Defendants refused to produce any part of her file.  (Complaint ¶16.)  Plaintiff alleges thereafter, they withheld
all of the file containing materials relating to her pregnancy, disability,
need for accommodation and leave. 
(Complaint ¶16.)  Plaintiff
alleges she was shocked and extremely distressed by Defendants’ conduct.  (Complaint ¶16.)  
Plaintiff alleges
she filed a timely complaint with the California Civil Rights Department
(“CRD”) (fka Department of Fair Employment and Housing) and received her right
to sue.  (Complaint ¶17, Exh. A.)
On September 18,
2023, Defendants filed the instant demurrer. 
On October 17, 2023, Plaintiff filed her opposition.  On October 23, 2023, Defendants filed their
reply.
 
Meet and Confer
Before filing a
demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and confer in
person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to
demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that
would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.  (C.C.P. §430.41(a).)  A declaration must be filed with a demurrer
regarding the results of the meet and confer process.  (C.C.P. §430.41(a)(3).)
Defendants’
counsel declares her office emailed Plaintiff’s Counsel on August 18, 2023,
requesting Plaintiff’s counsel’s availability for a telephonic meet and confer
regarding a demurrer.  (Decl. of Tripodi
¶7.)  Defendants’ counsel declares that
same day, Plaintiff requested that Defendants set forth their basis for a
demurrer in writing and advised she would contact Defendants if further meet
and confer were necessary, though she did not provide her availability for a
call.  (Decl. of Tripodi ¶7.)  Defendants’ counsel declares her office
emailed Plaintiff’s Counsel on September 11, 2023, setting forth Defendants’
grounds for demurrer in writing and requested Plaintiff’s counsel’s
availability for a telephonic meet and confer regarding the same; Defendants’
counsel provided Plaintiff’s counsel with availability for September 11, 12,
and 13. (Decl. of Tripodi ¶10.) 
Defendants’ counsel declares Plaintiff’s counsel did not respond,
necessitating the instant demurrer. 
(Decl. of Tripodi ¶11.)  Defendants’
counsel’s declaration is sufficient under C.C.P. §430.41(a)(3).
 
Legal Standard
“[A] demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a
complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385,
388.)  A demurrer can be used only to
challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from
matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable.  (See Donabedian v. Mercury Insurance Co. (2004)
116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 [in ruling on a demurrer, a court may not consider
declarations, matters not subject to judicial notice, or documents not accepted
for the truth of their contents].)  For
purposes of ruling on a demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed
to be true, but the reviewing court does not assume the truth of conclusions of
law.  (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital
District (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)
 
Summary of
Demurrer
Defendants demur
on the basis that Plaintiff’s 1st, 3rd, 4th, 7th, 8th, 9th, 10th, 11th, 12th,
13th, and 14th causes of action fail to state facts sufficient to constitute
causes of action.  (Demurrer, pgs. 3-4;
C.C.P. §430.10(e).)[3]
 
Failure to State
a Claim
          Breach of Express and Implied
Contract (1st COA)
In order to plead
breach of contract, Plaintiff must allege the existence of a contract, the
performance or excuse for nonperformance, Defendant’s breach, and resultant
damages.  (Reichert v. General
Insurance Co. (1968) 68 Cal.2d 822, 830.) 

Plaintiff alleges
upon the inception of her employ and thereafter, Amazon Inc. and Amazon LLC and
Plaintiff entered into a contract wherein Plaintiff was to be employed by
Amazon Inc. and Amazon LLC and receive wages, overtime, and benefits.  (Complaint ¶21.)  Plaintiff alleges Defendants promised
Plaintiff she would be treated fairly and not terminated arbitrarily as stated
in Plaintiff’s factual allegations. (Complaint ¶21.)  Plaintiff alleges Defendants promised
Plaintiff she was on leave and that their errors would be corrected such that
her leave status would remain and her UPT would be reinstated.  (Complaint ¶21.)  Plaintiff alleges she performed each and
every condition and covenant required on her part to be performed pursuant to
said employment agreement.  (Complaint
¶22.)  
Plaintiff alleges
pursuant to said employment agreement, Amazon Inc. and Amazon LLC expressly
promised that Plaintiff’s employment would continue, and she would have the
opportunity to advance within the company as long as she performed
satisfactorily and obeyed all reasonable and lawful directions of her
employment, and based thereon, Plaintiff did not seek other employment.  (Complaint ¶23.)  
Plaintiff alleges
Amazon Inc. and Amazon LLC breached said agreements and its express and implied
promises by arbitrarily and wrongfully terminating Plaintiff based upon the
factors stated above, in violation of Defendants’ promises as stated
above.  (Complaint ¶24.)  
Plaintiff alleges
as a direct and foreseeable result of said wrongful conduct, Plaintiff has
suffered damages in an amount to be proven. 
(Complaint ¶25.)  Plaintiff
alleges said damages include lost wages, commissions, benefits, and certain
other incidental and consequential expenses and losses, including but not
limited to, all damages pursuant to C.C.P. §3300.  (Complaint ¶25.)  Plaintiff alleges said damages were a
foreseeable result of Defendants’ wrongful conduct.  (Complaint ¶25.)
Plaintiff
sufficiently alleges the requisite elements of a cause of action for breach of
contract.  At the demurrer stage, the
Court takes Plaintiff’s allegations to be true.  Despite Defendants’ urging, Plaintiff is not
required to allege facts sufficient to rebut the presumption of at-will
employment.  (See Foley v. Interactive
Data Corp. (1988) 47 Cal.3d 654, 677-678 [“[T]he presumption of at-will
employment may be overcome by evidence of contrary intent. . . . ‘[I]t must be
determined, as a question of fact, whether the parties acted in such a manner
as to provide the necessary foundation for [an implied contract], and evidence
may be introduced to rebut the inferences and show that there is another
explanation for the conduct.’ [Citations.]”].)
Accordingly,
Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s 1st cause of action for breach of express
or implied contract is overruled.
          Violation of the California
Constitution (3rd COA)
Article I,
Sections 1 and 8 of the California Constitution state the following: “[a]ll
people are by nature free and independent and have inalienable rights. Among
these are enjoying and defending life and liberty, acquiring, possessing, and
protecting property, and pursuing and obtaining safety, happiness, and
privacy,” and “[a] person may not be disqualified from entering or pursuing a
business, profession, vocation, or employment because of sex, race, creed,
color, or national or ethnic origin.” 
(Cal. Const., art. I, §§1, 8.)
Plaintiff alleges
the conduct alleged in her Complaint is prohibited by Article I, Section 1 and
8 of the California Constitution as interpreted in Froyd v. Cook (1988)
681 Fed. Supp. 669.  (Complaint
¶33.)  Plaintiff alleges said provisions
quote an independent prohibition against discrimination in employment.
(Complaint ¶33.)  Plaintiff alleges there
are no administrative prerequisites to a claim brought pursuant to said
provision.  (Complaint ¶33.)
There is no
binding authority on this Court that holds there is no private cause of action
for a violation of Article 1, Section 8. 
In the absence of such authority, Scott v. Solano County Health and Social
Services Dept. (E.D. Cal. 2006) 459 F.Supp.2d 959, 970, is persuasive and
instructive.  In Scott, the
district court denied the defendants’ motion to dismiss plaintiff’s cause of
action for violation of Article 1, Section 8. 
The Scott Court analyzed Himaka v. Buddhist Churches of
America, stating:
The district court in Himaka stated that
there may not be a “direct cause of action arising under Section 8,” and that
it must be “asserted through a state tort law mechanism,” such as wrongful
termination in violation of public policy. [Citation.] Plaintiff has done just
that. She has incorporated paragraphs 1 through 50 in her ninth claim, which
includes claims for wrongful termination in violation of public policy. Thus,
according to Himaka, plaintiff has indeed asserted her §8 claim through
a state tort law mechanism in order to bring a private cause of action. See
Phillips v. Saint Mary's Regional Med. Center, 96 Cal.App.4th 218, 116
Cal.Rptr.2d 770 (2002) (Art. I, Sec. 8 is an alternative source of public
policy for wrongful termination in violation of public policy claims).
Defendants’ arguments must be rejected and their motion to dismiss must be
DENIED as to this claim.
 
(Himaka v.
Buddhist Churches of America (N.D. Cal. 1995) 919 F.Supp. 332, 334-335.) 
Here, as in Scott,
Plaintiff has asserted her 2nd cause of action for wrongful termination in
violation of public policy, to which Defendants do not demur.
Thus, under Himaka,
Plaintiff has asserted her Section 8 claim through a state law tort mechanism
in order to bring a private cause of action.
          Accordingly, Defendants’ demurrer to
Plaintiff’s 3rd cause of action is overruled. 
 
Harassment in
Violation of FEHA (4th COA)
“To establish a
prima facie case of a hostile work environment, [the plaintiff] must show that
(1) [plaintiff] is a member of a protected class; (2) [plaintiff] was subjected
to unwelcome harassment; (3) the harassment was based on [plaintiff’s] protected
status; (4) the harassment unreasonably interfered with [plaintiff’s] work
performance by creating an intimidating, hostile, or offensive work
environment; and (5) defendants are liable for the harassment.”  (Ortiz v. Dameron Hospital Assn. (2019)
37 Cal.App.5th 568, 581; CACI 2521A.)
Plaintiff alleges
she was employed by Defendants, up until her termination on May 4, 2022.  (Complaint ¶35.)  Plaintiff alleges she was shocked, extremely
distressed and humiliated by Defendants’ severe and pervasive harassment which
created a hostile work environment. 
(Complaint ¶35.)  Plaintiff
alleges Defendants harassed Plaintiff due to her pregnancy, after taking pregnancy
disability leave and applying for leave, and as a disabled mother, she was
perceived as too costly, a potential liability, unfit, and unable to do her job,
which was untrue.  (Complaint ¶35.)  Plaintiff alleges at no time, did Defendants
conduct an interactive evaluation of Plaintiff to determine if she needed
accommodation.  (Complaint ¶35.)  Plaintiff alleges she was not offered
accommodation.  (Complaint ¶35.)  
Plaintiff alleges
Defendants’ harassment culminated in wrongfully terminating her employment
because they perceived Plaintiff as a liability, that she would have to take
too much time off or that she would need further family or disability leave.  (Complaint ¶36.)  Plaintiff alleges she had no intention nor
interest in leaving her position and wanted to continue to work for Defendants
until Defendants made it impossible for Plaintiff to do so by harassing her as
alleged in her complaint, refusing her an interactive evaluation and
accommodation as required by law. 
(Complaint ¶37.)  Plaintiff
alleges said conduct was the legal cause of Plaintiff’s termination by
Defendant. Plaintiff incorporates by reference the facts stated in her factual
allegations.  (Complaint ¶38.)  Plaintiff alleges Defendants’ conduct
violated Plaintiff’s rights under Government Code §12900, et seq., which
prohibited same and required Defendants to allow Plaintiff to remain in her
position with reasonable pay and benefits. 
(Complaint ¶38.)
Plaintiff alleges
Defendants, and each of them, incurred a duty to their employees to maintain a
work environment that was free from harassment on the basis of gender, having
taken leave, disability, perceived disability, pregnancy, and association with
others and to hire and supervise employees in a manner likely to achieve that
end.  (Complaint ¶39.)  Plaintiff alleges these duties were breached
by Defendants, and each of them. 
(Complaint ¶39.)  Plaintiff
alleges she sues each individual Defendant only for any and all bases permitted
under FEHA and current case law, specifically harassment, for creating a
hostile work environment and for failing to prevent harassment.  (Complaint ¶39.)  Plaintiff alleges her allegations against the
individual Defendants are based upon their harassing conduct and their
perception of Plaintiff as a liability in that she would require accommodation
or time off due to being pregnant and a disabled mother.  (Complaint ¶39.)  
Plaintiff alleges
she has filed a complaint with the CRD pursuant to Section 12900, et seq., of
the Government Code within one year of the alleged conduct, alleging that the
above-described acts established a violation of Government Code §12900, et
seq., among other laws and statutes against Defendant.  (Complaint ¶40.)  Plaintiff alleges she has complied with all
administrative prerequisites to suit. 
(Complaint ¶40.)  Plaintiff
alleges all Defendants had notice of Plaintiff’s claim prior to filing this action.  (Complaint ¶40.)
Plaintiff alleges
as a proximate consequence of Defendants’ wrongful acts as stated above
Plaintiff has suffered lost wages, commissions, benefits, incurred attorney
fees, suffered emotional distress and other general and special damages.  (Complaint ¶41.)  Plaintiff alleges Defendants’ actions were
malicious, despicable, fraudulent, willful, reckless and exhibited a conscious
disregard of the rights of Plaintiff.  (Complaint ¶41.)  Plaintiff alleges she entitled to punitive
damages according to proof.  (Complaint
¶41.)
Plaintiff
sufficiently alleges a cause of action for harassment under FEHA.  Defendants’ arguments in opposition that
Plaintiff cannot sue all Defendants for “personnel management activity” are
based on non-binding federal authorities and cite no California cases that
apply Reno v. Baird (1998) 18 Cal.4th 640, 646, to a FEHA harassment
claim on the basis of an individual’s protected status as a disabled woman.  
However,
Defendants’ arguments against Plaintiff’s ability to impose personal liability
on individual supervisory employees on the basis of Janken v. GM Hughes
Electronics (1996) 46 Cal.App.4th 55, are well taken.  The Janken Court dismissed the
plaintiff’s harassment cause on demurrer because individual defendant liability
was premised upon personnel management conduct. (46 Cal.App.4th at pgs.
62-65.)  The Janken Court drew a
careful distinction between discrimination and harassment and concluded that
personnel decisions do not create liability for individual defendants because
“[w]hile it is possible to avoid making personnel decisions on a prohibited
discriminatory basis, it is not possible either to avoid making personnel
decisions or to prevent the claim that those decisions were discriminatory.”  (Id. at pgs. 63-64; see Reno,
18 Cal.4th at pg. 464 [emphasizing that individual defendants may not be held
liable for personnel management decisions because they are “an inherent and
unavoidable part of the supervisory function”].)
Accordingly,
Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s 4th cause of action is overruled as to
Amazon.com, Inc. and Amazon.com Services LLC, and sustained without
leave to amend as to Herrera, Colmenero, Lopez, and Galetti.
 
Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress (“IIED”) (7th COA)
“The elements of
the tort of intentional infliction of emotional distress are: ‘(1) extreme and
outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard
of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the Plaintiff’s suffering
severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate causation of
the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous conduct.’”  (Christensen v. Superior Court (1991)
54 Cal.3d 868, 903, internal citation omitted.)
Plaintiff alleges
when Defendants committed the acts described in this Complaint, they did so
deliberately and intentionally to injure Plaintiff and to cause Plaintiff to
suffer humiliation, mental anguish and emotional distress.  (Complaint ¶58.)  Plaintiff alleges the outrageousness of the
above-mentioned conduct is amplified due to the Defendants’ abuse of their
position which gives actual and apparent authority over Plaintiff, such as is
commonly found in employment relationships. 
(Complaint ¶58.)  Plaintiff
alleges Defendants were aware that Plaintiff was relying upon her employment to
sustain herself and her family. (Complaint ¶58.)  Plaintiff alleges Defendants were aware that
their conduct was outrageous, sexist, discriminatory and retaliatory for having
become pregnant, disabled and being a mother.  (Complaint ¶58.)  Plaintiff alleges in mistreating Plaintiff,
terminating Plaintiff’s employment in the manner in which they did, Defendants
caused Plaintiff, to suffer extreme emotional distress, and other consequential
damages.  (Complaint ¶58.)  
Plaintiff alleges
when Amazon.com, Inc. and Amazon.com Services LLC, acting through its agent and
employees did the acts described in this Complaint, particularly, but not
limited to, wrongfully terminating Plaintiff’s employment, they did so
deliberately and intentionally to cause emotional distress to Plaintiff.  (Complaint ¶59.)  Plaintiff alleges the acts of Defendants, and
each of them, cannot be expected to normally occur in the workplace.  (Complaint ¶59.)  Plaintiff alleges in acting as described above,
and in abusing a position of actual and apparent authority over Plaintiff,
Defendants clearly stepped out of the proper role as employer and used its
position or authority to cause Plaintiff to suffer emotional distress.  (Complaint ¶59.)  Plaintiff alleges the abovementioned acts of
the Defendants constituted intentional infliction of emotional distress against
Plaintiff and such conduct of Defendants was a substantial and/or determining
factor in proximately causing damage and injury to Plaintiff.  (Complaint ¶60.)  Plaintiff alleges as a proximate consequence
of Defendants’ wrongful acts against Plaintiff she has suffered lost wages,
commissions, benefits, severe emotional distress, and other general and special
damages.  (Complaint ¶61.)  Plaintiff alleges Defendants’ actions were
willful, reckless, and exhibited a conscious disregard of the rights of
Plaintiff and Plaintiff is entitled to punitive damages according to
proof.  (Complaint ¶62.)
Plaintiff fails
to allege conduct that rises to the level of extreme and outrageous conduct
necessary to support a cause of action for IIED.  (See Trerice v. Blue Cross of California
(1989) 209 Cal.App.3d 878, 883-884 [presenting plaintiff with a termination
package, withdrawing the termination package and telling plaintiff she was
still employed, and then offering plaintiff a less desirable termination
package and terminating her employment, “[w]hile . . .  not exemplary, it certainly does not qualify
as the kind of ‘outrageous’ conduct necessary in order to support an” IIED
cause].)
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s
7th cause of action for IIED is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.
 
Violation of
Business & Professions Code §§17200 et seq. (8th COA)
A cause of action
for violation of Business and Professions Code §17200 requires the following
elements: (1) a business practice; (2) that is unfair, unlawful or fraudulent;
and (3) authorized remedy.  (Paulus v.
Bob Lynch Ford, Inc. (2006) 139 Cal.App.4th 659, 676; see also Kwikset
Corp. v. Superior Court (2011) 51 Cal.4th 310, 337 [although losses are
required for standing, “ineligibility for restitution is not a basis for
denying standing under section 17204….”]; People ex rel. Dept. of Motor
Vehicles v. Cars 4 Causes (2006) 139 Cal.App.4th 1006, 1016 [“An ‘unlawful’
practice requires violation of another statute, and a business practice may be
‘unfair’ even if not otherwise proscribed by statute as long as the practice is
not expressly authorized by law.”]; Bank of the West v. Superior Court (1992)
2 Cal.4th 1254, 1266 [Legislature intended this sweeping language to include
anything that can properly be called a business practice and that at the same
time is forbidden by law].)
Plaintiff alleges
Defendants’ acts as specifically stated herein, constitute unfair business
practices which are illegal under California Business & Professions Code
§17200 (which prohibits unfair competition, which includes unlawful, unfair or
fraudulent business acts or practices and unfair, deceptive or untrue
acts).  (Complaint ¶64.)  Plaintiff alleges as a proximate result of
Defendants’ wrongful acts stated herein, Plaintiff suffered losses.  (Complaint ¶65.)  Plaintiff alleges she seeks disgorgement of
any profit gained by Defendant due to Defendants’ wrongful conduct, restitution
and attorneys’ fees.  (Complaint
¶65.)  Plaintiff alleges Defendants’
violation of the statute was willful, oppressive, malicious, and
fraudulent.  (Complaint ¶66.)  Plaintiff alleges she requests an assessment
of punitive damages regarding same. 
(Complaint ¶66.)
Plaintiff
sufficiently alleges a cause of action for violation of Business and
Professions Code §17200 by way of sufficiently alleging her 6th and 7th causes
of action under FEHA, among other causes of action challenged by Defendant in
this demurrer that have been overruled.
Accordingly,
Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s 8th cause of action for violation of
Business and Professions Code §17200 is overruled.
 
Fraud &
Concealment (9th & 11th COAs)
To state a claim
for fraud Plaintiff must allege misrepresentation, knowledge of falsity, intent
to induce reliance, justifiable reliance, and damages.  (Agricultural Insurance Co. v. Superior
Court (1999) 70 Cal.App.4th 385, 403.) 
Fraud actions are subject to strict requirements of particularity in
pleading.  (Committee on Children’s
Television, Inc. v. General Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197, 216.) Fraud
must be pleaded with specificity rather than with general and conclusory
allegations.  (Small v. Fritz
Companies, Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th 167, 184.)  The specificity requirement means a plaintiff
must allege facts showing how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the
representations were made, and, in the case of a corporate defendant, the
plaintiff must allege the names of the persons who made the representations,
their authority to speak on behalf of the corporation, to whom they spoke, what
they said or wrote, and when the representation was made.  (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12
Cal.4th 631, 645; West v. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (2013) 214
Cal.App.4th 780, 793.)
The elements of a
claim for fraud by concealment are as follows: (1) the defendant must have
concealed or suppressed a material fact, (2) the defendant must have been under
a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff, (3) the defendant must have
intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the
plaintiff, (4) the plaintiff was unaware of the fact and would not have acted
as he did if he had known of the concealed or suppressed fact, and (5) as a
result of the concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff must have
sustained damage.  (Marketing West,
Inc. v. Sanyo Fisher (USA) Corp. (1992) 6 Cal.App.4th 603, 612-613.)
“The requirement
of specificity in a fraud action against a corporation requires the plaintiff
to allege the names of the persons who made the allegedly fraudulent
representations, their authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what they said
or wrote, and when it was said or written.” 
(Tarmann v.  State Farm
Mut.  Automobile Insurance Co. (1991)
2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157.)
Plaintiff alleges
Defendants, through their agents and/or employees, on the date of her hire and
thereafter, promised Plaintiff her employment would continue, and she would be
allowed to work regardless of her gender, pregnancy, having taken leave,
disability, perceived disability, and association with others.  (Complaint ¶68.)  Plaintiff alleges Defendants, through their
agents and/or employees, promised Plaintiff that Defendants would provide
Plaintiff with a correct employment record, that her leave status remained, and
erroneous attendance claims would be corrected. 
(Complaint ¶68.)  Plaintiff
alleges she relied on Defendants’ promises to her detriment.  (Complaint ¶68.)  Plaintiff alleges Defendants failed to keep
their promises.  (Complaint ¶68.)
Plaintiff alleges
Defendants enjoyed a superior bargaining position and power over Plaintiff to
the extent described herein.  (Complaint
¶69.)  Plaintiff alleges the material
terms concerning her employment were concealed and not disclosed and thereby
misrepresented by Defendants to Plaintiff, as to obtain her reliance thereon.  (Complaint ¶69.)  Plaintiff alleges as a result of the
concealment, failure to disclose and false misrepresentation of material terms
concerning Plaintiff’s employment and termination, such material terms were
misleading, not disclosed and concealed and thereby misrepresented by
Defendants to Plaintiff.  (Complaint
¶69.)  Plaintiff alleges Defendants knew
their representations were false and Defendants did intentionally make such
false promises because Defendants needed Plaintiff to continue working to their
benefit.  (Complaint ¶70.)
Plaintiff alleges
Defendants knew at the time that they failed to disclose, concealed and engaged
in such representations, actions, conduct and inactions described herein that
the same were false, misleading and untrue for the sole purpose of obtaining the
benefits of Plaintiff’s work and thereafter to limit said Defendants’ financial
obligations to Plaintiff, and other financial or economic gains, in breach of
Defendant’s contract with and duties to Plaintiff.  (Complaint ¶71.)
Plaintiff alleges
as a proximate consequence of Defendants’ wrongful acts against Plaintiff, she
has suffered lost wages, commissions, benefits, emotional distress, and other
general and special damages.  (Complaint
¶72.)  Plaintiff alleges Defendants’
actions were willful, reckless, and exhibited a conscious disregard of the
rights of Plaintiff.  (Complaint
¶72.)  Plaintiff alleges she is entitled
to punitive damages, according to proof. 
(Complaint ¶73.)
Plaintiff fails
to sufficiently allege causes of action for fraud and concealment.  Actionable misrepresentations must pertain to
past or existing material facts.  (Cansino
v. Bank of America (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1462, 1469.)  Here, Plaintiff’s allegations implicate
Defendants’ alleged misrepresentation that that her leave status remained.  (Complaint ¶68.)  Plaintiff alleges on April 16, 2022,
Plaintiff received a computer-generated notice from Amazon Inc. and Amazon LLC
falsely stating that she had “attendance issues” stating that she was required
to return to work because she had depleted her time off, and Defendants had promised
their misrepresentation of her leave status would be fixed and that she was on
leave.  (See Complaint ¶11.).  Plaintiff alleges On May 4, 2022, while
Plaintiff was on disability leave, having been informed she had a doctor’s
visit relating to her disability on May 5, 2022, Defendants’ Managers,
Defendant Colmenero and Lopez issued an electronic termination notice to
Plaintiff for “Attendance” which stated that she had negative 110 hours UPT,
which was false, and that her employment was “terminated for attendance.”  (Complaint ¶14.)  However, Plaintiff only alleges this
misrepresentation was made by Amazon Inc., Amazon LLC, Colmenero, and Lopez,
and not against Herrera and Galetti. 
Further, Plaintiff fails to allege Colmenero and Lopez knew Plaintiff
was on disability leave and that her leave status would be fixed.  (See Complaint ¶11.)  Because Plaintiff fails to allege who made
the allegedly fraudulent representation that they knew Plaintiff was on leave
and that such incorrect information on her employment record would be fixed,
Plaintiff fails to allege her causes of action that sound in fraud.
Accordingly,
Defendants’ demurrer to the 9th cause of action for fraud and 11th cause of
action for concealment are sustained with 20 days leave to amend.
 
Negligent
Misrepresentation (10th COA)
A cause of action
for negligent misrepresentation requires the following elements: (1) assertion
of an untrue fact; (2) honestly made in the belief it is true; (3) but without
a reasonable ground for such belief; (4) defendant’s intent to induce
plaintiff’s reliance upon the representation; (5) plaintiff’s justifiable
reliance upon the representation; and (6) resulting damage.  (Melican v. Regents of University of California
(2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 168, 182; County of Kern v. Sparks (2007) 149
Cal.App.4th 11, 20; Charnay v. Cobert (2006) 145 Cal.App.4th 170, 185
n.14 [requiring pleading particularity with facts that show how, when, where,
to whom, and by what means the representations were tendered]; Cadlo v.
Owens-Illinois, Inc. (2004) 125 Cal.App.4th 513, 519 [requiring pleading
specificity].)  
Plaintiff alleges
Defendants, through their agents and/or employees, on the date of her hire, and
thereafter, promised Plaintiff her employment would continue, and she would be
allowed to work regardless of her gender, pregnancy, having taken leave,
disability, perceived disability, and association with others.  (Complaint ¶75.)  Plaintiff alleges Defendants, through their
agents and/or employees, promised Plaintiff that Defendants would provide
Plaintiff with a correct employment record, that her leave status remained, and
erroneous attendance claims would be corrected. 
(Complaint ¶75.)  Plaintiff
alleges she relied on Defendants’ promises to her detriment.  (Complaint ¶76.)  Plaintiff alleges when she became pregnant,
Defendants failed to keep their promises. 
(Complaint ¶76.)  
Plaintiff alleges
Defendants knew at the time that they failed to disclose, concealed and engaged
in such representations, actions, conduct and inactions described herein that
the same were false, misleading and untrue for the sole purpose of obtaining the
benefits of Plaintiff’s work and thereafter to limit said Defendants’ financial
obligations to Plaintiff, and other financial or economic gains, in breach of
Defendants’ contract with and duties to Plaintiff.  (Complaint ¶77.)
Plaintiff alleges
she relied upon Defendants’ representations that she would be allowed to
continue working and would not be discriminated against because of her gender,
marital status, having taken leave, perceived disability, pregnancy, and
association with others (perception would have to take time to care for sick
child).  (Complaint ¶78.)  Plaintiff alleges as a proximate consequence
of Defendants’ wrongful acts against Plaintiff, she has suffered lost wages,
commissions, benefits, emotional distress and other general and special
damages.  (Complaint ¶79.)  Plaintiff alleges Defendants’ actions were
willful, reckless and exhibited a conscious disregard of the rights of
Plaintiff and Plaintiff is entitled to punitive damages, according to proof.  (Complaint ¶80.)  
Plaintiff fails
to allege negligent misrepresentation because she alleges Defendants actually
knew that the representations were false. 
(Moncada v. West Coast Quartz Corp. (2013) 221 Cal.App.4th 768,
781 [sustaining demurrer when the plaintiff’s complaint alleged that the
defendants knew that the representations were false].)
Accordingly,
Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s 10th cause of action for negligent
misrepresentation is sustained without leave to amend.
 
Violation
of Labor Code §1198.5 (12th COA)
Defendants
state in their reply they withdraw their demurrer to the 12th cause of action
for Violation of Labor Code §1198.5.
Accordingly,
Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s 12th cause of action for Violation of Labor
Code §1198.5 is overruled.
 
Negligent
Management (13th COA)
A cause of action
for negligent hiring, retention, or supervision of an employee requires the
following elements: (1) that the employer defendant hired an employee; (2) that
the employee was/became unfit to perform the work for which they were hired or
some other specific risk; (3) that the employer defendant knew or should have
known that the employee was/became unfit or some other particular risk and that
this unfitness or other particular risk created a particular risk to others; (4)
that the employee’s unfitness or other particular risk harmed plaintiff; and (5)
that the employer defendant’s negligence in hiring/ supervising/ or retaining
the employee was a substantial factor in causing plaintiff’s harm.  (CACI 426.)
Plaintiff alleges
Defendants had a duty of due care to treat Plaintiff fairly, pursuant to their
promises to said Plaintiff and as required by law.  (Complaint ¶95.)  Defendants’ conduct, as specifically alleged in
the preceding causes of action, clearly was negligent, and was beyond the
compensation bargain as it was intended to specifically deprive Plaintiff of
work and any and all processes that would have permitted him to return to work,
which Defendant managers knew were required by law.  (Complaint ¶95.)  Plaintiff alleges Defendants incurred a duty
to employees of Defendants to maintain a work environment free of
discrimination, harassment, and retaliation on the bases alleged in Plaintiff’s
Complaint.  Plaintiff alleges Defendants had
a duty to reasonably investigate Plaintiff’s claims, and not to continue to
employ harassing managers.  (Complaint
¶96.)
Plaintiff alleges
Defendants so carelessly, negligently, and recklessly investigated, supervised,
and managed their organization as to Plaintiff as to cause her injuries and
damages as herein alleged.  (Complaint
¶97.)  Plaintiff alleges Defendants’ acts
were done with a wanton, and reckless disregard of the consequences to
Plaintiff.  (Complaint ¶97.)  Plaintiff alleges when Defendants, through
their agents and employees, did the acts herein alleged, they knew, or should
have known, that their failure to exercise due care in the performance of their
role as employer, would cause Plaintiff severe emotional distress.  (Complaint ¶98.)
Plaintiff fails
to allege which of Defendants’ employees who became unfit to perform the work
for which they were hired, or some other specific risk and that the employer
defendant knew or should have known that the employee was/became unfit, or some
other particular risk and that this unfitness or other particular risk created
a particular risk to others.  (See
CACI 426.)
Accordingly,
Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s 13th cause of action for negligent
management is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.
 
Violation of
Labor Code- Protection of Whistleblower (14th COA)
To state a cause
of action for violation of Labor Code §1102.5, a plaintiff must prove the following elements:
(1) defendant was plaintiff’s employer; (2) plaintiff disclosed to a person
with authority over plaintiff, or an employee with authority to investigate,
discover, or correct legal violations; (3) that plaintiff had reasonable cause
to believe that the information disclosed a violation of a state/federal
statute or a violation of/noncompliance with a local/state/federal rule or
regulation; (4) that defendant discharged plaintiff; (5) that plaintiff’s
disclosure of information was a contributing factor in defendant’s decision to
discharge plaintiff; (6) that plaintiff was harmed; and (7) that defendant’s
conduct was a substantial factor in causing plaintiff’s harm.  (CACI 4603.)
Plaintiff alleges
from January 2021 to the date of her termination on May 4, 2022, Plaintiff
informed Defendants she was disabled. 
(Complaint ¶103.)   Plaintiff
alleges on or about January 2021 Plaintiff informed Defendants that she was pregnant.
 (Complaint ¶103.)   Plaintiff alleges from the period she became
disabled up to and to the date of her wrongful termination, on May 4, 2022,
Plaintiff provided Defendants with restrictions related to disability which
they refused to evaluate or accommodate.  (Complaint ¶103.)   Plaintiff alleges she was required to take
unpaid leaves of absence despite the availability of other positions in which
she could have been placed.  (Complaint
¶103.)   Plaintiff alleges Defendants
left Plaintiff with no means of support for herself or her child.  (Complaint ¶103.)   
Plaintiff alleges
she repeatedly contacted Defendants and protested that she was being treated unfairly,
that she was entitled to be accommodated, that errors in her work record and
status needed to be corrected, that Defendants were improperly disciplining her
relating to her attendance when she was in fact on disability leave, that she
wanted to return to work, and she protested violations of law and Defendants’ policies.
 (Complaint ¶104.)   Plaintiff alleges as a result she was
wrongfully terminated.  (Complaint ¶104.)
  
Plaintiff alleges
as a proximate consequence of Defendants’ wrongful acts against Plaintiff, she
has suffered lost wages, benefits, emotional distress and other general and
special damages.  (Complaint ¶108.)
Plaintiff
sufficiently alleges a cause of action for violation of Labor Code
§1102.5.  Defendant’s argument that Jones
v. Lodge at Torrey Pines Partnership (2008) 42 Cal.4th 1158, 1164-1168,
precludes individual liability for retaliation claims is unavailing, as Jones
only addressed retaliation under FEHA, not under the Labor Code.
Accordingly,
Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s 14th cause of action for violation of Labor
Code §1102.5 is overruled.
 
Conclusion
Defendants’
demurrer to Plaintiffs’ Complaint is overruled as to the 1st, 3rd, 8th, 12th,
and 14th causes of action, and as to the 4th cause of action for Amazon Inc.
and Amazon LLC, only.
Defendants’
demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint is sustained with 20 days leave to
amend as to the 7th, 9th, 11th, and 13th causes of action.
Defendants’
demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint is sustained without leave to amend as
to the 10th cause of action, and as the 4th cause of action for Herrera,
Colmenero, Lopez, and Galetti, only.
Moving Party to
give notice.
 
 
Dated: 
October _____, 2023
                                                                             





  