  Case Number:  23SMCV05960    Hearing Date:   December 3, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


December
  3, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV05960




MOTION


Motion
  for Summary Judgment/Summary Adjudication




MOVING PARTY


Defendant The Stephen S. Wise Temple




OPPOSING PARTIES


Plaintiffs
  Thomas Walter Trimborn and Paula Jane Trimborn, co-trustees of the Trimborn
  Community Property Trust U/D/T July 12, 2001



 
MOVING PAPERS:
 

Notice
     of Motion and Motion for Summary Judgment/Summary Adjudication; Memorandum
     of Points and Authorities
Separate
     Statement of Undisputed Material Facts
Declaration
     of Marc Entous
Declaration
     of Gregory P. Regier
Request
     for Judicial Notice

 
OPPOSITION PAPERS:
 

Opposition to Motion for Summary
     Judgment/Summary Adjudication; Memorandum of Points and Authorities
Declaration of Thomas Trimborn
Declaration of Louis Gonzalez
Separate Statement in Support of
     Opposition
Separate Statement of Additional
     Material Facts
Request for Judicial Notice


 
REPLY PAPERS:
 

Reply
     to Plaintiff’s Opposition to Motion for Summary Judgment/Summary
     Adjudication
Response
     to Plaintiff’s Statement of Additional Material Facts
Objection
     to Plaintiff’s Request for Judicial Notice
Evidentiary
     Objections to the Declaration of Thomas Trimborn
Evidentiary
     Objections to the Declaration of Louis Gonzalez

 
BACKGROUND
 
This case arises from a property dispute of an approximate 1,000
square foot strip of land along the border of the adjacent properties of
Plaintiffs Thomas Walter Trimborn and Paula Jane Trimborn, co-trustees of the
Trimborn Community Property Trust U/D/T July 12, 2001 (“Plaintiffs” or
“Trimborn”) and Defendant The Stephen S. Wise Temple (“Defendant” or “Temple”).  Plaintiffs’ property is a single family
dwelling, and Defendant’s property is a Jewish synagogue, which includes an
elementary school and an early-learning school for young children.   
 
Since the 1980s, Plaintiffs contend a wall fence has been erected
separating the two properties. 
Plaintiffs allege their understanding has always been that the wall
fence demarcated the property line between the two properties.  Subsequently, Plaintiffs improved upon their
property on their side of the wall fence, including adding a pool, the
equipment for which currently sits directly next to the wall fence, along with
several mature trees and a playset.  
 
Defendant contends the actual property line extends a short distance
beyond the fence in the direction of Plaintiffs’ property.  Thus, according to Defendant, the existing
wall-fence and Plaintiff’s pool equipment, which abuts the existing wall-fence,
are actually on Defendant’s property.
 
In 2022, Defendant applied for permits to upgrade its facilities,
including removing and replacing the existing wall-fence with improved security
features, which the City of Los Angeles (“City”) granted, following a virtual
public hearing.  Plaintiffs did not
attend the hearing or otherwise object to proposed improvements.
 
The parties attempted to informally resolve the dispute between them,
but discussions stalled.  Thereafter, Plaintiffs
filed a verified complaint for (1) Quiet Title – Implied Easement; (2) Quiet
Title – Equitable Easement; (3) Quiet Title – Easement by Estoppel; (4) Quiet
Title – Prescriptive Easement; and (5) Injunctive Relief, under the theory that
it has an easement over the disputed area.
 
Defendant has cross-complained against Plaintiffs for (1) Trespass;
(2) Ejectment; and (3) declaratory relief, related to the disputed area.
 
Defendant now moves for summary judgment, or in the alternative,
summary adjudication as to Plaintiffs’ complaint, on the following grounds:
 
Issue
1:  The Temple is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law as to Plaintiffs’ First Cause of Action for Implied
Easement because there is no triable issue of material fact as to the cause of
action, and the cause of action is without merit and the claim fails as a matter
of law. 
 
Issue
2: The Temple is entitled to judgment as a matter of law as to
Plaintiffs’ Second Cause of Action for Equitable Easement because there is no
triable issue of material fact as to the cause of action, and the cause of
action is without merit and the claim fails as a matter of law. 
 
Issue
3: The Temple is entitled to judgment as a matter of law as to
Plaintiffs’ Third Cause of Action for Easement by Estoppel because there is no
triable issue of material fact as to the cause of action, and the cause of
action is without merit and the claim fails as a matter of law. 
 
Issue
4: The Temple is entitled to judgment as a matter of law as to
Plaintiffs’ Fourth Cause of Action for Prescriptive Easement because there is
no triable issue of material fact as to the cause of action, and the cause of
action is without merit and fails as a matter of law. 
 
Issue
5: The Temple is entitled to judgment as a matter of law as to
Plaintiffs’ Fifth Cause of Action because there is no triable issue of material
fact as to the Cause of Action; and the Cause of Action is without merit and
fails as a matter of law because injunctive relief is a remedy not a Cause of
Action.
 
            On November 18, 2024 Plaintiffs
requested voluntary dismissal of the first and fifth causes of action without
prejudice, which the Clerk of the Court entered on November 20, 2024.  Therefore, the Court denies summary
adjudication as to Issues 1 and 5 as moot. 
Other than that, Plaintiffs oppose the motion and Defendant replies.
 
REQUESTS FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
            Defendant’s Request for
Judicial Notice
 
            Defendant requests judicial notice
of the following:
 
Exhibit
1 – the City’s June 1, 2022, letter to The Stephen S. Wise Temple approving the
Aaron Milken Center project.
 
Exhibit
2 – the Grant Deed transferring the real property described as Lot 7 in Tract
No. 16953 from Elmer A. Hartwig and Gladys Hartwig, husband and wife, to
Russell C. Brown and Opal Brown, husband and wife, as joint tenants, recorded
in the official records of the County of Los Angeles on November 15, 1957.
 
Exhibit
3 – the Grant Deed transferring the real property described as Lot 7 in Tract
No. 16953 from Russell C. Brown and Opal Brown, husband and wife to Hawley B.
Pratt and Cecelia V. Pratt, husband and wife, as joint tenants, recorded in the
official records of the County of Los Angeles on June 2, 1960. 
 
Exhibit
4 – the Grant Deed transferring the real property described as Lot 7 in Tract
No. 16953 from Hawley B. Pratt and Cecelia V. Pratt, husband and wife, to Joey
J. Pento, a single man, recorded in the official records of the County of Los
Angeles on August 26, 1980.
 
Exhibit
5 – the Grant Deed transferring the real property described as Lot 7 in Tract
No. 16953 and known as Assessor’s Parcel No. 4378-009-007 from Thomas Langan, a
single man, to Plaintiffs Thomas and Paula Trimborn recorded in the official
records of the County of Los Angeles on July 28, 2000.
 
Exhibit
6 – the Grant Deed transferring real property from Frank E. Hurd to Temple
Stephen S. Wise recorded in the official records of the County of Los Angeles
on December 29, 1966 granting Defendant Stephen S. Wise Temple property
currently located at 15500 Stephen S. Wise Drive, Los Angeles County,
California, APN 4378-001-008.  The same
1966 Grant Deed was referenced in Paragraph 5 of Plaintiffs Verified Complaint
and attached as Exhibit 2 thereto.
 
Exhibit
7 – this Court's January 30, 2024 Minute Order on Motion for Preliminary
Injunction.  
 
Exhibit
8 – the November 3, 2004, Master Land Use Permit Application filed by Plaintiff
Thomas Trimborn with the City of Los Angeles from 2004 including a Site Plan
with a handwritten marking and a subsequent letter of withdrawal.
 
Exhibit
9 – Tract No. 16953 dated August 15, 1950 depicting the Plaintiffs' property
labeled as tract No. 7 on page 2 along with an attached zoomed in version of
the same tract map. 
 
Exhibit
10 – recent County of Los Angeles Secured Property Tax Bills for the Temple
property.  
 
Exhibit
11 – Plaintiffs' Verified Complaint.
 
            As for Exhibit 1, judicial notice
may be taken of official acts of the legislative, executive, and judicial
departments of the United States and of any state of the United States.  (Evid. § 452, subd. (c).)  Therefore, the Court takes judicial notice of
Exhibit 1 as an official act of the City.
 
Regarding
Exhibits 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 9, Courts
can take judicial notice of the existence and recordation of real property
records, including deeds, if authenticity is not reasonably disputed.  (Fontenot v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.
(2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 256, 264-265.) 
“The official act of recordation and the common use of a notary public
in the execution of such documents assure their reliability, and the
maintenance of the documents in the recorder’s office makes their existence and
text capable of ready confirmation, thereby placing such documents beyond
reasonable dispute.”  (Ibid.)  Moreover, courts can take judicial notice not
only of the existence and recordation of recorded documents but also matters
that can be deduced from the documents, including the parties, dates, and legal
consequences of recorded documents relating to real estate transactions.  (Ibid.)  Therefore, the Court takes judicial notice of
Exhibits 2 through 6 and 9.
 
Regarding Exhibits 7 and 11, judicial
notice may be taken of records of any court in this state.  (Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d)(1).)  Because this Court’s January 30, 2024 Minute
Order and Plaintiffs’ Verified Complaint are part of the Court’s record for
this case, the Court may take judicial notice of them.  (Ibid.)   However, “while courts are free to take
judicial notice of the existence of each document in a court file, including
the truth of results reached, they may not take judicial notice of the truth of
hearsay statements in decisions and court files.  Courts may not take judicial notice of
allegations in affidavits, declarations and probation reports in court records
because such matters are reasonably subject to dispute and therefore require
formal proof.”  (Lockley v. Law Office
of Cantrell, Green, Pekich, Cruz & McCort (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 875,
882 [cleaned up].)  Accordingly, the
Court takes judicial notice of the existence of the Verified Complaint and
Minute Order filed in this matter as court records, but not the truth of the
allegations contained therein.  
 
With regard to Exhibits 8 and
10, Courts can take judicial notice of facts and propositions that are not
reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of immediate and accurate
determination by resort to sources of reasonably indisputable accuracy.  (Evid., § 452, subd. (h).)  Therefore, the Court takes judicial notice of
Exhibits 8 and 10, but as discussed above, not the truth of the hearsay
statements contained in Exhibit 8.
 
Plaintiffs’ Request for
Judicial Notice
 
Plaintiffs request judicial
notice of the following:
 
Exhibit A: Defendant’s Opposition to
Plaintiff’s Motion for Preliminary Injunction filed January 16, 2024.
 
Exhibit B: Declaration of Christopher Jones
in Support of Opposition filed January 16, 2024.
 
Exhibit C: Certified Copy of Defendant’s 1997
permit application to improve the Wall Fence.
 
            Defendant
opposes Plaintiffs’ request regarding Exhibit C on the grounds of relevance and
Defendant also objects to the extent Plaintiff asks the Court to take judicial
notice of Plaintiff’s interpretation of that document.
 
Regarding Exhibits A and B, as
discussed above, the Court can take judicial notice of court records, but not
of the hearsay statements contained therein. 
As such, the Court takes judicial notice of the existence and filing of
Exhibits A and B as court records, but not the truth of the hearsay statements
contained therein.
 
            Similarly,
as with Defendant’s RJN Exhibit 8 above, the Court takes judicial notice of
Plaintiffs’ RJN Exhibit C, but not the truth of hearsay statements contained
therein.
 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
 
            The
Court rules as follows with respect to Defendant’s objections to the
Declaration of Thomas Trimborn:
 
1.     Overruled
2.     Overruled
3.     Overruled
4.     Sustained as to Exhibit A; Overruled
otherwise.
5.     Overruled
6.     Overruled
7.     Overruled
8.     Overruled
9.     Overruled
10.  Overruled
11.  Overruled
12.  Overruled
13.  Overruled
14.  Overruled
15.  Overruled
16.  Overruled
 
The Court rules as follows
with respect to Defendant’s objections to the Declaration of Louis Gonzalez:
 
1.     Overruled
2.     Overruled
 
LEGAL STANDARDS – MOTION FOR SUMMARY
JUDGMENT/ADJUDICATION
 
“[T]he party moving for
summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue
of material fact and that he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law[.]
There is a triable issue of material fact if, and only if, the evidence would
allow a reasonable trier of fact to find the underlying fact in favor of the
party opposing the motion in accordance with the applicable standard of proof.”
¿(Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850
(hereafter Aguilar).) ¿“[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears an
initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence
of any triable issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of production,
he causes a shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a burden of
production of his own to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a
triable issue of material fact.” ¿(Ibid.; Smith v. Wells Fargo Bank,
N.A. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 1463, 1474 [summary judgment standards held by Aguilar
apply to summary adjudication motions].)  
 
Further, “the trial court
may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a factfinder to determine whose
version is more likely true.  Nor may the
trial court grant summary judgment based on the court's evaluation of
credibility.”  (Aguilar, supra, 25
Cal.4th. at p. 840 [cleaned up]; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department
of Transportation (2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for
summary judgment or summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must
instead view it in the light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all
reasonable inferences in favor of that party”].)  
 
A party may move for
summary adjudication as to one or more causes of action, affirmative defenses,
claims for damages, or issues of duty if that party contends that there is no
merit to the cause of action, defense, or claim for damages, or if the party
contends that there is no duty owed.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).)  “A motion for summary adjudication shall be
granted only if it completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative
defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty.”  (Ibid.)  A cause of action has no merit if: (1) one or
more elements of the cause of action cannot be separately established, even if
that element is separately pleaded, or (2) a defendant establishes an
affirmative defense to that cause of action. 
(See Code Civ. Proc., §
437c, subd. (n); Union Bank v. Superior
Court (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 573, 583.) 
Once the defendant has shown that a cause of action has no merit, the
burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable issue of material fact
exists as to that cause of action.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (o)(2); Union Bank v. Superior Court, supra, 31 Cal.App.4th at p.
583.)  Additionally, in line with Aguilar,
“[o]n a motion for summary adjudication, the trial court has no discretion to
exercise.  If a triable issue of material fact exists as to the challenged
causes of action, the motion must be denied. If there is no triable issue of
fact, the motion must be granted.”  (Fisherman's Wharf Bay Cruise Corp.
v. Superior Court (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 309, 320.) 
 
DISCUSSION

 
1.     Issue 2: Second Cause of Action for
Equitable Easement
 
            The elements to establish an
equitable easement are (1) the encroacher is innocent, such that the
encroachment must not be willful or negligent; (2) the burdened landowner must
not suffer irreparable injury by way of the encroachment; and (3) the hardship
to the encroacher must be disproportionate to the hardship caused by the
encroachment.  (Hansen v. Sandridge
Partners, L.P. (2018) 22 Cal.App.5th 1020, 1027-1028 (hereafter Hansen).)
 
With
regard to the first element, an equitable easement may be permitted when an
encroaching party is negligent if the landowner was also negligent in creating
the encroachment.  (Hansen, supra, 22
Cal.App.5th at p. 1031.)  
 
            Defendant’s Evidence
 
Defendant argues that contrary
to Plaintiffs’ prior arguments, a 2004 land use application demonstrates
Plaintiffs knew they were encroaching onto Temple property, negating the first
element, that Plaintiffs must be “innocent.” 

 
In support, Defendant has
advanced a notarized 2004 Master Land Use Permit Application filed with the
City’s Planning Department signed by “Tom Trimborn” on August 24, 2004.  (Defendant’s RJN Ex. 8.)  Section 3 of the Application describes the
purpose of the request “to maintain a 7’1” side yard for new addition to SFD
and existing remodel in lieu of 10’.”   (Ibid.) 
The diagram on the application depicts the “7’1”” distance between
Plaintiffs’ home and the actual property line, which is separate from the wall
fence line that is also depicted on the diagram.  (Ibid.)
 
Therefore, Defendant has met
its initial burdens of production and persuasion that as of 2004, Plaintiffs either
knew or should have known that the wall fence was not the property line, and cannot
establish the “innocence” element of an equitable easement cause of action.
 
Plaintiffs’ Evidence
 
Plaintiffs indicate in the
body of their opposing separate statement that they object to the foundation of
Defendant’s RJN Ex. 8, but evidentiary objections cannot be raised in the body
of a separate statement.  (See California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1354(b) [“All written objections to evidence must be
served and filed separately from the other papers in support of or in
opposition to the motion”].)  Thus,
Plaintiffs have not validly raised any evidentiary objections.  
 
Plaintiffs also argue that
they did not actually know where the real property line was.  In support, they provide the Declaration of
Thomas Trimborn, which provides as follows:
 
4. Given that the Wall Fence separated our
property from the Temple and the many young children on the other side of the
Wall Fence, my wife and I reasonably believed and understood that the Wall
Fence marked the boundary between the parcels and that we had the right to use
the area now in dispute since it separated the preschool and school filled with
children from our side and backyard and a public road. We also believed we
owned or co-owned the Wall Fence with the Temple. 
 
5. My wife and I have continuously used the
disputed area for the benefit of our property for the past two decades. 
 
6. In approximately 2004, we retained a
contractor and necessary professionals to substantially remodel our home. I was
the main point of contact for the professionals retained. My spouse, Paula, was
not involved in the day to day interactions. During this remodel, we built a
second level to the home, as well as backyard improvements, such as adding in
an unfenced swimming pool and related pool equipment with underground plumbing.
We had to remove very mature cypress trees that were adjacent to the Wall Fence,
approximately 50 feet tall, which had become diseased. We replaced the cypress
trees with mature native protected oak trees and also added soft landscaping,
and a playground in the Disputed Area. We also improved the Wall Fence by
installing wooden trellises on top of a portion of the Wall Fence. The Temple
never objected or complained about the improvements at the time they were being
made in 2004 or thereafter until they contacted us in February 2023 demanding
to demolish the Wall Fence. Attached as Exhibit A is a true and correct set of
photographs that accurately depict the status of the improvements we made in
2004.
 
7. At the time our home was being remodeled, my
wife and I had three young children, including twins, all under the age of
three that occupied most of our time, energy and attention. That summer we were
in the United Kingdom for most of the summer for my work and to spend time with
Paula’s parents. My wife and I relied on the professionals we retained to
prepare all permit applications necessary to complete the remodel. I was asked
to sign the permit application related to a side yard variance that had been
prepared by the contractor. Although the application was later withdrawn, I was
not then aware of the reason why it was not necessary. 
 
8. At no time did any of the professionals we
retained explain to us that the Wall Fence was not located on the true boundary
line. I have no specialized knowledge or prior experience on how to interpret
real estate surveys, and thought the side yard variance referenced in the
Temple’s motion was from the Wall Fence to the house. 
 
9. My wife and I were unaware of any historical
details regarding the Wall Fence, including any zoning, permitting or approval
process that was used by the Temple to construct the Wall Fence at the time we
purchased our parcel in 2000 until 2023 when this dispute arose. 
 
10. During construction/remodeling of our parcel,
the Temple never communicated to us or took any steps to clarify the location
of the Wall Fence, nor did the Temple make any objections to the visible
addition of trellis on top of the Wall Fence, the removal of the 50-foot-tall
cypress trees which we replaced with native oaks, or to our remodel and
installation of the pool equipment in the backyard/Disputed Area.  
 
11. We relied on the Temple’s placement of the
pre-existing Wall Fence in improving our property.
 
(Trimborn
Decl. ¶¶ 4-11.)
 
            At best, Plaintiffs’ evidence may
create a disputed issue of material fact as to whether Plaintiffs actually knew
where the property line was.  But Plaintiffs
still should have known where the true property line was, as it was depicted
on the 2004 Master Use Permit Application signed by Plaintiff Thomas Trimborn
and filed on Plaintiffs’ behalf.  Thus,
the undisputed evidence still demonstrates Plaintiffs were negligent in being
unaware that their true property line did not coincide with the wall fence, and
Plaintiffs have not provided any evidence that the Temple was in any way
negligent in creating the encroachment.
 
            As such, Plaintiffs have not met
their burden of production to create a triable issue of material fact that
Plaintiffs were “innocent” encroachers for purposes of an Equitable Easement.
 
            Therefore, the Court grants summary
adjudication as to Issue 2.
 
2.    
Issue 3:
Third Cause of Action for Easement by Estoppel
 
“Generally speaking, four
elements must be present in order to apply the doctrine of equitable estoppel:
(1) the party to be estopped must be apprised of the facts; (2) he must intend
that his conduct shall be acted upon, or must so act that the party asserting
the estoppel had a right to believe it was so intended; (3) the other party must
be ignorant of the true state of facts; and (4) he must rely upon the conduct
to his injury.”  (Krolikowski v. San
Diego City Employees' Retirement System (2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 537, 564–565.)
 
Further, when applying the
doctrine of equitable estoppel to land title, there must be “actual or
constructive fraud on the part of the party to be estopped.”  (City of Long Beach v. Mansell (1970)
3 Cal.3d 462, 490 [hereafter Mansell].) 
Thus, in cases involving the title to real property, “it must appear: 1.
That the party making the admission by his declarations or conduct, was
apprised of the true state of his own title; 2. That he made the admission with
the express intention to deceive, or with such careless and culpable negligence
as to amount to constructive fraud; 3. That the other party was not only
destitute of all knowledge of the true state of the title, but of the means of
acquiring such knowledge; and, 4. That he relied directly upon such admission,
and will be injured by allowing its truth to be disproved. There must be some
degree of turpitude in the conduct of a party, before a Court of Equity will
estop him from the assertion of his title--the effect of the estoppel being to
forfeit his property and transfer its enjoyment to another.”  (Boggs v. Merced Mining Co. (1859) 14
Cal. 279.)
 
            Defendant’s Evidence
 
Defendant argues that
Plaintiffs’ verified complaint, which defines the scope of the allegations
Plaintiffs must prove, does not allege any actual or constructive fraud.[1]  The complaint alleges as follows:
 
3. Since 2000, Plaintiffs hold title and own a real property home
addressed at 15442 Mulholland Drive, Los Angeles County, California, APN
4378-001-007 ("Trimborn Parcel"). A copy of the Quitclaim Deed for
the Trimborn Parcel is attached hereto as Exhibit "1".
 
[…]
 
5. Since about 1966, Wise holds title to and owns real property
[adjacent to and to the west of the Trimborn Parcel] known as 15500 Stephen S.
Wise Drive, Los Angeles County, California, APN 4378-001-008 ("Wise
Parcel"). A copy of the Grant Deed for the Wise Parcel is attached hereto
as Exhibit "2".
 
[…]
 
8. Based on information and belief, Trimborn alleges that in about the
mid-1980s Wise built a wall and fence separating the Wise Parcel and the Trimborn
Parcel ("Wall Fence"), it remains in its existing location. 
 
9. The Trimborns always used and occupied the area on the side yard of
their home to the Wall Fence. The Disputed Area (defined below) includes pool
equipment, playground equipment and hard and soft landscaping
("Improvements"). Currently, a tenant occupies the Trimborn Parcel
and based on information and belief, the tenant uses the Disputed Area.
 
[…]
 
11. Since Trimborn acquired the Trimborn Parcel, (i) Trimborn
understood and believed that the Wall Fence demarcated the lot line separating
the Trimborn Parcel and the Wise Parcel and the Trimborn Parcel included the
Disputed Area, and (ii) Trimborn maintained, irrigated, landscaped, occupied
and used the Disputed Area. 
 
12. The Wall Fence has not moved from its current location, although
commencing in the beginning of 2023, Wise has and continues to threaten the
removal of the Wall Fence and use and occupation of the Disputed Area. Wise is
currently expanding its children's school facilities up to the Wall Fence and
extensive construction activities have been ongoing on the Wise Parcel. 
 
13. Since the first quarter of 2023, Trimborn and Wise have been
attempting to resolve the issues related to the Wall Fence and the Disputed
Area, to no avail. There have been multiple oral and written communications
between Trimborn and Wise relative to Wise not touching the Disputed Area and
not touching the Wall Fence. 
 
14. Based on information and belief, Trimborn learned and therefore
alleges that as part of the construction activities, Wise does not plan to
improve or occupy the Disputed Area in connection with the expansion of its
facilities.
 
[…]
 
25. It is alleged, based on information and belief, that Wise knew for
many decades that the Disputed Area had been used, maintained, irrigated,
hardscaped and landscaped by Trimborn and the Disputed Area and Wall Fence
provides Trimborn with a privacy buffer and security for the Trimborn pool. 
 
26. A visual inspection of the Improvements, the Wall Fence location,
and the conduct of Defendant and the Plaintiffs and their respective
predecessors for decades relative to Disputed Area use establishes a continued
use of the Disputed Area by Trimborn. Trimborn [ and most likely Wise]
justifiably relied on this visual inspection opining that the Disputed Area is
part of the Trimborn Parcel. As mentioned above, until 2023, Wise did not voice
opposition to such Disputed Area use. 
 
27. An injustice to Trimborns would result if they could not continue
to use the Disputed Area. 
 
28. Trimborn seeks to quiet title to the Disputed Area and the Wall
Fence based on easement by estoppel rights as of the date of filing this
complaint.
 
(Complaint at ¶¶ 3, 5, 8-9, 11-14, 25-28.)
 
            Thus,
the Verified Complaint does not allege fraudulent intent on the part of the
Temple.  Further, as discussed above, in
light of the 2004 Master Use Permit Application, Plaintiffs had the “means of
acquiring the knowledge” about the true location of the boundary line, which
also precludes the easement by estoppel claim.
 
            As
such, Defendant has met its initial burdens of production and persuasion that
Plaintiffs cannot establish that Defendant had the requisite fraudulent intent
or that Plaintiffs had no means of acquiring knowledge of the actual boundary
line, to state a cause of action for easement by estoppel.
 
            Plaintiffs’ Evidence
 
Plaintiffs do not dispute that
the verified complaint does not allege actual or constructive fraud.  (See UMF No. 31.)  Therefore, Plaintiffs have not created any
triable issues of material fact.
 
Instead, Plaintiffs raise the
legal argument that actual or constructive fraud is only required in cases
involving title to real property, not where the dispute concerns an easement.  In support, Plaintiffs cite to City of
Long Beach v. Daugherty (1977) 75 Cal.App.3d 972, 976-977 (hereafter Daugherty).  The same beach properties at issue in Mansell
were also at issue in Daugherty, and Daugherty distinguished
the factual findings regarding the boundary line disputes in Mansell from
the easements at issue in Daugherty on the grounds that fee title
ownership is an entirely separate issue from an easement.  
 
However, contrary to Plaintiffs’
characterization, Daugherty did not hold that fraudulent intent is not
required in cases involving easements, like it is in cases involving fee
title.  In fact, the word “fraud” does
not appear at all in the Daugherty case. 
Indeed, the same rationale behind requiring actual or constructive fraud
to fee title – that applying equitable estoppel too readily to real property
transactions would essentially undermine the statute of frauds – applies with
equal force to easements, which also involve (nonpossessory) interests in land.
 
Further, as discussed above,
Plaintiffs have not presented evidence disputing that Plaintiffs had
constructive knowledge of the actual boundary line, by virtue of the 2004
Master Use Permit Application signed by Mr. Trimborn.   
 
As such, the Court grants
summary adjudication as to Issue 3.
 
3.    
Issue 4:
Fourth Cause of Action for Prescriptive Easement
 
The elements of a prescriptive
easement are “(a) open and notorious use; (b) continuous and uninterrupted use;
(c) hostile to the true owner; (d) under claim of right; and (e) for the
statutory period of five years.”  (Connolly
v. McDermott (1984) 162 Cal.App.3d 973, 976.)
 
            Defendant’s Arguments
 
Defendant argues that exclusive
prescriptive easements are not available in garden variety boundary
encroachment cases, such as this.  
 
In Raab
v. Casper, the appellate court explained that an “easement” limits the uses
available to the grantor, whereas an “estate” grants ownership and “exclusive
occupation of a portion of the earth’s surface.”  (Raab v. Casper (1975) 51 Cal.App.3d
866, 876 (hereafter Raab).)  Thus,
if an interest which purports to be an “exclusive easement” is tantamount to an
“estate,” the plaintiff must establish the elements of adverse possession, not
of prescriptive easement.  (Id. at
p. 877.)
 
As
the Court of Appeal clarified in Mehdizadeh v. Mincer, “[a]n exclusive
prescriptive easement is … a very unusual interest in land” typically reserved
for utilities, where the area must be secured to prevent interference with or
contamination of public utilities, in the interest of public health and safety.  (Mehdizadeh v. Mincer (1996) 46
Cal.App.4th 1296, 1306-1308.)  
 
The notion of an exclusive prescriptive easement,
which as a practical matter completely prohibits the true owner from using his
land, has no application to a simple backyard dispute . . . .  An easement, after all, is merely the right to
use the land of another for a specific purpose—most often, the right to cross
the land of another. An easement acquired by prescription is one acquired by
adverse use for a certain period. An easement, however, is not an ownership
interest, and certainly does not amount to a fee simple estate.
 
(Ibid.)
 
            In Harrison v. Welch, the appellate
court held, “an exclusive prescriptive easement, which as a practical matter
completely prohibits the true owner from using his land will not be granted in
a case like this involving a garden-variety residential boundary encroachment.”  Harrison v. Welch (2004) 116
Cal.App.4th 1084, 1093 (hereafter Harrison).)  In Harrison, the disputed area
similarly involved a setback area along the property line.  (Id. at p. 1094.)  The encroaching party sought an exclusive
easement to maintain a wooden shed on the disputed area and a purportedly
non-exclusive easement to various landscaping improvements.  (Id. at p. 1093.)  The appellate court explained:  “[a]n encroaching woodshed, just as much as
any encroaching fenced-in landscaping, as a practical matter completely
prohibits the true owner from using his land” and noted that although the trees,
railroad-tie planter boxes, and an irrigation system on the disputed area did
not create physical barriers excluding the owners from accessing the landscaped
area, as a practical matter, because these encroachments effectively prohibit
the landowner from using that portion of their land, were also tantamount to an
exclusive easement, which the trial court appropriately refused to grant.  (Id. at pp. 1093-1094.)  
 
            In so holding, Harrison analyzed
several other relevant cases.  For
example, in Otay Water Dist. v. Beckwith, the appellate court affirmed
an exclusive easement to maintain a reservoir that had been on the property for
twenty years, because a nonexclusive easement would risk potential
contamination of the water supply, creating public health and safety concerns.  (Otay Water Dist. v. Beckwith (1991) 1
Cal.App.4th 1041, 1044-1045, 1047-1048 (hereafter Otay).)
 
By
contrast, in Silacci v. Abramson, applying Raab, the appellate
court reversed the creation of an exclusive prescriptive easement in a dispute
between neighbors over a portion of land behind their houses that one party had
fenced in and used as a backyard.  (Silacci
v. Abramson (1996) 45 Cal.App.4th 558, 560-562 (hereafter Silacci).)  In so holding, Silacci distinguished Otay
as follows:
 
A public water company's right to keep drinking
water safe from contamination must be given precedence. An exclusive
prescriptive easement is, nonetheless, a very unusual interest in land. The
notion of an exclusive prescriptive easement, which as a practical matter
completely prohibits the true owner from using his land, has no application to
a simple backyard dispute like this one. An easement, after all, is merely the right
to use the land of another for a specific purpose—most often, the right to
cross the land of another. An easement acquired by prescription is one acquired
by adverse use for a certain period. An easement, however, is not an ownership
interest, and certainly does not amount to a fee simple estate. To permit
Abramson to acquire possession of Silacci's land, and to call the acquisition
an exclusive prescriptive easement, perverts the classical distinction in real
property law between ownership and use. The trial court's order here amounted
to giving Silacci's land completely, without reservation, to Abramson. This the
court did, using the term ‘exclusive prescriptive easement,’ an unusual
doctrine which does not apply.
 
(Silacci,
45 Cal.App.4th at p. 564, emphasis added.)
 
Defendant
also cites to Kapner v. Meadowlark Ranch Assn.  There, the encroacher sought a prescriptive
easement over improvements he enclosed on a parcel of land he held in common
with other owners.  (Kapner v.
Meadowlark Ranch Assn. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 1182, 1185 (hereafter Kapner).)  The Court of Appeal held that by enclosing
the land in question, the encroacher had created a possessory interest,
precluding a prescriptive easement.  (Id.
at p. 1187.)
 
Thus,
Defendant has met its initial burdens of production and persuasion that the
fenced-in disputed area along the boundary between the parties’ properties would
create an impermissible exclusive prescriptive easement.  
 
            Plaintiffs’ Arguments
 
            Plaintiffs
cite to Romero v. Shih (2024) 15 Cal.5th 680, 697, fn. 2 as standing for
the proposition that “while exclusive prescriptive easements are rare, they are
not categorically prohibited.”  
 
            Plaintiffs
also cite to Hirshfield v. Schwartz (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 749, 769, fn.
11, as standing for the proposition that “while prescriptive easements are
generally based on historical use, exclusive easements are possible when
appropriately limited and conditioned.”
 
            Plaintiffs
also cite to Mehdizadeh, which permitted an exclusive prescriptive
easement when it “serves a public health or safety interest.”  (Opp. at p. 16.)
 
            Plaintiffs
argue that their exclusive easement benefits the public, because the Temple’s
Wall Fence creates a physical boundary keeping the children attending its early
childhood education center from the pool in Plaintiffs’ private backyard, as
well as a public road.
 
            While
the Court agrees that some form of boundary fence is necessary to keep the
children attending Defendant’s early childhood education center safe, the Court
disagrees that an exclusive prescriptive easement, entitling Plaintiffs
exclusive access to the disputed area, is necessary to keep the children
attending Defendant’s early childhood education center from accessing the pool
in Plaintiffs’ backyard or the nearby public road.
 
            Therefore,
Plaintiffs have not met their burden to create any triable issue of material
fact.  As such, the Court grants summary
adjudication as to Issue 4.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court grants in part and denies in part Defendant’s
motion for summary adjudication.  In
light of Plaintiffs’ voluntary dismissal of the first and fifth causes of
action, the Court denies summary adjudication as to Issues 1 and 5 as
moot.  Because the Court denies summary
adjudication as to Issues 1 and 5, the Court similarly denies summary judgment.
 
Finding Defendants met their initial burdens of production and
persuasion that Plaintiffs were on at least constructive notice of the true
boundary line, by virtue of the 2004 Master Land Use Permit Application signed
by “Tom Trimborn” and publicly filed on Plaintiffs’ behalf, and that Plaintiffs
did not meet their burden of production to create a triable issue of material
fact, the Court grants summary adjudication as to Issues 2 and 3.  The Court also grants summary adjudication as
to Issue 3 on the alternative grounds that the operative complaint does not
allege actual or constructive fraud, as required to apply equitable estoppel to
interests in real property.
 
Finding Defendants met their initial burdens of production and
persuasion that the law precludes exclusive prescriptive easements in ordinary
private boundary line disputes, like the one here, and Plaintiffs failed to
create a triable issue of material fact that granting them an exclusive
prescriptive easement is necessary to protect public health and safety, the
Court grants summary adjudication as to Issue 4.  
 
Moving Defendants shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file the
notice with a proof of service regarding the same.   
 
 
 
 
 
DATED:  December 3, 2024                                                  ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 


