 Case Number:  24SMCV02260    Hearing Date:   December 3, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


December 3, 2024




CASE NUMBER


24SMCV02260




MOTIONS


Demurrer and Motion to Strike Portions of Complaint




MOVING PARTIES


Defendants Richard Husky and Kevan Husky




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Jean Pierre Christopher Murray



 
MOTIONS
 
On May 13, 2024, Plaintiff Jean Pierre Christopher Murray
(“Plaintiff”) filed suit against Defendants Richard Husky; Kevan Husky;
Alessandro Angelo Dazzan (a/k/a Sandro Dazzan); and Umro Realty Corp., d/b/a
The Agency (collectively, “Defendants”) alleging thirteen causes of action for
(1) fraud; (2) promissory estoppel; (3) breach of lease; (4) unjust enrichment;
(5) breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing; (6) breach of the
warranty of habitability; (7) breach of the covenant of quiet enjoyment; (8)
negligent maintenance; (9) breach of statutory duties; (10) violation of civil
code, § 1946.2; (11) retaliatory eviction; (12) constructive eviction; and (13)
declaratory relief.
 
Moving Defendants Richard Husky and Kevan Husky (“Moving Defendants”)
now demur to all thirteen causes of action, on the grounds that the complaint
fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (e).  Moving Defendants also move to strike Plaintiff’s
requests for costs, attorneys’ fees, and punitive damages.  
 
Plaintiff opposes both motions. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.     DEMURRER
 
“It is black letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of
the allegations in a complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015)
235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In testing the sufficiency of a cause of
action, a court accepts “[a]s true all material facts properly pled and matters
which may be judicially noticed but disregard contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.  [A court
also gives] the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole
and its parts in their context.”  (290
Division (EAT), LLC v. City & County of San Francisco (2022) 86
Cal.App.5th 439, 450 [cleaned up]; Hacker v. Homeward Residential, Inc.
(2018) 26 Cal.App.5th 270, 280 [“in considering the merits of a demurrer,
however, “the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however
improbable they may be”].)
 
Further, in ruling on a demurrer, a court must “liberally construe”
the allegations of the complaint “with a view to substantial justice between
the parties.”  (See Code Civ. Proc., §
452.)  “This rule of liberal construction
means that the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not
the defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)   
 
In summary, “[d]etermining whether the complaint is sufficient as
against the demurrer on the ground that it does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action, the rule is that if on consideration of all the
facts stated it appears the plaintiff is entitled to any relief at the hands of
the court against the defendants the complaint will be held good although the
facts may not be clearly stated, or may be intermingled with a statement of
other facts irrelevant to the cause of action shown, or although the plaintiff
may demand relief to which he is not entitled under the facts alleged.”  (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193
Cal.App.2d 636, 639.)
 
A.   
FAILURE TO STATE A CAUSE OF ACTION
 
                                                        
i.         
First Cause
of Action – Fraud
 
The elements for fraudulent
misrepresentation are “(1) the defendant represented to the plaintiff that an
important fact was true; (2) that representation was false; (3) the defendant
knew that the representation was false when the defendant made it, or the
defendant made the representation recklessly and without regard for its truth;
(4) the defendant intended that the plaintiff rely on the representation; (5)
the plaintiff reasonably relied on the representation; (6) the plaintiff was
harmed; and (7) the plaintiff's reliance on the defendant's representation was
a substantial factor in causing that harm to the plaintiff.”  (Graham v. Bank of America, N.A.
(2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 594, 605–606.)  
 
“In a promissory fraud action,
to sufficiently alleges [sic] defendant made a misrepresentation, the complaint
must allege (1) the defendant made a representation of intent to perform some
future action, i.e., the defendant made a promise, and (2) the defendant did
not really have that intent at the time that the promise was made, i.e., the
promise was false.”  (Beckwith v. Dahl
(2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 1039, 1060.)   
 
“In California, fraud must be
pled specifically; general and conclusory allegations do not suffice.”  (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12
Cal.4th 631, 645.)  “This particularity
requirement necessitates pleading facts which show how, when, where, to whom,
and by what means the representations were tendered.”  (Ibid.)  
 
“One of the purposes of the
specificity requirement is notice to the defendant, to furnish the defendant
with certain definite charges which can be intelligently met.”  (Alfaro v. Community Housing Improvement
System & Planning Assn., Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1356, 1384.)  As such, less specificity is required “when
it appears from the nature of the allegations that the defendant must
necessarily possess full information concerning the facts of the
controversy[.]”  (Ibid.)  “Even under the strict rules of common law
pleading, one of the canons was that less particularity is required when the
facts lie more in the knowledge of the opposite party.”  (Ibid.)
 
Here, the Complaint alleges:
 
9. In June 2013, Plaintiff Jean Pierre
Christopher Murray, as “Tenant,” and Defendants Richard Husky and Kevan Husky,
as “Landlord” entered into a residential lease agreement for the property
located at 21922 Pacific Coast Hwy, Malibu, CA 90265 (the “Property”) (the
“Lease”). 
 
10. Dazzan was the Husky’s real estate broker for
the Lease transaction. At all relevant times, Dazzan has acted as the Husky’s
agent for the Property and the Lease, and Defendants repeatedly led Murray to
believe that Dazzan had full authority to act for and bind Husky regarding the
Lease and the Property. 
 
11. Murray originally leased the Property as a
summer beach house as he was going through a divorce to enjoy with his then
three young children. Since 2016 or so, Murray has not resided in California
and has only used the Property on average 35-days per year. However, Murray
continued to handle all repairs and most maintenance. Murray continued to have
a clearing lady at least once a week.
 
12. [blank]
 
13.  At the
time of the lease commencement, the Property was notably aged and required
substantial maintenance and renovations to be considered habitable according to
modern standards. 
 
14. Relying on the Defendants’ assurances and
with the intent to make the Property a suitable home for himself and his
family, Murray invested over $600,000 in improvements, repairs, and
maintenance. These investments included major renovations in the kitchen,
bathrooms, living area, and the structural integrity of the Property, including
but not limited to new plumbing, electrical systems, and waterproofing. Murray
did over $600,000 in improvements, repairs, and maintenance based on the
understanding that the Lease would be continuously extended. 
 
15. Beginning in early 2023, the Property
experienced significant water leaks that caused damage and threatened the
structural integrity and habitability of the Property. 
 
16. In June 2023, in conjunction with the Lease
renewal, Defendants specifically promised that the repair works would begin by
November 2023, at which time Murray would not need to pay rent.
 
On Wed, Jun 14, 2023 at 8:44 AM Sandro Dazzan
wrote: Good morning Mark, Thanks again for coordinating access on Monday. Mr.
& Mrs. Husky are very appreciative of how well Mr. Murray has taken care of
the home and they have agreed to make the necessary repairs to the house that
we discussed during our meeting. It will take some time for the City of Malibu
permitting and ordering supplies so it seems by November they should be ready
to start the repairs. Mr. & Mrs. Husky feel the house is currently
habitable and expect to have the rent paid in a timely manner which is due
tomorrow. In November once work is ready to commence, Mr. & Mrs. Husky
understand the house will not be habitable at that time so we can waive any
lease payments during the construction. Please let me know if you have any
questions and we will keep you up to date with the exact timing of construction
which is mainly dependent on the City of Malibu permit process. Best regards
Sandro 
 
17. Relying on this promise and representation,
Murray renewed the Lease. 
 
18. In October 2023, Murray’s property manager
Mark Freedman informed Dazzan that they had obtained storage for Mr. Murray’s
personal property items during the November repair period. 
 
19. Dazzan responded on October 4, 2023, that the
construction permits from the City will not be ready to be pulled until January
or February 2024.
 
20. In response, Murray through his counsel
sought clarification when the repairs would be starting. 
 
21. On November 16, 2023, Husky represented by
email that his “contractor is awaiting permits from the City of Malibu to do
the construction. . . . No rent will be charged during any agreed upon month of
scheduled construction.” 
 
22. In response, on or about December 4, 2023,
Mr. Murray’s assistant, Cristina Peraza telephoned Mr. Husky to get
clarification and information on the start of the repairs. Mr. Husky refused to
answer any questions and rudely hung up on Ms. Peraza. 
 
23. On December 11, 2023, Mr. Murray’s tried to
contact Mr. Husky by email to try again get clarification and information on
the start of the repairs. Mr. Husky refused to answer any questions and rudely
hung up on Ms. Peraza. 
 
24. On December 18, 2023, Mr. Husky’s attorney
Fred Szkolnik stated “What was the point of responding?” 
 
25. On January 10, 2024, Murray’s attorney asked
Mr. Szkolnik when the repairs would be starting. Szkolnik responded that he had
no information but he would ask his client. 
 
26. As a result, Murray delayed paying January’s
rent. 
 
27. On January 26, 2024, Mr. Szkolnik stated that
Husky would not be renewing the Lease when it expired. 
 
28. In response, Murray requested mediation. The
parties’ Lease provides in ¶30 that the parties agree to mediate any dispute or
claim before resorting to court action. The mediation request letter requested
a response by February 3, 2024. 
 
29. In response, Husky refused mediation by
instead filing an unlawful detainer action, Husky vs. Murray, Los Angeles
County Superior Court Case Number: 24SMCV00465. 
 
30. On February 7, 2024, Husky rejected the
mediators that Murray had proposed on January 26. 
 
31. On February 19, 2024, Husky finally agreed to
a mediator but claimed that he was available for mediation until “March 25 or
thereafter.” On March 11, the parties finally agreed to do mediation on April
1, 2024, with Mark Loeterman, Esq. The mediation did proceed that day but it
was not successful. 
 
32. Also on February 19, 2024, Murray’s counsel
notified Husky’s counsel that recent storm completely washed the stairs out to
the beach; re door lock to the front beach slider does not work; and the garage
door is sagging and is much lower than head height: 5’10. 
 
33. As of the preparation of this Complaint on
May 13, 2024, Husky has not repaired the stairs. 
 
34. On April 30, 2024, Murray’s counsel notified
Husky’s counsel of a major ceiling leak. 
 
35. On May 4, 2024, Husky’s attorney stated that
the leak was caused by a leaking washing machine that Murray had installed.
Murray denies that the leak was caused by the washing machine that he had
installed. 
 
36. On May 7, Murray’s counsel asked Husky’s
counsel; “Who told you that the washer they installed is causing a leak? Who
was the house to inspect the leak? Was that person a licensed plumber? If so,
please provide his contact information. Did they take any photographs?” 
 
37. As of the preparation of this Complaint on
May 13, 2024, Husky has not responded.
 
[…]
 
39. Husky, through their agent Dazzan,
represented in June 2023 that they would repair the water leaks and related
damages in November 2023, in order to induce Murray to renew the Lease then.
They further represented that Murray would have not had to pay rent while the
repairs were being done in November 2023. That representation is evidenced in
the June 14, 2023 email alleged above. Husky was aware of Dazzan’s
representation and promise to Murray that were made on Husky’s behalf. 
 
40. That representation was a material inducement
to get Murray to renew the Lease and continue to pay rent. 
 
41. In reliance, Murray renewed the Lease and
paid seven months of monthly rent of $28,000, which totals $196,000
 
42. Because of the conditions of the Property,
Murray has not stayed at the Property since May 2023. 
 
43. Husky /Dazzan knew their representation and
promise were false. They had no intention to start repairs and in fact did not
start the repairs in November 2023 or since then. 
 
44. Defendants knew that Murray was relying on
their promise and representation, and Murray in fact did so. 
 
45. As a direct and proximate result of the
Defendants’ fraudulent conduct, Murray has suffered significant damages,
including financial losses due to continued rent payments and investments in
the Property, loss of use and enjoyment of the Property, and other damages in
excess of $196,000, in an amount to be proven at trial. 
 
46. Murray is also entitled punitive damages for
the fraud, malice and/or oppressive conduct perpetrated by Defendants.
 
(Complaint at ¶¶ 9-46.)
 
            Moving Defendants argue (1) the
email does not mention a lease and does not appear designed to elicit any
action from Plaintiff; and (2) the economic loss doctrine bars recovery
here.  
 
            As for the first argument, although
the email itself does not mention a lease, the allegations of the Complaint add
the requisite context that this conversation occurred during negotiations to
renew the lease, and that Plaintiff relied on these representations in renewing
the lease.
 
Regarding the second argument, “[s]imply
stated, the economic loss rule provides: where a purchaser's expectations in a
sale are frustrated because the product he bought is not working properly, his
remedy is said to be in contract alone, for he has suffered only ‘economic’
losses.”  (Robinson Helicopter Co.,
Inc. v. Dana Corp. (2004) 34 Cal.4th 979, 988 (hereafter Robinson
Helicopter).)  “The economic loss
rule requires a purchaser to recover in contract for purely economic loss due
to disappointed expectations, unless he can demonstrate harm above and beyond a
broken contractual promise.”  (Ibid.)
 
However, “Tort damages have
been permitted in contract cases where a breach of duty directly causes
physical injury; for breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing in
insurance contracts; for wrongful discharge in violation of fundamental public
policy; or where the contract was fraudulently induced.”  (Robinson Helicopter, supra, 34
Cal.4th at pp. 989–990.)
 
Here, Plaintiff alleges he was fraudulently induced into renewing the
lease.  However, Moving Defendants argue
that Plaintiff does not allege facts sufficient to show an intent to defraud or
justifiable reliance.
 
The Complaint alleges, “Husky /Dazzan knew their representation and
promise were false. They had no intention to start repairs and in fact did not
start the repairs in November 2023 or since then.”  (Complaint ¶ 43.)  Further, the Complaint alleges specific facts
that in October when the property manager contacted Moving Defendants’ agent to
arrange having Plaintiff’s belongings put in storage during the November
construction, Defendants’ agent replied that the permits “will not be ready to
be pulled until January or February 2024.” 
(Complaint ¶¶ 18-19.)  On November
16, 2023, Moving Defendants reiterated by email that the contractor is still
awaiting the permits, and that no rent will be charged “during any agreed upon
month of scheduled construction.” 
(Complaint ¶ 21.)  
 
Yet, beginning December 4, 2023, Moving Defendants stopped effectively
responding to Plaintiff’s inquiries about the forthcoming repairs.  (Complaint ¶¶ 22-25.)
 
Although it is not entirely clear whether Moving Defendants actually
intended to do the repairs at the time the promise was made in June 2023 and
subsequent delays in obtaining the permits and the intervening communications
between the parties subsequently soured Moving Defendants on the deal, or
whether Moving Defendants truly had no intent of making the repairs in June
2023 when the agreement was made, as evidenced by their subsequent excuses and
delays, taken in the light most favorable to Plaintiff, as the Court must do on
a demurrer, the Complaint adequately alleges specific facts regarding Moving
Defendants’ scienter to fraudulently induce Plaintiff into renewing the lease.
 
Therefore, the court overrules Moving Defendants’ demurrer to the
first cause of action.
 
                                                      
ii.         
Second Cause
of Action – Promissory Estoppel
 
“The elements of a promissory
estoppel claim are (1) a promise clear and unambiguous in its terms; (2)
reliance by the party to whom the promise is made; (3) the reliance must be
both reasonable and foreseeable; and (4) the party asserting the estoppel must
be injured by his reliance.”  (Jones
v. Wachovia Bank (2014) 230 Cal.App.4th 935, 945.)
 
In addition to the allegations
above, the Complaint alleges:
 
48. Under the doctrine of promissory estoppel
promise which the promisor should reasonably expect to induce action or
forbearance on the part of the promise or a third person and which does induce
such action or forbearance is binding if injustice can be avoided only by
enforcement of the promise. 
 
49. Defendants made explicit and implicit
promises to Plaintiff: (i) That they would conduct and complete necessary
repairs to address the severe water leaks and structural damages in the
Property; (ii) That they would maintain the Property in a habitable condition;
(iii) That they would renew the lease allowing Plaintiff to continue residing
at the Property under the terms discussed. 
 
50. Relying on these promises, Plaintiff
undertook significant actions: (i) He continued to pay rent under the belief
that the repairs would be made promptly and adequately, ensuring the Property
remained habitable; (ii) He forewent opportunities to seek alternative housing
based on the assurances given by Defendants concerning lease renewal and
property habitability.
 
51. Defendants subsequently reneged on these
promises by failing to perform the necessary repairs, not maintaining the
property in a habitable condition, and refusing to renew the lease as
previously indicated. 
 
52. As a direct result of relying on Defendants'
promises, Plaintiff has suffered significant harm, including financial losses
from continued rent payments for an uninhabitable property, additional living
expenses incurred from having to find temporary housing, and substantial
emotional distress. 
 
53. Enforcing the promises made by Defendants is
necessary to prevent injustice, as Plaintiff acted on these promises to his
detriment. 
 
54. Plaintiff seeks relief based on promissory
estoppel, including compensation for all damages incurred due to Defendants'
failure to fulfill their promises, and any other relief the Court deems just
and proper.
 
(Complaint
¶¶ 48-54.)  
 
            Moving Defendants argue that the promise
was not clear and unambiguous in its terms, because the time frame to start the
repairs was always uncertain.  Although
the time in which to begin the repairs was not set, and although obtaining
permits was always a condition precedent to beginning the repairs, Moving
Defendants are alleged to have definitively promised to do the repairs.  The Complaint further alleges that Plaintiff
relied on that promise in renewing the lease and paying rent for several months.  But Moving Defendants did not ever begin the
repairs and stopped communicating updated time estimates to Plaintiff as to
when construction would begin.  
 
            Thus, Plaintiff has adequately
alleged a sufficiently definitive promise to withstand a demurrer.
 
                                                    
iii.         
Third Cause
of Action – Breach of Lease
 
“To prevail on a cause of
action for breach of contract, the plaintiff must prove (1) the contract, (2)
the plaintiff's performance of the contract or excuse for nonperformance, (3)
the defendant's breach, and (4) the resulting damage to the plaintiff.”  (Richman v. Hartley (2014) 224
Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186.)  
 
            Moving Defendants argue the
Complaint fails to adequately describe the provisions of the Lease and how they
were breached.  The Court disagrees.  In this regard, the Complaint alleges:
 
9. In June 2013, Plaintiff Jean Pierre
Christopher Murray, as “Tenant,” and Defendants Richard Husky and Kevan Husky,
as “Landlord” entered into a residential lease agreement for the property
located at 21922 Pacific Coast Hwy, Malibu, CA 90265 (the “Property”) (the
“Lease”).
 
16. In June 2023, in conjunction with the
Lease renewal, Defendants specifically promised that the repair works would
begin by November 2023, at which time Murray would not need to pay rent. […]
 
17. Relying on this promise and
representation, Murray renewed the Lease.
 
[…]
 
56. The Lease agreement between Plaintiff and
Defendants Richard Husky and Kevan Husky included specific provisions requiring
Defendants to maintain the Property and to perform all necessary repairs to
ensure the property's safety and habitability. 
 
57. Despite these provisions, Defendants have
consistently failed to perform their obligations under the lease. Specific
breaches include: (i) Failing to repair significant water leaks and related
damages reported by the Plaintiff, which have severely compromised the
structural integrity and habitability of the property; (ii) Neglecting to
perform agreed-upon maintenance tasks necessary for ensuring the property's
safety, particularly in relation to electrical and plumbing systems found to be
substandard and hazardous; (ii) Not repairing the emergency beach access stairs
which were destroyed by winter storms, posing a safety hazard and denying the
Plaintiff and his guests critical beach access, as well as an emergency exit
route.
 
58. These failures constitute a breach of the
lease terms, which explicitly stipulate that the Landlord is responsible for
major repairs and for maintaining the property in a condition that is safe and
habitable. 
 
(Complaint
¶¶ 9, 16-17, 56-58.)
            
Thus, the Complaint alleges the existence and essential terms of the
lease and Defendants’ alleged breaches.  
 
                                                    
iv.         
Fourth Cause of Action – Unjust Enrichment
 
Moving Defendants demur to the fourth cause of action for unjust
enrichment on the grounds that (1) Plaintiff does not attach evidence of any
improvements to the Complaint; and (2) there is no such cause of action for
unjust enrichment.   The Court agrees
with the second argument.  
 
[T]here is no cause of action in California for
unjust enrichment. The phrase Unjust Enrichment does not describe a theory of
recovery, but an effect: the result of a failure to make restitution under
circumstances where it is equitable to do so. 
Unjust enrichment is a general principle, underlying various legal
doctrines and remedies, rather than a remedy itself. It is synonymous with
restitution.
 
(Melchior
v. New Line Productions, Inc. (2003) 106 Cal.App.4th 779, 793 [cleaned up];
accord Jogani v. Superior Court (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 901, 911 [unjust
enrichment is not a cause of action].)  
 
Thus, the Court sustains the demurrer to the fourth cause of action.
 
                                                      
v.         
Fifth Cause of Action – Breach of the Covenant
of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
 
“Every contract imposes upon
each party a duty of good faith and fair dealing in its performance and its
enforcement.”  (Foley v. Interactive
Data Corp. (1988) 47 Cal.3d 654, 683.) 
“Because the covenant is a contract term, however, compensation for its
breach has almost always been limited to contract rather than tort remedies.”  (Id. at p. 684.)  “As a contract concept, breach of the duty
led to imposition of contract damages determined by the nature of the breach
and standard contract principles.”  (Ibid.)
 
Moving Defendants argue that
the Complaint fails to identify the specific acts or omissions that constitute
a breach, or how Plaintiff’s “significant losses” were proximately caused by
any such breach.
 
In addition to the above
allegations, the Complaint alleges:
 
69. Defendants Richard Husky, Kevan Husky, and
Alessandro Angelo Dazzan breached the covenant of good faith and fair dealing
by: (i) Engaging in conduct that undermined Plaintiff's ability to enjoy the
leased Property, specifically by failing to make necessary repairs and
maintenance which they promised to complete, thereby compromising the
property's habitability; (ii) Misrepresenting their intentions to repair the
Property in a timely manner, which induced Plaintiff to renew the lease under
false pretenses; (iii) Refusing to renew the lease as a retaliatory measure in
response to Plaintiff's requests for essential repairs and lawful actions to
enforce his rights under the lease. 
 
70. These actions by Defendants were performed in
bad faith and with the intent to deprive Plaintiff of the benefits promised
under the lease agreement, specifically the right to a habitable living
environment and the continued enjoyment of the Property.
 
71. As a direct and proximate result of
Defendants' breaches of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing, Plaintiff
has suffered significant losses, including but not limited to additional living
expenses, emotional distress, and other compensable damages. 
 
72. Plaintiff seeks damages in an amount to be
determined at trial, and any other relief the Court deems just and proper, to
compensate for the harms suffered due to Defendants’ breach of the implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing.
 
(Complaint
¶¶ 69-72.)
 
            Thus, the Complaint adequately
alleges the specific breaches and proximate causation.
 
            Moving Defendants also argue in the
body of the brief that the fifth cause of action is uncertain, pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure, section 430.10, subdivision (f).  This ground was not raised in the demurrer,
and is therefore improper.  In any event,
the Court does not find these allegations are so bad that Moving Defendants
cannot reasonably determine what allegations must be admitted or denied or what
causes of action are being brought against them.  (Khoury v. Maly’s of California (1993)
14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)  Therefore, the
Court declines to sustain a demurrer on the grounds of uncertainty.
 
Therefore, the Court overrules
the demurrer to the fifth cause of action.
 
                                                    
vi.         
Sixth Cause
of Action – Breach of the Warranty of Habitability
 
The California Supreme Court
has held that there is a warranty of habitability implied in every residential
lease agreement.  (Green v. Superior
Court (1974) 10 Cal.3d 616, 637.)  “In
addition, there is a statutory cause of action available to the residential
tenant where the premises are untenantable and other circumstances exist.”  (Erlach v. Sierra Asset Servicing, LLC
(2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 1281, 1298 (hereafter Erlach).)  Specifically, pursuant to Civil Code section 1942.4,
a residential landlord may not demand or collect rent, increase rent, or serve
a three-day notice to pay rent or quit if (1) the dwelling is untenable under Civil
Code section 1941.1; (2) a public officer inspects the premises and gives the
landlord written notice that it must abate the nuisance or repair the property;
(3) the conditions have not been remedied within 35 days of the notice; and (4)
the substandard conditions were not caused by the tenant.  (Ibid.)
 
Thus, a statutory violation of
Section 1941.1 is a separate and distinct cause of action from breach of the
implied warranty of habitability, and the two causes of action have different
elements which must be proven.  
 
            Moving
Defendants argue this cause of action fails because Plaintiff has not attached
the lease to the complaint to demonstrate the contractual relationship.  Further, Moving Defendants contend that
Plaintiff’s own improvements may have caused the habitability issues, the
Complaint does not adequately allege that Defendants had actual knowledge of
the alleged habitability issues, and it is not clear whether there were any
actual habitability issues.
 
            Regarding
the first argument, as discussed above, the Complaint adequately alleges the
existence of a lease.  
 
            As
for the remaining arguments, it appears Moving Defendants are conflating a
statutory cause of action under Section 1942.4 with the general warranty of
habitability implied in every residential lease.  In any event, in addition to the above
allegations, the Complaint alleges:
 
74. Under California Civil Code §1941.1, landlords are required to
maintain rental properties in a condition that is habitable and fit for human
occupancy. This obligation includes providing effective waterproofing and
weather protection of roof and exterior walls, including unbroken windows and
doors; operating systems for heating, plumbing, and electrical; and clean,
sanitary, and structurally safe premises. 
 
75. Defendants Richard Husky and Kevan Husky have breached the implied
warranty of habitability by failing to maintain the Property in a safe and
habitable condition. The Property has suffered from significant and persistent
issues, including but not limited to severe water leaks, mold growth, and
structural damages, which have not been adequately addressed by Defendants
despite repeated notifications and requests for repairs by Plaintiff. 
 
76. The Defendants' failure to repair critical issues such as leaking
roofs, faulty plumbing, and deteriorating structural integrity has directly
compromised the safety, health, and welfare of Plaintiff and his family,
rendering the Property uninhabitable at times and in direct violation of the
terms of the lease and California habitability standards. 
 
77. As a direct and proximate result of Defendants’ breach of the
implied warranty of habitability, Plaintiff has suffered damages including, but
not limited to, loss of use and enjoyment of the Property, incurred costs for
temporary housing, and adverse health effects related to exposure to mold and
other unsafe conditions.
 
78. Plaintiff seeks an order requiring Defendants to make all
necessary repairs to restore the Property to a habitable condition and for
damages in an amount to be determined at trial, including reimbursement for any
expenses incurred by Plaintiff as a result of Defendants’ breach, along with
any other relief the Court deems just and proper.
 
(Complaint
¶¶ 74-78.)
 
Regarding Moving Defendants’
second and fourth arguments, whether Moving Defendants were in fact aware of
the alleged habitability issues, or whether there were, in fact, any
habitability issues at all, these are factual questions to be determined at
later stages of the litigation.  For
purposes of a demurrer, the Complaint alleges “Defendants Richard Husky and
Kevan Husky have breached the implied warranty of habitability by failing to
maintain the Property in a safe and habitable condition. The Property has
suffered from significant and persistent issues, including but not limited to
severe water leaks, mold growth, and structural damages, which have not been
adequately addressed by Defendants despite repeated notifications and requests
for repairs by Plaintiff.”  (Complaint ¶
75.) 
 
            As
for Moving Defendants’ third argument that Plaintiff’s own improvements may
have caused the habitability issues, while that may be a possibility (see
Complaint, ¶ 14),[1]
Plaintiff alleges that there were pre-existing water leaks that caused
damage “Beginning in early 2023” that Defendants were aware of in June 2023
when the parties negotiated the lease renewal. 
(Complaint ¶¶ 15-16.)  Although Moving
Defendants apparently deemed the home habitable as of June 14, 2023, it is
conceivable based upon the allegations that the damage from the existing
unrepaired water leaks subsequently made the home uninhabitable.  
 
            Thus, construing the allegations in
the light most favorable to Plaintiff, the Complaint adequately alleges that
the existing leaks Defendants were aware of as of June 2023 made the home
uninhabitable.  Therefore, the Court
overrules Moving Defendants’ demurrer to the sixth cause of action.
 
 
            
 
                                                   
vii.         
Seventh Cause of Action – Breach of the Covenant
of Quiet Enjoyment 
 
Absent language to the
contrary, “every lease includes a covenant of quiet possession and
enjoyment.”  (Erlach, supra, 226
Cal.App.4th at pp. 1299-1300.)  The
covenant is binding on successors in interest. 
(Nativi v. Deutsche Bank Nat’l Trust Co. (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th
261, 291.)  
 
“To be actionable, the
landlords (sic) act or omission must substantially interfere with a tenants
right to use and enjoy the premises for the purposes contemplated by the
tenancy.”  (Andrews v. Mobile Aire
Estates (2005) 125 Cal.App.4th 578, 589 (hereafter Andrews).)  “The perpetrator of the interference with the
tenants quiet enjoyment need not be the landlord personally. There may be an
actionable breach where the interference is caused by a neighbor or tenant
claiming under the landlord.”  (Id. at
p. 590.)  “This covenant is breached upon
actual or constructive eviction of the tenant.” 
(Erlach, supra, 226 Cal.App.4th at p. 1299.)  “Any interference by the landlord that
deprives the tenant of the beneficial enjoyment of the premises or renders the
premises unfit for the purposes for which they are let amounts to a
constructive eviction if the tenant so elects and vacates within a reasonable
time.”  (Id. at pp. 1299-1300.)  
 
Moving Defendants argue the
Complaint does not allege specific facts that they ever interrupted Plaintiff’s
beneficial enjoyment, and instead contains only conclusory statements.  But there is no heightened pleading requirement
to allege a breach of the covenant of quiet enjoyment.  Here, the Complaint alleges:
 
80. Under California Civil Code § 1927, every
lease of real property that is intended for human occupation implies a covenant
of quiet enjoyment. This covenant assures the tenant that their use and
enjoyment of the property will not be disturbed by the landlord or any other
person with superior title. 
 
81. Defendants Richard Husky and Kevan Husky have
breached the covenant of quiet enjoyment by their continuous failure to address
significant maintenance issues and their direct actions, which have resulted in
substantial disturbances to Plaintiff's peaceful occupation of the Property. 
 
82. Specific actions constituting this breach
include, but are not limited to: (i) Failure to address urgent and severe water
leaks and related damages, resulting in persistent noise, health hazards from
mold exposure, and discomfort; (ii) Allowing the property's emergency beach
access stairs to remain in disrepair, thereby causing a significant safety
hazard and limiting Plaintiff's access to property amenities; (iii) Failure to
take reasonable steps to mitigate the disturbances caused by extensive neighbor
construction, which the Defendants were aware significantly impacted the
Plaintiff’s use and enjoyment of the Property.
 
83. These actions and failures by Defendants have
significantly interfered with Plaintiff's right to quiet enjoyment of the
Property, causing him undue stress, anxiety, and depriving him of the full use
and benefit of his rental.
 
84. As a direct and proximate result of
Defendants’ breach of the covenant of quiet enjoyment, Plaintiff has suffered
and continues to suffer damages, including diminished use and enjoyment of the
Property, emotional distress, and other compensable losses. 
 
85. Plaintiff seeks damages for the breach of the
covenant of quiet enjoyment, and any other relief the Court deems just and
proper, including but not limited to an injunction preventing Defendants from
continuing practices that breach this covenant.
 
(Complaint ¶¶ 80-85.)    Thus, the Complaint sufficiently alleges
ultimate facts[2]
to withstand demurrer.
 
            Moving
Defendants also argue in the body of the brief, but not in the demurrer itself,
that the seventh cause of action is uncertain, pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (f). 
As discussed above, this ground was not properly raised in the demurrer
and is therefore not properly before the Court. 
Moreover, the seventh cause of action is not so bad that Moving
Defendants cannot reasonably ascertain what factual allegations must be
admitted or denied, or what causes of action are brought against them.  Therefore, the Court declines to sustain a
demurrer on the basis of uncertainty.
 
            As
such, the Court overrules Moving Defendants’ demurrer to the seventh cause of
action.
 
                                                 
viii.         
Eighth Cause
of Action – Negligent Maintenance
 
The
elements of a negligence cause of action are the existence of a legal duty of
care, breach of that duty, and proximate cause resulting in injury. The
elements of a cause of action for premises liability are the same as those for
negligence: duty, breach, causation, and damages.” (Castellon v. U.S.
Bancorp (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 994, 998, citation omitted.) “Those who own,
possess, or control property generally have a duty to exercise ordinary care in
managing the property in order to avoid exposing others to an unreasonable risk
of harm.” (Annocki v. Peterson Enterprises, LLC (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th
32, 37.)
 
Moving Defendants argue the
Complaint fails to allege that Moving Defendants were negligent, instead
alleging that they attempted to obtain proper permitting to cure the alleged
defects, and that Plaintiff stayed at the home during his own improvements,
repairs, and maintenance.  
 
The Complaint alleges:
 
87. Defendants, including Richard Husky, Kevan Husky, and Alessandro
Angelo Dazzan (acting as the managing agent for the property), owed a duty of
care to Plaintiff to maintain the Property in a reasonably safe condition and
to perform all necessary maintenance to prevent foreseeable harm to tenants 
 
88. Defendants breached this duty of care by failing to (i) Properly
address and repair significant water leaks and related structural damages that
compromised the integrity and safety of the Property; (ii) Maintain the
emergency beach access stairs, thereby jeopardizing the safety of the
Property's occupants and guests; (iii) Respond adequately to reports of mold
and other hazardous conditions that posed health risks to Plaintiff and his
family; (iv) Conduct regular and necessary inspections to ensure that all
critical systems (electrical, plumbing, structural) were in safe working order.

 
89. The negligence of the Defendants in failing to maintain the
Property has directly resulted in the Property becoming unsafe and inhabitable
at various times, leading to physical discomfort, emotional distress, and
financial losses for Plaintiff due to the need for alternative housing and
other mitigative actions. 
 
90. As a direct and proximate result of Defendants' negligent
maintenance, Plaintiff has suffered damages including, but not limited to,
additional living expenses, loss of use and enjoyment of the Property, and
adverse health effects.
 
(Complaint
¶¶ 87-90.)   Thus, the Complaint
sufficiently alleges “ultimate facts” of Moving Defendants’ alleged
negligence.  
 
            Moving Defendants also argue in the
body of the brief, but not the demurrer, that the eighth cause of action is
uncertain pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision
(f).  As discussed above, this ground was
not properly raised, and in any event, the Complaint is not so unintelligible
that Moving Defendants cannot ascertain what allegations must be admitted or
denied or what causes of action are brought against them.
 
            Therefore, the Court overrules the
demurrer to the eighth cause of action.
 
                                                    
ix.         
Ninth Cause of Action – Breach of Statutory
Duties
 
Defendant argues this cause of action fails to state a cause of
action, because the factual allegations are conclusory, and that this cause of
action is duplicative of the breach of warranty of habitability and negligent
maintenance claims.  
 
As discussed above, the
California Supreme Court has held that there is a warranty of habitability
implied in every residential lease agreement. 
(See Green v. Superior Court, supra, 10 Cal.3d 616.)  “In addition, there is a statutory cause of
action available to the residential tenant where the premises are untenantable
and other circumstances exist.”  (See Erlach,
supra, 226 Cal.App.4th at p. 1298.) 
Specifically, pursuant to Civil Code section 1942.4, a residential
landlord may not demand or collect rent, increase rent, or serve a three-day
notice to pay rent or quit if (1) the dwelling is untenable under Civil Code section
1941.1; (2) a public officer inspects the premises and gives the landlord
written notice that it must abate the nuisance or repair the property; (3) the
conditions have not been remedied within 35 days of the notice; and (4) the
substandard conditions were not caused by the tenant.  (Ibid.)
 
Thus, a statutory violation of
Section 1941.1 is a separate and distinct cause of action from breach of the
implied warranty of habitability, and the two causes of action have different
elements which must be proven.  
 
Similarly, Civil Code section
1941.3 provides, “The tenant shall be responsible for notifying the owner or
his or her authorized agent when the tenant becomes aware of an inoperable dead
bolt lock or window security or locking device in the dwelling unit. The
landlord, or his or her authorized agent, shall not be liable for a violation
of subdivision (a) unless he or she fails to correct the violation within a
reasonable time after he or she either has actual notice of a deficiency or
receives notice of a deficiency.”  (Civ.
Code, § 1941.3, subd. (b).)
 
Thus, the Court declines to
sustain a demurrer on the grounds that the statutory causes of action are
duplicative.
 
With regard to Moving Defendants’ second argument that the allegations
are conclusory, the general rule is that “statutory causes of action must be
specifically pleaded[.]”  (Zipperer v.
County of Santa Clara (2005) 133 Cal.App.4th 1013, 1020.)  Here, the Complaint alleges:
 
92. Plaintiff realleges and incorporates by reference paragraphs 1
through 37 as though fully set forth in this cause of action.
 
93. California Civil Code §§ 1941.1 and 1941.3 provides that landlords
have statutory duties to maintain rental properties in a habitable condition,
ensure effective waterproofing and weather protection of the property, provide
adequate sanitation, plumbing, and heating facilities, and comply with health
and building codes affecting health and safety. 
 
94. Defendants Richard Husky and Kevan Husky breached their statutory
duties by: (i) Failing to adequately address severe and urgent repair needs at
the Property, including significant water leaks, mold, and structural damages,
which compromised the property’s habitability; (ii) Ignoring repeated requests
and legal notices from Plaintiff to repair critical damage to the Property,
thereby failing to perform necessary maintenance and repairs as legally
required for the safety and health of tenants; (iii) Failing to maintain common
areas and essential safety features of the Property, specifically the emergency
beach access stairs, which degraded to the point of disrepair and posed
significant safety risks.
 
95. The Defendants' failure to comply with their statutory obligations
directly resulted in the Property falling below the habitable living standards
required by California Civil Code §1941.1, which mandates that a landlord must
provide a rental property that substantially complies with state and local
building and health codes that materially affect tenants' health and safety.
This noncompliance exposed Plaintiff and his family to unhealthy living
conditions and potential safety hazards, forcing them to inhabit a property
that was not maintained to the minimum legal standards of habitability. 
 
96. The Defendants' failure to comply with these statutory duties has
caused Plaintiff to incur substantial costs in attempts to mitigate the
deteriorating conditions of the Property, and has directly resulted in
significant personal discomfort, health issues, and financial losses.
 
97. Plaintiff seeks damages in an amount to be determined at trial,
and any other relief the Court deems just and proper, to compensate for the harms
suffered due to Defendants’ negligence and failure to comply with their legal
obligations as landlords.
 
(Complaint
¶¶ 92-97.)
 
            Thus, the Complaint fails to allege a public officer inspected the premises and gave
the landlord written notice that it must abate the nuisance or repair the
property or that the conditions were not remedied within 35 days of the notice,
as is required to state a cause of action for statutory violations of Section
1941.1.  
 
The Complaint also does not
allege an inoperable dead bolt lock or window security or locking device to
state a cause of action for a violation of Section 1941.3.  With regard to locks, the only allegation is:
 
32. Also on February 19, 2024, Murray’s counsel
notified Husky’s counsel that recent storm completely washed the stairs out to
the beach; re door lock to the front beach slider does not work; and the garage
door is sagging and is much lower than head height: 5’10. 
 
(Complaint ¶ 32.)  But section 1941.3 “shall not apply to
horizontal sliding doors.”  
 
            Therefore,
the Court sustains the demurrer to the ninth cause of action.
 
                                                      
x.         
Tenth Cause
of Action – Violation of Civil Code § 1946.2
 
Moving Defendants demur to
this cause of action on the grounds that it fails to state facts sufficient to constitute
a cause of action and the allegations refer to a “notice” without factual
reference to any notice.
 
Civil Code section 1946.2
provides, “after a tenant has continuously and lawfully occupied a residential
real property for 12 months, the owner of the residential real property shall
not terminate a tenancy without just cause, which shall be stated within the
written notice to terminate tenancy.”  Subdivision
(b)(1) defines “At-fault just cause” and includes “Default in the payment of
rent.”  Subdivision (b)(2) defines
“No-fault just cause” and includes “Intent to demolish or substantially remodel
the residential property.”   Further, 
 
(1) An owner who attempts to
recover possession of a rental unit in material violation of this section shall
be liable to the tenant in a civil action for all of the following:
 
(A) Actual damages.
 
(B) In the court’s discretion,
reasonable attorney’s fees and costs.
 
(C) Upon a showing that the
owner has acted willfully or with oppression, fraud, or malice, up to three
times the actual damages. An award may also be entered for punitive damages for
the benefit of the tenant against the owner.
 
(2) The Attorney General, in
the name of the people of the State of California, and the city attorney or
county counsel in the jurisdiction in which the rental unit is located, in the
name of the city or county, may seek injunctive relief based on violations of
this section.
 
 (Civ.
Code., § 1946.2, subd. (h).)  Here, the
Complaint alleges:
 
25. On January 10, 2024, Murray’s attorney asked
Mr. Szkolnik when the repairs would be starting. Szkolnik responded that he had
no information but he would ask his client.
 
26. As a result, Murray delayed paying January’s
rent. 
 
27. On January 26, 2024, Mr. Szkolnik stated that
Husky would not be renewing the Lease when it expired. 
 
28. In response, Murray requested mediation. The
parties’ Lease provides in ¶30 that the parties agree to mediate any dispute or
claim before resorting to court action. The mediation request letter requested
a response by February 3, 2024. 
 
29. In response, Husky refused mediation by
instead filing an unlawful detainer action, Husky vs. Murray, Los Angeles
County Superior Court Case Number: 24SMCV00465. 
 
[…]
 
99. Civil Code §1946.2 (The Tenant Protection Act of 2019) provides
that a residential real property owner cannot terminate the tenancy of a tenant
who has continuously and lawfully occupied a residential real property for 12
months without “just cause.” Civ. Code §1946.2(a), (k). 
 
100. Furthermore, Husky did not provide Murray with notice that as
required by the Act. Therefore, Husky was precluded from refusing to renew the
Lease. 
 
101. Because of Husky’s violation, he is precluded from terminating
the Lease or evicting Murry.
 
(Complaint ¶¶ 25-29; 99-101.)  Thus, Plaintiff appears to seek injunctive
relief, which is only available to the Attorney General, not private parties.
 
Further, although the
Complaint alleges “Husky did not provide Murray with notice that as required by
the Act” which is sufficient at the pleadings stage, Plaintiff contends in
opposition, “Husky has already dismissed the [unlawful detainer] Action.”  (Opposition at p. 14.)  
 
Thus, in addition to seeking
relief that is not available to a private party, this cause of action appears
to have been mooted by the dismissal of the unlawful detainer action.
 
To the extent Plaintiff seeks
to restrain Moving Defendants from ever terminating the lease or evicting
Plaintiff in the future, such cause of action is not yet ripe.  Further, a hypothetical future termination/eviction
predicated upon just cause (such as Plaintiff’s default on the payment of rent,
or Defendants’ planned extensive remodel/repairs) and written notice would be
proper.
 
            Therefore, the Court sustains Moving
Defendants’ demurrer to the tenth cause of action.
 
                                                    
xi.         
Eleventh Cause of Action – Retaliatory Eviction
            
Defendant demurs to the eleventh cause of action on the grounds that
it fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action and that
these allegations are better suited in defense of an unlawful detainer action.  Civil Code section 1942.5 provides:
 
(a) If the lessor retaliates against the lessee because of the
exercise by the lessee of the lessee’s rights under this chapter […], and if
the lessee of a dwelling is not in default as to the payment of rent, the
lessor may not recover possession of a dwelling in any action or proceeding,
cause the lessee to quit involuntarily, increase the rent, or decrease any
services within 180 days [….]
 
(h) Any lessor or agent of a lessor who violates this section
shall be liable to the lessee in a civil action for all of the following:
 
(1) The actual damages sustained by the lessee.
 
(2) Punitive damages in an amount of not less than one hundred
dollars ($100) nor more than two thousand dollars ($2,000) for each retaliatory
act where the lessor or agent has been guilty of fraud, oppression, or malice
with respect to that act.
 
(i) In any action brought for damages for retaliatory eviction,
the court shall award reasonable attorney’s fees to the prevailing party if
either party requests attorney’s fees upon the initiation of the action.
 
(j) The remedies provided by this section shall be in addition to
any other remedies provided by statutory or decisional law.
 
(Civ.
Code., § 1942.5, subd. (a), (h), (i), & (j).)  Here, the Complaint alleges:
 
25. On January 10, 2024, Murray’s attorney asked
Mr. Szkolnik when the repairs would be starting. Szkolnik responded that he had
no information but he would ask his client.
 
26. As a result, Murray delayed paying January’s
rent. 
 
27. On January 26, 2024, Mr. Szkolnik stated that
Husky would not be renewing the Lease when it expired. 
 
28. In response, Murray requested mediation. The
parties’ Lease provides in ¶30 that the parties agree to mediate any dispute or
claim before resorting to court action. The mediation request letter requested
a response by February 3, 2024. 
 
29. In response, Husky refused mediation by
instead filing an unlawful detainer action, Husky vs. Murray, Los Angeles
County Superior Court Case Number: 24SMCV00465. 
 
[…]
 
103. Under California Civil Code § 1942.5, tenants are protected
against retaliatory eviction by landlords who act to evict, increase rent,
decrease services, or bring or threaten to bring an action for possession in
retaliation for the tenant's lawful exercise of rights, such as complaining
about the habitability of the property or requesting repairs. 
 
104. Defendants, including Richard Husky, Kevan Husky, and Alessandro
Angelo Dazzan, engaged in actions constituting retaliatory eviction after
Plaintiff requested necessary repairs to the Property to address severe
habitability issues including water leaks, mold, and structural damages that
were promised but repeatedly ignored by Defendants. 
 
105. Specifically, after Plaintiff's repeated requests for repairs and
lawful withholding of rent due to unaddressed severe habitability issues; (i)
Defendants responded not by making the promised repairs, but by serving
Plaintiff with an unlawful detainer (eviction notice); (ii) Defendants refused
to renew the lease under terms previously implied and discussed, directly in
response to Plaintiff's complaints and legal actions taken to enforce his
tenant rights. 
 
106. Defendants' actions were intended to punish Plaintiff for his
lawful exercise of rights, attempting to evict him and refusing lease renewal
as a direct response to his complaints about the Property’s condition and his
legal actions to seek remediation. 
 
107. As a result of these retaliatory actions, Plaintiff has suffered
and continues to suffer damages, including but not limited to emotional
distress, financial losses due to forced relocation, and other compensable
harms. 
 
108. Plaintiff seeks damages for retaliatory eviction and a court
order to prevent Defendants from continuing such illegal practices, along with
any other relief the Court deems just and proper.
 
(Complaint
¶¶ 25-29; 103-108.)
 
Thus, although the Complaint alleges that Plaintiff was in default of
the January 2024 rent when Moving Defendants initiated unlawful detainer
proceedings, Plaintiff alleges the rent was lawfully withheld due to
inhabitable conditions on the property. 
As such, Plaintiff has adequately alleged a cause of action to recover
damages incurred in connection with Moving Defendants’ purported unlawful retaliatory
eviction.
 
            Moving Defendants also argue in the
body of the brief, but not the demurrer, that the eleventh cause of action is
uncertain pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision
(f).  As discussed above, this ground was
not properly raised in the demurrer, and in any event, the Complaint is not so
unintelligible that Moving Defendants cannot ascertain what allegations must be
admitted or denied or what causes of action are brought against them.
 
Therefore, the Court overrules the demurrer to the eleventh cause of
action.
 
                                                   
xii.         
Twelfth Cause of Action - Constructive Eviction
 
Moving Defendants demur to the twelfth cause of action on the grounds
that it fails to state facts to constitute a cause of action and it is better
suited for an unlawful detainer action.
 
As discussed above,
“constructive eviction” is an element of the cause of action for Breach of the
Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment.  Absent
language to the contrary, “every lease includes a covenant of quiet possession
and enjoyment.”  (See Erlach, supra,
226 Cal.App.4th at pp. 1299-1300.)  And “To
be actionable, the landlords act or omission must substantially interfere with
a tenants right to use and enjoy the premises for the purposes contemplated by
the tenancy.”  (Andrews, supra, 125
Cal.App.4th at p. 589.)  “This covenant
is breached upon actual or constructive eviction of the tenant.”  (Erlach, supra, 226 Cal.App.4th
at p. 1299.)  “Any interference by
the landlord that deprives the tenant of the beneficial enjoyment of the
premises or renders the premises unfit for the purposes for which they are let
amounts to a constructive eviction if the tenant so elects and vacates within a
reasonable time.”  (Id. at pp.
1299-1300.)
 
Similarly, Civil Code section
1940.2 prohibits a landlord to “(3) Use, or threaten to use, force, willful
threats, or menacing conduct constituting a course of conduct that interferes
with the tenant’s quiet enjoyment of the premises in violation of Section 1927
that would create an apprehension of harm in a reasonable person.  Nothing in this paragraph requires a tenant
to be actually or constructively evicted in order to obtain relief.”   Here,
the Complaint alleges:
 
110. Constructive eviction is established under California law when
actions or omissions by a landlord substantially interfere with the tenant's
use and enjoyment of the premises, compelling the tenant to vacate. This legal
concept is outlined in California Civil Code §1942, which allows tenants to
vacate rentable property that is not in a condition fit for human occupation.
The applicability of constructive eviction was further clarified in legal
precedents such as Stoiber v. Honeychuck, 101 Cal.App.3d 903 (1980), where it
was determined that the landlord must not perform any actions which would
materially interfere with the tenant’s enjoyment of the property. 
 
111. Defendants Richard Husky and Kevan Husky committed acts of
constructive eviction by: (i) Failing to address critical repairs and
maintenance issues, including severe water leaks and structural damages,
despite repeated notifications and pleas from Plaintiff, thus significantly
impairing the property's habitability; (ii) Making promises to repair the
property within specified timelines, which were not met, misleading Plaintiff
about the time frame for these critical repairs, and subsequently causing significant
delays that rendered the property uninhabitable for extended periods; (iii)
Ignoring safety concerns, including the disrepair of emergency beach access
stairs, essential for safe access to and from the property, thereby endangering
the safety of Plaintiff and his family. 
 
112. As a direct and proximate result of these actions, Plaintiff was
forced to vacate the premises due to the intolerable living conditions directly
created by Defendants' neglect and mismanagement. 
 
113. Due to the constructive eviction, Plaintiff has suffered damages,
including but not limited to moving costs, higher rent for alternative
accommodation, emotional distress, and loss of enjoyment of life. 
 
114. Plaintiff seeks damages in an amount to be determined at trial,
and any other relief the Court deems just and proper, to compensate for the
harms suffered due to Defendants’ acts of constructive eviction.
 
(Complaint ¶¶ 110-114.)
 
Thus, Plaintiff’s twelfth cause of action appears to be seeking relief
from the allegedly constructive eviction under a breach of the covenant of
quiet enjoyment theory stemming from the uninhabitable conditions.  But Plaintiff has already brought the seventh
cause of action for breach of the implied covenant of quiet enjoyment premised
on the allegedly uninhabitable conditions. 

 
Therefore, Plaintiff has not stated a separate cause of action for
“constructive eviction.”  As such, the
Court sustains Moving Defendants’ demurrer to the twelfth cause of action.
 
                                                 
xiii.         
Thirteenth Cause of Action – Declaratory Relief
 
Moving Defendants demur to the thirteenth cause of action on the
ground that Plaintiff has not attached to the complaint a copy of the lease
agreement upon which the declaratory relief is based.  As discussed above, Plaintiff has adequately
pleaded the existence and essential terms of the lease agreement at issue to
withstand demurrer.
 
            Moving Defendants also argue in the
body of the brief, but not the demurrer, that the thirteenth cause of action is
uncertain pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision
(f).  As discussed above, this ground was
not properly raised in the demurrer, and in any event, the Complaint is not so
unintelligible that Moving Defendants cannot ascertain what allegations must be
admitted or denied or what causes of action are brought against them.
 
            Therefore, the Court overrules the
demurrer as to the thirteenth cause of action.
 
2.     MOTION
TO STRIKE
 
Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading, may serve
and file a motion to strike the whole pleading or any part thereof.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1); Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1322, subd. (b).) 
On a motion to strike, the court may: (1) strike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or
any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of
California, a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767,
782.)  
 
In ruling on a motion to strike punitive damages, “judges read
allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts
in their context, and assume their truth.” 
(Clauson v. Superior Court
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.)  To
state a prima facie claim for punitive damages, a plaintiff must allege the
elements set forth in the punitive damages statute, Civil Code section 3294.  (College
Hosp., Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 721.)  Per Civil Code section 3294, a plaintiff must
allege that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).)   As set forth in the Civil Code, 
 
(1) “Malice” means conduct which is intended
by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which
is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard
of the rights or safety of others.  (2)
“Oppression” means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and
unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person's rights.  (3) “Fraud” means an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.
 
(Civ.
Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1)-(3), emphasis added.)  
 
Further, a plaintiff must assert facts with specificity to support a
conclusion that a defendant acted with oppression, fraud or malice.  To wit, there is a heightened pleading
requirement regarding a claim for punitive damages.  (See Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10
Cal.App.4th 1033, 1041-1042.)  “When
nondeliberate injury is charged, allegations that the defendant’s conduct was
wrongful, willful, wanton, reckless or unlawful do not support a claim for
exemplary damages; such allegations do not charge malice.  When a defendant must produce evidence in
defense of an exemplary damage claim, fairness demands that he receive adequate
notice of the kind of conduct charged against him.” (G. D. Searle & Co.
v. Superior Court (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 22, 29 [cleaned up].)  In Anschutz Entertainment Group, Inc. v.
Snepp, the Court of Appeal noted that the plaintiffs’ assertions related to
their claim for punitive damages were “insufficient to meet the specific
pleading requirement.”  (Anschutz
Entertainment Group, Inc. v. Snepp (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 598, 643
[plaintiffs alleged “the conduct of Defendants was intentional, and done
willfully, maliciously, with ill will towards Plaintiffs, and with conscious
disregard for Plaintiff's rights. Plaintiff's injuries were exacerbated by the
malicious conduct of Defendants. Defendants' conduct justifies an award of
exemplary and punitive damages”]; see also Grieves
v. Superior Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 166 [“The mere allegation an
intentional tort was committed is not sufficient to warrant an award of
punitive damages.  Not only must there be
circumstances of oppression, fraud, or malice, but facts must be alleged in the
pleading to support such a claim”].)  
 
Moving Defendants move to strike from the Complaint Plaintiff’s
requests for costs, attorneys’ fees, and punitive damages.
 
As discussed above, because the Court overrules Moving Defendants’
demurrer to the fraud-based cause of action, the Court finds Plaintiff has
adequately alleged fraudulent conduct to support a claim for punitive damages
against Moving Defendants.
 
Further, as discussed above, attorneys’ fees are available for
Plaintiff’s eleventh cause of action for retaliatory eviction.
 
With regard to costs, costs are generally available to the prevailing
party.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 1032,
subd. (b).)  Although Moving Defendants
have moved to strike Plaintiff’s request for costs from the Complaint, the body
of the motion to strike does not contain any argument as to why the request for
costs should be stricken.
 
Therefore, the Court denies Moving Defendants’ motion to strike in its
entirety.
            
3.    
LEAVE TO AMEND
 
A plaintiff has the burden of showing in what
manner the complaint could be amended and how the amendment would change the
legal effect of the complaint, i.e., state a cause of action. (See The
Inland Oversight Committee v. City of San Bernardino (2018) 27 Cal.App.5th
771, 779; PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v. Hulven Int'l, Inc. (2017)
14 Cal.App.5th 156, 189.) A plaintiff must not only state the legal basis for
the amendment, but also the factual allegations sufficient to state a cause of
action or claim. (See PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v. Hulven Int'l, Inc.,
supra, 14 Cal.App.5th at p. 189.) Moreover, a plaintiff does not meet his
or her burden by merely stating in the opposition to a demurrer or motion to
strike that “if the Court finds the operative complaint deficient, plaintiff
respectfully requests leave to amend.” (See Major Clients Agency v Diemer
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1116, 1133; Graham v. Bank of America (2014) 226
Cal.App.4th 594, 618 [asserting an abstract right to amend does not satisfy the
burden].)
 
Here, the Court sustains the demurrer as to the following causes
of action:
 
·      
Fourth Cause of Action for
Unjust Enrichment on the grounds that there does not exist any such cause of
action.
 
·      
Ninth Cause of Action for
Breach of Statutory Duties on the grounds that Plaintiff failed to allege an
officer inspected the premises and gave the landlord written notice of the
deficiencies and the allegations about a deficient lock involved a “slider” which
is not actionable under the applicable statute.
 
·      
Tenth Cause of Action for
Violation of 1946.2 on the grounds that the injunctive relief sought is not
available to private citizens like Plaintiff, and the cause of action was
mooted when the unlawful detainer action was dismissed.
 
·      
Twelfth Cause of Action for
Constructive Eviction on the grounds that Plaintiff has not alleged a cause of
action for “Constructive Eviction” separate from the breach of the covenant of
quiet enjoyment cause of action.
 
Because the Court sustains the demurrer to the fourth and twelfth
causes of action on the grounds that no such causes of action exist, there are
no facts Plaintiff could add to the complaint to cure that deficiency.
 
With regard to the ninth and tenth causes of action, Plaintiff
argues in opposition that Plaintiff obtained several documents in discovery,
including emails that demonstrate Defendants did not intend to honor the lease
extension in June 2023 when it was signed or to initiate the repairs prior to
Jan/Feb when they sent Plaintiff an email indicating they intended to begin
repairs in November.  While these
additional facts would bolster Plaintiff’s fraud cause of action, they are not
relevant to the deficiencies the Court identified with the ninth and tenth
causes of action.
 
Therefore, the Court denies Plaintiff leave to amend.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the foregoing reasons, the Court overrules Moving Defendants’
demurrer to the first, second, third, fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, eleventh,
and thirteenth causes of action, and sustains without leave to amend Moving
Defendants’ demurrer to the fourth, ninth, tenth, and twelfth causes of
action.  
 
Further, the Court denies Moving Defendants’ Motion to Strike in its
entirety.  
 
Further, the Court orders Moving Defendants to file and serve
Answer(s) to the Complaint on or before December 24, 2024.   
 
Moving Defendants shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file the
notice with a proof of service forthwith. 

 
 
DATED:  December 3, 2024                                                  ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court


