


[1] This is
Government Defendants’ second demurrer. 
The first demurrer – to the eighth cause of action in the first amended
master complaint – was sustained with leave to amend in June 2023.


[2] Case law
describes the elements this way:
 
(1) a dangerous condition of public property;
(2) a foreseeable risk, arising from the dangerous condition, of the kind of
injury the plaintiff suffered; (3) actionable conduct in connection with the
condition, i.e., either negligence on the part of a public employee in creating
it, or failure by the entity to correct it after notice of its existence and
dangerousness; (4) a causal relationship between the dangerous condition and
the plaintiff’s injuries; and (5) compensable damage sustained by the
plaintiff.
 
(Toeppe v. City of San Diego
(2017) 13 Cal.App.5th 921, 925-926 [quoting Cole v. Town of Los
Gatos (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 749, 757-758].)
 


[3] In
Sambrano, a minor climbed into a fire ring at a beach owned by the City
of San Diego.  She suffered burns from
hot coals in the fire ring.  The Court of
Appeal held that the fire ring did not qualify as a dangerous condition.
 


[4] In
Pekarek, a child bought ice cream from a truck parked on a city
street.  Then she ran across the street
and was hit by a van.  The Court of
Appeal found that (1) the city street was not maintained in a dangerous
condition, and (2) the plaintiffs failed to show that changes to the street
would have diminished the risk of injury. 
 


[5]
Plaintiff also cites unpublished decisions, which is improper.  (See, e.g., Opposition, p. 9.)  The Court should decline to consider them.


[6]
Overall, it is a close call whether the demurrer should be overruled or
sustained.  Government Defendants are
correct that Plaintiffs fail to allege either an actual defect in the property
(storm drains, catch basins, and the Channel) or that the property was unsafe
when used reasonably.  The Court leans
toward overruling because Carson is a Supreme Court decision and seems
to allow liability for defects on adjacent private property that raise the risk
of injury relative to the public property. 

