  Case Number:  21STCV38929    Hearing Date:   December 4, 2023    Dept:  11 21STCV38929
(Alvarez) 
 
Tentative
Ruling Re: Demurrer Re: Second Amended Master Complaint
 
Date:                           12/4/23
 
Time:                          3:00 pm 
 
Moving Party:           County
of Los Angeles, Los Angeles County Flood Control District, and City of Carson
(collectively “Government Defendants”) 
 
Opposing Party:        Monique
Alvarez, et al. (collectively “Plaintiffs”) 
 
Department:              11 
 
Judge:                        David S. Cunningham III 
________________________________________________________________________ 
 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
 
Government Defendants’ demurrer to
the eighth cause of action is overruled.
 
BACKGROUND 
 
This is a toxic tort action. The
second amended master complaint (“SAMC”) alleges:
 
1. Plaintiffs
allege herein that they were exposed to elevated levels of hydrogen sulfide in
their homes and communities for an extended period of time, causing them harm,
as a direct and proximate result of Defendants’ conduct as follows: (i)
Defendant Marathon Petroleum Corporation illicitly discharged sulfur-containing
wastewater (a byproduct of the oil refining process) from its Carson Refinery
into the Dominguez Channel on or around September 16, 2021; (ii) Defendants
Prologis, Inc., Prologis, LP, Liberty Property, LP, Virgin Scent, Inc. d/b/a
Art Naturals, Day to Day Imports, Inc., Gordon Laboratories, Inc., Farzad
Nourollah, and the Nourollah Defendants illicitly and dangerously stockpiled,
and/or permitted the stockpiling of, millions of pounds of highly flammable and
toxic materials (including hand sanitizer, anti-bacterial wipes, and other
commercial flammable products) surrounding its warehouse, resulting in a
massive fire and firefighting effort on September 30, 2021, and sending runoff
of chemicals and debris into nearby storm drains which entered the Dominguez
Channel; and (iii) Government Defendants failed to safely maintain the
Dominguez Channel and associated storm drains, as described in more detail
throughout this Complaint. Defendants’ collective wrongful conduct created
a perfect environment for hydrogen sulfide to form in the Channel at dangerous
levels for a prolonged period of time during the fall of 2021. Each Defendant’s
wrongful conduct was a significant contributing factor to the formation of
hydrogen sulfide in the Channel. 
 
2. Hydrogen
sulfide is a highly toxic and malodorous environmental contaminant most
commonly associated with sewage. Throughout the fall of 2021, thousands of
individuals – including Plaintiffs herein – experienced and complained of
exposure to elevated levels of hydrogen sulfide formed in the Dominguez Channel
for weeks on end. 
 
3. Hydrogen
sulfide is known to cause headaches, nausea, respiratory issues, and other
illnesses. 
 
4. Plaintiffs
bring this action to recover compensatory damages associated with their
exposure to noxious chemicals from the Dominguez Channel, for punitive damages,
and for injunctive relief.
 
(SAMC, ¶¶ 1-4,
emphasis added.)
 
Here, Government Defendants demur to
the eighth cause of action for dangerous condition of public property.[1]
 
LAW
 
Demurrer
 
When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context,
and “treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but
not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Serrano v.
Priest (1971) 5 Cal.3d 584, 591.)  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or
other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on
the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.”  (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)  It is error “to
sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if the plaintiff shows there is a
reasonable possibility any defect identified by the defendant can be cured by
amendment.”  (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital
Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)
 
Dangerous Condition of Public Property
 
Per Government Code section 835, 
 
a public entity is
liable for injury caused by a dangerous condition of its property if the
plaintiff establishes that the property was in a dangerous condition at the
time of the injury, that the injury was proximately caused by the dangerous
condition, that the dangerous condition created a reasonably foreseeable risk
of the kind of injury which was incurred, and that either:
 
(a) A negligent or
wrongful act or omission of an employee of the public entity within the scope
of his employment created the dangerous condition; or
 
(b) The public entity
had actual or constructive notice of the dangerous condition under Section
835.2 a sufficient time prior to the injury to have taken measures to protect
against the dangerous condition.
 
(Cal. Gov. Code §
835.)[2]
 
DISCUSSION
 
The eighth cause of
action states:
 
352. Plaintiffs incorporate and re-allege
each of the paragraphs above as though fully set forth herein.
 
353. Defendant Los Angeles County Flood
Control District owns, and with the Defendant Los Angeles County Department of
Public Works operated and maintained, the Channel as a flood protection
channel, a repository for discharge from adjacent commercial and industrial
operations, and as a receptacle for run-off from its Municipal Separate Storm
Sewer System (“MS4”). 
 
354. Each Permittee for the portion of
the MS4 for which it is an owner or operator shall prohibit non-stormwater
discharges through the MS4 to receiving waters. NPDES No. CAS004004. 
 
355. At all relevant times herein, the
City of Carson owned and maintained Catch Basins 1702292, 1702292, and 1702294,
which emptied directly into the storm drain system that acted as a conduit to
the Channel. 
 
356. On information and belief, the City
of Carson operates all storm drains within the City. The Warehouse tenants
and/or owners operate storm drains on their premises only under Defendant City
of Carson’s coverage. 
 
357. On information and belief, chemical
runoff from the Warehouse entered the Channel through catch basins and storm
drains operated by the City of Carson, among via other pathways. 
 
358. BI 1206 is a storm drain system
built, owned, and operated by the Los Angeles County Flood Control District.
The BI 1206 is a storm drain system which empties into the Channel. 
 
359. On information and belief, chemical
runoff from the Warehouse entered the Channel through the BI 1206 storm drain
system operated by the Los Angeles County Flood Control District and/or County
of Los Angeles Public Works Department, among via other pathways. 
 
360. The EWMP requires Defendants Los
Angeles County Flood Control District, County of Los Angeles, and City of
Carson to identify sources of pollutants in MS4 discharges, monitor the aquatic
toxicity of receiving waters and conduct bioassessments to ensure that the
water quality meets the standards of the Receiving Water Monitoring Program of
the EWMP, and investigate non-storm water discharges to determine if the
discharge is a persistent and significant non-permitted discharge that affects
the quality of the downstream receiving water. 
 
361. Defendants Los Angeles County Flood
Control District, County of Los Angeles, and City of Carson are required to
identify sources of pollutants in MS4 discharges and investigate non-storm
water discharges to determine if the discharge is a persistent and significant
non-permitted discharge that affects the quality of the downstream receiving
water, among other things. 
 
362. According to the CIMP, Defendants
Los Angeles County Flood Control District, County of Los Angeles, and City of
Carson are responsible for non-storm water outfall screening and monitoring.
Defendants Los Angeles County Flood Control District, County of Los Angeles,
and City of Carson are responsible for identifying non-storm water discharges
that affect the quality of downstream receiving water. Defendants Los Angeles
County Flood Control District, County of Los Angeles, and City of Carson are
responsible for investigating both the sources of the discharge and the effects
of the discharge on the Channel. 
 
363. As an owner and operator of MS4s,
the LACFCD is required to control pollutant discharges into and from its MS4,
including the ability to control through interagency agreements among
co-permittees and other owners of a MS4 the contribution of pollutants from one
portion of the MS4 to another portion of the MS4. 
 
364. Los Angeles County Code, Title 20
(Utilities), Division 5 (Flood Control District Property and Facilities) states
that the owner of any natural watercourse, swale or man-made drainage channel
shall maintain the same free of any vegetation, tin cans, rubbish or other
obstructions to the extent necessary so that the natural flow will not be
impeded at any time. (See Ord. 9556 § 1, 1968: Ord. 9533 § 1, 1968: Ord. 1549 §
5, 1928.) Defendants Los Angeles County Flood Control District, County of Los
Angeles, and City of Carson were the owners and operators of a natural
watercourse, swale, and/or man-made drainage channel and had the obligation,
but failed to, maintain the drainage free of rubbish, pollutants, and other
obstructions. 
 
365. In the months and years leading up
to September and October of 2021, there were changed conditions (including but
not limited to Channel eutrophication and discharge from the Marathon refinery)
in the Dominguez Channel which led to overgrown and decayed vegetation (e.g.
algae) in the Channel. Because of testing requirements, Government Defendants
and DOES 51-75 were aware of these conditions for long enough to remediate
them, but instead did nothing. 
 
366. The Los Angeles County Fire
Protection District began issuing Notices of Violation to the Warehouse tenants
months prior to the fire and was well aware of the fire risk. Notices of
Violation were issued on May 19, 2021, and July 27, 2021, citing the tenants
for storing and stockpiling millions of pounds of flammable materials near the
exterior walls of the building and posing a severe fire risk. On September 29,
2021, the day before the fire, the Los Angeles County Fire Department issued a
Notice of Potential Filing of an Administrative Enforcement Order to Yaakov
Nourollah and Virgin Scent. Defendants Los Angeles County Flood Control
District, County of Los Angeles, and City of Carson had actual knowledge of the
Notices of Violation referenced herein. 
 
367. As of September 16, 2021, the date
that Plaintiffs allege Marathon began discharging sulfur-containing wastewater
into the Dominguez Channel, the marine vegetation in the Channel estuary was
overgrown and decayed, leading to declining oxygen levels in the Channel.
Government Defendants knew or should have known, as a result of their water and
sediment testing and reporting requirements, that oxygen levels were depleted
and that the eutrophication process in the Channel was well underway. As of
September 16, 2021, Government Defendants were responsible for monitoring the
water quality in the Dominguez Channel, including sediment testing. As of
September 16, 2021, Government Defendants knew or should have known that the
illicit discharge of sulfur-containing wastewater was reasonably certain to
cause elevated levels of hydrogen sulfide levels in and around the Channel. On
September 16, 2021, Marathon’s fence line monitoring confirmed a spike of 290
ppb of hydrogen sulfide in ambient air (nearly ten times the California Ambient
Air Quality Standard of 30 ppb over a one-hour exposure period), which
continued at varying levels hovering at around 100 ppb for the following weeks.

 
368. Defendants Los Angeles County Flood
Control District, County of Los Angeles, and City of Carson had actual and
constructive notice of the dangerous condition through their knowledge of the
hazardous conditions that existed at the Warehouse preceding the Warehouse fire
and their failure to take earlier corrective action to abate those hazardous
conditions, as well as their failure to properly maintain the Channel and
associated storm drains to ensure it was free of vegetation, rubbish and other
obstructions to the extent necessary per Los Angeles County Code, Title 20
(Utilities), Division 5 (Flood Control District Property and Facilities). 
 
369. Further, as of September 30, 2021,
the date of the Warehouse fire, Defendants Los Angeles County Flood Control
District, County of Los Angeles, and City of Carson had actual knowledge that
debris and chemical runoff from the Warehouse fire was reasonably certain to
enter the Channel through storm drains and result in the formation of elevated
levels of hydrogen sulfide in the Dominguez Channel. 
 
370. Further, Defendants Los Angeles
County Flood Control District, County of Los Angeles, and City of Carson knew,
or through the exercise of reasonable care would have discovered, that the
Channel was prone to eutrophication and biological decomposition of organic
matter. 
 
371. Defendants Los Angeles County Flood
Control District, County of Los Angeles, and City of Carson had knowledge of a
dangerous condition and failed to take measures to protect against it,
resulting in millions of pounds of toxic waste entering the Channel and causing
a horrific environmental disaster. 
 
372. Defendants Los Angeles County Flood
Control District, County of Los Angeles, and City of Carson knew that a massive
Warehouse fire broke out on September 30, 2021 requiring millions of gallons of
firefighting liquid and/or foam. The Los Angeles County Fire Department
responded to the massive fire on September 30 at 2:12 p.m. 
 
373. On September 30, 2021, the Los
Angeles County Fire Department – Health Hazardous Materials Division issued a
Notice of Violation / Order to Comply to Art Naturals and Yaakov Nourollah
directing them to clean the areas affected by the waste and obtain an
authorized clean up contractor to transport the waste. 
 
374. On October 1, 2021, after the fire
was out, the Los Angeles County Fire Department – Health Hazardous Materials
Division visited the Warehouse and took photographs of the dangerous and
disastrous conditions created by the fire and subsequent firefighting efforts. 
 
375. At the time the fire was
extinguished, a dangerous condition existed in the public property in and/or
surrounding the Channel and associated storm drains and catch basins operated
by Defendants Los Angeles County Flood Control District, County of Los Angeles,
and City of Carson. At the time the fire was extinguished, Defendants Los
Angeles County Flood Control District, County of Los Angeles, and City of
Carson knew that millions of gallons of toxic chemical runoff (involving
millions of pounds of man-made chemical-containing household products mixed
with millions of gallons of man-made firefighting liquid and foam, to form
millions of gallons of debris and chemical runoff) was reasonably certain to
enter the Channel through its public storm drain system and result in an
environmental disaster. 
 
376. As of the time the fire was
extinguished on October 1, 2021, there were no more fire suppression activities
and no imminent “emergency.” The City of Carson did not proclaim the odor
emanating from the Channel to be an “emergency” until October 25, 2021. The
County of Los Angeles Board of Supervisors did not proclaim the odor emanating
from the Channel to be an “emergency” until November 2, 2021. 
 
377. While Defendants Los Angeles County
and City of Carson issued warning and evacuation orders to nearby residents in
connection with the Warehouse fire, neither Defendants Los Angeles County or
Los Angeles County Flood Control District or the City of Carson warned
residents about the impending and foreseeable harm resulting from pollutant
discharges and chemical runoff entering the Channel. 
 
378. Days later, beginning on or around
October 3, 2021, elevated levels of hydrogen sulfide were detected around the
Dominguez Channel in the area adjacent to the Marathon refinery. Water sampling
and testing performed by the County in mid-October confirms that debris and
chemical runoff from the Warehouse fire did, in fact, enter the Channel. 
 
379. On October 14 and 15, 2021, two
weeks following the fire, the County of Los Angeles Department of Public Works
visited the Warehouse to collect water samples from storm drains and
maintenance holes in the streets surrounding the Warehouse. Debris, rubbish,
and fluid from nonstormwater discharge (including, to a large degree, chemical
runoff from the extinguished Warehouse products) was observed within catch
basins in the areas surrounding the Warehouse. 
 
380. On October 19, 2021, the Los Angeles
County Fire Department – Health Hazardous Materials Division issued a Notice of
Violation / Order to Comply to Art Naturals and Yaakov Nourollah directing them
to submit for approval a comprehensive clean-up/mitigation plan for fire
damaged goods and to cover and contain all rainwater runoff within the
facility. 
 
381. While the Warehouse tenants and/or
Warehouse owners had the responsibility to clean up and manage waste on private
property, Defendants Los Angeles County Flood Control District, County of Los
Angeles, and City of Carson had the responsibility, duty, and obligation to
ensure that the massive quantity of toxic waste did not enter the Channel.
Entry of the massive quantity of toxic waste into the Channel through storm
drains owned and operated by Defendants Los Angeles County Flood Control
District, County of Los Angeles, and City of Carson was foreseeable absent
mitigation efforts. 
 
382. In the days and weeks following the
Warehouse fire, massive quantities of toxic chemical runoff entered the Channel
through storm drains and catch basins owned and operated by Defendants Los
Angeles County Flood Control District, County of Los Angeles, and City of
Carson. 
 
383. The Los Angeles County Fire
Department – Health Hazardous Materials Division, with the assistance of the
Los Angeles County Department of Public Works, continued to take photographs
and obtain water samples throughout October and November of 2021. 
 
384. Throughout October and November of
2021, Defendants Los Angeles County Flood Control District, County of Los
Angeles, and City of Carson failed to safely operate the Channel and associated
discharge pathways to protect Plaintiffs from known, foreseeable, and imminent
harm. 
 
385. Despite actual knowledge that
chemical runoff was likely to enter the Channel through storm drains,
Defendants Los Angeles County Flood Control District, County of Los Angeles,
and City of Carson took no action whatsoever to stop the flow of chemical
runoff into the Channel in the days, weeks or months following the fire, when
they knew chemical runoff into the Channel was reasonably likely to occur.
 
386. Although feasible to have done so
and squarely within their responsibilities to safely maintain the Channel,
Defendants Los Angeles County Flood Control District, County of Los Angeles,
and City of Carson failed to take any measures to protect against the dangerous
condition including but not limited to (i) plugging storm drains, maintenance
holes, and/or catch basins, (ii) cutting off flow to the Channel from known
risks at and surrounding the Warehouse, and/or (iii) cutting off flow at
discharge point(s) into the Channel. 
 
387. It was not until December of 2021
(according to a report issued by the Los Angeles Regional Water Quality Control
Board on December 21, 2021) that Los Angeles County Department of Public Works
did in fact effectively plug multiple storm drains, culverts, pipes,
maintenance holes, and/or catch basins surrounding the Warehouse to prevent
stormwater from entering the Channel. 
 
388. Notably, the Government Defendants
had unique and unparalleled access to all of the pertinent information of the
pre-incident dangerous condition – namely (i) unfettered access to water and
sediment sampling, monitoring, and testing throughout the water column (i.e.
from surface to floor), (ii) information about permitted and unpermitted
discharges from local refineries including Marathon, and (iii) specific
information about the hazardous materials improperly stored in and around the
Warehouse in the months leading up to the Toxic Exposure Event. 
 
389. In the months and years leading up
to the Toxic Exposure Event, the Government Defendants could have and should
have remediated the known hazards by any number of various measures, including
but not limited to, (i) conducting a bioassessment of the sediment in the
channel; (ii) thinning overgrown vegetation from the Channel; (iii) removing
decayed vegetation from the Channel; (iv) dredging and removal of contaminated
and/or aging sediment from the Channel; (v) insertion of dissolved oxygen,
aeration and/or nanobubbling in the Channel to increase oxygen levels; and (vi)
taking action to ensure that chemicals and debris did not make their way into
the Channel via storm drains. 
 
390. Beginning in September and October
of 2021, Government Defendants DOES 51-75 were aware that a strong and
pervasive odor was emanating from the Dominguez Channel. At all relevant times,
the odor was known by Government Defendants DOES 51-75 to be from the release
of hydrogen sulfide in the Channel. Despite knowledge of the impending disaster
of chemical runoff entering the Channel through storm drains, Defendants Los
Angeles County Flood Control District, County of Los Angeles, and City of
Carson failed to take any action whatsoever until months after the fire when
The Los Angeles County Department of Public Works plugged multiple storm
drains, culverts, pipes, maintenance holes, and/or catch basins surrounding the
Warehouse to prevent further stormwater from entering the Channel. 
 
391. Government Defendants DOES 51-75 had
actual or constructive knowledge of the preincident dangerous condition of the
Channel, as described herein, leading to low levels of oxygen in the Channel
and high levels of hydrogen sulfide in the communities surrounding the Channel
because of ongoing odor complaints to the AQMD and handheld air monitoring
showing levels highest near the Channel. 
 
392. As a direct and proximate result of
the Government Defendants and DOES 51-75’s negligent, reckless, and wrongful
conduct as alleged in paragraphs 352-392 herein, Plaintiffs, and each of them,
have incurred and will continue to suffer economic and noneconomic damages.
 
(SAMC, ¶¶ 352-392.)
 
Government
Defendants contend the demurrer should be sustained because the allegations
fail to identify a defect in the public property that caused Plaintiffs’
injuries.  They cite Zelig v. County
of Los Angeles (2002) 27 Cal.4th 1112 and Hacala v. Bird
Rides, Inc. (2023) 90 Cal.App.5th 292 as support.  (See Demurrer, pp. 14-16; see also Reply, pp.
8-11.)
 
Plaintiffs
contend Zelig and Hacala involved distinguishable facts. They
claim “a public entity may be liable for injuries that result from a
combination of the condition of the public property and negligent conduct by
third persons on or about the property.” 
(Opposition, pp. 7-8, emphasis deleted.) 
They assert that the SAMC alleges such a combination:
 
. . . it was the condition of the public
property (decay in the Channel) combined with third party conduct (known
illicit runoff) which made the Channel dangerous. While the Warehouse
Defendants had the responsibility to clean up and manage the waste on their
property, because of the decayed condition of the Channel and the unsealed and
unplugged storm drains and catch basins that lead to it, LACFCD, County, and
Carson had the responsibility to ensure that the massive quantity of toxic
waste did not enter the Channel through their public property (i.e., to take
protective measures). [Citation.] Though Government Defendants did ultimately
plug the multiple storm drains, culverts, pipes, maintenance holes, and catch
basins surrounding the Warehouse, they did not do so until December, months
after the toxic waste had continuously entered the Channel, exacerbating the
dangerous condition and Plaintiffs’ injuries. [Citation.] Further, the Private
Plaintiffs did not fail to use due care when living and breathing in proximity
to the Channel.
 
(Id. at p. 8 [citing Peterson v. San
Francisco Community College District (1984) 36 Cal.3d 799 and Sambrano
v. City of San Diego (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 225].)
 
Plaintiffs
also claim a physical defect in the public property is not required.  They contend they only need to show that
“some characteristic” of the property “contributed” to their injuries.  (Id. at p. 9 [quoting Pekarek v. City of
San Diego (1994) 30 Cal.App.4th 909: “Although there need not be
a physical defect in the property, there must be something about its physical
condition that increased the risk of harm to the plaintiff”], emphasis
deleted.)
 
It is
true that Zelig and Hacala are distinguishable facts-wise.  Zelig concerned a fatal shooting at a
courthouse.  In Hacala, the
plaintiff tripped over a scooter parked on a sidewalk.
 
But
more analysis is necessary.  
 
Zelig is a California Supreme Court decision.  The opinion “emphasize[s] . . . that
liability is imposed only when there is some defect in the property itself and
a causal connection is established between the defect and the injury.”  (Zelig, supra, 27 Cal.4th
at 1135.)  
 
“Defect”
has a broad meaning.  As Hacala
explains, 
 
[t]o plead a dangerous condition existed, a
complaint's allegations “must establish a physical deficiency
in the property itself” – that is, the property must be “‘physically
damaged, deteriorated, or defective in such a way as to foreseeably endanger
those using the property itself,’ or possesses physical characteristics in its
design, location, features or relationship to its surroundings that endanger
users.” [Citation.] While a “public entity may be liable for a dangerous
condition of public property even where the immediate cause of a plaintiff's
injury is a third party's negligent or illegal act,” there must be “some
physical characteristic of the property [that] exposes its users to increased
danger from third party negligence or criminality.” [Citation.] “[I]t is
insufficient to show only harmful third party conduct. . . . ‘“[T]hird party
conduct by itself, unrelated to the condition of the property, does not
constitute a ‘dangerous condition’ for which a public entity may be held
liable.”’” [Citation.]
 
(Hacala,
supra, 90 Cal.App.5th at 307, emphasis in original; see also id. at
308 [requiring “the existence of ‘some physical characteristic of the
property [that] expose[d]” the plaintiff “to increased danger from third
party negligence”], emphasis in original.)
 
Moreover, 
 
[a] public entity may be liable under
Government Code section 835 for failing to take protective measures to
safeguard the public from a dangerous condition of the property itself; however, when the danger
at issue is third-party conduct, liability attaches only if the alleged
physical condition of the property “increased or intensified” the risk of
misconduct.
 
(Id. at
308, emphasis in original; see also Peterson, supra, 36 Cal.3d at
812-814 [college student attacked on a stairway by a man who had been hiding in
foliage stated a claim by alleging that “defendants were aware of the
condition” – which “increase[d] the risk of crime” – “and failed to take
reasonable protective measures, including trimming the foliage or warning her
of the danger”].)
 
These rules
control here despite the factual differences and do not contradict with
Plaintiffs’ authorities – Peterson, Sambrano,[3]
and Pekarek.[4]
[5]
 
On
balance, the rules favor Plaintiffs’ position at this stage.  The alleged
third-party conduct was the generation of toxic runoff from the Warehouse
Defendants’ property.  Government
Defendants’ alleged contributions were their failures to (1) “monitor (through sampling and testing, or by any
other means) eutrophication indicators, vegetation decay, potential
contaminants (including but not limited to sulfur compounds), or dissolved
oxygen levels in the Channel” prior to September 16, 2021, (2) plug storm
drains, catch basins, and the Channel, and (3) “cut[] off flow to the
Channel[.]”  (Opposition, pp. 2, 6; see
also, e.g., SAMC, ¶¶ 367-391.)  It is a
question of fact whether Government Defendants’ actual or constructive
knowledge of unremoved contaminated sediment, and lowered oxygen levels, caused
the Channel to be in a decayed state, pre-fire, creating a dangerous condition
during and after the fire.  And, though
storm drains, catch basins, and the Channel are not per se defective or
dangerous, it is a question of fact whether keeping them open and failing to
cut off flow for months, post-fire, “increased or intensified” the risk of the
Warehouse Defendants’ conduct.  (Hacala, supra, 90 Cal.App.5th
at 308.)  At minimum, reasonable minds
could differ in answering these questions. 
(See Zelig, supra, 27 Cal.4th at 1133 [instructing
that “[t]he existence of a dangerous condition [] is a question of fact” unless
“reasonable minds can come to only one conclusion”].)
 
Government Defendants claim they
cannot be liable for failing to close the storm drains, catch basins, and
Channel. They contend Plaintiffs’ “failure to plug” theory involves affirmative
inaction, not a defect in the property. 
(See Demurrer, pp. 16-17.)
 
The argument amounts to a partial
demurrer, and, regardless, the Court disagrees. 
In Carson v. Facilities Development Co. (1984) 36 Cal.3d 830, a
car crash occurred at an intersection owned by a city.  The driver died.  The evidence showed that the driver’s view
had been hindered by a sign near the intersection.  Another defendant owned the sign and had
erected it.  On appeal, the California
Supreme Court held that the city could be liable.  Why? 
Because a public entity’s “own property may be considered dangerous if a
condition on the adjacent property exposes those using the public property to a
substantial risk of injury.”  (Carson,
supra, 36 Cal.3d at 841.)  Similarly,
keeping the storm drains, catch basins, and Channel open with actual or
constructive knowledge of toxic runoff from an adjacent property may have made
the drains, basins, and Channel dangerous. 
It at least raises a question of fact.
 
This distinction also suffices to
defeat Government Defendants’ “reasonable use” argument.  (See Demurrer, pp. 17-18 [citing, for
example, Bartell v. Palos Verdes Peninsula School District (1978) 83
Cal.App.3d 492 and arguing that “property is not ‘dangerous’ within the meaning
of the statutory scheme if the property is safe when used with due care and the
risk of harm is created only when foreseeable users fail to exercise due
care”], emphasis deleted; see also Reply, p. 11.)  Nothing in Carson suggests that,
independent of the adjacent sign, the intersection was unsafe when used with
due care or that it would have made a difference.
 
Next,
Government Defendants cite four immunity statutes.  They claim they are entitled to absolute
immunity under Government Code sections 850.4 (firefighting), 8655 (emergency
services), 818.6 (inspection), and 831.2 (natural condition of public
property).  (See Demurrer, pp. 18-24.)
 
The
immunity issues cannot be resolved via demurrer.  None of the four immunities appears to cover
the entirety of the eighth cause of action.  
The arguments act as partial demurrers. 
They need to be analyzed in relation to Government Defendants’ motion to
strike.
 
Accordingly,
the demurrer is overruled.[6]

 
 
 
 


