  Case Number:  20STCV49297    Hearing Date:   September 9, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     September
9, 2024                             TRIAL
DATE:  December 9, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         Anita
Wright v. City of Los Angeles Department of Water and Power, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 20STCV49297
 





















 
MOTION
FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT, OR IN THE ALTERNATIVE
SUMMARY
ADJUDICATION OF ISSUES



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant City of Los Angeles 
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff Anita Wright 
 
 
I.          FACTUAL
AND PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiff Anita Wright (Wright or
Plaintiff) has been employed with the City of Los Angeles Department of Water
and Power (DWP) in the Electrical Mechanic Series for over 30 years.  She is an African-American female with a
degree in engineering.  She was the first
woman to complete DWP’s Electrical Mechanic Trainee program, was the first and
only Black woman to be a Electrical Mechanic Supervisor, was the first and only
woman Senior Electrical Mechanic Supervisor, and most recently, is the first Black
woman to be promoted from Electrical Mechanic Supervisor to Electrical Services
Manager. 
 
Wright alleges that she was
subjected to discrimination and retaliation by her male superiors at every
stage and level of her career.  As
relevant here, Wright alleges that, in 2017, she was transferred and assigned
to be the Superintendent of the West Los Angeles area to supervise the
installation of transformers, electrical stations, major transmission lines,
and the largest customer station in the DWP.  Phil Leitner (Leitner) and David Cisneros
(Cisneros) became Wright’s managers.  Leitner
and Cisneros harassed and discriminated against Wright by unnecessarily scrutinizing
and micromanagement her work; creating assignments that wasted her time, were
excessive and had unrealistic demands/deadlines; denying her overtime; and sabotaging
her promotion opportunities.  Eventually,
in 2019, Leitner and Cisneros forced Wright out of the West Los Angeles
position and transferred her to an undesirable low profile assignment/position.   
 
On December 24, 2020, Plaintiff commenced
this action against DWP.  On July 19,
2021, Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint (FAC) for (1)
Discrimination in Violation of FEHA, (2) Retaliation in Violation of FEHA (Cal.
Gov. Code § 12940(h), and (3) Failure to Take Necessary Remedial Action in
Violation of FEHA (Cal. Gov. Code § 12940(j), (k).).
 
On August 19, 2022, the City of Los
Angeles (City) filed its motion for summary judgment, or alternatively summary
adjudication of issues. 
 
Plaintiff filed an opposition.  The City replied. 
 
II.        LEGAL
STANDARD
 
            When reviewing a motion for summary
judgment or summary adjudication, courts must apply a three-step analysis: “(1)
identify the issues framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving
party has negated the opponent’s claims; and (3) determine whether the
opposition has demonstrated the existence of a triable, material factual
issue.”¿ (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289,
294.)¿ A motion for summary judgment must
be granted “if all the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as
to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to a judgment as a
matter of law.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)  
 
            “[T]he initial burden is always on
the moving party to make a prima facia showing that there are no triable issues
of material fact.”¿ (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128
Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.)¿ A defendant seeking
summary judgment “bears the burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue
of material fact and that he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield
Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850 (Aguilar).)
 A defendant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met
his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party
has shown that one or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be
established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action.”¿
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)¿ A moving defendant need not
conclusively negate an element of plaintiff’s cause of action.¿ (Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 854.)¿ 
 
            To meet this burden of showing a
cause of action cannot be established, a defendant must show not only “that the
plaintiff does not possess needed evidence” but also that “the plaintiff
cannot reasonably obtain needed evidence.”¿ (Aguilar, supra,
25 Cal.4th at p. 854.)¿ It is insufficient for the defendant to merely point
out the absence of evidence.¿ (Gaggero v. Yura (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th
884, 891.)¿ The defendant “must also produce evidence that the plaintiff cannot
reasonably obtain evidence to support his or her claim.”¿ (Ibid.)¿ The
supporting evidence can be in the form of affidavits, declarations, admissions,
depositions, answers to interrogatories, and matters of which judicial notice
may be taken.¿ (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 855.)¿ 
 
            “Once the defendant … has met that burden, the burden
shifts to the plaintiff … to show that a triable issue of one or more material
facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c, subd. (p)(2).)¿The plaintiff may not merely rely on allegations or
denials of its pleadings to show that a triable issue of material fact exists,
but instead, “shall set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue
of material fact exists as to the cause of action.”¿(Ibid.)¿ A plaintiff opposing summary judgment defeats the motion
by showing one or more triable issues of material fact exist as to the
challenged element. (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 849.)  “If
the plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.” (Avivi v.
Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463,
467.)¿ 
 
            The court must “liberally construe
the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve all
doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party,” including “all
inferences reasonably drawn therefrom.”¿ (Yanowitz v. L’Oreal USA, Inc.
(2005) 36 Cal.4th 1028, 1037; Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at pp.
844-45.)¿ “On a summary judgment motion, the court must therefore consider what
inferences favoring the opposing party a factfinder could reasonably draw from
the evidence.¿ While viewing the evidence in this manner, the court must bear
in mind that its primary function is to identify issues rather than to
determine issues.¿ [Citation.]¿ Only when the inferences are indisputable may
the court decide the issues as a matter of law.¿ If the evidence is in
conflict, the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” (Binder v. Aetna
Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839.)¿ “Put another way, have defendants
conclusively negated a necessary element of the [plaintiff’s] case or
demonstrated that under no hypothesis is there a material issue of fact that
requires the process of trial?”  (Jeld-Wen, Inc. v. Superior Court
(2005) 131 Cal.App.4th 853, 860, internal citation omitted.) Further, “the
trial court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a factfinder to
determine whose version is more likely true.¿ [Citation.]¿ Nor may the trial
court grant summary judgment based on the court’s evaluation of credibility.¿
[Citation.]” ¿(Id. at p. 840; see also Weiss v. People ex
rel.¿Department of Transportation (2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts
deciding motions for summary judgment or summary adjudication may not weigh the
evidence but must instead view it in the light most favorable to the opposing
party and draw all reasonable inferences in favor of that party”].)¿¿
 
III.       EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
 
            A.  Plaintiff’s Objections 
            
Plaintiff asserts objections in her
separate statement in opposition to the motion for summary judgment.  Plaintiff’s objections are not in the proper
format.  “[California Rules of Court,]
[r]ule 3.1354(b) dictates the format in which evidentiary objections must be
submitted: ‘All written objections to evidence must be served and filed
separately from the other papers in support of or in opposition to the motion.
Objections on specific evidence may be referenced by the objection number in
the right column of a separate statement in opposition or reply to a motion,
but the objections must not be restated or reargued in the separate statement.’”  (Hodjat v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (2012)
211 Cal.App.4th 1, 8.)  A trial court
does not abuse its  discretion by declining
to rule on improperly formatted objections or to deny an opportunity to
reformat the objections. (Id.)  
 
Accordingly, the court declines to rule
on Plaintiff’s objections.
 
B. 
City’s Objections
 
The City raises three objections to
Plaintiff’s filings.  
 
First, the City objects to Plaintiff’s
Response to Defendant’s Separate Statement, in its entirety, because it is not
code complaint and is untimely.  The City
does not object specifically to any portions, but rather gives examples in an
effort to knock out the entirety of the filing. 
 Examples are not objections, nor
do they sink the entirety of Plaintiff’s Response.  The objection is OVERRULED as presented.  The objection with respect to timeliness is
similarly OVERRULED. 
 
Second, the City objects to the
Declaration of Jill Shigut, as well as all of the attached exhibits, as untimely.  The objection based upon timeliness is OVERRULED.

 
Third, Defendant advances 43
objections to the Declaration of Anita Wright[1]. 
 
SUSTAINED: 1, 2, 7, 10, 20, 28, 29,
30, 33, 28, 42
 
SUSTAINED IN PART with respect to
the following portions because they are conclusory and/or inadmissible opinion
testimony:  
3: constant scrutiny, criticism and
sabotage.       
6: attempt to sabotage, scrutinize
and micro manage. 
9: seeking to discipline me.   
13: intentionally sabotaging;
customers lost trust and confidence. 
14: more harassment
16: unwarranted scrutiny
18: more harassment
19: further act of discrimination
21: another example of unwarranted
scrutiny
22: intimidating, hostile and
harassment
24: unwarranted scrutiny
25: sabotaging the project; benefit
financially
26: with less experience is Discrimination
34: “on slot (sic)” of
discrimination
 
OVERRULED: 4, 5, 8, 11, 12, 15, 17,
23, 31, 32, 35, 39, 43
 
IV.       DISCUSSION
 
            There are
two overarching issues to be decided: (1) whether the continuing violations
doctrine allows Plaintiff to support her allegations with events that occurred
between 1997 and December 2017, and (2) whether Plaintiff states a prima facie
case for discrimination, retaliation, and failure to prevent discrimination or
retaliation.  The court addresses these
issues in turn.
 
1.     
Continuing Violations Doctrine
 
Plaintiff relies upon conduct occurring
in 1997 and thereafter to support her claims. 
Plaintiff invokes, albeit summarily, the continuing violations doctrine
to reach backwards in time beyond the statute of limitation period.  Plaintiff contends that because the conduct
had not reached a level of permanence, the continuing violations doctrine
applies to all alleged conduct.
 
The City disagrees and argues the
continuing violations doctrine does not apply here.  If Defendant is correct, Plaintiff’s case
rests on events that took place after December 24, 2017, which is three years
prior to the commencement of this action.  
 
An employer's persistent failure to
eliminate discrimination or retaliation is a continuing violation of the FEHA
if the employer's unlawful actions are (1) sufficiently similar in kind; (2)
have occurred with reasonable frequency; and (3) have not acquired a degree of
permanence. (Richards v. CH2M Hill, Inc. (2001) 26 Cal.4th 798, 799, 823
(Richards); accord, Yanowitz v. L'Oreal USA, Inc. (2005) 36
Cal.4th 1028.)  
 
Generally, a FEHA cause of action
must be filed within three years from the date the alleged unlawful practice
occurred or refusal to cooperate occurred. 
(Gov. Code, § 12960, subd.
(e)(3).)  However, the continuing
violation doctrine “allows liability for unlawful employer conduct occurring
outside the statute of limitations if it is sufficiently connected to unlawful
conduct within the limitations period.” (Richards, 26 Cal.4th at p.
802.)  This tolling period “ends when the
employer's determination achieves a level of permanence, i.e., when a
reasonable employee would understand that further efforts to end the unlawful
conduct will be in vain.” (Acuna v. San Diego Gas & Electric Co.
(2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 1402, 1414, internal quotations omitted.)  The
plaintiff bears the burden to demonstrate her claims are timely under the
continuing violation doctrine. (Jumaane v. City of Los Angeles (2015)
241 Cal.App.4th 1390, 1402.)
 
Here, Plaintiff does not establish whether
the alleged misconduct is sufficiently similar in kind (element 1) or whether
the misconduct occurred with reasonable frequency (element 2).  Rather, Plaintiff states only that she “has been
singled out and treated differently than her male counterparts every step of
the way.”  (Opp., p. 14:10-11.)  The statement is conclusory and unsupported
by any citation to evidence or case law. 

 
Plaintiff’s showing on permanence
(element 3) fares no better.  Without
citing any evidence, Plaintiff argues “there was no permanence that made it
clear that continued adverse treatment was to be expected until arguably after
she was denied a promotion the second time in PCM for the manager position at
which point she sought a position outside of the division. Prior thereto she
did not know that the adverse actions she was subjected to could be expected.”  (Opp., p. 14:23-26.)  Presumably, Plaintiff is referring to the
position for which she interviewed on September 16, 2019, and for which
Cisneros was eventually hired on January 20, 2020.  (See FAC, ¶¶ 26, 27, 29.)  But, Plaintiff cannot rely on any post-2017 decisions
not to promote Plaintiff because each promotion decision becomes permanent when
a different applicant is placed in the position.  (See Willis v. City of Carlsbad (2020)
48 Cal.App.5th 1104, 1127 [“City’s independent promotion decisions each became
permanent when a different applicant was put in the position.”].)  And critically, there is no discussion on how
conduct outside the statute of limitations is connected to DWP hiring Cisneros
instead of Plaintiff in 2020 or to any other conduct within the limitations
period. (See Richards, 26 Cal.4th at p. 802.)  Plaintiff does not establish the continuing
violation doctrine applies.  Therefore,
any alleged conduct before December 24, 2017 is time barred.[2] 
 
2.      Discrimination
in Violation of FEHA (1st Cause of Action)
Plaintiff’s discrimination claim is
based on the following allegations which are presented in a stream-of-consciousness
or shotgun style discussion: “Throughout her employment and continuing through
present, Plaintiff has been treated differently in terms, conditions and
privileges of her employment based on her protected class and has been subject
to ongoing adverse employment action which includes, but is not limited to,
repeated denial of promotions and promotional opportunities and experience,
workplace sabotage, bully tactics, threats of discipline, unlawful discipline,
poor performance evaluations, workplace surveillance, increased work load,
increased scrutiny regarding her work and work performance, singled out,
repeatedly denied training opportunities, privileges of employment offered to
co-workers; repeatedly denied supervisory assignments and responsibilities
which she was qualified to perform and performed competently when held;
repeatedly denied pay increases and benefits associated with those supervisory
assignments; denied promotions for which she was qualified for and more
qualified and experienced than those outside of her protected class who were
selected; repeatedly denied overtime; subject to disparaging treatment;
publicly humiliated, embarrassed and berated by management; forced to transfer
from a high profile assignment and replaced by a less qualified non-black male
outside of her protected class causing her loss of pay; issued an NTCD;
stripped of her office; stripped of her computer; forced to commute additional
miles; forced to transfer out of the organization to position requiring
excessive commuting; amongst other unlawful adverse actions.”  (FAC, ¶ 40.) 
Plaintiff alleges that her “race, national original, color, gender, and age was
a substantial motivating factor for Defendants' conduct toward Plaintiff.”  (FAC, ¶ 41.) 
a. 
Timeline of alleged conduct
 
The alleged misconduct pre-dating
December 24, 2017 is not actionable.  The
court turns to the FAC to gather the timeline of conduct at-issue. “The
function of the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the
scope of the issues: the function of the affidavits or declarations is to
disclose whether there is any triable issue of fact within the issues delimited
by the pleadings. [Citation.]”¿ (FPI Dev., Inc. v. Nakashima
(1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 380.)  Evidence offered on an¿unpleaded¿claim,
theory, or defense is irrelevant because it is outside the scope of the
pleadings.”¿¿(California Bank & Trust v. Lawlor¿(2013) 222
Cal.App.4th 625, 637, fn. 3 (California Bank).)¿ In Laabs v. City of
Victorville (2008) 163 Cal.App.4th 1242, 1256, the appellate court stated
that “… new factual issues presented in opposition to a motion for summary
judgment should be considered if the controlling pleading construed broadly,
encompasses them.¿ In making this determination, courts look to whether new
factual issues present different theories of recovery or rest on a
fundamentally different factual basis.”¿  
 
November 1, 2018[3]:    Plaintiff accepts a transfer to an SEMS
position in the West Los Angeles area. 
Phil Leitner (Leitner) and Dave Cisneros (Cisneros) become Plaintiff’s
managers.  Leitner and Cisneros
micromanage Plaintiff’s work, create assignments that waste her time, give her
excessive work with unrealistic demands/deadlines, deny her overtime, sabotage
her work and projects, amongst other unlawful actions.  (FAC, ¶ 20.)  

 
2018-2019:[4]                In another incident, Leitner’s
manager, Robert Gonzalez (Gonzalez), 
reports to Leitner that one of
Plaintiff’s crews has taken their break outside of their scheduled time.  Gonzalez does not specify which break.  Leitner directs Plaintiff to reprimand the
crew, despite her crew having not violated any DWP polices or procedures.  (FAC, ¶ 21.)
 
May 11, 2019:             Plaintiff learns that Cisneros has
assigned a project in Plaintiff’s area to another senior supervisor named Hugo
Fimbres (Fimbres).  Plaintiff inquires
into the reassignment.  Cisneros explains
that Plaintiff did not have the resources to handle the work in her area.  Plaintiff tells Cisneros that her best crew
was already assigned to the project.  Cisneros
then reassigns the project to Plaintiff but states he will be watching
closely.  (FAC, ¶ 22.) 
 
June 13, 2019:             Plaintiff
received a phone call about a safety concern at one of her work 
sites on May 13, 2019.  The safety concern was investigated, and the
worksite declared safe.  Work
resumed.  Later, on June 13, 2019,
Plaintiff received an email from Cisneros instructing her to meet with Gabe
Doyle’s[5]
crew at the beginning of shift each day to ensure Doyle’s crew was meeting
safety standards, to have a schedule in place to meet upcoming project
deadlines, and to send Doyle a briefing of his assignments and any hazards that
were mitigated on a daily basis prior to 9 a.m., even though the worksite had
already been declared safe. The extra reports and meetings impeded Plaintiff’s
ability to perform her regular responsibilities.  (FAC, ¶ 24.)
 
August 15, 2019:         Leitner and Cisneros force Plaintiff
out of the West Los Angeles position by transferring her to an undesirable low
profile assignment/position in downtown Los Angeles (DTLA).  They replace Plaintiff with Fimbres.  Fimbres is a light-skinned Latino male.  (FAC, ¶ 25.)
 
September 9,
2019:     Plaintiff files a complaint with
the EEOC on August 19, 2019.  In 
retaliation, on September 9, 2019, Leitner and Cisneros issue a Notice to
Correct Deficiency (NTCD) to Plaintiff. 
This NTCD is issued shortly  before
her job interview to become an Electrical Services Manager (ESM).  Leitner and Cisneros issued the NTCD in an
effort to sabotage Plaintiff’s ability to promote.  (FAC, ¶¶ 26, 27.)  
 
September 16,
2019:   Plaintiff interviews for the ESM
position.  (FAC, ¶¶ 26, 27.)  On September 23, 2019, Plaintiff learns she is
not hired.  (Id.; PAMF 56.)   
 
December 19,
2019:    Plaintiff interviews for another
ESM position.  Instead, Cisneros, who is
a less qualified non-Black counterpart, is promoted to the position in January
2020.  (FAC, ¶ 29.) 
 
January 9, 2020:          Plaintiff’s
office is reassigned to a White male. 
Further, Plaintiff 
is reassigned to a permanent
office at 1400 S. Sepulveda in West Los Angeles even though most of Plaintiff’s
projects are in DTLA where her previous office was located.  Cisneros is given a second office at 1400 S.
Sepulveda which should have been given to Plaintiff.  Instead, Plaintiff is given an inferior
office. Further, Plaintiff’s managers reassign Plaintiff’s valley projects,
which means 99% of her projects are in DTLA. 
By contrast, other senior non-Black male supervisors have an office in
the area in which the majority of their projects are located.  (FAC, ¶ 31.) 

 
February 5,
2020:        Plaintiff learns that Fimbres
entered her locked office and removed her 
printer without permission or authorization. 
Despite obtaining a written directive for the return of her printer, the
printer is not been returned.  (FAC, ¶
32.)
 
September 28,
2020:   As a result of the ongoing
discrimination and retaliation and DWP’s refusal and failure to take
appropriate corrective action, Plaintiff was forced to transfer out of Power
Construction & Management (PC&M) and accepted an ESM position with
Power Supply Operations requiring a three-thousand (3000) mile monthly commute
taking over 85 hours.  (FAC, ¶ 33.)
 
The court’s first task is to
identify from Plaintiff’s description of events what she asserts are the adverse
employment actions.  The list appears to
be as follows: (1) a directive to reprimand her crew; (2) assignment of
Plaintiff’s projects to Fimbres, (3) supervision of Doyle’s crew; (4) issuance
of NTCD; (5) transfer to DTLA; (6) reassignment of valley projects; (7) office
relocation to West Los Angeles; (8) failure to be promoted to ESM in September
2019; and (9) failure to be promoted to ESM in December 2019.  
 
From this list, several are not
adverse employment actions: Plaintiff does not demonstrate that the “directive
to reprimand” is an adverse employment action. 
On its face, it is Plaintiff’s crew that is the object of the
reprimand, not Plaintiff.  There is no
indication Plaintiff suffered an adverse employment action.  
 
Plaintiff does not demonstrate that
assignment of Plaintiff’s project to Fimbres is an adverse employment
action.  As Plaintiff alleges, the
project was reassigned back to Plaintiff after speaking with Cisneros. 
 
Plaintiff appears to abandon
reassignment of her valley projects as a basis for her discrimination
claim.  Plaintiff’s opposition and
separate statement do not discuss the valley projects at all.
 
Accordingly, the potential adverse
employment actions are: (1) supervision of Doyle’s crew; (2) issuance of NTCD;
(3) transfer to DTLA; (4) office relocation to West Los Angeles; (5) failure to
be promoted to ESM in September 2019; and (6) failure to be promoted to ESM
position in December 2019.  
 
b. The applicable law for discrimination
claims
 
FEHA discrimination claims are
subject to the McDonnell Douglas Corp. v. Green (1973) 411 U.S. 792 (McDonnell
Douglas) burden-shifting analysis.  (Bareno
v. San Diego Community College Dist. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 546, 560 (Bareno).)  “Under this approach, if the plaintiff
establishes a prima facie case supporting his or her discrimination claim, the
burden of production shifts to the employer to rebut the presumption of
discrimination by offering a legitimate, nondiscriminatory reason for the
adverse employment action. [Citations.] To state a prima facie case of gender,
race, color, or sexual orientation discrimination under FEHA, a plaintiff
must show that: (1) he was a member of a protected class, (2) he was qualified
for the position he sought or was performing competently in the position he
held, (3) he suffered an adverse employment action ... and (4) some other
circumstance suggests discriminatory motive. [Citation.] Thus, a plaintiff must
establish a causal nexus between the adverse employment action and his
protected characteristic.”  (Martin v.
Board of Trustees of California State University (2023) 97 Cal.App.5th 149,
161-62 (Martin) (quotations and citations omitted).)
 
“Plaintiffs in FEHA cases can prove
their cases by presenting either direct evidence, such as statements or
admissions, or circumstantial evidence, such as comparative or statistical
evidence.”  (Gupta v. Trustees of
California State Univ. (2019) 40 Cal.App.5th 510, 519.)
 
“An employer may meet its initial
burden in moving for summary judgment by presenting evidence that one or more
elements of a prima facie case are lacking, or the employer acted for a
legitimate, nondiscriminatory reason.  [Citations.] A legitimate, nondiscriminatory
reason is one that is unrelated to unlawful bias and, if true, would preclude a
discrimination finding. [Citations.]  If
nondiscriminatory, the employer’s true reasons need not necessarily have been
wise or correct.”  (Id., at p. 162
(quotations and citations omitted).)


If the employer shows it had a
legitimate, nondiscriminatory reason for the action, the plaintiff “‘may
establish pretext “either directly by persuading the court that a
discriminatory reason more likely motivated the employer or indirectly by
showing that the employer’s proffered explanation is unworthy of credence.”’” (Morgan
v. Regents of University of California (2000) 88 Cal.App.4th 52,
68-69.)  “In responding to the employer’s
showing of a legitimate reason for the complained-of action, the plaintiff cannot
‘simply show the employer’s decision was wrong, mistaken, or unwise. Rather,
the employee must demonstrate such weaknesses, implausibilities,
inconsistencies, incoherencies, or contradictions in the employer’s proffered
legitimate reasons for its action that a reasonable factfinder could rationally
find them ‘unworthy of credence,’ and hence infer that the employer did not act
for the [asserted] non-discriminatory reasons.” 
(McRae v. Department of Corrections & Rehabilitation (2006)
142 Cal.App.4th 377, 389-390 (cleaned up).) “[A]n employer is entitled to
summary judgment if, considering the employer’s innocent explanation for its
actions, the evidence as a whole is insufficient to permit a rational inference
that the employer’s actual motive was discriminatory.” (Guz v. Bechtel
National Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 361.)  
 
c. Plaintiff’s prima facie case
 
As mentioned, Plaintiff presents
her case in a stream-of-consciousness manner and fails to organize her
presentation to correspond to the prima facie elements.  Nonetheless, addressing the elements in turn,
Plaintiff identifies as a Black female. 
(See Opp., p. 15:3.)  For the
purposes of the first element of a prima face case of discrimination, Plaintiff
based her discrimination claim on the characteristics of gender and color.[6]
 
As to the second element, Plaintiff
discusses generally the positions she held and the work she performed.  She describes performing her jobs competently,
but does not discuss the requirements for or whether she was qualified for the ESM
positions she sought in September 2019 and December 2019.
 
As to the third element, Plaintiff fails
to stop, identify, and discuss the adverse employment actions at issue.  The factual collage of the discussion impairs
the analysis. Plaintiff lists several examples of adverse employment actions,
discussing one in detail and generally describing others.  (See Opp., pp. 15:3-16:22, 18:2-19:8.)  The issuance of the NTCD is the only adverse
employment action Plaintiff discusses with sufficient detail.  Citation to evidence is sporadic.  Yet, as alleged, the issuance of the NTCD supports
her retaliation claim.  “On
September 9, 2019, Phil Leitner and Dave Cisneros issued Ms. Wright a Notice to
Correct Deficiency (NTCD). The unlawful discipline was done in retaliation
for her EEO complaint and in an effort to sabotage her ability to promote as
they issued the NTCD just prior to her interview for a promotional position to
Electric Service Manager on September 16, 2019 . . . .”  (FAC, ¶ 26.)
As to the fourth
element—discriminatory motive—Plaintiff does not make clear her theory.  It appears to be disparate treatment.  In support of a disparate treatment theory,
Plaintiff appears to argue the following: (1) because Plaintiff was Black and
female, she was singled out and held to a different standard; and (2) Plaintiff’s
supervisors favored Plaintiff’s non-Black male counterparts such as
Fimbres.  In support, Plaintiff describes
being subjected to higher scrutiny for requesting overtime.  Overtime (OT) requests were to be submitted
two weeks prior to requested dates. However, when Fimbres, a light-skinned
Latino male, assumed Plaintiff’s West Los Angeles position after Plaintiff was
transferred to DTLA, Fimbres immediately took overtime.  The inference to be drawn is that the
two-week policy did not apply to Fimbres because he was male and not Black.  Plaintiff does not otherwise submit any evidence
to show she was “similarly situated in all material respects” to the employees
she claims were treated more favorably. 
(Gupta, supra, 40 Cal.App.5th at pp. 519-520.) 
 
Plaintiff does not meet her initial
burden.  As discussed above, Plaintiff
eschews any real discussion of the third element.  Plaintiff cites next to no evidence in
support of the fourth element (discriminatory motive).  And, as discussed below, even if Plaintiff
stated a prima face case, the City demonstrates that DWP had a legitimate
nondiscriminatory reason to issue the NTCD and applying the OT request policy
differently to Fimbres.  
 
            d.
DWP’s Legitimate, Nondiscriminatory Reasons
 
            The City
argues DWP properly issued Plaintiff an NTCD because Plaintiff and her crew
worked overtime without requesting or receiving prior approval from management
in contravention of the OT policy, and because Plaintiff did not direct crew
members who worked 16 hours to take a mandatory 8-hour break.  (UMF 39.) 
Further, the general heightened scrutiny of OT policy was precipitated
by a worker fatality in May 2019 which alerted managers to pay extra attention
to worker safety and overtime hours. 
(UMF 8-10.)
 
            The City also
furnishes evidence that Fimbres was not required to observe the OT policy when
he was initially assigned to the position. 
At his deposition, Fimbres testified that he did not recall whether he submitted
a timely OT request.  However, pursuant to
the letter agreement between Fimbres’s union and DWP, Fimbres did not need to
request the OT in advance.  (Fimbres Depo.,
pp. 103:5-105:13, 105:14-106:13.)  
 
            The City
also furnishes a legitimate, non-discriminatory reasons for Plaintiff’s transfer
to DTLA.  Leitner states that he decided
to transfer Plaintiff out of West Los Angeles and to DTLA based on “concerns
regarding employee safety, and repeated EC overtime policy violations.”  (Leitner Decl., ¶ 14.)  Specifically, Plaintiff misinformed her
immediate supervisor of the anticipated project completion time on June 4, 2019
(Leitner Decl., ¶ 16) and, in Leitner’s opinion, Plaintiff never accepted
responsibility for allowing crew members to work without the mandated 8-hour
break the following day (Leitner Decl., ¶ 19).
 
            As to the
decisions not to hire Plaintiff for ESM positions in September 2019 and
December 2019, the City furnishes evidence that Plaintiff’s interview scores
were lower than the candidates who were ultimately promoted (UMF 45-46, 52-55),
and further, that none of the panelists who interviewed Plaintiff had knowledge
of Plaintiff’s protected activities (UMF 49, 56).
 
            Plaintiff
does not submit any argument with respect to pretext. 
 
            Accordingly,
summary adjudication of the First Cause of Action is GRANTED.
 
3.      Retaliation
in Violation of FEHA  (2nd
Cause of Action)
Plaintiff bases her retaliation
claim on the following allegations:  “Plaintiff
made several complaints to the Director of EEOS, Renette Anderson, beginning in
June and continuing through September 2019 when she filed her EEOS complaint on
September 9, 2019. Thereafter, she was transferred out of her West LA position
on August 5, 2019, she was denied an electric vehicle on August 5, 2019, she was
issued an NTCD on September 8, 2019, and she was denied promotion in September
2019. After she filed her DFEH complaint in December 2019, she was forced out
of her office in January 2020 and her printer was taken in February 2020, and
she was denied another promotion in December 2019. There was a barrage of
retaliatory actions after she began complaining about and reporting the
discriminatory adverse actions to Ms. Anderson.”  (Opp., pp. 19:26-20:4.)  
 
The court notes that Plaintiff’s
“several complaints to the Director of EEOS” and the denial of an electrical
vehicle on August 5, 2019 were not alleged in the FAC.  Accordingly, the court does not consider these
allegations further.  (See California
Bank, supra, 222 Cal.App.4th at p. 637, fn. 3.)
 
a. Plaintiff’s Prima Facie Case            
 
FEHA retaliation claims are subject
to the McDonnell Douglas Corp. v. Green (1973) 411 U.S. 792 (McDonnell
Douglas) burden-shifting analysis.  (Yanowitz, supra, 36
Cal.4th at p. 1042.)¿¿As with the First Cause of Action, the court begins by
considering whether Plaintiff states a prima facie case for retaliation. To
establish a prima facie case of retaliation, a plaintiff must show that: (1)
plaintiff engaged in protected activity; (2) the employer subjected the
plaintiff to an adverse employment action; and (3) the protected activity and
the employer’s action were causally connected.  (Id.)   
 
Here, Plaintiff establishes that
she submitted a complaint to the EEOS in September 2019 and a complaint to the
DFEH in December 2019.  There is no
dispute the filing of the EEOS complaint or DFEH charge is protected
activity.  The first element is satisfied.  
 
However, Plaintiff fails to
establish that the filing of her complaints to the EEOS and DFEH and the transfer
to DTLA or the issuance of the NTCD were causally connected.  As alleged, the transfer (August 5, 2019) and
NTCD (September 8, 2019) pre-dated the EEOS complaint (September 9, 2019).  The transfer to DTLA and the NTCD cannot form
the basis of Plaintiff’s retaliation claim.
 
That leaves the decisions not to
promote Plaintiff in September 2019 and December 2019, and being forced to a
West Los Angeles office in January 2020. 
Critically, Plaintiff does not discuss at all how these events are
causally related to the protected activities.[7]  Plaintiff fails to establish a prima facie
case for retaliation.  And, as discussed
below, even if Plaintiff had stated a prima face case, the City demonstrates
that DWP had a legitimate nondiscriminatory reason to reassign Plaintiff to an office
in West Los Angeles and not to promote Plaintiff in September 2019 and December
2019.  
 
b. DWP’s Legitimate,
Nondiscriminatory Reasons
 
The City argues DWP did not
retaliate against Plaintiff by reassigning her office to West Los Angeles and
not promoting her in September 2019 and December 2019 because (1) Plaintiff
indicated to Leitner that she was still utilizing the 1400 S. Sepulveda office
and that she liked the West Los Angeles office better (Leitner Decl., ¶ 21),
and (2) the decisionmakers who conducted Plaintiff’s interviews for the EMS
positions did not have knowledge of Plaintiff’s EEOS complaints or of the NTCD
issued to Plaintiff (UMF 42, 56). 
 
Plaintiff does not submit any
argument with respect to pretext. 
 
Accordingly, summary adjudication
of the Second Cause of Action is GRANTED.
 
4.      Failure
to Take Necessary Remedial Action in Violation of FEHA (3rd
Cause of Action)
Failure to prevent retaliation or
discrimination in violation of FEHA requires that (1) plaintiff was an employee
of defendant, (2) plaintiff was subjected to discrimination or retaliation in
the course of employment, (3) defendant failed to take all reasonable steps to
prevent the discrimination or retaliation, (4) plaintiff was harmed, and (5)
defendant’s failure to take all reasonable steps to prevent discrimination
and/or retaliation was a substantial factor in causing plaintiff’s harm. 
(CACI No. 2527.)  
 
This claim is based upon
Plaintiff’s allegations of discrimination and retaliation.  (See FAC, ¶¶ 61-65.)  Plaintiff does not devote any discussion to
the Third Cause of Action.  Because the
court has found summary adjudication is warranted on the First and Second Cause
of Action, the court likewise finds summary adjudication is warranted as to the
Third Cause of Action.  Accordingly, the
motion for summary adjudication of the Third Cause of Action is GRANTED.
 
V.        CONCLUSION

 
            Defendant City
of Los Angeles, acting by and through its Department of Water and Power’s
Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED.
 
            Moving
party to give notice.
 
 
Dated:   September 9,
2024                            
 




 


  


 




 


  Kerry Bensinger 
  Judge of the
  Superior Court


 




 


