  Case Number:  22STCV22459    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2023    Dept:  31 TENTATIVE
Plaintiff’s motion to Compel
Further Responses to Requests for Production, Set One, Nos. 5, 7, and 10 is
DENIED as untimely. Defendants’ request for sanctions is DENIED. Plaintiff’s request
for certification of appeal pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 166.1
is DENIED without prejudice. 
Legal Standard
 
On receipt of a response to interrogatories, the
propounding party may move for an order compelling a further response if the
propounding party deems that (1) an answer to a particular interrogatory is
evasive or incomplete, (2) an exercise of the option to produce documents under
CCP section 2030.230 is unwarranted or the required specification of those
documents is inadequate, or (3) an objection to an interrogatory is without
merit or too general. (CCP § 2030.300(a).) 
The responding party has the burden of justifying the objections
thereto.  (Coy v. Sup.Ct. (1962) 58 Cal.2d 210, 220-21.)
 
The propounding
party must submit a declaration under Code of Civ. Proc. §2016.040 stating
facts demonstrating a good faith and reasonable effort to informally resolve
each issue raised by the motion. (Code Civ. Proc., §2030.300, subd. (b).)
 
“Unless notice of this motion is given within 45
days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental verified
response, or on or before any specific later date to which the propounding
party and the responding party have agreed in writing, the propounding party
waives any right to compel a further response to the interrogatories.”¿ (CCP
§2030.300(c).) “[T]he time limitations set forth…[are] mandatory and [when] not
met, the trial court's order is in excess of its jurisdiction.”¿ (Vidal
Sassoon, Inc. v. Superior Court (1983) 147 Cal.App.3d 681,
685.) 
 
Discussion 
Plaintiff moves to compel Defendants’ further
responses to Requests for Production, Set One, Nos. 5, 7, and 10.
Defendant argues Plaintiff’s Motion is not
timely. Absent an agreement by the parties, Defendant argues, Plaintiff had 45
days to pursue a motion to compel against Defendants, after the initial
responses were provided on or about December 6, 2022. (Chao Decl., Exh. B.) 
In reply, Plaintiff argues that
Defendant’s counsel agreed in writing to extend the deadline as to all
of Plaintiff’s motions to compel to two weeks after the IDC. (Medvei Decl.,
Exh. 1.) In defense counsel’s June 1, 2023 email, he states: 
REGARDING
DEFENDANTS’ RESPONSES: attached is a copy of the May 10, 2023 email that
includes the verified supplemental responses provided by the defendants to
Plaintiff’s Request for Production of Documents, Set One... We believe that
these responses are fully compliant with the Court’s February 15, 2023 Minute
Order. To the extent that you believe that the responses to item nos. 3, 4 and
6 are deficient, we will agree to provide you an additional two weeks after the IDC to move to compel further
responses. (Id.)
The Court previously concluded in the
last motion to compel further that the parties’ agreement to extend the
deadline to file a motion to compel further was only for Request Nos. 3, 4 and
6.
Plaintiff addresses this in his reply,
and argues that Defendant’s statement was conditional: “To the extent that you
believe that the responses to item nos. 3, 4 and 6 are deficient, we will agree
to provide you an additional two weeks after the IDC to move to compel further
responses.” (Id., Exh. 1 p. 2.) However, Plaintiff argues this statement is not
limiting the extension to only those responses, it is a conditional statement,
i.e. if Plaintiff’s counsel believes that the responses to Nos. 3, 4 and
6 are deficient, then the motions to compel will be extended to two
weeks after the IDC. Plaintiff’s counsel did believe those responses were
deficient and thus the extension, as to all motions, as requested by
Plaintiff’s counsel, was granted—this extension was confirmed by Plaintiff’s
counsel shortly after and Defendant’s counsel never made a correction. (Id., Exh.
1 p. 1 (“This will confirm that Plaintiff shall have two weeks after the IDC
for its motions to compel.”).)
The Court finds the motion is
untimely. As stated before, the agreement to extend the deadline to move to
compel further pertains to Plaintiff’s Request for Production Nos. 3, 4, and 6,
which were at issue at the IDC and Judge Orozco recommended that Defendant
respond to them, which Defendant did in the email provided above. The motion at
hand asks for further responses to Request for Production Nos. 5, 7, and 10,
but those requests were not at issue in the minute order and Defendant did not
provide responses to those requests in the email cited above. As such, there is
no agreement to extend the deadline to move to compel further responses to the
discovery at issue. While Plaintiff appears to have understood Defendant’s
response to mean all discovery, nowhere does Defendant state the extension to
file the motion was for all motions. Without an express statement, the
Court cannot make that conclusion.
Plaintiff also argues that
Defendant’s prior counsel also agreed to extend the deadline to two weeks after
the IDC. (Id., Exh. 2.) In the January 2023 email with Defendants’ former
counsel, Plaintiff’s counsel writes: “I propose that plaintiff's motion to
compel deadlines for all discovery he has propounded on your clients be
extended to 30 days after an IDC can be held,” to which former defense counsel
responds, “We are agreeable to extending your motion to compel deadline to two
weeks after the IDC.” (Id.)
As to the agreement with former
counsel, the IDC was held on February 15, 2023. These motions were filed on
July 12, 2023. Although a second IDC was held on July 12, 2023, the parties’
agreement does not say anything about a second IDC, and Plaintiff has not
provided any insight as to this discrepancy. 
Therefore, the motion is DENIED as untimely. 
 
Next, Defendant seeks sanctions against Plaintiff. However,
Defendants did not request sanctions in their notice of opposition, and thus,
the Court cannot grant this request. (See CCP section 2023.040.) 
 
Lastly, in the reply,
Plaintiff requests certification of appeal pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 166.1, which provides in pertinent part: 
 
“Upon the
written request of any party or his or her counsel, or at the judge's
discretion, a judge may indicate in any interlocutory order a belief that there
is a controlling question of law as to which there are substantial grounds for
difference of opinion, appellate resolution of which may materially advance the
conclusion of the litigation . . . .” (Code Civ. Proc., § 166.1.) 
 
However, this request was made
for the first time in the reply and Defendants have not had an opportunity to
respond. The Court notes in the last motion to compel further, Defendant filed
an objection to the certification and thus, it would be improper to consider
this request without allowing Defendant to brief the issue. 
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing,
Plaintiff’s motion to compel further is DENIED as untimely. Defendants’ request
for sanctions is DENIED. Plaintiff’s request for certification of appeal pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 166.1 is DENIED without prejudice.Moving party to give notice.  