 Case Number:  23STCV17259    Hearing Date:   April 15, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     April 15, 2024                        TRIAL
DATE: NOT SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Melton L. Mitchell et al. v. Ford Motor
Company, et al. 
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV17259            
 
DEMURRER
TO FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants Ford Motor Company and Santa Monica Ford
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiffs Melton
L. Mitchell and Stacey Mitchell
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
07/24/23: Complaint filed.
·        
08/23/23: First Amended Complaint filed. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is a lemon law action filed on July 24, 2023. Plaintiffs purchased a
2020 Ford Explorer equipped with a 10R60 transmission system which they allege
has a series of known defects causing hesitation, shuddering, and shifting
issues. 
 
Defendants demur to the fifth cause
of action for fraudulent concealment and the sixth cause of action for
negligent repair. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
            Defendants’
Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint is OVERRULED. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Defendants demur to the fifth cause
of action for fraudulent concealment and the sixth cause of action for
negligent repair. 
 
Legal Standard
 
A demurrer tests whether the
complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations
liberally and in context. (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and
Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.) In a demurrer proceeding, the
defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,
994.) “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other
extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face
of the pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court
(1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing
is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,
states a cause of action.” (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p. 747.) The
ultimate facts alleged in the complaint must be deemed true, as well as all
facts that may be implied or inferred from those expressly alleged. (Marshall
v. Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1397, 1403; see also Shields
v. County of San Diego (1984) 155 Cal.App.3d 103, 133 [stating, “[o]n
demurrer, pleadings are read liberally and allegations contained therein are
assumed to be true”].) “This rule of liberal construction means that the
reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not the
defendant.” (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th
1228, 1238.) 
 
Meet and Confer
 
Before filing a demurrer, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who has filed the pleading subject to the demurrer and file a declaration
detailing their meet and confer efforts.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41(a).)
However, an insufficient meet and confer process is not grounds
to overrule or sustain a demurrer.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41(a)(4).)
 
The Declaration of Chen Fei Liu in
support of this motion states that counsel for the parties met and conferred
telephonically on September 19, 2023, but were unable to resolve this dispute.
(Declaration of Chen Fei Liu ISO Dem ¶ 3 Exh. C.) The Court therefore finds
that Defendants have satisfied the statutory meet-and-confer obligations. 
 
Fifth Cause of Action: Fraudulent Concealment
 
            Defendants
demur to the fifth cause of action for fraudulent concealment arguing failure
to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. 
 
The elements of fraudulent concealment are (1) concealment
or suppression of a material fact; (2) by a defendant with a duty to disclose
the fact to the plaintiff; (3) intent to defraud the plaintiff by intentionally
concealing or suppressing the fact; (4) the plaintiff was unaware of the fact
and would not have acted as he or she did if he or she had known of the
concealed or suppressed fact; and (5) the plaintiff sustained damage as a
result of the concealment or suppression of fact. (Hambridge v. Healthcare
Partners Medical Group, Inc. (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 124, 162.)  
 
Defendants assert that this cause of action is without merit because
it fails to adequately allege specific facts giving rise to the claim, because
Plaintiff did not allege a transactional relationship, and because the claim is
barred by the economic loss rule.
1.      Specificity
 
Defendants argue that Plaintiffs failed to adequately allege
fraudulent concealment with specificity because Plaintiffs did not plead the
defect in the subject vehicle with adequate specificity. Defendants’ sole
authority for this position is a 2019 unpublished ruling from a federal
multi-district litigation on a motion to dismiss where certain claims did not
identify the defects at issue. (In re Ford Motor Co. DPS6 Powershift
Transmission Prod. Liab. Lit., Case Nos. ML 18-02814 AB (FFMx), CV 18-04817
AB (FFMx), CV 18-04190 AB (FFMx), CV 17-06656 AB (FFMx), CV 18-01912 AB (FFMx),
2019 WL 3000646, at *7 (N.D. Cal. May 22, 2019).) Here, however, a cursory
review of the pleadings shows that Plaintiffs describe three Technical Service
Bulletins issued by Defendant Ford after the date of purchase identifying
potential causes of the transmission issues alleged. (FAC ¶¶ 28-30.) Construed
in the light most favorable to Plaintiffs, these allegations specify the
defects in the transmission system. Plaintiffs have thus alleged the defects
with the specificity that is required. 
 
Defendants have therefore failed to show that this cause of action is
without merit on this basis. 
 
2.      Special or Transactional Relationship
 
            Defendants next argue there is no
duty to disclose any defect because there was no special or transactional
relationship with Plaintiffs. 
 
There are four circumstances in which nondisclosure or
concealment may constitute actionable fraud: (1) when the defendant is in a
fiduciary relationship with the plaintiff; (2) when the defendant had exclusive
knowledge of material facts not known to the plaintiff; (3) when the defendant
actively conceals a material fact from the plaintiff; or (4) when the defendant
makes partial representations but also suppresses some material fact.” (LiMandri
v. Judkins (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 326, 336.) A duty to disclose may also
arise when a defendant possesses or exerts control over material facts not
readily available to the plaintiff. (Jones v. ConocoPhillips Co. (2011)
198 Cal.App.4th 1198, 1199.)  
 
“Even under the strict rules of common law pleading, one of
the canons was that less particularity is required when the facts lie more in
the knowledge of the opposite party.” (Alfaro v. Community Housing
Improvement System & Planning Assn., Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1256,
1384.)  
 
            Defendants argue that this cause of
action fails because, although the First Amended Complaint contends that
Defendants had exclusive knowledge of and actively concealed material facts
from Plaintiffs, the First Amended Complaint does not allege a transactional
relationship between the parties. Ordinarily, a duty to disclose absent a
fiduciary relationship “presupposes the existence of [a] relationship between
the plaintiff and defendant in which a duty to disclose can arise.” (Bigler-Engler
v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 276, 311.) Defendant relies on the
general rule to argue that, because Defendant is the manufacturer of
Plaintiff’s vehicle, there was not a “direct dealing” between the parties that
gives rise to a duty to disclose. (See Bigler-Engler, supra, at 311.)
Defendant’s reliance on the Bigler-Engler rule is misplaced, as
that case is both unpersuasive in this context and factually distinguishable. 
 
            Bigler-Engler is unpersuasive
because, although a manufacturer does not have a transactional relationship
with the “public at large” (id.), a vendor does have a duty to
disclose material facts “not only to immediate purchasers, but also to subsequent
purchasers when the vendor has reason to expect that the item will be
resold.” (OCM Principle Opportunities Fund v. CIBC World Markets Corp. (2007)
157 Cal.App.4th 835, 859-60.) Here, the essential allegation is that
Plaintiff is not a member of the public at large, but a subsequent purchaser of
a product manufactured by Defendant. Furthermore, Bigler-Engler is
factually distinguishable from this case, as that action was, at its heart, a
medical malpractice case in which the plaintiff was a patient who sued a
physician, the physician’s medical group, and the manufacturer of the medical
device involved. (Bigler-Engler, supra, 7 Cal.App.5th at 284.)
Here, however, Plaintiff is a purchaser of the product himself, not
merely the person on whom the product was used. The Court does not interpret
existing precedent to require Plaintiff to allege any further relationship with
the manufacturer of the vehicle exhibiting the defects giving rise to this
action. 
 
            The Court therefore concludes that
Defendants have not shown that the fifth cause of action does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action on this basis.
 
3.      Economic
Loss Rule
 
Defendants also argue that the economic loss rule bars
Plaintiffs’ fifth cause of action, because Plaintiffs are attempting to recover
tort damages arising from a contract. 
 
Under the economic loss rule, “[w]here a purchaser’s
expectations in a sale are frustrated because the product he bought is not
working properly, his remedy is in contract alone, for he has suffered only
‘economic losses.’” (Robinson Helicopter Co., Inc. v. Dana Corp. (2004)
34 Cal.4th 979, 988.) The economic loss rule “hinges on a distinction drawn
between transactions involving the sale of goods for commercial purposes where
economic expectations are protected by commercial and contract law, and those
involving the sale of defective products to individual consumers who are
injured in a manner which has traditionally been remedied by resort to the law
of torts.” (Id.) Simply stated, the economic loss rule “prevents the law
of contract and the law of tort from dissolving one into the other.” (Id.)  
 
The restrictions on contract remedies serve purposes not
found in tort law—they protect the parties’ freedom to bargain over special
risks, and they promote contract formation by limiting liability to the value
of the promise. (Harris v. Atlantic Richfield (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 70,
77.) This encourages efficient breaches, resulting in increased production of
goods and services at a lower cost to society. (Id.) Because of these
overriding policy considerations, the California Supreme Court has proceeded
with caution in carving out exceptions to the traditional contract remedy
restrictions. (Id.)  
 
Nevertheless, the most widely recognized exception to the
economic loss rule is when a defendant’s conduct constitutes a tort as well as
a breach of contract. (Id. at 78.) When one party commits fraud during
the contract formation or performance, the injured party may recover in both
contract and tort. (Id.)  
 
Because Plaintiffs have adequately alleged fraud, their
complaint is not barred by the economic loss rule. Allowing Plaintiffs’ fraud
cause of action to proceed will further, rather than undermine, the public
policy of allowing parties to freely bargain over special risks, because
parties who are deprived of material facts governing their decision to enter
into a contract do not “freely” enter into the contract. Therefore, the
economic loss rule does not bar Plaintiffs’ fraud cause of action.  
 
Accordingly, Defendants’ Demurrer
to the fifth cause of action for fraudulent concealment is OVERRULED.
 
Sixth Cause of Action: Negligent Repair
 
            Defendants
also demur to the sixth cause of action for negligent repair asserted against Santa
Monica Ford Lincoln as barred under the economic loss rule. Defendants assert
that the negligent repair claim against Santa Monica Ford Lincoln arises out of
the warranty contract with Ford Motor Company. Nothing in the First Amended
Complaint supports this position beyond a rote incorporation by reference of
the preceding allegations in the Complaint. (FAC ¶ 70.) Defendants’ conclusion
is not sufficient to sustain a demurrer on the basis that this cause of action
“arises” out of the warranty. 
 
            The Court
is likewise unpersuaded by Defendants’ conclusory assertion that Plaintiffs
have not pled damages because they have not shown that they paid out of pocket
for repair work. The First Amended Complaint alleges that the failure to
properly repair the vehicle was a proximate cause of Plaintiffs damages, which
are alleged to be not less than $25,001. (FAC ¶¶ 23, 74.) For the purposes of a
demurrer, this is sufficient. 
 
            Accordingly,
Defendants’ Demurrer to the sixth cause of action for negligent repair is
OVERRULED. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Defendants’
Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint is OVERRULED. 
 
            Moving
Parties to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  April 15, 2024                                    ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 