 Case Number:  23STCV12262    Hearing Date:   April 15, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     April 15, 2024                        TRIAL
DATE: January 21, 2025
                                                           
CASE:                         Mohamad Mehdi Molaei v. American Honda
Motor Co., Inc.
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV12262            
 
MOTION
TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION (SET ONE)

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff Mohamad Mehdi Molaei
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Defendant American
Honda Motor Co.
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is a lemon law action filed on May 31, 2023. Plaintiff purchased a
2020 Honda Odyssey which developed defects in numerous core systems.
 
Plaintiff moves to compel further
responses to requests for production (set one) propounded to Defendant. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
            Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel
Further Responses to Requests for Production is GRANTED. 
 
            Defendant is ordered to produce
verified, code-compliant responses without objections to the requests as
propounded within 30 days of this order. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Plaintiff moves to compel further
responses to requests for production (set one) propounded to Defendant.
 
Legal Standard
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310, subdivision (a), a court
may order a party to serve a further response to a demand for inspection when
the court finds that: “(1) A statement of compliance with the demand is
incomplete[;] (2) A representation of inability to comply is inadequate,
incomplete, or evasive[; or] (3) An objection in the response is without merit
or too general.”
 
The burden is on the moving party to “set forth specific facts showing
good cause justifying the discovery sought by the demand.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.310, subd. (b)(1).) These facts must also be set forth in a separate statement
filed by the moving party. (Cal. Rules of Court Rule 3.1345(c).) This burden
“is met simply by a fact-specific showing of relevance.” (TBG Ins. Servs.
Corp. v. Superior Court (2002) 96 Cal.App.4th 443, 448.)
 
Timeliness
 
A motion to compel further
responses to requests for production must be served “within 45 days of the
service of the verified response, or any supplemental verified response, or on
or before any specific later date to which the propounding party and the responding
party have agreed in writing.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.310(c).) The 45-day
requirement is mandatory and jurisdictional. (Sexton v. Superior Court¿(1997)
58 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410.)
 
Following an Informal Discovery
Conference on January 31, 2024, the Court ordered pursuant to a stipulation by
the parties that Plaintiff would have until March 14, 2024 to file motions to
compel on any outstanding discovery issues. (January 31, 2024 Minute Order.)
The instant motion was filed and served on that date. The motion is therefore
timely. 
 
Meet and Confer
 
A party making a motion to compel further responses must also include a
declaration stating facts showing a “reasonable and good faith attempt” to
resolve informally the issues presented by the motion before filing the motion.
(Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2016.040, 2031.310, subd. (b)(2).)
 
The Declaration of Noreelie Panhwar
in support of the motion sets forth the extensive history of Plaintiff’s
attempts to informally resolve this dispute, including several meet-and-confer
letters and an informal discovery conference. (See Declaration of Noreelie
Panhwar ISO Mot. ¶¶ 23-32 Exhs. 10-12.) Plaintiff has satisfied his statutory
meet-and-confer obligations. 
 
Good Cause
 
Plaintiff moves to compel further
responses to requests for production (set one) propounded to Defendant.
Specifically, Plaintiff seeks further responses to Requests Nos. 16 through 21.
These requests sought documents concerning internal analysis (Panhwar Decl.
Exh. 5 No. 16), communications (No. 17), decisions regarding any form of notice
(No. 18), complaints of failure (No. 19), failure rates (No. 20), and fixes
(No. 21) for “electrical defects” in vehicles of the same year, make, and model
as the subject vehicle. “Electrical Defect” is defined as:
 
such defects which result in symptoms
including, but not limited to: malfunction of rearview camera display; blank
dash display screen; crackling noise from speakers; static noise from speakers;
unresponsive radio unit; frozen radio unit; defective audio system; premature
failure of FAKRA connectors; malfunctioning connectors; faulty audio tuner and
meter; TSB #20-103; TSB #22-027; TSB #20-050; and any other concern identified
in the repair history for the subject 2020 Honda Odyssey; Vehicle Identification
Number 5FNRL6H71LB002901.
 
(Panhwar Decl. Exh. 5. p.3:14-21.)

 
            Evidence of
similar defects in other vehicles are both relevant and admissible. (Donlen
v. Ford Motor Co. (2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 138, 153.) Admissible evidence is
discoverable. (Glenfed Development Corp. v. Superior Court (1997) 53
Cal.App.4th 1113, 1117-18.) Documents regarding warranty complaints, service
histories, and employee records concerning a defect in all affected vehicles,
as well as documents regarding the manufacturer’s responses and instructions to
cure that defect are discoverable. (See Doppes v. Bentley Motors, Inc.
(2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 967, 971 [holding that the trial court’s approval of a
discovery referee’s report and recommendation of sanctions for failure to
produce documents of this nature relating to the subject defect in all affected
vehicles was not an abuse of discretion].) 
 
Defendant contends that Donlen
and Doppes are both distinguishable from the present case: Donlen
because the issue was whether the plaintiff’s expert testimony regarding
defects in and special service bulletins relating to other vehicles was
inadmissible, rather than production of documents relating to these issues, (Donlen,
supra, 217 Cal.App.4th at 138), and Doppes because that case was
also an action for fraud, and the manufacturer did not challenge the discovery
referee’s findings. (Doppes, supra, 174 Cal.App.4th at 973-74,
993.) Defendant is correct that these cases are factually distinguishable, but
the Court disagrees that these cases do not support Plaintiff’s position that
the documents sought are relevant and admissible. In Doppes, the Court
of Appeal expressly stated that the trial court did not abuse its discretion in
adopting the discovery referee’s report and recommendation that similar
documents be produced. (Doppes, supra, at 971.) Further, expert
testimony as in Donlen regarding documentary evidence must necessarily
have a foundation in that evidence to be admissible. (Cooper v. Takeda
Pharmaceuticals America, Inc. (2015) 239 Cal.App.4th 555, 577.)  Documentary evidence on which an expert is
testifying must therefore be discoverable. (Glenfed, supra, 53
Cal.App.4th at 1117-18.) 
 
Here, Plaintiff seeks documentary
evidence relating to the types of issues directly addressed in both decisions.
The Court therefore finds that good cause exists for these requests.
 
Defendant’s Response
 
            Defendant
responded to each request with substantively identical boilerplate objections
for vagueness and ambiguity, irrelevance, overbreadth, undue burden and
harassment, confidentiality, and privilege, followed by a unilateral narrowing of
the scope of the request. Defendant does not address its undue burden,
harassment, confidentiality, or privilege objections in its opposition and the
Court therefore finds them without merit. 
 
Defendant asserts that the
definition of “Electrical Defect” employed for Plaintiff’s requests is overly
broad and ambiguous. The Court disagrees with Defendant. These terms are not
overly broad for the purpose of discovery nor are they so vague that Defendant
is unable to intelligibly respond. 
 
The remainder of Defendant’s
objections claim overbreadth or irrelevance on the basis that discovery not
pertaining directly to the subject vehicle is improper. The Court rejects these
contentions and finds Defendant’s objections to be without merit for the
reasons stated above. Plaintiff is therefore entitled to an order compelling
further responses without objections to these requests. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion to
Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production is GRANTED. 
 
            Defendant is ordered to produce
verified, code-compliant responses without objections to the requests as
propounded within 30 days of this order. 
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  April 15, 2024                                    ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 