  Case Number:  23STCV08690    Hearing Date:   April 15, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     April 15, 2024                        TRIAL
DATE: NOT SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Irma Leticia Mejia v. Cameo Hotel Inc.
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV08690            
 
DEMURRER
TO FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT; MOTION TO STRIKE PORTIONS OF FIRST AMENDED
COMPLAINT

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants Cameo Hotel Inc and Valley Active
Properties, LLC
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Irma
Leticia Mejia
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
04/19/23: Complaint filed.
·        
08/17/23: First Amended Complaint filed. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an employment discrimination and sexual harassment action.
Plaintiff alleges that she was sexually harassed and assaulted by her
co-workers. 
 
            Defendants
Cameo Hotel Inc and Valley Active Properties, LLC demur to the first, second,
and sixth causes of action in the first amended complaint and move to strike
portions of the prayer for damages in the First Amended Complaint. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
            Defendants
Cameo Hotel Inc and Valley Active Properties, LLC’s demurrer to
the First Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED without leave to amend
as to the second cause of action and otherwise OVERRULED. 
 
            Defendants’
Motion to Strike is DENIED.
//
 
//
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Demurrer to First Amended Complaint
 
            Defendants
Cameo Hotel Inc. and Valley Active Properties LLC demur to the first cause of
action for sexual battery, the second cause of action for negligent retention
and supervision, and the sixth cause of action for intentional infliction of
emotional distress for failure to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause
of action.
 
Legal Standard
 
A demurrer tests whether the
complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations
liberally and in context. (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and
Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.) In a demurrer proceeding, the
defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,
994.) “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other
extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face
of the pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court
(1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing
is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,
states a cause of action.” (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p. 747.) The
ultimate facts alleged in the complaint must be deemed true, as well as all
facts that may be implied or inferred from those expressly alleged. (Marshall
v. Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1397, 1403; see also Shields
v. County of San Diego (1984) 155 Cal.App.3d 103, 133 [stating, “[o]n
demurrer, pleadings are read liberally and allegations contained therein are
assumed to be true”].) “This rule of liberal construction means that the
reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not the
defendant.” (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th
1228, 1238.) 
 
Meet and Confer
 
Before filing a demurrer, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who has filed the pleading subject to the demurrer and file a declaration
detailing their meet and confer efforts.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41(a).)
However, an insufficient meet and confer process is not grounds
to overrule or sustain a demurrer.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41(a)(4).)
 
            The
Declaration of Abe G. Salen attached to the demurrer states that the parties
met and conferred via email and telephone between August 28 and September 8,
2023 concerning the issues presented here, but were unable to reach a
resolution. (Declaration of Abe G. Salen ISO Dem. ¶¶ 7-9, Exhs. 2-3.)
Defendants have therefore satisfied their statutory meet-and-confer
obligations. 
 
//
 
Vicarious Liability
 
            Defendants
demur to the first cause of action for sexual battery and the sixth cause of
action for intentional infliction of emotional distress for failure to state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action because Defendants are not
vicariously liable for the alleged conduct of their employees. 
 
            “An employer
is vicariously liable for torts committed by an employee within the scope of
employment.” (Mary M. v. City of Los Angeles (1991) 54 Cal.3d 202, 208.)
Further, “an employee's willful, malicious and even criminal torts may fall
within the scope of his or her employment for purposes of respondeat superior,
even though the employer has not authorized the employee to commit crimes or
intentional torts.” (Lisa M v. Henry Mayo Newhall Memorial Hospital
(1995) 12 Cal.4th 291, 296-297 citing Flores v. Autozone West, Inc.
(2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 373, 378-380.) However, “while the employee . . . need
not have intended to further the employer’s interests, the employer will not be
held liable for an assault or other intentional tort that did not have a causal
nexus to the employee’s work.” (Id at 298.) That said, employers are
strictly liable for any harassing conduct committed by a supervisor, and are
liable for harassment by other employees where the employer ratifies the
harassment by failing to take immediate and appropriate corrective action when
made aware of the conduct. (Gov. Code § 12940(j)(1); McClung v. Employment
Development Dept. (2004) 34 Cal.4th 467, 517-18.) 
 
            Defendants
argue that they are not vicariously liable for the sexual assault which
Plaintiff alleges their employees committed because, they claim, the assault
was “not generated by or an outgrowth of workplace responsibilities,
conditions, or events.” (Lisa M., supra, 12 Cal.4th at 302.) Plaintiff
concedes that the assault which she alleges fell outside the scope of the
individual Defendants’ employment and claims that the corporate Defendants are nevertheless
liable under section 12940(j)(1). Plaintiff alleges that one of the individual
Defendants, “Philip,” was Plaintiff’s manager and “boss” (FAC ¶ 18). Plaintiff
alleges that she informed Philip of Defendant Oliver’s attempts to kiss her,
Defendant Utuy’s unwanted comments towards her, and Defendant Utuy’s assault. (¶¶
14-17, 19-23.) Defendants contend that the First Amended Complaint is ambiguous
because it does not clearly state whether Defendant Philip was Plaintiff’s
supervisor, since Plaintiff also alleges that Philip instructed Plaintiff to
report her complaint directly to the owner, Timothy Hopkins. (FAC ¶ 14.)
However, construing the pleadings in the light most favorable to Plaintiff, as
required on a demurrer, the Court finds that the straightforward allegation
that Philip was Plaintiff’s manager is sufficient to allege vicarious liability
for harassing conduct under the Fair Employment and Housing Act. Plaintiff has
thus alleged that the conduct was either committed by a supervisor, or that a
supervisor was informed and failed to take immediate corrective action. 
 
Worker’s Compensation Exclusive Remedy
 
            Defendants
also demur to the first, second, and sixth causes of action on the basis that each
claim is barred by the exclusive remedy of worker’s compensation. 
 
            As a
general rule, an employee who sustains an injury “arising out of and in the
course of the employment” is limited to recovery through worker’s compensation
only. (Labor Code § 3600(a); Fermino v. Fedco (1994) 7 Cal.4th 701, 708.)
However, where an employee proximately causes another employee’s injury by a “willful
and unprovoked physical act of aggression,” the victim may bring an action for
damages against the perpetrator. (Labor Code § 3601(a)(1).) That said, an
employer cannot be vicariously liable for that injury if the exclusive remedy
is applicable. (Labor Code § 3601(b).) Thus, injuries which occur within the
scope of employment—and therefore injuries for which the employer is
vicariously liable—are barred by the exclusivity rule so long as the employer’s
conduct does not contravene public policy. (Jones v. Department of
Corrections (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 1367, 1382.) 
 
            Defendants
first contend that they cannot be vicariously liable with respect to the first
cause of action for sexual battery and sixth cause of action for intentional
infliction of emotional distress in the event that the injury arises out of the
scope of Plaintiff’s employment. As Plaintiff has conceded that the harassment
she alleges falls outside the scope of the employment relationship and asserts
liability under FEHA’s strict liability provision, this argument is immaterial.
 
            Defendants
also contend that Plaintiff’s second cause of action for negligent retention
and supervision is likewise barred. Negligent retention and supervision claims,
even in the context of sexual misconduct, are barred by the workers’
compensation exclusivity rule. (Cole v. Fair Oaks Fire Protection Dist. (1987)
43 Cal.3d 148, 161 accord. Coit. Drapery Cleaners, Inc. v. Sequoia Ins. Co.
(1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 1595, 1605-06.) This cause of action is therefore barred
by the exclusivity rule.
 
Leave to Amend
 
When a demurrer is sustained, the
Court determines whether there is a reasonable possibility that the defect can
be cured by amendment. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318).  When a plaintiff “has pleaded the general set of facts upon
which his cause of action is based,” the court should give the plaintiff an
opportunity to amend his complaint, since plaintiff should not “be deprived of his
right to maintain his action on the ground that his pleadings were defective
for lack of particulars.” (Reed v. Norman (1957) 152 Cal.App.2d 892,
900.) Accordingly, California law imposes the burden on the plaintiffs to
demonstrate the manner in which they can amend their pleadings to state their
claims against a defendant.  (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18
Cal.3d 335, 349.) “Denial of leave to amend constitutes an abuse of discretion
unless the complaint shows on its face it is incapable of amendment. 
[Citation.]  Liberality in permitting amendment is the rule, if a fair
opportunity to correct any defect has not been given." (Angie M. v.
Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1217, 1227.)
 
            As the
Court has found that the second cause of action for negligent retention and
supervision is barred by the exclusivity rule as a matter of law, there is no
amendment to the second cause of action which could cure the defects identified
herein. The Court therefore finds that leave to amend is not warranted. 
Conclusion
 
            Defendants
Cameo Hotel Inc and Valley Active Properties, LLC’s demurrer to
the First Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED without leave to amend
as to the second cause of action and otherwise OVERRULED. 
 
Motion to
Strike Portions of First Amended Complaint
 
            Defendants move to strike portions
of the First Amended Complaint pertaining to punitive damages. 
 
Legal Standard
 
The court may, upon a motion, or at
any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. Code Civ.
Proc., § 436(a). The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an
order of the court. Id., § 436(b). The grounds for a motion to strike
are that the pleading has irrelevant, false or improper matter, or has not been
drawn or filed in conformity with laws. Id.§ 436. The grounds for moving to
strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. Id.§
437. “When the defect which justifies striking a complaint is capable of cure,
the court should allow leave to amend.” Vaccaro v. Kaiman (1998)
63 Cal.App.4th 761, 768. A motion to
strike can be used where the complaint or other pleading has not been drawn or
filed in conformity with applicable rules or court orders.  Code Civ.
Proc., § 436(b). This provision is for "the striking of a pleading due to
improprieties in its form or in the procedures pursuant to which it
was filed."  Ferraro v. Camarlinghi (2008) 161
Cal.App.4th 509, 528 (emphasis in original).
 
Meet and Confer
 
 Before filing a motion to strike, the moving
party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who has
filed the pleading subject to the motion to strike and file a declaration
detailing their meet and confer efforts.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5(a).)
However, an insufficient meet and confer process is not grounds to grant or
deny a motion to strike.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5(a)(4).)
 
            The
Declaration of Abe G. Salen attached to the motion states that the parties met
and conferred via email and telephone between August 28, 2023 and September 8,
2023 concerning the issues presented here, but were unable to reach a
resolution. (Declaration of Abe G. Salen ISO Mot. ¶¶ 7-9, Exhs. 2-3.)
Defendants have therefore satisfied their statutory meet-and-confer
obligations. 
 
Analysis
 
            Defendants contend that Plaintiff
has failed to allege a sufficient basis for punitive damages.
Civil Code section 3294
subdivision (a) provides:
 
In an action for the breach
of an obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and
convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages
for the sake of example and by way of punishing the defendant.”
 
Subdivision (b) defines liability for an employer
for the malicious, fraudulent, or oppressive conduct of its employees:
 
An employer shall not be
liable for damages pursuant to subdivision (a), based upon acts of an employee
of the employer, unless the employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness of
the employee and employed him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights
or safety of others or authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct for which
the damages are awarded or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice. With respect to a corporate employer, the advance knowledge and
conscious disregard, authorization, ratification or act of oppression, fraud,
or malice must be on the part of an officer, director, or managing agent of the
corporation.
 
(Civ.
Code § 3294(b).) 
            As discussed above, Plaintiff
alleges that one of the individual Defendants, “Philip,” was Plaintiff’s
manager and “boss.” (FAC ¶ 18.) Plaintiff alleges that she informed Philip of
Defendant Oliver’s attempts to kiss her, Defendant Utuy’s unwanted comments
towards here, and Defendant Utuy’s assault. (¶¶ 14-17, 19-23.) Construing these
allegations in the light most favorable to Plaintiff, the Court finds that the
First Amended Complaint sufficiently alleges ratification by a managing agent
to permit a claim for punitive damages at the pleading stage. 
 
Conclusion
 
            Accordingly,
Defendants’ Motion to Strike is DENIED.
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Defendants Cameo Hotel Inc and Valley Active Properties, LLC’s
demurrer to the First Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED without
leave to amend as to the second cause of action and otherwise OVERRULED. 
 
            Defendants’
Motion to Strike is DENIED.
 
            Moving
Parties to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  April 15, 2024                                    ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 