 Case Number:  23CMCV01169    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2023    Dept:  A 
23CMCV01169
 De’Wone Howard v. Linda Love
Tuesday,
 December 12, 2023 at 8:30 a.m.
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING
DEFENDANT’S
 MOTION FOR SANCTIONS PURSUANT TO CIVIL PROCEDURE § 128.5
 
I.       
BACKGROUND
      The
complaint alleges that Defendant represented to Plaintiff that Defendant would
sell and pass title to real property to Plaintiff if Plaintiff lived at the
residence, made all mortgage payments directly to the lender, and paid the
property taxes. Defendant breached the parties’ written agreement by listing
the property for sale. Plaintiff alleges claims for breach of contract and
fraud based on intentional misrepresentation and false promise. Plaintiff filed
two separate notices of lis pendens on August 1 and 3, 2023. On October 9,
2023, Defendant, previously self-represented, substituted in counsel, Shirin
Buckman, as Defendant’s counsel of record. 
      On
October 31, 2023, Plaintiff filed a request for dismissal of the entire action
without prejudice and withdrew his Notices of Pendency of Action filed with the
County Recorder. 
 
II.     
ARGUMENTS
      Defendant
seeks imposition of sanctions against Plaintiff and/or his counsel for filing
this frivolous lawsuit and fraudulent lis pendens in this action to prevent Defendant
from selling the home, in which Plaintiff was a tenant, to prevent Plaintiff’s
imminent eviction, and to try to extort a financial settlement from Defendant. 
      Plaintiff
argues this motion has no merit and is frivolous. Plaintiff dismissed the
entire case and there is nothing to correct or withdraw. The motion is
procedurally defective as Defendant did not comply with the “safe harbor
provision” of Code Civ. Proc., § 128.5. The Court should impose sanctions
against Defendant. 
      In
reply, Defendant argues that the safe harbor provision applies if the offending
pleading can be withdrawn or appropriately corrected. Defendant requested that
Plaintiff withdraw the complaint, but Plaintiff refused. 
III.   
DISCUSSION
      Although
Plaintiff voluntarily dismissed this action on October 31, 2023, Defendant has
the right to seek costs after dismissal.  (West
Coast Development v. Reed (1992) 2 Cal.App.4th 693, 706, [“Attorney’s
fees recoverable under statutory authorization are deemed an element of
costs.”].)
      A party
can recover reasonable expenses incurred, including attorney’s fees, incurred
as a result of another person’s bad faith actions or tactics, "that are
frivolous or solely intended to cause unnecessary delay.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 128.5 subd. (a).) “Actions or tactics” include the filing and
service of a complaint that is totally and completely without merit or for the
sole purpose of harassing an opposing party. (Id. subd.
(b).) 
      If the
alleged action or tactic is the filing and service of a complaint that can be
withdrawn or appropriately corrected, the notice of motion shall be served, "but
shall not be filed with or presented to the court, unless 21 days after service
of the motion or any other period as the court may prescribe, the challenged
action or tactic is not withdrawn or appropriately corrected." (Code
Civ. Proc., § 128.5.) 
      This
statute does not apply since Defendant is not requesting the withdrawal of the
complaint, but rather, that Plaintiff filed it in the first instance.
Additionally, Defendant did not provide Plaintiff with the 21-day delay period after
giving Plaintiff notice of the motion. Defendant filed and served the motion on
the same day, namely, November 25, 2023. (Proof of Svc.) Neither Defendant, nor
her counsel, Shirin Buckman, have established that Defendant served this motion
on Plaintiff 21 days before filing it. 
      Defendant
states that the complaint was frivolous and could have been withdrawn. The
statute required compliance with the 21-day safe harbor rule to allow Plaintiff
to withdraw the subject complaint. The safe harbor rule under Section 128.5 is
“nearly identical” to the safe harbor provision under Section 128.7. (Transcon
Financial, Inc. v. Reid & Hellyer, APC (2022) 81 Cal.App.5th 547, 550.)

      Therefore,
in seeking sanctions, Defendant was required to comply with the two-step
process: “First, the ‘moving party must serve on the offending party a motion
for sanctions.’ (Ibid.) Service of the sanctions motion triggers the
21-day safe harbor period during which the moving party may not file the
motion. (Ibid.) That is because the offending party may avoid sanctions
by withdrawing the challenged pleading during the 21-day period. (Ibid.)
Second, if the offending party does not withdraw the challenged pleading during
that period, then the moving party may file the sanctions motion.” (Id.)
Strict compliance with the safe harbor provision is required, and failing to
comply precludes an award of sanctions. (Id. at 551.) 
      Plaintiff’s
request for imposition of monetary sanctions against Defendant for filing this
motion for an improper purpose pursuant to Civil Procedure § 128.5 is DENIED
for the same reason. A motion for sanctions under this statute must be
“separately made” from other motions or requests and must comply with the safe
harbor requirements. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 128.5 subd. (f)(1)(A).) 
 
IV.   
CONCLUSION
      As
Defendant has not complied with the statutorily required 21-day safe harbor
provision, the motion is DENIED.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
 