 Case Number:  23CMCV01414    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2023    Dept:  A 
23CMCV01414 Damien Hall, Joanne Hall v. Shevy
 Akason, et al.
Tuesday,
 December 12, 2023, at 8:30 a.m.
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER OVERRULING
DEMURRER
 BY DEFENDANT, PAUL DOWNER, TO PLAINTIFFS’ COMPLAINT
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING IN PART AND DENYING IN PART
DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO STRIKE
 
I.       
BACKGROUND
       The complaint alleges that Defendants
conspired to sell to Plaintiffs real property in the City of Compton,
advertised as a recently renovated and fully permitted duplex. Prior to close
of escrow, the City of Compton allegedly cited the property for numerous code
violations, including the lack of a duplex permit. Plaintiffs allege seven
causes of action for fraud and fraud-related claims, negligence, and unfair
business practices.
       Defendant, Paul Downer, demurs to the
claims alleged against him (second, third, fourth, sixth, and seventh causes of
action) on grounds he was not involved in the transaction at issue and had no
interest in the real property. Plaintiffs do not allege actionable facts
against Defendant.
       In opposition, Plaintiffs argue the complaint
adequately alleges facts to impose liability on Defendant since the seller of
the property is alleged to be Defendant’s alter ego.
       In reply, Downer argues that it is
improper for Plaintiffs to allege that the Seller is Downer’s alter ego, when Plaintiffs
are in arbitration with the Seller. Plaintiffs are engaging in two actions
against the same entity. There is a potential for conflicting judgments.
Plaintiffs could address the alter ego issue at the arbitration or address it
when or if a judgment against the Seller is obtained. 
II.     
LEGAL STANDARDS
       The
bases for demurrer are limited by statute and may be sustained for reasons
including failure to state facts sufficient to state a cause of action and
uncertainty. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.10.) A demurrer “tests the sufficiency
of a complaint as a matter of law and raises only questions of law.” (Schmidt
v. Foundation Health (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 1702, 1706.)
The court must assume the truth of (1) the properly pleaded factual
allegations; (2) facts that can be reasonably inferred from those expressly
pleaded; and (3) judicially noticed matters. (Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) The court may not
consider contentions, deductions, or conclusions of fact or law. (Moore
v. Conliffe (1994) 7 Cal.4th 634, 638.) 
 
III.   
DISCUSSION
A.      New
arguments raised in reply are improper.
       Defendant’s demurrer raises new arguments
in its reply. The demurrer was based on failure to allege facts supporting
alter ego liability, failure to state the fraud and fraud-related causes of
action with required specificity, lack of a duty to support the concealment and
negligence claims, and the underlying claims fail to support the unfair
business practices claim. 
       Defendant’s reply argues for the for the
first time that there is an arbitration proceeding against the Seller, which
appears to be a demurrer based on a plea in abatement. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.10.) which was not raised earlier and is
improper. Additionally, there is no basis for Defendant’s claim that Plaintiffs
should be forced to assert their individual claims against Downer in that
proceeding involving the Seller. Regardless, this is not a basis for demurrer.
 
B.     
Alleged facts. 
       Plaintiffs allege they signed a
Residential Purchase Agreement and Joint Escrow Instructions (“RPA”) for
purchase of real property from DB Residential, LLC (“Seller”). (Complaint, ¶
29.) Downer is alleged to be Seller’s manager who signed the RPA on Seller’s
behalf. (Complaint ¶ 33-35.) Plaintiff alleges individual liability against
Downer, who allegedly directed Defendants, MK Home Services” (“MK”) and Heder
Reyes (“Reyes”) (contractors who worked on the property) not to repair the
property up to code in an effort to save costs, and to “sweep the unpermitted
repairs under the rug.” (Complaint ¶¶ 93, 98.) Downer allegedly signed the Real
Estate Transfer Disclosure Statement (“TDS”) on behalf of the Seller.
(Complaint ¶ 11.) The TDS represented that no additions, alterations, or
repairs were made “without necessary permits.” (Complaint, ¶ 117.) Plaintiffs
allege they sue Downer as an individual, not as manager on behalf of the
Seller. (Complaint, ¶ 149.) 
C.     
Plaintiffs’ factual allegations
support the alter-ego theory.
       Liability based on an alter ego theory is
not itself a claim for substantive relief, but rather a procedural claim “to
disregard the corporate entity as a distinct defendant and to hold the alter
ego individuals liable on the obligations of the corporation where the
corporate form is being used by the individuals to escape personal liability,
sanction a fraud, or promote injustice." (Hennessey's Tavern, Inc. v. American Air Filter Co. (1988) 204 Cal.App.3d 1351, 1359.)

       Where
it is asserted as a basis for affirmative relief, and the court is asked to act
at the pleading stage, the claim must be supported by facts to support two
elements: “a unity of interest and ownership, and an unjust result if the
corporation is treated as the sole actor. (Vasey v. California Dance Co.
(1977) 70 Cal.App.3d 742, 749.) An allegation that a person owns all of the
corporate stock and makes all of the management decisions is insufficient to
cause the court to disregard the corporate entity.” (Leek v. Cooper (2011)
194 Cal.App.4th 399, 415.) 
       Facts
that will support a unity of interest include the failure to hold regular
meetings of directors, to follow corporate formalities, singular control, the
use of the corporation as an instrumentality or business conduit of the other, that
the corporation was created pursuant to a plan on the part of the individual to
avoid his individual obligations, and the promotion of an injustice through the
preservation of the separate corporate entity. (Thomson
v. L. C. Roney & Co. (1952) 112 Cal.App.2d
420, 428; Loughran
v. Reynolds (1942) 53 Cal.App.2d 250, 251.)
       Plaintiffs
allege that the Seller is controlled by Downer, and Downer created Seller to
defraud the Plaintiffs into buying the real property. (Complaint ¶¶ 183-190.) Downer
and the Seller disregarded legal formalities for over thirteen years by failing
to maintain the proper documentation with the Secretary of State, failed to
file a Statement of Information, failed to maintain the records or minutes of
any corporate proceedings, and entered into unreported transactions and/or side
agreements. (Complaint, ¶ 188.) These factual allegations are sufficient to
support alter ego liability. 
D.    
The claims for fraud (2nd),
fraudulent concealment (3rd), and (4th) negligent misrepresentation are
adequately alleged with specificity.
       A claim for fraud requires facts to
support the following elements: (1) a misrepresentation, (2) made with
knowledge of its falsity, (3) Defendant intended to defraud Plaintiff, i.e.,
induce Plaintiff’s reliance, (4) Plaintiff justifiably relied on the
misrepresentation, (5) causing damage. (Nagy
v. Nagy (1989) 210 Cal.App.3d 1262, 1268.)
       A
claim for negligent misrepresentation requires the same elements except that
the misrepresentation is made without reasonable grounds for believing it to be
true. (Ragland
v. U.S. Bank National Assn. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 182, 196.) As
in negligence, “the responsibility for negligent misrepresentation rests upon
the existence of a legal duty, imposed by contract, statute or otherwise, owed
by a defendant to the injured person. [Citation.] The determination of whether
a duty exists is primarily a question of law.” (Bock
v. Hansen (2014) 225 Cal.App.4th 215, 228.)
       Plaintiffs allege the City of Compton issued
a Pre-Sale Inspection Correction List (Correction List #1) requiring the owner to
obtain necessary approvals and permits to convert the residence from a single-family
dwelling to a duplex. (Complaint, ¶ 57, 63.) Defendants, including Seller, did
not provide Correction List #1 to Plaintiffs in violation of Defendants’ legal
duties. (Complaint, ¶ 67-68.) The City also issued a Correction Notice which
was physically attached to the property. (Complaint, ¶¶ 72-76.) The Correction
Notice was not provided to Plaintiffs. (Complaint, ¶ 79.)
       Plaintiffs allege that Defendants,
including Downer, signed the disclosure statement which included a statement
that there were no alterations, additions, or modifications made without
necessary permits. (Complaint, ¶¶ 117-124.)    
       Fraud claims are subject to strict
requirements of particularity in pleading. (Id.) The particularity
requirements necessitate pleading facts showing “how, when, where, to whom, and
by what means the representations were tendered." (Stansfield
v. Starkey (1990) 220 Cal.App.3d 59, 73.) The
specificity requirement serves two purposes: “to apprise the defendant of the
specific grounds for the charge and enable the court to determine whether there
is any basis for the cause of action.”(Daniels
v. Select Portfolio Servicing, Inc. (2016) 246
Cal.App.4th 1150, 1167.) The requirement “applies not only
to the alleged misrepresentation, but also to the elements of causation and
damage." (Moncada
v. West Coast Quartz Corp. (2013)
221 Cal.App.4th 768, 776.)         
       The allegations state Downer’s
misrepresentations made in the disclosure statement that he signed, and that
were contrary to the City’s Correction List #1 and Correction Notice.
(Complaint, Ex. G).  These allegations
meet the specificity requirements for fraud. 
E.     
Fourth cause of action for fraudulent
concealment and fifth cause of action for negligence are adequately alleged.
       The elements of a fraud claim based on
concealment are: “(1) the defendant must have concealed or suppressed a
material fact, (2) the defendant must have been under a duty to disclose
the fact to the plaintiff, (3) the defendant must have intentionally concealed
or suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the plaintiff, (4) the
plaintiff must have been unaware of the fact and would not have acted as he did
if he had known of the concealed or suppressed fact, and (5) as a result of the
concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff must have sustained
damage.” (Bigler-Engler
v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 276, 310–311.)    There are “four circumstances in which
nondisclosure or concealment may constitute actionable fraud: (1) when the
defendant is in a fiduciary relationship with the plaintiff; (2) when the
defendant had exclusive knowledge of material facts not known to the plaintiff;
(3) when the defendant actively conceals a material fact from the plaintiff;
and (4) when the defendant makes partial representations but also suppresses
some material facts.” (Id. at
311.) If a
fiduciary relationship does not exist, but the latter three circumstances are
present, plaintiff must still show “the existence of some other relationship
between the plaintiff and defendant from which a duty to disclose can arise.” (Id. at 311.) 
       Plaintiffs allege Defendants, including
Downer, had a duty to provide Plaintiffs with all required forms relating to
the sale of the property, including the City’s Correction List and the
Correction Notice physically attached to the property, as previously cited, and
alleged by Plaintiffs. A seller has a common law duty to disclose where the
seller “knows of facts materially affecting the value or desirability of the
property which are known or accessible only to him and also knows that such
facts are not known to, or within the reach of the diligent attention and
observation of the buyer..." (Alfaro
v. Community Housing Improvement System & Planning Assn., Inc.
(2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1356, 1382 [“It is fraud to
suppress a fact with intent to induce a person to enter a contract to acquire
realty.”].) Accordingly, Plaintiffs have adequately alleged a basis for a duty
owed by Downer in concealing material facts affecting the value of the
property. 
       With respect to the negligence claim,
Downer contends that the action cannot be based on a contractual duty. However,
Plaintiffs are not alleging a breach of contract. The alleged duty owed by
Defendant as seller is the same common law duty supporting the concealment claim.
The negligence claim is adequately alleged. 
 
F.      
The claim for Unfair Business Practices
is adequately tethered to the underlying claims.
       “Unfair competition” means “any
unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business act or practice.” (Bus. &
Prof. Code, § 17200.) The claim can be based on violations of other
laws. The UCL treats them as unlawful practices and makes them independently
actionable. (Cel-Tech Communications, Inc. v. Los
Angeles Cellular Telephone Co. (1999) 20 Cal.4th 163, 180.) 
       The
underlying claims for fraud, concealment, and negligence, are adequately
alleged and provide the predicate unlawful and unfair acts to support the claim.
(Gutierrez v. Carmax Auto Superstores
California (2018) 19 Cal.App.5th 1234, 1265 [“Virtually any statute or regulation
(federal or state) can serve as a predicate for a UCL unlawful practice cause
of action.”].)
       While
Plaintiffs seek injunctive relief and restitution, which are permissible statutory
remedies, Plaintiffs also assert damages and recovery of attorney’s fees, which
are not. 
(Cel-Tech Communications, Inc. v. Los
Angeles Cellular Telephone Co. (1999) 20 Cal.4th 163, 179
["Prevailing plaintiffs are generally limited to injunctive relief
and restitution. … Plaintiffs may not receive damages, much less treble
damages, or attorney fees. … The law provides for civil penalties (e.g., §
17206) but contains no criminal provisions."].)
       The inclusion of the
remedies for damages and attorney’s fees, however, do not render the entire claim
fatally defective. 
IV.   
CONCLUSION
       Based on the foregoing, demurrer is
OVERRULED as to all causes of action at issue: second cause of action for
fraud, third cause of action for fraudulent concealment, fourth cause of action
for negligent misrepresentation, sixth cause of action for negligence, and
seventh cause of action for violation of Bus. & Prof Code § 17200. 

       Defendant
is ordered to answer within 10 days.

 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING IN PART AND GRANTING IN PART DEFENDANT’S
MOTION TO STRIKE PORTIONS OF PLAINTIFFS’ COMPLAINT
 
I.    ARGUMENTS
        Defendant
argues that Plaintiffs are not entitled to punitive damages for the claims for
negligent misrepresentation, negligence, or for unfair business practices.
Defendant argues that Plaintiffs cannot convert a negligent claim into an
intentional tort. There must be facts showing malice, fraud, or
oppression.  Plaintiffs contend that
punitive damages are recoverable in a claim for negligent misrepresentation. 
 
II.   LEGAL STANDARDS
       A motion to strike is limited to matters
that appear on the face of the pleading or on any matter of which the court can
take judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.) The court may strike out any irrelevant, false, or
improper matter inserted in any pleading; or strike all or any part of the
pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of California, a court
rule, or an order of the court. (Code Civ. Proc. §436 subd. (a)-(b).)
       In considering a motion to strike
punitive damages, the court considers the complaint as a whole and assumes the
allegations are true. (Clauson
v. Superior Court (1998) 67
Cal. App. 4th 1253, 1255.) Plaintiffs must allege circumstances of oppression,
fraud, or malice as those terms are defined by statute. (Grieves
v. Superior Court (1984) 157
Cal. App. 3d 159, 166.) 
       The predicate acts that will support a
claim for punitive damages must be intended to cause injury or must constitute
“malicious conduct” defined as “despicable conduct” carried on by defendant
with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights of others. (Civ. Code, §3294 subd. (a); College
Hospital Inc. v. Superior Court (1994)
8 Cal.4th 704, 725 ["malice
involves awareness of dangerous consequences and a willful and deliberate
failure to avoid them"].) Oppressive conduct is defined as “despicable
conduct” that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious
disregard of a person’s rights. (Civ. Code, §3294 subd. (c).)  
III.   DISCUSSION
       An award for punitive damages can be
recovered in claims for negligent misrepresentation and negligence claims based
on the specific acts of misconduct alleged in the complaint. Punitive damages
are recoverable absent an intent to injure if the conduct is “despicable”
defined as “base, vile, or contemptible.” (College
Hospital Inc. at 725.) Plaintiffs must demonstrate that “the defendant
acted in such an outrageous and reprehensible manner that the jury could infer
that he knowingly disregarded the substantial certainty of injury to
others." (Dawes
v. Superior Court (1980) 111
Cal.App.3d 82, 90.) 
       Plaintiffs have alleged sufficient facts
to infer despicable conduct. As previously outlined elsewhere, Plaintiffs
alleged that Defendant knew the property lacked permits for the improvements having
allegedly been previously issued a Correction List #1 and a Notice attached to
the property. The property was not permitted to be a duplex contrary to what
Defendant represented in the disclosures, thereby making misrepresentations
that he had no reasonable grounds for believing were true. 
       Accordingly, the Court DENIES the motion
to strike punitive damages requested in the claims for negligent
misrepresentation (4th) and for negligence (6th). The
Court GRANTS the motion to strike the prayer for
punitive damages for the violation of Bus. & Prof Code § 17200. Damages
are not recoverable. (Cel-Tech Communications, Inc. v. Los
Angeles Cellular Telephone Co. (1999) 20 Cal.4th 163, 179.) 