 Case Number:  SC129046    Hearing Date:   January 17, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling 
American Express
Centurion Bank v. Opiparo, Case No. SC129046
Hearing date January
17, 2024
Plaintiff American
Express’ Motion for Summary Judgment/Adjudication 
 
Plaintiff alleges
defendant failed to pay for credit card charges. The Court entered default
judgment against defendant in the amount of $133,760.40. On March 2, 2023 the
Court granted defendant’s motion to vacate default judgment. See 3/02/23 Minute
Order. 
 
Plaintiff moves
for summary judgment or, alternatively, summary adjudication. The proof of
service indicates plaintiff served defendant with a motion for judgment on the
pleadings on September 5, 2023. The Court is unsure whether there is a
typographical error in the proof of service or whether the instant MSJ/MSA
motion was never served on defendant. As of January 11, 2024, no opposition has
been filed. 
 
The function of a
motion for summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to
whether opposing party can show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and
to enable an order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001)
25 Cal.4th 826, 843. Code Civ. Proc. §437c(c) “requires the trial judge to
grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence and uncontradicted by other inferences or
evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that
the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119. 
 
In moving for
summary judgment, a plaintiff is not required to “disprove any defense asserted
by the defendant as well as prove each element of his own cause of action . . .
[and] [a]ll that the plaintiff need to do is prove[] each element of the cause
of action.” WRI Opportunity Loans II, LLC v. Cooper (2007) 154
Cal.App.4th 525, 532.  “Once the
plaintiff makes an adequate initial showing, the burden shifts to the defendant
to show a triable issue of fact as to that cause of action or a defense
thereto.” Id., citation omitted. 
 
Plaintiff asserts
there was an account stated and open book account between the parties. “The
essential elements of an account stated are: (1) previous transactions between
the parties establishing the relationship of debtor and creditor; (2) an
agreement between the parties, express or implied, on the amount due from the
debtor to the creditor; [and] (3) a promise by the debtor, express or implied,
to pay the amount due.” Leighton v. Forster (2017) 8 Cal.App.5th 467,
491, citations omitted. 
 
To establish an
open book account, plaintiff must prove: (1) plaintiff and defendant had a
financial transaction; (2) plaintiff kept an account of the debits and credits;
(3) defendant owes money; and (4) the amount owed. See CACI No. 372. 
 
On or about
January 2012 defendant opened an American Express account. See
Plaintiff’s Separate Statement, No. 1. The terms and conditions for use of the
account are governed by a cardmember agreement. Id., Nos. 2-3. Defendant
used the account and agreed to be bound by the terms and conditions of the
agreement. Id., No. 4. Defendant used the account to pay for goods and
services and/or obtain cash advances. Id., No. 5. Pursuant to the
agreement, defendant was personally responsible for repaying charges, advances,
fees and interest. Id., No. 6. 
 
Defendant failed
to make payments. Plaintiff’s Separate Statement, No. 7. American Express
maintained an accounting of credits and debits in the form of billing statements
and sent billing statements to defendant monthly. Id., No. 8. Defendant
had a 60-day period to dispute billing errors. Id., No.9. There are no
unresolved billing disputes on defendant’s account. Id., No. 10. The
balance is $133,195. Id., No.11. 
 
Plaintiff presents
facts which establish the elements of its claims for account stated and open
book account. The burden shifts to defendant to show a triable issue of
material fact. Defendant failed to oppose the motion. 
 
Regarding the
quantum meruit claim, plaintiff presented undisputed material facts which
establishes its claim for quantum meruit. The burden shifts to defendant to
show a triable issue of material fact. Defendant failed to oppose. 
 
The court does not
have a proof of service showing the motion was served on defendant. Plaintiff
must provide this prior to the court being able to rule. GRANTED CONTINGENT on the
proof of service. 