 Case Number:  24TRCV00737    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2024    Dept:  E 


Superior Court
  of California
County of Los
  Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance Dept. E




 
HIJAZ
  HIJAZ, SAMIRA HIJAZ, and MALAK HIJAZ, individuals


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:


 
24TRCV00737




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  Granted
 




 
LAST
  CHANCE STORE, LLC.; AHM LIQUIDATION, INC.; BEYOND GALLERIA, INC.; BEAUTY
  BARGAIN, LLC.; BEAUTY BARGAINS, INC.; BEAUTY BARGAINS, INC.; BEAUTY VILLAGE,
  INC.; CALI'S BEAUTY SUPPLY, INC.; BAHA SHEHAB; HUSSEIN HIJAZ; ASHRAF FAHAD
  HIJAZ; and DOES 1 to 100,


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:              September
25, 2024
 
Moving Parties:          Defendants Beauty and Beyond Galleria,
Inc., Beauty Bargains, Inc., and Beauty Bargains, Inc.
Responding Party:      Plaintiffs Hijaz Hijaz, Samira Hijaz, and
Malak Hijaz.
 
HEARING: Motion to Quash Service of
Summons
 
            The Court considered the moving and
opposition papers.
 
RULING
 
The Court GRANTS
Defendants’ Motion to Quash Service of Summons for Lack of Personal
Jurisdiction regarding Beauty
and Beyond Galleria, Inc., an Alabama Company, Beauty Bargains, Inc., a
Louisiana Corporation, and Beauty Bargains, Inc., A Texas corporation. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            On March
1, 2024, Plaintiffs
Hijaz Hijaz, Samira Hijaz, and Malak Hijaz filed a complaint against Defendants Last Chance Store, LLC., Ahm
Liquidation, Inc., Beyond Galleria, Inc., Beauty Bargain, LLC., Beauty
Bargains, Inc., Beauty Bargains, Inc., Beauty Village, Inc., Cali's Beauty
Supply, Inc., Baha Shehab, Hussein Hijaz, Ashraf Fahad Hijaz, And Does 1 To 100.  The complaint alleges failure to pay
minimum wages, failure to pay overtime wages, failure to provide meal periods,
failure to provide rest periods, failure to provide accurate itemized
statements, failure to reimburse employees for required expenses, failure to
provide wages when due, failure to split shift premium, unfair competition,
failure to produce personal and payroll records, misclassification of
employees, and violation of whistleblowing law. The complaint arises from
Plaintiffs’ employment with Defendants as salespeople.
            
            On July 16, 2024, Beauty and Beyond Galleria, Inc.,
an Alabama Company, Beauty Bargains, Inc., a Louisiana Corporation, and Beauty
Bargains, Inc., A Texas corporation, filed the instant Motion to Quash.
 
            On August 2, 2024,
Plaintiffs filed the Opposition to the Motion to Quash Service of Summons.
 
            No reply has been filed.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
            “A defendant, on or
before the last day of his or her time to plead or within any further time that
the court may for good cause allow, may serve and file a notice of motion for
one or more of the following purposes: (1) To quash service of summons on the
ground of lack of jurisdiction of the court over him or her.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 418.10, subd. (a).)  
 
In California, courts are authorized to
“exercise jurisdiction over parties on any basis not inconsistent with the
Constitution of [California] or the United States.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
410.10.) “Personal jurisdiction may be either general or specific.” (Vons
Companies, Inc. v. Seabest Foods, Inc. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 434, 445.) The
extent to which a California court may exercise jurisdiction over a defendant
depends on the nature and quality of that defendant’s contacts with the state.
(Ibid.)
 
Personal jurisdiction may be either general or
specific. (Vons Companies, Inc., supra, 14 Cal.4th at p. 445.)
“The nature and the quality of the defendant’s contacts determine whether
jurisdiction, if exercised, is general or specific. General jurisdiction exists
when a defendant is domiciled in the forum state or his activities there are
substantial, continuous, and systematic.” (F. Hoffman-La Roche, Ltd. v.
Superior Court (2005) 130 Cal.App.4th 782, 796.) Where the contacts
are sufficiently substantial, continuous, and systematic, it is not necessary
that the cause of action alleged be connected with the defendant’s business
relationship to the forum. (Vons, supra, 14 Cal.4th at p. 445.)
However, “contacts that are random, fortuitous, or attenuated do not rise to
the minimum level, and general jurisdiction cannot be exercised under these circumstances.”
(F. Hoffman-La Roche, Ltd., supra, 130 Cal.App.4th at p. 795.)

 
If a defendant’s contacts with the forum state
are not substantial, continuous, and systematic, the defendant may be subject
to specific jurisdiction. “A court may exercise specific jurisdiction over a
nonresident defendant only if: (1) ‘the defendant has purposefully availed
himself or herself of forum benefits’ [citation]; (2) ‘the “controversy is
related to or ‘arises out of’ [the] defendant's contacts with the forum”’
[citations]; and (3) ‘“the assertion of personal jurisdiction would comport
with ‘fair play and substantial justice.’” ‘[Citations.]” (Pavlovich v.
Superior Court (2002) 29 Cal.4th 262, 269.) 
 
When a defendant challenges personal
jurisdiction, the plaintiff has the burden to prove, by a preponderance of the
evidence, the factual basis for the exercise of jurisdiction. (Vons,
supra, 14 Cal.4th at p. 449.) 
 
“[W]hen the facts giving rise to jurisdiction
are conflicting, the trial court’s factual determinations are reviewed for
substantial evidence . . . . Even then, we review independently the trial
court's conclusions as to the legal significance of the facts . . . . When the
jurisdictional facts are not in dispute, whether the defendant is subject to
personal jurisdiction is purely a legal question that we review de novo.” (F.
Hoffman-La Roche, Inc., supra, 130 Cal.App.4th at p. 794; accord
Muckle v. Superior Court (2002) 102 Cal.App.4th 218, 228.)
 
Evidence consisting of “vague assertions of
ultimate fact rather than specific evidentiary facts” is insufficient to meet
the burden to show minimum contacts. (Paneno v. Centres for Academic
Programmes Abroad Ltd. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 1447, 1454.)
 
DISCUSSION 
 
General Jurisdiction
 
General
jurisdiction over an individual is established by the individual’s domicile. (Daimler
AG v. Bauman (2014) 571 U.S. 117, 118.) “A nonresident defendant may be
subject to the general jurisdiction of the forum if his or her contacts in the
forum state are ‘substantial . . . continuous and systematic.’” (Vons
Companies, supra, 14 Cal.4th at p. 445, quoting Perkins v.
Benguet Mining Co. (1952) 342 U.S. 437, 445-446.) In such instances, “it is
not necessary that the specific cause of action alleged be connected with the
defendant’s business relationship to the forum.” (Cornelison v. Chaney
(1976) 16 Cal.3d 143, 147.)
A
court will look at a variety of factors to determine if a defendant is “at home”
in the forum, such as: “maintenance of offices, the presence of employees, use
of bank accounts and marketing or selling products in the forum state, to
analyze whether a corporation's contacts render it effectively at home in that
state.” (Brue v. Shabaab (2020) 54 Cal.App.5th 578, 590-591.)
            
            Defendants argue that Beauty and Beyond Galleria, Inc. is
an Alabama company with its principal place of business in Alabama and is
incorporated in Alabama. It has no employees, offices, business operations, or
property in California. The company does not solicit business, sell products or
services, or engage in any activities within California. It has no plans to
leave Alabama. Therefore, there is no basis for the court to exercise general
jurisdiction over the company, and Plaintiffs have not provided any evidence to
support such jurisdiction. (Motion to Quash “MTQ” p. 9)
 
            Defendants argue that Beauty Bargains, Inc. is a Texas
corporation incorporated and based in Texas, with its employees and principal
place of business located there. The company has no employees, offices, or
business operations in California. Its stores are no longer in operation, and
it did not solicit business, sell products, or own any property in California.
Beauty Bargains has no intention of leaving Texas. As a result, there is no
basis for the court to exercise general jurisdiction over the company, and Plaintiffs
have not provided evidence to justify such jurisdiction. (MTQ p. 9)
 
            Defendants argue that Beauty Bargains, LLC is a
Louisiana-based company, incorporated and headquartered in Louisiana, with its
employees located there. It has no employees, offices, business operations, or
property in California. The company does not solicit business or sell products
or services in California, physically or online. It has no plans to leave
Louisiana. Consequently, there is no basis for the court to exercise general
jurisdiction over the company, and Plaintiffs have not provided evidence to
support such jurisdiction. (MTQ p. 9)
            
            Plaintiffs bring forward no arguments regarding the three
foreign companies. Instead, they argue Defendants Hijaz Hijaz and Samira Hijaz
own and operate five stores in California and receive substantial income from
them. However, this motion focuses on the three aforementioned companies and
not Defendants Hijaz Hijaz and Samira Hijaz. (Opposition pp. 9-10.)
 
In Daimler,
the Supreme Court found that Daimler was not “at home” in California because
its contacts were not “continuous and systematic” despite the fact that Daimler
had substantial sales throughout the state. (Daimler AG, supra,
571 U.S. 117 at pp. 138-139.)  
 
Here Plaintiffs
have put forward no evidence to show that the court has jurisdiction over the
aforementioned companies as required under Vons. (Vons,
supra, 14 Cal.4th at p. 449.) Furthermore, the companies at issue
have fewer connections to California than the corporation in Daimler,
which the court found insufficient to justify general jurisdiction. (See, Daimler AG, supra, 571
U.S. 117 at pp. 138-139.) None of the companies are headquartered or
incorporated in California, nor do they solicit any business or own any
property in California. (MTQ p. 9) Therefore, Plaintiffs have failed to
establish that the foreign companies' contacts with California meet the
necessary threshold for general jurisdiction.
 
Specific
Jurisdiction
            
            “The test for whether a court may exercise ‘specific’
personal jurisdiction requires that the nonresident purposefully directed his
acts to the forum state or otherwise purposefully established contacts with the
forum state, that the cause of action be related to or arise or result from the
acts or contacts in the forum, and that the exercise of personal jurisdiction
by the forum would be reasonable.” (Muckle v. Superior Court (2002) 102
Cal.App.4th 218, 227-228.)
 
Purposeful
Availment
 
This prong “is
satisfied if the defendant purposefully and voluntarily directs its acts toward
the forum so that it should expect, because of the benefit it receives, to be
subject to the court's jurisdiction based on its forum contacts.” (In re
Automobile Antitrust Cases I & II (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 100, 108.)
 
Defendant argues
that Plaintiffs fail to allege that any of the aforementioned companies
intentionally conducted business in California. Furthermore, Defendant contends
that Plaintiff must prove jurisdiction for each Defendant individually as group
pleadings are invalid. (Opposition pp. 11-12.)
 
Plaintiffs argue
that “By employing Plaintiffs in California and then terminating him (sic) them,
after he allegedly sold the business, Defendant made itself subject to
jurisdiction here.” (Opposition p. 7.) However, Plaintiffs fail to allege any
facts that show the foreign companies have any connection to California or Plaintiffs’
employment with Last Chance LLC.
 
In Automobile
Antitrust Cases I & II, the Court of Appeal found that placing products
into the stream of commerce by large car manufacturers was sufficient to
support a finding of purposeful availment. (Automobile Antitrust Cases I
& II, supra, 135 Cal.App.4th at p. 115.)
 
Here Plaintiffs
have put forward no evidence to show that the Court has jurisdiction over the
aforementioned companies as required under Vons. (Vons,
supra, 14 Cal.4th at p. 449.) Plaintiffs merely restate the
jurisdictional arguments Plaintiffs raised against individuals Hussein Hijaz
and Ashraf Fahad Hijaz. (Opposition p. 7.)
Furthermore, none of the
companies are headquartered or incorporated in California, nor have Plaintiffs
shown that the foreign companies have placed products into the stream of
commerce as seen in Automobile Antitrust Cases I & II. (See Automobile
Antitrust Cases I & II, supra, 135 Cal.App.4th at p. 115)
Therefore, Plaintiffs have failed to establish that the Defendants’ contacts
with California meet the necessary threshold to establish purposeful availment.

 
            Thus, the Court finds that it does not have specific or
general jurisdiction over
Beauty and Beyond Galleria, Inc., an Alabama Company, Beauty Bargains, Inc., a
Louisiana Corporation, and Beauty Bargains, Inc., A Texas corporation. 
 
The Court GRANTS
Defendants’ Motion to Quash Service of Summons for Lack of Personal
Jurisdiction regarding Beauty
and Beyond Galleria, Inc., an Alabama Company, Beauty Bargains, Inc., a
Louisiana Corporation, and Beauty Bargains, Inc., A Texas corporation. 