 Case Number:  23STCV15618    Hearing Date:   January 13, 2025    Dept:  50  
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department
50
 




MARIA MARQUEZ, et al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
1812 5TH STREET LLC, et
  al.,
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


23STCV15618




Hearing Date:


January 13, 2025




Hearing Time:   10:00 a.m. 
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
 
AMENDED PETITIONS TO APPROVE MINOR’S COMPROMISE
  OF PENDING ACTION (7) 




AND RELATED CROSS-ACTIONS


 




            
Background
Plaintiffs Teresa Marquez; Oscar Marin
Marquez, a minor by and through his guardian ad litem, Teresa Marquez;
Maria Velen Marin-Marquez, a minor by and through her guardian ad litem, Teresa
Marquez; Mayra Marin Marquez, a minor by and through her guardian ad litem,
Teresa Marquez; Perla Marin Marquez, a
minor by and through her guardian ad litem, Teresa Marquez; Yadira
Marin-Marquez, a minor by and through
her guardian ad litem, Teresa Marquez; Floridalma Vicente; Dayana Isabel Gomez
Vicente, a minor by and through her guardian ad litem, Floridalma Vicente;
Edwin Toribio Gomez Vicente, a minor by and through his guardian ad litem,
Floridalma Vicente; and a number of other plaintiffs
filed this action on July 5, 2023 against Defendants 1812 5th Street LLC,
Taylor Equities 17, LLC, RI 1812 Apartments LLC, Linda V. Armor, and Ingenious
Asset Group Inc. The Complaint alleges causes of action for (1) breach of
warranty of habitability, (2) breach of covenant of quiet enjoyment, (3)
negligence, (4) breach of contract, (5) nuisance, and (6) unfair competition in
violation of Business and Professions Code section
17200, et seq. 
On December 15, 2023, Taylor Equities
17 LLC and RI 1812 Apartments LLC filed a Cross-Complaint for Equitable
Indemnity and Contribution against Roes 1 to 100. On March 21, 2024, Ingenious
Asset Group, Inc. filed a Cross-Complaint against Moes 1 through 25, alleging
six causes of action. 
A settlement has been reached in this case. Teresa Marquez as Petitioner for Claimants Oscar
Marin-Marquez, Maria Velen Marin-Marquez, Mayra Marin Marquez, Perla Marin Marquez, and Yadira Marin-Marquez
now
petitions for the Court’s approval of the settlement on behalf of the Claimants. In
addition, Floridalma Vicente as Petitioner for Claimants
Dayana
Isabel Gomez Vicente and Edwin Toribio Gomez Vicente petitions for the Court’s approval of the
settlement on behalf of the Claimants.  
            Discussion
An enforceable settlement of a minor’s claim can only be consummated
with court approval. ((Prob. Code, § 3500.) “A petition for court approval of a compromise of, or a
covenant not to sue or enforce judgment, on a minor’s disputed claim; a
compromise or settlement of a pending action or proceeding to which a minor or
person with a disability is a party; or the disposition of the proceeds of a
judgment for a minor or person with a disability under Probate
Code sections 3500 and 3600-3613 or Code of Civil
Procedure section 372 must be verified by the petitioner and must contain a
full disclosure of all information that has any bearing upon the reasonableness
of the compromise, covenant, settlement, or disposition. Except as provided in rule 7.950.5, the
petition must be submitted on a completed Petition for Approval of Compromise of Claim or Action or
Disposition of Proceeds of Judgment for Minor or Person With a Disability (form
MC-350).” (California Rules of Court, rule 7.950, emphasis in original.)  
Here, the petitions are prepared on Form
MC-350 and are verified by the Petitioners. The Court
finds that the settlement is reasonable. 
However, the proof of service attached to the petition for Claimant
Maria Velen Marin-Marquez does not appear to indicate that the petition or
order pertaining to Maria Velen Marin-Marquez was served.
In addition, it does not appear that any order on Form MC-351 was
filed as to claimant Perla Marin
Marquez.  
Lastly, Item
11(b)(5) of the petition pertaining to Edwin Toribio Gomez Vicente indicates
that the settlement payments are to be apportioned and distributed to certain
other plaintiffs or claimants. However, the parties listed in Item 11(b)(5) do
not appear to be plaintiffs in the instant action. 
            Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, the Court intends to grant the
petitions and approve the compromise, subject to Plaintiffs’ examination of
Petitioners at the hearing, and subject to Petitioners correcting the defects
identified above. 
As to the petition pertaining to Claimant Maria
Velen Marin-Marquez, if no proof of service is filed in advance of the hearing,
such petition is denied without prejudice. 
Petitioners are to
give notice of this Order.  
 
DATED:  January 13, 2025                            ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court