 Case Number:  24STCV17132    Hearing Date:   January 13, 2025    Dept:  50  
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department
50
 



JOSEPH ZARITSKY, et
  al., 
 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
FABRICE CAMELS, et
  al.,
 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


  24STCV17132




Hearing Date:


January 13, 2025




Hearing
  Time:    2:00 p.m. 
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
 
MOTION OF
  DEFENDANT FABRICE CALMELS TO DISQUALIFY COUNSEL FOR PLAINTIFFS, MARK HENRY
  SHAFFRON [sic]
 



 
Background
On July 10, 2024,
Plaintiffs Joseph Zaritsky and Gail Louise Zaritsky (jointly, “Plaintiffs”) filed
this unlawful detainer action against Defendant Fabrice Camels. On August 5,
2024, Plaintiffs filed an Amendment to Complaint naming Deeper Church Los
Angeles in place of “Doe 1.”  
Fabrice Calmels
(erroneously sued as “Fabrice Camels”) (herein, “Calmels”) now moves “to disqualify
counsel for Plaintiffs, Mark Henry Shaffron [sic] (SBN 78109).” Joseph Zaritsky
(herein, “Zaritsky”) opposes. 
On November 18,
2024, the Court issued a minute order continuing the hearing on the instant
motion from November 18, 2024 to January 13, 2025. The November 18, 2024 minute
order provides, inter alia, that “[t]he Court provided the parties with
a number of concerns at the hearing which are set forth below because no Court
Reporter covered the hearing. On or before December 9, 2024, The parties will
file and serve supplemental responses with declarations to the concerns raised
with courtesy copies delivered to Department 50. The parties may respond
thereto with no more that five pages filed and served on or before December 23,
2024. Courtesy copies of any responses to delivered to Department 50 on January
2, 2025.” The concerns identified in the Court’s November 18, 2024 minute order
are as follows: 
 
“In the
declaration attached to the motion, Defendant does not provide any evidence as
to how it was that he happened to consult with Mr. Shafron, counsel for
Plaintiffs. In his declaration in support of the reply brief, he references for
the first time that Plaintiff Mr. Zaritsky referred him to Mr. Shafron ‘with
recommendations to consult with him.’ However, evidence that should have been
presented in support of the motion cannot be provided in the reply. Even if the
Court were to consider such evidence, it seems highly improbable that Defendant
would have been receptive to such a referral since he later described Plaintiff
Mr. Zaritsky as having ‘a history of dishonesty and fabrication to achieve his
objectives.’ (Ex. B to Sharon Declaration – email from Defendant dated
7/28/23.)
 
Defendant does
not testify that he did not know the name of the attorney he claims to have
consulted. He does not explain how he could not know the name of Mr. Shafron
and his status as counsel for Plaintiffs when he himself sent him an email
earlier in 2022 regarding an assignment of the lease and the agent from
Cushfield who was working with him was communicating with Mr. Shafron on behalf
of the Plaintiffs. See Exhibit B email from Defendant to Mark Shafron dated
3/3/2022 and Exhibit A emails from Cushman dated 3/3/2022. Defendant also does
not address the fact that in an email on that day, he stated that he had an
attorney. He does not explain why he suddenly had to consult Mr. Shafron in
August when he already had an attorney in March of 2022. The only specificity
that Defendant provides regarding the conversation he had with Mr. Shafron is
contained in his reply declaration and he said they ‘specifically discussed the
permitted uses of the subject premises, how assignment and subletting work
under the lease and how I could protect myself from eviction.’ These topics do
not in and of themselves preclude the status of Mr. Shafron speaking as counsel
for Plaintiffs. Compliance with the lease would protect Defendant from eviction
but Defendant does not indicate anything more specific.
 
Defendant does
not provide any telephone records indicating the dates or length of the alleged
attorney-client conferences with Mr. Shafron (he describes them as ‘multiple
consultations’). He does not provide any notes of the conversations. If he had
been seeking advice from Mr. Shafron, it would seem that he would have taken
notes of the advice given. He also does not describe the conversation: How did
it start out? What did he say about why he was calling him and how he got his
number to call him? What did Mr. Shafron say? How were things left with Mr.
Shafron? What did the items listed in paragraph 4 of his Declaration have to do
with his dispute with his partner – e.g. his views, impressions and opinions
about the Plaintiffs, how he could protect himself from eviction, etc.”
(November 18, 2024 Minute Order at pp. 2-3.) 
 
On December 9, 2024, Zaritsky
filed a “Supplemental Declaration of Mark Shafron in Opposition to Motion to
Disqualify.” In addition, on December 9, 2024, Calmels filed a supplemental
response in support of the motion to disqualify. 
On December 23, 2024,
Zaritsky filed a reply to Calmels’ supplemental response. In addition, on
December 23, 2024, Calmels filed a response to the Supplemental Declaration of
Mark Shafron.
Discussion 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
128, subdivision (a)(5), one of the court’s inherent powers is to control
the conduct of its ministerial officers and of all other persons in any manner
connected with a judicial proceeding before it in furtherance of justice. ((Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, Inc. v. Tracinda Corp. (1995) 36 Cal.App.4th 1832, 1837-1838.)
That power necessarily includes disqualifying an attorney. However, as observed
in Metro-Goldwyn Mayer:
 
“The issue of disqualification ultimately involves a
conflict between the clients’ right to counsel of their choice and the need to
maintain ethical standards of professional responsibility. The paramount concern, though, must be the preservation of public
trust in the scrupulous administration of justice and the integrity of the bar.
The recognized and important right to counsel of one’s choosing must yield to
considerations of ethics that run to the very integrity of our judicial
process.” (Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, Inc. v. Tracinda Corp., supra, 36 Cal.App.4th at p. 1838 [internal quotations and citations omitted].)

Ultimately, whether an attorney should be disqualified is a matter
wholly committed to the court’s sound discretion. ((Henriksen
v. Great American Savings & Loan (1992) 11 Cal.App.4th 109, 113.) “In exercising that discretion,
the trial court is required to make a reasoned judgment which complies with the
legal principles and policies applicable to the issue at hand.” (Ibid.)
In the motion, Calmels asserts that “[b]y representing the Plaintiffs against
Defendant Calmels, Mr. Shaffron [sic] is in violation of Rule 1.9(a) of the California Rules of Professional
Conduct and must be disqualified.” (Mot. at p. 5:26-27.) Rule 1.9, subdivision (a) of the California Rules of
Professional Conduct provides that “[a] lawyer who has formerly represented a
client in a matter shall not thereafter represent another person…in the same or
a substantially related matter in which that person’s…interests are materially
adverse to the interests of the former client unless the former client gives
informed written consent…” 
In his declaration in
support of the motion, Fabrice Calmels states that “[a]ttorney Mark Henry
Shaffron [sic] provided me with multiple consultations regarding the tenancy at
333 North Mission Street, Los Angeles, CA 90033 that is the subject of the
present unlawful detainer action. During those consultations, I spoke with Mr.
Shaffron [sic] as though I was speaking to an attorney I was going to hire and
provided to Mr. Shaffron [sic] confidential and privileged information I would
not have disclosed to Mr. Shaffron [sic] had I known that Mr. Shaffron [sic] was
going to represent Plaintiffs in an action to evict me. Throughout those
consultations, Mr. Shaffron [sic] assured me that the information I provided to
him would be kept confidential and privileged.” (Calmels Decl., ¶ 3.) Fabrice
Calmels further indicates as follows: 
 
“The privileged and confidential
information I provided to Mr. Shaffron during the consultations included
details regarding: (1) the tenancy that is the subject matter of this very
unlawful detainer action; (2) my business operations at the tenancy that is the
subject matter of this very unlawful detainer action; (3) my views, impressions
and opinions about Joseph Zaritsky and Gail Louise Zaritsky (the plaintiffs in
this action); (4) my plans for the tenancy that is the subject of this very
unlawful detainer action; (5) what I was and was not permitted to do with
respect to the tenancy that is the subject of this very unlawful detainer
action; (6) what my rights were for the tenancy that is the subject of this
very unlawful detainer action; (7) how I could protect myself from eviction
with respect to the tenancy that is the subject of this very unlawful detainer
action; (8) my business practices and customs; (9) how I evaluate conflict and
decide whether it is appropriate to litigate; (10) what my strengths and
weaknesses are in conflict and my view of litigation.” (Calmels Decl., ¶ 4.) 
Fabrice Calmels states
that “[t]he above-mentioned consultations occurred in 2022 and were over the
phone,” and that “[a]t the time of the consultations, the Plaintiffs were my
landlords.” (Calmels Decl., ¶¶ 5-6.) 
Calmels also cites to Acacia
Patent Acquisition, LLC v. Superior Court (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 1091,
1097-1098, where the Court of Appeal noted that “an attorney will be
disqualified from representing a client against a former client when there is a
substantial relationship between the two representations…When a substantial
relationship exists, the courts presume the attorney possesses confidential
information of the former client material to the present representation. In
assessing whether there is a substantial relationship between two matters,
courts should focus on the similarities between the two
factual situations, the legal questions posed, and the nature and extent
of the attorney’s involvement with the cases. The current matter is
substantially related to the earlier matter if:…(1) the current matter involves
the work the lawyer performed for the former client; or…(2) there is a
substantial risk that representation of the present client will involve the use
of information acquired in the course of representing the former client, unless
that information has become generally known.” (Internal quotations and
citations omitted.) 
The Acacia Court also
noted some representations create duties of confidentiality to nonclients, and that
“[a] conflict of interest is involved if there is a substantial risk that the
lawyer’s representation of the client would be materially and adversely
affected by the…lawyer’s duties to another current client, a
former client, or a third person.” (Acacia Patent Acquisition,
LLC v. Superior Court, supra, 234 Cal.App.4th at pp. 1098-1099 [emphasis
in original].) The Acacia Court noted that “[a] conflict of interest can…arise
because of specific obligations, such as the obligation to hold information
confidential, that the lawyer has assumed to a nonclient.” (Id. at p. 1099.) The Acacia Court found
that “[i]f an attorney is deemed to have a duty of confidentiality to a
nonclient arising out of such a past representation, courts apply the
substantial relationship test from successive representation doctrine to
determine whether to disqualify counsel in a case against the nonclient.” (Id. at p. 1102.)   
Calmels asserts that
here, “there is a substantial relationship between the consultations and the
present unlawful detainer matter because both matters concerned the same
tenancy. Specifically, because the consultations related to Mr. Calmels’ rights
under the tenancy and how he could defend himself from eviction, there is a
substantial similarity between the two factual situations, the legal questions
posed, and the nature and extent of the attorney’s involvement with the cases.”
(Mot. at p. 9:5-10.) 
In the opposition, Zaritsky
asserts that the motion should be denied. Zaritsky submits the Declaration of Mark
Henry Shafron in support of the opposition. In his supporting declaration, Mr.
Shafron states that “I have never had an attorney client relationship with Mr.
Calmels, he has never disclosed any confidential information to me, he has
always known that I was the attorney for Plaintiffs, and I never suggested in
writing, verbally, or otherwise that I was providing legal services to him…” (Shafron
Decl., ¶ 2.) Mr. Shafron also states that “nor in my sole conversation with him
regarding his desire to assign his lease to third party, Patrick Oakes in March
2022, ever suggest [sic] in any manner that I would provide legal services to
him, indeed in my sole conversation with him, which was initiated by him, we
discussed only the requirements of the lease regarding assignment as set forth
in Part 12 thereof.” (Shafron Decl., ¶ 2.)
            Mr.
Shafron also states that “my only contact with Mr. Calmels, other than
communication on behalf of Plaintiff regarding disputes over the lease,
occurred in or about March 2022 when Mr. Calmels asked to assign the lease…in
that instance, the communication regarding the assignment was brought to my
attention by Mr. Calmels’ Real Estate Broker, Brandon Burns, of the Brokerage
firm Cushman and Wakefield.” (Shafron Decl., ¶ 6.) Mr. Shafron states that “in
the e-mail chain of 3-1-22 (Exhibit ‘A’ hereto) Mr. Burns states: ‘Letting you
know we have a request from Fabrice (the Boxing Tenant) to assign the lease to
a new owner of his business.’…I wrote back to Mr. Burns [on] 3-3-22 and stated:
‘Brandon: Please comply with the following provisions of the lease…’…Mr.
Calmels later on 3-3-24 [sic] responded to the Exhibit ‘A’ e-mail to Mr. Burns
with his Exhibit ‘B’ e-mail wherein he stated as follows: ‘For the ease of
everyone I already had my attorney draw up a consent and release agreement and
Joes’s Attorney can review[.]” (Shafron Decl., ¶¶ 7-9, Exs. A, B, emphasis
omitted.) 
In addition, Mr. Shafron
states that on August 4, 2023, Mr. Calmels sent an email providing, “[t]he
allegations in your email are false and frivolous, as you would know if you had
reviewed any relevant documents from your client before sending this baseless
email to me. I am with family and consulting with my attorney this week and
will respond to you in detail next week.” (Shafron Decl., ¶ 11, Ex. C.) Mr.
Shafron states that in the August 4, 2023 email, Mr. Calmels “refers to his
attorney as ‘my attorney’ and clearly makes no reference to an attorney client
relationship with me.” (Shafron Decl., ¶ 11.) Mr. Shafron states that “Mr. Calmels clearly acknowledged that I was
Plaintiff’s Attorney and that he had his own attorney, thus belying the
creation of an attorney client relationship.” (Shafron Decl., ¶ 10.) 
            In
his supplemental declaration, Fabrice Calmels states that “[t]he
attorney referenced in the email on March 3, 2022 was an attorney assisting me
with the lease who is named Habib Bentaleb. Mr. Bentaleb does not do or
specialize in business disputes like the type that I was having with Mr.
Aguilar. What is more, Mr. Bentaleb was the attorney who worked with me and Mr.
Aguilar in preparing the paperwork that established the business entity that
was the subject of the dispute between me and Mr. Aguilar. Furthermore, Mr.
Bentaleb is based in Northern California and I was looking for someone who was
based in Southern California. Finally, given the nature of the business dispute
that I was having with Mr. Aguilar, I felt that it was necessary to consult
with an attorney who had experience with evictions…As a result, I consulted
with Attorney Shaffron regarding a dispute with my business partner, Andy
Aguilar.” (Suppl. Calmels Decl.,
¶ 8(a)-(b).) Fabrice Calmels states that “[a]ttorney Shaffron assisted
me on the phone to prepare an unlawful detainer lawsuit against APAFitness,
Inc., Andy Aguilar d/b/a EliteSmith Athletics wherein I was in pro per. That
action was Los Angeles Case Number 22STUD05472.” (Suppl. Calmels Decl., ¶ 8(h).)
However, in his initial
October 8, 2024 declaration filed in support of the motion, Fabrice Calmels
does not appear to mention that he consulted with Mr. Shafron regarding any
dispute with his business partner, Andy Aguilar. The initial October 8, 2024 declaration does not mention “Los
Angeles Case Number 22STUD05472.” It is unclear why such alleged consultations
were not discussed in the October 8, 2024 declaration. Moreover, Calmels does not appear to demonstrate (or argue) that any
consultation with Mr. Shafron regarding a dispute with Mr. Aguilar
relates to the allegations of the Complaint in the instant action. 
In addition, in his
supplemental declaration, Mr. Shafron states, “Mr. Calmels never had any
attorney client relationship with me, ever, but if he believed that he had,
which supposition is vigorously disputed and in no way conceded, it would have
involved matters that have nothing to do with the issues of Mr. Calmels unauthorized
subleasing of the commercial real property situated @ 333 N. Mission Road, Los
Angeles, CA 90033 in 2024 which is the subject of the instant Unlawful Detainer
law suit.” (Suppl. Shafron Decl., ¶ 6.) Fabrice Calmels’ initial and supplemental declarations do not appear
to specifically mention any purported consultations regarding the subleasing of
the property that is the subject of the instant action.
Further, Fabrice Calmels
states in his supplemental declaration that “I did take notes during the
phone consultations with Mr. Shaffron. However, once the unlawful detainer
action against Mr. Aguilar was prepared, I did not see a need to keep those
notes and discarded them.” (Suppl. Calmels
Decl., ¶ 10(b).) Fabrice Calmels also does not demonstrate that he was able to
obtain telephone records of the alleged attorney-client communications. (Suppl.
Calmels Decl., ¶ 10(a).) 
As discussed, Mr.
Shafron states that “I have never had an attorney client relationship
with Mr. Calmels, he has never disclosed any confidential information to me, he
has always known that I was the attorney for Plaintiffs, and I never suggested
in writing, verbally, or otherwise that I was providing legal services to him
nor in my sole conversation with him regarding his desire to assign his lease
to third party, Patrick Oakes in March 2022, ever suggest in any manner that I
would provide legal services to him, indeed in my sole conversation with him,
which was initiated by him, we discussed only the requirements of the lease
regarding assignment as set forth in Part 12 thereof.” (Shafron Decl., ¶ 12.) 
Based on a consideration
of the foregoing, the Court does not find that Calmels has demonstrated good
cause for the Court to disqualify Mr. Shafron from representing Plaintiffs in
this action.  
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, Calmels’
motion to disqualify counsel is denied. 
Calmels is ordered
to give notice of this Order.¿ 
 
DATED:  January 13, 2025                            ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court