 Case Number:  24STCV12083    Hearing Date:   January 13, 2025    Dept:  50  
 
Superior
Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department
50
 



JUANA RAUDALES RIVERA, 
 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
HYUNDAI MOTOR AMERICA, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


  24STCV12083




Hearing Date:


January 13, 2025




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m. 




[TENTATIVE] ORDER
  RE: 
 
DEFENDANT’S
  MOTION TO COMPEL BINDING ARBITRATION



            Background
Plaintiff Juana Raudales Rivera (“Plaintiff”)
filed this action on May 13, 2024 against Defendant Hyundai Motor America
(“Defendant”). The Complaint alleges causes of action for (1) violation of the
Song-Beverly Act – breach of express warranty, (2) violation of the
Song-Beverly Act – breach of implied warranty, and (3) violation of “Song-Beverly Act Section 1793.2(b).” 
Defendant now moves “for an order (i)
compelling Plaintiff Juana Raudales Rivera to arbitrate all of his [sic] claims
in accordance with the arbitration agreement; and (ii) staying this action
pending the outcome of arbitration.” Plaintiff opposes.  
Requests
for Judicial Notice
The Court grants Defendant’s
request for judicial notice of Plaintiff’s Complaint.[1]
The Court also grants Plaintiff’s request for judicial notice. 
Evidentiary
Objections 
The Court rules on Plaintiff’s evidentiary objection as
follows:
Objection No. 1: sustained 
Legal Standard
In a motion to compel arbitration, the moving
party must prove by a preponderance of evidence the existence of the
arbitration agreement and that the dispute is covered by the agreement. The
burden then shifts to the resisting party to prove by a preponderance of
evidence a ground for denial (e.g.,
fraud, unconscionability, etc.). ((Rosenthal
v. Great Western Fin. Securities Corp. (1996) 14
Cal.4th 394, 413-414).)   
Generally, on a petition to compel
arbitration, the court must grant the petition unless it finds either (1) no
written agreement to arbitrate exists; (2) the right to compel arbitration has
been waived; (3) grounds exist for revocation of the agreement; or (4)
litigation is pending that may render the arbitration unnecessary or create
conflicting rulings on common issues. ((Code
Civ. Proc., § 1281.2); (Condee v. Longwood Management Corp. (2001)
88 Cal.App.4th 215, 218-219.) 
“California
has a strong public policy in favor of arbitration and any doubts regarding the
arbitrability of a dispute are resolved in favor of arbitration.” ((Coast Plaza Doctors Hospital v. Blue Cross
of California (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 677, 686.) “This
strong policy has resulted in the general rule that arbitration should be
upheld unless it can be said with assurance that an arbitration clause is not
susceptible to an interpretation covering the asserted dispute.” ((Ibid. [internal
quotations omitted].)
This is in accord with the liberal federal policy favoring arbitration
agreements under the Federal Arbitration Act (“FAA”), which governs all
agreements to arbitrate in contracts “involving interstate commerce.” (9 U.S.C. section 2, et
seq.; (Higgins v.
Superior Court (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 1238, 1247.) 
///
///
            Discussion
A.    Existence of Arbitration Agreement
In the motion, Defendant argues that “[w]hen the subject
vehicle of the instant dispute was purchased, a 2020 Hyundai Elantra…it was
accompanied by a warranty provided by Hyundai Motor America, located in the
Owner’s Handbook & Warranty Information…which included a binding
arbitration provision.” (Mot. at p. 3:2-5, citing “Warranty, Exhibit 2 to
Ameripour Decl.”) 
As
an initial matter, as set forth above, the Court sustains Plaintiff’s
evidentiary objection to Exhibit 2 to the Declaration of Ali Ameripour,
Defendant’s counsel. An “Exhibit 2” is attached to Mr. Ameripour’s declaration
and is titled “2020 Owner’s Handbook & Warranty Information.” However, Mr.
Ameripour’s supporting declaration does not mention any “Exhibit 2.” The Court
agrees with Plaintiff that Mr. Ameripour “fails to lay a foundation for how he
happened to come to have personal knowledge of the Owner’s Handbook &
Warranty Information manual or any fact surrounding the purchase of the
vehicle.” (Plaintiff’s Evidentiary Objections at p. 2:16-18.) As noted by
Plaintiff, “Defendant failed to submit an authenticated copy of the purported
Owner’s Handbook and Warranty Information booklet that Defendant’s litigation
counsel (not any corporate representative of Defendant) represents contains a
binding arbitration clause.” (Opp’n at p. 5:5-8.) 
In Rosenthal v.
Great Western Fin. Securities Corp., supra, 14 Cal.4th at page
413, cited by
Plaintiff, the California Supreme Court noted that “when a petition to compel arbitration is filed and
accompanied by prima facie evidence of a written agreement to arbitrate the controversy,
the court itself must determine whether the agreement exists and, if any
defense to its enforcement is raised, whether it is enforceable. Because the existence of the agreement is a statutory prerequisite
to granting the petition, the petitioner bears the burden of proving its
existence by a preponderance of the evidence.” 
In Trinity v. Life Ins. Co. of North America (2022) 78 Cal.App.5th
1111, 1120, the Court of
Appeal noted that “[t]he party
seeking to compel arbitration bears
the burden of proving by a preponderance of the
evidence an agreement to
arbitrate a dispute exists. To carry
this burden of persuasion the moving party must first produce prima
facie evidence of a written agreement to arbitrate the
controversy.” (Internal quotations and citations omitted.)
In the reply, Defendant cites to Condee v. Longwood Management Corp., supra, 88
Cal.App.4th at page 218, where the Court of Appeal
noted that “[f]or purposes of a petition to compel arbitration, it is not
necessary to follow the normal procedures of document authentication.” But in Toal v. Tardif (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 1208, 1219, footnote
8, cited by Plaintiff, the Court of Appeal noted
that “[t]o the extent Condee conflicts with Rosenthal,
our Supreme Court’s decision is controlling.” 

The Court does not find that Defendant has
produced prima facie evidence of a written agreement to arbitrate the instant controversy.
Thus, the Court denies Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration. 
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, Defendant’s motion to
compel arbitration is denied. 
Plaintiff is ordered to provide notice of this
Order.
 
DATED:  January 13, 2025                            
________________________________
Hon.
Teresa A. Beaudet
Judge,
Los Angeles Superior Court


