  Case Number:  21STCV13940    Hearing Date:   August 8, 2024    Dept:  45 Superior Court of
California
County
of Los Angeles
 



 
HUDSON
  PRIVATE CORP., a New York Corporation,
 
                             Plaintiff,
 
                              vs.
UPSENSE
  MEDIA CAPITAL PTY, LTD, a purported Australian Business Entity; RJ BUCARIA
  aka RICHARD J. BUCARIA, an individual; and DOES 1 through 10, inclusive,
 
                              Defendants.


Case No.:  21STCV13940
DEPARTMENT
  45
 
 
 
[TENTATIVE] RULING
 
 
 
Action
  Filed:  04/12/2021
Trial
  Date:  None set



 
Hearing
date:  August 8, 2024
Moving
Party:  Defendant RJ Bucaria aka Richard
J. Bucaria
Responding
Party:  Plaintiff Hudson Private Corp. 
Motion
to Quash Service of Summons        
The Court
considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply.
            The
motion is DENIED.
 
Background
            On
April 12, 2021, Plaintiff Hudson Private Corp. (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint
against Defendants Upsense Media Capital Pty, Ltd (“Upsense”); RJ Bucaria aka
Richard J. Bucaria (“Bucaria”); and DOES 1 through 10, inclusive for: (1)
Breach of Contract; (2) Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair
Dealing; (3) Fraud – Intentional Misrepresentation and False Promise; (4) Fraud
– Negligent Misrepresentation; (5) Conversion; (6) Unjust Enrichment; (7) Money
Had and Received; and (8) Accounting. 
            On
July 16, 2021, Bucaria filed the instant Motion to Quash Service of Summons. 
            On
May 2, 2022, Upsense’s Motion to Compel Arbitration was granted, thus the
action was stayed.  
            On
June 6, 2023, Plaintiff’s Motion to Lift stay and Vacate Order Compelling
Arbitration was granted. 
            On
July 9, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition to the Motion to Quash Service of
Summons. On July 15, 2024, Bucaria filed a reply. 
            On
July 18, 2024, Plaintiff filed objections to and request to strike Reply
Declaration of RJ Bucaria aka Richard J. Bucaria in Support of the Motion to
Quash Service of Summons. 
 
Evidentiary Objections 
            Plaintiff
Hudson Private Corp. submits its objections to and Requests to Strike the Reply
Declaration of RJ Bucaria aka Richard J. Bucaria. 
            The
Court rules as follows: 
            No.
1-10: OVERRULED 
            The
Court also does not Strike the Reply Declaration of RJ Bucaria aka Richard J.
Bucaria because Plaintiff failed to show what new evidence was introduced.
Plaintiff makes the assertion that it is “unfair and prejudicial to Hudson to
allow Bucaria at this juncture to submit an additional “Reply Declaration”
which not only constitutes improper argument and an attempt to submit a “new
revamped” declaration, but which also seeks to raise new issues and contentions
not raised in his original Declaration.” (Objections at p. 2.) However,
Plaintiff’s argument is conclusory. 
 
Request for Judicial Notice
            Plaintiff
requests the court take judicial notice of several records and documents
pursuant to Evidence Code Sections 452 and 453. The request is GRANTED. 
 
Legal
Standard
Under California
Code of Civil Procedure Section 418.10, a defendant, on or before the last day
of their time to plead or within any further time that the court may for good
cause allow, may serve and file a notice of motion to quash service of summons
on the ground of lack of jurisdiction over them. (Code Civ. Proc. §
418.10(a)(1).)
California law permits a Court to exercise
either “general” or “special” jurisdiction over a foreign entity. (Pavlovich
v. Superior Court (2002) 29 Cal.4th 262, 268-269.)
“[A] court may
assert general jurisdiction over foreign (sister-state or foreign-country)
corporations to hear any and all claims against them when their affiliations
with the State are so ‘continuous and systematic’ as to render them essentially
at home in the forum State.” (Daimler AG v. Bauman (2014) 571 U.S. 117,
127 [internal citations omitted], emphasis added.)
In the absence
of general jurisdiction, a court might still exercise specific jurisdiction
over a defendant in a given cause of action, depending on “the ‘ “relationship
among the defendant, the forum, and the litigation.” ’ ” (Helicopteros
Nacionales de Colombia v. Hall (1984) 466 U.S. 408, 414.) A court may
exercise special jurisdiction when “(1) the defendant has purposefully availed
himself or herself of forum benefits; (2) the controversy is related to or
arises out of the defendant’s contacts with the forum; and (3) the assertion of
personal jurisdiction would comport with fair play and substantial justice.” (Pavlovich
v. Superior Court, supra, 29 Cal. 4th 262, 269, emphasis added.)
“When a
nonresident defendant challenges personal jurisdiction the burden shifts to the
plaintiff to demonstrate by a preponderance of the evidence that all necessary
jurisdictional criteria are met. [Citation.] This burden must be met by
competent evidence in affidavits and authenticated documentary evidence. An
unverified complaint may not be considered as an affidavit supplying necessary
facts.” (Jewish Defense Organization, Inc. v. Superior Court (1999) 72
Cal.App.4th 1045, 1054-55.)
 
Discussion
            Motion to Quash Service of Summons
Defendant RJ
Bucaria aka Richard J. Bucaria (“Bucaria”) argues this Court lacks personal
jurisdiction over him because he is a New York resident, who conducts personal
business in New York. (Bucaria Decl., ¶¶1, 7.) Furthermore, Bucaria contends
his work for Defendant Upsense Capital Pty, Ltd (“Upsense”) was conducted in
New York and Australia, not California. (Id. at ¶1.) Additionally,
Bucaria contends neither Upsense nor Prolific Media Holdings has any offices or
employees in California. (Id. at ¶3.) Moreover, Bucaria contends he owns
no property in California, has conducted no business in California related to
the Upsense deal with Plaintiff regarding the movie “1917,” and has not visited
California since 2019. (Id. at ¶¶2, 5, 11.) Similarly, Bucaria contends
nothing in the Revenue Participation Agreement (“RPA”) targets California
consumers, negotiations regarding the RPA occurred in New York, and Plaintiff
is entirely based in New York. (Id. at ¶9.) Likewise, Bucaria argues he
is not the alter ego of Upsense because he is the former General Manager of
Upense, which is more like an officer or employee position under Australian
role. (Id. at ¶6.) Bucaria also contends he does not hold any direct
ownership interest in Upsense, which is held entirely by Prolific Media
Holdings and Unbreakable Group Holdings. (Id. at ¶¶6, 7.) Finally,
Bucaria argues the General Managing Partners of Upsense are Mark and Kristie
Spillane and he always maintained separate bank accounts from Upsense. (Id.)
As such, Bucaria assert there is no constitutionally defensible basis to haul
him before a court in California. 
 
The burden now
shifts to Plaintiff to demonstrate by a preponderance of the evidence that
Bucaria has sufficient contacts with California. 
 
a. Forum
Selection Clause
“A party, even
one who has no minimum contacts with this state, may consent to jurisdiction in
a particular case.” (Szynalski v. Superior Court (2009) 172 Cal.App.4th
1, 7.) “Agreeing to resolve a particular dispute in a specific jurisdiction,
for example, is one means of expressing consent to personal jurisdiction of
courts *8 in the forum state for purposes of that dispute.” (Id. at 8.)
 
First, Plaintiff
responds that the mandatory forum selection clause in the RPA states the
parties “consent” to jurisdiction of the state and federal courts in Los
Angeles County, thus Bucaria who is a signatory of the RPA consented to
jurisdiction in California. (Ex. 1, ¶10c.) Furthermore, Plaintiff contends
Bucaria and Upsense previously invoked the forum selection clause and submitted
to jurisdiction related to arbitration proceedings in Los Angeles. (RFJN Exs.
C-D, G-H.) Moreover, Plaintiff contends Bucaria held himself out as the person
in control of Upsense, negotiated the RPA, received and misappropriated its
funds, and provided Plaintiff with the RPA, which contains the forum selection
clause. (Conover Decl., ¶¶3, 6-8, 15.) Thus, Plaintiff asserts Bucaria waived
any jurisdictional challenges.
 
b. Alter Ego
Doctrine
“The alter ego
doctrine arises when a plaintiff comes into court claiming that an opposing
party is using the corporate form unjustly and in derogation of the plaintiff's
interests. [Citation.] In certain circumstances the court will disregard the
corporate entity and will hold the individual shareholders liable for the
actions of the corporation.” (Ming-Hsiang Kao v. Holiday (2020) 58
Cal.App.5th 199, 205.) Whether to invoke alter ego liability depends on both:
(1) “such unity of interest and ownership that the separate personalities of
the corporation and the individual no longer exist,” and (2) whether “adherence
to the fiction of separate existence would, under the circumstances, promote
fraud or injustice. On the second score it is sufficient that it appear that
recognition of the acts as those of a corporation only will produce inequitable
results. [Citations.]” (Id.) 
 
The court will
consider factors including but not limited to: “Commingling of funds and other
assets, failure to segregate funds of the separate entities, and the
unauthorized diversion of corporate funds or assets to other than corporate
uses; the treatment by an individual of the
assets of the corporation as his own; the failure to
obtain authority to issue stock or to subscribe to or issue the same; the
holding out by an individual that he is personally liable for the debts of the
corporation; the failure to maintain minutes or adequate corporate records, and
the confusion of the records of the separate entities….” (Associated
Vendors, Inc. v. Oakland Meat Co. (1962) 210 Cal.App.2d 825, 838.)
 
Here, Plaintiff
argues Bucaria is an alter ego of Upsense because Bucaria holds ownership
interest through his entity, Prolific Media Holdings, which is an 50%
shareholder in Upsense and controls Upsense’s investment fund. (RFJN Ex. 26 (JX
717); RFJN Ex. 27 (JX906-907)(899-901, 926-927); Ex. 13 Resp. Nos. 3, 5 and
Supp. Resp. No. 9.) Plaintiff also argues the undercapitalization of Upsense
calls into question whether Upsense alone is able to participate in this
action. (Exs. 15-17.) Likewise, Plaintiff argues Mr. Spillane was declared an
undischarged bankrupt. (Ex. 17, p. 7.) Moreover, Plaintiff contends Bucaria’s
discovery responses and document production among other factors evidences the
commingling and diversion of funds and disregard for corporate formalities.
Specifically, Plaintiff contends Bucaria received $2.5 million form Plaintiff
in an account held by Prolific Media Holdings, then diverted those funds to
Humtap and Red Room, wherein Bucaria is a registered agent for service of
process for Red Room. (RFJN Ex. M.) Lastly, Plaintiff contends other than a few
bank statements for Prolific Media Holdings, Bucaria did not produce any
financial documents requested for the other entities, nor any minutes or
corporate records to establish that corporate formalities were followed. As
such, Plaintiff asserts these are sufficient facts for the court to exercise
jurisdiction over Bucaria based on alter ego theory.
 
c. Minimum
Contacts
As to whether
Bucaria has sufficient minimum contacts with California, Plaintiff responds
that Bucaria made a general appearance in the Hudson’s Arbitration and Island
Stars Arbitration in Los Angeles County and sought affirmative relief against
Plaintiff. (RFJN Exs. C-H.) Plaintiff further contends Bucaria misappropriated
and transferred a portion of Plaintiff’s investment to an account in Silicon
Valley, CA for Humtap, an entity registered to do business with California.
(RFJN Ex. L.) Moreover, Plaintiff contends Bucaria solicited investors for the
movie in California, promoted the movie on social including to California
residents, and has Prolific Media Holdings partners that are California-based
with whom Bucaria conducts business through Prolific Media Holdings. (Exs. 13
(Supp. Resp. Nos. 10, 34-35), 18-25; RFJN Exs. O-P.) Last, Plaintiff contends
Bucaria’s biography lists his studios located in California such as Universal,
Sony, and Warner Bros. as his clientele. 
(RFJN Ex. K; Ex. 26 (JX000901).) As such, Plaintiff asserts Bucaria has
both purposefully availed himself to the benefits of California as it relates
to the claim at issue and has systematic, continuous contacts with California. 
            
            The
Court will deny the Motion to Quash Service of Summons for the following
reasons. First, the Court finds Plaintiff has sufficiently shown that Bucaria
has sufficient minimum contacts with California. Second, the Court finds that
Bucaria is an agent and alter ego of Upsense and therefore, Bucaria is
equitably estopped from challenging the Court’s jurisdiction by appearing in
the Court-ordered JAMS Arbitrations. “A defendant submits to the court's
jurisdiction by making a general appearance in an action and thereby waives the
defense of lack of personal jurisdiction. [citation omitted.] “‘A general
appearance occurs when the defendant takes part in the action or in some manner
recognizes the authority of the court to proceed.’ [Citation.] Such
participation operates as consent to the court's exercise of jurisdiction in
the proceeding. ‘Unlike jurisdiction of the subject matter … jurisdiction
of the person may be conferred by consent of the person, manifested in
various ways’ including a ‘general appearance.’ [Citations.] By generally
appearing, a defendant relinquishes all objections based on lack of personal
jurisdiction or defective process or service of process. [Citations.]” (ViaView,
Inc. v. Retzlaff (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 198, 210.)
 
            Additionally,
Bucaria signed the Agreement on behalf of Upsense as “Managing General Partner”
and also signed as CEO of Prolific who owns interest in Upsense (Conover Decl.
¶ 3.) Moreover, Bucaria assured Hudson “[a]s a heads up we moved funds to the
prolific account and sent it from there just as an additional layer related to
the issue we discussed.” (Ex. 5.) Also, Plaintiff proved alter ego as alleged
in the Complaint: i, ii, iii, iv, and v. Upsense and Related Entities filed for
liquidation in Australia and their “common director” Mark Spillane is an
“undischarged bankrupt.” (Mekhael Decl. ¶ 21.) The Court further notes that
Bucaria states “ . . . Upsense is run by two separate managing partners, Mark
and Kelly Spillane and Mark Spillane serves as the sole director for Upsense.”
(Bucaria Decl. ¶ 6.) Additionally, in its opposition, Plaintiff discussed
Bucaria’s commingling and misappropriation of Plaintiff’s funds, the
Agreement’s forum selection is binding on and enforceable against Bucaria as
agent and third-party beneficiary of the Agreement and as Upsense’s alter ego. 
            
            Thus,
the Court finds that holding that there is no alter ego and granting the Motion
to Quash Service of Summons will leave Plaintiff “holding an empty bag.” It
would be inequitable for Bucaria to be shielded by Upsense’s corporate form. 
            
            Notably,
in the Court-ordered JAMS Arbitration, Plaintiff named both Upsense and Bucaria
as respondents given Defendants’ consent to submit all claims to arbitration in
the hope of avoiding further delay and adjudicating the claims in a single
forum. In the Hudson Arbitration, Bucaria and Upsense filed a Joint Answer labeled
as “Respondents Upsense Media Capital Pty Ltd and Richard Bucaria’s Answer to
Demand for Arbitration” asserting General Denial, Affirmative, and Other
Defenses and Reservation of Rights. (Ex. D, RFJN.) Moreover, Bucaria got a
dismissal of the case against him by Island Stars 21, Inc. in the Supreme Court
of the State of New York, where Bucaria confirmed “his consent (as stated by
Counsel on the record) that he will appear and waive jurisdiction defenses in
the arbitration pending in Los Angeles, California against Upsense . . ..” (Ex.
I, RFJN.) 
 
            Based
on the foregoing, the Motion to Quash Service of Summons is DENIED. 
            
            It
is so ordered.
 
 
Dated: August 8, 2024
 
_______________________
MEL RED RECANA
Judge of the
Superior Court
 