  Case Number:  23CHCV03281    Hearing Date:   October 28, 2024    Dept:  F49 


Dept.
  F49¿ 




Date:
  10/28/24




Case
  Name: Sarah Keys v. Kileyanne Ramian, Alyrath Rivongkham, and Does 1 to 10




Case
  No. 23CHCV03281



 
LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
VALLEY DISTRICT
DEPARTMENT
F49
 

OCTOBER 28,
2024
 

MOTION FOR JOINDER PURSUANT TO
C.C.P. § 389

Los Angeles Superior Court Case No. 23CHCV03281

 
Motion
filed: 10/3/24
 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff Sarah Keys
RESPONDING PARTY: None.
NOTICE: OK.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED: An
order from this Court joining Maya Giuliani as an additional plaintiff in this
action.
 
TENTATIVE
RULING: The motion
is DENIED.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This action arises from alleged personal injuries and
damages sustained by Plaintiff Sarah Keys (“Keys”) as a result of an automotive
collision on September 4, 2023.
 
On December 27, 2023, Keys initiated the action against
Defendants Kileyanne Ramian (“Ramian” or “Defendant/Cross-Complainant”),
Alyrath Rivongkham (“Rivongkham” or “Defendant/Cross-Defendant”) and Does 1 to
10, alleging the following causes of action: (1) Motor Vehicle Liability, and
(2) General Negligence. The Complaint alleges that a violent collision occurred
due to Defendant Rivongkham negligently attempting to make a left turn while
Co-Defendant Ramian was driving inattentively and speeding. Plaintiff, a
passenger seated in the rear of Ramian’s vehicle, allegedly sustained injuries
to her organs from the collision. (Compl. at p. 5.) Subsequently, on December
22, 2023, Defendant Ramian filed an Answer to the Complaint; on December 28,
2023, Keys filed a Request for Entry of Default against Rivongkham as to the
Complaint, which was entered by the Clerk on the same day.
 
On December 22, 2023, Ramian filed a Cross-Complaint against
Rivongkham and Roes 1 to 50, alleging (1) Contribution, (2) Implied Indemnity,
and (3) Equitable Indemnity. Subsequently, Rivongkham filed an Answer to the
Cross-Complaint on January 25, 2024.
 
On October 3, 2024, Keys filed the instant Motion for
Joinder pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 389 (the “Motion”).
 
No Opposition or Reply papers have been received by the
Court. 
 
ANALYSIS
“Necessary” parties are defined
under Code of Civil Procedure section 389, subdivision (a): “A person who is
subject to service of process and whose joinder will not deprive the court of
jurisdiction over the subject matter of the action shall be joined as a party
in the action if (1) in his absence complete relief cannot be accorded among
those already parties or (2) he claims an interest relating to the subject of
the action and is so situated that the disposition of the action in his absence
may (i) as a practical matter impair or impede his ability to protect that
interest or (ii) leave any of the persons already parties subject to a
substantial risk of incurring double, multiple, or otherwise inconsistent
obligations by reason of his claimed interest. If he has not been so joined,
the court shall order that he be made a party.”¿ 
“Code of Civil Procedure section
389 limits compulsory joinder to those situations where the absence of a person
may result in substantial prejudice to that person or to the parties already
before the court.” (Morrical v. Rogers (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 438, 461.) 
A determination that a person is
a necessary party under Code of Civil Procedure section 389, subdivision (a) is
the predicate for the determination whether he or she is an indispensable party
under Code of Civil Procedure section 389, subdivision (b.) (Dreamweaver
Andalusians, LLC v. Prudential Ins. Co. of America (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th
1168, 1173.) A “necessary” party only becomes “indispensable” if the Court
undertakes the analysis set forth under Code of Civil Procedure section 389,
subdivision (b) and determines that the action cannot proceed without that
party. (City of San Diego v. San Diego City Employees' Retirement System
(2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 69, 83-84.) “The term ‘indispensable’ actually is a
conclusion that, absent joinder of the party in question, the case must be
dismissed.” (Edmon and Kernow, Cal. Prac. Guide: CPBT (Rutter Group 2020),
¶2:155.) 
“Whether a party is necessary
and/or indispensable is a matter of trial court discretion in which the court
weighs ‘factors of practical realities and other considerations.” (City of
San Diego v. San Diego City Employees' Retirement System (2010) 186
Cal.App.4th 69, 84.) “For example, where existing and absent parties' interests
are sufficiently aligned such that the absent¿party's rights will not be
affected or impaired by the judgment or proceeding, the absent party need not
be joined.” (Ibid.)  
A.   
Necessary
Party Under Code of Civil Procedure Section 389(a)
 
Plaintiff Keys moves to join Maya Giuliani (“Giuliani”) as an
additional plaintiff to the Complaint, arguing that Giuliani is a necessary
party because complete relief cannot be accorded among the current parties.
(Mot. at p. 4)
 
The “complete relief” clause requires joinder
when nonjoinder precludes the court from effecting relief not in some overall
sense, but between extant parties. (Countrywide
Home Loans, Inc. v. Superior Court (1999) 69 Cal.App.4th 785, 794 (Countrywide).)
“Properly interpreted, [the ‘complete relief’ clause] is not invoked simply
because some absentee may cause future litigation.” (Ibid.)
 
Here, Keys’s
counsel, Stephanie H. Ng (“Ng”), claims that Giuliani was the front passenger in
Ramian’s vehicle at the time of the collision (Mot. at p. 2), and has “retained
counsel specifically for claims arising out of the same transaction and
occurrence.” (Ng Decl. ¶¶ 3, 6.)
 
The Court
finds that the above evidence, assuming it to be true, is insufficient to establish
that Giuliani is a necessary party to the Complaint. 
 
First, the
implication of Giulian’s potential future litigation based on the same
collision does not invoke the “complete relief” clause under the Code of Civil
Procedure section 389, subdivision (a). (Countrywide, supra, 69 Cal.App.4th at
p. 794.) 
 
Second, even
focusing on the “arising out of the same transaction and occurrence” element, Ng’s
statement merely establishes that Keys and Giuliani possess independent claims
against Defendants for their respective injuries. Assuming Keys prevails in
this action, her damages can be ascertained, and judgment can be rendered even
if Giuliani is not a party. Thus, it follows that the joinder is not necessary
to accord Keys’s own “complete relief.” 
 
Third, Keys
has failed to show that nonjoinder could pose a risk of harm to either Giuliani
or herself. Keys argues that Defendants’ settlement within available policy
limits could potentially affecting Giuliani’s future recovery because “[t]he
allocation and availability of policy limits would be in question if Giuliani
remains a non-party.” (Mot. 5.) However, Keys fails to specify whether the
policy limit applies per person or per accident. Giuliani retains her right to
pursue a separate action and seek damages beyond the policy limit. Furthermore,
if settlement occurs, Giuliani’s interests remain unaffected by Keys’s good faith
settlement determination, as Giuliani is not a “joint tortfeasor” but rather a
potential co-claimant.
 
The Court also
determines that Giuliani’s willingness to voluntarily join, while noted by
Keys, is irrelevant under Code of Civil Procedure section 389, subdivision (a),
which does not consider a potential party’s voluntary participation as grounds
for necessary joinder. 
 
Accordingly,
the Court finds that Keys has failed to establish that Giuliani is a necessary
party to the Complaint. 
 
Therefore, the
Court DENIES the Motion. 
 
 
CONCLUSION
 
Plaintiff Sarah Keys’s Motion for
Joinder is DENIED.
 
Moving
party to give notice.