  Case Number:  21SMCV01658    Hearing Date:   October 6, 2023    Dept:  I This is a fee motion brought by Rushmore Loan Management
Services and Athene Annuity and Life Assurance Co after they successfully
obtained summary judgment.  They claim
fees pursuant to the Deed of Trust (DOT) and the Promissory Note.
Civil Code section 1717 provides an exception to the
American Rule that each party must pay for its own lawyer, win or lose.  It states that where a contract provides that
the prevailing party is entitled to fees, that clause will apply to both
parties to the contract even if the contract purports to give a fee award only
to one of the parties if it prevails. 
The Code of Civil Procedure also allows recovery of attorneys’ fees where
authorized by contract.  Here, the moving
parties were unquestionably the prevailing parties, having obtained summary
judgment.  They are therefore entitled to
recover their fees to the extent that there is a contractual basis to do so,
although the fees must nonetheless be reasonable and necessary.
In their moving papers, defendants focused on Section 9 of
the DOT.  That section states that if
defendants are forced to take action to protect their interest, the
costs—including reasonable attorneys’ fees—can be added to the debt.  The court agrees with plaintiff that this
clause does not authorize fees.  While
the case upon which plaintiff relies is distinguishable (Hill v. Affirmed
Housing Group (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 1192), the case and the clause both
suggest that the attorneys’ fees are added to the loan balance, not that they
can be recovered separately by way of motion. 
Thus, it might well have been appropriate to include a request for the
fees as part of the motion for summary judgment (to the extent the amount is
not disputed), but Section 9 does not allow a separate fee motion.
However, defendants also adverted to three other
provisions—two in the DOT and one in the Note—that purportedly authorize
fees.  While not discussed at length,
they were both mentioned and quoted in the motion’s text.  Those provisions are section 14 and 22 of the
DOT and 6(E) of the Note.  Plaintiff did
not discuss either in its opposition.  In
the reply, defendants state that both are sufficient.  The court believes that none of the three
clauses is quite as clear as defendants would like.  The court will give plaintiff an opportunity
to address those clauses in writing. 
Plaintiff may file a brief, not to exceed 7 pages, addressing those
three clauses no later than October 17, 2023. 
Defendants may file a reply, not to exceed 5 pages, no later than
October 27, 2023.  The court will
thereafter rule from chambers.
Plaintiff also contends that the fees are excessive.  Defendants seek $32,282.60 in fees and
$2464.46 in costs (not court costs). 
Defendants have submitted redacted bills to support those numbers.  The court has reviewed the submission and
finds that the hourly rates and number of hours billed were reasonable.  The court will verify that the amounts in the
bills were in fact billed and paid in full, but assuming that they were, the
court is inclined to agree that the fees are reasonable.  This case went through a heavily contested
preliminary injunction stage as well as demurrer, discovery, and a motion for
summary judgment.  The amount sought is
reasonable for that amount of work.