 Case Number:  22SMCV02782    Hearing Date:   October 6, 2023    Dept:  I Plaintiff brings three motions to compel.  They relate to special interrogatories, form
interrogatories, and requests for production. 
Plaintiff served the discovery on March 20, 2023.  Defendant sought and obtained three
extensions to respond, but never did respond. 
Plaintiff tried to set up a call to discuss the matter, contending that
all objections were waived.  There was a
call, but as of July 21, 2023, defendant had still provided no responses.  Plaintiff warned defendant that the motions
to compel were coming.  On August 1, 2023,
defendant said responses were coming soon, but as of August 24, 2023, none had
been provided.  There is no opposition to
the motions to compel.
The motions to compel are GRANTED.  Defendant will serve complete and verified
responses without objection, as well as the documents requested, within 30
calendar days of today.  The request for
sanctions is GRANTED.  There was no
opposition so there can be no fees for the reply.  Further, it seems that the number of hours
for the meet and confer (5 hours for each motion) is excessive.  The court will grant 3 hours for all the
motions combined (as whatever meet and confer there was likely applied to all
motions).  The court will also grant time
for preparing the motions, but they are about the easiest motions to write and
they are cut and paste of one another. 
The court will allow 5 hours total for that.  There will be only one hearing, so the time
can only be counted once.  Further,
because counsel is likely to appear remotely and therefore can do other things
while waiting for the case to be called, and because the actual hearing is not
likely to be more than a half hour, the court will allow 1 hour total to
prepare for and attend the hearing.  That
is a total of 9 hours.  The hourly rate
is reasonable, so the court will award 9 x $325, or $2925 plus the filing fee
of $60 for each motion.  That is $3185
total sanctions, payable within 30 days by defendant but not counsel.