 Case Number:  22SMCV02965    Hearing Date:   October 6, 2023    Dept:  I The motion to vacate the default is GRANTED.  Defendant will file a standalone answer
within 5 court days.  This order does not
include leave to file a cross-action.  If
defendant wishes to file a cross-action, defendant must seek leave of court to
do so.
Plaintiff sues defendant in a construction defect case.  It is somewhat associated with another case, Talley.
In that other case, plaintiff’s counsel spoke to an attorney who represented
the moving parties here.  Although
plaintiff’s counsel did speak to defense counsel, plaintiff’s counsel here does
not appear to be representing anyone in Talley.  In any case, plaintiff’s counsel appears to
have reached out to defense counsel in Talley and may have been told
that counsel no longer represented defendants. 
Plaintiff tried to serve defendant’s at Cartznes’ home, Meyers’ home,
and Precision’s address but all attempts were unsuccessful.
In March 2023, plaintiff’s counsel learned that there was
new defense counsel in Talley. 
Plaintiff’s counsel spoke to new counsel who said he could not accept
service because new counsel was hired as insurance counsel and only in that
other case.  However, that counsel said
that she would forward the complaint to the carrier, Argo.  Plaintiff’s counsel then applied to serve by
publication and service on the Secretary of State, and the applications were
granted.  Plaintiff’s counsel noted the
difficulty serving defendants, including one time when a person told the
process server that Cartznes’ address was incorrect (even though it likely was
correct).  Oddly, the court did not
include its usual language requiring plaintiff to send the documents by
certified mail to all known defense addresses. 
Counsel for the defense in the Talley matter stated
that between April 17, to August 11, she received no notification of the
service by publication or the intent to seek default.  And that counsel, Schoneman, was assigned to
the instant case by the carrier on August 11, 2023.
Defendants claim the default should be set aside because
plaintiff’s counsel never told Schoneman that service had been accomplished (by
publication) or defaults entered. 
Defendants state that had they known that service had been accomplished,
they would have answered and litigated; they claim they were just waiting to be
served.  They now seek relief under
section 473, which allows the court to grant relief if a timely application is
made and there is a showing of “mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable
neglect.”  Only "very slight evidence” is
required in most cases.  (Kramer v.
Traditional Escrow, Inc. (2020) 56 Cal.App.5th 13.) 
Plaintiff argues it would be a miscarriage of justice if the
motion is granted.  Plaintiff claims
defendants have been evading service and that this is simply tactical.  It is fair to say that the opposition’s tone
drips anger.  That tone is
unhelpful.  Among other things, it might
well be that plaintiff will prevail and that defendants are bad actors on the
merits.  Or not.  But the issue is not really the crux of the
motion now at issue.
The evidence suggests that there is some reason to believe
that defendants were aware of the suit or were turning a deliberate blind eye
to the question.  They certainly did
nothing to assist in the service process, which is a tactic that bodes ill for
the future and will not ultimately serve them well.  But for these purposes, their required
showing is very slight.  And whether
defendants were evading service is an open question.  In almost all cases, the process server was
there during working hours—it could well be that the reason no one answered the
door most times was because no one was at home, not because someone was hiding
in the closet trying to evade service.
It is also true that plaintiff’s counsel could easily have
spoken to Schoneman and state that service was being done by way of
publication.  Schoneman might well, under
those circumstances, have obtained authority to accept service or have answered
to avoid the issue.  One does not know
because plaintiff’s counsel did not try. 
Nor does the court see prejudice. 
While it is true plaintiff will to prove the case, that is just what
happens in litigation, not prejudice.  As
to costs, they are discretionary.  (This
is not a situation where counsel has submitted a declaration of fault.)  The court will inquire as to the actual costs
associated with filing the request for entry of default judgment.  The court is likely to require defendant to
pay that amount.  While plaintiff could
have done more, defendants’ claim of surprise that there was a lawsuit does
ring somewhat hollow.
The court STRONGLY advises all parties to do a re-set on
relations.  Otherwise, this will be a
long, painful, and expensive experience for everyone.