 Case Number:  23STCV06104    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2023    Dept:  71  
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



WOOK KIM,
  
  
         vs.
 
PARADIGM ASSETS
  MANAGEMEST, LLC, et al.


 Case No.: 
  23STCV06104
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  October 4, 2023



 
Defendants JHPDE SPV II, LLC’s, Paradigm Assets Management, LLC’s, and
Headway Capital, LLC’s
demurrer to pro per Plaintiff Wook Kim’s complaint
is sustained with 20 days leave to amend as to
the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th, 6th, 7th, and 8th causes of action.
 
Defendants’
demurrer to Plaintiff’s complaint is sustained without leave to amend as
to the 3rd and 7th causes of action with regards to Defendant Headway Capital,
LLC.
 
          Defendants JHPDE SPV II, LLC
[erroneously sued as JHPDE SVP II, LLC] (“SPV II”), Paradigm Assets
Management, LLC (“PAM”), and Headway Capital, LLC (“Headway”) (collectively,
“Defendants”) demur to pro per Plaintiff Wook Kim’s (“Kim”)
(“Plaintiff”) complaint (“Complaint”). 
(Notice of Demurrer, pgs. 1-2.)
 
Request for
Judicial Notice
Defendants’ 5/4/23
request for judicial notice of the California Department of Business Oversight’s
Active License to Headway, issued on January 19, 2016, License No. 60DBO 44216,
is granted.  (D-RJN, Exh. 1.)
 
Meet and Confer
Before filing a demurrer,
the moving party must meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who filed the pleading to attempt to reach an agreement that would resolve the
objections to the pleading and obviate the need for filing the demurrer.  (C.C.P. §430.41.)

Defendants’ counsel
filed a declaration stating that on May 3, 2023, he provided Plaintiff with a
copy of the demurrer and requested a time to discuss the matter, to which
Defendants did not receive a response.  (Decl.
of Kane ¶5.)  Defendant’s counsel declares that Defendants believe
that any meet and confer attempts with Plaintiff would more than likely be
futile.  (Decl. of Kane ¶7.)    Defendants’ counsel’s declaration is
insufficient per the requirements of C.C.P. §430.41(a).  (C.C.P. §430.41(a).)  However, a determination by the court that
the meet and confer process was insufficient is not grounds to overrule a
demurrer.  (C.C.P. §430.41(b).)  Therefore, the Court will consider the
instant demurrer.
 
          Background
          Plaintiff filed his operative
Complaint against Defendants on March 20, 2023, alleging eight causes of
action: (1) breach of contract; (2) breach of the covenant of good faith and
fair dealing; (3) negligence; (4) negligent misrepresentation; (5) violation of
the Fair Credit Reporting Act (“FCRA”); (6) violation of California’s unfair
competition law and Business and Professions Code §17200; (7) violation of
usury law; and (8) fraud. Plaintiff’s causes of action stem from Defendants’
alleged attempts to collect a debt from Plaintiff.  (Complaint, pg. 3.)
          On May 4, 2023, Defendants filed the
instant demurrer.  Plaintiff filed his
opposition on September 29, 2023.  As of
the date of this hearing Defendants have not filed a reply.
 
Demurrer
Summary of
Demurrer
Defendants demur on the basis that Plaintiff’s 1st through 8th causes of action
fail to state facts sufficient to constitute causes of action against Defendant
and are uncertain.  (Notice Demurrer, pgs.
1-2; C.C.P. §§430.10(e), (f).)
 
Legal Standard
“[A] demurrer tests the legal
sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc.
(2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  A
demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the
pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially
noticeable.  (See Donabedian v.
Mercury Insurance Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 [in ruling on a
demurrer, a court may not consider declarations, matters not subject to
judicial notice, or documents not accepted for the truth of their
contents].)  For purposes of ruling on a
demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed to be true, but the
reviewing court does not assume the truth of conclusions of law.  (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital District
(1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)
 
Failure to State a Claim
Breach of Contract & Breach
of Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing (1st &
2nd COAs)
A cause of action for breach of
contract requires the following elements: (1) the existence of a contract; (2)
plaintiff’s performance or non-performance; (3) defendant’s breach of the
contract; and (4) damages suffered by plaintiff.  (Reichert v. General Insurance Co.
(1968) 68 Cal.2d 822, 830.)
Plaintiff must plead the contract,
plaintiff’s performance or excuse for non-performance, defendant’s breach, and
damage to plaintiff therefrom.  (Acoustics, Inc.
v. Trepte Construction Co. (1971) 14 Cal.App.3d 887, 913.)  Although a written contract is usually pleaded
by alleging its making and attaching a copy which is incorporated by reference,
a written contract can also be pleaded by alleging the making and the substance
of the relevant terms.  (Construction
Protective Services, Inc. v. TIG Specialty Insurance Co. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 189, 198-199; Perry v.
Robertson (1988) 201 Cal.App.3d 333, 341.)  “An oral contract may be pleaded generally as
to its effect, because it is rarely possible to allege the exact words.
[Citation.] A demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a
complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified
under modern discovery procedures. [Citations.]”  (Khoury v. Maly’s of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)  That plaintiff could not
allege with specificity the exact terms of the contract does not preclude
statement of a cause of action.  (Id.)
To allege a cause of action for breach
of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, plaintiff must allege
the following elements: (1) plaintiff and defendant entered into a contract; (2)
plaintiff did all, or substantially all, of the
significant things that the contract required him to do, or that he was excused
from having to do those things; (3) all conditions required for defendant’s
performance had occurred, or were excused; (4) defendant engaged in specified
conduct that plaintiff claims prevented plaintiff from receiving the benefits
under the contract; (5) that by doing so, defendant did not act fairly and in
good faith; and (6) plaintiff was harmed by defendant’s conduct.  (See CACI 325.)
Plaintiff alleges SPV II and Headway
breached their contract by failing to give Plaintiff the necessary evidence,
denying him an opportunity to dispute the debt, and hurting his credit score
without cause.  (Complaint,
pg. 4.)  Plaintiff alleges as a debtor, he
contracted with defendants to furnish him with an itemized billing or invoice
to verify the debt’s veracity and challenge it. 
(Complaint, pg. 4.) 
Plaintiff fails to plead the existence
of a written or oral contract, either by attaching the contract or alleging the
terms of the contract, and with whom the contract was made.  (Construction Protective Services, Inc., 29 Cal.4th at pgs. 198-199; Khoury, 14 Cal.App.4th at pg. 616.)  Plaintiff fails to allege his performance or
non-performance of the contract and which defendants breached the contract, and
facts regarding the breach of the contract. 
(Reichert, 68 Cal.2d at pg. 830.)
With regards to the breach of covenant
of good faith and fair dealing, Plaintiff fails to allege he did all, or
substantially all, of the significant things that the contract required him to
do, or that he was excused from having to do those things; that all conditions
required for defendant’s performance had occurred, or were excused; and that by
doing so, defendant did not act fairly and in good faith.  (See CACI 325.)
Accordingly, Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s 1st and 2nd causes
of action for breach of contract and breach of the covenant of good faith and
fair dealing, respectively, is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.
 
Negligence
(3rd COA)

To state a negligence claim, a plaintiff must allege: (1) the
defendant owed the plaintiff a duty of care; (2) the defendant breached that
duty; and (3) the breach proximately caused the plaintiff’s damages or
injuries.  (Lueras v. BAC Home Loans
Servicing, LP (2013) 221 Cal.App.4th 49, 62.)  “The existence of a duty of care owed by a
defendant to a plaintiff is a prerequisite to establish a claim for
negligence.”  (Nymark v. Heart Federal
Savings & Loan Ass’n (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 1089, 1096.)
Plaintiff alleges in debt collection, Defendants owed him a duty
of care to communicate with him carefully and truthfully about the purported
debt.  (Complaint,
pg. 5.)  Plaintiff alleges Defendants
negligently breached this responsibility because they were required by law to
give plaintiff itemized billing or invoices to verify the debt.  (Complaint, pg. 5.)  Plaintiff alleges Defendants also failed to
notify him and allow him to fight the debt before reporting it to credit
agencies.  (Complaint, pg. 5.)  Plaintiff alleges these activities hurt his
credit score and made it harder to get loans.  (Complaint, pg. 5.)  Plaintiff alleges he paid to rehabilitate his
credit and lost his reputation.  (Complaint,
pg. 5.)
Plaintiff’s negligence claim against Headway, a debt lender, fails
as a matter of law because Headway owed him no duty of care.  Lenders and borrowers operate at arm’s length.
 (Lueras, 221 Cal.App.4th at pg.
63, citations omitted.)  Lenders do not
owe borrowers a duty of care unless their involvement in the loan transaction
exceeds the scope of their “conventional role as a mere lender of money.”  (Nymark, 231 Cal.App.3d at pg. 1095.)  Plaintiff fails to allege SPV II and PAM,
debt collectors, owe Plaintiff a duty of care under California law.
Accordingly, Defendants’
demurrer to Plaintiff’s 3rd cause of action is sustained with 20 days
leave to amend as
to SPV II and PAM.  Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s 3rd cause
of action is sustained without leave to amend as to Headway.
 
Negligent
Misrepresentation & Fraud (4th & 8th COAs)
“Negligent misrepresentation requires an assertion of fact,
falsity of that assertion, and the tortfeasor’s lack of reasonable grounds for
believing the assertion to be true. It also requires the tortfeasor’s intent to
induce reliance, justifiable reliance by the person to whom the false assertion
of fact was made, and damages to that person. An implied assertion of fact is
‘not enough’ to support liability.”  (SI
59 LLC v. Variel Warner Ventures, LLC (2018) 29 Cal.App.5th 146, 154,
internal citation omitted.)
“The elements of fraud that will give rise to a tort action for
deceit are: ‘(a) misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or
nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity (or ‘scienter’); (c) intent to
defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting
damage.’”  (Engalla v. Permanente
Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 974, internal quotation marks
omitted.)
“In California, fraud must be pled specifically; general and
conclusory allegations do not suffice . . . ‘This particularity requirement
necessitates pleading facts which ‘show how, when, where, to
whom, and by what means the representations were tendered.’’”  (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12
Cal.4th 631, 645, citations omitted.)

Plaintiff alleges Defendants withheld the debt information they
were required to provide.  (Complaint,
pg. 7.)  Plaintiff alleges Defendants failed
to warn him that they would report the supposed debt to credit reporting
agencies, which would hurt his credit score and ability to get credit.  (Complaint, pg. 7.)  Plaintiff alleges Defendants did not tell
him he could contest the debt or give him any information to prove it.  (Complaint, pg. 7.)  Plaintiff alleges these omissions influenced his
debt repayment decision.  (Complaint, pg. 7.)  Plaintiff alleges Defendants had no reason to
believe that the information they were hiding was truthful or that Plaintiff
had no right to know it; thus, their failure to do so was a careless misrepresentation.  (Complaint, pg. 7.)
Plaintiff alleges Defendants committed fraud by purposefully
understating his debt and erroneously reporting it to credit reporting
agencies.  (Complaint, pg.
9.)  Plaintiff alleges Defendants
reportedly pursued collection procedures against Plaintiff without providing
itemized billing or invoices to verify the amount or allow him to dispute it.  (Complaint, pg. 9.)  Plaintiff alleges Defendants reported the
supposed debt to credit reporting agencies, hurting his credit score and
ability to receive credit.  (Complaint,
pg. 9.)  Plaintiff alleges Defendants’ actions
caused him mental agony, embarrassment, and missed opportunities, and credit repair
fees added to his financial woes and tarnished his reputation.  (Complaint, pg. 9.)
Plaintiff fails to allege his causes of action for negligent
misrepresentation and fraud because the claims are not stated with the
requisite particularity; Plaintiff fails to state “how, when, where, to whom,
and by what means the representations were tendered,” and in the case of
a corporate defendant, the plaintiff must allege the names of the persons who
made the representations, their authority to speak on behalf of the
corporation, to whom they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when the
representation was made.  (Lazar, 12 Cal.4th at pg. 645.)
Accordingly,
Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s 4th and 8th causes of action is sustained with
20 days leave to amend.

 
Violation
of FCRA (5th COA)
FCRA
(15 U.S.C. §1681 et seq.) was adopted by Congress to ensure accuracy and
fairness in credit reporting and to protect the rights of individual consumers.
 (See 15 U.S.C. §1681(b).)  “Section 623 of the FCRA imposes two general
requirements: the duty to provide accurate information (15 U.S.C. §1681s–2)(a))
and the duty to investigate the accuracy of reported information upon receiving
notice of a dispute (15 U.S.C. §1681s–2(b)).” 
(Sanai v. Saltz (2009) 170 Cal.App.4th 746, 763-765, as
modified on denial of reh’g (Feb. 18, 2009).)  “To trigger the latter set of duties, however,
notice to the furnisher of information must be given pursuant to section
611(a)(2) of the FCRA (15 U.S.C. § 1681i(a)(2)), which requires a consumer
credit reporting agency to reinvestigate the current accuracy of information in
its files after being notified by the consumer of a dispute and to notify the
person who furnished it with the information about the dispute. That is, to
activate the duties imposed by section 623(b) of the FCRA, notice of the
dispute must come to the furnisher of the information . . . from the credit
reporting agency . . . not directly from the consumer . . . himself. [Citation.]
‘This means that a furnisher of credit information . . . has no responsibility
to investigate a credit dispute until after it receives notice from a consumer
reporting agency. Under the statutory language notification from a consumer is
not enough.’ [Citations.].”  (Sanai, 170 Cal.App.4th at 764-765.)
Plaintiff alleges Defendants
violated the FCRA by submitting false information to credit reporting agencies,
neglecting to investigate Plaintiff’s objections, and failing to update the information.  (Complaint, pg. 7.)  Plaintiff alleges Defendants knowingly
violated the FCRA by reporting incorrect information.  (Complaint, pg.
7.)  Plaintiff alleges Defendants
reported the purported debt to credit reporting agencies, hurting Plaintiff’s
credit score and ability to get credit. 
(Complaint, pg. 7.)  Plaintiff
alleges Defendants did not furnish plaintiff with detailed billing or invoices
to verify the debt’s veracity or enable him to challenge it.  (Complaint, pg. 7.)  Plaintiff alleges he contested the debt with
the Defendants, who had to investigate the disputed facts.   (Complaint, pg. 7.)  Plaintiff alleges Defendants neglected to
investigate plaintiff’s objections and continued to disclose false information
to credit reporting agencies.  (Complaint, pg. 7.) 
Plaintiff alleges Defendants’ inability to rectify the erroneous
information has harmed his credit score and ability to get credit.  (Complaint, pg. 8.)
Plaintiff fails to allege Defendants
received notice of a dispute through a consumer reporting agency.  (Sanai, 170 Cal.App.4th at 765.)
Accordingly,
Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s 5th cause of action is sustained with
20 days leave to amend.

 
Violation
of UCL (6th COA)
A
cause of action for violation of California’s UCL requires plaintiff to allege
the following: (1) a business practice; (2) that is unfair, unlawful or
fraudulent; and (3) authorized remedy.  (Paulus
v. Bob Lynch Ford, Inc. (2006) 139 Cal.App.4th 659, 676.)
By
proscribing “any unlawful” business act or practice, the UCL “borrows” rules
set out in other laws and makes violations of those rules independently
actionable.  (Zhang v. Superior Court
(2013) 57 Cal.4th 364, 370.)  A
“violation of another law is a predicate for stating a cause of action under
the UCL’s unlawful prong.”  (Berryman
v. Merit Property Management, Inc. (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 1544, 1554.)  Plaintiff must allege a violation of law to
support a UCL claim. If there is no violation of another law, defendant cannot
be held liable for an “unlawful” business practice.  (Graham v. Bank of America, N.A. (2014)
226 Cal.App.4th 594, 610 [demurrer to SAC which failed to allege violation of a
law was properly sustained without leave to amend].)  “When a statutory claim fails, a derivative
UCL claim also fails.” 
(Aleksick v. 7-Eleven, Inc. (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 1176, 1185.)
Plaintiff
alleges defendants violated the FDCPA and FCRA.  (Complaint, pg. 8.)  Plaintiff alleges these offences include
fraudulently disclosing the purported debt to credit reporting agencies,
providing inaccurate information, and failing to examine Plaintiff’s dispute
properly.  (Complaint,
pg. 8.)  Plaintiff alleges Defendants
also committed unfair business practices by not providing plaintiff with itemized
invoicing or invoices to prove the debt.  (Complaint, pg. 8.)  Plaintiff alleges Defendants pursued Plaintiff’s
debt without letting him challenge it.  (Complaint, pg. 8.)  Plaintiff alleges he was mistreated, and the
FDCPA was violated.  (Complaint, pg.
8.)  Plaintiff alleges Defendants also reported
the claimed debt to credit reporting agencies fraudulently.  (Complaint, pg. 8.)
Plaintiff
fails to allege his underlying cause of action for violation of FCRA, and
therefore his derivative cause of action for violation of UCL also fails.  (Aleksick, 205 Cal.App.4th at pg. 1185.)
Accordingly, Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s 6th cause of
action is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.
 
Violation
of Usury Law (7th COA)
Article
XV of the Constitution of the State of California establishes usury limits
applicable to “the loan or forbearance of any money, goods, or things in action
. . . at a rate not exceeding 10 percent per annum.”  (Cal. Const., art. XV, §1.)  Article XV contains an exemption clause, which
provides that “none of the above restrictions shall apply to any obligations
of, loans made by, or forbearances of . . . any other class of persons
authorized by statute.”  (Cal. Const.,
art. XV, §1(2).)  “The essential
elements of usury are: (1) The transaction must
be a loan or forbearance; (2) the interest to be paid must exceed the statutory
maximum; (3) the loan and interest must be absolutely repayable by the
borrower; and (4) the lender must have a willful intent to enter into a usurious transaction.”  (Ghirardo v. Antonioli (1994) 8
Cal.4th 791, 798, as modified on denial of reh’g (Feb. 2, 1995).)
Plaintiff alleges Defendants illegally charged
him a high loan interest rate with an APR of 52.29%, which is in excess of
California’s 10% limit.  (Complaint, pg. 8.)  Plaintiff
alleges Defendants charged him this interest rate without providing him with
disclosures or paperwork to explain or contest them.  (Complaint, pg. 9.)  
Headway holds a finance-lender license and is
a licensed finance lender.  (D-RJN, Exh.
1.)  Therefore, as a licensed finance
lender, Headway is a member a “class of persons authorized by
statute,” namely Financial Code §22002.  (Moore
v. Hill (2010) 188 Cal.App.4th 1267, 1280, citing
Fin. Code §22002.)  This exception applies equally to “any
successor in interest to any loan or forbearance exempted under this article.”  (Montgomery v. GCFS, Inc. (2015) 237
Cal.App.4th 724, 732, citing Cal. Const., art. XV, §1.)  Headway is the only Defendant alleged in the
Complaint to be a lender.  (Complaint,
pg. 3.)  Plaintiff’s Complaint is silent
as to Headway’s relationship with SPV II and PAM;
therefore, it is unclear what allegations are made against the entities under
the cause of action.  (See
Complaint.)
Accordingly, Defendants’
demurrer to Plaintiff’s 7th cause of action is sustained with 20
days leave to amend as to SPV II and PAM. 
Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s 7th cause of action is sustained without
leave to amend as to Headway.
 
Uncertainty
A demurrer for uncertainty will be sustained only where the
complaint is so bad that defendant cannot reasonably respond—i.e., he or she
cannot reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what
counts or claims are directed against him or her.  (Khoury v. Maly’s of
California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) 
If the complaint contains enough facts to apprise defendant of the
issues it is being asked to meet, failure to label each cause of action is not
ground for demurrer: “Although inconvenient, annoying and inconsiderate, the
lack of labels . . . does not substantially impair [defendant’s] ability to
understand the complaint.” (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986)
185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139 n.2.) 
Where a demurrer is made upon this ground, it must distinctly
specify exactly how or why the pleading is uncertain, and where such
uncertainty appears (by reference to page and line numbers of the
complaint).  (See Fenton v. Groveland Community Services District
(1982) 135 Cal.App.3d 797, 809.) 
Defendants fail to specify where the uncertainty appears by
reference to page line and numbers in the complaint.  (See id.) 
Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer on the basis of uncertainty is
overruled. 
 
          Conclusion
Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th,
5th, 6th, 7th, and 8th causes
of action in his Complaint is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.
Defendants’ demurrer to
Plaintiff’s 3rd and 7th causes of action are sustained without leave to
amend as to Headway.

Moving Party to give notice.
 
 
Dated: 
October _____, 2023
                                                                             





  