 Case Number:  23STCV23671    Hearing Date:   September 9, 2024    Dept:  78 


BLAIR
  COBB,
Plaintiff(s),
vs.
ELSIE
  I. WYNN, et al.,
Defendant(s).


Case No.:


23STCV23671




Hearing
  Date:


September
  9, 2024








[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER GRANTING MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION



 
I.
        BACKGROUND
Plaintiffs Blair Cobb and Adam Eatroff (collectively,
“Plaintiffs”) filed a First Amended Complaint against defendants Elsie I. Wynn
(“Wynn”), 3557 Stoner, LLC, Thomas James Capital, Inc., Thomas Beadel, and Does
1 to 25 for damages arising from construction and destruction of a stone
retaining wall, resulting in loss of use and loss of value of property. The
complaint sets forth two causes of action for negligence and nuisance.
Plaintiffs move to compel the deposition of Wynn, arguing
that Wunn and her counsel have refused all reasonable meet and confer efforts,
and that her counsel continues to assert Wynn has dementia without providing
evidence.
In opposition, Wynn, Thomas James Capital, Inc. and Thomas
Beadel (collectively, “Defendants”) argue that her condition and age makes her
deposition an unreasonable burden, and that Plaintiffs will not agree to take
Wynn’s deposition off-calendar.
In reply, Plaintiffs contend this Court denied Defendants’
motion for protective order, and had found that there was no evidence of Wynn’s
incompetency.
 
II.        LEGAL
STANDARD
            Any party may obtain discovery,
subject to restrictions, by taking the oral deposition of any person, including
any party to the action.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.010.)¿ A properly served
deposition notice is effective to require a party or party-affiliated deponent
to attend and to testify, as well as to produce documents for inspection and
copying.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.280, subd. (a).)
The party served with a deposition notice waives any error
or irregularity unless that party promptly serves a written objection at least
three calendar days prior to the date for which the deposition is scheduled.¿
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.410, subd. (a).)¿ In addition to serving this written
objection, a party may also move for an order staying the taking of the
deposition and quashing the deposition notice.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.410,
subd. (c).)
“If, after service of a deposition notice, a party . . .
without having served a valid objection . . . fails to appear for examination,
or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document . . .
described in the deposition notice, the party giving notice may move for an
order compelling deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production . . .
of any document . . . described in the deposition notice.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.450, subd. (a).)
As for protective orders, the court, for good cause shown,
may make any order that justice requires to protect any party, deponent, or
other natural person or organization from unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment,
or oppression, or undue burden and expense. This protective order may direct
that the deposition not be taken at all.¿ (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.420 (b)(1).)
            
III.      DISCUSSION
Indeed, this Court had Defendants’ motion
for a protective order that Wynn’s deposition not be taken at all, finding that
Defendants have not provided sufficient evidence establishing Wynn’s
incompetency. (Min. Order, Aug 2, 2024.) As such, Defendants’ objection resting
on those grounds is not valid. To date, there remains no medical evidence
establishing Wynn’s incompetency, nor is there any evidence that Plaintiffs are
attempting to use the deposition to take advantage of Wynn’s “fragile condition
and poor memory to coerce her into confessing to liability in relation to a
technical construction issue.” (Opp. 6:14-15.) An unsupported accusation is not
a demonstration that there has been a “clear abuse of the discovery process,” (Opp.
6:15-16), especially in light of this Court having already denied Defendants’
motion for protective order. 
Plaintiffs previously asserted that they are aware of Wynn’s
age, and that Plaintiffs will take care in seeking her testimony by having
offered to take her deposition at her home. (Min. Order, Aug. 2, 2024.) This
assertion that Plaintiffs will depose Wynn at a location most comfortable for
her, including at her home, was expressed in the meet and confer efforts
between the parties. (Mot. Cosico Decl. ¶ 3; Exh. A.) Thus, the motion will be
granted, with those concessions in mind. In terms of the request to compel
production of documents, the issue appears to be moot given the parties’ participation
at IDC with Judge Feeney, and the stipulation to authenticity and admissibility
of documents produced in response to Wynn deposition notice. (Stip. &
Order, Aug. 14, 2024.)
Lastly, CCP § 2025.450(g)(1) requires the Court to impose sanctions
unless it finds the deponent acted with substantial justification or there are
circumstances that render imposition of sanctions unjust. Here, the Court finds
no substantial justification for this continuing issue after Defendants’ motion
for protective order had been denied. Plaintiffs here request monetary
sanctions against Wynn and her counsel in the amount of $2,2640.85. A court has
discretion to award sanctions that are “suitable and necessary to enable the
party seeking discovery to obtain the objects of the discovery he seeks” but
they should not be punitive in nature or levied for the purposes of punishing
an offending party. (Vallbona v. Springer (1996) 43 Cal.App.4th 1525,
1545.) The Court will grant monetary sanctions, but not to the full extent
requested, as provided below.
 
IV.       CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, the motion to compel Wynn’s
deposition is GRANTED. (CCP § 2025.450(a).) The parties are ordered to meet and
confer on a date, time, and location most convenient to conduct Wynn’s
deposition, and Wynn is ordered to appear for her deposition at a date, time,
and location mutually agreed upon by the parties. If Wynn’s counsel does not
meaningfully participate in the meet and confer discussion, then Plaintiffs may
unilaterally notice Wynn’s deposition and Wynn is ordered to appear for
deposition at a date, time, and location at Plaintiffs’ election. However, Plaintiffs
must give at least ten days’ notice of the deposition (notice extended per Code
if by other than personal service).
As for monetary sanctions, Plaintiffs are awarded two hours
collectively for the moving papers and reply, and one hour to appear at the
hearing, at a requested rate of $400 per hour, for a total of $1,200.00 in
attorney fees. Sanctions are imposed against Wynn and her counsel, jointly and
severally. Wynn and/or her counsel are ordered to pay sanctions to Plaintiffs,
by and through counsel of record, in the total amount of $1,200.00, within
twenty (20) days
 
Moving Party is ordered to give notice.
 
DATED:
September 6, 2024
__________________________
Hon. Michelle C. Kim
Judge of the Superior Court
 
PLEASE
TAKE NOTICE:
•           Parties
are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if
they can reach an agreement.
•           If
a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an
email to the court at SMCDEPT78@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number. The body of the email must include the hearing
date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting.
•           Unless
all parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should
arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument. You
should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
•           If
the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion
off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court. After the
Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of
the subject motion without leave.