 Case Number:  21STCV18571    Hearing Date:   September 9, 2024    Dept:  78 


JESSE
  LAURICELLA, 
Plaintiff(s),
vs. 
FIREFLY
  FABRICATIONS, LLC, et al., 
Defendant(s). 


Case
  No.: 


21STCV18571




Hearing
  Date: 


September
  9, 2024








[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER DENYING WITHOUT PREJUDICE MOTION
  FOR SUBSTITUTION



 
I.
        BACKGROUND
Plaintiff Jesse Lauricella (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against defendants Firefly Fabrications, Justin Campbell, and Does 1 through 20
for allegations of a failure to timely make repairs and upgrades to a boat
owned by Plaintiff pursuant to a contractual agreement.
Plaintiff’s counsel has now filed this motion seeking
Matthew Thompson (“Thompson”) to be substituted as Plaintiff’s personal
representative because of Plaintiff’s passing.
The motion was initially heard on July 9, 2024. The Court
noted there was no declaration by Thompson to satisfy the requirements of Code
Civ. Proc., § 377.32, and continued the motion to September 9, 2024. Plaintiff
was ordered to file a supplemental declaration curing the noted defect no later
than eight court days prior to the hearing. (Min. Order, July 9, 2024.)
Based upon the continued hearing date, the supplemental
declaration was due no later than August 27, 2024. To date, no supplemental
declaration had been filed.
 
II.        LEGAL
STANDARD
            “A cause of action that survives the
death of the person entitled to commence an action or proceeding passes to the
decedent’s successor in interest . . . and an action may be commenced by the
decedent’s personal representatives or, if none, by the decedent’s successor in
interest.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
377.30.)  After the death of a plaintiff,
the court, on motion, shall allow a pending action that does not abate to be
continued by the decedent’s personal representative or
successor-in-interest.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 377.31.)
            
III.      DISCUSSION 
The person who seeks to commence or continue a
pending action as the decedent’s successor-in-interest shall execute and file
an affidavit or declaration stating: (1) the decedent’s name, (2) the date and
place of decedent’s death, (3) “No proceeding is now pending in California for
administration of the decedent’s estate,” (4) a copy of the final order showing
the distribution of the decedent’s cause of action to the
successor-in-interest, if the decedent’s estate was administered, (5) either
the affiant or declarant is the decedent’s successor in interest or the affiant
or declarant is authorized to act on behalf of the decedent’s successor in
interest, with facts in support thereof, (6) “No other person has a superior
right to commence the action or proceeding or to be substituted for the
decedent in the pending action or proceeding,” and (7) the statements are true,
under penalty of perjury.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 377.32(a)(1)-(7).) Additionally, a certified copy of the decedent’s
death certificate shall be attached to the affidavit or declaration. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 377.32(c).)
Here, there is no affidavit or declaration by
Thompson to satisfy the requirements of CCP section 377.32; the sole
declaration of Plaintiff’s counsel is insufficient.
 
IV.       CONCLUSION
Plaintiff’s counsel failed to abide the Court’s July 9, 2024
Order to cure the above-noted defect by the given date. Accordingly, the motion
to substitute is DENIED without prejudice.
 
Moving Party is ordered to give notice.
 
DATED:
September 8, 2024
__________________________
Hon. Michelle C. Kim 
Judge of the Superior Court
 
PLEASE
TAKE NOTICE:
•           Parties
are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if
they can reach an agreement.
•           If
a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an
email to the court at SMCDEPT78@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number. The body of the email must include the hearing
date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting.
•           Unless
all parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should
arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument. You
should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
•           If
the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion
off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court. After the
Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of
the subject motion without leave.