  Case Number:  20STCV21303    Hearing Date:   September 9, 2024    Dept:  78 


KENNY
  KAPOOR, et al.,
Plaintiff(s),
vs.
ZALFA
  HALABY, et al.,
Defendant(s).


Case No.:


20STCV21303
  (C/W 21STCV22863, 21CHUD00470)




Hearing
  Date:


September
  9, 2024








[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER (1) SUSTAINING DEMURRER TO
  SECOND AMENDED COMPLAINT WITH LEAVE TO AMEND AND (2) GRANTING MOTION TO
  STRIKE WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND



 
I.
        BACKGROUND
This is an action that was commenced on June 5, 2020. On May
12, 2023, Plaintiffs Zalfa Halaby, Charles Elkins, and Rez Properties, LLC (collectively,
“Plaintiffs”) filed a verified Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) against
defendants Kenny Kapoor (“Kapoor”), South Shore LLC (“South Shore”), Clifford
Sullivan (“Sullivan”), First American Title Company (“FATC”), Fay Servicing LLC
(“Fay”), Rez Properties LLC (“Rez”), and Does 1 to 100 (collectively, “Defendants”)
for (1) conversion - against Kapoor, South Shore, Sullivan and Rez, (2) fraud –
against Kapoor, South Shore, Sullivan, Fay and Rez, (3) negligence – against
all Defendants, (4) unjust enrichment – against
Kapoor, South Shore, Sullivan and Rez, (5)
cancellation/rescission of written instrument - against all Defendants except
Fay and FATC, and (5) quiet title - against all Defendants except Fay and FATC.
On May 2, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an amendment to complaint
naming 1Sharpe Opportunity Intermediate Trust (“1Sharpe”) as Doe 4.
On June 4, 2024, 1Sharpe filed the instant demurrer to Plaintiffs’
SAC on the grounds that all causes of action are fatally uncertain as to
1Sharpe, and that the third, fifth, and sixth causes of action fail to state
sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action against 1Sharpe. 1Sharpe, at
the same time, filed a motion to strike Plaintiffs’ claim for punitive damages
in Paragraph 59, and the claim for attorney fees in Paragraphs 60 and 64, and
the prayer for attorney fees.
On August 26, 2024, Plaintiffs filed their opposition to
1Sharpe’s demurrer. No opposition to the motion to strike was received by this
Court.
On August 30, 2024, 1Sharpe filed its reply to the
opposition to its demurrer, and a notice of non-opposition as to the motion to
strike.
 
II.        PROCEDURAL
REQUIREMENTS
            Before filing a demurrer and/or
motion to strike, the moving party is required to meet and confer with the
party who filed the pleading demurred to for the purpose of determining whether
an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in
the demurrer. (CCP §§ 430.41(a); 435.5(a).)¿¿¿ 
            Counsel for 1Sharpe declares he and
Plaintiff’s counsel met and conferred by telephone conference on May 31, 2024
regarding the demurrer and motion to strike. (Dem. Murtagh ¶¶ 3-4.) The parties
were unable to reach an informal resolution. (Id. ¶ 5.) The Court finds 1Sharpe
fulfilled the meet and confer requirement prior to filing the demurrer and
motion to strike. 
            
III.      DEMURRER
A.    Legal Standard
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the
complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations
liberally and in context. In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be
apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)
“A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the
defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (Code
Civ. Proc., §§ 430.30, 430.70.) At the pleading stage, a plaintiff need only
allege ultimate facts sufficient to apprise the defendant of the factual basis
for the claim against him. (Semole v. Sansoucie (1972) 28 Cal. App. 3d
714, 721.) A “demurrer does not, however, admit contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law alleged in the pleading, or the construction of
instruments pleaded, or facts impossible in law.” (S. Shore Land Co. v.
Petersen (1964) 226 Cal.App.2d 725, 732 (internal citations omitted).)
B.    Discussion
1Sharpe argues that the SAC focuses on numerous
transfers of the real property commonly known as 29321 Hacienda Ranch Court in
Valencia, California 91354 (the “Property”). According to the allegations, the
Property was first owned by South Shore, and the Elkins mistakenly quitclaimed
the Property to Rez, a California LLC, when the Elkins wanted to transfer the
property to a Texas LLC with the same name. Sullivan then quitclaimed the
Property from Rez-CA to South Shore, and then from South Shore to himself. 1Sharpe
argues that it was named as defendant Doe 4 on May 2, 2024, and that neither
1Sharpe nor any of its predecessors, or as Doe defendants, are referenced
specifically in the SAC, and that none of their notes are mentioned. As such,
1Sharpe avers the SAC fails to put it on notice of any claims against it,
because there are no allegations or information as to why 1Sharpe is in this
matter when discovery cut-off is imminent. 
In opposition, Plaintiffs contend that they
discovered on March 5, 2024 that there may be an attempt to sell the Property
via Trustee Sale pursuant to a breach of Promissotry note issued by Capital
Mortgage Fund, LLC to Sullivan that secured against the property. The Note was
subsequently assigned to Lionscove Fund, LLC, and Lionscove Fund, LLC assigned
the Note to 1Sharpe. Plaintiffs argue that, except as to the fifth cause of
action, the SAC has alleged sufficient facts to establish liability against
1Sharpe. Plaintiffs acknowledge that no facts were expressly alleged against
1Sharpe as a consequence of the Doe amendment, but assert that they can include
additional facts about 1Sharpe’s role in this matter, including its acquisition
of a fraudulent loan and the unlawful foreclosure on the Property.
In reply, 1Sharpe reiterates that the generic
allegations in Paragraphs 11 and 12 of the SAC that each Doe defendant
encouraged and inducted the wrongful actions, and that Defendants conspired
with each of the other defendants in connection with the tortious and fraudulent
acts/omissions alleged, does not provide notice of facts showing 1Sharpe’s
alleged culpability.
            Here, the only
relevant claims against 1Sharpe (Doe 4) are the identified third
cause of action for negligence, fifth cause of action for
cancellation/rescission of written instrument, and sixth cause of action for
quiet title. The Court has reviewed the SAC and agrees with 1Sharpe that the
SAC fails to allege sufficient facts to maintain causes of action against it.
As conceded to by Plaintiffs, there are indeed no specific allegations against
any Doe defendant that is relevant to 1Sharpe as a Doe defendant. California is
a fact pleading jurisdiction, not a notice pleading jurisdiction like the
federal courts, such that merely putting an opposing party on notice is not
sufficient. (Bach v. County of Butte (1983) 147 Cal.App.3d 554, 561; see
Diodes, Inc. v. Franzen (1968) 260 Cal.App.2d 244, 250.) The general
allegations that each “Doe is legally responsible in some manner for the events
and happenings herein referred to and caused injuries and damages proximately
thereby to Plaintiff” (SAC at ¶ 10). “DOES 1 thru 100 encouraged and induced
the wrongful actions by the named defendants" (Id. at ¶ 11), and
“each of the Defendants conspired with each of the other defendants” (Id.
at ¶ 12) are insufficient. Where pleaded facts
of negligence and injury do not naturally give rise to an inference of
causation, plaintiffs may not allege generally that all defendants are
responsible, but instead must plead facts which establish causation as to the
act of the defendant and the injury. (Bockrath v. Aldrich Chemical Co.
(1999) 21 Cal. 4th 71, 78.)
            Accordingly, the
demurrer to the third, fifth, and sixth causes of action are sustained. Plaintiffs
aver that with leave to amend, they can cure any ambiguity defects by alleging
additional facts against 1Sharpe regarding its role with the Property and the
Property having been enjoined from being sold. The demurrer will therefore be
sustained with leave to amend.
 
IV.       MOTION TO STRIKE
1Sharpe moves to strike (1) the claim for punitive damages
in Paragraph 59 of the fifth cause of action and Paragraph 5 of the Prayer for
Relief, (2) claim for attorney’s fees in Paragraph 60 of the fifth cause of
action, (3) claim for attorney’s fees in Paragraph 64 of the sixth cause of action,
and (4) attorney fees in Paragraph 4 of the Prayer for Relief . 
As noted by 1Sharpe, Plaintiffs indeed did not file any
opposition to the motion to strike. A failure to oppose a motion may be deemed
a consent to the granting of the motion. (CRC, Rule 8.54(c).) Additionally,
Plaintiffs necessarily fail to meet their burden to show in what manner the
complaint can be amended to change the legal effect of the pleading due to the
lack of opposition. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18
Cal.3d 335, 349; Hendy v. Losse (1991) 54 Cal.3d 723, 742.)
Therefore, the the unopposed motion to strike will be
granted without leave to amend.
 
V.        CONCLUSION
            1Sharpe’s demurrer to the SAC’s third,
fifth, and sixth causes of action is SUSTAINED with 15 days leave to amend.
            1Sharpe’s motion to strike punitive
damages and attorney fees is GRANTED without leave to amend.
 
Moving Party is ordered to give notice.
 
DATED:
September 6, 2024
__________________________
Hon. Michelle C. Kim
Judge of the Superior Court
 
PLEASE
TAKE NOTICE:
•           Parties
are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if
they can reach an agreement.
•           If
a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an
email to the court at SMCDEPT78@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number. The body of the email must include the hearing
date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting.
•           Unless
all parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should
arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument. You
should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
•           If
the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion
off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court. After the
Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of
the subject motion without leave.