  Case Number:  20STCV18697    Hearing Date:   June 7, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to Compel Plaintiff Malvina Mkhchyan to Provide Further  Responses to Special Interrogatories  Motion to Compel Plaintiff Malvina Mkhchyan to Provide Further Responses to Requests  for Production   Tentative The motions are denied. Background This is  an action for premises liability arising from alleged injuries causes by a  train in Griffith Park in Los Angeles on May 19, 2018.  On May 15,  2020, Plaintiffs Malvina Mkhchyan, Ovsanna Mkhchian, Adam Bersigian (a minor by  and through his Guardian Ad Litem Ovsanna Mkhchian) (collectively “Plaintiffs”)  filed a Complaint against Defendants City of Los Angeles, Travel Town  Transportation Museum, City of Los Angeles Department of Parks and Recreation,  and Does 1 through 50, asserting claims for premises liability and general  negligence. On  September 26, 2022, Plaintiffs filed a First Amended Complaint against the same  defendants, asserting a single cause of action for premises liability.  On  October 31, 2022, Defendant City of Los Angeles (“Defendant”) filed an Answer  and a Cross-Complaint against Roes 1 through 20. On  February 16, 2023, Defendant served discovery on Plaintiffs, including Special Interrogatories (Set One) and Requests for Production (Set One) directed  to Plaintiff Malvina Mkhchyan (“Plaintiff”).  (Smith  Decls., ¶ 2 & Exhs. A.) Plaintiff  did not initially respond to the discovery.  On October 20 and 23,  2023, the Court granted Defendant’s motion to compel Plaintiff to provide  initial responses to the discovery. Plaintiff  served responses to the discovery on November 27, 2023.  (Id., ¶ 4 &  Exhs. B.) Defendant  contends that the discovery responses are not code compliant.  (Id., ¶ 4.)  Plaintiff agreed to provide further responses  by January 16, 2024, and to extend the deadline for Defendant to bring a motion  to compel.  (Id., ¶ 6 &  Exhs. D-E.)  Plaintiff did not provide the further  responses.  (Id., ¶ 8.) On  February 12 and 14, 2024, Defendant served and filed these two motions. No  opposition has been filed. Trial is  scheduled for June 17, 2024. Legal Standard “On receipt of a response to interrogatories, the propounding  party may move for an order compelling a further response if the propounding  party deems that any of the following apply: (1) An answer to a particular  interrogatory is evasive or incomplete. (2) An exercise of the option to  produce documents under Section 2030.230 is unwarranted or the required  specification of those documents is inadequate. (3) An objection to an  interrogatory is without merit or too general.”   (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (a).) Notice of a motion to compel further responses must be given  “within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental  verified response, or on or before any specific later date to which the  propounding party and the responding party have agreed in writing.” (Id.,  subd. (c).) A motion to compel further responses must be accompanied by a meet-and-confer  declaration and a separate statement or, in the discretion of the Court, a  “concise outline of the discovery request and each response in dispute.” (Id.,  subd. (b)(1) & (b)(2); Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345.) “The court shall  impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010)  against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a  motion to compel a further response to interrogatories, unless it finds that  the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that  other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (d).) “If a party then  fails to obey an order compelling further response to interrogatories, the  court may make those orders that are just, including the imposition of an issue  sanction, an evidence sanction, or a terminating sanction under Chapter 7 ….  In lieu of, or in addition to, that sanction,  the court may impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 ….”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (e).) “On receipt of a response to a demand for inspection, copying,  testing, or sampling, the demanding party may move for an order compelling  further response to the demand if the demanding party deems that any of the  following apply: (1) A statement of compliance with the demand is  incomplete.  (2) A representation of  inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive.  (3) An objection in the response is without  merit or too general.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,  § 2031.310, subd. (a).) Notice of a motion to compel further responses must be given  “within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental  verified response, or on or before any specific later date to which the  propounding party and the responding party have agreed in writing.” (Id.,  subd. (c).) A motion to compel further responses must set forth specific  facts showing good cause for the discovery and must be accompanied by a meet-and-confer  declaration and a separate statement or, in the discretion of the Court, a  “concise outline of the discovery request and each response in dispute.” (Id.,  subd. (b)(1)-(3); Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345.) “[T]he court shall  impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010)  against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a  motion to compel further response to a demand, unless it finds that the one  subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other  circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (h).) “[I]f a party then  fails to obey an order compelling further response, the court may make those  orders that are just, including the imposition of an issue sanction, an  evidence sanction, or a terminating sanction under Chapter 7 ….  In lieu of, or in addition to, that sanction,  the court may impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 ….”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd.  (i).) In Chapter 7 of the  Civil Discovery Act, Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030, subdivision (a)  provides, in pertinent part, that the court may impose a monetary sanction ordering  that any person “engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any  attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including  attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct.” A “misuse of  the discovery process” includes (among other things) failing to respond or to  submit to an authorized method of discovery; making, without substantial  justification, an unmeritorious objection to discovery; making an evasive  response to a discovery request; disobeying a court order to provide discovery;  and making or opposing, unsuccessfully, a motion to compel without substantial  justification. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010, subds. (d)-(h).) Discussion These  motions to compel further responses to discovery are denied for two independent  procedural reasons. First,  the motions are untimely.  Under Code of Civil Procedure section  2024.020, subdivision (a), discovery motions must be heard no later than  fifteen days before trial.  These motions, although filed months ago,  are set for hearing ten days before trial.  Given the hearing date  and the provisions of section 2024.020, it was incumbent on Defendant to seek  an earlier hearing date (by, for example, a motion or ex parte application to  advance the hearing date).  Defendant did not do so, and now it is  too late to hear the motions. Second,  and independently, there has been no Informal Discovery Conference.  As  set forth in the Eighth Amended Standing order for Procedures in the Personal  Injury Hub Courts (at page 7), “PI Hub Courts will not hear Motions to Compel  Further Discovery Responses to Discovery until the parties have engaged in an  Informal Discovery Conference (IDC).  Whether before or after filing  the motion, Defendant could have reserved a date for an IDC but failed to do  so.    Accordingly,  the motions are denied. Conclusion The motions are denied for procedural reasons. Moving party to give notice.