 Case Number:  22STCV18506    Hearing Date:   June 7, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to Continue
Trial filed by Plaintiffs Maria Botham, Georgia Botham and Lucia Botham.
Tentative
The motion is granted.
Background
On June 6, 2022, Maria Botham, Georgia
Botham, and Lucia Botham, a minor, by and through her Guardian Ad Litem, Maria
Botham (collectively “Plaintiffs”), filed a complaint against Josue Alcaraz (“Alcaraz”),
the City of Los Angeles (“City”), the County of Los Angeles (“County”), the
State of California (“State”), and Does 1 through 50, asserting causes of
action for negligence, dangerous condition of public property, and negligent
act or omission of government employee, all arising out of a motor vehicle
accident on June 22, 2021, near the intersection of South Rimpau Boulevard and
West Third Street in Los Angeles.
On June 9, 2022, Plaintiffs amended the complaint
to name Estate of Daniel Ibrahim Lazarnejad as Doe 1.
On July 13, 2022, Plaintiffs filed the First
Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against the same defendants for the same causes of
action.
In September and November 2022, the Court, at
the request of Plaintiffs, dismissed County and State without prejudice.
On May 15, 2024, the Court, at the request of
Plaintiffs, dismissed Alcaraz with prejudice.
On May 14, 2024, Plaintiffs filed this motion
to continue trial.  No opposition has
been filed.
Legal Standard
Code of Civil Procedure section 128,
subdivision (a)(8), provides that the court has the power to amend and control
its process and orders so as to make them conform to law and justice. “The
power to determine when a continuance should be granted is within the
discretion of the trial court.” (Color-Vue, Inc. v. Abrams (1996) 44
Cal.App.4th 1599, 1603.) “A trial court has wide latitude in the matter of
calendar control including the granting or denying of continuances.” (Park
Motors, Inc. v. Cozens (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 12, 18.)  
“To ensure the prompt disposition of civil
cases, the dates assigned for trial are firm. 
All parties and their counsel must regard the date set for trial as
certain.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1332(a).)
“Although continuances of trials are
disfavored, each request for a continuance must be considered on its own
merits.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1332(c).)  “The court may grant a
continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the
continuance.”  (Ibid.)  Circumstances that may support a finding of
good cause include:  
“(1) The
unavailability of an essential lay or expert witness because of death, illness,
or other excusable circumstances;  
(2) The
unavailability of a party because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances;  
(3) The
unavailability of trial counsel because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances;  
(4) The
substitution of trial counsel, but only where there is an affirmative showing
that the substitution is required in the interests of justice;  
(5) The addition
of a new party if: (A) The new party has not had a reasonable opportunity to
conduct discovery and prepare for trial; or (B) The other parties have not had
a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial in regard
to the new party's involvement in the case; 

(6) A party's
excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material
evidence despite diligent efforts; or  
(7) A
significant, unanticipated change in the status of the case as a result of
which the case is not ready for trial.”  
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(c).)  
“In ruling on a motion or application for
continuance, the court must consider all the facts and circumstances that are
relevant to the determination.”  (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d).)  California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d) sets forth a non-exhaustive list of factors that
the court may consider:  
“(1) The
proximity of the trial date;  
(2) Whether
there was any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to
any party;  
(3) The length
of the continuance requested;  
(4) The
availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the
motion or application for a continuance; 

(5) The
prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance;

(6) If the case
is entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status and
whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; 
(7) The court's
calendar and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending trials; 
(8) Whether
trial counsel is engaged in another trial; 

(9) Whether all
parties have stipulated to a continuance; 

(10) Whether the
interests of justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the
matter, or by imposing conditions on the continuance; and  
(11) Any other
fact or circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or
application.”  
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d).) 
Discussion
Plaintiffs request
a trial continuance. Plaintiffs contend there is good cause for a continuance
as Plaintiffs have served City of Los Angeles, but City of Los Angeles has yet
to respond to the First Amended Complaint. (De Vore Decl., ¶ 5.) Plaintiffs
contend they wish to avoid trial and seek to informally resolve this matter,
and so, they need to time to conduct discovery and attempt to negotiate a
settlement. (Id., ¶¶ 5,
6.)
The Court finds that
good cause has been shown for the requested continuance.  As such, the Court GRANTS Plaintiffs’ motion
for a trial continuance.
Conclusion
The Court GRANTS Plaintiffs’
motion to continue trial.
The Court ORDERS that the trial date is
advanced and continued to a date that is on or after January 14, 2025.  The Final Status Conference and all deadlines
are reset based on the new trial date.
Moving Party is ORDERED to give notice.