 Case Number:  22SMCV04468    Hearing Date:   May 1, 2024    Dept:  205    Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles – West District  Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205   A&M ENGINEERING, INC.,    Plaintiff, v.  CHRISTOPHER KLEIN, et al.,    Defendants.    Case No.:  23SMCV04468     Hearing Date:  May 1, 2024   [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:    COURT’S RESPONSE TO THE COURT OF       APPEAL’S ORDER AND ALTERNATIVE     WRIT OF MANDATE       This action arises from a breach of promissory notes.  Plaintiff A&M Engineering Inc. made three short-term loans to two Defendants, Global Automotive Solutions LLC (“GAS”) and GAS’s successor in interest, Stelaro LLC (“Stelaro”).  The loans total $14 million, only $1 million of which Plaintiff claims has been repaid.  The loans were purportedly used to buy cars in Mexico which were re-sold for a profit in other countries.   Defendant Christopher Klein served as the CEO of GAS and Stelaro.  Defendant Alondra Group, LLC is the sole shareholder of Stelaro.  Plaintiff has sued other corporate defendants who it claims are the alter egos of Klein, including Christopher Klein Enterprises LLC (“CKE”), Executive Auto Rentals, LLC (“EAR”), and Luxury Lift, LLC (“Luxury”).  Plaintiff has also sued Instant Infosystems, Inc. (“Instant”), which it claims received a fraudulent transfer from Stelaro.        Plaintiff filed the instant action alleging ten causes of action for (1) breach of contract, (2) fraud-misrepresentation, (3) fraud-concealment, (4) negligent misrepresentation, (5) receiving stolen property – Penal Code § 496(a), (c); (6) fraudulent transfer – Civ. Code § 3439 et seq.; (7) breach of fiduciary duty, (8) unfair competition – Bus. & Prof. Code § 17200; (9) constructive trust, and (10) unjust enrichment.   Plaintiff filed applications for right to attach orders against seven defendants: (1) Stelaro, (2) Alondra, (3) Instant, (4) Christopher Klein, (5) CKE, (6) EAR, and (7) Luxury.  On February 20, 2024, the Court denied the applications.  Plaintiff filed a writ of mandate.   On April 9, 2024, the Court of Appeal issued its order and alternative writ of mandate commanding the Court to either respond to an order to show cause or “vacate your order of February 20, 2024 … and thereafter make a new and different order setting the petitions for a hearing to determine whether an attachment should issue based on the court’s evaluation of the record and the probable outcome of the litigation.”     Both sides agree the Court should vacate the February 20 order and set a hearing on the applications to consider the probable validity of Plaintiff’s claims, which the Court is doing.  Stelaro, Alondra and Instant request the opportunity to file additional briefing on the issue of the probable outcome of the litigation.  Plaintiff argues that as to Stelaro, Alondra and Instant, the Court should rule based on the existing papers, while Klein, CKE, EAR and Luxury Lifts are entitled to file an opposition by the deadline stated in the attachment statutes. The Court concludes it would benefit from additional briefing, and therefore, grants Plaintiff, Alondra, Stelaro and Instant leave to file supplemental briefs not to exceed 10 pages by May 10, 2024.  The other defendants may file oppositions if they choose within the deadline stated in the attachment statutes.  The Court sets the hearing on the applications for attachment for May 31, 2024 at 9:00 a.m.          IT IS SO ORDERED.  DATED: May 1, 2024     ___________________________ Edward B. Moreton, Jr. Judge of the Superior Court 