 Case Number:  KC069072    Hearing Date:   May 14, 2024    Dept:  G Defendant/Cross-Complainant West Hills Construction,  Inc.’s Motion to Bifurcate Issues of Warranty and Order for Court Trial Respondent: Plaintiffs  McKinley Home Foundation and McKinley Children’s Center, Inc. TENTATIVE RULING Defendant/Cross-Complainant West Hills Construction,  Inc.’s Motion to Bifurcate Issues of Warranty and Order for Court Trial is  GRANTED. BACKGROUND This  is a breach of contract and warranty action. In June 2011, Plaintiffs McKinley  Home Foundation (MHF) and McKinley Children’s Center, Inc. (MCC, collectively  McKinley) entered into an agreement with Defendant West Hills Construction,  Inc. (West Hills) in which West Hills agreed to install a solar power system  manufactured and supplied by Green Volts, Inc. (Green Volts) in exchange for  payment of $2,481,088.21. West Hills installed the system in May 2012 and in  April 2015, a large number of components failed leading to the complete failure  of the system. On  December 22, 2017, McKinley filed an operative First Amended Complaint against  West Hills and Does 1-30, alleging causes of action for (1) breach of warranty,  (2) breach of contract, and (3) breach of contract - third party beneficiary. On  July 24, 2017, West Hills filed a cross-complaint against Green Volts and Roes  1-20 for (1) equitable indemnity, (2) declaratory relief, (3) contribution, and  (4) express indemnity. On  March 23, 2018, West Hills filed a motion for summary judgment on McKinley’s  claims. On July 3, 2018, West Hills dismissed its cross-complaint against Green  Volts. On July 11, 2018, the Court granted West Hills’ motion. On September 14,  2018, McKinley filed a notice of appeal. On  December 22, 2020, the Court of Appeal issued a decision that reversed the  Court’s grant of summary judgment. On October 7, 2021, West  Hills moved to set aside dismissal of the Cross-Complaint. On November 5, 2021,  the Court denied West Hills’ motion. On November 9, 2021, West  Hilled filed a cross-complaint against Green Volts and Roes 1-20 for (1)  equitable indemnity, (2) declaratory relief, (3) contribution, and (4) express  indemnity. On May 12, 2022, West Hills  filed a motion to bifurcate trial of contractual warranty claims from damages  issues. On June 2, 2022, McKinley filed a notice of settlement of entire case. On November 16, 2022, West  Hills filed a motion to enforce a settlement agreement between West Hills and  McKinley. On January 3, 2023, the Court denied West Hills’ motion, finding  there was no enforceable settlement agreement. On April 17, 2024, West Hills  filed the present motion. A hearing on the motion is set for May 14, 2024,  while a final status conference is set for June 24, 2024, and a jury trial is  set for July 2, 2024. ANALYSIS West  Hills moves for the bifurcation of liability and damages issues with the  separate trial first being held on the issue of liability. For the following  reasons, the Court GRANTS West Hills’ motion. Legal Standard Code  of Civil Procedure section 598 establishes the following procedure for  bifurcation of issues at trial: “The court may, when the convenience of witnesses, the  ends of justice, or the economy and efficiency of handling the litigation would  be promoted thereby, on motion of a party, after notice and hearing, make an  order, no later than the close of pretrial conference in cases in which such  pretrial conference is to be held, or, in other cases, no later than 30 days  before the trial date, that the trial of any issue or any part thereof shall  precede the trial of any other issue or any part thereof in the case, except  for special defenses which may be tried first pursuant to Sections 597 and  597.5. The court, on its own motion, may make such an order at any time. Where  trial of the issue of liability as to all causes of action precedes the trial  of other issues or parts thereof, and the decision of the court, or the verdict  of the jury upon such issue so tried is in favor of any party on whom liability  is sought to be imposed, judgment in favor of such party shall thereupon be  entered and no trial of other issues in the action as against such party shall  be had unless such judgment shall be reversed upon appeal or otherwise set  aside or vacated.  If the decision of the court, or the verdict of the  jury upon the issue of liability so tried shall be against any party on whom  liability is sought to be imposed, or if the decision of the court or the  verdict of the jury upon any other issue or part thereof so tried does not  result in a judgment being entered pursuant to this chapter, then the trial of  the other issues or parts thereof shall thereafter be had at such time, and if  a jury trial, before the same or another jury, as ordered by the court either  upon its own motion or upon the motion of any party, and judgment shall be  entered in the same manner and with the same effect as if all the issues in the  case had been tried at one time.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 598.) By  allowing the trial of liability issues before the trial of any other issue, the  objective of Code of Civil Procedure section 598 “is avoidance of the waste of  time and money caused by the unnecessary trial of damage questions in cases  where the liability issue is resolved against the plaintiff.” (Cohn v. Bugas  (1974) 42 Cal.App.3d 381, 385, quoting Trickey v. Superior Court (1967)  252 Cal.App.2d 650, 653.) However, the court cannot order the separate trial of  an issue of liability when it is necessary to prove the plaintiff’s damages in  order to establish that liability because of the nature of the case. (Cook  v. Superior Court (1971) 19 Cal.App.3d 832, 834.) Discussion In  this case, West Hills argues the Court should bifurcate trial of McKinley’s  claims and first determine whether the warranty provisions at issue imposed a  duty on West Hills. (Motion, p. 8:14-28.) West Hills argues bifurcation would  expedite and simplify the presentation of evidence as a finding that the  warranty provisions at issue are inapplicable to West Hills would obviate any  further need for trial. (Motion, p. 8:14-28.) In opposition, McKinley argues  this is merely an attempt to short-circuit McKinley’s right to a jury trial as  there are multiple issues of fact with regards to West Hills’ alleged warranty  obligations. (Opp., p. 5:14-28.) “The  interpretation of a written instrument, even though it involves what might  properly be called questions of fact, is essentially a judicial function  to be exercised according to the generally accepted canons of interpretation so  that the purposes of the instrument may be given effect.” (Parsons v.  Bristol Development Co. (1965) 62 Cal.2d 861, 865.) “It is therefore solely  a judicial function to interpret a written instrument unless the interpretation  turns upon the credibility of extrinsic evidence.” (Id., at p. 865.) And  where there is “issues both of law and fact, the issue of law must be first  disposed of.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 592.) “The jury is involved only if the court  determines that 1) the wording of the instrument is reasonably susceptible of  the interpretation contended for by the proponent of the extrinsic evidence, 2)  the extrinsic evidence is relevant to prove the proposed meaning, and 3) the  credibility of the proponent’s parol evidence is disputed.” (Equitable Life  Assurance Society v. Berry (1989) 212 Cal.App.3d 832, 838 (Equitable  Life Assurance Society).) Here,  the Court of Appeal held the warranty contract between McKinley and West Hills  is facially ambiguous as a matter of law. (McKinley Home Foundation v. West  Hills Construction, Inc. (Dec. 22, 2020, B292720) [nonpub. opn.].) Thus,  interpretation of the warranty contract between McKinley and West Hills will  turn on the parties’ extrinsic evidence. In support of their contention that West  Hills’ warranty did not cover solar power components provided by Green Volts,  West Hills argues Green Volts’ warranty and an email discussion between  McKinley and West Hills suggests the solar panels were covered by Green Volts’  warranty. (Motion, p. 9:1-7.) But McKinley points to their own evidence which  they argue establishes West Hills’ actions prior to the dispute were consistent  with McKinley’s interpretation of the warranty contract including West Hills  undertaking repairs of the solar panel components without cost. (Opp., p.  5:21-6:19.) Ultimately,  as noted above in Equitable Life Assurance Society, the mere  introduction of extrinsic evidence does not mandate a jury determination unless  the extrinsic evidence’s interpretation is reasonable, the extrinsic evidence  is relevant, and its credibility is disputed. Because these are questions of  law that the Court must determine first, West Hills’ requested bifurcation will  not short-circuit McKinley’s right to a jury trial. Instead, it serves the  interest of judicial economy by allowing the Court and the parties to avoid the  costs of a jury trial if the extrinsic evidence presented does not require a  jury determination. In  opposition, McKinley also argues the Court should not consider evidence in West  Hills’ motion that was allegedly wrongfully withheld from McKinley in  discovery. (Opp., p. 6:25-7:17.) But to the extent McKinley seeks to prevent  West Hills from relying on this evidence here or at trial through arguments  raised in an opposition, this is not the appropriate method to do so as this  request requires a separate motion. Last, McKinley argues granting West Hills’  motion will cause unreasonable delay. (Opp., p. 7:19-8:12.) But McKinley’s  argument assumes a jury trial will be required and ignores the possibility of the  Court finding West Hills is entitled to judgment as a matter of law on the  issue of the warranty’s interpretation. Accordingly,  West Hills’ motion is GRANTED. CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, West  Hills’ motion to bifurcate is GRANTED.