 Case Number:  23PSCV01294    Hearing Date:   May 14, 2024    Dept:  G Plaintiff Emad Qubrosi’s Motion to Set Aside Dismissal
Respondent: NO OPPOSITION
TENTATIVE RULING
Plaintiff Emad Qubrosi’s Motion to Set Aside Dismissal
is GRANTED.
BACKGROUND
This
is a personal injury action arising from an automobile collision. In April
2021, Plaintiff Emad Qubrosi alleges Defendants Rogelio Amador and Hany S.
Abdelshahid rearended Qubrosi in Los Angeles. At the time of the collision, Qubrosi
alleges Amador was employed by Defendant JX Express while Abdelshahid was
employed by Defendant Accurate Delivery Systems, Inc. (ADS).
On April
28, 2023, Qubrosi filed a complaint against Amador, JX Express, Abdelshahid, ADS,
and Does 1-10, alleging a cause of action for general negligence.
On October
5, 2023, Qubrosi’s counsel failed to appear for a case management conference
and OSC Re: Failure to File Proof of Service. As a result, the Court set an OSC
Re: Sanctions and Dismissal for October 18, 2023. After Qubrosi’s counsel
failed to appear on October 18, 2023, the Court dismissed Qubrosi’s Complaint
without prejudice pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 575.2.
On April
12, 2024, Qubrosi filed the present motion. A hearing on the motion is set for May
14, 2024.
ANALYSIS
Qubrosi
seeks to vacate the Court’s dismissal of Qubrosi’s action on the grounds of counsel’s
neglect, mistake, or inadvertence. For the following reasons, the Court GRANTS
Qubrosi’s motion.
Legal
Standard
Whenever
an application for relief from dismissal is made no more than six months after
entry of the judgment of dismissal, is in proper form, and is accompanied by
the moving party’s sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect, the court may vacate any
dismissal entered against the moving party unless the court finds that the dismissal
was not in fact caused by the moving party’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise,
or excusable neglect. (Code Civ. Proc., §473, subd. (b).) The court shall grant
relief if the moving party’s counsel provides a “sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).) “The
court shall, whenever relief is granted based on an attorney's affidavit of
fault, direct the attorney to pay reasonable compensatory legal fees and costs
to opposing counsel or parties.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).) “The six-month time limit for granting statutory relief is
jurisdictional and the court may not consider a motion for relief made after
that period has elapsed.” (Manson, Iver & York v. Black (2009) 176
Cal.App.4th 36, 42.)
Discussion
In this case,
Qubrosi’s counsel, Nicholas Dagher, states counsel failed to appear for the
case management conference on October 5, 2023, and October 18, 2023, due to a calendaring
error. Dagher states the error arose after counsel settled another matter
involving Qubrosi and staff mistakenly deleted the calendared dates for the
present action rather than the settled action. (Dagher Decl., ¶ 3-5.) Dagher
did not realize this error until April 2, 2024, when Qubrosi contacted Dagher
about the status of the present case. (Dagher Decl., ¶ 6-7.) Based on the
declaration of Dagher, the Court finds the dismissal of the present action was
the result of counsel’s neglect. Accordingly, Qubrosi’s motion is GRANTED.
CONCLUSION
Based
on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS Qubrosi’s motion to vacate the
dismissal of Qubrosi’s action.