  Case Number:  23PSCV01053    Hearing Date:   May 14, 2024    Dept:  G Defendant Mt. San Antonio Community College District’s
Motion for Recovery of Attorney’s Fees as Part of Allowable Costs and for
Failure to Prosecute in Good Faith
 
Respondent: Plaintiff Allison Oliver
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
Defendant Mt. San Antonio Community College District’s
Motion for Recovery of Attorney’s Fees as Part of Allowable Costs and for
Failure to Prosecute in Good Faith is DENIED.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is an employment discrimination action. In the summer
of 2016, Defendant Mt. San Antonio Community College District (Mt. SAC) hired
Plaintiff Allison Oliver as a professor in its kinesiology department with an
option for a tenured position after four years. Oliver also served as Mt. SAC’s
head volleyball coach. In September 2019, Oliver’s union representative
informed Oliver that Mt. SAC had received several complaints from student
athletes that claimed Oliver had used curse words around volleyball players. In
a meeting with human resources representatives and Oliver’s tenure committee,
Mt. SAC’s athletic director, Joe Jennum, told Oliver that Oliver could not use
curse words in front of student athletes. When Oliver’s union representative
inquired if that requirement also applied to other male coaches who used
similar language, Jennum allegedly stated that the ban on curse words only
applied to Oliver.
 
In October 2019, Oliver attended another meeting with union
representatives where they informed Oliver that student athlete questionnaire
responses had corroborated the allegations that Oliver had used curse words. In
the same month, Mt. SAC placed Oliver on involuntary paid administrative leave
for the remainder of the fall semester. On December 11, 2019, Oliver’s tenure
committee held a final vote that recommended Oliver not receive tenure. In
February 2020, Oliver’s counsel contacted Mt. SAC twice to inform them that the
student athlete complaints were the likely result of gender stereotyping and
bias. Nonetheless, Mt. SAC President William Scroggins recommended denying
tenure for Oliver and on February 26, 2020, Mt. SAC’s Board of Trustees adopted
Scroggins’ recommendation. As a result, Oliver’s employment contract with Mt.
SAC expired on June 30, 2020, and was not renewed.
 
On April 11, 2023, Oliver filed a complaint against Mt. SAC
as a college and a district as well as Does 1-50, alleging the following causes
of action: (1) gender discrimination, (2) retaliation, (3) failure to prevent
discrimination, (4) failure to conduct adequate investigation, (5) wrongful
termination in violation of public policy, (6) intentional infliction of
emotional distress (IIED), and (7) negligent infliction of emotional distress
(NIED). On August 29, 2023, the Court sustained Mt. SAC’s demurrer to the
complaint with leave to amend as to the first five causes of action and without
leave to amend as to the last two.
 
On September 8, 2023, Oliver filed a First Amended
Complaint (FAC) against the same defendants alleging the same causes of action
minus the sixth and seventh. On October 6, 2023,
Mt. SAC demurred to Oliver’s FAC. On
November 15, 2023, the Court continued the hearing on Mt. SAC’s demurrer and
motion to strike for parties to further brief issues of split authority,
issue/claim preclusion, and emotional damages. On February 2, 2024, the Court
granted another continuance for parties to file further supplemental briefing. On March 19, 2024, the Court sustained Mt. SAC’s demurrer
without leave to amend.
 
On April 4, 2024, Mt. SAC filed the present motion. A
hearing on the motion is set for May 14, 2024.
 
ANALYSIS

Mt. SAC moves for the award of attorney fees
pursuant to Government Code section 12965, subdivision (c)(6) on the grounds
that Oliver’s action was frivolous, unreasonable, or groundless. For the
following reasons, the Court DENIES
Mt. SAC’s motion.
 
In FEHA actions, “the court, in its
discretion, may award to the prevailing party, including the department,
reasonable attorney’s fees and costs, including expert witness fees, except
that, notwithstanding Section 998 of the Code of Civil Procedure, a prevailing
defendant shall not be awarded fees and costs unless the court finds the action
was frivolous, unreasonable, or groundless when brought, or the plaintiff
continued to litigate after it clearly became so.” (Gov. Code, § 12965, subd. (c)(6).)
In determining whether an action was frivolous, a plaintiff’s failure to
succeed on the merits alone is insufficient. (Baker v. Mulholland Security
& Patrol, Inc. (2012) 204 Cal.App.4th 776, 784 [“An action is not
frivolous simply because the plaintiff's FEHA claim failed.”].)
 
In this case, Oliver’s FEHA action failed to
meet this high standard. Mt. SAC argues Oliver’s action was rendered frivolous
by its “complete disregard” for the requirements of Education Code section
87611. (Motion, p. 3:19-20.) As the Court noted in sustaining Mt. SAC’s
demurrer, this provision and Education Code section 87610.1, subdivision (b)
required Oliver to seek judicial review of a grievance determination pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 1094.5. (3/19/2024 Ruling, p. 5.) This,
however, was not the determinative issue. Rather, as Mt. SAC argued in the
demurrer, the issue was the legal effect of Oliver’s failure to set aside the
arbitration decision and whether that failure barred Oliver’s subsequent FEHA
action. (3/19/2024 Ruling, p. 3.)
 
In the demurrer proceedings, Mt. SAC and the
Court relied on Johnson v. City of Loma Linda (2000) 24 Cal.4th 61 (Johnson),
for the rule that when “a public employee pursues administrative civil service
remedies, receives an adverse finding, and fails to have the finding set aside
through judicial review procedures, the adverse finding is binding on
discrimination claims under the FEHA.” (Id., at p. 76.) 
 
In opposing Mt. SAC’s demurrer, Oliver
attempted to distinguish Johnson by claiming the present action did not
involve administrative civil service remedies but rather involved a collective
bargaining agreement and that was controlled by Ortega v. Contra Costa
Community College (2007) 156 Cal.App.4th 1073. While the Court rejected
this distinction on the ground that Oliver’s collective bargaining agreement
was incorporated into Oliver’s statutory civil service remedies pursuant to the
Education Code and did not involve the same due process concerns raised in Ortega,
the court finds this does not render Oliver’s contentions unreasonable,
groundless, or frivolous. (3/19/2024 Ruling, p. 5.) Instead, the Court finds
Oliver made reasonable, albeit unsuccessful, arguments to explain why the
arbitration decision did not have issue preclusive effect on Oliver’s FEHA
claim.
 
Accordingly, the court declines to exercise
its discretion to award attorney’s fees and costs to Mt. SAC.  
 
CONCLUSION

Based on the
foregoing, Mt. SAC’s motion for attorney fees is DENIED.