  Case Number:  22TRCV01462    Hearing Date:   March 21, 2024    Dept:  P 


Superior Court
  of California
County of Los
  Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance Dept. P




 
TED TOMO
  SHONO, an individual


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22TRCV01462




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




BERBER
  ROOFING INC, a corporation; REFUGIO BERBER, an individual; LILLIAN NISHIHARA
  AS SUCCESSOR TRUSTEE OF THE LILLIAN AND HOWARD NISHIHARA FAMILY TRUST,
  survivors trust; DOES 1 through 50, inclusive.
 


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          March
21, 2024           
 
Moving
Parties:                      Defendant Lillian
Chikako Nishihara as Successor Trustee of the    Lillian
and Howard Nishihara Family Trust 1990 dated October 8,
                                                1990
Survivor’s Trust
 
Responding Party:                   Plaintiff
Ted Tomo Shono
 
Defendant’s Demurrer
to Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint 
 
RULING
            The
Court considered the moving, opposition and reply papers. The Demurrer of
Defendant Lillian Chikako Nishihara as Successor Trustee of the Lillian and
Howard Nishihara Family Trust 1990 dated October 8, 1990 Survivor’s Trust is SUSTAINED
in its entirety. Plaintiff Ted Tomo Shono is granted 20 days leave to amend.  

 

 
BACKGROUND
            This case stems from a personal
injury suffered by Ted Tomo Shono (Plaintiff). Plaintiff alleges that they were
at 1525 West 145th Street, Gardena, CA 90247 (the Property) when
they stepped on a nail. (FAC, ¶ 13.) Plaintiff alleges that the property was
controlled by multiple defendants, including Lillian Chikako Nishihara as
Successor Trustee of the Lillian and Howard Nishihara Family Trust 1990 dated
October 8, 1990 Survivor’s Trust (Moving Defendant). 
            Plaintiff filed an initial Complaint
on December 12, 2022. This was followed by a First Amended Complaint on October
20, 2023. The FAC alleges three causes of action: (1) negligence, (2) premises
liability, (3) negligent hiring, retention, training, and supervision. The
three causes of action are alleged as to all defendants. 
            The motion before the Court is the
Demurrer of Moving Defendant. Moving Defendant demurs solely to the third cause
of action for negligent hiring, retention, training, and supervision. Plaintiff
opposes the Demurrer and Moving Defendant files a reply. 
                            
DISCUSSION
 
Meet and Confer - 
Legal Standard & Analysis for Meet and Confer
            “Before filing a demurrer…the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of
determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the
objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (CCP § 430.41(a).) Moving Defendant
provides the Declaration of Jennifer Volcy (Volcy Decl.) which states that
after a letter was sent to Plaintiff’s counsel on December 22, 2023, Defense
counsel’s office continued discussions, and on January 29, 2024, followed up to
request further availability to further meet and confer. Although no solution
was reached, the requirements of CCP § 430.41(a) appear to be satisfied.
Therefore, the Court will turn its attention to the Demurer. 
 
Demurrer - 
Legal Standard for Demurrer
            “[A]
demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235
Cal.App.4th 385, 388.) A demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that
appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters outside the
pleading that are judicially noticeable. (See Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 [in
ruling on a demurrer, a court may not consider declarations, matters not
subject to judicial notice, or documents not accepted for the truth of their
contents].) For purposes of ruling on a demurrer, all facts pleaded in a
complaint are assumed to be true, but the reviewing court does not assume the
truth of conclusions of law. (Aubry v.
Tri-City Hosp. Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)
 
Analysis for Demurrer 
            The
primary argument of Moving Defendant upon Demurrer is that the FAC[1]
does not allege sufficient facts to maintain the third cause of action for negligent hiring, retention,
training, and supervision. The Court agrees and sustains Moving Defendant’s
Demurrer to the third cause of action in the FAC. 
            Third Cause of Action
            The
elements of a cause of action for negligent hiring, retention, or supervision
are: (1) the employer’s hiring, retaining, or supervising an employee; (2) the
employee was incompetent or unfit; (3) the employer had reason to believe undue
risk of harm would exist because of the employment; and (4) harm occurs. (Evan F. v. Hughson United Methodist Church
(1992) 8 Cal.App.4th 828, 836-837.)
            Here,
the third cause of action fails because the FAC only alleges one element out of
the four – the harm. The FAC makes clear that the harm was the nail piercing
Plaintiff’s shoe and foot and the subsequent medical damages. However, the FAC
fails to fulfill the first element because it is unclear which employer hired
which employee. Second, it is unclear what work the alleged employee was doing,
and how the alleged employee was incompetent or unfit. Finally, the third
element, that the employer had reason to believe that undue risk of harm
existed. Nothing in the FAC details the alleged employer’s failure to complete
a proper background check, nor any negligent supervision of work. Again, the FAC
fails to make clear what work the alleged employee was hired to do. Therefore,
the Demurrer to the third cause of action is sustained.  
 
Leave to Amend – 
Legal Standard & Analysis for Leave to Amend
             Leave to amend must be allowed where there is
a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (See Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349 [court shall not
“sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is any reasonable
possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment”]. As there is reasonable
possibility of successful amendment, Plaintiff is granted 20 days leave to
amend. 
 
CONCLUSION
            The Demurrer of Defendant Lillian
Chikako Nishihara as Successor Trustee of the Lillian and Howard Nishihara
Family Trust 1990 dated October 8, 1990 Survivor’s Trust is SUSTAINED
in its entirety. Plaintiff Ted Tomo Shono is granted 20 days leave to amend.  
             Prevailing
party on motion is ordered to give notice of ruling.

