

 
BACKGROUND
 
On July 25, 2022, the Labor Commissioner’s Office heard
claim number WC-CM-816672 (the “Claim”) regarding the alleged employment of Plaintiff
Juan Recalde (“Plaintiff”). (Landeros Decl., ¶ 2.) Plaintiff sought to recover
57.75 hours of unpaid wages from August 5, 2020 to September 2, 2020, at the
rate of $50.00 per hour from 3-D Engineering & Manufacturing Inc. (“3-D
Engineering”) and Adolfo Landeros (“Defendant”). (Landeros Decl., ¶ 2.) After
the hearing, the Labor Commissioner ordered 3-D Engineering and Defendant to
pay Plaintiff the total amount of $15,231.14. (Landeros Decl., ¶ 3; Ex. A.) According
to the Order, Defendant was ordered to pay Plaintiff the sum of $11,255.85 of
the total amount awarded. (Landeros Decl., ¶ 4; Ex. A.) 
 
In March of 2023, Defendant caused his attorney to
communicate with Plaintiff regarding settlement of the Claim and a settlement
was reached. (Landeros Decl., ¶¶ 5-6; Exs. B and C.) Plaintiff agreed to
release the Claim with prejudice in consideration of payment of $15,231.14 from
Defendant and 3-D Engineering. (Landeros Decl., ¶ 6; Ex. C.) A cashier’s check
was sent to Plaintiff by Defendant’s former counsel on March 16, 2023, for
direct payment to Plaintiff in the amount of the Labor Commissioner’s award.
(Landeros Decl., ¶ 7; Ex. D.) Plaintiff received and cashed the check and
Defendant understood that the Claim was fully resolved and dismissed between
the parties pursuant to the settlement. (Landeros Decl., ¶ 8.) 
 
Defendant states that his former counsel made a mistake in
not delivering the actual cashier’s check directly to the Office of the Labor
Commissioner and instead delivered the payment directly to Plaintiff pursuant
to the terms of the release. (Landeros Decl., ¶ 9.) Defendant contends that the
Labor Commissioner requesting that judgment for the full amount of the award
plus post-hearing interest and filing fees was based on mistake as this matter
should have long been dismissed. (Landeros Decl., ¶ 10.) Defendant states that
the subject judgment was obtained through mistake, excusable neglect, and
inadvertence of his prior counsel as the payment was not mailed directly to the
Labor Commissioner’s Office. (Landeros Decl., ¶ 11.) 
 
On February 26, 2024, the Labor Commissioner of the State
of California (the “Labor Commissioner”) filed a Request That the Clerk Enter
Judgment and Judgment on Final Order, Decision or Award of the Labor
Commissioner. The Labor Commissioner sought a total judgment of $11,776.40
against Defendant. 
 
On
February 26, 2024, the Court entered judgment for Plaintiff and against
Defendant in the amount of $11,776.40. 
 
On May
22, 2024, Defendant filed the instant Motion to Set Aside and Vacate Judgment.
Defendant seeks an order setting aside and vacating the judgment entered
against him on February 26, 2024. 
 
Plaintiff did not oppose the instant motion; however, the
Labor Commissioner was not served with the motion. Given that the Labor
Commissioner requested entry of judgment and judgment was entered pursuant to
such request, the Labor Commissioner should have been given notice of the
instant motion. 
 
MOVING PARTY
POSITION
 
            Defendant
argues that he entered into a settlement agreement and release with Plaintiff
but sent payment of the award, by mistake, directly to Plaintiff instead of to
the Labor Commissioner.   
 
OPPOSITION

 
            No
opposition has been filed as of July 12, 2024.
 
REPLY
 
            No reply
has been filed as of July 12, 2024. 
 
 
ANALYSIS
 
I.          Setting
Aside the Judgment   
A.               
Legal Standard 
“The court may, upon any
terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a
judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her
through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).) Relief under CCP § 473(b) is mandatory when
based on an attorney affidavit of fault; otherwise, it is discretionary. Ibid.

B.        Discussion  
The Court references its recitation of
the Declaration of Defendant from above and incorporates it herein. 
Defendant’s counsel
declares that he sent a demand for satisfaction of judgment to Plaintiff on
behalf of 3-D Engineering in LASC Case No. 24STCP00522 and Plaintiff informed
counsel that he would submit an acknowledgement of satisfaction of judgment in
such case. (Yurcich Decl., ¶¶ 2-3; Ex. B.) 
Initially, the Court fails
to see the relevance of Defendant’s counsel demanding satisfaction of judgment
in a separate action to which Defendant is not a party. 
The Court finds that
Defendant has shown a basis to set aside the judgment on grounds of mistake and
inadvertence.
However, as stated above,
although the motion is unopposed, the Labor Commissioner should have been given
notice of the motion. While the Labor Commissioner is not a party to this
action, given that it did request judgment against Defendant and judgment was
entered pursuant to such request, the Labor Commissioner should have been
afforded the opportunity to oppose the instant motion. 
II.        Conclusion 
            
            Based on the foregoing, the Court CONTINUES
the hearing on Defendant’s AMENDED Motion to Set Aside and Vacate Judgment Entered
on 02/26/2024 to Wednesday, August 21, 2024, at 10:00 AM in this department, so
that the Labor Commissioner can be served with the motion.  
 
Defendant is ordered to electronically
file proper proof of service of the Motion upon the Labor Commissioner, as well
as proof of service of the continued hearing date at least 10 court days prior
to the continued hearing date.
 
            The Moving party is ordered to give notice of this Court’s
Ruling and to attach a copy of the Court's Tentative Ruling, as exhibit “A” to
said notice.
 