

 
 
 
SERVICE:  
 
[   ] Proof of Service Timely Filed (CRC, rule
3.1300)                     OK
[   ] Correct Address (CCP §§ 1013, 1013a)                                      OK
[   ] 16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP §§ 12c,
1005(b))                       OK
 
OPPOSITION:          None
filed as of July 15, 2024.                       [   ] Late                      [X] None
REPLY:                     None
filed as of July 15, 2024.                       [   ]
Late                      [X] None
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.                   
Background
 
On January 18,
2023, Plaintiff State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Company (“Plaintiff”)
filed an action against Defendants Antonio Hernandez Perez aka Antonio
Hernandez (“Hernandez”) and Yulsa Gonzales aka Yulisa Asucely Escobar Gonzalez
(“Gonzales”) for subrogation, stemming from an automobile accident between
Defendant Hernandez and an individual insured by Plaintiff’s automobile
insurance policy.  (Compl. ¶ 1.)  Hernandez was allegedly operating the vehicle
with the express or implied permission of Gonzales.  (Ibid.)  Plaintiff compensated Insured for claimed
damages in the amount of $8,655.16 and filed the instant claim against
Defendants for allegedly causing the damages. 
(Ibid. at pp. 2-3.)
 
On April 5,
2023, pursuant to Plaintiff’s request, default was entered against Defendant
Hernandez.  On December 11, 2023,
Defendants filed a joint Answer to the Complaint.  The Court erroneously accepted Defendant
Hernandez’s Answer following entry of default against him.
 
On June 13, 2024,
the Court granted Plaintiff’s Motion to Deem Requests for Admission Admitted against
Defendant Hernandez, filed on April 23, 2024.
 
On June 26, 2024,
Plaintiff filed the instant Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings as to
Defendant Hernandez (“Motion”) and Request for Judicial Notice.  Plaintiff noted that the Motion is submitted
on the moving papers, and it will not appear at the hearing.  (Mot. p. 2.)
 
No opposition has been filed.
 
II.                
Request for
Judicial Notice
 
Plaintiff requests that the Court take judicial notice of the
following documents:
 
1.     
Defendant Hernandez’s Answer
to the Complaint, Exhibit 1;
2.     
Plaintiff’s Motion to
Deem Requests for Admission Admitted, Exhibit 2;
3.     
This Court’s order
granting Plaintiff’s Motion to Deem Requests for Admission Admitted, on June
13, 2024, Exhibit 3.
 
According to
Evidence Code § 452, the Court may take judicial notice of matters that include
records or rules of another court and facts or propositions of common
knowledge, among other matters.  Plaintiff
seeks judicial notice of the orders and documents filed in the instant
case.  Although it is not necessary to
take judicial notice of these documents, the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s Request
for Judicial Notice of Exhibits 1-3.
 
III.             
Legal Standard
 
The standard for ruling on a motion
for judgment on the pleadings is essentially the same as that applicable to a
general demurrer, that is, under the state of the pleadings, together with
matters that may be judicially noticed, it appears that a party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.  (Bezirdjian v. O'Reilly (2010) 183
Cal.App.4th 316, 321-322, citing Schabarum
v. California Legislature (1998) 60 Cal.App.4th 1205, 1216.)  Matters which are subject to mandatory
judicial notice may be treated as part of the complaint and may be considered
without notice to the parties. Matters which are subject to permissive judicial
notice must be specified in the notice of motion, the supporting points and
authorities, or as the court otherwise permits.  (Id.)
 “The motion is confined to the face of
the pleading under attack and all facts alleged in the complaint must be
accepted as true.” (Hightower v. Farmers Insurance Exchange (1995) 38
Cal.App.4th 853, 858.)
 
A plaintiff may
move for judgment on the pleadings on the ground that “the complaint states
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against the defendant and the
answer does not state facts sufficient to constitute a defense to the
complaint.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
438(c)(1)(A).
 
Additionally, Code
of Civil Procedure § 439(a) states that “before filing a motion for judgment on the
pleadings pursuant to this chapter, the moving party shall meet and confer in
person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to
the motion for judgment on the pleadings for the purpose of determining if an
agreement can be reached that resolves the claims to be raised in the motion
for judgment on the pleadings.”  The
moving party “shall file and serve with the motion for judgment on the pleadings
a declaration” that either states that a meeting took place or that the
non-moving party did not respond to the request.  Although
a determination that the meet and confer process was insufficient is not
grounds to grant or deny a motion for judgment on the pleadings, that does not
mean the requirement can be wholly ignored. 
(Code. Civ. Proc. § 439(a)(4).
 
IV.             
Discussion 
 
A.    
Meet and Confer Requirement
 
Plaintiff’s counsel states that on June
19, 2024, prior to filing the instant Motion, he sent a meet and confer letter
to defense counsel.  (Ahearn Decl. ¶ 1;
Ex. 1.)  To date, Defendant has not
responded to this letter.  (Ibid.
at ¶ 2.)
 
The Court finds that the parties
have satisfied the requirement to meet and confer.
 
B.    
Merits
 
Plaintiff, an insurer, asserts a
single cause of action seeking to recover damages of $8,655.16 arising from an
alleged motor vehicle accident that occurred around April 25, 2021, between
Plaintiff’s insured and Defendant Hernandez.  (Compl. pp. 1-3.)  Plaintiff alleges it investigated its
insured’s claim, determined the claim was covered, and paid its insured $8,655.16
for the loss.  (Ibid.)
 
“There are eight elements of an insurer's
cause of action for equitable subrogation: ‘[1] the insured suffered a loss for which the defendant is liable, either as the wrongdoer whose act or omission caused the loss or because the defendant is legally responsible to the insured for the loss caused by the wrongdoer; [2]
the claimed loss was one for which the insurer was not
primarily liable; [3] the
insurer has compensated the insured in whole or in part for the same loss for
which the defendant is primarily liable; [4] the insurer has paid the claim of
its insured to protect its own interest and not as a volunteer; [5] the insured
has an existing, assignable cause of action against the defendant which the
insured could have asserted for its own benefit had it not been compensated for
its loss by the insurer; [6] the insurer has suffered damages caused by the act
or omission upon which the liability of the defendant depends; [7] justice
requires that the loss be entirely shifted from the insurer to the defendant,
whose equitable position is inferior to that of the insurer; and [8] the
insurer's damages are in a liquidated sum, generally the amount paid to the
insured.’  [Citation.]” (Pulte Home Corporation v. CBR Electric, Inc. (2020) 50
Cal.App.5th 216, 229.)  (Italics in
original.)
 
As a
preliminary issue, the Court notes that Defendant Hernandez’s Answer was
untimely as it was filed after default was entered against him.  The Court erroneously accepted the
Answer.  Accordingly, the Answer is
hereby stricken as to Defendant Hernandez, only.  Once default has been entered, Defendant is
“no longer an active party in the litigation” and not entitled to take further
affirmative steps such as filing a pleading or motion.  (Sporn v. Home Depot USA, Inc. (2005)
126 Cal. App. 4th 1294, 1301.)
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion is
denied.
 
V.               
Conclusion & Order
For
the foregoing reasons,
 
Plaintiff State Farm Mutual Automobile Company’s
Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings as to Defendant Antonio Hernandez Perez is
DENIED.
 
Trial
continuance will be discussed at the hearing.
 
Moving party is ordered to give
notice.
 