    BACKGROUND   On April  2, 2024, Plaintiff LAC Verdugo Operations, LLC (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint  against Defendants Felicidad T. Honkala (“Defendant”) and Does 1-20, inclusive,  alleging causes of action for: (1) Breach of Written Contract; (2) Common  Counts; and (3) Quantum Meruit.    Plaintiff  filed a proof of service showing that Defendant was personally served with the  Summons and Complaint on April 23, 2024 by personal service. (See 04/23/24  Proof of Service.)    On May 23, 2024, Defendant filed and served the instant  Motion to Quash Service of Summons and Complaint. The motion is made on the  ground that Defendant lacks legal capacity and was appointed guardian ad litem  in a separate matter with Plaintiff but Plaintiff failed to serve her guardian ad  litem for purposes of service in this action.    As of July  12, 2024, no opposition brief has been filed. Any opposition brief was required  to have been filed and served at least nine court days prior to the hearing  pursuant to CCP § 1005(b).    Initially,  the Court grants Defendant’s request for judicial notice. (Evid. Code, §§ 452,  453.)      MOVING PARTY  POSITION               Defendant  argues that she lacks capacity and therefore personal service on her alone  without her guardian ad litem is ineffective and the Court must grant  the motion to quash.    OPPOSITION               None filed  as of July 12, 2024.   REPLY               None filed  as of July 12, 2024.       ANALYSIS   I.          Motion  to Quash Service of Summons and Complaint A.                 Legal Standard              “A defendant who takes the position that the service  of summons as made upon him did not bring him within the jurisdiction of the  court, may serve and file a notice of motion to quash the service.” Coulston  v. Cooper (1966) 245 Cal.App.2d 866, 868. “The effect of such notice is to  place upon the plaintiff the burden of proving the facts that did give the  court jurisdiction, that is the facts requisite to an effective service.” Ibid.  “A defendant, on or before the last day of his or her time to plead or within  any further time that the court may for good cause allow, may serve and file a  notice of motion . . . [t]o quash service of summons on the ground of lack of  jurisdiction of the court over him or her.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 418.10, subd.  (a)(1).)              “A  summons may be served on a person (other than a minor) for whom a guardian . .  . has been appointed by delivering a copy of the summons and of the complaint  to his guardian . . . and to such person, but, for good cause shown, the court  in which the action is pending may dispense with delivery to such person.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 416.70.) “The due process clauses of the United States and  California Constitutions require that a party be given reasonable notice of a  judicial action or proceeding.” Kremerman v. White (2021) 71 Cal.App.5th  358, 370. “To establish personal jurisdiction, compliance with statutory  procedures for service of process is essential . . . .” Ibid.  B.        Discussion             Defendant  presents evidence that she has been appointed a guardian ad litem in a separate action that she filed  against Plaintiff. (Mourad Decl., ¶ 4; Ex. C.) Defendant’s daughter, Rowena  Anonas, was appointed as Defendant’s guardian ad litem on April 16, 2024  in Felicidad Honkala v. LAC Verdugo Operations, LLC, LASC Case No.  24GDCV00126, which was filed on January 23, 2024. (Defendant’s Request for  Judicial Notice at Exs. A and C.)              Plaintiff  has failed to oppose the instant motion and therefore has conceded to  Defendant’s arguments raised therein. Moulton Niguel Water Dist. v. Colombo  (2003) 111 Cal.App.4th 1210, 1215. Defendant has been appointed guardian ad  litem in another action; however, the Court notes that no guardian ad  litem has been appointed for Defendant in this action and Defendant has not  requested the appointment of a guardian ad litem in this action.              Defendant’s  guardian ad litem should have been served with the summons and complaint  pertaining with this action pursuant to CCP § 416.70.   II.        Conclusion                Based on the foregoing, Defendant Felicidad T. Honkala’s  Motion to Quash Service of Summons and Complaint is GRANTED.    The proof of  personal service filed on or about 04/23/2024 is hereby quashed/voided.               Defendant is ordered to file an  application for appointment of a guardian ad litem in this action so  that the Court may review and rule on such application.                The Moving party is  ordered to give notice of this Court’s Ruling and to attach a copy of the  Court's Tentative Ruling, as exhibit “A” to said notice.  