  Case Number:  22STCV32532    Hearing Date:   January 31, 2024    Dept:  51 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Upinder S.
Kalra, Department 51
 
HEARING DATE:    January
31, 2024                                             
 
CASE NAME:           Lewis
Cohen, et al. v. Starr Indemnity & Liability Company
 
CASE NO.:                22STCV32532

 
MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT, OR ALTERNATIVELY, SUMMARY ADJUDICATION

 
MOVING PARTY:  Defendant
Starr Indemnity & Liability Company
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiffs Lewis Cohen and
Alejandra Cohen
 
REQUESTED RELIEF: 
 
1.     Summary
Judgment in Defendant’s Favor;
2.     Summary
Adjudication in Defendant’s Favor of the First Cause of Action because
Plaintiffs failed to establish Defendant unreasonably withheld benefits and
there exists at most a genuine dispute as to whether any amounts claimed under
the Policy are covered under the Policy;
3.     Summary
Adjudication in Defendant’s Favor of the Second Cause of Action because the
undisputed facts show there was no coverage under the Policy for Plaintiffs’
claim;
4.     Summary
Adjudication of Defendant’s Fourteenth Affirmative Defense in Defendant’s favor
because Plaintiff’s claim is barred by a genuine dispute as to policy benefits
owed under the Policy; and
5.     Summary
Adjudication of Defendant’s Thirty-Seventh Affirmative Defense in Defendant’s
favor because there is no coverage under the Policy for the claims at issue.
TENTATIVE RULING: 
 
Motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED.
 
STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: 
 
On October 4, 2022, Plaintiffs Lewis Cohen and Alejandra
Cohen (Plaintiffs) filed a Complaint against Defendant Starr Indemnity &
Liability Company with two causes of action for: (1) Breach of Duty of Good
Faith and Fair Dealing; and (2) Breach of Contract.
 
According to the Complaint, Plaintiffs purchased trip
protection from Defendant related to a cruise to Antarctica. Plaintiffs allege
that they began their trip but were ordered to quarantine by the ship’s
physician due to close contact with COVID-19. Plaintiffs allege that they
submitted a Trip Interruption claim to Defendant who subsequently denied the
claim. 
 
On November 23, 2022, Defendant filed a Motion to Strike
portions of the Complaint pertaining to punitive damages, which the court
GRANTED on February 27, 2023.
 
On January 18, 2023, Defendant filed a motion to transfer
and consolidate, which the court DENIED on February 15, 2023. On April 27,
2023, Plaintiffs filed a Petition for Writ of Mandate pertaining to this
decision.
 
On March 17, 2023, Defendant filed an Answer.
On November 15, 2023, Defendant filed the instant motion for
summary judgment or, in the alternative, summary adjudication (MSJ).
 
On January 17, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an opposition.
 
On January 26, 2024, Defendant filed a reply.
 
LEGAL STANDARD: 
 
“[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears the burden of
persuasion that there is no triable issue of material fact and that he is
entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850, fn. omitted (Aguilar).) “When a defendant seeks summary judgment, he/she has the “burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit
if the party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of action, even
if not separately pleaded, cannot be established, or that there is a complete
defense to the cause of action.”¿ (Code of Civ. Proc. § 437c(p)(2).)¿ 
¿ 
The opposing party on a motion
for summary judgment is under no evidentiary burden to produce rebuttal
evidence until the moving party meets his or her initial movant’s burden.¿ (Binder v. Aetna Life Insurance Company (1999)
75 Cal.App.4th 832, 840.)¿ Once the initial movant’s burden is met, then the
burden shifts to the opposing party to show, with admissible evidence, that
there is a triable issue requiring the weighing procedures of trial.¿ (Code
Civ. Proc. § 437c(p).)¿ The opposing party may not simply rely on his/her
allegations to show a triable issue but must present evidentiary facts that are
substantial in nature and rise beyond mere speculation.¿ (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68¿Cal.App.4th 151, 162.)¿ Summary
judgment must be granted “if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences
or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and
that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”¿ (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992)
7¿Cal.App.4th¿1110, 1119.)¿¿ 
¿ 
As to any alternative request for
summary adjudication of issues, such alternative relief must be clearly set
forth in the Notice of Motion and the general burden-shifting rules apply but
the issues upon which summary adjudication may be sought are limited by
statute.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §¿437c(f)(1).)¿ “A motion for summary adjudication
shall be granted only if it completely disposes of a cause of action, an
affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty.”¿ (Ibid.)¿ 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
Second Cause of
Action – Breach of Contract
 
Defendant contends that Plaintiff cannot establish that
their claim was covered by the Policy because the plain and clear language of
the Policy only provides Trip Interruption coverage if Plaintiffs were
“prevented from continuing or resuming Your Covered Trip due to any of the
Unforeseen Events” and the Policy only pays for “1. The unused, non-refundable
travel arrangements prepaid to the Travel Supplier(s); 2. additional
transportation expenses incurred by YOU; or 3. return air travel up to the
lesser of the cost of an economy flight or the amount shown on the Schedule of
Benefits.” (MSJ 9:1-6.) Defendant contends that loss of enjoyment after
becoming sick is not covered by the Policy and Plaintiffs are prohibited from creating
ambiguity in the Policy where none exists.  Plaintiffs argue that the court may consider
extrinsic evidence to interpret the Policy and that their discovery responses
do not include information discovered after those responses were served.
Plaintiffs additional argue that the only reasonable interpretation of the
Policy, in the context of a cruise to Antarctica, was that because Plaintiffs
were quarantined they were prevented from visiting Antarctica and participating
in the other cruise activities and that accepting Defendant’s interpretation
renders the Policy illusory since there would never be an opportunity to
disembark the ship before its return to port at the end of the trip.  
 
Here, even
if this Court concludes that Defendant met its initial burden showing, the
Court finds that a reasonable trier of fact could find that a disputed material
of fact exists as to whether the policy included
participating in all of the amenities and activities that the trip offered. it is entitled to summary adjudication in its favor. The
policy was to “participate” in the covered trip on a cruise to Antarctica. The
policy was not to for a journey from point a, South America, to point b,
Antarctica, and then back to point a. Three days into the
adventure, they were ordered by ships doctor to quarantine in their room. For
the remaining eight days of the trip, Plaintiffs were ordered to remain
quarantined in their room. The
undisputed evidence offered by Defendant was that while Plaintiffs remained on
the ship, they could not “participate in the covered trip” which included exploring
the ships amenities, including a lounge with a 270-degree domed roof, a gym, a
spa, and a theater where travelers could receive lectures on the history,
geography and wildlife of Antarctica. (Cohen Dec. ¶¶10-12.) The expedition also
included up to three excursions a day off he ship. (Cohen Dec. ¶¶13-14.) As
Plaintiffs assert, the purpose of the trip was not to travel from South America
to Antarctica, but to experience the and explore Antarctica, hike, see
wildlife, kayak and enjoy the ships amenities. (Cohen Dec. ¶ 30.) 
 
First Cause of
Action – Breach of Duty of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
 
“[T]here are at
least two separate requirements to establish breach of the implied covenant:
(1) benefits due under the policy must have been withheld; and (2) the reason
for withholding benefits must have been unreasonable or without proper
cause.” (Mosley v. Pacific Specialty Insurance Company (2020)
49 Cal.App.5th 417, as modified on denial of reh'g (June 24,
2020), review denied (Aug. 12,
2020).) 
 
“Thus, to succeed on a claim for breach of the implied
covenant, the insured must show that “the insurer acted unreasonably or without
proper cause.” [citation omitted] The insured must show the insurer's conduct
“demonstrates a failure or refusal to discharge contractual responsibilities,
prompted not by an honest mistake, bad judgment or negligence but rather by a
conscious and deliberate act, which unfairly frustrates the agreed common
purposes and disappoints the reasonable expectations of the other party thereby
depriving that party of the benefits of the agreement.” (Mosley v. Pacific Specialty Insurance Company (2020) 49 Cal.App.5th
417, 436, as modified on denial of reh'g
(June 24, 2020), review denied (Aug.
12, 2020).) 
 
Defendant contends that Plaintiff cannot establish that
Defendant breached the Policy or that Defendant acted unreasonably or without
proper cause. Defendant additionally contends that whether it acted in bad
faith is a question of law. Plaintiffs argue that Defendant denied the claim
without any investigation, that Defendant’s denial was unsupported by any
facts, and that Defendant’s interpretation contradicts language in the Policy
triggering coverage for being quarantined. 
 
The Court finds that the Defendant did meet their initial
burden. As stated above, for a cause of action for breach of implied covenant
of good faith and fair dealing, the party must demonstrate that withholding
policy benefits was unreasonable. Defendant has sufficiently established that
the withholding of policy benefits as reasonable.
 
Based on the evidence, the Court finds that there is a
genuine issue of fact. Specifically, Plaintiffs  have demonstrated that a reasonable person
could determine that the Defendant  did
not act reasonably in the review. Rather, Ms. Park responded, by email, without
conducting any investigation, that Plaintiffs would have ended the trip and
return home. (Ex. N. 4.) The timing of this reply email, 28 minutes after
receipt, and the lack of any evidence that one could get off of a cruise ship
in the middle of the Drake Passage en route to Antarctica could demonstrate to
a finder of fact that the investigation and review process was wholly
unreasonable. Moreover, the policy also covered for accommodations if a covered
illness occurs. Clearly, the only accommodation was on the cruise and then
three days in Argentenia after the cruise. Still, Defendant denied the entire
claim.Therefore, the Plaintiff has met its burden to establish that a genuine
issue of fact exists. 
 
Motion for Summary Adjudication
as to the Cause of Action for Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair
Dealing is DENIED. 
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            For
the foregoing reasons, the Court decides the pending motion as follows: 
 
            Motion
for Summary Judgment is DENIED.
Moving party is to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
Dated:              January 31, 2024                     __________________________________                                                                                                                        Upinder
S. Kalra
                                                                                    Judge of the Superior Court
 