 Case Number:  23STCV06115    Hearing Date:   November 6, 2023    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     November 6, 2023                 TRIAL DATE:
NOT SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Kevin Ryan v. Metropolitan Animal
Specialty Hospital, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV06115            
 
DEMURRER
TO FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT AND MOTION TO STRIKE

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants NVA MASH Capital Partners LP d/b/a
Metropolitan Animal Specialty Hospital and Eileen Wong, DVM, DACVECC, an
individual.
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Kevin
Ryan
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
03/20/23: Complaint filed.
·        
07/26/23: First Amended Complaint filed. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for negligence, trespass to chattels, and intentional
infliction of emotional distress. Plaintiff alleges that Defendants seriously
misdiagnosed his service dog with a life-threatening illness, thereby inducing
him to subject his dog to invasive and unnecessary surgeries.
 
Defendants demur to the second
cause of action for trespass to chattels and third cause of action for
intentional infliction of emotional distress alleged in the First Amended
Complaint. Defendants also move to strike Plaintiff’s prayer for punitive
damages. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendants’ Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED
without leave to amend as to the third cause of action and
otherwise OVERRULED. 
 
            Defendants’
Motion to Strike is DENIED.
 
//
DISCUSSION:
 
Defendants demur to the second
cause of action for trespass to chattels and third cause of action for
intentional infliction of emotional distress alleged in the First Amended
Complaint.
 
Legal Standard
 
A demurrer tests whether the
complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations
liberally and in context. (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and
Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.) In a demurrer proceeding, the
defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,
994.) “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other
extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face
of the pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court
(1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing
is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,
states a cause of action.” (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p. 747.) The
ultimate facts alleged in the complaint must be deemed true, as well as all
facts that may be implied or inferred from those expressly alleged. (Marshall
v. Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1397, 1403; see also Shields
v. County of San Diego (1984) 155 Cal.App.3d 103, 133 [stating, “[o]n
demurrer, pleadings are read liberally and allegations contained therein are
assumed to be true”].) “This rule of liberal construction means that the
reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not the
defendant.” (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th
1228, 1238.) 
 
Meet and Confer
 
Before filing a demurrer, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who has filed the pleading subject to the demurrer and file a declaration
detailing their meet and confer efforts.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41(a).)
However, an insufficient meet and confer process is not grounds
to overrule or sustain a demurrer.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41(a)(4).)
 
The Declaration of Attorney
Stephanie Beale states that the parties met and conferred telephonically on
September 8, 2023, but were unable to reach a resolution of this dispute.
(Declaration of Stephanie Beale ISO Demurrer ¶ 2.) Defendants have thus satisfied
their statutory meet-and-confer obligation.
 
Second Cause of Action: Trespass to Chattel
 
            Defendants
demur to the second cause of action for trespass to chattel for failure to
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. 
 
            To plead a
cause of action for trespass to chattel, a plaintiff must allege (1) the
plaintiff’s possession of the property, (2) the defendant’s intentional
interference with the plaintiff’s use of the property, (3) without the
plaintiff’s consent, and (4) resulting damages. (See, e.g., Thrifty-Tel,
Inc. v. Bezenek (1996) 46 Cal.App.4th 1559, 1566-67.)
 
            Defendants
argue that Plaintiff has failed to allege that any trespass occurred without
his consent because both the original Complaint and the First Amended Complaint
concede that Plaintiff consented to the use and possession of his property,
i.e., Plaintiff’s service dog, Copper. (FAC ¶¶ 12-15, 40.) Defendants also
invoke the sham pleading doctrine to contend that Plaintiff cannot plead around
this defect. Under the sham pleading doctrine, “[a] plaintiff may not avoid a
demurrer by pleading facts or positions in an amended complaint that
contradicts facts pleaded in the original complaint, or by suppressing facts
which prove the pleaded facts false.” (Cantu v. Resolution Trust Corporation
(1992) 4 Cal.App.4th 857, 877-878.) In such circumstances, “the policy against
sham pleading permits the court to take judicial notice of the prior pleadings
and requires that the pleader explain the inconsistency. If he fails to do so
the court may disregard the inconsistent allegations and read into the amended
complaint the allegations of the superseded complaint.” (Owens v. Kings
Supermarket (1988) 198 Cal.App.3d 379, 384.) 
 
The Court previously sustained a
demurrer to this cause of action because Plaintiff argued only that he did not
provide informed consent to the performed procedure, with no citation to
supporting authority. (See June 26, 2023 Minute Order.) Here, Plaintiff makes
essentially the same concession that he consented to Defendants taking
possession of Copper to provide her with life-saving medical care. (FAC ¶¶
12-14.) The First Amended Complaint frames the issue thusly: 
 
Plaintiff did not consent to the damage
done to his beloved family member and legal property. His consent was limited
to the procedures with the understanding that they would help and not harm
COPPER. He did not consent to the damage that resulted to COPPER. Accordingly,
any consent obtained was not fully informed and was based on false information
including the misdiagnosis.
 
(FAC ¶ 15.) Defendants have not demonstrated that
application of the sham pleading doctrine is warranted here. Nothing about the allegations
in the First Amended Complaint is inconsistent with those in the original
Complaint. Here, as before, Plaintiff concedes that he consented to the
procedures performed on Copper. Plaintiff’s efforts to cabin the scope of that
consent to correct defects in the previous Complaint do not make these
allegations a sham. 
 
            Plaintiff
argues in opposition that “California case law has long recognized that consent
to enter may be limited and that a trespass claim may lie when the scope of
consent is exceeded.” (Opp. p.5:19-20.) Plaintiff purports to quote this
language from Civic. W. Corp. v. Zila Industries, Inc. (1977) 66
Cal.App.3d 1. However, Plaintiff appears to be in error, as the specific
language is not found in the opinion. That said, the Court of Appeal in Civic
W. Corp. does state that, in the context of trespass to land, “a trespass
may occur if the party, entering pursuant to a limited consent . . . proceeds
to exceed those limits by divergent conduct.” (Civic W. Corp., supra, 66
Cal.App.3d at 17.) Civic. W. Corp. cites section 168 of the 2nd
Restatement of Torts for the rule that “A conditional or restricted consent to
enter land creates a privilege to do so only in so far as the condition or
restriction is complied with.” As Plaintiff observes, the Restatement sets
forth a similar rule for trespass to chattels and conversion, stating that “[o]ne
who uses a chattel with the consent of another is subject to liability in
trespass for any harm to the chattel which is caused by or occurs in the course
of any use exceeding the consent, even though such use is not a conversion.”
(Rest. 2d. Torts § 256.) 
 
Although Civic W. Corp. was
concerned with trespass to land, rather than chattel, the Court finds that
opinion instructive given the substantial similarity between the Restatement’s
provisions on consent as to both types of trespass. Moreover, by offering this
authority, Plaintiff has remedied the principal defect in his opposition to the
previous demurrer: the absence of authority supporting Plaintiff’s position.
Now, Plaintiff relies on this rule to contend that by misdiagnosing Copper and
performing surgeries that were unnecessary, Defendants exceeded the consent given.
(See FAC ¶ 15.) Plaintiff also alleges that this misconduct was willful and
intentional.  (Id., ¶ 40.) Construed
in the light most favorable to Plaintiff, as required on demurrer, the Court finds
that these allegations are sufficient to state a cause of action for trespass
to chattel. 
 
Accordingly, Defendants’ Demurrer
to the second cause of action for trespass to chattel is OVERRULED. 
 
Third Cause of Action: Intentional Infliction of
Emotional Distress
 
            Defendants
also demur to the third cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional
distress for failure to state fact sufficient to constitute a cause of action. 
 
“The elements of the tort of intentional infliction of
emotional distress are:  ‘“(1)
extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing,
or reckless disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress;   (2) the plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme emotional
distress; and (3) actual and proximate causation of the emotional distress by
the defendant’s outrageous conduct. …” Conduct to be outrageous must be so
extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized
community.’ [Citation.]” (Citation omitted.) “It is not enough that the conduct
be intentional and outrageous. It must be conduct directed at the plaintiff, or occur in the presence of a plaintiff of whom the defendant
is aware.” 
 
(Catsouras v. Department of California Highway Patrol (2010)
181 Cal.App.4th 856, 874-875.) The defendant’s conduct must be “directed
primarily” at the plaintiffs, “calculated to cause them severe emotional
distress,” or “done with knowledge of their presence and of a substantial
certainty that they would suffer severe emotional injury.” (Christensen v.
Superior Court (1991) 54 Cal.3d 868, 906.) 
 
            Defendants first
argue that this cause of action fails because Plaintiff has not adequately
alleged extreme and outrageous conduct. 
 
To be “extreme and
outrageous,” conduct must be “so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that
usually tolerated in a civilized community.” (Cochran v. Cochran (1998)
65 Cal.App.4th 488, 494 [quoting KOVR-TV, Inc. v. Superior Court (1995)
31 Cal.App.4th 1023, 1028].) Although there is no bright-line standard for what
constitutes extreme and outrageous conduct, the “appellate courts have affirmed
orders which sustained demurrers on the ground that the defendant’s alleged
conduct was not sufficiently outrageous.” (Cochran, supra, 65
Cal.App.4th at 494.) In making this determination, it is “not enough that the
defendant has acted with an intent which is tortious or even criminal, or that
he has intended to inflict emotional distress, or even that his conduct has
been characterized by ‘malice,’ or a degree of aggravation which would entitle
the plaintiff to punitive damages for another tort.” (Id. at 496.)
Rather, “[l]iability has been found only where the conduct has been so
outrageous in character, and so extreme in degree, as to go beyond all possible
bounds of decency, and to be regarded as atrocious, and utterly intolerable in
a civilized community.” (Id.) 
 
Defendants contend that Plaintiff’s
amended pleading does not materially differ from the original Complaint which
the Court deemed inadequate. In its previous order, the Court found that
Plaintiff did not allege that Defendants’ actions were directed at Plaintiff or
done in his presence, and that the conduct alleged, even if despicable, was not
so outrageous as to meet the standard for this tort. (See June 26, 2023 Minute
Order.) Plaintiff asserts the same arguments and identifies the same
allegations as he did in his opposition to the demurrer to the original
complaint. (Compare Opp. p. 9:13-24 [mislabeled as pertaining to
Defendants’ intent] filed October 20, 2023 with Opposition p.9:9-28 to
Demurrer filed June 12, 2023.) Plaintiff’s contentions were not persuasive when
they were originally brought, and the Court sees no reason to depart from its
prior ruling. 
 
As Plaintiff has failed to allege severe
and outrageous conduct contemplated by the tort of intentional infliction of
emotional distress, the Court declines to address Defendant’s arguments
concerning the severity of the distress alleged. 
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s Demurrer to the
third cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress is
SUSTAINED. 
 
Leave to Amend
 
When a demurrer is sustained, the
Court determines whether there is a reasonable possibility that the defect can
be cured by amendment. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318).  When a plaintiff “has pleaded the general set of facts upon
which his cause of action is based,” the court should give the plaintiff an
opportunity to amend his complaint, since plaintiff should not “be deprived of
his right to maintain his action on the ground that his pleadings were
defective for lack of particulars.” (Reed v. Norman (1957) 152
Cal.App.2d 892, 900.) Accordingly, California law imposes the burden on
the plaintiffs to demonstrate the manner in which they can amend their
pleadings to state their claims against a defendant.  (Goodman v.
Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.) “Denial of leave to amend constitutes
an abuse of discretion unless the complaint shows on its face it is incapable
of amendment.  [Citation.]  Liberality in permitting amendment is the
rule, if a fair opportunity to correct any defect has not been given."
(Angie M. v. Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1217, 1227.)
 
Plaintiff has not demonstrated how
the third cause of action might be amended to cure the defects identified in
this demurrer. Moreover, the Court previously extended Plaintiff an opportunity
to amend this cause of action, only for Plaintiff to assert the same
allegations and arguments as in the original Complaint. Thus, Plaintiff has
demonstrated an inability to amend this cause of action despite a fair
opportunity to correct the defects within it. The Court therefore concludes that
leave to amend would be improper with respect to the third cause of action.
 
Conclusion
 
            Accordingly,
Defendants’ Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED without
leave to amend as to the third cause of action and otherwise OVERRULED. 
 
Motion to Strike Portions of First Amended Complaint
 
            Defendants
also move to strike Plaintiff’s prayer for punitive damages in the First
Amended Complaint.
 
Legal Standard
 
The court may, upon a motion, or at
any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. Code Civ.
Proc., § 436(a). The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an
order of the court. Id., § 436(b). The grounds for a motion to strike
are that the pleading has irrelevant, false or improper matter, or has not been
drawn or filed in conformity with laws. Id.§ 436. The grounds for moving to
strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. Id.§
437. “When the defect which justifies striking a complaint is capable of cure,
the court should allow leave to amend.” Vaccaro v. Kaiman (1998)
63 Cal.App.4th 761, 768. A motion to
strike can be used where the complaint or other pleading has not been drawn or
filed in conformity with applicable rules or court orders.  Code Civ.
Proc., § 436(b). This provision is for "the striking of a pleading due to
improprieties in its form or in the procedures pursuant to which it
was filed."  Ferraro v. Camarlinghi (2008) 161
Cal.App.4th 509, 528 (emphasis in original).
 
Meet and Confer
 
 Before filing a motion to strike, the moving
party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who has
filed the pleading subject to the motion to strike and file a declaration
detailing their meet and confer efforts.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5(a).)
However, an insufficient meet and confer process is not grounds to grant or
deny a motion to strike.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5(a)(4).)
 
The Declaration of Attorney
Stephanie Beale states that the parties met and conferred telephonically on
September 8, 2023, but were unable to reach a resolution of this dispute.
(Declaration of Stephanie Beale ISO Mot. ¶ 2.) Defendants have thus satisfied
their statutory meet-and-confer obligation.
 
Analysis
 
            Defendants
move to strike Plaintiff’s prayer for punitive damages in the First Amended
Complaint. Plaintiff specifically requested punitive damages pursuant to Civil
Code section 3340 as to his second cause of action for trespass to chattel.
(FAC Prayer ¶5.) 
 
            Civil Code
section 3340 states that “[f]or wrongful injuries to animals being subjects of
property, committed willfully or by gross negligence, in disregard of humanity,
exemplary damages may be given.” (Civ. Code § 3340.) Defendants argue that
Plaintiff’s prayer for exemplary damages is governed by Code of Civil Procedure
section 425.13(a), which requires a party to obtain a court order before
seeking punitive damages against a healthcare provider for professional
negligence. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 425.13.) The Court of Appeal categorically
rejected this argument in April of this year in Berry v. Frazier (2023)
90 Cal.App.5th 1258, stating:
 
[w]hile over the years the Legislature
has modified the statute governing exemplary damages in general (§ 3294) and
enacted procedural requisites for requests for exemplary damages against
medical care providers including veterinarians (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.13), it
has not amended section 3340 since 1872. If we as an appellate court were to
engraft the procedural requisites of section 3294 into section 3340, we would
be violating “the cardinal rule that a statute ‘... is to be interpreted by the
language in which it is written, and courts are no more at liberty to add
provisions to what is therein declared in definite language than they are to
disregard any of its express provisions.’”
 
(Berry v. Frazier (2023) 90 Cal.App.5th 1258, 1279.) Defendants’
argument is therefore entirely without merit. 
 
            Defendants
also argue that Plaintiff cannot seek exemplary damages under section 3340
because the corresponding cause of action for trespass to chattel is
inadequately pled. As the Court has overruled the demurrer to that cause of
action, Defendants’ arguments likewise fail. 
 
Conclusion
 
            Accordingly,
Defendants’ Motion to Strike is DENIED. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly, Defendants’ Demurrer to
the First Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED without
leave to amend as to the third cause of action and otherwise OVERRULED. 
 
            Defendants’
Motion to Strike is DENIED.
 
            Moving
Parties to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  November 6,
2023                              ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 