 Case Number:  BC715362    Hearing Date:   November 6, 2023    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     November 6, 2023                 JUDGMENT: September
26, 2023
                                                           
CASE:                         Vichit Tilakamonkul v. Vichai
Tilakamonkul, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 BC715362            
 
MOTION
FOR ATTORNEY’S FEES

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendant Vichit Tilakamonkul
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Defendants/Cross-Complainants
Virut, Vichai, Sumeth, and Narlong Tilakamonkul
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
07/25/18: Complaint filed.
·        
03/12/19: Complaint in Intervention filed by
Royal Thai Cuisine II
·        
04/29/19: First Amended Complaint filed.
·        
08/21/19: Second Amended Complaint filed.
·        
04/07/20: Cross-Complaint filed by T-Team
Investment
·        
11/02/20: First Amended Cross-Complaint filed by
T-Team Investment.
·        
03/05/21: Second Amended Cross-Complaint filed
by T-Team Investment.
·        
06/30/22: Statement of Decision Rendered
·        
10/11/22: Amended Statement of Decision Rendered
·        
09/26/23: Judgment entered. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This was a dispute involving a partnership in which Plaintiffs sought to
quiet title, dissolve a partnership, and partition and sell the partnership
property, among other causes of action. The primary individual parties are all brothers.
Plaintiffs alleged that the defendant siblings denied that the parties were
partners and that Plaintiffs had any interest in several properties. In a
cross-complaint, T-Team investment also sought quiet title and declaratory
relief. 
 
Plaintiff Vichit Tilakamonkul moves
for attorney’s fees pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure sections 847.010 and
847.040. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Plaintiff’s
Motion for Attorney’s Fees is GRANTED IN PART as described herein. 
 
DISCUSSION: 
 
Plaintiff Vichit Tilakamonkul moves
for attorney’s fees pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure sections 847.010 and
847.040. 
 
Procedural History
 
On July 25, 2018, Plaintiff Vichit
Tilakamonkul (Vichit)[1]
filed a verified complaint for damages and other relief against Defendants
Vichai Tilakamonkul, Virut Tilakamonkul, Somsak Tilakamonkul, Marasri (Mary)
Tilakamonkul, Narong Tilakamonkun, Sumeth Tilakamonkul,[2]
and others claiming an interest in certain described real and personal
property. In the initial complaint, Vichit asserted claims for breach of
written contract, partnership accounting, dissolution of partnership and
accounting, conversion, breach of fiduciary duty, constructive fraud, and
partition and sale and accounting.
 
After several revised iterations of
the complaint, the Second Amended Complaint was filed on August 21, 2019, which
was the operative complaint at trial. In that pleading, Vichit Tilakamonkul
joined with brother and former defendant, Somsak Tilakamonkul (jointly
"Plaintiffs") to assert twelve causes of action against their
brothers, Defendants Vichai, Virut, Narlong, Sumeth, and Pramorte, as well as
Siriratn Tilakamonkul and several entities owned by some or all of the seven
Tilakamonkul brothers. These entity defendants included Royal Thai Cuisine II,
Inc. ("RT II"), Royal Thai Cuisine IV, Inc. ("RT IV"), and
T-Team Investments, LLC. ("T-Team"). The Second Amended Complaint
asserted claims for quiet title, breach of oral contract, negligence,
partnership accounting, partnership dissolution and accounting, partition and
sale of partnership property, breach of fiduciary duty, and breach of the
covenant of good faith and fair dealing.
 
Various defendants filed
Cross-complaints in the action. By the time of trial. there were three at
issue. In its Second Amended Cross-Complaint, filed on March 25, 2021,
Defendant T-Team sues Plaintiffs Vichit and Somsak, as well as Sudatip
Tilakamonkul, who is also known as Dawn Tilakamonkul, alleging causes of action
for declaratory relief, quiet title, breach of contract, account stated, and
goods and services rendered. T-Team's cross-complaint focuses on the ownership
of real property located at 4941 Mount Bigelow in San Diego ("Mt. Bigelow
Property") and at 4199 and 4201 Ransom Street in Long Beach ("Ransom
Properties"), and the related issue of whether funds paid to Vichit in
2007 constituted a buyout of his interest or a loan still owed by Vichit to
T-Team. RT II intervened in the action on or about March 12, 2019 to bring a
claim for declaratory relief against Plaintiffs, seeking a judgment regarding
the ownership of the Royal Thai Cuisine restaurant in Newport Beach. Further, Defendants
Vichai, Virut, Narlong and Sumeth cross-complained against Plaintiffs for
declaratory relief on June 30, 2018, requesting a declaration that Plaintiffs
own no part of the restaurant businesses or real property they claim to own
jointly with the five defendant brothers.
 
The Court ordered a bifurcated
trial with equitable claims to be tried first, followed by legal issues to be
tried in a second phase if necessary. A bench trial was conducted from December
13 to December 21, 2021 and then on January 3, 2022. The Court issued its
initial statement of decision on June 30, 2022, and an amended statement on
October 11, 2022. The Court subsequently concluded that all issues were
disposed of in Phase I, and a Phase II trial was not necessary. 
 
Consequently, the Court entered
final judgment on September 25, 2023, finding in favor of Vichit and Somsak and
against Vichai, Virut, Narlong, Sumeth, and Pramorte on the partition cause of
action in the Second Amended Complaint and on all cross-claims and affirmative
defenses asserted against Vichit and Somsak, and in favor of Sudatip (as well
as Vichit and Somsak) and against T-Team Investment, LLC on T-Team’s Second
Amended Cross-Complaint. (Final Judgment.) The Court also found that Vichit and
Somsak each owned a one-seventh share of the Ransom and Mt. Bigelow properties,
but and that each of the brothers were entitled to a one-seventh share of the
proceeds from sale of those properties, but that they had no ownership interest
in the Georgia Sue property. (Id.) 
 
Entitlement to Fees
 
            Plaintiff
Vichit seeks an order awarding attorney’s fees pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 874.010 and 874.040. 
 
            Section
874.040 of the Code of Civil Procedure states that, subject to exceptions not
at issue here, “the court shall apportion the costs of partition among the
parties in proportion to their interests or make such other apportionment as
may be equitable.” (Code Civ. Proc § 874.040.) Costs of partition include, as
relevant here, “Reasonable attorney’s fees incurred or paid by a party for the
common benefit.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 874.010.) 
 
            The “common
benefit” in a partition action “is the proper distribution of the ‘respective
shares and interests in said property by the ultimate judgment of the court.’”
(Orien v. Lutz (2017) 16 Cal.App.5th 957, 967 [quoting Capuccio v.
Caire (1932) 215 Cal. 518, 528].) “This sometimes will require that
‘controversies’ be ‘litigated’ to correctly determine those interests, but this
ultimately can be for the common benefit as well. The fact that a party resists
the partition does not change this.” (Id.) 
 
            Plaintiff
argues that the entire purpose of this action was the pursuit of the proper
distribution of the ownership interests in the subject properties, insofar as
Vichit and Somsak brought this action to pursue their respective one-seventh
interests to which the Court concluded they were entitled. Defendants, in
opposition, argue that Plaintiff should not be permitted to recover attorney’s
fees because the action was pursued purely to establish the Plaintiffs’
interest in the properties at issue, citing Williams v. Miranda (1958)
159 Cal.App.2d 143 for the position that an action purporting to be one in
partition that develops instead into a proceeding of a different nature is not
undertaken “for the common benefit.” (Williams v. Miranda (1958) 159
Cal.App.2d 143, 158.) Defendant argues in conclusory fashion that this action
was not a partition action, but rather merely an attempt by Plaintiffs to
assert their interests in the real properties at issue. The Court is not
persuaded. Partition and sale of the subject properties has been an essential
element of this entire dispute. That the parties stipulated to partition and
sale subject to the Court’s apportionment of the ownership interests does not
render the fees incurred in litigating the dispute surrounding those interests
not “for the common benefit.” Just the opposite. Plaintiff Vichit is entitled
to an apportionment of reasonable attorney’s fees incurred in connection with
the litigation of those disputes. 
 
            Defendants
also contend that the entire action could have been avoided if Plaintiff had
agreed to a settlement proposed by Defendants in March 2019.  The evidence belies this assessment.  Instead, Defendant’s Exhibit 7 reveals that
Plaintiff Vichit signed the proposed settlement agreement on March 14, 2019,
the day before one of the defendants suggested a rewrite of the settlement
agreement.  (Weiss Decl., Exh. 7-8.)  That Plaintiff decided to move forward with
depositions in the case based on this record simply does not show that it was
Plaintiff who upended a settlement that could have averted further litigation
in the lawsuit.  Accordingly, the Court
finds that Plaintiff is entitled to reasonable attorney’s fees in this action.  
 
Reasonableness of Fees
 
            Plaintiff
seeks an award of attorney’s fees in the amount of $257,580. 
 
Reasonable
attorney’s fees are ordinarily determined by the Court pursuant to the
“lodestar” method, i.e., the number of hours reasonably expended multiplied by
the reasonable hourly rate. (See PLCM Group, Inc. v. Drexler (2000) 22
Cal.4th 1084, 1095-1096; Margolin v. Regional Planning Com. (1982) 134
Cal.App.3d 999, 1004 [“California courts have consistently held that a
computation of time spent on a case and the reasonable value of that time is
fundamental to a determination of an appropriate attorneys' fee award.”].) “[T]he lodestar is the basic fee for
comparable legal services in the community; it may be adjusted by the court
based on factors including, as relevant herein, (1) the novelty and difficulty
of the questions involved, (2) the skill displayed in presenting them, (3) the
extent to which the nature of the litigation precluded other employment by the
attorneys, (4) the contingent nature of the fee award….”  (Ibid.)
In setting the hourly rate for a fee award, courts are entitled to consider the
“fees customarily charged by that attorney and others in the community for
similar work.” (Bihun v. AT&T Info. Sys., Inc. (1993) 13 Cal.App.4th
976, 997 [affirming rate of $450 per hour], overruled on other grounds by Lakin
v. Watkins Associated Indus. (1993) 6 Cal.4th 644, 664.)  The burden
is on the party seeking attorney’s fees to prove the reasonableness of the
fees. (Center for Biological Diversity v. County of San Bernardino
(2010) 188 Cal.App.4th 603, 615.) 
 
The Court has broad discretion in
determining the amount of a reasonable attorney’s fee award, which will not be
overturned absent a “manifest abuse of discretion, a prejudicial error of law,
or necessary findings not supported by substantial evidence.” (Bernardi
v. County of Monterey (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 1379, 1393-1394.)  The
Court need not explain its calculation of the amount of attorney’s fees awarded
in detail; identifying the factors considered in arriving at the amount will
suffice. (Ventura v. ABM Indus. Inc. (2012) 212 Cal.App.4th 258,
274-275.) 
 
Plaintiff
seeks recovery of $257,580 in attorney’s fees, representing 1287.9 hours of
attorney time incurred at an hourly rate of $200 to litigate this entire
action. Put differently, Plaintiff requests that the Court award him the total
of all fees incurred by him in this action, notwithstanding the apportionment
of the respective interests. This request is supported by an affidavit from
Plaintiff’s counsel attesting to his skills and experience. (Declaration of
James Stroud ISO Mot. ¶ 2.) Attorney Stroud also provided copies of his
contemporaneous billing records, save for January 2020, which were estimated
from Court records. (Id. ¶ 5, Exh. B.) The billing records provided are
entirely handwritten and frequently are not fully legible. (See Id.) However,
Attorney Stroud also provided summaries of these records. (Id. Exh. A.) 
 
Plaintiff
argues that full fees should be awarded, or, failing that, that fees should be
apportioned in favor of Plaintiff on a 5:1 ratio because of the unclean hands and
bad faith conduct in this action, and because all the causes of action in this
case were inextricably intertwined, since they all related to ownership of the
subject properties. (See Reynolds Metals Co. v. Alperson (1979) 25
Cal.3d 124, 129-130.) In opposition, Defendants argue that the fee request is
not reasonable because Plaintiff did not apportion fees to the other causes of
action, and because Plaintiffs pursued an ultimately unsuccessful claim against
the Georgia Sue property. Defendants assert that the claim against the Georgia
Sue property forced an early sale which they contend deprived Sumeth and Virut
of considerable value in appreciation. This last assertion is pure speculation.  Further, the Court is not persuaded that
Plaintiff’s unsuccessful claims warrant a complete denial of attorney’s fees on
equitable principles. 
 
Turning to the
question of whether fees should be awarded for some causes of action on which
Plaintiff prevailed and denied for unsuccessful ones, the Court finds the
inquiry to be more complicated than either party allows. While it is certainly
true that many of Plaintiff’s causes of action and Defendants’ crossclaims were
inextricably intertwined because they all concerned the parties’ ownership
interest in four real properties, these issues were distinct from Plaintiff’s
separate claims grounded on the contention that the family restaurants were
owned by a partnership of brothers rather than through valid corporations,
which was a significant aspect addressed during the bench trial.  On the other hand, much of the time spent
after the bench trial – generating about $65,800 in fees -- was devoted to
Defendants’ rejected contentions challenging Plaintiff’s success at trial by
reference to crossclaims by their property manager and alleged offsets to
Plaintiff’s successful litigation of his property interests.  (Plaintiff’s Exh. A)  Thus, the Court concludes that the fees
devoted to the interlinked property issues on which Plaintiff succeeded should
include all the post-trial fees but that the hours spent before February 2022
should be reduced from about $191,780 to $153,424 to account for the separate
corporate claims.  Thus, the total fees
expended on asserting Plaintiff’s real property claims and contesting
Defendants’ related crossclaims and defenses were $219,224.
 
Defendants
also argue for a sharp reduction of any fees awarded to account for Plaintiff’s
failure to prove any ownership interest in the Georgia Sue property.  The Court agrees that some reduction is
appropriate but concludes that the time spent exclusively on this issue was
minimal and involved limited testimony from the parties and scrutiny of a few
real estate records.  Thus, the Court
adjusts the attorney’s fees at issue to exclude time spent litigating ownership
of the Georgia Sue property to reach a figure of $206,950 in fees reasonably
expended on successfully litigating Plaintiff’s partition-related claims as to
the Ransome and Mt. Bigelow properties.
 
As noted
above, Code of Civil Procedure section 874.040 directs the Court to apportion
the costs of partition among the parties in proportion to their interests or
make such other apportionment as may be equitable.  A strict allocation based on the interests of
all plaintiffs versus all defendants might result in a fee award to Plaintiff
of two-sevenths of the pertinent fees in recognition that this litigation
established the rights of Vichit and Somsak to their one-seventh shares.  Such an apportionment would disregard the
confused views of most defendants about who owned the family assets and the
pre-filing conflicts among Defendants about whether Plaintiffs still owned
their shares in the Tilakamonkul properties. The Court has captured in its
Amended Final Statement of Decision the conflicted testimony of various
defendants about whether Plaintiffs’ ownership interests in the family’s real
property even after the lawsuit was commenced. 
(Amended Final Statement of Decision, pp. 5-6.)  Of even greater significance, however, when
three of the brothers sought to sell all the family property and exclude
Vichit, Somsak and Pramorte from sharing in the proceeds, Defendants Pramorte
and Virut objected and Virut even wrote a check to finance this lawsuit as an
effort to block the sale.  (Id.,
p. 10.)  The Court concludes, based on
these findings after trial, that there were at least four brothers – Vichit,
Somsak, Pramorte and Virut – whose interests were actively promoted when this
lawsuit was first filed.  Moreover, given
the familial connections between all the principal parties and their muddled
understanding of who owned what, the Court finds that all parties were
benefitted by a clear legal ruling finally determining the property interests
of the brothers and resolving the claims and accusations leveled by various
brothers based on vague oral agreements and longstanding resentments.  Based on these equitable considerations, the
Court awards Plaintiff a total of $206,950 in attorney’s fees.  
 
//
 
// 
CONCLUSION:
 
            Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion for Attorney’s Fees is
GRANTED IN PART as described herein. 
 
Moving Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  November 6,
2023                              ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 


