  Case Number:  21STCV44398    Hearing Date:   November 6, 2023    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     November 6, 2023                 TRIAL DATE:
April 9, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         3BTech Inc. v. Great Northern Ins. Co.
 
CASE NO.:                 21STCV44398            
 
(1)  
MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO FORM INTERROGATORIES
(2)  
MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO REQUESTS
FOR PRODUCTION

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant Great Northern Insurance Co. 
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff 3BTech,
Inc. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
This is a breach of contract action
that was filed on December 6, 2021. Plaintiff seeks coverage for the loss of
inventory destroyed by a fire while in the care of the insured non-party
Pro-Com Products, Inc.
 
Defendant Great Northern Ins. Co
moves to compel further responses to form interrogatories and requests for
production.
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendant’s Motion to Compel
Further Responses to Form Interrogatories is GRANTED.
 
            Defendant’s
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production is DENIED.
 
            This
ruling is conditioned on Defendant’s payment of $60 in filing fees within 5
days of this order. 
 
//
 
//
DISCUSSION:
 
Multiple Motions
 
Defendant improperly filed a single
motion pertaining to two sets of discovery propounded to Plaintiff. 
 
Multiple motions should not be
combined into a single filing.¿(See¿Govt. Code,¿§ 70617(a)(4) [setting forth
the required filing fee for each motion, application, or any other paper or
request requiring a hearing];¿see¿also¿Weil & Brown, Civil Procedure Before
Trial, [8:1140.1] at 8F-60 (The Rutter Group 2011)¿[“Motions to compel
compliance with separate discovery requests ordinarily should be filed
separately.”].) Defendant should have reserved two separate hearings for two
separate motions to compel further responses. 
 
Combining multiple motions under
the guise of one motion with one hearing reservation manipulates the Court
Reservation System and unfairly jumps ahead of other litigants. Moreover,
combining motions to avoid payment of separate filing fees deprives the Court
of filing fees it is otherwise entitled to collect.
 
Accordingly, the Court’s ruling on
these motions is conditioned on Defendant’s payment of an additional $60 in
filing fees within 5 days of the date of this order. 
 
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Form
Interrogatories
 
            Defendant
moves to compel further responses to form interrogatories propounded to
Plaintiff. 
 
Legal Standards
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.300, subdivision (a), a court
may order a party to serve a further response to an interrogatory when the
court finds that: “(1) An answer to a particular interrogatory is evasive or
incomplete[;] (2) An exercise of the option to produce documents under Section
2030.230 is unwarranted or the required specification of those documents is
inadequate[; or] (3) An objection to an interrogatory is without merit or too
general.”
 
The burden is on the responding party to justify any objection or failure
to fully answer the interrogatories. Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Superior Court
(2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255.
 
Meet and
Confer
 
A party making a
motion to compel further responses must include a declaration stating facts
showing a “reasonable and good faith attempt” to resolve informally the issues
presented by the motion before filing the motion. (Code Civ. Proc., §§
2016.040, 2030.310(b).) 
 
The Declaration of Sean R.
Simpson attached to this motion states that the parties met and conferred via
email concerning the operative responses to Defendant’s discovery between
August 24, 2023 and October 4, 2023, without success. (Declaration of Sean R.
Simpson ISO Mot. ¶¶ 17-20, Exhs. P-R.) Defendant has therefore complied with
its statutory meet-and-confer obligation. 
 
Timeliness
 
A
motion to compel a further response must be noticed within 45 days of the
service of the verified response, or any supplemental response, or on or before
any specific later date to which the propounding party and the responding party
have agreed in writing.  (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2030.300(c),
2031.310(c); see also Sexton v. Superior Court (1997) 58
Cal.App.4th 1403, 1409; Vidal Sassoon, Inc. v. Superior Court
(1983) 147 Cal.App.3d 681, 685.) Otherwise, the propounding party waives any
right to compel further responses. (Id.) The 45-day time limit is mandatory and
jurisdictional.  (Sexton v. Superior Court (1997) 58 Cal.
App. 4th 1403, 1410.)
 
The
undisputed facts show that Plaintiff’s operative supplemental responses to the
discovery at issue were served on July 19, 2023. (Simpson Decl. ¶ 14 Exh. M.)
Defendant has provided email exchanges showing that the parties agreed to
extend the deadline to file this motion to October 27, 2023. (Id. Exh.
R.) This motion was filed and served on October 12, 2023, and is therefore
timely. 
 
Analysis
 
            Defendant moves to compel further
responses to Form Interrogatory No. 17.1 with respect to Requests for
Admissions Nos. 10 through 15 propounded to Plaintiff. Defendant propounded a
full set of discovery requests, including form and special interrogatories,
requests for production, and requests for admissions on December 16, 2022.
(Simpson Decl. ¶¶ 2-5 Exhs. A-D.) 
 
            Form Interrogatory No. 17.1 asks
that, for each response to the accompanying requests for admission that is not
an unqualified admission, the respondent is to state (a) the number of the
request, (b) all facts upon which the response is based, (c) the contact
information of all persons with knowledge of those facts, and (d) identify all
documents and other tangible things supporting the response and the contact
information of each person who has them. (See Defendant’s Exh. B. No. 17.1) 
 
            Request
for Admission No. 10 asked Plaintiff to admit that the attached document
defined as the Pro-Com Inventory did not separately set forth that any of the
property described therein was owned or controlled by Plaintiff, rather than
another entity, at the time of the warehouse fire. (See Defendant’s Exh. A. No.
10.) The remainder of the requests at issue, Nos. 11 through 15, asked
Plaintiff to admit that the masks identified in the inventory as “WhiteList
N95” were not listed on the FDA’s White List as personal protective equipment
authorized to be sold in the United States, (No. 11), were not certified by any
regulatory body (No. 12), and did not satisfy FFP2 (No. 13), KN95 (No. 14), or
N95 requirements. (No. 15.) 
 
            Plaintiff,
in response to each request for admission at issue, objected to identification
of the inventory list as belonging solely to Pro-Com, and objected to the terms
“certified by a governmental agency, regulator, law enforcement administration,
or independent laboratory” and the phrases “FFP2 requirements”, “KN95
requirements,” and “N95 requirements” as ambiguous and compound. (Defendant’s
Exh. E. Nos. 10-15.) Plaintiff also responded to each request to a categorical
denial subject to those objections. (Id.) 
 
            Turning now
to Plaintiff’s operative supplemental response to Form Interrogatory No. 17.1,
Plaintiff responded with respect to these requests for admissions as follows:
 
Supplemental Response to Requests for
Admission 10:
 
(b) – (d) Exhibit “C” is an inventory
list provided by Greenspan public adjusters to both Great Northern and Liberty
Mutual insurance adjusters after the 12/4/2020 fire that represents all stock
at the facility at the time of the 12/4/2020 fire, including both 3BTech and
Pro-Com inventories. Exhibit “C” includes all inventory that was present at the
1250 Bixby facility, including both 3BTech Inc.’s and Pro-Com Product Inc.’s
inventories. Johnny Zhu, Brett Barbour, Kevin Stranger are informed of the
transmission of the relevant documents to Great Northern Insurance in the days
and weeks after the subject fire. 3BTECH1314-1329; 
 
Supplemental Response to Request for
Admission 11 through 15: 
 
(b) – (d) Exhibit “C” is an inventory
list provided by Greenspan public adjusters to both Great Northern and Liberty
Mutual insurance adjusters after the 12/4/2020 fire that represents all stock
at the facility at the time of the 12/4/2020 fire, including both 3BTech and
Pro-Com inventories. Exhibit “C” includes all inventory that was present at the
1250 Bixby facility, including both 3BTech Inc.’s and Pro-Com Product Inc.’s
inventories. 
 
These requests are ambiguous as to any
specific items within the inventory any qualification or certification is
applicable to and does not provide the time at which the inventories qualified
under the various referenced qualifications or authorizations. Throughout the
COVID-19 pandemic, government agencies implemented modifications to the various
testing standards and waivers, therefore this party cannot intelligently
respond to these requests as phrased. The inventory listing provides the
internal identifiers of the inventory at the 1250 Bixby warehouse on the date
of the subject fire. Company documents, including certifications, testing, or
other verification of the products were lost in the fire. Johnny Zhu and Brett
Barbour on behalf of 3BTech, to be contacted through counsel, are informed of
the relevant testing and authorizations that were obtained for various PPE sold
by 3BTECH. Those documents relevant to the testing and certification that
survived the fire and 3BTECH presently possesses were disclosed and produced as
3BTECH 1728-1795.
 
(Defendant’s Exh. M. No. 17.1.) 
 
            With
respect to Request No. 10, Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s response is
evasive on its face since it does not address whether the document indicates
ownership of any of the products stored at the warehouse, nor does it identify
any witnesses who might know the basis for Plaintiff’s denial. Plaintiff, in
opposition, baldly asserts that this response is sufficient. It is not. The
question presented in Request for Admission is a straightforward yes or no
question: Does the inventory sheet indicate that Plaintiff owned any of the
property in the warehouse at the time of the fire? Defendant is entitled to a
straightforward yes (i.e., deny the request) or no (admit the request), and if
that answer is a denial of the request for admission, Plaintiff should state
the basis for that denial. 
 
            As to the
remaining requests, Defendant argues that the responses are again evasive
because the terms used in the requests are not ambiguous. Plaintiff, in
opposition, argues that there were multiple items listed as “WhiteList N95s”
and the rapidly-evolving testing and certification requirements during the
COVID-19 pandemic rendered Defendant’s requests incoherent without some
limitation as to time. The Court is not persuaded. The masks in storage were
destroyed in a fire on December 4, 2020, and the plain meaning of Defendant’s
requests is whether that entire set of masks listed as “WhiteList N95s” were
subject to any form of regulatory approval or met the FFP2, KN95, or N95
standards at the time of the fire. Plaintiff’s response is improperly evasive,
and Defendant is entitled to an order compelling further response.
 
Conclusion
 
            Accordingly,
Defendant’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Form Interrogatories is
GRANTED. 
 
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for
Production
 
            Defendant
also moves to compel further responses to requests for production propounded to
Plaintiff. 
 
Legal Standards
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310, subdivision (a), a court
may order a party to serve a further response to a demand for inspection when
the court finds that: “(1) A statement of compliance with the demand is
incomplete[;] (2) A representation of inability to comply is inadequate,
incomplete, or evasive[; or] (3) An objection in the response is without merit
or too general.”
 
The burden is on the moving party to “set forth specific facts showing
good cause justifying the discovery sought by the demand.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.310, subd. (b)(1).) These facts must also be set forth in a separate
statement filed by the moving party. (Cal. Rules of Court Rule 3.1345(c).) This
burden “is met simply by a fact-specific showing of relevance.” (TBG Ins.
Servs. Corp. v. Superior Court (2002) 96 Cal.App.4th 443, 448.)
 
Meet and Confer
 
A party making a motion to compel further responses must also include a
declaration stating facts showing a “reasonable and good faith attempt” to
resolve informally the issues presented by the motion before filing the motion.
(Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2016.040, 2031.310, subd. (b)(2).)
 
The Declaration of Sean R.
Simpson attached to this motion states that the parties met and conferred via
email concerning the operative responses to Defendant’s discovery between
August 24, 2023 and October 4, 2023, without success. (Declaration of Sean R.
Simpson ISO Mot. ¶¶ 17-20, Exhs. P-R.) Defendant has therefore complied with
its statutory meet-and-confer obligation. 
 
Timeliness
 
A motion to compel further
responses to requests for production must be served “within 45 days of the
service of the verified response, or any supplemental verified response, or on
or before any specific later date to which the propounding party and the responding
party have agreed in writing.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.310(c).) The 45-day
requirement is mandatory and jurisdictional. (Sexton v. Superior Court¿(1997)
58 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410.)
 
The
undisputed facts show that Plaintiff’s operative supplemental responses to the
discovery at issue were served on July 19, 2023. (Simpson Decl. ¶ 1Exh. N.)
Defendant has provided email exchanges showing that the parties agreed to
extend the deadline to file this motion to October 27, 2023. (Id. Exh.
R.) This motion was filed and served on October 12, 2023, and is therefore
timely. 
 
Good Cause
 
            Defendant moves to compel further
responses to Requests for Production (Set One) Nos. 1-3, 7-8, 10-15, 17-19,
22-39, 42-45, and 47-48. As Plaintiff states in opposition, Defendant makes no
effort in its moving papers, its separate statement, or its reply brief to
demonstrate the relevance of any of these requests for production. Contrary to
Defendant’s assertions in its reply brief, a statement that Defendant needs a
privilege log to evaluate Plaintiff’s assertion of the attorney-client
privilege does not demonstrate good cause for the underlying discovery
requests, which is the predicate showing that Defendant must make. Defendant is
not entitled to an order compelling further responses to these requests. 
 
Conclusion
 
            Accordingly, Defendant’s Motion to
Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production is DENIED.
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Defendant’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Form Interrogatories is
GRANTED.
 
            Defendant’s
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production is DENIED.
 
            This
ruling is conditioned on Defendant’s payment of $60 in filing fees within five
days of this order. 
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  November 6,
2023                              ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 