 Case Number:  23STCV08596    Hearing Date:   November 6, 2023    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     November 6, 2023                 TRIAL DATE:
NOT SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Martin Melendez-Murillo et al. v. AKG
Trading (USA), Inc., et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV08596            
 
DEMURRER
TO COMPLAINT; MOTION TO STRIKE PORTIONS OF COMPLAINT

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant Francini, Inc. 
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiffs Martin
Melendez-Murillo and Rufina Barajas
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is a toxic tort action, filed on April 18, 2023, alleging that
Plaintiff Melendez-Murillo developed silicosis and consequential injuries by
breathing in dust from Defendants’ stone products generated by his work as a
fabricator and polisher of stone countertops.
 
Defendant Francini, Inc. demurs to
the fourth cause of action for fraudulent concealment and moves to strike
portions of the Complaint. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendant’s Demurrer to the
Complaint is OVERRULED.
 
            Defendant’s
Motion to Strike is GRANTED without leave to amend as to the
allegation “[o]ther stone products to be identified during the course of
discovery,” and otherwise denied.
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Demurrer to Complaint
 
Defendant Francini, Inc. demurs to
the fourth cause of action for fraudulent concealment for failure to state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. 
 
Legal Standard
 
A demurrer tests whether the
complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations
liberally and in context. (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and
Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.) In a demurrer proceeding, the
defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,
994.) “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other
extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face
of the pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court
(1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing
is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,
states a cause of action.” (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p. 747.) The
ultimate facts alleged in the complaint must be deemed true, as well as all
facts that may be implied or inferred from those expressly alleged. (Marshall
v. Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1397, 1403; see also Shields
v. County of San Diego (1984) 155 Cal.App.3d 103, 133 [stating, “[o]n
demurrer, pleadings are read liberally and allegations contained therein are
assumed to be true”].) “This rule of liberal construction means that the
reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not the
defendant.” (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th
1228, 1238.) 
 
Meet and Confer
 
Before filing a demurrer, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who has filed the pleading subject to the demurrer and file a declaration
detailing their meet and confer efforts.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41(a).)
However, an insufficient meet and confer process is not grounds
to overrule or sustain a demurrer.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41(a)(4).)
 
The Declaration of Attorney Azniv
Khararjian states that the parties met and conferred electronically on August
18, 2023, but were unable to reach a resolution of this dispute. (Declaration
of Azniv Khararjian ISO Demurrer ¶¶ 2-3, Exh. A.) Defendant has thus satisfied
its statutory meet-and-confer obligation.
 
Analysis
 
Defendant Francini, Inc. demurs to
the fourth cause of action for fraudulent concealment for failure to state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. 
 
“The elements of a cause of action for
fraud based on concealment are: ‘(1) the defendant must have concealed or
suppressed a material fact,     (2) the
defendant must have been under a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff,
(3) the defendant must have intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact with
the intent to defraud the plaintiff, (4) the plaintiff must have been unaware
of the fact and would not have acted as he did if he had known of the concealed
or suppressed fact, and (5) as a result of the concealment or suppression of
the fact, the plaintiff must have sustained damage.’” 
 
(Jones v. ConocoPhillips Co. (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th
1187, 1198.)
 
            First,
Defendant argues that Plaintiff failed to allege with adequate specificity that
he relied on any allegedly misleading representations in Defendant’s Material
Safety Data Sheet, or any intent to conceal information from Plaintiff.  As to each element, Plaintiffs allege that:
 
(1)  
Defendant concealed the toxic properties of its
products (¶¶ 108-11, 576), one of which was identified in the Complaint. (¶
347.)
 
(2)  
 Defendants had a
duty to disclose the toxic properties of their products because of the Hazard
Communication Standard, California common law, their “knowledge of material
facts, to wit the toxic properties of their products, which were not accessible
to Plaintiff,” because they “made representations regarding their stone
products, but failed to disclose additional facts which materially qualify the
facts disclosed, and/or which rendered the disclosures made likely to mislead
Plaintiff,” and because they had a transactional relationship with Defendant,
based on their sale of toxic products to Plaintiff’s employers, with whom
Plaintiff was in privity (¶¶ 483-87, ), 
 
(3)  
Defendant “concealed said toxic hazards from Plaintiff
. . . so that Plaintiff . . . would use Defendants’ stone products” (¶ 488), 
 
(4)  
 Plaintiff “was
unaware of the toxic and fibrogenic [hazards] of Defendants’ stone products and
would not have acted as he did had he known of said concealed hazards” (¶ 577),
and 
 
(5)  
As a result of Defendant’s concealment of the toxic
hazards of its stone products, Plaintiff was exposed to Defendant’s toxic hazards
and has suffered “serious injuries and disease” as a result, including “silicosis,
progressive massive fibrosis and other related and consequential medical
conditions (¶¶ 579-84)
 
These allegations are sufficient to allege a
fraudulent concealment claim against Defendant. (Jones, supra, 198
Cal.App.4th at 1195 [plaintiff’s complaint is not “unacceptably speculative if
a plaintiff has not specifically identified which toxin contained in a
particular product caused the alleged injury or has sued the manufacturers of
multiple products, alleging all of them contained toxins that were substantial
factors in causing his injury.”) Moreover, as the California Supreme Court
noted in Bockrath v. Aldrich Chemical Co., Inc. (1999) 21 Cal.4th 71,
the remedy for an improperly speculative pleading is provided by Code of Civil
Procedure section 128.7(b), which permits the imposition of sanctions on an
attorney who is found to have deliberately filed a products liability suit
without a well-founded belief in the truth of a particular allegation. (Bockrath,
supra, 21 Cal. 4th at p. 82; see also Jones, supra, 198 Cal.App.4th
at 1196.) 
 
Defendant also argues that Plaintiff fails to plead (1) the identity
of the individuals who made misrepresentations to plaintiff, (2) demonstrate
that such individuals had authority to speak for the corporation, (3) identify
what such individuals said or wrote and when, and (4) specially plead that
their damages were proximately caused by the defendant's fraudulent
conduct. (Demurrer p. 7:24-8:1, citing Lazar v. Superior
Court (Rykoff-Sexton Inc.) (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.) Plaintiff’s fourth
cause of action does not allege fraudulent misrepresentation, however. It
pleads fraudulent concealment. The elements cited by Defendant do not apply to
a cause of action for fraudulent concealment.   
 
Conclusion
 
            Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer to the fourth cause of
action on the ground that it fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action is OVERRULED. 
 
Motion
to Strike Portions of Complaint 
 
Defendant Francini, Inc. also moves to strike portions of the
Complaint pertaining to punitive damages, as well as an allegation relating to “[o]ther products to be
identified during discovery.”
 
Legal Standard
 
The court may, upon a motion, or at
any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. Code Civ.
Proc., § 436(a). The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an
order of the court. Id., § 436(b). The grounds for a motion to strike
are that the pleading has irrelevant, false or improper matter, or has not been
drawn or filed in conformity with laws. Id.§ 436. The grounds for moving to
strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. Id.§
437. “When the defect which justifies striking a complaint is capable of cure,
the court should allow leave to amend.” Vaccaro v. Kaiman (1998)
63 Cal.App.4th 761, 768. A motion to
strike can be used where the complaint or other pleading has not been drawn or
filed in conformity with applicable rules or court orders.  Code Civ.
Proc., § 436(b). This provision is for "the striking of a pleading due to
improprieties in its form or in the procedures pursuant to which it
was filed."  Ferraro v. Camarlinghi (2008) 161
Cal.App.4th 509, 528 (emphasis in original).
 
Meet and Confer
 
 Before filing a motion to strike, the moving
party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who has
filed the pleading subject to the motion to strike and file a declaration
detailing their meet and confer efforts.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5(a).)
However, an insufficient meet and confer process is not grounds to grant or
deny a motion to strike.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5(a)(4).)
 
The Declaration of Attorney Azniv
Khararjian states that the parties met and conferred electronically on August
18, 2023, but were unable to reach a resolution of this dispute. (Declaration
of Azniv Khararjian ISO Mot. ¶¶ 2-3, Exh. A.) Defendant has thus satisfied its
statutory meet-and-confer obligation.
 
Analysis
 
Defendant Francini, Inc. moves to strike portions of the Complaint
pertaining to punitive damages sought on the basis of fraud, as alleged in the
fourth cause of action. Defendant also moves to strike an allegation relating
to “[o]ther stone
products to be identified during the course of discovery.”
 
For the reasons discussed above as to the fourth cause of
action, Plaintiff has sufficiently pled fraud, as that term is defined in Civil
Code section 3294(c)(3), to include an intentional misrepresentation, deceit or
concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the intention of
depriving a person of property or legal rights.  
 
Defendant also argues that
Plaintiffs’ allegation of “[o]ther stone products to be identified during the
course of discovery” should be stricken.   (See Complaint p. 41:27.) 
 
Defendant is correct that this allegation is inconsistent
with the requirements of Bockrath v. Aldrich Chemical Co., Inc. (1999)
21 Cal.4th 71, the leading case on pleading requirements in toxic tort cases.
That case requires Plaintiffs to “identify each product that allegedly caused
the injury.” (Id. at 80.) If Plaintiff had alleged only that Defendant
had manufactured something that caused the injury and that they would identify
that “something” during discovery, that would be inadequate. It is only the naming
of a specific product that saves Plaintiff’s allegations against this
Defendant, and referring to other products “to be identified during discovery”
is improper. 
 
By analogy, when seeking to amend
a complaint, “a vague suggestion that additional facts might be uncovered
through discovery is insufficient to justify allowing plaintiffs further leave
to amend their complaint.” (AREI II Cases (2013) 216 Cal.App.4th 1004,
1020.) If that type of suggestion is inadequate to justify leave to amend, it
must be inadequate at the outset.  
 
In so ruling, the Court
emphasizes this does not mean that Plaintiff shall be forever barred from
identifying additional injury-causing products which were not listed in his
Complaint during the course of further discovery. “If discovery and
investigation develop factual grounds justifying a timely amendment to a
pleading, leave to amend must be liberally granted.” (Mabie v. Hyatt
(1998) 61 Cal.App.4th 581, 596.) Plaintiff is also not categorically precluded
from pursuing evidence of other injury-causing products. The Discovery Act
specifically permits discovery “reasonably calculated to lead to discovery of
admissible evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.010.)  Moreover, any “doubts
as to relevance should generally be resolved in favor of permitting discovery.”
(Colonial Life & Accident Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1982) 31
Cal.3d 785, 790.) 
 
Conclusion
 
Accordingly, the motion to strike
is GRANTED without leave to amend as to the allegation “[o]ther
stone products to be identified during the course of discovery,” and otherwise
denied. Leave to amend may be granted in the future if discovery reveals that
an amendment to list another product or products is justified. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Defendant’s Demurrer to the Complaint is OVERRULED.
 
            Defendant’s
Motion to Strike is GRANTED without leave to amend as to the
allegation “[o]ther stone products to be identified during the course of
discovery,” and otherwise denied.
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  November 6, 2023                              ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 