 Case Number:  22STCV18437    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving and opposition papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On June
3, 2022, Plaintiff Tiffany Quintero (“Plaintiff”), a minor, by and through her
mother and guardian ad litem Elizabeth Esparza, filed this action against
Defendants West Covina Unified School
District (“District”), West Covina High School, and Does 1-100 for negligence (Government Code section 820, subdivision (a)),
negligence (Government Code section 815.2), negligent supervision (in violation
of Education Code section 44807), negligent hiring, training, supervision, or retention
(Government Code section 815.2), and dangerous condition on public property
(Government Code section 835). 
On
July 18, 2022, the Court appointed Elizabeth Esparza to serve as Plaintiff’s
guardian ad litem. 
On
September 13, 2022, the District filed an answer. 
On
August 17, 2023, the District filed a motion for summary judgment and/or
summary adjudication of issues.  The
motion was set for hearing on October 31, 2023. 
On October 12, 2023, Plaintiff filed an opposition.  The Court continued the hearing to October
24, 2024. 
On
August 6, 2024, the Court denied Plaintiff’s ex parte application for leave to
file a supplemental opposition to the District’s motion for summary judgment
and/or adjudication. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for April 3, 2025. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
The
District asks the Court to grant summary judgment and/or summary adjudication
of issues. 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to deny the motion. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.   Summary judgment and summary adjudication 
“‘[F]rom
commencement to conclusion, the party moving for summary judgment bears the
burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue of material fact and that
he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.’”  (LAOSD Asbestos
Cases (2023) 87 Cal.App.5th 949, 945, quoting Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850 (Aguilar)) “[T]he party
moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of production to make a
prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact;
if he carries his burden of production, he causes a shift, and the opposing
party is then subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a prima
facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of material
fact.”  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 850.) 
When
the moving party is a defendant, it must show that the plaintiff cannot
establish at least one element of the cause of action.  (Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 853.) “The defendant has shown that the
plaintiff cannot establish at least one element of the cause of action by
showing that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,
needed evidence.”  (Id. at p. 854.) The defendant must
“present evidence, and not simply point out that the plaintiff does not
possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence.”  (Ibid.)
Thus, “the defendant must ‘support[ ]’ the ‘motion’ with
evidence including ‘affidavits, declarations, admissions, answers to
interrogatories, depositions, and matters of which judicial notice’ must or may
‘be taken.’ [Citation.] The defendant may, but need not, present evidence
that conclusively negates an element of the plaintiff’s cause of action. The
defendant may also present evidence that the plaintiff does not possess, and
cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence—as through admissions by the
plaintiff following extensive discovery to the effect that he has discovered
nothing.”  (Id. at p. 855, original emphasis.) 
“Supporting
and opposing affidavits or declarations . . . shall set forth admissible
evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (d).) “Matters which would be
excluded under the rules of evidence if proffered by a witness in a trial as
hearsay, conclusions or impermissible opinions, must be disregarded in
supporting affidavits.”  (Hayman v. Block (1986) 176
Cal.App.3d 629, 639.) 
In
addition, a party moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication must
support the motion with “a separate statement setting forth plainly and
concisely all material facts which the moving party contends are undisputed.
Each of the material facts stated shall be followed by a reference to the
supporting evidence.” (Parkview Villas Assn. v. State Farm Fire &
Casualty Co. (2006) 133 Cal.App.4th 1197, 1209 (Parkview Villas),
quoting Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (b)(1).) The party opposing the motion must
file with the opposition papers “a separate statement that responds to each of
the material facts contended by the moving party to be undisputed, indicating
whether the opposing party agrees or disagrees that those facts are undisputed.
The statement also shall set forth plainly and concisely any other material
facts that the opposing party contends are disputed. Each material fact
contended by the opposing party to be disputed shall be followed by a reference
to the supporting evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(b)(3).)  If either party fails to comply with the applicable
separate statement requirement, that failure may in the court’s discretion
constitute a sufficient ground to decide the motion adversely to the offending
party. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subds. (b)(1), (3).)  
In
ruling on the motion, the court must consider all the evidence and all the
inferences reasonably drawn from it and must view such evidence and
inferences in the light most favorable to the opposing
party.  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 843.) 
B.   Government Code provisions 
Government
Code section 815.2 provides: 
“(a) A public entity is liable for injury proximately
caused by an act or omission of an employee of the public entity within the
scope of his employment if the act or omission would, apart from this section,
have given rise to a cause of action against that employee or his personal
representative. 
“(b) Except as otherwise provided by statute, a public
entity is not liable for an injury resulting from an act or omission of an
employee of the public entity where the employee is immune from liability.” 
(Gov. Code, § 815.2.) 
Government
Code section 820 provides: 
“(a) Except as otherwise provided by statute
(including Section 820.2), a public employee is liable for injury caused by his
act or omission to the same extent as a private person. 
“(b) The liability of a public employee established by
this part (commencing with Section 814) is subject to any defenses that would
be available to the public employee if he were a private person.” 
(Gov. Code, § 820.) 
Government
Code section 835 provides: 
“Except as provided by statute, a public entity is
liable for injury caused by a dangerous condition of its property if the
plaintiff establishes that the property was in a dangerous condition at the
time of the injury, that the injury was proximately caused by the dangerous
condition, that the dangerous condition created a reasonably foreseeable risk
of the kind of injury which was incurred, and that either: 
“(a) A negligent or wrongful act or omission of an
employee of the public entity within the scope of his employment created the
dangerous condition; or 
“(b) The public entity had actual or constructive
notice of the dangerous condition under Section 835.2 a sufficient time prior
to the injury to have taken measures to protect against the dangerous
condition.” 
(Gov. Code, § 835.) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   The complaint 
The
complaint includes the following allegations: 
On
or about October 12, 2021, West Covina High School authorized and sponsored a
mandatory practice for a homecoming skit in which Plaintiff was instructed to
participate. When the practice ended, the teachers instructed the approximately
100 students participating in the practice to gather for a group photograph.
Plaintiff did not want to participate in the photograph.  The teachers ordered her to participate. The
teachers placed the students together unsafely in a cramped area to pose for
the photograph. The teachers permitted students to get on each other’s
shoulders so that all the students could fit in the photograph. Plaintiff was
instructed to get on the shoulders of another student so she could be included
in the photograph. Plaintiff did not want to do this but nonetheless complied.  Plaintiff received no assistance and no safety
precautions were taken.  As a result,
Plaintiff fell to the hardwood gymnasium surface, suffering injuries. 
School
personnel did not come to Plaintiff’s aid and did not call an ambulance.
Plaintiff’s mother arrived on the scene and rushed Plaintiff to the emergency
room, where Plaintiff was evaluated and underwent extensive testing for head
injuries including but not limited to CT scans. Plaintiff was diagnosed with multiple
injuries. 
B.   Undisputed facts 
On
October 12, 2021, West Covina High School held rehearsals for its annual
homecoming rally. The activities director, Melanie Wong (“Wong”), was present
at the rehearsals.  At the rehearsals, students practiced skits for
the rally.  Every person present at the
rehearsal was a volunteer.  Approximately 100-150 students were present.  Participation in the skits was voluntary. 
Parents
are required to sign off on their children’s participation in the homecoming
rally skits. 
October
12, 2021 was the first night of rehearsal.  At the end of rehearsal, a few of
the cheerleaders including Plaintiff climbed onto each other’s shoulders for
the photo. 
After
the photo, a student informed Wong that a participant had fallen and injured
her mouth and was in the bathroom.  Wong
and two others found Plaintiff in the bathroom and performed first aid.  A student had already called Plaintiff’s
mother. 
Plaintiff’s
mother arrived within 15 minutes after Plaintiff’s accident and drove Plaintiff
to the hospital. 
Prior
to the accident, Plaintiff’s parents/guardians completed an online Competitive
Sports Cheer-2021-22 Clearance form.  Prior to the
accident,  Plaintiff’s parent/guardian
signed a Participation Consent giving consent for her daughter to compete in
sports at the high school in recognition of the risks to Plaintiff of injury
and illness. 
C.   The District’s motion for summary judgment 
1.    “Waiver/release” 
The
District argues that Plaintiff’s action is barred by a “waiver/release” form her parent/guardian signed as a condition of Plaintiff’s participation in
cheerleading.  The District relies on Brown
v. El Dorado Union High School Dist. (2022) 76 Cal.App.5th 1003 (Brown)
and Aaris v. Las Virgines Unified School Dist. (1998) 64 Cal.App.4th
1112 (Aaris). 
“
‘[C]ontract principles apply when interpreting a release, and ... normally the
meaning of contract language, including a release, is a legal question, not a
factual question. [Citation.]” (Brown, supra,
76 Cal.App.5th at p. 1023, quoting Solis v. Kirkwood Resort Co.
(2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 354, 360.) 
“When
an individual signs an express waiver of liability, he ‘promises not to
exercise the right to sue for harm caused in the future by the wrongful
behavior of a potential defendant, eliminating a remedy for wrongdoing.’ ” (Brown,
supra, 76 Cal.App.5th at p. 1023, quoting Coates v. Newhall Land
& Farming, Inc. (1987) 191 Cal.App.3d 1, 7 (Coates).)
“Similarly, in signing an express assumption of risk, ‘the potential plaintiff
agrees not to expect the potential defendant to act carefully, thus eliminating
the potential defendant's duty of care, and acknowledging the possibility of
negligent wrongdoing. Both agreements permit behavior that normally would be
actionable as tortious, although an express assumption of risk goes further,
more clearly authorizing this behavior.’” (Ibid., quoting Coates,
supra, 191 Cal.App.3d at pp. 7-8.) 
“ ‘
“In its most basic sense, assumption of risk means that the plaintiff, in
advance, has given his express consent to relieve the defendant of an
obligation of conduct toward him, and to take his chances of injury from a
known risk arising from what the defendant is to do or leave undone .... The
result is that the defendant is relieved of legal duty to the plaintiff; and
being under no duty, he cannot be charged with negligence.” (Prosser &
Keeton on Torts [(5th ed. 1984)] § 68, pp. 480-481, fn. omitted, second italics
added.)’ ” (Brown, supra, 76 Cal.App.5th at p. 1023, quoting Knight
v. Jewett (1992) 3 Cal.4th 296, 338, fn. 4 (Knight).) 
“
‘California courts require a high degree of clarity and specificity in a
Release in order to find that it relieves a party from liability for its own
negligence. The release must “clearly, explicitly and comprehensibly set forth
to an ordinary person untrained in the law that the intent and effect of the
document is to release his claims for his own personal injuries and to
indemnify the defendants from and against liability to others which might occur
in the future as a proximate result of the negligence of [the] defendants ....”
’ ” [Citation omitted.]” (Brown, supra, 76 Cal.App.5th at p.
1024, quoting Cohen v. Five Brooks Stable (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 1476,
1488-1489, italics omitted.) “ ‘To be effective, a release need not achieve
perfection; ... It suffices that a release be clear, unambiguous, and explicit,
and that it express an agreement not to hold the released party liable for
negligence. [Citation.]’ ” (Ibid., quoting Nat'l & Internat. Bhd.
of St. Racers, Inc. v. Superior Court (1989) 215 Cal.App.3d 934, 938.) 
“ ‘
“It is only necessary that the act of negligence, which results in injury to
the releasor, be reasonably related to the object or purpose for which the
release is given.” ’  [Citation.] The
issue is not whether the particular risk of injury is inherent in the
recreational activity to which the release applies, but rather the scope of the
release. [Citations.] An act of negligence is reasonably related to the object
or purpose for which the release was given if it is included within the express
scope of the release. [Citation.]” (Brown, supra, 76 Cal.App.5th
at p. 1024.) 
In Brown,
the release stated in part: 
“In consideration for EDUHSD, allowing the above-named
students to participate in the school-related activity/ies specified above,
I/we voluntarily agree to release, waive, discharge, and hold harmless the
EDUHSD and its trustees, officers, employees, and agents from any and all
claims of liability arising out of their negligence, or any other act or
omission which causes the above-named student illness, injury, death or damages
of any nature in any way connected with the student’s participation in the school-related
activity/ies. I/We also expressly agree to release and discharge EDUHSD, its
trustees, officers, employees, and agents from any act or omission of
negligence in rendering or failing to render any type of emergency or medical
services.”  
(Brown, supra,
76 Cal.App.5th at p. 1010, emphasis added.) 
The
Court of Appeal affirmed the trial court’s order granting the defendant’s
motion for summary judgment, observing that the release signed by the student’s
father “covered all allegedly negligent acts by coaches, and any other employee
or volunteer, while they were engaged in ‘coach[ing], train[ing],
instruct[ing], or supervis[ing]’ in football” and “also applied to negligent
acts by coaches, and any other employees or volunteers, involved in diagnosing
and/or treating [the plaintiff] for potential injuries suffered while he was
engaged in playing football.” (Brown, supra, 76 Cal.App.5th at p.
1024.) 
In Aaris,
the release provided: 
“I hereby give my consent for the above named student
to compete in the Las Virgenes High School approved activity program ... and
travel with the school representative on authorized school trips. I, the
undersigned, hereby release and discharge the Las Virgenes Unified School
District, officers, employers, agents, servants and volunteers (herein
collectively referred to as ‘District’) from all liability arising out of or in
connection with the above described activity or all liabilities associated
with any and all claims related to such activity that may be filed on behalf of
or for the above named minor. For the purposes of this agreement, liability
means all claims, demands, losses, causes of action, suits or judgments of any
and every kind ... that occurs during the above described activity and that
results from any cause other than the negligence of the District.” 
(Aaris, supra,
64 Cal.App.4th at p. 1120, emphasis added.)  The Court of Appeal in Aaris held the trial court correctly found the release barred recovery.  (Ibid.)
The
consent form at issue here provides: 
“I hereby give my consent for the above named student
to compete in sports at West Covina High School. I authorize the student to go
with and be supervised by a representative of the school on any trips. I agree
to assume the responsibility of seeing that my child cooperates and conforms to
the fullest with school directions and instructions of the school officials in
charge. In case this student becomes ill or is injured, you are authorized to
have the student treated, and I authorize the medical agency to render
treatment. 
“Serious, catastrophic and perhaps fatal injury or
illness may result from athletic participation. By choosing to
participate, parent/guardian and student acknowledge that such risks exist.
Students will be instructed in proper techniques to be used in athletic
competition and in the proper utilization of all equipment worn or used in
practice and competition. Students must adhere to that instruction and
utilization and must refrain from improper uses and techniques. No amount of
instruction, precaution, and supervision will totally eliminate all risk of
serious, catastrophic, or even fatal injury or illness. I, as the parent or
legal guardian of the above named student have read this warning to students
and parents and understand its terms. I understand that all sports can
involve many risks of injury or illness, including, but not limited to, those
outlined above. In recognition of these risks, I give my consent to allow
my child to participate.”
(Exh. B, emphasis added.) 
          Unlike the releases in Brown and Aaris, the
consent form here contains no language releasing the District from liability or waiving Plaintiff’s claim for liability. 
Moreover,
while the consent form acknowledges the risks inherent in athletic
participation and provides consent for Plaintiff to participate in sports
(including cheerleading), the District has not presented evidence showing that
the consent applied to the homecoming skit rehearsal and the taking of a photograph afterward.  Therefore, the District has not carried its
initial burden on summary judgment of showing that “ ‘ “the act of negligence,
which result[ed] in injury to [Plaintiff], [was] reasonably related to the object
or purpose for which the [consent] [was] given.” ’ ” (See Brown, supra,
76 Cal.App.5th at p. 1024.) 
2.    Primary assumption of the risk 
The
District argues that, “[f]or the reasons set forth in [Aaris and Brown], the
doctrine of primary assumption of the risk bars this plaintiff cheerleader’s
lawsuit against the school district.”  (Motion
p. 4.) 
Whether
the doctrine of primary assumption of the risk applies to a negligence claim
“is a legal question involving the duty of care . . . .” (Nigel B. v.
Burbank Unified School Dist. (2023) 93 Cal.App.5th 64, 72 (Nigel B.).) 
“ ‘
“Although persons generally owe a duty of due care not to cause an unreasonable
risk of harm to others (Civ. Code, § 1714, subd. (a)), some activities—and,
specifically, many sports—are inherently dangerous. Imposing a duty to mitigate
those inherent dangers could alter the nature of the activity or inhibit
vigorous participation.” [Citation.] The primary assumption of risk doctrine, a
rule of limited duty, developed to avoid such a chilling effect. [Citations.]
Where the doctrine applies to a recreational activity, operators, instructors
and participants in the activity owe other participants only the duty not to
act so as to increase the risk of injury over that inherent in the activity.’ ”
(Nigel B., supra, 93 Cal.App.5th at p. 72, quoting Nalwa v.
Cedar Fair, L.P. (2012) 55 Cal.4th 1148, 1154 (Nalwa).) 
“
‘[T]he primary assumption of risk doctrine is not limited to activities
classified as sports, but applies as well to other recreational activities
“involving an inherent risk of injury to voluntary participants ... where the
risk cannot be eliminated without altering the fundamental nature of the
activity.” [Citation.] [¶] The primary assumption of risk doctrine rests on a
straightforward policy foundation: the need to avoid chilling vigorous
participation in or sponsorship of recreational activities by imposing a tort
duty to eliminate or reduce the risks of harm inherent in those activities. It
operates on the premise that imposing such a legal duty “would work a basic
alteration—or cause abandonment” of the activity.’ ” (Nigel B., supra,
93 Cal.App.5th at p. 72, quoting Nalwa, supra, 55 Cal.4th at p.
1156.) 
“Thus,
courts have applied the primary assumption of risk doctrine to a range of
school activities including extracurricular programs (see Cann v. Stefanec (2013)
217 Cal.App.4th 462, 470–471, 158 Cal.Rptr.3d 474 [mandatory weight lifting
session for members of college swim team]; Lilley v. Elk Grove Unified
School Dist. (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 939, 945–946, 80 Cal.Rptr.2d 638
[after-school wrestling program]; [Aaris, supra, 64 Cal.App.4th at
p. 1119] [cheerleading practice]) and elective classes (see Fortier v. Los
Rios Community College Dist. (1996) 45 Cal.App.4th 430, 432–433, 440, 52
Cal.Rptr.2d 812 [plaintiff enrolled in advanced football
class]). In each of these examples, a plaintiff, in the first instance,
voluntarily participated in an activity (which may have required the
undertaking of certain related tasks), such that application of the doctrine
was appropriate. (See, e.g., Swigart v. Bruno (2017) 13 Cal.App.5th 529,
537, 220 Cal.Rptr.3d 556, italics added [“Primary assumption of risk is a
defense that relieves a defendant of any duty to the plaintiff when the
plaintiff is injured due to a risk that is inherent in an activity in which the
plaintiff chose to participate”]; Jimenez v. Roseville City School Dist.
(2016) 247 Cal.App.4th 594, 600, 202 Cal.Rptr.3d 536, italics added [“ ‘Primary
assumption of risk occurs where a plaintiff voluntarily participates in a
sporting event or activity involving certain inherent risks’ ”]; Rosencrans
v. Dover Images, Ltd. (2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 1072, 1082, 122 Cal.Rptr.3d
22, italics added [“Primary assumption of the risk means that the plaintiff has
voluntarily participated in a sport that includes various inherent risks, and
therefore, the defendant is relieved of his or her duty to use due care to
avoid the plaintiff suffering an injury as a result of those inherently risky
aspects of the sport”].)”  (Nigel B.,
supra, 93 Cal.App.5th at pp. 72-73.) 
The
District has not presented evidence showing that Plaintiff’s participation in
the homecoming skit rehearsal and in the taking of a photograph afterward
involved an inherent risk.  The policy underpinnings of the primary assumption of the risk doctrine therefore do not come into play and the doctrine does not apply here. 
The District
has not carried its initial burden on summary judgment.  The Court denies the District’s summary
judgment motion. 
D.   The District’s motion for summary adjudication 
1.    Plaintiff’s claims for negligence under Government Code sections 815.2 and
820, subdivision (a) 
The
District contends that Plaintiff’s claims under Government Code sections 815.2
and 820, subdivision (a), are common law negligence claims which cannot be
asserted against a public entity. 
“When
a party is injured by a tortfeasor and seeks to affix liability on the
tortfeasor's employer, the injured party ordinarily must demonstrate either (1)
the employer violated a duty of care it owed to the injured party and this
negligence was a proximate cause of the resulting injury (the direct liability
theory), or (2) the tortfeasor-employee was liable for committing the tortious
conduct that caused the injury while acting within the course and scope of his
or her employment (the vicarious liability theory). [Citation.] When the
employer is a governmental agency, the statutory framework permits the injured
party to pursue the vicarious liability theory in accordance with these general
common law principles.”  (Koussaya
v. City of Stockton (2020) 54 Cal.App.5th 909, 943 (Koussaya),
emphasis added.) 
Under
Government Code sections 815.2 and 820, “ ‘the general rule is that an employee
of a public entity is liable for his [or her] torts to the same extent as a
private person [citation] and the public entity is vicariously liable for any
injury which its employee causes [citation] to the same extent as a private
employer [citation].” ’ [Citation.]” (Koussaya, supra,
54 Cal.App.5th at p. 944, quoting C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High
School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861.) 
“Under
these provisions, in order for vicarious public entity liability to attach, a
public employee, either named as a defendant or at least ‘specifically
identified’ by the plaintiff, must have engaged in an act or omission giving
rise to that employee's tort liability.” 
(Koussaya, supra, 54 Cal.App.5th at p. 944.) 
Plaintiff
has pleaded a statutory claim for vicarious liability against the District “in
accordance with the general common law principles” discussed in Koussaya.
 The Court denies the District’s motion
for summary adjudication of Plaintiff’s claims under Government Code sections
815.2 and 820, subdivision (a). 
2.    Plaintiff’s claim for negligent supervision 
The
District argues the Court should grant summary adjudication of Plaintiff’s
claim for negligent supervision because Plaintiff cannot establish a causal
connection between any allegedly negligent supervision and Plaintiff’s
accident.  According to the District,
Plaintiff’s injury did not result from unruly student behavior and would have
occurred even if more teachers and adults had been present. 
The
District relies on Wong’s declaration stating that Plaintiff voluntarily
climbed onto another student’s shoulders and there was no pushing, shoving, or
chaos.  However, the declaration shows
that Wong noticed that students were climbing onto each others’ shoulders but
did not stop them (and indeed did not notice when Plaintiff fell).  A fact finder could find that Wong and the
other District employees present failed to supervise the students and this
failure was causally related to Plaintiff’s injury. 
The
District has not carried its initial summary adjudication burden on the negligent
supervision claim.  The Court denies the
District’s motion for summary adjudication of the negligent supervision claim. 
3.    Plaintiff’s claim for negligent hiring, training, supervision,
or retention
  Plaintiff
has agreed to dismiss this claim. 
Therefore, the Court grants Plaintiff’s motion for summary adjudication
of the claim. 
4.    Plaintiff’s claim for dangerous condition of public
property
 The
District asks the Court to grant summary adjudication of Plaintiff’s claim for
dangerous condition of public property because, the District asserts, there is no evidence that the
condition of the premises caused or contributed to Plaintiff’s injury. 
A
defendant moving for summary adjudication must “present evidence, and not
simply point out that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably
obtain, needed evidence.”  (Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 854.)  Here,
the District does not present evidence but simply argues that Plaintiff lacks
evidence to support her dangerous condition of public property claim.  Therefore, the District has not carried its
initial burden on summary adjudication. 
The Court denies the District’s motion for summary adjudication of this
claim. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS in part and DENIES in part Defendant West Covina Unified School District’s motion for
summary judgment and/or summary adjudication
of issues.  The Court GRANTS Defendant
West Covina Unified School District’s motion for summary adjudication of
Plaintiff Tiffany Quintero’s claim for
negligent hiring, training, supervision, or retention and summarily adjudicates
that claim.  In all other respects, the
Court DENIES the motion. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file proof of service of this ruling with the Court within five
days.