 Case Number:  23STCV03083    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposing and reply papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
February 10, 2023, Plaintiff Yola Moreno (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants City of Los Angeles (“Defendant”) and Does 1-30 for general
negligence, premises liability, Government Code section 815.2, subdivision (a),
and Government Code 820, subdivision (a). 
On
September 1, 2023, Defendant filed an answer and a cross-complaint against
Cross-Defendants Roes 1-10 for indemnification, apportionment of fault, and
declaratory relief. 
On
June 28, 2024, Defendant filed a motion for judgment on the pleadings.  The motion was set for hearing on September
10, 2024.  On August 27, 2024, Plaintiff
filed an opposition. On August 30, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply. The Court
continued the hearing to October 24, 2024. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for February 21, 2025. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Defendant
asks the Court to grant judgment on the pleadings. 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to deny the motion. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.   Judgment on the pleadings 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 438 provides in part: 
“(b) (1) A party may move for judgment on the
pleadings. 
* * * 
“(c) (1) The motion provided for in this section may
only be made on one of the following grounds: 
* * *
 “(B) If the moving party is a defendant, that either
of the following conditions exist: 
“(i) The court has no jurisdiction of the subject of
the cause of action alleged in the complaint. 
“(ii) The complaint does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action against that defendant. 
“(2) The motion provided for in this section may be
made as to either of the following: 
“(A) The entire complaint or cross-complaint or as to
any of the causes of action stated therein. 
* * *
 “(d) The grounds for motion provided for in this
section shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading or from any matter
of which the court is required to take judicial notice. Where the motion is
based on a matter of which the court may take judicial notice pursuant to
Section 452 or 453 of the Evidence Code, the matter shall be specified in the
notice of motion, or in the supporting points and authorities, except as the
court may otherwise permit." 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 438, subds. (b), (c), (d).) 
          ‘‘A motion for judgment on the pleadings performs the same
function as a general demurrer, and [thus] attacks only defects disclosed on
the face of the pleadings or by matters that can be judicially noticed.
[Citations.]’ [Citation.]’ [Citation.]” (Pointe San Diego Residential
Community, L.P. v. Procopio, Cory, Hargreaves & Savitch, LLP (2011)
195 Cal.App.4th 265, 274.) “In reviewing the motion, [the Court] deem[s] true
all properly pleaded material facts, but not contentions, deductions, or
conclusions of fact or law, and [the court] may also consider judicially
noticed matters. [Citation.]” (Bear Creek Master Assn. v. Southern
California Investors, Inc. (2018) 28 Cal.App.5th 809, 817.)  
A
motion for judgment on the pleadings “normally lies only for defects fully
disclosed on the face of the pleading under attack or by matters of which
judicial notice may be taken. 
Declarations or other extrinsic matters are improper.  Therefore, the judge hearing the motion
cannot consider discovery admissions or other evidence controverting the
pleadings.  Rather, the pleading under attack must be accepted as true.”  (L. Edmon and C. Karnow, Cal. Practice Guide:
Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2023) ¶ 7:320, pp. 7(l)-95 to 7(l)-96 (Cal. Practice Guide).) 
B.   Claim presentation requirement 
“Under
the Tort Claims Act, a plaintiff may not maintain an action for money or
damages against a public entity unless first a written claim has been presented
to the public entity and rejected in whole or in part or deemed rejected by
operation of law.”  (Sofranek v.
County of Merced (2007) 146 Cal.App.4th 1238, 1246 (“Sofranek”),
quoting Gov. Code, §§ 905, 905.2, 945.4.) 
“Failure to timely present a claim for money or damages to a public
entity bars a plaintiff from filing a lawsuit against that entity.”  (Ibid., citing State of California
v. Superior Court (Bodde) (2004) 32 Cal.4th 1234, 1245.) “Before a cause of
action may be stated, a plaintiff must allege either compliance with this
procedure or circumstances excusing compliance.” (Ibid.) 
Under
Government Code section 911.2, subdivision (a), “personal injury claims against
a local governmental entity must be presented to the entity within six months
after accrual of the cause of action . . . .” 
(Sofranek, supra, 146 Cal.App.4th at p. 1246.)  Claims relating to other causes of action
must be presented within one year after the accrual of the cause of
action.  (Ibid.) 
Government
Code section 910 provides: 
“A claim shall be presented by the claimant or by a
person acting on his or her behalf and shall show all of the following: 
“(a) The name and post office address of the claimant. 
“(b) The post office address to which the person
presenting the claim desires notices to be sent. 
“(c) The date, place and other circumstances of the
occurrence or transaction which gave rise to the claim asserted. 
“(d) A general description of the indebtedness,
obligation, injury, damage or loss incurred so far as it may be known at the
time of presentation of the claim. 
“(e) The name or names of the public employee or
employees causing the injury, damage, or loss, if known. 
“(f) The amount claimed if it totals less than ten
thousand dollars ($10,000) as of the date of presentation of the claim,
including the estimated amount of any prospective injury, damage, or loss,
insofar as it may be known at the time of the presentation of the claim,
together with the basis of computation of the amount claimed. If the amount
claimed exceeds ten thousand dollars ($10,000), no dollar amount shall be
included in the claim. However, it shall indicate whether the claim would be a
limited civil case.” 
(Gov. Code, § 910.) 
          Government Code section 910.4 provides: 
          “The [governing body of the local
public entity] shall provide forms specifying the information to be contained
in claims against the state or a judicial branch entity. The person presenting
a claim shall use the form in order that his or her claim is deemed in
conformity with Sections 910 and 910.2. A claim may be returned to the person
if it was not presented using the form. Any claim returned to a person may be
resubmitted using the appropriate form.” 
(Gov. Code, § 910.4; see Gov. Code, § 900.2, subd. (a).) 
Government
Code section 910.6, subdivision (b), provides: 
“A failure or refusal to amend a claim, whether or not
notice of insufficiency is given under Section 910.8, shall not constitute a
defense to any action brought upon the cause of action for which the claim was
presented if the court finds that the claim as presented complied substantially
with Sections 910 and 910.2 or a form provided under Section 910.4.” 
(Gov. Code, § 910.6, subd.
(b).) 
          Government Code section 910.8 provides: 
“If, in the opinion of [the governing body of the
local public entity] or the person designated by it, a claim as presented fails
to comply substantially with the requirements of Sections 910 and 910.2, or
with the requirements of a form provided under Section 910.4 if a claim is
presented pursuant thereto, the [governing body of the local public entity] or
the person may, at any time within 20 days after the claim is presented, give
written notice of its insufficiency, stating with particularity the defects or
omissions therein. The notice shall be given in the manner prescribed by
Section 915.4. The [governing body of the local public entity] may not take
action on the claim for a period of 15 days after the notice is given.” 
(Gov. Code, § 910.8; see Gov. Code, § 900.2, subd. (a).) 
          Government
Code section 911 provides:   
          “Any
defense as to the sufficiency of the claim based upon a defect or omission in
the claim as presented is waived by failure to give notice of insufficiency
with respect to the defect or omission as provided in Section 910.8, except
that no notice need be given and no waiver shall result when the claim as
presented fails to state either an address to which the person presenting the
claim desires notices to be sent or an address of the claimant.” 
(Gov. Code, § 911.) 
“ ‘The purpose of these statutes is “to provide the
public entity sufficient information to enable it to adequately investigate
claims and to settle them, if appropriate, without the expense of litigation.”
[Citation.] Consequently, a claim need not contain the detail and specificity
required of a pleading, but need only ‘fairly describe what [the] entity is
alleged to have done.’ [Citations.] As the purpose of the claim is to give the
government entity notice sufficient for it to investigate and evaluate the
claim, not to eliminate meritorious actions [citation], the claims statute “should
not be applied to snare the unwary where its purpose has been satisfied’
[citation].’ ” (Connelly v. County of Fresno (2006) 146 Cal.App.4th 29,
37-38 (Connolly), quoting Stockett v. Association of Cal. Water
Agencies Joint Powers Ins. Authority (2004) 34 Cal.4th 441, 446.) 
“Where a claimant has attempted to comply with the
claim requirements but the claim is deficient in some way, the doctrine of
substantial compliance may validate the claim ‘if it substantially complies
with all of the statutory requirements ... even though it is technically
deficient in one or more particulars.’ ” (Connolly, supra, 146
Cal.App.4th at p. 38, quoting Santee v. Santa Clara County Office of
Education (1990) 220 Cal.App.3d 702, 713.) “ ‘The doctrine is based on the
premise that substantial compliance fulfills the purpose of the claims
statutes, namely, to give the public entity timely notice of the nature of the
claim so that it may investigate and settle those having merit without litigation.
[Citations.]’ ” (Ibid.)  “The
doctrine of substantial compliance, however, ‘cannot cure total omission of an
essential element from the claim or remedy a plaintiff's failure to comply
meaningfully with the statute.’ ” (Ibid., quoting Loehr v. Ventura
County Community College Dist. (1983) 147 Cal.App.3d 1071, 1083.)  “The test for substantial compliance is
whether the face of the filed claim discloses sufficient information to enable
the public entity to make an adequate investigation of the claim's merits and
settle it without the expense of litigation.” (Ibid.) 
If
the governmental entity gives the claimant written notice of rejection, “the
claimant must bring an action against the entity within six months after ‘the
date such notice is personally delivered or deposited in the mail.’ ” (Sofranek,
supra, 146 Cal.App.4th at p. 1246, quoting Gov. Code, § 945.6, subd.
(a)(1).) “This six-month deadline ‘is mandatory and must be strictly complied
with.’ ” (Ibid., quoting Julian v. City of San Diego (1986) 183
Cal.App.3d 169, 176.) 
DEFENDANT’S REQUEST FOR
JUDICIAL NOTIC
 The
Court grants Defendant’s request to take judicial notice of (1) Plaintiff’s January 3, 2023 claim for damages (Exhibit A), (2) Defendant’s January 30, 2023 notice of
insufficiency (Exhibit B), and (3) Defendant’s March 3, 2023 written denial of
Plaintiff’s claim (Exhibit C).  (Evid.
Code, § 452, subd. (c).) 
The
Court denies Defendant’s request to take judicial notice of a Google map
(Exhibit D). 
DISCUSSION 
On
January 3, 2023, Plaintiff presented a claim for damages to Defendant.  In response to a question on the claim form
asking how the damage or injury occurred, Plaintiff’s counsel wrote, “Client
was using sidewalk on 47th St. when she tripped and fell due to poor
maintenance, management, and control over subject sidewalk.”  In response to the claim form’s subsequent
question asking where the damage or injury occurred, Plaintiff’s counsel wrote,
“47th. LOS ANGELES, CA, 90037.” 
On
January 30, 2023, Defendant sent Plaintiff’s counsel a letter stating: 
“The
laws of the State of California (Government Code Sections 910 and 910.2) establish
certain requirements for claims against public entities such as the City of Los
Angeles. The subject claim does not comply with these legal requirements in
that the claim does not state: 
“Please provide the address and/or exact location of
loss. 
“The
above information is also needed to give the claim a full and fair evaluation.  Please supply this information in writing by
mail or fax at (213) 978-7114 within the next fifteen (15) days.”  (Original emphasis.) 
          On March 3, 2023, Defendant sent Plaintiff’s counsel a
letter stating in part: 
“After
reviewing the circumstances of your claim and the applicable law, it has been
determined that your claim should be denied. The principal reason for denial of
your claim is as follows: 
“You
have been advised by letter that the information in your claim is insufficient
and does not comply with California Government Code Sections 910 and 910.2 and
you have not corrected the deficiency. Your Claim is hereby denied on that basis.”  (Original
emphasis.) 
Based
on this evidence, Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s claim was insufficient and
as a result Plaintiff did not comply with the claim presentation requirement,
which is a prerequisite to filing a lawsuit against Defendant. 
In
response, Plaintiff argues that Defendant waived any insufficiency in the claim.  With exceptions that do not apply here, “[a]ny defense as to the sufficiency of the claim based
upon a defect or omission in the claim as presented is waived by failure to
give notice of insufficiency with respect to the defect or omission as
provided in [Government Code] Section 910.8 . . . .”  (Gov. Code, § 911, emphasis added.)  Government Code section 910.8 requires the government
entity to give notice of the defect "within
20 days after the claim is presented . . . .” (Gov. Code, § 910.8.)  Here, Plaintiff
submitted her claim on January 3, 2023 but Defendant did not send the notice of
insufficiency until January 30, 2023, 27 days after submission of the claim. 
In
its reply, Defendant does not address the wording of Government Code sections 910.8
and 911.  Instead, Defendant argues that
Plaintiff has failed to cite an appellate decision in which the government
entity sent a notice of insufficiency more than 20 days after submission of a
claim.  Yet Defendant also has cited no appellate
authority addressing this situation, much less authority supporting its suggestion
that the 20-day deadline of Government Code section 910.8 is optional.  In the absence of governing case authority,
the Court interprets the language of Government Code section 911 to mean that, with
exceptions not applicable here, “[a]ny
defense as to the sufficiency of the claim based upon a defect or omission in
the claim as presented is waived by failure to give notice of insufficiency
with respect to the defect or omission as provided in [Government Code] Section
910.8,” including the 20-day deadline specified in Government Code section
910.8.  (See Gov. Code, §§ 910.8, 911.) 
Because
Defendant waived its objection to any defect in Plaintiff’s claim under
Government Code section 911, the Court denies Defendant’s motion for judgment
on the pleadings. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court DENIES Defendant City of Los Angeles’s motion for
judgment on the pleadings. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. Moving party is ordered to file proof of service of this ruling with the Court within five days.