 Case Number:  23STCV19796    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2024    Dept:  78 Superior Court of California¿ 
County of Los Angeles¿ 
Department 78¿ 
¿ 



MCKINLEY EQUIPMENT CORPORATION,  
Plaintiff, 
vs.¿ 
 
CHA HOLLYWOOD MEDICAL CENTER, L.P.,
  et al.,  
Defendants.¿ 


Case No.:¿ 


23STCV19796 




Hearing Date:¿ 


November 8, 2024 




 


 




[TENTATIVE] RULING RE:  
DEFENDANT
  SKANSKA USA BUILDING INC.’S MOTION TO STAY ACTION PENDING ARBITRATION 



 
The Motion to Stay Action Pending
Arbitration filed by Defendant Skanska USA Building Inc. is GRANTED. 
 
Moving party to provide notice. 
 
FACTUAL
BACKGROUND 
 
This action arises from the
construction of the Acute Care Services Replacement Hospital Building on the
campus of the Hollywood Presbyterian Medical Center. Plaintiff McKinley
Equipment Corporation (“McKinley”) is a contractor and builder who entered into
a written agreement with defendant Skanska USA and Does 1 through 25 to supply
and install vertical reciprocating lifts and related services at Acute Care
Services Replacement Building, Hollywood Presbyterian Medical Center. McKinley
now alleges breach of contract, foreclosure of mechanic’s lien, quantum meruit,
recovery on contractor’s license bonds, and recovery on payment bond. 
 
PROCEDURAL HISTORY¿ 
 
On August 17, 2023, McKinley filed its
Complaint against defendants CHA Hollywood Medical Center, L.P. (“CHA”),
Skanska USA Building Inc. (“Skanska”), Zurich American Insurance Company,
Liberty Mutual Insurance Company, Federal Insurance Company, Continental
Casualty Company, Berkshire Hathaway Specialty Insurance Company, Fidelity and
Deposit Company of Maryland, and Does 1 through 100, asserting fives causes of
action: (1) Breach of Contract; (2) Foreclosure of Mechanic’s Lien; (3) Quantum
Meruit; (4) Recovery on Contractor’s License Bonds; and (5) Recovery on Payment
Bond. 
Various cases, including this one,
were determined to be related to LASC Case No. 21STCV33416—the Herrick lawsuit.
(Declaration of Jaime N. Furst (“Furst Decl.”) ¶ 9.) On March 15,
2022, The Herrick Corporation initiated arbitration with the American
Arbitration Association, in the case styled, The Herrick Corporation v.
Skanska USA Building Inc., et al., Case No. 01-22-0001-1030 (the
“Arbitration”). (Id. at  ¶ 11.) There are currently twenty-three parties in the
Arbitration. (Id. at ¶ 12.) 
 
Skanska
has sought the voluntary consent of all parties to the related cases to stay
their respective actions pending the Arbitration, and, to date, seven of the
related cases are stayed. (Id. at ¶¶ 12, 15.)
Skanska, however, has not been able to obtain agreement from McKinley despite
meet and confer efforts. (Id. at ¶¶
16-19.)

 
Skanska
now moves for an order staying this action pending the resolution of the
Arbitration. Skanska filed its motion on October 10, 2024, to which McKinley
opposed on October 18, 2024, and which Skanska replied on November 1, 2024.
Defendants Zurich American Insurance Company, Liberty Mutual Insurance Company,
Federal Insurance Company, Continental Casualty Company, Berkshire Hathaway
Specialty Insurance Company, and Fidelity and Deposit Company of Maryland filed
their Joinder to Skanska’s motion. 
 
 
DISCUSSION¿ 
 
                         
I. Request
for Judicial Notice 
 
The Court grant Skanska’s request for
judicial notice as to Exhibits 1 through 5 (request numbers 1 through 5) pursuant
to Evidence Code section 452, subdivision (d). 
 
                      
II. Motion
to Stay 
 
“[A]
court ordinarily has inherent power, in its discretion, to stay proceedings
when such a stay will accommodate the ends of justice.” (OTO, L.L.C. v. Kho
(2019) 8 Cal.5th 111, 141 [citing People v. Bell (1984) 159 Cal.App.3d
323, 329.]) “[T]he power to stay proceedings is incidental to the power
inherent in every court to control the disposition of the causes on its docket
with economy of time and effort for itself, for counsel, and for litigants.” (Landis
v. North American Co. (1936) 299 U.S. 248, 254; OTO, L.L.C., supra,
at p. 141.)  
 
Skanska
moves to stay this action on the grounds that the written subcontract between
McKinley and Skanska requires this action to be stayed while Skanska prosecutes
the same claims in McKinley’s Complaint on a passthrough basis in the
Arbitration. Specifically, on or about February 13, 2019, Skanska and McKinley
entered into subcontract No. 7318001-000BP1402 in which McKinley agreed to
supply and install vertical reciprocating lifts for the Acute Care Services Replacement Hospital Building (the
“Subcontract”). (Gordon Childress Declaration (“Childress Decl.”) ¶ 4,
Ex. 7.) Under Section 13.4.2 of the Subcontract, McKinley and Skanska agreed
that Skanska had the right to prosecute any claims McKinley may have related to
the construction of when those
claims are "caused by or arising out of conduct for which [CHA, the owner]
may be responsible." (Id. at ¶ 4, Ex. 7, §
13.4.2.) Overall, Section 13.4.2 provides as follows: 
 
In the event
any dispute or claim between Contractor and Owner which directly or indirectly
involves Work performed or to be performed by Subcontractor, or in the event of
any dispute or claim between Contractor and Subcontractor caused by or
arising out of conduct for which the Owner may be responsible,
Subcontractor agrees to be bound to Contractor and Contractor agrees to be
bound to Subcontractor to the same extent the Contractor is bound to Owner by
the terms of the Owner Contract and by all procedures and resulting decisions,
findings, determinations and/or awards made thereunder by the person or entity
so authorized in the Owner Contract, or by an administrative agency, board,
court of competent jurisdiction, or arbitration. The Contractor's
determination of whether any Subcontractor claim arises out of the Owner
Contract or is one for which the Owner may be responsible, shall be final and
conclusive. If any dispute or claim of Subcontractor is prosecuted or
defended by Contractor together with any of Contractor's disputes or claims,
and Subcontractor is not directly a party, Subcontractor agrees to cooperate
fully with Contractor and to furnish all documents, statements, witnesses
and other information required by the Contractor for such purpose and shall pay
or reimburse Contractor for all expenses and costs, including reasonable
attorneys' fees incurred in connection therewith, to the extent of
Subcontractor's interest in such claim or dispute.
 
Subcontractor
agrees to be bound by the procedure and final determination as specified in the
Owner Contract and agrees it will not take, or will stay or suspend, any
other action or proceeding with respect to such claims (including, but not
limited to, actions or proceedings commenced pursuant to Federal Miller Act,
lien statutes or other state stop notice, bond or payment statutes) and will
pursue no independent litigation with respect thereto, pending final
determination of any resolution procedure between Owner and Contractor. The
timely presentation, cooperation and participation by Subcontractor, in any
determination of a dispute under the Owner Contract, including any and all
appeals under the dispute provision(s) of the Owner Contract, shall be
conditions precedent to pursuit of any action or proceeding by Subcontractor
against Contractor with respect to any such claim or dispute. It is expressly
understood and agreed that as to any and all claims asserted by Subcontractor
in connection with this Project arising from acts of or fault of the Owner, the
Contractor shall not be liable to the Subcontractor for any greater amount than
Owner is liable to Contractor, less any mark ups or costs incurred by the
Contractor. As to any claims asserted by the Subcontractor for or on account of
acts or omissions of the Owner, or its agents or design professionals, at the
sole option of Contractor, Subcontractor agrees to prosecute such claims in
Contractor's name. Subcontractor shall have full responsibility for the preparation
and presentation of such claims and shall bear all expenses thereof, including
attorneys' fees.
 
(Ibid.
Emphasis added.) 
 
Based
on provisions of Section 13.4.2, Skanska argues that upon its determination
that McKinley’s claims may be the responsibility of CHA, and upon Skanska
agreeing to prosecute those claims against CHA on McKinley’s behalf, Mckinley
must stay any independent litigation. In addition, Skanska argues that its motion
should also be granted based on the Court’s inherent authority to stay a
lawsuit where it is in the best interest of judicial economy and efficiency to
do so. 
 
In
opposition, McKinley puts forth eleven reasons why the Court should not stay
the action. Specifically, McKinley argues that (1) Section 13.4.2 is
inapplicable because no work has been performed and the equipment has not been
installed; (2) Skanska waived its right to stay by waiting over a year after
the lawsuit was filed to bring its motion; (3) there is an exception to
arbitration for mechanic’s liens foreclosure actions; (4) Mckinley’s claim is
not a pass-through claim; (5) prejudice to McKinley by further delaying its
ability to recover payment for equipment already fabricated but not yet
installed; (6) the dispute resolution provision lacks mutuality; (7) judicial
resolution would be more efficient than staying the action; (8) Section 13.4.1
does not fully detail the method of dispute resolution for disputes between
Contractor and Subcontractor; (9) staying the action would contravene public
policy favoring prompt payment to contractors and suppliers; (10) any attempt
to stay the action based on "pay when paid" or "pay if
paid" provisions in the subcontract is unenforceable; and (11) the
sureties on the payment bond and the license bond surety are not subject
to  arbitration as there is no agreement
with them to arbitrate. 
 
Skanska
responded to McKinley’s opposition by addressing each argument in turn.  
 
The
Court finds that staying this action is in the interest of judicial economy and
efficiency as seven of the related cases are already stayed pending the
Arbitration, and the claims that Skanska is prosecuting and that will be
decided in the Arbitration are the same claims that Mckinley is raising in this
action. The Court finds that McKinley fails to adequately address why it should
not be bound by Section 13.4.2 of the Subcontract, which requires McKinley to
stay owner-related disputes upon notice of Skanska’s intent to prosecute
McKinley’s claims. McKinley’s argument that Section 13.4.2 is inapplicable
because it has yet to perform work, including installation of the equipment, is
unpersuasive as McKinley’s cites to the provision in Section 13.4.2 referring
to disputes “which directly or indirectly involves Work performed or to be
performed by Subcontractor”; however, McKinley overlooks the rest of that
provision, which states, “or in the event of any dispute or claim between
Contractor and Subcontractor caused by or arising out of conduct for which
Owner may be responsible.” As to McKinley’s other arguments, the Court also
finds them unpersuasive as boilerplate or unsupported.
 
Accordingly,
the motion to stay is GRANTED.  The Court sets a Status re: Arbitration for _______.
 
Moving
Party to give notice. 
 
DATED: November 8, 2024 
__________________________ 
Hon. Michelle Kim 
Judge of the Superior Court 
 