  Case Number:  21STCV23492    Hearing Date:   November 26, 2024    Dept:  T 21STCV23492 STEVEN ROMERO,
et al. vs U-HAUL INTERNATIONAL
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Plaintiff Steven Romero’s Motion for New
Trial is DENIED.
Defendant Laseraway, LLC’s
evidentiary objections are ruled on as follows: 1-5 Sustain.
Introduction 
Plaintiff Steven Romero moved for
new trial as to the jury verdict in favor of Defendant Laseraway, LLC
(Defendant).
Discussion 
Plaintiff argued that facts were
discovered showing irregularity in the proceeding and juror misconduct.  (Code Civ. Proc., sec. 657(1) and (2).)  Due to the proceeding irregularity and/or
juror misconduct, Plaintiff argued that he was deprived of his right to trial
by a fair and impartial jury.  When
ruling on jury misconduct, the Court takes a “three-step inquiry” in making its
determination.  The Court reviews: (1)
whether the affidavits supporting the motion are admissible; (2) whether the
evidence establishes misconduct; and (3) whether the evidence was
prejudicial.  (TRC Operating Co., Inc. v.
Chevron USA, Inc. (2024) 102 Cal.App.5th 1040, 1063.)  Trial courts assess the credibility of
affidavits and counteraffidavits … and they are entitled to believe one over
another.  (Fredrics v. Paige (1994) 29
Cal.App.4th 1642, 1648; Toste v. Calportland Construction (2016) 245
Cal.App.4th 362, 372.)
Plaintiff presented the
declaration of Juror #7, Annet Sasser, which allegedly showed her biases.  (Christopher Bulone (Bulone) Decl. par. 10,
Exh. 5.)  Ms. Sasser attested to telling
the other jurors during deliberation that Plaintiff may have walked in front of
the vehicle to perpetrate insurance fraud and that this type of insurance fraud
is commonly seen in the Mexican community and that she found it to be a
cultural problem. (Id.)  Ms. Sasser also
allegedly attested to having this knowledge based upon her work as a workers
compensation insurance adjuster.  Based
upon Ms. Sasser’s testimony, Plaintiff argued that Ms. Sasser failed to
disclose the same during voir dire.  On
these facts, Plaintiff asserted an irregularity in the proceeding and juror
misconduct.
However, Ms. Sasser submitted a
subsequent declaration in support of the opposition and recanted the testimony
in the declaration submitted with the motion. 
(Opposition Sasser Decl. pars. 8-12.) 
Ms. Sasser further attested to the discussions that occurred during
deliberations and disputed making any comments about insurance fraud or
disparaging the Mexican community or culture. 
(Opposition Sasser Decl. pars. 3-7.) 
Plaintiff further presented the testimony of other jurors to corroborate
Ms. Sasser’s testimony that she never spoke about insurance fraud or spoke
disparagingly about Mexican culture or community during deliberations.  (Miranda Norman Decl. par. 7; David Graul
Decl. par. 6; Maria Lau Decl. par. 7.)  
The Court finds both declarations
of Ms. Sasser to be admissible.  Further,
the Court finds the declarations of Miranda Norman, David Graud, and Maria Lau
to also be admissible.  The Court does
not find evidence to establish misconduct. 
The Court finds Ms. Sassers’ declaration in support of the opposition to
be credible.  The Court does not find credibility
in Ms. Sassers’ declaration submitted in support of the motion.  The Court is convinced by Ms. Sassers’
opposition declaration because Defendant submitted corroborating evidence from
Jurors Miranda Norman, David Graud, and Maria Lau to support Mrs. Sasser’s
testimony that she made no statements about insurance fraud or Mexican
culture/community during deliberations. 
As such, Plaintiff failed to establish any misconduct by the jury or any
irregularity during voir dire.  Without
any irregularity or misconduct, there is no prejudice to Plaintiff.  The Court does not find the motion to be
persuasive.
In Plaintiff’s Reply, Plaintiff
raised new arguments, not found in the motion, regarding comparative
fault.  Plaintiff’s reply also argued for
the first time that there was insufficient evidence to support a defense verdict.  Neither of these two new legal grounds were
made in the motion or raised in the opposition. 
Arguments in the reply that are not presented in the moving papers and
not presented in response to an argument in the opposition are improper.  Making new arguments in the reply deprives
the opposing party of proper notice and opportunity to be heard.  Because Plaintiff’s arguments as to
comparative fault and lack of evidence to support a defense verdict were newly
made in the reply, the arguments are improper and not considered.
The motion for new trial is
DENIED.  
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE
NOTICE.