

Hearing
Date:             November 2, 2023
Case
Name:                Lord M. Rojas v. Chistopher
Rivera  
Case
No.:                    22STCV34028
Motion:                       Notice of Intention to
Move for Order Setting Aside Judgment
Moving
Party:             Plaintiff Lord Rojas
Jr.
Responding
Party:      Unopposed

Tentative
Ruling:      The Motion is denied. 

 
            Plaintiff Lord M. Rojas (Plaintiff)
alleges he entered into a business partnership with Defendant Christopher Rivera
to operate a recording studio; Plaintiff and Defendant also allegedly shared a
romantic relationship. Plaintiff alleges Defendant never performed on his business
obligations and withheld funds from Plaintiffs. On October 21, 2022, the Complaint
was filed, alleging causes of action for (1.) breach of contract, (2.) breach
of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, (3.) constructive trust, (4.)
negligent misrepresentation, (5.) intentional misrepresentation, (6.) fraud,
and (7.) intentional infliction of emotional distress.
 
 On October 24, 2022,
this Court set an Order to Show Cause for failure to file a proof of service
(OSC) for March 1, 2023. On December 13, 2022 and December 15, 2022, Plaintiff
filed proofs of service pertaining to Defendant. On March 1, 2023, there were
no appearances at that hearing and the Court determined that the proofs of
service were defective. Subsequently, the Court set an Order to Show Cause Re: Dismissal for Plaintiff's Failure to
Appear for July 13, 2023. On July 13, 2023, there were, again, no appearances at
this OSC and the Court dismissed this matter that same day.
 
On September 1, 2023, Plaintiff filed a motion to vacate the
dismissal. No opposition was filed. There is no proof of service showing
service of this motion on Defendant. On October 4, 2023, Plaintiff failed to
appear for the hearing.  The Court denied
the motion to set aside or vacate the dismissal for procedural and substantive
reasons. 
 
On October 17, 2023, Plaintiff filed a “Notice of Intention
to Move for Order Setting Aside, Judgment not Supported by Facts and to Enter a
New Judgment.” No opposition was filed. 
 
Although it is unclear under what statute Plaintiff seeks
relief, the Court will treat the motion as seeking relief under either Code of
Civil Procedure section 473 or Code of Civil Procedure section 1008. The Notice
of Intention is denied. 
 
Legal Standard
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 473:
 
            Code of
Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b) provides for either
discretionary or mandatory relief from certain prior actions or proceedings in
the trial court. (Luri¿v. Greenwald¿(2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 1119, 1124.)  
 
            “ ‘Under the discretionary relief
provision, on a showing of “mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable
neglect,”¿the court has discretion to allow relief from a “judgment, dismissal,
order, or other proceeding taken against”¿a party or his or her
attorney.¿¿Under the mandatory relief provision, on the other hand, upon a
showing by attorney declaration of “mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
neglect,”¿the court shall vacate any “resulting default judgment or dismissal
entered.” ’ [Citation.] Applications seeking relief under the mandatory
provision of section 473 must be ‘accompanied by an attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting
to his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.’ The mandatory
provision¿further adds that ‘whenever relief¿is granted based on an attorney’s
affidavit of fault [the court shall] direct the attorney to pay reasonable
compensatory legal fees and costs¿to opposing counsel or parties.’¿”  (Ibid.; Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd.
(b).)¿¿
 
            The party seeking such relief must
do so “within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the
judgment, dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473,
subd. (b); see Rappleyea v. Campbell (1994) 8 Cal.4th 975, 980.)
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 1008:
 
“Code of Civil Procedure section 1008 places
strict jurisdictional limits on a litigant's ability to seek reconsideration of
a prior ruling. [Citation.] Any application for reconsideration must comply
with the provisions of section 1008 in order for the court to
consider the request. [Citation.]” (Kinda v. Carpenter (2016) 247
Cal.App.4th 1268, 1278.) 
 
            Subdivision (a) of this statute
allows a party to seek reconsideration of an order based on “new or different
facts, circumstances, or law.” (Code. Civ. Proc., ¶ 1008, subd. (a).) In
applying this subdivision, courts have required the moving party to demonstrate
not only the grounds for reconsideration, but also a satisfactory explanation
for the failure to present earlier the new circumstances, evidence, or law.
(See, e.g., Garcia v. Hejmadi (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 674, 689; Lucas
v. Santa Maria Public Airport Dist. (1995) 39 Cal.App.4th 1017, 1028.)
 
            Code of Civil Procedure section
1008, subdivision (b) governs renewed motions and motions for reconsideration. Similarly,
it provides: “A party who originally made an application for an order which was
refused in whole or part, or granted conditionally or on terms, may make a
subsequent application for the same order upon new or different facts,
circumstances, or law, in which case it shall be shown by affidavit what
application was made before, when and to what judge, what order or decisions
were made, and what new or different facts, circumstances, or law are claimed
to be shown.”
 
Discussion
 
            In Plaintiff’s prior motion to
vacate he stated that he was entitled to discretionary relief based on mistake,
inadvertence, and/or surprise. Specifically, he submitted evidence that he was
“dealing with the death of [his] father [and] . . .  was not ready or able to present [his] case in
chief.” (Rojas Decl., ¶ 4.) He further contends that he had “a mountain of paperwork
to prep and so many bills to pay due to Fathers [sic] death.” (Rojas
Decl., ¶ 4.) 
 
            While the Court was sympathetic to
Plaintiff’s circumstances, Plaintiff had not shown how any of those issues
interfered with his ability to prosecute and participate in this case.
Plaintiff provided no specific details, such as the date of his father’s death,
or when Plaintiff was too ill to appear in order to put these events in the
context of the missed court proceedings and determine the reasonableness of
Plaintiff’s conduct. 
 
Moreover, while Plaintiff stated that “once [he] saw [he]
missed [his] court date [he] immediately prepared this declaration and order”
(Rojas Decl., ¶ 4), the Court noted that this declaration was prepared on
August 8, 2023, but no motion was filed until September 1, 2023 – undermining Plaintiff’s
claim that he proceeded diligently upon the discovery of his mistake. The clear
absence of any details surrounding the failure to appear for the multiple OSC’s
was fatal to Plaintiff carrying his burden of showing mistake, inadvertence or surprise.
         Thus, for this substantive reason,
the motion was denied. 
 
Additionally, Plaintiff failed to demonstrate service of
this motion on Defendant. Thus, this motion was also denied for procedural
reasons.
 
On this new “notice of intention” motion, Plaintiff argues he
was unable to appear at the last hearing because of the death of his father and,
additionally, he was the victim of a home invasion burglary. (Mot., 5:1-3.)
However, Plaintiff submits no evidence at all in support of his substantive
arguments.  Again, he specifies no dates
of these events and why they precluded him from arranging to have Defendant served
and filing a valid proof of service. In the absence of any evidence, Plaintiff
satisfies neither the requirements to set aside a dismissal under Code of Civil
Procedure section 473, subdivision (b), or a motion for reconsideration under
Code of Civil Procedure section 1008. 
 
If Plaintiff files any further unmeritorious motions to
vacate the dismissal, the Court will consider whether he should be deemed a
vexatious litigant.
 
Conclusion
 
            Accordingly, the motion is denied. 