  Case Number:  24CHCV00391    Hearing Date:   January 7, 2025    Dept:  F43 Dept.
F43
Date:
01-07-25
Case
# 24CHCV00391, J.B. Hunt Transport, Inc. v. Contractor’s Wardrobe, Inc.
Trial
Date: None set.
 
DEMURRER AND MOTION TO STRIKE CROSS-COMPLAINT
 
MOVING
PARTY: Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant J.B. Hunt Transport, Inc.
RESPONDING
PARTY: Defendant/Cross-Complainant Contractors Wardrobe, Inc.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Order
sustaining demurrer to the cross-complaint:
·        
Second
Cause of Action
·        
Third
Cause of Action
·        
Fourth
Cause of Action
·        
Prayer
for Punitive Damages
Order
striking punitive damages from the cross-complaint.
 
RULING: Demurrer is
sustained, with leave to amend. Motion to strike is granted.
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
Plaintiff
and Cross-Defendant J.B. Hunt Transport, Inc. (Plaintiff) filed suit against
defendant and Cross-Complainant Contractor’s Wardrobe, Inc. (Defendant) on
February 8, 2024.  Plaintiff filed its
First Amended Complaint on August 9, 2024 alleging Defendant breached an
agreement with Plaintiff by failing to pay Plaintiff for services provided
under the Agreement at the total costs of $1,448,158.87.
 
On
September 10, 2024, Defendant filed a cross-complaint against Plaintiff
alleging causes of action for (1) breach of contract, (2) intentional
interference with economic relations, (3) negligence interference with economic
relations, and (4) Unfair Business Practices violations under Business and
Professions Code section 17200.
 
The
Cross-Complaint alleges that Defendant designs and manufactures high-quality
home improvement products.  (Cross-Complaint,
¶ 1.)  On March 12, 2020, Plaintiff and
Defendant entered into a written agreement (the Agreement) under which
Plaintiff would provide shipping services for Defendant’s products.  (Id., ¶ 4, Exh. A.)  Under Section 7(b) of the Agreement,
Plaintiff agreed to exercise good faith efforts to submit, process, and timely
respond to all claims by Defendant or third parties for damages caused to any
cargo Plaintiff shipped under the Agreement. 
(Id., ¶ 5, Exh. A at p. 4.) 
Plaintiff was responsible for obtaining proofs of delivery with each
customer’s signature.  (Id., ¶
6.)  Because these proofs identified
shipping discrepancies and damage, Plaintiff was the first to acquire knowledge
of any freight or cargo issues and was obligated to initiate cargo claims.  (Ibid.)  However, Plaintiff demonstrated a pattern of
initiating cargo claims but failing to timely process them. (Ibid.)  Even when Defendant learned about cargo
issues and notified Plaintiff of the loss, damage, and discrepancies, Plaintiff
continually failed to timely process the cargo claims.  (Ibid.)
 
On
October 27, 2022, Defendant notified Plaintiff of these issues and that
Plaintiff was in material breach of the Agreement.  (Id., ¶ 7.)  Plaintiff claimed ignorance of the cargo claims.  (Ibid.)  On December 16, 2022, Defendant submitted a
Loss and Damage claim form detailing the cargo losses and damage.  (Ibid.)  On July 21, 2023, Defendant again notified
Plaintiff that it was in material breach of the Agreement and that Plaintiff
had thirty days to cure the breach.  (Id.,
¶ 9.)  Plaintiff acknowledged the breach
notice and requested dispute resolution but still failed to cure the material
breaches.  (Ibid.)
 
Following
the breach notice, Plaintiff ceased providing some of its contractual
obligations by initiating a work stoppage and failing or refusing to provide
and replace qualified drivers and equipment. 
(Id., ¶ 10.)  Plaintiff’s
actions caused service disruptions in Defendant’s operations and delivery
delays, and Defendant lost business from many customers.  (Ibid.)  Defendant was forced to cover these losses by
hiring its own trucks and drivers to timely complete its own contractual
responsibilities to customers which resulted in $200,195.93 in coverage damages
and $92,356.56 in service interruption charges. 
(Ibid.)  Plaintiff’s
actions also forced Defendant to complete repairs and to replace and service
trucks resulting in $41,395.50 replacements and $14,100.00 to provide 28 feet
of trailer wraps.  (Id., ¶
11.)  On August 25, 2023, Defendant
issued a notice termination for cause under the Agreement with an effective
termination date of September 9, 2023.  (Id.,
¶ 12.)
 
Plaintiff
has not addressed or resolved the cargo claims which as of September 10, 2024
include over 4,628 claims totaling approximately $1,270,314.17.  (Id., ¶ 8.)
 
On
October 15, 2024, Plaintiff filed a demurrer to the cross-complaint’s Second,
Third, and Fourth Causes of action and request for punitive damages.  Plaintiff also filed a motion to strike
punitive damages.  Defendant filed its oppositions
on December 23, 2024.  Plaintiff replied
on December 30, 2024.
 
MEET
AND CONFER
Before filing a demurrer or motion to strike, the
parties must meet and confer “in person, by telephone, or by video
conference.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §§
430.41, subd. (a), 435.5, subd. (a).) 
The moving party must file and serve a meet and confer declaration
stating either: (1) the means by which the parties met and conferred, that the
parties did not reach an agreement resolving the issues raised in the demurrer
or motion to strike; or (2) that the party who filed the pleading subject to
the demurrer or motion to strike failed to respond to the meet and confer
request or failed to meet and confer in good faith.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.41, subd. (a)(3),
435.5, subd. (a)(3).) 
 
Plaintiff’s
counsel, Kyle J. Waldie, emailed a meet and confer letter to Defendant’s
counsel on October 4, 2024.  (Declaration
of Kyle J. Waldie, ¶ 3, Exh. B.)  The
letter asked Defendant’s counsel to call to discuss further.  (Id., Exh. B. at p. 5.)  On October 7, 2024, Defendant’s counsel responded
via email stating Defendant would not amend or dismiss the cross-complaint.  (Waldie Dec., ¶ 4, Exh. C, at p.1.)  Defendant argues Plaintiff failed to meet and
confer according to Department 43’s local rules and section 430.41.  (Opposition, p. 1:12-13.)
 
The
meet and confer requirement is not met.  However,
considering the parties have replied with oppositions and replies, the Court
will still decide this motion on the merits. 

 
SUMMARY
OF ARGUMENTS
Plaintiff
demurs to the Second, Third, and Fourth causes of action and the prayer for
punitive damages in Defendant’s cross-complaint.  In the alternative, Plaintiff moves to strike
Defendant’s prayer for punitive damages from the cross-complaint.  The Second Cause of Action fails to allege Plaintiff’s
acts were “independently wrongful” or to identify a specific customer
relationship Plaintiff interfered with through the alleged wrongful acts.  The Third Cause of Action fails for the same reasons.  The Fourth Cause of Action fails because it
is derivative of the Second and Third Causes of Action.  The cross-complaint fails to sufficiently plead
punitive damages because Defendant does not state whether the damages are based
on fraud, malice, or oppression, Defendant does not plead a non-breach of
contract claim that Plaintiff intended to harm Defendant, and Defendant does
not identify what facts it is relying on in claiming punitive damages.
 
In
opposition, Defendant asserts that the cross-complaint identifies multiple acts
Plaintiff purposefully initiated including a work stoppage—an anti-competitive
act—which are independently wrong and unlawful under Civil Code section
17200.  The cross-complaint sufficiently
alleges existing customer relationships through alleging 4,628 outstanding
cargo claims which are the result of Plaintiff not fulfilling its duties under
the Agreement.  Defendant’s unfair
business practices claim sufficiently alleges facts showing Plaintiff engaged
in fraudulent and unlawful business practices in order to retaliate against
Defendant for Defendant noticing Plaintiff of its breach of the Agreement.  Plaintiff cannot demur to punitive damages
because they are not a separate cause of action, but related to causes of
action.  Regardless, the Court should not
strike punitive damages because the cross-complaint alleges that Plaintiff went
beyond breaching the Agreement by engaging in intentional and retaliatory
actions to harm Defendant.  These actions
include purposefully initiating a work stoppage and failing to provide and
refusing to replace qualified drivers and equipment as required under the
Agreement, after Defendant notified Plaintiff of its material breaches.  The cross-complaint sufficiently alleges these
acts were conducted with malice and oppression because Plaintiff knew of Defendant’s
relationships with its customers, knew its actions would disrupt Defendant’s
relationships with its customers, and willfully proceeded to undertake such
actions anyway.  
 
In
reply, Plaintiff argues the cross-complaint fails to plead and identify a
wrongful act which is independently unlawful, and Defendant opposition merely
attempts to misrepresent the legally accurate definition of “wrongful conduct.”  The cross-complaint contains conclusory
statements which do not support a section 17200 claim.  The cross-complaint also fails to meet the
heightened standard for pleading specific facts showing rising to the level of
“despicable behavior.”  
 
ANALYSIS
Demurrer   
As
a general matter, a¿party may respond to a pleading against it by demurrer on
the basis of any single or combination of eight enumerated grounds,
including¿that¿“the pleading does not state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action” and is uncertain, meaning “ambiguous and unintelligible.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subds. (e) and (f)).  The grounds for
demurring must be apparent from either the face of the complaint or a matter of
which the court may take judicial notice. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a); see also Blank v. Kirwan
(1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)  
 
The
purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the sufficiency of a pleading “by raising
questions of law.”  (Postley v. Harvey
(1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.)  “In the
construction of a pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its
allegations must be liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice
between the parties.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 452.)  The court “treat[s] the demurrer
as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions,
deductions or conclusions of fact or law[.]” 
(Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525.)  In applying these standards, the court
liberally construes the complaint to determine whether a cause of action has
been stated.  (Picton v. Anderson
Union High School Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 726, 733.)
 
            Second
Cause of Action: Intentional Interference with Economic Relations
Plaintiff demurs to the Second Cause of Action on the
grounds that it fails to state facts sufficient to state a cause of action and
that it is uncertain. 
 
To plead a claim for intentional interference with prospective
economic relations, the plaintiff must plead “(1) the existence, between the
plaintiff and some third party, of an economic relationship that contains the
probability of future economic benefit to the plaintiff; (2) the defendant’s
knowledge of the relationship; (3) intentionally wrongful acts designed to
disrupt the relationship; (4) actual disruption of the relationship; and (5)
economic harm proximately caused by the defendant’s action.” (Roy Allan
Slurry Seal, Inc. v. American Asphalt South, Inc. (2017) 2 Cal.5th 505, 572;
see also Korea Supply Co. v. Lockheed Martin Corp. (2003) 29 Cal.4th
1134, 1164-1165.)
 
Plaintiff’s
demurrer focuses on Defendant’s failure to identify an “independently wrongful”
act and failure to identify an existing economic.  
 
1.      Independently Wrongful Act
An act is independently wrongful if it is unlawful,
meaning it violates “some constitutional, statutory, regulatory, common law, or
other determinable legal standard” rather than resulting from “an improper, but
lawful, purpose of motive.”  (Korea
Supply Co., supra, 29 Cal.4th at p. 1159 fn. 11.)  The act may be independently wrongful as to
either the plaintiff or to a third party. 
(Crown Imports, LLC v. Superior Court (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th
1395, 1405.)  The act must not be
privileged.  (Bed, Bath & Beyond
of La Jolla, Inc. v. La Jolla Village Square Venture Partners (1997) 52
Cal.App.4th 867, 881.)  
 
The California Supreme Court has held that “[a]
contracting party’s unjustified failure or refusal to perform is a breach of
contract [which] cannot be transmuted into tort liability by claiming that the
breach detrimentally affected the promisee’s business.”  (Cates Construction, Inc. v. Talbot
Partners (1999) 21 Cal.4th 28, 54 [internal quotation omitted].)  “Because a bare breach of contract, without
more, is not tortious, such a breach cannot constitute independently wrongful
conduct capable of giving rise to the tort of intentional interference with a
prospective economic advantage.”  (Drink
Tank Ventures LLC v. Real Soda in Real Bottles, Ltd. (2021) 71 Cal.App.5th
528, 540.)  “Where the economic
relationship between a plaintiff and a third party has ripened into an
enforceable contract, that ‘contract receives greater solicitude’ and a
defendant’s effort to cause a breach of that contract ‘is . . . a wrong in and
of itself.’”  (Id. at p.
539.)  
 
Defendant points to multiple acts in the
cross-complaint including Plaintiff’s refusal to provide some of its
contractually required transportation services at several sites such as
Plaintiff purposefully initiating a work stoppage and failing to provide and
refusing to replace qualified drivers and equipment as required under the
Agreement.  (Opposition, p.
7:10-15.)  Defendant argues these actions
are independently wrongful because they constitute unfair business acts or
practices under section 17200.  Defendant
cites Tri-Growth Centre City, Ltd. v. Silldorf, Burdman, Duignan &
Eisenberg (1989), which defines “wrongful” as actions outside “the realm of
legitimate business transactions.”  (216
Cal.App.3d 1139, 1153-1154.)
 
Plaintiff argues that Defendant misrepresents the definition
of “wrongful conduct” by referencing multiple acts by Plaintiff which are not independently
unlawful, but breaches of a contract.  The
cross-complaint references a work stoppage but does not state facts explaining
how the “work stoppage” was independently unlawful.  (Reply, p. 4:24-28.)  
 
In Korea, plaintiff established an independent
wrongful act by pleading defendant violated the federal Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act by bribing key government officials and offering sexual favors to
key government officials to obtain the contract with Republic of Korea.  (Korea, supra, 29 Cal.4th at p.
1159.)  The Supreme Court affirmed the
lower court’s holding that the complaint’s allegations regarding money offered
and paid to foreign officials to influence a foreign government was sufficient
to establish an independent wrongful act. 
(Ibid.)
 
The cross-complaint alleges Plaintiff’s acts, which
breached the Agreement, were independent wrongful acts.  Defendant first alleges Plaintiff failed to
comply with its obligations under section 7(b) by not timely initiating cargo
claims based on Plaintiff’s direct knowledge and notice from Defendant.  (Cross-Complaint, ¶ 6.)  Next, Defendant alleges that Plaintiff
subsequently ceased its other contractual obligations by instituting a work
stoppage and failing to provide qualified drivers and to replace
equipment.  (Id., ¶¶ 8-11,
21-24.)  Defendant further alleges that
this resulted in $1,270,314.17 in cover charges and damages to Defendant, 4,628
customer cargo claims, and Defendant lost business from customers.  (Id., ¶¶ 8-11, 21-24.)  Finally, Defendant alleges these subsequent actions
constitute an independent wrongful act because they violate the Unfair Business
Act, section 17200.  (Id., ¶¶
31-36.)  
 
The cross-complaint fails to allege independently
wrongful conduct because the alleged acts were breaches of a contract without anything
more.  Defendant alleges Plaintiff
breached its obligations under the Agreement, but does not state exactly how
the acts were wrong according to a separate law, regulation, or the
Constitution.  Although the independently
wrongful act requirement may be satisfied by alleging a “violation of a
borrowing statute like the UCL,” Defendant also fails to plead facts sufficient
to support its UCL claim which the Court discusses further later in this tentative.  (CRST 
Van Expedited, Inc. v. Werner Enterprises, Inc. (9th Cir. 2007) 479
F.3d 1099, 1110-1111.)  
 
2.     
Existing
economic relationship with probability of future economic benefit
Tort liability exists for interference with “existing
contractual relations” and “existing noncontractual relations which hold
the promise of future economic advantage.” 
(Youst v. Longo (1987) 43 Cal.3d 64, 75; Westside Center
Associates v. Safeway Stores 23, Inc. (1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 507,
524.)  Thus, the alleged relationship
must have existed at the time the defendant’s alleged tortious acts occurred.  (Roy Allan Slurry Seal, Inc., supra,
2 Cal.5th 505, 518.)  And while the
plaintiff need not provide the name of the third party, the plaintiff must
allege a relationship with a “specific” third party and that the actor intended
to interfere with this relationship.  (Ramona
Manor Convalescent Hospital v. Care Enterprises (1986) 177 Cal.App.3d 1120,
1133.)   
 
Plaintiff argues the cross-complaint fails to
identify customers with whom Defendant had an existing relationship, at the
time of the alleged interference, that was likely to produce economic benefits
in the future. 
 
Defendant opposes the demurrer citing North
American Chemical Co. v. Superior Court (1997).  (59 Cal.App.4th 764, 787.)  In North American Chemical, the Court
of Appeal held plaintiff sufficiently pled an economic relationship because the
plaintiff specifically named the third-party customer and identified the terms
of the specific relationship that defendant’s actions directly harmed.  (Ibid.)
 
In Korea, plaintiff entered into a broker agreement
with a company under which plaintiff would represent the company in a bid for a
government contract.  (Korea, supra,
29 Cal.4th at pp. 1141-1142.)  Plaintiff
pled that its broker agreement with the company fixed plaintiff’s commission at
15 percent of the contract price meaning plaintiff would have been entitled to
a $30 million commission if its client had won the contract.  (Id. at pp. 1141, 1164.)  Defendant subsequently engaged in unlawful
behavior that caused the government to grant defendant’s bid, and plaintiff did
not get a commission.  Thus, plaintiff
had established an economic relationship that existed before the bidding
process began under which plaintiff had a reasonable expectation it would have
received a defined future economic benefit if defendant’s interference never
occurred.  (Id. at p. 1164.)  
 
Plaintiff argues the cross-complaint fails to plead a
specific existing relationship that was likely to produce economic benefits in
the future because the cross-complaint alleges a relationship with Defendant
and “prospective” customers of a club rather than existing relationship.  (Demurrer, p. 4:12-14.)  Plaintiff further argues that Defendant must
identify a specific customer whose relationship was interfered with.  (Demurrer, p. 4:16-21.)  Plaintiff notes that the cited North
American Chemical Company case does not support Defendant’s argument
because the North American plaintiff identified a specific customer who
had an existing relationship with the plaintiff; Defendant does not. 
 
Defendant opposes noting the cross-complaint alleges
that Plaintiff’s actions resulted in 4,628 customer cargo claims for more than
$1.2 million.  (Cross-Complaint, ¶
8.)  These claims exist because Plaintiff
did not timely address them and then after being notified of the issues,
Plaintiff ceased performing its other contractual obligations.  (Id., ¶ 19-25.)
 
Although Defendant alleges the existence of a relationship
with its customers during Plaintiff’s alleged interference, Defendant does not
identify these customers or specifically state the terms of the relationship
between Defendant and the customers.  
 
Defendant alleges a contractual relationship between
Plaintiff and Defendant under which Plaintiff would ship Defendant’s home-improvement
products to Defendant’s retailers, distributors, and other customers and would resolve
cargo claims for loss or damages.  (Id.,
¶¶ 1, 4, 5, 19, Exh. A, at p. 4, section 7(b).) 
Plaintiff allegedly knew about these “critical” relationships based on
its experience working with Defendant.  (Id.,
¶ 20.)  Although Defendant alleges the
existence of a relationship with “retailers, distributors, and other customers”
during Plaintiff’s alleged interference, Defendant does not identify these
customers or specifically state the terms of the relationship between Defendant
and the customers.  Defendant also fails
to allege when these relationships formed. 
Further, the cross-complaint also references both current and
prospective customers and economic relationships.  (Id., ¶¶ 23, 31, 34.) 
 
Accordingly, because the cross-complaint fails to allege
facts sufficient to show an independent wrongful act or existing relationships
with which Defendant interfered, the Court sustains Plaintiff’s demurrer to the
Second Cause of Action.
 
            Third
Cause of Action: Negligent Interference with Economic Relations
Plaintiff demurs to the Third Cause of Action on the
ground that it fails to state facts sufficient to state a cause of action and
that it is uncertain as pleaded. 
 
To establish negligent interference with prospective economic
relations, the plaintiff must plead (1) the existence of a valid contractual
relationship or other economic relationship between the plaintiff and a third
party containing the probability of future economic benefit to the plaintiff;
(2) the defendant’s knowledge, actual or construed, of the relationship; (3)
the defendant’s knowledge, actual or construed, that the relationship would be
disrupted if the defendant failed to act with reasonable care; (4) the defendant’s
failure to act with reasonable care; (5) actual disruption of the relationship;
and (6) resulting economic harm.”  (Nelson
v. Tucker Ellis, LLP (2020) 48 Cal.App.5th 827, 839.)  “[C]onduct amounting to a breach of contract
becomes tortious only when it also violates an independent duty arising from
principles of tort law.”  (Erlich v.
Menezes (1999) 21 Cal.4th 543, 551; see also Jones v. Kelly (1929)
208 Cal. 251, 255.) 
“A contract to perform services gives rise to a duty of care
which requires that such services be performed in a competent and
reasonable manner.  A negligent failure to do so may be both
a breach of contract and a tort.”  (North American Chemical Co., supra,
59 Cal.App.4th 764, 774.)  
 
Similar to the issues with intentional interference
cause of action, Defendant’s Third Cause of Action fails to allege facts
sufficient to show the existence of a valid contractual or other economic
relationship between Defendant and specific third parties at the time of
Plaintiff’s alleged interference.  
 
Accordingly, because the cross-complaint fails to
allege facts sufficient to establish a negligent interference with prospective
economic relations cause of action, the Court sustains Plaintiff’s demurrer to
the Third Cause of Action.
 
            Fourth
Cause of Action: Unfair Business Practices, Bus. & Prof., § 17200
Plaintiff demurs to the Fourth Cause of Action on the
ground that it fails to state facts sufficient to state a cause of action and because
it relies on the Second and Third Causes of Action, it also fails. 
 
California’s Unfair Competition Law (UCL) prohibits
unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business practices.  (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 17200, et
seq.)  To assert a UCL claim, a plaintiff
must have suffered injury in fact and lost money or property as a result of the
unfair competition.  (See Bus. &
Prof. Code, § 17204.)  Unfair behavior
under the UCL is behavior that is “immoral, unethical, oppressive, unscrupulous
or substantially injurious to consumers.” (Bardin v. Daimlerchrysler Corp.
(2006) 136 Cal.App.4th 1255, 1260.)  The
cross-complaint alleges Plaintiff’s actions were fraudulent and unlawful.  (Cross-Complaint, ¶ 33.)  
 
A plaintiff can plead a UCL violation under the
“unlawfulness” prong by pleading that a business practice violated a predicate
federal, state, or local law.  (See Cel-Tech
Commc’ns, Inc. v. Los Angeles Cellular Telephone. Co. (1999) 20 Cal.4th
163, 180.)  The cross-complaint does not
allege facts stating Plaintiff violated any specific law.  To plead fraud under the UCL, the complaint
must state specific facts showing members of the public are likely to be
deceived.  (Massachusetts Mutual Life
Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (2002) 97 Cal.App.4th 1282, 1290.)  The complaint may base this claim on “representations
to the public which are untrue [or] those which may be accurate on some level,
but will nonetheless tend to mislead or deceive.”  (Id. at p. 1289.)  For example, “[a] perfectly true statement
couched in such a manner that it is likely to mislead or deceive the consumer,
such as by failure to disclose other relevant information, is actionable under [the
UCL].”  (Id. at pp.
1289-1290.)   Fraud claims must be pled
with specificity, and general and conclusory allegations do not suffice.  (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12
Cal.4th 631, 645 [requiring facts showing “how, when, where, to whom, and by
what means” the misrepresentations were made].) 
When pleading fraud against a corporate entity, the plaintiff must
“allege the names of the persons who made the allegedly fraudulent
representations, their authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what they said
or wrote, and when it was said or written.” 
(Tarmann v. State Farm Mutual Auto. Insurance Co. (1991) 2
Cal.App.4th 153, 157.)  
 
Plaintiff
argues that The Fourth Cause of Action fails because it is derivative of the
Second and Third Causes of Action.  In
opposition, Defendant asserts that Plaintiff went beyond breaching the
Agreement by taking “retaliatory actions” through actively sabotaging
Defendant’s relationships with its customers. 
(Opposition, p. 8:27-28.)  In
reply, Plaintiff notes that Defendant raises new facts and theories in its
opposition by stating Plaintiff “took additional affirmative, retaliatory
actions” without identifying any acts in the cross-complaint that rise above
breach of contract.  Additionally, the
opposition does not cite any alleged facts that Plaintiff’s business acts or
practices were forbidden by law or intentionally deceptive.
 
The cross-complaint fails to identify fraudulent
conduct that gives rise to a UCL claim.  Defendant
presents two statements: (1) Plaintiff stating it was unaware of the cargo
claims and (2) Plaintiff’s request for dispute resolution.  (Cross-Complaint, ¶¶ 7, 9.)  Defendant alleges Plaintiff engaged in
conduct which breached its obligations under the contract—work stoppage, not
replacing drivers and equipment, and not dealing with cargo claims—but this
conduct does not rise to the level of deceiving or being likely to deceive the
public.  The cross-complaint does not allege
facts stating who made these statements, when the statements were made, or how
the statements were presented to Defendant or the public.  The cross-complaint also fails to allege unlawful
conduct because Defendant does not cite any law that Plaintiff’s alleged
conduct violates.  Defendant also
attempts to shoehorn a phrase about Plaintiff’s “breaching” acts being
retaliatory, but Defendant did not allege this in its cross-complaint. Because
demurrers are limited to the four corners of the cross-complaint, the Court
does not consider this “new” theory of liability.
 
Accordingly, the Court sustains Plaintiff’s demurrer
to the Fourth Cause of Action on the grounds that the cross-complaint fails to
allege facts sufficient to support a UCL claim based on fraudulent or unlawful
business practices.
 
            Punitive
Damages
Because punitive damages are remedies which are part
of a cause of action, rather than an actual cause of action, a court cannot
sustain a demurrer to a request for punitive damages.  (Grieves v. Superior Court (1984) 157
Cal.App.3d 159, 163.)  
 
Accordingly, the Court does not address Plaintiff’s
demurrer to the request for punitive damages.
 
Motion to Strike   
“Any
party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading may serve and file a
notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.)  A court may strike from the complaint any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a).)  
The court may also “[s]trike out all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an
order of the court.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
436, subd. (b).)  “The grounds for a
motion to strike shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading or from
any matter of which the court is required to take judicial notice.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437, subd. (a).)  
 
            Punitive
Damages
Plaintiff moves to strike Defendant’s request for
punitive damages (Page 7, Prayer, paragraph 2) from the cross-complaint. 
 
To
state a prima facie claim for punitive damages, a complaint must set forth
specific facts demonstrating the elements stated in Civil Code section
3294.  (College Hospital, Inc. v.
Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 721; see also Brousseau v. Jarrett (1977)
73 Cal.App.3d 864, 872.)  Malice is
“conduct intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or
despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.”  (Id. at p. 725; Civ. Code, § 3294,
subd. (c)(1).)  Oppression is “despicable
conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious
disregard of that person’s rights.” 
(Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(2).) 
Fraud is “an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a
material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the
defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or
otherwise causing injury.”  (Civ. Code, §
3294, subd. (c)(3).)  “Malice and
oppression may be inferred from the circumstances of a defendant’s conduct.”  (J. R. Norton Co. v. General Teamsters,
Warehousemen & Helpers Union, Local 890 (1989) 208 Cal.App.3d 430,
444.)
 
Punitive
damages are not available for claims arising from breach of contractual
obligations.  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd.
(a).)  Absent an independent tort, contractual
punitive damages are not awarded even if the defendant’s conduct was willful,
fraudulent, or malicious.  (Myers
Building Indus. Ltd. v. Interface Technology, Inc. (1993) 13 Cal.App.4th
949, 959; see also Applied Equipment Corp. v. Litton Saudi Arabia Ltd.
(1994) 7 Cal.4th 503, 516; College Hospital, Inc., supra, 8
Cal.4th 704, 725.)
 
Plaintiff argues that Defendant has not identified
the acts which would give rise to punitive damages or identified the wrongful
act which would permit Defendant to succeed on intentional and negligent
interference claims.  Because Defendant’s
UCL cause of action relies on the acts giving rise to the intentional and
negligent interference causes of action, this claim must also fail.  Defendant also fails to plead facts showing
Plaintiff’s intent to cause injury or Plaintiff’s malice or oppression through
“despicable conduct.”
 
Defendant opposes arguing that the cross-complaint
shows that after Defendant notified Plaintiff of the material breaches, Plaintiff’s
actions were intentional, retaliatory and harmed Defendant through loss of
customers and other costs and damages.  Plaintiff  purposefully initiated a work stoppage and
failed to provide and refused to replace qualified drivers and equipment as
required under the Agreement. 
(Cross-Complaint, ¶¶ 9-11, 19-25.) 
Plaintiff’s actions were malicious and oppressive because Plaintiff knew
about Defendant’s relationships with its customers, that its sabotaging actions
would disrupt these relationships, and Plaintiff willfully proceeded to engage
in these actions anyway.  (Id., ¶¶
19-25.)
 
The cross-complaint’s allegations arise from
Plaintiff’s alleged breach of its contractual obligations.  Defendant explicitly states that after it sent
breach notices to Plaintiff, Plaintiff ceased providing “some of its contractually
required transportation services . . . including by initiating a work
stoppage.”  (Id., ¶ 10.)  This language indicates a breach of contract.  Further, the cross-complaint fails to
sufficiently allege intentional and negligent interference causes of action,
and punitive damages are not available for UCL claims.
 
Accordingly, the Court grants Plaintiff’s motion to
strike punitive damages from the cross-complaint.
 
CONCLUSION & ORDER
The Court sustains Plaintiff’s demurrer to the Second,
Third, and Fourth causes of action, with leave to amend.  The Court grants Plaintiff’s motion to strike
punitive damages from the cross-complaint.
1.     
Defendant may file an amended
cross-complaint within twenty (20) days of the date of this order.
 
Plaintiff to give notice.