 Case Number:  24STCV02254    Hearing Date:   May 3, 2024    Dept:  52 Tentative Ruling:
            Defendants
Lithia Motors, Inc. and Van Nuys-T, Inc.’s Motion to Compel Arbitration and
Stay Action
Defendants
Lithia Motors, Inc. and Van Nuys-T, Inc. move to compel arbitration and stay
this action by plaintiff Zareh Narghizian. 

Plaintiff’s
Complaint
            Plaintiff’s complaint alleges the
following causes of action against the moving defendants: (1) Retaliation (Lab.
Code, § 1102.5); (2) Retaliation (Lab. Code, § 98.6, et seq.); (3) Age
Discrimination (Gov. Code § 12940); (4) Wrongful Termination in Violation of
Public Policy; (5) Harassment (Gov. Code § 12900, et seq.); (6) Failure to
Prevent Discrimination and Harassment (Gov. Code, § 12940(k)); (7) Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress; (8) Negligent Hiring, Supervision, and
Retention; and (9) Defamation.  
The
Federal Arbitration Act (FAA) Applies
Defendants
move to compel arbitration under the FAA and the California Arbitration Act
(CAA).  Plaintiff argues the FAA does not
apply.  “The FAA governs arbitration provisions in
contracts that involve interstate commerce.” 
(Mastick v. TD Ameritrade, Inc. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 1258,
1263.)  The Supreme Court of the United States has “interpreted the term
‘involving commerce’ in the FAA as the functional equivalent of the more
familiar term ‘affecting commerce’—words of art that ordinarily signal the
broadest permissible exercise of Congress’ Commerce Clause power.  [Citation.] 
Because the statute provides for ‘the enforcement of arbitration
agreements within the full reach of the Commerce Clause,’ [citation], it is
perfectly clear that the FAA encompasses a wider range of transactions than
those actually ‘in commerce’—that is, ‘within the flow of interstate
commerce.’  [Citation.]”  (Citizens Bank v. Alafabco, Inc. (2003)
539 U.S. 52, 56.)  “Congress’ Commerce
Clause power ‘may be exercised in individual cases without showing
any specific effect upon interstate commerce’ if in the aggregate the
economic activity in question would represent ‘a general practice ... subject
to federal control.’ ”  (Id. at
pp. 56-57.)
Plaintiff’s complaint arises
from his employment as a “Used Vehicle Buyer” at an auto dealership.  (Comp., ¶ 1.) 
Plaintiff alleges his “primary responsibility was the acquisition of
vehicles from both car auctions and private sellers, with the ultimate aim of
reselling these vehicles as used cars at Keyes.”  (Id., ¶ 11.)  Buying and reselling vehicles is a general
practice subject to federal control.  The
FAA applies.  
Agreement
to Arbitrate
Plaintiff argues there is
no valid agreement to arbitrate because the contract’s terms are not sufficiently
certain as to arbitration.  “Contract
formation requires mutual consent, which cannot exist unless the parties ‘agree
upon the same thing in the same sense.’ ” 
(Bustamante v. Intuit, Inc. (2006) 141 Cal.App.4th 199, 208.)  
Plaintiff raises several
questions about arbitration that the agreement does not answer.  (Opp., p. 9.) 
But he provides no authority that an agreement is not enforceable if it
fails to specifically answer them.  “Under
California law, a contract will be enforced if it is sufficiently definite (and
this is a question of law) for the court to ascertain the parties’ obligations
and to determine whether those obligations have been performed or breached.  …  [T]he
contract will be enforced if it is possible to reach a fair and just result
even if, in the process, the court is required to fill in some gaps.”  (Ersa Grae Corp. v. Fluor Corp. (1991)
1 Cal.App.4th 613, 623.)  
Here,
at most, the agreement has some gaps that can be filled to reach a fair and
just result.  Both the FAA and California
Arbitration Act provide default rules for conducting arbitration when the
agreement is silent.  (9 U.S.C. §§ 5, 7,
9-11; Code Civ. Proc., §§ 1281-1284.3.)  When
“the agreement is completely silent” as “to the FAA, California law, or any
other state law or rules of procedure … California procedure applies in
California courts.”  (Los Angeles
Unified School Dist. v. Safety National Casualty Corp. (2017) 13
Cal.App.5th 471, 479.)  Case law fills
other gaps.  Courts “assume that the
arbitrator will operate in a reasonable manner in conformity with the
law.”  (Dotson v. Amgen, Inc. (2010)
181 Cal.App.4th 975, 984.)  “[T]he
absence of express provisions …  allowing
discovery does not render the arbitration agreement unconscionable.  Rather, those terms are implied as a matter
of law as part of the agreement.”  (Sanchez
v. Western Pizza Enterprises, Inc. (2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 154, 177.) 
Most
of the questions plaintiff raises are answered by binding authority.  For example, plaintiff asks, “Who decides
issues of arbitrability?”  (Opp., p.
9.)  The court does, unless there is “clear and unmistakable evidence that the
parties intended” to delegate those issues to the arbitrator.  (Tiri v. Lucky Chances, Inc. (2014)
226 Cal.App.4th 231, 242.)  There is no
such delegation clause here.    
Plaintiff also asks, “How would the arbitrator
selection process go amongst the parties?” 
(Opp., p. 9.)  Code of Civil
Procedure section 1281.6 provides a method for doing that when the arbitration
agreement does not include such a provision. 
Plaintiff further asks, “What remedies are
available?”  (Opp., p. 9.)  Plaintiff presents no reason why the
arbitrator would be prohibited from awarding the same remedies as a court,
which is the default rule.  (See Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare
Services, Inc. (2000)
24 Cal.4th 83, 103 (Armendariz) [“an
arbitration agreement may not limit statutorily imposed remedies such as
punitive damages and attorney fees”].)  
Plaintiff’s
reliance on Flores v. Nature’s Best Distribution, LLC (2016) 7
Cal.App.5th 1 (Flores) is misplaced. 
There, the agreement did “not identify with which entity or entities plaintiff had agreed to
submit” claims for arbitration.  (Id.
at p. 9.)  Here, the
agreement’s heading states, “Acknowledgment of Receipt of Lithia Motors At-Will
and Binding Arbitration Agreement.” 
(Collinet Decl., Ex. 1.)  It
provides “both the Company and myself … agree that any claim, dispute, and/or
controversy … between myself and the Company (or its owners, directors,
officers, managers, employees, agents, and parties affiliated with its employee
benefit and health plans),” subject to specified exceptions, shall be arbitrated.  (Ibid.)
            In Flores, the “Agreement fail[ed] to define which disputes
would be subject to arbitration before the AAA, and which would be subject to
resolution through the grievance and arbitration procedure contained in a
collective bargaining agreement.”  (7
Cal.App.5th at p. 10.)  The record
included evidence of several potential AAA rules, including several versions of
“Labor Arbitration Rules” or “Employment Arbitration Rules.”  (Ibid.)  Here, there is no collective bargaining
agreement or other potential grievance procedure that may apply.  And rather than vaguely pointing to a group
of multiple rules that may conflict, the agreement is generally silent on the
conduct of arbitration, therefore resulting in filling the gaps as a matter of law
through default rules that apply in the absence of specific provisions.
            Plaintiff
unequivocally agreed to arbitrate disputes arising from his employment with the
moving defendants.  Any gaps in the terms
can be filled and do not mandate finding the parties never entered a binding
agreement to arbitrate.     
Scope
of Agreement
The
parties did not agree to arbitrate plaintiff’s first, second, third, fifth, and
sixth causes of action.  “[N]o public
policy compels persons to accept arbitration of controversies they have not
agreed to arbitrate.”  (Domestic Linen
Supply Co., Inc. v. L J T Flowers, Inc. (2020) 58 Cal.App.5th 180,
184.)
The arbitration
agreement provides the parties “agree that any claim, dispute, and/or
controversy that either party may have against one another (including, but not
limited to, any claims of discrimination and harassment brought under Title VII
of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, as well as all other applicable
state or federal laws or regulations) which would otherwise require or allow
resort to any court or other governmental dispute resolution forum between
myself and the Company … arising from, related to, or having any relationship
or connection whatsoever with my seeking employment with, employment by, or
other association with the Company, whether based on tort, contract, statutory,
or equitable law, or otherwise, (with the sole exception of claims arising
under the National Labor Relations Act which are brought before the National
Labor Relations Board, claims for medical and disability benefits under my
state’s workers’ compensation laws, as well as California Employment
Development Department, Labor Code, and Fair Employment and Housing Act
claims) shall be submitted to and determined exclusively by binding
arbitration.”  (Collinet Decl., Ex. 1,
italics added.)
The
agreement thus expressly excludes “Labor Code, and Fair Employment and Housing
Act claims.”  Plaintiff’s first and
second causes of action are Labor Code claims. 
Plaintiff’s third, fifth, and sixth causes of action are Fair Employment
and Housing Act claims.  The parties did
not agree to arbitrate them.  Defendants’
reply does not address this argument.      
The
agreement does, however, apply to plaintiff’s other causes of action, which do
not allege violations of the Labor Code, the Fair Employment and Housing Act,
or any other claim within the agreement’s “sole exception” provision.
Labor
Code § 432.6 
Plaintiff
argues the agreement is invalid under Labor Code section 432.6.  Section 432.6, subdivision (a) provides, “A
person shall not, as a condition of employment … require any applicant for
employment or any employee to waive any right, forum, or procedure for a
violation of any provision of the California Fair Employment and Housing Act … or
this code, including the right to file and pursue a civil action or a complaint
with, or otherwise notify, any state agency, other public prosecutor, law
enforcement agency, or any court or other governmental entity of any alleged
violation.”  
Plaintiff’s
brief does not address binding authority finding the FAA preempts this
statute.  “[T]he FAA preempts AB 51,”
which enacted Labor Code section 432.6, “as a whole to the extent it applies to
arbitration agreements.”  (Chamber of
Commerce of the United States of America v. Bonta (9th Cir. 2023) 62 F.4th
473, 490.)  Because the FAA applies, Labor
Code section 432.6 does not permit plaintiff to avoid arbitration. 
Unconscionability
Plaintiff argues the agreement is unconscionable.  Unconscionability requires both procedural
and substantive unconscionability using a sliding scale.  (Serafin v. Balco Properties Ltd., LLC
(2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 165, 185.) 
“Procedural unconscionability focuses on the elements of oppression and
surprise.”  (Id. at p. 177.)  “Substantive unconscionability focuses on the
actual terms of the agreement and evaluates whether they create overly harsh or
one-sided results.  (Ibid.,
internal quotes omitted.)  “Generally,
the burden is on the party opposing arbitration to show an arbitration
agreement is unconscionable.”  (Saheli
v. White Memorial Medical Center (2018) 21 Cal.App.5th 308, 330.)
A.
Procedural Unconscionability
Plaintiff
shows some procedural unconscionability. 
“ ‘Arbitration contracts imposed
as a condition of employment are typically adhesive.’ ” (Davis v. Kozak (2020)
53 Cal.App.5th 897, 906 (Davis).) 
“By itself, however, adhesion establishes only a ‘low’ degree of
procedural unconscionability.”  (Id.
at p. 907.)  Plaintiff establishes this
agreement was an adhesion contract.  
Plaintiff also argues the agreement is procedurally
unconscionable because it does not specify the applicable rules of
arbitration.  “[A] viable claim of
procedural unconscionability for failure to identify the particular version of
the applicable arbitral rules—like a claim for failure to attach the rules
themselves—depends in some manner on the substantive unfairness of a term or terms
contained within the unidentified version of the rules applicable to the
dispute.”  (Davis, supra, 53
Cal.App.5th at p. 909.)  “That is, if the
unidentified rules are not themselves substantively unfair, then the employer
cannot be faulted for vaguely referring to such rules.”  (Ibid.)  As discussed below, plaintiff does not
identify any substantively unfair rules—other than the class action waiver,
which is specified in the contract itself.
Plaintiff’s evidence does not show any significant
degree of procedural unconscionability. 
In his declaration, he states, “I did not expect Lithia to present me
with a document that resulted in me waiving my right to use the court system in
a dispute with the company.  It’s
something that I did consider not at all, something that has completely taken
me by surprise.  I assumed all of the
documents I was being told to sign concerned the usual sort of onboarding
documents, acknowledging what my pay and hours would be, workers’ compensation
paperwork, and the responsibilities expected from my position.”  (Narghizian Decl., ¶ 5.)  
What plaintiff expected before receiving the
document is irrelevant.  The document
itself clearly states that it extends beyond those matters plaintiff expected
to see.  The agreement is only two pages
(except for signature line for David Stork, Chief Legal Officer).  (Collinet Decl., Ex. 1.)  Just above plaintiff’s signature, it states
in bold text: “I
understand and agree that by entering into this Arbitration Agreement, I and
the Company are waiving our respective right to bring such claims to state or
federal court, including any right to a jury trial.”  (Id.,
p. 2.)  No reasonable person would be
surprised that signing this agreement results in waiving rights it specifically
provides are waived.
B. Substantive Unconscionability
Plaintiff shows only one somewhat substantively
unconscionable provision.  
First,
plaintiff argues the arbitration
agreement does not meet the requirements for arbitrating FEHA claims in Armendariz.  Those requirements do not apply.  The parties did not agree to arbitrate FEHA
claims.  
Assuming the requirements apply, the
agreement meets them.  Plaintiff relies
solely on the agreement’s failure to expressly provide various rights.  But when an agreement does not provide
certain rights, they are implied by law. 
“Armendariz held that to the extent that the arbitration
agreement was silent on these issues, these requirements must be implied as a
matter of law.”  (Sanchez v. Western
Pizza Enterprises, Inc., supra, 172 Cal.App.4th at p. 176.)  In Armendariz, the California Supreme
Court held, “[A] mandatory employment arbitration agreement that contains
within its scope the arbitration of FEHA claims impliedly obliges the employer
to pay all types of costs that are unique to arbitration.  …  The
absence of specific provisions on arbitration costs would therefore not be
grounds for denying the enforcement of an arbitration agreement.”  (Armendariz, supra, 24 Cal.4th at p.
113; accord Little v. Auto Stiegler,
Inc. (2003) 29 Cal.4th 1064,
1084.)  
Second, plaintiff argues the agreement is
substantively unconscionable because it purports to waive the right to class or
representative actions.  (Collinet Decl.,
Ex. 1, p. 2.)  This provision is
one-sided.  It can only benefit the
employer.  But it is severable.  
Plaintiff argues the court cannot sever any
unconscionable provision because the contract contains no severability clause.  Plaintiff, however, cites authority expressly
permitting courts to do just that. 
(Opp., p. 15.)  “In the context of
severing unconscionable provisions from an arbitration agreement, ‘the strong
legislative and judicial preference is to sever the offending term and enforce
the balance of the agreement.’ ”  (Alberto
v. Cambrian Homecare (2023) 91
Cal.App.5th 482, 495.)  This agreement is
not permeated by unconscionability.  It
contains only one unconscionable term. 
Severance is appropriate.  
The court also notes the agreement
includes one-sided provisions favoring employees.  “Courts repeatedly have found an
employer-imposed arbitration agreement to be substantively unconscionable when
it requires the employee to arbitrate the claims he or she is mostly likely to
bring, but allows the employer to go to court to pursue the claims it is most
likely to bring.”  (Carbajal v. CWPSC,
Inc. (2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 227, 248.) 
This agreement does the opposite. 
It excludes certain claims generally (or exclusively) brought by
employees against employers.  The parties
agreed to arbitrate disputes “with the sole exception of claims arising under
the National Labor Relations Act which are brought before the National Labor
Relations Board, claims for medical and disability benefits under my state’s
workers' compensation laws, as well as California Employment Development
Department, Labor Code, and Fair Employment and Housing Act claims.”  (Collinet Decl., Ex. 1.)  This provision favoring employees undermines
any finding that the agreement is permeated by unconscionability.  
Stay
of Action
            For the reasons discussed above, the
court will compel arbitration of plaintiff’s fourth, seventh, eighth, and ninth
causes of action against the moving defendants. 
The court will stay the remainder of the action. “If a court … has
ordered arbitration of a controversy which is an issue involved in an action or
proceeding pending before a court of this State, the court in which such action
or proceeding is pending shall, upon motion of a party to such action or
proceeding, stay the action or proceeding until an arbitration is had in
accordance with the order to arbitrate or until such earlier time as the court
specifies.  [¶] If the issue which is the
controversy subject to arbitration is severable, the stay may be with respect
to that issue only.”  (CCP § 1281.4.)
            The court orders arbitration of part
of plaintiff’s complaint.  The remaining causes
of action are issues involved in that controversy.  Assuming any of the issues subject to
arbitration are severable from the inarbitrable claims, the court will exercise
its discretion to stay the entire action.  

Disposition
            Defendants Lithia Motors,
Inc. and Van Nuys-T, Inc.’s motion to compel arbitration and stay proceedings is granted in
part.  Plaintiff Zareh Narghizian is ordered to arbitrate the complaint’s fourth, seventh,
eighth, and ninth causes of action against the moving defendants.  The motion to compel arbitration is denied in part as to plaintiff’s first, second, third, fifth, and
sixth causes of action.  
The court hereby severs the following provision of the arbitration
agreement: “In order to provide for the efficient and timely adjudication of
claims, the arbitrator is prohibited from consolidating the claims of others
into one proceeding.  This means that an
arbitrator will hear only my individual claims and does not have the authority
to fashion a proceeding as a class or collective action or to award relief to a
group of employees in one proceeding. 
[¶]  I further agree that such
arbitration shall be conducted on an individual basis with respect to my claims
only, not a class, collective or representative basis, and hereby waive any
right to bring and/or participate in class-wide, collective or representative
claims before any arbitrator or in any forum except to the extent a
representative action under the California Private Attorney General Act is, as
a matter of law, not deemed subject to a such waiver.  Thus, the Company has the right to defeat any
attempt by me to file or join other employees in a class, collective or joint
action lawsuit or arbitration (collectively ‘class claims’).”  (Collinet Decl., Ex. 1, p. 2.)
The court hereby stays the entire action pending resolution of the
parties’ arbitration proceeding.