 Case Number:  23STCV22167    Hearing Date:   May 3, 2024    Dept:  52 Tentative Ruling:
Defendants
Gori Company, LLC, Sky Kim, and Hyun Joong Kim’s Motion to Stay Action Pending
Resolution of Appeal
Defendants
Gori Company, LLC, Sky Kim, and Hyun Joong Kim move to stay this action by
plaintiff Patrick Yi pending defendants’ appeal of the court’s order denying
their motion to compel arbitration.  
The
parties agree the appeal does not automatically stay the action pursuant to the
recent amendment to Code of Civil Procedure section 1294(a).  Defendants move for a discretionary
stay.  “Even when the statutes do not
call for an automatic stay on appeal, the trial and appellate courts both have
the power to issue discretionary stays.” 
(Daly v. San Bernardino County Bd. of Supervisors (2021) 11
Cal.5th 1030, 1039 (Daly).)  
Both
the moving papers and opposition argue based on the following four factors used
for discretionary stays in federal court: “ ‘(1) whether the stay applicant has
made a strong showing that he is likely to succeed on the merits; (2) whether
the applicant will be irreparably injured absent a stay; (3) whether issuance
of the stay will substantially injure the other parties interested in the
proceeding; and (4) where the public interest lies.’ ”  (Daly, supra, 11 Cal.4th at p. 1054,
fn. 13.)  California courts have not
adopted these factors.  The court has
considered these factors and other relevant factors in deciding whether to
grant a stay.
1. Likelihood of
Success on Appeal
Defendants
make a weak showing they are likely to succeed on appeal.  The court stands by its reasoning for finding
plaintiff was entitled to invoke the Ending Forced Arbitration of Sexual
Assault and Sexual Harassment Act (EFAA). 
Defendants contend the EFAA does not apply to the parties’ arbitration
agreement because it is only an exception to the Federal Arbitration Act (FAA),
and the FAA does not apply to the agreement. 

The
FAA does apply to the agreement.  For the
reasons the court stated in its order dated January 31, 2024, the parties’
agreement involves interstate commerce and therefore falls within the FAA’s
scope.  That the agreement provides for “binding
arbitration under the arbitration rules set forth in California Code of Civil Procedure
section 1280 through 1294.2, including section 1283.05 (the ‘Rules’) and
pursuant to California law” (Kim Decl. ISO Motion to Compel Arb., Ex. 1, §
7.L(1)) does not mean the FAA does not apply. 
Nothing in the agreement provides the FAA does not apply.  This provision adopts the procedural
mechanisms of the California Arbitration Act (CAA).  It does not and cannot limit Congress’s power
to regulate arbitration agreements under the interstate commerce clause.
The EFAA’s
text also supports the conclusion that it applies to this arbitration
agreement.  It provides that a plaintiff can
elect that “no predispute arbitration agreement … shall be valid or enforceable
with respect to a case which is filed under Federal, Tribal, or State law and
relates to the sexual assault dispute or the sexual harassment dispute.”  (9 U.S.C. § 402(a).)  The EFAA defines “predispute arbitration
agreement” as “any agreement to arbitrate a dispute that had not yet arisen at
the time of the making of the agreement.” 
(9 U.S.C. § 401(1).)  The EFAA
thus broadly applies to any predispute arbitration agreements—not just
agreements that adopt the FAA or agreements that do not adopt state law
regarding procedural rules of enforcing arbitration agreements. 
2.
Irreparable Injury to Defendants
            Permitting this action to continue
pending appeal could irreparably harm defendants.  In addition to the four factors used by
federal courts, Daly noted the rule in the State of Washington: “ ‘[W]hether
a stay pending appeal should be granted depends on (1) whether the issue
presented by the appeal is debatable, and (2) whether a stay is necessary to
preserve for the movant the fruits of a successful appeal, considering the
equities of the situation.’ ”  (Daly,
supra, 11 Cal.5th at p. 1054.)  
Denying
a discretionary stay might completely deprive defendants of the fruits of a
successful appeal.  In discussing an
automatic stay pending appeal in federal court, the United States Supreme Court
has noted, “The common practice… is for a district court to stay its
proceedings while the interlocutory appeal on arbitrability is ongoing.  That common practice reflects common sense.  Absent an automatic stay of district court
proceedings, Congress’s decision … to afford a right to an interlocutory appeal
would be largely nullified.  If the
district court could move forward with pre-trial and trial proceedings while
the appeal on arbitrability was ongoing, then many of the asserted benefits of
arbitration (efficiency, less expense, less intrusive discovery, and the like)
would be irretrievably lost—even if the court of appeals later concluded that
the case actually had belonged in arbitration all along.  Absent a stay, parties also could be forced to
settle to avoid the district court proceedings (including discovery and trial)
that they contracted to avoid through arbitration.”  (Coinbase, Inc. v. Bielski (2023) 599
U.S. 736, 742–743.)
The
same reasoning applies here.  If
defendants succeed on appeal, they would be entitled to enforce the arbitration
agreement.  This case is set for trial on
May 14, 2025.  There is some chance this action
will be fully adjudicated before the Court of Appeal issues a decision.  In that scenario, defendants will have
already tried the action in court.  They
would get no benefit from their right to arbitrate.  Even if the action is not fully adjudicated
before the Court of Appeal issues an opinion, defendants will be required to
engage in substantial litigation they otherwise might have avoided.    
Defendants’
arguments regarding irreparable injury are undermined, however, because of a
tactical decision they have made.  Defendants argue, “The only reason the
parties are even having this discussion is because Yi tossed a completely
unsupportable sexual harassment claim into his complaint, which fails as a
matter of law.”  (Motion, p. 6.)  Recognizing this issue, the court’s order
denying defendants’ motion to compel arbitration stated: “Defendants make a
colorable argument on whether plaintiff’s factual allegations suffice to
constitute a cause of action for sexual harassment.  But that issue is not properly before the
court in this motion to compel arbitration.  The court finds the prudent procedure is to
deny this motion without prejudice.  If defendants
defeat plaintiff’s sexual harassment claim or claims before trial, they may then move to compel
arbitration again.”  Rather than seeking
to dispose of plaintiff’s sexual harassment claim, which purportedly “fails as
a matter of law,” defendants appealed the court’s order and moved to stay the
entire action.  
3.
Injury to Plaintiff
Staying
the action would significantly injure plaintiff.  “[O]ne of the basic principles of our legal
system” is that “justice delayed is justice denied.”  (Dietrich v. Boeing Company (9th Cir.
2021) 14 F.4th 1089, 1095; accord Grewal v. Jammu (2011) 191 Cal.App.4th
977, 999.)  Staying the action would delay
plaintiff’s efforts to obtain relief for his causes of action against
defendants.  Delaying discovery could
also result in losing evidence.     
4.
Public Interest
            The public interest—as expressed by
Congress and the California Legislature— strongly favors plaintiff.  The EFAA’s purpose is to ensure any “person
alleging conduct constituting a sexual harassment dispute or sexual assault
dispute” can litigate in court, despite their prior agreements waiving that
right.  (9 U.S.C. § 402(a).)  Granting a stay is contrary to that
purpose.  
            The purpose of the amendment to Code of Civil Procedure section 1294(a) is to
“give[] courts the discretion to prevent corporations from using a common delay
tactic against workers and consumers.”  (Assem.
Com. on Appr., Analysis of Sen. Bill No. 365 (2023-2024 Reg. Sess.) July 12,
2023, p. 1.)  Granting a stay is contrary
to that purpose.
            It
is also worth noting the tension between section 1294(a) and defendants’
irreparable harm claim.  Permitting an
action to proceed in court pending an appeal of an order denying a motion to
compel arbitration inherently poses a risk that someone entitled to compel
arbitration will be deprived of the fruits of a successful appeal.  The irreparable injury factor thus always
favors the appellant.  Nonetheless, the California
Legislature amended Code of Civil Procedure section 1294(a) to exempt these
appeals from the automatic stay rule.  In
the present case, defendants’ purported irreparable injury is the only factor weighing
in their favor.  Imposing a discretionary
stay based on this factor that always favors the appellant would undermine the
Legislature’s intent and the public interest embodied in the amendment to Code
of Civil Procedure section 1294(a).  
Defendants contend the public has an interest in having
the Court of Appeal resolve this novel legal issue that would impact others.  The public has such an interest, but it pales
in comparison to the strong interest favoring sexual harassment claims proceeding
in court instead of arbitration.
Finally, the court notes staying this action may not
serve the “ ‘ “strong public policy in favor of arbitration as a speedy and
relatively inexpensive means of dispute resolution.” ’ ”  (Wagner Construction Co. v. Pacific
Mechanical Corp. (2007) 41 Cal.4th 19, 25.)  Generally, arbitration is speedier than
trying the action in court.  But not when
the arbitration would be delayed pending a decision by the Court of Appeal.  Proceeding in court and trying the action in
May 2025 is likely to be faster, if not less expensive, than staying the entire
action pending appeal.  
Disposition
            Defendants Gori
Company, LLC, Sky Kim, and Hyun Joong Kim’s motion to stay the action pending
appeal is denied.
 