 Case Number:  23STCV04266    Hearing Date:   March 19, 2024    Dept:  51 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Upinder S.
Kalra, Department 51
 
HEARING DATE:   March
19, 2024                                               
 
CASE NAME:           John Bernard Carlin v. Stephen Copen,
et al.
 
CASE NO.:                23STCV04266

 
DEMURRER
TO SECOND AMENDED COMPLAINT; MOTION TO STRIKE

 
MOVING PARTY:  Defendants
Stephen Copen, individually and as Trustee for the Stephen Copen 2012
Irrevocable Trust.
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff John Bernard Carlin
 
REQUESTED RELIEF: 
 
1.      Demurrer
to the Second through Sixth Causes of Action in the Second Amended Complaint
for failure to state facts sufficient and for uncertainty.
2.      An
Order striking various portions of the Second Amended Complaint.
 
TENTATIVE RULING: 
 
1.      The
court SUSTAINS the demurrer as to the Third Cause of Action and the Fourth
Cause of Action with/without leave to amend;
2.      The
court SUSTAINS the demurrer as to the Sixth Cause of Action. Plaintiff must
seek leave of court to amend.
3.      The
court OVERRULES the demurrer as to the Second and Fifth Causes of Action;
4.      The
court GRANTS the motion to strike with leave to amend.
 
STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: 
 
On February 27, 2023, Plaintiff John Bernard Carlin
(Plaintiff) filed a Complaint against Defendants Stephen Copen, Stephen Copen
Trustee of the Stephen Copen 2012 Irrevocable Trust, and City of Los Angeles
with nine causes of action for: (1) Breach of Contract, (2) Harassment, (3)
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress, (4) Negligent Infliction of
Emotional Distress, (5) Gross Negligence, (6) Negligence Per Se, (7)
Retaliatory Eviction, (8) Breach of the Implied Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment,
and (9) Nuisance. 
 
On May 2, 2023, Defendants Stephen Copen and Stephen Copen
Trustee of the Stephen Copen 2012 Irrevocable Trust (Copen Defendants) filed a
Demurrer and Motion to Strike.
 
On July 12, 2023, Defendant City of Los Angeles filed an
Answer and a Cross-Complaint.
 
On August 16, 2023, Plaintiff filed a First Amended
Complaint (FAC) with six causes of action for: (1) Breach of Contract, (2)
Tenant Harassment, (3) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress; (4)
Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress; (5) Negligence; and (6) Nuisance.
According to the FAC, the dispute concerns property located at 809 Toulen
Drive, Pacific Palisades, Los Angeles County, California (the Property). Plaintiff
alleges to have entered a one year lease of the Property with Defendant Copen
on December 6, 2019 that would commence around February 1, 2020 and expire on
January 31, 2021 with monthly rent at $7,500.00. The parties amended the lease
around August 10, 2020 extending the term to July 30, 2023. Plaintiff paid
Defendant Copen $94,000.00 via wire transfer on August 11, 2022. Plaintiff
alleges that during the course of the tenancy, he observed rot and mold growing
on tile on the Property, lack of chimney cap, requested copies of lead and
asbestos reports, a severe sewage spill around October 22, 2022. Plaintiff
further alleges that Defendant Copen prevented remediation companies Plaintiff
hired from entering the Property. As to Defendant City of Los Angeles,
Plaintiff alleges that they were responsible for the severe sewage spill and
failed to reimburse Plaintiff for damage because he was not the Property owner.
Finally, Plaintiff alleges that Defendant Copen sought ways to unlawfully terminate
Plaintiff’s right to possession. Plaintiff vacated the Property on July 31,
2023.
 
On September 19, 2023, Copen Defendants filed a Demurrer and
Motion to Strike which the court SUSTAINED with leave to amend and DENIED as
moot.
 
On December 22, 2023, Plaintiff filed a Second Amended
Complaint (SAC) with six causes of action for: (1) Breach of Contract, (2)
Tenant Harassment, (3) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress, (4)
Negligence, (5) Nuisance, and (6) Failure to Account for an Return Security
Deposit.
 
On January 23, 2024, Defendants filed the instant Demurrer
with Motion to Strike. On March 6, 2024, Plaintiff filed oppositions. On March
12, 2024, Defendants filed replies.
 
LEGAL STANDARD: 
 
Meet and Confer
 
Prior to filing a demurrer, the demurring party is required
to satisfy their meet and confer obligations pursuant to Code of Civ. Proc.
(CCP) §430.41 and demonstrate that they so satisfied their meet and confer
obligation by submitting a declaration pursuant to CCP §430.41(a)(2) &
(3).¿The meet and confer requirement also applies to motions to strike. (CCP §
435.5.) According
to the Declaration of Jennifer Volcy, Copen Defendant attempted to meet and
confer via letter on January 12, 2024 and did not receive a response. (Volcy
Decl. ¶ 3.)  However, one letterdoes not
evidence sufficient meet and confer efforts. Still, failure to meet and confer is not a
sufficient ground to overrule or sustain a demurrer. (CCP § 430.41(a)(4).) 
 
Demurrer 
 
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint
states a cause of action.¿(Hahn v. Mirda¿(2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering
demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context.¿In a demurrer
proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via
proper judicial notice.¿(Donabedian v.
Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)¿“A demurrer tests the
pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. …. The only
issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”¿(Hahn¿147 Cal.App.4th at 747.) 
 
Motion to Strike 
 
The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its
discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or
improper matter inserted in any pleading. (CCP § 436(a).) The court may also
strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with
the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Id., § 436(b).) The grounds for moving
to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.
(Id.¿§¿437.)¿“When the defect which
justifies striking a complaint is capable of cure, the court should allow leave
to amend.” (Vaccaro v. Kaiman¿(1998)
63 Cal.App.4th 761, 768.)  
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
Demurrer
 
Second Cause of
Action – Tenant Harassment
 
Copen Defendants contends Plaintiff invented facts that the
Copen Defendants did not intent to have family live at the premises and that
refusing to make timely repairs is conclusory. Plaintiff argues that he sufficiently
plead facts supporting violation of City of Los Angeles Tenant Anti-Harassment
Ordinance (TAHO) § 45.33. 
 
TAHO § 45.33 defines tenant harassment as “a landlord’s
knowing and willful course of conduct directed at a specific tenant or tenants
that causes detriment and harm, and that serves no lawful purpose” including
various actions. Plaintiff alleges violations of TAHO § 45.33 (1), (2), (3),
(6), (7), (8), (15), and (16). These actions are:
 
(1)   Reducing
or eliminating housing services required by a lease, contract or law, including
the elimination of parking if provided in the tenant’s lease or contract except
when necessary to comply with a court order or local or state law, or to create
an accessory dwelling unit or additional housing.
 
(2)   Failing
to perform and timely complete necessary repairs and maintenance required by
Federal, State, County, or local housing, health, or safety laws; or failure to
follow applicable industry standards to minimize exposure to noise, dust, lead
paint, asbestos, or other building materials with potentially harmful health
impacts.[1]
 
(3)   Abuse
of the right of access into a rental unit as established and limited by
California Civil Code Section 1954, including entering or photographing
portions of a rental unit that are beyond the scope of a lawful entry or
inspection.
(6) Misrepresenting to a tenant
that the tenant is required to vacate a rental unit or enticing a tenant to
vacate a rental unit through an intentional misrepresentation or the
concealment or omission of a material fact.
 
(7) Threatening or taking action
to terminate any tenancy including service of any notice to quit or other
eviction notice or bringing action to recover possession of a rental unit based
on facts which the landlord has no reasonable cause to believe to be true. No
landlord shall be liable under this subsection for bringing an action to
recover possession of a rental unit unless and until the tenant has obtained a
favorable termination of that action.
 
(8) Threatening to or engaging in
any act or omission which interferes with the tenant’s right to use and enjoy
the rental unit or whereby the premises are rendered unfit for human habitation
and occupancy.
 
(15) Interfering with a tenant’s
right to privacy or requesting information that violates a tenant’s right to
privacy, including, but not limited to, residency or citizenship status or
social security number, except as authorized by law.
 
(16) Other repeated acts or
omissions of such significance as to substantially interfere with or disturb
the comfort, repose, peace or quiet of a tenant(s) and that cause, are likely
cause, or are committed with the objective to cause a tenant(s) to surrender or
waive any rights in relation to such tenancy.
 
Here, Plaintiff sufficiently alleged violation of TAHO §
45.33. Notably, Plaintiff alleges reduction of services provided for in the
lease, entered the premises without legal notice of permission, attempting to
evict Plaintiff for failing to pay rent while knowing Plaintiff had prepaid a
full year’s rent, and repeatedly interfering with Plaintiff’s right to enjoy
the premises via delayed remediation and repeated entry. (SAC ¶¶ 15 - 18, 20-31,
35-40, 59-61, 70.) While these factual allegations do not support every claimed
TAHO violation presented by Plaintiff, they support some of them. And, since
the court cannot split a cause of action, there are sufficient allegations
alleged. 
 
Accordingly, the court OVERRULES Copen Defendants’ demurrer
to the Second Cause of Action.
 
Third Cause of
Action – Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress
 
Copen Defendants contend that Plaintiff has not plead facts
showing extreme or outrageous conduct, that Plaintiff’s dispute about the
sewage spill is rooted in contract, and that there is no evidence of malicious
or oppressive conduct by Copen Defendants. Plaintiff argues that he
sufficiently plead facts supporting IIED by alleging Copen Defendants engaged
in a pattern of harassing conduct which rendered the Property uninhabitable and
which was designed to cause Plaintiff to vacate despite collecting the full
year’s rents. 
 
The elements of intentional infliction of emotional distress
are (1) extreme and outrageous conduct (2) directed to the plaintiff by
defendant, (3) with the intention of (4) causing, or reckless disregard of the
probability of causing, (5) severe or extreme emotional distress. (Christensen v. Superior Court (1991) 54
Cal. 3d 868, 903.) For conduct to be outrageous it must be so extreme as to
exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community. (See Ess v. Eskaton Properties, Inc.
(2002) 97 Cal. App. 4th 120, 130.) A defendant’s conduct is “outrageous” when
it is so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a
civilized community. (Hughes v. Pair
(2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035, 1050-51.)  
 
Upon reviewing the SAC, the court agrees with Copen
Defendants that Plaintiff failed to sufficiently allege a claim for IIED.
First, Plaintiff alleges the following conduct to support his claim:
terminating agreed-upon services (gardening), refusing to properly maintain the
toilet from which sewage leaked, refusing to timely remediate damage caused by
the sewage spill and preventing Plaintiff from doing so, refusing to refund
Plaintiff rent, repeatedly entering the premises without consent (twice while
Plaintiff was not home), removing the garbage cans, delaying repair of the
refrigerator and delaying having it hauled away, threatening eviction despite
having a years-worth of rent payments, representing to include damages claims
to the City and/or insurance but failing to do so, and refusing to provide
results of various testing after the sewage spill. (SAC ¶¶ 15-18, 74.) These are not the sort of
allegations that “exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized
community.” (Huges, supra, at p. 1050-51.) 
 
Accordingly,
the court SUSTAINS Copen Defendants’ demurrer to the Third Cause of Action.
 
Fourth Cause of
Action – Negligence
 
Copen Defendants contend that Plaintiff omitted prior
allegations indicating that Defendant City was responsible for the leak and
that failure to remediate on Plaintiff’s schedule is not negligent.  Plaintiff argues he sufficiently plead
negligence.
 
The elements of
a negligence cause of action are duty, breach of that duty, proximate cause,
and damages. (Peredia v. HR Mobile
Services, Inc. (2018) 25 Cal.App.5th 680, 687.)
 
Upon reviewing the SAC,
Plaintiff has not sufficiently alleged a cause of action for negligence.
Notably, Plaintiff has not changed his conclusory allegation of duty. (SAC ¶
80.)
 
 
Accordingly, the court SUSTAINS Copen Defendants’ demurrer as to the Fourth
Cause of Action.
 
Fifth Cause of
Action - Nuisance
 
Copen Defendants contend that Plaintiff failed to allege damage
to property that was not personal property and failed to include facts about
the alleged remediation delay. Plaintiff argues he alleged sufficient facts to
support this cause of action because he was the lessee, Copen Defendants
allowed a condition to exist that was harmful to health and was offensive to
Plaintiff’s senses which interfered with Plaintiff’s use and enjoyment of the
Property, and that Plaintiff was harmed by Copen Defendants’ conduct. 
 
The elements for a private nuisance cause of action are: (1)
interference with use and enjoyment of plaintiff’s property that is (2)
substantial and (3) unreasonable. (Mendez
v. Rancho Valencia Resort Partners, LLC (2016) 3 Cal.App.5th 248, 262-63.)
Plaintiff must plead and prove interference with plaintiff’s use and enjoyment
of the property – i.e., defendant’s activity must be “of such a nature,
duration or amount as to constitute unreasonable interference with the use and
enjoyment of the land.” (San Diego Gas
& Elec. Co. v. Sup. Ct. (Covalt) (1996) 13 Cal.4th 893, 938.) 
 
Upon
reviewing the SAC, Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged a claim for nuisance. First,
Plaintiff alleges that the sewage-contaminated carpet, walls, and surrounding
materials remained for nineteen days before remediation and then during
remediation those contaminated materials remained in the foyer of the premises
until February 3, 2023. (SAC ¶ 87.) In total, Plaintiff alleges
100 days from October 22, 2022 to February 3, 2023 where there was
sewage-infused materials inside the premises. (Ibid.) Second, while Plaintiff did not explicitly say this was
substantial and unreasonable, taking the SAC in context, 100 days of
sewage-infused materials coupled with mold and construction debris inside the
premises while Plaintiff was living there is enough to survive demurrer. 
 
Accordingly, the court OVERRULES Copen Defendants’
demurrer as to the Fifth Cause of Action.
 
Sixth Cause of
Action – Failure to Account for and Return Security Deposit
 
Copen Defendants demur to this cause of action in their
notice but do not provide argument. Plaintiff contends he sufficiently alleged
this cause of action. Copen Defendants provided no further argument on reply.
 
As a threshold matter, the court notes that this is an
entirely new cause of action and it is outside the scope of prior leave the
court provided at the previous demurrer hearing. (Patrick v. Alacer Corp. (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 995, 1015.) Plaintiff
has not sought leave to amend. 
 
Accordingly, the court SUSTAINS the demurrer as to the
Sixth Cause of Action. Plaintiff may request leave of court to amend.
 
Motion to Strike
 
Copen Defendants move to strike the Prayer for Relief No. 3
requesting punitive damages. Plaintiff argues that the outrageous and harassing
conduct stems from taking one year of prepaid rent and then acting to force
Plaintiff to vacate the premises. Copen Defendants reply that the type of
conduct Plaintiff alleges as interfering with his lease does not arise to the
level warranting punitive damages (i.e., not paying for a gardener).
 
To obtain punitive damages, a plaintiff must plead sufficient
facts in support of punitive damages.¿ (See¿Hilliard
v. A.H. Robins Co.¿(1983) 148 Cal.App.3d 374, 391-92.)¿ In
addition,¿punitive damages are allowed only where “it is proven by clear and
convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice.”¿ (Civ. Code, § 3294(a).)¿ Courts have viewed despicable conduct as
conduct “so vile, base, contemptible, miserable, wretched or loathsome that it
would be looked down upon and despised by ordinary decent people. (Scott v. Phoenix Schools, Inc., (2009)
175 Cal.App.4th 702, 715.) Further, Civil Code § 3294(c) provides the
definition of malice, oppression, and fraud. Malice is “conduct which is
intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (Ibid.) Oppression is “despicable conduct that subjects a person to
cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person's rights.” (Ibid.) Fraud is “an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.”¿(Ibid.)¿ 
 
As a threshold matter, Plaintiff’s First Cause of Action for
Breach of Contract does not warrant punitive damages. (Purcell v. Schweitzer (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 969, 976 [no punitive
damages for breach of contract action.]) Plaintiff’s Second Cause of Action for
Tenant Harassment under TAHO calls for civil penalties for each violation – not
for punitive damages. Plaintiff has not provided authority that the TAHO allows
an award of punitive damages in addition to civil penalties. The court has
sustained the demurrer to Plaintiff’s Third Cause of Action for IIED which, if
properly pled, could allow for punitive damages. The court also sustained the
demurrer as to the Sixth Cause of Action for Failure to Account for and Return
Security Deposit and neither party briefed whether punitive damages are
recoverable for that claim. The court does not think they are. As such, the two
causes of action that may warrant
punitive damages are the Fourth and Fifth Causes of Action for Negligence and
Nuisance. As pled, however, neither do.
 
To start, both claims do not allege malicious, oppressive,
or fraudulent conduct by the Copen Defendants. As to the negligence claim,
Plaintiff alleges that Copen Defendants failed to properly maintain the toilet,
moldy tiles, the chimney, and the refrigerator. (SAC ¶¶ 82, 83.) This is not
oppressive, malicious, or fraudulent conduct. As to the nuisance claim,
Plaintiff alleges untimely remediation. (SAC ¶ 87.) While living with
malodorous debris for 100 is not pleasant, the alleged delay is simply not
oppressive, malicious, or fraudulent. To the extent Plaintiff argued otherwise,
those arguments interpreted these facts with the tenant harassment cause of
action. There are no allegations in the nuisance claim concerning malicious,
oppressive, or fraudulent conduct.
 
Accordingly, the court GRANTS Copen Defendants’ motion to
strike in full.
 
Leave to Amend
 
Leave to amend should be liberally
granted if there is a reasonable possibility an amendment could cure the
defect.¿ (County of Santa Clara v.
Superior Court (2022) 77 Cal.App.5th 1018,1035.)¿ The Plaintiff has the
burden of demonstrating that leave to amend should be granted, and that the
defects can be cured by amendment. (“Plaintiff must show in what manner he can
amend his complaint and how that amendment will change the legal effect of his
pleading.” (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976)
18 Cal.3d 335, 349). 
 
Here, Plaintiff requested leave to
amend. The court is not convinced that Plaintiff can sufficiently amend his
claim for IIED. Plaintiff must also separately seek leave of court to add his
Sixth Cause of Action. Plaintiff is granted leave to amend his claim for
negligence. Similarly, Plaintiff may amend to add allegations supporting his
claim for punitive damages.
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            For
the foregoing reasons, the Court decides the pending motion as follows: 
 
1.;The court SUSTAINS the demurrer
as to the Third Cause of Action and the Fourth Cause of Action] with/without
leave to amend;
2.The court SUSTAINS the demurrer
as to the Sixth Cause of Action. Plaintiff must seek leave of court to amend.
3.The court OVERRULES the demurrer
as to the Second and Fifth Causes of Action;
4.The court GRANTS the motion to
strike with leave to amend.
 
Moving party is to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
Dated:             March
19, 2024                       __________________________________                                                                                                                Upinder
S. Kalra
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 


