  Case Number:  22SMCV00483    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2023    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling 
Pourmola
v. City of Los Angeles, Case No. 22SMCV00483
Hearing
Date October 25, 2023 
Defendant
City of Los Angeles’ Motion for Summary Judgment or Summary Adjudication 
 
Plaintiff
Pourmola alleges defendant City failed to maintain a sewer line attached to his
property (“the Kenter line”), which backed up, leading to an overflow and
property damage. The City moves for summary judgment or adjudication, arguing the
overflow was caused by plaintiff’s failure to install a legally mandated
backwater (or backflow) valve, which redirects overflows from downstream
blockages and directs toward the nearest upstream manhole and away from private
property. 
 
Evidentiary
Objections 
 
Pourmola
Objections:
Objections
to Rocio declaration: Objection 1 OVERRULED, Objection 2 SUSTAINED (legal
conclusion), Objection 3 OVERRULED, Objection 4 OVERRULED, Objection 5
SUSTAINED (legal conclusion), Objection 6 OVERRULED.
 
Objections to
Fernandez declaration: Objection 1 OVERRULED, Objection 2 SUSTAINED (legal
conclusion,) Objection 3 OVERRULED.
 
Objections to
Szramoski Declaration: Objections 1-3 OVERRULED. 
 
Inverse
Condemnation 
A
plaintiff alleging inverse condemnation must show damage to private property
was “substantially caused by inherent risks associated with the design,
construction, or maintenance” of a public improvement. City of Oroville v.
Superior Court (2019) 7 Cal.5th 1091, 1098. To prove substantial causation,
plaintiff must show the damages were “predominately” caused by the improvement,
i.e. that, even in the case of multiple concurrent causes, the injury to
private property is an “inescapable or unavoidable consequence of the public
improvement.” Oroville held that when a property owner failed install a required
backwater valve, sewage overflow into the property was not “predominately”
caused by the city’s design and installation of the sewer system; there was no
inverse condemnation liability. Id. at 1110. 
 
Although
inverse condemnation is not a strict liability claim, a public entity can be
liable for inverse condemnation even absent negligence if the other elements
are fulfilled. Albers v. County of Los Angeles (1965) 62 Cal.2d 250,
263-264. Inverse condemnation liability is not limited to the design or
construction of a public improvement but also can arise out of a public
entity’s subsequent decision to “neglect any kind of preventative monitoring or
maintenance for the improvement.” Oroville, supra, at 1107.  
 
Los
Angeles Municipal Code §94.7 adopts Chapter 7 of the California Plumbing Code.
Section 710.1 of the Plumbing Code provides “Fixtures installed on a floor
level that is lower than the next upstream manhole cover of a public or private
sewer shall be protected from backflow of sewage by installing an approved type
of backwater valve.”  
 
Brian
Szramowski of the Department of Public Works Bureau of Engineering reviewed a
city field crew survey and opines the first manhole upstream of Pourmola’s
property is at a higher elevation than the sewer connection where the overflow
occurred. Defendant’s separate statement (DSS) nos. 10, 12. Szramoski decl. ¶¶1,
4-6, exhibit A. 
 
Based
on Szramowski’s conclusion, the City argues Plumbing Code §710.1 requires a backwater
valve where the overflow occurred, but plaintiff failed to install one. DSS 22,
24. The City argues the lack of the backwater valve, not the design/installation
of the Kenter line, were the predominant cause of the overflow. Per Oroville, no inverse condemnation claim can lie when sewage overflow is caused by
a property owner’s failure to install a legally required backwater valve.
 
The City produced evidence that a backwater valve
was required, Pourmola failed to install it, and its absence caused the
overflow. This carries the City’s initial burden on summary adjudication. 
 
Pourmola argues no valve was required, citing Ayman
Albaja, a plumbing contractor who performed work when the home was constructed.
Albaja states a City inspector told him a backwater valve was not required at
the first-floor Kenter connection. Albaja decl., ¶1, 6. This out-of-court
statement by an unidentified third party submitted for its truth is
inadmissible hearsay. It is not a party admission (Evid. Code §1220) because
the person who made this statement is not identified, and there is no evidence
they had authority to speak on the City’s behalf. 
 
Additionally, Albaja performed elevation
measurements, concluding the first floor of the property, which is served by
the Kenter connection, is higher than the nearest upstream manhole. Albaja decl.
¶8. Based on his measurements, no valve was required under the Plumbing Code.
 
Pourmola and the City present contradictory
evidence regarding the elevation of the fixture where Pourmola’s property
connects to the Kenter line. C.f., Albaja decl. ¶8, Szramoski decl. ¶¶4-6. This creates a triable issue of
fact as to whether Municipal Code §94.7 required installation of a backwater
valve. 
 
Pourmola argues his inverse condemnation claim is
based not on the sewer line’s design and construction but on the City’s inadequate
maintenance. Per Oroville, a public entity’s inadequate maintenance of a public improvement can serve
as the basis for inverse condemnation liability. 
 
Pourmola’s exh. 8 is a “Work Order History” of
maintenance of the Kenter line. Opp., exh. 8. Pourmola provides no foundation
as to how the document was generated or by whom; it is inadmissible hearsay. Even
if exhibit 8 were admissible, it shows eight instances of roots in the sewer
line since 2005, with repeated maintenance work performed. Without foundation
or explication, this does not create a triable issue of fact regarding
inadequate maintenance.
 
Pourmola argues exh. 6, a purported Wastewater
Spill Report generated after the flooding event, provides context to exh. 8
which proves the Ketner line was insufficiently maintained. Pourmola notes exh.
6 states “Corrective Action” was taken after the spill, with implementation of
an “adjusted schedule/method of preventive maintenance.” Opp., exh. 6. Without
foundation, the court cannot interpret this document or determine its meaning.
Pourmola argues it indicates the previous maintenance schedule was inadequate,
but there is no foundation for this assertion. 
 
Exhibits 8 and 6 are insufficient to create a
triable issue of fact as to the City’s inadequate maintenance of the Kenter
line. However, there is a triable issue of material fact as to whether plaintiff
was required to install a backwater valve. As the motion is based largely on
the argument that damage was caused by Pourmola’s failure to install the valve,
summary judgment is DENIED.
 
Negligence/Trespass 
The Government Claims Act (Gov. Code §§810 et seq.) requires a
plaintiff alleging a tort claim for physical damage caused by a public
improvement to allege and cite an applicable statute or regulation creating a
mandatory duty to prevent the damage. 
 
The City argues Cal. Civ. Code §1714, which
Pourmola cites, does not impose a mandatory duty under the Government Claims
Act. Section 1714 merely states general principles of negligence and does not
create a mandatory duty, but the City does not address the two other statutes
cited in the FAC, Gov. Code §835 and Penal Code §602(m). The City fails to
carry its initial burden as to these cause of action. DENIED.
 
Nuisance 
To prevail on a nuisance claim, plaintiff must
establish defendant engaged in conduct that is (i) intentional and
unreasonable, (ii) unintentional but caused by negligent or reckless conduct,
or (iii) the result of abnormally dangerous activity. Lussier v. San Lorenzo Valley Water Dist. (1988) 209 Cal.App.2d 92, 100. 
 
The City argues the overflow was caused by
Pourmola’s failure to install a backwater valve. As there is a triable issue as
to whether plaintiff was required to install a valve, summary judgment cannot
be granted on this basis.
 
The City also argues Pourmola has not pointed to
any City conduct that caused the water intrusion. Pourmola argues a City worker
told Fahad Vakil, a contractor working to remove wastewater from the property,
that the neighborhood was being flooded due to the City’s rerouting of sewer
lines. Vakil decl. ¶7. This is inadmissible hearsay. Pourmola also cites exhs.
6 and 8, which are not availing, for the reasons stated. Pourmola’s evidence fails
to create a triable issue of fact as to whether the created a nuisance. GRANTED.
