  Case Number:  21STCV37775    Hearing Date:   September 29, 2023    Dept:  76 The Court has not prepared a tentative ruling on the three discovery motions set for hearing on September 29, 2023.  However, the Court on September 28, 2023 issued the following order, which is reproduced below for the parties' benefit in preparing for the September 29, 2023 hearing. ORDER
REGARDING:
(1)        ISSUANCE
OF ORDER TO SHOW CAUSE (OSC) WHY THE COURT SHOULD NOT APPOINT A DISCOVERY
REFEREE
(2)        MANDATORY
PROCEDURE FOR FURTHER DISCOVERY MOTIONS IN THIS CASE
OSC Hearing
Date:  November 6, 2023 at 8:30 a.m. in
Department 76
As stated in
an oft-cited treatise on civil litigation, the purpose of discovery is to take
the “game” element out of trial preparation by enabling the parties to obtain
evidence necessary to evaluate and resolve their dispute before a trial is
necessary.  (Weil and Brown, Cal. Prac.
Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (TRG 2018) ¶8:1 (citing Greyhound Corp.
v. Superior Court (1961) 55 C.2d. 355, 376).)
The Court of
Appeal has stated, “Civil discovery is intended to operate with a minimum of
judicial intervention. ‘[I]t is a “central precept” of the Civil Discovery Act
... that discovery “be essentially self-executing[.]”’” (Sinaiko Healthcare
Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th
390, 402 (internal citations omitted).) 
Discovery in this case is proceeding on a path that clearly is not
one of self-executing discovery.  A high
volume of discovery disputes, as seen in the instant case, suggests either a
total lack of cooperation by counsel, or a desire to use the discovery process
as a battlefield unto itself rather than for its legitimate purpose of
uncovering facts relating to the parties’ claims and defenses.  
The Court
has a limited number of available hearing dates for discovery motions, because
it is necessary for the Court to manage its resources and prevent the motion
calendar from becoming so large that it threatens the ability to conduct
trials.  Thus, it is not uncommon for
parties to find that the only available hearings are months in the future.  When discovery disputes in a single case—such
as this case—require significant court resources and multiple hearings to
resolve, the Court’s ability to manage its inventory and provide litigants with
opportunities to be heard is threatened. 
In essence, cases with the type of discovery warfare seen here are an
undue burden on access to justice for everyone. 

The
following discovery motions have been filed in this case:
1.     Defendant Southwest Airlines’ motion
to compel Plaintiff to provide further responses to requests for production of
documents, set one. (ruling issued 2/28/23)
2.     Plaintiff’s motion to compel
Defendant Southwest Airlines to provide further responses to Plaintiff’s
requests for production of documents, set one. (set for hearing on 9/29/23)
3.     Plaintiff’s motion to quash subpoena
to third party Kaiser Permanente. (ruling issued June 5, 2023)
4.     Plaintiff’s motion to compel PMK
deposition of Defendant Southwest Airlines regarding interactive process.  (vacated at informal discovery conference (“IDC”),
2/27/23)
5.     Plaintiff’s motion to compel PMK
deposition of Defendant Southwest Airlines regarding actual accommodations.  (vacated at IDC, 2/27/23)
6.     Plaintiff’s motion to compel PMK
deposition of Defendant Southwest Airlines regarding Plaintiff’s workers'
compensation claims.  (vacated at IDC, 2/27/23)
7.     Plaintiff’s motion to compel
Defendant Southwest Airlines to provide further responses to Interrogatories,
set one.  (set for hearing on 9/29/23)
8.     Plaintiff’s motion to compel
Defendant Southwest Airlines to provide further responses to requests for
production, set one.  (set for hearing
9/29/23)
9.     Plaintiff’s motion to compel
Defendant Sedgwick Claims Management to provide further responses to requests
for production, set one.  (set for
hearing on 9/29/23)
The Court also
held IDCs with the parties on February 27, 2023, April 4, 2023, and June 5,
2023.
The burden
on access to justice created by this case is illustrated not just by the volume
of motions filed, but also by motions not filed:  Plaintiff’s counsel used the CRS system to reserve
two motions to compel further discovery responses:  one for hearing on October 4, 2023 (CRS no. 311486227719)
and another for hearing on October 13, 2023 (CRS no. 081566416871).  The motions corresponding to these two
motions were never filed.  By reserving
these hearings and wasting them, Plaintiff’s counsel precluded other parties
from using those hearings.[1]  
The Court
notes that the discovery disputes appear to continue beyond the September 29,
2023 hearings:  Plaintiff’s counsel has
reserved a hearing on a motion for protective order to be heard on January 24,
2024.  (CRS no. 287714313239).
The
Complaint in this case alleges fairly straightforward employment claims.  In the Court’s experience, most employment
cases do not involve any discovery motions, but in a few cases, a handful of
discovery motions are filed.  Based on
the Court’s experience, the volume of discovery motions in this case is
unreasonably high and suggests that the parties are unable or unwilling to
resolve routine (and based on the Court’s review of motions already filed, minor)
discovery issues through good faith efforts to meet and confer.  In short, this is an unremarkable
single-plaintiff case that does not raise complicated issues that should reasonably
lead to a dozen discovery motions.  The
fact that additional motions were reserved after the initial IDC suggests that such
conferences will have limited if any value in helping the parties to avoid
motion practice.
Management
of discovery disputes among parties with entrenched, divergent positions on
discovery and repeated disputes requires a degree of management and involvement
by the Court that interferes with normal court operations.  Frequent discovery motions with lengthy
hearings typically prolong the daily calendar and take away time that the Court
would otherwise be able to devote to substantive motions involving matters that
are not part of the “self-executing” realm of the Civil Discovery Act.  
Based on the
foregoing, it appears to the Court that there are exceptional circumstances in
this case that make the appointment of a discovery referee necessary.  As noted above, there are multiple issues to
be resolved; multiple motions to be heard simultaneously; a numerosity of
motion reservations which shows that there is a continuum of many disputes; and
a voluminous record in connection with the motion[s], making the determination
of motions an inordinately time-consuming endeavor.  (Taggares v. Superior Court (1998) 62
Cal.App.4th 94, 105.)
Pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure section 639(a)(5), the Court sets an Order to Show
Cause why a discovery referee should not be appointed.  The Order to Show Cause will be heard on November
6, 2023 at 8:30 a.m. in Department 76. 
No later than 10 days before the hearing, the parties shall file
responses to the Order to Show Cause, addressing (1) any information the Court
should consider in determining whether appointment of a discovery referee is
necessary; (2) any information that the Court should consider with regard to
payment of the referee’s fees, including the parties’ ability to pay and any
factors that the Court should consider in apportioning fees; and (3) the names,
contact information, and hourly rates of any referee candidates whom the
parties propose in the event that the Court orders a Code of Civil Procedure
section 639 reference.
The Court
further orders the parties to file a joint statement regarding the status of
discovery no later than October 31, 2023. 
The joint status report must address the status of the following
subjects, and the parties are ordered to meet and confer either in person or
via telephone/videoconference to discuss each of the following subjects before preparing the
report:
1.              
A
list of all written discovery that has been propounded by each party, the dates
upon which responses were served, or are anticipated to be served, and whether
unresolved disputes remain with regard to any of the written discovery devices.
2.              
A
list of depositions that have been completed, and the dates of the depositions.
3.              
The
number (and if known, the identities) of additional deponents (including
parties and party-affiliated witnesses, as well as third parties) whose
depositions are anticipated, and the date by which each deposition is expected
to be completed.
4.              
The
identity of any witness(es) for whom any of the parties intends to seek a
second deposition, or for whom a deposition of longer than seven hours will be
sought.
5.              
The
identities of each third party upon whom document subpoenas have been served or
are anticipated to be served, and the date on which production was completed or
is expected to be complete.
6.              
Any
discovery disputes that are likely to require motion practice, beyond the motions
already filed.
7.              
Any
other issues that may delay the completion of discovery.
To ensure
that the parties in this case do not create additional resource issues, and do
not unfairly step in front of other litigants whose cases are assigned to
Department 76, the Court finds that additional case management will be
necessary to ensure the timely completion of discovery.
The Court
has broad authority “[t]o provide for the orderly conduct of proceedings before
it” (Code Civ. Proc. § 128(a)(3)) and “[t]o amend and control its process and
orders so as to make them conform to law and justice.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 128(a)(8).)  This latter provision “is consistent with and
codifies the courts' traditional and inherent judicial power to do whatever is
necessary and appropriate, in the absence of controlling legislation, to ensure
the prompt, fair, and orderly administration of justice.” (Kinney v. Clark
(2017) 12 Cal.App.5th 724, 740, quoting Neary v. Regents of University of
California (1992) 3 Cal.4th 273; see also Hernandez v. FCA US LLC
(2020) 50 Cal.App.5th 329, 338 [finding “no abuse of discretion by the trial
court in using its inherent supervisory powers to manage proceedings before it
and to set deadlines to ensure the timely handling of cases assigned to it”]).
Judges have not only the ability, but the obligation to:
eliminate
delay in the progress and ultimate resolution of litigation, to assume and
maintain control over the pace of litigation, to actively manage the processing
of litigation from commencement to disposition, and to compel attorneys and
litigants to prepare and resolve all litigation without delay, from the filing
of the first document invoking court jurisdiction to final disposition of the
action. 
(Govt. Code § 68607).  In
the discovery context, “Judges also have broad discretion in controlling the
course of discovery and in making the various decisions necessitated by
discovery proceedings.” (Obregon v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th
424, 431.)In order to
prevent the discovery issues in this case from creating an undue burden on the
Court’s motion calendar, and to facilitate the resolution of disputes among the
parties in this case, the Court orders the following:1.     Any future discovery motion hearing
reservations for which moving papers have not been filed are hereby cancelled
and ordered off calendar.  The Court will
consider whether to reschedule the hearing on any pending motion that has not
yet been heard.2.     The parties in this case are prohibited
from using the CRS system to reserve any motions regarding discovery.3.     If any discovery dispute arises for
which a motion appears to be necessary, a party who wishes to file a discovery
motion shall prepare their moving papers in accordance with the provisions of
the Code of Civil Procedure and Rules of Court governing discovery motions.  The moving party must then file and serve a notice
of request for hearing on that discovery motion that includes the moving papers
as attachments.  The moving party must deliver
a courtesy copy of that notice to Department 76.4.     For purposes of deadlines in the
Discovery Act regarding the filing of motions to compel further responses, the
Court will deem a motion to have been filed on the date that the moving party
files its notice of request for hearing as described herein.5.     Upon receipt of a notice of request
for hearing, the Court will either set a briefing schedule and hearing date for
the motion, or in its discretion order the parties to appear for a further case
management conference before the Court sets a hearing on the motion.
Failure to
follow this order may result in consequences that include:  (1) any motions filed after this date being
ordered off calendar, (2) the imposition of monetary sanctions pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure section 177.5, and/or (3) the imposition of discovery sanctions
as authorized by Code of Civil Procedure sections 2023.010 and 2023.030.


