 Case Number:  23SMCVP00421    Hearing Date:   September 24, 2024    Dept:  M 23SMCVP00421:  Prang
v. Assessment Appeals Board:
 
 
The Assessor argues that the Board had authority to reconsider
its decision regarding the valuation of the property, or that this Court has
such jurisdiction and should order reconsideration. Specifically, the First
Amended Petition (“FAP”) requests that the Court direct the Los Angeles County
Assessment Appeals Board No. 6 (the “Board”) to reverse its finding that
Petitioner was bound by, and the Board was without authority to, reconsider
Petitioner’s value recommendation of $3,774,000 ,and to schedule a hearing on
appeal application number 2012-006911 to determine the base year value of the
Property as of the April 20, 2007 transfer date as described below. (FAP at 1.)
According to the FAP, the value recommendation was made by a former member of
Petitioner’s staff who is now a criminal defendant and was made corruptly and
fraudulently in a scheme to lower assessed values of property in exchange for
payments. The Petition affects the property tax valuation of Real
Parties-in-Interests’ real property located at 416 North Rockingham Avenue, Los
Angeles CA 90049 also known as Assessor Identification Number 4406-006-006 (the
“Property”).
 
There are two essential requirements to the issuance of an
ordinary writ of mandate under Code of Civil Procedure section 1085: (1) a
clear, present and ministerial duty on the part of the respondent, and (2) a
clear, present and beneficial right on the part of the petitioner to the
performance of that duty.  (California Ass’n for Health Services at
Home v. Department of Health Services (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 696,
704.) “An action in ordinary mandamus is proper where … the claim is that
an agency has failed to act as required by law.” (Id. at
705.) “Normally, mandate will not lie to control a public agency's
discretion, that is to say, force the exercise of discretion in a particular
manner. However, it will lie to correct abuses of discretion. In determining
whether a public agency has abused its discretion, the court may not substitute
its judgment for that of the agency, and if reasonable minds may disagree as to
the wisdom of the agency's action, its determination must be upheld. A court
must ask whether the public agency's action was arbitrary, capricious, or
entirely lacking in evidentiary support, or whether the agency failed to follow
the procedure and give the notices the law requires.”  (County of Los
Angeles v. City of Los Angeles (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 643,
654.)   
 
The court independently reviews legal questions, such as
questions of statutory construction. (City of Alhambra v. County of Los
Angeles (2012) 55 Cal.4th 707, 718.) To the extent “purely
legal issues involve the interpretation of a statute an administrative agency
is responsible for enforcing, [the court] exercise[s] [its] independent
judgment, ‘taking into account and respecting the agency's interpretation of
its meaning.’”  (Housing Partners I, Inc. v. Duncan (2012)
206 Cal.App.4th 1335, 1343; see also Yamaha Corp. of America v. State Bd. Of
Equalization (1998) 19 Cal.4th 1, 11.) 
 
An agency is presumed to have regularly performed its
official duties.  (Evid. Code § 664.)  Generally, the petitioner
“bears the burden of proof in a mandate proceeding brought under Code of Civil
Procedure section 1085.”  (California Correctional Peace Officers Assn.
v. State Personnel Bd. (1995) 10 Cal.4th 1133, 1154.)  
 
Petitioner argues that the “trier of fact” has the inherent
“equitable” authority to vacate the Board’s decision. (See Rev. & Tax.
Code, § 1605.5.) Petitioner cites no authorities which illuminate this
equitable authority for the Board or the Court. Petitioner cites section
1605.5, which provides in relevant part that “The county board shall hear
applications for a reduction in an assessment in cases in which the issue
is whether or not property has been subject to a change in ownership… [and] The
county board shall hear and decide issues with respect to penalties
assessed under Section 463, 482, or 504 where those issues arise in connection
with an application timely filed under Section 1603 or 1605…” (Emphasis added.)
The section does not provide any ministerial duty which could support a section
1085 writ. Further, Petitioner’s cited duties (equitable and fiduciary) simply
do not apply to the petition at hand. The cases only refer to court judgments,
not administrative hearings. Petitioner has put forth insufficient authority
that an “equitable” authority creates a “clear, present and ministerial duty”
on the part of the Board.
 
The only question of law posed by Petitioner regards the
Board’s decision not to disturb the valuation of the property at $3.7 million.
Independently reviewing the relevant legal interpretations, the court also sees
no abuse of discretion considering that Rev. & Tax. Code section 51.5
limited the assessor’s authority to correct the valuation here. Depending on
the nature of the error, section 51.5 establishes time limits on an assessor's
authority to correct a base year value. (William Jefferson & Co. v.
Orange Cnty. Assessment Appeals Bd. No. 2, (2014) 228 Cal. App. 4th 1, 10.)
  The relevant section states:
 
“(a) Notwithstanding any other
provision of the law, any error or omission in the determination of a base year
value pursuant to paragraph (2) of subdivision (a) of Section 110.1, including
the failure to establish that base year value, which does not involve the
exercise of an assessor's judgment as to value, shall be corrected in any
assessment year in which the error or omission is discovered. 
(b) An error or an omission
described in subdivision (a) which involves the exercise of an assessor's
judgment as to value may be corrected only if it is placed on the current roll
or roll being prepared, or is otherwise corrected, within four years after July
1 of the assessment year for which the base year value was first established.”
(Emphasis added.) 
 
This section allows an assessor to correct any base-year
value error or omission within 4 years after enrolling an assessment so long as
that error did not “involve the exercise of an assessor’s judgment as to value.”
(Id.)
 
The court in William Jefferson explains:
 
Judgmental errors subject to the
four-year time limit typically involve a claim the assessor's determination of
the base year value failed to reflect the property's fair market value.
[Citation.] Nonjudgmental errors subject to correction at any time
include (1) “an assessor's erroneous determination that a change of
ownership occurred” [Citation.]; (2) “the assessor's failure to set a
new base year value upon a change of ownership” [Citation.]; (3) “defects of
a mechanical, mathematical, or clerical nature, not involving judgment as
to value, where it can be shown from papers in the assessor's office or other
evidence that the defect resulted in a base year value that was not intended by
the assessor at the time it was determined” [Citation.] and (4) “errors or
omissions that result from the taxpayer's fraud, concealment,
misrepresentation, or failure to comply with legal requirements for furnishing
information” [Citation.]” 
(William Jefferson & Co., Inc. v. Assessment Appeals
Board (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 1, 10, emphasis added.) 
 
The question is whether the assessor's erroneous
determination would include the pled circumstances. The term erroneous
generally connotes something in error, mistaken, or misled. The Assessor argues
that a correction of an erroneous determination that the Property had changed
ownership did not involve an exercise of the assessor ‘s judgment about value.
However, the challenged decisions by the Assessor were not that the
Assessor mistakenly set a base year value, but that the Assessor improperly
valued the Property due to extrinsic fraud. The Board found, as matters of
fact, that it was “indisputable” that the as of March 17, 2010, the November
2007 transfer was viewed by both parties as a 100 percent re-assessable change
in ownership, the parties agreed that the $3.774 million base year value and
made such representations to the board through a voluntary stipulation valid,
the board duly equalized the base year value of the subject property at $3.77
million based on evidence presented by both parties, and that the stipulation
was still binding despite any evidence of fraud or the 2012 the assessor’s reconsideration
and redetermination of its 2007/2008 determination of the November 2007
transaction was a brief assessable change in ownership event. The Assessor’s
initial decision to view the 2007 transfer was a re-assessable change in
ownership certainly involving an issue of judgment. Further, the Court cannot
view the Assessor’s 2012 redetermination as a failure to set a new base
year value upon a change of ownership. Such determinations necessarily
“involved” the valuations of the property. Indeed, the Board determined that it
was without authority to reconsider Petitioner’s value recommendation of
$3,774,000, which was the ultimate question posed below. 
 
Thus, the petition is denied.