  Case Number:  20SMCV00406    Hearing Date:   September 24, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Rosamond Ranch
LP v. South La Cienega Holdings LLC, et al.
CASE NO.:                20SMCV00406
MOTION:                  Motion
for Terminating, Monetary Sanctions
HEARING DATE:   9/24/2024

 
 
Legal
Standard
            
If a party fails to obey a
court order compelling it to provide a discovery response, “the court may make
those orders that are just, including the imposition of an issue sanction, an
evidence sanction, or a terminating sanction . . . In lieu of or in addition to
this sanction, the court may impose a monetary sanction . . ..” (CCP §§
2030.290(c), 2030.300(e), 2031.300(c), 2031.320(c).) Misuse of the discovery
process, which includes disobeying a court order to provide discovery, is
conduct subject to sanctions. (CCP § 2023.010(g).) Possible sanctions are: 
 
(a) [A] monetary sanction
ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any
attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including
attorney's fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct…. 
 
(b) [A]n issue sanction
ordering that designated facts shall be taken as established in the action in
accordance with the claim of the party adversely affected by the misuse of the
discovery process. The court may also impose an issue sanction by an order
prohibiting any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process from
supporting or opposing designated claims or defenses. 
 
(c) [A]n evidence sanction by
an order prohibiting any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process
from introducing designated matters in evidence. 
 
(d) [A] terminating sanction by
one of the following orders: 
 
(1) An order
striking out the pleadings or parts of the pleadings of any party engaging in
the misuse of the discovery process. 
 
(2) An order
staying further proceedings by that party until an order for discovery is
obeyed. 
 
(3) An order
dismissing the action, or any part of the action, of that party. 
 
(4) An order
rendering a judgment by default against that party. 
 
(e) [A] contempt sanction by an
order treating the misuse of the discovery process as a contempt of court. 
 
(CCP § 2023.030.) 
 
 
Analysis
 

Defendants/Cross-Complainant South
La Cienega Holdings, LLC, WKM Corporation and Promontory Holdings LLC move for
terminating sanctions against Plaintiff/Cross-Defendants Rosamond Ranch,
LP, Calitex LLC, Elias Shokrian, Derek Boisse, and Neri Sarra. Defendants
request that the Court strike the complaint of Plaintiff Rosamond, and strike the
answer of Cross-Defendants Rosamond, Calitex, Shokrian, Boisse and Sarra to the
cross-complaint. Defendants/Cross-Complainant also request monetary sanctions
of $50,235.00 against Cross-Defendants Elias Shokrian, Rosamond Ranch, LP, and
Calitex, LLC and their counsel of record. 
 
Willful Discovery Abuse
 
The party seeking to impose
sanctions need only show the failure to obey earlier discovery orders. (Puritan
Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1985) 171 Cal.App.3d 877, 884 [interpreting
former statute dealing with “refusal” to comply].) However, numerous cases hold
that severe sanctions (i.e., terminating or evidentiary sanctions) for failure
to comply with a court order are allowed only where the failure was willful. (R.S.
Creative, Inc. v. Creative Cotton, Ltd. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 486, 495; Vallbona
v. Springer (1996) 43 Cal.App.4th 1525, 1545; Biles v. Exxon Mobil Corp.
(2004) 124 Cal.App.4th 1315, 1327.) 
 
“The discovery statutes evince an
incremental approach to discovery sanctions, starting with monetary sanctions
and ending with the ultimate sanction of termination. Discovery sanctions
should be appropriate to the dereliction, and should not exceed that which is
required to protect the interests of the party entitled to but denied
discovery.  If a lesser sanction fails to curb misuse, a greater sanction
is warranted: continuing misuses of the discovery process warrant incrementally
harsher sanctions until the sanction is reached that will curb the abuse. A
decision to order terminating sanctions should not be made lightly. But where a
violation is willful, preceded by a history of abuse, and the evidence shows
that less severe sanctions would not produce compliance with the discovery
rules, the trial court is justified in imposing the ultimate sanction.” (Doppes
v. Bentley Motors, Inc. (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 967, 992, citations
omitted.)  Thus, before issuing a sanction, a trial court “should consider
both the conduct being sanctioned and its effect on the party seeking discovery
and, in choosing a sanction, should attempt to tailor the sanction to the harm
caused by the withheld discovery.” (Id.)
 
Discovery sanctions are therefore not
to be imposed for punishment, but instead are used to encourage fair disclosure
of discovery to prevent unfairness resulting for the lack of information.¿(Electronic
Funds Solutions, LLC v. Murphy¿(2005) 134 Cal.App.4th 1161, 1183.) 
Sanctions “should not give the aggrieved party more than
what it is entitled to, and should not be used to punish the offending
party.”  (Karlsson v. Ford Motor Co. (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 1202,
1217.)
 
For example, “[d]estroying evidence
in response to a discovery request after litigation has commenced would surely
be a misuse of discovery within the meaning of section 2023 as would such
destruction in anticipation of a discovery request.” (Cedars-Sinai Med. Ctr.
v. Sup.Ct. (1998) 18 Cal.4th 1, 12 [dictum]; see R.S. Creative, Inc. v.
Creative Cotton, Ltd. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 486, 497 [“A traditional remedy
for spoliation of evidence is discovery sanctions under section 2023.”]; Williams
v. Russ (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 1215, 1227 [terminating sanction imposed for
allowing destruction of relevant records].) A party moving for discovery
sanctions based on spoliation of evidence must show the responding party had
destroyed evidence to the moving party’s prejudice, i.e., a “substantial
probability of damaging the moving party’s ability to establish an essential
element of his claim or defense.” (Williams, supra, 167 Cal.App.4th at
1227.) The burden then shifts to the responding party to prove the moving party
did not suffer prejudice from the loss of the documents.¿(Id. at
1226-27.)
 
Among other orders, Cross-Complainant
contends that Cross-Defendants have failed to comply with this Court’s August
27, 2024, discovery order compelling production of documents responsive to Cross-Complainants’
propounded discovery. Cross-Complainant asserts that Cross-Defendants: a) failed
to produce documents maintained by Shokrian and Sarra, as well as custodian
James Irving; b) did not re-produce the Boisse and leasing@calitexllc.com mailboxes
with metadata intact; and c) spoliated evidence, to wit, the emails maintained
by Shokrian, Sarra, and presumably Irving and approximately 25% of the metadata
for emails maintained in the Boisse and Leasing@Calitexllc.com.
 
Cross-Complainants demonstrate that
Cross-Defendants willfully failed to obey a number of discovery orders. On
December 9, 2022, January 6, 2023, December 1, 2023, and August 8, 2024, the
Court granted certain motions to compel further discovery responses and
production from Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants. At these hearings, the Court repeatedly
noted that Cross-Defendants provided evasive discovery responses, and
intentionally withheld documents. Of note, one counsel for
Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants, Mr. Evans, filed a declaration in opposition to
the December 9, 2023, hearing, attempting to avoid sanctions on himself and Cross-Defendant
Sarra. Mr. Evans explained that Mr. Shokrian made the decisions as to what
information or documents to provide in discovery served on October 24, 2022,
and that certain limitations were placed by Mr. Shokrian which prevented
counsel for continuing to represent Plaintiff/Cross-Defendants in the
litigation. (Knox Decl., Ex. E.) In light of the pattern of discovery abuse
detailed on the record, Mr. Evans’s claim rings true. 
 
Most relevant here, on August 8, 2024,
the Court ordered Cross-Defendant Rosamond Ranch LP to:
a. re-produce the 80,000 plus page
production of documents electronically in a means suitable for use on an
e-discovery platform (e.g., Relativity, DISCO, etc.);
b. include RFPs 121-129 as part of
the scope of review in order to produce or identify in
any prior production documents that are responsive to set
four RPDs;
c. produce documents responsive to
the set five RPDs, subject to a Stipulated Protective Order; and
d. produce “the Rosamond Ranch,
L.P. partnership agreement in response to RFP No. 119,” among the Set Four RPDs.

 
In a court-ordered report
concerning the discovery, Cross-Complainant explained that on August 7 and 21, 2024,
Cross-Defendants provided a folder containing .pdf images and several native
files, but did not produce data/load, or text files. On August 23, 2024, they provided
an export of 6,155 documents from their ESI platform in their native format
(e.g., .msg), but still had not provided a data/load file. Cross-Defendants had
provided a data export to two Excel sheets summarizing certain metadata
regarding the files produced. The only documents reflected among the Excel
sheets were for Derek@Calitexllc.com or “Leasing” email addresses used by Mr.
Boisse. Apparently, Cross-Defendants had only searched these two email
addresses. The excel sheet reflected that Cross-Defendants did not search the
mailboxes of Shokrian, Sarra, or Konuk.  Further,
approximately 25% of the documents were missing attendant metadata, and some
documents’ metadata appeared manipulated. 
 
At the August 27, 2024, conference
concerning these discovery issues, the Court ordered “counsel for
cross-defendant to file further productions of documents by Friday, August 30,
2024 [and] to file a declaration summarizing the scope of the further
production by September 4, 2024.” In compliance with this order, Cross-Defendants
provided the declaration of their e-discovery vendor and computer technician. (Martinez
Decl.; Tashbook Decl.) They explained that there were delays in producing the
.PST files because of the large file-sizes, and that they were using a slower
exporting process to obtain usable .PST files for the custodians’ emails,
including for Shokrian, Sarra, Boisse, Irving, and the leasing address. They
further explained that production was ongoing and would be completed
imminently. 
 
            In its
court-ordered supplemental brief, Cross-Complainant explains that on the day of
the discovery cut-off, September 9, 2024, Cross-Defendants finally produced
over 1.7 million pages of responsive documents that had previously not been
produced. Cross-Complainant notes that nearly all of these purportedly
responsive documents were previously withheld until literally the last day of
discovery. Further, Cross-Defendant’s technician, Tashbook, stated that “all
custodians’” mailboxes were exported for this case some years ago, but on a
smaller scale. (Tasbhook Decl., ¶ 10.) Cross-Complainant points out that this
supports the contention that the previously un-produced mailboxes were
exported, yet intentionally not produced. 
 
Cross-Complainant asserts that
Cross-Defendants have improperly over produced the entirety of their email
boxes instead of only responsive documents. The Court concurs that
Cross-Defendants’ excessive production problematic, though not independently
worthy of sanctions. Generally, the Court would not sanction responding parties
for overinclusion in their production. Naturally, a responding party
should include all potentially responsive documents, fairly erring on the side
of overinclusion. However, producing the entirety of the custodians’
mailboxes, including emails completely unrelated to the underlying events, would
be designed to frustrate the purposes of discovery. Further, the history of
repeated “document dump” style production evinces Cross-Defendants’ intent to
overburden Cross-Complainant with the discovery process. 
 
Cross-Complainant notes that,
despite this overinclusion, Cross-Defendants have also failed to produce all responsive
and relevant emails in the latest production. For instance, Cross-Complainant
notes that Cross-Defendants confirmed that the oldest email they have for Mr.
Konuk is dated December 30, 2020. However, Mr. Konuk started working for
Calitex in January 2020 (and its affiliate Califco in January 2019). (Knox
Decl., ¶ 27; Ex. U.) Likewise, Cross-Defendants only produced emails from Mr.
Shokrian starting from February 22, 2019. (Rep. Knox Decl., ¶ 11.) Yet, in
earlier productions, Cross-Defendants provided emails to or from Shokrian
dating as far back as late 2017. (Supp. Knox Decl., ¶9, Ex. Y.) Curiously,
emails from 2017-2018 would be the most relevant to this action, as this is
when the underlying negotiations occurred leading up to the January 2018
execution of the Master Lease and various sub-leases. Earlier emails may bear
directly on Defendant’s defenses or Cross-Complainant’s fraud claims. Cross-Complainant
thus demonstrates that there are likely further responsive documents which have
been either been deleted or are being withheld.
 
Cross-Complainant observes that
this repeated discovery abuse has delayed, and potentially out-right prevented,
discovery on several issues: 1) the measure of Plaintiff’s claimed damages (RPD
Nos. 1-6, 15-30, 105-109 to Rosamond); 2) Plaintiff’s mitigation of damages (RPD
Nos. 1-6, 64, 65, 68); 3) Plaintiff’s breach of the Lease by withholding
consent to sublease (RPD Nos. 64, 65); 4) the fraudulent/false nature of representations
made to Cross-Complainants (RPD Nos. 15-30); 5) Cross-Defendants’ knowledge of
the contractual relationship between SLCH and Promontory, WKM, and MM (RPD Nos.
9-14, 36 – 39, 43-47, 70-72); and 6) Cross-Defendants’ efforts to interfere
with those contractual relationships (RPD Nos. 17-24). This delay precluded Cross-Complainants
from proceeding with deposition discovery until after the discovery cutoff.
(Knox Decl., ¶ 12.) On the literal eve of the discovery cut-off, Cross-Defendants
disclosed dozens of third-party witnesses with potentially relevant information
to the mitigation defense. For instance, the documents identify numerous
prospective replacement tenants that were interested in leasing the property
after Cross-Complainants surrendered the premises in September 2020. (Supp.
Knox Decl., ¶ 3.)
 
Cross-Complainants thus show that
there is a “pattern of discovery abuse” which has led to the loss of potentially
relevant evidence which might justify terminating sanctions. (Karlsson v.
Ford Motor Co. (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 1202, 1215.) Without further relief,
Cross-Defendants’ abuse has deprived Cross-Complainants of a fair opportunity
to explore fully any leads obtained from discovery that should have been
produced on Defendants/Cross-Complainant defenses and claims. Thus, the burden
shifts to Plaintiff/Cross-Defendants to justify their delays and failures to
obey the above discussed orders.
 
Cross-Defendants flatly deny any
intent to thwart discovery, intentionally delay, or prejudice anyone’s claims
or defenses. (See Boisse Decl., Martinez Decl., Shokrian Decl., and Gomez
Decl.) Cross-Defendants now claim that they are being unfairly targeted over
discovery mistakes for which they had no knowledge. They claim that until
August 2024, Rosamond and Calitex were unaware they had an obligation to
produce emails from custodians other than the Derek Boisse .PST files and those
from the leasing@calitexllc.com address. (Boisse Decl., ¶¶ 6-7; Shokrian Decl.,
¶¶ 5, 10.) They claim they never received instructions from an attorney to
search and produce emails from any other custodians on the email services
housed in our offices. (Id.) Further, Shokrian disclaims ever having instructed
anyone to withhold emails or otherwise obstruct the production of documents in
this case. (Shokrian Decl., ¶¶ 5, 10.) He claims that Mr. Evans’s declaration
is simply false and an unauthorized disclosure of confidential attorney-client
communications. (Id.) They claim that, on the contrary, Mr. Evans instructed
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendants on how to respond to discovery and he never once
mentioned that the original production of the emails were non-compliant and
must be redone. (Shokrian Decl., ¶¶ 9-10; Boisse Decl., ¶¶ 9-10.) They further claim
that had any prior counsel of record taken steps similar to those Rosamond and
Calitex’s current counsel, they would have produced all of their responsive
custodian .pst files years ago. (Shokrian Decl., ¶¶ 6-9; Boisse Decl., ¶¶ 7-8.)
They also argue that this is a Code of Civil Procedure section 473 matter, but
do not explain how this code might apply here.
 
The Court finds these self-serving
denials to be unpersuasive and contradictory to other evidence. First, Mr.
Shokrian attested to searching for and producing responsive documents (Rep.
Knox Decl., Exs. BB, JJ, LL), but now states he was never informed of what
responsive documents he needed to search for or produce.  Mr. Shorkian’s denials are not only contradicted
by the evidence previously submitted by Mr. Evans, but also by common sense.  The Court has sanctioned Cross-Defendants
over $20,000, yet they would have the Court believe that they never addressed
the reason behind those sanctions with their attorney(s). Moreover, the
opposition does not attempt to address many of Cross-Complainants’ contentions.
Cross-Defendants do not clarify the most important part of this motion: have they
produced all responsive documents? Cross-Defendants flatly fail to explain the
missing years’ worth of emails from Shokrian and Konuk’s mailboxes. (Knox
Decl., Ex. Y.) They do not explain why these emails are missing; they
simply conclude that Konuk’s pre-December 30, 2020, emails aren’t there.
(Martinez Decl., ¶ 20.) 
 
Lesser sanctions have not apparently
curbed Plaintiff/Cross-Defendants’ discovery abuse. The record shows that over $20,000
in sanctions did not deter them from further discovery misconduct. Thus, non-monetary
sanctions are warranted. 
 
Terminating Sanctions
 
To avoid terminating sanctions,
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant should be prepared to explain:
 
1) Why Cross-Defendants no longer
have access to Shokrian’s pre-February 2019 emails?;
 
2) Why Cross-Defendants no longer
have access to Konuk’s pre-December 2020 emails?;
 
3) Why Cross-Defendants were under
the impression that they only had to produce emails from custodians other than
the Derek Boisse .PST files and those from the leasing@calitexllc.com address?;
and
 
4) Why did Cross-Defendants produce
their entire email boxes without any apparent attempt to cull unresponsive
documents?
 
If Cross-Defendants cannot provide
a satisfactory answer to these questions, then the Court is inclined to grant
terminating sanctions in light of manifest and willful discovery misconduct. Terminating
sanctions against Plaintiff’s operative complaint against Defendants is justified
because the discovery abuse prevented discovery on their mitigation of damages
defense. Terminating sanctions against Cross-Defendants’ answer (excluding
Sarra) to the Cross-Complaint is likewise justified because the discovery abuse
prevented direct discovery on Cross-Complainant’s claim of fraud. 
 
 
Other Sanctions
 
If Cross-Defendants show that the
above discovery abuses were not willful, but merely negligent, and
that document production is complete, then the Court would be inclined to award
monetary sanctions and consider further non-monetary sanctions and/or relief.
For example, if the case is to continue, then the Court must mitigate the prejudice
caused by the delays by continuing trial and re-opening discovery to allow for
completion of depositions. The Court will confer with counsel on estimations
for completion of discovery.
 
In any event, the Court is inclined
to issue monetary sanctions in the noticed amount of $50,235.00 against
Cross-Defendants Elias Shokrian, Rosamond Ranch, LP, and Calitex, LLC, with 50%
of the sanction ($25,117.50) to be jointly and severally payable against
counsel of record, Charles Gomez of Gomez Law APC. 
 
The Court currently is not inclined
to impose issue or evidentiary sanctions, as no such sanction was noticed, and
no separate statement was provided. (CRC Rule 3.1345(a)(7).) However, depending
on what occurs at the hearing, the Court may set an OSC re: imposition of
non-monetary sanctions and request supplemental briefing on a specific issue or
evidentiary sanction. Such sanctions may include:
 
1. Plaintiff can make no showing
regarding damages sustained as a result of the alleged breach of contract;
2. Plaintiff failed to take
reasonable steps to mitigate its damages, if any, from the alleged breach of
contract; 
3. Plaintiff breached the Lease
with SLCH by unreasonably failing to agree to a replacement sublessee for
Promontory; 
4. Cross-Defendants were aware of
the subleases between SLCH, on the one hand, and Promontory, WKM, and MM on the
other hand; 
5. Cross-Defendants took actions
intended to, and which did, interfere with those subleases; 
6. Cross-Defendants represented to
Cross-Complainants that if Promontory ceased payment on its sublease with OKV
for the shared 3051 Property, then Rosamond would enter into a new direct lease
at the same rate and for the same terms as the sublease (the “Misrepresentation”);

7. At the time they made the
Misrepresentation, they knew it to be false, and intended Defendants and
Cross-Complaints to rely on the same; and
8. Cross-Complaints reasonably
relied on the Misrepresentations.
 