  Case Number:  23CHCV02661    Hearing Date:   May 1, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43
Date: 5-1-24
Case #23CHCV02661 , Shawn Thursby-Palmer, et al. vs RAF
Development, et al.
Trial Date: N/A
 
PETITION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendants
RAF Development, LLC, Horizon Underpinning LLC, and Glenn E. Farmer
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiffs Shawn Thursby-Palmer and Benjamin Thursby
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Defendants are requesting
that the Court compel the case to arbitration and stay the action.
 
RULING: Petition
to compel arbitration is granted and the action stayed.
 
SUMMARY OF
ACTION
On January 30,
2018, Defendant RAF Development LLC (RAF), the Seller of the property at issue
in this case, entered into a Residential Purchase Agreement with Plaintiffs Shawn
Thursby-Palmer and Benjamin Thursday (Plaintiffs). Around the time of the sale
of the property, RAF, Defendant Horizon Underpinning (Horizon), and Glenn E.
Farmer (Farmer) had just completed extensive renovations to the property.
Horizon was the developer of the property, and Farmer was the managing member
of both RAF and Horizon. Plaintiffs have alleged in their complaint that RAF
and Horizon are a joint enterprise that share common ownership and a unity of
interest and that they shared a single enterprise for the purpose of renovating
and selling the property to Plaintiffs. Plaintiffs have also alleged that they
are alter egos of one another.
 
Plaintiffs
allege in their complaint that Defendants made misrepresentations to them
regarding the condition of the property in Defendants’ mandatory disclosures. One
of the main representations made by RAF and Farmer was the condition of the
septic system. Another defendant, Bohmer Plumbing, provided a Septic System
Certification for the property in September 2017 that represented that the
septic system met all requirements for certification. Plaintiffs allege that
had Bohmer done a thorough inspection, they would have found that the septic
system was at the end of its useful life. RAF has represented to Plaintiffs
that the septic system was new.
 
The septic
system had issues after Plaintiffs took possession of the property, but Bohmer
was unable to discern why the septic system required frequent service. In
September 2022, the septic system backed up, depositing sewage through the
interior of the property and causing damage. After the failure of the system,
Plaintiffs discovered that it was not new and was at the end of its useful
life. 
 
After the
failure of the septic system, Plaintiffs allege that they discovered several
other defects with the property. In February 2023, there was a small mudslide on
the property. Plaintiffs allege that Defendants never disclosed that the
property had a history of landslides. Throughout 2023, Plaintiffs discovered
several other issues with the property, including the partial failure of a
segmental wall on the property.
 
Plaintiffs allege
that Defendants knowingly concealed these defects from them. In August 2023,
Plaintiffs were cited by the City of Santa Clarita for “unpermitted stacked
block wall failure.” Plaintiffs allege that because of Defendants’ failure to
disclose the defects and the resulting mitigation measures that they have had
to employ, they have been damaged in excess of $1,000,000. 
 
Against RAF,
Horizon, and Farmer, Plaintiffs have alleged causes of action for breach of
residential purchase agreement, negligence, intentional misrepresentation, fraudulent
concealment, and negligent misrepresentation. Against Bohmer Plumbing and Kurt
Bohmer, Plaintiffs have alleged a cause of action for negligence.
 
The
arbitrations provision in the Residential Purchase Agreement reads as follows:
            “B. ARBITRATION OF DISPUTES
The Parties agree that any dispute or claim in Law or equity arising between them
out of this Agreement or any resulting transaction, which is not settled
through mediation, shall be decided by neutral, binding arbitration. The
Parties also agreed to arbitrate any disputes or claims with Broker(s), who, in
writing, agree to such arbitration prior to, or within a reasonable time after,
the dispute or claim is presented to the Broker. The arbitrator shall be a
retired judge or justice…”
(Comp., Ex. A., Section 22(B).)
The provision
goes on to set out the rules for arbitration and includes an explanation for
the signees on what signing the provision meant.
 
Defendants
argue in their petition that this provision is valid and enforceable and is
conscionable. They request that the action be stayed pending arbitration.
Plaintiffs oppose Defendants’ petition.
 
ANALYSIS
California law
incorporates many of the basic policy objectives contained in the Federal
Arbitration Act, including a presumption in favor of arbitrability. (Engalla
v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 971-972.) The
petitioner bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration
agreement by the preponderance of the evidence, the party opposing the petition
then bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence any fact
necessary to demonstrate that there should be no enforcement of the agreement,
and the trial court sits as a trier of fact to reach a final determination on
the issue. (Rosenthal v. Great Western Financial Securities Corp. (1996)
14 Cal.4th 394, 413.) The Court is empowered by CCP § 1281.2 to compel parties
to arbitrate disputes pursuant to an agreement to do so.   
 
CCP § 1281.2
states that: 
“The court shall order the petitioner and
the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement
to arbitrate the controversy exists, unless it determines that: 
(a)
The right to compel arbitration has been waived by the petitioner;
or  
(b)
Grounds exist for the revocation of the agreement.  
(c) A party to the arbitration agreement
is also a party to a pending court action or special proceeding with a third
party, arising out of the same transaction or series of related transactions
and there is a possibility of conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or
fact. For purposes of this section, a pending court action or special
proceeding includes an action or proceeding initiated by the party refusing to
arbitrate after the petition to compel arbitration has been filed, but on or
before the date of the hearing on the petition. This subdivision shall not be
applicable to an agreement to arbitrate disputes as to the professional
negligence of a health care provider made pursuant to Section 1295.” (CCP §
1281.2.)
 
Plaintiffs do
not dispute the existence of the arbitration agreement or its conscionability.
Instead, Plaintiffs’ opposition is based on two arguments (1) that Horizon
Underpinning LLC and Glenn E. Farmer are not parties to the arbitration
agreement; and (2) that compelling the claims against Defendants to arbitration
would open up the possibility of inconsistent rulings because there are other
defendants and third parties who have not moved for arbitration.
 
Parties to
the Agreement
The Residential
Purchase Agreement containing the arbitration provision was signed by
Plaintiffs and RAF. Horizon and Farmer did not sign the agreement. Plaintiffs
argue in their opposition that this means that Horizon and Farmer cannot seek
to enforce the arbitration agreement. However, Plaintiffs’ complaint alleges
that RAF, Horizon, and Farmer all breached the Residential Purchase Agreement. Plaintiffs’
opposition contradicts their complaint.
 
Beyond alleging
that all three breached the Residential Purchase Agreement, Plaintiffs’
complaint also alleges that the three defendants are in a joint venture with
one another and are alter egos. Plaintiffs argue in their opposition that
Horizon and Farmer cannot rely on the alter ego allegations in the complaint if
they subsequently intend to insist that Horizon and RAF are separate entities.
Even though a party is nonsignatory to the arbitration agreement, that party
can enforce the arbitration agreement because of the plaintiff’s allegations
that the party is an alter ego of the signing party. (Rowe v. Exline
(2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1276, 1284-1285.)
 
Defendants
argue in their reply that all of the claims against the three defendants arise out
of the Residential Purchase Agreement. The First Cause of Action for Breach of
the Residential Purchase Agreement clearly arises from the Agreement. The
Second Cause of Action for Negligence is based on the duties that Defendants
owed to Plaintiffs as seller and developer. The Fourth through Sixth Causes of
Action are related to misrepresentations made by Defendants as part of the
Residential Purchase Agreement. All of these causes of action would be
arbitrable because the arbitration provision states that “any dispute or claim
in Law or equity arising between them out of this Agreement or any resulting
transaction.” (Comp., Ex. A, Section 22(B).) These causes of action all arise
out of the Residential Purchase Agreement.
 
Based on the
fact that Plaintiffs have alleged that Horizon and Farmer breached the
Residential Purchase Agreement, all of the causes of action against them arise
from the Agreement, and Plaintiffs has alleged that they are alter egos of RAF,
then all three parties may move for arbitration based on the provision in the
Residential Purchase Agreement.
 
­Other
Defendants
Plaintiffs also
argue in opposition that arbitration cannot be compelled because of the
non-signatory exception to the arbitration statute.
 
“In California,
[Civil Code] Section 1281.2(c) allows a court to refuse to enforce an agreement
to arbitrate, if the court determines that, “[a] party to the arbitration
agreement is also a party to a pending court action or special proceeding with
a third party, arising out of the same transaction or series of related
transactions and there is a possibility of conflicting rulings on a common
issue of law or fact.” (See Los Angeles Unified School Dist. v. Safety
National Casualty Corp. (2017) 13 Cal.App.5th 471, 478-479.) A trial court
“may deny a party’s contractual right to arbitration only when all of section
1281.2(c)’s conditions are satisfied.” (Acquire II, Ltd. v. Colton Real
Estate Group (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 959, 980.) “[T]he allegations of the
parties’ pleadings may constitute substantial evidence sufficient to support a
trial court’s finding that section 1281.2(c) applies. A party relying on
section 1281.2(c) to oppose a motion to compel arbitration does not bear an
evidentiary burden to establish a likelihood of success or make any other
showing regarding the viability of the claims and issues that create the
possibility of conflicting rulings. An evidentiary burden is unworkable under
section 1281.2(c) because the question presented is whether a ‘possibility’ of
conflicting rulings exists and a motion to compel arbitration is typically
brought before the parties have conducted discovery.” (Id. at 972 (citations
omitted).)
 
Plaintiffs
argue that Defendants Bohmer and Bohmer Plumbing are third parties for purposes
of Civ. Code § 1281.2(c). Plaintiffs further argue that the allegations against
the Bohmer Defendants arise out of the same transaction or series of transactions
as those against RAF, Horizon, and Farmer.
 
The negligence
cause of action against the Bohmer Defendants is entirely related to the septic
system: their certification of the septic system, their failure to find the
problems with the septic system, and their failure to realize that the septic
system needed replacing. (Comp., ¶¶ 66-69.) Plaintiffs are alleging that the
Bohmer Defendants were negligent in their certification of the septic system.
Plaintiffs allege that the Bohmer Defendants should have known, if they had
conducted a diligent investigation, that the septic system was at the end of
its useful life. (Comp., ¶ 24.)
 
The negligence
cause of action against RAF, Horizon, and Farmer alleges that they were
negligent for reasons related to all of the construction defects at the
property, as well as the septic system defects. Plaintiffs’ complaint alleges
that it was “reasonably foreseeable the Plaintiffs…would reply upon the septic
system certification to their detriment.” (Comp., ¶ 51.) Plaintiffs are also
alleging that RAF, Horizon, and Farmer represented that the septic system was
new (Comp., ¶ 27), when it was actually over 20 years old (Comp., ¶ 22). Plaintiffs
are primarily alleging that these Defendants made misrepresentations concerning
the septic system, not that they were negligent.
 
The only cause
of action against the Bohmer Defendants is the negligence cause of action. It
has very little, if any, overlap with the negligence cause of action against
RAF, Horizon, and Farmer. The two negligence causes of action are even listed
in Plaintiffs’ complaint as two separate causes of action because Plaintiffs
have alleged different facts for the two causes of action and because the
causes of action are based on different theories of negligence. Plaintiffs have
alleged that RAF, Horizon, and Farmer, were negligent at the seller and
developer of the property. Plaintiffs have alleged that the Bohmer Defendants were
negligent in their certification of the septic system and subsequent attempts
to repair the system. Because the two negligence causes of action are so
different, there is little chance of inconsistent rulings between the two.
 
Plaintiffs have
also argued that Civ. Code § 1281.2(c) would apply because Plaintiffs’ neighbors
have filed a suit against Plaintiffs related to the hillside failure. Plaintiffs
argue that this separate action creates a possibility of inconsistent rulings.
Defendants do not address this argument in their reply.
 
Based on the pleadings
attached as Exhibits 5 and 6 to Plaintiffs’ opposition, the Court does not find
that there would be significant overlap between that case and this case. The
defendants in this case are not parties to that case. That case is between
Plaintiffs and their neighbors. There appears to be little risk of inconsistent
rulings at this time.
 
CONCLUSION
Based on the
foregoing, Plaintiffs’ claims against RAF, Horizon, and Farmer are compelled to
arbitration. The petition to compel arbitration is granted, and the action is
stayed pending arbitration.
 
Moving party to
give notice.