 Case Number:  23SMCV04489    Hearing Date:   May 3, 2024    Dept:  I Before the court today are five motions to compel further
responses.  The motions are GRANTED as
requested except that fees for the hearing will only be awarded once and there
will also be a reduction because the moving party was able to file an omnibus
reply.  The court’s award will be
$28,292.50 for all motions combined. 
 
Plaintiffs filed their complaint against their carrier
alleging that the carrier breached the insurance policy.  Defendant sent out written discovery,
including two sets of form interrogatories. 
Plaintiffs responded, but defendant did not believe that the responses
were compliant.  Defense counsel sent a
meet and confer effort, to which the response was “File your motions.”  Plaintiffs attempted to set an IDC, but the
court took it off calendar because defendant had not agreed to it.  Parenthetically, the court will never conduct
an IDC with a record like this.  The
court’s view is that an IDC is what happens after the parties have met
and conferred to narrow their differences as much as possible but believe that
a conference with the court may enable them to narrow it even more or avoid the
need for motion practice entirely.  It is
not a substitute for a meet and confer, as plaintiffs seem to think.  Given the state of the meet and confer, the
court reads plaintiffs as taking the position that their responses are
appropriate and standing on them.  The
“all-or-nothing” approach is a risky one, but it is not per se improper.
 
Initially, plaintiffs contend that the motion should be
rejected for inadequate meet and confer. 
The meet and confer was inadequate, but as discussed above the fault
lies with plaintiffs, not the defense. 
Plaintiffs told defendant to file the motions because plaintiffs had no
interest in meeting and conferring. 
Defendant, given that response, need do no more.
 
Plaintiffs also contend that the separate statements are
inadequate because there is no summary of the documents plaintiffs
produced.  To put a bit more flesh on the
bones, plaintiffs responded to much of the discovery by saying that the answers
could be found in the document production. 
Because, plaintiffs argue, there is no summary of that production, the
court cannot know whether or not the responses were accurate.  Plaintiffs are wrong.  There is nothing in the Code that requires a
summary of documents produced.  Of
course, Rule 3.1345(c)(6) does require a summary of an item relevant to the
motion.  But that is not this case.  The motion is a motion to compel further
responses, at least in large part.  The
court needs no document summary for that; the court can rule on the motion by
looking at the discovery and the response. 
There might be a few exceptions, but the failure to summarize does not
render the entire motion (or motions) improper.
 
Turning, then, to the motions themselves, the court will
begin with the special interrogatories. 
As to SI nos. 1-28 and 30-35, plaintiffs objected, but they never
attempted to justify the objection, as is required.  (Kirkland v. Superior Court (2002) 95
Cal.App.4th 92.)  The justification ought
to be in the response itself, but it is not made even in the opposing
papers.  The closest plaintiffs come is
to say that their responses are adequate because they produced documents and
the information is contained therein.  If
so, then well and good, but the statement does not justify an objection.  The objections, then, are OVERRULED.  Some responses were objection only responses,
specifically SI Nos. 22-26 and 30. 
Because there were only unsupported objections, the motion is GRANTED as
to those responses.  The remaining responses
are all made “without waiving” the objections, followed by a statement that
responsive documents will be provided. 
By saying “without waiving,” the response becomes evasive.  Defendant cannot tell if any information is
being withheld on the basis of any of the objections.  Accordingly, a further response is
required.  Further, it is not an
acceptable answer to an interrogatory to say that responsive documents
“will be” provided.  The interrogatory
response can advert to documents rather than provide a narrative answer in
certain cases, but the specific documents must be identified in the answer.  Thus, the motion as to the special
interrogatories is GRANTED IN FULL. 
Plaintiffs will provide verified, code-compliant responses without
objection other than privilege within 30 days.
 
Next the court deals with the requests for production.  RFP Nos. 19, 25-29, and 40-42 were responded
to by objection only.  In opposition,
plaintiffs state that these RFP’s are improper (except for RFP 42).  The court agrees that the requests are
overbroad to the extent that they seek medical records related to body parts
for which plaintiffs here claim no injury. 
If the lawsuit here deals with an arm, plaintiffs need not produce
medical records as to the foot.  Because
in motions to compel responses to of a request for production the initial
burden is on the propounding party to justify the request, to the extent that
the request seeks medical records unrelated to the body part here at issue, the
objection is SUSTAINED.  In all other
respects, these RFP’s are proper and the objections are without merit and are
OVERRULED.  Therefore, the motion is
GRANTED IN PART AND DENIED IN PART as to these RFP’s.  However, production will be contingent on the
parties’ agreement to a protective order, such as the LA Superior Court’s
template order.  Updated verified
responses, without objection (other than as set forth in this paragraph or
attorney-client privilege or attorney work product), will be provided within 15
days and the documents will be provided within 45 days.  To the extent a privilege is asserted, a
privilege log will be provided at the same time as the documents.  The log will be sufficient to establish a prima
facie case of privilege.
 
RFP 19 seeks the retainer agreement.  Plaintiffs object saying that the retainer
agreement is privileged.  Normally, a
retainer agreement is protected.  But
here, one thing that plaintiffs seek are Brandt fees.  Because of that, defendant is entitled to at
least the fee part of the retainer agreement. 
All other aspects of it would seem to be beyond what can be demanded and
may be redacted.  Thus, the motion is
GRANTED IN PART as to this RFP as well. 
The time-line and specifics will be the same as above.
 
RFP Nos. 25-28 seek emails plaintiffs sent or received from
a certain account between January and February 2023.  This is plainly pertinent to the extent that
plaintiffs assert that they were never told that their policy had been
cancelled or that it was in danger of being cancelled or that they owed any
money.  That said, plaintiffs need not
produce all of the emails sent or received during this period even as it
relates solely to third parties.  This
should have been dealt with had there been a reasonable meet and confer but to
the extent it seeks communications not involving defendant, it is
overbroad.  That said, plaintiffs take
the position that the email in question was no longer being used at the
relevant time.  Defendant seeks to test
that by seeking all of the emails. 
Defendant has established a need to know if the email address was active
or dormant, but not the details of any communications.   Thus, plaintiffs should also produce the
list of emails sent or received but may redact the party to whom the email was
sent or by whom it was sent (if not the defendant) so that it will be a log of
the emails setting forth the dates and times but not the identities.  That, too, could easily have been dealt with
during a meet and confer.  The motion is
thus GRANTED IN PART.  Plaintiffs will
serve updated responses and produce all such communications between either of
them, on the one hand, and defendants or anyone related to defendants (like an
agent) on the other hand.  The time-line
will be the same as above.
 
As to the remaining RFP’s, plaintiffs state that they will
produce documents subject to their objections. 
However, except as set forth above, the court does not believe that most
of the objections have merit (and the court does believe that the RFP’s are
justified except as discussed above). 
Therefore, plaintiffs will file further verified responses without
objection other than privilege along the same time-line as above.  Thus, the motion is GRANTED as to those
RFPs.  
 
As to the RFA’s, the motion is GRANTED.  Plaintiffs objected because the number
exceeds 35.  The Code allows 35 RFA’s as
of right (plus authentication RFAs), but allows more if a specific declaration
is filed, as it was here.  While this
court has, from time to time, required more of a propounding party, that has
occurred only where the number appears abusive on its face or a showing of abuse
has been at least suggested in a way supported by evidence or reasonable
inference.  So, for example, had
defendant propounded 350 RFAs, the court would have more sympathy for the
notion that one cannot exceed the statutory number by a factor of 10 by serving
a generic declaration.  Even then, the
better practice would be to file a motion for a protective order.  However, here, the number is far from
abusive.  Further, the “undue burden”
objection must be accompanied by evidence demonstrating and quantifying the
burden.  (West Pico Furniture Co. v.
Superior Court (1961) 56 Cal.2d 407.) 
No such evidence is submitted here. 
The motion is GRANTED.  Plaintiffs
will serve verified responses without objection within 30 days.
 
Finally, there are the form interrogatories.  Sets 1 and 2 differ based on the definition
of “INCIDENT.”  The first set defines the
term as the handling of plaintiff’s claim and the second defines it as the
September 9, 2023 accident.  Plaintiffs
object but say that responsive documents are attached.  That is not sufficient and the motion is
GRANTED.  Plaintiffs will file verified
responses without objection other than privilege within 30 days.  If plaintiffs want to respond by adverting to
documents (and assuming that the Code so permits), they may do so by adverting
to specific documents and identifying them. 
The documents will be produced with the supplemental responses.
 
Defendants seek a whopping $32,902.50 in sanctions for the
five motions combined.  That is a pretty
big number, but the Edson declaration establishes why the amount sought is
reasonable.  As set forth above, there
are some savings because defendant filed an omnibus reply and there is only one
hearing.  But beyond that, the motion is
GRANTED.  Sanctions are imposed against
plaintiffs, but not counsel, in the amount of $28,292.50 for all five motions
combined.  They are payable within 30
days.
 
For the parties’ future benefit, the court attaches its
guidelines on discovery responses and meet and confers.
 
DISCOVERY RELATED GUIDELINES FOR DEPARTMENT I
The guidelines below are not “rules” and they are not
universally applicable in all cases. 
Rather, they are guidelines as to the court’s general views.  Each case, of course, will be decided on its
own facts and circumstances, and some of the guidelines below may not apply to
particular circumstances.  That said, the
court does take these views seriously.
Discovery Responses
The Court provides the following guidance concerning its
general views on some common issues regarding responses to written
objections.  The Court has noticed that
many attorneys view objections and the manner of making them in a way different
than does the Court.  To avoid these
common pitfalls, the Court offers the following in addition to the provisions
of the Litigation Guidelines appended to the Los Angeles County Superior Court
Local Rules.
First, “General Objections” are not permitted.  The Code of Civil Procedure does not provide
for them, and therefore they are disregarded by the Court.  Any response that “incorporates” the “General
Objections” is improper by definition.  
Second, the Court often views boilerplate objections
as being in bad faith.  A bad faith
response is no response at all in the Court’s view.  Therefore, making boilerplate objections does
not preserve those objections nor does it constitute a good faith response to
written discovery.  A bad faith response
is viewed by the Court for what it is: bad faith.  The objections will be stricken and deemed
waived.  In the context of a Request for
Admission, such objections may lead to a finding that the request is deemed
admitted, although that will depend on the facts of the particular case and the
specific discovery at hand.
Objections should be tailored to each specific request.  If a request truly is overbroad, then an
objection to that effect is proper.  But
such an objection is best accompanied by some reasonable limitation by the
responding party that will narrow the request appropriately and (as narrowed)
provide a substantive response rather than a mere statement that the request is
overbroad.  The same is true as to an
objection that a request is unduly burdensome. 
The Court also notes that the party asserting that a request is unduly
burdensome has the obligation at some point to provide an evidentiary basis for
the objection, including evidence as to what the burden of compliance would
be.  (West Pico Furniture Co. v.
Superior Court (1961) 56 Cal.2d 407.) 
Often such an objection will include a statement by the responding party
as to a narrower request that would not be unduly burdensome and provide
substantive responses as so limited. 
Objections that a request is “vague and ambiguous” must set forth the
vague and ambiguous term as well as the responding party’s reasonable
interpretation of that term as well as a statement that, so interpreted, the
response will provide the discovery requested. 
If there is no reasonable interpretation possible (which is a rare
situation), then the responding party must so state.  Objections as to privilege must set forth the
basis explaining why the information sought is in fact privileged.  Where a privilege is asserted in the context
of a document request, a privilege log must accompany the answer or be provided
within a short and reasonable time after the answer.  Where the objection is made in the context of
an interrogatory, it must be clear from the objection the scope of the
information being withheld.  If there is
no log, there should be no privilege objection to a document request (meaning
that a prophylactic privilege objection is the equivalent of no objection; it
preserves nothing).  There are some rare
exceptions, such as where the entire point of the discovery is to get allegedly
privileged information or where compliance would require a log that is in
essence an index of counsel’s file.  In
that situation, the log is unnecessary, but the assertion should be made that
the request is in that rare context.
Third, if an objection is made to the discovery but a
response is being given, it must be clear whether information or documents are
in fact being withheld on the basis of the objections.  If the objections are clear and done in the
manner set forth above, with statements in the objection as to a narrowing that
will make the request proper, this is usually a simple task.  The objections themselves state the limit and
the response will be full and complete as limited.  But where the objections are not so clear,
the response must clearly state whether any information or document is being
withheld on the basis of the objection and, if so, the extent of the
withholding.  Accordingly, in those
situations, phrases like “Notwithstanding and subject to the foregoing
objections, responding party states as follows” are improper.  Those sorts of phrases make the verification
useless, as the verifier can always fall back on the ”objections” as the reason
why a document was not produced or information was not disclosed.  On the other hand, where the line of
demarcation is clear, the verification will still serve its purpose.
Fourth, for document requests, the substantive
response must conform to the Code.  There
are relatively tight rules as to what the response must say, and the response
must say it.  For example, where a
responding party is not producing documents because they are not in the party’s
possession, custody, or control, the responding party must verify that a
diligent search has been made and must further provide the information set
forth in the Code of Civil Procedure in such cases.  In the case of interrogatories, the responses
must also conform to the Code of Civil Procedure and must be made after
diligent inquiry.  It is not proper to
refuse to respond because the responding party has no personal knowledge.  If the knowledge is hearsay, it must still be
disclosed, although it can be qualified to make it clear that it is not based
on the verifier’s personal knowledge.
Fifth, the Court frowns on responses that do not
conform to the foregoing rules being served with the view that the responses
will moot themselves out in the meet and confer process.  That is not how the process works.  A good faith response is required before the
meet and confer process begins.  The meet
and confer process will (hopefully) bridge the gaps between the parties’
respective positions.  Further, where a
response to a request for documents is made and documents are to be produced
subject to certain objections (with the documents withheld properly
delineated), the documents should be turned over irrespective of the meet and
confer.  The documents are to be produced
with alacrity to the extent that there is no objection to them.
What this means is that the response to a discovery request
is not a trivial undertaking.  Nabbing
the response from the form file is a generally bad idea and can lead to all
objections being waived.  The point is
that the boilerplate often renders the remainder of the response useless.  The only exception is where it is clear that
the substantive response is not in any way limited by the objections.  In that case, the objections do no harm,
although they also do no good.
Meet and Confer
The Code of Civil
Procedure requires that before a motion to compel further responses or a motion
for a protective order is filed, the parties engage in a good faith attempt to
resolve their differences.  They are to
“meet and confer” for that purpose.  Only
if that effort fails can a motion be brought. 

Sadly, many
litigants view the meet and confer process as just another procedural hoop
through which they must jump in order to bring the motion, similar to the need
to include an actual demurrer with the demurrer papers.  The Code requires it, so they do it, but no
one’s heart is really in it.  That is not
sufficient.
Given that, the
Court believes it appropriate to set forth how the Court views the meet and
confer requirement.  Failure to abide by
the guidelines below may well justify denial of the motion or a continuance of
it to allow the process to take place. 
If one party but not the other refuses to participate as set forth, more
likely than not the party refusing to participate will find itself on the
losing end of the motion.  The following
quotation fairly sums up the Court’s own view.
“[W]e feel compelled
to observe that resort to the courts easily could have been avoided here
had both parties actually taken to heart Justice Stone's
admonitions in Townsend that ‘the statute requires that there
be a serious effort at negotiation and informal resolution.’ (Townsend,
supra, 61 Cal.App.4th at p. 1438.) Perhaps after 11 years it is
necessary to remind trial counsel and the bar once again that ‘[a]rgument is not the
same as informal negotiation’ (id at p. 1437); that attempting
informal resolution means more than the mere attempt by the discovery proponent
‘to persuade the objector of the error of his ways’ (id. at p.
1435); and that ‘a reasonable and good faith attempt at informal resolution
entails something more than bickering with [opposing] counsel....  Rather, the law requires that counsel attempt
to talk the matter over, compare their views, consult, and deliberate.’ (Id. at
p. 1439.)” (Clement v. Alegre (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th
1277, 1294, emphasis in original, parallel citations omitted.) 
In practical terms, it means as
follows.  It is entirely appropriate to
begin the process with a letter or other correspondence.  The letter should not include a demand in the
form of an ultimatum, but it can certainly include the relief that is being
sought with an invitation to meet and confer. 
It is also entirely appropriate for the other party to respond with a
letter or other correspondence to set forth its position on the issues.  Such an initial exchange can often be helpful
to narrow the dispute.  Whether further
exchanges make sense will depend on each case and each dispute.
However, at some point, before impasse is
reached the process must include an actual “meet.”  The letters might well suffice to “confer,”
but an exchange of correspondence is not a meeting.  In the COVID-19 era, the “meeting” can be
virtual or telephonic, but a meeting there must be.  The meeting must be attended by a person from
each side with the authority to agree to the other side’s position without
getting further permission from anyone, including the client.  If only the client can give the needed authority,
then the client must be available instantaneously at all times during the
meeting.  This does not mean that one
side or the other must concede, but it does mean that the people meeting have
the ability in real and practical terms to strike a deal then and there.
The parties should approach the meet and
confer process as a problem-solving exercise. 
The purpose of the meet and confer is not to convince the other side of
the bankruptcy of its position; rather the purpose is to reach an agreement by
which the party seeking discovery is able to obtain the information that it
reasonably needs and the party providing discovery is not put to an undue
burden or forced to provide unnecessary information that might infringe on a
privacy interest or disclose a competitive trade secret or the like.
At the conclusion of the meet and confer,
the parties should have an agreed statement as to the outcome.  If the outcome is a total impasse, then they
should agree on that.  If they have
resolved some or all of their differences, then they should state—in
writing—what that agreement is so that there will be no confusion later.  Often, an agreement will be without prejudice
to a further request by the propounding party for more information after that
party receives the responses.
If a motion is still required, the
declaration in support should describe with some detail the meet and confer
process.  While the Court is not
interested in the back and forth, the Court is interested in when the meeting
took place, who was there, and how long it lasted.
All communications—in writing or oral—must
be civil, polite, and professional. 
Name-calling and accusations are devices that undermine the process;
they do not further it.  A party engaging
in such activity generally is not acting in a good faith effort to reach an
agreement.