  Case Number:  21SMCV01921    Hearing Date:   May 3, 2024    Dept:  I The court will discuss this with counsel.  The court better understands about the
mediation, but the court had issued a mediation order and one would have
thought that it would have been followed. 
The court is also unsure why there remains discovery to be done.  The FSC order was given long ago.  The parties knew when the trial was to take
place.  The fact that they decided not to
complete discovery is not really good cause to continue the trial or the cut
off dates.
 
Eisner’s counsel states that her husband has a very
important business event taking place shortly after the trial is set to begin
(it starts the next day) and that she really ought not miss it.  The court notes that this was adverted to in
the prior attempt to continue the trial, meaning that this is not an
after-thought, although it was not the principal reason given.  The event will last until a few days after
the trial is set to start.  The court
understands the issue and will discuss it.
 
What the court cannot fathom is why the parties are seeking
an 10 month continuance to April 2025. 
The court’s calendar is congested, so that might be somewhat
academic.  But it is an awfully long time
given that the conflicting event will end a week after the trial is supposed to
begin.  The court also understands that
defendant is getting married and will go on a honeymoon, and the court would
not want to disrupt those plans.  (The
court has at least that much of a heart.) 
But even that does not explain the need for a 10 month continuance.  The court does not know plaintiff’s position
on the continuance or the duration.
 
The court is quite troubled by what appears to be at least
in large part a problem of not completing discovery on time.  The court will discuss the matter with
counsel.  The court notes that its trial
calendar is congested, so it could be that the court would be more receptive to
the motion than it otherwise would have been.