  Case Number:  23STCV13260    Hearing Date:   July 11, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     July 11, 2024                          TRIAL DATE: NOT SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Le Cui v. HicksLander LLC, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV13260            
 
MOTION
TO TRANSFER VENUE

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant Michael Perry.
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Lei Cui
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
06/09/23: Complaint filed. 
·        
05/06/24: First Amended Complaint filed. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for breach of contract concerning Defendants’ failure
to repay and guarantee a loan agreement codified in two promissory notes dated March
5, 2020 and June 7, 2020. 
 
Defendant Michael Perry moves to
transfer this action to the Superior Court of California, County of San
Bernardino. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
            Defendant
Michael Perry’s Motion to Transfer Venue to the Superior Court of California,
County of San Bernardino is GRANTED. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Defendant Michael Perry moves to transfer
this action to the Superior Court of California, County of San Bernardino on
the basis that venue is not proper in the County of Los Angeles. 
 
//
 
Legal Standard for Mandatory Transfer of Venue
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 396b(a) provides: 
 
(a)¿Except as otherwise provided in
Section 396a, if an action or proceeding is commenced in a court having
jurisdiction of the subject matter thereof, other than the court
designated as the proper court for the trial thereof, under this title,
the action may, notwithstanding, be tried in the court where commenced, unless
the defendant, at the time he or she answers, demurs, or moves to strike, or,
at his or her option, without answering, demurring, or moving to strike and
within the time otherwise allowed to respond to the complaint, files with the
clerk, a notice of motion for an order transferring the action or proceeding to
the proper court, together with proof of service, upon the adverse party, of a
copy of those papers. Upon the hearing of the motion the court shall, if
it appears that the action or proceeding was not commenced in the proper court,
order the action or proceeding transferred to the proper court. 
 
(Code
Civ. Proc. § 396b(a), bold emphasis and underlining added.)  Thus, transfer
is mandatory under section 396b(a) if the action was not filed in the proper
court. On determining the proper court in which to file an action, Code of
Civil Procedure section 395(a) provides: 
 
(a)¿Except as otherwise provided by law
and subject to the power of the court to transfer actions or proceedings as
provided in this title, the superior court in the county where the
defendants or some of them reside at the commencement of the action is the
proper court for the trial of the action. If the action is for injury to person
or personal property or for death from wrongful act or negligence, the superior
court in either the county where the injury occurs or the injury causing
death occurs or the county where the defendants, or some of them reside at the
commencement of the action, is a proper court for the trial of the action. . .
. Subject to subdivision (b), if a defendant has contracted to perform an
obligation in a particular county, the superior court in the county where the
obligation is to be performed, where the contract in fact was entered into, or
where the defendant or any defendant resides at the commencement of the action
is a proper court for the trial of an action founded on that obligation, and
the county where the obligation is incurred is the county where it is to be
performed, unless there is a special contract in writing to the contrary. . .
. 
 
(Code
Civ. Proc. § 395(a) (bold emphasis added).) An action against a corporate
defendant may be brought where its principal place of business is located.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 395.5.) The burden is on the moving party to establish that
the plaintiff’s venue selection is not proper under any statutory grounds. (Fontaine
v. Superior Court. (Cashcall, Inc.) (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th, 830,
836.)
Whether
Venue is Proper in Los Angeles
 
            Defendant Perry contends that venue
is not proper in the County of Los Angeles. The First Amended Complaint alleges
that Defendants Perry and Mao are residents of San Bernardino County (FAC ¶¶
3-4), that Defendant Chao is a resident of Orange County (¶ 5), and that
Defendant HicksLanders, LLC has its principal place of business located in
Chino, CA, which is in San Bernardino County. (¶ 2.) The First Amended
Complaint alleges that venue is proper in the County of Los Angeles because the
contracts at issue in the pleadings were entered into and were to be performed
in Los Angeles. (FAC ¶ 10.) However, Defendant contends that the claims in the
First Amended Complaint are transitory, with particular reference to
Plaintiff’s second cause of action for fraud and third cause of action for
negligent misrepresentation. Defendant relies on Nelson v. Crocker National
Bank, a 1975 appellate opinion that addressed, inter alia, the nature
of an action to cancel a promissory note and deed of trust for fraud for
purposes of venue. Citing Code of Civil Procedure section 395, the Court of
Appeal reasoned that “an action to cancel or reform a promissory note secured
by a deed of trust is a transitory action and must follow the person of the defendant.”
(Nelson v. Crocker National Bank (1975) 51 Cal.App.3d 536, 541.) Thus,
Defendant argues that venue on the claims asserted in the second cause of
action for fraud, third cause of action for negligent misrepresentation, and
fifth cause of action for recission for fraudulent inducement must follow the
Defendants to San Bernardino County or to Orange County. 
 
            Plaintiff does not address this
argument in opposition, instead contending that the motion was not timely
brought because Defendant Perry failed to timely respond to the original
Complaint. Plaintiff’s sole authority for this proposition is Story v.
Christin, a 1934 appellate opinion relying on statutes which have since
been repealed and replaced. (See generally Story v. Christin (1934) 137
Cal.App. 484.) Moreover, even if that opinion remained good law, the Court of
Appeal expressly stated that the then-operative statute required a motion to
transfer to be brought at the time the defendant appears and answers or demurs.
(Story v. Christin, supra, 137 Cal.App. at 486.) As Defendant Perry was
defaulted on September 5, 2023, he did not appear as a matter of law before the
First Amended Complaint was filed on May 6, 2024. As this motion was filed and
served on June 3, 2024, less than 30 days later, the motion was made within the
time to respond to the amended complaint. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 471.5(a).) 
 
            Because Plaintiff does not contest
Defendant’s argument that Plaintiff’s claims sounding in fraud are transitory
and follow the person of the Defendants, the Court finds Defendant has
demonstrated that venue is not proper in Los Angeles as to those claims. Under
well-settled precedent, when a defendant is entitled to a change of venue as to
one cause of action, that Defendant is entitled to transfer of the entire
action. (Ah Fong v. Sternes (1889) 79 Cal. 30, 33; Jhirmack
Enterprises, Inc. v. Superior Court (1979) 96 Cal.App.3d 715, 720-21; Johnson
v. Superior Court (1965) 232 Cal.App.3d 212, 217.) 
 
            Defendant
Perry has demonstrated that Los Angeles County is not the proper venue for this
action as a matter of law, and that he is entitled to transfer of the entire
action. Because the First Amended Complaint establishes by its allegations that
venue is proper in either the County of Orange or the County of San Bernardino,
Defendant’s request to transfer the action to the County of San Bernardino must
be granted. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Defendant Michael Perry’s Motion to Transfer Venue to the Superior Court of
California, County of San Bernardino is GRANTED. 
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  July 11, 2024              ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 