 Case Number:  23STCV05437    Hearing Date:   October 12, 2023    Dept:  15 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE MOTION TO FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
(SAFEWAY)
            Defendant
Safeway Inc. filed a motion for summary judgment of Plaintiffs Sueko Brockett
and Steve Brockett’s claims that Sueko Brockett was exposed to asbestos in
products she purchased at Defendant’s stores. 
Plaintiffs dismissed the fraud and punitive damages claims, mooting the
motion for summary adjudication.
Plaintiffs’ objections to
Defendant’s reply separate statement are sustained.
A defendant seeking summary judgment
must “conclusively negate[] a necessary element of the plaintiff’s case, or . .
. demonstrate[] that under no hypothesis is there a material issue of fact that
requires the process of trial.”  (Guz
v. Bechtel Nat. Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 334.)  To show that a plaintiff cannot establish an
element of a cause of action, a defendant must make the initial showing “that
the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed
evidence.”  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield
Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 854.) 
“The defendant may, but need not, present evidence that conclusively
negates an element of the plaintiff’s cause of action.  The defendant may also present evidence that
the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence –
as through admissions by the plaintiff following extensive discovery to the
effect that he has discovered nothing.” 
(Id. at p. 855.)  A
plaintiff’s deposition testimony that the plaintiff has no knowledge of any
exposure to the defendant’s products may be sufficient to shift the burden to
the plaintiff to demonstrate the existence of triable issues of fact.  (McGonnell v. Kaiser Gypsum Co., Inc.
(2002) 98 Cal.App.4th 1098, 1103-1104.) 
The plaintiff’s deposition testimony that he did not recall ever working
with a product manufactured by the defendant may not be sufficient to shift the
burden if the plaintiff is able to prove his case by another means.  (Weber v. John Crane, Inc. (2006) 143
Cal.App.4th 1433, 1439.)  “‘If plaintiffs
respond to comprehensive interrogatories seeking all known facts with
boilerplate answers that restate their allegations, or simply provide laundry
lists of people and/or documents, the burden of production will almost
certainly be shifted to them once defendants move for summary judgment and
properly present plaintiff’s factually devoid discovery responses.’”  (Id. at p. 1440.) 
            Defendant
argues Plaintiffs do not have and cannot reasonably obtain evidence Sueko
Brockett was exposed to asbestos-containing products from Defendant because Plaintiffs
testified they cannot remember where they purchased the products.  (Motion at pp. 10, 20.)  Defendant cites Plaintiffs’ deposition
testimony in support of this argument, but Defendants did not file the transcripts.  Instead, they lodged their exhibits.  Lodged exhibits are not part of the court
record.  Fortunately, Plaintiffs filed
excerpts of the deposition transcripts.  Sueko
Brockett testified she purchased talcum powder and makeup products such as
Maybelline, Cover Girl, and L’Oreal from grocery stores, she could not recall
the specific grocery stores other than Walmart, she recalled there was a Safeway
in Lompoc but she was not 100 percent sure, and she knows she purchased L’Oreal
talcum powder products but she does not remember whether it was at Safeway.  (Sueko Brockett Depo. at pp. 630-633.)  Steven Brockett testified he purchased about
three containers of Gold Bond powder from Safeway between 1996 and 2008.  (Steven Brockett Depo. at pp. 128-129, 130.)
            These
discovery responses are not factually devoid. 
Defendant argues the deposition testimony is not credible because
Plaintiffs do not have receipts or documents showing their purchases (Motion at
p. 13), but that is an issue for the jury.
            Defendants
also argue Plaintiffs cannot prove Defendant’s sale of the products was substantial
factor in causing Sueko Brockett’s injury because Plaintiffs only bought a few
containers from Defendant’s store. 
(Motion at pp. 19-20, 24.)  Several
recent decisions have addressed the type of evidence necessary to survive
summary judgment in cases alleging the presence of asbestos in talc.   
In Lyons v.
Colgate-Palmolive Co. (2017) 16 Cal.App.5th 463, a case involving Cashmere
Bouquet talcum powder, the court reversed a grant of summary judgment.  The plaintiff used Cashmere Bouquet regularly
from the early 1950s to the early 1970s. 
(Id. at p. 465.)  The talc
came from Italy, Montana, and North Carolina. 
(Ibid.)  The plaintiff’s
expert tested talc samples from North Carolina, Montana and Italy and confirmed
the presence of asbestos, he and others found asbestos in Cashmere Bouquet, and
he referred to numerous scientific papers and documents supporting his
conclusions.  (Id. at pp.
466-467.)  The defendant waived
objections to the expert’s declaration. 
(Id. at p. 468.)  The court
concluded that the expert’s “evidence that talc from all three mines used in
the manufacture of Cashmere Bouquet contained asbestos, repeatedly found in
multiple tests and studies conducted before, during and after the 1950 to 1970
time period, coupled with plaintiff’s use of the product over those 20 years,
particularly in the absence of evidence of any other source of the asbestos
causing plaintiff’s mesothelioma, creates more than an unsupported possibility”
that she was exposed to asbestos by her use of Cashmere Bouquet.”  (Id. at p. 469.) 
In Berg v.
Colgate-Palmolive Co. (2019) 42 Cal.App.5th 630, cited by Defendant, the
court affirmed a grant of summary judgment involving allegations of asbestos
exposure from Mennen’s shave talc.  The
plaintiff had used four to six containers of the shave talc between 1959 and
1962.  (Id. at p. 632.)  The plaintiff’s expert stated the talc was
sourced from Italy and North Carolina mines contaminated with asbestos, FDA
tests in 1972 and 1976 showed the Mennen shave talc contained asbestos, and his
tests of samples of Mennen shave talc revealed asbestos.  (Id. at pp. 632-633.)  The court held this fact pattern was
different than the facts in Lyon because the plaintiff in Lyon
used the product regularly over 20 years, there was no evidence of other
sources of asbestos, and the plaintiff’s expert concluded all Cashmere Boutique
product contained significant concentrations of asbestos.  (Id. at p. 636.)  In Berg, the plaintiff used the shave
talc for a much shorter time periods, and the plaintiff’s expert’s declaration
did not support a conclusion that all or most of the Mennen shave talc
containers sold from 1959-1962 contained asbestos.  (Ibid.)  Rather, the expert’s testing occurred decades
after the plaintiff’s use and there was no evidence that the tested samples
were from 1959-1962.  (Ibid.)  The evidence fell “far short of establishing
that any containers of Mennen Shave Talc sold between 1959 and 1971 or 1962
contained asbestos, much less that it is more likely than not that the
containers [the plaintiff] used contained asbestos.”  (Id. at pp. 636-637.)
In
Strobel v. Johnson & Johnson (2021) 70 Cal.App.5th 796, the court
reversed a grant of summary judgment in a case involving asbestos in Johnson
& Johnson’s baby powder.  The
plaintiff used the baby powder his entire life from 1951 until 2014, totally at
least 338 containers.  (Id. at p.
801.)  He was not exposed to asbestos
from any other source.  (Ibid.)  The talc came from mines in Italy, Vermont,
and China.  (Id. at p. 807.)  The plaintiff’s experts tested talc from
Italy and Vermont and found asbestos.  (Ibid.)  The defense expert testified that Johnson
& Johnson’s process ensured asbestos-free talc.  (Id. at p. 811.)  The court concluded that “which of these
competing views to accept must be decided at trial” because this case was more
like Lyons than Berg.  (Id.
at p. 811, 812.)  There was long term use
of the baby powder by a plaintiff who was not exposed to any other source of
asbestos, with expert testimony reporting positive test results from the mines
used to source the talc.  (Id. at
p. 815.)  The plaintiff’s expert, like
the defense expert, relied on published materials from government agencies,
professional standard-setting groups, academic articles, and historical
testing.  (Id. at pp.
822-823.)  Those third-party documents
qualified “as source material that may be reasonably relied upon by those in
his field of expertise.”  (Id. at
p. 825.)  It was reasonable to infer that
asbestos was present throughout the entire exposure period.  (Id. at p. 826.)  
            This
case is much more similar to Berg than Lyons or Strobel.  Like in Berg, Plaintiffs have evidence
of only a few purchases of Gold Bond from Defendant’s stores over decades of
exposure to talcum products.  Plaintiffs
contend Sueko Brockett used body powders, face powders, and makeup from the
1970s to 2022, which she purchased from grocery stores.  (Opposition at p. 1.)  Steven Brockett used Gold Bond talcum powder
from 1988 to the present, and bought about a dozen containers of Gold Bond a
year.  (Opposition at p. 3.)  They purchased perhaps five or six containers
of Gold Bond from Defendant’s stores. 
(Opposition at p. 4.)  Five or six
containers from Defendant over 40 plus years is much sparser than Berg’s
four to six containers over four years. 
(Berg, supra, 42 Cal.App.5th at p. 632.)  Obviously, if Plaintiffs made only a few
purchases of powders from Defendant’s stores over the decades, the overwhelming
majority of Sueko Brockett’s exposure came from other sources.  
            Defendant
established that Plaintiffs’ evidence falls far short of establishing that any products
Plaintiffs purchased from Defendant’s stores contained asbestos.  (Berg, supra, 42 Cal.App.5th at pp.
636-637.)  Thus Defendant shifted the
burden.
            In
opposition, Plaintiffs do not address Berg or the issues raised by Berg,
even though Defendant cited and discussed Berg in its motion.  Thus Plaintiffs did not show a disputed issue
of fact concerning causation.
            The
motion is GRANTED.  Defendant is to file
a proposed judgment within five days.
The moving party is to
give notice.
 