 Case Number:  23STCV04731    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2023    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



FERGUSON ENTERPRISES, LLC,
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
HO KYUNG LEE, as trustee, et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No:  23STCV04731
 
 
RULING ON REQUEST FOR DEFAULT JUDMGNET
 
 
 Hearing Date:  October 4, 2023
 Calendar
  Number:  14



 
 
Plaintiff’s
Motion for Default Judgment is DENIED without prejudice.  The Court continues
this OSC Re Entry of Default Judgment to November 15, 2023.
 
Background 
 
On March 3,
2023, Plaintiff Ferguson Enterprises, LLC (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants Ho Kyung Lee and Hae Kyung Lee, as
Trustees of the Lee Family Trust, and Union Lee Construction, Inc.
(collectively, “Defendants”) for (1) foreclosure of mechanic’s lien; (2)
mechanic’s lien release; (3) breach of contract; and (4) personal
guaranty.  
 
On July 13,
2023, the clerk entered default judgment as to Defendants. On August 3, 2023,
Plaintiff filed a default judgment package.  
 
On August 25, 2023, the
Court continued the hearing on Plaintiff’s request pending submission of
supplemental default materials. Plaintiff filed those materials on August 31,
and its request now comes before the Court again.
 


 
Discussion 
 
Plaintiff
requests $39,264.26 in damages, $4,162.40 in interest, $946.03 in costs, and
$1,567.92 in attorney fees. (CIV-100 Form.)  
 
The Complaint
alleges that Plaintiff furnished and delivered plumbing, pipe, HVAC,
waterworks, appliances, lighting, and related materials to Defendant Union,
with a reasonable market value of $39,264.26. (Compl. ¶ 11.) Plaintiff states
that no part of this $39,264.26 has been paid. (Compl. ¶ 12.)  
 
Plaintiff
submits the declaration of a custodian of records, stating that in order to
sell to Union Lee Construction, Plaintiff required Union to sign a Credit
Application. Plaintiff submits this Credit Application. (Padilla Decl. ¶ 3, Ex.
A.) This Credit Application included an agreement that Ho Kyung Lee be a
personal guaranty of Union. (Padilla Decl. Ex. A.) The Terms and Conditions of
the Credit Application provided that all past due amounts are subject to a 1.5%
per month service charge. (Id.) The Personal Guaranty also provided that
Plaintiff would be entitled to the cost of collection, plus reasonable
attorneys’ fees in the event of default. (Id.)  
 
Plaintiff also
submits invoices showing that the materials purchased were intended to be used
on the job for Defendants. (Padilla Decl. ¶¶ 6-7, Ex. B.) These invoices total
$39,264.26. (Padilla Decl. Ex. B.)  
 
The declaration
states the facts surrounding the Mechanic’s Lien that was entered. (Padilla
Decl. ¶ 10.) Plaintiff attaches Notice of the Mechanic’s Lien. (Padilla Decl.
Ex. D.)  
 
At the hearing on
August 25th, the Court observed the following deficiencies in Plaintiff’s
default request:
 
First, Plaintiff’s proposed judgment sought $39,264.26 for the first
cause of action against Ho Lee and Hae Lee, for the third and fourth causes of action against Union, and for
the fifth cause of action against Ho Lee. Plaintiff offered no explanation for
how the award was not duplicative.
 
Plaintiff has still not offered a satisfactory explanation. It argues a
claimant has “the right to maintain a personal action to recover a debt …
either in a separate action or in an action to enforce a lien” (Civ. Code §
8468(a)(1)), and “[a] judgment obtained by the claimant in a personal action …
does not impair or merge the claim of lien … .” (Id., subd. (b).)
Correct. But this is not two actions. As Plaintiff acknowledges, “any amount(s)
collected from the defendants on the [three] causes of action will be credited
against the other claims.” Which is liability must be joint and several.
 
Second, rather than
offer an explanation for the difference in its proposed rates of interest, Plaintiff
has now claimed the same rate of interest (18%) for annum on all its claims –
lien, credit sale, and guaranty. 
 
While the 18%/annum interest on the sale and guaranty contracts seems to
follow the terms of the parties’ contract, the Court is not satisfied the lien
is subject to the same rate of interest. Palomar Grading & Paving, Inc.
v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (1990) 51 Cal.3d 701 (Palomar) states that
the 7%/annum constitutional usury rate caps the interest on a mechanic’s lien
where the lien arises from a contract between a contractor and subcontractor,
rather than an owner and contractor. 
 
The Palomar court reasoned that neither the rate specified in the
underlying contract nor the 10% contractual usury rate appearing in the
Constitution can be applied to an owner who was not a party to any contract.
The owner did not agree to be exempt from the 7% constitutional cap. Palomar
also recognizes that where the owner is a party to the underlying contract –
directly liable on both the underlying contract and the lien – the lien will be
subject to the same rate. Plaintiff sued on (1) its credit sale contract with
the primary contractor (not the owner), but also (2) the personal guaranty of
the sale contract, signed by one of the properties’ two owners.
 
There are two problems with Plaintiff’s argument that they must address:
first, is the lien based on both the guaranty and the sale contract, or only
the sale contract? If the latter, it is not exempt from Palomar. And
second, is a lien exempt from Palomar where it is based on a contract
with only one of several owners of the property subject to the lien?
 
Because the Court is not persuaded that the 18% per annum interest rate
is enforceable as to the first cause of action, the interest calculations may
not be correct.
 
Plaintiff is ordered to submit a proposed judgment that is not
duplicative and reflects legal interest rates (and, if the Plaintiff asserts
liability on the lien may be charged at 18% per annum, persuasive argument
justifying that position).
 