 Case Number:  24STLC03073    Hearing Date:   July 29, 2024    Dept:  26  European
Paving Designs, Inc. v. AMG & Associates, Inc., et al.PETITION TO
COMPEL ARBITRATION AND STAY PROCEEDINGS(CCP §§ 1281.2, et seq., 638)TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendant AMG & Associates, Inc.’s Motion to Compel
Arbitration is GRANTED. THE ACTION IS STAYED PENDING MEDIATION AND/OR ARBITRATION.

 
AN ORDER TO SHOW CAUSE REGARDING STATUS OF MEDIATION AND/OR ARBITRATION
IS SET FOR JANUARY 27 2025 AT 9:30 AM IN DEPARTMENT 26 IN THE SPRING STREET
COURTHOUSE.
 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
On April 26, 2024, Plaintiff
European Paving Designs, Inc. (“Plaintiff”) filed the instant 
action for breach of
contract against Defendants AMG & Associates, Inc. (“Defendant AMG”)
and Travels Casualty and Surety Company (“Defendant Travelers”). The Complaint
alleges causes of action for (1) Breach of Contract; (2) Work, Labor and
Services/Agreed Price; (3) Open-Book Account; (4) Account Stated; (5) Claim for
Recovery on Contractors License Bond; and (6) Violation of Prompt Payment
Statute. 
 
Defendant AMG filed the instant Motion to Compel Arbitration
and Stay Action Pending Arbitration on May
30, 2024. Plaintiff filed an opposition on July 16, 2024. 
 
Discussion
 
The Motion is brought pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 1281, et seq., which provides in relevant part: 
 
On petition of a party to an
arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to
arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses to arbitrate such
controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate
the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy
exists, unless it determines that:
 
(a) The right to compel arbitration has
been waived by the petitioner; or 
(b) Grounds exist for the revocation of
the agreement.
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2, subds. (a)-(b).) Defendant AMG demonstrates
the existence of an arbitration agreement between the parties in their construction
agreement. (Citing Compl., Exh. 1, Art. 14.) The arbitration provision states: 
 
A. “All claims, disputes and matters in
question arising out of or relating to this Agreement, or the breach thereof,
except for claims described in paragraph B shall be decided by arbitration in
accordance with the Construction Industry Arbitration Rules of the American
Arbitration Association then in effect unless the Parties mutually agree
otherwise, provided, however, that only one arbitrator or shall hear the
dispute regardless of the amount in controversy. The Parties agree to
participate, in good faith, in mediation as an express condition precedent to
the initiation of any arbitration proceeding. The costs of the foregoing
mediation shall be split evenly by the parties.
 
B. The agreement to arbitrate shall not
apply to any claim:
1. Primarily for contribution or
indemnity asserted by one Party to this Agreement against the other Party and
arising out of an action brought in a state or federal court; or
2. Required to be resolved in a
different manner by the Prime Contract.
 
(Ibid.) The Complaint alleges causes of action for
breach of contract and common counts against Defendant AMG, as well as
violation of the statute for prompt payment. The Court finds that all of these
causes of action are related to the subcontractor agreement and subject to the
terms of the arbitration agreement. 
 
It has long been the rule in California
that a broadly worded arbitration clause, such as we have here, may extend to
tort claims that may arise under or from the contractual relationship. “There
is no requirement that the cause of action arising out of a contractual dispute
must be itself contractual. At most, the requirement is that the dispute must
arise out of contract.” (Crofoot v. Blair Holdings Corp. (1953) 119 Cal.App.2d
156, 182,
 
(Coast Plaza Doctors Hosp. v. Blue Cross of California
(2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 677, 686.) Here, the common count and statutory causes of
action may not be contractual in nature but arise from a dispute that has its
basis in the parties’ written agreement. The Court finds, therefore, that all the
causes of action alleged against Defendant AMG in the Complaint are subject to
arbitration. 
 
Plaintiff also argues that Defendant AMG has waived the
right to arbitration by failing to respond to its initial communications.
Plaintiff served a formal settlement demand upon Defendant AMG in which it
explained the nature and basis of its claims, referenced the mediation and
arbitration provisions within the agreement, and requested a response by a date
certain. (Opp., Cabal Decl. ¶2, Ex. 1.) Defendant AMG did not respond. (Id.)
Regarding waiver, 
 
State law, like the FAA, reflects a
strong policy favoring arbitration agreements and requires close judicial
scrutiny of waiver claims. (Christensen v. Dewor Developments (1983) 33 Cal.3d
778, 782, 191 Cal.Rptr. 8, 661 P.2d 1088.) Although a court may deny a petition
to compel arbitration on the ground of waiver (§ 1281.2, subd. (a)), waivers
are not to be lightly inferred and the party seeking to establish a waiver
bears a heavy burden of proof. [Citations omitted.]
 
In Sobremonte v. Superior Court (1998)
61 Cal.App.4th 980, 72 Cal.Rptr.2d 43, the Court of Appeal referred to the
following factors: “In determining waiver, a court can consider ‘(1) whether
the party's actions are inconsistent with the right to arbitrate; (2) whether
“the litigation machinery has been substantially invoked” and the parties “were
well into preparation of a lawsuit” before the party notified the opposing
party of an intent to arbitrate; (3) whether a party either requested
arbitration enforcement close to the trial date or delayed for a long period
before seeking a stay; (4) whether a defendant seeking arbitration filed a
counterclaim without asking for a stay of the proceedings; (5) “whether
important intervening steps [e.g., taking advantage of judicial discovery
procedures not available in arbitration] had taken place”; and (6) whether the
delay “affected, misled, or prejudiced” the opposing party.’ ”
 
(St. Agnes Medical Center v. PacifiCare of California
(2003) 31 Cal.4th 1187, 1195-1196.) Although Plaintiff cites the factors
relevant to waiver, it does not analyze them in the opposition. Only the first
factor leans in Plaintiff’s favor because Defendant’s failure to respond to the
mediation and arbitration reference is somewhat inconsistent with the right to
arbitrate. However, there has been no substantial invocation of the litigation
machinery, no request to arbitrate close to the trial date, no lengthy delay in
seeking arbitration, no counterclaim by Defendant AMG, and no apparent
prejudice to Plaintiff. Therefore, Plaintiff has not met this “heavy burden of
proof” to demonstrate that Defendant AMG has waived the right to arbitration.  
 
The Court finds there are no grounds to deny the instant
Motion. In light of the Motion to Compel Arbitration being granted, a stay of
the action is appropriate under Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.4.
 
Conclusion
 
Defendant AMG & Associates, Inc.’s Motion to Compel
Arbitration is GRANTED. THE ACTION IS STAYED PENDING MEDIATION AND/OR
ARBITRATION. 
 
AN ORDER TO SHOW CAUSE REGARDING STATUS OF MEDIATION AND/OR
ARBITRATION IS SET FOR JANUARY 27 2025 AT 9:30 AM IN DEPARTMENT 26 IN THE
SPRING STREET COURTHOUSE.
 
 
Moving party to give notice. 
 
 
 
 
 