 Case Number:  20STCV34110    Hearing Date:   March 5, 2024    Dept:  76 Pursuant to California Rule of Court
3.1308(a)(1), the Court does not desire oral argument on the motion addressed
herein.  Counsel must contact the staff
in Department 76 to inform the Court whether they wish to submit on the
tentative, or to argue the matter.  As
required by Rule 3.1308(a), any party seeking oral argument must notify ALL
OTHER PARTIES and the staff of Department 76 of their intent to appear and
argue. 
Notice to Department 76 may be sent by email to
smcdept76@lacourt.org or telephonically at 213-830-0776. 
Per Rule of Court 3.1308, if notice of intention
to appear is not given, the Court may adopt the tentative ruling as the final
ruling.            This is an action arising out of a motor vehicle accident. Defendant
Alexander was allegedly negligent in causing the accident. Defendant Tokasey
allegedly defamed Plaintiffs by stating that they were committing insurance
fraud and had staged the accident with Defendant Alexander.
            Plaintiffs
bring a motion to quash the deposition subpoena served upon Jason Lather and
requests sanctions. Plaintiffs also bring a motion for protective order as to
the notice of deposition regarding the person most knowledgeable of Plaintiff’s
counsel’s firm, Heidari Law Group, PC, and requests sanctions. 
TENTATIVE RULING
Plaintiffs Artur Navasardyan and
Sergey Soghomonyan’s motion to quash the deposition subpoena as to non-party
Jason Lather is GRANTED. Plaintiffs’
request for sanctions against Defendants Repwest Insurance Company and Matt
Tokasey, and their counsel of record Jonathan Kim, Esq., and Todd Benoff, Esq.,
of Alston & Bird, LLP, jointly and severally, is GRANTED in the reduced
amount of $1,935. Sanctions are to be paid to Plaintiffs’ counsel within 20
days. 
Plaintiffs’ motion for a
protective order precluding Defendant from taking the deposition of Plaintiff’s
counsel Heidari Law Group, P.C.’s Person Most Knowledgeable is GRANTED as to
requests for production Nos. 1 – 8. 
            Plaintiffs’
request for sanctions against Defendants Repwest Insurance Company and Matt
Tokasey, and their counsel of record Todd Benoff, Esq., of Alston & Bird,
LLP, jointly and severally, is GRANTED in the reduced amount of $1,935. Sanctions
are to be paid to Plaintiffs’ counsel within 20 days.
ANALYSIS
Motion To Quash Subpoena
            Plaintiffs
move to quash the deposition subpoena for personal appearance and production of
documents to Jason Lather served by Defendants’ counsel upon Plaintiffs’
counsel, or in the alternative, to issue a protective order as follows: Quashing
the Deposition subpoena of Jason Lather, Esq., in its entirety, pursuant to
Code Civ. Pro. § 1987.1; and Precluding Defendants from taking the deposition
of Jason Lather, Esq., pursuant to Code Civ. Proc. §§2025.420(b), 2025.040(b),
and Spectra-Physics, Inc. v. Superior Court (1988) 198 Cal.App.3d 1487.
            Plaintiffs indicate
that Lather is a former employee of Plaintiff’s counsel’s firm, Heidari Law Group,
PC. (See Declaration of Giorgio Cassandra, ¶¶ 5, 6, 10.) Moreover, as
Plaintiffs point out, the deposition itself indicates that Lather resides out
of state at 4484 S. Pecos Rd., Suite 171, Las Vegas, NV 89121. (See, e.g., Cassandra
Decl., Exh. B.)
            Civ. Proc.
Code, § 1987.1 provides:
(a) If a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the
production of books, documents, electronically stored information, or other
things before a court, or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of
a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably made by any person described in
subdivision (b), or upon the court’s own motion after giving counsel notice and
an opportunity to be heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely,
modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as
the court shall declare, including protective orders. In addition, the court
may make any other order as may be appropriate to protect the person from
unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the
right of privacy of the person.
 
(b) The following persons may make a motion pursuant to subdivision
(a):
 
(1) A party.
 
(2) A witness.
 
(3) A consumer described in Section 1985.3.
 
(4) An employee described in Section 1985.6.
 
(5) A person whose personally identifying information, as defined in
subdivision (b) of Section 1798.79.8 of the Civil Code, is sought in connection
with an underlying action involving that person’s exercise of free speech
rights.

     (Civ.
Proc. Code, § 1987.1.)
            First,
service of the notice of deposition is insufficient to impose an obligation
upon Heidari Law Group, PC to produce Lather because he is a former
employee.
(a) Any party may obtain
discovery by taking an oral deposition, as described in Section 2025.010, in
another state of the United States, or in a territory or an insular possession
subject to its jurisdiction. Except as modified in this section, the procedures
for taking oral depositions in California set forth in Chapter 9
(commencing with Section 2025.010) apply to an oral deposition taken in another
state of the United States, or in a territory or an insular possession subject
to its jurisdiction.
 
(b) If a deponent is a
party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a
party, the service of the deposition notice is effective to compel that
deponent to attend and to testify, as well as to produce any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing for inspection, copying,
testing, or sampling. The deposition notice shall specify a place in the state,
territory, or insular possession of the United States that is within 75 miles
of the residence or a business office of a deponent.

     (Civ. Pro. Code, § 2026.010(a) &
(b).) 
First, we make clear who may be compelled to
appear when the deposition notice seeks the person most knowledgeable within a
corporation. The code states that a party can procure the attendance of an
individual at a deposition by way of notice only if the prospective
deponent is "a party to the action" or "an officer, director,
managing agent, or employee of a party . . . ." (Citation omitted.)
"The attendance and testimony of any other deponent . . . requires the
service on the deponent of a deposition subpoena under [former] Section
2020." (Citation omitted.) The code applies by its language only to
current officers, directors, managing agents, or employees. "Persons formerly affiliated with a party
(e.g., former officers or employees) are not required to attend a deposition
unless subpoenaed." (Weil & Brown, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil
Procedure Before Trial, supra, P 8:518, p. 8E-26.4.) Therefore, ICG was not
required to produce former employees in response to the notice just because the
former employees are far more knowledgeable about the litigation than anyone
currently employed by the company. ICG's duty is limited, as we have said, to
producing the most knowledgeable person currently
in its employ and making sure that that person has access to information
and documents reasonably available within the corporation. 
 
(Maldonado v. Superior Court (2002) 94 Cal.App.4th 1390, 1398
(italics added].) 
            Moreover, even though a deposition subpoena
was issued to (but apparently not served upon) Lather, a court cannot compel an
out-of-state witness (here, non-party Lather) to attend a deposition before a deposition
officer.
A witness, including a witness
specified in subdivision (b) of Section 1987, is not obliged to attend as a
witness before any court, judge, justice or any other officer, unless the
witness is a resident within the state at the time of service.     (Civ. Proc. Code,
§ 1989.)


     (Civ. Proc. Code,
§ 1989.)
 
            Civ. Proc.
Code, § 2025.310
 
(a) At the election of the deponent or the deposing party, the
deposition officer may attend the deposition at a different location than
the deponent via remote means. A deponent is not required to be physically
present with the deposition officer when being sworn in at the time of the
deposition.
 
(b) Subject to Section 2025.420, any party or attorney of record may,
but is not required to, be physically present at the deposition at the location
of the deponent. If a party or attorney of record elects to be physically
present at the location of the deponent, all physically present participants in
the deposition shall comply with local health and safety ordinances, rules, and
orders.
 
(c) The procedures to implement this section shall be established by
court order in the specific action or proceeding or by the California Rules of
Court.
 
(d) An exercise of the authority granted by subdivision (a) or (b)
does not waive any other provision of this title, including, but not limited
to, provisions regarding the time, place, or manner in which a deposition shall
be conducted.
 
(e) This section does not alter or amend who may lawfully serve as a
deposition officer pursuant to this title or who otherwise may administer oaths
pursuant to Sections 2093 and 2094 of this code or Section 8201 of the
Government Code.

      (Civ.
Proc. Code, § 2025.310 [bold emphasis added.)
 
Civ. Proc. Code § 1989 has been
held to apply to deposition witnesses who
are named parties to the litigation: 
 
b. Code of Civil
Procedure section 1989
I-CA has declined to cite or discuss Code of Civil Procedure section 1989
in its briefs to this court. Therefore any challenge to the trial court's
reliance on that section, or the court's interpretation of that section, is
forfeited.
I-CA has briefly addressed the cases cited by the trial court. I-CA
attempts to distinguish Amoco on the ground that
the Amoco court did not discuss Code of Civil
Procedure section 2025.230, upon which I-CA relied. Instead,
the [*281]  case focused on the obligation of a witness to appear in
court in California if he is not a resident of California at the time of service.
While Amoco did not directly discuss the application of Code of Civil
Procedure section 1989 to deposition witnesses, the issue was discussed in Toyota Motor Corp. v.
Superior Court (2011) 197 Cal.App.4th 1107 [130 Cal. Rprt. 3d 131] (Toyota). The Toyota court held, “[Code of Civil Procedure] section 1989 applies not only
to those witnesses obliged to attend as witnesses in court proceedings, but
those witnesses obliged to give testimony by deposition before deposition
officers.” (Id. at p. 1113.)
I-CA points out that, in a footnote,
the Toyota court declined to express an opinion as to
whether Code of Civil Procedure section 1989 applies to section 2025.230.
Specifically, the Toyota court stated: “We express no opinion … as to
whether our analysis or the conclusions we have reached in this opinion would
or should extend or apply to a court order made pursuant to [Code of Civil
Procedure] section 2025.230 which provides for the circumstances where ‘… the
deponent named is not a natural person … .’” (Toyota, supra, 197 Cal.App.4th at p.
1126, fn. 20.)
Aside from pointing out this footnote, I-CA has declined to make any
reasoned arguments as to why Code of Civil Procedure section 1989 should not
apply when the deposition has been noticed under section 2025.230, as opposed
to any of the other discovery statutes.
We note that the Toyota court also
made reference to Twin Lock, Inc. v. Superior Court (1959) 52 Cal.2d 754 [344 P.2d 788] (Twin Lock). In Twin Lock, the plaintiff, Twin Lock, Inc., was a resident of New York suing
California defendants in a lawsuit filed in Los Angeles. The defendants gave
notice that they would depose certain officers of Twin Lock in Los Angeles.
Twin Lock moved to vacate the deposition notice, and the trial court denied the
motion. The defendants sought imposition of sanctions based on the officers'
willful failure to appear. (52 Cal.2d at pp. 757–758.) On appeal, Twin
Lock sought a writ of prohibition to prevent the imposition of sanctions for
its officers' failure to appear for the depositions.
The Supreme Court stated: “The
disposition of this proceeding depends upon the applicability of section 1989
of the Code of Civil Procedure … .” (Twin Lock,
supra, 52 Cal.2d at p. 758.)
Twin Lock asserted that under Code of Civil Procedure section 1989, “no form of
compulsion, including the use of sanctions against a party, may be used by the
court to compel the New [*282]  York residents to come to California
… .” (52 Cal.2d at p. 758.) The high court evaluated Code of Civil
Procedure section 1989, noting that “[t]he word ‘witness’ in section 1989
includes a prospective witness who is a party or who is a director,
officer, or managing agent of a party.” (Twin
Lock, at p. 759.) The court
concluded that Code of Civil Procedure section 1989 was “by its terms
applicable to the New York residents[1] involved
here.” (52 Cal.2d at p. 759.) The court held that the trial court was “without power to impose sanctions upon Twin Lock
based upon the notice which defendants gave for the taking of the depositions
in Los Angeles of the New York residents.” (Id. at pp. 761–762.)
I-CA has declined to cite or discuss Twin Lock.
The case supports the trial court's
determination that it had no power to compel production of Plasgad[2]'s
financial records or to compel a deposition of Plasgad's nonresident PMK.
Under the circumstances, I-CA has provided no grounds for reversal of the trial
court's order.
 
(I-CA Enterprises, Inc. v.
Palram Americas, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 257, 280-282 [bold emphasis
and underlining added].)
 
            As such,
the deposition subpoena which was issued seeking to depose Lather—who resides
in Nevada—cannot compel Lather to appear for the deposition. If Lather
stipulated to appear for his deposition, then Defendants may present such
stipulation to the Court in the form of a stipulation and order.
            The motion
to quash the deposition subpoena as to non-party Jason Lather is GRANTED.
(a) Except as specified in
subdivision (c), in making an order pursuant to motion made under subdivision
(c) of Section 1987 or under Section 1987.1, the court may in its discretion
award the amount of the reasonable expenses incurred in making or opposing the
motion, including reasonable attorney’s fees, if the court finds the motion was
made or opposed in bad faith or without substantial justification or that one
or more of the requirements of the subpoena was oppressive.
 
     (Civ. Proc. Code, § 1987.2(a).)
            Here,
the Court note that if Plaintiffs’ counsel truly spent 49 total hours on this motion,
Plaintiff’s counsel is extremely inefficient. The Court will impose sanctions
for 5 total hours at $375/hour, plus $60 in filing fees, for a total of $1,935 (see
Cassandra Decl., ¶ 11), which is the amount the Court finds to be the reasonable
expenses incurred in making this motion. (Civ. Proc. Code, § 1987.2(a).)
            Plaintiffs’
request for sanctions against Defendants Repwest Insurance Company and Matt
Tokasey, and their counsel of record Jonathan Kim, Esq., and Todd Benoff, Esq.,
of Alston & Bird, LLP, jointly and severally, is GRANTED in the reduced
amount of $1,935. Sanctions are to be paid to Plaintiffs’ counsel within 20
days. 
Motion For Protective Order
            Plaintiffs
move for a protective order precluding Defendant from taking the deposition of Plaintiff’s
counsel Heidari Law Group, P.C.’s Person Most Knowledgeable.
Civ. Proc. Code, § 2025.420
provides in pertinent part as follows:
(a) Before, during, or after a
deposition, any party, any deponent, or any other affected natural person or
organization may promptly move for a protective order. The motion shall be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.
 
(b) The court, for good cause shown,
may make any order that justice requires to protect any party, deponent, or
other natural person or organization from unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment,
or oppression, or undue burden and expense. This protective order may include,
but is not limited to, one or more of the following directions:
(1) That the deposition not be
taken at all.
 . . .
 
(g) If the motion for a protective
order is denied in whole or in part, the court may order that the deponent
provide or permit the discovery against which protection was sought on those
terms and conditions that are just.
 
(h) The court shall impose a monetary
sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party,
person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion for a
protective order, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust.
. . .
 
     (Civ. Proc. Code
§ 2025.420(a), (b), (g), (h).)
 
            Plaintiff’s
counsel engaged in sufficient meet and confer efforts. (Declaration of Giorgio
Cassandra, ¶ 6; Exh. C.)
 
Outside the area of insurance bad faith actions, counsel for
Teledyne provides no authorities permitting trial counsel to be deposed.
On the contrary, the decisions express the same strong policy considerations
against such discovery as does the Fireman's Fund case, supra, 72
Cal.3d 786. For example: "The practice of forcing trial counsel to testify
as a witness, however, has long been discouraged, see Hickman v. Taylor,
329 U.S. 495, 513 [91 L.Ed. 451, 67 S.Ct. 385] . . . (it causes 'the
standards of the profession [to] suffer'), and recognized as disrupting the
adversarial nature of our judicial system, see id. at
516 . . . ('Discovery was hardly intended to enable a learned profession
to perform its functions . . . on wits borrowed from the adversary.'). Taking the deposition of opposing counsel not only disrupts
the adversarial system and lowers the standard of the profession, but it also adds
to the already burdensome time and costs of litigation. It is not hard to
imagine additional pretrial delays to resolve work-product and attorney-client
objections, as well as delays to resolve collateral issues raised by the
attorney's testimony. Finally, the practice of deposing opposing counsel
detracts from the quality of client representation. Counsel should be free to
devote his or her time and efforts to preparing the client's case without fear
of being interrogated by his or her opponent. Moreover, the 'chilling effect'
that such practice will have on the truthful communications from the client to
the attorney is obvious. [para. ] We do not hold that
opposing trial counsel is absolutely immune from being deposed. We recognize
that circumstances may arise in which the court should order the taking of
opposing counsel's deposition. But those circumstances should be limited to
where the party seeking to take the deposition has shown that (1) no other
means exist to obtain the information than to depose opposing counsel,
[citation]; (2) the information sought is relevant and nonprivileged; and
(3)  [*1495]  the information is crucial to the
preparation of the case." ( Shelton v. American
Motors Corp. (8th Cir. 1986) 805 F.2d 1323, 1327.)
 
(Spectra-Physics, Inc. v. Superior Court (1988) 198 Cal.App.3d 1487, 1494-95 [bold
emphasis added].)
            As also
discussed above, to the extent Defendants intend that Plaintiff designate Lather
as the PMK, since he is a former employe, he is not a party-affiliated witness whom
Plaintiffs can be compelled to produce by way of a notice of deposition:
First, we make clear who may be compelled to
appear when the deposition notice seeks the person most knowledgeable within a
corporation. The code states that a party can procure the attendance of an
individual at a deposition by way of notice only if the prospective
deponent is "a party to the action" or "an officer, director,
managing agent, or employee of a party . . . ." (Citation omitted.)
"The attendance and testimony of any other deponent . . . requires the
service on the deponent of a deposition subpoena under [former] Section
2020." (Citation omitted.) The code applies by its language only to
current officers, directors, managing agents, or employees. "Persons formerly affiliated with a party
(e.g., former officers or employees) are not required to attend a deposition
unless subpoenaed." (Weil & Brown, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil
Procedure Before Trial, supra, P 8:518, p. 8E-26.4.) Therefore, ICG was not
required to produce former employees in response to the notice just because the
former employees are far more knowledgeable about the litigation than anyone
currently employed by the company. ICG's duty is limited, as we have said, to
producing the most knowledgeable person currently
in its employ and making sure that that person has access to information
and documents reasonably available within the corporation.
(Maldonado v. Superior Court (2002) 94 Cal.App.4th 1390, 1398
(italics added].)
            To the
extent Defendants seek to depose Heidari Law Group’s current employees, the
Court will address the categories set forth in the separate statement:
 
¿        Request for Production No. 1: All DOCUMENTS REFERRING
or RELATING to YOUR discussion(s) with Defendant Matt Tokasey regarding the
ACCIDENT.
 
            Re: No other means exist to obtain the information than to depose
opposing counsel. 
 
            Obviously, the substance of discussions with Defendant
can be obtained from Defendant. However, Defendant cannot obtain the substance
of Tokasey’s statements which Plaintiffs based their claim against Defendant. Nonetheless,
these documents can be obtained by discovery propounded upon Plaintiffs, not
Plaintiffs’ counsel.
 
Re:
The information sought is relevant and nonprivileged.
 
Defendants
are correct that conversations with Defendant Tokasey are not privileged as
attorney-client communications. However, although the information is relevant, attorneys’
impressions contained in documents which were not disclosed to Defendant may
come within the attorney work product privilege. 
 
            Civ.
Proc. Code § 2018.030 provides:
 
(a) A writing that reflects an attorney's
impressions, conclusions, opinions, or legal research or theories is not
discoverable under any circumstances.
 
(b) The work product of an attorney,
other than a writing described in subdivision (a), is not discoverable unless
the court determines that denial of discovery will unfairly prejudice the party
seeking discovery in preparing that party's claim or defense or will result in
an injustice.
 
Further,
such documents may be obtained by propounding discovery upon Plaintiffs, not
Plaintiffs’ counsel.
 
Re:
The information is crucial to the preparation of the case.
 
            There is no
indication that attorney’s documents referring or relating to discussions with
Defendant is crucial to the preparation of the case. Perhaps a memorialization of
what Tokasey purportedly said is crucial as a contemporaneous record of what Plaintiffs
claim Tokasey said, but the attorney’s analysis is not. 
 
            In this
regard, Defendants can obtain Plaintiffs’ contention of exactly what Tokasey
said to Plaintiffs’ counsel by way of discovery propounded upon Plaintiffs, not
Plaintiffs’ counsel.
 
            The motion
for a protective order as to Request for Production No. 1 is GRANTED.
 
¿        Request for Production No. 2: All
DOCUMENTS REFERRING or RELATING to YOUR discussion(s) with Defendant Repwest
Insurance Company regarding the ACCIDENT.
 
            Re: No other means exist to obtain the information than to depose
opposing counsel. 
 
            See discussion above re: Request No. 1.
 
Re:
The information sought is relevant and nonprivileged.
 
            See discussion above re: Request No. 1.
 
Re:
The information is crucial to the preparation of the case.
 
            See discussion above re: Request No. 1.
 
            The motion
for a protective order as to Request for Production No. 2 is GRANTED.
 
¿        Request for Production No. 3: All
DOCUMENTS provided to Defendant Matt Tokasey regarding the ACCIDENT.
 
            Re: No other means exist to obtain the information than to depose
opposing counsel. 
 
            Obviously, if the documents were provided to Defendant,
then Defendant should have the documents. Moreover, such documents may be obtained
through discovery propounded upon Plaintiffs, not Plaintiffs’ counsel. This factor
prevents the deposition of Plaintiffs’ counsel.
 
Re:
The information sought is relevant and nonprivileged.
 
Documents
provided to Defendant would be relevant and nonprivileged. However, the first
factor prohibits the deposition of Plainiffs’ counsel.
 
Re:
The information is crucial to the preparation of the case.
 
            See discussion above re: Request No. 1.
 
            The motion
for a protective order as to Request for Production No. 3 is GRANTED.
 
¿        Request for Production No. 4: All
DOCUMENTS provided to Defendant Repwest Insurance Company regarding the ACCIDENT.
 
            Re: No other means exist to obtain the information than to depose
opposing counsel. 
 
            See discussion above re: Request No. 3.
 
Re:
The information sought is relevant and nonprivileged.
 
            See discussion above re: Request No. 3.
 
Re:
The information is crucial to the preparation of the case.
 
            See discussion above re: Request No. 1.
 
            The motion
for a protective order as to Request for Production No. 4 is GRANTED.
 
¿        Request for Production No. 5: All
DOCUMENTS received from Defendant Matt Tokasey regarding the ACCIDENT.
 
            Re: No other means exist to obtain the information than to depose
opposing counsel. 
 
            Obviously, documents provided by Defendant to Plaintiff’s
counsel can be obtained from Defendant. However, the documents upon which
Plaintiffs based their claim can only be obtained from Plaintiffs. Nonetheless,
they can be obtained from discovery propounded upon Plaintiffs, not Plaintiffs’
counsel’s law firm.
 
Re:
The information sought is relevant and nonprivileged.
 
The
information is relevant and not privileged. However, the first factor prohibits
the deposition of Plainiffs’ counsel.
 
 
Re:
The information is crucial to the preparation of the case.
 
             The documents upon which
Plaintiffs based their claim can only be obtained from Plaintiffs through
discovery propounded upon them, not Plaintiffs’ counsel’s law firm.
 
            The motion
for a protective order as to Request for Production No. 5 is GRANTED.
 
¿        Request for Production No. 6: All DOCUMENTS received
from Defendant Repwest Insurance Company regarding the ACCIDENT.
            Re: No other means exist to obtain the information than to depose
opposing counsel.
See
above re: Request No. 5.
Re:
The information sought is relevant and nonprivileged.
See
above re: Request No. 5.
Re:
The information is crucial to the preparation of the case.
See
above re: Request No. 5.
            The motion
for a protective order as to Request for Production No. 6 is GRANTED. 
¿        Request for Production No. 7: All DOCUMENTS REFERRING
or RELATING to any discussion(s) between YOU and HEIDARI LAW GROUP regarding
the ACCIDENT after YOU were no longer a lawyer at HEIDARI LAW GROUP.
            Re: No other means exist to obtain the information than to depose
opposing counsel.
            It appears that no other means exists to obtain this
confidential information.
Re:
The information sought is relevant and nonprivileged.
The
information is relevant but it is privileged even after an attorney leaves law firm
because it would relate to matters handled by the law firm regarding the plaintiffs
who are still clients. 
The client is the holder of the
attorney-client privilege. (Evid. Code, § 953.) Legal opinion and advice given
the client by counsel is a confidential communication. (Citation omitted.) 


(People v. Hayes (1999) 21
Cal.4th 1211, 1265.)
Re:
The information is crucial to the preparation of the case.
            There is no
indication that documents containing discussions between attorneys who represented
the adversary are crucial to the preparation of Defendants’ case.
            The motion
for a protective order as to Request for Production No. 7 is GRANTED.
¿        Request for Production No. 8: All non-privileged
DOCUMENTS REFERRING or RELATING to any discussion(s) between 
YOU and anyone regarding the ACCIDENT after YOU were
no longer a lawyer at HEIDARI LAW GROUP.
Re: No
other means exist to obtain the information than to depose opposing counsel.
            There is no reason why such non-privileged documents could
not be obtained from other persons once they are identified in other discovery
responses. This prevents the deposition.
Re:
The information sought is relevant and nonprivileged.
The
information is relevant and, by its definition, non-privileged.
Re:
The information is crucial to the preparation of the case.
           There is no
indication that documents containing non-privileged discussions between the PMK
and anyone regarding the accidents are crucial to Defendant’s preparation of
the case.
            The motion
for a protective order as to Request for Production No. 8 is GRANTED.
Sanctions
 
            Plaintiffs’
request for sanctions against Defendants Repwest Insurance Company and Matt
Tokasey, and their counsel of record Todd Benoff, Esq., of Alston & Bird,
LLP, jointly and severally, is GRANTED in the reduced amount of $1,935 (5 total
hours at $375/hour plus $60 in filing fees—see Cassandra Decl., ¶ 11.)
Sanctions are to be paid to Plaintiffs’ counsel within 20 days.


