 Case Number:  23SMCV03113    Hearing Date:   May 9, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING
 
DEPARTMENT          207
HEARING DATE       May 9, 2024
CASE NUMBER        23SMCV03113
MOTION                    Motion
to Set Aside Judgment
MOVING PARTY      Defendant
Katherine Taylor Kahn
OPPOSING PARTY   Plaintiff 786
Ceres, LLC
 
BACKGROUND
 
On July 11, 2023, Plaintiff 768 Ceres, LLC (“Plaintiff”) filed the
unlawful detainer complaint against Defendants Katherin Taylor Kahn (“Kahn”)
and Heather Lynn Ferguson (“Ferguson”).  
 
On July 27, 2023, Plaintiff applied for an order to serve the summons
and complaint by posting, indicating that service had been attempted at the
subject property on July 14, 15, and 19, to no avail.  The Court granted Plaintiff’s order to serve
via posting on July 27.
 
On October 27, 2023, within four minutes of each other, two separate form
UD-105 Answers were filed on behalf of Kahn and on behalf of Ferguson, each in
pro per.  
 
On August 7, 2023, a joint motion to quash service was filed on behalf
of Kahn and Ferguson, bearing what appears to be the same printed signature for
Kahn that appears on Kahn’s Answer.  The
Court denied the motion to quash on October 26, 2023.
 
The case was tried as a 1-day non-jury trial on January 29, 2024.  No Defendants appeared at the trial.  After considering Plaintiff’s exhibits, the
Court entered judgment in favor of Plaintiff and against Defendants on January
30, 2024.  The clerk of the Court sent
notice of the judgment to Ferguson and Kahn at the subject property via mail on
February 2, 2024.
 
Kahn now moves to set aside the judgment on the grounds that Kahn had
vacated the property on April 20, 2023, at the end of the extended lease,
before this action was commenced, that Kahn did not receive notice of this
action or the judgment (which were served to the subject property Kahn had
already moved out of) until after judgment was entered and Plaintiff contacted Kahn
to try to collect on the judgment, and the motion to quash and answer that were
filed in Kahn’s name were not filed by Kahn or by anyone authorized to file on
Kahn’s behalf. 
 
Plaintiff opposes on the grounds that Kahn Answered and appeared in
this action and therefore the judgment was lawfully obtained.  Kahn replies, challenging the timeliness and
factual contentions of the opposition.
 
LEGAL
STANDARDS – SECTION 473 RELIEF
 
Per Code of Civil Procedure
section 473, subdivision (b), a court may “relieve a party or his or her legal
representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken
against him or her through his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.” 
 
Code of Civil procedure section 473 “includes a discretionary
provision, which applies permissively, and a mandatory provision, which applies
as of right.” (Minick v. City of Petaluma (2016) 3 Cal.App.5th 15, 25
(hereafter Minick).)  “Section 473
is a remedial statute to be “applied liberally” in favor of relief if the
opposing party will not suffer prejudice. 
Because the law strongly favors trial and disposition on the merits, any
doubts in applying section 473 must be resolved in favor of the party seeking
relief from default.  Unless inexcusable
neglect is clear, the policy favoring trial on the merits prevails.”  (Minick, supra, 3 Cal.App.5th at p. 24
[cleaned up].)  
 
The mandatory provision of section 473, subd. (b) requires “an
attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect[.]”  Otherwise, relief
under section 473 is discretionary.  
 
The party or the legal
representative must seek such relief “within a reasonable time, in no case
exceeding six months, after the judgment, dismissal, order, or proceeding was
taken.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b); see Rappleyea v. Campbell (1994) 8 Cal.4th 975, 980 [“because more than
six months had elapsed from the entry of default, and hence relief under
section 473 was unavailable”]; People v.
The North River Ins. Co. (2011) 200 Ca.App.4th 712, 721 [motion
for relief under section 473 must be brought “within a reasonable time, in no
case exceeding six months”]).  “The
six-month limit is mandatory; a court has no authority to grant relief under
section 473, subdivision (b), unless an application is made within the
six-month period.”  (Arambula v. Union Carbide Corp. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 333, 340,
citations omitted.)  
 
“However, in the case of a
judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding determining the ownership or
right to possession of real or personal property, without extending the
six-month period, when a notice in writing is personally served within the State
of California both upon the party against whom the judgment, dismissal, order,
or other proceeding has been taken, and upon his or her attorney of record, if
any, notifying that party and his or her attorney of record, if any, that the
order, judgment, dismissal, or other proceeding was taken against him or her
and that any rights the party has to apply for relief under the provisions of
Section 473 of the Code of Civil Procedure shall expire 90 days after service
of the notice”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473,
subd. (b).)
 
ANALYSIS
 
            With regard to timing, judgment was
entered on January 30, 2024.  Kahn was
served with the judgment by mail to the subject property on February 2,
2024.  Because Kahn was not personally
served with the judgment, the 90-day time frame does not apply.  Kahn filed the instant motion on April 11,
2024, well within the six-month time limit. 
Therefore, Kahn’s motion is timely.
 
With regard to the motion’s substance, Kahn has provided her own
declaration, indicating:
 
4. On or about February 15, 2021, myself, and
Heather Lynn Ferguson ("Ferguson"), who is also named as a defendant
in the Action, entered into a one-year lease with Sarah Chang
("S.C."), the owner of an apartment located at 131 North Gale Drive,
Unit PH, in Beverly Hills, California ("Unit"). When the lease
expired on February 15, 2022, we went on a month-to-month tenancy. Around April
of 2022, S.C., insisted that we extend the lease for another year with an
expiration date of April 24, 2023, because she was selling the Unit and claimed
that this would protect us from rent increases or eviction upon sale. As a
result of these representations, I agreed to sign the extension. 
 
5. In May of 2022, I was told by S.C, that the
Unit had been transferred to 768 Ceres, LLC (“LLC”) and the LLC’s new contact
person was Michael Chang (“Chang”) who apparently lived at the same address as
S.C. 
 
6. On March 29, 2023, I texted Chang and told him
that I would be vacating at the end of April as I was no longer getting along
with Ferguson, Chang responded by confirming that he was sorry to hear this, A
copy of these texts is attached as Exhibit A. At that time in March, the rent
was current and there was a security deposit of $10,400. 
 
7. Chang and I again spoke by telephone and texted
on April 10, 2023 to confirm that I would be moving out before the expiration
of the lease extension. Chang tried to convince me to stay and get Ferguson to
go, but I would not agree. I told him I was moving out and going to live with
my parents in northern California, A copy of these texts is attached as Exhibit
B. 
 
8. Prior to moving out, my ex-boyfriend was murdered
and I forgot to pay the April rent. I received a three-day notice and I offered
to bring the rent current, but Chang responded that he wanted both mine and
Ferguson's rent together, which I could not obtain from her, but I paid my share
of the rent. 
 
9. On April 20, 2023, I moved out of the Premises
and mailed my keys to Chang and on the envelope I set forth my return address
at my parent's home in Tiburon. 
 
10. Since I vacated the Premises, I have lived in
the city of Tiburon in northern California with my parents and I did not hear from
Ferguson, Chang, or anyone else associated with the LLC or the Premises. I have
not returned to the Premises since I vacated, nor have I spoken with Ferguson
or Chang, nor was I aware that a Notice to Pay Rent or Quit had been given or
that this Action had been filed.  I have
never made an authorized appearance in this Action, and I have never personally
attended any court proceedings in this Action. 
 
11. I had no knowledge of the filing or pendency
of this Action until February 22, 2024 when Chang wanted to send me a
"county rent relief form." During the text exchange, the next day,
Chang sent me a truncated copy of answer in the Action purportedly signed by
me. As a result, I contacted my parent’s lawyer, Robert Kane.  He told me to request a copy of full Answer.
A copy of the text exchange is attached as Exhibit C. 
 
12. When I did not hear back from Chang, on
February 26, 2024, I requested via text that Chang send all documentation
regarding the tenancy since April 2023 when I moved out and gave him Kane's
email. A copy of the text exchange is attached as Exhibit D. Thereafter, I learned
Chang emailed information to Kane.  
 
13. Thereafter, Kane told me he spoke with
Ferguson who told Kane that she denied filing any papers on my behalf; claimed
she had paid the rent in full, and had an attorney who was handling this matter
for her as well as a claim for affirmative relief against Chang and the LLC. 
 
14.  Kane
also spoke with the individuals in the office of Nussbaum APC, which was
counsel for the LLC's in the Action.  They
provided him with some of the documents filed in the Action as Kane could not
access them online as the Action was for unlawful detainer. 
 
15. Kane provided me copies of the documents
provided by the Nussbaum office, which consisted of the Complaint filed July
11, 2023, the Proof of Service dated July 28, 2023, a Motion to Quash filed
August 7, 2023, an Answer purportedly signed and filed by me on October 27,
2023, and a Judgment of Unlawful Detainer filed January 30, 2024. 
 
16. When I reviewed the complaint, which is
attached as Exhibit E, I noted various inconsistencies and inaccuracies in it.
 
17. The proof of service, which is attached as Exhibit
F, reflects that I was never served as I had moved out in April 2023 and the
service was purportedly done by posting at and mailing a copy to Premises where
I no longer lived. Chang knew this and I do not know why he allowed service on
myself to be done in this manner. 
 
18. The Motion to Quash, which is attached as
Exhibit G, was never signed by me nor was I aware that it had been filed. I
never filed the Motion, never paid any filing fees, and my signature was signed
using an e-signature without my knowledge or consent. I had nothing to do with
the Motion’s preparation, and to the extent that it purports to be something I
authorized to be filed is completely false. I did note that Ferguson signed a declaration
in which she states in paragraph 2 that I called her on July 28, 2023 at 4:30
p.m. saying that I found eviction documents taped on the door.  This is completely false, I was not at the
premises on that date, nor have I been back to the premises since I vacated in
April. Moreover, I never called Ferguson on that date or since moving out.
Also, on the first page of the Motion to Quash, Alejandro Castillo is
referenced as a defendant. I do not, know that person. Finally, a Kevin Tolano signed
the proof of service and I do not know that person or the address listed on the
proof of service. 
 
19. The Answer purportedly signed and filed by me
on October 27, 2023 is attached as Exhibit H. 
I never saw this document. before Kane sent me a copy. I did not sign
it, I did not file it, and I did not authorize anyone to do so for me. 
 
20. The Judgment is attached as Exhibit I, reflects
that there was a court trial in which I appeared. This is untrue; I never
appeared. Furthermore, I do not know either Juliana Medina or Emanuel Gomez who
are also listed as defendants. 
 
21. Kane also advised me that the LLC’s attorney
told him that Ferguson has sought to vacate the default on a number of
occasions without success. 
 
22. On or about March 8, 2024, I received in the
mail at my parent’s address in Tiburon, a notice regarding my right to reclaim
property which has my name misspelled as “Kathryn.” A copy of the envelope with
my parent’s address is attached as Exhibit J. 
 
23. Since discovering the existence of this
Action, I have also been privy to text messages between Chang and Ferguson
which were in a group chat that was set up after the LLC became the owner. In
those texts, Ferguson maintains that I am not responsible and should not be a
party to this Action. A copy of these text messages is attached as Exhibit K.
 
24. As a result of the fraudulent court filings
in my name I reported this io the Tiburon, California police department on
March 6, 2024.
 
25. Based on the representations made by Chang
and Ferguson, I do not believe I should be a party to this Action as I moved
out as promised before the expiration of the lease and it appears that both
Chang and Ferguson have done things to conceal this Action from me so that they
could have a Judgment entered against me. 
 
26. Attached hereto as Exhibit L is a copy of my
proposed verified answer to the complaint filed on July 11, 2023.
 
(Kahn
Decl. ¶¶ 4-26.)
 
            As such, Kahn has satisfied the initial
burden of establishing that the judgment entered against Kahn was a result of fraud
on the Court resulting in Kahn’s surprise and excusable neglect.
 
            In opposition, Plaintiff provides
the declaration of Michael Chang, indicating “On March 5, 2024, I visited the
Property and discovered that mail addressed to Defendant was continuing to be
delivered to the Property.”  (Chang Decl.
¶ 5.)  Interestingly, Mr. Chang fails to
address the factual assertions by Kahn that he was aware of Kahn vacating the
subject property in April 2023. 
Moreover, Mr. Chang does not refute the email communications related to Kahn
vacating the subject property.  
 
            Plaintiff objects to the opposition,
which was filed on May 3, 2024, as untimely. 
Code of Civil Procedure section 1005 requires that opposing papers be
field and served at least nine court days prior to the hearing.  Nine court days prior to the May 9, 2024
hearing is April 26.  The Court has
discretion whether to consider late filed papers.  (California Rule of Court 3.1300(d).)
 
            The Court finds that the substance
of the opposition does not move the needle here.  The fact that Chang observed mail for Kahn continue
being delivered to the property does not outweigh the declaratory and
documentary evidence Kahn provided that Kahn moved out in April 2023, had no
actual or constructive notice of the lawsuit, did not in fact file the motion
to quash or answer that were filed in her name, and that judgment was therefore
entered to Kahn’s surprise as a result of Kahn’s excusable neglect.  In short, the Court gives more weight and
credibility to Kahn’s declaration.  
 
Conclusion
 
            Therefore, the Court grants Kahn’s
motion and sets aside the judgment entered against Kahn only on January 30,
2024.  
 
            Further, on the Court’s own motion,
the Court strikes all pleadings filed by Kahn before the entry of judgment on
January 30, 2024, and orders Kahn to answer the complaint on or before May 23,
2024.  
 
            The Court sets a Trial Readiness
Conference on May 31, 2024 at 8:30 A.M. in Department 207.  Counsel shall meet and confer in advance of
the conference regarding when the parties will be ready for trial, the type of
trial to be conducted (jury or non-jury) and the time estimate for trial.  
 
            The
Clerk of the Court shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling.
 
 
 
DATED: May 9, 2024                                                                        ___________________________
Michael E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 