 Case Number:  20STCV03577    Hearing Date:   May 9, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


May
  9, 2024




CASE NUMBER


20STCV03577




MOTION


Motion
  for Summary Judgment/Summary Adjudication




MOVING PARTIES


Defendants Topanga Creek Properties, a
  General Partnership; Topanga Creek Properties, LLC; Young Ok Bae; and Moon
  Shik Bae




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff
  Derek Underwood  



 
MOVING PAPERS:
 

Notice
     of Motion and Motion for Summary Judgment/Summary Adjudication; Memorandum
     of Points and Authorities
Declaration
     of Simon Yoon
Declaration
     of Glenn Rothner
Declaration
     of James P. Hart, Jr.
Declaration
     of Young Ok Bae
Appendix
     of Exhibits
Separate
     Statement of Undisputed Material Facts 

 
OPPOSITION PAPERS:
 

Opposition to Motion for Summary
     Judgment/Summary Adjudication; Memorandum of Points and Authorities
Declaration of Manuel D. Balam
Documentary Evidence in Support of
     Plaintiff’s Opposition
Separate Statement of Disputed and
     Additional Material Facts 
Request for Judicial Notice


 
REPLY PAPERS:
 

Reply
     to Plaintiff’s Opposition to Motion for Summary Judgment/Summary
     Adjudication

 
BACKGROUND
 
On January 29, 2020, Plaintiff Derek Underwood (“Plaintiff”) brought
suit alleging five causes of action for (1) assault; (2) battery; (3) negligent
hiring, training, retention, and supervision; (4) general negligence; and (5)
premises liability, stemming from a physical attack at a music venue.  Defendants Topanga Creek Properties, a
general partnership; Topanga Creek Properties, LLC; Young Ok Bae; and Moon Shik
Bae (“Moving Defendants”) move for summary judgment, or in the alternative,
summary adjudication on the following issues:
 
Issue One: There is no triable issue of material
fact as to the first cause of action for assault in that the persons involved
in the altercation with the plaintiff were not agents or employees of movants,
the property owners.  
 
Issue Two: There is no triable issue of material
fact as to the second cause of action for battery in that the persons involved
in the altercation with the plaintiff were not agents or employees of movants,
the property owners.
 
Issue Three: There is no triable issue of
material fact as to the fourth cause of action for general negligence in that
movants did not owe a duty to the plaintiff which was breached.
 
Issue Four: There is no triable issue of material
fact as to the fourth[1]
cause of action for premises liability in that movants did not owe a duty to
the plaintiff which was breached.
 
Issue Five: There is no triable issue of material
fact as to the prayer for punitive damages in that movants did not engage in
despicable conduct relative to plaintiff.
 
            The Court notes that the third cause
of action for negligent hiring, training, retention, and supervision is not
brought against the Moving Defendants.  Plaintiff
opposes the motion and the Moving Defendants reply.
 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
Plaintiff requests judicial notice of the “Los Angeles County
Sheriff’s Department INCIDENT REPORT, February 3, 2018, p.7 […] and that it
contains the following statement: ‘It should be noted the area where this
incident occurred is known for high drug activity use.’”  
 
Plaintiff’s request for judicial notice is denied.  As a threshold matter, police reports are not
subject to either mandatory or discretionary judicial notice under Evidence
Code sections 451 or 452 because they are not part of a court record under
section 452, subdivision (d), nor are they records of “official acts of the
legislative, executive, or judicial departments” of the state under section
452, subdivision (c).  (In re Marriage
of Brewster & Clevenger (2020) 45 Cal.App.5th 481, 498.)  
 
Moreover, even if judicial notice of the police report were proper, courts
may not take judicial notice of the truth of hearsay statements or allegations contained
in the report “because such matters are reasonably subject to dispute and
therefore require formal proof.”  (Lockley v. Law Office of Cantrell, Green,
Pekich, Cruz & McCort (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 875, 882 [cleaned up].)  Therefore, the Court also cannot take
judicial notice of the statement in the police report that the incident
occurred in a high drug activity use area.
 
As such, Plaintiff’s request
for judicial notice is denied.
 
LEGAL STANDARDS – MOTION FOR SUMMARY
JUDGMENT/ADJUDICATION
 
“[T]he party moving for
summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue
of material fact and that he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law[.]
There is a triable issue of material fact if, and only if, the evidence would
allow a reasonable trier of fact to find the underlying fact in favor of the
party opposing the motion in accordance with the applicable standard of proof.”
¿(Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850
(hereafter Aguilar).) ¿“[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears an
initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence
of any triable issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of production,
he causes a shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a burden of
production of his own to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a
triable issue of material fact.” ¿(Ibid.; Smith v. Wells Fargo Bank,
N.A. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 1463, 1474 [summary judgment standards held by Aguilar
apply to summary adjudication motions].)  
 
Further, “the trial court
may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a factfinder to determine whose
version is more likely true.  Nor may the
trial court grant summary judgment based on the court's evaluation of credibility.”  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th. at p. 840
[cleaned up]; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of Transportation
(2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or
summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the
light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences
in favor of that party”].)  
 
A party may move for
summary adjudication as to one or more causes of action, affirmative defenses,
claims for damages, or issues of duty if that party contends that there is no
merit to the cause of action, defense, or claim for damages, or if the party
contends that there is no duty owed.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).)  “A motion for summary adjudication shall be
granted only if it completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative
defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty.”  (Ibid.)  A cause of action has no merit if: (1) one or
more elements of the cause of action cannot be separately established, even if
that element is separately pleaded, or (2) a defendant establishes an
affirmative defense to that cause of action. 
(See Code Civ. Proc., §
437c, subd. (n); Union Bank v. Superior
Court (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 573, 583.) 
Once the defendant has shown that a cause of action has no merit, the
burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable issue of material fact
exists as to that cause of action.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (o)(2); Union Bank v. Superior Court, supra, 31 Cal.App.4th at p.
583.)  Additionally, in line with Aguilar,
“[o]n a motion for summary adjudication, the trial court has no discretion to
exercise.  If a triable issue of material fact exists as to the challenged
causes of action, the motion must be denied. If there is no triable issue of
fact, the motion must be granted.”  (Fisherman's Wharf Bay Cruise Corp.
v. Superior Court (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 309, 320.) 
 
DISCUSSION

 
1.     AGENCY
 
Moving Defendants argue that
the first and second causes of action, for battery and assault, respectively,
fail because the perpetrators were not the agents or employees of the Moving
Defendants, who own the property.
 
“[A]n employer is vicariously
liable for the torts of its employees committed within the scope of the
employment.”  (Lisa M. v. Henry Mayo
Newhall Memorial Hospital (1995) 12 Cal.4th 291, 296.)  “[A]n employee's willful, malicious and even
criminal torts may fall within the scope of his or her employment for purposes
of respondeat superior, even though the employer has not authorized the employee
to commit crimes or intentional torts.  (Id.
at pp. 296-297.)  
 
In Carr v. Wm. C. Crowell
Co. (1946) 28 Cal.2d 652, the employer was held vicariously liable when an employee
threw a hammer at another worker after a dispute arose regarding work on the
property, because the dispute was “engendered” by the employment enterprise, as
opposed to a personal conflict between the workers separate from the job.  By contrast, in Monty v. Orlandi (1959)
169 Cal.App.2d 620, the bar owner was not vicariously liable when the on-duty
bartender assaulted the plaintiff because the assault stemmed from a personal
dispute with the plaintiff’s wife.
 
            However,
in order for vicarious liability to attach, there must be an employment or
agency relationship.  “An agent is one
who represents another, called the principal, in dealings with third persons.
Such representation is called agency. Agency is either actual or ostensible. An
agency is actual when the agent is really employed by the principal. An
ostensible agency is established when a principal intentionally, or by want of
ordinary care, causes a third person to believe another is an agent. A
principal is liable for the acts of an ostensible agent when third parties have
justifiably relied on representations made by the principal. A principal is
also liable when the principal knows the agent holds himself or herself out as
clothed with certain authority and remains silent.” (Jacoves v. United
Merchandising Corp. (1992) 9 Cal.App.4th 88, 103–104 [cleaned up].)
 
            The
essential characteristics of an agency relationship are “(1) An agent or
apparent agent holds a power to alter the legal relations between the principal
and third persons and between the principal and himself; (2) an agent is a
fiduciary with respect to matters within the scope of the agency; and (3) a
principal has the right to control the conduct of the agent with respect to
matters entrusted to him.”  (Garlock
Sealing Techs., LLC v. NAK Sealing Techs. Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 937,
964.)
 
a.     Moving Defendants’ Evidence         
 
As alleged in the complaint,
non-moving Defendants Andrew Heric, Brooks Ellis, and Does 1-20, “violently
and brutally screamed at, attacked, jumped, hit, punched, kicked, and/or used
an electric weapon on Plaintiff and some of the people Plaintiff was
near.”  (UMF 2; Complaint ¶ 43.)  Heric and Ellis are alleged to be employees/agents
of Defendant Label27, who leased the premises from the Moving Defendants and
who co-hosted the music event. 
(Complaint ¶¶ 6-8.)  
 
The Moving Defendants, by contrast, own the premises where the music
event took place.  (UMF 26.)  The Moving Defendants did not put on the
music event.  (UMF 28.)  Moving Defendants have provided evidence that
they do not necessarily have advanced knowledge that events will occur, nor do
they exercise any control over the activities of the tenants or promoters
putting on events, like the music event the night of the attack.  (UMF 29-33.)
 
Specifically, Simon Yoon, the on-sight manager for Topanga Creek
Properties, a General Partnership declared “I did not exercise any control over
the activities of the other tenants or promoters putting on events, including
concerts or performances, including providing security for same, and many times
I had no knowledge the event, especially those in the evening hours, were even
taking place.”  (Yoon Decl. ¶ 15.)  
 
Likewise, Glenn Rothner, the managing agent for Topanga Creek
Properties, a General Partnership, declared, “Topanga Creek Properties, a
General Partnership did not exercise any control over the activities of the
tenants or promoters putting on events, including concerts or performances,
including providing security for same, and had no knowledge an event was even
taking place on the night of the Underwood incident.”  (Rothner Decl. ¶ 8.)  Rothner further declared, “Topanga Creek
Properties, a General Partnership, never agreed to provide or pay for security
for any event on the property including any at the Corazon Performing Arts
venue. If the tenant or subtenant decided that security was appropriate, it was
up to them, not the property owner to provide it. As the managing agent of the
property owner I had no knowledge of the particulars of any event, including
such things as numbers of people anticipated to attend, the nature of the event,
the time of the event, and whether security and/or crowd control measures would
be undertaken by the promoter of the events.” 
(Rothner Decl. ¶ 10.)
 
Young Ok Bae, who co-owns Topanga Creek Properties, a General
Partnership with her husband, through the entity Topanga Creek Properties, LLC
declared:
 
18. Neither I, my husband, Topanga Creek
Properties LLC nor Topanga Creek Properties, a General Partnership put on the
event which I learned after-the-fact was happening on the night of the
Underwood incident.
 
19. Neither I, my husband, Topanga Creek
Properties LLC nor Topanga Creek Properties, a General Partnership exercised
any control over the activities of the other tenants or promoters putting on
events, including concerts or performances, including providing security for
same, and I had no knowledge the [sic] an event was even taking place on the
night of the Underwood incident.
 
(Bae
Decl. ¶¶ 18-19.)
 
Therefore, Moving Defendants
have met their initial burdens of production and persuasion that Heric and
Ellis, who committed the attack, are not agents of the Moving Defendants
because Moving Defendants have no control over them. 
 
b.     Plaintiff’s Evidence  
 
Having met their initial
burdens of production and persuasion, the burden shifts to Plaintiff to create
a triable issue of material fact.
 
Plaintiff attempts to
demonstrate that Moving Defendants did, in fact, exert control over the
premises, because they implemented rules and regulations as addendums to the
lease agreements, which required that the tenants comply with the law and not
distribute alcohol on the premises without permission from the landlord.
 
In support of this position, Plaintiff
has produced as Exhibits 15 and 16, which was also Exhibits 15 and 16 to the
Rothner Deposition, two unsigned lease addendums to a lease agreement between
Moving Defendants and a lessee named Alexandra DeCleene, with rules and
regulations and deposition testimony from Rothner that these Exhibit control
DeCleene’s lease agreement.  (See Ex. C [Rothner
Depo] at p. 121:10-22.)  Plaintiff has
also produced the deposition testimony of Simon Yoon, that there are no written
practices, policies and procedures that apply to all tenants (Ex. D [Yoon Depo]
at pp. 80:2-81:5; 104:1-16.)  Plaintiff
has further produced the deposition testimony of Young Ok Bae indicating that
the partnership could lose its liquor license if any tenant other than the
General Store sold or served alcohol on the premises, and it would not allow
that to continue, if it became aware of it. 
(Ex. E [Bae Depo] at pp. 105:16-106:20; 109:7-14; 110:3-24.)
 
Plaintiff has not met his
burden to create a triable issue of material fact that Moving Defendants
exerted control over the attacking Defendants Heric and Ellis.  Plaintiff has not produced any lease
agreement between itself and Label27, Heric, or Ellis, much less any signed
lease addendum requiring that Label27, Heric, or Ellis comply with the law or
refrain from distributing alcohol on the premises.  In fact, the Yoon deposition testimony
indicates there were no such written practices, policies, or procedures that
applied to all tenants.
 
Plaintiff also argues that the
complaint alleges that Moving Defendants are joint venturers with the Label27
Defendants, however Plaintiff has not produced any evidence suggesting that the
Moving Defendants profited from the music events put on by Label27 aside from
the lease agreement generally or any other evidence that Moving Defendants were
joint venturers with Label27.
 
However, Plaintiff makes a
request pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure, section 437c, subdivision (h), for
additional discovery, indicating that “a death and serious pregnancy/newborn
brain injury medical events have prevented discovery important to these
proceedings.”  (See also Balam Decl. ¶¶ 9-18.)  Specifically, Plaintiff contends that
Defendants did not produce several requested lease agreement documents and
other documents pertaining to Moving Defendants’ control, and due to the
medical events, Plaintiff has been unable to follow up to acquire those
documents in time for these proceedings. 

 
In Reply, Moving Defendants
argue that Plaintiff’s continuance should be denied because the motion was
filed 8 months ago, so Plaintiff had ample time conduct the requested
discovery.  But the Balam declaration
indicates that the November 2023 depositions crystallized that the documents
existed but had not yet been produced, that illness and death in the Bae family
prevented discovery from December 2023-February 2024, and then from February –
April 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel’s wife and newborn baby suffered serious health
issues requiring separate hospitalizations.
 
In light of this information,
the Court agrees a continuance on Issues 1 and 2 is warranted and continues the
hearing on the Motion with respect to Issues 1 and 2 so the parties may
complete the necessary discovery regarding the lease agreements and other
missing documents regarding control.
 
2.     DUTY
 
The
elements of a negligence cause of action are the existence of a legal duty of
care, breach of that duty, and proximate cause resulting in injury. The
elements of a cause of action for premises liability are the same as those for
negligence: duty, breach, causation, and damages.” (Castellon v. U.S.
Bancorp (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 994, 998, citation omitted.) “Those who own,
possess, or control property generally have a duty to exercise ordinary care in
managing the property in order to avoid exposing others to an unreasonable risk
of harm.” (Annocki v. Peterson Enterprises, LLC (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th
32, 37.)
 
“It is generally true that a
person is liable for injuries to another only as a result of his or her own
conduct. Liability is based not on responsibility for the conduct of others,
but on the failure of the landowner or occupier to act reasonably under the
circumstances when he or she has reason to anticipate the probability of injury
and has an opportunity to prevent the injury or warn of the peril. Thus,
liability is based on his or her own failure to act reasonably.” (Cody F. v.
Falletti (2001) 92 Cal.App.4th 1232, 1242 [cleaned up]; Delgado v.
American Multi-Cinema, Inc. (1999) 72 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1406, fn. 1
[“premises liability alleges a defendant property owner allowed a dangerous
condition on its property or failed to take reasonable steps to secure its
property against criminal acts by third parties”].)
 
Moving Defendants contend they did not owe Plaintiff a duty of care
because the attack was not foreseeable.  
 
a.     Moving Defendants’ Evidence         
 
Moving Defendants have
provided evidence that Plaintiff himself had been to the location over 100
times prior to the incident because his friend ran a music venue there and Plaintiff
would play music and hang out.  (Ex. B
[Plaintiff’s Depo] at p. 135:7-24.) 
Plaintiff further testified he had no problem with violence directed
against him on the property prior to the incident.  (Id. at p. 139:14-18.) 
 
Plaintiff also asserts that Plaintiff “felt comfortable” at the venue
until the incident, citing Plaintiff’s depo, p. 240:19-23, and that prior to
the incident, Plaintiff was “not really” aware that there was some sort of
problem with events at the location where it was likely that people might be
attacked (p. 144:6-10.)  The Court notes
that Moving Defendants did not provide page 240 of Plaintiff’s deposition
testimony, and page 237, which was provided, indicates only that Plaintiff did
not feel safe at the venue following the incident; it does not indicate that
Plaintiff felt safe there prior.  
 
Moving Defendants also provide the Declaration of Young Ok Bae,
indicating:
 
11. I am aware of an alleged incident in
February, 2018, involving someone named Derek Underwood who has sued me
personally, sued the market and sued the LLC I own and the general partnership.
The incident happened at night after the store was closed and I was not on site
during the incident. The store has security cameras which monitor the parking
lot area, however, which I understand captured the incident. 
 
12. Before the Underwood incident I aware of only
one incident in the prior 21 years since I have been at the property which
involved violence. 
 
13. In approximately 2005, there was an incident
involving the son of the pizza shop owner, no longer a tenant on the property,
where a verbal altercation inside the pizza shop between the son and another
person led to persons running into the parking lot where a person was stabbed
and the attacker ended up going to jail. It was not associated with any musical
event on the premises. This was about 13 years before the Underwood incident 
 
14. I am not aware of any homeless living on the
subject property – it is my observation that they seem to be living off the
property in the hills and may come onto the property from time to time in which
case they are told to leave. However, I have never been aware of any violent
conduct or violent criminal activity associated with such homeless individuals.

 
15. I am not aware of any drug use on the
property. 
 
16. I am on the property on a daily basis working
in the grocery store but the store is closed at night. 
 
17. I am aware that musical events take place on
the property (not at the building where the general store is located) and that
the parking lot is used for persons attending those events. I was never aware
of any violent criminal activity associated with such musical events.
 
(Bae
Decl. ¶¶ 11-17.)
 
            Moving Defendants also provide the
declaration of Simon Yoon, indicating:
 
8. I am familiar with the activities on the
location since 2013. That would include any criminal activity. 
 
9. Other than shoplifting and minor theft, I am
not aware of any criminal activity on the premises that I can recall before
becoming aware of an incident with Derek Underwood, a regular customer of the
store. 
 
10. I came to work one day in early 2018 and
Derek Underwood visited the store and asked that I obtain surveillance video
from the night before. I located the video and allowed him to view it. I did as
well. It showed an altercation taking place in the patio area of a building
which was not part of the general store and also in the parking lot. The events
in the surveillance video which I watched took place after the general store
had closed and I had left the property. 
 
11. That incident with Mr. Underwood was the
first time I became aware of any violent criminal activity on the property. 
 
12. I am aware of homeless people at or near the
property but not aware of any violence involving them. 
 
13. I am not aware of any violence associated
with drug activity on the property. 
 
14. I am aware that the tenants and promoters put
on musical events from time to time and these are run by the other tenants or
promoters but was never aware of any violence associated with those events
before the Underwood incident.
 
[…]
 
16. I never communicated to the managing agent of
the General Partnership before the Underwood incident any concern with security
or safety at the premises.
 
(Yoon
Decl. ¶¶ 8-14, 16.)
 
            Further, Moving Defendants provide
the declaration of Glenn Rothner, which indicates:
 
5. Before the Underwood incident I was not aware
of any other incident at the property as to which I was functioning as managing
agent for the owner which involved violence. 
 
6. I am aware generally of homeless near said
property. However, I have never been made aware of any violent conduct or
violent criminal activity associated with such homeless individuals. 
 
7. I have not been made aware of any violence
associated with any drug or alcohol use on the property. 
 
8. Topanga Creek Properties, a General
Partnership did not exercise any control over the activities of the tenants or
promoters putting on events, including concerts or performances, including
providing security for same, and had no knowledge an event was even taking
place on the night of the Underwood incident.
 
(Rothner Decl. ¶¶ 5-8.)
 
            Moving Defendants have not met their
burdens of production and persuasion that a violent altercation like the one that
injured Plaintiff was not foreseeable. 
Moving Defendants’ own evidence provides conflicting accounts of Yoon’s,
Rothner’s, and Young Ok Bae’s knowledge of homeless encampments in the parking
lot of the property, drug use on the property, and prior violence at the
property.  
 
Further, the characterization of Plaintiff’s testimony as “not really”
being aware of the threat of violence at the venue mischaracterizes Plaintiff’s
testimony, which cites numerous examples of people having altercations,
including physical altercations at the venue. 
(See Ex. B [Plaintiff’s depo] at pp. 144:6-21 [“I know that they have
had to call the police to their venue multiple times […] if I said ‘Hey, why
were the police outside?’ [the Baes] said, ‘Oh, this guy drove up and attacked
someone.’”]; 145:21-147:10 [“someone driving through the Canyon came up and
they got into a verbal spat and someone hit the other person […] it was a local
that was notoriously in trouble that was staying in an RV in the back parking
lot.”]; p. 147:20-24 [“I think [the Baes] were aware of it because one of the
guys was knocked out, and so they called the police.”]; p. 149:13-19 [“there
was usually people living on the property in their RVs or sleeping in their
cars on the property or drug-related incidents.”]; p. 151:3-19 [“I was in 131
with actually my friend David Blake that was there, and out of nowhere some guy
came in through the back door that was living in the back in an RV, and walked
in and slapped Brian Howard in the face, because I guess he did a job painting
the venue and Brian hadn’t paid him yet.”].)  
In short, Plaintiff’s deposition testimony outlines several prior
violent incidents that Plaintiff was personally aware of, as well as testimony
that other members of the Bae family were generally aware of these prior
incidents.
 
            Therefore, the Court denies summary
adjudication as to Issues 3 and 4.
 
3.     DESPICABLE CONDUCT
 
To obtain an award of punitive
damages, a plaintiff must prove the elements set forth in the punitive damages
statute, Civil Code section 3294. (College Hosp., Inc. v. Superior Court (1994)
8 Cal.4th 704, 721.)  As set forth
in the Civil Code, 
 
(1) “Malice” means conduct which is intended
by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which
is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard
of the rights or safety of others.  (2)
“Oppression” means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and
unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person's rights.  (3) “Fraud” means an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.
 
(Civ.
Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1)-(3), emphasis added.)  
 
            To defeat summary adjudication on a
claim for punitive damages, the burden is on plaintiff to produce “clear and
convincing evidence” of malice, fraud, or oppression.  (See Basich v. Allstate Ins. Co. (2001)
87 Cal.App.4th 1112, 1121 [“on a motion for summary adjudication with respect
to a punitive damages claim, the higher evidentiary standard applies”].)  As the Court of Appeal explained in Basich,
“[i]f the plaintiff is going to prevail on a punitive damages claim, he or she
can only do so by establishing malice, oppression or fraud by clear and
convincing evidence.  Thus, any evidence
submitted in response to a motion for summary adjudication must necessarily
meet that standard.”   (Basich, supra,
87 Cal.App.4th at p. 1121.) 
 
Moving Defendants contend that
Plaintiff cannot establish Moving Defendants engaged in malice, fraud or
oppression, including despicable conduct. 
Here, Plaintiff does not address Issue 5 in the opposition or in
Plaintiff’s section 437c(h) request for additional discovery.  Thus, Plaintiff has not produced “clear and
convincing evidence” to show that there is a triable issue of material fact
regarding whether the Moving Defendants engaged in malice, fraud or oppression
to substantiate the punitive damages claim.
 
Therefore, the Court grants
summary adjudication as to Issue 5.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court grants in part, denies in part, and continues in
part Moving Defendants’ Motion for Summary Adjudication.  With respect to Issues 1 and 2, the Court
grants Plaintiff’s request to continue the hearing to allow the parties to finish
discovery with respect to the missing lease agreement and other control
documents.  With respect to Issues 3 and
4, having found that Moving Defendants failed their initial burdens of
production and persuasion, the Court denies summary adjudication.  With respect to Issue 5, the Court finds that
Moving Defendants have met their burdens of production and persuasion that
Plaintiff will be unable to establish they engaged in despicable conduct, and
Plaintiff did not address this issue in either the Opposition or in Plaintiff’s
section 437c(h) request to continue the hearing to finalize discovery.  Therefore, the Court grants summary
adjudication as to Issue 5.
 
Because the Court denies summary adjudication as to Issues 3 and 4,
the Court also denies summary judgment.
 
With respect to Issues 1 and 2, the hearing on the motion for summary
adjudication shall be continued to June 17, 2024 at 8:30 A.M. in Department 207
to allow the parties to finalize their discovery of the lease agreement and
other control documents.  
 
Plaintiff shall file and serve supplemental opposition papers on or
before June 3, 2024 and Moving Defendants shall file and supplemental reply papers
on or before June 10, 2024.  All
supplemental papers shall address Issues 1 and 2 only, and any supplemental memorandum
of points and authorities shall not exceed 10 pages.  
 
Moving Defendants shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file the
notice with a proof of service regarding the same.   
 
 
 
 
 
DATED:  May 9, 2024                                                           ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court


