 Case Number:  23SMCV02791    Hearing Date:   May 9, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


May 9, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV02791




MOTIONS


1.    
  Defendant City National Bank, N.A.’s Demurrer and
  Motion to Strike First Amended Complaint
2.    
  Plaintiff Kimberly Tucker’s Motion for Leave to Amend
  the Complaint




MOVING PARTIES


1.    
  Defendant City National Bank, N.A.
2.    
  Plaintiff Kimberly Tucker




OPPOSING PARTIES


1.    
  Plaintiff Kimberly Tucker
2.    
  Defendant City National Bank, N.A.



 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiff Kimberly Tucker’s (“Plaintiff”) business entity previously
filed suit against Defendant City National Bank, N.A., alleging (1) race and
color discrimination; (2) retaliation; (3) failure to prevent discrimination
and retaliation; (4) unfair business practices; (5) intentional infliction of
emotional distress; and (6) fraud and deceit for allegedly discriminating
against it three times in five years for exercising its “freedom of speech” by
“making a complaint about being mistreated.” 
(See LAX Snak Trak Vending v. City National Bank, Los Angeles
Superior Court Case No. 23STCV00130.) 
The Court sustained Defendant’s unopposed demurrer to that complaint
with leave to amend, on the basis that it was uncertain, and noted that
Plaintiff cannot appear or file pleadings in pro per on behalf of the
business, which can only be represented by a licensed attorney.  (Case No. 23STCV00130, May 11, 2023 Minute
Order.)  Upon the entity’s failure to
timely amend, the Court granted Defendant’s ex parte application to
dismiss for failure to prosecute.
 
On June 22, 2023, Plaintiff brought this suit, in an individual
capacity, alleging three causes of action for (1) discrimination; (2)
retaliation re a complaint; and (3) unlawful business practices, stemming from
Defendant’s alleged racial discrimination in denying Plaintiff a business and
CD account, and retaliation for Plaintiff’s prior complaints of unfair
treatment.
 
On December 13, 2023, the Court overruled Defendant’s demurrer on the
basis of uncertainty, finding that the first two causes of action appeared to
be brought under the Unruh Act, but sustained Defendant’s demurrer to all three
causes of action on the grounds that they failed to state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action.  In light
of the additional allegations Plaintiff represented she could add to the
Complaint to cure the deficiencies identified by the Court, the Court granted
Plaintiff leave to amend the Complaint “in conformance with the Court’s ruling
on or before January 17, 2024.”
 
On January 16, 2024, Plaintiff filed the First Amended Complaint,
which alleges eight causes of action for (1) violation of the Unruh Act; (2)
Violation of the Unruh Act; (3) Violation of Unfair Competition Law; (4)
Intentional Interference with Prospective Business Advantage; (5) Negligent
Interference with Prospective Business Advantage; (6) Gross Negligence; (7)
Negligent Infliction of Mental and Emotional Distress; and (8) Intentional
Infliction of Mental and Emotional Distress. 

 
Defendant now demurs to all causes of action alleged in the First
Amended Complaint on the grounds that they fail to state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action and are uncertain, pursuant to the Code of Civil
Procedure, section 430.10, subdivisions (e) and (f), respectively.  Defendant also moves to strike Plaintiff’s
request for punitive damages and attorneys’ fees.  Plaintiff opposes the demurrer and Defendant
replies.
 
Plaintiff separately moves for leave to file a second amended
complaint, which Defendant opposes and Plaintiff replies.
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.     DEMURRER
 
“It is black letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of
the allegations in a complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015)
235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In testing the sufficiency of a cause of
action, a court accepts “[a]s true all material facts properly pled and matters
which may be judicially noticed but disregard contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.  [A court
also gives] the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole
and its parts in their context.”  (290
Division (EAT), LLC v. City & County of San Francisco (2022) 86
Cal.App.5th 439, 450 [cleaned up]; Hacker v. Homeward Residential, Inc.
(2018) 26 Cal.App.5th 270, 280 [“in considering the merits of a demurrer,
however, “the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however
improbable they may be”].)
 
Further, in ruling on a demurrer, a court must “liberally construe”
the allegations of the complaint “with a view to substantial justice between
the parties.”  (See Code Civ. Proc., §
452.)  “This rule of liberal construction
means that the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not
the defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)   
 
In summary, “[d]etermining whether the complaint is sufficient as
against the demurrer on the ground that it does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action, the rule is that if on consideration of all the
facts stated it appears the plaintiff is entitled to any relief at the hands of
the court against the defendants the complaint will be held good although the
facts may not be clearly stated, or may be intermingled with a statement of
other facts irrelevant to the cause of action shown, or although the plaintiff
may demand relief to which he is not entitled under the facts alleged.”  (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193
Cal.App.2d 636, 639.)
 
A.   
UNCERTAINTY
 
A demurrer for uncertainty will be sustained only where the pleading
is so bad that the responding party cannot reasonably respond - i.e., he or she
cannot reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what
claims are directed against him or her. 
(Khoury v. Maly’s of California (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612,
616.)  Where a demurrer is made upon the
ground of uncertainty, the demurrer must distinctly specify exactly how or why
the pleading is uncertain, and where such uncertainty appears by reference to
page and line numbers.  (See Fenton v.
Groveland Comm. Services Dist. (1982) 135 Cal.App.3d 797, 809.)  
 
Defendant argues that all eight causes of action fail for uncertainty,
because Plaintiff fails to allege how she was individually harmed by virtue of
Defendant allegedly refusing to open a business account for Plaintiff’s
unidentified business.  The Court
disagrees.  The purpose of the Unruh
Civil Rights Act is “to eradicate arbitrary, invidious discrimination in
business establishments, and stand as a bulwark protecting each person's
inherent right to full and equal access to all business establishments.”  (Liapes v. Facebook, Inc. (2023) 95
Cal.App.5th 910, 919.)  As the United
States Supreme Court has explained, such discrimination, “deprives persons of
their individual dignity and denies society the benefits of wide participation
in political, economic, and cultural life.” 
(Roberts v. U.S. Jaycees (1984) 468 U.S. 609, 625.)  Here, Plaintiff alleges:
 
16. Between June 18, 2018 and September 29, 2022,
Plaintiff attempted to, but was refused by Defendants Rudea, Martinez and
Gordon to be allowed to open up business bank accounts at three different
branch offices of City National Bank, N.A. located in Santa Monica, Pacific
Palisades, and West Los Angeles.
 
17. Although Plaintiff provided her physical
address to said Defendants, said Defendants used a failure to provide said
address as a pretext to deny her opening such account.
 
18. The real reason said Defendants refused to
open up said account was that they did not want to do business with people of
color and had a practice of racial profiling as set forth in Paragraph 11
above[.]
 
(FAC
¶¶ 16-18.)
 
Thus, Plaintiff clearly alleges that Defendant refused to allow
Plaintiff to open a business account because of Plaintiff’s race.  Plaintiff’s allegations therefore establish
the baseline deprivation of Plaintiff’s individual dignity and wide
participation in economic life.  
 
Moreover, Plaintiff has alleged the following economic harms:
 
22. As a direct and proximate result of such
statutory violations, Plaintiff’s business suffered damage in the form of
business losses and opportunities in the past in a monetary sum in excess of
the jurisdictional minimum of this court in an amount to be proven at trial. 
 
23. As a further direct and proximate result of
such statutory violations, Plaintiff continues to suffer and will continue to
suffer in the future business and earnings losses in an amount to be proven at
trial. 
 
24. As a further direct and proximate result of
said statutory violations, Plaintiff suffered severe mental and emotional upset
and distress, all to her general damage in an amount to be proven at trial. 
 
25. As a further direct and proximate result of
such statutory violations, Plaintiff incurred costs for professional
psychological services and medications in an amount to be proven at trial.
 
26. As a further direct and proximate result of
such statutory violations, Plaintiff continues to incur and will continue in
the future to incur costs for professional psychological services and
medications in an amount to be proven at trial
 
(FAC
¶¶ 22-26.)  Thus, Plaintiff has
established that the economic harm to her business has in turn caused Plaintiff
to personally suffer business and earnings losses, and that Plaintiff has
incurred expenses related to psychological treatment resulting from Defendant’s
discrimination.
 
Defendant does not demonstrate that any portions of the FAC are so bad
that Defendant cannot reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or
denied, or what claims are directed against it. 
The Court thus declines to sustain Defendant’s demurrer on the basis of
uncertainty.  
 
B.   
FAILURE TO STATE A CAUSE OF ACTION
 
Defendant contends that (1) causes of action four through eight were
improperly added to the complaint without proper leave of the Court; (2) causes
of action one through three fail to state specific facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action.
 
                                                        
i.         
Scope of
Leave
 
In addition to raising specific arguments as to each cause of action, Defendant
demurs to the fourth through eighth causes of action on the basis that the First
Amended Complaint exceeds the scope of leave granted by virtue of the Court’s December
13, 2023 Minute Order on Defendant’s Demurrer to the original complaint.  Plaintiff counters that the amendments are
within the scope of the Court’s order granting leave, because the new causes of
action are based upon the same facts Plaintiff raised in opposition to the
original demurrer, which the Court acknowledged as providing a basis to permit
Plaintiff leave to amend.  The Court
notes that the Amended Complaint also names a new Defendant, Chad Gordon.
 
The Court agrees that the First Amended Complaint was not drawn or
filed in conformity with the Court’s December 13 ruling because it adds a new
Defendant and five new causes of action without leave of the Court.  The Court sustained Defendant’s demurrer to
all three causes of action on the grounds that “the Complaint does not allege
any harm Plaintiff has suffered, or how Defendant’s allegedly discriminatory
conduct caused Plaintiff’s harm” and “Plaintiff has not alleged any economic
injury, or that Plaintiff’s harm was caused by Defendant’s alleged unlawful
business practices[.]”  (Minute Order,
Dec. 13, 2023, at pp. 6, 7.)  Thus, the Court
granted Plaintiff leave to add the additional allegations identified by the
Court to allege economic harm and causation with respect to Plaintiff’s three
causes of action affected by the demurrer. 
The Court did not grant Plaintiff leave to add additional defendants or
causes of action, nor could it have, as Code of Civil Procedure section 472 and
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324 outline strict procedural requirements
for amending a pleading beyond the causes of action affected by a demurrer.
 
Although the Court can sustain a demurrer to causes of action that
exceed the scope of the leave granted (see, e.g., Harris v. Wachovia
Mortgage, FSB (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1018, 1022-1023 [affirming trial
court’s sustaining of demurrer on the basis that the newly-alleged cause of
action exceeded the scope of leave granted]), in light of the breadth of the improper
amendments, which include the addition of a new Defendant, the Court finds
striking in part the  Amended Complaint
to be a more appropriate remedy here.
 
“A trial court has authority to strike sham pleadings, or those not
filed in conformity with its prior ruling.” 
(See Ricard v. Grobstein, Goldman, Stevenson, Siegel, LeVine &
Mangel (1992) 6 Cal.App.4th 157, 162.) 
To that end, Code of Civil Procedure section 436 provides that “the
court may […] at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper […]
[s]trike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity
with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.”     
 
Because the addition of a new defendant and five new causes of action
exceeds the scope of leave granted by virtue of the Court’s December 13, 2023 ruling,
and is not drawn or filed in conformity with California Code of Civil Procedure
section 472, California Rule of Court 3.1324, or any other law or rule
governing amendments to pleadings, the Court exercises its discretion and
strikes Defendant Chad Gordon and the fourth through eighth causes of action
alleged in the Amended Complaint in their entirety.
 
                                                      
ii.         
First Cause
of Action – Unruh Violations
 
In order to state a cause of
action for discrimination under the Unruh Civil Rights Act, a plaintiff must
allege (1) defendant denied, aided or incited a denial of, discriminated, or
made a distinction that denied full and equal accommodations, advantages,
facilities, privileges, and/or services to plaintiff; (2) a substantial
motivating reason for defendant’s conduct was plaintiff’s sex, race, color,
religion, ancestry, national origin, medical condition, genetic information,
marital status, sexual orientation, citizenship, primary language, and/or
immigration status or defendant’s perception thereof; (3) that plaintiff was
harmed; and (4) that defendant’s conduct was a substantial factor in causing
plaintiff’s harm.  (See CACI No. 3060.)
 
Defendant argues that
Plaintiff’s first cause of action fails to state specific facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action.  The Court
disagrees.  As discussed above, Plaintiff
adequately alleges sufficient “ultimate facts”[1]
that (1) Defendant discriminated against Plaintiff by refusing to allow her to
open a business account; (2) a substantial motivating reason for Defendant’s
conduct was Plaintiff’s race; (3) Plaintiff was economically and
psychologically harmed; and (4) Defendant’s conduct directly caused Plaintiff’s
alleged harms.
 
Therefore Defendant’s demurrer
to the first cause of action is overruled.
 
                                                    
iii.         
Second Cause
of Action – Unruh Retaliation 
 
As Defendant points out in the demurrer, the Unruh Civil Rights Act
does not encompass discrimination based on retaliation for prior discrimination
complaints.  (Gayer v. Polk Gulch,
Inc. (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 515, 519.) 
Moreover, Plaintiff does not address this argument in opposition to the
demurrer, and has therefore abandoned the claim.  (Herzberg
v. County of Plumas (2005) 133 Cal.App.4th 1, 20 [noting a plaintiff’s
failure to oppose a demurrer to a cause of action or portion thereof
constitutes an abandonment of the issue or claim].)  
 
Therefore, the Court sustains
Defendant’s demurrer to the second cause of action for retaliation pursuant to
the Unruh Civil Rights Act.
 
                                                    
iv.         
Third Cause
of Action – Unfair Competition Law
 
Business & Professions Code, section 17200 known as the Unfair
Competition Law, or “UCL,” bars unfair competition, defined as “any unlawful,
unfair or fraudulent business act or practice and unfair, deceptive, untrue or
misleading advertising and any act prohibited by Chapter 1 (commencing with
Section 17500) of Part 3 of Division 7 of the Business and Professions
Code.  “An ‘unlawful’ business practice
or act within the meaning of the UCL is an act or practice, committed pursuant
to business activity, that is at the same time forbidden by law.”  (Bernardo v. Planned Parenthood Federation
of America (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th 322, 351.)  “By proscribing ‘any unlawful’ business
practice, section 17200 borrows violations of other laws and treats them as
unlawful practices that the unfair competition law makes independently
actionable.”  (Cel-Tech
Communications, Inc. v. Los Angeles Cellular Telephone Co. (1999) 20
Cal.4th 163, 180 (hereafter Cel-Tech).) 
Moreover, “a practice may be deemed unfair even if not specifically
proscribed by some other law.”  (Cel-Tech,
supra, 20 Cal.4th at p.  180.)
 
In order to have standing to
bring a UCL claim, a plaintiff must “(1) establish a loss or deprivation of
money or property sufficient to qualify as injury in fact, i.e., economic
injury, and (2) show that that economic injury was the result of, i.e., caused
by, the unfair business practice or false advertising that is the gravamen of
the claim.”  (Kwikset Corp. v.
Superior Court (2011) 51 Cal.4th 310, 322.)
 
Here, as discussed above,
Plaintiff adequately pleads predicate violations of the Unruh Civil Rights Act
to allege unlawful conduct under the UCL. 
(FAC ¶¶ 16-18.)  Moreover, Plaintiff alleges to have
personally suffered economic damages stemming from the harm Defendant’s refusal
has caused Plaintiff’s business, as well as medical costs related to her mental
and emotional distress.  (FAC ¶¶
22-26.)
 
Therefore, the Court overrules Defendant’s demurrer to the third cause
of action.
 
2.    
LEAVE TO AMEND
 
A plaintiff has the burden of showing in what
manner the complaint could be amended and how the amendment would change the
legal effect of the complaint, i.e., state a cause of action. (See The
Inland Oversight Committee v. City of San Bernardino (2018) 27 Cal.App.5th
771, 779; PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v. Hulven Int'l, Inc. (2017)
14 Cal.App.5th 156, 189.) A plaintiff must not only state the legal basis for
the amendment, but also the factual allegations sufficient to state a cause of
action or claim. (See PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v. Hulven Int'l, Inc.,
supra, 14 Cal.App.5th at p. 189.) Moreover, a plaintiff does not meet his
or her burden by merely stating in the opposition to a demurrer or motion to
strike that “if the Court finds the operative complaint deficient, plaintiff
respectfully requests leave to amend.” (See Major Clients Agency v. Diemer
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1116, 1133; Graham v. Bank of America (2014) 226
Cal.App.4th 594, 618 [asserting an abstract right to amend does not satisfy the
burden].)
 
Here, the addition of Defendant Gordon and causes of action four
through eight exceed the scope of leave the Court previously granted.  Therefore, there are no additional facts
Plaintiff could plead to cure this procedural defect.  As such, the Court denies Plaintiff leave to
amend the complaint to add Defendant Gordon or the fourth through eighth causes
of action in connection with the demurrer and motion to strike.  The appropriate procedure for evaluating
whether the addition of new defendants and/or causes of action is proper is via
a motion for leave to amend.  
 
Similarly, with respect to the second cause of action for
Retaliation under the Unruh Civil Rights Act, because there is no valid cause
of action for retaliation under Unruh (Gayer v. Polk Gulch, Inc.
(1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 515, 519), there are no additional facts Plaintiff could
allege to cure this deficiency.  
 
Therefore, the Court denies Plaintiff leave to amend in connection
with the demurrer and motion to strike.
 
With regard to Plaintiff’s currently pending motion for leave to amend
the complaint, because the state of the operative pleading has now changed by
virtue of the Court’s sustaining Defendant’s demurrer to the second cause of
action and sua sponte striking Defendant Chad Gordon and the fourth
through eighth causes of action, the Court denies as moot Plaintiff’s currently
pending motion for leave to amend without prejudice.  
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the reasons stated, the Court, on its own motion, strikes Defendant
Chad Gordon and the fourth through eighth causes of action alleged in the First
Amended Complaint in their entirety without leave to amend.  
 
The Court also sustains in part and overrules in part Defendant’s
Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint. 
The Court sustains without leave to amend Defendant’s
demurrer to the second cause of action, but overrules Defendant’s demurrer to
the first and third causes of action.
 
The Court further denies as moot Plaintiff’s motion for leave to amend
the first amended complaint without prejudice. 
Plaintiff may file another motion for leave (or the parties may
stipulate) to file a second amended complaint. 
Any such motion must comply with all the procedural requirements of
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, including identifying what allegations
are proposed to be added or deleted from the first amended complaint “by page,
paragraph, and line number.”  Plaintiff
may satisfy this obligation by providing the Court a redlined copy of the
proposed second amended complaint, showing the changes between the first
amended complaint and proposed second amended complaint.
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service regarding the same.  
 
 
DATED:  May 9, 2024                                                           ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court


