 Case Number:  SC129215    Hearing Date:   June 13, 2024    Dept:  I The motion to confirm the arbitration award is GRANTED.  The motion to vacate or correct the award is
DENIED.  Defendant to submit a proposed
judgment within 20 court days. 
 
This arbitration grows from a long-running dispute between
the parties over a lease.  Plaintiff
leased premises owned by the defendant with the intention of opening up a
restaurant on the site where Jerry’s Deli used to be in Westwood Village.  The lease provided that the landlord would
install a 3000 gallon grease interceptor. 
However, doing so proved more expensive than the landlord had anticipated
and over a pretty lengthy period of time the landlord kept trying to get the
plaintiff to agree to an alternative. 
The plaintiff considered the alternatives, but eventually rejected
them.  After a very long time, plaintiff
finally rejected the landlord’s request in pretty blunt terms.  The landlord then said (at last) that he
would install the 3000 gallon grease interceptor.  The landlord made some start to doing so, but
plaintiff filed suit, which essentially stopped everything.  In Phase I of the case, which was tried to
the court alone, the court found that the landlord had not breached the
lease.  That was based on the unique
language in the lease concerning the requirements for default.  The court concluded that the landlord had met
the technical requirements under the lease to avoid default, although barely.  Phase II of the case was tried to a jury and
involved plaintiff’s claim of fraud. 
Plaintiff essentially argued that the landlord had not intended to
install the 3000 gallon grease interceptor when the landlord made the
promise.  The court rejected the
landlord’s claim that Phase I had resolved the issue.  In the court’s mind, the landlord might have
had no intention of performing, but ultimately elected to perform long after
the contract was signed when forced to do so. 
The jury hung, however, leading to a mistrial.  The parties then agreed to arbitrate the
matter—including the recovery of any attorneys’ fees that might be owed to the
prevailing party under the contract.  The
arbitration was held before Judge Rosenberg (Ret.).  He heard evidence over a number of days and
reviewed the extensive transcripts in the case and heard argument.  He ultimately considered this court’s
findings in Phase I and found them relevant to his resolution in Phase II.  Ultimately, he ruled in the landlord’s favor
in Phase II and awarded the landlord substantial fees.  The landlord seeks to confirm the award and
plaintiff challenges the award, stating that the arbitrator exceeded his
authority and plainly erred in terms of the fee calculation.
 
This case begins and essentially ends with the court’s very
limited scope of review.  Under well
settled Supreme Court authority, this court has no jurisdiction to review the
arbitrator’s award for errors of fact or even of law.  Rather, the court can only look to see if the
arbitrator exceeded his authority. 
Plaintiff argues that the arbitrator exceeded his authority by relying
on this court’s rulings in Phase I.  The
court disagrees.  While the arbitrator
found the court’s rulings in Phase I to have an effect on Phase II, the
arbitrator did not just ignore the evidence and rule that defendants would win
in Phase II because they won in Phase I. 
In fact, this court rejected that very argument.  The arbitrator was not told to ignore Phase I
in deciding the issues before him, and there was nothing wrong with his
adverting to the court’s findings.  But
that said, the arbitrator plainly considered the evidence before him, including
the testimony from the various witnesses. 
He issued a decision that is over 40 pages long going through the
evidence and setting forth his reasoning in some detail.  Plaintiff complains that the arbitrator did
not consider what they claim is one of their principal arguments.  But that is not fatal.  The arbitrator did consider many
arguments.  The fact that he did not
discuss one of the arguments does not mean that he exceeded his authority or
failed to give a “reasoned” decision (as he was required to do).  Similarly, while plaintiff argues that the
arbitrator never really considered their main argument as to how to calculate
the fees and that he failed to do so properly, reduced to its essentials
plaintiffs’ contention is a disagreement with the arbitrator’s conclusions of
fact and law, neither of which is something this court can review.  The court agrees with plaintiff that if the
arbitrator had not given a reasoned award the court would need to take
action.  But the court finds that the
report was reasoned.  
 
As they say, all things must come to an end . . . even
litigation.  This litigation has come to
an end, at least in the trial court.