 Case Number:  24LBCV00454    Hearing Date:   July 30, 2024    Dept:  S25 BackgroundOn March 5, 2024, Plaintiff filed a complaint against Defendants ARB, Inc. (“ARB”), California Resources Corporation (“CRC”), Sam Simmons and Does 1 to 100. The Complaint asserts causes of action for:(1) age/disability discrimination in violation of the California Fair Employment and Housing Act (“FEHA”);(2) retaliation in violation of FEHA;(3) failure to take reasonable step to prevent discrimination, in violation of FEHA;(4) failure to accommodate, in violation of FEHA;(5) failure to engage in an interactive process, in violation of FEHA;(6) violation of California Family Rights Act (“CFRA”);(7) wrongful termination in violation of public policy;(8) unfair competition in violation of California Business and Professions Code Section 17200, et seq.;(9) failure to pay minimum wages, in violation of California Labor Code Sections 1182.12, 1194, 1194.2, 1197, and 1197.1;(10) failure to pay overtime wages, in violation of California Labor Code Sections 510, 1194, 1198, and the “applicable” IWC Wage Order;(11) failure to timely pay wages during employment, in violation of California Labor Code Section 204 and 210;(12) failure to timely pay wages upon termination of employment, in violation of California Labor Code Section 201 through 203;(13) failure to provide meal periods, in violation of California Labor Code Sections 226.7 and 512;(14) failure to provide rest periods, in violation of California Labor Code Section 226.7 and 512; and(15) failure to provide accurate wage statements, in violation of California Labor Code Section 226.Beginning as early as approximately 1990, Plaintiff alleges he worked for Defendant CRC as an employee, through which Defendant CRC, placed him to work with different contractors. On or around February 16, 2016, by way of placement by Defendant CRC, Plaintiff alleges he began working as a full-time warehouse and delivery parts worker for Defendant ARB. Plaintiff’s physician placed Plaintiff on medical leave from April 17, 2023 to May 29, 2023. (Compl., ¶¶ 14-15, 18 and 20.) Plaintiff claims, on or around May 24, 2023, while Plaintiff was still on protected medical leave his employment was terminated.On June 3, 2024, Plaintiff filed a request for dismissal without prejudice of Defendant Sam Simmons. (June 3, 2024 Request for Dismissal.)On May 14, 2024, Defendant ARB filed this instant Motion to Compel Arbitration. On May 20, 2024, Defendant CRC filed a joinder. On July 17, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition.Legal StandardThe Federal Arbitration Act (“FAA”) creates a general presumption in favor of arbitration and requires the enforcement of a written agreement to arbitrate. (Gilmer v. Interstate/Johnson Lane Corp. (1961) 500 U.S. 20, 24-25.) A defendant only needs to prove, by a preponderance of the evidence, that an agreement to arbitrate the plaintiff’s claims exist. (See, e.g., Condee v. Longwood Mgmt. Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 218-219.) To satisfy this burden, a defendant may simply supply a copy of the agreement or recite its terms in its petition to compel arbitration. (Id. at p. 219.) With the FAA, 9 U.S.C. §1, et seq., “Congress declared a national policy favoring arbitration and withdrew the power of the States to require a judicial forum for the resolution of claims which the contracting parties agreed to resolve by arbitration.” (Southland Corp. v. Keating (1984) 465 U.S. 1, 10.) Notably, the burden is on the party opposing arbitration to proffer evidence demonstrating that such an agreement is invalid. (See, e.g., Green Treen Fin. Corp. v. Randolph (2000) 531 U.S. 79, 91-92.)Enforceability of an arbitration agreement is determined pursuant to the FAA, which requires that: (1) parties have entered into a written arbitration agreement, (2) there exists an independent basis for federal jurisdiction, and (3) the underlying transaction involves interstate commerce. (Cosmotek Mumessillik Ve Ticaret Ltd Sirkketi v. Cosmotek USA, Inc. (D.Conn.1996) 942 21 F.Supp. 757, 759.) If the transaction between the parties does not implicate interstate commerce, the court applies the forum state’s substantive laws. (Howard Fields & Associates v. Grand Wailea Co. (D.Hawaii 1993) 848 F.Supp. 890, 893.)“California law reflects a strong public policy in favor of arbitration as a relatively quick and inexpensive method for resolving disputes. To further that policy, Code of Civil Procedure, section 1281.2 requires a trial court to enforce a written arbitration agreement unless one of three limited exceptions applies. Those statutory exceptions arise where (1) a partywaives the right to arbitration; (2) grounds exist for revoking the arbitration agreement; and (3) pending litigation with a third party creates the possibility of conflicting rulings on common factual or legal issues.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2; Acquire II, Ltd. v. Colton Real Estate Group (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 959, 967.)Similarly, public policy under federal law favors arbitration and the fundamental principle that arbitration is a matter of contract and that courts must place arbitration agreements on an equal footing with other contracts and enforce them according to their terms. (AT&T Mobility LLC v. Concepcion (2011) 56 U.S. 333, 339.)A motion to compel arbitration or stay proceedings must state verbatim the provisions providing for arbitration or must have a copy of them attached. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1330.)Discussion“A union representative may agree on an employee's behalf as part of the collective bargaining process to require the employee to arbitrate controversies relating to an interpretation or enforcement of a CBA. In fact, when a CBA includes an arbitration provision, contractual matters under a CBA are presumed arbitrable; that is, arbitration must be granted as long as the CBA is reasonably susceptible to an interpretation in favor of arbitration.” (Cortez v. Doty Bros. Equipment Co. (2017) 15 Cal.App.5th 1, 11–12 [citations omitted]; see also 14 Penn Plaza LLC v. Pyett (2009) 556 U.S. 247, 256-258 [an employer and union can waive employees’ rights to a judicial forum and compel arbitration for federal and statutory claim adjudication].)Yet, in a case involving alleged statutory violations, “[i]n order for a [judicial forum] waiver to be valid, a CBA must “contain a clear and unmistakable waiver of the covered employees’ rights to a judicial forum” relating to the statutory claims alleged in the complaint.” (Vasserman v. Henry Mayo Newhall Memorial Hospital (2017) 8 Cal.App.5th 236, 245 [citation omitted].) “[I]n determining whether there has been a sufficiently explicit waiver, courts look to the generality of the arbitration clause, explicit incorporation of statutory requirements, and the inclusion of specific contractual provisions. . . The test is whether a collective bargaining agreement makes compliance with the statute a contractual commitment subject to the arbitration clause.” (Id. at 246 [citations omitted].) “[A] “waiver in a collective bargaining agreement is sufficiently clear if it is found in an explicit arbitration clause. ‘Under this approach, the [collective bargaining agreement] must contain a clear and unmistakable provision under which the employees agree to submit to arbitration all [state and federal statutory] causes of action arising out of their employment.’” (Id. at 246-247 [citation omitted].)Defendant ARB argues a valid arbitration agreement exists. Defendant ARB states that Plaintiff began his employment on approximately February 15, 2016 and Plaintiff’s positionwas eliminated on approximately May 24, 2023. (Jansen Decl., ¶ 10.) Defendant ARB asserts that since at least May 2018, Defendant ARB has been a member of the Southern California Contractors Association, one of the four contractor-side signatories to a collective bargaining agreement (“CBA”). (Jansen Decl., ¶ 5, Ex. A.) Defendant ARB claims that Plaintiff was a member of Teamsters Local Union No. 87 (the “Union”) throughout Plaintiff’s employment with Defendant ARB. (Jansen Decl., ¶ 7.) Defendant ARB proclaims that the CBA was entered into as of July 1, 2022, and will be effective through at least June 30, 2025. (Jansen Decl., ¶ 5, Ex. A at pp. 1, 81.) Defendant ARB contends that the terms and conditions of Plaintiff’s employment are governed by the CBA, providing evidence of provisions entitled “GRIEVANCE OF DISPUTES” and “Arbitration of Employment Related Claims.” (See Jansen Decl., ¶ 11, Ex. A at pp. 25-31, Section 515, et seq.) Defendant ARB points to Section 515.6 of the CBA, which states, in relevant part:“[A]ll employee disputes concerning violations of or arising under Wage Order 16. . .[,] the California Labor Code Sections identified in California Labor Code Section 2699.5, as amended, all derivative claims under California Business and Professions Code section 17200, et seq., all associated penalties, and federal, state and local laws concerning wage-hour requirements, wage payment and meal or rest periods, including claims arising under the Fair Labor Standards Act (hereinafter “Statutory Dispute” or “Statutory Disputes”) shall be subject to and must be processed by the employee pursuant to the procedures set forth in this section 515 as the sole and exclusive remedy. To ensure disputes are subject to this grievance procedure in accordance with the intended scope of coverage set forth herein, Statutory Disputes also include any contract, tort or common law claim concerning the matters addressed in the foregoing laws.In addition to the claims listed above, the parties have also agreed to provide for final and binding arbitration of any and all claims that could be asserted under all local, state and federal anti-discrimination laws, including but not limited to the California Fair Discrimination in Employment Act, the Americans with Disabilities Act, the Family and Medical Leave Act, and the California Family Rights Act. All claims for discrimination, harassment or retaliation in employment on the basis of race, age, sex, gender, religion, national origin, alienage, religion, marital status, sexual orientation, disability, or any other basis that is protected under any of those laws, as well as all related or similar claims (including but not limited to those for wrongful termination in violation of public policy, intentional infliction of emotional distress, violation of 42 U.S.C. section 1981, and retaliation in violation of Labor Code section 1102.5), shall be resolved exclusively under and in accordance with the procedure for settlement of grievances and disputes set forth in this Article and not in a court of law. The agreement to arbitrate such claims shall also include those asserted against any of the Employer's employees, officers, or owners.Pursuant to California Labor Code Section 2699.6, the Parties hereby expressly and unambiguously waive the provisions of the California Private Attorneys General Act (PAGA), Labor Code Section 2698, et seq., and agree that none of the provisions of that statute apply to any of the employees covered by the collective bargaining agreement between the undersigned Parties (the "Agreement"). The Parties further agree that this Agreement prohibits any and all violations of the California Labor Code sections identified in Labor Code §§ 2699.5 and 2699(f) as well as any others that would be redressable by PAGA, and that such claims shall be resolved exclusively through the Arbitration procedures in this Article and shall not be brought in a court of law or before any administrative agency such as the California labor Commissioner.” (Jansen Decl., Ex. A., Section 515.6.)Defendant ARB also points to Section 515.9 of the CBA, which limits claims to binding arbitration pursuant to the American Arbitration Association’s rules for arbitration of employment disputes. Section 515.9 states:“If the individual employee dispute is a Statutory Dispute subject to this Article, the grievance shall not proceed through the process described in Section 502 nor shall it be heard by the Joint Adjustment Board, but shall proceed directly to an independent Arbitrator. In such cases, the procedures for selection of an Arbitrator contained in Article V shall not apply; instead, the individual employee and the Contractor shall proceed to arbitration pursuant and subject to the American Arbitration Association National Rules for Employment Disputes. The Contractor shall pay all fees and costs related to the services of the American Arbitration Association and the services of the Arbitrator; however, the Arbitrator may reallocate such fees and costs in the arbitration award, giving due consideration to the individual employee's ability to pay. Each Party shall pay for its own costs, expenses and attorneys' fees, if any. However, if any Party prevails on a statutory claim which affords the prevailing party costs or attorneys' fees or if there is a written agreement providing for an award of costs or attorneys' fees, the Arbitrator may award costs and reasonable attorneys' fees to the prevailing Party. Any issue regarding the payment of fees of costs and any disputes about the manner of proceeding shall be decided by the Arbitrator selected. The Local Union or Union shall not be a Party to such and shall bear no costs or fees of the arbitration. The Agreement to arbitrate claims described in this paragraph is subject to any applicable rights provided in 9 U.S.C. Sections 401-402.” (Jansen Decl., Ex. A., Section 515.9.)Further, Section 515.10 of the CBA provides that:“The Arbitrator shall have full authority to fashion such remedies and award relief consistent with limitations under federal and state law and precedent established thereunder, whether by way of damages or the award of attorneys' fees and other costs, orders to cease and desist or any and all other reasonable remedies designed to correct any violation which the Arbitrator may have found to have existed, including such remedies as provided under applicable state or federal law or regulation. The decision of the Arbitrator is final and binding upon the Parties and is enforceable in a court of competent jurisdiction.” (Jansen Decl., Ex. A., Section 515.10.)Defendant ARB argues the arbitrability of Plaintiff’s statutory claims is clear and unmistakable in the CBA. (See Moving Papers at pp. 14-18.) For the FEHA and CFRA causes of action (causes of action one through six), Defendant ARB points to CBA Section 515.6 which subjects the following claims to arbitration: “all claims that could be asserted under all local, state and federal anti-discrimination laws, including but not limited to the California Fair Discrimination in Employment Act, the Americans with Disabilities Act, the Family and Medical Leave Act, and the California Family Rights Act. All claims for discrimination, harassment or retaliation in employment on the basis of race, age, sex, gender, religion, national origin, alienage, religion, marital status, sexual orientation, disability, or any other basis that is protected under any of those laws, as well as all related or similar claims…” (Jansen Decl., Ex. A., Section 515.6 [emphasis added].) For the seventh cause of action, wrongful termination in violation of public policy, Defendant ARB refers to the following language “as well as all related or similar claims…including but not limited to those for wrongful termination in violation of public policy.” (Ibid.) For causes of actions eight through fifteen, Defendant ARB references the contractual provision: “[A]ll employee disputes concerning violations of or arising under Wage Order 16 … the California Labor Code Sections identified in California Labor Code Section 2699.5 as amended, all derivative claims under California Business and Professions Code section 17200, et seq., all associated penalties, and federal, state and local laws concerning wage-hour requirements, wage payment and meal or rest periods, including claims arising under the Fair Labor Standards Act … shall be subject to and must be processed by the employee pursuant to the procedures set forth in this Section 515 as the sole and exclusive remedy…. Pursuant to California Labor Code Section 2699.6, the Parties hereby expressly and unambiguously waive the provisions of the California Private Attorneys General Act (PAGA), Labor Code Section 2698, et seq., and agree that none of the provisions of that statute apply to any of the employees covered by the collective bargaining agreement between the undersigned Parties (the "Agreement"). The Parties further agree that this Agreement prohibits any and all violations of the California Labor Code sections identified in Labor Code §§2699.5 and 2699(f) as well as any others that would be redressable by PAGA, and that such claims shall be resolved exclusively through the Arbitration procedures in this Article and shall not be brought in a court of law.” (Ibid. [emphasis added].)In its joinder to the instant motion, Defendant CRC agrees with Defendant ARB’s arguments. Defendant CRC adds Plaintiff is estopped from refusing to arbitrate his claims against Defendant CRC under the doctrine of equitable estoppel. (See Boucher v. Alliance Title Co. (2005) 127 Cal.App.4th 262, 271-272 [under both federal and California law, “a nonsignatory defendant may invoke an arbitration clause to compel a signatory plaintiff to arbitrate its claims when the causes of action against the nonsignatory are “intimately founded in and intertwined” with the underlying contract obligations”].) Defendant CRC contends that all of Plaintiff’s asserted claims against Defenant CRC are based on the same facts and inherently inseparable from the claims asserted against Defendant ARB, thereby warranting Plaintiff being equitably estopped from avoiding arbitration of his claims.In opposition, Plaintiff argues that the arbitration provision in the CBA does not explicitly address anti-discrimination laws, namely FEHA. To elaborate, Plaintiff states that CBA Section 515.6 does not mention FEHA and instead mentions “the California Fair Discrimination in Employment Act” and that the provision is so broad that its intent is to include all possible employee claims. (See Vasquez v. Superior Court (2000) 80 Cal.App.4th 430, 434-436 [employee entitled to judicial forum for statutory claims where the CBA did not include disability discrimination, FEHA or the ADA and has no express provision that antidiscrimination commitment is subject to the grievance and arbitration provisions]; see also Mendez v. Mid-Wilshire Health Care Center (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 534, 546-548.)Plaintiff maintains the arbitration agreement in the CBA is unenforceable because it is unconscionable. Plaintiff argues that the CBA agreement is procedurally unconscionable because the terms were not explained to Plaintiff and Plaintiff was not given the opportunity to consult an attorney during the review of the proposed contract. (Stowe Decl., ¶ 3; see OTO, L.L.C. v. Kho (2019) 8 Cal.5th 111, 126-128 [finding significant oppression because (1) the agreement was presented to the employee by a low-level employee who waited in his work bay for him to sign it; (2) the employee did not have time to read it or ask questions of someone knowledgeable, and the agreement was not explained to him; (3) the employee did not have an opportunity to review the agreement with an attorney; and (4) the employee was not given a copy of the arbitration agreement after he signed it]; see also Fitz v. NCR Corp. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 702, 722-723 [wherein an employer-employee arbitration agreement presented to the employee in a take-it or leave-it manner was deemed procedurally unconscionable].) Plaintiff contends that the CBA is substantively unconscionable because it fails to state the venue for arbitration, assert what law applies to Plaintiff’s claim, detail the amount of discovery allowed and protect the individual employee from potential exposure to a prevailing Defendant’s attorney fees and litigation costs in violation of Civil Code, § 1780, subd. (e).Tentative RulingThe Court finds that Defendant ARB has established the existence of an arbitration agreement between the Defendant ARB and Plaintiff. The evidence establishes that Plaintiff was a member of the Union and that the Union is subject to the CBA, which was effective as of July 1, 2022. Moreover, the CBA contains clear and unmistakable provisions under which Plaintiff agreed to submit to arbitration his state and federal statutory causes of action, as well as common law causes of action, arising out of his employment, the arbitration agreement with the CBA is enforceable as a matter of law. Lastly, the Court finds that Defendant CRC has demonstrated that Plaintiff is equitably estopped from avoiding arbitration.The Motion to Compel Arbitration is GRANTED. This matter is stayed pending arbitration proceedings. Post-arbitration status conference set for July 23, 2025, at 8:30 a.m. in Dept. S025.