  Case Number:  20STCV17691    Hearing Date:   May 8, 2024    Dept:  30 NAVID GANJIAN vs CHONG XUTENTATIVEDefendant’s motion to compel Plaintiff to present for physical examination is DENIED without prejudice. Defendant’s request for sanctions is DENIED.Legal Standard“In any case in which a plaintiff is seeking recovery for personal injuries, any defendant may demand one physical examination of the plaintiff, if both of the following conditions are satisfied: (1) The examination does not include any diagnostic test or procedure that is painful, protracted, or intrusive. (2) The examination is conducted at a location within 75 miles of the residence of the examinee.” (Code Civ. Proc., section 2032.220, subd. (a).)¿The motion must state the time, place, identity and specialty of the examiner, and the "manner, conditions, scope and nature of the examination."¿(Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.310(b).) “An order granting a physical or mental examination shall specify the person or persons who may perform the examination, as well as the time, place, manner, diagnostic tests and procedures, conditions, scope, and nature of the examination.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.320(d).)The moving party¿must support their motion with a meet and confer declaration.¿¿(Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.310(b).)¿ A meet and confer declaration must state facts "showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented by the motion."¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2016.040.)¿¿¿¿Subdivision (b) of Section 2032.250 states: “The court shall impose a monetary sanction . . . against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel compliance with a demand for a physical examination, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”DiscussionDefendant moves to compel Plaintiff’s physical independent medical examination (IME), arguing that Defendant noticed Plaintiff’s IME or February 13, 2024, at 4:00 p.m. (Gilbert Decl., Exh. A.) However, Plaintiff failed to appear. Defendant received an invoice from the physician for the failed appointment in the amount of $1,000. (Id., Exh. B.)Defendant’s motion does not contain the time, place, identity and specialty of the examiner, or the manner, conditions, scope and nature of the examination as required.¿(Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.310(b).) Further, “An order granting a physical or mental examination shall specify the person or persons who may perform the examination, as well as the time, place, manner, diagnostic tests and procedures, conditions, scope, and nature of the examination.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.320(d).) As such, the motion cannot be granted.Defendant’s request for sanctions is denied as the motion is denied.ConclusionAccordingly, Defendant’s motion is DENIED without prejudice. Defendant’s request for sanctions is DENIED.