 Case Number:  22STCV11535    Hearing Date:   May 8, 2024    Dept:  30 JUANA OLMOS vs GDL DELIVERY CORP., et al.TENTATIVEDefendant’s motion to compel an independent medical examination is GRANTED. Plaintiff is ordered to submit to an examination on May 9, 2024, at 3:30 p.m. before Dr. Joshua P. Prager, board certified in pain management, located at California Pain Medicine Centers, 2001 Santa Monica Blvd., Suite 1280-West, Santa Monica CA 90404.Legal StandardCode of Civil Procedure (“CCP”) section 2032.220(a) provides:In any case in which a plaintiff is seeking recovery for personal injuries, any defendant may demand one physical examination of the plaintiff, if both of the following conditions are satisfied:(1)¿The examination does not include any diagnostic test or procedure that is painful, protracted, or intrusive.(2)¿The examination is conducted at a location within 75 miles of the residence of the examinee.CCP section 2031.310 states:(a)¿If any party desires to obtain discovery by a physical examination other than that described in Article 2 (commencing with¿Section 2032.210), or by a mental examination, the party shall obtain leave of court.(b)¿A motion for an examination under subdivision (a) shall specify the time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and nature of the examination, as well as the identity and the specialty, if any, of the person or persons who will perform the examination. The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under¿Section 2016.040.(c)¿Notice of the motion shall be served on the person to be examined and on all parties who have appeared in the action.CCP section 2032.320(a) provides: “The court shall grant a motion for a physical or mental examination under¿Section 2032.310¿only for good cause shown.”“Section 2036 defines a showing of ‘good cause’ as requiring that the party produce specific facts justifying discovery and that the inquiry be relevant to the subject matter of the action or reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (Vinson v. Superior. Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 840.)The motion must state the time, place, identity and specialty of the examiner, and the "manner, conditions, scope and nature of the examination."¿(Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.310(b).) “An order granting a physical or mental examination shall specify the person or persons who may perform the examination, as well as the time, place, manner, diagnostic tests and procedures, conditions, scope, and nature of the examination.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.320(d).)The examination will be limited to whatever condition is “in controversy” in the action. (CCP § 2032.020(a).) This means the examination must be directly related to the specific injury or condition that is the subject of the litigation. (Roberts v. Superior Court (1973) 9 Cal.3d 330, 337.) Often, a party's pleadings put his or her mental or physical condition in controversy ... as when a plaintiff claims continuing mental or physical injury resulting from defendant's acts: “A party who chooses to allege that he has mental and emotional difficulties can hardly deny his mental state is in controversy.” (See Vinson v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 837 [wherein the plaintiff claimed ongoing emotional distress from sexual harassment by former employer].) Discovery responses can also frame the issues regarding the injuries and damages alleged.Where the plaintiff's injuries are complex, several exams may be necessary by specialists in different fields. There is no limit on the number of physical or mental exams that may be ordered on a showing of good cause. The good cause requirement checks any potential harassment of the plaintiff. (See Shapira v. Superior Court (1990) 224 Cal.App.3d 1249, 1255.)DiscussionDefendant moves to compel Plaintiff Lee Shai Chiu Wu to undergo an independent medical examination (IME) with Dr. Joshua P. Prager, who is board certified in pain management, arguing there is good cause because Plaintiff alleges a wide variety of permanent, ongoing injuries as a result of the accident, including neck pain, lower back pain, tinnitus, headaches, anxiety, sleep disturbances, bilateral calf pain, left thigh pain, mid back pain, dizziness, and depression. As a result of Plaintiff’s orthopedic spine claims and pain management procedures, Defendant Rafael Famoso-Campos scheduled a medical examination with an orthopedic spine specialist, Mark Spoonamore, MD. In Plaintiff’s verified responses to discovery, Plaintiff also alleges that she experiences ongoing tinnitus and dizziness as a result of the subject incident. (Sellers Decl., Exh. 2.) Defendants also scheduled an IME with an Otolaryngologist due to Plaintiff's complaint for tinnitus. Defendant argues that Plaintiff has been evaluated by a chiropractor, an orthopedic surgeon and a pain management specialist. Plaintiff's pain management specialist has performed multiple surgeries, including a peripheral nerve stimulator in Plaintiff's cervical spine, and interspinal spacers in her lumbar spine. Defendant contends that pain management specialist Dr. Prager is expected to evaluate Plaintiff from a pain management perspective, particularly with respect to the cervical peripheral nerve stimulator installed by Plaintiffs pain management specialist.Without citing to any authority, Plaintiff argues that Defendants are collectively only entitled to one IME of Plaintiff. Nevertheless, as it appears all defendants are represented by the same attorneys, the argument is well taken. However, even if Defendants are only entitled to one IME, the Court shall order another one upon a showing of good cause. Defendant has shown good cause for the IME here. In light of their different medical specialties in different fields, the medical professionals identified by Defendant are likely to have different, yet probative, input about the nature and causes of Plaintiff’s injuries. Moreover, Plaintiff has retained her own experts in different medical specialties, including a pain management specialist. Plaintiff will have an advantage in relying on medical records or expert testimony from a range of doctors who have examined the full breadth of her injuries. The Court cannot simultaneously limit Defendant from having access to similar evidence.Lastly, Plaintiff argues that there should be no reason why Plaintiff needs to be seen by the defense orthopedic doctor and pain management doctor when all of the procedures performed by a pain management doctor can be performed by most orthopedic/neurosurgeons. However, Plaintiff fails to explain why then she saw these two different specialists if the procedures performed by a pain management doctor could have been performed by an orthopedic surgeon.As such, Defendant has shown good cause to compel an examination with Dr. Prager. The motion is granted.ConclusionTherefore, Defendant’s motion to compel an independent medical examination is GRANTED. Plaintiff is ordered to submit to an examination on May 9, 2024, at 3:30 p.m. before Dr. Joshua P. Prager, board certified in pain management, located at California Pain Medicine Centers, 2001 Santa Monica Blvd., Suite 1280-West, Santa Monica CA 90404.