  Case Number:  20STCV13190    Hearing Date:   May 15, 2024    Dept:  52 Defendants R&H Automotive Group,
Inc., Hooman Nissani’s, and Babak Sarraf’s Motion for Leave to File Second
Amended Cross-Complaint
Defendants R&H Automotive Group, Inc., Hooman Nissani,
and Babak Sarraf move for leave to file a second amended cross-complaint to add
a new cause of action: cancellation of instruments.  (Harford Decl., Ex. A, Prop. SACC, ¶¶ 30-33.)  Defendants seek to add this cause of action
based on the allegation that Nissani’s and Sarraf’s personal guaranty
agreements “are void because they are the product of forgery and were never
agreed to by Nissani or Sarraf.”  (Id.,
¶ 32.)
Defendants’ motion relies on the incorrect premise that their
proposed cause of action for cancellation of instruments is a compulsory
crossclaim.  If correct, that would limit
the court’s discretion to deny leave to amend. 
When a party fails to timely bring
compulsory crossclaims, “whether through oversight, inadvertence, mistake,
neglect, or other cause,” the court may grant leave to file a cross-complaint
“at any time during the course of the action” so long as the moving party
“acted in good faith.”  (CCP §
426.50.)  This provision is “liberally
construed to avoid forfeiture of causes of action.”  (Ibid.)  Denying leave to file a compulsory
cross-complaint requires “bad faith of the moving party.”  (Silver Organizations Ltd. v. Frank
(1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 94, 99 (Silver).)  
On the other hand, for permissive crossclaims, “[l]eave
may be granted in the interest of justice at any time during the course of the
action.”  (CCP § 428.50(c).)  Granting leave to bring permissive claims “is
solely within the trial court’s discretion.” 
(Crocker Nat. Bank v. Emerald (1990) 221 Cal.App.3d 852,
864.)
The proposed cause of action for cancellation of instruments is not a
compulsory crossclaim.  No forfeiture
will result from denying leave to allege that as a cause of action because the
operative pleadings already encompass the issue of forgery or the validity of
the contracts.  Plaintiff American Honda Finance Corporation alleges breaches of contracts and seeks to
enforce personal guaranty agreements by Nissani and Sarraf.  Plaintiff’s causes of action require showing
“that the parties had, and defendants breached,
an enforceable agreement.”  (Ojjeh
v. Brown (2019) 43 Cal.App.5th 1027, 1037.)  A valid contract requires consent.  (Civ. Code, § 1550.)  If Nissani and Sarraf never signed the
agreements, that negates an element of plaintiff’s causes of action.  A crossclaim for cancellation of the
contracts is therefore superfluous.  “Equity
exercises jurisdiction to direct the cancelation of written instruments only in
its sound discretion, in cases where the remedy at law is not adequate, by
reason of loss of testimony, lapse of time, or something peculiar to the case.”  (Lewis v. Tobias (1858) 10 Cal. 574,
575.)  There is an adequate remedy at law.  Defendants’ remedy is to defend themselves
from plaintiff’s claims by proving they did not consent to the personal
guaranties.  
Moreover, Nissani and Sarraf asserted fraud as an affirmative
defense in their answer.  Their answer
alleges plaintiff’s claims “are barred because Plaintiff is not entitled to any
relief against Defendant as a result of its own fraudulent conduct.”  (Answer, ¶ 4.)  This allegation encompasses the purported
forgery. 
Assuming the liberal standard for permitting amendments to allege
compulsory crossclaims applies, the court will still deny the motion.  “Bad faith” implies “ ‘actual or constructive
fraud, or a design to mislead or deceive another, or a neglect or refusal to
fulfill some duty or some contractual obligation, not prompted by an honest
mistake ..., but by some interested or sinister motive[,] ... not simply bad
judgment or negligence, but rather ... the conscious doing of a wrong because
of dishonest purpose or moral obliquity; ... it contemplates a state of mind
affirmatively operating with furtive design or ill will.’ ”  (Silver,
supra, 217 Cal.App.3d at p. 100.)  Courts have described bad faith as “unusually
reprehensible” efforts to delay the litigation. 
(Foot’s Transfer & Storage Co. v. Superior Court (1980)
114 Cal.App.3d 897, 903.)
The trial is set for May 29, 2024. 
On May 3, defendants applied to continue the trial and moved for leave
to file an amended cross-complaint to concoct a purported cause of action that does
not introduce any new issue to the case. 
Doing so demonstrates an effort to delay the trial for no legitimate
reason.
Two other factors further support finding defendants acted in bad faith
for the dishonest purpose of delaying this trial.  
Delay
Bringing This Motion
Defendants inexcusably delayed almost three years to seek leave to
amend to assert their purported cause of action for cancellation of instruments.  They admit knowing the underlying facts—the allegedly
forged signatures—since 2021.  Nissani
states, “The first time I examined the
purported signatures on the three guaranty agreements presented by the
plaintiff in this case was during my deposition in this matter in July
2021.  At that time, I believed that the
signatures were not mine—and probably forgeries—because they do not look like
my signature and I had no recollection of signing personal guaranties for the
loans at issue in this case.”  (Nissani
Decl., ¶ 3.)  
Furthermore, plaintiff attached the personal guaranties to
the first amended complaint filed April 22, 2020.  (FAC, Ex. A, p. 13; Ex. B, p. 13; Ex. F, pp.
13-14; Ex. G, p. 8; Ex. H, p. 8; Ex. I, p. 12.) 
If those do not look like Nissani’s or Sarraf’s signatures, that should
have been apparent to them immediately. 
People know what their own signatures look like.  Nissani offers no excuse for failing to read
the first amended complaint until July 2021. 

Defendants attempt to explain their delay by claiming it took
them years to search their records.  Nissani
states defendants needed to search “tens of thousands of records … to confirm
that we had no record of signing these documents.  Because of the volume of records and the fact
that they were in multiple locations, this was a painstaking and time consuming
process that took several years.  We just
recently completed this search and confirmed that we have no record of signing
the personal guaranties presented by Plaintiff in this case.”  (Nissani Decl., ¶ 3.)  But Nissani claims he knew right away that
the signature was not his.  There was no
need to engage in a years-long effort to prove a negative before seeking leave
to add a cause of action for cancellation of instruments.  As the United States Supreme Court has noted,
“Since as a practical matter it is never easy to prove a negative, it is hardly
likely that conclusive factual data could ever be assembled.”  (Elkins v. U.S. (1960) 364 U.S. 206,
218.)  
Defendants also present a declaration from Joseph G.
Merydith, a forensic document examiner. 
(Harford Decl., Ex. D.)  Merydith
states, “[T]here is evidence to support, or indications, that Hooman Nissani
did not execute the questioned ‘Hooman Nissani’ signatures exhibited on the
three questioned documents.”  (Id.,
¶ 8.)  He further states, “[I]t is
inconclusive whether or not Babak Sarraf executed the questioned ‘Babak Sarraf’
signatures exhibited on the three questioned documents.”  (Id., ¶ 9.)  His analysis consisted of reviewing
signatures on documents.  He could have
done that years ago.  Defendants had no
reason to wait to engage Merydith until now. 

Defendants’ Repeated Efforts to Delay Trial
Defendants have employed a consistent strategy of delaying
this trial using a wide variety of methods.  Defendants repeatedly delayed responding to
discovery.  On October 1, 2020, plaintiff
moved to compel discovery responses and to deem matters admitted because
defendants did not timely respond to interrogatories and requests for
admission.  Defendants’ oppositions
acknowledge they did not timely respond. 
Nissani’s opposition to one of the motions states, “Plaintiff’s motion
is now moot and should be denied because verified responses have been served on
Plaintiff’s counsel on October 22, 2020 via e-mail.”  (10/29/2020 Opp. to motion to compel
responses to form interrogatories, set two.) 

Plaintiff filed more discovery motions in March 2021.  The court’s order granting the motions
states, “Defendant R&H Automotive, Inc. filed an opposition conceding that
it has not produced the documents but asking for an additional 60 days to
produce them.”  (May 5, 2021 minute
order, p. 1.)  It further states,
“Defendants did not oppose [plaintiff’s] three motions” to compel their
depositions.  (Id., p. 2.)  On May 27, 2021, Sarraf applied ex parte to
amend the court’s order compelling his deposition.  He asserted several excuses for needing more
time to comply with the order.  The court
denied the application.  On July 7, 2021,
Nissani applied ex parte for the same relief, based on a different excuse.  The court denied the application.  
Defendants also moved to continue the trial numerous
times.  On January 24, 2022, they applied
ex parte to continue the trial because defendant R&H Automotive Group, Inc.
was suspended by the Secretary of State. 
On August 17, 2022, defendants applied ex parte to continue the trial
again.  They asserted “R&H recently
regained its good standing with the California Secretary of State” and needed
more time to conduct discovery and move for leave to file a
cross-complaint.  (Aug. 17, 2022 app., p.
2.)  But R&H had not regained good
standing.  As the court found on
September 14, 2022, “R&H is currently suspended.”  (Sep. 14, 2022 minute order, p. 1.)  On November 4, 2022, defendants applied ex
parte to continue the trial once more for the same reasons.  This time, R&H had received a certificate
of revivor.  The court denied the
application.  Defendants filed yet
another ex parte application to continue trial on November 14, 2022.  
Furthermore, defendants delayed conducting their own
discovery.  On November 22, 2022, they
moved to reopen discovery.  They argued
R&H could not complete discovery because of its suspension.  As the court ruled, “[C]o-defendants Hooman
Nissani and Babbak Sarraf have the same interest in this action as
R&H.  They could and should have done
nearly all the discovery R&H needs, except discovery on the
cross-complaint.  R&H argues the
individual co-defendants are not similarly situated because R&H operated
the Acura dealership and was the obligor on plaintiff’s loans.  R&H gives no reason why that
matters.  R&H, Nissani, and Sarraf
are defending against the same claims. 
Most of the evidence on both sides will be the same for these
defendants.”  (Dec. 16, 2022 minute order,
p. 4.)  The court further found,
“[D]efendant shows little diligence and gives no good excuse for not completing
discovery.  …  R&H had over a year to conduct discovery
between its answer and its suspension.” 
(Ibid.)  
Defendants also delayed filing their initial
cross-complaint.  On December 16, 2022,
the court granted R&H leave to file a cross-complaint.  The court ordered R&H “to file its
cross-complaint forthwith.”  (Dec. 16,
2022 minute order, p. 3.)  R&H filed
its cross-complaint on January 6, 2023, but filed a notice of withdrawing it
only four days later.  The notice of
withdrawal states, “On Cross January 6, 2023, Cross-Complainants inadvertently
filed the incorrect version of their Cross Complaint.  Said Cross Complaint is hereby withdrawn.  Cross-Complainants shall file the correct
version of the Cross Complaint forthwith.” 
But R&H inexplicably did not file the cross-complaint until August
11, 2023.  
Finally, defendants further attempted to delay the trial by
retaining new counsel shortly before trial—twice.  On March 27, 2024, their former counsel
Reeder McCreary LLP applied ex parte for an order immediately relieving them as
counsel.  On April 4 and 5, 2024, each
defendant filed a substitution of attorney to have Masserat Law Group represent
them as counsel of record.  Nothing in
the record indicates Masserat Law Group has performed any services on behalf of
defendants.  Then, on May 3, 2024, defendants
filed a notice of appearance as counsel by Bryan Cave Leighton Paisner LLP,
without a proper substitution of attorney. 
   
Conclusion 
            On this record, the court
finds defendants seek to add a superfluous cause of action for cancellation of
instruments solely to delay the imminent trial. 
This was no oversight.  It was a
strategy—the latest in a series of efforts to delay.  When viewed as a whole, defendants’ conduct
amounts to unusually reprehensible efforts to delay trial.  
Defendants’ repeated delay tactics have already substantially
prejudiced plaintiff.  What should have
been a simple action for breach of loan contracts has taken over four
years.  “[O]ne of the basic principles of
our legal system” is that “justice delayed is justice denied.”  (Dietrich v. Boeing Company (9th Cir.
2021) 14 F.4th 1089, 1095; accord Grewal v. Jammu (2011) 191 Cal.App.4th
977, 999.)  Any further delay would cause
great prejudice.  
Disposition
            Defendants R&H
Automotive Group, Inc., Hooman Nissani, and Babak Sarraf’s motion for leave to
file a second amended cross-complaint is denied.