 Case Number:  23STCV11355    Hearing Date:   January 10, 2024    Dept:  15 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION
 
On May 18, 2022,
Plaintiff Virginia Adams filed this action alleging she developed mesothelioma
as a result of exposure to asbestos-containing products.  Defendant Estee Lauder Companies Inc. filed a
motion for summary adjudication of Plaintiff’s request for punitive. 
Defendant’s objections
are overruled.  The court did not rely on
the Alfieri Declaration to which Plaintiff objects.
When the motion targets a
request for punitive damages, a higher standard of proof is at play.  “Although the clear and convincing evidentiary
standard is a stringent one, ‘it does not impose on a plaintiff the obligation
to “prove” a case for punitive damages at summary judgment [or summary
adjudication.’  [Citations.]  Even so, ‘where the plaintiff’s ultimate
burden of proof will be by clear and convincing evidence, the higher standard
of proof must be taken into account in ruling on a motion for summary judgment
or summary adjudication, since if a plaintiff is to prevail on a claim for
punitive damages, it will be necessary that the evidence presented meet the
higher evidentiary standard.’ 
[Citation.]”  (Butte Fire Cases
(2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 1150, 1158-1159.) 
“Summary judgment or summary adjudication ‘ “ ‘on the issue of punitive
damages is proper’ only ‘when no reasonable jury could find the plaintiff’s
evidence to be clear and convincing proof of malice, fraud or oppression.’ ”
’.  [Citation.]”  (Id. at p. 1159.) 
For a corporate
defendant, the oppression, fraud or malice “must be on the part of an officer,
director, or managing agent of the corporation.”  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (b).)  That requirement can be satisfied “ ‘if the
evidence permits a clear and convincing inference that within the corporate
hierarchy authorized persons acted despicably in “willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others.” ’ [Citation.]”  (Morgan v. J-M Manufacturing Company, Inc.
(2021) 60 Cal.App.5th 1078, 1090.)  A
plaintiff also “can satisfy the ‘managing agent’ requirement ‘through evidence
showing the information in the possession of the corporation and the structure
of management decision making that permits an inference that the information in
fact moved upward to a point where corporate policy was formulated.’  [Citation.]”  (Id. at p. 1091.) 
“ ‘[I]ntentionally
marketing a defective product knowing that it might cause injury and death is
‘highly reprehensible.’ 
[Citation.]”  (Bankhead v.
ArvinMeritor, Inc. (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 68, 85.)  Punitive damages may be available when a
defendant knows the dangers of asbestos, took action to protect its own
employees from the hazard, knew that its products were likely to pose a danger
to users, and did not warn them.  (Pfeifer
v. John Crane, Inc. (2013) 220 Cal.Ap.4th 1270, 1300.)  Such evidence “was sufficient to show malice,
that is, despicable conduct coupled with conscious disregard for the safety of
others.”  (Id. at pp. 1300-1301.)  On the other hand, a defendant’s knowledge of
trace amounts of asbestos in talc does not necessarily mean that the defendant
knew that asbestos in talc “would cause a high probability of injury.” (McNeal
v. Whittaker, Clark & Daniels, Inc. (2022) 80 Cal.App.5th 853, 873.)
Defendant argues
Plaintiff’s discovery responses are factually deficient, citing Plaintiff’s
responses to a special interrogatory asking for all facts supporting punitive
damages.  (Motion at p. 5; Undisputed
Material Fact (“UMF”) 10.)  Plaintiff stated
she used Defendant’s various cosmetic and talcum powder products, such as White
Linen dusting powder, from the early 1960s to the 1980s.  (Defendant’s Index, Ex. E at pp. 2, 8.)  Defendant was as a member of the Cometic,
Toiletry, and Fragrance Association (“CTFA”) in 1971 and had the ability to test
its products, including with the J4-1 method and electron microscopy, but
instead relied on suppliers’ and distributors’ XRD testing to determine the
presence of asbestos in talc.  Plaintiff
contends that testing had known deficiencies.  (Id. at pp. 2-5.)  Plaintiff names Whittaker, Clark, &
Daniels Inc. as one of Defendant’s talc suppliers and cites a 1976 memorandum
to the FDA alluding to concerns about asbestos in talc.  (Id. at pp. 4-5.)  Plaintiff states Defendant knew about the
dangers of asbestos, referring to a report from the CTFA to its active members
in 1971.  (Id. at p. 5.)  
Plaintiff’s interrogatory
response did not provide evidence that Defendant knew the talc it used contained asbestos
that, when incorporated into Defendant’s products, would cause a high
probability of injury to consumers, and that Defendant made a corporate
decision to ignore  that information and
not warn customers.  (McNeal,
supra, 80 Cal.App.5th at p. 873.)  Therefore,
Defendant shifted the burden.
In opposition, Plaintiff
argues that Defendant knew about the hazards of asbestos and the potential for
asbestos contamination of talc by 1971 but allowed its suppliers to perform
inadequate talc testing and did not warn consumers about asbestos.  (Opposition at p. 2.)  Plaintiff cites to testimony of Defendant’s
corporate representative confirming Defendant’s CTFA membership in 1971, its attendance
and reception of minutes and documentation from CTFA meetings and Defendant’s
receipt of information on talc and asbestos from CTFA.  (Plaintiff’s Index, Ex. B at pp. 62-24.)  Defendant’s membership included various senior
personnel – i.e., president, vice president, and director of research and
development.  (Plaintiff’s Index, Ex. C
at p. 19.)  
Plaintiff contends
Defendant “knew that asbestos is known to cause mesothelioma based on a 1971
CFTA report on asbestos and talc.” 
(Plaintiff’s Disputed Fact No. 7.) 
For that assertion, Plaintiff cites a notice to CTFA members referring
to “possible asbestos content of talcum powders” and attaching a report about
an August 3, 1971 symposium about asbestos and talc at the FDA.  (Plaintiff’s Disputed Fact No. 7; Plaintiff’s
Index, Ex. E at p. 1.)  The report does
not state that asbestos in talc can cause mesothelioma or was a hazard to users
of talcum powder and cosmetics.  This is
the same symposium which, according to the McNeal court, did not conclude
“that there was no safe level of exposure to asbestos.”  (McNeal, supra, 80 Cal.App.5th at p. 874.)  
Plaintiff also cites an
article about detecting asbestos in talc. 
(Plaintiff’s Disputed Fact No. 7; Plaintiff’s Index, Ex. F.)  Plaintiff does not show that Defendant
received this article.  Also, the article
does not conclude that asbestos in talc in cosmetics and talcum powder can be
harmful to consumers.
Plaintiff also cites a
2020 document about a 2018 working group on asbestos in consumer products.  (Plaintiff’s Disputed Fact No. 7; Plaintiff’s
Index, Ex. G.)  A 2020 document could not
have given Defendant notice about the dangers of asbestos in talc used in
cosmetics during the period of Plaintiff’s use of Defendant’s products from the
early 1960s through 1986.  (Plaintiff’s
Disputed Fact Nos. 1, 2.)
Plaintiff cites an April
10, 1972 letter attaching an August 25, 1971 report of talc concluding there
was “[n]o detectable amounts of any of the asbestiform minerals.”  (Plaintiff’s Disputed Fact No. 7; Plaintiff’s
Index, Ex. H at p. 2.)  This document
does not show Defendant knew about the dangers of asbestos in talc used in
Defendant’s products.
Finally, in support of
the contention that Defendant “knew that asbestos is known to cause
mesothelioma based on a 1971 CFTA report on asbestos and talc” (Plaintiff’s
Disputed Fact No. 7), Plaintiff cited page 129:19-24 of the deposition of a
witness who worked at Defendant.  (Plaintiff’s
Disputed Fact No. 7; Plaintiff’s Index, Ex. B.) 
The testimony merely states that the witness was shown a 1972 talc
analysis for asbestos.  (Plaintiff’s
Index, Ex. B at p. 129:19-24.)
None of this cited
evidence shows that during the period of Plaintiff’s exposure from the 1960s
through 1986, Defendant knew that asbestos in talc used in Defendant’s products
was dangerous to consumers.
Plaintiffs also cite CTFA’s
1973 report to the FDA stating that Italian talc grade 1615 tested as false
negatives and recommending transmission electronic microscopy and electric
diffraction as the “best, most reliable method” of detecting asbestos.  (Opposition at p. 3; Plaintiff’s Disputed Fact
No. 13; Plaintiff’s Index, Ex. J at pp. 3, 6.)  Plaintiff argues that despite this knowledge,
Defendants did not urge its vendors to test with transmission electron
microscopy.  (Opposition at p. 3; Plaintiff’s
Index, Ex. B at pp. 138-139.)  Again,
this evidence does not show that Defendant was aware of the hazards presented
by its products.
Plaintiff did not present
evidence that Defendant knew asbestos in talc posed a probable danger to
consumers of cosmetic products made with that talc.  Plaintiff does not mention McNeal or
its holding that knowledge that asbestos is dangerous does not allow the
inference that therefore asbestos in talc in cosmetics is dangerous to
consumers.  (McNeal, supra, 80
Cal.App.5th at pp. 873-874.)  In sum, Plaintiff
did not show a disputed issue about whether Defendant knew its talc products
were dangerous and yet continued to market them to consumers without warnings.
The motion for summary
adjudication is GRANTED on the claim for punitive damages. 
The moving party is to
give notice. 
 