 Case Number:  22STCV09969    Hearing Date:   July 12, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



PAULA GREEN, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
MATTHEW GREEN, ET AL., 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.:  22STCV09969
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
MOTION FOR ORDER AUTHORIZING SETTLEMENT UNDER
  C.C.P. SECTION 708.440(b)
 
Date: July 12, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff
Paula R. Green (“Plaintiff”)
 
RESPONDING NON-PARTY:
Lien Claimant Michael R. Augustine, Trustee, Irwin L. Green and Dorothy L.
Green Revocable Trust (“Lien Claimant”)
 
            The Court has considered the moving,
objection, and reply papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
             On November 22, 2022, Plaintiff filed the
currently operative first amended complaint alleging causes of action for: (1)
legal malpractice; and (2) malicious prosecution. The legal malpractice claim
is asserted only against Defendants Matthew Green, Rhett Warriner, Michael Riley,
and Warriner, Green & Riley, LLP; the malicious prosecution claim is
asserted against all Defendants.
 
            On February 15, 2023, Lien Claimant filed
a Notice of Lien based on a money judgment entered in In the matter of Irwin
L. Green and Dorothy L. Green Revocable 1998 Trust, Case No. 16STPB01322, in
the amount of $5,134,712.00.
 
            On June 12, 2024, Defendant Steven
Lowe (“Lowe”) submitted a Notice of Settlement notifying the Court, among
others, that Plaintiff and Lowe, individually and doing business as Law Office
of Steven Lowe/Lowe law dba Lowe &Associates (“Lowe Defendants”) have
entered into a settlement.  
 
            Plaintiff now moves for an order
authorizing her to enter into a settlement via a Motion for Order Authorizing
Settlement Under C.C.P Section 708.440(b) (the “Motion”) filed on June 17, 2024.  On June 28, 2024, Lien Claimant filed an
Objection to the Motion.  On July 3,
2024, Lowe submitted a “Joinder to Motion Determnation [sic] of Good
Faith Settlement” and a “Reply to Objection to Application for Determnation [sic]
of Good Faith Settlement.”  Plaintiff
filed a reply on July 5, 2024. 
 
JUDICIAL NOTICE 
Plaintiff’s requests for judicial notice are GRANTED
pursuant to Evidence Code section 452(d) (court records).
 
DISCUSSION
Code
of Civil Procedure (“CCP”) section 708.440(a) states that when there is a
pending judgment lien against a party, “unless the judgment creditor’s money
judgment is first satisfied or the lien is released, … no compromise,
dismissal, settlement, or satisfaction of the pending action or special
proceeding or the judgment procured therein may be entered into by or on behalf
of the judgment debtor, without the written consent of the judgment creditor or
authorization by order of the court obtained under subdivision (b).”  In turn, subdivision (b) states: “Upon
application by the judgment debtor, the court in which the action or special
proceeding is pending or the judgment procured therein is entered may, in its
discretion, after a hearing, make an order described in subdivision (a) that
may include such terms and conditions as the court deems necessary. The
application for an order under this subdivision shall be made on noticed
motion.  The notice of motion shall be served on the judgment creditor. Service
shall be made personally or by mail.”
 
At
the outset, the Court notes that service was not made personally or by mail,
but rather by email.  However, as no
party has objected to the manner of service of the Motion, the Court will
address the Motion on its merits.
 
When a lien is created in a pending action, the
judgment debtor is entitled to claim any applicable exemption for all or part
of the money or property that the debtor may recover in the action.  (CCP § 708.450(a).)  To do this, the judgment debtor must file and
serve, personally or by mail, a noticed motion on the judgment creditor, not
more than thirty (30) days after the judgment debtor received notice of the
lien.  (CCP § 708.450(a).)  The motion must include a declaration
complying with CCP § 703.520(b), and if the judgment debtor fails to make a
timely claim, the exemption is waived.  (Id.)  Here, Plaintiff did not claim an exemption within
the prescribed period and has therefore waived any exemption.
 
In the Motion, Plaintiff asserts that Plaintiff’s
attorney in this action, Larry J. Caldwell (“Caldwell”), has an attorney’s lien
that applies to all recoveries in this action, including the proposed
settlement between Plaintiff and Lowe Defendants.  Plaintiff further asserts that since
Caldwell’s attorney’s lien was created before Lien Claimant filed his Notice of
Judgment Lien, Caldwell’s attorney lien is entitled to preference over the
judgment creditor’s lien.  
 
The Court of Appeal summarized the case
law on rulings on the validity of attorney’s liens in Carroll v. Interstate
Brands Corporation (2002) 99 Cal.App.4th 1168, 1173, as follows: 
 
Appellate courts
have consistently held that the trial court in the underlying action has no
jurisdiction to determine the existence or validity of an attorney’s lien on
the judgment.  [Citations.]  The trial court does have fundamental
jurisdiction over the subject matter and over the parties.  Nevertheless, because the attorney is not a
party to the underlying action and has no right to intervene, the trial court
acts in excess of its jurisdiction when it purports to determine whether the
attorney is entitled to foreclose a lien on the judgment.  [Citations.]  Nor can the court entertain a motion to
terminate the lien.  [Citations.]  After the client obtains a judgment, the
attorney must bring a separate, independent action against the client to
establish the existence of the lien, to determine the amount of the lien, and
to enforce it.  [Citations.]  An order within the underlying action
purporting to affect an attorney’s lien is void. 
 
Further, “[w]hen a party -- be it the
plaintiff client or a judgment creditor deemed a party for purposes of an
application under the judgment lien statutes -- objects to the adjudication of
the attorney lien claim in the underlying action, the fundamental rule set
forth in Carroll and its predecessors applies: Any order
within the underlying action purporting to affect the attorney lien, whether
positively or negatively, is void.”  (Brown
v. Superior Court (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 320, 333.)
The holding in Brown is explicit and
unambiguous: the Court does not have the jurisdiction to make any finding
whatsoever regarding the validity of an attorney’s lien, and any claim to an
attorney’s lien must be
determined in a separate action.  
 
Although the Court lacks jurisdiction to
rule on the validity of Plaintiff’s attorney’s lien or its purported priority
over Lien Claimant’s judgment lien, the Court has the discretion under CCP § 708.440(b)
to determine whether the settlement should be approved under “terms and
conditions as the court deems necessary.” 
(CCP §708.440(b).) 
 
The Enforcement of Judgments Act “must be
implemented to prevent a judgment debtor, with or without the assistance of
other parties to the settlement agreement, from structuring a settlement
agreement so that it receives benefits while evading the lien of the judgment
creditor, absent appropriate equitable considerations.”  (Oldham v. California Capital Fund Inc. (2003)
109 Cal.App.4th 421, 430.)  “[C]ourts
exercising their discretion in approving or disapproving a settlement should
consider whether the settling parties have adopted settlement terms that
adversely affect the rights of others,” including specifically those of a
judgment creditor with a lien under Code of Civil Procedure § 708.410, et
seq. (Id. at p. 432.) “To make an informed and intelligent decision
about the settlement, the superior court should have sufficient information to
understand who benefits from the transfers contemplated by the proposed
settlement and how they are benefitted. 
In other words, the superior court must understand the size of the
settlement pie, how the pie is sliced, and who is getting which slice.”  (Id. [Citation omitted].)  The obligation to provide that information
belongs to the
judgment debtor because, as the proponent of the settlement, it bears the
burden of proving that the settlement is reasonable.  (Id. at p. 434.) “[O]nce the superior
court knows the judgment debtor or an entity closely connected to the judgment
debtor is getting a settlement slice beyond the reach of the judgment
creditor’s lien, the court can determine if equitable principles justify
evasion of the lien, if terms or conditions should be imposed on the
settlement, or if approval of the settlement should be withheld.” (Id.)
 
Here, the Motion and its supporting
declaration provide no information about the negotiated allocation of the
settlement funds.  Pursuant to the
proposed settlement, Lowe Defendants agree to pay $51,500 to Plaintiff to
settle Plaintiff’s claims as against the Lowe Defendants, contingent upon this
Court’s approval of the settlement. (Declaration of Larry J. Caldwell in
Support of Motion, ¶ 2; Exh. 1.)  Nothing
in the Motion or its supporting papers indicates that any portion of the
settlement amount was expressly allocated to the satisfaction of the judgment
lien.  Instead, the Settlement Agreement merely
provides for the deposit of the “Settlement Funds into the blocked
interest-bearing account pending subsequent determination by the Court of how
the Settlement Funds shall be disbursed as between Plaintiff and Judgment
Creditor…” (Id.)  Based on
Plaintiff’s showing, therefore, the Court cannot conclude what amount was paid
to settle the claims brought by Plaintiff and what funds, if any, would be
available to satisfy Lien Claimant’s judgment lien.  The Court also notes that the Settlement
Agreement provides that after the Court approval of the settlement, the
settlement funds are to be transferred from the trust account of the Lowe
Defendants’ counsel to a blocked account for which Plaintiff Paula R. Green
shall “have the responsibility to open the blocked interest-bearing account.”  (Id.) 
The Court would not under the circumstances exercise its discretion to
allow control over the settlement funds to be held exclusively by Plaintiff.
 
 
Lien
Claimant has a right to preserve available funds for the purpose of satisfying a
judgment, especially because it remains to be seen whether Plaintiff will
succeed in ultimately pressing her claims against all the defendants.  In recognition of the parties’ competing
interests, and to preserve the balance between the parties at this stage of the
litigation, the Court DENIES the Motion. 
 
RULING
 Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s motion for an order authorizing the settlement is DENIED.
 
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 12th day of July 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



