 Case Number:  23NWCV00061    Hearing Date:   April 2, 2024    Dept:  C Irvin Aguilar vs International Forklift Company
Case No.: 23NWCV00061
Hearing Date: April 2, 2024 @ 9:30 AM
 
#4
Tentative Ruling 
Defendant International Forklift Company’s
Demurrer is Ruled on as follows:
    
I.       
Defendant’s Demurrer to the Fourth Cause
of Action is OVERRULED. 
   
II.       
Defendant’s Demurrer to the Fifth Cause of
Action is OVERRULED. 
 
III.       
Defendant’s Demurrer to the Sixth Cause of
Action is SUSTAINED. 
 IV.       
Defendant’s Demurrer to the Seventh Cause
of Action is SUSTAINED. 
  
V.       
Defendant’s Demurrer to the Eighth Cause
of Action is OVERRULED. 
 VI.       
Defendant’s Demurrer to the Ninth Cause of
Action is OVERRULED. 
Defendant to give notice. 
 
Background
Defendants, International Forklift Company and Brian
Challoner Demurrer on the punitive damage allegations in the First Amended
Complaint (FAC) on the grounds that the FAC does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action against Defendants. Defendants also seeks Demurrer
on the allegations for intentional infliction of emotional distress, negligent
inflection of emotional distress, assault, battery, statutory negligent
entrustment of a vehicle and business and professions code §17200, et seq.
against Defendants in that there are no facts whatsoever stated regarding this
cause of action.
Meet and Confer  
CCP
§430.41(a) states that, before filing a demurrer, the moving party must engage
in a specified meet and confer process with the party who filed the pleading at
issue for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached as to
the filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer/motion to strike. “[T]he demurring party shall meet and
confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading
that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement
can be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.
If an amended complaint…is filed, the responding party shall meet and confer
again with the party who filed the amended pleading before a demurrer to the
amended pleading.” (emphasis added.) (CCP §430.41(a).) A declaration setting
forth such meet and confer efforts must accompany the demurrer. (CCP §
430.41(a)(3).)   
 
Legal Standard 
The party against whom a complaint has been filed may
object to the pleading, by demurrer, on several grounds, including the ground
that the pleading does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action. (CCP § 430.10(e).) A party may demur to an entire complaint, or to any
causes of action stated therein. (CCP § 430.50(a).)
Analysis 
Defendant International Forklift Company (IFC) generally
demurrers to the following causes of action. 
Fourth Cause of Action: Intentional Infliction
of Emotional Distress
“The elements of the tort of intentional infliction of
emotional distress are: '(1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant
with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of
causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff's suffering severe or extreme
emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate causation of the emotional
distress by the defendant's outrageous conduct. ...' Conduct to be outrageous
must be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a
civilized community." (Christensen v. Superior Court (1991) 54
Cal.3d 868, 903.)
Defendant IFC contends that the conclusory remarks are not
sufficient to constitute a cause of action for intentional infliction of
emotional distress. 
Plaintiff argues that it has properly pleaded the IIED
claim. 
The Court finds that Plaintiff properly pleads his claim
for IIED. Plaintiff pleads extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant with
the intention of causing, or reckless disregard in FAC ¶ 59, Plaintiff properly
pleads suffering element through ¶ 60-61, Plaintiff properly pleads actual or
proximate causation in ¶ 62. 
Accordingly, the Demurrer is OVERRULED as to the Fourth
Cause of Action. 
 
Fifth Cause of Action: Negligent Infliction of
Emotional Distress
“ ‘[The] negligent causing of emotional distress is not an
independent tort but the tort of negligence . . . .’ ‘The traditional elements
of duty, breach of duty, causation, and damages apply. Whether a defendant owes
a duty of care is a question of law. Its existence depends upon the
foreseeability of the risk and upon a weighing of policy considerations for and
against imposition of liability.’” (Marlene F. v. Affiliated Psychiatric
Medical Clinic, Inc. (1989) 48 Cal.3d 583, 588.) 
Defendant IFC contends that the conclusory remarks are not
sufficient to constitute a cause of action for negligent infliction of
emotional distress. 
In opposition, Plaintiff states that it properly pleads a
claim for negligent infliction of emotional distress. 
The Court finds that Plaintiff properly pleads his claim
for NIED. Plaintiff in the FAC properly claims duty in ¶  74, properly alleges breach in ¶ 75, properly
alleges causation in ¶¶ 76-78, and damages in ¶ 80. 
Accordingly, the Court finds that the Demurrer as to the
Fifth Cause of Action is OVERRULED. 
 
Sixth Cause of Action: Assault 
The elements of assault are: (1) the defendant acted with
intent to cause harmful or offensive contact, or threatened to touch the
plaintiff in a harmful or offensive manner, (2) the plaintiff reasonably
believed he was about to be touched in a harmful or offensive manner or it reasonably
appeared to the plaintiff that the defendant was about to carry out the threat,
(3) the plaintiff did not consent to the defendant's conduct, (4) the plaintiff
was harmed, and (5) the defendant's conduct was a substantial factor in causing
the plaintiff's harm. (Carlsen v. Koivumaki (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 879.)
Defendant IFC argues that Plaintiff failed to state facts
sufficiently to allege liability for the assault claim. 
Plaintiff argues it properly alleges the elements of
Assault. 
The Court finds that Plaintiff does not properly pleads his
claim for assault. Plaintiff in the FAC makes claims regarding the assault was
initiated by Defendant Challoner, not by Defendant International Forklift
Company. The Complaint does not make any references as to Defendant
International Forklift Company liability as to the Sixth Cause of Action. 
Accordingly, the Demurrer as to the Sixth Cause of Action
is SUSTAINED, with leave to amend. 
 
Seventh Cause of Action: Battery 
The elements of Battery are: (1) the defendant touched the
plaintiff, or caused the plaintiff to be touched, with the intent to harm or
offend the plaintiff, (2) the plaintiff did not consent to the touching, (3)
the plaintiff was harmed or offended by the defendant's conduct, and (4) a
reasonable person in the plaintiff's position would have been offended by the
touching. (Carlsen v. Koivumaki (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 879.)
Defendant IFC argues that Plaintiff failed to state facts
sufficiently to allege liability for the battery claim. 
Plaintiff argues they properly plead the battery cause of
action. 
The Court finds that Plaintiff does not properly pleads its
claim for battery. Plaintiff in the FAC makes claims regarding the battery was
initiated by Defendant Challoner, not by Defendant International Forklift
Company. The Complaint does not make any references as to Defendant
International Forklift Company liability as to the Seventh Cause of Action. 
Accordingly, the Demurrer as to the Seventh Cause of
Actions is SUSTAINED, with leave to amend. 
 
Eight Cause of Action: Statutory Negligent
Entrustment of a Vehicle 
The Legislature enacted Vehicle Code section 17150 as a
financial responsibility provision “to protect innocent injured third parties”
from losses that occur when a vehicle owner permissibly lends his or her car to
another person. (Hitchcock v. Mercury Ins. Co. (1997) 54 Cal.App.4th
303, 305-306, emphasis added.) Additionally, the liability of the owner is
secondary to that of the operator under §17150. (Rashtian v. BRAC-BH
(1992) 9 Cal.App.4th 1847.)
Defendant IFC argues that Plaintiff failed to state facts
sufficiently to allege liability for the negligent entrustment of a vehicle
claim. 
Plaintiff argues an employer or owner of a vehicle is
liable for its negligent entrustment of the vehicle to the employee driver.
The Court finds that Plaintiff properly plead his claim for
Negligent Entrustment of a Vehicle in ¶¶ 113-117 of the FAC.
 
Ninth Cause of Action: Business and Profession
Code Section 17200, et Seq. 
“[A]n action based on [the UCL] to redress an unlawful
business practice ‘borrows’ violations of other laws and treats these
violations … as unlawful practices, independently actionable under § 17200, et
seq. and subject to the distinct remedies provided thereunder.” (Farmers
Ins. Exch. v. Super. Court, (1992) 2 Cal.4th 377, 383.) “One line defines
‘unfair’ as prohibiting conduct that is immoral, unethical, oppressive,
unscrupulous or substantially injurious to consumers and requires the court to
weigh the utility of the defendant’s conduct against the gravity of the harm to
the alleged victim.” (Smith v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co., (2001) 93
Cal.App.4th 700.)
Defendant IFC argues that Plaintiff failed to state facts
sufficiently to allege liability under Business and Professions Code Section
17200, et seq.  
Plaintiff states that they properly allege a claim under
Business and Profession Code Section 17200, et. seq. 
The Court finds that Plaintiff properly pled his claim
under Business and Profession Code Section 17200, et. Seq in ¶¶ 129-135. 
Accordingly, the Court Overrules the Demurrer as to Ninth
Cause of Action. 