 Case Number:  23NWCV02071    Hearing Date:   April 2, 2024    Dept:  C Capital One, N.A. vs Suzana Brandao
Case No.: 23NWCV02071
Hearing Date: April 2, 2024 @ 10:30 AM
 
#8
Tentative Ruling
Defendant Suzana Brandao Demurrer is OVERRULED.

Defendant to give notice. 
 
Background 
This is a breach of contract case based on an alleged
business debt against Defendant Suzana Brandao (“Defendant”) filed by Plaintiff
Capital One (“Plaintiff”) on July 5, 2023. 

Legal Standard 
The party against whom a
complaint has been filed may object to the pleading, by demurrer, on several
grounds, including the ground that the pleading does not state facts sufficient
to constitute a cause of action. (CCP § 430.10(e).) A party may demur to an
entire complaint, or to any causes of action stated therein. (CCP § 430.50(a).)
Discussion 
Defendant acting as pro per, Demurrers to the First Cause
of Action for Breach of Contract and Second Cause of Action for Common Counts.
Defendant states that at no time did she own or operate a business in her name,
or a signer on any accounts associated with the business Plaintiff attempts to
collect a debt from. (Brandao Decl., ¶¶ 6-7.) Defendant goes on to argue that
she never received any benefits, financial or material from the charges
associated with the business. (Brandao Decl., ¶ 8.)
In opposition, Plaintiff contends that this issues is not
one that can be properly addressed on a demurrer as Plaintiff has sufficiently
pled facts to put Plaintiff on notice of the causes of action. 
In reply, Defendant contends that through meet and confer
efforts she has made Plaintiff aware that there was an error as she has never
owed money on a Capital One Spark Business Card. Defendant further explains
that she received billing statements showing that the transactions were not
made by her. 
At this stage, the Court may only grant a demurrer for
uncertainty if the complaint is so bad that defendant cannot reasonably
respond. (Rhoury v. Maly’s of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th
612,616.) Here, the face of the Complaint lists the alleged debt incurred and
the account number in connection with the alleged debt. 
Accordingly, the Court at this point OVERRULES the
Demurrer. 