 Case Number:  22NWCV01077    Hearing Date:   April 2, 2024    Dept:  C Jane Doe 7064, et al. vs Doe 1, et al.
Case No.: 22NWCV01077
Hearing Date: April 2, 2024 @ 9:30 AM
 
#3 
Tentative Ruling 
Cross-Defendant Los Angeles Unified School
District’s DEMURRER is SUSTAINED, with 20 days leave to amend. 
Cross-Defendant to give notice. 
 
Background
This is a childhood sexual abuse action. Plaintiffs Jane
Doe 7064, Jane Doe 7035, and Jane Doe 7063 allege they were sexually abused and
assaulted by teacher Jeffrey Scott Jones while they were students at Bell High
School between 1987 and 2001. On or about November 8, 2022, Plaintiffs filed
their First Amended Complaint, asserting two causes of action against Los
Angeles Unified School District (“LAUSD”) for negligence and negligent
supervision/retention, and two causes of action against Mr. Jones for sexual
battery and sexual harassment. On or about August 23, 2023, Mr. Jones filed a
First Amended Cross-Complaint for Indemnity against LAUSD.
The nine-paragraph First Amended Cross-Complaint alleges
that: (i) Mr. Jones was an employee of LAUSD as a teacher (First Amended
Cross-Complaint [“FAXC”] ¶ 4); (ii) as an employee of LAUSD, Mr. Jones is
entitled to a defense and to be indemnified at the expense of LAUSD pursuant to
Labor Code section 2802 (FAXC ¶¶ 5-6); (iii) Mr. Jones tendered Plaintiffs’
First Amended Complaint to LAUSD requesting a defense (FAXC ¶ 7); and (iv)
LAUSD has refused and continues to refuse to provide a defense to him, “requiring
him to retain outside counsel incurring attorney fees and costs and other
expenses that should be reimbursed to him.” (FAXC ¶ 8.)
Defendant Los Angeles Unified School District (LAUSD)
demurs to the first cause of action of the First Amended Cross-Compliant of
Jeffrey Scott Jones for Indemnity on the ground that it fails to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action for indemnity against LAUSD. (Cal.
Code Civ. Proc. § 430.10(e).)
Legal Standard 
“A demurrer tests the sufficiency of a complaint as a
matter of law.” (City of Chula Vista v. County of San Diego (1994) 23
Cal.App.4th 1713, 1718.) A cross-defendant may object to a cross complaint by
filing a demurrer, and a demurrer may be sustained where the pleading does not
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. (Code Civ. Proc. §
430.10(e).) A demurrer can be used to challenge any defects that appear on the
face of the pleading or from judicially noticeable matters. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985)
39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) On demurrer, “the reviewing court gives the complaint a
reasonable interpretation, and treats the demurrer as admitting all material
facts properly pleaded. The court does not, however, assume the truth of
contentions, deductions or conclusions of law.” (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital
Dist, (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967). To avoid a successful demurrer, a
cross-complaint must allege facts in support of each element of a cause of
action, mere conclusions are insufficient. (Freeman v. San Diego Ass’n of
Realtors (1999) 77 Cal.App.4th 171, 189). 
Discussion 
Defendant/Cross-Complainant Jones has filed a cause of
action against Defendant/Cross-Defendant LAUSD for a claim of indemnity. 
In its moving papers, Cross-Defendant LAUSD argues that
there is a claim presentation requirement of the Government Claims Act, that
Jones has not fulfilled. LAUSD contends that there are no facts alleged
demonstrating how Mr. Jones complied, when Mr. Jones complied and whether it
was timely, and what claims statutes were complied with and instead merely
alleges that he “complied with all applicable claim statutes.” (FAXC ¶ 3). Further,
LAUSD maintains that the letter sent by Jones’ Counsel was inadequate to
satisfy the claim presentation requirement. (See FAXC ¶ 7.)
In opposition, Jones contends his Cross-Compliant properly
alleges he complied with all applicable claim statutes. Jones further maintains
that after he was served, he retained Counsel who sent a letter to LAUSD. Jones
also contends he is exempt from the claims presentation requirements under
California Gov. Code Section 905(m). 
In reply, LAUSD argues that Jones mistaken belief that he
was excused from compliance with the claim presentation requirements does not
mitigate the necessity of following the guidelines. LAUSD then turns back to
its previous contention that Jones did not follow the guidelines and thus
demurrer is appropriate. 
Under
Section 910, a claim shall be presented by the claimant or by a person acting
on his or her behalf and shall show all of the following:
(a) The
name and post office address of the claimant.
(b) The
post office address to which the person presenting the claim desires notices to
be sent.
(c) The
date, place and other circumstances of the occurrence or transaction which gave
rise to the claim asserted.
(d) A
general description of the indebtedness, obligation, injury, damage or loss
incurred so far as it may be known at the time of presentation of the claim.
(e) The
name or names of the public employee or employees causing the injury, damage,
or loss, if known.
(f) The
amount claimed if it totals less than ten thousand dollars ($10,000) as of the
date of presentation of the claim, including the estimated amount of any
prospective injury, damage, or loss, insofar as it may be known at the time of
the presentation of the claim, together with the basis of computation of the
amount claimed. If the amount claimed exceeds ten thousand dollars ($10,000),
no dollar amount shall be included in the claim. However, it shall indicate
whether the claim would be a limited civil case.
 
(Gov.
Code, § 910.) 
 
The
Court notes that letter cited by Jones is not attached to the First Amended
Cross-Complaint. Accordingly, the Court may not determine if the letter does
meet the requirements under Section 910. 
 
Government Code section 905 requires the presentation of
“all claims for money or damages against local public entities”, subject to
certain exceptions. (Gov. Code, § 905.) “[N]o suit for money or damages may be
brought against a public entity on a cause of action for which a claim is
required to be presented…until a written claim therefor has been presented to
the public entity and has been acted upon by the board, or has been deemed to
have been rejected by the board....” (Gov. Code, § 945.4; Del Real v. City
of Riverside (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 761, 767.) 
Courts have found that letters sent to the district on
behalf of the claimant by his attorney do not constitute a claim within the
meaning of the Tort Claims Act. (Dilts v. Cantua Elementary School Dist.
(1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 27, 36.) The Court notes that LAUSD does agree that there
was a letter sent however, California Courts have held that “[e]ven if the
public entity has actual knowledge of facts that might support a claim, the
claims statutes still must be satisfied.” (DiCampli-Mintz v. County of Santa
Clara (2012) 55 Cal.4th 983, 990.) The DiCampli-Mintz
Court found that “[t]he filing of a claim is a condition precedent to the
maintenance of any cause of action against the public entity and is therefore
an element that a plaintiff is required to prove in order to prevail.” (Id.) 
This Court has not been presented with evidence in the
letter. Therefore, the Court, at this point, may not determine the timeliness
of the letter or whether it followed the statutory requirements set forth in
Section 910. Since a claim is a condition precedent of any cause of action
against LAUSD, the Court is persuaded that the demurrer must be SUSTAINED. 
The Court is not persuaded that this defect is uncurable.
Accordingly, the Court grants leave to amend, within 20 days of this order. 