 Case Number:  23NWCV01745    Hearing Date:   April 2, 2024    Dept:  C Luis Omar Rodriguez vs Volkswagen Group of
America, Inc.
Case No.: 23NWCV01745
Hearing Date: April 2, 2024 @ 10:30 AM
 
#7
Tentative Ruling 
Plaintiff Luis Omar Rodriguez Motion to Compel
Further Request for Production is CONTINUED to May 28, 2024 at 9:30 a.m. in
Department SE-C. 
Defendant to give notice. 
 
Background
On February 8, 2022, Plaintiff purchased a 2017 Volkswagen
Jetta, bearing VIN: 3VW5T7AJ6HM327683 (“Subject Vehicle”).
On or about July 21, 2023, Plaintiff propounded Request for
Production of Documents, Set One, on Defendant seeking information to support
the asserted claims. Plaintiff contends Defendant responded to Plaintiff’s RFPs
with boilerplate objections that are not compliant with the California Code of
Civil Procedure nor California case law. 
The Court is not persuaded that counsel have exhausted
their meet and confer obligations pursuant to the Code. Counsel are advised
that their meet and confer efforts should go beyond merely sending letters
stating their respective positions. (See Townsend v. Superior Court
(1998) 61 Cal.App.4th 1431, 1439.) “A determination of whether an attempt at
informal resolution is adequate…involves the exercise of discretion. The level
of effort at an informal resolution which satisfies the ‘reasonable and good
faith attempt’ standard depends upon the circumstances. In a larger, more
complex discovery request, a greater effort at informal resolution may be
warranted. In a simpler, or more narrowly focused case, a more modest effort
may suffice. The history of the litigation, the nature of the interaction
between counsel, the nature of the issues, the type and scope of the discovery
requested, the prospects for success and other similar factors can be relevant.
Judges have broad powers and responsibilities to determine what measures and
procedures are appropriate in varying circumstances.” (Obregon v. Sup. Ct.
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 424, 431.) 
In the reply papers, Defendants contend that Counsel
responded to the meet and confer letters to offer availability to meet and
confer telephonically.  Plaintiff did not
call counsel, but instead only sent letters. 
Considering the evidence, the Court considers that Plaintiff sent
generic letters and did not consider the specific facts of the instant case such
as Plaintiff stating that RFP No. 29-32 were boilerplate objections, whereas
the evidence shows that Defendant responded with substantive responses. 
Counsel are ORDERED
to make further efforts to resolve the issues presented. If, after exhausting
those efforts, court intervention is needed, counsel may appear and argue the
merits on the continued hearing date. If counsel are unable to informally
resolve their discovery disputes, then counsel are instructed to submit a JOINT
STATEMENT with a detailed outline of the remaining disputed issues for
which a ruling is required. The joint statement must be FILED on or before May
20, 2024 at noon. 
 