 Case Number:  23NWCV01087    Hearing Date:   April 2, 2024    Dept:  C Luz Rincon vs American Honda Motor Co., Inc.,
et al.
Case No.: 23NWCV01087
Hearing Date: April 2, 2024 @ 9:30 AM 
 
#5 
Tentative Ruling 
Defendant American Honda Motor Co., Inc. Motion
to Compel Arbitration is GRANTED. 
Defendant to give notice. 
 
Background 
This is a lemon law action. On May 5, 2019, Plaintiff Luz
Rincon (“Plaintiff”) leased a 2019 Honda HR-V from Honda World Downey.  On April 10, 2023, Plaintiff filed the
instant Compliant against American Honda Motor Company, Inc., alleging various
defects during the warranty period and negligent repair claim against Galpin
Motos, Inc. 
Evidentiary
Objections and Request for Judicial Notice 
Plaintiff’s Evidentiary Objections 
The Objection to the Declaration of Andres F. Michel in its
entirety is OVERRULED. 
Request for Judicial Notice
The Three Requests for Judicial Notice are GRANTED. 
Legal Standard 
Under
California law, the trial court has authority to compel arbitration pursuant to
CCP §1281.2 where a written agreement for such arbitration exists and one of
the parties refuses to arbitrate. Specifically, the statute provides that,
“[o]n petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the existence of
a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses
to arbitrate such controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the
respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement
arbitrate the controversy exists.” The statute further sets forth four grounds
upon which the trial court may refuse to compel arbitration: (a) the right to
compel arbitration was waived, (b) recission of the agreement, (c) there is a
pending action or special proceeding with a third party, arising out of the
same transaction; and (d) petitioner is a state or federally chartered
depository institution.
“[T]he
petitioner bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration
agreement by the preponderance of the evidence . . . .”¿¿(Giuliano v. Inland
Empire Personnel, Inc.¿(2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1276, 1284¿(Guiliano).)¿“In
determining whether an arbitration agreement applies to a specific dispute, the
court may examine only the agreement itself and the complaint filed by the
party refusing arbitration [citation]. The court should attempt to give effect
to the parties' intentions, in light of the usual and ordinary meaning of the
contractual language and the¿circumstances under which the agreement was
made.”¿¿(Weeks v. Crow¿(1980) 113 Cal.App.3d 350, 353.)¿ “To determine whether
a contractual arbitration clause requires arbitration of a particular
controversy, the controversy is first identified and the issue is whether that
controversy is within the scope of the contractual arbitration
clause.”¿¿(Titolo¿v. Cano¿(2007) 157 Cal.App.4th 310, 316.)¿ “Doubts as to
whether an arbitration clause applies to a particular dispute are to be
resolved in favor of sending the parties to arbitration. The court should order
them to arbitrate unless it is clear that the arbitration clause cannot be
interpreted to cover the dispute.”¿¿(California Correctional Peace
Officers¿Ass'n¿v. State¿(2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 198, 205.)¿¿¿
“[A]
party opposing the petition bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of
the evidence any fact necessary to its defense. [Citation.] In these summary
proceedings, the trial court sits as a trier of fact, weighing all the
affidavits, declarations, and other documentary evidence, as well as oral
testimony received at the court's discretion, to reach a final
determination.”¿¿(Giuliano, supra, at p. 1284.)¿
Discussion 
Plaintiff signed a lease agreement on May 5, 2022 and
executive the Contract on the same day. The Contract is third pages, with
signature lines next to the Arbitration agreement. (Manigo Decl., Exhibit A.) 
The Contract states: “The parties agree that any unresolved
disputes shall be submitted to arbitration in accordance with the Arbitration
clause (Section 52). By initialing this Section, I am confirming that I have
read this Section and the Arbitration clause, including the method of opting
out of arbitration.”  (Manigo Decl.,
Exhibit A, ¶ 15.)
Plaintiff’s signature appears on the signature line within
that box. (Id.) The referenced arbitration provision, reads in relevant
part:
“By signing the Arbitration Consent, YOU elect to have
disputes resolved by arbitration. YOU, HONDA or any involved third party may
pursue a Claim. "Claim" means any dispute between YOU, HONDA, or any
involved third party relating to your account, this Lease, or our relationship,
including any application, the Vehicle, its performance and any
representations, omissions or warranties. “Claim" does not include
personal injury or wrongful death claims. YOU or HONDA may seek remedies in
small claims court or provisional judicial remedies without arbitrating.”
(Manigo Decl., Exhibit A, ¶ 52.)
In the agreement, Defendant Honda is found responsible for
paying Plaintiff’s filing and arbitrator fees up to $5,000.00, unless the law
requires more. (Id.)
Defendant Honda has shown that there is a valid arbitration
clause in the contract, which was signed by Plaintiff. 
Accordingly, Defendant has
established there is an enforceable agreement to arbitrate.  The motion to
compel arbitration is GRANTED, the action is stayed pending the
completion of arbitration. 
 