  Case Number:  23CHCV00954    Hearing Date:   March 18, 2024    Dept:  F47 Dept. F47
Date: 3/18/24
Case #23CHCV00954
 
DEMURRER &
MOTION TO STRIKE TO THE FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT
 
Demurrer filed on 1/3/24.
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendants Ivan Escobar and D&M Home
Inspections
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiffs Delia
M. Gonzalez, Monica M. Gonzalez and Jessica Acosta

NOTICE: ok
 
Demurrer is to the entire First Amended Complaint*:
            1.  Breach of
Contract
            2. 
Fraud
            3. 
Negligence
            4. 
Civil Battery
            5. 
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress
            6. 
Premises Liability

 
*The causes of action in the caption of the First Amended
Complaint do not match those in the body of the First Amended Complaint.  The caption lists the causes of action as: (1) Breach, (2) Violation of Civil Code 1102, (3) Fraud by
Concealment, (4) Negligence, (5) Conversion and (6) Battery.

 
RELIEF IN MOTION TO STRIKE: An order striking Plaintiffs’ request for punitive and exemplary damages
(¶50a, p.14:3-4, ¶50b, p.14:7) and Plaintiff’s request for emotional distress
damages (¶46, p.13:8-14).

 
RULING: The demurrer is sustained without leave to
amend.  The motion to strike is placed
off calendar as moot.
 
SUMMARY OF FACTS & PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
This action arises out of Plaintiffs
Delia M. Gonzalez, Monica M. Gonzalez and Jessica Acosta’s (Plaintiffs)
purchase of real property commonly known as 9043 Greenbush Avenue in Pacoima
California from Defendants Maria Ramos and Gilardo Ramos (the Sellers).  
 
Plaintiffs allege that, on 12/1/22, the
Sellers and their agents, who are also named as defendants, failed to disclose
that the property was repaired, patched, and painted to conceal the fact that
the roof needed replacement; mold had to be removed; and there was significant
rotted wood in the walls and ceilings. 
(FAC ¶16).  Plaintiffs allege that
that Defendants Ivan Escobar (Escobar) of D&M Home Inspections (D&M)
also failed to disclose and/or minimized the significant damage to the roof, ceiling,
and walls which were “unsound to withstand rain, bugs, and mold.”  (FAC ¶¶18, 21).
 
As a result of the foregoing, on
4/5/23, Plaintiffs, representing themselves, filed this action alleging various
causes of action.  The caption of the original
complaint listed the causes of action as: (1) Breach, (2) Violation of Civil
Code 1102, (3) Fraud by Concealment, (4) Negligence, (5) Conversion and (6)
Battery.  The body of the original complaint
included causes of action for: (1) Breach of Contract; (2) Fraud; (3)
Negligence; (4) Civil Battery; (5) Intentional Infliction of Emotional  Distress and (6) Premises Liability.  The complaint did not specify against which
defendants each cause of action was alleged. 
On 10/6/23, the Court sustained the demurrer of Defendants Charla
Gonzalez, Virginia Rios and Re-Max All Pro to the entire complaint with leave
to amend.  On 11/28/23, Plaintiffs, still
representing themselves, filed the subject First Amended Complaint which, like
the original complaint, contains a caption which sets forth different causes of
action than the body of the First Amended Complaint.  The caption of the First Amended Complaint
lists the same causes of action as the original complaint and the  body of the First Amended Complaint contains
the same six causes of action as the original complaint.  The First Amended Complaint, again, like the
original complaint, does not specify against which defendants each cause of
action is alleged.  
 
After
Plaintiffs failed to respond to their counsel’s meet and confer efforts, on
1/3/24, Escobar and D&M filed and served by U.S. mail the instant demurer
to the entire First Amended Complaint and motion to strike which seeks an order
striking Plaintiffs’ request for punitive and exemplary damages (¶50a,
p.14:3-4, ¶50b, p.14:7) and Plaintiff’s request for emotional distress damages
(¶46, p.13:8-14).  (See Campos
Decl.).  Plaintiffs have not opposed or
otherwise responded to the demurrer or motion to strike.  
ANALYSIS
 
Escobar and D&M demur to the entire First Amended Complaint
on the grounds that it fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action and it is uncertain.  CCP
430.10(e), (f).  
 
The First Amended Complaint, like the original complaint,
is uncertain in that the causes of action in the caption do not match those in
the body of the First Amended Complaint. 
Additionally, it is not clear what is being alleged against each
defendant as none of the causes of action contain specific allegations
regarding them.    
 
Breach of Contract
 
The elements of a breach of contract cause of action are:
(1) a contract between the parties, (2) plaintiffs’ performance or excuse for
nonperformance of their obligations under the contract, (3) the defendants’
breach of their contractual obligations, and (4) resulting damages to the
plaintiffs.  Careau & Co.
(1990) 222 CA3d 1371, 1388.
 
Plaintiffs’ 1st cause of action appears to be
based on a written contract between the Plaintiffs and the Sellers.  (FAC ¶26). 
A claim for breach of a written contract must set forth the terms of the
contract verbatim in the body of the complaint or attach a copy of the contract
and incorporate it by reference.  Otworth
(1985) 166 CA3d 452, 458-459; Twaite (1989) 216 CA3d 239, 252. 
 
Plaintiffs have failed to adequately plead the terms of
any contract between Plaintiffs and Escobar and/or D&M and Plaintiffs have
not attached a copy of any such agreement to the First Amended Complaint.  (See FAC, generally).  As such, Plaintiffs have failed to allege the
essential element of a contract between Plaintiffs and Escobar and/or
D&M.  See Careau & Co.,
supra.      
 
Fraud
 
The elements of a fraud cause of action are: (a)
misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b)
knowledge of falsity; (c) intent to defraud (i.e., to induce reliance); (d)
justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage. 
Engalla (1997) 15 C4th 951, 974. 
Fraud claims must be specifically pled with facts showing how, when,
where, to whom and by what means the representations were made.  Lazar (1996) 12 C4th 631, 645.  
 
Plaintiffs rely on the allegations in paragraphs 1-24 of
the First Amended Complaint to support their fraud claim.  (FAC ¶41). 
However, neither those paragraphs nor the remainder of the allegations
in the First Amended Complaint include the necessary specific facts to state a
claim for fraud against Escobar and/or D&M. 
 
 
Violation of Civil Code 1102/Negligence
 
Both a claim for violation of Civil Code 1102 and a claim
for negligence require that Defendants owed Plaintiffs a duty that was
breached, causation and damages.  See
Hegyes (1991) 234 CA3d 1103, 1134. 
This cause of action is also based on the allegations contained in
paragraphs 1-24 of the First Amended Complaint. 
(FAC ¶43).  However, those
paragraphs do not allege facts which establish a duty or causation on the part
of Escobar and/or D&M.    
 
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress 
 
The elements of a cause of action for intentional
infliction of emotional distress are: (1) outrageous conduct by defendants; (2)
intention to cause or reckless disregard of the probability of causing
emotional distress; (3) severe emotional suffering, and (4) actual and
proximate causation of the emotional distress. 
Hughes (2009) 46 C4th 1035, 1050. 
This cause of action is also based on paragraphs 1-24 in the First
Amended Complaint.  (FAC ¶47).  The allegations in these paragraphs do not
include sufficient facts to state a claim for intentional infliction of
emotional distress against Escobar and/or D&M.  Plaintiffs have not pled facts showing the
type of extreme and outrageous conduct by Escobar and/or D&M necessary to
state such a claim.  
 
Premises Liability
 
Premises liability is a specialized form of negligence
which relates to care in managing real property, to prevent risk of
unreasonable harm to others.  McIntyre
v. Colonies-Pacific LLC (2014) 228 CA4th 664, 671.  This cause of action is also based on the
allegations in paragraphs 1-24 of the First Amended Complaint.  (FAC ¶49). 
As with the negligence cause of action, Plaintiffs have failed allege a
duty on the part of Escobar and/or D&M owed to Plaintiffs and how such duty
was breached causing damages to Plaintiffs. 

 
Battery
 
Plaintiffs merely list the elements of a civil battery
claim (1) defendant touched plaintiff, or caused plaintiff to be touched, with
the intent to harm  or offend plaintiff;
(2) plaintiff did not consent to the touching; (3) plaintiff was harmed or
offended by defendant’s conduct; and (4) a reasonable person in plaintiff’s
position would have been offended by the touching) and rely on the allegations
in paragraphs 1-24 to support the cause of action.  (FAC ¶44). 
Once again,  Plaintiffs have
failed to allege facts to support a finding of liability on the part of Escobar
and/or D&M for a claim of battery.  
 
Conversion  
 
While the caption of the First Amended Complaint includes
conversion as the purported 5th cause of action, no such claim
appears in the body of the First Amended Complaint.  
 
CONCLUSION
 
Plaintiffs have failed to allege sufficient facts to
state any of the claims asserted against Escobar and/or D&M in the First
Amended Complaint.  Additionally, the
First Amended Complaint is so uncertain as to the bases of the claims against Escobar
and/or D&M that they cannot reasonably respond.  Therefore, the demurrer is sustained.
 
While there is a liberal policy of allowing leave to
amend, Plaintiffs have now had two opportunities to try to plead their claims
and have failed to adequately do so.  The
First Amended Complaint suffers from the same defects as the original
complaint.  Additionally, this is the
second demurrer to which Plaintiffs have failed to file any opposition or response
indicating that they can cure the defects in their pleading.  (See 10/6/24 Minute Order, p.2).  
 
Based on the foregoing, the demurrer is sustained without
leave to amend.    
 
Based on the sustaining of the demurrer as to the
entirety of the First Amended Complaint, the motion to strike is placed off
calendar as moot.   
 