..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the summary of the Judge's Tentative Ruling in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 22CHCV01394
Plaintiff's Name: Chance Tassone and Chance of Lifetime, Inc.
Defendant's Name: Jones BH Acquisition, LLC; Volkswagen Group of America, Inc.
People-Names: None mentioned
Company-Names: Chance of Lifetime, Inc., Jones BH Acquisition, LLC, Audi Beverly Hills, Volkswagen Group of America, Inc.
Places: Los Angeles, California
Dates: August 2, 2024, May 17, 2024, July 19, 2023, June 7, 2023, May 8, 2023, February 26, 2021, December 15, 2022
Events: Motion for Summary Judgment, Repair of Subject Vehicle
Money: Monetary damages, repair and maintenance costs, insurance premiums, registration fees, extended service contracts/warranties, repair deductibles
Intentions: Plaintiffs seek to recover damages for alleged defects in their 2021 Audi E-tron, while Defendant Audi Beverly Hills seeks summary judgment on the Fourth Cause of Action in Plaintiffs' Second Amended Complaint
Facts: Plaintiffs filed a complaint alleging defects in their 2021 Audi E-tron, which was manufactured by Volkswagen. The vehicle was repaired by Audi Beverly Hills, but the repairs did not satisfactorily address the defects.
Disputes: Plaintiffs dispute that Audi Beverly Hills owed them a duty to repair the vehicle with due care, while Audi Beverly Hills argues that the Economic Loss Rule bars the Plaintiffs' claim for negligent repair
Acts: Audi Beverly Hills repaired the Subject Vehicle, but the repairs did not satisfactorily address the defects
Agreements: Lease agreement, warranty contract
Laws: Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act, California Civil Code
Case Citations: McIntyre v. The Colonies-Pacific, LLC, J.L. v. Children’s Institute, Inc., Bily v. Arthur Young & Co., Sheen v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., Erlich v. Menezes, Freeman & Mills, Inc. v. Belcher Oil Co., Butler-Rupp v. Lourdeaux, Eads v. Marks
Statutes: California Civil Code, Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act
Roles: Judge, Plaintiffs, Defendant Audi Beverly Hills
Significant Statements: "The motion for summary judgment shall be granted if all the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to a judgment as a matter of law." (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c))
```

And here is the English-text summary of the Judge's Tentative Ruling:

The Judge has issued a tentative ruling granting the Motion for Summary Judgment filed by Defendant Audi Beverly Hills on the Fourth Cause of Action in Plaintiffs' Second Amended Complaint. The motion seeks summary judgment on the claim of negligent repair of the Subject Vehicle. The Judge finds that the Economic Loss Rule bars the Plaintiffs' claim for negligent repair, as the damages sought are purely economic and do not involve physical or property damage. The Judge distinguishes the case of Eads v. Marks, which allowed recovery for personal injuries, and finds that the Plaintiffs have failed to meet their burden of demonstrating a prima facie case showing the existence of a triable issue of material fact. The motion is granted, and the Court concludes that Defendant Audi Beverly Hills is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.
