  Case Number:  22CHCV01394    Hearing Date:   August 2, 2024    Dept:  F49 


Dept. F49




Date: 8/2/24




Case Name: Chance Tassone and Chance of Lifetime, Inc. v. Jones BH Acquisition,
  LLC; Volkswagen Group of America, Inc. and Does 1 through 10




Case No. 22CHCV01394



 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH VALLEY DISTRICT
DEPARTMENT F49
 

AUGUST 2, 2024
 

MOTION
FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT

Los
Angeles Superior Court Case No. 22CHCV01394

 
Motion filed:
5/17/24
 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendant
Jones BH Acquisition, LLC d/b/a Audi Beverly Hills (the “Moving Defendant” or “Audi
Beverely Hills”) 
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiffs
Chance Tassone and Chance of a Lifetime, Inc. (“Plaintiffs”)
NOTICE: OK.¿¿¿ 
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: An
order granting Audi Beverly Hills’ Motion for Summary Judgment on the Fourth
Cause of Action in Plaintiffs’ Second Amended Complaint against it.
 
TENTATIVE RULING: The
motion is GRANTED.
 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiffs filed
this Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act lawsuit over alleged defects in their
2021 Audi E-tron (the “Subject Vehicle”), which was manufactured by Defendant
Volkswagen Group of America, Inc. (“Volkswagen”). Plaintiffs allege that they
entered into a warranty contract with Defendant Volkswagen on February 26,
2021. (Compl. ¶ 15.) Plaintiffs further allege that they delivered the Subject
Vehicle to Defendant Audi Beverly Hills for repair on numerous occasions,
however, Audi Beverly Hills failed to use ordinary care and skill in repairing
the Subject Vehicle. (Id. ¶¶ 54-59.)
 
            On December 15, 2022, Plaintiffs
initiated this action. Subsequently, Plaintiffs filed their First Amended
Complaint (“FAC”) on January 17, 2023.
 
            On May 8, 2023, the Court sustained
Defendants Volkswagen and Audi Beverly Hills’ demurrer to the FAC, granting
Plaintiffs 30 days to amend. (5/8/23 Minute Order)
 
            On June 7, 2023, Plaintiffs filed
their operative Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) against Defendants Volkswagen
and Audi Beverly Hills (collectively, “Defendants”), and Does 1 through 10,
alleging the following causes of action: (1) Violation of Song-Beverly Act –
Breach of Express Warranty (against Defendants Volkswagen and Does 1 through
10), (2) Violation of the Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Implied Warranty
(against Defendants Volkswagen and Does 1 through 10), (3) Violation of the
Song-Beverly Act Section 1793.2 (against Defendants Volkswagen and Does 1
through 10), and (4) Negligent Repair (against Defendants Audi Beverly Hills
and Does 1 through 10). Subsequently, Audi Beverly Hills filed its Answer to
the SAC on July 19, 2023.
 
            On May 17, 2024, Defendant Audi
Beverly Hills filed the instant Motion for Summary Judgment (the “Motion”).
Subsequently, Plaintiffs filed their Opposition on July 23, 2024, and Audi
Beverly Hills replied on July 26, 2024.
            
ANALYSIS
 
“A party may move for summary judgment in an action or
proceeding if it is contended that the action has no merit or that there is no
defense to the action or proceeding.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (a)(1).)
 
“The motion for summary judgment shall be granted if all the
papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact
and that the moving party is entitled to a judgment as a matter of law. In
determining if the papers show that there is no triable issue as to any
material fact, the court shall consider all of the evidence set forth in the
papers, except the evidence to which objections have been made and sustained by
the court, and all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence, except
summary judgment shall not be granted by the court based on inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence if contradicted by other inferences or
evidence that raise a triable issue as to any material fact.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c, subd. (c).) 
 
“[I]f
the moving papers establish prima facie showing that justifies a [ruling] in
the [defendant’s] favor, the burden then shifts to the [plaintiff] to make prima
facie showing of the existence of a triable material factual issue.”'
(Citation.)" (See's Candy Shops, Inc. v. Superior Court (2012)
210 Cal.App.4th 889, 900, quoting Rehmani v. Superior Court (2012)
204 Cal.App.4th 945, 950.) “The defendant or cross-defendant shall not rely
upon the allegations or denials of its pleadings to show that a triable issue
of material fact exists but, instead, shall set forth the specific facts
showing that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the cause of action
or a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(1).) 
 
A.    Motion
for Summary Judgment
 
1)      Fourth Cause of
Action – Negligent Repair
 
The Fourth Cause
of Action for Negligent Repair is based on a negligence theory, which requires
the same elements of a negligence cause of action – the existence of a legal
duty of care, a breach of that duty, and approximate causation resulting in
injury. (McIntyre v. The Colonies-Pacific, LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th
664, 671.)
 
            A negligence claim must be based on a duty owed by the defendant
to the plaintiff. Absent such a duty, there is no liability, no matter how
easily the injury might have been prevented. (J.L. v. Children’s Institute,
Inc. (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 388, 396; Bily v. Arthur Young & Co.
(1992) 3 Cal.4th 370, 397 [threshold element is existence of duty to use due
care toward another].)
 
            Here,
Plaintiffs do not identify any statue or regulation that requires Audi Beverly
Hills to repair the Subject Vehicle with due care. Without a statutory duty,
Plaintiffs ground their negligence claim on a common law duty. However, this cause of action
fails due to the economic loss rule, as the Court finds no such duty exists in
this context.
 
a.     
Economic Loss Rule
 
The Economic Loss Rule can be stated
as follows - in general, there is no recovery in tort for negligently inflicted
‘purely economic losses,’ meaning financial harm unaccompanied by physical or
property damage.” (Sheen v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2022) 12 Cal.5th
905, 922, citing Southern California Gas Leak Cases (2019) 7 Cal.5th 391.)
Courts have established that "conduct
amounting to a breach of contract becomes tortious only when it also violates a
duty independent of the contract arising from principles of tort law." (Erlich
v. Menezes, (1999) 21 Cal.4th 543, 551; see also Freeman & Mills,
Inc. v. Belcher Oil Co. (1995) 11 Cal.4th 85, 102). Tort damages have been
allowed in contract cases where a breach of duty directly causes physical
injury; for breaches of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing in
insurance contracts; for wrongful discharge in violation of fundamental public
policy; or where the contract was fraudulently induced. In these cases, the
duty giving rise to tort liability is either completely independent of the
contract or arises from conduct both intentional and intended to harm (Erlich
v. Menezes, supra, at pp. 551–552; Butler-Rupp v. Lourdeaux
(2005) 134 Cal.App.4th 1220, 1227).
Here, it is undisputed that Plaintiffs presented
the Subject Vehicle to Audi Beverly Hills, which performed repairs from August
12 to 15, 2022 (Undisputed Material Fact (“UMF”) No. 3). Additionally, there
are no allegations of fraud or other intentional tort claims independent of the
breach of contract cause of action. Thus, this repair service, whether under
warranty or not, establishes the parties in contractual privity, thereby
implicating the Economic Loss Rule.
Moreover, it is undisputed that Plaintiffs did not
incur any bodily injury or property damage due to the alleged negligence (UMF
Nos. 4-6). Based on these facts, Audi Beverly Hills correctly asserts that the
Negligent Repair claim is barred by the Economic Loss Rule, as Plaintiffs only
claim economic loss damages and cannot prove that Audi Beverly Hills owed them
an independent duty in tort.
Accordingly, the Court concludes that Audi Beverly
Hills has demonstrated a prima facie case that there is no triable issue of
material fact and that it is entitled to judgment as a matter of law. The
burden now shifts to the Plaintiffs.
            Here, Plaintiffs first
contend that a negligent breach of an agreement to perform a service, in
itself, constitutes a tort, citing Eads v. Marks (1952) 39 Cal.2d 807,
810-811.
The Court distinguishes the Eads v. Marks
case. In Eads, the court found that the defendants' breach of a promise
for the benefit of the plaintiff's two-year-old minor child caused severe and
permanent injuries, pain, and suffering to the child, thereby making the
defendants liable in tort (Id. at p. 810). This ruling is consistent with the
general principle of the Economic Loss Rule, which only bars recovery for
purely economic loss but does not preclude recovery for personal injuries or
property damages.
Here, it is undisputed that Plaintiffs did not
suffer or claim recovery for any injuries or property damages as a result of
the alleged negligence (UMF Nos. 4-6). Therefore, Plaintiffs’ contention does
not meet their burden to show the existence of a triable issue regarding the
applicability of the Economic Loss Rule.
            Additionally, Plaintiffs
argue that although the damages they seek are in the form of monetary damages,
they are not economic losses (Opp’n. at p. 5). The Court finds this argument
unpersuasive.
The Sheen v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. court clarified
that "'purely economic losses' mean[s] financial harm unaccompanied by
physical or property damage" (Sheen v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., supra,
12 Cal.5th at p. 922). Thus, the crucial point is not the form of the
recovery but the nature of the harm itself— specifically, whether the monetary
damages are related to or intended to compensate physical or property damage.
As the undisputed evidence shows, Plaintiffs did
not sustain any personal injuries or property damage. Consequently, their
argument that their claimed damages—including those paid or payable under the
lease agreement, incidental damages such as out-of-pocket expenses for tows or
rentals, insurance premiums, registration fees, extended service
contracts/warranties, repair deductibles, and repair and maintenance costs—are distinct
from economic losses within the meaning of Economic Loss Rule is unsupported.
The Court, therefore, concludes that Plaintiffs
have failed to meet their burden of demonstrating a prima facie case showing
the existence of a triable issue of material fact, which leads to the granting
of the Motion.
In conclusion, the Court GRANTS the Motion for
Summary Judgment.
CONCLUSION
 
Defendant Audi Beverly Hills’ Motion for
Summary Judgment is GRANTED.
 
Moving party to provide notice.
 