  Case Number:  24NNCV04215    Hearing Date:   January 9, 2025    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



YESTER AKOPYAN, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
LEISURE
   HEALTHCARE, LLC, et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  24NNCV04215
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
January
   9, 2025




 


)


 



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
On September 11, 2024, plaintiff Yester
Akopyan (“Plaintiff”) filed this action for elder abuse/neglect, negligence,
negligent hiring, supervision and retention, and violation of residents’ rights
pursuant to Health & Safety Code section 1430(b) against defendant Leisure
Healthcare, LLC (“Defendant”). 
On October 28, 2024, Defendant filed
this petition to compel binding arbitration and stay action. 
Plaintiff filed an opposition brief on
November 12, 2024. 
Defendant filed a reply brief on
January 2, 2025. 
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD
“On petition of a party to an
arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to
arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses to arbitrate a
controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to
arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the
controversy exists . . . .” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.) The right to compel
arbitration exists unless the court finds that the right has been waived by a
party’s conduct, other grounds exist for revocation of the agreement, or where
a pending court action arising out of the same transaction creates the
possibility of conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or fact. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1281.2(a)-(c).) “The party seeking arbitration bears the burden of
proving the existence of an arbitration agreement, and the party opposing
arbitration bears the burden of proving any defense, such as
unconscionability.” (Pinnacle Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market
Development (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223, 236.)
III.       
DISCUSSION
Defendant argues that Plaintiff agreed
to arbitrate her claim pursuant to an Admissions Agreement and an Arbitration
Agreement executed by Plaintiff’s daughter and “self-appointed agent”, Lucy
Aslanian (“Aslanian”). (Motion, p. 3; Exs. A-B.) Defendant contends that the agreements
were executed by Aslanian on Plaintiff’s behalf because Aslanian declared,
under penalty of perjury, that she was authorized to do so. 
While a person who is not a party to an
arbitration agreement is generally not bound by it, an exception exists where a
person authorizes another to enter into an arbitration agreement on their
behalf as their agent. (Rogers v. Roseville SH, LLC (2022) 75
Cal.App.5th 1065, 1074.) Agency is either actual or ostensible. (Id,
citing Valentine v. Plum Healthcare Group, LLC (2019) 37 Cal.App.5th
1076, 1086.) “Actual agency arises when the principal’s conduct causes the
agent reasonably to believe that the principal consents to the agent’s act on
behalf of the principal.” (Id., citing Tomerlin v. Canadian Indemnity
Co. (1964) 61 Cal.2d 638, 643.) Ostensible agency arises when the
principal’s conduct causes the third party reasonably to believe that the agent
has the authority to act on the principal’s behalf. (Ibid.) 
Regardless of whether agency is actual
or ostensible, it cannot be created by the conduct of the agent alone. Rather,
conduct by the principal is essential to create the agency. (Flores v. Evergreen
at San Diego, LLC (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 581, 586.) The party seeking to
compel arbitration does not meet its burden of proving the existence of an
arbitration agreement when it does not present any evidence that the purported
principal’s conduct caused the agent or the third party to believe that the agent
had the authority to bind the principal. (Rogers, supra, 75
Cal.App.5th at p. 767.) 
Here, Defendant presents no evidence of
Plaintiff’s conduct which would substantiate the existence of an actual agency
relationship. (See Valentine, supra, 37 Cal.App.5th at p. 1087.) Even
if Aslanian declared under penalty of perjury that she was authorized by
Plaintiff to execute those documents, an agent’s conduct (or belief), alone, is
not sufficient to create an agency. There must be some evidence that “the
belief was engendered by the conduct of the principal.” (Ibid.) “To hold
otherwise would give any agent, not the authority, but the naked power to bind
his principal to any contract within the general scope of his duties, however
fantastic or detrimental to the principal’s interest such contract may be.” (Ibid.,
citing South Sacramento Drayage Co. v. Campbell Soup Co. (1963) 220
Cal.App.2d 851, 856-857.) Therefore, Aslanian’s declaration, standing alone,
cannot create an agency. (Rogers, supra, 75 Cal.App.5th at p.
1075; see also Pagarigan v. Libby Care Center, Inc. (2002) 99
Cal.App.4th 298, 301.) 
The Court additionally notes that Aslanian’s
declaration fails to state when Plaintiff purportedly requested that she make
health care decisions on her behalf. The declaration, which is a form
declaration, includes the following sentence: “On or about
_____________________, the Resident requested that I make health care decisions
on his/her behalf. I have been signing documents on behalf of the Resident and
making health care decisions on behalf of the Resident at the Resident’s
request since that time.” (Motion, Ex. B.) Aslanian did not fill out this blank
and therefore Aslanian has not provided testimony of Plaintiff’s conduct
authorizing her to act on her behalf. 
Since Defendant fails to show that an
arbitration agreement exists, Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration is
DENIED. 
IV.       
CONCLUSION
Defendant’s motion is DENIED. 
 
Dated
this 9th
day of January 2025
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 