

 
BACKGROUND
 
On April 4, 2023,
Plaintiff Alejandro Diaz (“Plaintiff”), filed a Complaint for Damages against
Defendants American Commercial Equities Three, LLC; Kreation Weho, LLC;
Kreation Juicery, Inc.; Marjan Sarshar (“Defendants”); and DOES 1-10, for a
sole cause of action for Violation of the Unruh Civil Rights Act – Civil Code
section 51. 
 
On April 4, 2024, counsels of record, Arash Sadat and
Camron Dowlatshahi (“Defense Counsel”), for Defendants Kreation Juicery, Inc.
and Marjan Sarshar’s filed the instant Motions to be Relieved as Counsel. 
 
 
ANALYSIS
 
 
I. Motion to be Relieved as Counsel 
A.   
Legal Standard
The court may order that an attorney be changed or
substituted at any time before or after judgment or final determination upon
request by either client or attorney and after notice from one to the other.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 284(2).) “The determination whether to grant or deny a
motion to withdraw as counsel lies within the sound discretion of the trial
court.” (Manfredi & Levine v. Superior Court (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th
1128, 1133.)   
 
An application to be relieved as counsel must be made
on Judicial Counsel Form MC-051 (Notice of Motion and Motion) (Cal. Rules of
Court, Rule 3.1362(a)), MC-052 (Declaration) (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule
3.1362(c)), and MC-053 (Proposed Order) (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1362(e)).
The proposed order must specify all hearing dates scheduled in the action or
proceeding, including the date of trial, if known. (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule
3.1362(e).)   
 
Further, the requisite forms must be served on the
client and all other parties who have appeared in the case. (Cal. Rules of
Court, Rule 3.1362(d).) The court may delay the effective date of the order
relieving counsel until proof of service of a copy of the signed order on the
client has been filed with the court. (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1362(e).) A
motion to withdraw will not be granted where withdrawal would prejudice the
client. (Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th 904, 915.)
 
B.  Discussion
Defense Counsel filed the
MC-051, MC-052, and MC-053 forms pursuant to California Rules of Court, Rule
3.1362. 
Here, Defense Counsel
served Defendants Kreation Juicery, Inc. and
Marjan Sarshar by mail at their last known address, which Defense Counsel
confirmed within the past 30 days as current by telephone call. Furthermore, the
proposed order on form MC-053 includes all the hearings scheduled in this
matter as follows: (1) April 7, 2024 – Order to Show Cause Re: Failure to File
Proof of Service and (2) July 1, 2024 – Non-Jury Trial. However, Defense
Counsel merely declares that the instant 
motion is being brought because Kreation Juicery, Inc. is a business
entity and Marjan Sarshar is an individual, instead of indicating whether there
has been a breakdown in the attorney-client relationship that renders
representation impossible or whether Defendants Kreation Juicery, Inc. and
Marjan Sarshar have stopped communicating with them. Similarly, Defense Counsel
filed proof of service indicating that the requisite forms were served on
Defendants Kreation Juicery, Inc., Marjan Sarshar, and Plaintiff but not served
on Defendants American Commercial Equities Three, LLC and Kreation Weho, LLC. 
Therefore, the Court finds
that the motions to be relieved as counsel are deficient at this time. 
II.        Conclusion

            
            Accordingly, Counsel Arash Sadat’s and
Camron Dowlatshahi’s Motions to be Relieved as Counsel are DENIED without
prejudice. 
 
Moving Party is ordered to give notice.
 
 