

 
BACKGROUND
 
On November
8, 2022, Plaintiffs Brant Silvia (“Silvia”), Manley Thomas (“Thomas”) and
Terrell Johnson (“Johnson”) (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed a Complaint
against Defendant Parvis Sharaf (“Defendant”) and DOES 1-10, inclusive,
alleging causes of action for: (1) Breach of Implied Warranty of Habitability;
(2) Breach of Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment; (3) General Negligence; (4) Maintenance
of Nuisance; and (5) Unfair Competition Under California Business &
Professions Code § 17200. The Complaint arises from alleged habitability issues
at a property located at 1252 N. Alexandria, Los Angeles, CA (the “Property”).
(Complaint, ¶¶ 1, 9-10.) 
 
On
January 20, 2023, Defendant filed an Answer to the Complaint, which set forth
22 affirmative defenses. 
 
On March
11, 2024, Plaintiff Thomas filed a Motion to Compel Responses to Request for
Production of Documents Propounded on Defendant as well as a Motion to Compel
Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One, Propounded on Defendant.
Plaintiff Thomas also sought monetary sanctions pursuant to the motions. 
 
On April 9, 2024, after hearing
oral argument, the Court granted Plaintiff Thomas’s request to compel
Defendant’s responses to special interrogatories and request for production.
(04/09/24 Minute Order at p. 6.) The Court also granted in part Plaintiff
Thomas’s request for sanctions and awarded Plaintiff Thomas monetary sanctions
against Defendant in the total sum of $2,149.54 ($1,074.77 for each motion) to
be paid within 30 days from notice of the Court’s order. (04/09/24 Minute Order
at p. 7.) Defendant was ordered to respond to Plaintiff Thomas’ Request for
Production, Nos. 1 and 2 with code-compliant, objection-free, and verified
responses within 10 days of notice of the Court’s order. (04/09/24 Minute Order
at p. 7.) Defendant was ordered to provide code-complaint, verified, and
objection-free responses to Plaintiff Thomas’ Special Interrogatories, Nos. 1-6,
within 10 days of the date of notice of the Court’s order. (04/09/24 Minute
Order at p. 7.) Plaintiff Thomas was ordered to give notice. (04/09/24 Minute
Order at p. 7.) 
 
On April 22, 2024, Plaintiff Thomas
filed and served a Motion to Compel Defendant’s Responses to Special
Interrogatories Pursuant to the Court’s April 9, 2024 Order and a Request for
Monetary Sanctions and Terminating Sanctions or Evidentiary Sanctions (the “Special
Interrogatories Motion”).  Also, on April
22, 2024, Plaintiff Thomas filed and served a Motion to Compel Defendant’s
Responses to Requests for Production of Documents Pursuant to the Court’s April
9, 2024 Order and a Request for Monetary Sanctions and Terminating Sanctions or
Evidentiary Sanctions (the “RPD Motion”) (collectively, the “Motions”).
 
Based on a review of the court
file, there is no indication that Defendant was ever served with the Court’s
April 9, 2024 order.[1] 
 
On April 22, 2024, Plaintiffs filed
and served the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against Defendants
alleging causes of action for: (1) Breach of Implied Warranty of Habitability;
(2) Breach of Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment; (3) General Negligence; (4)
Maintenance of Nuisance; (5) Unfair Competition Under California Business &
Professions Code § 17200; (6) Retaliation/Discrimination in Violation of Cal.
Civ. Code § 1942.5; and (7) Violation of Los Angeles Municipal Code §§ 45.33
& 151.33 and Los Angeles Ordinance No. 187109.
 
On May 1, 2024, Defendant filed an
opposition to the RPD Motion. On May 3, 2024, Defendant filed an opposition to
the Special Interrogatories Motion. 
 
On May 13, 2024, Plaintiff Thomas
filed respective reply briefs as to the Motions. 
 
The Court notes that the Motions
seek dual relief: to compel further responses to discovery and for monetary and
non-monetary sanctions. Plaintiff Thomas should have filed separate motions to
compel further responses as to the discovery at issue, as well as a separate
motion for terminating, evidentiary, and/or monetary sanctions. Plaintiff
Thomas cannot seek to avoid the filing fee by combining multiple requests for
relief in the same motion. However, the Court will assess the Motions on their
merits. 
 
 
MOVING PARTY
POSITION
 
            In support
of the Special Interrogatories Motion, Plaintiff Thomas argues that the Court
should issue an order compelling Defendant to comply with the Court’s April 9,
2024 order as Defendant’s amended responses to Special Interrogatories, Nos. 1-6
are still insufficient, incomplete, and evasive. Plaintiff Thomas argues that
terminating sanctions should be imposed against Defendant or, alternatively,
evidentiary sanctions prohibiting Defendant from introducing evidence to support
his affirmative defenses and denials of material allegations. Plaintiff Thomas
requests monetary sanctions against Defendant and his counsel of record in the
amount of $994.77 pursuant to the Special Interrogatories Motion. 
 
            In support
of the RPD Motion, Plaintiff Thomas argues that the Court should issue an order
compelling Defendant to comply with the Court’s April 9, 2024 order as
Defendant’s amended responses to Request for Production, Nos. 1-2 are still
insufficient, incomplete, and evasive. Plaintiff Thomas argues that terminating
sanctions should be imposed against Defendant or, alternatively, evidentiary
sanctions prohibiting Defendant from introducing evidence to support his
affirmative defenses and denials of material allegations. Plaintiff Thomas
requests monetary sanctions against Defendant and his counsel of record in the
amount of $994.77 pursuant to the RPD Motion.
 
OPPOSITION
 
            In
opposition to the Special Interrogatories Motion, Defendant argues that: (1)
the motion amounts to an unwarranted annoyance and undue burden; (2) the motion
has no substantial justification and therefore sanctions should be imposed
against Plaintiff Thomas in the amount of $1,750.00; and (3) the motion lacks
good faith meet and confer letter. 
 
            In
opposition to the RPD Motion, Defendant argues that: (1) Plaintiff Thomas’ meet
and confer efforts were not carried out in a reasonable and good faith manner;
and (2) sanctions are unwarranted.   
 
REPLY
 
            On reply,
as to the Special Interrogatories Motion, Plaintiff Thomas contends that Defendant’s
responses are incomplete and evasive, no meet and confer requirement exists
when seeking sanctions based on violation of a court order compelling a response,
and Defendant’s discovery responses are still incomplete. Plaintiff Thomas
argues that Defendant is not entitled to sanctions. Plaintiff Thomas argues, on
reply, that he is entitled to an additional $1,600.00 for preparation of the
reply and appearance of LaToya S. Redd, Esq. (“Redd”) at the hearing. 
 
            On reply,
as to the RPD Motion, Plaintiff Thomas contends that Defendant’s responses are
incomplete and evasive, no meet and confer requirement exists when seeking
sanctions based on violation of a court order compelling a response, and
Defendant’s discovery responses are still incomplete. Plaintiff Thomas argues,
on reply, that he is entitled to an additional $1,600.00 for preparation of the
reply and appearance of LaToya S. Redd, Esq. (“Redd”) at the hearing. 
 
 
ANALYSIS
 
I.          Compelling
Further Discovery Responses and the Imposition of Sanctions 
A.               
Legal Standard/Applicable Law 

Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.220(a)
provides that “[e]ach answer in a response to interrogatories shall be as
complete and straightforward as the information reasonably available to the
responding party permits.”  If an interrogatory cannot be answered
completely, it shall be answered to the extent possible.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2030.220, subd. (b).) “If the responding party does not have personal
knowledge sufficient to respond fully to an interrogatory, that party shall so
state, but shall make a reasonable and good faith effort to obtain the
information by inquiry to other natural persons or organizations, except where
the information is equally available to the propounding party.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2030.220, subd. (c).) 
 
A party may move for an order
compelling a further response to interrogatories where: (1) an answer to a
particular interrogatory is evasive or incomplete; (2) an exercise of the
option to produce documents under CCP § 2030.320 is unwarranted or the required
specification of those documents is inadequate; or (3) an objection is without
merit or is too general. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subds. (a)(1)-(3).) A
court may impose issue, evidence, or terminating sanctions against a party who
fails to obey an order compelling answers to interrogatories. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2030.290, subd. (c).) 
 
In responding to a request for
production of documents, a party must directly respond by any of the following:
(1) a statement that the party will comply with the particular demand for
inspection, copying, testing, or sampling; (2) a representation that the party
lacks the ability to comply with the demand for inspection, copying, testing,
or sampling of a particular item or category of item; or (3) an objection to
the particular demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2031.210, subd. (a)(1)-(3).) 
 
On receipt of a response to a
demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, the demanding party may
move for an order compelling further response to the demand if the demanding
party deems that any of the following apply: (1) a statement of compliance with
the demand is incomplete; (2) a representation of inability to comply is
inadequate, incomplete, or evasive; or (3) an objection to the response is
without merit or too general. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (a)(1)-(3).)
A motion brought pursuant to CCP § 2031.310 “shall set forth specific facts
showing good cause justifying the discovery sought by the demand.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (b)(1).) A court may impose issue, evidence, or
terminating sanctions against a party who fails to obey an order compelling a
response to a request for production of documents. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300,
subd. (c).) 
                                    
Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.010(d)
provides that a misuse of the discovery process is failing to respond or to
submit to an authorized method of discovery. 
Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.010(h) states that a misuse of the discovery
process includes making or opposing, unsuccessfully and without substantial
justification, a motion to compel or limit discovery. A court may impose a
monetary sanction against a party engaging in the misuse of the discovery
process or any attorney advising such conduct under Code Civ. Proc. §
2023.030(a). A court has discretion to fix the amount of reasonable monetary
sanctions. Cornerstone Realty Advisors, LLC v. Summit Healthcare Reit, Inc.
(2020) 56 Cal.App.5th 771.  
 
“A trial court may impose
sanctions, including terminating sanctions, for a party’s misuse of the
discovery process, which includes disobedience of a court order.” Sole
Energy Co. v. Hodges (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 199, 207. A misuse of the
discovery process includes “[f]ailing to respond or to submit to an authorized
method of discovery.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010, subd. (d).) A misuse of the
discovery process also includes a failure “to confer in person, by telephone,
or by letter with an opposing party or attorney in a reasonable and good faith
attempt to resolve informally any dispute concerning discovery, if the section
governing a particular discovery motion requires the filing of a declaration
stating facts showing that an attempt at informal resolution has been made.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010, subd. (i).) 
 
A terminating sanction may be
imposed by the court by one of the following orders: (1) an order striking out
the pleadings or parts of the pleadings of any party engaging in the misuse of
the discovery process; (2) an order staying further proceedings by that party
until an order for discovery is obeyed; (3) an order dismissing the action, or
any part of the action, of that party; or (4) an order rending judgment by
default against that party. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subd. (d)(1)-(4).) 
 
“The discovery statutes evince an
incremental approach to discovery sanctions, starting with monetary sanctions
and ending with the ultimate sanction of termination.” Doppes v. Bentley Motors, Inc. (2009) 174
Cal.App.4th 967, 992. “Discovery sanctions should be appropriate
to the dereliction, and should not exceed that which is required to protect the
interests of the party entitled to but denied discovery.” Ibid. “[C]ontinuing misuses of
the discovery process warrant incrementally harsher sanctions until the
sanction is reached that will curb the abuse.” Ibid. Where
discovery violations are “willful, preceded by a history of abuse, and the
evidence shows that less severe sanctions would not produce compliance with
discovery rules, the trial court is justified in imposing the ultimate
sanction.” Ibid. A trial court has broad discretion
to impose discovery sanctions, but two facts are generally a prerequisite to
the imposition of nonmonetary sanctions. Biles v. Exxon Mobil Corp. (2004)
124 Cal.App.4th 1315, 1327. Where discovery sanctions are requested against
a party, there must be a failure to comply with a court order and the failure
must be willful. Ibid.  
 
“A decision to order terminating
sanctions should not be made lightly.” Creed-21 v. City of Wildomar (2017) 18 Cal.App.5th 690, 702.
A trial court’s order to impose terminating sanctions will be reversed only if
it “was arbitrary, capricious, or whimsical.” Ibid.  “[W]here a
violation is willful, preceded by a history of abuse, and the evidence shows
that less severe sanctions would not produce compliance with the discovery
rules, the trial court is justified in imposing the ultimate sanction.” Ibid. Trial courts have properly
imposed terminating sanctions when parties have willfully disobeyed one or more discovery orders. Los
Defensores, Inc. v. Gomez (2014) 223
Cal.App.4th 377, 390. Terminating sanctions are warranted when a party’s
lack of compliance with the discovery process has caused the opposing party
prejudice. Doppes v. Bentley
Motors, Inc., supra,
174 Cal.App.4th 967, 989.
 
As an alternative to terminating
sanctions, “[t]he court may impose an evidence sanction by an order prohibiting
any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process from introducing
designated matters in evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subd. (c).) 
 
A motion for evidentiary sanctions
must include a separate statement. (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1345(a)(7). A separate
statement is not required where: (1) no response has been provided to the
request for discovery; or (2) when a court has allowed the moving party to
submit—in place of a separate statement—a concise outline of the discovery
request and each response in dispute. (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule
3.1345(b)(1)-(2).) “A separate statement is a separate document filed and
served with the discovery motion that provides all the information necessary to
understand each discovery request and all the responses to it that are at
issue.” (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1345(c).) “The separate statement must be
full and complete so that no person is required to review any other document.”
(Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1345(c).)
 
California Code of Civil
Procedure, Section 2023.030 provides that “[t]he court may impose a
monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the discovery
process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable
expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that
conduct.” A court has discretion to fix the amount of reasonable monetary
sanctions. Cornerstone Realty Advisors, LLC v. Summit Healthcare Reit,
Inc. (2020) 56 Cal.App.5th 771, 791.
 
 
B.        The Special
Interrogatories Motion
1.         The Meet and Confer Requirement 
            Defendant
contends that the Special Interrogatories Motion lacks good faith meet and
confer. Plaintiff Thomas argues that there is no meet and confer requirement
that exists when seeking sanctions based on a party’s violation of a court
order compelling responses. 
            “The Discovery Act requires that, prior to
the initiation of a motion to compel, the moving party declare that he or she
has made a serious attempt to obtain an informal resolution of each issue.” Stewart
v. Colonial Western Agency, Inc.
(2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 1006, 1016. “A meet and confer declaration in support of a motion shall state
facts showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of
each issue presented by the motion.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2016.040.) “Although the
meet and confer requirement is an express prerequisite to moving to compel
further responses to interrogatories . . . and inspection demands . . . no such
requirement appears in the statutes permitting sanctions based on a party’s
violations of a court order compelling responses . . . or for misuse of
discovery.” Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare
Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 411. 
            In support of the Special
Interrogatories Motion, Plaintiff Thomas relevantly declares that, on April 16,
2024, Defendant served amended responses to Special Interrogatory Nos. 1-6, and
such responses are still insufficient, incomplete, and evasive. (Thomas Decl.,
¶ 9; Exh. C.)
            LaToya S. Redd (“Redd”) declares
that she was hired as limited scope counsel to assist with meet and confer
efforts and the filing of the instant motion. (Redd Decl., ¶ 1.) On April 17,
2024, Ms. Redd wrote e-mail correspondence to Defendant’s counsel regarding the
insufficient discovery responses at issue. (Redd Decl., ¶ 2; Exh. D.) 
            In support of the reply brief, Ms.
Redd declares that, on April 17, 2024, Ms. Redd and defense counsel e-mailed
each other about the case where she inquired about the incomplete court ordered
responses to the discovery at issue in the Special Interrogatories Motion.
(Redd Reply Decl., ¶ 6; Exh. E.) 
            The Court has reviewed the meet and
confer correspondence where Ms. Redd e-mailed defense counsel that “[t]he court
ordered responses are not complete and are not in line with the court order.
You have to respond to each affirmative defense and each denial of material
allegations. This is not done and the responses have to be re-done. Please
properly provide responses to avoid another motion . . . Please review the
discovery and the separate statement. Also, please review the Answer.” (Redd
Decl., ¶ 2; Exh. D.) Ms. Redd also e-mailed opposing counsel on April 17, 2024 informing
opposing counsel that “[l]ong responses for the Special Interrogatories and the
Requests for Production of Documents should tailor to the affirmative defenses
and the denials of material allegations.” (Redd Reply Decl., ¶ 6; Exh. E.) Ms.
Redd also sent a separate email on April 17, 2024 which states the following: “Counsel,
these responses are still not sufficient and are not incompliance with the
court order. Please kindly amend these response so that Plaintiffs will not
have to bring this up before the court. You did not go through each Affirmative
Defense and each denial of a material allegation. You have several affirmative
defenses, for example, and you have not provided the facts, witnesses, or
documents for each affirmative defense and each denial of the material
allegations.” (Redd Reply Decl., ¶ 6; Exh. E.) 
            The Court finds that Plaintiff
Thomas’ contention that a meet and confer is not required because the instant
motion seeks sanctions based on a party’s violation of a court order is only
partially correct. While it is true that Plaintiff Thomas is seeking sanctions
based on Defendant’s purported violation of this Court’s April 9, 2024 order,
Plaintiff Thomas is seeking to compel further responses to Special
Interrogatory Nos. 1-6 and RFP Nos. 1 and 2. Thus, Plaintiff Thomas was
required to meet and confer prior to filing the Motions. 
            The Court finds that Plaintiff
Thomas did meet and confer and requested that Defendant amend his responses. As
such, the Court finds that the meet and confer requirement has been met. 
2.        
Appropriateness of Compelling Further Responses to Special
Interrogatories

            SROG No.1 requests that Defendant
identify each denial of a material allegation in his pleadings and for each
state all facts on which Defendant bases the denial of the material allegation.
SROG No. 2 asks Defendant to identify each special or affirmative defense in
his pleadings and to state all facts on which he bases the special or
affirmative defenses. SROG No. 3 requests that Defendant state the names,
addresses, and telephone numbers of all persons who have knowledge of the facts
in Defendant’s response to SROG No. 1. SROG No. 4 requests the names,
addresses, and telephone numbers of all persons who have knowledge of the facts
in Defendant’s response to SROG No.2. 
SROG No. 5 asks Defendant to identify all
documents and other tangible things that support his denial of a material
allegation, and to state the name, address, and telephone number of the person
who has each document. SROG No. 6 asks Defendant to identify all documents and
other tangible things that support Defendant’s special or affirmative defense
in his pleadings, and to state the name, address, and telephone number of the
person who has each document. 
            The Court deemed Defendant’s initial
responses as deficient. (04/09/23 Minute Order.) Thus, the sole issue in
determining whether to compel further responses to Plaintiff Thomas’ special
interrogatories is whether the amended responses are sufficient. 
            In his amended responses to SROG
Nos. 1 and 2, Defendant stated the following: “Respondent attests that no
further, information, fact, belief, or document, in support thereof can further
establish his any special or affirmative defenses as asserted in his answer.  See Attached Declaration of Parvis Sharaf.”
            The Court has reviewed the amended
responses and the Attached Declaration of Defendant submitted with such amended
responses. The Court finds that Defendant’s amended response to SROG No. 1 is
still deficient as he has not identified each denial of a material allegation
in his pleadings and has not stated all facts pertaining to the denial of the
material allegation. As to SROG No. 2, the Court finds that Defendant’s amended
response is still deficient as he has still failed to identify each special or
affirmative defense in his pleadings as well as state facts on which he bases
the special or affirmative defense. Defendant’s responses thereto are evasive
and incomplete. The Court therefore GRANTS Plaintiff Thomas’ request to compel
further responses of Defendant to SROG Nos. 1 and 2. 
            SROG Nos. 3 and 4 are related to
SROG Nos. 1 and 2, respectively, and requests the name, addresses, and
telephone number of the persons having knowledge of the facts in Defendant’s
response to SROG Nos. 1 and 2. The Court finds that Defendant’s responses to
SROG Nos. 3 and 4 are proper as Defendant has provided supplemental responses
setting forth the name, address, and telephone number of Mr. Behnah Mahadvi.
(Plaintiff Thomas’ Separate Statement at pp. 9-12.) Defendant provided an
amended response that completely answers SROG Nos. 3 and 4. The Court therefore
DENIES Plaintiff Thomas’ request to compel further responses of Defendant to
SROG Nos. 3 and 4. 
            In his further response to SROG Nos.
5 and 6, Defendant responded by stating that he “has no further information,
knowledge, belief, or documents in possession to further supplement this
question. See Attached Declaration of Parvis Sharaf.”  Defendant’s declaration attests that “after a
diligent search and reasonable inquiry, [he does] not possess any further
knowledge, information, or documents related to [his] general denial,
affirmative defenses, or special defenses set forth in [his] Answer.”  Defendant has sufficiently responded to SROG
Nos. 5 and 6.  The Court therefore DENIES
Plaintiff Thomas’ request to compel further responses of Defendant to SROG Nos.
5 and 6.
3.         Terminating Sanctions, Evidentiary
Sanctions, and Monetary Sanctions
            Plaintiff Thomas moves for
terminating sanctions striking the Answer of Defendant. While the Court finds
that Defendant has not complied with the Court’s April 9, 2024 order, the Court
must take an incremental approach to sanctions pursuant to Doppes v. Bentley
Motors, Inc., supra, 174 Cal.App.4th 967, 992. Neither the
declaration of Ms. Redd nor Plaintiff Thomas states that Plaintiff Thomas has
been prejudiced due to the non-compliance of Defendant with such order. The
Court therefore DENIES Plaintiff Thomas’ request for terminating sanctions. 
            As to Plaintiff Thomas’ request for evidence
sanctions, the Court finds that Plaintiff’s request for evidence sanctions is
procedurally defective. While Plaintiff Thomas did file a separate statement in
support of the Special Interrogatories Motion, such separate statement only
addresses compelling further responses and does not articulate what evidence he
seeks to prohibit Defendant from introducing. Responses to discovery were
received and therefore a separate statement is required for evidentiary sanctions.
Plaintiff Thomas should have filed a separate statement identifying which
designated matters it seeks to prevent Defendant from introducing into
evidence. The Court therefore DENIES Plaintiff Thomas’ request for evidentiary
sanctions. 
            As to monetary sanctions, the Court
notes that Ms. Redd has not substituted in as counsel for Plaintiff Thomas and
attests to only be representing Plaintiff Thomas on a limited scope basis. Plaintiff
Thomas filed the Special Interrogatories Motion in pro per and the motion is
signed by Plaintiff Thomas in pro per. 
            Although Plaintiff is representing
himself in pro per, Plaintiff Thomas did incur fees for Ms. Redd to meet and
confer pertaining to the instant motion and to file the instant motion. (Redd
Decl., ¶ 1.) Ms. Redd declares that her billing rate is $400 per hour and 2.3
hours were spent preparing the Special Interrogatories Motion. (Redd Decl., ¶
4.) A $61.65 filing fee was incurred and $13.12 in e-filing costs were
incurred. (Redd Decl., ¶ 3(b).) Thus, Plaintiff Thomas has incurred attorney
fees and costs of $994.77 in bringing the Special Interrogatories Motion. (Redd
Decl., ¶ 3.) On reply, Ms. Redd states that Plaintiff Thomas has incurred and
will incur costs and attorneys’ fees concerning the reply in the sum of $1,400.00,
which represents 3.5 hours of Ms. Redd’s time. (Redd Reply Decl., ¶ 2.) Ms.
Redd states that she will be assisting at the hearing on the motion and
anticipates spending 0.5 hours preparing for the hearing and appearing at the
hearing. (Redd Reply Decl., ¶ 3.) Thus, on reply, Plaintiff Thomas requests an
additional $1,600.00 in monetary sanctions. (Redd Reply Decl., ¶ 4.)  
            Exercising its discretion, the Court
GRANTS IN PART Plaintiff Thomas’ request for monetary sanctions. The Court
AWARDS Plaintiff Thomas reasonable monetary sanctions in the amount of $994.77
as to the Special Interrogatories Motion (which represents 2.3 hours of work by
Ms. Redd at the rate of $400.00 plus the filing fee of $74.77). The Court
reduces the hours given the lack of complexity of the motion. Monetary
sanctions are to be paid to Plaintiff by Defendant and his counsel of record, Hamid
Soleimanian and Law Offices of Hamid Soleimanian, jointly and severally, within
30 days of the date of this order. 
4.        Conclusion as to the Special
Interrogatories Motion  
            The Special Interrogatories Motion
is GRANTED IN PART. The Court GRANTS Plaintiff Thomas’ request to compel
Defendant’s further responses to SROG Nos. 1 and 2 and the Court ORDERS
Defendant to provide verified, complete, and code-compliant further responses
to such interrogatories, without objections, within 30 days of the date of this
order. The Court DENIES Plaintiff Thomas’ request to compel further responses
to SROG Nos. 3, 4, 5 and 6.
            The Court DENIES Plaintiff Thomas’
request for terminating and evidentiary sanctions as to the Special
Interrogatories Motion. 
            As to the Special Interrogatories
Motion, Plaintiff Thomas’ request for monetary sanctions is GRANTED IN PART.
Defendant and his counsel of record, Hamid Soleimanian and Law Offices of Hamid
Soleimanian, are ordered to pay Plaintiff monetary sanctions, jointly and
severally, in the amount of $994.77 as to the Special Interrogatories Motion
within 30 days of the date of this order. 

C.        The RPD Motion
  
 
1.         The Meet and Confer Requirement
            
            The
Court references its analysis of the meet and confer requirement as to the
Special Interrogatories Motion from above and incorporates it herein as to the
RPD Motion. The Court does so because the same evidence and arguments are
presented as to the meet and confer issue in both Motions. 
 
            The
Court finds that the meet and confer requirement has been met as to the RPD
Motion. 
 
2.         Appropriateness of Compelling Further
Responses to Requests for Production of Documents
 
            On April 16, 2024, Defendant served
responses to Requests for Production of Documents, Nos. 1 and 2, which
Plaintiff Thomas deems as insufficient, incomplete, and evasive. (Thomas Decl.,
¶ 9; Exh. C.) 
 
            RFP No. 1 requests any and all
documents identified in Defendant’s response to Special Interrogatory No. 5
served therewith and where Special Interrogatory No. 5 was propounded on
Defendant on January 19, 2024. Defendant’s further supplemental response to RFP
No. 1 states that “Respondent attests that no further information, fact,
belief, or document in support thereof can further establish his any denial as
asserted in his answer. See Attached Declaration of Parvis Sharaf.” 
 
            RFP No.2 requests any and all
documents identified in Defendant’s response to Special Interrogatory No. 6 served
therewith and where Special Interrogatory No. 6 was propounded on Defendant on
January 19, 2024. Defendant’s further supplemental response to RFP No. 2 states
that “Respondent attests that no further information, fact, belief, or document
in support thereof can further establish his any denial as asserted in his
answer. See Attached Declaration of Parvis Sharaf.” 
 
            The Court deemed Defendant’s initial
responses as deficient. (04/09/23 Minute Order.) Thus, the sole issue in
determining whether to compel further responses to Plaintiff Thomas’ requests
for production of documents is whether the amended responses are sufficient.
 
            The Court cannot grant the RPD
Motion as Plaintiff Thomas has failed to show good cause to compel further
responses to RFP Nos. 1 and 2. To establish good cause, Plaintiff Thomas must “identify a disputed fact that is of consequence in the
action and explain how the discovery sought will tend in reason to prove or
disprove that fact or lead to other evidence that will tend to prove or
disprove the fact.” Digital
Music News LLC v. Superior Court (2014)
226 Cal.App.4th 216, 224. “In law and motion practice, factual
evidence is supplied to the court by way of declarations.” Calcor Space Facility, Inc. v.
Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th
216, 224.
 
            Neither the declaration of Plaintiff
Thomas nor the declaration of Ms. Redd sets forth specific facts showing good
cause. Plaintiff Thomas, through the RPD Motion, is attempting to compel
further responses to requests for production of documents. Neither the moving
papers nor the separate statement addresses good cause. Plaintiff Thomas has
not met his burden to compel further responses to requests for production of
documents. 
 
            The Court DENIES Plaintiff Thomas’
request to compel further responses to RFP Nos. 1 and 2 WITHOUT PREJUDICE. 
 
3.         Terminating Sanctions, Evidentiary
Sanctions, and Monetary Sanctions
            
Pursuant to
the RPD Motion, Plaintiff Thomas moves for terminating sanctions striking the
Answer of Defendant. While the Court finds that Defendant has not complied with
the Court’s April 9, 2024 order, the Court does not find terminating sanctions
to be appropriate at this time as Defendant has only failed to comply with one
discovery order of this Court. Neither the declaration of counsel nor Plaintiff
Thomas states that Plaintiff Thomas has been prejudiced due to the
non-compliance of Defendant with such order. The Court therefore DENIES
Plaintiff Thomas’ request for terminating sanctions. 
 
            As to Plaintiff Thomas’ request for
evidence sanctions, the Court finds that Plaintiff’s request for evidence
sanctions is procedurally defective. While Plaintiff Thomas did file a separate
statement in support of the RPD Motion, such separate statement only addresses
compelling further responses and does not articulate what evidence he seeks to
prohibit Defendant from introducing. Responses to discovery were received and
therefore a separate statement is required for evidentiary sanctions. Plaintiff
Thomas should have filed a separate statement identifying which designated
matters it seeks to prevent Defendant from introducing into evidence. The Court
therefore DENIES Plaintiff Thomas’ request for evidentiary sanctions. 
 
            Given that Plaintiff Thomas has not
shown good cause as to compelling further responses to his request for
production of documents, and the Court has denied Plaintiff Thomas’ request for
terminating and evidentiary sanctions as to Defendant, the Court DENIES
Plaintiff Thomas’ request for monetary sanctions against Defendant as to the
RPD Motion. 
 
4.        Conclusion as to the RPD Motion
            
            The RPD Motion is DENIED WITHOUT
PREJUDICE in its entirety.   

 
II.        Conclusion 
            
            Based on the foregoing, the Special Interrogatories Motion is GRANTED IN PART. The Court GRANTS
Plaintiff Thomas’ request to compel Defendant’s further responses to SROG Nos.
1 and 2 and the Court ORDERS Defendant to provide verified, complete, and
code-compliant further responses to such interrogatories, without objections,
within 30 days of the date of this order. 
 
The Court DENIES Plaintiff
Thomas’ request to compel further responses to SROG Nos. 3, 4, 5 and 6.
            
The Court DENIES Plaintiff
Thomas’ request for terminating and evidentiary sanctions as to the Special
Interrogatories Motion. 
            
As to the Special
Interrogatories Motion, Plaintiff Thomas’ request for monetary sanctions is
GRANTED IN PART. Defendant and his counsel of record, Hamid Soleimanian and Law
Offices of Hamid Soleimanian, are ordered to pay Plaintiff monetary sanctions,
jointly and severally, in the amount of $994.77 as to the Special
Interrogatories Motion within 30 days of the date of this order. 
            
The RPD Motion is DENIED
WITHOUT PREJUDICE in its entirety. 
 
 
            Moving party is ordered to give
notice.  


