 Case Number:  23STLC08146    Hearing Date:   May 20, 2024    Dept:  25 Hearing Date:                        
Monday, May 20, 2024
Case Name:                             JOHN JURANEK, an individual v. LILY VALENTINE, an
individual, and PRIVATE LABEL PARTNERS, Inc. a corporation; and DOES 1-50 
Case No.:                                23STLC08146
Motion:                                   Motion to Quash Service of Summons and Complaint 
Moving Party:                         Defendant Lily Valentine 
Responding Party:                   Plaintiff John Juranek 
Notice:                                    OK 

 

 
 
Tentative Ruling:                    Defendant Lily Valentine’s Motion to Quash Service of
Summons and Complaint is GRANTED.

 

 
 
BACKGROUND 
 
On
December 22, 2023, Plaintiff John Juranek (“Plaintiff”), filed a complaint
against Defendants Lily Valentine (“Defendant”), and Private Label Partners,
Inc. and Does 1 through 50 for (1) breach of contract, (2) negligence, (3)
common counts: money had and received, and (4) restitution.
 
Now, Defendant
Valentine moves to quash service of the summons and complaint.
 
MOVING PARTY POSITION
Defendant Valentine moves to quash
service of the summons, arguing that Defendant served her at a shipping center
through the store clerk. First, Defendant argues that Cal BPC
Code § 17538.5 was improperly cited as a purported means of substitute service.
Much more importantly, Plaintiff’s service of process upon a Commercial Mail
Receiving Agency (“CMRA”)
is a flagrant violation of the California Code of
Civil Procedure. Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 415.20(c) provides: “if the only
address reasonably known for the person to be served is a private mailbox
obtained through a commercial mail receiving agency, service of process may be
effected on the first delivery attempt by leaving a copy of the summons and
complaint with the commercial mail receiving agency in the manner described in
subdivision (d) of Section 17538.5 of the Business and Professions Code.”
However, the Proof, on its face, proves that Plaintiff made no attempts to
determine whether the address of the CMRA was the “only address reasonably
known” for Ms. Valentine. Tellingly, the “declaration of diligence stating
actions taken first to attempt personal service” is blank, even though “415.20”
is cited in the Proof as the grounds upon which service was made. Simply
skipping to service upon a CMRA without evidence that the Plaintiff did not
know any other address for Defendant Valentine is improper. 
 
OPPOSITION
In opposition, Plaintiff argues that
service was proper on Valentine because the subject mailbox is subject to and
under the conditions of a 1583 mailbox, and Defendant’s motion is not a special
appearance and not under CCP 418.10 as required, therefore Defendant is
consenting to personal jurisdiction and service. Defendant’s business, Private
Label Partners, has a mailbox at this location. That mailbox is registered
under both Private Label Partners and Valentine. That mailbox is a registered
1583 mailbox, and like all 1583 mailboxes, the company holding the box is
allowed to accept service on behalf of the mailbox owner. Defendant cites Cal
BPC Code § 17538.5, claiming that Plaintiff’s Proof “fails to allege that
Defendant Valentine (1) was not required to and did not disclose her residence
address; (2) noted her residence address in a USPS Form 1583, and (3) signed an
acknowledgement allowing this CMRA to accept service of process on her behalf.”
Motion p. 1 lines 27-28- p. 2 lines 1-2. Yet, Defendant was required to do each
of those things when they have a registered 1583 mailbox. When Plaintiff had
done a cursory internet search, it was revealed that there was a 1583 mailbox
found and registered by both Defendant
Private Label Partners and Defendants Valentine. When both Defendants
registered themselves to the 1583 mailbox, they both had consented to the
company holding the box to accept service on behalf of the mailbox owner. 
Plaintiff also argues that Defendant
claims Plaintiff made no attempts to determine whether the CMRA agent was the
only address reasonably known for Defendant Valentine, and alleges that as an
entity doing business, Plaintiff should have been aware of other addresses.
Motion p. 2, lines 16-27. Defendant neglects to reveal, however, that her
business is not registered with the California Secretary of State, so service
on the business at this address of the CMRA is proper. 
REPLY
None
filed as of May 16, 2024.
 
ANALYSIS
 
A.   
Legal
Standard 
 
A defendant . . . may serve and file a notice of motion for
one or more of the following purposes:  (1) To quash service of summons on
the ground of lack of jurisdiction of the court over him or her . . . .” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 418.10, subd. (a).)  “[C]ompliance with the statutory
procedures for service of process is essential to establish personal
jurisdiction. [Citation.]” (Dill v. Berquist Construction Co. (1994) 24
Cal.App.4th 1426, 1444.)  “[T]he filing of a proof of service creates a
rebuttable presumption that the service was proper” but only if it “complies
with the statutory requirements regarding such proofs.”  (Id. at
pp. 1441-1442.) 
 
No motion under CCP § 418.10 “shall be deemed a general
appearance by the defendant.” (CCP § 418.10(d).) Here, Specially Appearing
Defendant (“Defendant”) brought this motion under CCP § 418.10. Thus, filing
this motion does not constitute a general appearance.  
 
 
1.      Untimely
Opposition 
 
Plaintiff’s
Opposition is untimely.  Plaintiff’s Opposition was filed on May 13, 2024. 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 1005, subdivision (b), Plaintiff’s
Opposition was due nine (9) court days before the scheduled May 20, 2024
hearing date, which was May 7, 2024.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1005, subd. (b)
[“All papers opposing a motion so noticed shall be filed with the court and a
copy served on each party at least nine court days . . . before the
hearing.”].)  However, the Court will exercise its discretion in
considering the merits of Plaintiff’s Opposition.
 
2.     
Motion to Quash
 
Defendant Valentine argues that the service of the summons
and complaint should be quashed because the summons was improperly served and
therefore the Court lacks personal jurisdiction. 
 
When a
defendant challenges the court's personal jurisdiction on the ground of
improper service of process, the burden is on the plaintiff to prove the
existence of jurisdiction by proving the facts requisite to an effective
service. Summers v. McClanahan (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 403, 413.
 
Here, Plaintiff has not met that burden.  
 
Plaintiff
filed a proof of service as to Defendant Valentine on March 7, 2024, indicating
Defendant was served on February 21, 2024. The proof of service indicates Defendant
was served by substitute service pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
§ 415.20, which provides: 
 
(a) In lieu of personal delivery of a copy of the summons
and complaint to the person to be served as specified in Section 416.10
(corporation), 416.20 (trustee of corporation), 416.30 (joint stock company or
association), 416.40 (unincorporated association), or 416.50 (public entity), a
summons may be served by leaving a copy of the summons and complaint during
usual office hours in his or her office or, if no physical address is known,
at his or her usual mailing address, other than a United States Postal
Service post office box, with the person who is apparently in charge thereof,
and by thereafter mailing a copy of the summons and complaint by first-class
mail, postage prepaid to the person to be served at the place where a copy of
the summons and complaint were left. When service is effected by leaving a copy
of the summons and complaint at a mailing address, it shall be left with a
person at least 18 years of age, who shall be informed of the contents thereof.
Service of a summons in this manner is deemed complete on the 10th day after
the mailing. 
 
(b) If a copy of the summons and complaint cannot with
reasonable diligence be personally delivered to the person to be served, as
specified in Section 416.60, 416.70, 416.80, or 416.90, a summons may be served
by leaving a copy of the summons and complaint at the person's dwelling house,
usual place of abode, usual place of business, or usual mailing address
other than a United States Postal Service post office box, in the presence of a
competent member of the household or a person apparently in charge of his or
her office, place of business, or usual mailing address other than a United
States Postal Service post office box, at least 18 years of age, who shall be
informed of the contents thereof, and by thereafter mailing a copy of the
summons and of the complaint by first-class mail, postage prepaid to the person
to be served at the place where a copy of the summons and complaint were left.
Service of a summons in this manner is deemed complete on the 10th day after
the mailing. 
 
(c) Notwithstanding subdivision (b), if the only address
reasonably known for the person to be served is a private mailbox obtained
through a commercial mail receiving agency, service of process may be effected
on the first delivery attempt by leaving a copy of the summons and
complaint with the commercial mail receiving agency in the manner described in
subdivision (d) of Section 17538.5 of the Business and Professions Code. 
 
CCP § 415.20, bold emphasis
added.
  
To meet his burden, Plaintiff
must offer admissible evidence – generally declarations by competent witnesses
– supporting the jurisdictional facts. Buskirk v. Buskirk (2020) 53
Cal.App.5th 523, 534-535.
 
To the extent that Plaintiff
served Defendant under Code of Civil Procedure section
415.20(a), Plaintiff was served as an individual, and thus that section does
not apply.
 
As noted above, there is a statutory exception to the
“reasonable diligence” requirement if the “only address reasonably known for
the person to be served is a private mailbox obtained through a commercial mail
receiving agency.” CCP § 415.20(c). Under those circumstances, “service of
process may be effected on the first delivery attempt by leaving a copy of the
summons and complaint with the commercial mail receiving agency.” Ibid.
Here, however, Plaintiff has offered no evidence that the CRMA address was the
“only address reasonably known” for Defendant Valentine. Likewise, Plaintiff’s
counsel’s declaration only attests to looking for Defendant Private Label
Partners’ information on the Secretary of State’s website (Hodroff Decl., ¶ 2), but otherwise makes no mention of any attempts to find
Defendant Valentine’s address. Although Plaintiff’s counsel says when
searching, his firm discovered Defendant Valentine had a Form 1583 mailbox
(Hodroff Decl., ¶
4), Plaintiff must first
show that this was the only address reasonably known for Valentine. Moreover,
Valentine declares that the company she works for engaged in a business
relationship with Plaintiff and Plaintiff is aware of that company’s address.
(Valentine Decl., ¶ 4.)
Plaintiff does not dispute this.

 
Although not argued by Plaintiff,
to the extent that Plaintiff served Defendant under Code of Civil Procedure
section 415.20(b), Plaintiff has not offered any evidence of “reasonable
diligence” in attempting to serve Defendant personally. The substituted service
statute allows for substituted service when a party "cannot with
reasonable diligence" perform personal service on another party. Code Civ.
Proc., § 415.20, subd. (b).¿ Courts universally define "reasonable
diligence" as two or three attempts at personal service, and state that
this satisfies the requirements to try substituted service instead. Espindola
v. Nunez¿(1988)¿199 Cal.App.3d 1389, 1392. “[T]he demonstrated will of the
Legislature must be obeyed by requiring strict compliance with the provision
requiring reasonable diligence to accomplish personal service before a
secondary means of service is permitted.” Evartt v. Superior Court¿(1979)
89 Cal.App.3d 795, 801. “[P]ersonal delivery must be attempted in all cases
where an alternative method of service is used.” Burchett v. City of Newport
Beach¿(1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1472, 1473. Actual notice of the action alone,
is not a substitute for proper service and is not sufficient to confer
jurisdiction." American Express Centurian Bank v. Zara (2011) 199
Cal.App.4th 383, 392. The
registered process has not filed a declaration as to diligence. “[T]he burden is upon the plaintiff to
show reasonable diligence to effect personal service.” Evartt, supra,
89 Cal.App.3d at 801.

 
 Conclusion
 
Accordingly, the motion to
quash service of summons is GRANTED.
  
 
Plaintiff to give notice. 
 