  Case Number:  21TRCV00215    Hearing Date:   January 9, 2025    Dept:  M LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                            Thursday,
January 9, 2025
Department M                                                                                                     Calendar No. 14
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Christina Ramos v. Delta Airlines, Inc., et al.  
21TRCV00215
1.     
Delta Airlines,
Inc. (“Delta”) and Scott Winters’ Motion for Summary Judgment, or, in the
Alternative, for Summary Adjudication 
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
            Delta
Airlines, Inc. and Scott Winters’ Motion for Summary Judgment, or, in the
Alternative, for Summary Adjudication is denied, in part, and granted, in part.
 
 
            The
motion for summary judgment is denied. The motion for summary adjudication of
the first cause of action is denied, in part, and granted, in part. The motion
for summary adjudication of the second cause of action is granted. The motion
for summary adjudication of the third cause of action is denied. The motion for
summary adjudication of the claim for punitive damages is denied, in part, and
granted, in part. 
 
Background
 
Plaintiff filed the Complaint on March 23, 2021. Plaintiff alleges the
following facts. Plaintiff was subjected to sexual harassment and
discrimination based on sex in her workplace. Plaintiff alleges the following
causes of action: 1. Sexual Harassment (Hostile Work Environment) in
Violation of FEHA 2. Sex Discrimination in Violation of Gov. Code § 12940(a) 3.
Failure to Prevent Discrimination, Harassment, or Retaliation in Violation of
Gov. Code § 12940(k).  
 
Motion for Summary Judgment and/or Adjudication
 
The purpose of
a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication “is to provide courts
with a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine
whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their
dispute.”  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c,
subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the
evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’
and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal. App. 4th 1110, 1119.)
 
“On a motion
for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on the moving party to make
a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material fact.”  (Scalf
v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal. App. 4th 1510, 1519.)  A defendant moving for summary judgment or
summary adjudication “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of
action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the
cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a complete
defense to the cause of action.”  CCP §
437c(p)(2).  “Once the defendant . . .
has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a
triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or
a defense thereto.” CCP § 437c(p)(2). 
“If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be
granted.”  Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal. App.
4th 463, 467.
 
“A plaintiff
or cross-complainant has met his or her burden of showing that there is no
defense to a cause of action if that party has proved each element of the cause
of action entitling the party to judgment on the cause of action. Once the
plaintiff or cross-complainant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the
defendant or cross-defendant to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c(p)(1).
 
“When deciding
whether to grant summary judgment, the court must consider all of the evidence
set forth in the papers (except evidence to which the court has sustained an
objection), as well as all reasonable inferences that may be drawn from that
evidence, in the light most favorable to the party opposing summary
judgment.”  (Avivi, 159 Cal.App.4th at 467; CCP § 437c(c).)
 
Defendants
move for an order “granting summary judgment in favor of Defendants and against
Plaintiff Christina Ramos (“Plaintiff”). Defendants’ Motion is made pursuant to
California Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (a)(1) on the
grounds that there exists no triable issue of material fact regarding any of
Plaintiff’s causes of action, and accordingly, Defendants are entitled to
summary judgment as a matter of law. Alternatively, if for any reason summary
judgment cannot be granted in its entirety, then Defendants move the Court for
an Order granting summary adjudication of issues[.]” (Notice of Motion, page 2,
lines 5-11).
 
Defendants
move for summary adjudication of 11 purported “issues.” However, the Court
notes that the motion for summary adjudication essentially seeks adjudication
of the three causes of action and the claim for punitive damages. In the notice
of motion, Defendant identified 11 separate “issues” but many of the purported
“issues” are not actually proper “issues” for summary adjudication as explained
above under Section 437c(f)(1), but instead merely reasons why certain causes
of action should or should not be adjudicated. In the ruling below, certain
rulings on issues were grouped together.
 
First
Cause of Action for Sexual Harassment in Violation of FEHA
 
The motion for
summary adjudication of Issue 4 is granted. The motion for summary adjudication
of Issue 5 is denied.
 
“The FEHA
prohibits the sexual harassment of an employee. (Gov.Code, § 12940, subd.
(j)(1).) Sexual harassment consists of any unwelcome sexual advances, requests
for sexual favors, or other verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature. (Fisher
v. San Pedro Peninsula Hospital (1989) 214 Cal.App.3d 590, 607, 262
Cal.Rptr. 842 (Fisher ).) It usually arises in two contexts. “Quid pro
quo” harassment conditions an employee's continued enjoyment of job benefits on
submission to the harassment. “Hostile work environment” harassment has the
purpose or effect of either interfering with the work performance of an
employee, or creating an intimidating workplace.” Rieger v. Arnold
(2002) 104 Cal.App.4th 451, 459.
 
Gov. Code §
12940(j)(1) states that it is unlawful for an employer or person to harass an
employee based on sex.  Whether based on
race, gender, age, or any of the other categories set forth in Gov. Code §
12940(j)(1), the elements of a harassment claim are the same.  “The elements of the cause of action are:
“(1) [p]laintiff belongs to a protected group; (2) plaintiff was subject to
unwelcome [sexual] harassment; (3) the harassment complained of was based on
[sexual];  (4) the harassment complained
of was sufficiently pervasive so as to alter the conditions of employment and
create an abusive working environment; and (5) respondeat superior.  To be sufficiently pervasive harassment, the
acts complained of cannot be isolated or trivial.  Rather, there must be a pattern of harassment
of a routine or generalized nature.”  Guthrey v. State of California (1998) 63
Cal.App.4th 1108, 1122–1123 (internal citations and quotations omitted). 
 
Defendant has
met its burden to show that Plaintiff’s cause of action has no merit by showing
that one or more elements of the causes of action cannot be established or that
a complete defense exists to the causes of action. CCP § 437c(p)(2). 
 
As to Issue 4,
Plaintiff has not met her burden to provide specific facts to show the
existence of a triable issue of material fact as to her cause of action.  CCP § 437c(p)(2).
Plaintiff fails to submit evidence to show that any statements, conduct, or
comments were made by Defendant Scott Winters that could be considered severe
or pervasive. In fact, there does not appear to be any evidence whatsoever with
respect to Scott Winters that could be considered conduct that would amount to
sexual harassment.
 
The motion for
summary adjudication of the first cause of action as to Scott Winters is
granted.
 
As to Issue 5,
Plaintiff has met her burden to provide specific facts to show the existence of
a triable issue of material fact as to her cause of action against Defendant
Delta. 
 
“[A]n employee
claiming harassment based upon a hostile work environment must demonstrate that
the conduct complaint of was severe enough or sufficiently pervasive to alter
the conditions of employment and create a work environment that qualifies as
hostile or abusive to employees because of their sex.  . . .[A] workplace may give rise to liability
when it “is permeated with ‘discriminatory [sex-based] intimidation, ridicule,
and insult,’ [citation], that is ‘sufficiently severe or pervasive to alter the
conditions of the victim's employment and create an abusive working
environment.” Lyle v. Warner Brothers
Television Productions (2006) 38 Cal.4th 264, 278-79.  
 
Even after eliminating
the alleged conduct that Defendant contends falls outside of the statute of
limitations and/or which Defendant was not aware of, Plaintiff has set forth
sufficient  evidence that would show the
existence of a triable issue of fact as to whether the harassing conduct was
severe or pervasive. The alleged conduct includes statements made by an
Operations Services Manager Scott Williams when he allegedly
inquired about Plaintiff’s physical body measurements and wanted to know Plaintiff’s
waist size. (Plaintiff’s Additional Separate Statement of Facts, 15.) The
alleged conduct includes co-worker Shawn Henderson asking, “Plaintiff for a hug
with his arms spread wide and chest protruded, which Plaintiff understood to be
a sexual gesture in an attempt to press himself against her breasts.”  Thereafter, Henderson continued to stare at
Plaintiff for long periods of time, and, later, treated her in a hostile manner
when working together. Defendant allegedly brushed off Plaintiff’s concerns.
(Plaintiff’s Additional Separate Statement of Facts, 18-25, 36-37.)  Finally, Plaintiff relays an incident wherein
co-worker Clarence Scott touched Plaintiff’s buttocks. (Plaintiff’s Additional
Separate Statement of Facts, 38-42.) 
 
The evidence
is sufficient to show the existence of a triable issue of fact as to whether
the harassing conduct was severe or pervasive and created a hostile work
environment. Defendant dismisses these complaints by stating that they were
investigated by Defendant and that Defendant determined that there was no
harassing conduct. However, the incidents, especially when one of the incidents
involved an actual touching, are sufficient for purposes of showing the
existence of a triable issue of material fact. Again, merely because the
Defendant itself investigated and determined that it could not substantiate
Plaintiff’s claims is not dispositive for purposes of summary adjudication. If such
self-conducted investigations could be deemed dispositive for purposes of a
motion for summary adjudication, undoubtedly many similar Plaintiffs would be
left with no recourse if the actual accused party could simply rely on its
contention that it investigated itself and found no wrongdoing.
 
            The
motion for summary adjudication as to the first cause of action against Delta
is denied.
 
Second
Cause of Action for Sex Discrimination in Violation of Gov. Code § 12940(a)

As to Issues 1
to 3, Defendant’s motion for summary adjudication is granted. Defendant has set
forth evidence to meet its burden of showing that an essential element or
elements of the second cause of action cannot be established. Plaintiff has not
met her burden to provide facts to show that a material issue of fact exists as
to the second cause of action. CCP § 437c(p)(2).
 
Gov. Code, §
12940(a) states:
“It is an
unlawful employment practice, unless based upon a bona fide occupational
qualification, or, except where based upon applicable security regulations
established by the United States or the State of California:
(a) For an
employer, because of the race, religious creed, color, national origin,
ancestry, physical disability, mental disability, reproductive health
decisionmaking, medical condition, genetic information, marital status, sex,
gender, gender identity, gender expression, age, sexual orientation, or veteran
or military status of any person, to refuse to hire or employ the person or to
refuse to select the person for a training program leading to employment, or to
bar or to discharge the person from employment or from a training program
leading to employment, or to discriminate against the person in compensation or
in terms, conditions, or privileges of employment.” 
 
“As noted,
section 12940(a) prohibits an employer from taking an employment action against
a person “because of” the person's race, sex, disability, sexual orientation,
or other protected characteristic. The phrase “because of” means there must be
a causal link between the employer's consideration of a protected
characteristic and the action taken by the employer. The existence of this
causation requirement in the statute is undisputed.” Harris v. City of Santa
Monica (2013) 56 Cal.4th 203, 215.
 
In employer
discrimination actions, California employs the three-part burden shifting test
established in McDonnell Douglas Corp. v.
Green (1973) 411 U.S. 792.  First,
Plaintiff must establish a prima facie case of case of discrimination.  “This step is designed to eliminate at the
outset the most patently meritless claims, as where the plaintiff is not a
member of the protected class or was clearly unqualified, or where the job he
sought was withdrawn and never filled.” Guz
v. Bechtel Nat. Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 354.  Second, the employer has the burden “to rebut
the presumption by producing admissible evidence, sufficient to raise a genuine
issue of fact and to justify a judgment for the [employer], that its action was
taken for a legitimate, nondiscriminatory reason.”  Id.
at 355–56 (internal quotations omitted). 
Finally, Plaintiff has “the opportunity to attack the employer's
proffered reasons as pretexts for discrimination, or to offer any other
evidence of discriminatory motive. The ultimate burden of persuasion on the
issue of actual discrimination remains with the plaintiff.” Id. at 356.
 
“Under the
three-part test developed in McDonnell Douglas Corp. v. Green, supra,
411 U.S. 792, 93 S.Ct. 1817, 36 L.Ed.2d 668: “(1) The complainant must
establish a prima facie case of discrimination; (2) the employer must offer a
legitimate reason for his actions; (3) the complainant must prove that this
reason was a pretext to mask an illegal motive.” (Clark v. Claremont
University Center, supra, 6 Cal.App.4th at p. 662, 8 Cal.Rptr.2d 151.) If
the employee establishes a prima facie case, the employer is required to offer
a legitimate, nondiscriminatory reason for the adverse employment action. (Horn,
supra, 72 Cal.App.4th 798, 806, 85 Cal.Rptr.2d 459.) The employer's burden
at this stage is to go forward with additional evidence; it does not take on a
burden of persuasion. (Reeves v. Sanderson Plumbing Products, Inc.
(2000) 530 U.S. 133, 142, 120 S.Ct. 2097, 2106, 147 L.Ed.2d 105; Clark v.
Claremont University Center, supra, 6 Cal.App.4th at p. 663, 8 Cal.Rptr.2d
151.) If the employer produces substantial evidence of a legitimate,
nondiscriminatory reason for the adverse employment action, the presumption of
discrimination created by the prima facie case “ ‘simply drops out of the
picture’ ” (Horn, supra, 72 Cal.App.4th at p. 807, 85 Cal.Rptr.2d 459,
quoting St. Mary's Honor Center v. Hicks (1993) 509 U.S. 502, 511, 113
S.Ct. 2742, 125 L.Ed.2d 407) and the burden shifts back to the employee to
prove intentional discrimination. (Horn, supra, 72 Cal.App.4th at p.
806, 85 Cal.Rptr.2d 459; Hersant, supra, 57 Cal.App.4th at p. 1003, 67
Cal.Rptr.2d 483; Clark, supra, 6 Cal.App.4th at p. 664, 8 Cal.Rptr.2d
151.) “[T]he plaintiff may establish pretext ‘either directly by persuading the
court that a discriminatory reason more likely motivated the employer or
indirectly by showing that the employer's proffered explanation is unworthy of
credence.’ ” (Godwin, supra, 150 F.3d at p. 1220, quoting Texas Dept.
of Community Affairs v. Burdine (1981) 450 U.S. 248, 256, 101 S.Ct. 1089,
67 L.Ed.2d 207.) Circumstantial evidence of “ ‘pretense’ must be ‘specific’ and
‘substantial’ in order to create a triable issue with respect to whether the
employer intended to discriminate” on an improper basis. (Godwin, supra,
150 F.3d 1217, 1222; Horn, supra, 72 Cal.App.4th at p. 807, 85
Cal.Rptr.2d 459.)10 With direct evidence of pretext, “ ‘a triable
issue as to the actual motivation of the employer is created even if the
evidence is not substantial.’ [Citation.] The plaintiff is required to produce
‘very little’ direct evidence of the employer's discriminatory intent to move
past summary judgment.” Morgan v. Regents of University of Cal. (2000)
88 Cal.App.4th 52, 68–69.
 
            Defendant
has provided competent evidence to show that its management decisions did not
amount to an adverse employment action and that even the action that it did
eventually undertake with respect to Plaintiff was conducted for non-discriminatory
reasons.  Specifically, Defendant
submitted evidence that any notations or “coaching” that Plaintiff was provided
were simply due to performance and attendance reasons. In addition, Defendant
submitted evidence that those notes and “write-ups” were not in any way based
on Plaintiff’s sex. (Defendant’s Separate Statement and Supporting Evidence,
1-108.)
 
            Plaintiff
failed to submit competent admissible evidence to show that any action taken
against Plaintiff was significantly adverse to her employment or was taken for
a discriminatory reason. Once an employer articulates a “legitimate
non-retaliatory reason” for an employment action, it becomes the plaintiff’s
burden to present proof that the reason for the employment action was merely a
pretext.  See, Guz, supra, 24 Cal. 4th at p. 378.  The plaintiff must provide “substantial
evidence that the articulated reason for her discipline was a false “pretext”
designed to hide unlawful motives.  See, Id., at 361.  
 
Here, in
opposition, Plaintiff has provided no competent evidence to show that
Defendant’s employment action was motivated by discriminatory reasons, based on
sex, and that the legitimate reasons for the employment actions provided by Defendant
were mere pretext for discrimination based on sex.  Instead, with the opposition, Plaintiff
focuses significantly on the sexual harassment allegations, the purported
culture within Defendant’s employment structure that fostered such an
environment, and Plaintiff’s belief that her speaking out about sexual harassment
(both hers and other women) led to these perceived adverse employment actions. However,
no competent evidence was provided to show that Plaintiff suffered actual
discrimination based on her sex. Perhaps such allegations, if supported with
evidence, could have supported a cause of action for Retaliation under FEHA
based on her alleged attempts to engage in a “protected activity” (making
complaints of sexual harassment) but Plaintiff did not allege a cause of action
for Retaliation.
 
Thus,
Defendant’s motion for summary adjudication of the second causes of action is
granted.
 
Third
Cause of Action for Failure to Prevent Discrimination, Harassment, or
Retaliation in Violation of Gov. Code § 12940(k)
 
As to Issues 6
and 7, the motion for summary adjudication is denied.
 
“Section
12940, subdivision (k) states in part that [i]t is an unlawful employment
practice ... : [¶] ... [¶] ...For an employer ... to fail to take all
reasonable steps necessary to prevent discrimination and harassment from
occurring. It creates a separate actionable tort enforceable upon the
establishment of the usual tort elements of duty of care, breach of duty (a
negligent act or omission), causation, and damages.” Dickson v. Burke
Williams, Inc. (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 1307, 1313 (internal quotation
omitted).
 
Defendant has
met its burden to show that Plaintiff’s cause of action has no merit by showing
that one or more elements of the causes of action cannot be established or that
a complete defense exists to the causes of action. CCP § 437c(p)(2). 
 
As to Issues 6
and 7, Plaintiff has met her burden to provide specific facts to show the
existence of a triable issue of material fact as to her cause of action. (Plaintiff’s
Additional Separate Statement of Facts, 15-58.)  The Court has already set forth the evidence
of the alleged conduct that would support the existence of a triable issue of
material fact with respect to harassment. Plaintiff has additionally provided
evidence of conduct on the part of Defendant, through the course of
investigating these allegations, that would support her contention that
Defendant did not take all reasonable steps necessary to prevent harassment.
Again, Defendant contends that it adequately conducted its own investigation
and believes that all of Plaintiff’s accusations are without merit. Plaintiff
has provided at a minimum a triable issue of material fact as to whether those
investigations were sufficient and whether the conclusions ultimately reached
by Defendant were adequate to prevent the harassment. 
 
The motion for
summary adjudication of the third cause of action is denied.
 
Claim
for Punitive Damages
 
As to Issues 8
and 9, the motion for summary adjudication is denied.
 
As to Issues 10-11,
the motion for summary adjudication of the claim for punitive damages as
against Winter is granted.  Since no
cause of action now remains against Winter personally, no claim for punitive
damages can be maintained.
 
Civ. Code, §
3294 states, in relevant part:
“(a) In an
action for the breach of an obligation not arising from contract, where it is
proven by clear and convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of
oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages,
may recover damages for the sake of example and by way of punishing the
defendant.
(b) An
employer shall not be liable for damages pursuant to subdivision (a), based
upon acts of an employee of the employer, unless the employer had advance
knowledge of the unfitness of the employee and employed him or her with a
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others or authorized or ratified
the wrongful conduct for which the damages are awarded or was personally guilty
of oppression, fraud, or malice. With respect to a corporate employer, the
advance knowledge and conscious disregard, authorization, ratification or act
of oppression, fraud, or malice must be on the part of an officer, director, or
managing agent of the corporation.”
 
Issue 8 states
as follows: “Plaintiff’s prayer for punitive damages against Delta fails as a
matter of law and must be dismissed because no officer, director, or managing
agent of Delta engaged in oppressive, fraudulent, or malicious conduct against
Plaintiff.”
 
As to Issue 8,
Defendant has not met its burden to show that Plaintiff’s claim for damages has
no merit. Thus, the burden does not shift to Plaintiff to provide specific
facts to show the existence of a triable issue of material fact. CCP §
437c(p)(2). While Defendant has provided evidence that no officer, director, or
managing agent themselves directly engaged in the oppressive or malicious
conduct, Defendant has not provided evidence to indicate that an officer,
director, or managing agent did not authorize or ratify the malicious or
oppressive conduct. In addition, none of the facts set forth in the separate
statement of facts attempt to directly establish that no officer, director, or
managing agent authorized or ratified the malicious or oppressive conduct. Thus,
stated another way, adjudication of the purported “issue” as framed by
Defendant would not actually adjudicate the claim for punitive damages because
another manner in which Plaintiff can pursue punitive damages against Delta
would be through a theory of authorization and/or ratification as opposed to by
merely attempting to show that an actual officer, director, or managing agent
engaged in the specific conduct complained of by Plaintiff.
 
Issue 9 states
as follows: “Plaintiff’s prayer for punitive damages against Delta fails as a
matter of law and must be dismissed because Plaintiff cannot demonstrate that
Delta engaged in oppression, fraud, or malice against her.”
 
As to Issue 9,
Plaintiff has provided sufficient evidence to show the existence of a triable
issue of material fact that agents of Defendant engaged in conduct that would
amount to malice or oppression against her based on her allegations and
evidence of sexual harassment as noted above in the Court’s ruling to the
motion for summary adjudication of the first cause of action.
 
Thus, the
motion for summary adjudication of the claim for punitive damages as to Delta
is denied.
 
Plaintiff is
ordered to give notice of this ruling.