 Case Number:  23VECP00396    Hearing Date:   January 4, 2024    Dept:  W JODEE MAREE GREEN v. SAFA INVESTMENTS LLC
 
defendant’s demurrer to the first amended
petition/complaint  
 
Date of Hearing:        January 4, 2024                                 Trial Date:       None set. 
Department:              W                                                        Case
No.:        23VECP00396
 
Moving
Party:            Defendant Safa
Investments LLC 
Responding
Party:     Plaintiff Jodee Maree Green  
 
BACKGROUND
 
On September 28, 2023, Plaintiff Jodee Maree Green filed a First
Amended Petition/Complaint. Plaintiff seeks an order perfecting Plaintiff’s
title to certain property located on Saticoy Street. Plaintiff also asserts
claims for fraud, unjust enrichment, and intentional infliction of emotional
distress. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendant Safa Investments LLC’s Demurrer to the First Amended
Petition/Contract is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendant Safa Investments LLC demurs to the First Amended
Complaint/Petition of Plaintiff on the grounds that Plaintiff fails to state
any valid grounds for a writ of mandate and fails to state any valid cause of
action against Defendant. 
 
Writ of Mandate
 
Defendant Safa first demurs to the petition/complaint on the
grounds there simply are no allegations that would support the issuance of a
writ of mandate, or the basis of the Court’s jurisdiction to issue such an
order. Plaintiff seeks a writ of mandate under which Defendant would be ordered
to perfect Plaintiff’s title in the Unit. 
 
The court agrees. “’”A traditional writ of mandate under [Code of
Civil Procedure] section 1085 is a method of compelling the performance of a
legal, usually ministerial duty[.]”’ [Citations.]” (Pomona Police Officers'
Assn. v. City of Pomona (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 578, 583–584.) A respondent
may test the legal sufficiency of a petition for writ of mandate by demurrer. (Santa
Paula Animal Rescue Center, Inc. v. County of Los Angeles (2023) 95
Cal.App.5th 630, 639.) 
 
The ‘petition’ is void of any allegations that Defendant had a
ministerial duty to perform. From what the court can gleam of the amended
petition/complaint, Plaintiff alleges she paid rent for the current unit she is
residing in located at 15045 Saticoy Street, Van Nuys, California and
therefore, she is a bona fide purchaser of the unit. 
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO
AMEND. 
 
Breach of Contract
 
Although unlabeled in the First Amened Petition/Complaint, the
first cause of action looks to be one for breach of contract. Plaintiff alleges
Defendant refuses to perfect title to Plaintiff’s portion of real property even
though she is a bona fide purchaser and Defendant gave reassurances that the
title would be perfected. 
 
“The standard elements of a claim for breach of contract are: ‘(1)
the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3)
defendant’s breach, and (4) damage to plaintiff therefrom.’” (Wall Street
Network, Ltd. v. New York Times Co. (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 1171,
1178.) “A written contract may be pleaded by its terms—set out verbatim in
the complaint or a copy of the contract attached to the complaint and
incorporated therein by reference—or by its legal effect.” (McKell v.
Washington Mutual, Inc. (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 1457, 1489.) “In order to
plead a contract by its legal effect, plaintiff must allege the substance of
its relevant terms.” (Id.) 
 
The petition/complaint fails to allege whether this understanding
was written or oral and moreover, what the terms of the agreement were. 
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO
AMEND. Plaintiff is given one more opportunity
to allege facts sufficient to support a claim for breach of contract. 
 
Fraud
 
The elements of fraud are: “(a) misrepresentation (false
representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity (or
‘scienter’); (c) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d) justifiable
reliance; and (e) resulting damage.” (Charnay v. Cobert (2006) 145
Cal.App.4th 170, 184.) 
 
Defendant argues the FAC fails to allege any specific false
representations made by Defendant upon which she seeks relief, instead offering
only conclusory allegations such as Defendant “perpetrated a fraud by making
promises that it never intended to keep” which caused Plaintiff “to look
forward with her hopes up”. (FAC p. 8.) Moreover, as to an entity Defendant, a
plaintiff must allege the names of those who made the misrepresentations; the
authority to speak for the entity; to whom they spoke; what they said or wrote;
and when it was said or written. 
 
The court agrees. In California, fraud must be pled with
specificity. (Small v. Fritz Companies, Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th 167,
184.) “The particularity demands that a plaintiff plead facts which show how,
when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were tendered.” (Cansino
v. Bank of America (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1462, 1469.)  There are
zero allegations of when this alleged fraud occurred, who on behalf of
corporate defendant made such allegations, and by what means was the
misrepresentation communicated to Plaintiff. 
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO
AMEND. Plaintiff is given one more opportunity
to allege facts sufficient to support a claim for fraud. 
 
Unjust Enrichment
 
“The elements of an unjust enrichment claim are the “receipt of a
benefit and [the] unjust retention of the benefit at the expense of
another.”  (Peterson v. Cellco Partnership (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th
1583, 1593.)
 
Defendant argues Plaintiff’s unjust enrichment claim appears to be
based on her contention that she owns the dwelling underneath her Unit and Defendant
has enriched itself by collecting rent from a third party who resides in the
dwelling underneath Plaintiff’s Unit. This assertion, however, presupposes that
Plaintiff is entitled to ownership of the Unit which she cannot establish based
on the allegations in the Complaint. 
 
The court agrees Plaintiff has not sufficiently alleged Defendants
retention of the claimed profits at Plaintiff’s expense. Plaintiff’s unjust
enrichment claim relies on the alleged fact that she is the bona fide purchaser
of Unit 242 “from the ground to the sky” which “will include 142 by
definition.” (FAC p. 10.) Taking these allegations as true, Plaintiff has not
sufficiently alleged she is the bona fide purchaser of Unit 242 or that the
agreement included Unit 142. 
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO
AMEND. Plaintiff is given one more opportunity
to allege facts sufficient to support a claim for unjust enrichment.   
 
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress 
 
The elements of an intentional infliction of emotional distress
cause of action are: (1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant; (2)
intention to cause or reckless disregard of the probability of causing
emotional distress; (3) severe emotional suffering; and (4) actual and
proximate causation of the emotional distress. (See Moncada v. West Coast
Quartz Corp. (2013) 221 Cal.App.4th 768, 780; Wilson v. Hynek (2012)
207 Cal.App.4th 999, 1009.) To satisfy the element of extreme and outrageous
conduct, defendant’s conduct “‘must be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of
that usually tolerated in a civilized society.’” (Moncada, supra, 221
Cal.App.4th at 780 (quoting Trerice v. Blue Cross of California
(1989) 209 Cal.App.3d 878, 883).)  
 
Plaintiff’s intentional infliction of emotional distress cause of
action revolve around Defendant’s alleged treatment of Plaintiff’s 87-year-old
mother thereby causing Plaintiff’s mother to move out. Shortly thereafter,
Plaintiff’s mother went missing. Plaintiff’s allegations include the property
manager physically abusing Plaintiff’s mother, destroying Plaintiff’s personal
property, and loss of income due to their direct manipulations. 
 
These allegations do not support a claim for intentional
infliction of emotional distress. The complaint does not allege what severe
emotional distress Plaintiff has suffered or that the alleged conduct was
intentional or done with reckless disregard of the probability of causing
emotional distress. 
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO
AMEND. Plaintiff is given one more opportunity
to allege facts sufficient to support a claim for intentional infliction of
emotional distress. 