 Case Number:  22VECV01458    Hearing Date:   January 4, 2024    Dept:  W KIMBERLY
DAVIS, et al. v. PAIGE HEMMIS, et al.
 
PLAINTIFFS JONATHAN DAVIS AND KIMBERLY DAVIS’ MOTION
TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO CERTAIN SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES FROM DEFENDANTS
CROWN MEDIA HOLDINGS, INC. AND HALLMARK CARDS, INC.
 
Date
of Hearing:        January 4, 2024                                 Trial
Date:       None
set 
Department:              W                                                        Case
No.:        22VECV01458
 
Moving Party:            Plaintiffs Jonathan Davis and Kimberly Davis
Responding Party:     Defendants Crown Media Holdings, Inc. and
Hallmark Cards, Inc. 
Meet and Confer:      Yes. (Goodell Decl.) 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On March 9, 2023, Plaintiffs Kimberly Davis and
Jonathan Davis filed a first amended complaint against Defendants Paige Hemmis,
Jason Short, Ameka Benton, Scott Fields, Hallmark Cards, Inc., Crown Media
Holdings, Inc., Paige Hemmis, Inc., Aria Music Group, The Oaks of Calabasas
Homeowners Association, Melissa Improta, Jason Improta, and Compass California,
Inc. for 1) Intentional Interference with Contract; 2) Negligence; 3) Trespass;
4) Violations of Civil Code § 1798.93; 5) Breach of Fiduciary Duty; 6)
Professional Negligence; 7) Unfair Business Practices; 8) Fraudulent
Concealment; 9) Negligent Misrepresentation; 10) Fraud; 11) Slander of Title;
12) Constructive Fraud; 13) Wrongful Eviction; 14) Quiet Title; and 15)
Conversion.
 
Plaintiffs allege about September 15, 2019, when
Plaintiffs were absent from the subject property, Defendants Hemmis and Short
unlawfully entered upon the subject property and remained in possession of the
property until early July 2022. While Defendants Hemmis and Short were in
possession of the property, Plaintiffs were engaged in a dispute with their
mortgage lender, US Bank, related to a settlement agreement that was entered
into to address the pay off of a mortgage loan. Plaintiffs further allege at some
point prior to September 12, 2019, Defendants Hemmis, Short, Improta and
Compass engaged in a conspiracy to attempt to steal title to the Plaintiffs’
home. On this point, Plaintiffs claim Hemmis and Short fraudulently forged a
lease that purported to have Kimberly Davis' signature on it. As a result of
Defendants’ actions, Plaintiffs have been damaged. Plaintiff dismissed
Defendants Ameka Benton and Scott Fields. 
 
On March 24, 2023, this action was related to Kimberly
Davis v. Nationstar, et al. (23VECV01125). That action involves a mortgage
foreclosure. 
 
On August 18, 2023, Paige Hemmis and Jason Short
filed a cross-complaint against Kimberly Ann Davis, Compass California, Inc.
dba Compass, Melissa Improta, and Jason Improta for breach of contract, money
had and received, implied indemnification, express indemnification, and
comparative contribution. 
 
Plaintiffs dismissed Aria Music Group on December
29, 2023. 
 
[Tentative]
Ruling
 
Plaintiffs’ Motion to Compel Further Responses to
Certain Special Interrogatories from Defendants Crown Media Holdings, Inc. and
Hallmark Cards, Inc. is GRANTED, in part. 
 
REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
In support of Plaintiffs’ motion to compel further
responses to certain special interrogatories from Defendants Crown Media
Holdings, Inc. and Hallmark Cards, Inc., Plaintiffs’ request this court take
judicial notice of certain court documents and documents filed with the
California Secretary of State (Exhs. 1-7). The court GRANTS Plaintiffs’ request
for judicial notice. (See Evid. Code §452(c),(d).) 
 
In opposition to Plaintiffs’ motion, Hallmark
Defendants request this court take judicial notice of the following documents:
(1) a screenshot of the At Home With Our Family video segment entitled “Paige
Hemmis DIY Mason Jar Candles,” posted to a publicly available YouTube page on
April 1, 2020 (Exh. 4); (2) California Governor Gavin Newsom’s COVID-19
stay-at-home order, Executive Order N-33-20, issued by the Executive Department
of the State of California on March 19, 2020 (Exh. 5); and (3) A press release issued
by PR Newswire on March 9, 2016 entitled “Hallmark announces intent to take
Crown Media private” (Exh. 6). 
 
Plaintiffs object to Hallmark Defendants’ request
for judicial notice on the grounds it is not appropriate to take judicial
notice of information on a website. (See Jolley v. Chase Home Finance, LLC
(2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 872.) The court agrees generally courts do not take
judicial notice of websites, even government websites, as “the official acts of
a governmental entity does not in and of itself require acceptance of the truth
of factual matters.” (See Ragland v. U.S. Bank National Assn. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 182, 194.) However, the court may take judicial notice of official
acts and not the truth of the facts stated therein. The court GRANTS Hallmark
Defendants’ request for judicial notice as to the existence of the websites.
(See Ragland v. U.S. Bank National Assn. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 182, 193.)

 
Plaintiffs, in reply, further request this court
take judicial notice of several more documents filed with the California
Secretary of State and in the United States District Court, Central District of
California. The court GRANTS Plaintiffs’ request for judicial notice. (See
Evid. Code §452(c),(d).) 
 
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
 
In reply to Defendant’s opposition to Plaintiffs’
motion to compel further responses to certain special interrogatories from
Hallmark Defendants, Plaintiffs’ subject evidentiary objections to the
declaration of Christina Salvato. 
 
Plaintiffs’ objections nos. 1-8 to the declaration
are OVERRULED. 
 
discusion
 
Plaintiffs Jonathan Davis and Kimberly Davis move
this court for an Order compelling Defendants Crown Media Holdings, Inc. and
Hallmark Cards, Inc. to provide further responses to certain interrogatories
contained in Plaintiffs’ First Set of Special Interrogatories (SROG Nos.
64-66). Plaintiffs also request that this court award Plaintiffs an award of
$13,880.00 against Defendants Crown Media Holdings, Inc. and Hallmark Cards,
Inc. as sanctions for having to file this motion.
 
On receipt of a response to interrogatories, the
propounding party may move for an order compelling a further response if the
propounding party deems that any of the following apply: (1) An answer to a
particular interrogatory is evasive or incomplete. (2) An exercise of the
option to produce documents under Section 2030.230 is unwarranted or the
required specification of those documents is inadequate. (3) An objection to an
interrogatory is without merit or too general.”¿(CCP § 2030.300(a).)¿ “A motion
under subdivision (a) [of CCP § 2030.300] shall be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration under Section 2016.040.”¿(CCP § 2030.300(b).) In addition, a
separate statement is required.¿ (CRC”) Rule 3.1345(a)(2).)
¿ 
“Unless notice of this motion is given within 45
days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental verified
response, or on or before any specific later date to which the propounding
party and the responding party have agreed in writing, the propounding party
waives any right to compel a further response to the interrogatories.”¿ (CCP §
2030.300(c).)¿“[T]he time limitations set forth in section 2030 and section
2034, subdivision (a) [are] mandatory and [when] not met, the trial court's
order is in excess of its jurisdiction.”¿¿(Vidal Sassoon, Inc. v. Superior
Court¿(1983) 147 Cal.App.3d 681, 685.)
 
Special Interrogatories Nos. 64-66 seek information
about Defendants’ managing agents, officers, and/or directors. Plaintiffs
contend Defendants’ objections were predicated on the lack of a stipulated
protective order in the case at that time; however, the parties entered a
protective order on October 18, 2023 and yet Plaintiffs claim Defendants
continue to impose increasingly arbitrary and restrictive conditions on the
Plaintiffs in exchange for the discovery which they previously promised to
provide and to which the Plaintiffs are plainly entitled.
 
In opposition, Defendants argue Plaintiffs’
interrogatories are overbroad and not reasonably related to a legitimate
discovery need. Defendants contend Plaintiffs seek this information for the
purpose of maintaining their baseless allegations against two parent companies
that were not involved in the subject matter of this dispute and for the
purpose of harassing Hallmark-entity executives who had no role in any of the conduct
alleged in Plaintiffs’ complaint. Hallmark Defendants further contend they
never agreed to provide responses pursuant to a protective order for SROG No.
66. Moreover, Plaintiffs are aware these short videos were commissioned by
H&F Productions, LLC, a production company that has since been dissolved,
and were distributed by Crown Media United States, LLC, the media company that
operates the Hallmark Channel and is now known as Hallmark Media United States,
LLC. Plaintiffs, nevertheless, refuse to substitute Hallmark Media for the
incorrectly named Hallmark Defendants. 
 
The court finds discovery into the officers,
directors, and managing agents reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery
of admissible evidence. Hallmark Defendants cite several cases regarding
whether there was shown ultimate control and ratification. However, at this
stage, it is not necessary for the motion to show that the material sought will
be admissible in evidence. However, the court agrees SROGs Nos. 64-66 should be
limited to the relevant time period of the alleged facts of the complaint as
well as scope to the relevant facts alleged in the complaint. Specifically, the
SROGs should be limited to the identity of “all … officers, directors, and
managing agents involved in ‘At Home With Our Family’.”  As for Hallmark Defendants’ contention that Plaintiffs
failed to name the proper defendant, the court finds at this stage, discovery
is allowed into ‘managing agent’  of
defendants, including H&F Productions.. If Hallmark Defendants’ response
ends up being ‘no one’ then that is their response. Lastly, regarding Hallmark
Defendants’ lack of good faith claim by Plaintiffs, both parties must act in
good faith when working together. 
 
Sanctions
 
Where the court grants a motion to compel further
responses, sanctions shall be imposed against the party who unsuccessfully
makes or opposes a motion to compel, unless the party acted with substantial justification,
or the sanction would otherwise be unjust.  (CCP § 2030.300(d).)   
 
The court, finding there being substantial
justification on both sides, denies the request for sanctions. 
 