 Case Number:  24STCV07978    Hearing Date:   November 18, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los
Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



LAWNDALE HOLDINGS,  LLC
  
        
  vs.
 
ROBERT A. JUHASZ, as personal
  representative of the Estate of Ida Lydia Nazon
  


 Case
  No.:  24STCV07978   
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  November 18, 2024




 
 
Defendant’s demurrer is SUSTAINED, WITHOUT LEAVE TO
AMEND.  
 
            On 3/28/2024, Plaintiff Lawndale Holdings, LLC
(Plaintiff) initiated this action. On 6/12/2024, Plaintiff filed a first
amended complaint (FAC) against Robert A. Juhasz, as personal representative of
the Estate of Ida Lydia
Nazon, alleging: (1) specific performance of California Residential Purchase
Agreement; (2) breach of fiduciary duty by broker; and (3) quiet title. 
 
             On 6/12/2024, Plaintiff substituted Doe #1 for
Lawndale Lot, LLC, Doe #2 for Vimvi California Corporation, Doe #3 for Loan
Funder, LLC, and Doe #4 for Cameron Samimi.
 
             Now, Loan Funder, LLC (Doe #3 or Defendant or
Loan Funder) demurs to Plaintiff’s FAC. On 10/15/2024, Vimvi California filed a
joinder to Loan Funder’s motion. 
 
Discussion  
 
            Defendant argues that Plaintiff has
failed to allege facts sufficient to support a claim against it because the
basis of the Defendant’s liability is vague and uncertain. 
 
            After review, the Court agrees.  
 
            California Rules of Court (CRC) rule
2.112 requires that each separately stated cause of action must specifically
state “[t]he
party or parties to whom it is directed.” (CRC rule 2.112, subd. (4).)
 
            Here, none of Plaintiff’s three
causes of action name Defendant here as one of the parties to whom it is
directed. The first cause of action names Defendants Juhasz, Lawndale Lot, LLC, and Cameron Samimi; the second cause of action names
Defendant Vimvi
California Corporation,
and the third cause of action names Defendants Judasz, Landale Lot, LLC, and
Cameron Samimi. 
 
            Given that Defendant here is not
named as a party against whom against claim is directed, it has no ability to
discern what the allegations are against it. Without notice of the claims
against it, it cannot prepare a defense. 
 
            However, setting aside this
procedural defect, there are also substantive defects. 
 
            As for the first cause of action for
specific performance of the Purchase Agreement, this Agreement is alleged to be
between Plaintiff and Defendant Juhasz. Given that Defendant is neither a party to the Purchase Agreement
nor bears any legal obligation related to the Purchase Agreement, there is no
reason to believe Plaintiff could state a viable claim against Defendant here
under this cause of action if leave to amend was granted. The same goes for
joining Defendant Vimvi. 
 
            As for the second cause of action, this claim is for
Breach of Fiduciary duty and is asserted against the Real Estate Broker,
Defendant Vimvi. Given that Plaintiff does not allege any facts which could
show that Defendant Loan Funder owed a fiduciary duty, there is no reason to
believe a viable claim could be stated if leave to amend were granted. However,
Defendant Vimvi’s joinder, which contained no substantive argument as to this
point, is insufficient to show that this claim is insufficiently pled against
it. 
 
Finally,
as for the third cause of action, pursuant to CCP section 761.020, a cause of
action for quiet title must allege: (1) A description of the property; (2) The
basis of the plaintiff's title; (3) the adverse claims to the title against
which a determination is sought, (4) the date as of which the determination is
sought, and; (5) a prayer for the determination of the plaintiff's title
against the adverse claims. (Lucas v. Sweet (1956) 47 Cal.2d 20). The
California Supreme Court has emphasized that a claim to quiet title should be
clear and specific, with the plaintiff required to set forth the essential
facts of their case with reasonable precision (See Doe v. City of Los
Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th 531, 550)
 
Here,
Plaintiff does not allege title to the Subject Property, and Plaintiff does not
assert a claim adverse to Defendant’s Deed of Trust to satisfy the third
element of the Quiet Title Cause of Action. The FAC includes no allegations
that Plaintiff holds title superior to that of Defendant or Defendant’s Deed of
Trust is invalid. 
 
However,
even setting aside this defect, the Subject Property was an asset of the Estate
of Ida Lydia Nazon, within the jurisdiction of an open Probate. Pursuant to
Probate Code sections 10300 et seq., the sale of real property of an estate is
subject to the jurisdiction and approval of the Probate Court. As such, any
disputes arising from or relating to the sale, including but not limited to the
allegations of wrongdoings, misrepresentations, or any claim affecting the
legality, validity, or effect of the sale, fall squarely within the purview of
the Probate Court that approved the sale.
 
Given
that the Subject Property is part of the decedent’s estate in an open Probate,
the Court agrees that disputes over its sale fall squarely within the Probate
Court’s jurisdiction.
 
            Based on the foregoing, Defendant’s
demurrer is sustained, without leave to amend.  
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  November   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 