  Case Number:  23STCV30245    Hearing Date:   November 18, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los
Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



TAE SUNG SHIN 
  
        
  vs.
 
GENWORTH LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY, et al.


 


 Case
  No.:  23STCV30245    
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  November 18, 2024




 
The Trustee’s
motion to intervene is GRANTED.
 
On
12/12/2023, Plaintiff (Tae Sung Shin) filed suit against Genworth Life
Insurance Company, Hanmi Bank, Susan Cho, Michelle Kim, and John Kim, alleging:
(1) breach of life insurance contract; (2) breach of the duty of good faith and
fair dealing; (3) breach of bank account contract; (4) breach of fiduciary
duty; (5) resulting trust; (6) constructive trust; (7) tortious interference
with contractual relations; (8) unjust enrichment; (9) common counts; (10)
declaratory relief; and (11) injunctive relief. 
 
On 8/13/2024,
Michelle Kim (the Trustee), Successor Trustee of the Annie Shin Living Trust
(the Trust) moved the Court for leave to intervene in this action.  
 
Legal Standard 
 
CCP section 387(d) provides the
following: 
 
(1) The court shall, upon timely application, permit a nonparty to
intervene in the action or proceeding if either of the following conditions is
satisfied:  
 
(A) A provision of law confers an
unconditional right to intervene. 
 
(B) The person seeking intervention claims an interest relating to
the property or transaction that is the subject of the action and that person
is so situated that the disposition of the action may impair or impede that
person’s ability to protect that interest, unless that person’s interest is
adequately represented by one or more of the existing parties. 
 
(2) The court may, upon timely application, permit a nonparty to
intervene in the action or proceeding if the person has an interest in the
matter in litigation, or in the success of either of the parties, or an
interest against both. 
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 387(d).) 
 
Whether the petitioner has an interest
in the matter in litigation is a question of fact that must be determined by
the court before leave to file is granted. (Muller v. Robinson (1959)
174 Cal.App.2d 511, 515; In re Yokohama Special Bank (1948) 86
Cal.App.2d 545.) The burden rests on the one seeking to intervene to show that
this is a proper case for intervention. (Muller, supra, 174 Cal.App.2d
at 515.) 
 
With respect to permissive
intervention, “[w]hen the proper procedures are followed, the trial court has
the discretion to permit a nonparty to intervene in litigation pending between
others, provided that (1) the nonparty has a direct and immediate interest in
the action; (2) the intervention will not enlarge the issues in the litigation;
and (3) the reasons for intervention outweigh any opposition by the parties
presently in the action.”  (Noya v. A.W. Coulter Trucking (2006)
143 Cal.App.4th 838, 842 (quoting Truck Ins. Exchange v. Superior Court
(1997) 60 Cal.App.4th 342, 346).)  
 
Discussion 
 
            The
Trustee contends that she is entitled to intervene as a matter of right because
the Trust has an interest in decedent Annie Shin’s Hanmi Bank Account ending in
x2284 which Plaintiff claims ownership of in this action. The Trustee contends
that adjudication of Plaintiff’s claims in the Trustee’s absence will impair or
impede the Trust’s ability to protect that interest and the Trust is not
adequately represented by the original parties to this action. (CCP. § 387,
subd. (d)(1)(B).) Alternatively, the Trustee argues that she should be
permitted to intervene because the Trust has a direct interest in this action,
the Trustee’s intervention will not enlarge the issues in the litigation, and
the reasons for the Trustee’s intervention outweigh any opposition by the
original parties. (CCP§ 387, subd. (d)(2); People v. ex rel. Rominger v.
County of Trinity (1983) 147 Cal.App.3d 655, 660-61.)            
            
            After
review, the Court agrees. The Trustee’s evidence suggests she has a significant
interest in the Trust Bank Account that Plaintiff claims ownership interest of
in the Complaint. The Trust Bank Account is titled in the name of the Trust.
(Kim Decl. ¶ 6.) Hanmi Bank’s records indicate that the beneficiary of the
Trust Bank Account is the Trust. (Id.) Moreover, the Court’s final
disposition on Plaintiff’s claims regarding the Trust Bank Account would affect
the Trust’s interest in the Trust Bank Account and could undermine the Trust’s
ability to marshal and administer the account.
 
            Based
on the foregoing, the Trustee’s motion to intervene is granted. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  November   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 
 
 