  Case Number:  22STCV19891    Hearing Date:   November 30, 2023    Dept:  74 Daniel
Alexander Roescheisen v. NCLA Beauty, Inc., et al.
Defendant NCLA Beauty, Inc.’s Motion
for Leave to File Cross-Complaint
The
court considered the moving papers. The court will exercise its discretion and
consider the untimely opposition. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1005, subd. (b) [“All
papers opposing a motion . . . shall be filed with the court . . . at least
nine court days . . . before the hearing.”].) 
BACKGROUND 
            This
action arises from a contractual dispute.
            On
June 17, 2022, Plaintiff Daniel Alexander Roescheisen (Plaintiff) filed a
complaint against Defendants NCLA Beauty, Inc., Elin Minh Dannerstedt, and
Anh-Thu Dannerstedt (Defendants). The complaint alleges breach of contract,
breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, intentional
interference with contractual relations and conspiracy, breach of fiduciary
duties, accounting, defamation per quod, and voidable transfers and recovery. 
            On
June 28, 2023, Defendants filed this motion for leave to file a
cross-complaint.
DISCUSSION 
            Defendants’
proposed cross-complaint alleges cross-claims against Plaintiff for breach of
fiduciary duties and misappropriation of trade secrets. Under Code of Civil
Procedure section 428.10, subdivision (a), Defendants always have the option of
asserting any cause of action they have against Plaintiff. The proposed
cross-complaint also alleges a cross-claim for misappropriation of trade
secrets against a new party, Paper Cosmetics, Inc. Under Code of Civil
Procedure section 428.10, subdivision (b), Defendants can cross-complain
against a new party only if the cross-claim arises out of the same transaction,
occurrence, or series of transactions or occurrences set forth in the
complaint. The complaint alleges the parties entered an agreement, which gave
Plaintiff access to Defendant NCLA Beauty, Inc.’s accounting. (Complaint, ¶      15.) Meanwhile, the cross-complaint
alleges that Plaintiff exploited this access to disclose trade secrets to Paper
Cosmetics, Inc. (Cross-Complaint, ¶¶ 29-31.) Paper Cosmetics, Inc. in turn improperly
used those trade secrets. (Cross-Complaint, ¶ 31.) Thus, the cross-claim arises
out of the same transaction alleged in the complaint.
            In
his untimely opposition, Plaintiff contends Defendants have brought this motion
in bad faith. (Code Civ. Proc., § 426.50 [“The court . . . shall grant, upon
such terms as may be just to the parties, leave . . . to file the
cross-complaint, to assert such cause if the party who failed to plead the
cause acted in good faith.”].) That is, Defendants withdrew their prior
cross-complaint on November 11, 2022, and waited months to seek leave to file
this one. But Defendants withdrew the prior cross-complaint without prejudice,
and Plaintiff has not persuaded the court that Defendants acted in bad faith.
Moreover, courts must liberally construe Code of Civil Procedure section
426.50, to avoid forfeiture of causes of action.
CONCLUSION 
The
court grants Defendants’ motion for leave to file a cross-complaint.
Defendants
shall give notice.