 Case Number:  23SMCV03044    Hearing Date:   April 12, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Llofriu v. Hoosier,
et al.
CASE NO.:                23SMCV03044
MOTION:                  Petition/Motion
to Compel Arbitration
HEARING DATE:   4/12/2024
 
Legal
Standard
 
Under California and federal law,
public policy favors arbitration as an efficient and less expensive means of
resolving private disputes. (Moncharsh
v. Heily & Blase (1992)
3 Cal.4th 1, 8-9; AT&T Mobility
LLC v. Concepcion (2011) 563 U.S. 333, 339.) Accordingly, whether an
agreement is governed by the California Arbitration Act (“CAA”) or the Federal
Arbitration Act (“FAA”), courts resolve doubts about an arbitration agreement’s
scope in favor of arbitration.  (Moncharsh, supra, 3 Cal.4th at 9;
Comedy Club, Inc. v. Improv West
Assocs. (9th Cir. 2009) 553 F.3d 1277, 1284; see also Engalla v. Permanente Med. Grp., Inc.
(1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 971-972 [“California law incorporates many of the basic
policy objectives contained in the Federal Arbitration Act, including a
presumption in favor of arbitrability [citation] and a requirement that an
arbitration agreement must be enforced on the basis of state law standards that
apply to contracts in general”].) “[U]nder both the FAA and California law,
‘arbitration agreements are valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, save upon such
grounds as exist at law or in equity for the revocation of any contract.’ ” (Higgins v. Superior Crout (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 1238, 1247.)
 
            “Code of
Civil Procedure section 1281.2 requires a trial court to grant a petition to
compel arbitration if the court determines that an agreement to arbitrate the
controversy exists.” (Avery v.
Integrated Healthcare Holdings, Inc. (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 50, 59,
quotations omitted.) Accordingly, “when presented with a petition to compel
arbitration, the court’s first task is to determine whether the parties have in
fact agreed to arbitrate the dispute.”  (Ibid.) A petition to compel arbitration is in essence a suit in equity
to compel specific performance of a contract. (Id. at 71.) As with any other specific performance claim, “a
party seeking to enforce an arbitration agreement must show the agreement’s
terms are sufficiently definite to enable the court to know what it is to
enforce.” (Ibid. [internal citations omitted].) “Only
the valid and binding agreement of the parties, including all material terms
well-defined and clearly expressed, may be ordered specifically performed.” (Ibid.) An arbitration agreement “must be so interpreted as to give
effect to the mutual intention of the parties as it existed at the time of
contracting, so far as the same is ascertainable and lawful.” (Civ. Code, §
1636.) The language of the contract governs its interpretation if it is clear
and explicit. (Civ. Code, § 1368.) If uncertainty exists, “the language of a
contract should be interpreted most strongly against the party who caused the
uncertainty to exist.” (Civ. Code, § 1654.) 
 
            The party
seeking to compel arbitration bears the burden of proving the existence of a
valid arbitration agreement by the preponderance of the evidence. (Engalla v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc.
(1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 972.) It would then be plaintiff’s burden, in opposing
the motion, to prove by a preponderance of the evidence any fact necessary to her
opposition. (See Ibid.) “In these
summary proceedings, the trial court sits as a trier of fact, weighing all the
affidavits, declarations, and other documentary evidence, as well as oral
testimony received at the court’s discretion, to reach a final determination.” (Ibid.)
 
EVIDENTIARY ISSUES
 
Defendant’s Request for Judicial Notice is GRANTED.
 
Analysis
 
            Defendants LA
Laser Center PC, Daniel Taheri M.D. Inc., Raza Mehdi, M.D., Michael Andrew
Hoosier, Daniel Taheri, M.D., LA Laser and Skin Center, Skin and Cancer
Institute, MSO Services LLC, and Westwood Surgical Institute PC (collectively, “Defendants”)
move to compel Plaintiff’s medical battery, malpractice, and negligent hiring claims
to arbitration. Defendants contend that Plaintiff signed an arbitration
agreement covering these claims.
 
As with any contract, mutual assent
or consent is necessary for the formation of a valid arbitration agreement.
(Civ. Code, §§ 1550, 1565.) “Consent is not mutual, unless the parties all
agree upon the same thing in the same sense.” (Civ. Code, § 1580.) The moving
party bears the initial burden of showing the existence of an agreement to
arbitrate by a preponderance of the evidence. (Mitri v. Arnel Mgmt. Co. (2007) 157 Cal.App.4th 1164, 1169
[“Because the existence of the agreement is a statutory prerequisite to
granting the petition, the petitioner bears the burden of proving its existence
by a preponderance of the evidence.”].)  
 
Defendants proffer Plaintiff’s
purported electronic signature. Under the Uniform Electronic Transactions Act,
an electronic signature “is attributable to a person if it was the act of the
person. The act of the person may be shown in any manner, including a showing
of the efficacy of any security procedure applied to determine the person to
which the electronic record or electronic signature was attributable.” (Civ.
Code, § 1633.9(a).) The effect of such electronic signature “is determined from
the context and surrounding circumstances at the time of its creation,
execution, or adoption, including the parties’ agreement.” (Civ. Code, §
1633.9(b).)
 
Caselaw elucidates the evidence
needed to show that an electronic signature was “the act” of a person. In Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto Group, Inc.
(2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 836, the
declaration seeking to authenticate the plaintiff’s electronic signature on an
arbitration agreement was deemed insufficient where the declarant “summarily
asserted” plaintiff electronically signed the agreement and “did not explain
how she arrived at that conclusion or inferred [plaintiff] was the person who
electronically signed the agreement” or that the electronic signature “was ‘the
act’” of the plaintiff. (Ruiz v.
Moss Bros. Auto Group, Inc. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 836, 844-845.) The
Ruiz court concluded that a supplemental declaration, generally
explaining the onboarding process for employees, failed to explain that all defendant’s
employees were required to use their unique login ID and password when they
logged into the HR system and signed electronic forms and agreements; how an
electronic signature in the name of “Ernesto Zamora Ruiz” could only have
been placed on the agreement by a person using Ruiz's “unique login ID and
password,” or how the declarant otherwise ascertained how Ruiz's printed
electronic signature came to be placed on the 2011 agreement. (Id., at
845.) The court concluded that in “the face of Ruiz's failure to recall
electronically signing the 2011 agreement, the fact the 2011 agreement had an
electronic signature on it in the name of Ruiz, and a date and time stamp for
the signature, was insufficient to support a finding that the electronic
signature was, in fact, ‘the act of’ Ruiz.” (Id.; cf. Espejo v. Southern California Permanente
Medical Group (2016) 246
Cal.App.4th 1047, 1053-1054, 1062 [the declaration “offered the critical
factual connection that the declarations in Ruiz lacked” by detailing
“security precautions regarding transmission and use of an applicant’s unique
username and password, as well as the steps an applicant would have to take to
place his or her name on the signature line” of the agreement].)
 
Defendants do not provide authentication
to demonstrate that the electronic signature was the act of Plaintiff. Defendants
proffer the declaration of Dr. Taheri, who is a physician and holds executive
roles at the entity defendants. (Taheri Decl., ¶¶ 1-5.) Dr. Taheri is
knowledgeable about the electronic medical records software utilized by the
Medical Practice for the maintenance of medical records, including
Patient-Physician Arbitration Agreements. (Id., ¶ 10.) Dr. Taheri states that
on June 14, 2022, Plaintiff presented to Defendants for examination, etc., for
treatment of skin conditions. (Id., ¶ 11.) On that day, “Plaintiff and the
Medical Practice inclusive all Defendants entered into a Physician-Patient
Arbitration Agreement[.]” (Id., Ex. 9.) He declares that exhibit 9 is a true
and correct copy of the Agreement signed by Plaintiff. (Id.) 
 
Dr. Taheri’s summary assertion that
Plaintiff executed the agreement does not show that the electronic signature
was the act of Plaintiff. Dr. Taheri does not explain how he concluded or
inferred Plaintiff electronically signed the agreement. For example, Dr. Taheri
does not state that he personally observed Plaintiff signing or any security
measures which would show that the signature was the “act” of Plaintiff. Plaintiff,
in turn, declares that she did not sign the arbitration agreement. Based upon
Defendant’s evidence, that denial is sufficient to defeat this motion.  In addition, Plaintiff presents substantial
evidence that Dr. Taheri’s statements are not credible, including that
Plaintiff never went to the medical practice until June 15, 2022, along with
testimony from a former employee of Defendants regarding the practice of falsifying
consent, other patient forms, and medical records, and that signatures on these
forms were not typed.  Therefore,
Defendants fail to meet their burden to show the existence of an agreement to
arbitrate. 
 
Accordingly, the motion is DENIED.