 Case Number:  22TRCV00835    Hearing Date:   July 16, 2024    Dept:  P MOTION TO DIRECT COMPLIANCE WITH SUBPOENA TO VA HOSPITALThe court considered the moving papers. No opposition or reply papers were filed.RULINGThe Motion to Direct Compliance With Subpoena to VA Hospital is GRANTED. Nonparty VA Hospital is ordered to comply with the subpoena served by the moving parties on or about February 8, 2024.BACKGROUNDOn 9/16/2022, plaintiff Stanley Matthews (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendants Centinela Hospital Medical Center Auxiliary, Cedars Foot & Ankle Center, and AshkanSoleymani, DPM (sued as Ashkan Soleyman, M.D.) (“Dr. Soleymani”), asserting causes of action for (1) medical malpractice and (2) negligent misrepresentation.The Complaint alleges that this action arises from the care and treatment provided by Dr. Soleymani to Plaintiff for an infection of his right big toe and part of his foot. Plaintiff contends that Dr. Soleymani performed a surgery claiming to have removed pieces of rotten bones out of Plaintiff’s right foot and that the surgery was successful. Plaintiff claims that he believed his foot still looked infected, so he visited another doctor, who performed an x-ray of Plaintiff’s right foot and concluded that his right big toe had to be amputated.On 5/1/2024, defendants Cedars Foot & Ankle Center and Dr. Soleymani (collectively, “Defendants”) filed the instant motion seeking an order directing nonparty VA Hospital to comply with their deposition subpoena for business records.On 6/3/2024, the court held the hearing on the motion and issued an authorization allowing Defendants to serve nonparty VA Hospital through electronic and certified mail. The court ordered Defendants to serve a supplemental declaration before the hearing showing service on VA Hospital. On 6/5/2024, Defendants filed a new notice of motion showing they served the nonparty as the court instructed.No opposition has been filed.The trial Setting Conference is set for 9/11/2024.A. Legal Standard“[D]iscovery from a nonparty may be obtained only by ‘deposition subpoena’ (§ 2020.010, subd. (b)).” Unzipped Apparel, LLC v. Bader (2007) 156 Cal.App.4th 123, 130 (italics removed) (“Unzipped”). “A business records subpoena directs the nonparty’s custodian of records (or other qualified person) to deliver the requested documents (in person, by messenger, or by mail) to the ‘deposition officer’ specified in the subpoena. [Citation.]” Id. at p. 131.“A deposition subpoena that commands only the production of business records for copying shall designate the business records to be produced either by specifically describing each individual item or by reasonably particularizing each category of item, and shall specify the form in which any electronically stored information is to be produced, if a particular form is desired.” Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.410, subd. (a).“A provider of health care, health care service plan, or contractor shall not disclose medical information regarding a patient of the provider of health care or an enrollee or subscriber of a health care service plan without first obtaining an authorization, except as provided in subdivision (b) or (c).” Civ. Code, § 56.10, subd. (a).However, a provider of health care, a health care service plan, or a contractor shall disclose medical information if the disclosure is compelled “by a party to a proceeding before a court … pursuant to a … subpoena duces tecum, notice to appear served pursuant to Section 1987 of the Code of Civil Procedure, or any provision authorizing discovery in a proceeding before a court ….” Civ. Code, § 56, subd. (b)(1).“If a subpoena requires … the production of books, documents, electronically stored information, or other things before a court …, the court, upon motion … may make an order … directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective orders.” Civ. Code Proc., § 1987.1, subd. (a) (emphasis added).B. DiscussionAs an initial matter, the court finds the instant motion timely as it was filed on May 1, 2024, within 60 days of March 11, 2024, the date set by the subpoena to produce records. Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480, subd. (b) (stating that a “motion [to compel compliance with a deposition notice or subpoena] shall be made no later than 60 days after the completion of the record of the deposition …”); Unzipped, supra, 156 Cal.App.4th at p. 136 (“The record [is] complete as of the date set for the production [of business records] …”).Defense counsel attests to the following facts in support of the motion. “This is a medical malpractice action, where plaintiff Stanley Matthews claims that he was injured as a result of medical treatment rendered by defendants. Throughout the course of this litigation, defendants learned that Mr. Matthews received medical treatment at the VA Hospital. Defense counsel then served a subpoena to the VA Hospital on or around February 8, 2024. (Exhibit A) In response, the Department of Veterans Affairs notified the copy service on or around April 25, 2024, that they would not be complying with the document subpoena, and that an authorization would be required for the release of the requested records. Defense counsel has recently learned that Mr. Matthews is deceased, and therefore, there will be no forthcoming signed authorization for the release of these records.” Motion, Declaration of John C. Lender, ¶ 2 (emphasis added).Having reviewed the subpoena and found it seeks relevant information, having noted that there has been no opposition to the motion filed, and given defense counsel’s declaration, the court finds it proper to grant the motion.C. ConclusionThe Motion to Direct Compliance With Subpoena to VA Hospital is GRANTED. Nonparty VA Hospital is ordered to comply with the subpoena served by the moving parties on or about February 8, 2024.Moving parties to give notice.