  Case Number:  23AHCV00370    Hearing Date:   November 1, 2023    Dept:  P  
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
NORTHEAST DISTRICT
 






Carter John Thomas
    Hasbrook, an individual, 
 
                                           
    Plaintiff, 
vs. 
 
Monica Cionne Hasbrook, an individual; and Does
    1-100, inclusive,  
 
                                           
    Defendants. 
 




Monica Cionne Hasbrook, an individual,¿
¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿
    Cross-Complainant,¿ 
vs.¿ 
Carter John Thomas Hasbrook, and Roes 1-10,
    inclusive,¿ 
 
¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿
    Cross-Defendants.¿¿ 






)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
  )
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


Case No.: 23AHCV00370
 
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER DENYING DEFENDANT CARTER HASBROOK’S MOTIONS TO QUASH DEPOSITION SUBPOENAS
  SERVED ON APEX RECOVERY, LLC; SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA RECOVERY CENTERS, LLC AND
  LAS ENCINAS HOSPITAL
 
Date:   November
  1, 2023
Time:  8:30 a.m.
Dept.:  P



 
 
          I.        INTRODUCTION
           This is an action for personal injury arising
out of the dissolution of a marriage. 
In the complaint, Plaintiff Carter John Hasbrook
(Carter) alleges that Defendant Monica Cionne Hasbrook (Monica) hit him over
the head with a skateboard on February 23, 2021, causing a concussion and a
traumatic brain injury. He seeks damages to recover for his medical costs
associated with the injury. The complaint asserts seven causes of action but
only provides five in the caption: (1) Battery, (2) Assault, (3) Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress, (4) Negligence and (5) Breach of Contract.
The other two are Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress and Violation of
the Bane Act. 
In the cross-complaint, Cross-Complainant Monica
alleges that Cross-Defendant Carter drugged her on July 24, 2021 with
controlled substances while she was in the hospital for unrelated injuries. At
the time of the alleged drugging, Monica and Carter were legally separated from
one another. The cross-complaint states four causes of action:       (1) Dependent Adult Abuse, (2) Assault,
(3) Battery and (4) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress.  
          Before the Court is Plaintiff and
Cross-Defendant Carter’s motion to quash subpoenas served on two addiction
treatment centers he received treatment from, Apex Recovery LLC (Apex) and
Southern California Recovery Centers LLC (Southern California Recovery); and
the hospital where he works, Las Encinas Hospital (Las Encinas). As the
subpoenas to Apex and California Recovery seek evidence that is relevant to the
complaint, the motions are denied. As the subpoena to Las Encinas seeks evidence
that is relevant to the complaint, the motion to modify is denied.
          Carter first filed his complaint on February 21, 2023. Carter
filed the operative first amended complaint (FAC) on June 26, 2023. Carter
filed the three motions to quash on September 29, 2023. Monica filed an opposition
on October 19, 2023.
 
II.       LEGAL
STANDARD
          Code Civ. Proc. §1987.1:
“(a) If a subpoena requires
the attendance of a witness or the production of books, documents,
electronically stored information, or other things before a court, or at the
trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon
motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the
court’s own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard,
may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing
compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare,
including protective orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as
may be appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive
demands, including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the
person.”
          Subd. (b)(1) permits a party to seek relief.
          Code Civ. Proc. §1987.2 provides for an award of sanctions
in the court’s discretion. “[I]n making an order pursuant to motion made under.
. . Section 1987.1, the court may in its discretion award the amount of the
reasonable expenses incurred in making or opposing the motion, including
reasonable attorney's fees, if the court finds the motion was made or opposed
in bad faith or without substantial justification or that one or more of the
requirements of the subpoena was oppressive.”
 
III.     ANALYSIS
A. Deposition Subpoena to Apex 
The operative FAC alleges that Carter “was harmed
from the attack” (FAC ¶ 82), that he suffers from “post-traumatic stress disorder
and post-concussive syndrome” (FAC ¶ 20) and that he “was severely harmed by
the attack and continues to suffer harm. There is a likelihood that Plaintiff
will continue to suffer harm for the rest of his life.” (FAC ¶ 89.)  Monica seeks evidence to disprove this
allegation. The subpoena is an effort to obtain such information. It seeks “All
documents and records pertaining to the care, treatment and examination of
Thomas John Carter Hasbrook aka Carter Hasbrook, including but not limited to,
sign-in sheets, inpatient and outpatient charts and records, ambulance records,
emergency room and lab reports, x-ray reports, pathology reports, prescription
and pharmacy records and any other records pertaining to Thomas John Carter
Hasbrook aka Carter Hasbrook from February 1, 2018 to and including the
present.” (Gillick Decl., Exh. 2, p. 109.)
Carter seeks to quash the subpoena on three grounds:
(1) the records sought are not relevant; (2) disclosure would violate Carter’s
privacy rights and (3) the subpoena is harassing.  Because the subpoena seeks information that
is relevant to issues in this litigation and does not seek privileged
information, the motion to quash is denied.
i. Relevancy
As to the complaint, Carter alleges he required
medical treatment and care because of Monica’s conduct. (Complaint ¶ 22.) In
each of his causes of action, he alleges that she caused him harm. As the harm
alleged is medical in nature, Carter’s medical records after the alleged
injuring conduct by Monica is highly relevant as to the harms he suffered. (CCP
§ 2017.010.) Relevance is a broad concept and is not limited to admissible
evidence but also evidence that is calculated to lead to admissible evidence.
(CCP § 2017.010, Williams v. Sup. Ct. (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531,541.) 
As to the cross-complaint, none of Monica’s causes
of action require proof that Carter was receiving medical care. Her causes of
action for dependent adult abuse, battery, assault and intentional infliction
of emotional distress do not require proof that Carter, who she alleges drugged
her, was himself receiving medical care. 
Additionally, Monica urges that Carter has alleged
mental and psychological injuries as well as treatment and as such, whether or
not “he has any pre-existing conditions which maybe the source of his alleged
infirmity” are also discoverable. (Opposition, p. 8: 24-26.) Monica cites Vinson
v. Superior Court for the proposition that by alleging a causal link
between his injury and her conduct, Carter implicitly claims that his distress
was not caused by something else. (Vinson v. Superior Court (1987) 43
Cal.3d 833, 840.) 
Here, the discovery sought is relevant to the claims
in the complaint. Accordingly, the motion to quash should be denied. 
 
ii. Privacy
The subpoena seeks medical records, which on
balance, are the type of personal information protected by the California
Constitution. (Cal. Const. Art. 1 §1.) However, as Carter has placed his mental
and physical state in controversy by filing the complaint alleging assault,
battery and intentional and negligent infliction of emotional distress and consequential
medical treatment, these records are discoverable. (Vinson v. Sup. Ct. (1987)
43 Cal.3d 833,842; Moskowitz v. Sup. Ct. (1978) 20 Cal. 3d 844, 857.) 
iii. Harassment
Carter asserts that Monica will use information
provided by this subpoena to harass him. (Motion, p. 7: 6.) Without further
explication as to why Carter believes this will occur or citation to authority
in support, the Court declines to consider the merits of this conclusory
statement. 
 
B. Deposition Subpoena to Southern California Recovery
The operative FAC alleges that Carter “was harmed
from the attack” (FAC ¶ 82), that he suffers from “post-traumatic stress
disorder and post-concussive syndrome” (FAC ¶ 20) and that he “was severely
harmed by the attack and continues to suffer harm. There is a likelihood that
Plaintiff will continue to suffer harm for the rest of his life.” (FAC ¶ 89.)  Monica seeks evidence to disprove this
allegation. The subpoena is an effort to obtain such information. It seeks “All
documents and records pertaining to the care, treatment and examination of
Thomas John Carter Hasbrook aka Carter Hasbrook, including but not limited to,
sign-in sheets, inpatient and outpatient charts and records, ambulance records,
emergency room and lab reports, x-ray reports, pathology reports, prescription
and pharmacy records and any other records pertaining to Thomas John Carter
Hasbrook aka Carter Hasbrook from February 1, 2018 to and including the present.”
(Gillick Decl., Exh. 2 p.99.)
Carter seeks to quash the subpoena on three grounds:
(1) the records sought are not relevant; (2) disclosure would violate Carter’s
privacy rights and (3) the subpoena is harassing.  Because the subpoena seeks information that
is relevant to issues in this litigation, the motion to quash is denied.
i. Relevance
As to the complaint, Carter alleges he required
medical treatment and care because of Monica’s conduct. (Complaint ¶ 22.) In
each of his causes of action, he alleges that she caused him harm. He then
alleges that the harm he suffered was physical and mental and he required
treatment because of it. As the harm alleged is in part medical, Carter’s
medical record is highly relevant. (CCP § 2017.010.)
As to the cross-complaint, none of Monica’s causes
of action require proof that Carter was receiving medical treatment. Her cause
of action for dependent adult abuse, battery, assault and intentional
infliction of emotional distress do not require proof that Carter, who she
alleges drugged her, was himself receiving medical care as a result of a
separate alleged incident of spousal abuse. 
Monica also urges that Carter has alleged mental and
psychological injuries and as such, whether “he has any pre-existing conditions
which maybe the source of his alleged infirmity” are also discoverable.
(Opposition, p. 8: 24-26.) Monica cites Vinson v. Superior Court for the
proposition that by alleging a causal link between his injury and her conduct, Carter
implicitly claims that his distress was not caused by something else. (Vinson
v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 840.)  
In sum, the discovery sought has been proven to be
relevant as to the causes of action on the complaint. 
ii. Privacy
The subpoena seeks medical records, which on
balance, are the type of personal information protected by the California
Constitution. (Cal. Const. Art. 1 §1.) However, as Carter put his mental and
physical state in controversy by filing the complaint alleging assault, battery
and intentional and negligent infliction of emotional distress, these records
are discoverable. (Vinson v. Sup. Ct. (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833,842; Moskowitz
v. Sup. Ct. (1978) 20 Cal. 3d 844, 857.) The Court notes that this implicit
waiver of Carter’s constitutional rights is to be narrowly construed and only covers
discovery directly relevant to Carter’s claim. (Davis v. Sup. Ct. (1992)
7 Cal.App.4th 1008,1014, referencing Vinson v. Sup. Ct. (1987) 43 Cal.3d
833,842.) The records sought are directly relevant, as discussed above.
iii. Harassment
Carter asserts that Monica will use information
provided by this subpoena to harass him. (Motion, p. 7: 6.) Without further
explication as to why Carter believes this will occur or citation to authority
in support, the Court declines to consider the merits of this conclusory
statement. 
 
C. Deposition Subpoena to Las Encinas
The operative FAC alleges that Carter suffered a
traumatic brain injury and a result, Carter can only “work half the hours he
used to” (FAC ¶¶ 20, 50, 57) and “[t]here is a possibility Carter will never be
able to recover the mental stamina he had before the incident.” (FAC ¶ 22.)
Monica seeks evidence to support or disprove this allegation. The subpoena is an
effort to obtain such information. It seeks “[a]ny and all documents and
records, including but not limited to, payroll, personnel, employment and wage
records, including pre-employment records, physical examinations, work absence
records, incident reports, vacation records, loss of earnings records,
disciplinary records, internal investigation records, employee progress
records, all claims under health, accident or hospitalization insurance
coverage.”  (Gillick Decl., Exh. 2, p. 24.)
Carter seeks to modify the subpoena on two grounds:
(1) the records sought are not relevant and (2) disclosure of all employment
records would violate his privacy. Carter seeks to modify the subpoena to only
include (1) payroll records and (2) loss of earning records. 
i. Relevance
As pleaded, all of Carter’s causes of action require
proof to substantiate he suffered harm. He alleges that he was not able to work
as much as he did previously, and that he suffered a loss of mental acuity.
(Complaint ¶¶ 20,22.) The employment records Monica is seeking from Las Encinas
are highly relevant to prove or disprove this alleged harm, as well as the
extent of it. (Davis v. Sup. Ct. (1992) 7 Cal. App. 4th 1008, 1014.)
As to the cross-complaint, none of Monica’s causes
of action require proof that Carter worked less as a result of a separate
incident of alleged spousal abuse. Her causes of action for dependent adult
abuse, battery, assault and intentional infliction of emotional distress do not
relate to the harms Carter alleges he suffered as a result of Monica hitting
him with a skateboard on February 23, 2021. 
ii. Privacy
The subpoena seeks employment records, which on
balance, are a type of protected personal information. (Cal. Const. Art. 1 §1.)
However, as Carter has placed his employment and ability to work in controversy
by alleging he was not able to work as a result of the injuries he sustained
and that he is only working half the amount he used to, the records are
discoverable. (Moskowitz v. Sup. Ct. (1978) 20 Cal. 3d 844, 857.) 
Accordingly, the motion to modify the subpoena is denied.

 
D. Sanctions
          Monica requests sanctions for the cost of having to oppose
the motion. The Court finds that the motions to quash were made in bad faith, as
the records sought are relevant or reasonably calculated to lead to admissible
evidence, appropriately limited in scope; and there were no viable claims of
privilege or harassment. 
The
declaration of Martin R. Berman, counsel for Monica, indicates that he has
spent 7.5 hours opposing the motions and anticipates 1.5 hours spent on the
court appearance for these motions at $500.00/hour. (Berman Decl. ¶ 7.) 7.5
hours appears  excessive for preparing
one opposition. The Court will permit Monica to recover 3 hours of work preparing
the opposition at $500 an hour, as Monica opposed all three in one opposition,
and 1.5 hours to attend the hearing at $500.00/hour, for a total of 4.5 hours, or
$2,250 total. 
IV.     CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
          Carter’s motion to quash the subpoena served on Apex
Recovery is DENIED. Carter’s motion to quash the subpoena served on Southern
California Recovery Center is DENIED. Carter’s motion to modify the subpoena
served on Las Encinas Hospital is DENIED. Carter is ordered to pay monetary
sanctions in the amount of $2,250.00 to Monica within 20 days of notice of this
order. 
Monica
is ordered to provide notice of this ruling. 
 
 
          
Dated:                                                              _______________________________
                                                                              MARGARET L. OLDENDORF
                                                                       JUDGE
OF THE SUPERIOR COURT