 Case Number:  24TRCV00725    Hearing Date:   August 5, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                           Monday, August 5, 2024
Department M                                                                                                       Calendar
No. 11
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Donald Katona Sr., et al. v. Torrance
Post Acute, LLC, et al.
            24TRCV00725
1.      Torrance Post Acute LLC’s Petition to Compel
Arbitration and to Stay Action
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Torrance Post Acute LLC’s Petition
to Compel Arbitration and Stay Action is granted. 
 
Background 
            
            Plaintiffs filed the Complaint on March
29, 2024. Plaintiffs allege the following facts. Plaintiffs’ decedent, Donald
Katona Sr., suffered injuries and eventually died (by suicide) while in the
care of Defendants.  Plaintiffs set forth
the following causes of action: 1. Elder Abuse and Neglect; 2. Negligence; 3.
Violation of Patient’s Right; 4. Wrongful Death.   
 
            Request for Judicial Notice
 
            Plaintiffs’ request for judicial
notice is granted in part. The Court takes judicial notice of the existence of
Exhibits A and B, the notice of deficiencies and death certificate, but does
not take judicial notice of the truth of any matters asserted therein. 
 
Petition to
Compel Arbitration
 
            “California law reflects a strong
public policy in favor of arbitration as a relatively quick and inexpensive
method for resolving disputes. 
[Citation.]  To further that policy, [Code of Civil Procedure]
section 1281.2 requires a trial court to enforce a written arbitration
agreement unless one of three limited exceptions applies.  [Citation.] 
Those statutory exceptions arise where (1) a party waives the right to
arbitration; (2) grounds exist for revoking the arbitration agreement; and (3)
pending litigation with a third party creates the possibility of conflicting
rulings on common factual or legal issues. 
(§ 1281.2, subds. (a)–(c).)”  Acquire
II, Ltd. v. Colton Real Estate Group (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 959, 967. 
 
“The petitioner bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid
arbitration agreement by the preponderance of the evidence, and a party
opposing the petition bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the
evidence any fact necessary to its defense.  In these summary proceedings, the trial court
sits as a trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other
documentary evidence, as well as oral testimony received at the court’s
discretion, to reach a final determination.”  Giuliano v. Inland Empire Personnel, Inc.
(2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1276, 1284.
 
“The party opposing arbitration has the burden of demonstrating that an
arbitration clause cannot be interpreted to require arbitration of the dispute.  Nonetheless, this policy does not override
ordinary principles of contract interpretation.  [T]he contractual terms themselves must be
carefully examined before the parties to the contract can be ordered to
arbitration:  Although [t]he law favors
contracts for arbitration of disputes between parties, there is no policy
compelling persons to accept arbitration of controversies which they have not
agreed to arbitrate.”  Rice v. Downs
(2016) 247 Cal.App.4th 1213, 1223 (internal citations and quotations omitted). 
 
In Rowe v. Exline (2007) 153
Cal.App.4th 1276, 1286, the Court of Appeal found that “a nonsignatory sued as
an agent of a signatory may enforce an arbitration agreement.”  Id.
at 1286.  In addition, “a nonsignatory
who is the agent of a signatory can even be compelled to arbitrate claims
against his will.”  Id. at 1285, citing Harris v. Superior Court (1986) 188
Cal.App.3d 475, 477–78.  Further, “in
many cases, nonparties to arbitration agreements are allowed to enforce those
agreements where there is sufficient identity of parties.”  Valley
Casework, Inc. v. Comfort Construction, Inc. (1999) 76 Cal.App.4th 1013,
1021.  This includes nonparties as agents
of a party as well as “a third party beneficiary of an arbitration
agreement.”  Ibid.  
 
            Defendant moves to compel
arbitration and to stay this action pursuant to the FAA and CCP § 1281 et seq. on
the grounds that Plaintiffs executed an arbitration agreement wherein Plaintiffs
are bound to arbitrate the claims alleged in the Complaint.
 
Defendant attached as Exhibit 1 to the Declaration of Jeffrey S. Healey the purported
arbitration agreement that was signed by Donald Katona Sr. on August 14, 2020.  The arbitration provision states, in relevant
part, as follows: “It is further understood that any dispute between Resident
and …Torrance Post Acute LLC dba Beachside Post Acute, its owners, operators,
officers, directors, administrators, staff, employees, agents, and any
management and administrative services company and all related entities and
individuals, their staff, personnel, employees, owners, officers, directors,
members, and agents that provide services to the Facility that relates to the
provision of care, treatment and services the Facility provides to the
Resident, (collectively referred to herein as “Facility), including any action
for injury or death arising from negligence, intentional tort and/or statutory
causes of action (including all California Welfare and Institutions Code
sections and Health and Safety Code section 1430), will be determined by
submission to binding arbitration and not by lawsuit or resort to court process
except as California law provides for judicial review of arbitration
proceedings.”  (Ex. A, Art. 2.) 
 
First, Plaintiffs argue that Defendant has failed to
properly authenticate the exhibit which was attached to Defendant’s counsel’s
declaration.  In response, Defendant
argued that, while typically an exhibit that was not created or witnessed by
counsel or produced in discovery (and authenticated by other means) cannot be
authenticated by counsel for one of the parties, an exception to this rule of
evidence exists in the context of petitions to compel arbitration.
 
Defendant cited to this portion of Condee v.
Longwood Management Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 218–219 (internal
citations and quotations omitted).  “For
purposes of a petition to compel arbitration, it is not necessary to follow the
normal procedures of document authentication. [T]he court shall order the
petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines
that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists[.] The statute does not
require the petitioner to introduce the agreement into evidence. A plain
reading of the statute indicates that as a preliminary matter the court is only
required to make a finding of the agreement's existence, not an evidentiary
determination of its validity.”  Id. 
 
However, the precedential value of Condee has
been placed into question by several cases decided following Condee.  In Toal v. Tardif (2009) 178
Cal.App.4th 1208, the Court stated: “To the extent Condee conflicts with
Rosenthal, our Supreme Court's decision is controlling.”  Id. at 1219, fn. 8.  The Court further stated that “our Supreme
Court has clearly stated that a court, before granting a petition to compel
arbitration, must determine the factual issue of ‘the existence or
validity of the arbitration agreement. In this way, a court's role, though
limited, is critical. There is indeed a strong policy in favor of enforcing
agreements to arbitrate, but there is no policy compelling persons to accept
arbitration of controversies which they have not agreed to arbitrate and which
no statute has made arbitrable.”  Id. at
1219–1220.
 
This conflict was somewhat resolved by Espejo v.
Southern California Permanente Medical Group (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 1047.  Espejo laid out a process in which the
petitioner meets its initial burden of proving the existence of the agreement
by simply attaching a copy of the agreement as set forth under Condee.  Then, the opposing party has the burden to identify
a factual dispute as to the agreement's existence specifically by providing
evidence disputing the authenticity of the signature. Then, the burden would
shift back to petitioner to prove by a preponderance of the evidence the
authenticity of the signature.  Id.
at 1060.  Here, while arguing that
Defendant did not provide foundation for the document, Plaintiffs did not
themselves submit any evidence to dispute that the signature on the agreement
was not actually the decedent’s. Therefore, the burden never shifted back to
Defendant to prove its authenticity.
 
Because the moving party met
its initial burden to show the existence of a valid arbitration clause with
respect to the claims of the Plaintiffs, the burden shifts to Plaintiffs to
show that the arbitration clause should not be enforced as to these claims.  Rice, supra, 247 Cal.App.4th at 1223.
 
First, Plaintiffs argue that
decedent lacked capacity to sign the agreement. However, Plaintiffs submitted
no competent evidence to show that, at the time that decedent signed the
agreement, decedent lacked competency.  Decedent’s son states: “Early on during my
Father's stay at BEACHSIDE POST ACUTE (hereinafter referred to as
"Facility"), I received a call from my Father who stated that the
Facility administered drugs that made my Father loopy and while in that loopy
state of mind, the Facility forced my Father to sign papers. My Father was
unable to state what papers he signed stating that he did not know what papers
the Facility presented him to sign.” (Decl., Donald Katona, Jr., ¶ 3.)  The time frame is vague as to when this call
was made, when the signatures referred to in this call were made, and what
documents were signed.  The declaration
of Donna Dooher, the daughter of decedent, provides no facts to establish
decedent’s incapacity at the time of the making of the arbitration agreement.  Finally, the exhibits attached to the request
for judicial notice apparently indicate that decedent may have suffered from a
delusional disorder at the time of the signature, but this, on its own, without
more facts as to the implications of this disorder, does not definitively
establish incapacity at the time that the signature was executed.
 
Plaintiffs cite Nelson v.
Dual Diagnosis Treatment Center, Inc. (2022) 77 Cal. App. 5th 643 for the
proposition that a signature of a delusional patient is ineffective to compel
binding arbitration.  However, in Nelson,
the California Court of Appeal laid out in detail the numerous compelling facts
which showed that the decedent specifically suffered from a significant
delusional disorder at the time of the making of the agreement making him
incompetent to execute the agreement.  Such
facts are lacking in the instant action. 
 
Plaintiffs argue that the
arbitration clause is both procedurally and substantively unconscionable.  A court can invalidate an arbitration
agreement when it is unconscionable or against public policy.  See,
Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th
83, 99.  Unconscionability contains two
elements:  procedural unconscionability
and substantive unconscionability.  
 
“[U]nconscionability has
both a procedural and a substantive' element, the former focusing on
‘oppression' or 'surprise' due to unequal bargaining power, the latter on
'overly harsh' or 'one-sided' results. 
The prevailing view is that [procedural and substantive
unconscionability] must both be present in order for a court to exercise its
discretion to refuse to enforce a contract or clause under the doctrine of
unconscionability." But they need not be present in the same degree.
Essentially a sliding scale is invoked which disregards the regularity of the
procedural process of the contract formation, that creates the terms, in
proportion to the greater harshness or unreasonableness of the substantive
terms themselves.  In other words, the
more substantively oppressive the contract term, the less evidence of
procedural unconscionability is required to come to the conclusion that the
term is unenforceable, and vice versa.”  See, Armendariz, 24 Cal.4th
at 114.      
 
“The traditional standard of
unconscionability . . . is that the inequality amounting to fraud must be so
strong and manifest as to shock the conscience and confound the judgment of any
man of common sense.   Subsequent
decisions have defined an unconscionable contract in varying but similar terms,
such as a contract that no man in his senses and not under delusion would make
on the one hand, and as no honest and fair man would accept on the other.”  See,
California Grocers Assn. v. Bank of America (1994) 22 Cal.App.4th
205, 214-15 (internal citations omitted). 
 
Procedural unconscionability
may be established by showing oppression and surprise.  Oppression occurs where the parties have
unequal bargaining power, and the contract is not the result of meaningful
negotiations.  Surprise recognizes the
extent to which the agreed upon terms were hidden. 
 
 “In many cases of adhesion contracts, the
weaker party lacks not only the opportunity to bargain but also any realistic
opportunity to look elsewhere for a more favorable contract; he must either
adhere to the standardized agreement or forego the needed service.”  Madden v. Kaiser Foundation Hospitals
(1976) 17 Cal.3d 699, 711. Simply because a contract may have elements of an
adhesion contract does not render the agreement procedurally
unconscionable.  “The ultimate issue in
every case is whether the terms of the contract are sufficiently unfair, in
view of all relevant circumstances, that a court should withhold
enforcement.”  Sanchez v. Valencia Holding (2015) 61 Cal.4th 899,
912.  
 
“[C]ourts, including ours,
have used various nonexclusive formulations to capture the notion that
unconscionability requires a substantial degree of unfairness beyond a
simple old-fashioned bad bargain. This latter qualification is important.
Commerce depends on the enforceability, in most instances, of a duly executed
written contract. A party cannot avoid a contractual obligation merely by
complaining that the deal, in retrospect, was unfair or a bad bargain. Not all
one-sided contract provisions are unconscionable; hence the various
intensifiers in our formulations: ‘overly harsh,’ ‘unduly oppressive,’
‘unreasonably favorable.’ The ultimate issue in every case is
whether the terms of the contract are sufficiently unfair, in view of all
relevant circumstances, that a court should withhold enforcement.” Baltazar
v. Forever 21, Inc. (2016) 62 Cal.4th 1237, 1245 (internal citations
and quotations omitted; emphasis in original). 
 
Plaintiffs fail to meet
their burden to establish unconscionability. To support the procedural
unconscionability argument, Plaintiffs again rely essentially on the same
evidence noted above regarding incapacity. For the same reasons already noted
above, Plaintiffs fail to provide competent evidence to show that at the
time of the making of the agreement the state of mind of decedent was such
that Defendant unfairly took advantage of decedent to his oppression and
surprise. The Court determines that Plaintiffs have failed to establish
procedural unconscionability.
 
As discussed above, both procedural
and substantive unconscionability must exist for the Court to exercise its
discretion to refuse to enforce the arbitration provision.  As noted, Plaintiffs submitted no competent
evidence to support the procedural unconscionability element.  Thus, the Court need not even address the
substantive unconscionability arguments.  (The Court does note, however, that the one
portion of the agreement which Plaintiffs contend is substantively
unconscionable could have been carved out had Plaintiffs met their burden to
show procedural unconscionability.)
 
The following analysis
applies solely to the Wrongful Death cause of action. Plaintiff argues that this
cause of action is not subject to the arbitration provision.
 
Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2(c)
provides an exception to arbitration when:
“A party to the arbitration
agreement is also a party to a pending court action or special proceeding with
a third party, arising out of the same transaction or series of related
transactions and there is a possibility of conflicting rulings on a common issue
of law or fact. For purposes of this section, a pending court action or special
proceeding includes an action or proceeding initiated by the party refusing to
arbitrate after the petition to compel arbitration has been filed, but on or
before the date of the hearing on the petition. This subdivision shall not be
applicable to an agreement to arbitrate disputes as to the professional
negligence of a health care provider made pursuant to Section 1295.” 
 
Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2
further provides:
“If the court determines
that a party to the arbitration is also a party to litigation in a pending
court action or special proceeding with a third party as set forth under
subdivision (c), the court (1) may refuse to enforce the arbitration agreement
and may order intervention or joinder of all parties in a single action or
special proceeding; (2) may order intervention or joinder as to all or only
certain issues; (3) may order arbitration among the parties who have agreed to
arbitration and stay the pending court action or special proceeding pending the
outcome of the arbitration proceeding; or (4) may stay arbitration pending the
outcome of the court action or special proceeding.”
 
Thus, a court may refuse to
enforce arbitration if it determines that a party to the arbitration agreement
is also a party to a pending court action with a third party arising out of the
same transaction or series of related transactions and there is a possibility
of conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or fact.  Code Civ. Proc., §1281.2(c). 
 
Plaintiffs argue that there
are non-parties to the arbitration agreement, Donna Dooher, Douglas Katona, and
Debi Criss. However, a recently decided case, Holland v. Silverscreen
Healthcare, Inc. (2024) 101 Cal.App.5th 1125 held that a medical provider’s
arbitration provision that complies with CCP § 1295 requires the admittee’s
non-signatory heirs to arbitrate their wrongful death claims.  Id.  The Court stated that while the Elder Abuse
Act allows a survival action for neglect that is not governed by CCP § 1295,
that claim would belong to the patient – not the heirs.  The wrongful death action is a statutory claim
that belongs to the heirs. Thus, the
heirs’ suit, even if based on allegations of elder abuse, must be arbitrated.  Id.  Here, the agreement complies with Section 1295
and specifically makes the arbitration clause binding upon heirs.  (Ex. A, Art. 4.)
 
Therefore, Defendant’s Petition to Compel Arbitration
and to Stay Action is granted. 
 
The court action is hereby ordered stayed pending
arbitration.  
 
An OSC re: status of arbitration is set for
____________.
 
Defendant is ordered to give notice of this ruling.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 