Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 21STCV15600
Plaintiff's Name: Michael Corominas and Lisa Corominas
Defendant's Name: West Hills Hospital and Medical Center, et al.
People-Names: Michael Corominas, Lisa Corominas, Martin M. Mortazavi, M.D., Jessica Thomas, M.D., Paul Diehl, M.D., Dean Wilson, Jr., P.A., Chris Y. Wang, M.D., Jamie Soo Moi Eng, M.D., Tejpal Singh, M.D., Michael H. Lee, M.D.
Company-Names: Tarzana Medical Center LLC dba Providence Cedars-Sinai Tarzana Medical Center, Specialty Imagining Center, Exer Urgent Care
Places: West Hills Hospital and Medical Center, Tarzana Medical Center, Los Angeles County USC Medical Center, East Los Angeles College, Western Governors University
Dates: April 26, 2023, December 14, 2023, November 25, 2024
Events: Medical negligence, loss of consortium, complaint filed, motion for summary judgment
Money: No amount mentioned
Intentions: Defendant seeks summary judgment on grounds of lack of merit and failure to present triable issue of material fact
Facts: Plaintiff alleges medical negligence and loss of consortium, Defendant claims compliance with standard of care
Disputes: Medical malpractice, negligence, loss of consortium
Acts: Failure to perform additional workup and/or discharge patient, failure to diagnose cauda equina
Agreements: Expert declaration of Carol Ingalls, BSN, RN
Laws: Code of Civil Procedure ยง437c, Simmons v. West Covina Medical Clinic (1989), Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008), Munro v. Regents of University of California (1989), Starr v. Mooslin (1971)
Statutes: None mentioned
Roles: Judge, Plaintiff, Defendant, Expert Witness (Carol Ingalls)
Significant Statements: Defendant PCSTMC's Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED.
```

And here is a summary in English text:

The Judge has issued a tentative ruling on a motion for summary judgment filed by Defendant Tarzana Medical Center LLC dba Providence Cedars-Sinai Tarzana Medical Center. The Defendant seeks summary judgment on the grounds that the Plaintiff's complaint lacks merit and fails to present a triable issue of material fact. The Defendant argues that it met the standard of care and did not breach it, and that the Plaintiff cannot establish vicarious liability. The Defendant presents an expert declaration from Carol Ingalls, a registered nurse, who opines that the care and treatment provided to the Plaintiff complied with the nursing standard of care. The Judge finds that the Defendant has met its burden and that the Plaintiff has failed to present any conflicting expert evidence, therefore granting the Defendant's motion for summary judgment.