 Case Number:  21STCV15600    Hearing Date:   December 14, 2023    Dept:  W MICHAEL
COROMINAS, et al. v. WEST HILLS HOSPITAL AND MEDICAL CENTER, et al.
 
motion FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT  
 
Date of Hearing:        December
14, 2023              Trial Date:       November 25, 2024
Department:              W                                            Case
No.:        21STCV15600
 
Moving Party:            Defendant
Tarzana Medical Center LLC dba Providence
Cedars-Sinai
Tarzana Medical Center
Responding Party:     Non-Opposition

 
BACKGROUND
 
On April 26, 2023, Plaintiffs Michael
Corominas and Lisa Corominas filed a complaint against Defendants West Hills
Hospital and Medical Center, Martin M. Mortazavi, M.D., Jessica Thomas, M.D.,
Paul Diehl, M.D., Dean Wilson, Jr., P.A., Specialty Imagining Center, Tejpal
Singh, M.D., Providence Cedars-Sina Tarzana Medical Center, Chris Y. Wang,
M.D., Jamie Soo Moi Eng, M.D., Exer Urgent Care, Michael H. Lee, M.D., and
California Institute of Neuroscience for medical negligence and loss of
consortium. Plaintiffs allege that further testing and workup should have been
performed during the ER visit including testing
for signs and symptoms and were negligent in failing to do so.  
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendant Tarzana Medical Center LLC dba
Providence Cedars-Sinai Tarzana Medical Center’s Motion for Summary Judgment is
GRANTED. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendant Tarzana Medical Center LLC dba Providence Cedars-Sinai
Tarzana Medical Center (“PCSTMC”) moves this court for an Order granting
summary judgment in Defendant PCSTMC’s favor against Plaintiffs Michael
Corominas and Lisa Corominas, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure §437c.
Defendant makes the motion on the grounds that Plaintiff’s Complaint has no
merit and fails to present any triable issue of material fact as defendant
PCSTMC met the standard of care. The Motion is further made on the grounds that
there is no vicarious liability because no agency or employment relationship
existed between PCSTMC and the named individual defendant physicians,
specifically Chris Wang, M.D. and Jamie Eng, M.D., who were assigned to treat
decedent at PCSTMC. 
 
The elements of medical malpractice are:¿“(1) the duty of the
professional to use such skill, prudence, and diligence as other members of his
profession commonly possess and exercise; (2) a breach of that duty; (3) a
proximate causal connection between the negligent conduct and the resulting
injury; and (4) actual loss or damage resulting from the professional's
negligence.”¿¿(Simmons v. West Covina Medical Clinic¿(1989) 212
Cal.App.3d 696, 701-02 (citations omitted).)¿ “Both the standard of care and
defendants’ breach must normally be established by expert testimony in a
medical malpractice case.”¿¿(Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008)
159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.) 
 
Thus, in a medical malpractice case, “[w]hen a defendant moves for
summary judgment and supports his motion with expert declarations that his
conduct fell within the community standard of care, he is entitled to summary
judgment unless the plaintiff comes forward with conflicting expert
evidence.”¿¿(Munro v. Regents of University of California¿(1989) 215
Cal.App.3d 977, 984-985 (citations omitted).)¿ An expert declaration, if
uncontradicted, is conclusive proof as to the prevailing standard of care and
the propriety of the particular conduct of the health care provider.¿¿(Starr
v.¿Mooslin¿(1971) 14 Cal.App.3d 988, 999.)¿
 
Defendant presents the expert declaration of Carol Ingalls, BSN,
RN, a Registered Nurse licensed in the State of California. Nurse Ingalls
received her Diploma in Nursing from the Los Angeles County USC Medical Center
School of Nursing in 1985, an Associate of Arts Degree from East Los Angeles
College in 2007, and a Bachelor of Science Degree in Nursing from Western
Governors University in 2011. (Ingalls Decl. ¶2.) Nurse Ingalls has numerous
current certifications including Certified Emergency Nurse (CEN) and Certified
Critical Care Nurse (CCRN), and memberships in the Emergency Nurses Association
and Association of Critical Care Nurses. (Ingalls Decl. ¶2.) Nurse Ingalls
testifies based on her education, training, knowledge, experience, expertise,
and review of the materials, it is Nurse Ingalls’ opinion that the care and
treatment rendered to Plaintiff by PCSTMC, its nurses and non-physician staff,
complied with the nursing standard of care in the community. Specifically, the
nursing staff appropriately monitored him, performed timely assessments
including neurological status checks, obtained and monitored plaintiff’s vital
signs, accurately recorded his complaints, addressed complaints of pain with
interventions, documented changes in his status, and appropriately documented
his course and treatment. (Ingalls Decl. ¶9.) It is the
physicians’ decision to admit, perform additional workup and/or discharge the
patient and the nursing staff implemented Dr. Wang’s orders for interventions
including medications in a timely manner. (Ingalls Decl. ¶10.) Plaintiff was
also timely triaged. (Ingalls Decl. ¶11.) Nurse Ingalls further attests it is
not within the nursing standard of care to identify and diagnose cauda equina
and there is no evidence that any other assessments or interventions were
required of the nurses to meet the standard of care. (Ingalls Decl. ¶13.) Furthermore,
the plaintiff was offered an MRI while in the Emergency Department but declined.
(Ingalls Decl. ¶13.) Accordingly, it is Nurse Ingalls expert opinion did not
commit any negligent act and/or omissions nor did they contribute to
plaintiff’s alleged damages.  
 
Defendant PCSTMC has met their burden of showing, by expert
declaration, they did not breach the standard of care or cause Plaintiff’s
injury.  As Defendant PCSTMC is entitled
to judgment on the first cause of action for negligence, Defendant PCSTMC is
also entitled to judgment on the second cause of action for loss of consortium.
(See Vanhooser v. Superior Court (2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 921, 927.) Defendant
PCSTMC has also sufficiently demonstrated Plaintiffs cannot establish vicarious
liability. (UMF No. 17.) 
 
The burden shifts to Plaintiff to show, by contrary expert
declaration, that a triable issue of fact exists. Plaintiff instead filed a
notice of non-opposition. Therefore, Defendant PCSTMC is entitled to summary
judgment.
 
Accordingly, Defendant PCSTMC’s Motion for Summary Judgment is
GRANTED. 
 