 Case Number:  22VECV02618    Hearing Date:   December 14, 2023    Dept:  W JANE DOE 1, et al. vs LOS ANGELES UNIFIED SCHOOL
DISTRICT
 
PLAINTIFFS’
MOTION FOR PROTECTIVE ORDER REGARDING IN-PERSON
DEPOSITION OF PLAINTIFFS

 
Date
of Hearing:        December 14, 2023                          Trial
Date:       None
set 
Department:              W                                                        Case
No.:        22VECV02618
 
Moving Party:            Plaintiffs Jane Doe 1, Jane Doe 2,
Jane Doe 3, And Jane Doe 4
Responding Party:     Defendant Los Angeles Unified School
District
 
BACKGROUND
 
On December 30, 2022, Plaintiffs Jane Doe 1, Jane Doe 2, Jane Doe 3, And
Jane Doe 4 filed a lawsuit against Defendants Los Angeles Unified School
District for negligence. Plaintiffs were minors and students at elementary
schools in LAUSD where their perpetrator was employed. Plaintiffs allege the
perpetrator groomed and sexually abused Plaintiffs and LAUSD breached their
duty by failing to protect Plaintiffs from sexual abuse. 
 
[Tentative]
Ruling
 
I.                   
Motion for Protective Order Regarding In-Person
Deposition of Plaintiffs is GRANTED. 
II.                 
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to
Plaintiff’s Request for Production of Documents, Set One is GRANTED. 
 
discusion
 
I.                   
PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION FOR
PROTECTIVE ORDER REGARDING IN-PERSON DEPOSITION OF PLAINTIFFS
 
Plaintiffs Jane Doe 1, Jane Doe 2, Jane Doe
3, And Jane Doe 4 moves this court for a Protective Order quashing the
deposition notices issued to Plaintiffs in this action by Defendant Los Angeles
Unified School District and limiting the location of Plaintiff depositions in
this matter. 
 
A court may make
any order that justice requires to protect a party from “unwanted annoyance,
embarrassment or oppression or undue burden and expense.”  (CCP §2030.090(b).) 
The burden of proof is on the party seeking the protective order to show “good cause”
for the order he or she seeks.  (Fairmont Insurance Co. v. Superior
Court (2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255.)  A motion for a protective order
“shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040.”  (CCP §2030.090.)  “A meet and confer declaration in
support of a motion shall state facts showing a reasonable and good faith
attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented by the motion.” 
(CCP §2016.040.)   
 
Plaintiffs voluntarily
submit to a deposition. However, Plaintiffs object to the in-person depositions
of Plaintiffs and insistence on being in-person at the office of defense
counsel on the grounds an in-person deposition would subject Plaintiffs to
unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, humiliation, and oppression that would
have a direct impact on Plaintiffs’ mental health. As a result, Plaintiffs seek
this protective order to participate in the deposition remotely. 
 
In opposition,
LAUSD contends pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.250, the party
giving notice has a right to set the location of the deposition provided that
it be within 75 miles of the deponent’s residence or within the county where
the action is pending and within 150 miles of the deponent’s residence. Here,
the depositions were noticed to take place at the offices of counsel for the
District, which meets the distance requirements of the Code.  Moreover, remote depositions can be
unpredictable and subject to technological failure. 
 
The court finds
Plaintiffs have made the required showing why a protective order allowing
remote depositions of Jane Doe Plaintiffs is warranted. Plaintiffs’ treating
therapist, Alejandrina Burrell, LMFT, testifies the emotional damage that Mr.
Tenas’ abuse caused Plaintiffs can be easily triggered by being in the presence
of persons who have real or even perceived authority over them and/or when they
are in a physical environment that conveys a real or perceived sense of
authority and/or formality. (Carrillo Decl., Exh. I, ¶7.) As a result, an in
person deposition of Plaintiffs presents a real risk further triggering this
type of emotional response and damage. Carrillo Decl., Exh. I, ¶8.) LAUSD has
not sufficiently shown a zoom deposition will hinder LAUSD’s counsel to gauge
Plaintiffs’ claimed distress. Unlike Willoughby v. Superior Court (1985)
172 Cal.App.3d 890, 891, Plaintiffs are not asking to exclude opposing parties
from attending the deposition. Instead, Plaintiffs are asking to do the
depositions remotely. Any one from LAUSD can attend the deposition remotely. 
 
Accordingly,
Plaintiffs’ Motion for Protective Order Regarding In-Person Deposition of
Plaintiffs is GRANTED. 
 
II.                 
PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO PLAINTIFF’S
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS, SET ONE; REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS IN THE
AMOUNT OF $3,210
 
Plaintiffs Jane Doe
1, Jane Doe 2, Jane Doe 3, and Jane Doe 4 moves for an order compelling
Defendant LAUSD to provide further responses to Plaintiff’s Request for Production
of Documents, Set 1, Nos. 1, 2, 4, 6-51, 53, 54, 55, 56, 58, 59-99. Plaintiffs contend
LAUSD’s response to Plaintiff’s Request for Production is improper, deficient,
and not code compliant. 
 
Code of Civil
Proedure section 2031.310(h) provides for mandatory monetary sanctions “against
any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to
compel further response to a demand, unless it finds that the one subject to
the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances
make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” 
(CCP § 2031.310(h).)   
 
Plaintiffs argue Request
for Production of Documents, Set One seeks Tenas’s employee file, evaluations,
complaint history, disciplinary record, any communications regarding Tenas,
performance reviews, class rosters, and I-Star incident reports prepared by
LAUSD employees. LAUSD, however, objected to every single request and produced
deficient documents. Plaintiffs contend LAUSD failed to produce any documents
or responses to Plaintiffs’ requests, produced redacted documents, and did not
comply with Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.230 for documents it could not
locate. Specifically, LAUSD withheld Tenas’s personnel files, site files,
disciplinary records, evaluations, reviews, complaint records, LAUSD
investigations, SSIT, I-STAR reports, LAUSD administrative rules, class
rosters, and board policies.
 
In opposition,
Defendant argues Plaintiffs’ discovery requests are substantially over broad, and
her motion fails to set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the
discovery sought by the demand. For example, with exception to iSTAR report No.
12320 related to Plaintiff Jane Doe 4, no iSTAR included in the Privilege Log
deals with, or relates to, a single Plaintiff in the case at bar. Moreover, all
of the documents at issue—all of which are outlined in the privilege log—are
post-incident. None elucidate what the District knew about the alleged
perpetrator before the claims made by Plaintiffs in the instant lawsuit. Defendant
also objects to the discovery on the basis of attorney-client privilege and
third-party privacy interests. 
 
The court finds the
discovery reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.
First, the court finds the discovery requests are not overbroad based on
Plaintiffs’ representation Plaintiffs agreed to limit the scope of their
requests to include board policies and administrative rules regarding employee
interactions with students, including employee-to-student sexual misconduct
prevention, and related discipline policy for the 2000-2020 school years. As
noted by Plaintiffs, Tenas was employed by Defendant LAUSD from 2000-2017,
during which he was assigned to work at various LAUSD school sites. 
 
Moreover, under Lopez
v. Watchtower Bible and Tract Society of New York, Inc. (2016) 246
Cal.Appl4th 566, post-incident and pre-incident conduct may be discoverable. As
for LAUSD’s attorney-client privilege claim of the iStar and SSIT documents,
“[t]he landmark case of D.I. Chadbourne, Inc. v. Superior Court (1964) 60
Cal.2d 723 … details 11 basic principles to be applied in determining whether
the attorney-client privilege exists in a corporate setting.  Where, as here, a corporate employer requires
that its employees make a report, the privilege of that report is determined by
the employer's purpose in requiring the report. When the corporate employer has
more than one purpose in requiring the report, the dominant purpose will
control.” (Scripps Health v. Superior Court (2003) 109 Cal. App. 4th
529, 533.) Unlike D.I. Chadbourne, Inc. v. Superior Ct. (1964) 60 Cal.2d
723, Plaintiffs have shown the dominant purpose of the reports are not for
confidential transmittal to its attorney. D.I. Chadbourne noted “[w]hen
the corporate employer has more than one purpose in directing such an employee
to make such report or statement, the dominant purpose will control, unless the
secondary use is such that confidentiality has been waived.” (D. I.
Chadbourne, Inc. v. Superior Court of City and County of San Francisco
(1964) 60 Cal.2d 723, 737.) As for LAUSD’s official information privilege
claim, Defendant LAUSD has not identified any state or federal statute that
prohibits the disclosure of the SSIT or I-STAR or demonstrated that disclosure
is against the public interest. (See Evid. Code §1040(b).) 
 
Lastly, as noted by
Plaintiffs, the right to privacy is not absolute. In Williams v. Superior
Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, the California Supreme Court recently
criticized a long list of California decisions that required too stringent a
test for discovery that invaded a party’s privacy, particularly when one party
is asserting the privacy interests of a third party. Here, Plaintiff is seeking
relevant records related to LAUSD's investigation of the abuses perpetrated by
Defendant Rene Tenas. As noted by Plaintiffs, Plaintiffs are not seeking
documents that would invade the privacy rights of third-party minors, mandated
reporters or other witnesses and a Protective Order will rectify any privacy
concerns. 
 
Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Plaintiff’s Request for
Production of Documents, Set One is GRANTED. 
 
Sanctions
 
Plaintiffs request Defendant
LAUSD and its counsel to pay monetary sanctions for $3,210.00 for the
reasonable costs and attorney’s fees incurred in bringing the present motion. 
 
Code of Civil
Procedure section 2031.310(h) provides for mandatory monetary sanctions
“against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel further response to a demand, unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2031.310(h).)   
 
There being
substantial justification, with merit to both sides, the court denies the
requests for sanctions.   
 