  Case Number:  20VECV00119    Hearing Date:   December 14, 2023    Dept:  W HSIU-FANG LAI,
et al. v. PARADISE LODGE WINNETKA, INC.
 
Defendant and
Cross-Complainant Mulan Kuo’S MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES AND PRODUCTION
OF DOCUMENTS TO REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION (SET ONE) TO PLAINTIFF AND
CROSS-DEFENDANT HSIU-FANG LAI
 
Date
of Hearing:        December 14, 2023              Trial
Date:       March
11, 2024 
Department:              W                                            Case
No.:        20VECV00119
 
Moving Party:            Defendant/Cross-Complainant Mulan Kuo
Responding Party:     Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Hsiu-Fang Lai 
 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiffs
allege they entered into a joint venture whereby Plaintiff Hsiu-Fang Lai, Defendant
Pi Lien Fong, and Defendants Martin C. Kuo and Mulan Kuo each contributed
$200,000 in exchange for a one-third ownership interest in the Motel.
Plaintiffs further allege the Defendants managed the operations of the Motel to
the exclusion of the Plaintiffs and as part of their misappropriation of the
revenues generated by the business, the Defendants formed a number of business
entities, including defendant entities Paradise Lodge Winnetka, Inc., 20128
Roscoe Boulevard, LLC, and Paradise Lodge General Partnership. Plaintiffs
initiated this lawsuit on January 28, 2020. 
 
On February
24, 2020, Plaintiffs Hsui-Fang Lai and Hsin-Hsiao (Scott) Wang filed a First
Amended Complaint against Paradise Lodge Winnetka, Inc., 20128 Roscoe Boulevard,
LLC, Paradise Lodge General Partnership, Pi Lien Fong, Ming-Hua Fong, Allison
Baskett, and Mu-Lan Kuo Martin Kuo asserting causes of action for (1) Partition
of Real Property; (2) Accounting; (3) Breach of Fiduciary Duty; (4) Breach of
Partnership Agreement; (5) Declaratory Relief; and (6) Unjust Enrichment. 
 
On
April 20, 2020, default was entered against Defendants 20128 Roscoe Boulevard,
LLC and Paradise Lodge Winnetka, Inc. On April 22, 2020 and April 23, 2020,
default was entered against Defendants Paradise Lodge General Partnership and
Pi Lien Fong respectively. The default was set aside on January 27, 2021. 
 
On May
13, 2020, Defendants Paradise Lodge Winnetka, Inc.; 20128 Roscoe Boulevard,
LLC; Paradise Lodge General Partnership; Pi Lien Fong; Minghua Fong; Ming-Hui
Fong; Allison Baskett; Mu-Lan Kuo; and Martin Kuo filed an answer to the FAC. 
 
Mu-Lan
Kuo and Martin Kuo filed a cross-complaint against Hsiu-Fang Lai, Hsin-Hsiao
(Scott) Wang, Ming-Hui Fong, Minghua Fong, Allison Baskett, and Paradise Lodge
General Partnership for partition of real property, accounting, and declaratory
relief on July 25, 2023. 
 
[Tentative]
Ruling
 
Defendant and Cross-Complainant Mulan Kuo’s Motion to
Compel Further Responses and Production of Documents to Requests for Production
(Set One) to Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant Hsiu-Fang Lai is GRANTED. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendant/Cross-Complainant
Mulan Kuo move the court for an order compelling Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant
Hsiu-Fang Lai to provide further responses and documents responsive to Request
Nos. 8 and 10 of the Requests for Production of Documents (Set One) propounded
by Cross-Complainant.
 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2031.310(h) provides for mandatory monetary
sanctions “against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to compel further response to a demand, unless it finds that
the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that
other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (CCP §
2031.310(h).)
 
The
requests at issues are as follows: Request No. 8: All DOCUMENTS,
including but not limited to account statements that EVIDENCE payments made on
any credit card in YOUR name for the last ten (10) years. Request No.
10: All DOCUMENTS, including but not limited to account statements that
EVIDENCE the deposit of cash at any time in the last ten (10) years into any bank
account titled in YOUR name.   
 
Mulan
Kuo argues discovery in this action has raised an issue as to whether the
Partnership made unequal cash distributions to the partners with Lai claiming
to have received distributions in an amount of at least $600,000 more than the distributions
Mulan received during the same time period. As a result, Request Nos. 8 (all
documents evidencing Lai’s payment of any credit card balance in the last 10
years) and 10 (all document evidencing cash deposits by Lai in any account in
the last 10 years) are relevant. 
 
In
opposition, Hsiu-Fang Lai argues she has already complied with the two requests
for production at issue and therefore, the motion is moot. Mulan Kuo contends,
however, the further responses are still deficient. The court agrees. As for
RPD No. 8, the request is not limited to credit card statements or cash
deposits. If this is all that is in Hsiu-Fang Lai’s possession, control, or
custody, she must state so. (CCP §2031.230.) In regards to RPD No. 10, the
court agrees that if Hsiu-Fang Lai cannot obtain documents or does not have
knowledge of documents, the response must comply with Code of Civil Procedure
section 2031.230. 
 
Accordingly,
Defendant and Cross-Complainant Mulan
Kuo’s Motion to Compel Further Responses and Production of Documents to
Requests for Production (Set One) to Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant Hsiu-Fang Lai
is GRANTED. 
 
            