 Case Number:  22STCV30940    Hearing Date:   July 26, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 




SL RETAIL OWNER, LLC,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
NOWHERE SILVER LAKE, LLC, dba
  EREWHON., et al.
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


22STCV30940




Hearing Date:


July 26, 2024




Hearing
  Time:    10:00 a.m. 
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: 
 
NOWHERE SILVER
  LAKE, LLC dba EREWHON’S MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE THIRD-AMENDED
  CROSS-COMPLAINT




AND RELATED CROSS-ACTION


 




Background
Plaintiff SL Retail Owner LLC (“SL
Retail”) filed this action on September 21, 2022 against Defendants Nowhere Silver Lake, LLC dba
Erewhon (“Erewhon”) and Nowhere Holdco, LLC. The Complaint
alleges causes of action for (1) breach of contract and (2) declaratory
judgment. 
On June 30, 2023,
Erewhon filed the operative Second Amended Cross-Complaint (“SACC”) in this
action against Cross-Defendants Sportsmen’s Lodge Owner, LLC, SL Retail Owner,
LLC, and Midwood Management Corp. aka Midwood Investment and Development
(collectively, “Cross-Defendants”) The SACC alleges causes of action for (1) breach of contract
(specific performance), (2) breach of contract, (3) breach of the implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing, (4) fraud (concealment), (5) negligent
misrepresentation, (6) violation of Business and
Professions Code section 17200 (unfair competition), (7) declaratory
relief, and 
(8) breach of the covenant of
quiet enjoyment.   
Erewhon now moves for leave to
filed a third amended cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants. SL
Retail opposes. 
Discussion 
A.   
Procedural Issues 
As an initial matter, in support of the motion, Erewhon submits the
Declaration of Aaron Levine. Exhibits 2-5 to Mr. Levine’s declaration are
redacted. (Levine Decl., ¶¶ 4-7, Exs. 2-5.) 
Erewhon filed a notice with the instant motion indicating that Erewhon “will
be filing the following records conditionally under seal in connection with its
Motion for Leave to File Third-Amended Cross-Complaint pursuant to California Rules of Court, Rule 2.551(b)(3)(A)(iii):…
Exhibit
2 to the Declaration of Aaron Levine (‘Levine Declaration’);…Exhibit 3 to the
Levine Declaration;…Exhibit 4 to the Levine Declaration;…Exhibit 5 to the
Levine Declaration.” (Erewhon’s Notice of Lodging at p. 2:3-9.) 
            California
Rules of Court, rule 2.551, subdivision (b)(3) provides, “(3) Procedure for party not intending to file motion or
application
 
(A) A party that files or intends to file with the
court, for the purposes of adjudication or to use at trial, records produced
in discovery that are subject to a confidentiality agreement or protective
order, and does not intend to request to have the records sealed, must:
(i) Lodge the unredacted records subject to the
confidentiality agreement or protective order and any pleadings,
memorandums, declarations, and other documents that disclose the contents of
the records, in the manner stated in (d);
 
(ii) File copies of the documents in (i) that are
redacted so that they do not disclose the contents of the records that are
subject to the confidentiality agreement or protective order; and
 
(iii) Give written notice to the party that produced
the records that the records and the other documents lodged under (i) will be
placed in the public court file unless that party files a timely motion or
application to seal the records under this rule.
 
(B) If the party that produced the documents and was served with the
notice under (A)(iii) fails to file a motion or an application to seal the
records within 10 days or to obtain a court order extending the time to file
such a motion or an application, the clerk must promptly transfer all the
documents in (A)(i) from the envelope, container, or secure electronic file to
the public file. If the party files a motion or an application to seal within
10 days or such later time as the court has ordered, these documents are to
remain conditionally under seal until the court rules on the motion or
application and thereafter are to be filed as ordered by the court.” (Emphasis
added.) 
In the notice of lodging, Erewhon states that “pursuant
to California Rules of Court, Rule 2.551(b)(3)(A)(iii),
Erewhon hereby notifies [Cross-Defendants], that it is filing these pleadings
and documents in redacted form and lodging the unredacted versions with the
Court conditionally under seal,” and that “pursuant to California
Rules of Court, rule 2.551(b)(3)(A)(iii) and (b)(3)(B): If Cross-Defendants
believe that these documents should be sealed, Cross-Defendants must file a
motion within 10 days, or obtain an order from the court extending the time to
do so. If Cross-Defendants do not timely move, pursuant to Rule 2.2551(b)(3)(B), then the clerk will (statutory
language “must”) promptly transfer the redacted documents from the envelope in
which they were lodged and file them in the public file.” (Erewhon’s Notice of
Lodging at p. 2:10-22.) 
However, as set forth above, California Rules of Court, rule 2.551,
subdivision (b)(3) applies to “[a] party that files or intends to file with the court, for
the purposes of adjudication or to use at trial, records produced in discovery
that are subject to a confidentiality agreement or protective order…” (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 2.551, subd. (b)(3)(A).)
Erewhon does not appear to provide evidence that the subject exhibits are
subject to a confidentiality agreement or protective order. Rather, Erewhon states
that “[a]lthough no Protective Order has yet been entered in this case,
Cross-Defendants designated these communications ‘Confidential.’ In an
abundance of caution, these documents are filed and lodged pursuant to California Rules of Court, rule 2.551.” (Mot. at p. 16,
fn. 5.) 
Based on the foregoing, the Court does not
find that California Rules of Court, rule 2.551,
subdivision (b)(3) is applicable here. Pursuant to California Rules of Court, rule 2.551, subdivision (a),
“[a] record must not be filed under seal without
a court order. The court must not permit a record to be filed under seal based
solely on the agreement or stipulation of the parties.” In addition, “[a] party requesting that a record be filed under seal
must file a motion or an application for an order sealing the record. The
motion or application must be accompanied by a memorandum and a declaration
containing facts sufficient to justify the sealing.” (Cal.
Rules of Court, Rule 2.551, subd. (b)(2).)  
In light of the foregoing, the hearing on Erewhon’s
motion for leave to file third-amended cross-complaint is continued to
____________, 2024, at 10:00 a.m. in Dept. 50. If Erewhon seeks to seal the
subject exhibits, Erewhon must immediately file a motion or application to seal
pursuant to California Rules of Court, rule 2.550 et
seq.¿If Erewhon does not seek to seal the subject documents, Erewhon must
immediately file with the Court unredacted versions of the
documents.   
Erewhon is ordered to give notice of this
Order.       ¿  
 
DATED:  July 26, 2024                                  
________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court
 