 Case Number:  23STCV03260    Hearing Date:   July 26, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 50
 







MITAL TAMORO,

 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
QUANTUM CORPORATION,
  et al., 
 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


23STCV03260




Hearing Date:


July 26, 2024




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m.




[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
 
PLAINTIFF’S
  MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION




AND RELATED CROSS-ACTION


 



 
Background
Plaintiff Mital Tamoro (“Plaintiff”) filed this action on February
14, 2023 against Defendant Quantum Corporation (“Quantum”). The Complaint
alleges causes of action for 
(1)
pregnancy discrimination, (2) disability discrimination, (3) failure to
accommodate,
(4)
failure to engage in the interactive process, (5) denial of CFRA rights, (6)
failure to reimburse expenses, and (7) interference with prospective economic
advantage. 
On May 7, 2024, Quantum filed a Cross-Complaint against Larkin
Benefit Administrators, d/b/a The Larkin Company (“Larkin”), alleging causes of
action for (1) breach of contract – failure to perform, (2) breach of contract
– failure to defend and indemnify,
(3)
negligence, (4) comparative indemnity, (5) equitable indemnity, and (6)
declaratory relief.
Plaintiff now moves for summary adjudication in her favor on the
fourth and fifth causes of action of Plaintiff’s Complaint. Quantum opposes. 
 
Request for Judicial Notice 
The Court grants Quantum’s request for judicial notice. 
Evidentiary Objections 
The Court rules on Quantum’s evidentiary objections as follows: 
Objection No. 1: overruled
Objection No. 2: overruled
Objection No 3: overruled
Objection No. 4: overruled. The Court notes that it is unable to
locate the cited language in the Declaration of Larry Herrera.  
Objection No. 5: sustained
Objection No. 6: sustained
Objection No. 7: sustained 
Objection No. 8: overruled
Objection No. 9: overruled
Objection No. 10: overruled. The Court notes that the cited excerpts
in Objection No. 10 are contained in Exhibit 2 to the Compendium of Evidence
filed by Plaintiff. 
            Objection No. 11: overruled. The
Court notes that the cited excerpts in Objection No. 11 are contained in
Exhibit 2 to the Compendium of Evidence filed by Plaintiff.
            Objection No. 12: overruled
            Objection No. 13: overruled
            Objection No. 14: sustained as to
“required an extension of my disability leave of absence,” overruled as to the
remainder. 
            Objection No. 15: overruled 
            Objection No. 16: overruled 
            Objection No. 17: overruled
 
 
Legal Standard
“A
party may move for summary adjudication as to one or more causes of action
within an action, one or more affirmative defenses, one or more claims for
damages, or one or more issues of duty, if the party contends that the cause of
action has no merit, that there is no affirmative defense to the cause of
action, that there is no merit to an affirmative defense as to any cause of
action, that there is no merit to a claim for damages, as specified in Section 3294 of the Civil Code, or that one or more
defendants either owed or did not owe a duty to the plaintiff or plaintiffs. A
motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only if it completely disposes
of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue
of duty.” ((Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).)
“For purposes of motions for
summary judgment and summary adjudication…A plaintiff or cross-complainant has met his or her burden of
showing that there is no defense to a cause of action if that party has proved
each element of the cause of action entitling the party to judgment on the
cause of action. Once the plaintiff or cross-complainant has met that burden,
the burden shifts to the defendant or cross-defendant to show that a triable
issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a
defense thereto.” ((Id.,
§ 437c, subd. (p)(1).)
The moving party bears the initial burden of production to
make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material fact. (¿Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850¿.) If the
moving party carries this burden, the burden shifts to the opposing party to
make a prima facie showing that a triable issue of material fact exists. (¿Ibid.¿) Courts “¿liberally
construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and
resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.¿” (¿Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389¿.) 
Discussion
A.   
Allegations of the Complaint 
In the Complaint, Plaintiff alleges that on
or around March 15, 2021, she began her employment with Quantum as the Director
of Global Field and Channel Marketing. (Compl., ¶ 8.) “During TAMORO’s
employment with QUANTUM, she experienced issues with Brett Zumwalt (Field
Marketing Manager).” (Compl., ¶ 11.) “On or around May 11, 2021, TAMORO
organized a meeting with [Leslie Olivetta (Human Resources)] to complain about
Zumwalt’s difficult behavior and hostility, which was creating an intolerable
working condition and added to TAMORO’s stress.” (Compl., ¶¶ 13-14.) 
“QUANTUM hired an external law firm to investigate the ongoing issues
between TAMORO and Zumwalt.” (Compl., ¶ 17.) “The investigation concluded, and
Zumwalt along with another colleague, Kimberly, took a leave of absence. This
left TAMORO to pick up their workload and handle her own work
concurrently…While both Kimberly and Brett were on leave, they resigned. This
created a heavy workload for TAMORO.” (Compl., ¶ 18.) “As a result, TAMORO’s
stress and anxiety was exacerbated. During this time, QUANTUM did not reach out
to TAMORO to help alleviate the workload.” (Compl., ¶ 19.) “TAMORO complained
about the work-related stress to Human Resources, but nothing came from it.”
(Compl., ¶ 21.)
“In or around April of 2021, TAMORO learned that she was pregnant and
informed her supervisor, Natasha Beckly.” (Compl., ¶ 12.) “On or around October
1[,] 2021, TAMORO informed her supervisor Natasha Beckly via phone and Karen
Edie that her doctor placed her on medical leave due to the work environment
affecting her health.” (Compl., ¶ 22.) “TAMORO’s leave of absence (hereinafter
‘LOA’) began on October 11, 2021 and would transition into her maternity leave
starting October 30, 2021.” (Compl., ¶ 23.) “On or around October 6, 2021,
TAMORO received a letter from Larkin, the company in charge of her LOA, stating
that her pregnancy disability leave (hereinafter ‘PDL’) was approved from
November 1, 2021, through January 10, 2022.” (Compl., ¶ 24.)
“On or around December 6, 2021, TAMORO emailed Laura Rebollo at the
Larkin company to inform her that her doctor extended her PDL for another week
because she was not recovering as originally anticipated. TAMORO was expected
to return to work January 10, 2022, but with this new extension her new return
date was January 17, 2022.” (Compl., ¶ 25.) “On or around December 8, 2021, Larkin sent TAMORO a letter informing her
that her PDL extension was approved.” (Compl., ¶ 26.)
“On or around December 29, 2021, TAMORO was informed by Larkin that
her parental leave was approved. TAMORO’s parental leave would begin on January
17, 2022 and continue through April 10, 2022. TAMORO was expected to return to
work on April 11, 2022.” (Compl., ¶ 27.) “On or around January 5, 2022, TAMORO
emailed Laura Rebollo to inform her that her doctor had extended her PDL
because she was receiving treatment for her Postpartum Depression.” (Compl., ¶
28.) 
“On or around February 2, 2022, TAMORO emailed Rebollo with an updated
work status report from her physician. Her physician extended her disability
leave to February 14, 2022.” (Compl., ¶ 29.) “On or around February 3, 2022, Larkin sent TAMORO a letter approving her
extended leave through February 13, 2022, immediately followed by 12 weeks of
parental leave.” (Compl., ¶ 30.) “On or around March 4, 2022, TAMORO emailed
Rebollo with an updated work status report that her physician extended her
leave until March 14, 2022, because of her ongoing disability. TAMORO received
a letter stating that her extension was approved, and her leave was extended
until March 7, 2022.” (Compl., ¶ 31.) 
“On or around March 9, 2022, TAMORO emailed Rebollo, to inform her
that her physician extended her leave once again because of her ongoing
disability. TAMORO was diagnosed with generalized anxiety disorder and major
depressive order…Once again, her extension was approved through March 27, 2022,
immediately followed by 8 weeks of parental leave.” (Compl., ¶ 32.) 
Plaintiff alleges that “[o]n or around March 16, 2022, QUANTUM
discriminated and retaliated against TAMORO by terminating her.” (Compl., ¶
33.) “During a phone call with Dana Rosebrook and Karen Edie, they informed
TAMORO that she was terminated. QUANTUM terminated TAMORO’s employment while
she was still on her approved disability leave. QUANTUM stated that it was
terminating Tamoro because it needed to ‘fill the headcount.’” (Compl., ¶ 34.) Plaintiff
alleges that “TAMORO’s sudden termination was two weeks before her first
installment of her Restricted Stock Option…was due to vest.” (Compl., ¶ 39.)
B.   
Fifth Cause of Action for Denial of CFRA
Rights 
In the Complaint, Plaintiff alleges that “[a]t
the time QUANTUM terminated TAMORO, TAMORO had been employed with
QUANTUM for over one year and had worked over 1,250 hours in the previous year,
and was therefore entitled to CFRA leave.” (Compl., ¶ 35.) In the fifth cause of action for denial of CFRA rights, Plaintiff
alleges that “PLAINTIFF was a new mother with a new born child, employed
by QUANTUM and protected by Government Code § 12945,
which affords employees who recently gave birth to a child, protected leave to
care for their newborn child.” (Compl., ¶ 96.) Plaintiff alleges that “[u]nder
the California Family Rights Act, TAMORO was entitled to take a pregnancy leave
up to a maximum of four months,” and that “QUANTUM terminated TAMORO’s
employment on March 16, 2022, one day into her CFRA protected leave.” (Compl.,
¶¶ 97-98.) Plaintiff alleges that “QUANTUM denied TAMORO of her CFRA rights by
terminating her just one day into her CFRA protected leave, in violation of Government Code §12945.” (Compl., ¶ 99.) 
 “Violations of the CFRA generally fall
into two types of claims: (1) ‘interference’ claims in which an employee
alleges that an employer denied or interfered with her substantive rights to
protected medical leave…and (2) ‘retaliation’ claims in which an employee
alleges that she suffered an adverse employment action for exercising her right
to CFRA leave.” ((Rogers v. County of Los Angeles (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 480, 487-488.) As noted by Quantum,
Plaintiff does not appear to identify which type of CFRA
violation she is claiming. It appears Plaintiff may be asserting an
“interference” claim because Plaintiff’s fifth cause of action is for “denial
of CFRA rights.” Plaintiff does not argue in the instant motion that Quantum
retaliated against her for exercising her right to CFRA leave. 
Pursuant to Government Code section 12945.2, subdivision (a), “[i]t shall be an unlawful employment practice for any
employer, as defined in paragraph (4) of subdivision (b), to refuse to grant a
request by any employee with more than 12 months of service with the employer,
and who has at least 1,250 hours of service with the employer during the
previous 12-month period or who meets the requirements of subdivision (r), to
take up to a total of 12 workweeks in any 12-month period for family care and
medical leave. Family care and medical leave requested pursuant to this
subdivision shall not be deemed to have been granted unless the employer
provides the employee, upon granting the leave request, a guarantee of
employment in the same or a comparable position upon the termination of the
leave.” Pursuant to Government Code section 12945.2, subdivision (b)(4), “employer” includes “[a]ny person who directly employs five or more persons to perform
services for a wage or salary.” 
In the motion, Plaintiff asserts that “Defendant violated Tamoro’s
CFRA rights when it terminated her while on CFRA protected leave.” (Mot. at p.
7:17-18.) In her declaration, Plaintiff states that “[a]t the time of my
termination, I was aware of substantially more than five people currently
employed by Defendant.” (Tamoro Decl., ¶ 22.) In addition, Plaintiff states
that “I applied for baby bonding time, and on December 29, 2021, The Larkin
Company sent me a letter informing me that I had been approved for parental
leave to care for my newborn child through April 10, 2022. Attached as Exhibit
2 to this declaration is a true and correct copy of the letter I received from
The Larkin Company that was dated December 29, 2021.” (Tamoro Decl., ¶ 12.) This
December 29, 2021 letter provides, inter alia, that “[y]ou requested
twelve weeks of parental leave to care for your newborn immediately following
your recovery from pregnancy disability. This leave will begin on January 17,
2021 and continue through April 10, 2022 and will be counted against Quantum’s
leave policy, and as of March 15, 2022, against your Family and Medical Leave
Act (FMLA) and California Family Rights Act (CFRA) entitlements.” (Tamoro
Decl., ¶ 12, Ex. 2.) 
In the motion, Plaintiff argues that since March 15, 2022, she “had
been employed with Defendant for at least 12 months and in the preceding 12
months, she had worked at least 1250 hours.” (Mot. at p. 7:1-2.) In her
supporting declaration, Plaintiff states that she “began working for Quantum
Corporation on March 15, 2021.” (Tamoro Decl., ¶ 2.) Plaintiff states that
“[o]n March 16, [she] received a call from Human Resources Manager Dana
Rosebrook as well as Karen Edie, who informed [Plaintiff] that Quantum was
terminating [her] employment.” (Tamoro Decl., ¶ 18.) 
In support of the assertion that she worked at least 1,250 hours during the subject 12-month period, Plaintiff appears to
rely on her counsel’s declaration. Plaintiff’s counsel asserts, inter alia,
that “Tamoro worked 1508 hours from March 15, 2021 to October 1, 2021.”
(Herrera Decl., ¶ 9.) However, as set forth above, the Court sustains Quantum’s
evidentiary objection to this statement. (See Quantum’s Evid. Objection
No. 7.) The Court agrees with Quantum that Mr. Herrera’s declaration does not
contain a sufficient “factual basis or reasoned explanation for his
opinion/conclusion…” (Quantum’s Objections at p. 7:11-13.) The Court does not
find that Mr. Herrera has laid an adequate foundation as to the
statements made in paragraphs 7-9 of his declaration. 
Based on the foregoing, the Court does not find that Plaintiff has met
her burden of proving each element
of her fifth cause of action for denial of CFRA rights. Moreover, even if
Plaintiff had demonstrated that she “has at
least 1,250 hours of service with the employer during the previous 12-month
period,” (Gov.
Code, § 12945.2, subd. (a)), the Court finds that Quantum has
raised a triable issue of material fact as to this issue. As noted by Quantum, Plaintiff
attaches as Exhibit 5 to her declaration a “copy of the letter
[Plaintiff] received from The Larkin Company that was dated March 10, 2022.”
(Tamoro Decl., ¶ 17.) As Quantum notes, the March 10, 2022 letter provides, inter
alia, that “[y]ou requested eight weeks of parental leave to care for your
newborn immediately following your recovery from pregnancy disability. At this
time, you are not eligible for leave under the Family and Medical Leave Act
(FMLA) and the California Family Rights Act (CFRA) because you have not worked
at least 1,250 hours during the past year.” (Tamoro Decl., ¶ 17, Ex. 5.) 
Based on the foregoing, the Court denies
Plaintiff’s motion for summary adjudication as to the fifth cause of action for
denial of CFRA rights. 
///
///
C.   
Failure to Engage in the Interactive Process 
Pursuant
to Government Code section 12940, subdivision (n),
“[i]t is an unlawful employment
practice…[f]or an employer or
other entity covered by this part to fail to engage in a timely, good faith,
interactive process with the employee or applicant to determine effective
reasonable accommodations, if any, in response to a request for reasonable
accommodation by an employee or applicant with a known physical or mental
disability or known medical condition.”
In
the fourth cause of action for failure to engage in the interactive process,
Plaintiff alleges that “QUANTUM knew that TAMORO suffered from
work-related stress and anxiety but failed to engage in the interactive process
to see if she needed an accommodation,” and that “QUANTUM also knew that TAMORO
suffered from complications following the birth of her newborn and once again
failed to engage in the interactive process to try to accommodate her.”
(Compl., ¶¶ 86-87.) 
In the instant motion, Plaintiff first asserts that she “notified
Defendant that she had a physical condition that required the accommodation of
a temporary leave of absence so she could return to work and perform the
essential functions of her job.” (Mot. at p. 8:23-25.) It is unclear what
evidence Plaintiff is relying on in support of this assertion, and what
physical condition Plaintiff is referring to. Plaintiff’s separate statement in
support of the motion does not appear to contain any facts concerning Plaintiff
“notif[ying] Defendant that she had a physical condition that required the
accommodation of a temporary leave of absence…” (Mot. at p. 8:23-25.) 
Plaintiff also asserts that “despite it not being her duty to initiate
the interactive process, she attempted to do so during her termination call by
stating that she was willing to return to work early from her leave of absence.
Defendant refused to engage in this discuss [sic] and summarily stated that the
decision to terminate her had already been made.” (Mot. at pp. 8:26-9:2.) In
her supporting declaration, Plaintiff states that “[o]n March 16, I received a
call from Human Resources Manager Dana Rosebrook as well as Karen Edie, who
informed me that Quantum was terminating my employment…During the call with
Rosebrook and Edie, I said that I would forego my baby bonding time and return
to work as soon as my doctor released me on March 28 if Quantum would let me
keep my job, but Rosebrook and Edie said no.” (Tamoro Decl., ¶¶ 18-19.) 
In the opposition, Quantum asserts that “Plaintiff cannot shoehorn a
request to not be terminated into a request for a reasonable accommodation due
to a disability…Plaintiff fails to cite to a single legal authority to support
this unfounded theory.” (Opp’n at p. 19:13-15, emphasis omitted.) Indeed,
Plaintiff does not appear to cite any legal authority demonstrating that a
request to keep her job constitutes a request for a “reasonable accommodation.” Quantum cites
to King v. United Parcel Service, Inc. (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th
426, 443, where the
Court of Appeal noted that “[t]he interactive process of fashioning an appropriate
accommodation lies primarily with the employee…It is an employee’s
responsibility to understand his or her own physical or mental condition well
enough to present the employer at the earliest opportunity with a concise list
of restrictions which must be met to accommodate the employee.” (Internal quotations and citations
omitted.) 
Based on the foregoing, the Court does not find that Plaintiff has met
her burden of proving each element
of her fourth cause of action for failure to engage in the interactive process.
Thus, the Court denies Plaintiff’s motion for
summary adjudication as to the fourth cause of action.
Conclusion 
            Based on the
foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion for summary adjudication is denied
in its entirety. 
            Quantum
is ordered to provide notice of this ruling.
 
DATED:  July 26, 2024                                  ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court