 Case Number:  23STCV17235    Hearing Date:   October 12, 2023    Dept:  40 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



JASON GUNNELS, DENAE JACOBSON, GABRIELA JACOBO, ANDREA JACOBO,
  ANTOINE JONES, MICHAEL MANUEL, ERIC POWERS, DAISSY SANCHEZ, RAPHAEL SCHMIDT,
  REJOICE SCHMIDT, CATHERINE BELMES, ANASTASIYA SAIKINA, TATIANA FITCH, KAPIL
  TALWALKAR, LILY WEAVER, CATHERINE YTELL, DEBORAH ALVAREZ, ARMON BEHBAHANY,
  RAYMOD BRIDGES, SANICE BRIDGES, LISA CLAYTON, AIKATERINI MARINOU, ANYELA
  NAJARRO, RICARDO NEWSOM, JESSICA ROMERO, ODILIA SIFONTES and TIFFANNE STRONG,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
EQUITY RESIDENTIAL MANAGEMENT, LLC, TRANSUNION RENTAL SCREENING SOLUTIONS,
  INC. and DOES 1 through 10,
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          23STCV17235
 Hearing Date:   10/12/23
 Trial Date:        N/A
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Defendant Equity Residential
  Management, L.L.C.’s Demurrer to Plaintiffs’ Complaint; and
Defendant Equity
  Residential Management, L.L.C.’s Motion to Strike Portions of Plaintiffs’
  Complaint.



 
Background
Plaintiffs—i.e., Jason Gunnels,
Denae Jacobson, Gabriela Jacobo, Andrea Jacobo, Antoine Jones, Michael Manuel,
Eric Powers, Daissy Sanchez, Raphael Schmidt, Rejoice Schmidt, Catherine
Belmes, Anastasiya Saikina, Tatiana Fitch, Kapil Talwalkar, Lily Weaver,
Catherine Ytell, Deborah Alvarez, Armon Behbahany, Raymod Bridges, Sanice
Bridges, Lisa Clayton, Aikaterini Marinou, Anyela Najarro, Ricardo Newsom,
Jessica Romero, Odilia Sifontes, and Tiffanne Strong—sue Defendants Equity Residential Management, L.L.C. (ERM),
TransUnion Rental Screening Solutions, and Does 1 through 10 pursuant to a July
24, 2023 Complaint alleging claims of (1) Violations of the Investigative Consumer
Reporting Agencies Act (ICRAA), Cal. Civ. Code § 1786, et seq., (2) Invasion of
Privacy, and (3) Declaratory Relief.
The claims arise from allegations that, among other things, in the past
two years, and within the applicable statute of limitations, Plaintiffs applied for housing in apartment
complexes owned by Defendants and that Defendants used a portion of Plaintiffs’
application fees to obtain investigative consumer reports on Plaintiffs, which
was done in violation of various provisions in the ICRAA.
On August 4, 2023, this action was
determined to be non-complex by Department 11 at the Spring Street Courthouse.
On August 11, 2023, Department 1
reassigned this action to Department 40 at the Stanley Mosk Courthouse.
On August 25, 2023, ERM demurred to
the Complaint’s second and third causes of action.
That same day, ERM moved to strike
certain allegations and prayers from the Complaint.
On September 29, 2023, Plaintiffs
opposed the demurrer and motion to strike.
On October 5, 2023, ERM replied to
the oppositions.
On October 10, 2023, a Request for
Dismissal without prejudice was filed, but as to only thirteen of the
twenty-seven plaintiffs.
The demurrer and motion to strike
are now before the Court.
 
Request
for Judicial Notice
The Court DECLINES to take judicial
notice of various demurrer and motion to strike orders relating to ERM because
this Court need not notice these determinations to come to a disposition on the
motions before the Court and because the Court is not bound by those other
determinations. (See Demurrer, RJN; Strike Mot., RJN; Evid. Code, §§ 452, 453.)
 
Demurrer
Demurrer Sufficiency Standard
A demurrer for sufficiency tests
whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007)
147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747; see Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) This
device can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the
pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially
noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) “To survive a
[general] demurrer, the complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a
cause of action; each evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the
plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.” (C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High
School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.) In testing the sufficiency of the
cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth of all material facts properly
pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962,
966-67.) A demurrer, however, “does not admit contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.” (Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d
695, 713.) When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally
and in context. (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and Power
(2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228, disapproved on other grounds, Jones v.
Lodge at Torrey Pines Partnership (2008) 42 Cal.4th 1158, 1162.) The face
of the complaint includes exhibits attached to the complaint. (Frantz v.
Blackwell (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 91, 94.) If facts appearing in the exhibits
contradict those alleged, the facts in the exhibits take precedence. (Holland
v. Morse Diesel Intern., Inc. (2001) 86 Cal.App.4th 1443, 1447, superseded
by statute on other grounds as stated in White v. Cridlebaugh (2009) 178
Cal.App.4th 506, 521.)
I.
Second Cause of Action, Invasion
of Privacy: SUSTAINED, with leave to amend.
To allege an invasion of privacy in
violation of the state constitutional right, a plaintiff “must establish each
of the following: (1) a legally protected privacy interest; (2) a reasonable
expectation of privacy in the circumstances; and (3) conduct by defendant
constituting a serious invasion of privacy.” (Hill v. National Collegiate
Athletic Assn. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 1, 39-40 (Hill).) Defendants may
prevail by negating any element or “by pleading and proving, as an affirmative
defense, that the invasion of privacy is justified because it substantively
furthers one or more countervailing interests. Plaintiff, in turn, may rebut a
defendant’s assertion of countervailing interests by showing there are feasible
and effective alternatives to defendant’s conduct which have a lesser impact on
privacy interests.” (Id. at p. 40.) “Actionable invasions of privacy
must be sufficiently serious in their nature, scope, and actual or potential
impact to constitute an egregious breach of the social norms underlying the
privacy right.” (Id. at p. 37.)
The Complaint’s second cause of
action alleges an invasion of privacy by Defendants through Defendants
obtaining and furnishing investigative consumer reports about Plaintiffs
without complying with mandatory requirements of the ICRAA relating to such
reports. (Complaint, ¶¶ 78-79; see also Complaint, ¶¶ 42-57.)
In its demurrer, ERM argues that
the second cause of action is not sufficiently stated for two reasons. The
first is that the Complaint’s allegations show that Plaintiffs did not have a
reasonable expectation of privacy in the information obtained by the
investigative reports because the Complaint alleges that Plaintiffs consented
to release their information and acknowledge that such background checks are
common practice in rental applications. Second, ERM argues that any invasion of
privacy alleged in the Complaint was not serious for the reasons discussed in
the preceding sentence. ERM compares to case law to support these points.
(Demurrer, pp. 6-7.)
In opposition, Plaintiffs cite to
case law to support the position that they have a reasonable expectation of
privacy in investigative consumer reports about them and that such reports will
not be obtained without compliance with the ICRAA, for which reason ERM
committed a serious invasion of privacy. (Opp’n, p. 2.)
In reply, ERM argues that
Plaintiffs opposition arguments are conclusory because they cite to case law
but do not tie that law to the allegations in the Complaint to show where the
elements of this tort are pleaded. ERM also argues that Plaintiffs fail to
distinguish case law cited by ERM in its demurrer. (Reply, pp. 2-3.)
The Court finds in favor of ERM.
A reasonable expectation of privacy
exists where the Plaintiff “[has] not manifested by his or her conduct a
voluntary consent to the invasive actions of defendant.” (Hill, supra,
7 Cal.4th at p. 26.) Here, the Complaint is founded on allegations that
Plaintiffs were harmed when ERM obtained investigative consumer reports
regarding Plaintiffs without complying with the terms of the ICRAA. (See
Complaint, ¶¶ 42-57, 58-77, 78-79.) While Plaintiffs signed applications that
stated that ERM may screen for criminal background and previous evictions and
that Plaintiffs consented to and did release information to ERM, Plaintiffs
also allege that ERM then requested and obtained consumer reports “without
complying with the mandatory requirements, disclosures and authorizations
required under the ICRAA.” (Complaint, ¶¶ 41-44.) 
The ICRAA provides that its remedy is
not exclusive, and thus does not prevent any consumer from maintaining an
action for invasion of privacy, among other claims. (Civil Code section 1786.52.)
Thus, to the extent Plaintiffs have alleged a violation of ICRAA, they have also
alleged, at least facially, a protected privacy interest and reasonable expectation
of privacy.
However, the Court agrees with ERM
that Plaintiffs have not alleged a serious invasion of privacy, as required for
an invasion of privacy tort claim. (Compare Folgelstrom v. Lamps Plus, Inc.
(2011) 195 Cal.App.4th 986, 992 [relating to obtaining zip code under false
pretenses].)  
ERM’s demurrer is thus SUSTAINED as
to the Complaint’s second cause of action but with leave to amend. It is possible
Plaintiffs may be able to allege how one or more of the violations of ICRAA
constituted a “serious” invasion within the meaning of California caselaw.
II.
Third Cause of Action,
Declaratory Relief: OVERRULED.
A complaint
for declaratory relief must demonstrate: (1) a proper subject of declaratory
relief and (2) an actual controversy involving justiciable questions relating
to the rights or obligations of a party. (Brownfield v. Daniel Freeman
Marina Hosp. (1989) 208 Cal.App.3d 405, 410.) The fundamental basis of
declaratory relief is a present and actual controversy between the parties over
a proper subject. (City of Cotati v. Cashman (2002) 29 Cal.4th 69, 80;
see Code Civ. Proc., §1060.)

The Complaint alleges various
controversies, which blend into each other to various degrees: (1) a
controversy regarding the legality and effect of Defendants’ housing
application, where Plaintiffs demand that all leases must be renewed or
re-certified, and that a judicial determination be made to prevent the
Defendants’ continued violations of the ICRAA; (2) a controversy regarding how
to correct and mitigate the damages to Plaintiffs and other similar persons
from Defendants’ illegal actions in violation of the ICRAA statutes, including
by injunction running with the land; and (3) a controversy whether the
application and re-certification of leases violated the ICRAA, making the
application and re-certifications illegal and void. (Complaint, ¶¶ 81-83; see
Complaint, ¶ 84.)
In its demurrer, ERM argues that
the third cause of action is not sufficiently stated because it requests relief
for hypothetical controversies that would require an impermissible advisory
opinion. More specifically, ERM argues that the relief sought by
Plaintiffs—renewal or re-certification of leases—is hypothetical because
housing applications need only be filled out before becoming a tenant, after
which Plaintiffs need not file new applications to renew their lease,
particularly where ERM does not ask tenants to file new applications for that
purpose. ERM also argues that it does not require tenants to renew leases and
Plaintiffs have not alleged an intention to renew their lease, making the claim
advisory. (Demurrer, pp. 8-9.)
In opposition, Plaintiffs argue
that the Complaint alleges that Defendants demand that all leases be renewed or
re-certified, which is accomplished by completing the same form as the housing
application, where that form authorizes Defendants to obtain investigative
consumer reports about Plaintiffs without complying with the ICRAA. Plaintiffs
argue that they seek a declaration of rights as to the illegality of the
renewal and re-certification form. (Demurrer Opp’n, p. 3.)
In reply, ERM argues that
Plaintiffs conflate two separate applications: the form for housing
application; and the lease forms. ERM argues that the complained-of language
only exists in the housing application. ERM also argues that the renewal of
lease process does not require a form. (Demurrer Reply, pp. 3-4.)
The Court finds in favor of
Plaintiffs.
The Court recognizes that the third
cause of action is somewhat confusing. The third cause of action requests
certain types of injunctive relief that are not wholly consistent with
declaratory relief. For example, a declaration that Plaintiffs leases must be
renewed or re-certified or that, in effect, ERM must use different forms in the
future. (Complaint, ¶¶ 81.) Such relief is not a declaration of rights, but an
order requiring that a party act or refrain from acting in a particular way. ERM
challenges such injunctive relief in its motion to strike.
However, the third cause of action
is clear enough to convey that it seeks a declaration of rights as to the
legality or voidness of the housing application and lease renewal form used by
Defendants when managing housing applications or renewal leases. (Complaint, ¶¶
81, 83.) Such a question is different than whether Defendants violated the
ICRAA against the Plaintiffs, which is the subject matter of the Complaint’s
first cause of action, and to which ERM has not here demurred. Moreover, ERM’s
arguments lie outside of the pleadings. ERM argues that the housing application
and lease renewal forms, to the degree that they exist, do not involve the same
form. Yet, the Complaint appears to allege that the housing application and
lease renewal form are one in the same and contain the same investigative
report clause. (See, e.g., Complaint, ¶ 81 [“same forms are always used”].) ERM
has not rebutted this representation by requesting judicial notice of the
housing application form and any lease renewal forms, to the extent that such
renewal forms exist. The proper place for ERM’s arguments is thus an
evidence-based motion, not one challenging the pleadings.
ERM’s demurrer is thus OVERRULED as
to the Complaint’s third cause of action.
 
Motion to Strike
Legal
Standard
The
court may, upon a motion or at any time in its discretion and upon terms it
deems proper: (a) strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted
in any pleading; or (b) strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of California, a court rule, or an order of
the court. (Code Civ. Proc. § 436, subds. (a), (b); Stafford v. Shultz
(1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782 [“Matter in a pleading which is not essential to the
claim is surplusage; probative facts are surplusage and may be stricken out or
disregarded”].)
For
the purposes of a motion to strike pursuant to Sections 435 to 437 of the Code
of Civil Procedure, the term “pleading” generally means a demurrer, answer,
complaint, or cross-complaint, (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (a)), and an
immaterial allegation or irrelevant matter in a pleading entails (1) an
allegation that is not essential to the statement of a claim or defense, (2) an
allegation that is neither pertinent to nor supported by an otherwise
sufficient claim or defense, or (3) a demand for judgment requesting relief not
supported by the allegations of the complaint or cross-complaint (Code Civ.
Proc., § 431.10, subds. (b)(1)-(3), (c)).
I.
Order
Striking Injunctive Relief under ICRAA Claim: GRANTED, With Leave to
Amend.
In
its motion, ERM moves to strike injunctive relief requested by the first cause
of action because that claim is founded in the ICRAA, which limits relief to
damages and attorney’s fees pursuant to Civil Code section 1786.50. (Strike
Mot., p. 2.)
In
opposition, Plaintiffs argue that they are entitled to seek injunctive relief
before harm occurs and that the Complaint alleges ongoing violations of the
ICRAA at paragraph 81. Plaintiffs also argue, without citing authority, that
because they have requested actual damages (attorney’s fees), they may also
seek injunctive relief as a remedy for continuing violations of the ICRAA. (Strike
Opp’n, pp. 3-4.)
In
reply, ERM argues that Plaintiffs provide no authority to support injunctive
relief under their ICRAA claim. (Strike Reply, p. 4.)
The
Court finds in favor of ERM.
Civil
Code section 1786.50 details the kind of liability that can arise from the use
of consumer reporting agency information in violation of the ICRAA and only
contemplates actual damages, attorney’s fees and costs, and punitive damages
where applicable. No injunctive relief is set forth in the statute. Though Plaintiffs
are generally otherwise able to bring a petition or motion for injunctive
relief, ICRAA does not appear to be the proper statutory ground for such
relief. (See Civ. Code, § 1786.50.)
ERM’s
motion is therefore GRANTED as to STRIKING paragraph 77 of the Complaint.
II.
Order
Striking Declaratory and Injunctive Relief: GRANTED in Part [Injunctive
Relief], With Leave to Amend; DENIED, in Part [Declaratory Relief].
ERM
also seeks an order striking paragraphs 1, 5, 56, and 75 and Prayer paragraphs
8 through 10 from the Complaint. ERM argues that this relief is merited because
the third cause of action failed on demurrer, making these allegations and
prayers irrelevant. (Strike Mot., p. 2.)
The
opposition and reply make arguments against and in favor of striking these
matters. (Strike Opp’n, p. 4; Strike Reply, p. 4.)
The
Court finds in favor of ERM.
As
discussed in relation to the third cause of action, a declaration of rights
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 1060 is declaratory relief
different than coercive relief, such as an order for monetary damages or
injunctive relief. (See Demurrer discussion supra at § II.) The injunctive
relief sought in the Complaint is not proper as to the first cause of action.
(See Strike Mot. discussion supra at § I.) And the second cause of action
failed on demurrer. (See Demurrer discussion supra at § I.)
As
a result, no claims exist to support the injunctive relief sought in the
Complaint. ERM’s motion is thus GRANTED as to STRIKING injunctive relief from
paragraphs 1, 5, 56, and 75 and Prayer paragraphs 8 through 10 of the
Complaint.
However,
the Court adopts the outcome in Section II of the demurrer discussion above to
find that any declaration of rights alleged in the Complaint at paragraphs 1,
5, 56, and 75 and Prayer paragraphs 8 through 10 should not be stricken as
irrelevant.
III.
Order
Striking Punitive Damages: GRANTED, With Leave to Amend.
ERM
last argues that punitive damages are improper and must be stricken from the
Complaint because the knowing violations of the ICRAA pleaded in the Complaint
do not connote oppression, fraud, or malice against Plaintiffs. ERM also argues
that the Complaint fails to allege conduct by ERM’s senior management, thus
undercutting punitive damages against ERM. (Strike Mot., pp. 3-4.)
In
opposition, Plaintiffs argue that they have sufficiently alleged malice based
on ERM’s allegedly knowing violation of the ICRAA and based on ERM obtaining highly
confidential and private background information relating to Plaintiffs by way
of improper documents. (Strike Opp’n, pp. 2-3.)
In
reply, ERM argues against Plaintiffs’ opposition points and reiterates its
points in the demurrer. (Strike Reply, pp. 2-3.)
The
Court finds in favor of ERM.
“When the defendant is a corporation, ‘[a]n award of
punitive damages … must rest on the malice of the corporation’s employees’”
specifically, “the oppression, fraud, or malice perpetrated, authorized, or
knowingly ratified by an officer, director, or managing agent of the
corporation,” where a managing agent “include[s] only those corporate employees
who exercise substantial independent authority and judgment in their corporate decisionmaking so that
their decisions ultimately determine corporate policy.’” (Wilson v. Southern
California Edison Co. (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 123, 164, citations omitted.)
Here,
the Complaint lacks allegations of involvement by ERM’s corporate
decisionmakers or only alleges conclusory involvement. (See Complaint, ¶ 36.)
Moreover, the Complaint does not sufficiently elaborate on the grounds for
finding that ERM acted with malice other than by alleging a knowing violation
of the ICRAA. Under the circumstances, the Court finds that malice is lacking
in the pleadings.
As
a result, the Court the Court GRANTS ERM’s motion to strike as to punitive
damages and STRIKES paragraphs 5, 56, and 76 and Prayer paragraph 4 of the
Complaint.
 

Conclusion
Defendant Equity Residential
Management, L.L.C.’s Demurrer to Plaintiffs’ Complaint is SUSTAINED, in Part,
and OVERRULED, in Part, as follows:
(1) SUSTAINED, With Leave to Amend,
as to the Complaint’s second cause of action
(2) OVERRULED as to the Complaint’s
third cause of action.
Defendant Equity Residential
Management, L.L.C.’s Motion to Strike Portions of Plaintiffs’ Complaint is GRANTED,
in Part, and DENIED, in Part, as follows:
(1) GRANTED as to STRIKING
injunctive relief allegations and prayers from the first cause of action, With
Leave to Amend, as stated above;
(2) GRANTED as to striking other
injunctive relief allegations and prayers from the Complaint, With Leave to
Amend, as stated above;
(3) DENIED as to striking
declaratory relief allegations and prayers from the Complaint, as stated above;
and
(4) GRANTED as to striking punitive
damages from the Complaint, as stated above.
Plaintiffs are granted leave to
file an amended pleading within 10 days of this ruling.