 Case Number:  23STCV00006    Hearing Date:   December 18, 2023    Dept:  40 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



STEPHEN NEWLAND, an individual,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
TYLER GARY GALLAGHER, an individual; LEAH ANN DONOSO, an individual;
  CHRISTIAN HOWARD, an individual; REGAL ASSETS, LLC, a California Limited
  Liability Company; and, DOES 1-10, inclusive,
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          23STCV00006
 Hearing Date:   12/18/23
 Trial Date:        N/A
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Defendant Brink’s
  Incorporated’s Demurrer to Plaintiff, Stephen Newland’s First Amended
  Complaint.



 
Background
Plaintiff Stephen Newland sues Defendants Tyler Gary Gallagher, Leah Ann
Donoso, Christian Howard, Regal Assets, LLC (Regal Assets), Doe 1 Brink’s
Incorporated (Brink’s) and Does 2-10 pursuant to a July 3, 2023 First Amended Complaint
(FAC) alleging claims of: (1) Fraud (Intentional or Reckless
Misrepresentation), (2) Fraud (False Promise), (3) Fraud (Concealment), (6)
Breach of Contract against Defendants Regal Assets, Gallagher, Donoso, Howard
and Does 2-10; (4) Conversion, (5) Breach of Fiduciary Duty, and (7) Breach of
Contract (Third Party Beneficiary) against all Defendants; and (8) Breach of
Bailment against Brink’s and Does 2-10.
The claims arise from allegations that between August 24 and 25, 2018, Plaintiff
Newland was enticed to and did purchase silver and gold coins from Regal
Assets—a suspended California LLC that operated as the alter ego of Defendants
Gallagher, Donoso, and Howard, alleged as co-conspirators, as well as agents of
Regal Assets. Through Defendant Donoso, Regal Assets represented that it would
secure Newland’s coins with Brink’s pursuant to an agreement through which
Brink’s would store precious metals purchased from Regal Assets (the Regal
Assets-Brink’s agreement). Plaintiff Newland alleges having purchased the coins
based on Howard’s representations as to the coins’ characteristics and based on
the alleged agreement with Brink’s. Plaintiff Newland paid $15,007.67 for the
coins, which were allegedly stored with Brink’s, but for which Regal Assets
persistently failed to turn over account verification reports, which Plaintiff
Newland requested on various occasions. Later, Plaintiff Newland requested that
the coins be transferred from the possession of Brink’s to Newland, making his
requests directly to Brink’s and to Regal Assets’ agents Donoso and Howard. In
October 2022, Brink’s finally responded to Plaintiff Newland, asserting that it
had transferred the silver and gold coins to “Defendants ‘several months ago.’”
The FAC implies but does not appear to directly state that Plaintiff Newland
has not received his silver and gold coins from Defendants. The FAC does not
have any exhibits attached to it, e.g., a copy of the Regal Assets-Brink’s
agreement.
On October 30, 2023, Brink’s demurred to the FAC’s seventh and eighth
causes of action for breach of contract and breach of bailment, respectively, based
on sufficiency of pleading.
On December 5, 2023, Plaintiff Newland opposed the demurrer with a redacted
memorandum.
On December 7, 2023, Plaintiff Newland filed an unredacted version of his
opposition under seal. On December 11, 2023, Plaintiff Newland filed an untimely
addendum to the opposition with an appendix of exhibits in support of the
addendum. The addendum references responses by Brink’s to admission and
interrogatory requests regarding whether Brink’s has possession or custody of
insurance policies tied to Plaintiff’s account with Brink’s. The addendum
argues that the Regal Assets-Brink’s agreement has a term requiring Regal
Assets and Brink’s to maintain insurance in the event of loss or theft of
Plaintiff’s coins.
That same day, Plaintiff Newland filed copies of the discovery responses
referenced in its addendum.
Brink’s did not reply to the opposition, though it did file a case
management statement on December 13, 2023.
Brink’s demurrer is now before the Court.
 
Request
for Judicial Notice
The Court declines Plaintiff’s
request to take judicial notice of the complaint for a lawsuit against
Defendants Gallagher, Donoso, and Regal Assets in federal court, which consist
of pleadings in a different action, not before this Court, and which do not
inform the sufficiency of the challenged claims in the FAC. (Evid. Code, §§
452, 453.)
 
Demurrer
Demurrer
Sufficiency Standard
A
demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.
(Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747; see Code Civ. Proc., §
430.10, subd. (e).) This device can be used only to challenge defects that
appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters outside the
pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39
Cal.3d 311, 318.) 
To sufficiently allege a cause of action,
a complaint must allege all the ultimate
facts—that is, the facts needed to establish each element of the cause of
action pleaded. (Committee on Children’s Television, Inc. v. General Foods
Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197, 212, superseded by statute as stated in Branick
v. Downey Savings & Loan Assn. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 235, 242.)
Thus, “[t]o survive a [general] demurrer, the complaint need only allege facts
sufficient to state a cause of action; each evidentiary fact that might
eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.” (C.A. v.
William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.) In
testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth
of all material facts properly pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist.
(1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-67.) A demurrer, however, “does not admit
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Daar v. Yellow Cab
Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.) When considering demurrers, courts read the
allegations liberally and in context. (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept.
of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228, disapproved on other
grounds, Jones v. Lodge at Torrey Pines Partnership (2008) 42 Cal.4th
1158, 1162.) The face of the complaint includes exhibits attached to the
complaint. (Frantz v. Blackwell (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 91, 94.) If facts
appearing in the exhibits contradict those alleged, the facts in the exhibits
take precedence. (Holland v. Morse Diesel Intern., Inc. (2001) 86
Cal.App.4th 1443, 1447, superseded by statute on other grounds as stated in White
v. Cridlebaugh (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 506, 521.)
I.
FAC,
Seventh Cause of Action, Breach of Contract (Third Party Beneficiary): SUSTAINED,
with leave to amend.
“A
contract is a voluntary and lawful agreement, by competent parties, for a good
consideration, to do or not to do a specified thing.” (Robinson v. Magee
(1858) 9 Cal. 81, 83.) “To prevail on a cause of action for breach of contract,
the plaintiff must prove (1) the contract, (2) the plaintiff’s performance of
the contract or excuse for nonperformance, (3) the defendant’s breach, and (4)
the resulting damage to the plaintiff.” (Richman v. Hartley (2014) 224
Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186.) Implicit in the element of
damage is that the defendant’s breach caused the plaintiff’s damage.” (Troyk
v. Farmers Group, Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1305, 1352, italics omitted.)
The
FAC’s seventh cause of action alleges a breach of contract claim against
Brink’s and Does 2-10 based on allegations that Brink’s was a party to a
written contract with Regal Assets (operated by Alter Ego Defendants Gallagher,
Donoso and Howard), pursuant to which Brink’s agreed to provide a secure vault
facility for the storage of precious metals, such as the coins, that third
parties had purchased from Regal Assets, and that Plaintiff is an intended
beneficiary of the Regal Assets-Brink’s agreement. On those grounds, the FAC
alleges that Plaintiff may enforce the Regal Assets-Brink’s agreement to sue
Brink’s for breach of contract for removing or permitting the removal of
Newland’s coins from Newland’s segregated account at the Brink’s SLC secure
vault facility without Newland’s consent, and for breaching the implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing inherent in [the Regal Assets-Brink’s]
contract by removing or permitting the removal of Newland’s coins from
Newland’s segregated account at the Brink’s SLC secure vault facility without
Newland’s consent. Newland seeks compensatory damages in the sum of $15,007.67;
lost profits according to proof from August 25, 2018 through the entry of
judgment based on the market value of his coins; and, prejudgment interest at
the rate of ten percent per annum from August 25, 2018 through the entry of
judgment. (FAC, ¶¶ 86-96 [also incorporating prior allegations at ¶ 86].)
Brink’s
demurs to the seventh cause of action for failure to sufficiently allege third-party
beneficiary status to the Regal Assets-Brink’s agreement. Brink’s argues that while
Plaintiff Newland alleges the existence of a contract between Regal Assets and Brink’s,
he has neither set forth the terms of the alleged contract verbatim nor
attached a copy of the contract and incorporated it by reference, for which
reason the alleged breach of contract are not tied to a contractual duty,
making the first cause of action fatally defective. Brink’s also argues that
the FAC fails to allege contractual provisions or other information permitting
the determination that the alleged Regal Assets-Brink’s agreement intended
Plaintiff Newland to be a third-party beneficiary. Last, Brink’s notes that it
has produced Regal Assets-Brink’s agreement to Plaintiff Newland, who has
failed to amend the FAC in response to the production of the agreement.
(Demurrer, pp. 12-14.)
In
opposition, Plaintiff Newland argues that his third-party beneficiary status is
pleaded by implication in the FAC through allegations that Brink’s prepared two
reports inventorying the property secured by Brink’s, through Regal Assets, for
the benefit of Plaintiff. Plaintiff Newland also cites the Regal Assets-Brink’s
agreement itself, though some of the contractual clauses referenced in the
opposition are not alleged in the body of the FAC and where the FAC filed with
the Court does not contain attachments. References to the agreement involve,
for example, inferring third-party beneficiary status based on the commercial
enticement of customers by promising security and insurance coverage that is
guaranteed for any stored metals. Plaintiff Newland cites his monetary losses because
of the release of his coins from the Brink’s vault facility as allegations
involving third-party beneficiary status. Plaintiff Newland closes his
arguments with direct references to the Regal Assets-Brink’s agreement, which are
not included as part of the FAC. (Opp’n, pp. 11-14.)
The
Court can only rely on the terms of the Regal Assets-Brink’s agreement as
alleged in the Complaint and does not rely on the untimely addendum or appendix
of exhibits. At the stage of a demurrer hearing, evidence such as responses to
discovery is irrelevant as the focus is on what has been alleged in the
pleadings. Nor has Plaintiff attached Exhibits A-C to his First Amended Complaint;
providing them to Defendant’s counsel, who attached them to his counsel’s
declaration is one thing, but does nothing to correct the record by attaching such
exhibits in the actual filed Complaint. Apparently, Brink’s provided an agreement
Plaintiff refers to as the “PMSA” [acronym not spelled out anywhere in the
Opposition) at some point after the filing of the FAC. (Opposition at p. 9.) Nonetheless,
additional purported agreements between the parties set forth in the Opposition
but which are not allegations in the Complaint will not be considered. 
““A
written contract may be pleaded either by its terms—set out verbatim in the
complaint or a copy of the contract attached to the complaint and incorporated
therein by reference—or by its legal effect. [Citation.] In order to plead a
contract by its legal effect, plaintiff must ‘allege the substance of its
relevant terms. This is more difficult, for it requires a careful analysis of
the instrument, comprehensiveness in statement, and avoidance of legal
conclusions.’ [Citation.]” (Heritage Pacific Financial, LLC v. Monroy
(2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 972, 993 (Heritage Pacific).)
Here,
the alleged contractual terms at issue in the seventh cause of action are not
alleged verbatim in the FAC (FAC, ¶¶ 86-96), nor are they attached to the FAC
through a copy of the Regal Assets-Brink’s agreement, where the FAC has no
attachments as filed with the Court. Thus, the question before the Court is
whether the breach of contract claim stated against Brink’s is sufficiently
alleged as to Brink’s agreement with Regal Assets containing terms whose legal
effect is to show that Plaintiff was a third-party beneficiary to that
agreement, and that Brink’s moving of the coins without his consent is a breach
of contract. (Heritage Pacific, supra, 215 Cal.App.4th at p. 993;
see FAC, ¶¶ 92-93 [allegations of breach of contract]; Demurrer, pp. 12-14
[challenge to seventh cause of action based on FAC’s pleading of third-party
beneficiary status].) 
The
Court concludes that the FAC does not adequately plead which contractual terms
were breached by alleging simply that “Defendants removed or permitted the
removal of Newland’s Coins from Newland’s segregated account . . . without
Newland’s consent.” (FAC, ¶¶ 92-93; Demurrer, p. 13.) The remainder of that
cause of action states that the terms of the contract between Regal Assets and
Brinks were to provide a secure vault facility for the storage of precious metals,
with a separate account in Newland’s names and for his benefit. (FAC, ¶¶
87-90.) It is not clear what the substance of the contract’s relevant terms are
that would establish breach by moving the coins without Newland’s consent. As Brink’s
points out, there is no allegation that the contract requires any such
approval. Moreover, the same cause of action contains an allegation that
defendants breached their implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing
inherent in their contract by removing or permitting the removal of Newland’s
coins without his consent.” (FAC at ¶ 93.) The covenant of good faith and fair
dealing is “implied as a supplement to the express contractual covenants, to
prevent a contracting party from engaging in conduct which (while not technically
transgressing the express covenants) frustrates the other party’s rights to the
benefits of the contract.” The question arises then, whether there is an actual
requirement to obtain Newland’s permission (a breach of contract) or an implied
covenant to do so (breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing).
Upon review of the FAC, we cannot tell. 
The
Court concludes that the allegations as to third-party beneficiary, however,
are sufficient. “‘A third[-]party beneficiary is someone who may enforce a
contract because the contract is made expressly for his benefit.’” (Jensen v. U-Haul Co.
of California (2017) 18 Cal.App.5th 295, 301 (Jensen); see
also Civ. Code, § 1559 [“A contract, made expressly for the benefit of a third
person, may be enforced by him …”].) A person “only incidentally or remotely
benefited” from a contract is not a third-party beneficiary. (Lucas v. Hamm
(1961) 56 Cal.2d 583, 590.) To show the contracting parties intended to benefit
it, a third party must show that, under the express terms of the contract at
issue and any other relevant circumstances under which the contract was made:
(1) “the third party would in fact benefit from the contract”; (2) “a
motivating purpose of the contracting parties was to provide a benefit to the
third party”; and (3) permitting the third party to enforce the contract “is
consistent with the objectives of the contract and the reasonable expectations
of the contracting parties.” (Goonewardene v. ADP, LLC (2019) 6 Cal.5th
817, 830.) 
Here,
the seventh cause of action alleges that: (1) “Newland, Defendants’ contract
provided that Newland’s Coins would be stored at Brink’s secure vault facility
in SLC segregated in an account in Newland’s name for his benefit”; and (2)
“Defendants’ contract as it pertains to Newland called for Brink’s to provide a
separate account in Newland’s name and/or for his benefit for the purpose of
designating and storing Newland’s Coins as Newland’s property.” (FAC, ¶¶
88-89.) Elsewhere, the FAC makes allegations that are incorporated into the
breach of contract claim and which state that Newland’s coins were being
delivered to Brink’s and were “fully insured,” that “Brinks insure[d] each
account up to 1.3 million,” for which reason, Plaintiff “account is fully
covered”, and that “Brink’s is insured by the Loyd’s [sic] of London.” (FAC, ¶¶
26, 86.) Last, the FAC implies that Plaintiff’s consent was required to
authorize any removal of the coins from Brink’s secure vault facility. (FAC, ¶¶
92-93.)
These
allegations plead that the legal effect of some term of the Regal
Assets-Brink’s agreement is the protection of coins belonging to Plaintiff
Newland, which confers a benefit to Newland. These allegations also plead that the
motivating purpose for entering that contract was to secure Plaintiff Newland’s
coins. The allegations also plead grounds for determining that the Regal
Assets-Brink’s agreement’s objectives included permitting Plaintiff to enforce
the agreement. If Plaintiff’s account with Brink’s was fully insured, and if
only Plaintiff could consent to a removal of the coins from Brink’s secure
vault facility, then the agreement could contemplate a suit against Brink’s for
failure to insure Plaintiff in the event of a loss, or for releasing the coins
without Plaintiff’s consent.
The
Court concludes that while Plaintiff has stated sufficient facts to allege that
he is a third-party beneficiary, he has not pleaded sufficient facts to show that
the contract was breached when Brink’s transferred Plaintiff’s property to the
other defendants. Attaching the contract or setting forth the alleged
provisions of the contract violated would be vastly preferable to another round
of pleading the substance of the relevant terms.
Brink’s
demurrer to the seventh cause of action is thus SUSTAINED with leave to amend.
II.
FAC,
Eighth Cause of Action, Breach of Bailment: OVERRULED.
A
bailment is called a deposit within the Civil Code. It is defined as “[a]
voluntary deposit […] made by one giving to another, with his consent, the
possession of personal property to keep for the benefit of the former, or of a
third party.” (Civ. Code, § 1814.) Under California law, “a bailment for the
benefit of both parties … is a bailment for hire, and imposes on the bailee the
duty to use ordinary care with respect to the bailed property.” (Gerbert v.
Yank (1985) 172 Cal.App.3d 544, 551.) “A bailment ‘is made by one giving to
another, with his consent, the possession of personal property to keep for the
benefit of the former, or of a third party.’” (McKell v. Washington
(2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 1457, 1491, citing Civ. Code, § 1814; see Gebert v.
Yank, supra, at p. 551; see, e.g., McKell v. Washington, supra,
at p. 1491 [“Plaintiffs allege[d] … [a] breach of bailment cause of action [when
they alleged] that they ‘delivered to Washington Mutual, and Washington Mutual
agreed to hold for the benefit of plaintiffs, money to pay the cost of
underwriting, tax services and wire transfer services,” which Washington Mutual
breached when it “paid only a portion of the money to the third party vendors
and kept a portion for itself”].)
The
FAC’s eighth cause of action alleges Defendant Brink’s acted as a depositary
for hire relative to Newland’s coins pursuant to a written contract that
provided that Plaintiff Newland’s coins were to be delivered to Brink’s for a
specific purpose—namely to take possession of and maintain custody of the coins
in a segregated account in Plaintiff’s name at Brink’s secure vault facility in
Salt Lake City, Utah. The claim also alleges that Brink’s at a minimum had a
duty of ordinary care to preserve Plaintiff’s coins, which Brink’s breach when
it permitted Defendants or unknown third parties to remove Plaintiff’s coins
from Defendant Brink’s secure vault facility. The seventh cause of action,
which is incorporated into the eighth, notes that removal of the coins requires
Plaintiff’s consent. Elsewhere, the FAC alleges that on October 25, 2022,
Brink’s informed Plaintiff Newland that the coins were transferred to the other
Defendants “‘several months ago.’” (FAC, ¶¶ 34, 92-93 [prior allegations], 97
[incorporation], 98-103 [remainder of bailment claim].)
Brink’s
argues that based on the Civil Code and based on the allegations in the FAC,
Regal Assets was legally entitled to withdraw the coins from the Brink’s secure
vault facility at any time given the alleged terms of the agreement and Regal
Asset’s status as the depositor of those coins. 
Brink’s also argues that per the Civil Code and based on the allegations
in the FAC, Brink’s was not obligated to release the coins to Plaintiff Newland
until Newland made a request for them, by which time the FAC alleges the coins
had been given to the other Defendants. Moreover, Brink’s argues that the FAC’s
allegations that Plaintiff Newland interacted with Brink’s through Regal Assets
and that Plaintiff Newland made requests through Regal Assets shows that
Brink’s did nothing wrong in releasing the coins. (Demurrer, pp. 14-17, citing
Civ. Code, §§ 1814, 1823, 1854 & FAC, ¶¶ 14, 16, 18, 21-23, 25-26, 28, 30, 34.)
In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that he was the bailor relative to his coins and
that Brink’s was the bailee and that the FAC sufficiently alleges breach of
Brink’s duties under the Regal Assets-Brink’s agreement. Plaintiff also argues
that the facts alleged in the FAC relating to the bailment relationship plead
that Brink’s duty of care to Plaintiff Newland was enlarged by contract.
Plaintiff last argues that Brink’s controls the information relating to the
theft of Newland’s coins. (Opp’n, p. 14.)
The
Court finds in favor of Plaintiff.
Here,
the Court is satisfied that Plaintiff is the third-party beneficiary of a
bailment relationship between Regal Assets as the depositor and Brink’s as the
depositary, and that Brink’s either breached that relationship or the implied covenant
when, without consent of Plaintiff Newland, Brink’s released the coins held by
Brink’s to the other Defendants. (FAC, ¶¶ 34, 92-93, 97-103.) While the Civil
Code, by its language, permits the depositor to remove the deposit at any time
where no length of time is tied to the bailment relationship, here, the FAC
specifically adds by implication that a part of the bailment relationship
involved the requirement to request Plaintiff’s consent for any removal of the
coins from Brink’s secure vault facility. (FAC, ¶¶ 92-93, 97; Civ Code, § 1854.)
And while the FAC does plead that Plaintiff Newland largely acted through Regal
Asset’s agents, those facts are unrelated to the fact that the FAC also pleads
that Plaintiff’s consent was needed for removal of the coins from Brink’s
secure vault facility, which modifies the duties that Brink’s had in the
bailment relationship, as alleged in the pleadings. (FAC, ¶¶ 92-93, 97.) 
Brink’s
demurrer to the eighth cause of action is thus OVERRULED.
However,
the Court notes that it is not ruling on what the actual words contained in the
Regal Assets-Brink’s agreement are, but rather, whether a bailment claim is
sufficiently stated in the FAC based on the allegations relating to Brink’s,
the coins, Plaintiff Newland, and the other Defendants. It may indeed be that
Plaintiff would elect to amend the eighth cause of action to add more specificity
to this claim, given his reference to additional facts not currently in the FAC
(Opp., p. 14.) The Court’s analysis is limited to the pleadings, not whether
the evidence supports the legal theories advanced by the FAC, and does not rely
on the untimely Addendum or the Appendix.

Conclusion
Defendant Brink’s Incorporated’s
Demurrer to Plaintiff, Stephen Newland’s First Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED,
with leave to amend, as to the Seventh Cause of Action, and OVERRULED as to the
Eighth. Plaintiff shall file a Second Amended Complaint within 20 calendar
days, and shall include any exhibits referred to in the new complaint.