  Case Number:  19STCV07632    Hearing Date:   December 18, 2023    Dept:  40 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



WESTERN UNION FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC. dba WESTERN UNION NORTH
  AMERICA,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
KELLY RANGHEE KANG, individually and dba ALOHA DELI MARKET;
  JEONG HOON KANG aka JOHN HOON KANG, JONATHAN H. KANG and JON H. KANG, individually
  and dba ALOHA DELI MARKET; RK DELI CORPORATION dba ALOHA DELI MARKET; RNJ
  GROUP, INC. dba ALOHA DELI MARKET; DOES 1 to 10,
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          19STCV07632
 Hearing Date:   12/18/23
 Trial Date:        2/9/24
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Plaintiff Western
  Union Financial Services, Inc.’s Motion for Summary Adjudication of First,
  Third, Fifth, and Seventh Causes of Action Against Defendant Kelly Ranghee
  Kang, individually and dba Aloha Deli Market.



 
Background
Pleadings Framing Motion
On March 4, 2019, Plaintiff Western Union Financial Services Inc.
(Western Union) sued individual defendants Kelly Ranghee Kang [wife] and
Jeong Hoon Kang [husband], and entity defendants RJN Group, Inc. and RK Deli
Corporation, all of who/which operate/do business as a grocery market named
Aloha Deli Market.
The operative November 18, 2021
Second Amended Complaint (SAC) alleges ten claims: (1) Breach of Written
Contract; (2) Account Stated; (3) Open Book Account; (4) Breach of Fiduciary
Duty; (5) Conversion; (6) Unjust Enrichment; (7) Common Counts; (8) Violation
of Voidable Transfers Act [Civil Code § 3439.04]; (9) Violation of Voidable
Transfers Act [Civil Code § 3439.05]; and (10) Civil Conspiracy.
The claims arise from allegations
that Defendants failed to remit $98,760.17 to Western Union—seemingly as part
of Western Union transactions effected at the Aloha Deli Market—with a 2%
penalty interest imposed on these owed monies beginning December 31, 2018.
Status of Defendants
On January 18, 2022, Western Union
appears to have effected service of the SAC on all Defendants.
On March 1, 2022, Defendants Kelly
Ranghee Kang and Jeong Hoon Kang filed an Answer to the SAC.
On May 5, 2022, Western Union
obtained an entry of default against Defendants RJN Group, Inc.
On May 23, 2022, Western Union
again effected service of the SAC on Defendant RK Deli Corporation.
On July 19, 2022, Western Union
obtained an entry of default against Defendant RK Deli Corporation.
Motion Before the Court
On September 26, 2023, Western
Union moved for an order granting summary adjudication as to Western Union’s first,
third, fifth, and seventh causes of action against Defendant Kelly Ranghee
Kang, individually and dba Aloha Deli Market.
On December 1, 2023, the Court held
a Post-Mediation Status Conference, at which Defendants made no appearances. At
that time, Western Union’s counsel informed the Court of their attempts to
communicate with Defendant to schedule a mediation session and that they had
not received any responses.
Western Union’s motion is unopposed
by all Defendants and is now before the Court.
 
Motion for Summary Adjudication

Legal Standard
A motion for summary judgment shall
be granted if all the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as
to any material fact for trial or that the moving party is entitled to a
judgment as a matter of law. (Code of Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).) A party
may also seek summary adjudication of select causes of action, affirmative
defenses, claims for damages, or issues of duty, which may be made by a
standalone motion or as an alternative to a motion for summary judgment and
proceeds in all procedural respects like a motion for summary judgment. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subds. (f)(1)-(2), (t); see Lilienthal & Fowler v.
Superior Court (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 1848, 1854-1855, questioned by dictum
in Bagley v. TRW, Inc. (1999) 73 Cal.App.4th 1092, 1094, fn. 2 [finding
that summary adjudication may be granted as to separate factual grounds
supporting a claim stated as a single count because the separate grounds state
a separate cause of action].) The moving party bears the initial burden of
production to make prima facie showing no triable material fact issues. (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.) This burden on
summary judgment or adjudication “is more properly one of persuasion rather
than proof, since he must persuade the court that there is no material fact for
a reasonable trier of fact to find, and not to prove any such fact to the
satisfaction of the court itself as though it were sitting as the trier of
fact.” (Id. at p. 850, fn. 11.) If the moving party meets this burden,
the burden shifts to the opposing party to make a rebuttal prima facie showing
that a triable issue of material fact exists. (Id. at p. 849.)
“[I]n ruling on motions for summary judgment courts are to ‘“liberally construe
the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve
doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.”‘ [Citations].” (Cheal
v. El Camino Hospital (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 736, 760.)
I.
Summary Adjudication, SAC, First,
Fifth, and Seventh Causes of Action: DENIED, without prejudice.
Western Union moves for an order
granting summary adjudication as to Western Union’s first, fifth, and seventh
causes of action against Defendant Kelly Ranghee Kang, individually and dba
Aloha Deli Market.
Western Union’s motion cites to its
separate statement at various undisputed material facts to in turn cite to
evidence supporting the elements for each of these three causes of action. (See
Motion (Mot.,), pp. 6-8, citing Mot., Separate Statement (Sep. St.), Undisputed
Material Fact (UMF) Nos. 1-9 [evidence supporting showing for one or more of
the elements of breach of contract], 13-15 [same for conversion claim], 16-18
[same for money had and received claim].)
Half of the UMFs supporting the
first cause of action cite evidence that was not attached to the moving papers.
(See Mot., Sep. St., UMF Nos. 1-4, 6, 8, citing, in relevant part, Mot.,
Badilla Decl., Exs. A-B & Mot., Spector Decl., Ex. A [no attachments].) And
two out of the three respective UMFs supporting summary adjudication of the
fifth and seventh causes of action cite evidence that was not attached to the
moving papers. (Mot., Sep. St., UMF Nos. 14-15, citing, in relevant part, Mot.,
Spector Decl., Ex. B [no attachments, fifth cause of action]; UMF Nos. 17-18,
citing, in relevant part, Mot., Spector Decl., Ex. B [no attachments, seventh
cause of action].)
Given that parts of the evidence in
support of summary adjudication of these three causes of action are missing,
the Court cannot grant the relief requested as to these claims.
Western Union’s motion is thus
DENIED as to the SAC’s first, fifth, and seventh causes of action, without
prejudice.
II.
Summary Adjudication, SAC, Third
Cause of Action: DENIED, without prejudice.
“A book account may furnish the
basis for an action on a common count ‘“… when it contains a statement of the
debits and credits of the transactions involved completely enough to supply
evidence from which it can be reasonably determined what amount is due to the
claimant.”’ [Citations.] A book account is described as ‘open’ when the debtor
has made some payment on the account, leaving a balance due. [Citation].” (Interstate
Group Administrators, Inc. v. Cravens, Dargan & Co. (1985) 174
Cal.App.3d 700, 708.)
Importantly, “‘[an open] book
account may be deemed to furnish the foundation for a suit in assumpsit … only
when it contains a statement of the debits and credits of the transactions
involved completely enough to supply evidence from which it can be reasonably
determined what amount is due to the claimant.’ … ‘The term “account,” …
clearly requires the recording of sufficient information regarding the
transaction involved in the suit, from which the debits and credits of the respective
parties may be determined, so as to permit the striking of a balance to
ascertain what sum, if any, is due to the claimant.’” (Robin v. Smith
(1955) 132 Cal.App.2d 288, 291, internal citations omitted.)
“The law does not prescribe any
standard of bookkeeping practice which all must follow, regardless of the
nature of the business of which the record is kept. … [I]t makes no difference
whether the account is kept in one book or several so long as they are
permanent records, and constitute a system of bookkeeping as distinguished from
mere private memoranda.” (Egan v. Bishop (1935) 8 Cal.App.2d 119, 122.) “[T]he
mere entry of dates and payments of certain sums in the credit column of a
ledger or cash book under the name of a particular individual, without further
explanation regarding the transaction to which they apply, may not be deemed to
constitute a ‘book account’ upon which an action in assumpsit may be founded.”
(Tillson v. Peters (1940) 41 Cal.App.2d 671, 679.)
Western Union cites exclusively the
declaration of its Director of Platform Operations, Jorge Ramirez Badilla, to support
summary adjudication of the Complaint’s third cause of action. (Mot., pp. 6-7,
citing Mot., Sep. St., UMF Nos. 10-12, in turn citing Mot., Badilla Decl., ¶¶
1-13.)
However, if an open book account
claim must be premised on “a statement of the debits and credits of the transactions
involved completely enough to supply evidence from which it can be reasonably
determined what amount is due to the claimant” (Robin v. Smith, supra,
132 Cal.App.2d at p. 291), then the Court is lacking the most critical piece of
evidence to grant summary adjudication of this claim: an actual statement of
the debits and credits of the transactions between the parties that provides
sufficient evidence on summary adjudication of the open book account at issue.
Even if Western Union had attached the exhibits it failed to attach to its
motion, as discussed above in Section I, none of those documents were a
statement of debits and credits. (See Mot., Badilla Decl., ¶¶ 4, 12 [Agency
Agreement, Guaranty Agreement]; Mot., Spector Decl., ¶¶ 2, 4, Exs. A-B [copies
of Requests for Admission served on Defendant].)
Western Union’s motion is thus
DENIED as to the SAC’s third cause of action, without prejudice. 
Conclusion
Plaintiff Western Union Financial Services, Inc.’s Motion for Summary
Adjudication of First, Third, Fifth, and Seventh Causes of Action Against
Defendant Kelly Ranghee Kang, individually and dba Aloha Deli Market is DENIED,
without prejudice.