  Case Number:  22CHCV01232    Hearing Date:   March 15, 2024    Dept:  F47 Dept. F47
Date: 3/15/24
Case #22CHCV01232
 
MOTION TO SET
ASIDE DEFAULT
 
Motion filed on 1/9/24.
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendants Everardo Vargas
Valencia, Esq.; Everardo Vargas Valencia, A.P.C.; Law Offices of Everardo
Vargas Valencia, APC

RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Socorro Sanchez
NOTICE: ok
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: An order
relieving Defendants, under the mandatory provision of CCP 473(b), from default
and reinstating the answer previously filed and stricken on 8/28/23.

 
RULING: The motion is denied.  
 
SUMMARY OF FACTS & PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
This action arises out of Defendants Everardo Vargas
Valencia, Esq. (Mr. Valencia); Everardo Vargas Valencia, A.P.C.; Law Offices of
Everardo Vargas Valencia, APC’s (Defendants) representation of Plaintiff
Socorro Sanchez (Plaintiff) in a prior action. 
Plaintiff alleges that Defendants committed wrongdoing by converting
Plaintiff’s settlement funds from the prior action.  
 
On 11/23/22, Plaintiff filed this action against
Defendants for: (1) Negligence, (2) Negligence Per Se, (3) Negligent Infliction
of Emotional Distress, (4) Breach of Contract, (5) Recission of Retainer
Agreement, (6) Unjust Enrichment, (7) Accounting, (8) Conversion and (9) Breach
of Fiduciary Duty.  On 1/12/23, before
Defendants appeared, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint alleging the
same 9 causes of action.  On 1/27/23,
Plaintiff served Defendants with the First Amended Complaint and Statement of
Damages by delivering the documents to Mr. Valencia.
 
On 7/6/23, defaults were entered against Defendants.  On 7/10/23, Mr. Valencia, on behalf of
himself and “any who could be named as other Defendants” filed an answer to the
First Amended Complaint.  On 8/28/23,
Defendants’ answer was ordered stricken by the Court because it was filed after
the defaults had been entered.  (See
8/28/23 Minute Order).  On 10/13/23,
Plaintiff filed a Request for Entry of Default Judgment and supporting
documents.  At the 10/18/23 Case
Management Conference, Defendant represented that a hearing date for a Motion
to Set Aside/Vacate Default had been reserved for 3/28/24.  (See 10/18/23 Minute Order).  On the Court’s own motion, the hearing on the
motion was advanced and continued to 12/7/23. 
Id.  At the Status
Conference Re Default Judgment on 12/7/23, Defendant represented that he was
unable to reserve a hearing date for the motion and requested additional
time.  (See 12/7/23 Minute
Order).  The Court advised Defendant to
reserve a hearing date and bring an ex parte application to advance the
reserved hearing date.  Id.
On 1/9/24, Defendants filed and served the instant Motion
to Set Aside Default which seeks an order relieving Defendants, under the
mandatory provision of CCP 473(b), from default and reinstating the answer
previously filed and stricken on 8/28/23. 
The motion was originally set for hearing on 8/13/24.  At the 1/11/24 Status Conference Re Default,
the Court advanced the hearing date to 3/15/24. 
(See 1/11/24 Minute Order). 
On 3/4/24, Plaintiff filed and served an opposition to the motion.  
 
ANALYSIS
 
CCP 473(b) provides:
 
“The court may, upon any terms as
may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a
judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her
through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Application
for this relief shall be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading
proposed to be filed therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted,
and shall be made within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months,
after the judgment, dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken. However, in the
case of a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding determining the
ownership or right to possession of real or personal property, without
extending the six-month period, when a notice in writing is personally served
within the State of California both upon the party against whom the judgment,
dismissal, order, or other proceeding has been taken, and upon his or her
attorney of record, if any, notifying that party and his or her attorney of
record, if any, that the order, judgment, dismissal, or other proceeding was
taken against him or her and that any rights the party has to apply for relief
under the provisions of Section 473 of the Code of Civil Procedure shall expire
90 days after service of the notice, then the application shall be made within
90 days after service of the notice upon the defaulting party or his or her
attorney of record, if any, whichever service shall be later. No affidavit or
declaration of merits shall be required of the moving party. Notwithstanding
any other requirements of this section, the court shall, whenever an
application for relief is made no more than six months after entry of judgment,
is in proper form, and is accompanied by an attorney's sworn affidavit
attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any
(1) resulting default entered by the clerk against his or her client, and which
will result in entry of a default judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment
or dismissal entered against his or her client, unless the court finds that the
default or dismissal was not in fact caused by the attorney's mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or neglect. The court shall, whenever relief
is granted based on an attorney's affidavit of fault, direct the attorney to
pay reasonable compensatory legal fees and costs to opposing counsel or
parties. However, this section shall not lengthen the time within which an
action shall be brought to trial pursuant to Section
583.310.” (emphasis added).
 
Here, the notice of motion indicates that relief is sought
under the mandatory provision of CCP 473(b) based on attorney fault.  (See Motion, p.1:26-28, p.6:11-12).  Even in the discussion of discretionary
relief, Defendants argue that a client may obtain relief based on an attorney’s
inexcusable neglect.  (See Motion,
p.5:7-22).  As such, the Court finds that
the motion is based on the mandatory provision for relief in CCP 473(b).  
 
A motion for mandatory relief based on an attorney’s
affidavit of fault must be made “no more than six months after entry of
judgment,” not the underlying entry of default. 
CCP 473(b); Sugasawara (1994) 27 CA4th 294-297.  Here, since no default judgment has been
entered there is no time limit on a motion for relief based on an attorney
affidavit of fault.  Id.  When a motion for relief is made no more than
six months after entry of judgment (or at any time before judgment is entered),
is in proper form, and is accompanied by an attorney’s sworn affidavit of
fault, the court must vacate the default or default judgment.  CCP 473(b). 
As such, whether or not Defendants are entitled to relief turns on
whether the Court finds that the defaults were the result of the attorney’s,
and not the Defendants’, fault and the motion is in proper form.  CCP 473(b).
 
Here, the clients and the attorney accepting fault for
the entry of defaults are one and the same. 
The Law Offices of Everardo Vargas Valencia, APC and Everardo Vargas
Valencia, Esq. bring this motion for relief on behalf of Defendants Everardo
Vargas Valencia, Esq.; Everardo Vargas Valencia, A.P.C.; Law Offices of
Everardo Vargas Valencia, APC and the motion is supported by a declaration of
fault from attorney/defendant Everardo Vargas Valencia (Mr. Valencia).  The mandatory relief provision of the statute
only applies to an attorney representing a client.  Esther B. (2008) 158 CA4th 1093, 1099
(mandatory relief provision of CCP 473(b) did not apply in a case where an
attorney represented herself).  Further,
the purpose behind the mandatory relief provision is “to alleviate the hardship
on parties who lose their day in court due solely to an inexcusable failure to
act on the part of their attorneys.”  Zamora
(2002) 28 C4th 249, 257.  
 
Here, the inexcusable failure to act was on the part of
the Defendants acting through Mr. Valencia (a defendant in the case and the
principle of the other defendants).  As
noted above, Mr. Valencia was personally served on behalf of all of the
Defendants and he had the responsibility to oversee his staff who he claims
failed to calendar the due date for the answer. 
(See Valencia Decl.).  
 
Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that the default
were the result of Defendants own fault and they cannot rely in the mandatory
provision of CCP 473(b) to obtain relief in this case.    
 
To the extent Defendants seek relief under the
discretionary provision of CCP 473(b), the motion is untimely as it was filed
on 1/9/24, more than six months after the defaults were entered on 7/6/23.  The Rutter Group California Practice Guide:
Civil Procedure Before Trial, Ch.5-G, §5:279. 
Even if Defendants could rely on the discretionary provision of CCP
473(b), they failed to act diligently after learning that the defaults had been
entered and the answer filed on behalf of Defendants had been stricken.  
Mr. Valencia was aware of the situation at the 8/28/23
Case Management Conference at which he was present.  (See 8/28/23 Minute Order).  However, the instant motion seeking relief
from the defaults was not filed until more than four months later on 1/9/24,
despite the Court making repeated accommodations for Mr. Valencia.  (See 10/18/23 Minute Order; 12/7/23
Minute Order).  As such, if relief was
available under the discretionary provision of the statute, it too would be
denied.  
 
The Court further notes that despite the motion seemingly
indicating that the email address (marcela@laweverardovalencia.com)
listed for the Law Office of Everardo Vargas Valencia on the California State
Bar website is inactive, that email address is still listed on the California
State Bar website and in eCourt for the firm. 
(See Motion, p.3:4-7).
 
CONCLUSION
 
The motion is denied. 
  
 
 