  Case Number:  23STCV01749    Hearing Date:   December 4, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept.
68
Date:
12-4-24
Case
#: 23STCV01749
Trial
Date: Not Set
 
VACATE DEFAULT
 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendant, Gredale LLC
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiff, D & O Tradeco Inc.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Motion
to Vacate Default Judgment
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
On
January 26, 2023, Plaintiff D & O Tradeco Inc. filed a complaint for Breach
of Written Lease, Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing,
Fraud in the Inducement, Negligence, Conversion, Intentional Interfence with
Contractual Relations, Negligent Interference with Contractual Relations, and
Violation of Business and Professions Code section 17200. The complaint arises
from an alleged breach of settlement agreement arising from previously filed
complaint, D&O Tradeco, Inc. v. Gredale, LLC, 22STCV14045, which was
dismissed on July 6, 2022. 
 
On
January 31, 2023, Plaintiff filed a 170.6 against Department 12, thereby
leading to reassignment to Department 68. On March 10, 2023, Defendant Gredale
LLC answered the complaint. On November 3, 2023, the court granted the motion
of counsel for Gredale LLC to be relieved as counsel. 
 
On
December 14, 2023, the court granted the motion to strike the answer of Gredale
LLC on grounds of a lack of counsel representing the corporate entity. The
court also entered a default against Gredale LLC. On February 16, 2024, the
court entered default judgment in favor of Plaintiff and against Gredale LLC
for $10,775.157.82. 
 
RULING: Denied without
Prejudice.
Defendant/Judgment Debtor Gredale LLC (Gredale) moves to vacate
the default judgment. Gredale moves for relief on grounds that the default was
entered as the result of difficulty in retaining new counsel, but now that new
counsel is in place, Gredale requests adjudication on the merits.
Plaintiff/Judgment Creditor in opposition challenges any statutory relief as
untimely, and denies any showing of extrinsic mistake.  Defendant in a one day late reply reiterates
the extrinsic mistake position based on accusations of misrepresentations of
Judgment Creditor, and restatement of “financial” difficulties by the corporate
entity, thereby leading to an inability to pay for attorney representation. The
reply also suggests that the entry of judgment 35 days after the default,
rather than waiting six months also violated certain uncited procedural
standards. The reply concludes with a denial of prejudice.
 
On a threshold note, the court electronic filing system
shows no substitutions of counsel on behalf of Gredale prior to either the
filing of the motion or amended motion. New counsel for Plaintiff substituted
into the action on March 14, 2024. The motion was improperly served on former
counsel on August 12, 2024. New counsel filed an “amended” motion on November
5, 2024, on new Plaintiff’s counsel as well as the attorney responsible for
filing the first motion for relief, Steven Scandura. Again, whoever now
represents the corporate entity, neither attorney filed a substitution of
counsel.
 
In the initial motion, Gredale moved for relief on grounds
of an equitable request for trial on the merits, without addressing any legal
or statutory standards regarding the default. The motion also lacks a signed
declaration from counsel. The amended motion requests relief under extrinsic
mistake principles. Neither motion requests relief under under Code of Civil
Procedure section 473 subdivision (b), and the court lacks jurisdiction to
grant relief under this provision either way. 
 
“The six-month time limit for granting statutory relief is
jurisdictional and the court may not consider a motion for relief made after
that period has elapsed. (Citation.) The six-month period runs from entry of
default, not entry of judgment.” (Manson,
Iver & York v. Black (2009) 176 Cal.App.4th 36, 42.) The August 12,
2024, motion was filed five (5) months and 27 days or 178 days from the
February 16, 2024, entry of the judgment, but seven (7) months and 29 days or
242 days from the entry of the judgment itself. 
 
Given the lapse of the six month deadline and valid basis
for the entry of the default and judgment, the requested relief depends on
equity. “[E]xtrinsic mistake” constitutes “a term
broadly applied when circumstances extrinsic to the litigation have unfairly
cost a party a hearing on the merits.” (Rappleyea v. Campbell (1994) 8 Cal.4th 975, 981.) “[E]xtrinsic mistake exists when the
ground ... is the excusable neglect of the defaulting party to appear and
present his claim or defense. If that neglect results in an unjust judgment,
without a fair adversary hearing, the basis for equitable relief on the ground
of extrinsic mistake is present. (Citation.) Relief will be denied, however, if the
complaining party's negligence permitted the ... mistake to occur. (Citation.)”
(Manson,
Iver & York v. Black, supra,
176 Cal.App.4th at p. 47.) Circumstances of extrinsic mistake include
numerous examples, including: “when one party relies
on another to defend (Citations); ... when a mistake led a court to do what it never
intended (Citation); when a mistaken belief of one party prevented proper
notice of the action (Citations); ... cases involving ... mistaken belief as to
immunity from suit (Citations). (Kulchar v.
Kulchar (1969) 1 Cal.3d 467, 471-472.)
 
“‘To set aside
a judgment based upon extrinsic mistake one
must satisfy three elements. First, the defaulted party must demonstrate that
it has a meritorious case. Second[ ], the party seeking to set aside the
default must articulate a satisfactory excuse for not presenting a defense to
the original action. Last [ ], the moving party must demonstrate diligence in
seeking to set aside the default once ... discovered.’” (Rappleyea v. Campbell, supra, 8 Cal.4th
at p. 982.)
 
Since the equitable power of the court is being invoked, the
relief sought is subject to equitable defenses, including laches. Thus, relief
may be denied if it is shown that the moving party has been guilty of
unreasonable delay in seeking relief, causing prejudice to the opposing party.
(McCreadie v. Arques (1967) 248
Cal.App.2d 39, 46 [plaintiff would be prejudiced by having to prove matters 5
years old if judgment set aside].)  The
greater the prejudice to the responding party, the more likely it is that the
court will determine that equitable defenses such as laches or estoppel apply
to the request to vacate a valid judgment. (Rappleyea
v. Campbell, supra, 8 Cal.4th at
p. 983.)
 
Greg Lorber, president of Gredale LLC submits an extensive
declaration regarding the underlying circumstances leading to the lawsuit.
Gredale maintains the complaint was the result of a settlement agreement, which
Gredale accuses Plaintiff/Judgment Debtor of obtaining the default on an “underlying
faulty premise.” [See Declaration of Greg Lorber, ¶¶ 15-16, Ex. 4.] The declaration concludes with defenses to the action
should the court vacate the default. [Id., ¶¶ 17-19.] The declaration concludes with the representation that
the default was obtained when Judgment Debtor was unable to “afford an
attorney.” [Id., ¶ 20.] Attorney Steven
Scandura submits a declaration as to being retained on July 1, 2024, after
previously declining to represent Gredale in December of 2023. Moving counsel
in the amended motion, Michael Newhouse, states representation began in
“October” due to a “related” federal action against Gredale on the basis of
“fraudulent transfer and alter ego theory.”
 
The court accepts the
representation of a satisfactory defense based on the disputed settlement
agreement. Significantly lacking from the motion is any substantive address of
the last two elements: “‘the party seeking
to set aside the default must articulate a satisfactory excuse for not
presenting a defense to the original action. Last [ ], the moving party must
demonstrate diligence in seeking to set aside the default once ... discovered.’”
(Rappleyea v. Campbell,
supra, 8 Cal.4th at p. 982.) The
amended motion references declarations of “Huffine” and “Davis” regarding an
inability to pay bills, thereby leading to the withdrawal of counsel, but the
both the motion and amended motions lack any such declarations in support. The
only reference, again, is the second to last paragraph in the Lorber
declaration representing an inability to pay legal fees. 
 
Judgment creditor takes
significant issue with this position. Judgment creditor specifically contends
the corporate entity was stripped of all assets in order to avoid judgment
creditor collection. [Declaration of Eliyahu Ness.]
 
Assuming the represented financial
hardship was better articulated and removed from any context of the alleged
transfer of assets, the court questions the veracity of any purported financial
hardships given the otherwise admitted voluntary entry into the settlement
agreement. The court assumes Judgment Debtor was represented by counsel at the
time of the settlement agreement, and executed the settlement agreement in good
faith with an intent to meet all financial obligations. A default on the
agreement leading to the lawsuit and subsequent loss of counsel based on a
sudden inability to not pay counsel, indicates potential financial issues
arising from unexplained reasons. [Lorber Decl., ¶¶ 15-18.] 
 
The lack of such information and
questionable circumstances also undermines any showing of diligence. Judgment
Debtor offers neither any denial of notice of the stricken answer and entry of
default, nor an explanation for the delay in filing of the first motion itself
two days before the 180 deadline lapse, and well after the initial default. Furthermore,
even accepting the unsupported position of financial shortcomings as a credible
basis of the motion, the existence of the federal court action for fraudulent
transfer circles back to a potential intent to simply evade collection rather
than challenge the underlying action on the merits until the federal court
action forced a new plan. 
 
Vacating the default in this court
could also significantly prejudice the federal court action. Other than a
denial of prejudice, Judgment Debtor offers no address to this situation,
especially given the unexplained conduct addressed from the time of the
settlement agreement to the late filing of the instant motion. [Ness Decl.]
 
The court therefore DENIES the motion to vacate without
prejudice. 
 
Judgment Debtor/Defendant to give
notice. 
 