 Case Number:  BC407123    Hearing Date:   December 4, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept.
68
Date:
12-4-24 
Case
#BC407123
Trial
Date: N/A
 
REASSIGNMENT OF JUDGMENT
 
MOVING
PARTY: Plaintiff, Alfredo Garcia 
RESPONDING PARTIES: Unopposed/Third Party, Ex Parte
Collection Services, LLC 
 
RELIEF REQUESTED
Motion for Reassignment of Collection Assignment
 
SUMMARY OF ACTION
Plaintiff Alfredo Garcia holds a certain judgment against Adams
West Associates, Ltd., A California Limited Partnership. On an uncertain date,
Garcia assigned collection of the judgment to third party Ex Parte Collection
Services, LLC. 
 
RULING: Denied.
Plaintiff/Judgment Creditor Alfredo Garcia moves for
reassignment of the assigned debt collection from third party Ex Parte
Collection Services, LLC back to Judgment Debtor. Th motion is based on the
suspension of Ex Parte Collection Services, LLC by the California Secretary of
State due to nonpayment of taxes to the California State Franchise Tax Board,
and therefore an inability to lawfully conduct any collection activities. 
 
Garcia represents the judgment was assigned to Ex Parte
Collection Services, LLC via Civil Code section 954.  The court record lacks any evidence of a
noticed assignment of the judgment and ability to actually undertake collection
efforts. (Civ. Code, § 954.5; Great Western Bank v. Kong (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 28, 31-32.)
 
The authority cited by Judgement
Creditor only provides general statements of court authority for order of its
calendar, without substantively addressing any basis of jurisdiction or power
over Ex Parte Collection Services, LLC to enforce any such order for
reassignment. After significant review of authority, the court declines to
forge a basis for relief given the paucity of direct legal citation addressing
the situation regarding jurisdiction and procedure.
 
The court understands the situation presenting an
effectively uncollectible judgment given the suspension, but given the
assignment under Civil Code section 954, et seq. the court requires more
evidence and thorough address of applicable authority for a basis to grant
relief.
 
The motion is DENIED without prejudice. 
 
Judgment Creditor to give notice to all parties.
 