  Case Number:  23STCV14488    Hearing Date:   January 23, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept.
68
Date:
1-23-24
Case
#23STCV14488
Trial
Date: Not Set
 
DEMURRER
 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendants, Greystar California, Inc.
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiff, Lauren Swaim
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Demurrer
to the First Amended Complaint
·        
1st
Cause of Action: Assault 
·        
2nd
Cause of Action: Battery 
·        
3rd
Cause of Action: Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress
·        
4th
Cause of Action: False Imprisonment
·        
5th
Cause of Action: Negligence
·        
6th
Cause of Action: Tenant Harassment in Violation of Civil Code section 1940.2
·        
7th
Cause of Action: Tenant Harassment in Violation of FEHA (Government Code
section 12955)
·        
8th
Cause of Action: Breach of Implied Warranty of Habitability
·        
9th
Cause of Action: Breach of Implied Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment
·        
10th
Cause of Action: Violation of Los Angeles Municipal Code article 5.3
·        
11th
Cause of Action: Violation of Los Angeles County Code section 8.52.130
·        
12th
Cause of Action: Bad Faith Retention of Security Deposit
 
Motion
to Strike Allegations in Support of, and Claim for, Punitive Damages
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
On November 1, 2021, plaintiff Lauren Swaim commenced a
lease for Apartment 202 in 548 Spring Street. The building was owned and/or
managed by defendant Greystar California, Inc., Defense International
Corporations, Inc. and four entities identified as SBDTLA 1, LLC, SBDTLA 2, LLC
SBDTLA 3, LLC and SBDTLA 4. Plaintiff alleges employed/contracted security
services for the building. On June 21, 201, Plaintiff entered the building, and
alleges an unidentified security guard “aggressively approached Plaintiff, began
showing threats and obscenities ... trapped her in an elevator, and violently
struck Plaintiff...” 
 
Plaintiff separately alleges unsafe living conditions on the
premises, including mold, rodent and insect infestation, and unsafe
construction zone areas. Plaintiff identifies as disabled under Civil Code
section 1761.
 
On
June 21, 2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint for Assault, Battery, Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress, False Imprisonment, Negligence, Tenant
Harassment in Violation of Civil Code section 1940.2, Tenant Harassment in
Violation of FEHA (Government Code section 12955), Breach of Implied Warranty
of Habitability, Breach of Implied Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment, Violation of
Los Angeles Municipal Code article 5.3, Violation of Los Angeles County Code
section 8.52.130, and Bad Faith Retention of Security Deposit. On November 3,
2023, the court sustained the demurrer to the complaint and granted the motion
to strike punitive damages. On November 22, 2023, Plaintiff filed a first
amended complaint.
 
RULING
Demurrer:
Overruled.
Defendant Greystar California, Inc. (Greystar) submits a
demurrer to the entire first amended complaint. Greystar challenges the
operative complaint on grounds of insufficient facts specifically establishing
a basis of liability, due to overly general, conclusive allegations without
specific articulation distinguishing the individual defendants. Plaintiff in
opposition maintains all causes of action are sufficiently pled, and the
demurrer improperly seek a level of proof not applicable to the demurrer standard.
Greystar in reply reiterates the lack of any sufficiently pled respondeat
superior basis of liability based on the alleged conduct of the security guard,
as well certain deficiencies in certain individual causes of action.
 
A demurrer is an objection to a pleading, the grounds for
which are apparent from either the face of the complaint or a matter of which
the court may take judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a); see
also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d
311, 318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the sufficiency of a
pleading “by raising questions of law.” (Postley
v. Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a
pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be
liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) The court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all
material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions
of fact or law . . . .” ’ ” (Berkley v.
Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) In applying these standards, the
court liberally construes the complaint to determine whether a cause of action
has been stated.  (Picton v. Anderson Union High School Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th
726, 733.)
 
“A demurrer for
uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint is in some respects
uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery
procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616; Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d
135, 139 [“[U]nder our liberal pleading rules,
where the complaint contains substantive factual allegations sufficiently
apprising defendant of the issues it is being asked to meet, a demurrer for
uncertainty should be overruled or plaintiff given leave to amend.] 
 
1st
Cause of Action: Assault 
2nd
Cause of Action: Battery
4th
Cause of Action: False Imprisonment
Defendant
concedes the pled elements of the claim and instead challenges the lack of
contextual facts establishing a basis of liability. Plaintiff maintains a basis
of liability under the doctrine of respondeat superior, without any actual
legal support for the argument. Defendant maintains that any and all respondeat
superior claims are in fact directed towards co-defendant Defense International
Corporation, Inc. 
 
“‘[A]n employer is liable for risks “arising out of the
employment.” [Citations.] [¶] A risk arises out of the employment when 'in the
context of the particular enterprise an employee's conduct is not so unusual or
startling that it would seem unfair to include the loss resulting from it among
other costs of the employer's business. [Citations.] In other words, where the
question is one of vicarious liability, the inquiry should be whether the risk
was one “that may fairly be regarded as typical of or broadly incidental” to
the enterprise undertaken by the employer. ...’” [¶] ‘“One way to determine
whether a risk is inherent in, or created by, an enterprise is to ask whether
the actual occurrence was a generally foreseeable consequence of the activity. ...
[¶] In California, the scope of employment has been interpreted broadly under
the respondeat superior doctrine.” (Farmers Ins. Group v. County of Santa
Clara (1995) 11 Cal.4th 992, 1003-1004 (internal quotation marks omitted).)
 
The operative complaint specifically alleges an employment
relationship between the security guard and moving defendant, and the security
guard was acting within the course and scope of employment. [First Amend.
Comp., ¶¶ 23, 25.] The court declines to consider any extrinsic inference
deflecting employment liability to co-defendant Defense International
Corporation, Inc. at the pleading stage of review. The demurrer is overruled.
The parties may conduct discovery for further distinguishing information regarding
the identity of the security guard and responsible employer, if applicable. 
 
3rd
Cause of Action: Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress
Defendant
challenges the lack of facts supporting a finding of outrageous conduct.
Plaintiff counters that the actions of the security guard demonstrate the
required element.
 
The elements of [intentional infliction of
emotional distress] are ‘(1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant
with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of
causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff's suffering severe or extreme
emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate causation of the emotional
distress by the defendant's outrageous conduct.’” (Ess v. Eskaton Properties, Inc. (2002) 97 Cal.App.4th 120, 129.) “The tort calls for
intentional, or at least reckless conduct—conduct intended to inflict injury or
engaged in with the realization that injury will result.” (Id. at p. 130.) “The modern rule is that there is liability for
conduct exceeding all bounds usually tolerated by a decent society, of a nature
which is especially calculated to cause, and does cause, mental distress (citation).
‘Behavior may be considered outrageous if a defendant (1) abuses a relation or
position which gives him power to damage the plaintiff's interest; (2) knows
the plaintiff is susceptible to injuries through mental distress; or (3) acts
intentionally or unreasonably with the recognition that the acts are likely to
result in illness through mental distress.’” (Stoiber v. Honeychuck
(1980) 101 Cal.App.3d 903, 921.)
 
The alleged actions of the security guard meet the standard
for outrageous conduct. The demurrer is overruled.
 
5th
Cause of Action: Negligence
Defendant
challenges the lack of facts, while Plaintiff counters the complaint
sufficiently articulates a basis of liability for both the conduct of the
security guard and the condition of the premises. The allegations lack any
apparent statements regarding the condition of the premises, and seemingly seek
to allege liability under a claim of negligent hiring. 
 
“Liability is based upon the facts that the employer knew or
should have known that hiring the employee created a particular risk or hazard
and that particular harm materializes.” (Doe
v. Capital Cities (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 1038, 1054.) “Liability for
negligent hiring and supervision is based upon the reasoning that if an
enterprise hires individuals with characteristics which might pose a danger to
customers or other employees, the enterprise should bear the loss caused by the
wrongdoing of its incompetent or unfit employees.” (Mendoza v. City of Los Angeles (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 1333, 1339.)
 
The
court finds the operative complaint sufficiently articulates a claim for
negligence, and declines to otherwise consider extrinsic inference regarding
other potential forms of relief under the umbrella of negligence. The demurrer
is overruled.
 
6th
Cause of Action: Tenant Harassment in Violation of Civil Code section 1940.2
7th
Cause of Action: Tenant Harassment in Violation of FEHA (Government Code
section 12955)
8th
Cause of Action: Breach of Implied Warranty of Habitability
9th
Cause of Action: Breach of Implied Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment
10th
Cause of Action: Violation of Los Angeles Municipal Code article 5.3
11th
Cause of Action: Violation of Los Angeles County Code section 8.52.130
12th
Cause of Action: Bad Faith Retention of Security Deposit
Defendant relies on a lack of
facts contention without specific address or articulation of the individual
elements per cause of action. Plaintiff counters that all claims remain
sufficiently pled with address of the required elements for each and every claim.
The court finds the elements are both properly pled and undisputed. The court
declines to make the arguments for Defendant. The demurrer is overruled to the
instant causes of action.
 
 
Motion to Strike
Defendant moves to strike allegations in support of, and
claim for, punitive damages within each and every cause of action in the
complaint, including the assault, battery, emotional distress, false
imprisonment, negligence, FEHA violations, warranty and habitability and quiet
enjoyment causes of action, and LAMC code violations. 
 
On the punitive damages claim, the court refers to the
statute. Civil Code section 3294, subdivision (c) authorizes punitive damages
upon a showing of malice, oppression, or fraud, which are defined as follows:
 
(1) “Malice” means
conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or
despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.
(2) “Oppression”
means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of that person’s rights.
(3) “Fraud” means an
intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known
to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby
depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.
 
Circle Graphics correctly argues that negligence based
claims in and of themselves generally will not support a punitive damages
claim. Plaintiff counters with general citation to the standard of recovery.
 
Punitive damages require more than the mere commission of a
tort. (See Taylor v. Superior Court
(1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 894-95.) Specific facts must be pled in support of
punitive damages. (Hillard v. A.H. Robins
Co. (1983) 148 Cal.App.3d 374, 391-392.) “The mere allegation an intentional tort was committed is not sufficient
to warrant an award of punitive damages. [Citation.] Not only must there be
circumstances of oppression, fraud or malice, but facts must be alleged in the pleading to support such a claim.
[Citation.]” (Grieves v. Superior Court
(1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 166, fn. Omitted [emphasis added].)
 
Any negligence based causes of action in and
of themselves will not support the claim for punitive damages. Plain
unintentional carelessness, characterized as negligence or recklessness, is not
sufficient to support punitive damages. (Nolin
v. National Convenience Stores, Inc. (1979) 95 Cal.App.3d 279, 285-286
[“Conduct classified only as unintentional carelessness, while it may
constitute negligence or even gross negligence, will not support an award of
punitive damages”]; G. D. Searle &
Co. v. Superior Court (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 22, 32 (“When
nondeliberate injury is charged, allegations that the defendant's conduct was
wrongful, willful, wanton, reckless or unlawful do not support a claim for
exemplary damages; such allegations do not charge
malice”]; Dawes v. Superior Court
(1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 82, 87 [“Inasmuch as Civil Code section
3294 requires as a prerequisite to the recovery of punitive damages that the
defendant “has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice,” the cases have
uniformly recognized that proof of negligence, even gross negligence, or
recklessness is insufficient to warrant an award of punitive damages’]; Ebaugh v. Rabkin (1972) 22 Cal.App.3d
891; McDonell v. American Trust Co.
(1955) 130 CA2d 296, 300 [Awareness of a potential condition under a negligence
claim not sufficient to support a claim for punitive damages].)
 
The
first amended complaint reads as a series of pro forma statements with the
intention of generally identifying all “employer” defendants of the security,
but otherwise only generally pleads facts relied upon in support of the
punitive damages claim and ratification.
(White
v. Ultramar, Inc. (1999) 21 Cal.4th
563, 576–577; Cruz v. HomeBase (2000) 83
Cal.App.4th 160, 168.) While the court finds the allegations sufficient for
purposes of the demurrer, the higher pleading standard applicable to punitive
damages claims requires more than mere conclusions. The court therefore grants
the motion to strike on the punitive damages claim.
 
Any motion to strike on the same subject matter pled in the
potential second amended complaint will constitute the third time the Court
considers the subject matter. “In response to a motion to strike and before the
case is at issue, a pleading shall not be amended more than three times, absent
an offer to the trial court of additional facts to be pleaded that, if pleaded,
would result in a reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured. ...”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd. (e)(1).) 
 
 
 
 
The demurrer is therefore overruled in its entirety. The
motion to strike is granted in its entirety. Plaintiff has 30 days leave to
amend ONLY as to the punitive damages allegations in the identified causes of
action. Plaintiff may not add any new causes of action. (Harris v. Wachovia Mortgage, FSB (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1018, 1023.) 
 
Any motion to strike on the same subject matter pled in the
potential second amended complaint will constitute the third time the Court
considers the subject matter. “In response to a motion to strike and before the
case is at issue, a pleading shall not be amended more than three times, absent
an offer to the trial court of additional facts to be pleaded that, if pleaded,
would result in a reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured. ...”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd. (e)(1).)
 
If Plaintiff declines or fails to
file a second amended complaint, moving defendant shall answer the complaint
within 10 days of the lapsed deadline. Any new causes of action or allegations
outside the scope of the order for leave regarding punitive damages may be
addressed via a motion to strike.
 
OSC re: Entry of Default set for February 27, 2024.
 
Defendant to give notice. 
 