 Case Number:  BC696133    Hearing Date:   August 13, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



GOVIND VAGHASHIA 
                           
         vs.
 
PRASHANT VAGHASHIA, et al. 
 
 


 Case No.: 
  BC696133
Related Case Nos.: BC696798 and
  BS172969
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  August 13, 2024



 
The Govind
Parties motion for a stay is GRANTED IN PART, DENIED IN PART. 
 
The motion is
GRANTED as to the stay of enforcement on the Court’s December 1, 2023 and
February 22, 2024 Orders. 
 
The motion is
DENIED as to the release of the Levied Funds. The Court orders these funds held
pursuant to CCP section 697.050, until the Prashant Parties’ motion to
determine insufficiency of the first bond can be held.
 
On 7/3/2018,
Plaintiffs Govind Vaghashia (Govind) as an individual and on behalf of Graphic
Research, Inc. dba Gtek/Bycan Systems filed a second amended complaint (SAC)
against Prashant Vaghashia (Prashant), Graphic Research, Inc. dba Gtek/Bycan
Systems (GRI), alleging: (1) involuntary dissolution; (2) breach of fiduciary
duty; (3) accounting; and (4) violation of Corporations Code sections 1601 and
1602. 
 
            On
7/23/2024, the Govind Parties filed a motion to stay proceedings and recall,
quash, and vacate writs of execution and notices of levy and release all
execution liens.  
 
Discussion 
 
            The
Govind Parties argue that a stay is mandatory given that they have now posted
bonds in excess of $20.5 million on 7/22/2024, and that these bonds are in
excess of 150% of the amount purportedly owed by Govind Parties under the
contested settlement agreement. 
 
Moreover, the
Govind Parties argue that a discretionary stay is warranted because: (1) the
Govind Parties previously and newly posted bonds total almost $33 million when
no more than $20.5 million is due under the disputed settlement; and (2) the
Court of Appeal has not resolved the central question underlying all allegedly
due payments – whether there is a valid and enforceable settlement or whether
the purported settlement should be set aside or vacated.
 
In response,
the Prashant Parties filed only a limited opposition. They concede that
“[b]ecause the Govind Parties have finally provided bonds in an amount that
meets the statutory threshold, Prashant and Mita agree that any current Writs
of Execution issued pursuant to those orders (and there is only one – on the
February 22, 2024 Order), the Notices of Levy, and the any liens created, are
extinguished, recalled and are of no further force and effect.” (2: 10-13.) 
 
However, the
Prashant Parties do not agree that the funds previously levied and delivered to
the Los Angeles County Sheriff (Levying Officer) should be released to the
Govind Parties, arguing:
 
Prashant and
Mita do not agree that the funds previously levied and delivered to the Los
Angeles County Sheriff (“Levying Officer”) should be released to the Govind
Parties. The Levying Officer currently holds $1,489,230.84 (“Levied Funds.”).
Pursuant to Section 697.050 of the California Code of Civil Procedure, this
Court may, and in this case, should, order those funds as a result of a dispute
between the parties on the amount of a prior bond issued. The $12,390,000.20
bond was filed on July 17, 2023 (“First Bond”) and stayed enforcement of two
orders of this Court dated April 20, 2023, and May 8, 2023. Because the orders
were issued a year ago, interest has accumulated to render the First Bond insufficient.
Prashant and Mita will file a Motion to Determine Insufficiency of the First
Bond. Consistent with Section 697.050, that (“First Bond Motion”), the Levied
Funds be held until the dispute between the parties on the First Bond is
determined. Counsel have diligently met and conferred on this proposal, but
have not yet reached agreement on the disposition of the Levied Funds, leaving
it as the sole open issue on this Motion.
 
            (Opp.,
2: 14-26.) 
 
Under section
697.050 “[i]f a lien created pursuant to this division is extinguished,
property held subject to the lien shall be released unless the property is to
be held under another lien or the property is ordered by the court to be held
pending resolution of a dispute concerning its proper disposition.” (CCP §
697.050.) Because Prashant and Mita have now objected to the sufficiency of the
First Bond and indicated their intent to file a Motion to Determine Sufficient
of First Bond, a dispute concerning the proper disposition of the Levied Funds
has arisen.
 
As such, the
Court finds the levied funds should be held until this dispute can be resolved.

 
On a final
note, the Court acknowledges the Prashant Parties’ calculations regarding the
insufficiency of the First Bond, and the fact that (assuming these calculations
are correct) the levied funds are just over the amount need to replenish the
First Bond. Holding the funds for the time being gives the Govind Parties time
and flexibility to determine how best to structure their obligations on the
First Bond. However, the Court agrees that the preferred outcome would be
through a Stipulation and Order jointly submitted by the parties, and urges the
parties to work cooperatively towards an outcome which does not require Court
intervention. 
 
Based on the
foregoing, the Govind Parties motion for a stay is granted in part, denied in
part. The Govind Parties’ motion is stayed as to the enforcement of the Court’s
December 1, 2023 and February 22, 2024 Orders. The motion is denied as to the
release of the Levied Funds. The Court orders these funds held pursuant to CCP
section 697.050, until the Prashant Parties’ motion to determine insufficiency
of the first bond can be held. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  August   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 