  Case Number:  21STCV37275    Hearing Date:   March 8, 2024    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Motion to
Compel Independent Medical Examination of Plaintiff [and] Request for Sanctions
 
Moving Party: Defendant
LA Valley Management, LLC
Resp. Party:    None
 
SUBJECT:        Motion to
Compel IME of Plaintiff and Monetary Sanctions Against Plaintiff
 
Moving Party: Defendant
David Carlin 
Resp. Party:    None
 
SUBJECT:        Motion for
Terminating Sanctions and Monetary Sanctions Against Plaintiff
 
Moving Party: Defendant
David Carlin 
Resp. Party:    None
 
 
 
LA Valley Management, LLC’s
Motion to Compel IME DENIED. LA Valley Management, LLC’s Request for Sanctions
is DENIED. 
 
David Carlin’s Motion to Compel
IME is DENIED.  David Carlin’s Request
for Sanctions is DENIED. 
 
The Motion for Terminating Sanctions is GRANTED in part.  The requests for terminating, evidentiary, and
monetary sanctions are DENIED.  Plaintiff
shall make herself available to complete her deposition within fourteen (14)
days of the issuance of this Order.  
 
BACKGROUND:
 
On October 8,
2021, Plaintiffs Kristien Amer, Eileen Hirsch, Megan Klimkos, Marisa Westphal,
Mary Danner, Nicholas Scheib, Adilya Kamiyeva, and Marlene Maro filed their
Complaint against Defendants LA Valley Management, LLC, LA Valley Management
Co, Mayfair Square, LLC, and David Carlin. This case regards causes of action
arising from Plaintiffs’ tenancies with Defendants. 
 
On March 28,
2023, Plaintiffs filed their First Amended Complaint. 
 
On April 27,
2023, Defendant LA Valley Management, LLC filed an Answer to Plaintiffs’ First
Amended Complaint. 
 
On May 1,
2023, Defendant David Carlin filed an Answer to Plaintiff’s First Amended
Complaint. 
 
On May 2,
2023, Defendant LA Valley Management, LLC filed another Answer to the First
Amended Complaint. 
 
On May 4,
2023, Defendant Mayfair Square, LLC filed an Answer to the First Amended
Complaint. 
 
On June 1,
2023, by request of Plaintiffs, the Clerk’s Office dismissed with prejudice all
Plaintiffs except Plaintiff Kristien Amer (“Plaintiff”) from the First Amended
Complaint. 
 
        On
January 23, 2024, Aaron Darsky (Plaintiff’s former counsel in this matter)
filed Notice of Lien for Attorney Fees and Costs. 
 
        On
February 13, 2024, Defendant LA Valley Management, LLC filed its Motion to
Compel Independent Medical Examination of Plaintiff [and] Request for Sanctions
(“LAVM’s Motion to Compel IME”). Defendant LA Valley Management, LLC
concurrently filed its Proposed Order. 
 
        On
February 13, 2024, Defendant David Carlin filed his Motion to Compel IME of
Plaintiff and Monetary Sanctions Against Plaintiff (“Carlin’s Motion to Compel
IME”). In support of this motion, Defendant David Carlin concurrently filed:
(1) Declaration of Silvia C. Schaffer; and (2) Proposed Order. 
 
        On
February 14, 2024, Defendant David Carlin filed his Motion for Terminating
Sanctions and Monetary Sanctions Against Plaintiff (“Carlin’s Motion for
Terminating Sanctions”). Defendant David Carlin filed Declaration of Silvia C.
Schaffer in support of this motion. 
 
        On
March 4, 2024, Defendant David Carlin filed his Notice of Non-Opposition to
Carlin’s Motion for Terminating Sanctions. Defendant David Carlin concurrently
filed Declaration of Cody M. Leventhal. 
 
        On
March 4, 2024, Defendant David Carlin filed his Notice of Non-Opposition to
Carlin’s Motion to Compel IME. 
 
        No
oppositions or other responses have been filed to LAVM’s Motion to Compel IME,
Carlin’s Motion to Compel IME, or Carlin’s Motion for Terminating Sanctions. 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.         
Advancing
the March 11, 2024 Hearings to March 8, 2024
 
Carlin’s Motion to Compel IME and Carlin’s Motion for Terminating
Sanctions are scheduled to be heard on March 11, 2024. However, LAVM’s Motion
to Compel IME is scheduled for March 8, 2024. The motions consider similar
issues of law and fact, and all responses have been submitted. 
 
As these similar issues should be heard and considered at the same
time, the Court ADVANCES the March 11, 2024 hearing to March 8, 2024. Any party
that wishes to contest this may do so at the hearing on March 8, 2024. 
 
II.      
LAVM’s
Motion to Compel IME and David Carlin’s Motion to Compel IME
 
A. 
    Legal
Standard
 
“Any party may obtain
discovery, subject to the restrictions set forth in Chapter 5 (commencing with
Section 2019.010), by means of a physical or mental examination of (1) a party
to the action . . . in any action in which the mental or physical condition
(including the blood group) of that party or other person is in controversy in
the action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.020, subd. (a).)
 
“In any case in which
a plaintiff is seeking recovery for personal injuries, any defendant may demand
one physical examination of the plaintiff . . . .” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.220, subd. (a).)
 
        “If
any party desires to obtain discovery by a physical examination other than that
described in Article 2 (commencing with Section 2032.210), or by a mental
examination, the party shall obtain leave of court.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2032.310, subd. (a).)
 
“A motion for an
examination under subdivision (a) shall specify the time, place, manner,
conditions, scope, and nature of the examination, as well as the identity and
the specialty, if any, of the person or persons who will perform the
examination. The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration
under Section 2016.040.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.310, subd. (b).)
 
“The court shall grant a
motion for a physical or mental examination under Section 2032.310 only for
good cause shown.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.320, subd. (a).)
 
A motion for medical examination over
objection requires a separate statement that sets forth the discovery request,
the objection thereto, and the reasons why an examination should be compelled.
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345, subd. (a)(6).) A separate statement is not
required when no response has been provided to the request for discovery. (Id. at rule 3.1345, subd. (b)(1).)
 
B. 
    The
Parties’ Requests and Arguments
 
LA Valley Management, LLC and David Carlin move the Court to compel
Plaintiff to attend an independent medical examination. (LAVM’s Motion to
Compel IME, pp. 7:24–8:2; Carlin’s Motion to Compel IME, pp. 8:3–6.)
 
LA Valley Management, LLC argues good cause exists to compel Plaintiff
to attend an independent medical examination with a rheumatologist specialist
because she alleges rheumatological injuries. (LAVM’s Motion to Compel IME, p.
4:6–8.) LA Valley Management, LLC the logistics of its requested examination,
which would be on March 19, 2024 with Dr. Zagelbaum-Ward. (Id. at p.
5:14 and n. 1.) Dr. Zagelbaum-Ward’s office is located at 11760 Central Avenue,
Suite 202, Chino, California 91710. (Id. at p. 5:16–17.) LA Valley
Management, LLC has also specified the scope of the examination:
 
“The examining physician shall perform a review of systems, and
physical examination, including but not limited to 1) taking of a history of
the incident; 2) a determination of Plaintiff’s present physical status and
condition; 3) a physical examination of Plaintiff, including, without
limitation, an examination of those parts or areas of the body claimed to have
been injured as a result of, and physical conditions claimed to have been
caused by, the incident; 4) the taking of a medical history as it relates to
those parts or areas of the body claimed to have been injured as a result of,
and physical conditions claimed to have been caused by, the incident; and 5) a
review of Plaintiff’s medical records.”
 
(LAVM’s Motion to Compel IME, Exh. A, pp.
3:25–4:4.)
 
In addition:
 
“Dr. Zagelbaum Ward may ask questions relating to Plaintiff’s medical
condition; present symptoms and conditions; medical history, including the
manner in which any injuries occurred; prior injuries and diseases; and
Plaintiff’s occupational history. The inquiry into the conduct, events, or
circumstances surrounding the incident that is the subject of this action will
be necessary for purposes of diagnosis and evaluation of any injuries,
symptoms, and conditions. 
 
“The examining physician may use, and Plaintiff shall cooperate in the
use of, accepted diagnostic rheumatology tests, but no procedures causing pain
or undue discomfort or endangering Plaintiff’s life or health shall be used
except by order of this Court, granted with notice, on a further showing of
good cause thereof.”
 
(LAVM’s Motion to Compel IME, Exh. A, p.
3:16–24, paragraph notations omitted.)
 
David Carlin also argues good cause exists to compel Plaintiff to
attend an independent medical examination with a physician who specializes in
psychology and psychiatry. (Carlin’s Motion to Compel IME, p. 5:8–13; Decl.
Schaffer, ¶ 9.) David Carlin requests that the examination occur within five
days of the issuance of this Order with Dr. Filoteo. (Carlin’s Motion to Compel
IME, p. 6:4–7.) Dr. Filoteo’s office is located at 333 City Boulevard W, 17th
Floor, Orange, California 92868. (Ibid.) David Carlin has also specified
the scope of the examination:
 
“The evaluation of Plaintiff shall be limited to
psychological / mental evaluation and may not include any medical diagnosis
tests or physical examination other than that which is necessary to perform the
specified tests for the psychological / mental evaluation. 
 
“The psychological / mental examination will take up to 4
hours to conduct, non-inclusive of any reasonable breaks requested by
Plaintiff. The psychological / mental examination does not involve any
invasive, dangerous, or painful physical procedures other than the subjective
pain or distress ordinarily associated with the recall of psychologically
and/or emotionally upsetting events and situations in one's life. 
 
“Dr. Filoteo will conduct some or all of the following
tests/exams, which are widely accepted by the psychological community for
determining the conditions and diagnoses of Plaintiff, if any, and the severity
of said conditions and diagnoses:
 
·       “Clinical Interview
·       Beck Depression Inventory-II
·       Bech Anxiety Inventory
·       PTSD Checklist DSM-5
·       MMPI-3”
 
(Decl. Schaffer, Exh. 2, pp. 2:16–3:2.)
 
Plaintiff has not filed an
opposition to either of these motions. The Court notes, however, that Plaintiff
is litigating this matter in propria persona. 
 
C. 
    Discussion
 
During oral argument on these
motions, Plaintiff Amer repeatedly asserted that she was not requesting any personal
injury damages.  She stated that she was
only requesting emotional distress damages, and the only physical manifestation
of these damages was nausea.  Plaintiff
Amer also stated that she would not be having an expert testify as to her
damages.  
 
Given Plaintiff’s assertions to
the Court, LAVM stated that they did not need an IME.
 
As to Defendant Carlin’s request
for a mental examination, the Court has not been presented with evidence that
would demonstrate there is good cause for such an examination. Rather, the
nearly 2.5-year delay in requesting what would be a second examination — done
right before trial and right after Plaintiff has begun litigating this matter in
propria persona — weighs on behalf of the Court finding that there is not
good cause for this examination. 
 
Further, the Court finds that the
psychological examination requested by Carlin is much more intrusive than the
physical examination requested by LAVM.  Ms.
Amer asserted before the Court that she will not call any expert psychological
witnesses to testify as to her mental state or emotional damages.  In other words, this is a “garden-variety”
emotional distress case.  The Court finds
no need for a defense psychological IME in this case.
 
The Court DENIES both Defendant LAVM’s
and Defendant Carlin’s Motion to Compel IME. 
 
D. 
    Sanctions
 
Both LA Valley Management, LLC
and David Carlin request monetary sanctions for these motions. to Carlin’s
Motion to Compel IME has been denied and hence sanctions are not
warranted.  Further, given that Plaintiff
has been litigating this matter in propria persona during the period in
which these motions were filed and pending, the Court declines to award
sanctions to LA Valley Management. 
 
E. 
    Conclusion
 
LA Valley Management, LLC’s
Motion to Compel IME is DENIED. LA Valley Management, LLC’s Request for
Sanctions is DENIED. 
 
David Carlin’s Motion to Compel IME is
DENIED.  David Carlin’s Request for
Sanctions is DENIED. 
 
III.    
Carlin’s
Motion for Terminating Sanctions
 
A. 
    Legal
Standard
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030 gives
the court the discretion to impose sanctions against anyone engaging in a
misuse of the discovery process. A court may impose terminating sanctions by
striking pleadings of the party engaged in misuse of discovery or entering
default judgment. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subd. (d).) A violation of a
discovery order is sufficient for the imposition of terminating sanctions. (Collison
& Kaplan v. Hartunian (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th 1611, 1620.) Terminating
sanctions are appropriate when a party persists in disobeying the court's
orders. (Deyo v. Kilbourne (1978) 84 Cal.App.3d 771, 795–796.)
 
A terminating sanction is a "drastic
measure which should be employed with caution." (Deyo, supra,
at p. 793.) 
 
"A decision to order terminating
sanctions should not be made lightly. But where a violation is willful,
preceded by a history of abuse, and the evidence shows that less severe
sanctions would not produce compliance with the discovery rules, the trial
court is justified in imposing the ultimate sanction." (Mileikowsky v.
Tenet Healthsystem (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 262, 279–280.)
 
While the court has discretion to impose
terminating sanctions, these sanctions "should be appropriate to the
dereliction and should not exceed that which is required to protect the
interests of the party entitled to but denied discovery." (Deyo, supra,
84 Cal.App.3d at p. 793.) "[A] court is empowered to apply the ultimate
sanction against a litigant who persists in the outright refusal to comply with
his discovery obligations." (Id.) Discovery sanctions are not to be
imposed for punishment, but instead are used to encourage fair disclosure of
discovery to prevent unfairness resulting for the lack of information. (See Midwife
v. Bernal (1988) 203 Cal.App.3d 57, 64 [superseded on other grounds as
stated in Kohan v. Cohan (1991) 229 Cal.App.3d 967, 971.)
 
"A trial court has broad discretion to
impose discovery sanctions, but two facts are generally prerequisite to the
imposition of nonmonetary sanctions . . . (1) absent unusual circumstances,
there must be a failure to comply with a court order, and (2) the failure must
be willful." (Biles v. Exxon Mobil Corp. (2004) 124 Cal.App.4th
1315, 1327; but see Reedy v. Bussell (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 1272, 1291
["willfulness is no longer a requirement for the imposition of discovery
sanctions."].)
 
B. 
    Discussion
 
David Carlin requests that the Court issue terminating, evidentiary,
and monetary sanctions against Plaintiff because she has not completed her
deposition, or in the alternative to order Plaintiff to  again appear for her deposition. (Carlin’s
Motion for Terminating Sanctions, pp. 4–7, 11:25–26, 13:2–5.)
 
The Court does not agree with the arguments made about terminating,
evidentiary, and monetary sanctions. 
 
On July 31, 2023, the Court ordered Plaintiff “to make herself
available for deposition within forty five days.” (Minute Order dated July 31,
2023, p. 8.) According to David Carlin, Plaintiff appeared for her deposition
on September 14, 2023 — exactly forty-five days later. Thus, Plaintiff complied
with the Court’s order. 
 
        However, it is undisputed that
Defendants do have the right to complete the deposition. 
 
        The Court GRANTS in part the Motion for
Terminating Sanctions. 
 
        Plaintiff shall make herself available
to complete her deposition within fourteen (14) days of the issuance of this
Order. 
 
        The Court DENIES the requests for
terminating, evidentiary, and monetary sanctions. 
 
C. 
    Conclusion
 
The Motion for Terminating Sanctions is GRANTED in part. 
 
        Plaintiff shall make herself available
to complete her deposition within fourteen (14) days of the issuance of this
Order. 
 
        The requests for terminating,
evidentiary, and monetary sanctions are DENIED. 
 