 Case Number:  22STCV16119    Hearing Date:   March 8, 2024    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Motion to be
Relieved as Counsel 
 
Moving Party: Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants’
Counsel Mark T. Risner
Resp. Party:    None 
 
 
The Motion to be Relieved as Counsel is GRANTED.
 
BACKGROUND:
 
On May 13,
2022, Plaintiffs Forward Westwood, Inc., Forward Calabasas, Inc., Joseph
Sacavitch, Edward Krifcher, and Paul Morris filed their Complaint against
Defendant Meny A. Atias regarding various causes of action arising from the
Parties’ business relationship. 
 
On July 12,
2022, Defendant/Cross-Complainant filed: (1) Cross-Complaint against
Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants Forward Westwood, Inc., Forward Calabasas, Inc.,
Paul Morris, Edward Krifcher, and Joseph Sacavitch; and (2) Answer to the
Complaint. 
 
 On August 15, 2022,
Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants filed their Answer to the Cross-Complaint. 
 
On February 7, 2024, Mark T. Risner (who is
counsel for Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants Forward Westwood, Inc., Forward
Calabasas, Inc., Joseph Sacavitch, Edward Krifcher, and Paul Morris) filed: (1)
MC-051, Motion to be Relieved as Counsel; (2) MC-052, Declaration; (3) MC-053,
Proposed Order; and (4) Proof of Service. 
 
No opposition
or other response has been filed to the motion. 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.         
Legal
Standard
 
“The attorney in an action or special
proceeding may be changed at any time before or after judgment or final
determination, as follows: 1. Upon the consent of both client and attorney,
filed with the clerk, or entered upon the minutes; 2. Upon the order of the
court, upon the application of either client or attorney, after notice from one
to the other.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 284.)
 
An attorney moving to be relieved as counsel under California Code of
Civil Procedure section 284(2) must meet the requirements set out in California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1362. 
 
To comply with rule 3.1362, the moving party must submit the following
forms: (1) Notice of Motion and Motion to be Relieved as Counsel; (2)
Declaration in Support of Attorney's Motion to be Relieved as Counsel; and (3)
Order Granting Attorney's Motion to be Relieved as Counsel. (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1362(a), (c), (e).) 
 
The moving party must serve these forms on the client and all other
parties who have appeared in the case. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362(d).)
Further, when the client is served by mail, the attorney's declaration must
show that the client's address was confirmed within the last 30 days and how it
was confirmed. (Id.)  
 
Absent a showing of resulting prejudice, an attorney’s request for
withdrawal should be granted. (People v. Prince (1968) 268 Cal.App.2d
398, 406.) 
 
II.      
Discussion
 
Counsel’s Motion to be Relieved as Counsel complies with all of the
requirements of California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, in that Counsel
provided notice of motion and motion to be relieved as counsel; proposed order
granting attorney’s motion to be relieved as counsel; and declaration in
support of the motion to be relieved as counsel. 
 
The declaration states: (1) that there are multiple causes allowing
permissive withdrawal and warranting mandatory withdrawal; and (2) that Counsel
has provided notice of withdrawal and has repeatedly cautioned his clients
about the potential consequences of being unrepresented. 
 
        Although this motion is unopposed, the
Court is aware of possible prejudice to Plaintiffs should the Court grant this
motion. 
 
First, trial is approximately three months from now. Any new counsel
that Plaintiffs find will have to quickly catch up on the case, which has
already gone on for two years. 
 
Second, aside from narrow exceptions such as in small claims court, the
California Supreme Court has long held that corporations cannot represent
themselves in propria persona. (Merco Constr.
Eng’rs, Inc. v. Mun. Ct. (1978) 21 Cal.3d.724, 730.) Without
representation, the corporate Plaintiffs will be at a very high risk as they
will not be able to prosecute the case or defend themselves against the claims
of the cross-complaint.
 
        However, Plaintiffs have not opposed this motion.   Further, while Plaintiffs must act promptly
if they wish to obtain new counsel, there is still sufficient time for them to
do so. 
 
III.     Conclusion
 
The Motion to be Relieved as Counsel is GRANTED.
 
 
 
 