  Case Number:  23PSCV03140    Hearing Date:   July 31, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE  NAME:  Manuel  Valdez, et al. v. Chedraui USA, Inc., dba El Super, et al.  Plaintiffs’  Motion for Trial Preference Pursuant to C.C.P. § 36(a)  TENTATIVE  RULING  The Court DENIES the motion for trial preference without  prejudice.               Defendant Covina Marketplace, LLC is  ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this  order.  BACKGROUND  This is a wrongful death case. On October 10, 2023, plaintiffs  Manuel Valdez, Chelsea Valdez-Gutierrez, Manuel Alexander Valdez, Daisy Valdez,  Yvette Gutierrez Valdez, Maria Gutierrez, Estate of Rosalva Valdez, by and  through its administrator, Manuel Valdez (collectively, Plaintiffs) filed this  action against defendants Chedraui USA, Inc., dba El Super, HB Property  Management, Inc., Oscar Gonzalez, George Gonzalez, and Does 1 through 50,  alleging causes of action for wrongful death (negligence) and survival. On  January 11, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a doe amendment naming Covina Marketplace,  LLC as a defendant. On May 21, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a doe amendment naming  Priority Property Group, Inc. as a defendant.  On March 1, 2024, Defendant Chedraui USA, Inc., dba El Super (El  Super) filed a cross-complaint against HB Property Management, Inc., Oscar  Gonzalez, George Gonzalez, Covina Marketplace, LLC, and Roes 1 through 20,  alleging causes of action for express indemnity, equitable indemnity,  comparative indemnity, contribution, and declaratory relief.  On May 16, 2024, El Super filed roe amendments  to its cross-complaint, naming The Salomon Wainberg and Olga Wainberg Family  Trust and Olga Wainberg as cross-defendants. On May 24, 2024, El Super filed a  roe amendment naming Priority Property Group, Inc. as a cross-defendant.  On May 29, 2024, Defendant Covina Marketplace, LLC (Covina  Marketplace) filed a cross-complaint El Super and Roes 1 through 20, alleging  causes of action for express written indemnity, full or partial equitable  indemnification, declaratory relief, and indemnity. On July 9, 2024, Covina Marketplace  filed a roe amendment, naming Oscar Gonzalez and George Gonzalez as  cross-defendants.  On May 10, 2024, Plaintiffs moved for trial preference under Code  of Civil Procedure section 36, subdivision (a). On July 17, 2024, Covina  Marketplace opposed the motion. On July 24, 2024, Plaintiffs replied.  LEGAL  STANDARD “A party to a civil action who is over 70 years of age may  petition the court for a preference, which the court shall grant if the court makes  both of the following findings: (1) The party has a substantial interest in the  action as a whole. (2) The health of the party is such that a preference is  necessary to prevent prejudicing the party's interest in the litigation.” (Code  Civ. Proc., § 36, subd. (a).) “Unless the court otherwise orders: (1) A party may file and serve  a motion for preference supported by a declaration of the moving party that all  essential parties have been served with process or have appeared. (2) At any  time during the pendency of the action, a party who reaches 70 years of age may  file and serve a motion for preference.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 36, subd. (c).) PRELIMINARY ISSUES  The  Court notes that Plaintiffs submitted an additional declaration in their reply  papers. Generally,  new evidence is not permitted on reply unless it fills in gaps in the evidence  created by the opposing party’s opposition and is not raising new substantive  issues; otherwise, a further hearing would be required to permit the opposing  party to respond. (Jay v. Mahaffey (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 1522,  1537-1538.) The Court declines to consider this additional declaration to the  extent it adds new facts and substantive issues.  DISCUSSION  Summary  of Arguments  Plaintiffs  seek trial preference based on Manuel Valdez, the widower of decedent Rosalva  Valdez (Decedent), and Maria Gutierrez, the mother of Decedent, both being over  the age of 70 and having health problems, such as pre-diabetes, depression, and  mobility issues. Plaintiffs contend all essential parties have been served with  process, and that both Manuel Valdez and Maria Gutierrez have a substantial  interest in the outcome of the action.  In  opposition, Covina Marketplace contends that Plaintiffs fail to demonstrate  that preference is necessary to prevent prejudicing their interests in the  litigation. Covina Marketplace contends the legal authorities Plaintiffs rely  on in their motion are based on an earlier version of Code of Civil Procedure  section 36, subdivision (a), which was later amended to include the requirement  of poor health prejudicing a party’s interest in the litigation, and that  Plaintiffs fail to demonstrate that their alleged health conditions justify  trial preference.  Covina  Marketplace contends Manuel Valdez has only indicated that he is pre-diabetic,  which means he does not yet have diabetes, and extreme depression, but there is  no indication he was diagnosed with extreme depression. Covina Marketplace  contends the attorney declaration submitted with the motion contains no details  about Manuel Valdez’s specific medical diagnoses, who diagnosed him, when he  was diagnosed, or how the alleged conditions affect his ability to function and  thereby participate in this litigation. Covina Marketplace also contends Maria  Gutierrez’s declaration only vaguely claims she has “mobility issues” and  depression due to Decedent’s death, but also contains no diagnosis or  explanation how this purportedly affects her ability to participate in this  litigation. Covina Marketplace further contends there is no evidence that Maria  Gutierrez has standing to assert a wrongful death claim and a substantial  interest in this litigation since she is a mother and has not demonstrated that  she was dependent upon Decedent. Covina Marketplace also contends the motion is  premature because after the motion was filed, a doe amendment was filed naming  an additional defendant and a roe amendment was filed naming additional roe  cross-defendants, and therefore all essential parties had not been served at  the time the motion was filed.  In reply, Plaintiffs contend they have satisfied all requirements  under Code of Civil Procedure section 36, subdivisions (a) and (c), and that  all essential parties have been served and are actively litigating this case.  Analysis  The Court finds Plaintiffs have not submitted sufficient evidence  demonstrating that their “health … is such that a preference is necessary to  prevent prejudicing [their] interest in the litigation.” (See Code Civ. Proc.,  § 36, subdivision (a)(2).) Plaintiffs have not shown how because of their  health, Manuel Valdez and Maria Gutierrez would be prejudiced if trial  preference is not granted here. While a motion for trial preference may be  supported by an attorney declaration based on information and belief as to the  medical diagnosis and prognosis of any party, Plaintiffs still need to  demonstrate how the current health problems of Manuel Valdez and Maria  Gutierrez would prejudice their interests in this action if trial preference is  not granted. (See Code Civ. Proc., §§ 36, subdivision (a)(2), 36.5; Fox v.  Superior Ct. (2018) 21 Cal.App.5th 529, 532, 534).  Plaintiffs have not provided any information as to how Manuel  Valdez’s purported pre-diabetic condition, depression, or arthritis interfere  with his ability to participate in this litigation, necessitating a trial  preference. (Quattlebaum Decl., ¶ 5.) It is also unclear how Maria Gutierrez’s  purported mobility issues and severe depression prejudice her ability to  participate in this litigation and necessitate trial preference. (Gutierrez  Decl., ¶ 2.) It is not enough for these parties to be over 70 years old with  some health problems; they must show that their health problems are  deteriorating and will likely prevent them from being able to participate in a  trial beyond 120 days, thereby prejudicing their respective interests in the  litigation. (Code Civ. Proc., § 36, subd. (a)(2).) Without such evidence, the  Court is unable to find that Manuel Valdez and Maria Gutierrez would be  prejudiced if trial preference is not granted. Therefore, Plaintiffs are not  entitled to trial preference.  With respect to the issue of Maria Gutierrez’s standing, the Court  declines to decide such issue in this motion. As for service on all essential parties, Plaintiffs provided a  declaration indicating that all essential parties had been served. (Quattlebaum  Decl., ¶ 6.) The Court also notes that the cross-defendants named after the filing of  the motion have either appeared in this action by way of demurrer or responded  by filing a motion to quash. (See Demurrers (7/1/24); Motion to Quash (7/1/24).) The Court further notes that 2 of those parties have been recently dismissed. CONCLUSION  The Court DENIES the motion for trial preference without  prejudice.              Defendant Covina Marketplace, LLC is  ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this  order.