


[1] Petitioners request judicial notice of a (a)
grant deed recorded as Instrument No. 20230316345 by the Los Angeles County
Recorders’ Office (Ex. 1), (b) the City’s RSO, Chapter 17.52 (Ex. 2), (c) Chapter
7 of the City’s RSO Regulations (Ex. 3), the City’s’ RSO section 17.08.010
(highlighted) (Ex. 4).  The requests are
granted.  Evid. Code §452(b), (c).
In reply, Petitioners’
make a supplemental request for judicial notice of a City webpage regarding
Rent Stabilization (Ex. 1) and a City webpage/portal to make Rent Stabilization
appointments (Ex. 2).  The City objects
to these requests as improper.  The
requests are granted.   Evid. Code
§452(c).


[2] The
City objects to the reply evidence concerning Huang’s communications with
Zraikat as improper.  These statements
concern issues raised in the opening brief and also are hearsay.  
The court agrees that this evidence should have been
presented with Huang’s opening brief.  New evidence/issues raised for the first time in a reply
brief are not properly presented to a trial court and may be disregarded.  Regency Outdoor Advertising v. Carolina
Lances, Inc., (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 1323, 1333.  While Lawrence’s declaration
submitted in opposition denies any oral communication with Huang, that did not
open the door for evidence of communication with another City employee.  The objections are sustained, and the court
lists the reply evidence for informational purposes only. 


[3]
For convenience, the court will refer to Lawrence’s denial rather than to the
Director’s decision upholding the denial.


[4]
The City also argues that the court should afford the City’s “interpretation of
its own regulation great weight and deference…” 
Manderson-Saleh v. Regents of Univ. of Cal., (2021) 60 Cal. App. 5th 674, 697, (Ct.
App. 2021) (citations omitted). The administrative record shows that the City
interprets the RSO to require an exercise
of discretion.  In the course of
evaluating the Notice of Termination, the City corresponded with Huang to seek clarifying
information, and explicitly reminded him of its authority to “revoke approval
of a notice if based on false or misleading information.”  These actions are inconsistent with an
interpretation that the City lacked discretion.  Lawrence confirms that the City’s review of a
Notice of Termination involves a determination regarding the sufficiency of the
evidence and whether it is true and accurate. 
Lawrence Decl., ¶6.  Opp. at 13-14.
Huang does
not respond to this argument, but the City cannot bootstrap deference to its
interpretation based on the very exercise of discretion at issue.
 


[5]
Huang notes that the Citiy’s opposition cites a
portion of RSO section 17.52.010(12)(b) which states: “[t]he City may revoke its approval of
the notice if it determines that the approval was granted based on false or
misleading information.”  Huang argues
that, by its plain terms, this section is only applicable to revocations of
approved notices of termination. There has been no approval here, and nothing
to revoke.  Reply at 6.  The court need not decide whether Huang is
correct because RSO section
17.52.010(12)(b)(iii) specifically requires that the information be accurate.


[6] Unlike
CCP section 1094.5, the agency in traditional mandamus is not required to make
findings of fact or support its decision by bridging the analytic gap between
the raw evidence and ultimate decision or order pursuant to Topanga Assn.
for a Scenic Community v. City of Los Angeles, (1974) 11 Cal.3d 506, 514-15.  Anaheim Redevelopment Agency v. Dusek,
(1987)) 193 Cal.App.3d 249, 261.  


[7] Huang separately argues that he proceeded with the Notice
of Termination under the guidance of the Department.  He presents evidence in reply that he met
with Rent Stabilization Information Coordinator Zraikat on or about March 27,
2023 regarding the requirements for terminating a tenancy for his mother due to
her medical condition.  At that time,
Huang was not aware of all the formal processes the City requires.  Reply Huang Decl., ¶3.  On or about April 27 2023, Huang met again
with Zraikat, who advised that Huang would need to change the ownership of the Property.  Reply Huang Decl., ¶4.  On May 15 2023, Huang asked Zraikat whether there
would be any reason he could not submit a doctor’s note from his father, who
also was his mother’s treating physician, as that was the doctor who could
provide a note the fastest.  Reply Huang
Decl., ¶5.  Zraikat advised that there
was no reason he could not move forward with such a note.  Id. 
On May 24 2023, Huang had a follow-up meeting with Zraikat, who
confirmed that Huang’s application met all of the City’s requirements.  Reply Huang Decl., ¶6.
The court sustained the City’s objection to this evidence
presented for the first time in reply and it has not been considered.  In any event, the evidence does not undermine
the conclusion that Lawrence’s decision was not arbitrary or lacking evidentiary
support.  

