  Case Number:  23PSCV02261    Hearing Date:   July 12, 2024    Dept:  K Counsel for Plaintiff Carlos Adrian Cancela Cabrera’s (i.e.,
Windsor Troy) Motion to be 
Relieved as
Counsel is GRANTED, effective upon the filing of a proof of service showing

service of the
signed order upon the Client at the Client’s last known address.
Background    
Plaintiff Carlos Adrian Canela
Cabrera (“Plaintiff”) alleges that he sustained injuries in a September 21,
2021 slip and fall.
On July 26, 2023, Plaintiff filed a
complaint, asserting causes of action against Winco Holdings, Inc.
(“Defendant”) and Does 1-50 for:
1.              
General Negligence 
2.              
Premises Liability
A Case Management Conference is set
for July 12, 2024.
Discussion
Windsor Troy (“Firm”) seeks to be relieved as counsel of record for Plaintiff (“Client”).
The court has discretion to allow an attorney to withdraw,
and such a motion should be granted provided that there is no prejudice to the
client and it does not disrupt the orderly process of justice. (See
Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21
Cal.App.4th 904, 915; People v. Prince
(1968) 268 Cal.App.2d 398.)
California
Rules of Court (“CRC”) Rule 3.1362 requires (1) a notice of motion and motion
directed to the client (made on the Notice
of Motion and Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil form (MC-051)); (2) a
declaration stating in general terms and without compromising the
confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship why a motion under Code of
Civil Procedure § 284(2) is brought instead of filing a consent under section
284(1) (made on the Declaration in
Support of Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil form
(MC-052)); (3) service of the notice of motion and motion, the declaration, and
the proposed order on the client and on all other parties who have appeared in
the case; and (4) a proposed order relieving counsel (prepared on the Order Granting Attorney's Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel—Civil form (MC-053)). The court may delay the effective
date of the order relieving counsel until proof of service of a copy of the
signed order on the client has been filed with the court.
Attorney Roberto Dominguez (“Dominguez”) represents that “[t]here has
been a breakdown of the Attorney-Client Relationship,” that “[i]rreconcilable
differences have arisen” between them “that make it impossible for
representation to continue,” and that he is “unable to communicate with the
Plaintiff in a manner consistent with an attorney-client relationship.”
The motion originally came on calendar for hearing on June 12, 2024; at
that time, the court noted that Dominguez had failed to complete Paragraph 3.b.
of Judicial Council Form MC-052 (i.e., advising whether or not he has confirmed
within the past 30 days that the Client’s address is current and, if so, by
what means and, if not, why he was unable to make such confirmation), continued
the hearing to July 12, 2024 and instructed Dominguez (or another attorney at
Firm) to file and serve a supplemental declaration on the Client and on counsel
for Winco providing the information requested in Paragraph 3.b. of Judicial
Council Form MC-052 forthwith.
On July 1, 2024, attorney Cherilynn Heath of Firm provided a
declaration, advising therein that Plaintiff had been served by mail at his
last known address with copies of the motion papers served with her
declaration, but that she had been unable to confirm that the address is
current or to locate a more current address for Plaintiff after mailing the
motion papers to Plaintiff’s last known address, return receipt requested.
The court
determines that the requirements of Rules of Court Rule 3.1362 enumerated above

have been
sufficiently met. 
 
Accordingly, the
motion is granted, effective upon the filing of a proof
of service showing 
service of the signed order upon
the Client at the Client’s last known address.