  Case Number:  22AHCV00437    Hearing Date:   December 18, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



BFS GROUP, LLC, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
VISION
   CONSTRUCTION GROUP, INC.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  22AHCV00437
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO BE RELIEVED
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.

December
   18, 2024



 
Larry A.
 Rothstein seeks to be relieved as counsel of record for defendant
 Vision Construction Group, Inc. on grounds that there has
 been an irreconcilable breakdown in the attorney-client relationship.
Absent a showing of resulting prejudice, an attorney’s request for withdrawal
should be granted. (People v. Prince (1968) 268 Cal.App.2d 398, 406.) The
Court notes that trial in this matter is scheduled for March 10, 2025, and finds
that no prejudice will result from granting this motion. 
The Court has continued the hearing twice
already to allow Mr. Rothstein the opportunity to file a proposed order. On December
10, 2024, a proposed order on the correct form, Judicial Council Form MC-053,
was indeed filed. However, Item 6 is incomplete because it does not include
Defendant’s phone number. The Court therefore affords Mr. Rothstein one more
opportunity to file a completed proposed order and continues the hearing to
___________ at 8:30 a.m. in Department 3 of the Alhambra Courthouse unless Mr. Rothstein
can provide this telephone number in court so that it can be inserted and this
matter dealt with; this kind of oversight wastes everyone’s time. The proposed
order must be filed no later than 5 court days before the hearing. 
Moving party to give notice.
Dated
this 18th
day of December, 2024
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot
Judge
  of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 