  Case Number:  20SMCV01621    Hearing Date:   October 27, 2023    Dept:  N TENTATIVE RULING
 
Defendant
Timothy Haldeman’s Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings as to Plaintiff’s Ninth
Cause of Action for Elder Financial Abuse is DENIED.
 
Plaintiffs
Martha Kaplan, Steve Algert, and Cameron Brown’s Motion to Strike Cross-Complaint is GRANTED. Defendant Timothy
Haldeman’s Cross-Complaint is hereby STRICKEN from the case docket.
 
Defendant
Timothy Haldeman’s Motion for Summary Judgement [sic] or in the Alternative Summary Adjudication of Plaintiffs’
First through Tenth Causes of Action is DENIED.
 
Defendant
Timothy Haldeman to give notice. 
 
REASONING
 
Defendant
Timothy Haldeman’s Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings as to Plaintiff’s Ninth
Cause of Action for Elder Financial Abuse
Defendant
Timothy Haldeman (“Defendant”) moves for judgment on the pleadings as to the
ninth cause of action in Plaintiffs Martha
Kaplan, Steve Algert, and Cameron Brown (“Plaintiffs”)’s Second Amended
Complaint (“SAC”) on the ground that Plaintiff
Martha Kaplan’s allegations regarding deprivation of view rights do not
constitute a violation of Welfare and Institutions Code section 15610.30.
 
“[F]inancial
abuse of an elder . . . occurs when a person or entity does the following:”
 
(1) Takes, secretes,
appropriates, obtains, or retains real or personal property of an elder or
dependent adult for a wrongful use or with intent to defraud, or both.
 
(2) Assists in
taking, secreting, appropriating, obtaining, or retaining real or personal
property of an elder or dependent adult for a wrongful use or with intent to
defraud, or both.
 
(3) Takes, secretes,
appropriates, obtains, or retains, or assists in taking, secreting,
appropriating, obtaining, or retaining, real or personal property of an elder
or dependent adult by undue influence, as defined in Section 15610.70.
 
(Welf.
& Inst. Code, § 15610.30, subd. (a).)
 
In
the ninth cause of action, Plaintiff Martha Kaplan alleges that she is 65 years
old or older, and Defendant has deprived her of her property rights by
maintaining the hedge wall on his property. (SAC ¶¶ 85-86.) Welfare and
Institutions Code section 15610.30, subdivision (b), provides that “[a] person
or entity shall be deemed to have taken, secreted, appropriated, obtained, or
retained property for a wrongful use if, among other things, the person or
entity takes, secretes, appropriates, obtains, or retains the property and the
person or entity knew or should have known that this conduct is likely to be
harmful to the elder or dependent adult,” and Welfare and Institutions Code
section 15610.30, subdivision (c) (emphasis added), provides that “[a] person
or entity takes, secretes, appropriates, obtains, or retains real or personal
property when an elder or dependent adult is
deprived of any property right, including by means of an agreement,
donative transfer, or testamentary bequest, regardless of whether the property
is held directly or by a representative of an elder or dependent adult.” The
Court reads the statute as allowing a deprivation of enjoyment of real property
to be within the purview of Welfare and Institutions Code section 15610.30, and
it is for the trier of fact to determine whether the alleged conduct
constitutes a violation of the code. Accordingly, Defendant Timothy Haldeman’s Motion
for Judgment on the Pleadings as to Plaintiff’s Ninth Cause of Action for Elder
Financial Abuse is DENIED.
 
Plaintiffs
Martha Kaplan, Steve Algert, and Cameron Brown’s Motion to Strike Cross-Complaint
Plaintiffs
move the Court for an order striking Defendant’s cross-complaint on the ground
that Defendant did not seek leave to file a cross-complaint, and if he had, no
grounds exist to grant such leave. Defendant argues that Plaintiffs “reopened
the pleadings” by filing their SAC.
 
Code of
Civil Procedure section 428.50, subdivision (a), provides that “[a] party shall
file a cross-complaint against any of the parties who filed the complaint or cross-complaint
against him or her before or at the same time as the answer to the complaint or
cross-complaint,” or the party shall otherwise “obtain leave of court to file
any cross-complaint” after the answer is filed. Plaintiffs’ filed their initial
complaint on January 27, 2020, followed by their First Amended Complaint on
December 18, 2020, and Defendant filed his answer to the First Amended
Complaint on December 13, 2021, after the Court overruled his demurrer on
November 4, 2021. Plaintiffs then filed their SAC on May 2, 2023, after the
Court granted Plaintiffs leave to do so pursuant to a stipulation between the
parties. Defendant then filed his cross-complaint on June 16, 2023, the same
date he filed his answer to the SAC.
 
Defendant
provides no legal authority supporting his position that Code of Civil
Procedure section 428.50 allows a party to file a cross-complaint without leave
any time an answer rather than at the time the first answer is filed. If the
Court were to adopt Defendant’s reasoning, Defendant would be able to file a
new cross-complaint without leave of court each time an amended pleading is
filed, resulting in any number of amended cross-complaints without leave of
court. There simply is no basis to conclude that the legislature intended this,
as a party seeking to amend a complaint must obtain leave after the first
amended pleading, and if “the door was opened at the whim of the parties to a
new round of pleadings, discovery, and motions” on a regular basis, “trials
would be delayed and court calendars further congested in an already
overburdened system.” (Loney v. Superior
Court (1984) 160 Cal.App.3d 719, 723.) Thus, Plaintiffs Martha Kaplan,
Steve Algert, and Cameron Brown’s Motion
to Strike Cross-Complaint is GRANTED. Defendant Timothy Haldeman’s
Cross-Complaint is hereby STRICKEN from the case docket.
 
The Court
lacks a sufficient basis to determine at this juncture whether it is proper to
allow Defendant to file a cross-complaint, as Defendant has not made a noticed
motion to file the pleading, nor has he provided the information required for
such a motion. (See Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324.) Thus, the Court makes no
findings herein as to whether it is proper to allow Defendant leave to file a
cross-complaint.
 
Defendant
Timothy Haldeman’s Motion for Summary Judgement [sic] or in the Alternative Summary Adjudication of Plaintiffs’
First through Tenth Causes of Action
Defendant moves
for summary judgment or adjudication as to each of the twelve causes of action
alleged in Plaintiffs’ SAC.
 
Request for Judicial Notice
Plaintiffs request
judicial notice of the Court’s November 4, 2021, minute order ruling on
Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiffs’ First Amended Complaint in this action and
the Notice of Pendency of Action filed in this action and recorded with the Los
Angeles County Recorder’s Office on November 4, 2020. Plaintiffs’ request is
GRANTED, pursuant to Evidence Code section 452, subdivisions (c), (d), and (h).
 
Reply Separate Statement
The Court has not considered Defendant’s “Response to Plaintiffs’
Separate Statement in Opposition to Motion and Motion for Summary Judgement [sic] or in the Alternative Summary
Adjudication,” as such a document is a reply separate statement not authorized
by statute, and Defendants failed to seek leave of court to file such a
document. (See Nazir v. United Airlines,
Inc. (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 243, 252 [“There is no provision in the statute
for” including a reply separate statement].)
 
Legal
Standard
The
purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication “is to provide
courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to
determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to
resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atl.
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) 
 
“On a
motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on the moving party
to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material
fact.” (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005)
128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.) A defendant moving for summary judgment or summary
adjudication “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has
no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of
action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to the
cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) “Once the defendant
. . . has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show
that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of
action or a defense thereto.” (Ibid.)
“If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Med. Ctr.
(2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)
 
“Code of
Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to
grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences
or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and
that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) “[T]he court must consider all of the evidence set
forth in the papers (except evidence to which the court has sustained an
objection) . . . in the light most favorable to the party opposing summary
judgment.” (Avivi, supra, 159 Cal.App.4th at p. 467; see
also Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)
 
First
and Second Causes of Action: Violation of CC&Rs
In
the first and second causes of action, Plaintiffs allege that Defendant has
violated the covenants, conditions, and restrictions (“CC&R’s”) applicable
to the parties’ properties by installing and maintaining hedge walls on
Defendant’s property which exceed six feet in height and unreasonably obstruct
and diminish the views enjoyed from Plaintiffs’ properties. (SAC ¶¶ 23,
32.) Defendant argues that summary adjudication should be granted in his favor
as to the first and second causes of action because Plaintiffs have failed to
establish that the CC&R’s have been violated, which is a condition
precedent to filing the instant action, and because Defendant is not
maintaining a hedge along either property line.
 
Plaintiffs
assert a violation of Article III, section 9, of the CC&R’s, which provides
as follows:
 
No fence, wall, hedge, or planting
(with exception of trees), if exceeding 3 1/2 feet in height above finished
surface (not counting any part used as retaining wall), shall be permitted or
maintained on any land in this tract in the area between the established front line
and the front set-back line; nor if exceeding six feet above finished surface
(not counting any part used as retaining wall) anywhere to the rear of the
front set-back line, unless a height variance is granted by the Tract Committee.
 
However, fences, etc., and trees shall
not be placed, permitted or maintained on any land of this tract in such a
location that they unreasonably obstruct or unreasonably diminish the quality
and nature of the view from any other land in this or an adjoining tract. . . .
 
Upon a finding made by the Tract
Committee that the nature or quality of the view is unreasonably diminished or unreasonably
obstructed by fences, etc. or by trees on any land in this tract, or that
outside lights are objectionable under the preceding paragraph, the owner
thereof, upon written notice sent by the Tract Committee, within thirty (30) days
shall remove, cut down or cut back any such obstructions or remedy the
objectionable effect of such lights to the extent specified by the Tract Committee.
 
(Def.’s
UMF No. 5.)
 
Defendant
argues that Plaintiffs cannot maintain these claims for violation of the
CC&R’s because the Tract Committee has not determined the CC&R’s were
violated, and it has not recorded a notice of violation. The Court already
rejected this argument when it overruled Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiffs’
First Amended Complaint. Specifically, the Court found that “[n]o provision in
the CC&R’s grants the Tract Committee the exclusive authority to determine
whether a violation has occurred,” and Article V, section 4 of the CC&R’s
provides for any violation to be enjoined, abated, or remedied by any land
owner of the tract. (Minute Order dated Nov. 4, 2021, at pp. 2-3.) Further, the
requirement that a notice of violation be recorded applies to the Tract
Committee, not individual landowners (Minute Order dated Nov. 4, 2021, at p.
3), and in any event, Plaintiffs have filed and recorded a lis pendens on
Defendant’s property. (See Req. for Judicial Notice, Ex. 2.) While Defendant
argues the Court must “revisit” issues previously ruled upon by a prior judge
in this department, the Court comes to the same conclusion here as that stated
in the demurrer, as Defendant has presented no new bases for the Court to find
differently, i.e., the CC&R’s still include the same language, and the
Court interprets the CC&R’s in the same manner as the prior judge.
 
Insofar
as Defendant claims he is not maintaining hedges in violation of the
CC&R’s, Defendant provides only his own declaration and photographs of the
subject locations. (Def.’s UMF Nos. 19, 20, 38, 41.) Put simply, the Court is
not inclined to take Defendant’s word for it. The existence of hedges in
violation of the CC&R’s is something that must be proven or disproven by
more than conjecture from a party, a non-expert on the issue at hand. It is
axiomatic that “an expert declaration is admissible to support or defeat
summary judgment if the expert’s testimony would be admissible at trial in
accordance with Evidence Code section 720,” and “[a]n expert may testify to an
opinion on a subject that is sufficiently beyond common experience that the
opinion of an expert would assist the trier of fact.” (Fernandez v. Alexander (2019) 31 Cal.App.5th 770, 779, brackets and
quotation marks omitted.) Put simply, Defendant lacks the knowledge necessary
to establish that he has not installed and maintained hedges on his property
which violate the CC&R’s. Thus, Defendant has failed to meet his burden on
these two causes of action, as he has not shown that he is not maintaining a
hedge along either property line or that the CC&R’s have not been violated.
 
Even
if the burden did shift to Plaintiffs, though, Plaintiffs have provided a
declaration from Lisa Smith, a Registered Consulting Arborist, who opines that
Defendant has maintained hedges which create a visual and physical screen and
barrier (Pls.’ UMF Nos. 60, 61), such that it would be a question of fact for
the jury to determine whether Defendant has violated the CC&R’s. Accordingly,
Defendant’s motion for summary adjudication is DENIED as to the first and
second causes of action. In so ruling, the Court makes no finding as to whether
Plaintiffs are the prevailing party in this action, as Plaintiffs argue in
their opposition (Opp’n, pp. 12-13), as Plaintiffs have not filed their own
motion for summary judgment or adjudication.
 
Third
and Fourth Causes of Action: Nuisance
In the
third and fourth causes of action, Plaintiffs allege that Defendant has
violated the CC&R’s by installing and maintaining hedge walls on his
property exceeding six feet in height and obstructing Plaintiffs’ views from
their property. (SAC ¶¶ 41, 47.) Defendant moves for summary adjudication of
the third and fourth causes of action alleging a nuisance on the ground that
Plaintiffs cannot establish that the CC&R’s have been violated, and a mere
obstruction of view cannot constitute a nuisance as a matter of law.
 
First, as
stated above, the Court finds there remains a triable issue as to whether
Defendant has violated the CC&R’s. Insofar as Defendant argues that
obstruction of Plaintiffs’ view cannot constitute a nuisance, the CC&R’s
themselves provide in Article V, Section 4 that “[e]very act or omission
whereby any restriction is violated, in whole or in part, is declared to be and
shall constitute a nuisance, and may be enjoined, abated or remedied by . . .
any land owner of said tract, and such remedy shall be deemed cumulative and
not exclusive.” (SAC ¶ 7, Ex. D.) Further, while “a landowner [generally] has
no right to an unobstructed view over adjoining property,” “[s]uch a right may
be created by private parties through the granting of an easement or through
the adoption of conditions, covenants and restrictions” (Posey v. Leavitt (1991) 229 Cal.App.3d 1236, 1250), as occurred
here.
 
It follows
that Defendant has failed to establish that there is no triable issue as to
whether he has violated the CC&R’s or that Plaintiffs may not bring
nuisance claims based solely on obstruction of views, as the CC&R’s make
such obstructions a nuisance. Thus, Defendant’s motion for summary adjudication
is DENIED as to the third and fourth causes of action.
 
Fifth
and Sixth Causes of Action: Violation of Los Angeles Municipal Code §12.22.C.20
In the fifth
and sixth causes of action, Plaintiffs allege a violation of Los Angeles
Municipal Code section 12.22.C.20 by maintaining hedge walls in excess of six
feet in height. (SAC ¶¶ 54, 63.) Defendant argues that the fifth and sixth
causes of action should be adjudicated in his favor because he is not
maintaining a fence, wall, or hedge.
 
As stated
above, the Court finds that Defendant has not established that he is not
maintaining hedges in excess of six feet. Further, Government Code section
36900, subdivision (a), “expressly permits violations of city ordinances to be
‘redressed by civil action.” (Riley v.
Hilton Hotels Corp. (2002) 100 Cal.App.4th 599, 607.) Accordingly,
Defendant’s motion for summary adjudication is DENIED as to the fifth and sixth
causes of action.
 
Seventh
Cause of Action: Spite Fence Abatement (Civil
Code §841.4) and Eighth Cause of Action: Spite Fence Abatement (Los Angeles Municipal Code §41.31)
Civil
Code section 841.4 provides that “[a]ny fence or other structure in the nature
of a fence unnecessarily exceeding 10 feet in height maliciously erected or
maintained for the purpose of annoying the owner or occupant of adjoining
property is a private nuisance.” Civil Code section 841.4 further provides that
“[a]ny owner or occupant of adjoining property injured either in his comfort or
the enjoyment of his estate by such nuisance may enforce the remedies against
its continuance” by seeking injunctive relief. Los Angeles Municipal Code
section 41.30 provides that “[n]o person shall maliciously construct, erect,
build, plant, cultivate or maintain any fence or wall or any hedge or similar
growth unnecessarily exceeding six (6) feet in height, for the purpose of
annoying the owners or occupants of adjoining property.” Again, Government Code
section 36900, subdivision (a), “expressly permits violations of city
ordinances to be ‘redressed by civil action.” (Riley v. Hilton Hotels Corp., supra,
100 Cal.App.4th at p. 607.)
 
In
the seventh and eighth causes of action, Plaintiff Martha Kaplan alleges that
Defendant is maintaining spite fences by maintaining hedge walls on his
property which exceed six feet and 10 feet in height. (SAC ¶¶ 71, 78.) Defendant
contends that he is not maintaining a fence or hedge, and Plaintiff Martha
Kaplan has no evidence that Defendant’s conduct was malicious.
 
As
stated above, the Court finds that Defendant has not established that he is not
maintaining hedges in excess of six feet. As to malice, Defendant provides his
own declaration stating that he did not erect and is not maintaining trees
maliciously for the purpose of annoying Plaintiff; rather, Defendant planted
and has maintained the trees for privacy purposes, and he has no malice towards
Plaintiff. (Def.’s UMF Nos. 89-91, 95-97.) This evidence allows Defendant to
meet his burden of establishing he had no malicious intent, thus shifting the
burden to Plaintiff to create a triable issue on the issue of malice. Notably, the
intent to annoy Plaintiff need not be the only purpose for maintaining the
hedges; rather, the trier of fact must determine whether the “dominant purpose”
was to annoy Plaintiff or, as Defendant claims, for privacy. (Wilson v. Handley (2002) 97 Cal.App.4th
1301, 1312-1313.)
 
Plaintiff
presents evidence that Defendant sent a series of text messages to Plaintiff
Cameron Brown referencing Plaintiffs’ political affiliation, calling them
“stupid,” and stating that Plaintiffs “won’t see anything south” in three
years. (Pls.’ UMF No. 49.) Such language could support a finding by the trier
of fact that Defendant erected the hedges for the purpose of annoying Plaintiff
Martha Kaplan. Thus, there is a triable issue of material fact as to whether
Plaintiff is entitled to spite fence abatement, and Defendant’s motion for
summary adjudication is DENIED as to the seventh and eighth causes of action.
 
Ninth
Cause of Action: Elder Financial Abuse
Again,
in the ninth cause of action, Plaintiff Martha Kaplan alleges that she is 65
years old or older, and Defendant has deprived her of her property rights by
maintaining the hedge wall on his property. (SAC ¶¶ 85-86.) Defendant argues
that Plaintiff Martha Kaplan’s claim for financial elder abuse fails because
Plaintiff cannot establish the property right she alleges has been taken from
her, and Defendant is not maintaining a hedge along the subject property line.
 
Again,
“financial abuse of an elder . . . occurs when a person or entity does the
following:”
 
(1) Takes, secretes,
appropriates, obtains, or retains real or personal property of an elder or
dependent adult for a wrongful use or with intent to defraud, or both.
 
(2) Assists in
taking, secreting, appropriating, obtaining, or retaining real or personal
property of an elder or dependent adult for a wrongful use or with intent to
defraud, or both.
 
(3) Takes, secretes,
appropriates, obtains, or retains, or assists in taking, secreting,
appropriating, obtaining, or retaining, real or personal property of an elder
or dependent adult by undue influence, as defined in Section 15610.70.
 
(Welf.
& Inst. Code, § 15610.30, subd. (a).)
 
Insofar
as Defendant argues that the Tract Committee must make a finding of violation
of the CC&R’s for Plaintiff to maintain this cause of action, the Court has
rejected that argument above. Further, Welfare and Institutions Code section
15610.30, subdivision (b), provides that “[a] person or entity shall be deemed
to have taken, secreted, appropriated, obtained, or retained property for a
wrongful use if, among other things, the person or entity takes, secretes,
appropriates, obtains, or retains the property and the person or entity knew or
should have known that this conduct is likely to be harmful to the elder or
dependent adult,” and Welfare and Institutions Code section 15610.30,
subdivision (c), provides that “[a] person or entity takes, secretes,
appropriates, obtains, or retains real or personal property when an elder or
dependent adult is deprived of any property right, including by means of an
agreement, donative transfer, or testamentary bequest, regardless of whether
the property is held directly or by a representative of an elder or dependent
adult.”  Defendant presents no evidence
that the hedges do not interfere with Plaintiff Martha Kaplan’s quiet enjoyment
of her property, thus failing to establish there is no triable issue as to this
claim. Accordingly, Defendant’s
motion for summary adjudication is DENIED as to the ninth cause of action.
 
Tenth
Cause of Action: Declaratory Judgment
Defendant
contends that Plaintiffs’ tenth cause of action for declaratory judgment is
premised on Plaintiffs’ first through ninth causes of action, which all fail,
such that this cause of action should be adjudicated in his favor. As stated
above, the Court has found there is a triable issue as to all of Plaintiffs’
claims alleged in the SAC.
 
“To qualify for declaratory relief,
a party would have to demonstrate its action presented two essential elements:
(1) a proper subject of declaratory relief, and (2) an actual controversy
involving justiciable questions relating to the party’s rights or obligations.”
(Jolley v. Chase Home Finance, LLC (2013)
213 Cal.App.4th 872, 909, quotation marks and brackets omitted.) Here, Plaintiffs seek a judicial
determination as to whether the Palisair Homeowners Association has the sole
and exclusive right to hear and decide Plaintiffs’ view rights claims against
Defendant, as well as whether Plaintiffs have established the claims set forth
in the SAC. (SAC ¶¶ 91-93.) Such controversies are proper bases for
seeking declaratory judgment in Plaintiffs’ favor. Thus, Defendant’s motion for
summary adjudication is DENIED as to the tenth cause of action.
 
Evidentiary
Objections
Plaintiffs
object to certain statements within the declarations of Defendant Timothy
Haldeman and defense counsel Matthew S. Urbach and certain exhibits thereto. Plaintiffs’
objections are SUSTAINED in their entirety.
 
Defendant
objects to certain statements within the declarations of Plaintiffs’ counsel Justin
Escano, Plaintiff Martha Kaplan, Plaintiff Cameron Brown, and Plaintiffs’
expert Lisa Smith. Defendant’s objections are OVERRULED in their entirety.