 Case Number:  19STCV43092    Hearing Date:   March 8, 2024    Dept:  45 Superior Court of
California
County
of Los Angeles
 



 
JAMES
  VANDERBILT,
 
                             Plaintiff,
 
                              vs.
SERIOUS
  SOCCER, LLC, ET AL.,
 
                              Defendants.


Case No.:  19STCV43092 
DEPARTMENT
  45
 
 
 
[TENTATIVE] RULING
  RE: MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT 
 
 
 
Action
  Filed:  December 2, 2019
FAC
  Filed:  December 2, 2020
Trial
  Date:  None 



 
Hearing date:              March
8, 2024
Moving
Party:             Defendants
Joseph Sumner and Paul Harrison
Responding
Party:      Plaintiff
James Vanderbilt 
MOTION
FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT, OR IN THE ALTERNATIVE, SUMMARY ADJUDICATION       
The Court
considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply.
            Defendants
Sumner and Harrison’s Motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED.  Defendants’ Motion for Summary Adjudication
is GRANTED as to the 2nd cause of action for negligent
misrepresentation and 3rd cause of action for negligence and DENIED
as to all remaining issues. 
Background
            Plaintiff
invested $185,000 with Defendants for startup of a North American Soccer League
franchised based in Orange County, CA. Plaintiff alleges he relied on the
statements of Defendants Joseph Sumner and Paul Harrison to invest the
funds.  Plaintiff alleges that once he
gave the $185,000 to Defendants, Defendants Sumner and Harrison did not use the
funds to start a North American Soccer League and instead used the money for
their own personal and business use.  
            The
operative complaint is the First Amended Complaint filed on December 2,
2020.  The FAC alleges (1) breach of
fiduciary duty; (2) negligent misrepresentation; (3) negligence; (4) fraud and
deceit; (5) fraudulent concealment; (6) demand for accounting; (7) breach of
contract; (8) breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing;
(9) unfair competition; (10) conversion. 

Legal
Standard
            Summary
judgment is proper “if all the papers submitted show that there is no triable
issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment
as a matter of law.” (Code of Civil Procedure §437c(c).) From commencement to
conclusion, the party moving for summary judgment bears the burden of
persuasion that there is no triable issue of material fact and that he is
entitled to a judgment as a matter of law. There is a triable issue of material
fact if, and only if, the evidence would allow a reasonable trier of fact to
find the underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion in
accordance with the applicable standard of proof.  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Company
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 855.)
            Pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure §437c(f)(1), a party may properly seek summary
adjudication of one or more causes of action, one or more affirmative defenses,
the issue of punitive damages or the issue of duty.  (Code of Civil Procedure §437c(f)(1).) “A
motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only if it completely disposes
of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim of damages or an issue of
duty.”  (Id.)
            Where
a defendant seeks summary judgment or adjudication, he must show that either
“one or more elements of the cause of action, even if not separately pleaded,
cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to that cause of
action.”  (Code of Civil Procedure
§437c(o)(2).)  A defendant may satisfy
this burden by showing that the claim “cannot be established” because of the
lack of evidence on some essential element of the claim.  (Union Bank v. Superior Court (1995)
31 Cal.App.4th 574, 590.)  Once the
defendant meets this burden, the burden shifts to plaintiff to show that a
“triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action
or defense thereto.”  (Id.)  
            “A
party is entitled to summary judgment only if it meets its initial burden of
showing there are no triable issues of fact and the moving party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law. This is true even if the opposing party fails to
file any opposition. The court's assessment of whether the moving party has
carried its burden—and therefore caused a shift—occurs before the court's
evaluation of the opposing party's papers. Therefore, the burden on the motion
does not initially shift as a result of what is, or is not, contained in the
opposing papers.”  (Mosley v. Pacific
Specialty Insurance Company (2020) 49 Cal.App.5th 417, 434–435 (landlord’s
failure to address issue of whether they were aware of their tenant’s marijuana
growing operation was not grounds to grant summary judgment where moving party
failed to satisfy its initial burden as to the issue); Thatcher v. Lucky
Stores, Inc. (2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 1081, 1086-1087 (court cannot grant
summary judgment based merely on lack of opposition; court must first determine
if the moving party has satisfied its burden).)
            In
addition, the evidence and affidavits of the moving party are construed
strictly, while those of the opponent are liberally read.  (Government Employees Ins. Co. v. Sup. Ct.
(2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 95, 100.)  “All
doubts as to the propriety of granting the motion (whether there is any issue
of material fact [Code of Civil Procedure] § 437c) are to be resolved in favor
of the party opposing the motion (i.e., a denial of summary judgment).” (Hamburg
v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 497, 502.)
Evidentiary
Objections
Defendants’ Objection to ¶¶7, 12, 24, 34,
41, 55, 60, 61 of Vanderbilt Dec.—SUSTAIN
Plaintiff’s Objection to Harrison Dec.—OVERRULE
as to ¶7 of Harrison Dec.  The Court does
not rule on Plaintiff’s remaining objections as it did not rely on any of those
portions of the Harrison declaration in its ruling.  (CCP §437c(q)—In granting or denying a motion
for summary judgment or summary adjudication, the court need rule only on those
objections to evidence that it deems material to its disposition of the motion.
Objections to evidence that are not ruled on for purposes of the motion shall
be preserved for appellate review.)
Discussion
            Parties Positions
            Defendants’ Motion for Summary Judgment 
            Defendants Harrison and Sumner move for summary
judgment on grounds that Plaintiff has no evidence to support his alter ego
theory.  Defendants argue Plaintiff
testified at deposition that he was unable to admit or deny whether or not Serious
Soccer, LLC paid its taxes in 2017, 2018 and 2019.  Defendants argue Plaintiff admitted at
deposition that Serious Soccer conducted business.  Defendants argue Plaintiff admitted he did
not know if Serious Soccer was adequately capitalized or if Harrison and Sumner
comingled personal or corporate funds and assets with that of Serious
Soccer.  
            Defendants argue Plaintiff’s breach
of fiduciary duty claim fails, because they did not owe him a fiduciary
duty.  Defendants argue there is no
written agreement or contract in which Serious Soccer was bound or obligated to
form a soccer team within the North America Soccer League.  Defendants argue Plaintiff was fully aware
after he invested $185,000 that Serious Soccer would have to pivot to forming a
soccer team within the National Premier Soccer League.  Defendants argue discovery has established
that Plaintiff’s $185,000 was used for Serious Soccer’s business expenses, not
Defendants’ personal use.  Defendants
argue they have no relationship with Plaintiff that would impose a fiduciary
duty on them.           
            Defendants
argue Plaintiff’s negligent misrepresentation claim fails, because Defendants
never represented to Plaintiff that he would the franchise would be an NASL
franchise in Orange County, that he would be apprised of Serious Soccer’s
business if he invested or that he would receive distributions.  Defendants argue they never made such
representations and there was never any written agreement or contract imposing
such obligations on Serious Soccer.  
            Defendants
argue Plaintiff’s negligence claim fails, because it is barred by the statute
of limitations.  Defendants argue their
alleged negligence occurred more than two years before Plaintiff filed the
complaint on December 2, 2019. 
Defendants argue there is also no agreement imposing any obligation on
them to form a soccer team within the NASL. 
Defendants argue they were forced to pivot to forming a team in the NPSL
after Plaintiff invested, and they did so with his full knowledge.  
            Defendants
argue the fraud and deceit claim fails, because there is no evidence that their
representation to Plaintiff that they intended to form a team within the NASL
was knowingly false when made.  Defendants
argue there is no evidence that they ever represented to Plaintiff that he
would receive distributions or that he would receive information regarding his
investment, nor did Defendants ever misrepresent their separate business
interest and endeavors.  
            Defendants
argue the fraudulent concealment claim fails. 
Defendants argue there is no evidence that they misused the $185,000 for
other businesses, or that Serious Soccer ever shared that amount with other
businesses.  
            Defendants
argue the accounting claim fails because they did not owe Plaintiff a fiduciary
duty.  Defendants argue Plaintiff is also
not demanding an accounting of some unascertainable amount.  Defendants argue Plaintiff is seeking
information regarding what became of his $185,000 investment.  Defendants argue they have already provided
Plaintiff with all documentation establishing that the $185,000 was used for
Serious Soccer LLC’s expenses.  
            Defendants
argue the breach of contract claim fails, because there was no written contract
between Defendants Harrison and Sumner and Plaintiff.  Defendants argue they were merely principals.
Defendants argue the Term Sheet relied upon by Plaintiff expressly states that
it creates no obligations on the part of any parties. Defendants argue there
was never any agreement to negotiate, nor was a Securities Purchase Agreement
ever signed.  
            Defendants
argue the breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing claim fails
for the same reason as the breach of contract claim. Defendants argue there was
never an agreement between the parties imposing any obligations on them
            Defendants
argue the cause of action under Business and Professions Code §17200 fails,
because there is no evidence of fraudulent conduct.  Defendants argue, because the claims for
common law fraud fail, Plaintiff’s claim for violation of 17200 based on fraud
also fails.
            Defendants
argue the conversion claim fails, because Plaintiff does not have an ownership
right to the $185,000 he transferred to Serious Soccer, LLC in 2016.  Defendants argue Plaintiff has no evidence of
any contract or agreement entitling him to reimbursement of his $185,000
investment.  Defendants argue Plaintiff
cannot state a claim for conversion based on an alleged failure to earn a
return on Plaintiff’s investment.  
            Defendants
argue summary adjudication of Plaintiff’s claim for punitive damages should be
granted.  Defendants argue Plaintiff’s
punitive damages claim is based on the breach of fiduciary, fraud and deceit
and fraudulent concealment claims fail. 
Defendants argue that, because those underlying claims fail, Plaintiff’s
punitive damages claim also fails.  
            Plaintiff’s
Opposition
            Plaintiff
argues Serious Soccer is a forfeited LLC and has been since 2018.  Plaintiff argues it therefore may not defend
itself in this action.
            Plaintiff
argues triable issues remain as to the alter ego allegations.  Plaintiff argues neither Harrison nor Sumner
are registered investment brokers and they committed legal violations when they
solicited Plaintiff’s investment.  Plaintiff
argues Harrison and Sumner owed the LLC as member or managers a duty of
loyalty.  
            Plaintiff
argues Defendants owed him a fiduciary duty. 
Plaintiff argues directors owe a fiduciary duty to stockholders.  Plaintiff argues a trier of fact must
determine whether Defendants breached their fiduciary duty.
            Plaintiff
argues Defendants also withheld documents and information from him.  Plaintiff argues this forms the basis of his
negligent misrepresentation claim.
            Plaintiff
argues Defendants committed fraud by making untrue statements of fact or
omitting statements of material fact when selling Plaintiff a security.  Plaintiff argues his business interest in
Serious Soccer was a security, because of legal control, practical control and
capacity to control.  
            Plaintiff
argues there is a triable issue of fact as to conversion.  Plaintiff argues conversion can be based on
money.
            Plaintiff
argues he has also satisfied the elements of breach of contract and breach of
the covenant of good faith and fair dealing. 
Plaintiff argues he testifies to these elements in his declaration.
            Plaintiff
cites the elements of an accounting action but makes no argument as to why the
accounting action is not subject to summary judgment.
            Plaintiff
argues there is a triable issue of fact as to the punitive damages claim based
on his declaration.  Plaintiff argues he
sets forth sufficient facts to establish the elements of punitive damages. 
            Defendants’
Supplemental Reply
            Defendants
argue Plaintiff’s separate statement fails to cite any evidence and is
therefore procedurally defective.  Defendants
argue Plaintiff’s separate statement merely objects to Defendants’ evidence but
fails to present any evidence to support any claimed dispute.  
            Defendants
argue there are no triable issues of fact as to the alter ego allegations.  Defendants argue there is no attempt by
Plaintiff to present any evidence of a unity of interest or any inequitable
result if the separate corporate existence of Serious Soccer.  Defendants argue the cherry picked bank
statements Plaintiff submits does not establish unity of interest.  Defendants reiterate that Plaintiff could not
testify as to key issues that would support alter ego.  Defendants argue Plaintiff identifies
corporate formalities that had to be maintained but fails to establish that
they were in fact not maintained.  Defendants
argue Plaintiff’s claim that John Koos and Susan Katz were offered finders’
fees is unsupported by the evidence cited by Plaintiff.  
            Defendants
argue Plaintiff fails to raise a triable issue of fact as to whether Defendants
owed him a fiduciary duty.  Defendants
argue Plaintiff fails to demonstrate that he was a shareholder of Serious
Soccer.  
            Defendants
argue Plaintiff fails to establish any negligent misrepresentations by
them.  Defendants argue the receipts
presented do not establish that there were negligent misrepresentations or even
that Plaintiff’s $185,000 was misused.
            Defendants
argue Plaintiff fails respond to their statute of limitations argument.  Defendants argue the claim is undisputedly
time barred.  
            Defendants
argue Plaintiff’s arguments as to the fraud claims are indecipherable.  Defendants argue there is no evidence that
Defendants falsely represented that they would use Plaintiff’s investment to
form a franchise in the NASL or that he would receive distributions.  Defendants argue there was no written
agreement obligating them to do so.
            Defendants
argue Plaintiff fails to respond to their arguments regarding the accounting
claim.
            Defendants
argue Plaintiff fails to respond to their arguments that there was never any
written agreement to support the breach of contract or breach of implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing claims. 

            Defendants
argue Plaintiff fails to respond to their arguments regarding the Business and
Professions Code §17200 claim.
            Defendants
argue Plaintiff fails to respond to their arguments regarding the conversion
claim.  
            Defendants
argue Plaintiff fails to respond to their arguments regarding the punitive
damages claim. 
            II.  Alter ego—DENY
            Plaintiff
alleges Defendants Harrison and Sumner used Serious Soccer as their alter
ego.  (FAC, ¶17.)  As moving party, Defendants must negate this
allegation with admissible evidence before the burden shifts to Plaintiff to
raise a triable issue of material fact. 
(Mosley, supra, 49 Cal.App.5th at 434–435; Thatcher, supra,
79 Cal.App.4th at 1086-1087.)
            Defendants
attempt to satisfy their burden as moving parties by asserting that Plaintiff
cannot establish the elements of alter ego against them.  A defendant may satisfy its initial burden on
summary judgment by showing that the claim “cannot be established” because of
the lack of evidence on some essential element of the claim.  (Union Bank v. Superior Court (1995)
31 Cal.App.4th 574, 590.)  Summary
judgment still requires, however, the presentation of evidence in the form of
“affidavits, declarations, admissions, answers to interrogatories, depositions,
and matters of which judicial notice” to demonstrate that plaintiff does not
possess and cannot reasonably obtain necessary evidence to establish his or her
claim.  (Id. at 854.)  A defendant may rely upon a plaintiff’s
factually devoid responses to establish that plaintiff does not possess and
cannot reasonably obtain necessary evidence. 
(Union Bank v. Superior Court (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 573, 590.)
            For
this reason, a defendant does not meet its burden under CCP §437(c)(o)(1) by
merely “pointing out” or “arguing” that the plaintiff does not possess or
cannot reasonably obtain necessary evidence. 
(Id.; Lona v. Citibank, N.A. (2011) 202 Cal.App.4th 89
(defendant bank did not meet its burden on summary judgment of wrongful
foreclosure by merely arguing that plaintiff lacked evidence to support her
claim and only documentary evidence submitted were the loan documents); Gaggero
v. Yura (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 884, 890 (defendant did not establish
plaintiff’s lack of evidence or inability to reasonably obtain evidence of
plaintiff’s ability and willingness to perform by pointing to plaintiff’s
refusal to answer certain questions during deposition on grounds of a meritless
privacy objection; such a refusal, regardless of its merit, was neither an
admission nor a factually devoid discovery response).   
            For
example, in Union Bank, plaintiff sued defendants for various fraud
claims.  Defendants moved for summary
judgment based on plaintiff’s responses to three RFAs and the accompanying Form
Rog 17.1.  Plaintiff refused to admit
that defendants (i) did not commit fraud against Plaintiff or (ii) that defendants
did not conspire to defraud Plaintiff. Id. at 578.  In connection with form rog 17.1 plaintiff
could cite to no evidence or facts supporting their refusal to admit either of
these facts.  (Id.)  Compounding the damaging effect of these
factually devoid responses was plaintiff’s admission that defendant “took no
inappropriate action in connection with its role in the transactions.”  (Id.) 
The combination of these facts sufficiently met defendant’s moving
burden.  (Id. at 592.)  Due to plaintiff’s admission that defendants
did not engage in any “inappropriate action,” plaintiff failed to raise a
triable issue of fact based on evidence that potentially raised a reasonable
inference of fraud.  (Id. at 593.)  
            Defendants do not present any
affirmative evidence to negate Plaintiff’s claims of alter ego.  Defendants rely on Plaintiff’s discovery
responses.  Plaintiff indicated in his
RFA responses and deposition testimony that he lacked knowledge or information
to admit or deny the facts necessary to establish alter ego, e.g. inadequate
capitalization, and whether Serious Soccer conduct business.  (Defendants’ Separate Volume of Exhibits,
Exs. P (RFAs) and Q (Responses to RFAs), RFA Responses to RFA Nos. 4-12.)  Later, Plaintiff testified at deposition that
Serious Soccer did conduct business.  (Id.
at Ex. R, 246:7-8).  
            Plaintiff’s
discovery responses are factually devoid. 
However, they do not establish Plaintiff inability to obtain such
evidence given a reasonable opportunity. 
Factually devoid responses can be used to establish that plaintiff does
not possess and cannot reasonably obtain necessary evidence.  Defendants therefore fail to establish
Plaintiff’s inability to establish alter ego against them based on Plaintiff’s
discovery responses. 
            Defendants’
motion for summary judgment based on alter ego is denied.
            III.  Breach of Fiduciary Duty—DENY 
            A
fiduciary duty may arise from fiduciary and/or confidential relationships.
While the two relationships are often treated as synonymous, they are distinct.
“Technically, a fiduciary relationship is a recognized legal relationship such
as guardian and ward, trustee and beneficiary, principal and agent, or attorney
and client whereas a ‘confidential relationship’ may be founded on a moral,
social, domestic, or merely personal relationship as well as on a legal
relationship.”  (Persson v. Smart
Inventions, Inc. (2005) 125 Cal.App.4th 1141, 1160-1161.) 
            “While
breach of fiduciary duty is a question of fact, the existence of legal duty in
the first instance and its scope are questions of law.”  (Kirschner Brothers Oil, Inc. v. Natomas
Co. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 784, 790.) 
However, whether a relationship existed that may give rise to the duty
presents a question of fact.  (Richelle
L. v. Roman Catholic Archbishop (2003) 106 Cal.App.4th 257, 272, fn. 6.)
            “[T]he
existence of a confidential relationship generating a fiduciary duty is a
question of fact. Nonetheless, because of the vagueness of the common law
definition of the confidential relation that gives rise to a fiduciary duty,
and the range of the relationships that can potentially be characterized as
fiduciary, the ‘essential elements’ have been distilled as follows: 1) The
vulnerability of one party to the other which 2) results in the empowerment of
the stronger party by the weaker which 3) empowerment has been solicited or
accepted by the stronger party and 4) prevents the weaker party from
effectively protecting itself.”  (Persson,
supra, 125 Cal.App.4th 1141, 1160-1161.) Vulnerability is the necessary
predicate for existence of a confidential relation.  (Id.)
            A
list of legally recognized fiduciary relationships is set forth in Oakland
Raiders v. NFL (2005) 131 Cal.App.4th 621, 632.  However, the court specifically stated in
Oakland that the list set forth therein was merely inclusive and not exclusive,
prefacing the list with the following statement: “While this list of special
relationships is one that ‘is not graven in stone’, it is useful to identify
many of the relationships that give rise to fiduciary duties.” (Oakland
Raiders, supra, 131 Cal.App.4th at 632 (including agent-principal,
attorney-client and physician-patient).
            Defendants’
evidence establishes that (1) Harrison was a manager of Serious Soccer LLC
(Defendants’ SSUMF No. 98, Harrison Dec., ¶3, Sumner Dec., ¶3); (2) Sumner was
a manager of Serious Soccer LLC (Defendants’ SSUMF No. 99, Harrison Dec., ¶3,
Sumner Dec., ¶3); (3) Harrison and Sumner actively solicited Plaintiff’s
investment in Serious Soccer LLC’s proposed NASL franchise (Harrison Dec.,
¶¶14-18; Sumner Dec., ¶¶14-18); (4) Plaintiff and Serious Soccer LLC executed
the Term Sheet for the Private Placement of Series A Preferred Units of Serious
Soccer, LLC (Defendant’s Separate Volume of Evidence, Ex. L); and (5) Plaintiff
ultimately transferred $185,000 to Serious Soccer, LLC as an investor (Harrison
Dec., ¶¶31, 39 and 40.)        
            Defendants’
evidence fail to negate Plaintiff’s allegation of a fiduciary duty.  Defendants solicited and received $185,000
from Plaintiff as managers of Serious Soccer, LLC.  “The manager of an LLC has a fiduciary duty
and owes to the members of the LLC the same duties of loyalty and good faith as
a partner owes to the partnership and its partners.” (Feresi v. The Livery,
LLC (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 419, 425.)  Questions of fact remain as to Plaintiff’s
status.  Was he a member?  Even if Plaintiff was not a member of the
LLC, he was undisputedly an investor who entrusted $185,000 to Defendants’
management.  
            Fiduciary
relationships include a joint venture, a partnership or an agency. (Cleveland
v. Johnson (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 1315, 1339 (upholding jury
finding of fiduciary duty owed by preincorporation promoter and corporation to investor
).  The law also imposes a fiduciary duty
on “preincorporation investors,” “the indistinguishable factual equivalent of a
shareholder or member or subscriber.”  (Id.
at 1344.)  “We see no reason why a
promoted, who undoubtedly has a fiduciary duty to investors who later receive
stock certificates entitling them to share in the profits of the enterprise,
should not likewise have a fiduciary duty to initial investors who do not
receive stock but are entitled by contract to share in the profits of the
enterprise.”  (Id. at 1343.)  
            Even
if Defendants refuse to concede that Plaintiff had formal status as a member of
the LLC, the evidence supports a finding that Plaintiff entered into a joint
venture, partnership or agency with Defendants in the handling of his $185,000
investment or that he was akin to a member who never received units despite
investing based on an agreement to do so. 
Defendants’ evidence fails to negate the existence of a fiduciary duty
as an issue of law.
            Defendants’
Motion for Summary Judgment is denied as to the first cause of action of breach
of fiduciary duty.  
            IV.  2nd c/a for Negligent
misrepresentation, 4th c/a for fraud and 5th c/a for
fraudulent concealment—GRANT as to negligent misrepresentation and DENY as to
fraud and concealment 
            Defendants’
evidence fails to negate Plaintiff’s allegations of misrepresentations alleged
in Plaintiff’s complaint.  Plaintiff’s
complaint alleges that Sumner and Harrison personally represented to him that
Serious Soccer was going to be an NASL Franchise in Orange County, CA, and in
exchange for Plaintiff’s investments, they promised he would be an owner in
Serious Soccer’s NASL franchise and he would be kept apprised of Serious
Soccer’s business and would receive distributions per the terms of the Term Sheet.  (FAC, ¶¶47 and 59.)  Plaintiff also alleges Defendants
affirmatively concealed and misrepresented their substantial engagement in
separate business interests and endeavors, their connection to business
entities who received his investment and the sharing of Serious Soccer’s
capital with other entities owned by them. 
(FAC, ¶¶49, 60, 66.)  
            Defendants’
evidence does not negate Plaintiff’s allegations regarding misrepresentations
they personally made to him.  Defendants
focus on the Term Sheet and the fact that the Term Sheet does not make any of
the alleged misrepresentations.  (Defendants’
SSUMF Nos. 207-209, 217-226.)  However,
that has never been Plaintiff’s position based on his FAC.  Plaintiff alleges that Defendants personally
made these misrepresentations to him. 
Defendants’ declarations do not deny that they ever made such
misrepresentations.  (Harrison Dec., ¶¶13-18;
Sumner Dec., ¶¶13-18.)  Defendants fail
to negate an essential element of Plaintiff’s fraud or concealment claims.  Defendants’ motion for summary judgment or
adjudication of the 4th and 5th causes of action for
fraud and fraudulent concealment is denied. 

            Defendants
also argue that the misrepresentations cannot form the basis of a negligent
misrepresentation cause of action, because they do not affirmatively misrepresent
a past or existing material fact.  “The
elements of negligent misrepresentation are well-established. A plaintiff must
prove the following in order to recover. Misrepresentation of a past or
existing material fact, without reasonable ground for believing it to be true,
and with intent to induce another's reliance on the fact misrepresented;
ignorance of the truth and justifiable reliance on the misrepresentation by the
party to whom it was directed; and resulting damage.”  (Shamsian v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 967, 983.)  
            The
alleged negligent misrepresentations do fail to plead misrepresentation of a
past or existing material fact, and to the extent they are false promises,
there is no cognizable claim for negligent false promise.  Plaintiff fails to respond to Defendants’
argument that the misrepresentations are not of an existing or material
fact.  As such, the motion for summary
adjudication is granted as to the negligent misrepresentation claim.  
            Defendants’
motion for summary adjudication of the 4th and 5th causes
of action for fraud and concealment is denied. 
Defendants’ motion for summary adjudication of the negligent
misrepresentation claim is granted.  
            V.  3rd cause of action for negligence—GRANT

            According
to Plaintiff’s FAC, he demanded that his investment be returned on August 3,
2017.  (FAC, ¶35.)  Plaintiff alleges that after sending his
August 3, 2017 email, Defendants ceased all contact with him.  (FAC, ¶36.) 
Plaintiff filed this action on December 20, 2019, more than two years
after his demand email for return of his investment.  Defendants therefore establish that
Plaintiff’s negligence claim is barred by the two-year statute of limitations
under CCP §335.1.  
            In
opposition, Plaintiff failed entirely to address this argument.  As such, Plaintiff fails to raise a triable
issue of material fact as to Defendant’s defense based on statute of
limitations.
            Defendants’
Motion for Summary Adjudication of Plaintiff’s 3rd cause of action
for negligence is granted.  
            VI.  6th cause of action for accounting—DENY

            An
action for an accounting may be brought where (1) a fiduciary relationship
exists between the parties or (2) the accounts are so complicated that an
ordinary legal action demanding a fixed sum is impracticable.  (5 Witkin, Cal. Proc. (6th ed. 2021)
Plead, §815.)  
            To
state a cause of action, only the simplest pleading is required:
            (1)
The fiduciary relationship or circumstances appropriate to the remedy; and
            (2)
A balance due from the defendant to the plaintiff that can only be ascertained
by an accounting.  (Id.)
            Defendants
argue Plaintiff’s claim for accounting fails, because (1) there is no fiduciary
relationship between Plaintiff and Defendants; and (2) the balance Plaintiff
claims due is a for a specific sum ($185,000). 
However, as discussed in connection with the breach of fiduciary duty
claim, triable issues of fact remain as to whether Defendants owed Plaintiff a
fiduciary duty.  
            Defendants’
Motion for Summary Adjudication of the 6th cause of action for
accounting is denied. 
            VII.  7th cause of action for breach of
contract and 8th cause of action for breach of the implied covenant
of good faith and fair dealing—DENY 
            Defendants
argue the Term Sheet was not an enforceable contract, as it did not impose any
obligations on either party.  The term
sheet contains the follow statement, “This Term Sheet summarizes the principal
terms of the proposed financing of Serious Soccer, LLC (the ‘Company’).  This Term Sheet is for discussion purposes
only; there is no obligation on the part of any negotiating party until a
definitive securities Purchase Agreement is signed by all parties.  This Term Sheet does not constitute an offer
to sell or an offer to purchase securities.” 
(Defendants’ Separate Volume of Documentary Evidence, Ex. L, VAN000129.)  The sheet is signed by both Serious Soccer,
LLC (by Harrison as manager thereof) and Plaintiff as “Investor.”  (Id. at VAN000134.)
            Defendants
claim they sent this Term Sheet to Plaintiff to solicit his investment,
representing that if he invested, these would be some of the terms of his
investment.  (Harrison Dec., ¶¶14-18;
Sumner Dec. ¶¶14-18.)  Plaintiff
undisputedly invested $185,000 into Serious Soccer LLC after his discussions
with Defendants and receipt of the Term Sheet. 
(Harrison Dec., ¶¶31, 39 and 40.) 
Plaintiff undisputedly never signed a Securities Agreement as
contemplated by the Term Sheet. (Sumner Dec., ¶78; Harrison Dec., ¶78.)  However, it is also undisputed that Defendants
accepted Plaintiff’s $185,000 investment and used it.  (Harrison Dec., ¶¶31, 39, 40, 78.)
            According
to Plaintiff’s FAC, Plaintiff received this term sheet and repeatedly demanded
that a Securities Purchase Agreement be executed.  (FAC, ¶80; Plaintiff’s Amended Dec., ¶¶25-29[1].)  Defendants testify that Plaintiff never asked
for execution of such an agreement before transferring any funds or after
transferring his $45,000 initial payment or his second $140,00 payment.  (Harrison Dec., ¶31.)   
            While
it is true that a purported contract is not enforceable if it imposes no
obligations on one party (Scottsdale Ins. Co. v. Essex Ins. Co. (2002)
98 Cal.App.4th 86, 94–95), courts must interpret the provisions of a contract
to avoid rendering the instrument illusory.” (Id.)  Further, “[w]hen a party is given absolute
discretion by express contract language, the courts will imply a covenant of
good faith and fair dealing to limit that discretion in order to create a
binding contract and avoid a finding that the promise is illusory.” (Hester
v. Public Storage (2020) 49 Cal.App.5th 668, 680, fn. 3.)
            The
Term Sheet outlined the basis on which Plaintiff would invest funds into
Serious Soccer, LLC.  The Term Sheet
states, “there is no obligation on the part of any negotiating party until a
definitive securities purchase agreement is signed by all parties.”  (Defendants’ Exhibit L.)  Plaintiff invested funds and Defendants
accepted the funds but never issued executed a Securities Purchase Agreement
with him despite Plaintiff’s investment in response to the Term Sheet.  Triable issues of fact remain as to whether
the Term Sheet formed part of an agreement to execute or further negotiate the
terms of a Securities Purchase Agreement, particularly given Plaintiff’s
ultimate investment, and whether Defendants’ failure to issue such an agreement
after taking the investment was a breach of the implied covenant of good faith
and fair dealing.
            Defendants’
Motion for Summary Adjudication of the is denied.  
            VIII.  9th cause of action for violation
of Business & Professions Code §17200—DENY 
            Defendants
move for summary adjudication of this claim on grounds that Plaintiff’s fraud
claims fail as a matter of law and therefore the fraud prong of 17200 cannot be
satisfied as a matter of law. 
Defendants’ argument fails, because triable issues of fact remain as to
Plaintiff’s fraud and concealment claims. 

            Moreover,
the fraud prong of 17200 is not the same as common law fraud.  “In order to state a cause of action under
the fraud prong of the UCL a plaintiff need not show that he or others were
actually deceived or confused by the conduct or business practice in question.
“The ‘fraud’ prong of [the UCL] is unlike common law fraud or deception. A
violation can be shown even if no one was actually deceived, relied upon the
fraudulent practice, or sustained any damage. Instead, it is only necessary to
show that members of the public are likely to be deceived.” (Schnall v.
Hertz Corp. (2000) 78 Cal.App.4th 1144, 1167.)
            Defendants’
motion for summary adjudication of the 9th cause of action for
violation of B&PC §17200 is denied.
            IX.  10th cause of action for
conversion—DENY 
            “Conversion
is the wrongful exercise of dominion over the property of another.  The elements of a conversion are: (1) the
plaintiff's ownership or right to possession of the property at the time of the
conversion; (2) the defendant's conversion by a wrongful act or disposition of
property rights; and (3) damages.  It is
not necessary that there be a manual taking of the property; it is only
necessary to show an assumption of control or ownership over the property, or
that the alleged converter has applied the property to his own use.”  (Farmers Ins. Exchange v. Zerin (1997)
53 Cal.App.4th 441, 451-452.)  Money
cannot be subject to an action for conversion unless a “specific sum capable of
identification is involved.”  (Fischer
v. Machado (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 1069, 1072.)
            Triable
issues of fact remain as to whether Defendants’ wrongfully executed dominion
over Plaintiff’s funds by their fraudulent acts.  Contrary to Defendants’ position, Plaintiff is
asserting a legal right to the $185,000 on grounds that Defendants’ defrauded
him of that money.  
            Defendants’
Motion for Summary Adjudication of the 10th cause of action for
conversion is denied.
            X.  Punitive damages—DENY 
            “In
the usual case, the question of whether the defendant's conduct will support an
award of punitive damages is for the trier of fact, since the degree of
punishment depends on the peculiar circumstances of each case.  But the issue may be resolved on summary
judgment, giving due regard to the higher proof standard. While the clear and
convincing evidentiary standard is a stringent one, it does not impose on a
plaintiff the obligation to prove a case for punitive damages at summary
judgment.  However, where the plaintiff's
ultimate burden of proof will be by clear and convincing evidence, the higher
standard of proof must be taken into account in ruling on a motion for summary
judgment or summary adjudication, since if a plaintiff is to prevail on a claim
for punitive damages, it will be necessary that the evidence presented meet the
higher evidentiary standard.  Summary
judgment on the issue of punitive damages is proper only when no reasonable
jury could find the plaintiff's evidence to be clear and convincing proof of
malice, fraud or oppression.”  (Johnson
& Johnson v. Superior Court (2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 757, 762; Pacific
Gas and Electric Company v. Superior Court (2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 1150,
1158–1159.)  The party moving for
adjudication of a plaintiff’s punitive damages claim bears the initial burden
of production.  (CCP §437c(f)(1) and (2);
Johnson & Johnson v. Supr. Ct. (2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 757, 761.)
            Defendants argue they are entitled
to summary adjudication of the punitive damages claim, because Plaintiff’s
breach of fiduciary duty, fraud and conversion claims fails as a matter of
law.  However, as discussed above,
triable issues of fact remain as to these claims and the motion for summary
judgment or adjudication is denied as to them. 
CONCLUSION
            For
the aforesaid reasons, Defendants Sumner and Harrison’s Motion for Summary
Judgment is DENIED.  Defendants’ Motion
for Summary Adjudication is GRANTED as to the 2nd cause of action
for negligent misrepresentation and 3rd cause of action for
negligence and DENIED as to all remaining issues. 
It is so ordered.
 
Dated: March 8, 2024
 
_______________________
Rolf M. Treu
Judge of the
Superior Court


