  Case Number:  23VECV01940    Hearing Date:   January 21, 2025    Dept:  O
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHWEST DISTRICT
 



PERRIN DAVIDSON, an
  individual; SARAH NAZARI, an individual, 
                  Plaintiff,
         vs.
 
LORDON ENTERPRISES INC., a California
  Corporation; DONALEA BAUER, an individual; SHELBY WAGNER, an individual; CONEJO
  VALLEY CONSTRUCTION, INC.; FORREST GREGGE; and DOES 3 through 25, inclusive,
 
                  Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.: 23VECV01940
 
ORDER
  DENYING DEFENDANTS CONEJO VALLEY CONSTRUCTION INC. AND FORREST GREGGE’S MOTION
  FOR JUDGMENT ON THE PLEADINGS
 
ORDER
  GRANTING DEFENDANTS CONEJO VALLEY CONSTRUCTION INC. AND FORREST GREGGE’S MOTION
  FOR RELIEF FROM WAIVER OF DISCOVERY OBJECTIONS



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I.             
BACKGROUND 
This action
is brought by Plaintiffs Perrin Davidson (“Davidson”) and Sarah Nazari
(collectively, “Plaintiffs”) against the property management company
responsible for managing their community where they own a home, Defendant Lordon
Enterprises Inc., and the manager and assistant manager of that company,
Defendant Donalea Bauer and Defendant Shelby Wagner, respectively (collectively
“Defendants”). 
On May 9,
2024, Plaintiffs amended their Complaint to add Defendants Conejo Valley
Construction Inc. and Forrest Gregge (collectively, “Moving Defendants”),
adding both in place of “Doe 1.”
Moving
Defendants now move for a judgment on the pleadings. Moving Defendants also
move for relief from waiver of discovery objections.
II.          
PROCEDURAL
HISTORY
On May 4,
2023, Plaintiffs filed their Complaint, alleging (1) Fraud [Intentional
Misrepresentation]; (2) Negligence; (3) Intentional Infliction of Emotional
Distress; (4) Breach of Fiduciary Duty; and (5) Violation of B&P §17200 Unfair
Business Practices. 
On July 21,
2023, Defendants filed their Answer. 
On January 4,
2024, the Court held an informal discovery conference. 
On January
17, 2024, the Court granted the parties’ Stipulated Protective Order. 
On February
5, 2024, the Court denied Plaintiffs’ Motion to Compel Further Discovery
Responses. 
On May 9,
2024, Plaintiffs amended their Complaint to add Moving Defendants, adding both
in place of “Doe 1.”[1]
On July 5,
2024, Moving Defendants filed their Answer. 
On December 17,
2024, Moving Defendants filed the instant Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings
(“MJOP”).
On December
24, 2024, Moving Defendants filed the instant Motion for Relief from Waiver of
Discovery Objections (“Motion”). 
On January 2,
2025, Plaintiffs filed their Opposition to the MJOP. 
On January 7,
2025, Plaintiffs filed their Opposition to the Motion. 
On January
17, 2025, Moving Defendants filed their Reply in support of their MJOP but not
as to their Motion. 
III.       
LEGAL STANDARDS  
A.           
Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings 
“A motion for judgment on the pleadings
performs the same function as a general demurrer, and hence attacks only
defects disclosed on the face of the pleadings or by matters that can be
judicially noticed.” (Burnett v. Chimney Sweep (2004) 123 Cal.App.4th
1057, 1064.) In considering a motion for judgment on the pleadings, courts
consider whether the factual allegations, assumed true, are sufficient to
constitute a cause of action. (See Fire Ins. Exchange v. Superior
Court (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 446, 452-53.) Thus, it may be granted if, from
the pleadings, together with matters that may be judicially noticed, it appears
that a party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law. (See Code Civ.
Proc. § 438(d); Saltarelli & Steponovich v. Douglas (1995) 40
Cal.App.4th 1, 5.).[2]
A defendant or plaintiff’s
motion for judgment on the pleadings may be made after the time to demur has
expired and an answer has been filed. (Code Civ. Proc. § 438(f).)
B.           
Relief from Waiver of Discovery
Objections
A party who
fails to serve a timely response to a demand for inspection waives any
objection to the demand, including based on privilege or work product, unless
the court finds that the party has subsequently served a response that is in
substantial compliance and the party’s failure was the result of mistake,
inadvertence, or excusable neglect. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300
(a)(1)-(2).) The trial court has broad discretion to grant relief from waiver
of objections on a noticed motion upon determining that: (a) the moving party
subsequently served discovery responses which are substantially code compliant;
and (b) the moving party’s failure to timely serve responses “was the result of
mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2030.290(a),
2031.300(a), and 2033.280(a).)
A court may
not find that only some portions of a document containing responses are
code-compliant but must instead determine whether the document as whole
substantially complies. (See St. Mary v. Superior Court (2014) 223
Cal.App.4th 762, 779-780.)¿¿
The statutory
language “mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect” in the discovery statute
should be interpreted using the same general principles developed in
application of the identical language in section 473(b). (See Scottsdale
Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 263, 275.) Although the
party moving for relief under section 473 has the burden to show the mistake,
inadvertence, or neglect was excusable, any doubts as to that showing must be
resolved in favor of the moving party. (See New Albertsons, Inc. v. Superior
Court (2008) 168 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1420.)¿
///
///¿¿
IV.        
ANALYSIS
A.           
Moving Defendants’ Motion for Judgment
on the Pleadings is Denied
1.             
Meet and Confer
“Before
filing a motion for judgment on the pleadings, the moving party shall meet and
confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading
that is subject to the motion for judgment on the pleadings for the purpose of
determining if an agreement can be reached that resolves the claims to be
raised in the motion for judgment on the pleadings.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 439(a)
(emphasis added).) 
Moving Defendants’ counsel provides a
lengthy meet and confer declaration attesting to his efforts to communicate
with Davidson (Plaintiff and counsel), including via a phone call on November
26, 2024. (See MJOP Declaration of Randall Pitre filed December 17,
2024.) The Court finds Moving Defendants have satisfied their meet and confer
obligations. 
2.            
Request for Judicial Notice 
Plaintiffs
request this Court take judicial notice of “the entire file in the Subject
Litigation” and “[d]ocuments obtained from Defendant LORDON in the Subject
Litigation.” Plaintiffs’ requests for judicial notice are DENIED because their
request is not specific enough to enable the Court to determine, on an item by
item basis as it must, whether judicial notice is appropriate.
3.            
Analysis 
Moving
Defendants argue they are entitled to judgment on the pleadings because
Plaintiffs’ Complaint is devoid of any factual allegations against Moving
Defendants. (See MJOP, pg. 2.) Moving Defendants argue they “are only
identified in the complaint as the same Doe defendant (Doe 1). The complaint
makes contentions and/or conclusory allegations that the Doe defendants are in
some unspecified manner liable to Plaintiffs, but there are no facts alleged
against either of the Moving Defendants.” (MJOP, pp. 3-4.) 
In
opposition, Plaintiffs argue they “seek to hold Defendants responsible for the
same incident and injuries referred in the original complaint” and have incorporated
their DOE allegations throughout the Complaint. (See Opposition, pp.
1-2.) 
In reply,
Moving Defendants argue Plaintiffs never served their Opposition on Moving
Defendants, and that Plaintiffs’ proof of service for their Opposition is
deficient. (See Reply, pp. 1-2.) 
As an initial
matter, Plaintiffs’ proof of service is procedurally defective as it does not
state the name of the person making the service as required by Code of Civil
Procedure 1013(a). (See Opposition Proof of Service.)[3] More
concerningly, however, is Plaintiffs’ apparent failure to serve their
Opposition on Moving Defendants. (See Reply Declaration of Randall Pitre
filed January 17, 2025, ¶¶ 3-11.) The Court will consider Plaintiffs’
Opposition in its below ruling, but only because it does not rely on
Plaintiffs’ Opposition in its below analysis. 
Moving
Defendants are not entitled to a judgment on the pleadings. Winding Creek v.
McGlashan (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 933 (“Winding Creek”) is instructive
here. In Winding Creek, the complaint included the following: “‘Defendant
[sic ] Doe 1 through Doe 50, inclusive, are sued herein under fictitious
names. Their true names and capacities are unknown to Plaintiffs. When their
true names and capacities are ascertained, Plaintiffs will amend this Complaint
by inserting their true names and capacities herein. Plaintiffs are informed
and believe and thereon allege, that each of the fictitiously named Defendants
is responsible in some manner for the occurances [sic ] herein
alleged, and that Plaintiffs' damages as herein alleged were proximately caused
by those Defendants.’ (Italics added.) In paragraph 15, plaintiffs alleged
on information and belief that ‘... each Defendant acted as agent for their
co-Defendants and were acting in that capacity at all times herein mentioned,
or were in the employment of said other Defendants acting within the course and
scope of their employment.’ These allegations were incorporated by reference
into each cause of action.” (Winding Creek, 44 Cal.App.4th at 938.)
         The Winding Creek Court found
the above sufficient to satisfy the requirements of Doe pleading. (See Winding
Creek, 44 Cal.App.4th at 941.) “As noted above, every single cause of
action stated in that pleading incorporated by reference plaintiffs’ allegation
that ‘... each of the fictitiously named Defendants is responsible in some
manner for the occurances [sic ] herein alleged, and that Plaintiffs’
damages as herein alleged were proximately caused by those Defendants.’ Also
incorporated in each cause of action was the allegation that ‘... each
Defendant acted as agent for their co-Defendants and were acting in that
capacity at all times herein mentioned, or were in the employment of said other
Defendants acting within the course and scope of their employment.’ The prayer
for relief requests judgment ‘against Defendants and each of them....’ The
complaint thus alleges that defendants, whose identities or culpable acts were
unknown at the time of filing, are in some way responsible for the acts of
which plaintiffs complain.” Winding Creek, 44 Cal.App.4th at 941-942.)
Plaintiffs’
approach here mimics that of Winding Creek’s plaintiff. They added
Moving Defendants via amendment on May 9, 2024. Plaintiffs’ Complaint states
“Plaintiffs are ignorant of the true names or capacities, whether individual,
corporate, associate, or otherwise, of Defendants named herein as DOES 1
through 25, inclusive. Said DOES are unknown to Plaintiffs, who therefore sue
said Defendants by such fictitious names, and Plaintiffs will ask leave to
amend this pleading to show their true names and capacities when same have been
ascertained. Plaintiffs allege that each of the fictitiously named Defendants
is in some manner responsible for the damaged herein alleged.” (Complaint, ¶
5.) Plaintiffs’ Complaint also states Defendants “are the agents, servants, and
employees of their Co-Defendants”, that “each of the named Co-Defendants were,
in some way responsible for the occurrences herein alleged, and the damages suffered
by Plaintiffs, as alleged, were proximately caused by their conduct.” (Id.
at 2.) Plaintiffs also incorporate the previous paragraphs into each cause of
action, allege each cause of action “Against All Defendants[,]” and pray judgment
be entered against “the Defendants, and each of them[.]” (Complaint.)
Plaintiffs
have alleged Moving Defendants are in some way responsible for the acts of
which the Plaintiffs complain, sufficient for DOE pleading. 
Accordingly
Moving Defendants’ Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings is DENIED.   
B.           
Moving Defendants’ Motion for Relief
from Waiver of Discovery Objections is Granted 
1.             
Judicial Notice 
Moving
Defendants request this Court take judicial notice of (1) the judgment entered
in the “Liberty Canyon Action”, case number 23VECV05614; (2) the subject matter
of the complaint in the “Liberty Canyon Action”; (3) the subject matter of the
complaint filed by Plaintiffs in the “Sensitive Environmental Action”, case
number 22STCV01858; and (4) the dismissal with prejudice entered in the
Sensitive Environmental Action. 
Moving
Defendants’ requests for judicial notice are DENIED. 
2.            
Analysis 
Moving
Defendants’ counsel Randall Pitre (“Pitre”) declares Plaintiffs served six
discovery responses on Moving Defendants on September 5, 2024, via an email to
Pitre. (See Motion Declaration of Randall Pitre filed December 24, 2024
(“Pitre Decl.”), ¶¶ 3, 5.) Pitre declares the six discovery requests “were only
sent to me and, as such, no one else in my office had a chance to see these discovery
requests. I did not see this email or the attached discovery requests until
October 14, 2024.” (Pitre Decl., ¶ 6.) It was also on October 14, 2024, that
Pitre also saw Davidson’s October 10th and 11th follow-up
emails regarding the late discovery. (See id.) Pitre further declares he
informed Davison of his mistake on October 14, 2024, and served discovery
responses by mail on November 10, 2024, and by e-mail on November 11, 2024. (See
id. at 7-8.) 
In
opposition, Plaintiffs argue they granted Moving Defendants additional time to
respond to the discovery requests only on the understanding that Moving
Defendants’ objections were waived. (See Motion Declaration of Perrin
Davidson filed January 7, 2025 (“Davidson Decl.”), ¶¶ 4, 5, Exs. 3, 4.) Plaintiffs
argue Moving Defendants should not have served their late responses with
objections and, either way, they are evasive and non-responsive. (See Davidson
Decl., ¶ 6, Ex. 6.) 
The Court
finds Moving Defendants’ failure to provide timely discovery responses was due
to Pitre’s mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect. Pitre declares he did
not see the email containing the discovery responses and was in communication
with Davidson from the time he discovered his mistake to service of discovery
responses. While Davidson’s October 25, 2024, email to Pitre does state “I
expect the responses to be substantive, (and without objections as they are
waived)[]”, it is not clear to the Court that Pitre agreed to these conditions—at
any rate, Davidson’s email stating objections are waived does not preclude
Moving Defendants from requesting relief from waiver of objections. (See Davidson
Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. 3.) The Court also finds Moving Defendants’ discovery responses
are, while not strictly code-complaint, substantially compliant such that
relief is appropriate. A response may be in substantial compliance and still
the proper subject of a (later) motion to compel. A response is in substantial
compliance if it is in the form expected for an answer to the given request and
conveys some information.  
Accordingly, Moving
Defendants’ Motion is GRANTED.  
V.           
CONCLUSION
Based on the
foregoing, the Court DENIES Moving Defendants’
Motion for Judgment on
the Pleadings. 
However, the
Court GRANTS Moving Defendants’ Motion for Relief from Waiver of Discovery
Objections. 
IT IS SO
ORDERED.
DATED:     January 21, 2025



Hon. Michael R. Amerian
Judge,
  Superior Court



 


