  Case Number:  23VECV03953    Hearing Date:   March 5, 2024    Dept:  W RAYMOND CHANG
v. POLESTAR AUTOMOTIVE USA, INC., et al.
 
motions to
compel discovery 
 
Date of Hearing:        March
5, 2024                                   Trial
Date:       None
set. 
Department:              W                                                        Case
No.:        23VECV03953
 
Moving Party:             Plaintiff
Raymond Chang 
Responding Party:       Defendant
Polestar Automotive USA, Inc.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a lemon law action. Plaintiff
Raymond Chang leased a new 2021 Polestar 2 on February 28, 2022. Plaintiff
alleges the vehicle was delivered to Plaintiff with serious defects and nonconformities
to warranty and developed other serious defects and nonconformities to warranty
including, but not limited to, electronic issues which make up the whole of the
vehicle, key access, and Bluetooth issues. Plaintiff further alleges he
presented the vehicle to Galpin 2 Electric B, LLC, d/b/a Polestar Los Angeles on
several occasions (“Polestar LA”); however, Polestar LA failed to complete repairs and so Plaintiff contacted Polestar
Automotive USA, Inc. ("PAUSA"). PAUSA rejected Plaintiff’s repurchase
request, thus the instant lawsuit. On September 8, 2023, Plaintiff filed a
complaint for 1. Violation of Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act - Breach of
Express Warranty; 2. Violation of Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act - Breach of
Implied Warranty; and 3. Negligent Repair. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Responses to Form
Interrogatories from Defendant Polestar Automotive USA, Inc. is MOOT. 
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Responses to
Request for Admissions from Defendant Polestar Automotive USA, Inc. is MOOT. 
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Responses to
Request for Production of Documents from Defendant Polestar Automotive USA,
Inc. is MOOT. 
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Responses to
Special Interrogatories from Defendant Polestar Automotive USA, Inc. is MOOT. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff Raymond Chang moves this
court for or an order compelling verified responses to Plaintiff's first set of
Form Interrogatories, Request for Admissions, Request for Production of
Documents, and Special Interrogatories from Defendant PAUSA on the grounds Defendant
has refused to provide code-compliant discovery responses pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure. Plaintiff also requests $1,938.00
in sanctions against Defendant and its attorneys of record, Nelson Mullins
Riley & Scarborough, LLP, per motion. 
 
In opposition, Defendant PAUSA contends
the motions are now moot because PAUSA has now served responses to Plaintiff’s
first set of Form Interrogatories, Request for Admissions, Request for
Production of Documents, and Special Interrogatories on February 20, 2024.
(Hernandez Decl. ¶3, Exh. A.) Counsel for Defendant claims due to an internal
clerical error, her office did not calendar the deadline for PAUSA to respond
to Plaintiff’s discovery requests. (Hernandez Decl. ¶2.) 
 
In reply, Plaintiff argues Defendant
failed to serve timely responses to Plaintiff's discovery requests, then failed
again when granted an extension to respond by Plaintiff. Even after Plaintiff
filed the instant motion, Defendant continued to fail to provide responses
until February 20, 2024, when its opposition to this motion was due. Plaintiff
further argues the responses are deficient in numerous ways and still seeks
sanctions. 
 
As this motion was based on Defendant’s
initial failure to provide responses to discovery, the motion is moot. (See CCP
§2030.290.) If Plaintiff believes the responses are not in substantial
compliance, the parties are to participate in an Informal Discovery Conference
as authorized by Code of Civil Procedure section 2016.080. The court denies
Plaintiff’s request for sanctions at this time.   