 Case Number:  21STCV47583    Hearing Date:   September 21, 2023    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
On December 30, 2021, Plaintiff
Courtney Brooks (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against defendants Long Beach
Memorial Medical Center (“Medical Center”), Mundi Attinasi, M.D. (“Dr.
Attinasi”), Amjuli Kumar, M.D. (“Dr. Kumar”), Glenn Levine, M.D. (“Dr. Levine”),
and Does 1 through 20, alleging a cause of action for wrongful death from
professional negligence.  On November 23,
2022, Plaintiff filed the operative Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”).   
 
Plaintiff alleges that her daughter,
Marlee Sage Butler (“Marlee”) was born on April 8, 2020, with holoprosencephaly.  Marlee was admitted to Medical Center on July
8, 2020.  On July 15, Marlee stopped
breathing and became unresponsive and required intubation.  On July 18, 2020, after two tests for brain
death were performed, Marlee was pronounced dead.  
The SAC includes causes of action
for wrongful death (professional negligence), fraud (Levine), fraudulent
concealment (Dabagh), Aiding and Abetting Fraud (Javahery), and vicarious liability
(LBMMC).
 
2.     Motion
for Summary Judgment
a.    
Standard on Summary Judgment
Summary judgment is proper “if all
the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material
fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of
law.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §437c(c).)  Where a defendant seeks summary judgment or
adjudication, he must show that either “one or more elements of the cause of
action, even if not separately pleaded, cannot be established, or that there is
a complete defense to that cause of action.” 
(Id. at §437c(o)(2).)  A defendant
may satisfy this burden by showing that the claim “cannot be established”
because of the lack of evidence on some essential element of the claim.  (Union Bank v. Superior Court (1995) 31
Cal.App.4th 574, 590.)  Once the
defendant meets this burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a
“triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action
or defense thereto.”  (Ibid.)  
 
The moving party bears the initial
burden of production to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues
of material fact.  (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.) 
A defendant moving for summary judgment must show either (1) that one or
more elements of the cause of action cannot be established or (2) that there is
a complete defense to that cause of action. 
(Id. at §437c(p).)  A defendant
may discharge this burden by furnishing either (1) affirmative evidence of the required
facts or (2) discovery responses conceding that the plaintiff lacks evidence to
establish an essential element of the plaintiff's case. If a defendant chooses
the latter option he or she must present evidence “and not simply point out that
plaintiff does not possess and cannot reasonably obtain needed evidence….” Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at 865-66,
[A] defendant may simply show the
plaintiff cannot establish an essential element of the cause of action “by
showing that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,
needed evidence.” (Id. at p. 854.)  Thus,
rather than affirmatively disproving or negating an element (e.g., causation),
a defendant moving for summary judgment has the option of presenting evidence
reflecting the plaintiff does not possess evidence to prove that element. “The
defendant may, but need not, present evidence that conclusively negates an
element of the plaintiff's cause of action. The defendant may also present
evidence that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed
evidence—as through admissions by the plaintiff following extensive discovery
to the effect that he has discovered nothing” to support an essential element
of his case. (Aguilar, supra, at p. 855.) Under the latter approach, a
defendant's initial evidentiary showing may “consist of the deposition
testimony of the plaintiff's witnesses, the plaintiff's factually devoid discovery
responses, or admissions by the plaintiff in deposition or in response to
requests for admission that he or she has not discovered anything that supports
an essential element of the cause of action.” (Lona v. Citibank, N.A., supra,
202 Cal.App.4th at p. 110.)  In other
words, a defendant may show the plaintiff does not possess evidence to support
an element of the cause of action by means of presenting the plaintiff's
factually devoid discovery responses from which an absence of evidence may be
reasonably inferred. (Scheiding v. Dinwiddie Construction Co. (1999) 69
Cal.App.4th 64, 83.)
 
Thus, a moving defendant has two
means by which to shift the burden of proof under the summary judgment statute:
“The defendant may rely upon factually insufficient discovery responses by the
plaintiff to show that the plaintiff cannot establish an essential element of
the cause of action sued upon. [Citation.] [Or a]lternatively, the defendant
may utilize the tried and true technique of negating (‘disproving’) an essential
element of the plaintiff's cause of action.” (Brantly v. Pisaro (1996) 42
Cal.App.4th 1591, 1598.) 
Leyva v. Garcia (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th
1095, 1103.
 
Until the moving defendant has
discharged its burden of proof, the opposing plaintiff has no burden to come
forward with any evidence. Once the moving defendant has discharged its burden
as to a particular cause of action, however, the plaintiff may defeat the motion
by producing evidence showing that a triable issue of one or more material
facts exists as to that cause of action. 
(Id. at §437c(p)(2).)  On a motion
for summary judgment, the moving party's supporting documents are strictly
construed and those of his opponent liberally construed, and doubts as to the
propriety of summary judgment should be resolved against granting the
motion.  (D’Amico v. Board of Medical
Examiners (1974) 11 Cal.3d 1, 21.) 
 
b.    
Law re: Standard of Care
The standard of care against which
the acts of health care providers are to be measured is a matter within the
knowledge of experts.  Elcome v. Chin
(2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 310, 317.  Unless
the conduct required by the particular circumstances is within the common knowledge
of the layman, the standard of care in a malpractice action can only be proved
by an expert’s testimony.  Id.  If the “common knowledge” exception does not
apply to a medical malpractice action, expert evidence is conclusive and cannot
be disregarded.  Id.  A medical practitioner is not necessarily
negligent just because he chooses one medically acceptable method of treatment
or diagnosis and it turns out that another medically accepted method would have
been a better choice.  CACI 506.  Likewise, a medical practitioner is not
necessarily negligent just because his efforts are unsuccessful or he makes an
error that was reasonable under the circumstances.  CACI 505.
 
Whether the standard of care in the
community has been breached presents the basic issue in a malpractice action
and can only be proved by opinion testimony unless the medical question is
within the common knowledge of laypersons. 
See Jambazian v. Borden (1994) 25 Cal.App4th 836, 844. “‘When a
defendant moves for summary judgment and supports his motion with expert
declarations that his conduct fell within the community standard of care, he is
entitled to summary judgment unless the plaintiff comes forward with
conflicting expert evidence.’“ (Munro v. Regents of University of California
(1989) 215 Cal.App.3d 977, 984-985.)
 
c.    
Law
re: Causation
In order to establish that
defendant's negligence was a “substantial factor” in causing injury or death,
the plaintiff must prove the negligence was of itself sufficient to bring about
that harm.  “The law is well settled that
in a personal injury action causation must be proven within a reasonable
medical probability based upon competent expert testimony.  Mere possibility alone is insufficient to
establish a prima facie case. 
[Citations.]  That there is a
distinction between a reasonable medical ‘probability’ and a medical 'possibility'
needs little discussion.  There can be
many possible ‘causes,’ indeed, an infinite number of circumstances which can
produce an injury or disease. A possible cause only becomes ‘probable’ when, in
the absence of other reasonable causal explanations, it becomes more likely
than not that the injury was a result of its action.  This is the outer limit of inference upon
which an issue may be submitted to the jury.” Bromme v. Pavitt (1992) 5
Cal.App.4th 1487, 1498; citing Jones v. Ortho Pharmaceutical Corp. (1985) 163
Cal.App.3d 396, 402 403.
 
d.     Initial
Note re: Summary Adjudication 
Defendant indicates, in its notice
of motion, that it seeks summary judgment or summary adjudication for three
reasons.  It then lists the reasons.  It never, however, lists what issues are to
be adjudicated.  Notably, CCP §437c(f)
permits a motion for summary adjudication of a cause of action, an affirmative
defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty.  It does not permit summary adjudication of a “reason.”  Defendant’s notice of motion never indicates which
causes of action, affirmative defenses, claims for damages, and/or issues of
duty it wishes to have adjudicated.  The Court
therefore will consider only the motion for summary judgment, and not the
purported alternative motion for summary adjudication.  
 
e.     Parties’
Positions 
Defendant contends it is entitled
to judgment as a matter of law because its nurses and staff complied with the
standard of care at all times, and nothing they did caused or contributed to
Decedent’s death.  It contends it is not
liable for any negligence on the part of the physicians who treated Plaintiff
and Decedent because Plaintiff signed a consent form indicating she understood the
treating physicians were independent contractors and not agents of
Defendant.  
 
Plaintiff opposes the motion.  She argues Defendant’s nursing staff’s care
and treatment did not comply with the standard of care.  She argues the medical records provided to
Defendant’s expert were not full and complete records.  She argues the terms of admissions contract
is contradicting.  She argues the case
should go to trial because Defendant’s staff spoliated the evidence.  
 
Defendant, in reply, contends it
met its moving burden, and Plaintiff failed to serve any evidence with her
opposition papers, such that any evidence submitted to the Court is
inadmissible.  It contends that, without any
evidence, Plaintiff cannot meet her burden to raise a triable issue of material
fact.  
 
f.     
Evidentiary
Objections
Plaintiff filed evidentiary objections
with her opposition papers.  Plaintiff objects
to various statements made in the Declaration of Myra Firth, who is Defendant’s
attorney of record.  Firth, at ¶¶3-5,
declares that she provided true and unaltered medical records to Defendant’s
expert for review, and that the records “were unaltered from the version
received from Kaiser, which were accompanied by a declaration from the
custodian of records.”  
The hearsay and lack of foundation
objections are sustained.  Firth is stating,
in her declaration, that she knows the records are true and correct because she
received them with a declaration from the custodian of records.  She states nothing about what was in the custodian
of records declaration, and even if she did, it would be hearsay as an out-of-court
statement made with the intent to prove the truth of the matter asserted.  
 
Defendant filed objections with its
reply papers.  Defendant correctly notes that
Plaintiff failed to provide copies of her exhibits with her opposition
papers.  Notably, Plaintiff attempted to cure
this defect after she received the reply. 
The Court finds the ruling on the motion does not turn on a ruling on
Defendant’s objections, and therefore declines to rule on them.  CCP §437c(q). 

 
g.    
Continuance
of Hearing
The hearing on this motion is
continued for six weeks, to Thursday, 11/09/23. 
The parties are ordered to do the following:
·        
On or before Thursday, 10/05/23, Defendant must
file a declaration properly authenticating Plaintiff’s medical records.  Defendant must also file an updated separate
statement reflecting this additional evidence. 
Defendant must make NO OTHER CHANGES to its moving papers; the changes
are limited to a proper custodian of records declaration and corresponding
separate statement.
·        
On or before Thursday, 10/19/23, Plaintiff must
file a declaration authenticating all evidence proffered with the opposition,
and must file the evidence in a form that is viewable using the Court’s online
e-filing system.  Plaintiff must also
file a corresponding separate statement reflecting the updated evidence.  Plaintiff must make no other changes to her
opposition papers; the changes are limited to authenticating and properly
filing and serving all evidence relied upon with the opposition.
·        
On or before Thursday, 10/26/23, Defendant must
file an entirely new set of reply papers. 
The Court will not consider the previously-filed reply papers, as the
previously-filed reply papers mainly centered on the evidentiary issues
detailed above.  
 
Both parties must electronically
serve the updated documents on the other party. 

 
LBMMC is ordered to give notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.  If
the parties do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear
remotely.
 