 Case Number:  23LBCV00586    Hearing Date:   September 21, 2023    Dept:  S27 
Background Facts

Plaintiff, Saralida Ruiz filed this
action against Defendants, One World Ranches, LLC, Karmdeep S. Bains, Harpreet
B. Bains, and Karmdeep and Harpreet Bains in their capacities or their trust
for damages arising out of a fall down a set of stairs on Defendants’
property.      
 

Motion to Transfer Venue

a.    
Parties’ Positions
Defendants move to transfer venue
to Sutter County, contending venue in Los Angeles County is improper.  Defendants contend venue is proper in Sutter
County, which is where the incident took place and where all of the defendants
reside.  Defendants concede One World
Ranches designated Los Angeles County as its principal place of business with the
Secretary of State, but contend its true principal place of business is Sutter
County, as its owners reside in Sutter County. 
Defendants seek sanctions because Plaintiff refused to voluntarily
transfer the action to Sutter County.
 
Plaintiff opposes the motion.  She argues venue is proper in the county
where at least one defendant resides, and an entity defendant’s designation of
its principal place of business is sufficient to establish the defendant
resides in that county.  She seeks
sanctions because Defendants brought their motion improperly.  
 
b.     Law
Governing Venue
CCP §397(a) requires the Court to
transfer venue if the action was filed in the wrong county.  Pursuant to CCP §395(a), venue  in a personal injury action is proper in the
county where the injury occurred and also in the county where any defendant
resides.  §395.5 defines “residence” for
a corporate defendant as that corporate defendant’s principal place of business.  
 
Pursuant to Rosas v. Superior Court
(1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 671, 677, a corporation is bound for venue
purposes by its designation of its principal place of business in corporate
documents filed with the Secretary of State. 
The corporation cannot claim its principal office is actually somewhere
else.  
 
Defendants herein argue repeatedly
that, despite having designated Los Angeles County as their principal place of business
with the Secretary of State, their real principal place of business is Sutter
County, because One World’s owners reside there.  Defendants cite no authority for their
position that residence of an entity’s owners nullifies that entity’s corporate
designation.  In light of Rosas, the
motion is denied.
 
c.     Sanctions

Both parties seek imposition of sanctions
in connection with the moving and opposition papers.  CCP §396b(b) provides, “In its discretion,
the court may order the payment to the prevailing party of reasonable expenses
and attorney's fees incurred in making or resisting the motion to transfer
whether or not that party is otherwise entitled to recover his or her costs of
action. In determining whether that order for expenses and fees shall be made,
the court shall take into consideration (1) whether an offer to stipulate to
change of venue was reasonably made and rejected, and (2) whether the motion or
selection of venue was made in good faith given the facts and law the party
making the motion or selecting the venue knew or should have known. As between
the party and his or her attorney, those expenses and fees shall be the
personal liability of the attorney not chargeable to the party. Sanctions shall
not be imposed pursuant to this subdivision except on notice contained in a
party's papers, or on the court's own noticed motion, and after opportunity to
be heard.”
 
Plaintiff shows that, in response
to Defendants’ meet and confer correspondence, Plaintiff established that venue
is legally proper in Los Angeles County. 
Defendants, instead of accepting the legal ramifications of their choice
to designate Los Angeles County with the Secretary of State, doubled down and
filed this motion, where they failed to articulate any legal basis for a venue
transfer.  The Court therefore finds imposition
of sanctions is just and reasonable.  
 
Plaintiff seeks sanctions in the amount
of $6593, which includes six hours of travel and appearance time and various
costs associated with travel to Los Angeles. 
At the outset of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Court created and
implemented an online hearing system, which the Court asks all attorneys appearing
before it to use.  It is not reasonable
for an attorney to choose to fly in for a hearing when this system is
available.  The Court will therefore award
the requested four hours to prepare the opposition papers and two hours to
review the reply and prepare for and attend the online hearing.  Plaintiff seeks to recover a $60 filing fee,
but there is no filing fee for opposition papers.  It is not clear what the $30 reporter fee is
that Plaintiff seeks to recover.  The
Court awards the six hours of attorney time at $500/only, or $3000 in
sanctions.  
 
Defense Counsel is ordered to pay
sanctions to Plaintiff, by and through her attorney of record, in the amount of
$3000, within twenty days.    
 
1.     Case
Management Conference
The parties are reminded that there
is a CMC on calendar concurrently with the hearing on the above motion.  The Court asks the parties to make arrangements
to appear remotely at the CMC and hearing on the motion.