 Case Number:  21STCV14469    Hearing Date:   September 21, 2023    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Donna Bailey filed this
action against Defendants, Darelyne Heacock and Farmers and Merchants Trust
Company for damages arising out of a landlord-tenant dispute.  Plaintiff’s operative Second Amended Complaint
contains numerous factual allegations, which will be discussed in more detail
below.  The crux of the SAC is
three-fold.  Plaintiff alleges (a) she is
disabled, (b) she has ongoing disputes with Defendants about parking and use of
a garage on the property, and (c) Heacock assaulted her in connection with one
of these disputes.  
 
On 11/02/21, the Court heard Defendants’
demurrers and motions to strike directed at the FAC.  The Court sustained and granted the pleading
challenges in part, and ordered Plaintiff to file an SAC.  Plaintiff filed her SAC on 11/19/21.  On 6/23/22, the Court heard Defendants’ demurrers
and motions to strike directed at the SAC. 
The Court sustained the demurrers as to the hostile environment
harassment cause of action without leave to amend, deemed the motion to strike
moot as to that cause of action, otherwise denied the motion to strike, and
ordered Defendants to file an answer to the SAC with the hostile environment harassment
cause of action deemed stricken.  
 
On 4/11/23, the Court heard
Defendant’s motion to clarify.  The motion
was made because, at mediation, Plaintiff took the position that her negligence
cause of action encompassed a claim for negligent hiring and retention against
F&M.  Plaintiff took this position despite
the fact that the Court previously sustained a demurrer to the cause of action
for negligent hiring and retention, and granted leave to amend if and only if Plaintiff
could allege specific prior violent acts on the part of Heacock and prior
knowledge of such violent acts on the part of F&M, which Plaintiff did not
do.  The Court granted the unopposed motion
and clarified its prior order, making clear that there was no claim for
negligence hiring and retention encompassed by the negligence cause of action pled
against F&M.  
 
On 6/2/23, the Court heard Plaintiff’s
motion to compel and F&M’s motion for a protective order.  The issue posed was whether Plaintiff could conduct
Jeremy Clark’s (F&M employee) deposition on the subject of negligent
hiring, training, retention, and/or supervision of Heacock.  The Court ruled as follows:
The question posed is whether a
plaintiff can conduct discovery into a theory not posed in the complaint for
the purpose of potentially amending the complaint to assert the theory in the
future.  Neither party cites authority on
point, and the Court knows of none. 
Defendant argues the complaint limits the scope of discovery, and
Plaintiff argues discovery is extremely broad. 
The Court is inclined to allow the discovery to go forward.  Plaintiff was unable to plead facts showing
Defendant knew of Heacock’s prior bad acts because those facts are uniquely
within Defendant’s knowledge.  The Court,
in its original ruling, made clear that Plaintiff could amend if Plaintiff learned
of such facts during the course of discovery. 
Plaintiff is now attempting to do so. 
Absent authority on point precluding her from doing so, the Court will
allow the discovery.  The motion to
compel is granted and the motion for a protective order is denied.
 
 Court, at the conclusion of the hearing,
limited Plaintiff’s inquiry at Clark’s continued deposition to the issue of
whether F&M had knowledge of Heacock’s prior bad acts.  
 
2.     Motion
to File Third Amended Complaint
a.    
Relief Sought
Plaintiff moves to file a Third
Amended Complaint, in which she would assert a cause of action for negligent training,
hiring, supervision, and/or retention of Heacock, as well as allegations
concerning the proposed cause of action. 
Plaintiff contends she learned of facts during the depositions of
Heacock and Clark that support her proposed cause of action.  
 
b.    
Issues Presented
The motion poses numerous
issues.  First, the Court must determine whether
its prior rulings preclude Plaintiff from making this motion.  Second, the Court must determine what
standard it should use in deciding the motion. 
Third, the Court must determine whether Plaintiff delayed in bringing
the motion and whether the delay prejudiced Defendant.  Fourth, the Court must determine whether the
proposed TAC states a cause of action for negligent training, hiring,
supervision, and/or retention.  
 
c.     Prior
Rulings
F&M contends this Court’s prior
rulings, wherein it sustained a demurrer to the proposed new cause of action and
where it clarified that ruling to note that no claim for negligent training,
hiring, supervision, and/or retention is encompassed by the negligence cause of
action, preclude Plaintiff from seeking the instant relief.  However, the Court specifically held, in connection
with the motion to compel deposition and motion for a protective order, that it
was permitting Plaintiff to conduct discovery into the issue of whether such a
claim could potentially be pled.  The clear
import of that ruling was that Plaintiff could, if such facts were established,
seek leave to add her claim.  
 
The Court will therefore entertain
the motion on its merits.
 
d.     Standard
for Ruling on This Motion
The normal standard when ruling on
a motion for leave to amend is as follows: 
The court may, in furtherance of justice, and on such terms as may be
proper, allow a party to amend any pleading. 
(CCP §§473 and 576.)  Judicial
policy favors resolution of all disputed matters between the parties and,
therefore, leave to amend is generally liberally granted.  Ordinarily, the court will not consider the
validity of the proposed amended pleading in ruling on a motion for leave since
grounds for a demurrer or motion to strike are premature.  However, the court does have discretion to
deny leave to amend where a proposed amendment fails to state a valid cause of
action as a matter of law and the defect cannot be cured by further
amendment.  (California Casualty General
Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1985) 173 Cal.App.3d 274, 281.)  
 
The application for leave to amend
should be made as soon as the need to amend is discovered.  The closer the trial date, the stronger the
showing required for leave to amend.  If
the party seeking the amendment has been dilatory, and the delay has prejudiced
the opposing party, the Court has the discretion to deny leave to amend.  (Hirsa v. Superior Court (1981) 118
Cal.App.3d 486, 490.)  Prejudice exists
where the amendment would require delaying the trial, resulting in loss of
critical evidence, or added costs of preparation such as an increased burden of
discovery.  (Magpali v. Farmers Group,
Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 486-488.) 
 
Neither party presents authority
concerning whether the Court can consider extrinsic evidence when ruling on a
motion for leave to amend.  This case is
scheduled for trial in under two months. 
The Court, therefore, in addition to determining whether the proposed allegations
are sufficient, will also consider whether the evidence in support of the proposed
cause of action is sufficient to establish a prima facie case for negligent hiring,
training, supervision, and/or retention. 

 
e.     Delay
and Prejudice
The threshold issue, before the
Court rules on the sufficiency of the proposed amended pleading, is whether Plaintiff
delayed in bringing this motion and whether the delay prejudiced F&M.  As noted above, both delay and prejudice must
be found; one or the other, standing alone, is insufficient to justify denial of
the motion.
 
Plaintiff contends she first
learned of facts that support her motion on 1/25/23 when she deposed
Heacock.  Plaintiff contends she
attempted to learn additional facts when she deposed Clark on 3/22/23, but
Clark refused to answer relevant questions. 
She contends she has been hamstrung in learning of additional facts
because the Court only permitted her to inquire into F&M’s knowledge of
Heacock’s prior bad acts, which is not the only issue that would support her
potential claim for negligent hiring, training, retention, and/or
supervision.  
 
The Court finds Plaintiff did not
unreasonably delay in filing this motion. 
She filed her moving papers on 7/21/23, only days after she took Clark’s
continued 7/17/23 deposition.  F&M
correctly notes that nothing in Clark’s deposition transcript actually supports
the motion.  Plaintiff acted reasonably,
however, in attempting to conduct that deposition prior to bringing this
motion.  
 
f.      Does
the Proposed TAC State a Cause of Action?
The final inquiry is whether the
proposed TAC states a cause of action.  As
noted above, the Court is also considering the evidence presented with the
moving papers to determine whether Plaintiff should be permitted to plead the
claim.
 
Again, Plaintiff wishes to amend to
state a claim for negligent hiring, training, retention, and/or supervision of
Heacock.  Notably, Plaintiff must tie any
such negligence to her claims against Heacock in this case, which are that
Heacock assaulted her.  Thus, Plaintiff must
plead facts showing F&M negligently hired Heacock, negligently trained (or
failed to train) Heacock, negligently retained Heacock, and/or negligently supervised
Heacock, and that such negligence led to Heacock assaulting Plaintiff.
 
Plaintiff submits the following
portions of Heacock’s deposition testimony in support of her motion:
 
First, on pages 50-51, Plaintiff
submits a portion of the testimony where Heacock stated that Yvette Romero
suggested Plaintiff move her car, and she did so on two occasions, and then
Romero suggested she have the car towed, and Heacock said she wasn’t’ going to
do that because Plaintiff has a reputation and can be crazy.  At pages 57-58, Plaintiff asked Heacock if
she had ever been an onsite property manager anywhere else besides F&M, and
Heacock responded no.  Plaintiff then
asked if Heacock received any training from F&M on how to be a property manager.  Heacock responded, “No.  But we did go over things.  We had conversations about what this would entail,
my duties would entail, absolutely.  Did
I go to a training course?  No.”  At page 71, Heacock testified that she has
told other tenants not to use certain parking spaces at the property.  At page 73, she testified that she made the
decision, on her own, to place a note on Plaintiff’s car when it was improperly
parked.  
 
The above is the sum total of the evidence
Plaintiff has produced in support of her proposed new claim.  Nothing in the above suggests F&M
breached any duty that caused Heacock to assault Plaintiff.  Notably, F&M provides additional
testimony, with the opposition papers, that Heacock also testified that she has
a family business and does property management. 

 
The Court finds the evidence submitted
in support of the motion does not support a claim for negligent training,
hiring, supervision, and/or retention, as Plaintiff failed to provide anything
that tends to show F&M did or failed to do something that caused Heacock to
assault Plaintiff.  The motion for leave
to amend is therefore denied.  
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   