 Case Number:  23LBCV00230    Hearing Date:   September 21, 2023    Dept:  S27 1.     Allegations
of the Complaint
Plaintiff, Eric Diaz filed this
action against Defendants, Connor and Blake Headey for damages arising out of
an automobile vs. bicycle accident.  Plaintiff’s
complaint contains a prayer for punitive damages against Connor based on the
allegation that Defendant was intoxicated at the time of the subject
accident.  
 
2.     Motion
to Strike
At this time, Defendant moves to
strike the prayer for punitive damages and related allegations against him.
 
a.    
Law
Governing Punitive Damages in the Context of Driving Under the Influence
Allegations that a defendant
exhibited a conscious disregard for the safety of others are sufficient to show
malice.  Taylor v. Superior Court (1979)
24 Cal.3d 890, 895-96.  The Taylor court
concluded that the act of operating a motor vehicle while intoxicated may
constitute an act of "malice" under section 3294 if performed under
circumstances which disclose a conscious disregard of the probable dangerous
consequences. "One who wilfully consumes alcoholic beverages to the point
of intoxication, knowing that he thereafter must operate a motor vehicle,
thereby combining sharply impaired physical and mental faculties with a vehicle
capable of great force and speed, reasonably may be held to exhibit a conscious
disregard of the safety of others." 
Id., at p. 897.
 
To properly allege punitive damages
in a motor vehicle accident action, a plaintiff simply needs to "establish
that the defendant was aware of the probable dangerous consequences of his
conduct, and that he wilfully and deliberately failed to avoid those
consequences."  Id., at p. 896.  If the essential gravamen of the complaint is
that "Defendant became intoxicated and thereafter drove a car while in
that condition, despite his knowledge of the safety hazard he created
thereby" then this is sufficient to allege punitive damages.  (Id.) 
While a history of prior arrests, convictions and mishaps may heighten
the probability and foreseeability of an accident, we do not deem these
aggravating factors essential prerequisites to the assessment of punitive damages
in drunk driving cases.  Id.
 
Taylor justified imposing punitive
damages upon the “deliberate” drunk driver for many reasons, including the high
degree of foreseeability of injury and damage flowing from driving while
intoxicated.  The court says the
essential allegation is that defendant became intoxicated and thereafter drove
a car while in that condition, despite his knowledge of the safety hazard he
created thereby.   The decision also
discusses the grave havoc wrought by intoxicated drivers nationwide and equates
the act of deliberately driving while under the influence with a conscious and
deliberate disregard of the interests of others which may be described as
willful or wanton. Such conduct, the court said, has traditionally been a basis for awarding punitive damages. Herrick v. Superior
Court (1987) 188 Cal.App.3d 787, 790.
 
“There is a very commonly
understood risk which attends every motor vehicle driver who is
intoxicated.  [Citation.]  One who wilfully consumes alcoholic beverages
to the point of intoxication, knowing that he thereafter must operate a motor
vehicle, thereby combining sharply impaired physical and mental faculties with
a vehicle capable of great force and speed, reasonably may be held to exhibit a
conscious disregard of the safety of others. 
The effect may be lethal whether or nor the driver had a prior history
of drunk driving incidents.”  Taylor v.
Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 896-897. 
“[T]he fact of common knowledge that the drinking driver is the cause of
so many of the more serious automobile accidents is strong evidence in itself
to support the need for all possible means of deterring persons from driving
automobiles after drinking, including exposure to awards of punitive damages in
the event of accidents.”  Id., at p. 897.
 
Taylor fell short, however, of
holding that punitive damages are always appropriate in cases involving driving
while intoxicated.  The Court noted, “we
have concluded that the act of operating a motor vehicle while intoxicated may constitute an act of ‘malice’ under
§3294 if performed under circumstances
which disclose a conscious disregard of the probable dangerous consequences.”  Id. at 892.  Emphasis added.
 
Notably, a subsequent decision held
that driving while intoxicated does not always give rise to a claim for
punitive damages.  “[W]e do not agree
that the risk created generally by one who becomes intoxicated and decides
nevertheless to drive a vehicle on the public streets is the same as the risk
created by an intoxicated driver’s decision to zigzag in and out of traffic at
65 miles per hour in a crowded beach recreation area at 1:30 in the afternoon
on a Sunday in June. The risk of injury to others from ordinary driving while
intoxicated is certainly foreseeable, but it is not necessarily probable. The
risk of injury to others from Mardian's conduct under the circumstances alleged
was probable.”  Dawes v. Superior Court
(1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 82.  
 
The court went on to note, “In
contrast, in the case at bench, as previously noted, petitioners pleaded
specific facts from which the conscious disregard of probable injury to others
may reasonably be inferred. Justice Franson aptly noted the distinction in his
article on punitive damages in vehicle accident cases: Allegations of
intoxication, excessive speed, driving with defective equipment or the running
of a stop signal, without more, do not state a cause of action for punitive
damages. [Par.] On the other hand, if the facts show that the defendant
intentionally drove his vehicle at a high speed into an intersection crowded
with pedestrians, or if he drove at a high speed through a crowded residential
area where children were playing in the street, a legitimate inference of
actual malice perhaps could arise. This would be particularly true if the
defendant had not been drinking, or, if drinking, he was not under the influence
to the point where he was incapable of being aware of the situation confronting
him. Under these circumstances, it reasonably might be said that the defendant
acted in such an outrageous and reprehensible manner that the jury could infer
that he knowingly disregarded the substantial certainty of injury to
others."
 
Further complicating the matter, in
1987, after all of the foregoing cases were decided, the legislature amended
Civil Code §3294 to include a requirement that conduct in conscious disregard
of the rights and safety of others be “despicable” in order to support
imposition of punitive damages.  
 
b.    
Analysis
The complaint herein does not
allege Defendant’s level of intoxication, and fails to allege any additional meaningful
aggravating factors.  It merely alleges
that Defendant was the designated driver but chose to consume alcohol despite
this status.  It also alleges Defendant was
driving at an excessively dangerous speed, making sudden sharp, erratic turns
without using turn signals, all in a residential area next to a park.  It does not allege what the excessive speed
was.  It does not allege details about the
sharp and erratic turns.  It is not clear
that the park was related in any way to the accident, such that it would be relevant
to the analysis.    
 
The motion to strike is therefore
granted.  Leave to amend is conditionally
granted.  Plaintiff is permitted to amend
if and only if Plaintiff can state facts in compliance with Dawes, above, in an
amended complaint.  If Plaintiff wishes
to amend, he must do so within twenty days, and Defendant must file a responsive
pleading within the statutory time thereafter. 
If Plaintiff does not amend, Defendant must file an answer to the
complaint, with the prayer for punitive damages and related allegations deemed stricken,
within thirty days from today’s hearing date.
 
3.     Case
Management Conference
The parties are reminded that there
is a CMC on calendar concurrently with the hearing on the above demurrer.  The Court asks the parties to make arrangements
to appear remotely at the CMC and hearing on the demurrer.