 Case Number:  23LBCV00566    Hearing Date:   September 21, 2023    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Megan Douglas filed this
action against Defendants, Michele Miller Gardner and Mark Gardner for damages
arising out of the parties’ landlord-tenant relationship.  Plaintiff’s complaint includes causes of
action for:
1.     Breach
of Contract
2.     Breach
of Warranty of Habitability
3.     Breach
of Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment
4.     Negligence
 
The crux of the complaint is that Plaintiff’s
property suffered from various defects, all of which are detailed at ¶13 of her
complaint.  Plaintiff alleges she made
repeated requests and complaints, but Defendants failed to effectuate necessary
repairs to the property and/or take necessary measures to render the property
in a habitable condition.  Plaintiff
alleges she entered into her tenancy agreement on 3/04/20, and she was evicted
on 1/31/23.  
 
2.     Motion
to Strike
Plaintiff’s complaint includes a prayer
for punitive damages and related allegations, which Defendants move to
strike.  The motion is denied.  The Court notes a dearth of authority presented
by either side in the landlord-tenant context, and notes that it is not independently
aware of any authority decided in this context. 

 
The Court finds a reasonable trier
of fact, upon presentation of evidence that Defendants failed, despite repeated
notice, to cure the numerous serious problems at the property, including black
mold growth, defective and clogged plumbing, other plumbing issues, bug and rodent
infestation, inoperable bathroom and kitchen sinks, malodorous aroma, holes in
walls, missing window screens, electrical issues, water leaks and flooding, an
inoperable oven range due to rat infestation and chewed up wires, and a collapsed
ceiling, as well as received violations from the code enforcement department
for failure to bring property to livable conditions, could conclude that
Defendants acted despicably and with a conscious disregard of Plaintiffs’ health
and safety, which is the definition of “malice” set forth in Civil Code §3294.  This is particularly true at the pleading
stage, when all inferences must be in favor of Plaintiff.  
 
The Court notes that Defendants
also argue Plaintiff failed to allege which individual defendant did what, and
therefore failed to give them notice of the claims against them.  Plaintiff alleges, however, that Defendants,
and both of them, owned, operated, managed, and/or maintained the subject
property, and that she gave notice to both of them.  The nature of the complaint is Defendants’ failure
to act, and therefore it would be impossible to allege which defendant failed
to act in which way; they both failed to act. 
The Court finds nothing further is necessary to clarify how and why
punitive damages are sought against each of the two defendants.  
 
Defendants are ordered to file an
answer to the complaint within ten days. 

 
Defendants are ordered to give
notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.  If
the parties do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear
remotely.