  Case Number:  19LBCV00214    Hearing Date:   September 21, 2023    Dept:  S27 1.     Motion
to Compel Production of Documents
On 10/21/22, Cross-Defendants
propounded a notice of taking deposition of PMK for Acapulco Inn Holdings, LLC
and a demand for production of documents at the deposition.  Acapulco did not object to the notice, and Tracy
Alcantar appeared as the PMK for the deposition on 11/01/22.  During the course of the deposition, it
became apparent that Alcantar had produced some of the demanded documents, but
not all of them.  The parties agreed to
suspend the deposition so Acapulco could retrieve the demanded documents from
storage.  The parties agreed to extend the
time for production of documents and filing of a motion to 3/10/23 and 3/15/23,
respectively.  To date, however, Acapulco
has not produced all demanded documents. 
Cross-Defendants therefore seek an order compelling production of the
demanded documents.
Any opposition to the motion was
due on or before 9/08/23.  The Court has
not received timely opposition to the motion, and will not consider late-filed
opposition papers.  
 
As an initial note,
Cross-Defendants erroneously refer to CCP §§2031.010, et seq. in their moving
papers.  §2031.010 governs RPDs.  §2025.450 governs failure to produce
documents in connection with a deposition. 
The Court has ruled on the motion using §2025.450, and notes that the distinction
does not alter the analysis or outcome of the motion.
 
In light of the lack of opposition,
the motion is granted.  Acapulco is
ordered to produce all responsive documents within ten days.  CCP §2025.450(b).  
 
Cross-Defendants seek
sanctions.  Sanctions are appropriate
pursuant to §2025.450(g)(1). 
Cross-Defendants’ attorney declares $5955 in attorneys’ fees and costs
have been incurred in connection with this motion, including 8.1 hours to draft
the moving papers and five hours to review he opposition, prepare a reply, and
attend the hearing.  No opposition was
filed and therefore no reply was necessary. 
The Court awards a total of nine hours at the requested rate of $450/hour,
or $4050 in attorneys’ fees.  The Court also
awards the requested filing fee of $60.  
 
Sanctions are sought and imposed
against Acapulco and its attorney of record, jointly and severally.  They are ordered to pay sanctions to
Cross-Defendants, by and through their attorneys of record, in the total amount
of $4110, within twenty days.  
 
2.     Final
Note
The Court notes that there are no
future hearing dates on calendar in this case. 
The Court will set dates for Jury Trial and Final Status Conference at
the hearing date.
Cross-Defendants are ordered to
give notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   