 Case Number:  23STCV27674    Hearing Date:   June 25, 2024    Dept:  73 6/25/2024 
Dept. 73 
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding 
 
PUIG v. GOODPEOPLE ROASTING LLC, et
al. (23STCV27674)
 
Counsel for Plaintiff/moving
party:  Scott Ernest Wheeler (Law Office
of Scott Ernest Wheeler)
Counsel for
Defendants/ opposing party: N/A
 
(1)   PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSE TO FORM
INTERROGATORIES – GENERAL, SET ONE, PROPOUNDED ON DEFENDANT GP GROUP LLC (filed on 05/08/2024)
(2)   PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSE TO FORM
INTERROGATORIES – EMPLOYMENT LAW, SET ONE, PROPOUNDED ON DEFENDANT GP GROUP LLC
(filed on 05/08/2024)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Plaintiff’s
Motions to Compel Responses to Form Interrogatories – General, Set One and Form
Interrogatories – Employment, Set One, propounded on Defendant GP Group LLC are
GRANTED. Defendant GP Group LLC shall provide verified responses within 30
days. 
 
The Court
further GRANTS Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions against Defendant GP
Group LLC and their attorney of record, jointly and severally, in the reduced
amount of $1,750. Said
monetary sanctions are to be paid to counsel for Plaintiff within 30 days of
the date of this order. 
 
Plaintiff shall provide notice of the Court’s order and file
a proof of service of such.  
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On November 13, 2023, Plaintiff Eric Puig brought this action
individually and on behalf of all other aggrieved employees against Defendants Goodpeople
Roasting LLC and GP Group LLC.
 
The Complaint alleges the following. Defendants own and operate
one or more coffee bars, that also operate as restaurants, bars, and Marijuana
dispensaries, in Southern California. (Compl., ¶ 1.) Plaintiff, along with
other non-exempt employees of Defendants, worked and performed duties and tasks
at these coffee bars and additionally, received wages from Defendants. (Ibid.)
Defendants implemented common policies and practices within their coffee bars
that have resulted in systematic violations of California’s wage and hour laws.
(Compl., ¶ 2.) Plaintiff brings this representative action to recover civil
penalties relating to systematic violations of California wage and hour laws by
Defendants. 
 
On May 8, 2024, Plaintiff filed Motions
to Compel Demands for Form Interrogatories – General, Set One and Form
Interrogatories – Employment, Set One, propounded on Defendant GP Group LLC. Plaintiff
seeks monetary sanctions. No opposition has been
filed.
 
II. ANALYSIS
 
A.     Legal
Standard 
 
If a party to
whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response, the
propounding party may move for an order compelling responses. (Code Civ. Proc.
§ 2030.290 (b).) Failure to timely respond waives all objections, including
privilege and work product, unless “[t]he party has subsequently served a
response that is in substantial compliance” and “[t]he party’s failure to serve
a timely response was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable
neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290 (a)(1), (a)(2).) The statute contains no
time limit for a motion to compel where no responses have been served and no
meet and confer is required when a party does not respond to discovery
requests. All that need be shown in the moving papers is that a set of interrogatories
was properly served on the opposing party, that the time to respond has
expired, and that no response of any kind has been served. (Leach v. Superior
Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902, 905-906.)  
 
If a motion
to compel responses is filed, the Court shall impose a monetary sanction
against the losing party “unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction
acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the
imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290 (c).)
Further, “[t]he court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a
party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no opposition to the
motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or the requested
discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion was filed.” (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1348(a).) 
 
B.     Discussion
 
Here, Plaintiff
served for Form Interrogatories – General, Set One and Form Interrogatories –
Employment, Set One on Defendant GP Group LLC on December 22, 2023. (Wheeler
Decl. ¶¶ 2, Exh. A.) Responses were due on or before January 26, 2024. (Id.
¶ 3.) On February 9, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel sent Defendant GP Group LLC a
correspondence regarding its lack of responses. (Id. ¶ 6, Exh. B.) Since
then, no responses have been served. (Id. ¶¶ 7-8.)  Therefore, because responses
have not been served, the motions to compel are granted.  
 
Plaintiff also requests $2,625.00 in monetary sanctions for
each of the motions, against Defendant GP Group LLC and their counsel of record,
representing 3 hours spent on each of the motions at an hourly rate of $875. (Id.
¶ 9.) Thus, Plaintiff requests a total of $5,250.00 in monetary sanctions. 
 
The Court finds sanctions are warranted because Defendant GP
Group LLC has failed to respond. However, the amount requested is excessive due
to the type of motion at issue, the fact no opposition was filed, and the fact
counsel can appear at the hearing remotely. Therefore, the Court awards
sanctions in the amount of $1,750 (2 hours of attorney time to file both
motions and appear at the hearing.)
 
III. DISPOSITION

 
Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s Motions to Compel Responses to Form Interrogatories – General, Set
One and Form Interrogatories – Employment, Set One, propounded on Defendant GP
Group LLC are GRANTED. Defendant GP Group LLC shall provide verified responses within
30 days. 
 
The
Court further GRANTS Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions against Defendant
GP Group LLC and their attorney of record, jointly and severally, in the
reduced amount of $1,750.
Said monetary sanctions are to be paid to counsel for Plaintiff within 30 days
of the date of this order. 
 
Plaintiff shall provide notice of the Court’s
order and file a proof of service of such.  