  Case Number:  22STCV39881    Hearing Date:   June 25, 2024    Dept:  73 6/25/2024 
Dept. 73 
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding 
 
JANE DOE, et al. v. LOS ANGELES
UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT, et al. (22STCV39881)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff/opposing party:  Ashley Pileika
(Law Office of Darren Wolf)
Counsel for Defendant/moving
party:  James Baratta (Grant, Genovese
& Baratta, LLP)
 
Defendant’S motion for judgment on the
pleadings (filed by Los Angeles Unified School District 05/06/24)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Defendant Los
Angeles Unified School District’s Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings is
DENIED.
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On December
22, 2022, Plaintiffs Jane Doe and Jane Roe filed this action against Defendants
Los Angeles Unified School District (“LAUSD”), Michael Guzman (“Guzman”), and Does
1 through 50.
 
On December
30, 2022, Plaintiffs filed the First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) alleging the
following causes of action: 
(1) Negligent Hiring, Supervision & Retention of an Unfit
Employee against LAUSD and 
      Does 1-50;
(2) Failure to Report Suspected Child Abuse against LAUSD and Does
1-50;
(3) Negligent Failure to Warn, Train or Educate against LAUSD and
Does 1-50;
(4) Negligent Supervision of a Minor against LAUSD and Does 1-50;
(5) Negligence against LAUSD and Does 1-50;
(6) Sexual Battery against Guzman; and
(7) Sexual Assault against Guzman.
 
The FAC
alleges the following. 
 
The incidents
giving rise to this action occurred when Plaintiffs were approximately 15 years
old and students at Woodrow Wilson High School. (FAC, ¶¶ 2-3.) At the time
Plaintiffs filed this action, Jane Doe was 38 years old and Jane Roe was 42
years old. (Ibid.)
 
Plaintiffs
were the victim of unlawful childhood sexual assault and other misconduct by LAUSD’s
teacher, Guzman, who continues to be employed by LAUSD. (FAC, ¶¶ 1-4.) Guzman
was Plaintiffs’ teacher, basketball coach, softball coach and advisor to the
debate team. (Ibid.) Guzman began grooming and making sexual advances
towards Plaintiffs when they were approximately 15 years old, which eventually
led to kissing, touching and sexual acts. (Ibid.)
 
Upon
information and belief, LAUSD and Does 1 through 50 knew or should have known
Guzman was sexually abusing minor students, and he was, therefore, unfit to
hold any position of trust and authority, because: a) Guzman  routinely transported Plaintiffs in his
private vehicle to/from Woodrow Wilson High School and was caught by other
teachers, coaches, and security guards spending time alone with Plaintiffs in
his classroom, the gym, and other locations at Woodrow Wilson High School; b)
Guzman informed Jane Doe that the principal at Woodrow Wilson High School was
aware of Guzman’s sexual “relationship” with her, but Guzman was not concerned
about the principal taking any action against him because Guzman had knowledge
of sexual misconduct involving the principal and another teacher at Woodrow
Wilson High School; c) Plaintiffs have reason to believe that two assistant
basketball coaches, knew or should have known, Guzman was sexually abusing
them, but both failed to take any action; and d) Within the past year, one of Jane
Doe’s former teachers at Woodrow Wilson High School apologized to Jane Doe for
not doing more to stop the “relationship” between her and Guzman. (FAC, ¶ 17.)
 
Government
Code section 905(m) specifically exempts childhood sexual abuse cases from the
requirement of filing a government tort claim. (FAC, ¶ 7.)
 
Plaintiffs’
lawsuit is timely pursuant to the provisions of Code of Civil Procedure §
340.1, which provides an extended period of time for victims of childhood
sexual assault to pursue their civil claims against the perpetrator as well as
the perpetrator's negligent employer. (FAC, ¶ 8.) Specifically, Code 20 Civ.
Proc. § 340.l(q) provides: “Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any
claim for damages described in paragraphs (1) through (3), inclusive, of
subdivision (a) that has not been litigated to finality and that would
otherwise be barred as of January 1, 2020, because the applicable statute of
limitations, claim presentation deadline, or any other time limit had expired,
is revived, and these claims may be commenced within three years of January 1,
2020. A plaintiff shall have the later of the three-year time period under this
subdivision or the time period under subdivision (a) as amended by the act that
added this subdivision.” (Ibid.) Therefore, pursuant to Code Civ. Proc.
§ 340. l(a) and Code Civ. Proc. § 340.1 (q), Plaintiffs’ claim for damages
arising from childhood sexual abuse is revived and timely brought. (Ibid.)
 
On May 6, 2024,
LAUSD filed this Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings (“MJOP”), arguing:
·      
The presentation of a Government Tort
Claim is a required substantive element of Plaintiff’s claims absent an express
waiver of immunity from liability by LAUSD.
·      
In 2019, the California Legislature passed Assembly Bill 218
("AB 218"), which temporarily eliminated the claim presentation
requirement for plaintiffs suing public entities for childhood sexual assaults
that occurred before January 1, 2009. 
o   Specifically,
before AB 218, public entities were immune from liability for childhood sexual
abuse claims that took place before January 1, 2009. 
o   Under AB 218,
childhood sexual assault claims based on conduct that occurred before January
1, 2009, could be commenced within three years, beginning on January 1, 2020,
without requiring the victims to comply with the claim presentation
requirement.
·      
The retroactive application of AB 218 to
public entities unlawfully creates governmental liability for unenforceable and
nonexistent claims.
·      
The payment of unenforceable claims
violates the constitutional prohibition against gifts of public funds for
non-public purposes.
·      
The appropriation of public funds for
unenforceable claims serves no public purpose as a matter of law.
·      
Other courts have found AB 218
unconstitutional: Jane Doe #1
et al. v. Acalanes Union High School District et al., Contra Costa County Superior Court, Case No. C22-02613; Jane
Doe v. Sergio Marquez et al., Monterey County Superior Court, Case No.
22CV003767; E.L. v. Pasadena Unified School District, Los Angeles
Superior Court, Case No. 22STCV23228.
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs argue that:
·      
Government Code Section 340.1 is
constitutional as upheld in Coats v. New Haven Unified School District
(2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 415. No appellate
court has held that the revival provisions of AB 218 as applied to claims
previously barred by the failure to comply with the claims presentation
requirement violates the constitution.
·      
The revival of a previously barred claim is not a gift of public
funds because (1) there is no appropriation of money or creation of new
liability and (2) even if there was, the Legislature is may enact such laws for
a public purpose which indisputably exists here.
o   The Gift provision does not apply as there has not been an actual
appropriation of public funds.
§  For the
“gift” clause to apply, there must be an actual “appropriation,” “use,” and/or
“giving” of public funds. (See Cal. Const. Art. XVI, sec. 6.) The cases cited
by the District nearly all involve a specific appropriation of public funds to
a specific person or entity. (See Bourn v. Hart (1982) 93 Cal. 321,
326-328.)
§  Here, there
has been no allocation of any amount. Even with the revival, the victim must
still prove that at the time the abuse occurred, the public entity failed to
act in accordance with existing obligations. The District does not appreciate
this point.
o   AB 218 serves the public purpose of assisting victims of childhood sexual
abuse and punishing their abusers.
·      
Reviving a lapsed claim or removing claims presentation
requirements does not create or impose liability against a public entity.
·      
LAUSD’s request is improperly asking the Court to usurp the
authority of the Legislature. Legislative enactments are presumed to be
constitutional.
LAUSD filed a reply, arguing:
·       Coats v. New Haven Unified School District (2020)
46 Cal.App.5th 415, cited by Plaintiffs, is inapplicable as the case does not address the gift clause at all, and in fact only
addresses whether AB 218 runs afoul of the constitutional prohibition against
ex post facto laws and the due process clauses of the Fifth and Fourteenth
Amendments to the United States Constitution.
·       The Legislature cannot, consistent with the
Constitutional prohibition against the making of “gifts” of public money or
other things of value, create liability for past negligence occurring at a time
where the state had not accepted liability for such conduct through a
contemporaneous or pre-existing waiver of its sovereign immunity.
·       The creation of a claim for damages is a “thing of
value” under the Constitution for purposes of application of the gift clause.
·       The Court has authority to assess the
Constitutionality of any statute.
 
II. ANALYSIS
 
A.     Legal
Standard for Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings 
 
A motion for
judgment on the pleadings is the functional equivalent to a general demurrer. (Lance
Camper Mfg. Corp. v. Republic Indemnity Co. of Am. (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th
194, 198.)  Like demurrers, motions for judgment on the pleadings
challenge the legal sufficiency of the allegations, not their veracity. (Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)  The Court “must
accept as true all material facts properly pleaded, but does not consider
conclusions of law or fact, opinions, speculation, or allegations contrary to
law or facts that are judicially noticed.”  (Stevenson Real Estate
Services, Inc. v. CB Richard Ellis Real Estate Services, Inc. (2006) 138
Cal.App.4th 1215, 1219-1220.) Courts must consider whether properly pled
factual allegations—assumed to be true and liberally construed—are sufficient
to constitute a cause of action.  (Stone Street Capital, LLC v. Cal.
State Lottery Com'n (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 109, 116.)   
 
B.     Request for
Judicial Notice
 
LAUSD requests judicial notice of: (1) Notice of Enty of Order in Jane Doe #1 et al. v. Acalanes Union
High School District et al., Contra Costa County Superior Court, Case No.
C22-02613 on the ruling by the Hon. Danielle K. Douglas dated June 13, 2023, on
the defendant school district’s demurrer to the plaintiffs’ complaint; (2) Order
After Hearing in Jane Doe v. Sergio Marquez, et al., Monterey County Superior
Court, Case No. 22CV003767 by the Hon. Thomas W. Willis dated February 2, 2024,
on the defendant school district’s motion for judgment on the pleadings; (3)
Order re: Demurrer in E.L. v. Pasadena Unified School District, Los Angeles
Superior Court, Case No. 22STCV23228 by the Hon. John Kralik dated March 15,
2024, on the defendant school district’s demurrer to plaintiff’s first amended
complaint.
 
Plaintiffs request judicial notice of: (1) Assem. Floor Analysis, Analysis of Assem. Bill No. 218 (2019-2020
Reg. Sess.) as amended August 30, 2019; (2) Sen. Rules Com., Analysis of Assem.
Bill No. 218 (2019-2020 Reg. Sess.) as amended August 30, 2019; (3) Sen. Com.
on Appropriations, Analysis of Assem. Bill No. 218 (2019-2020 Reg. Sess.) as
amended August 30, 2019; (4) Sen. Com. on Appropriations, Analysis of Assem.
Bill No. 218 (2019-2020 Reg. Sess.) as amended March 25, 2019; (5) Sen.
Judiciary Com., Analysis of Assem. Bill No. 218 (2019-2020 Reg. Sess.) as
amended March 25, 2019; (6) Assem. Floor Analysis, Third Reading, Analysis of
Assem. Bill. No. 218 (2019- 2020 Reg. Sess.) as amended March 25, 2019; (7) Assem.
Floor Analysis, Third Reading, Analysis of Assem. Bill. No. 218 (2019- 2020
Reg. Sess.) as introduced January 16, 2019; and (8) Assem. Com. on Judiciary,
Analysis of Assem. Bill No. 218 (2019-2020 Reg. Sess.) as introduced January
16, 2019.
 
The court may
take judicial notice of “official acts of the legislative, executive, and
judicial departments of the United States and of any state of the United
States,” “[r]ecords of (1) any court of this state or (2) any court of record
of the United States or of any state of the United States,” and “[f]acts and
propositions that are not reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of
immediate and accurate determination by resort to sources of reasonably
indisputable accuracy.” (Evid. Code § 452, subds. (c), (d), and (h).)
 
The Court grants each of LAUSD’s and Plaintiffs’ requests for judicial
notice. The Court notes that although it may take judicial notice of the
documents, the documents are only judicially noticeable to show their existence
and what orders were made. The facts and findings within the documents are not
judicially noticeable. (See Lockley v.
Law Office of Cantrell, Green, Pekich, Cruz & McCort (2001) 91
Cal.App.4th 875, 885.)
C.     Discussion
 
Under CCP
section 340.1, as amended by Assembly Bill No. 218 (“AB 218”), in an action for
recovery of damages suffered as a result of childhood sexual assault, the time
for commencement of the action shall be within 22 years of the date the
plaintiff attains the age of majority or within five years of the date the
plaintiff discovers or reasonably should have discovered that psychological
injury or illness occurring after the age of majority was caused by the sexual
assault, whichever period expires later, for any of the following actions: (1)
an action against any person for committing an act of childhood sexual assault;
or (2) an action for liability against any person or entity who owed a duty of
care to the plaintiff, if a wrongful or negligent act by that person or entity
was a legal cause of the childhood sexual assault that resulted in the injury
to the plaintiff.  (CCP § 340.1, subd. (a)(1)-(2).) As relevant here, it also
amended Code of Civil Procedure section 340.1 to add a subdivision (q) which
allows a childhood sexual assault claim that would have been time-barred as of
January 1, 2020, to be brought within three years of January 1, 2020. (Stats.
2019, ch. 861, § 1.)
 
AB 218 also
amended the provision that lists exceptions to the Government Claims Act,
Government Code section 905, by removing language in subdivision (m) that
limited the exception to claims arising out of conduct that occurred on or
after January 2009 and adding subdivision (p), which made this change
retroactive. (See Coats v. New Haven Unified School District
(2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 415, 424; Gov. Code § 905, subds. (m), (p).) Compliance
with the Government Claims Act is a substantive prerequisite to stating a claim
for money damages against a public entity.  (See State of California v. Superior Court (2004) 32
Cal.4th 1234, 1240-41.) 
 
Here,
Plaintiffs brought their childhood sexual assault claim within three years of
January 1, 2020, but did not present a government claim prior to filing suit. It
appears the parties agree that: (1) the Legislature can revive a civil claim
that was barred by the statute of limitations, and (2) that the Legislature was
within its rights to abolish the government claims requirement prospectively,
beginning in 2009 and going forward.
 
However, the parties
disagree about whether the government claims requirement can be abolished for
claims arising prior to 2009 – which the claim in this case did. LAUSD argues that
the portion of AB 218 that retroactively exempts childhood sexual abuse claims
from the Government Claims Act is unconstitutional with respect to public
entities and constitutes an impermissible gift of public funds.  
 
LAUSD argues
that a government claims requirement, unlike a statute of limitations, is a
substantive element of a cause of action. LAUSD asserts the Legislature cannot
remove a substantive element from a cause of action after the fact and apply
the change retroactively. It creates liability where none existed for actions
that were not tortious in the past, effectively giving a gift (in the form of
liability or right to damages, i.e., a right to payment) to individuals who had
no such right ahead of time. 
 
Article XVI,
section 6 of the California Constitution (“the Anti-Gift Provision”) provides,
in relevant part: “The Legislature shall have no power to give or to lend, or
to authorize the giving or lending, of the credit of the State, or of any
county, city and county, city, township or other political corporation or
subdivision of the State now existing, or that may be hereafter established, in
aid of or to any person, association, or corporation, whether municipal or
otherwise, or to pledge the credit thereof, in any manner whatever, for the
payment of the liabilities of any individual, association, municipal or other
corporation whatever; nor shall it have power to make any gift or authorize the
making of any gift, of any public money or thing of value to any individual,
municipal or other corporation whatever… .”  (Cal. Const., art. XVI, § 6.) 
 
The test for “whether or not a proposed application of public
funds is to be deemed a gift within the meaning [of the gift clause], … is …
whether the money is to be used for a public or a private purpose.” (City of
Oakland v. Garrison (1924) 194 Cal. 298, 302.) “The determination of what
constitutes a public purpose is primarily a matter for the Legislature to
determine, and its discretion will not be disturbed by the courts so long as
that determination has a reasonable basis. [Citations.]” (County of Alameda
v. Carleson (1971) 5 Cal.3d 730, 746.) Legislative findings are to be “given
great weight and will be upheld unless they are found to be unreasonable and
arbitrary. [Citations.]” (California Hous. Fin. Agency v. Elliot (1976)
17 Cal.3d 575, 583.)¿ 
  
LAUSD cites to several Supreme Court cases holding that
retroactively created liability, either by creating a new cause of action or,
equivalently, by removing substantive elements so more plaintiffs could state a
claim, is an unconstitutional gift. In Bourn
v. Hart (1892) 93 Cal. 321, the Legislature passed legislation that provided
compensation for a state prison guard who had been previously injured. (Id.,
at p. 326.) The Supreme Court held the legislation violated the gift clause
because the state was not liable for the guard’s injury “either upon general
principles of law or by reason of some previous statute creating such
liability” at the time of the injury. (Id., at p. 328.)  
 
Since that
case, the Supreme Court has held “[a]n appropriation of money by the
legislature for the relief of one who has no legal claim therefore must be
regarded as a gift” pursuant to the gift clause. (Conlin v. Board of
Supervisors (1893) 99 Cal. 17, 21-22 (Conlin); see Chapman v.
State (1894) 104 Cal. 690, 693 (Chapman) [holding gift clause denies
Legislature “power to¿create¿a liability against the state for any such
past act of negligence upon the part of its officers.”]; Powell v. Phelan (1903)
138 Cal. 271, 273-274 (Powell) [holding law appropriating money to
jurors for past jury service was gift because they were not entitled to
compensation at time they served]; see also Jordan v. California Dept. of
Motor Vehicles (2002) 100 Cal.App.4th 431, 450, citing Conlin, supra,
99 Cal. at p. 21-22.) Thus, relying
on these authorities, LAUSD argues AB 218 violates the gift clause because it
imposes liability on public entities for past incidents where there was
previously no liability. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs argue the constitutionality
of AB 218 was established in Coats v. New Haven Unified School District (2020)
46 Cal.App.5th 415. However, the Coats case did not address whether AB
218 violated the gift clause. It instead addressed whether AB 218 violated the
due process clauses and prohibitions on ex post facto laws in the United States
and California constitutions. (Id., at p. 424.) Nonetheless, Coats
stated in dicta: “The present case … involves revival of a cause of action
barred by a claim presentation requirement, not a statute of limitations. But
we are aware of no reason the Legislature should be any less able to revive
claims in this context.” (Id., at p. 428.)  
 
While claim
presentation requirements may be distinguished from statutes of limitations, Plaintiffs
argue that changes to claim presentation requirements also does not create
liability for LAUSD, and therefore does not violate the gift clause. In Chapman,
the court distinguished the creation of a remedy from the creation of a
liability. There, the plaintiff brought an action against the state for
negligence after a cargo of coal was lost during the collapse of a public wharf
in San Francisco. (Chapman, supra, 104 Cal. at p. 692.) While
plaintiff brought the action pursuant to an 1893 law that allowed negligence
actions against the state, the state argued it was not liable for the accident
which occurred before the passage of the 1893 law. (Id., at p. 693.) The Chapman
court noted the 1893 law did not create liability for the state as the
state was already liable pursuant to the principles of contract law. (Id.,
at p. 696.) Instead, the court held the 1893 law “merely gave an additional
remedy for the enforcement of such liability.” (Ibid.) In holding so,
the court quoted the following language from a New York case: 
 
“The
fact that the state is not subject to an action in
behalf of a citizen does not establish that he has no claim against the state,
or that no liability exists from the state to him. It only shows that he cannot
enforce against the state his claim, and make it answer in a court of law for
its liability.¿What is made out by this objection is not that there is no
liability and no claim, but that there is no remedy.” (Ibid, quoting Coster
v. City of Albany (N.Y. 1871) 43 N.Y. 399, 407-408.) 
 
This
distinction is well recognized in California as courts have held the state’s
consent to suit is not a waiver of the state’s immunity from liability. (See
Quigley v. Garden Valley Fire Protection Dist. (2019) 7 Cal.5th 798, 811
[noting the court has “rejected the idea that the Legislature, by offering the
state’s consent to suit, also intended to eliminate the state’s substantive
immunity from liability.”]; People ex rel. Dept. of Parks and Recreation v.
West-A-Rama, Inc. (1973) 35 Cal.App.3d 786, 794 [noting claim statutes are
simply notice requirements and do not waive state’s sovereign immunity].) 
 
In the
authorities that LAUSD relied on, this distinction also appears. For example,
in Bourn, the Supreme Court noted as follows: 
 
“The
exemption of the state from paying damages for accidents of this nature does
not depend upon its immunity from being sued without its consent, but rests
upon grounds of public policy which deny its liability for such damages. . . .
The appropriation made to petitioner was a mere gratuitous assumption of an
obligation from which the state was and is exempt, and
is within the mischief which the framers of the constitution intended to remedy
by the sections before referred to.” (Bourn, supra, 93 Cal. at p.
328.) 
 
Thus, the
court in Bourn distinguished between the state’s ability to consent to
suit and the state’s immunity from liability for the type of injury suffered by
plaintiff. 
 
Similarly in Conlin,
the plaintiff was attempting to
collect payment from the city and county of San Francisco for contractual work
performed pursuant to a California law permitting that collection. (Conlin,
supra, 99 Cal. at p. 22.) The
Supreme Court of California found the law unconstitutional as violative of the
gift clause because the law created liability under circumstances where the
plaintiff’s contract clearly provided that the plaintiff proceeded with the
contract with the “express condition that in no case would the city and county
of San Francisco be liable for any portion of the expense of the said work or
improvement, or for any delinquency of persons or property assessed.” (Id. at
p. 23.) Thus, the plaintiff in Conlin had no basis for expecting
compensation from the city or County of San Francisco from before the time of
injury, and the legislature simply created a liability that contradicted the
terms of the plaintiff’s contract. Here, by contrast, any cause of action
against LAUSD accrued at the time the cause of action was complete with all of
its elements. (Fox v. Ethicon Endo-Surgery, Inc. (2005) 35 Cal.4th 797,
806-807.) Those elements, in light most favorable to the pleadings, accrued at
the time of the alleged abuse. The exposure to LAUSD would have been created at
the same time under a negligence or negligent supervision theory, such as here,
subject to the claims presentation requirements at the time. Thus, AB 218 does not violate the gift
clause by retroactively creating liabilities for LAUSD. Instead, such liability
is created by Government Code section 820, subdivision (a), which states “[e]xcept as otherwise
provided by statute (including¿Section 820.2), a public employee is liable for
injury caused by his act or omission to the same extent as a private person.”
In retroactively adjusting claim presentation requirements and the applicable
statute of limitations, AB 218 has merely expanded the remedies available to Plaintiffs.
Thus, because AB 218 does not create liability for LAUSD and instead addresses
the remedies available to Plaintiffs, it does not meet the definition of an
unconstitutional gift that violates the California Constitution’s gift clause. 
 
Moreover, the
Court does not agree with LAUSD that the effect of AB 218 in amending the
Government Claims Act to add an exemption for claims of the type alleged herein
constitutes a “gift of public money or thing of value” within the meaning of
the Anti-Gift Provision of the Constitution.  As the California Supreme
Court held in Heron v. Riley (1930) 209 Cal. 509, 517: 
 
“We
are not strongly impressed with the contention of the respondent that the
application of funds to pay judgments obtained against the state constitutes a
gift of public money, within the prohibition of the Constitution.  The
state cannot be subjected to suits against itself express by its express
consent; but it may surrender its sovereignty in that particular.  The
judgments which are to be paid bear no semblance to gifts.  They must
first be obtained in courts of competent jurisdiction, to which the parties
have submitted their claims in the manner directed by law.  In other
words, they are judgments obtained after the requirements of due process of law
have been complied with.” 
 
Here, AB 218
did not create an obligation on the part of a governmental agency to pay a
claim made by Plaintiffs.  For Plaintiffs to recover money from LAUSD,
Plaintiffs must first obtain a judgment in this case.  This would not be a
gift of public funds.   
 
Based on the foregoing, the Court is not
persuaded by LAUSD’s argument that the retroactive elimination of the claim
presentation requirement for childhood sexual abuse claims that arose before
2009 in AB 218 is unconstitutional under the Anti-Gift Provision. Therefore, the
Court DENIES the Motion. 
 

 II. DISPOSITION
 
Defendant Los Angeles Unified School District’s Motion for
Judgment on the Pleadings is DENIED.