 Case Number:  23SMCV05308    Hearing Date:   June 6, 2024    Dept:  N TENTATIVE RULINGDefendants Bluevine Inc. and Coastal Financial Corporation a/k/a Coastal Community Bank’s Motion to Compel Arbitration and Stay Proceedings Pending Arbitration is GRANTED.The proceedings are hereby STAYED pending the outcome of arbitration.Defendants Bluevine Inc. and Coastal Financial Corporation a/k/a Coastal Community Bank to give notice.REASONINGDefendants Bluevine Inc. and Coastal Financial Corporation a/k/a Coastal Community Bank (“Defendants”) move the Court for an order compelling Plaintiffs Bain Lmitd Inc., Reliance 21, LLC, AKB Holdings LLC, Drone Home FL LLC, Go Byro, LLC, Metal Magic Fabrication, LLC, Miles Above, LLC, Maxicellular, LLC, Industrial Warehouse Services, LLC, LRF Enterprises, LLC, Rage Holdings, LLC, Construction Facilitators, LLC, Freshforward, LLC, Techniflex, LLC, and Linlar LLC (“Plaintiffs”) to submit to arbitration pursuant to the terms of the written Bluevine Business Checking Account Agreement between Plaintiffs and Defendants and for a stay of this action pending resolution of arbitration. The petition is unopposed.“[I]n considering a . . . petition to compel arbitration, a trial court must make the preliminary determinations whether there is an agreement to arbitrate and whether the petitioner is a party to that agreement (or can otherwise enforce the agreement).” (M & M Foods, Inc. v. Pac. Am. Fish Co. (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 554, 559; see also Giuliano v. Inland Empire Personnel, Inc. (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1276, 1284 [“petitioner bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by the preponderance of the evidence”].) In deciding a petition to compel arbitration, trial courts must first decide whether an enforceable arbitration agreement exists between the parties, and then determine whether plaintiff’s claims are covered by the agreement. (Omar v. Ralphs Grocery Co. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 955, 961.) The burden then shifts to the opposing party to prove, by a preponderance of evidence, a defense to enforcement of the agreement. (Rosenthal v. Great Western Financial Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413.)Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2 provides, in relevant part:On petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses to arbitrate such controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists, unless it determines that:(a) The right to compel arbitration has been waived by the petitioner; or(b) Grounds exist for the revocation of the agreement.(c) A party to the arbitration is also a party to a pending court action or special proceeding with a third party . . . .“The right to arbitration depends upon contract; a petition to compel arbitration is simply a suit in equity seeking specific performance of that contract.” (Eng’rs & Architects Ass’n v. Cmty. Dev. Dep’t (1994) 30 Cal.App.4th 644, 653.) General principles of contract law determine whether the parties have entered a binding agreement to arbitrate. (Chan v. Drexel Burnham Lambert, Inc. (1986) 178 Cal.App.3d 632, 640-641 [“The existence of a valid agreement to arbitrate involves general contract principles”].)Defendant Bluevine Inc. is a financial technology company providing banking services through its bank partner Coastal Financial Corporation a/k/a Coastal Community Bank. (Mot., Chapin Decl. ¶ 2.) Plaintiffs allege that they opened deposit accounts with Defendants (Compl. ¶ 11), which required Plaintiffs to electronically accept the terms of the written Bluevine Business Checking Account Agreement with Defendants. (Mot., Chapin Decl. ¶¶ 8-85, Exs. F-T.) The Table of Contents found below the heading of the agreement notified Plaintiffs that the agreement contained an Arbitration and Waiver of Jury Trial provision at section I, and within section I, under the bolded heading “Arbitration and Waiver of Jury Trial,” the agreement stated:This Arbitration Clause sets forth the procedures for resolving a Claim under or relating to this Agreement. . . . . This Arbitration Clause provides that all Claims shall be FINALLY and EXCLUSIVELY resolved by binding individual arbitration, unless excepted or opted out in accordance with the terms below.(Mot., Chapin Decl. ¶¶ 23-25, Exs. C-E, at § 1.) Arbitrable “Claims” are defined as follows:As used in this Arbitration Clause, a “Claim” is any preexisting, present or future claim, dispute, or controversy between you and us or you and Bluevine arising out of or relating directly or indirectly in any way to this Agreement. The term “Claim” has a very broad meaning and includes, by way of example and not limitation, disputes concerning: (i) the acquisition, use, or balance of your Account or Sub-account(s) ; (ii) advertisements, promotions or oral or written statements related to the Account or Sub-account (iii) a dispute based on a federal or state statute or local ordinance; (iv) data breach or privacy claims arising from or relating directly or indirectly to the disclosure by us or Bluevine of any non-public personal information about you; and (v) the relationships between you and us arising from this Agreement or any of theforegoing.(Mot., Chapin Decl. ¶¶ 23-25, Exs. C-E, at § 1.) The agreement further provides that “[a]rbitrations under this Arbitration Clause will be made pursuant to a transaction involving interstate commerce and shall by governed by the Federal Arbitration Act (‘FAA’) (9 U.S.C. 1-16),” and the agreement requires that the arbitrator “resolve[] Claims on an individual basis” and that any arbitration “be conducted by the American Arbitration Association (‘AAA’) under its rules[.]” (Ibid.)The Court finds that Defendants have demonstrated the existence of an arbitration agreement which may be invoked by Defendants against Plaintiffs, and the disputes are covered by the agreement to arbitrate, as the provision requires submission of claims arising out of relating to the agreement, use and balance of Plaintiffs’ account, or the relationship between Plaintiffs and Defendants arising from the agreement. (Mot., Chapin Decl. ¶¶ 23-25, Exs. C-E, at § 1.) Accordingly, Defendants Bluevine Inc. and Coastal Financial Corporation a/k/a Coastal Community Bank’s Motion to Compel Arbitration and Stay Proceedings Pending Arbitration is GRANTED. The proceedings are hereby STAYED pending the outcome of arbitration.