  Case Number:  21SMCV00142    Hearing Date:   June 6, 2024    Dept:  N TENTATIVE RULING civ 100 1st amended complaint filed 3/29/21Plaintiff Benjamin Avi Harris (“Plaintiff”)’s Application for Default Judgment has come for hearing three times. The Court has advised Plaintiff of the deficiencies in his default judgment, and while some deficiencies have been cured, the Court lacks a basis to conclude that Plaintiff can establish his entitlement to the $132,114.70 he seeks in a default judgment here. Thus, Plaintiff Benjamin Avi Harris’s Application for Default Judgment is GRANTED in the reduced amount of $61,707.00 as set forth below. First, as to filing and motion costs and fees for electronic filing or service incurred due to counsel error or for motions not heard, such costs are not reasonably necessary costs. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1033.5, subd. (c)(2).) The Court’s records show that it granted Plaintiff’s ex parte application for an order permitting entry on the property, a motion to compel further discovery responses, an ex parte application for an order continuing the trial date, a motion to compel deposition, a motion for issue sanctions, and a motion for terminating sanctions. Thus, Plaintiff’s filing and motion fees are reduced to $364.95. As to the fees for electronic filing or service, the Court will not award costs incurred as a result of counsel error; thus, the costs for the initial motion to compel deposition, notice of non-opposition to the same, and ruling for the same are omitted for a total of $372.35. Thus, Plaintiff is entitled to an award of costs in the reduced amount of $3,112.00.Plaintiff is also entitled to recover unpaid rent of $37,900.00 and interest in the amount of $20,695.00.As to the remaining $94,214.70 sought in damages, Plaintiff’s counsel represents that this amount represents $70,000 in emotional distress and mental anguish damages caused by Defendant Arash Jahromi (“Defendant”)’s unreasonable conduct disturbing Plaintiff’s quiet use and enjoyment of his home during Defendant’s tenancy. These two amounts do not match, but in any event, the Court finds that Plaintiff has not established his entitlement to emotional distress damages.As the Court previously stated, it is axiomatic that “[p]laintiffs in a default judgment proceeding must prove they are entitled to the damages claimed.” (Kim v. Westmore Partners, Inc. (2011) 201 Cal.App.4th 267, 288.) While a default generally admits the allegations of the complaint, this does not relieve a plaintiff of a duty to establish causation and damages. (See Ostling v. Loring (1994) 27 Cal.App.4th 1731, 1745 [sufficiency of evidence supporting default is not reviewed only “as to matters for which no proof is required by virtue of the admission by default of the allegations of the complaint ... as to damages which, despite default, require proof the general rule does not apply”].)As Plaintiff notes, his remaining claims are those for (1) fraud, (2) negligent misrepresentation, (3) breach of contract, and (4) private nuisance. The damages for breach of contract consist of unpaid rent of $37,900.00. As to fraud and negligent misrepresentation, the Court lacks a basis to conclude that Plaintiff suffered emotional distress as a result of Defendant’s false representations. In short, Plaintiff alleges that Defendant falsely stated he was able to pay rent and had a high income, but he was unable to do so. Plaintiff’s damages as a result of this fraud would only be the unpaid rent amount; there is no basis to hold that misrepresentations about an ability to pay constitute “verbal abuse” causing emotional distress. (See First Am. Compl. ¶¶ 43, 49.)Thus, the only remaining basis for emotional distress damages is as to Plaintiff’s claim for private nuisance. Much of this claims concerns the anxiety suffered by Plaintiff as a result of Defendant’s call to law enforcement. Again, Plaintiff states that he approached law enforcement, and it is not unreasonable for an individual to suspect a burglary when an unknown individual, here, a process server, approaches a residence. Further, law enforcement does not generally act at the instruction of a private individual, such that holding Defendant accountable for law enforcement’s conduct in temporarily handcuffing Plaintiff appears improper when Defendant simply placed a call to law enforcement, which he was legally entitled to do.Plaintiff alleges that Defendant verbally abused Plaintiff for failing to refund the June 2020 payment and for refusing to participate in Defendant’s fraudulent scheme to obtain government benefits associated with Defendant’s unpaid rent. (First Am. Compl. ¶ 56.) Plaintiff represents that he sought treatment in weekly therapy sessions from September 2020 to April 2022. (Harris Decl. ¶ 43.) However, the evidence provided by Plaintiff appears to indicate that Plaintiff’s therapy sessions were covered by insurance, such that Plaintiff did not actually incur those costs. Thus, the Court lacks a basis to conclude that emotional distress damages are proper here.Accordingly, Plaintiff Benjamin Avi Harris’s Application for Default Judgment is GRANTED in the reduced amount of $61,707.00. Plaintiff shall prepare, serve, and submit a proposed judgment reflecting the Court’s ruling herein.