 Case Number:  22STCV01540    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2023    Dept:  27 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Lee S. Arian, Department 27
 
 
HEARING DATE:     October
30, 2023                               TRIAL
DATE:  March 13, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                                Jenny Iturrios, et al. v. EAN Holdings, LLC, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV01540
 





















 
MOTION
FOR LEAVE TO FILE AN AMENDED ANSWER



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant
Sabrina Nicole Hicks
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiffs Jenny
Iturrios, et al.
 
 
I.          INTRODUCTION

 
This is a consolidated action arising from a three-vehicle
collision.  On January 13, 2022, Plaintiffs
Jenny Iturrios and Mayra Perez, filed a complaint against Defendants EAN
Holdings, LLC,[1]
Sabrina Nicole Hicks (“Hicks”), Rashida Isoke Lenard, and Darlene Moka.  Plaintiffs asserted causes of action for
negligence, negligence per se, and negligent entrustment.  Hicks filed an Answer to Plaintiffs’ Complaint
on April 6, 2022.
 
On March 30, 2023, Hicks filed a Motion for Leave to File
First Amended Answer.  
 
On April 19, 2023, Hicks filed this Amended Motion for Leave
to File First Amended Answer.  
 
On October 18, 2023, Plaintiffs filed an Opposition.  On October 30, 2023, Hicks filed a Reply.
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD
 
            The court
may, in its discretion and after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any
terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading, including adding or
striking out the name of any party, or correcting a mistake in the name of a
party, or a mistake in any other respect.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd.
(a)(1).)¿ “Public policy dictates that leave to amend be liberally granted.”¿ (Centex
Homes v. St. Paul Fire & Marine Ins. Co. (2015) 237 Cal.App.4th 23,
32.)¿ “Although courts are bound to apply a policy of great liberality in
permitting amendments to the complaint at any stage of the proceedings, up to
and including trial . . . this policy should be applied only ‘where no
prejudice is shown to the adverse party.’¿ [Citation].¿ A different result is indicated
‘where inexcusable delay and probable prejudice to the opposing party’ is
shown.¿ [Citation.]” ¿(Magpali v. Farmers Group, Inc. (1996) 48
Cal.App.4th 471, 487.)¿ 
 
            A motion to
amend a pleading must include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended
pleading which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from previous
pleadings or amendments and must state what allegations in the previous
pleading are proposed to be deleted or added, if any, and where, by page,
paragraph, and line number, the allegations are located. (Cal. Rules of Court,
Rule 3.1324, subd. (a).)¿ The motion shall also be accompanied by a declaration
attesting to the effect of the amendment, why the amendment is necessary and
proper, when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered,
and why the request for amendment was not made earlier.¿ (Cal. Rules of Court,
Rule 1.324, subd. (b).)¿ 
 
            In ruling
on a motion for leave to amend a pleading, the court does not consider the
merits of the proposed amendment, because “the preferable practice would be to
permit the amendment and allow the parties to test its legal sufficiency by
demurrer, motion for judgment on the pleadings or other appropriate
proceedings.”¿ (Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213
Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048.)¿ While the court may deny leave to amend where the
proposed amendment is insufficient to state a valid cause of action or defense,
such denial is most appropriate where the insufficiency cannot be cured by
further amendment—i.e., where the statute of limitations has expired or the
insufficiency is established by controlling caselaw. (California Casualty
Gen. Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1985) 173 Cal.App.3d 274, 280-281,
disapproved on other grounds in Kransco v. American Empire Surplus Lines
Ins. Co. (2000) 23 Cal.4th 390.)¿ 
 
III.       DISCUSSION
 
Procedural defects in Hicks’ motion prevents the Court from
granting leave to file the proposed amended answer at this time.  However, given the lack of prejudice, the
Court is inclined to continue the hearing for the motion to allow Hicks to cure
the procedural defects.  
 
Procedural Defects 
 
Hicks’ motion is procedurally defective.  “A motion to amend a pleading must include a
copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleading which must be serially
numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments and must
state what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted or
added, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the allegations
are located.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule
3.1324, subd. (a).)¿ Here, Hicks does not submit a proposed or amended pleading
which is serially numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings.  In
her reply, Hicks contends the proposed amended answer is attached as Exhibit I
to the declaration of her counsel, Rory D. Leos.  However, Exhibit I is not attached to the
Leos Declaration.  
 
Hicks also has not included a declaration in compliance with
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324.  “The
motion shall also be accompanied by a declaration attesting to the effect of
the amendment, why the amendment is necessary and proper, when the facts giving
rise to the amended allegations were discovered, and why the request for
amendment was not made earlier.¿ (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, subd.
(b).)¿ As Plaintiffs point out, the Leos Declaration does not attest to the
effect of the amendment, why the amendment is necessary and proper, when the
facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered, and why the
request for amendment was not made earlier. 
Hicks has not satisfied this requirement. 
 
Lack of Prejudice
 
Notwithstanding the procedural defects, the Court is
inclined to grant this motion.
 
Generally, leave is liberally granted at any stage of the
proceedings unless inexcusable delay and probable prejudice to the opposing
party is shown.¿¿(Magpali, supra, 48 Cal.App.4th at p. 487.)
 
Hicks seeks leave to file the proposed First Amended Answer to
add an affirmative defense based on breach of contract.  In support, Hicks offers the declaration of
her counsel, Rory D. Leos, who explains that Plaintiffs and Hicks reached a
settlement agreement prior to the initiation of this action.  However, before the agreement could be signed
by all parties, Plaintiffs filed the Complaint.  Hicks cites CSAA Ins. Exch. v. Hodroj
(2021) 72 Cal.App.5th 27 for the proposition that a settlement is valid and
enforceable when the parties agree upon the material terms despite differences
in how the terms are written in the formal settlement agreement.  As such, Hicks argues the parties have an
enforceable settlement which the Plaintiffs breached by filing the Complaint.  Hicks further argues that leave to add this
affirmative defense serves the interests of justice as it is potentially
dispositive of Plaintiffs’ claims against Hicks. 
 
Plaintiffs contend that granting the motion would be
prejudicial to Plaintiffs. Specifically, Hicks’s proposed affirmative defense
would require additional discovery that does not relate to the underlying
accident.  Plaintiffs may be correct that
the proposed amended answer may necessitate additional discovery.  However, trial is more than four months
away.  Discovery has not closed.  Plaintiffs do not demonstrate that the
additional discovery could not be completed in the remaining time before
trial.  Moreover, the Complaint was filed
less than two years ago.  If a trial continuance
is necessary to complete discovery, the five-year deadline to bring this case
to would not yet present an independent basis of prejudice.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 583.310.)  The Court finds the prejudice, if any, that
would result from the granting of this motion does not overcome the policy that
cases be resolved on their merits.
 
Plaintiffs next contend that Hicks unreasonably delayed in
bringing this motion.  Plaintiffs are
correct that Hicks does not offer any explanation as to why she did not seek
leave to amend any earlier.  Presumably,
Hicks should have sought leave to amend in early 2022.  By then, the alleged breach had already
occurred and the CSAA decision had already been published.  However, as discussed above, Plaintiffs do
not demonstrate prejudice.  “Where no
prejudice is shown to the adverse party, the liberal rule of allowance prevails.”
 (Higgins v. Del Faro (1981) 123
Cal.App.3d 558, 564-565.)  Absent
prejudice, the Court is guided by the public policy to grant leave to amend
liberally.  
 
IV.       CONCLUSION 
 
            The Court
is inclined to grant the Motion for Leave to File the First Amended
Answer.  Given the procedural defects
noted in this order, the hearing for this motion is CONTINUED to November 13,
2023 at 1:30 AM in Department 27 of Spring Street Courthouse.  Defendant Sabrina Nicole Hicks is to file and
serve an amended declaration with the proposed amended answer no later than 5
court days of this order.[2]
 
 
Moving party to give notice. 

 
 
Dated:   October 30,
2023                                         ___________________________________
                                                                                    Lee
S. Arian
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
            Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on
the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at
www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative
and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless
appear at the hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive
emails from the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and
there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion,
adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar. 
 
 


