  Case Number:  20STCV38000    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2023    Dept:  27 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Lee S. Arian, Department 27
 
 
HEARING DATE:      October 30, 2023                                         TRIAL DATE:  February
13, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                                Ahmad Ali v. Sylvia Ali
 
CASE NO.:                 20STCV38000
 





















 
MOTION
TO COMPEL THE DEPOSITION OF DEFENDANT SYLVIA ALI



 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff
Ahmad Ali
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Defendant Sylvia Ali
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
            This action arises from an alleged assault and battery between
former spouses.  Plaintiff Ahmad Ali alleges
that he attempted to get into the vehicle of Defendant Sylvia Ali when she
suddenly accelerated.  Plaintiff held
onto the passenger door.  Despite telling
her to stop the vehicle, Defendant continued driving.  As a result, Plaintiff fell off the vehicle,
hit his head on the pavement and sustained additional injuries to his left leg
when Defendant ran over it. 
 
On July 7, 2022, Defendant’s son Joshua S. Morris filed an
application to be appointed as Defendant’s guardian ad litem because Defendant was
incapable of assisting in her defense.  In
support of the application, Mr. Morris submitted a letter from Dr. Arthur An, Defendant’s
physician, which stated that Defendant had been diagnosed with Alzheimer’s
disease with significant impairment of her memory and cognitive function.  The application was granted on the same
day.  
 
On December 22, 2022, Plaintiff noticed Defendant’s
deposition.  Defense counsel timely
interposed an objection based on Defendant’s lack of competence.
 
On March 10, 2023, Plaintiff filed this motion to compel Defendant
to appear for deposition.  Plaintiff
requests sanctions against Defendant.   
 
On October 13, 2023, Defendant filed an opposition.  Defendant requests sanctions against
Plaintiff and his counsel. 
 
On October 23, 2023, Plaintiff filed a reply.
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD TO COMPEL DEPOSITION 
            Any party may obtain discovery by
taking in California the oral deposition of any person.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.010.)¿ “If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the
action…without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to
appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any
document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling
the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in
the deposition notice.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).)¿¿¿ 
      Monetary
Sanctions 
            “If a motion under [Code of Civil
Procedure section 2025.450] subdivision (a) is granted, the court shall impose
a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) in favor
of the party who noticed the deposition and against the deponent or the party
with whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the court finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.450, subd. (g)(1).)¿¿¿ 
            Sanctions against counsel:¿ The court in Kwan Software
Engineering, Inc. v. Hennings (2020) 58 Cal.App.5th 57, 81 (Hennings)
noted that discovery sanctions against an attorney are governed by a different
standard than sanctions against a party:¿¿¿ 
By the terms of the statute, a trial court under section 2023.030(a) may
not impose monetary sanctions against a party’s attorney unless the court finds
that the attorney “advised” the party to engage in the conduct resulting in
sanctions. (§ 2023.030(a); Ghanooni v. Super Shuttle (1993) 20
Cal.App.4th 256, 261, 24 Cal.Rptr.2d 501.)¿ “Unlike monetary sanctions against
a party, which are based on the party’s misuse of the discovery process,
monetary sanctions against the party’s attorney require a finding the ‘attorney
advis[ed] that conduct.’ ” (Ibid.) “It is not enough that the attorney's
actions were in some way improper.” (Corns v. Miller (1986) 181
Cal.App.3d 195, 200, 226 Cal.Rptr. 247 (Corns).) Because an attorney's
advice to a client is “peculiarly within [his or her] knowledge,” the attorney
has the burden of showing that he or she did not counsel discovery abuse. (Ibid.)
Accordingly, when a party seeking sanctions against an attorney offers
sufficient evidence of a misuse of the discovery process, the burden shifts to
the attorney to demonstrate that he or she did not recommend that conduct. (Id.
at pp. 200–201, 226 Cal.Rptr. 247; Ghanooni, at p. 262, 24 Cal.Rptr.2d
501.)¿
III.      DISCUSSION
 
The central
issue to be decided is whether Defendant can provide testimony.
In California, a party is incompetent if
he or she lacks the capacity to understand the nature or consequences of the
proceeding, or is unable to assist counsel in the preparation of the case.  (In re Jessica G. (2001) 93
Cal.App.4th 1180, 1186.)  Section 372 of
the Code of Civil Procedure provides that when a person lacking legal capacity
to make decisions is a party, “that person shall appear either by a guardian or
conservator of the estate or by a guardian ad litem appointed by the court.” (Code
Civ. Proc., 372, subd. (a)(1).)   Section 373 of the Code of Civil
Procedure provides, in relevant part, that when a guardian ad litem is
appointed, he or she shall be appointed “if the person lacking legal competence
to make decisions is a party to an action or proceeding.”  (Code Civ. Proc., 373, subd. (c).)  Incompetency
may exist independently of any judicial determination thereof.  (Sarracino v. Superior Court (1974) 13
Cal.3d 1, 12, citing Olivera v. Grace (1942) 19 Cal.2d 570, 577.)
Here, Defendant’s
son Joshua S. Morris was appointed as Defendant’s guardian ad litem due to her
inability to participate in her defense. 
The application was supported by a letter from Defendant’s physician Dr.
Arthur An, who stated that Defendant “had been diagnosed with Alzheimer’s
disease with significant impairment of her memory and cognitive function.”  (Declaration of Nolan King, February 9, 2022,
Letter, Ex. I.)  Defendant also submits
the Dr. An’s declaration executed on July 29, 2023, which states that Defendant
cannot give a meaningful deposition in this case “due to a total mental decline
as a result of the advanced stage dementia.” 
(King Decl., July 29, 2023 Declaration, Ex. I.)  Based on this information, it appears that Defendant
is not capable of being deposed.  
 
Plaintiff argues
Defendant should have moved for a protective order.  Plaintiff is mistaken.  When served with a deposition
notice, a party may file a motion for protective order, (CCP section 2025.420),
or serve written objections no later than three days prior to the noticed
deposition date. (CCP section 2025.410(a), (b)).  Here, Defendant chose to
serve written objections, and did so on January 6, 2023—more than three days
prior to the noticed deposition date of January 24, 2023.  And as is
evident, Plaintiff thereafter filed this motion.  Having filed this
motion, Defendant’s properly served objection may be considered in the
disposition of Plaintiff’s motion.  
 
Plaintiff next argues that Defendant’s
medical records do not show a diagnosis of Alzheimer’s disease or
dementia.  Yet, Dr. An’s February 9, 2022
letter and Dr. An’s July 29, 2023 declaration indicate that Plaintiff has
dementia.  Plaintiff questions the
validity of Dr. An’s declaration, but he fails to provide more than speculative
evidence to support this serious accusation. 
Further, the 2019 Beverly
Hospital medical records that are included in Defendant’s Reply make clear
reference to Plaintiff demonstrating signs of dementia.  That was in 2019, and dementia is a disease
that progressively worsens. Based on the evidence before the Court, the Court
finds, consistent with the already issued guardian ad litem appointment, that Defendant
cannot provide meaningful testimony.  Thus,
Plaintiff is not entitled to an order compelling Defendant to appear for
deposition.
 
Monetary
Sanctions
            Both parties request sanctions.  Given that the Court intends to deny this motion, the
Court considers imposition of sanctions against Plaintiff and her counsel only.
 Based on Dr. An’s letter and
declaration, it is evident to the Court that Defendant is not capable of
providing testimony. As such, the Court finds Plaintiff brought this motion
without substantial justification. 
Pursuant to Hennings, supra, imposition of sanctions
against counsel is also proper unless counsel shows that he or she did not
counsel the discovery abuse.¿ (Hennings, 58 Cal.App.5th at p. 81.)¿
Plaintiff’s counsel does not meet their burden.  Accordingly, sanctions
are imposed against Plaintiff and his counsel in the amount of $750,
representing 2 hours at defense counsel’s hourly rate.
IV.       CONCLUSION 
 
Plaintiff’s motion to compel is denied.  
            
Defendant’s request for sanctions is granted.  Plaintiff and his counsel are ordered to pay,
jointly and severally, sanctions in the amount of $750, to be paid to Defendant,
by and through her counsel within 30 days of this order.  
 
Moving party to give notice. 

 
 
 
Dated:   October 30,
2023                                         ___________________________________
                                                                                    Lee
S. Arian
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
            Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on
the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at
www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative
and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless
appear at the hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive
emails from the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and
there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion,
adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar. 