  Case Number:  20STCV13063    Hearing Date:   February 22, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior
Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



MIAWA
  INVESTMENT, INC., et al. 
  
         vs.
 
ZHOU
  CAI, et al.
  


 Case No.: 
  20STCV13063 
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  February 22, 2024




 
 
Defendants’
motion to enforce settlement is GRANTED.
 
On 4/2/2020,
Plaintiff Miawa Investment, Inc. and Maggie-Dawson, Inc. (collectively,
Plaintiffs) filed suit against Zhou Cai, and Vista Selection, Inc., alleging:
(1) breach of contract; and (2) fraud. 
 
            On
5/26/2020, Zhou Cai and Vita Selection, Inc. filed a cross-complaint against
Miawa Investment, Maggie-Dawson, Inc., Juan Li, and Seven Bubble, Inc.,
alleging: (1) breach of contract; (2) common counts; (3) fraud; (4) intentional
tort; and (5) general negligence. 
 
            On
3/1/2022, Vista Selection, Inc. filed a cross-complaint against MKM Trading,
LLC and Christie Ly (collectively, MKM Defendants), alleging: (1) breach of
contract; and (2) fraud.
 
            On
11/20/2023, the Court continued Defendants Zoui Cai, Vista Selection, Inc., and
Bingjie Zhao (collectively, Defendants’) motion to enforce the Settlement
Agreement.
 
            Now,
the Court considers the motion based on the submitted supplemental materials. 
 
Discussion  
 
            In
its 11/20/2023 ruling, the Court found that supplemental materials were
necessary to determine whether or not the Settlement Agreement was
unenforceable as the product of misrepresentation or mistake. 
 
            Now,
having read the supplemental materials, the Court determines that Defendants’
motion should be granted. 
 
            In
opposition, Plaintiffs did not submit any evidence which could show that
Defendants knowingly misrepresented that MKM was the responsible party. While
Plaintiffs previously claimed that Defendants had forged a shipping label, they
now “acknowledge that there is not sufficient evidence to conclude that
Defendants lied about who the supplier was.” (Opp., 2:3-4.)  As such, there is no basis for Plaintiffs
argument that Defendants induced Plaintiffs to enter into the Settlement
Agreement based on false representations. 
 
            Still,
Plaintiffs argue that “…if Defendants did not know that MKM was the supplier,
then the agreement was the result of mutual mistake and Plaintiffs are entitled
to be relieved of their obligations.” (Opp., 2: 6-7.) The Court finds this
argument confusing and unpersuasive. Plaintiffs’ counsel agreed on the record
that his client agreed to dismiss Defendants regardless of the outcome of the
Cross-Complaint:
 
The Court:
And my understanding that we discussed back in chambers was that, irrespective
of whatever a jury may rule with regard to the Cross-Defendants MKM, that so
long as the current Defendants testify consistent with your understanding of
what they are going to say consistent with the deposition that you are going to
take within the next day or so, that so long as they have signed any right to
judgment, you are going to dismiss against them. 
 
Mr. Wang:
Yes, your Honor, that is correct. 
 
(Crawley
Decl. ¶3, Ex. 1, p. 3.)
 
As such, at
the time of the Settlement Agreement, it was understood that a jury may or may
not determine that Defendants MKM were liable. Accordingly, the unilateral or
mutual mistake argument was only available if it was based on knowing
misrepresentations by Defendants that MKM was involved. This is because “Plaintiffs
have known, from the very commencement of the Settlement Agreement, that Mr.
Cai’s knowledge of the identity of the Supplier came solely from
representations Mr. Wang made to Mr. Cai during their business venture, that
MKM had supplied them with the masks in question.” (D’s Supp. Brief: 4: 22-25.)
 
Second,
Plaintiffs argue that this motion is premature because there has been no
anticipatory breach. However, Plaintiffs’ counsel expressly stated to Vista’s
counsel, to paraphrase, “We’re bringing you back in” and “We will submit
Defendants’ names to the jury” because Plaintiffs’ counsel determined based on
its own investigation that “MKM was not the supplier”. (Crawley Decl. ¶6.)
 
However, as
noted by Defendants in their supplemental materials:
 
Plaintiffs’
argument now is that the motion is premature and the Court cannot provide
relief because Mr. Cai and Ms. Zhao have not provided testimony in the trial
yet. Plaintiffs’ counsel certainly made such assertions of nonperformance and
never contested Mr. Cai, Vista, and Ms. Zhao’s counsel’s representations to the
Court on September 29, 2023 that Plaintiffs had made such representations. The
Court then directed Mr. Cai, Vista, and Ms. Zhao’s counsel to file this motion
instead of waiting until trial to sort out this matter. (Crawley Decl. ¶7.)
 
(D’s Supp.
Brief, 3: 19-25.)
 
Tellingly,
Plaintiffs’ motion does not cite a single case in support of its contention
that counsel’s assertions do not constitute anticipatory breaches. As such, the
Court finds sufficient evidence of anticipatory breach to render this motion
ripe. 
 
In its
11/23/2023 ruling, the Court wrote:
 
The Court
agrees with Defendants that Plaintiff may not void the settlement agreement
simply because they have not been successful in obtaining the additional
evidence they feel they need to tie MKM to the transaction. However, the Court
agrees with Plaintiff that it cannot be bound to a Settlement Agreement if it
was based on fraudulent misrepresentations or a product of mutual mistake.  Additional briefing will clarify the
situation at hand.
 
Here, after
allowing supplemental materials, Plaintiffs have not submitted any evidence to
show that the Settlement Agreement was based on fraudulent misrepresentations
or a product of mutual mistake. Indeed, Plaintiffs now acknowledge that there
isn’t evidence that Defendants lied about who the supplier was. Rather, as was
understood at the time the Settlement Agreement was agreed to, the identity of
the supplier is a question of fact. 
 
Based on the
foregoing, Defendants’ motion to enforce settlement is granted.  
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  February   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213) 633-0517.  
 