 Case Number:  23VECV00144    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2023    Dept:  T 23VECV00144 DIEP V. SAMOKISH
[TENTATIVE] ORDER: 
Defendants Ramon Samokish and H & J Enterprises, Inc.’s Demurrer to
the First Amended Complaint is OVERRULED. 
Defendants Ramon Samokish and H & J Enterprises, Inc. are ordered to
file their Answer to the First Amended Complaint within 20 days.
Introduction 
Defendants Ramon Samokish and H & J Enterprises, Inc.
(collectively, Defendants) demurred to Plaintiffs Shawn Diep, Trina Diep,
Nicole Diep, and Nathan Diep’s (collectively, Plaintiffs) First Amended
Complaint (FAC).  The demurrer placed
into issue the one and only cause of action (COA) for negligence – motor
vehicle.
Discussion  
Defendants argued or denied liability in this automobile
accident action based upon the “sudden medical emergency” doctrine, as
recognized in Federal Courts.  (Cohen v.
Petty (D.C. Cir. 1933) 65 F.2d 820; Bashi v. Wodarz (1996) 45 Cal.App.4th 1314
(Bashi) [the Court did not extend the rule to sudden and unexpected mental
illness.)  Preliminarily, it is noted
that the Bashi Court reviewed the doctrine at the summary judgment stage, not
at the pleading stage.  The current
procedural stance of our case is still the pleading stage (albeit Plaintiff
alleged that Defendants suffered a “seizure” at the time of the accident.  (Original Compl. par. MV-1 and not expressly
alleged in the FAC.)  The Court noted
that Defendants’ argument required a review of facts not found in the Complaint
or the FAC.  Nothing in the Complaint or
FAC asserted that the seizure was “sudden” or “unexpected” or that the seizure
caused Defendant to be unconscious or deprived Defendants of their power to use
reasonable judgment.  A seizure can be
inferred to be sudden or unexpected, however, this inference is based upon an
assumption that Defendant never had a history of any seizures (i.e., that this
was Defendant Samokish’s very first seizure in his life.)  Defendant Samokish’s medical history is not
alleged in either the Complaint or the FAC and his history is unknown at this
time.  A “seizure” can even be inferred
to make the victim unconscious or debilitated so as to lose reasonable judgment
(i.e., focal seizure vs. generalized seizure) but there are no facts in the
Complaint or FAC to show that the “seizure” was of a type that caused
unconsciousness or loss of reasonable judgment (i.e., generalized
seizure).  Defendants’ argument
improperly relied upon facts not within the four corners of the pleading and
thus was improperly made on a demurrer. 
On this defect, Defendants’ argument is not persuasive.  
To be thorough on the legal authority, the Court recognized
the doctrine as the “sudden emergency” or “imminent peril” doctrine, as cited
below.  Under the doctrine, Defendant
must show: (1) That there was a sudden and unexpected emergency situation in
which someone was in actual or apparent danger of immediate injury;  (2) That defendant did not cause the
emergency; and (3) That defendant acted as a reasonably careful person would
have acted in similar circumstances, even if it appears later that a different
course of action would have been safer. 
(CACI no. 452;  Abdulkadhim v. Wu
(2020) 53 Cal.App.5th 298, 301-302.)  “A
party will be denied the benefit of the doctrine ... where that party's
negligence causes or contributes to the creation of the perilous situation.
[Citation omitted.]”  (Id.)  “Whether the conditions for application of
the imminent peril doctrine exist is itself a question of fact to be submitted
to the jury.” (Damele v. Mack Trucks, Inc. (1990) 219 Cal.App.3d 29, 37.)  The doctrine of imminent peril is properly
applied only in cases where an unexpected physical danger is presented so
suddenly as to deprive the driver of his power of using reasonable judgment.
[Citations.] A party will be denied the benefit of the doctrine of imminent peril
where that party’s negligence causes or contributes to the creation of the
perilous situation. [Citations.]” (Shiver v. Laramee (2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 395,
399.)  
Because Defendants’ argument relied upon facts outside the
four corners of the pleading, the Demurrer to the FAC is OVERRULED.  
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE NOTICE.