 Case Number:  22VECV01294    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2023    Dept:  T 22VECV01294 Davidson v BMW THIS IS A REVISION TO A PREVIOUSLY POSTED TENTATIVE RULING Tentative ruling:   Motion for Terminative Sanctions: The court grants terminating sanctions  against plaintiff for discovery abuse in terms of violation of court order and  for multiple misuses of the discovery process.   No monetary sanctions as the court is issuing the ultimate sanction by  dismissal of the complaint with prejudice. Defendant seeks an order for terminating sanctions for  violation of the court’s order of 8/24/2023, and for discovery responses on  which there has not yet been a motion to compel.   The court may issue terminating sanctions for misuse of the  discovery process under CCP section 2023.030 including when there has not been a violation of a court order. Misuses of the discovery process include a wide range of  conduct including, as has happened here, failing to respond or submit to an  authorized method of discovery, making without substantial justification  unmeritorious objections to discovery, making evasive responses to discovery,  and disobeying a court order to provide discovery.  Plaintiff has done all of these things which  are amply reflected in the moving and reply papers.  The court considers the totality of the  circumstances of this case in making this decision.   Concerning the order of 8/24/2023, the court ordered the  following: “Defendant’s motion to compel deposition of plaintiff:  Granted. Deposition of plaintiff Jerry Davidson to be completed within 15 days  in person at location to be determined by defendant. Counsel are both  instructed to act with civility, do not raise voices, do not call names. If  there is an instruction not to answer, no meet and confer required on the  record, defendant to move on in questioning. Improper instructions not to  answer may result in monetary sanctions. Video is to be of plaintiff only.  Participants in the depo room are limited to plaintiff counsel, defendant  counsel, plaintiff, videographer, and court reporter. Plaintiff shall deliver  the documents responding to the 22 categories identifying which documents  belong to which requests no later than close of business on August 28, 2023.  Serve by email or personal delivery. Plaintiff is not required to look up  anything on his phone to answer questions. Deposition to be taken during normal  business hours.” This was a two-step process: deliver documents (no later  than the close of business 8/28/2023) and appear for deposition (within 15  days). Accordingly, the court analyzes each issue separately. Deposition:  Plaintiff  was ordered to make himself available for deposition within 15 days.  A close review of the moving papers does not  reveal a demand by defendant to take the deposition of the plaintiff within 15  days, nor evidence that plaintiff’s counsel was provided with dates for the  deposition to take place within 15 days.   Instead, after the order was issued, defendant noticed the deposition  was noticed for 10/17/2023.  Although  defense counsel explains why he set it beyond the 15 days, the court cannot say  that plaintiff violated that portion of the court order.  However, the plaintiff did not appear for the  deposition noticed on 10/17/2023 and the reasons stated by plaintiff's counsel  are belied by the evidence.  Therefore,  considering the totality of the circumstances, this is another example of  plaintiff's failure to engage in discovery in good faith. Documents: Concerning the production of documents, the  plaintiff was obligated to deliver documents as to the 22 categories no later  than the close of business on 8/28/2023.   Plaintiff was not given the right to object. On production, objections  were stated and some documents were redacted, which was also not authorized.  Plaintiff was ordered to produce all of the documents and has not complied, as  well has having been obstreperous. The documents were not produced according to  court order.  Plaintiff did not have the  option to stand on its document production of March 2023.  Instead, on 8/28/2023 at 11 p.m. (late),  plaintiff produced documents already produced -- with objections and  redactions.  This was not in  compliance.  Plaintiff has failed to  comply with this relatively simple document request for many months without any  reasonable basis.  The original refusal  to comply was in bad faith.   Among other things, defendant points out the refusal of  plaintiff to provide: "...documentation (1) from Plaintiffs lenders regarding  payments made on the Subject Vehicle, or supporting any other alleged damages;  (2) insurance records reflecting coverage of all his vehicles during the  ownership/lease period of the Subject Vehicle, including any documents  reflecting annual mileage estimates or other bases for premiums; (3) videos of  the alleged defects which Plaintiff acknowledged exist, but has refused to  provide; and (4) all written correspondence Plaintiff has had with anyone other  than counsel regarding the alleged defects with the Subject Vehicle." By email on 9/25/2023, plaintiff's counsel indicated an  intention to stand by the responses: "As stated above, without any detailed description of  the disputed responses, the objections will stand due to the individual reasons  stated within the respective responses." Additionally, there were no documents produced to the  following requests: 2 and 22.  Moreover,  it is impossible to know whether there are responsive documents, but which were  not being produced as the response was pursuant to frivolous objections.  This violates the clear language of the  order: all documents are to be produced. Plaintiff objected to each and every request for admission  with numerous frivolous objections and did not admit to portions of the RFAs  which were clearly unobjectionable.   Similarly, plaintiff objected to the special interrogatories with  PATENTLY frivolous objections. In this straightforward lemon law case, plaintiff has  obstructed regular, relevant document production, as well as having obstructed  the original deposition resulting in an order to appear, and other legitimate  discovery such as RFAs and special interrogatories.  Therefore, the court finds plaintiff to be in willful  violation of the court’s order of 8/24/2023 for failure to produce all of the  documents to Categories 1-22 by the close of business 8/28/2023 and for serving  objections such that it is impossible to determine whether there are responsive  documents which should have been produced but which were not, as well as  willfully engaging in discovery abuse by failing to respond or submit to an  authorized method of discovery, making without substantial justification  unmeritorious objections to discovery, and making evasive responses to  discovery concerning special interrogatories and RFAs.