 Case Number:  22STCV35791    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2023    Dept:  50 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department
50
 




XIANG HAO CUI, et al.
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
DAE YONG LEE, aka DAVID LEE, et al.
                        Defendants.
STANFORD PLAZA ASSOCIATION,
  INC.,
                        Nominal Defendant.


Case No.:


22STCV35791




Hearing Date:


October 24, 2023




Hearing
  Time:    10:00 a.m. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
  RE: 
 
MOTION TO COMPEL
  PLAINTIFFS’ COMPLIANCE WITH ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION PROVISIONS; OR IN
  THE ALTERNATIVE, FOR APPOINTMENT OF JUDICIAL REFEREE; 
 
DEFENDANTS’
  AMENDED MOTION FOR STAY
 




 
Background
On November 14, 2022,
Plaintiffs Xiang Hao Cui (“Cui”), for himself and derivatively on behalf of Nominal Defendant Stanford
Plaza Association, Inc. (the
“Association”), 800 East Pico Blvd, LLC, 808 East Pico Blvd, LLC, and
Stanford Plaza Holdings, LLC (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed this action
against Defendants Dae Yong Lee aka David Lee (“David Lee”), Hellen Lee, Young
Sung Cho (“Cho”), William Hong (“Hong”), Stanford Pico Plaza, LLC, and Secured
Properties Management Group, Inc. (collectively, “Defendants”). 
The Complaint alleges causes of action for (1) removal of directors,
(2) breach of fiduciary duty, (3) aiding and abetting breach of fiduciary duty,
(4) accounting, (5) declaratory relief, and (6) injunctive relief. 
Defendants now move for an
order compelling “Plaintiffs Xiang Hao Cui, 800 East Pico Blvd, LLC, 808
East Pico Blvd, LLC and Stanford Plaza Holdings LLC to comply with the
alternative dispute resolution process set forth in the Covenants, Conditions,
Restrictions and Reservation of Easements of Stanford Plaza Association, Inc.
(‘CC&Rs’) or, in the alternative, appointing a judicial referee, pursuant
to the reference agreement contained in the CC&Rs.” 
Defendants also move for “a stay of the case, or in the alternative, a
stay of discovery pending adjudication on the merits of Defendants’ Motion to
Compel Compliance with Alternative Dispute Resolution Provisions.” 
Plaintiffs filed a “consolidated opposition” to the motions. 
            Request
for Judicial Notice 
The Court denies
Defendants’ request for judicial notice filed in support of Defendants’
consolidated reply. The Court notes that “¿[t]he general
rule of motion practice…is that new evidence is not permitted with reply
papers.¿” (¿Jay v. Mahaffey¿(2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 1522, 1537¿.) 
 
Motion to Compel Compliance with
Alternative Dispute Resolution Provisions, or in the Alternative, for
Appointment of Judicial Referee 
Defendants cite to Woodside Homes
of California, Inc. v. Superior Court (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 723, 727, where the Court of Appeal noted that “we recognize that a binding judicial reference is
substantially similar to nonjudicial arbitration, and a similar approach is
therefore justified in evaluating the enforceability of the provisions…California has historically had
a friendly policy towards arbitration agreements. Such agreements are valid, enforceable and
irrevocable, save upon such grounds as exist for the revocation of any
contract. That is, California recognizes and approves of such agreements,
but they are not given special consideration; rather, they are evaluated under
the same standards as any other contract which a party seeks to avoid.” (Internal quotations and citations
omitted.) 
Defendants assert that
here, “Plaintiffs’ Complaint expressly seeks to invoke the provisions of
the CC&Rs and bylaws of the Association and asserts violations of these
governing documents of the Association. See Complaint ¶ 38. Accordingly,
Plaintiffs’ claims, both legal and equitable, fall squarely within the scope of
the CC&Rs ADR provisions.” (Mot. at p. 9:1-4.) The Court notes that
paragraph 38 of the Complaint alleges in pertinent part that “Defendants Hellen
Lee and Cho have engaged in fraudulent and dishonest acts and have grossly
abused their authority by:…Ignoring repeated calls by Plaintiffs to enforce the
financial obligations of Stanford Pico Plaza to the Association by engaging in
customary conduct that would be attendant to a breach by any other Association
owner; namely: making a demand for payment, meeting and conferring with
Stanford Pico Plaza to the extent required by the Association’s CCRs,
application of all fees, and foreclosure in accordance with all applicable
provisions of California statutory law; the conduct of Hellen Lee and Cho and
their efforts to shield David Lee and Stanford Pico Plaza from the customary
enforcement measures that the Association should pursue to recoup lost profits
is the height of corruption perpetrated by David Lee’s close allies and
co-conspirators, namely Cho and Hellen Lee, and are grounds for removal…” (Compl.,
¶ 38.)
Defendants submit the
Declaration of William Hong, the Corporate Secretary of Stanford Plaza
Associates, Inc. (Hong Decl., ¶ 2.) Exhibit B to Hong’s Declaration is a “copy
of the Covenants, Conditions, Restrictions and Reservation of Easements of
Stanford Plaza Association, Inc. (the ‘CC&Rs”).” (Hong Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. B.) 
Defendants
indicate that Cui signed the CC&Rs. (Hong Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. B.)
As to the remaining Plaintiffs, Defendants contend that “Cui is the Managing
Member of 800 East Pico Blvd, LLC, 808 East Pico Blvd, LLC and Stanford Plaza
Holdings, LLC. See Complaint ¶¶ 3-5. As owners of condominiums in the Association,
Plaintiffs are bound by the ADR provisions of the Association’s CC&Rs.”
(Mot. at p. 8:19-22.) The Court notes that the Complaint alleges that “800 East
Pico Blvd, LLC. is the owner of multiple commercial condominiums located at
Stanford Plaza. Cui is the Managing Member of 800 East Pico Blvd, LLC.”
(Compl., ¶ 3.) The Complaint further alleges that “808 East Pico Blvd, LLC. is
the owner of multiple commercial condominiums located at Stanford Plaza. Cui is
the Managing Member of 808 East Pico Blvd, LLC.” (Compl., ¶ 4.) In addition, the
Complaint alleges that “Stanford Plaza Holdings, LLC. [sic] is the owner of
multiple commercial condominiums located at Stanford Plaza. Cui is the Managing
Member of Stanford Plaza Holdings, LLC.” (Compl., ¶ 5.) 
Defendants note that Article XIV of the CC&Rs concerns “Dispute
Notification and Resolution Procedures.” (Hong Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. B, p. XIV-1.) Defendants note that Section 14.01(c) of the CC&Rs
provides as follows: 
 
“Disputes
Subject to Resolution Under This Article. Any and all claims,
controversies, breaches or disputes by or between the Association, any Owner or
Owners, and/or Declarant arising from or related to this Declaration, the
Property, any Unit and/or any improvements construction thereon, the sale of any
Unit or any transaction related hereto, whether such dispute is based on
contract, tort, statute, or equity shall be resolved pursuant to the procedures
set forth in this Article. However, the right of the Association to enforce
payment of member dues and assessments shall not be subject to mediation or
judicial reference except as set forth in the article entitled ‘Covenants for
Assessment’.” (Hong Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. B, p. XIV-1, emphasis omitted.)
In addition, Section 14.02 of the
CC&Rs provides that “[e]ach of the Parties has waived or shall waive
his/her/its right to trial by jury or by a judge sitting without a jury and
shall resolve the dispute through the Alternative Dispute Resolution procedures
set forth in this Article.” (Hong Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. B, p. XIV-1, emphasis
omitted.) 
Section 14.03(a) of the CC&Rs contains
provisions concerning the “Obligation to Meet and Confer Before Initiating
Formal Claim.”  (Hong Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. B,
p. XIV-1.) Defendants note that pursuant to Section
14.03(b) of the CC&Rs, “[i]f the parties are unable to resolve any
dispute, the matter shall be submitted to mediation by an unaffiliated
mediator.” (Hong Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. B, p. XIV-2.) Pursuant to Section 14.03(b)(5), “[i]n the event that mediation
does not resolve the dispute, the parties shall submit the dispute to judicial
reference, as provided in the next Section.” (Ibid.)
Pursuant to Section 14.04, “[i]f any party
commences a lawsuit for a dispute against Declarant, all of the issues in such
action, whether of fact or law, shall be submitted to general judicial
reference pursuant to California Code of Civil
Procedure Sections 638(a), 639(a) and (d), and 641 through 645.1, or any
successor statutes thereto. Any party to such lawsuit may commence a judicial
reference pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure Section
638.” (Ibid.) 
Hong states in his supporting declaration that “at no time prior to
commencing this action did Plaintiffs ever meet and confer with me or any of
the named defendants in this action, as set forth in Section
14.03(a) of the CC&Rs.” (Hong Decl., ¶ 8.) Hong further states that
“prior to filing their Complaint, Plaintiffs failed to submit their claims to
mediation by an unaffiliated mediator, as required by Section
14.03(b) of the CC&Rs.” (Hong Decl., ¶ 9.) Defendants assert in the
motion that “[e]ven assuming, arguendo, this Court does not order Plaintiffs to
participate in mandatory mediation, as required by Section
14.03 of the CC&Rs, this Court must, at a minimum, appoint a referee,
pursuant to Section 638 of the Code of Civil Procedure,
as required by Section 14.04 of the CC&Rs.”
(Mot. at p. 11:3-6, emphasis omitted.) 
Code of Civil Procedure section 638
provides in pertinent part that “[a]
referee may be appointed upon the agreement of the parties filed with the
clerk, or judge, or entered in the minutes, or upon the motion of a party to a
written contract or lease that provides that any controversy arising therefrom
shall be heard by a referee if the court finds a reference agreement exists
between the parties: (a) To hear and determine any or
all of the issues in an action or proceeding, whether of fact or of law, and to
report a statement of decision. (b) To ascertain a fact necessary
to enable the court to determine an action or proceeding…”
In the
opposition, Plaintiffs assert that the “provisions in the CCRs requiring
submission of disputes to a Judicial Referee are not enforceable because they
violate the ‘inviolate’ constitutional right to a trial by jury.” (Opp’n at p.
3:2-3.) Plaintiffs cite to Treo @ Kettner Homeowners Assn. v.
Superior Court (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 1055, 1059, where the Court of Appeal noted that
“Petitioner Treo @ Kettner Homeowners Association (Association), a homeowners
association of a condominium project in downtown San Diego, sued real party in
interest Intergulf Construction Corporation, developer of the project, and
other real parties in interest (collectively Intergulf) for alleged
construction defects. A provision of Association’s covenants, conditions and
restrictions (CC&R's) required that all disputes between it and Intergulf
be decided by a general judicial reference pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 638…Intergulf moved
for an order submitting the case to a judicial referee. Association opposed the
order, arguing that the provision of its CC&R’s cited by Intergulf was not
a contract as required by section 638 or
that if it was, it was unconscionable and unenforceable. The trial court
granted Intergulf’s motion and ordered the matter to a general judicial
reference. Association petitioned this court for a writ of mandate, directing
the trial court to set aside that order. We issued an order to show cause.”  
The Court of Appeal in Treo concluded that “a developer-written requirement in an association’s
CC&R’s that all disputes between owners and the developer and disputes
between the association and the developer be decided by a general judicial
reference is not a written contract as the Legislature contemplated the term in
the context of section 638. The trial court
erred in finding to the contrary.” (Treo @ Kettner
Homeowners Assn. v. Superior Court, supra, 166 Cal.App.4th at p. 1067.) The Treo Court found that “this is not the situation the
Legislature contemplated when it enacted section
638 to allow parties to waive by contract the ‘inviolate’
constitutional right to trial by jury. As Grafton suggests, legislatures when providing for the contractual
waiver of that right are particularly concerned with the formalities of the
process and the actual existence of a mutual agreement to waive the right. Treating
CC&R’s as a contract such that they are sufficient to waive the right to
trial by jury does not comport with the importance of the right waived.
CC&R’s are notoriously lengthy, are adhesive in nature, are written by
developers perhaps years before many owners buy, and often, as here with regard
to the waiver of trial by jury, cannot be modified by the association. Further,
the document is not signed by the parties.” (Id.
at p. 1067 [internal citation omitted].) 
In the reply, Defendants
assert that “[i]n contrast to the CC&R’s at issue in Treo,
the CC&R’s here were signed by Plaintiff Cui, himself…” (Reply at p.
6:26-27.) Defendants also assert that “in contrast to the CC&Rs at issue in
Treo, which the Supreme Court noted could not be modified by the
Association…the CC&R’s at bar can be modified by a vote of 67% of Members…”
(Reply at p. 7:5-7.) Defendants cite to Section
13.01(b) of the CC&Rs, which provides that “[a]fter the First Close of
Escrow, this Declaration may only be amended (subject to mortgage protection)
by at least sixty-seven percent (67%) of the total voting power, including
Declarant; and an instrument signed by two (2) Association officers certifying
that the amendment was approved by at least sixty-seven percent (67%) of
Members, including Declarant.” (Hong Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. B, p. XIII-1.) 
Defendants also cite to Pinnacle Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market
Development (US), LLC (2012)
55 Cal.4th 223, 231,
where “[a]n owners association filed the instant construction defect action
against a condominium developer, seeking recovery for damage to its property
and damage to the separate interests of the condominium owners who compose its
membership. In response, the developer filed a motion to compel arbitration,
based on a clause in the recorded declaration of covenants, conditions, and
restrictions providing that the association and the individual owners agree to
resolve any construction dispute with the developer through binding arbitration
in accordance with the Federal Arbitration Act (FAA; 9 U.S.C. § 1 et seq.).” The California Supreme Court “conclude[d] that the arbitration clause binds the association and is not
unconscionable.” (Id. p. 223.) 
The Pinnacle Court noted that “we see nothing in Treo @ Kettner Homeowners Assn. v. Superior Court (2008)
166 Cal.App.4th 1055 [83 Cal. Rptr. 3d 318] (Treo) that compels a different result.” (Pinnacle Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC,
supra, 55 Cal.4th at p. 244.) The Pinnacle Court further noted that “[t]he Association’s reliance on
that decision is misplaced for at least two reasons. First, neither Treo nor Grafton concerned an agreement to arbitrate. Notably, Grafton explicitly distinguished predispute jury waivers from
predispute arbitration agreements, observing that arbitration agreements
are specifically authorized by Code of Civil
Procedure section 1281, and, unlike jury waivers, represent an agreement to
avoid the judicial forum altogether. Because public policy strongly favors
arbitration as a speedy and relatively inexpensive means of dispute
resolution, we decline to read additional unwritten
procedural requirements, such as actual notice and meaningful reflection, into
the arbitration statute…Second, whether or not a reference agreement must be evaluated
differently from other types of agreements, state laws that discriminate
against arbitration are preempted where, as here, the FAA applies.” (Id. at p. 245 [internal quotations and citations omitted].) But
here, Defendants do not assert that the CC&Rs contain any arbitration
provision. Thus, it is unclear why Defendants rely on Pinnacle.  
Plaintiffs also assert that Article
XIV of the CC&Rs does not apply to the disputes alleged in the Complaint
here.  
First, Plaintiffs assert that Article XIV of the CC&Rs does not
require mediation or a judicial reference of disputes between or among “Owners.”
Plaintiffs cite to Section 14.03 of the CC&Rs,
which concerns “Procedures Applicable to Resolution of Disputes Between the
Association and an Owner.” (Hong Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. B, XIV-1.) Section 14.03 provides that “[t]his Section 14.03 applies to a dispute between the Association
and an Owner involving their rights, duties, or liabilities under this
title, under the Nonprofit Mutual Benefit Corporation Law (Part 3 (commencing
with Section 7110) of Division 2 of Title 1 of the
Corporations Code), or under the Governing Documents.” (Ibid.,
emphasis added.) Plaintiffs assert that here, “the ADR provisions do not
apply to this action because the Complaint does not allege causes of action
between Owners or between the Association and Owners.” (Opp’n at p. 4:9-10.) 
The Court notes that the CC&R’s define “Owner” or “Owners” as
follows: 
 
“The person(s)
or legal entity holding a recorded fee simple interest in a Condominium
(including the Declarant), or the purchaser(s) of a Condominium under an
installment land sales contract. “Owner” does not include any person or entity
having any interest in a Condominium merely as security for the performance of
an obligation. If a Condominium is subject to a lease, the Owner of the fee
title and not the lessee of the applicable Condominium shall be deemed the
Owner regardless of the term of the Lease. If an Owner leases an entire
Condominium to a Person, such Owner may assign its rights and delegate its
obligations under this Declaration as to such Condominium to the lessee under
any such lease so long as such Owner provide [sic] notice thereof to the Board
and remains responsible for its obligations under this Declaration. Whenever an
Owner transfer [sic] such Owner’s entire interest in a Condominium to another
Person, the transferring Owner shall be released and discharged from the
obligations thereafter accruing under this Declaration, and the new Owner shall
be responsible for all such obligations thereafter accruing under this
Declaration and shall be bound by this Declaration.” (Hong Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. B,
p. I-3.) 
Plaintiffs assert that in the Complaint in this action, Defendant are
not being sued in their capacity as “Owners.” As noted by Plaintiffs, the
Complaint alleges that David Lee, Hellen Lee and Cho are “Directors” of the
Association. (Compl., ¶¶ 6-8.) Plaintiffs also allege that Cui is a Director of
the Association. (Compl., ¶ 2.) In addition, Plaintiffs note that they allege
that “Hong, Stanford Pico Plaza, and/or SPMG facilitated, participated in,
ratified, and approved each of the acts and omissions in breach of Defendants
David Lee, Hellen Lee, Cho, and/or Hong’s fiduciary duties to Plaintiffs.”
(Compl., ¶ 55.) 
In the reply, Defendants assert that “[n]otwithstanding that all the
parties are ‘Owners,’ Plaintiffs argue that their claims are not subject to the
ADR procedures because Plaintiffs have sued Defendants in their capacity as
Directors of Stanford Plaza, rather than as Owners…In other words, Plaintiffs
argue that, because they named the Association’s Directors, individually,
Plaintiffs can somehow evade the ADR procedures set forth in Article XIV. But,
as Plaintiffs make clear in their Complaint, Plaintiffs purport to bring a
derivative action and have named the Association, itself, as a Nominal
Defendant…As such, the Complaint squarely asserts claims ‘among Owners or
between Owners and the Association.’” (Reply at p. 9:13-20.) But the Court does
not see how just naming the Association as a “Nominal Defendant” results in
Plaintiffs asserting claims against “Owners” of the Association for purposes of
the CC&Rs. 
In addition, the Court does not find that Defendants have demonstrated
that all of the parties in this action are “Owners” for purposes of the subject
CC&Rs. Defendants note that the Complaint alleges that “Stanford Pico Plaza
is an owner of multiple commercial condominiums in Stanford Plaza.” (Compl., ¶
10.) But the remaining defendants are not alleged to be “owners” of any
condominiums for purposes of the CC&Rs. Defendants assert in the reply that
“all of the Defendants, with the exception of Secured Properties Management
Group, which is the property manager for Stanford Plaza, are all ‘Owners’ or
control entities that own multiple commercial condominiums located at Stanford
Plaza.” (Reply at p. 9:10-12.) Defendants assert that “Defendants Hellen Lee
and Young Sung Cho, through entities they control, also own multiple commercial
condominiums at Stanford Plaza…” (Reply at p. 9:2-3.) But Defendants do not appear
to provide any evidence in support of these assertions. In addition, in his
declaration in support of the motion, Hong states that “[a]lthough I am not
an owner of any units in the Association, I am a member of the Board and I
consent to the ADR procedures set forth in Article XIV of the CC&Rs…” (Hong
Decl., ¶ 8, emphasis added.) 
Defendants also note that the Complaint alleges that “Plaintiff 800
East Pico Blvd, LLC. is the owner of multiple commercial condominiums located
at Stanford Plaza,” that “Plaintiff 808 East Pico Blvd, LLC. is the owner of
multiple commercial condominiums located at Stanford Plaza,” and that “Plaintiff
Stanford Plaza Holdings, LLC. is the owner of multiple commercial condominiums
located at Stanford Plaza.” (Compl., ¶¶ 3-5.) Defendants note that Cui is
alleged to be the “Managing Member” of each of these entities. (Ibid.) Defendants assert, without citing to
supporting legal authority, that Cui thus “controls each of the Plaintiff
‘Owners.’” (Reply at p. 8:25.) But as Defendants appear to acknowledge, the Complaint
does not allege that Cui is an “owner” of any condominium.
Moreover, Defendants request that the Court “order Plaintiffs to
submit their Complaint to mandatory mediation and, in the event mediation does
not resolve all of Plaintiffs’ claims, to judicial reference pursuant to Section 638 of the Code of Civil Procedure…” (Mot. at
p. 11:17-19.) The procedures for mediation are set forth in Section 14.03(b) of the CC&Rs. (Hong Decl., ¶ 4,
Ex. B, p. XIV-2.) As discussed above, Plaintiff notes that Section 14.03 provides that “[t]his Section 14.03 applies to a dispute between the
Association and an Owner involving their rights, duties, or liabilities under
this title, under the Nonprofit Mutual Benefit Corporation Law (Part 3
(commencing with Section 7110) of Division 2 of
Title 1 of the Corporations Code), or under the Governing Documents.” (Hong
Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. B, p. XIV-1, emphasis added.) 
            Defendants only cite to paragraph 38
of the Complaint to support their assertion that “Plaintiffs’ Complaint
expressly seeks to invoke the provisions of the CC&Rs and bylaws of the
Association and asserts violations of these governing documents of the
Association.” (See Mot. at p. 9:1-3.) Paragraph 38 is contained in the
first cause of action for “removal of directors,” which is alleged by Cui,
individually and on behalf of the Association, against David Lee, Hellen Lee,
Cho, and Hong. As set forth above, Plaintiffs do not allege that these parties
are “owners” of any condominium. In addition, Defendants do not appear to
provide any evidence that David Lee, Hellen Lee, Cho, and Hong are “Owners”
under the CC&Rs. Thus, the Court does not find that Defendants have
demonstrated that the first cause of action concerns a “dispute between the
Association and an Owner involving their rights, duties, or liabilities under
this title…” (Hong Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. B, § 14.03,
p. XIV-1.) 
Plaintiffs also note that Section 14.04 of
the CC&Rs provides that “if any party commences a lawsuit for a dispute against
Declarant, all of the issues in such action, whether of fact or law, shall
be submitted to general judicial reference…” (Hong Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. B, p. XIV-2 emphasis
added.) Plaintiffs assert that the “Declarant” is not a party to this lawsuit.
The Court notes that the first page of the CC&Rs identifies “NEW STANDORD
CAPITAL, LLC, a California limited liability company” as “Declarant.” (Hong
Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. B, p. R-1.) Defendants do not appear to address this point in
the reply. 
Based on the foregoing, the Court does not find that Defendants have
demonstrated grounds for the Court to “order Plaintiffs to submit their
Complaint to mandatory mediation and, in the event mediation does not resolve
all of Plaintiffs’ claims, to judicial reference…” (Mot. at p. 11:17-19.) In
light of this conclusion, it is unnecessary for the Court to address
Plaintiffs’ assertion that Defendants waived any right to enforce the ADR
provisions of the CC&Rs. 
Motion for Stay 
Defendants also move “for
a stay of the case, or in the alternative, a stay of discovery pending
adjudication on the merits of Defendants’ Motion to Compel Compliance with
Alternative Dispute Resolution Provisions.” (Notice of Motion at p. 2:3-5.) In
light of the Court’s ruling herein on Defendants’ instant motion to compel
compliance with alternative dispute resolution provisions, the Court finds that
Defendants’ amended motion for stay is moot. 
///
///
///
Conclusion
For the reasons set
forth above, the Court denies Defendants’ motion to compel Plaintiffs’
compliance with alternative dispute resolution provisions, or in the
alternative, for appointment of judicial referee. 
Defendants’ amended
motion for stay is denied as moot. 
The Court orders Plaintiffs
to give notice of this ruling. 
 
DATED:  October 24, 2023                            ________________________________
Hon. Rolf M. Treu
Judge, Los Angeles
Superior Court