  Case Number:  20STCV30336    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2023    Dept:  50 Superior Court of
California
County of Los Angeles
Department 50
 



CHRISTOPHER CONNER, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
DEL AMO HOSPITAL, INC., et al.,  
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


20STCV30336
  [c/w 20STCV36065]




Hearing
  Date:


October
   24, 2023




Hearing
  Time:


2:00 p.m.




TENTATIVE
  RULING RE:
 
DEL AMO
  HOSPITAL, INC. AND UHS OF DELAWARE, INC.’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY
  JUDGMENT/SUMMARY ADJUDICATION
 



 
 
Background
Plaintiff Christopher
Conner filed this action on August 11, 2020 against Defendants Del Amo
Hospital, Inc. (“Del Amo”) and Universal Health Services, Inc. On November 18,
2020, Plaintiff filed an amendment to the Complaint substituting UHS of
Delaware, Inc.  (“UHS of Delaware”) in
place of “Doe 51.” 
On July 15,
2021, the Court “received” a First Amended Consolidated Complaint for Damages
(“FACC”). On July 22, 2021, a Stipulation Regarding Consolidated Complaint and
Order Thereupon (the “Stipulation”) was filed. The Stipulation provides that
“on May 19, 2021, the Court ordered Plaintiff to file and serve the
Consolidated Complaint by June 16, 2021 should the parties agree to a
Consolidated Complaint.” The Stipulation further provides that the “parties
agreed to a Consolidated Complaint and Plaintiff attempted to file the
Consolidated Complaint by June 16, 2021…the Consolidated Complaint was rejected
due to a Complaint already being on file in…Case Number 20STCV30336 and…Case
Number 20STCV36065.” The Stipulation then provides that “Plaintiff has now
filed a ‘First Amended Consolidated Complaint’”.  
The first cause of action alleged in the FACC is for dependent adult
abuse by Dawn Kraemer-Conner against all defendants. The second cause of action
is for negligent hiring and supervision by Dawn Kraemer-Conner against all
defendants. The third cause of action is for wrongful death by Christopher Conner
against all defendants. Christopher Conner and Dawn Kraemer-Conner are jointly
referred to herein as “Plaintiffs.” 
In the FACC, Plaintiffs allege, inter alia, that on or
about August 26, 2019, Dawn Kraemer-Conner entered Del Amo after transfer from Kaiser
Permanente Woodland Hills. 
(FACC,
¶¶ 3, 17.) Plaintiff alleges that on August 27, 2019, Ms. Conner was placed on 1:1
supervision by her physician due to her increased propensity for self-harm and
self-injurious behavior. (FACC, ¶ 18.) On August 29, 2019, Dawn
Kraemer-Conner’s physician reaffirmed his order that Ms. Conner was to
be on 1:1 supervision, but the staff at Del Amo failed to carry out her
physician’s order and routinely failed to provide Ms. Conner with 1:1
supervision. (FACC,   ¶ 20.) Later that
afternoon, Ms. Conner was left unattended in the courtyard of Del Amo for
nearly 45 minutes and was found lying on her stomach in the grass of the
courtyard, unresponsive. (Ibid.) She was
pronounced dead at the scene. (Ibid.) Plaintiffs further allege that Del Amo’s
staff’s failure to properly address Ms. Conner’s risk as a threat to herself
and her risk of potential seizure was the result of insufficiency of staff in
both number and training, and led to an overall failure to put in place
required interventions to protect Ms. Conner’s health and safety. (FACC, ¶ 23.)

Del Amo and UHS of Delaware (jointly, “Defendants”) now move for summary
judgment or in the alternative, summary adjudication. No opposition to
the motion was filed. 
Legal
Standard
“[A] motion for
summary judgment shall be granted if all the papers submitted show that there
is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is
entitled to a judgment as a matter of law.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).) “A party may move for summary adjudication
as to one or more causes of action within an action, one or more affirmative
defenses, one or more claims for damages, or one or more issues of duty, if the
party contends that the cause of action has no merit, that there is no
affirmative defense to the cause of action, that there is no merit to an
affirmative defense as to any cause of action, that there is no merit to a
claim for damages, as specified in Section 3294 of the
Civil Code, or that one or more defendants either owed or did not owe a
duty to the plaintiff or plaintiffs.” (Code Civ.
Proc.,¿      § 437c, subd. (f)(1).)
“A motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only if it completely
disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or
an issue of duty.” (Ibid.)¿¿ 
The moving party
bears the initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing that there
are no triable issues of material fact. (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001)
25 Cal.4th 826, 850.) If the moving party carries this burden, the
burden shifts to the opposing party to make a prima facie showing that a
triable issue of material fact exists. (Ibid.) Courts “liberally construe the
evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts
concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore
v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006)
39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)¿ 
When a defendant
seeks summary judgment or summary adjudication, he/she must show either (1)
that one or more elements of the cause of action cannot be established; or (2)
that there is a complete defense to that cause of action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)  
Discussion
 
A.    First Cause of Action for Dependent Adult Abuse (Pursuant to the Elder
and Dependent Adult Civil Protection Act – Welfare &
Institutions Code §§ 15600, et seq.) 
Defendants assert that the first cause of
action for dependent adult abuse fails as a matter of law because “there
is no evidence that Del Amo refused to provide medical care to Ms. Conner or
Del Amo withheld necessary medical care from her.” (Mot. at p. 11:7-9.) In the first cause of action, Plaintiffs allege that Del Amo “‘neglected’
DAWN KRAEMER-CONNER as that term is defined in Welfare
and Institutions Code §15610.57
in that the Defendants themselves, as well as their employees, failed to
exercise the degree of care that reasonable persons in a like position would
exercise as is more fully alleged herein.” (FACC, ¶ 15.) Plaintiffs further allege
as follows: 
 
“On August 29,
2019, DAWN-KRAEMER CONNOR died in the courtyard of the HOSPITAL.[1]
These injuries would not have occurred had the Defendants simply adhered to
applicable rules, laws and regulations, as well as the acceptable standards of
practice governing the operation of an acute psychiatric HOSPITAL, in acting
upon their advance knowledge that DAWN KRAEMER-CONNER suffered from epileptic
seizures, psychotic disorder due to another medical condition with
hallucinations, anxiety disorder, suicidal ideations with prior attempts, and
borderline personality disorder. By their own admission the HOSPITAL knew that
DAWN KRAEMER-CONNER was at high risk of placing herself in imminent danger
required appropriate and significant interventions to protect her from injuring
herself. Moreover, the HOSPITAL was aware that DAWN KRAEMER-CONNER was at high
risk for the for seizure during her admission in the HOSPITAL. The HOSPITAL
failed to adhere to applicable rules, laws and regulations, as well as the
acceptable standards of practice for an acute psychiatric HOSPITAL leading to
DAWN KRAEMER-CONNER developing preventable and fatal injuries as alleged
herein. This failure to provide required care for DAWN KRAEMER-CONNER’s
physical and mental health needs and failure to protect DAWN KRAEMER-CONNER
from health and safety hazards was the direct cause of DAWN KRAEMER-CONNER’
injuries as alleged herein.” (FACC, ¶ 21.) 
Del Amo cites to Carter v. Prime
Healthcare Paradise Valley LLC (2011)
198 Cal.App.4th 396, 406-407, where the Court of Appeal “distill[ed] several factors that
must be present for conduct to constitute neglect within the meaning of the
Elder Abuse Act and thereby trigger the enhanced remedies available under the
Act. The plaintiff must allege (and ultimately prove by clear and convincing
evidence) facts establishing that the defendant (1) had responsibility for
meeting the basic needs of the elder or dependent adult, such as nutrition,
hydration, hygiene or medical care; (2) knew of conditions that made the elder
or dependent adult unable to provide for his or her own basic needs; and (3)
denied or withheld goods or services necessary to meet the elder or
dependent adult’s basic needs, either with knowledge that injury was
substantially certain to befall the elder or dependent adult (if the
plaintiff alleges oppression, fraud or malice) or with conscious disregard of
the high probability of such injury (if the plaintiff alleges recklessness).
The plaintiff must also allege (and ultimately prove by clear and convincing evidence) that the neglect
caused the elder or dependent adult to suffer physical harm, pain or mental
suffering.” (Internal
citations omitted.) 
            Defendants assert
that here, there is no evidence that Del Amo denied or withheld goods or
services to Ms. Conner that were necessary to meet her basic needs. Del Amo contends
that to the contrary, there is evidence that Ms. Conner was closely monitored
at all times at Del Amo, that she had three separate physical assessments at
the time of her hospital admission and was cleared each time, and that she was
provided her anti-seizure medication consistently. 
            In support of the motion, Defendants
provide the Declaration of Mace Beckson, M.D., a medical doctor licensed to
practice in the State of California who has been Board Certified in Psychiatry
since 1991. (Beckson Decl., ¶ 1.) Dr. Beckson states, inter alia, that
“[o]n August 25, 2019, the patient, Dawn Kraemer-Conner was brought by her
husband to Kaiser Woodland Hills emergency department and assessed by a mental
health evaluator on the Psychiatric Emergency Team (PET). The PET evaluator
received report from the patient’s husband and reviewed the previous inpatient
hospitalization records. The PET evaluator indicated the patient was a danger
to herself and gravely disabled. He placed the patient on a Welfare &
Institutions Code (W.I.C.) section 5150 involuntary
hold and she was transported to Del Amo Behavioral Health System (‘Del Amo’)
where she was admitted on August 26, 2019.” (Beckson Decl., ¶ 4.) 
            Dr. Beckson states that “[o]n August
26, 2019, the patient was evaluated by psychiatrist Matthew Wong, M.D., who
determined the patient was grossly psychotic and noted the patient had a
seizure disorder and previous diagnosis of borderline personality disorder. Dr.
Wong’s admitting diagnoses were unspecified psychotic disorder (probable
paranoid schizophrenia); borderline personality disorder (by history); and
seizure disorder. Dr. Wong ordered the patient to be monitored by nursing staff
with 15-minute checks. On the same date, the patient was assessed by general
medical provider René Perez-Silva, M.D., who completed a medical history and
physical examination…Dr. Perez-Silva noted that the physical examination was
unremarkable except for heart rate that was bradycardic. He also noted a
history of hyperlipidemia, seizure disorder, and hirsutism. Dr. Perez-Silva
placed the patient on seizure precautions, with activity as tolerated.”
(Beckson Decl., ¶ 5.) Dr. Beckson also indicates that “[s]oon after admission to
Del Amo Hospital, [Ms. Conner] was transferred to Torrance Memorial Medical
Center emergency department for evaluation of bradycardia; and again she was
medically cleared to return to Del Amo Hospital.” (Beckson Decl., ¶ 11.) 
            Dr. Beckson further states that “[t]hroughout
her hospitalization at Del Amo Hospital, the patient appropriately was given
topiramate (Topamax), an anticonvulsant medication to prevent seizures, and she
was placed on seizure precautions. Del Amo Hospital staff ensured that the
patient received regular doses of topiramate throughout her entire admission.
The hospital personnel competently and diligently addressed the potential for
seizures, and she was properly monitored after receiving the medication. There
is no evidence in the medical records that the patient had a seizure at any
time during her stay at Del Amo Hospital. The emergency intramuscular
injections (of Haldol, Ativan, and Benadryl), which the patient received on
three occasions were clinically indicated and appropriate, and low risk for
causing a seizure, especially while the patient was on the anticonvulsant
topiramate.” (Beckson Decl., ¶ 12.) Dr. Beckson states that “[t]he
administration of these medications was necessary emergently to protect the
patient and others from harm due to the patient’s psychosis with behaviors that
substantially elevated the immediate risk of injury: she was trying to choke
herself; she was holding her breath to the point of turning red; and she was
striking out at staff on one occasion. The hospital records indicate the
patient was closely monitored after the administration of medications and at
all other times (she was on one-to-one observation from August 27th through the
time of her clinical decompensation on August 29th that resulted in her death).”
(Ibid.) In addition, Dr. Beckson states that
“[t]he day after her admission to Del Amo Hospital, the patient was placed on
one-to-one monitoring and provided appropriate medications to treat her
psychosis, all within the standard of care. The patient was maintained on the
anticonvulsant medication topiramate, and the medications ordered and
administered were low risk for causing a seizure. All measures were taken by
the hospital staff to keep this patient safe.” (Beckson Decl., ¶ 13.) 
            Defendants also submit the
Declaration of Edwin C. Amos, III, M.D., a medical doctor licensed to practice
in the State of California who has been Board Certified in Psychiatry and
Neurology since 1990. (Amos Decl., ¶ 1.) Dr. Amos states that “[o]n August 19,
2019 in the evening hours, the patient was being monitoring [sic] one-on-one by
psychiatric assistant Eva Szymanski. At no time while the patient was in the
courtyard, including when she was lying on the grass, was any clinical seizure
activity observed. At approximately 6:09 p.m., Eva Szymanski checked on the
patient, then called another staff member who was in the courtyard for assistance.
A third staff member came over and they rolled the patient over, then one of
the staff ran inside the building and came out with a nurse. A Code Blue was
called which was directed by Dr. Badri and CPR was administered in a timely
manner. EMS was called and took over the resuscitative efforts at approximately
6:25 p.m. The patient was pronounced dead at 6:53 p.m. An autopsy of the
decedent Dawn Kramer-Conner was conducted on September 1, 2019. The medical
examiner attributed the cause of death as ‘Sudden unexpected death in epilepsy’
(SUDEP)…” (Amos Decl., ¶ 12.) In addition, Dr. Amos indicates that the medical
examiner made the following findings: 
 
“People with epilepsy can suffer
sudden death, and this is termed sudden unexpected death in epilepsy. Although
the cause is not exactly known, some research has found evidence of mutations
in ion channels that affect both the heart and brain, being termed
cardiocerebral channelopathies. There is also research that indicates the
possibility that epilepsy may result in acquired cardiac dysfunction due to
altered sympathetic/parasympathetic nervous system output (which affects items
such as heart rate) or protein expression of ion channels. 
 
In addition to the history of
epilepsy and immediately aforementioned associations with sudden death, cardiac
dilation results in increased susceptibility to arrhythmia. The cause of death
is sudden unexpected death in epilepsy, with cardiac hypertrophy and dilation
as contributing conditions. Based on the history, circumstances, and/or
autopsy, as I currently know them, the manner of death is natural.” (Amos
Decl., ¶ 12.)
Dr. Amos also states that “[b]ased upon the records and materials I
have reviewed, as well as my education, training and experience, it is my
opinion that, to a reasonable degree of medical probability, that the hospital
staff at Del Amo did not cause or contribute to the death of Dawn
Kramer-Conner. The patient’s blood level of anti-seizure medication was at
therapeutic levels at the time of her death, confirming that there was no
failure of the hospital staff to properly administer the medication Topamax (topiramate).
At no time did Dawn Kramer-Conner demonstrate any clinical signs or symptoms of
seizure activity will she was a patient at Del Amo, including the minutes prior
to her death.” (Amos Decl., ¶ 13.) In addition, Dr. Beckson states that
“[t]here is no evidence that the staff failed to recognize a seizure and the
staff closely monitored the patient throughout her stay to prevent self-harm.
Her volitional behaviors were consistent with psychosis rather than seizure
activity. In the minutes prior to finding the patient unresponsive and
throughout the time the patient was in the hospital courtyard, the assigned
psychiatric assistant was at the patient’s side continuously without any lapse
of monitoring. There was no action by the Del Amo Hospital staff that did not
adhere to the standard of care with respect to the care and treatment of Dawn
Kramer-Conner.” (Beckson Decl., ¶ 13.) 
Defendants assert that “[t]he administration of anti-seizure
medication, one-to-one monitoring with no lapse in monitoring, are affirmative
actions of providing care to Ms. Conner. It does not in any manner resemble a
denial of medical care.” (Mot. at p. 10:22-24.) 
Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that Defendants have met their
burden of demonstrating that Del Amo did not deny or withhold goods or
services necessary to meet Ms. Conner’s basic needs. Thus, the Court finds that
Defendants have met their burden of demonstrating that Plaintiff’s first cause
of action for dependent adult abuse (pursuant to the Elder Adult
and Dependent Adult Civil Protection Act) is without merit as to Del Amo. As set
forth above, Plaintiffs did not file any opposition to the instant motion.
Thus, the Court finds that Plaintiffs have failed to raise a triable issue of
material fact as to the first cause of action.  
 
 
B.    
Second Cause of Action for Negligent Hiring
and Supervision 
In support of the second cause of action for
negligent hiring and supervision, Plaintiffs allege that “DEFENDANTS
negligently hired, supervised and/or retained employees including HOSPTIAL
Administrator Steven Hytry, Dena Greene, Lisa Montes, Bob Deney, Peter Hirsch,
Kenneth Abjelina, Matthew Wong, Tina Clark, Helen Medina, Dena Nishimura, and
many certified nursing assistants, registered nurses, licensed vocational
nurses and others whose names are presently not known to DAWN KRAEMER-CONNER
but will be sought via discovery.” (FACC, ¶ 50.) Plaintiffs further allege that
“as the result of the unfitness of Steven Hytry, Dena Greene, Lisa Montes, Bob
Deney, Peter Hirsch, Kenneth Abjelina, Matthew Wong, Tina Clark, Helen Medina,
Dena Nishimura, and many certified nursing assistants, registered nurses,
licensed vocational nurses and others whose names are presently not known to
DAWN KRAEMER-CONNER but will be sought via discovery, DAWN KRAEMER-CONNER was
injured in an amount and manner to be proven at time of trial.” (FACC, ¶ 55.) 
“California case law recognizes the theory that an
employer can be liable to a third person for negligently hiring, supervising,
or retaining an unfit employee. Liability is based upon the facts that the
employer knew or should have known that hiring the employee created a
particular risk or hazard and that particular harm materializes.” (Doe v. Capital Cities (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 1038, 1054
[internal citation omitted].) Defendants cite to Phillips v. TLC Plumbing, Inc. (2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 1133, 1139,
where the Court of Appeal noted that “[a]n employer may be liable to a
third person for the employer’s negligence in hiring or retaining an employee
who is incompetent or unfit. Liability for negligent hiring … is based upon the
reasoning that if an enterprise hires individuals with characteristics which
might pose a danger to customers or other employees, the enterprise should bear
the loss caused by the wrongdoing of its incompetent or unfit employees.
Negligence liability will be imposed on an employer if it knew or should have
known that hiring the employee created a particular risk or hazard and that
particular harm materializes.” (Internal quotations and citations omitted.) In
addition, “[l]iability for negligent
hiring and supervision is based upon the reasoning that if an enterprise hires
individuals with characteristics which might pose a danger to customers or
other employees, the enterprise should bear the loss caused by the wrongdoing
of its incompetent or unfit employees. The tort has developed in California in
factual settings where the plaintiff’s injury occurred in the workplace,
or the contact between the plaintiff and the employee was generated by the
employment relationship.” (Mendoza v. City of Los Angeles (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 1333, 1339-1340.) 
As to the second cause of action, Defendants assert that “Plaintiff
can present no evidence that any employee at Del Amo was unfit to perform his
or her duties in administration or direct patient care of Ms. Conner. To the
contrary, the evidence presented by Del Amo indicates the staff performed their
professional duties competently.” (Mot. at p. 14:27-15:1.) 
Defendants
also assert that “[i]n our present matter, there is no evidence that any other
staff member was not qualified to render care to Ms. Conner or any evidence of
any prior negligent or wrongful conduct. In our present matter, plaintiff has
merely contended that Del Amo was negligent in its hiring and supervision of
personnel based on the fact that the incident occurred; not based upon any
foreseeability factors. The fact that an incident occurred is not evidence of
negligence.” (Mot. at pp. 15:28-16:4.) 
As set forth above, Dr. Beckson states in his declaration that “[t]he
day after her admission to Del Amo Hospital, the patient was placed on one-to
one monitoring and provided appropriate medications to treat her psychosis, all
within the standard of care. The patient was maintained on the anticonvulsant
medication topiramate, and the medications ordered and administered were low
risk for causing a seizure. All measures were taken by the hospital staff to
keep this patient safe. There is no evidence that the staff failed to recognize
a seizure and the staff closely monitored the patient throughout her stay to
prevent self-harm. Her volitional behaviors were consistent with psychosis
rather than seizure activity. In the minutes prior to finding the patient unresponsive
and throughout the time the patient was in the hospital courtyard, the assigned
psychiatric assistant was at the patient’s side continuously without any lapse
of monitoring. There was no action by the Del Amo Hospital staff that did not
adhere to the standard of care with respect to the care and treatment of Dawn
Kramer-Conner.” (Beckson Decl., ¶ 13.) 
In addition, Dr. Amos states in his declaration that “[t]he hospital
personnel competently and diligently addressed the potential for seizures and
Dawn Kramer-Conner was properly monitored after receiving medications. The
‘Haldol cocktail’ (Haldol, Ativan, and Benadryl) the patient received on three
occasions would not predispose her to experience increased seizure activity.
SUDEP is a well described phenomenon which befalls patients with chronical
seizure disorders. Ms. Conner was receiving her usual dosage of anti-seizure
medication while at Del Amo which was confirmed at autopsy demonstrated by the
therapeutic level of topiramate. There is no evidence that she had any clinical
seizure activity while at Del Amo. The video evidence and autopsy report indicate
that she did not have any seizure activity but rather cardiogenic pathology. To
a reasonable degree of medical probability, there were no additional
preventative measures that could have been taken and the Del Amo staff did not
cause or contribute in any manner to this patient’s harm or death.” (Amos
Decl., ¶ 16.) 
Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that Defendants have met their
burden of demonstrating that the second cause of action for negligent hiring
and supervision is without merit as to Del Amo. As set forth above, Plaintiffs did not
file an opposition to the instant motion. Thus, the Court finds that Plaintiffs
have failed to raise a triable issue of material fact as to the second cause of
action.  
C.     Third Cause of Action for Wrongful Death 
Defendants note that “the
plaintiff in a wrongful death action must prove the defendant’s conduct was a
substantial factor in causing the decedent’s death.” (Nelson v. County
of Los Angeles (2003) 113 Cal.App.4th 783, 791.) “A cause of action for wrongful death is … a statutory
claim. Its purpose is to compensate
specified persons—heirs—for the loss of companionship and for other losses
suffered as a result of a decedent’s death. The elements of the cause of
action for wrongful death are the tort (negligence or other wrongful act), the
resulting death, and the damages, consisting of the pecuniary loss suffered by the heirs.” (Lattimore v. Dickey (2015)
239 Cal.App.4th 959, 968 [internal quotations, citations, and emphasis omitted].)

In the third cause of
action for wrongful death, Christopher Conner alleges that “CHRISTOPHER
CONNER is the husband and heir of DECEDENT,” and that “[a]s a proximate result
of the negligence and ‘neglect’ (as that term is defined in Welfare and Institutions Code §15610.57)[2] by
all of the DEFENDANTS, and each of them, as more fully alleged above, DECEDENT
died on August 29, 2019.” (FACC, ¶¶ 58, 61.) 
Defendants assert that “there
is no admissible evidence that Defendants were negligent in the care of Ms.
Conner and Plaintiff cannot maintain a cause of action for wrongful death.”
(Mot. at p. 16:5-6.) Defendants note, as set forth above, that their expert Dr.
Beckson has opined that “the day after her admission to Del Amo
Hospital, the patient was placed on one-to-one monitoring and provided
appropriate medications to treat her psychosis, all within the standard of
care. The patient was maintained on the anticonvulsant medication topiramate,
and the medications ordered and administered were low risk for causing a
seizure. All measures were taken by the hospital staff to keep this patient
safe. There is no evidence that the staff failed to recognize a seizure and the
staff closely monitored the patient throughout her stay to prevent self-harm.
Her volitional behaviors were consistent with psychosis rather than seizure
activity. In the minutes prior to finding the patient unresponsive and
throughout the time the patient was in the hospital courtyard, the assigned
psychiatric assistant was at the patient’s side continuously without any lapse
of monitoring. There was no action by the Del Amo Hospital staff that did not
adhere to the standard of care with respect to the care and treatment of Dawn
Kramer-Conner.” (Beckson Decl., ¶ 13.) 
In addition, Defendants note that Dr. Amos indicates that “[t]he
medical examiner attributed the cause of death as ‘Sudden unexpected death in
epilepsy’ (SUDEP).” (Amos Decl., ¶ 12.) Dr. Amos states that “SUDEP is a
diagnosis which has been applied to patients with chronic seizure disorder who
experience unexpected death. Although the precise pathophysiological mechanism
of SUDEP has not been elucidated, many experts believe it is due to a cardiac
process. Patients who expire due to SEDEP [sic] are often found at autopsy to
have cardiac abnormalities. Dawn Kramer-Conner was found at autopsy to have
significant abnormalities of the heart as noted by the medical examiner…” (Amos
Decl., ¶ 14.) 
As set forth above, Dr. Amos further states that “[t]he hospital
personnel competently and diligently addressed the potential for seizures and
Dawn Kramer-Conner was properly monitored after receiving medications. The
‘Haldol cocktail’ (Haldol, Ativan, and Benadryl) the patient received on three
occasions would not predispose her to experience increased seizure activity.
SUDEP is a well described phenomenon which befalls patients with chronical
seizure disorders. Ms. Conner was receiving her usual dosage of anti-seizure
medication while at Del Amo which was confirmed at autopsy demonstrated by the
therapeutic level of topiramate. There is no evidence that she had any clinical
seizure activity while at Del Amo. The video evidence and autopsy report
indicate that she did not have any seizure activity but rather cardiogenic
pathology. To a reasonable degree of medical probability, there were no
additional preventative measures that could have been taken and the Del Amo
staff did not cause or contribute in any manner to this patient’s harm or
death.” (Amos Decl., ¶ 16.)
Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that Defendants have met their
burden of demonstrating that the third cause of action for wrongful death is
without merit as to Del Amo. As set forth above, Plaintiffs did not file an opposition to
the instant motion. Thus, the Court finds that Plaintiffs have failed to raise
a triable issue of material fact as to the third cause of action.  
 
 
D.    UHS of Delaware 
The Court
notes that Defendants’ motion does not appear to contain any argument or
evidence as to why Plaintiffs’ causes of action purportedly fail as to UHS
of Delaware. It appears that the only argument in the motion pertaining to UHS
of Delaware is that “Plaintiff has not identified any employees of UHS of
Delaware, Inc. or an officer, director or managing agent who had any knowledge
of this patient.” (Mot. at p. 14:4-6.) But Defendants do not appear to provide
any evidence in support of this assertion. In addition, the only Undisputed
Material Facts (“UMF”) in Defendants’ separate statement that appear to refer
to UHS of Delaware cite to the allegations of Plaintiffs’ FACC. (See UMF
Nos. 1, 86, 163.) 
Accordingly, the Court finds that Defendants have failed to meet
their initial burden of demonstrating that as to UHS of Delaware, one or more
elements of the three causes of action of the FACC cannot be established, or
that there is a complete defense to these causes of action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)
            Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, Defendants’
motion for summary judgment is granted as to Del Amo. Defendants’ motion is
denied in its entirety as to UHS of Delaware. 
The Court orders Del
Amo to file and serve a proposed judgment within 10 days of the date of this
Order.
Defendants are ordered
to give notice of this ruling.  
 
DATED:  October 24, 2023                            ________________________________
Hon. Rolf M. Treu
Judge,
Los Angeles Superior Court
 


