 Case Number:  22STCV09612    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2023    Dept:  50 Superior  Court of California County  of Los Angeles Department 50      GARY HUERTA,                         Plaintiff,             vs.   MICHAEL SIMMS, et al.,                          Defendants.   Case No.:   22STCV09612     Hearing Date:   October 24, 2023     Hearing    Time:    2:00 p.m.    TENTATIVE    RULING RE:     MOTION    FOR JUDICIALLY SUPERVISED DISSOLUTION OF PLANT RANCH, INC.; IN THE    ALTERNATIVE, MOTION TO APPOINT APPRAISER TO SELL PLANT RANCH, INC.     AND RELATED CROSS-ACTION                       Background On March 18, 2022,  Plaintiff Gary Huerta (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants  Michael Simms (“Simms”), Carmen Santillan (“Santillan”), Plant Ranch, Inc.  (“Plant Ranch”), and Cena Kitchen, LLC (“Cena Kitchen”).   Plaintiff filed the  operative Third Amended Complaint (“TAC”) on August 29, 2023, alleging causes  of action for (1) constructive fraud, (2) accounting, (3) conversion, (4)  breach of the operating agreement, (5) breach of fiduciary duty, (6)  declaratory relief, and (7) dissolution.  On August 24, 2023,  Plant Ranch and Cena Kitchen filed a Cross-Complaint against Plaintiff,  alleging causes of action for (1) breach of fiduciary duty, (2) breach of  contract (operating agreement), (3) breach of contract (bylaws), and (4)  declaratory relief.  Plaintiff now moves for  a “judicially supervised dissolution of Defendant Plant Ranch…” Plaintiff  requests that in the alternative, “the court should appoint a receive [sic] to  sell the assets of Plant Ranch…” Simms  and Santillan (jointly, “Defendants”), filed a “qualified” opposition to the  motion.  Request for Judicial Notice  The Court grants Defendants’ request for judicial notice.  Discussion  Plaintiff’s notice of  motion indicates that Plaintiff moves “pursuant to California  Corporations Code, Sections 1800, et seq., for an order for  judicially supervised dissolution of Defendant Plant Ranch…” (Mot. at p.  1:27-2:1.) “A court may order the dissolution of a corporation against its will  (i.e., involuntarily) under Corps.C. § 1800 et seq…”  (Friedman et al., Cal. Practice Guide: Corporations (The Rutter Group 2023) ¶ 8:791.)  Plaintiff cites to Corporations Code section 1804, which provides that “[a]fter hearing the court may decree a winding up and dissolution  of the corporation if cause therefor is shown or, with or without winding up  and dissolution, may make such orders and decrees and issue such injunctions in  the case as justice and equity require.”  Pursuant to Corporations Code section 1805,  subdivision (a), “[i]nvoluntary proceedings for winding up a  corporation commence when the order for winding up is entered under Section 1804.” Pursuant to Corporations Code section 1805, subdivision (b), “[w]hen an involuntary proceeding for winding up has  commenced, the board shall conduct the winding up of the affairs of the  corporation, subject to the supervision of the court, unless other persons are  appointed by the court, on good cause shown, to conduct the winding up. The  directors or such other persons may, subject to any restrictions imposed by the  court, exercise all their powers through the executive officers without any  order of court.”  In addition, pursuant to Corporations Code section 1806, “[w]hen an involuntary  proceeding for winding up has been commenced, the jurisdiction of the court  includes:   (a) The requirement of the proof of  all claims and demands against the corporation, whether due or not yet due,  contingent, unliquidated or sounding only in damages, and the barring from  participation of creditors and claimants failing to make and present claims and  proof as required by any order.   (b) The determination or compromise  of all claims of every nature against the corporation or any of its property,  and the determination of the amount of money or assets required to be retained  to pay or provide for the payment of claims.   (c) The determination of the rights  of shareholders and of all classes of shareholders in and to the assets of the  corporation.   (d) The presentation and filing of  intermediate and final accounts of the directors or other persons appointed to  conduct the winding up and hearing thereon, the allowance, disallowance or  settlement thereof and the discharge of the directors or such other persons  from their duties and liabilities.   (e) The appointment of a  commissioner to hear and determine any or all matters, with such power or  authority as the court may deem proper.   (f) The filling of any vacancies on  the board which the directors or shareholders are unable to fill.   (g) The removal of any director if  it appears that the director has been guilty of dishonesty, misconduct, neglect  or abuse of trust in conducting the winding up or if the director is unable to  act. The court may order an election to fill the vacancy so caused, and may  enjoin, for such time as it considers proper, the reelection of the director so  removed; or the court, in lieu of ordering an election, may appoint a director  to fill the vacancy caused by such removal. Any director so appointed by the  court shall serve until the next annual meeting of shareholders or until a  successor is elected or appointed.   (h) Staying the prosecution of any  suit, proceeding or action against the corporation and requiring the parties to  present and prove their claims in the manner required of other creditors.   (i) The determination of whether  adequate provision has been made for payment or satisfaction of all debts and  liabilities not actually paid.   (j) The making of orders for the  withdrawal or termination of proceedings to wind up and dissolve, subject to  conditions for the protection of shareholders and creditors.   (k) The making of an order, upon  the allowance or settlement of the final accounts of the directors or such  other persons, that the corporation has been duly wound up and is dissolved.  Upon the making of such order, the corporate existence shall cease except for  purposes of further winding up if needed.   (l) The making of orders for the  bringing in of new parties as the court deems proper for the determination of  all questions and matters.”  The Court notes that  pursuant to Corporations Code section 1800,  subdivision (b), “[t]he grounds for involuntary dissolution are  that:   (1) The  corporation has abandoned its business for more than one year.   (2) The  corporation has an even number of directors who are equally divided and cannot  agree as to the management of its affairs, so that its business can no longer  be conducted to advantage or so that there is danger that its property and  business will be impaired or lost, and the holders of the voting shares of the  corporation are so divided into factions that they cannot elect a board  consisting of an uneven number.   (3) There is  internal dissension and two or more factions of shareholders in the corporation  are so deadlocked that its business can no longer be conducted with advantage  to its shareholders or the shareholders have failed at two consecutive annual  meetings at which all voting power was exercised, to elect successors to  directors whose terms have expired or would have expired upon election of their  successors.   (4) Those in  control of the corporation have been guilty of or have knowingly countenanced  persistent and pervasive fraud, mismanagement or abuse of authority or  persistent unfairness toward any shareholders or its property is being  misapplied or wasted by its directors or officers.   (5) In the case of  any corporation with 35 or fewer shareholders (determined as provided in Section 605), liquidation is reasonably necessary for  the protection of the rights or interests of the complaining shareholder or  shareholders.   (6) The period for  which the corporation was formed has terminated without extension of such  period.”  As an initial matter, although Plaintiff  moves “pursuant to California Corporations Code,  Sections 1800, et seq., for an order for judicially supervised  dissolution,” Plaintiff’s memorandum of points and authorities in support of  the motion does not appear to discuss Corporations Code  section 1800, subdivision (b) or apply any of the specific grounds set  forth in this provision to the facts here.    Plaintiff  also asserts in the motion that he is “ready and willing to bid on Plant  Ranch’s assets,” and that “the Court should sell Plant Ranch and/or its assets  in open court…” (Mot. at pp. 7:26; 6:21.) In the qualified opposition,  Defendants indicate that “nowhere within the Section  1800 statutory scheme does it call for a sale of the corporation, pursuant  to a written motion, by the very person seeking to dissolve the entity.” (Opp’n  at p. 3:4-6.) Indeed, Plaintiff does not appear to cite any provision of Corporations Code section 1800, et seq. in  support of his assertion that “the Court should sell the assets of Plaint  Ranch,” (Mot. at p. 6:2), which appears to be Plaintiff’s primary request.  Lastly, the Court notes  that on November 14, 2022, the Court issued an Order on Defendants’ motion to  “(1) stay the dissolution action; and (2) appoint appraisers and order buyout  pursuant to Corp. Code § 17707.03(c) and Operating  Agreement of Cena Kitchen, LLC.” The Court’s Order provides, inter alia,  that “Defendants’ motion is granted in part. Discovery and further proceedings are stayed as to  Plaintiff’s seventh cause of action  for dissolution.” (November 14, 2022 Order at p. 9:21-22.)  Neither Plaintiff’s motion nor Defendants’ qualified opposition appear to  discuss the impact of the November 14, 2022 Order on the instant motion.   Conclusion In light of the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion  is denied without prejudice.  Plaintiff is ordered to give notice of this Order.     DATED:  October 24, 2023                            ________________________________ Hon. Rolf M. Treu Judge, Los  Angeles Superior CourtSuperior
Court of CaliforniaCounty
of Los AngelesDepartment 50  


GARY HUERTA,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
MICHAEL SIMMS, et al., 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


22STCV09612




Hearing Date:


October 24, 2023




Hearing
  Time:    2:00 p.m. 
 
TENTATIVE
  RULING RE:  
 
PLAINTIFF’S
  MOTION TO DISQUALIFY THE ATTORNEYS OF BOREN, OSHER & LUFTMAN, LLP FROM
  REPRESENTING ANY PARTY IN THIS ACTION; IN THE ALTERNATIVE, MOTION TO
  DISQUALIFY COUNSEL FROM REPRESENTING THE CORPORATE DEFENDANTS




AND RELATED CROSS-ACTION


 


BackgroundOn March 18, 2022,
Plaintiff Gary Huerta (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants
Michael Simms (“Simms”), Carmen Santillan (“Santillan”), Plant Ranch, Inc.
(“Plant Ranch”), and Cena Kitchen, LLC (“Cena Kitchen”) (collectively,
“Defendants”). Plaintiff filed the
operative Third Amended Complaint (“TAC”) on August 29, 2023, alleging causes
of action for (1) constructive fraud, (2) accounting, (3) conversion, (4)
breach of the operating agreement, (5) breach of fiduciary duty, (6)
declaratory relief, and (7) dissolution. On August 24, 2023,
Plant Ranch and Cena Kitchen filed a Cross-Complaint against Plaintiff,
alleging causes of action for (1) breach of fiduciary duty, (2) breach of
contract (operating agreement), (3) breach of contract (bylaws), and (4)
declaratory relief. Plaintiff now moves for
an order to disqualify the firm of Boren, Osher & Luftman, LLP from
representing any party in this action. Plaintiff requests that “[i]n the
alternative, the Court should disqualify Boren, Osher & Luftman, LLP from
representing Plant Ranch and Cena Kitchen.” Defendants oppose. Request for
Judicial Notice The Court grants
Plaintiff’s request for judicial notice. Evidentiary
Objections The Court rules on
Defendants’ evidentiary objections as follows: Objection No. 1:
sustainedObjection No. 2:
sustained Objection No. 3:
sustainedObjection No. 4: sustained
Objection No. 5:
sustained The Court rules on
Plaintiff’s evidentiary objections as follows:             Objection
No. 1: overruled             Objection
No. 2: overruled            Objection
No. 3: sustained             Objection
No. 4: overruled            Objection
No. 5: overruled Legal StandardPursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
128, subdivision (a)(5), one of the court’s inherent powers is to control
the conduct of its ministerial officers and of all other persons in any manner
connected with a judicial proceeding before it in furtherance of justice. (Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, Inc. v. Tracinda Corp. (1995) 36 Cal.App.4th 1832, 1837-1838.)
That power necessarily includes disqualifying an attorney. However, as observed
in Metro-Goldwyn Mayer: The issue of disqualification
ultimately involves a conflict between the clients’ right to counsel of their
choice and the need to maintain ethical standards of professional
responsibility. The paramount concern, though, must be the preservation of
public trust in the scrupulous administration of justice and the integrity of
the bar. The recognized and important right to counsel of one’s choosing must
yield to considerations of ethics that run to the very integrity of our
judicial process.(Id. at p. 1838 [italics
in original; internal quotations omitted].) 
Ultimately, whether an attorney should be disqualified is a matter
wholly committed to the court’s sound discretion. (Henriksen
v. Great American Savings & Loan (1992)
11 Cal.App.4th 109, 113.) “In exercising that discretion, the trial
court is required to make a reasoned judgment which complies with the legal
principles and policies applicable to the issue at hand.” (Ibid.)“California courts have identified two separate categories in which
actual or potential conflicts of interest arise in counsel’s representation of
multiple clients.” (M’Guinness v. Johnson (2015) 243 Cal.App.4th 602, 613.)
“One is the successive representation of multiple clients resulting in a
conflict of interest, i.e., where the attorney’s representation of the current
client may conflict with the interests of a former client….” (Ibid.) The paramount duty implicated in
successive representation situations is that of client confidentiality. (Ibid.) “The other circumstance is the
concurrent (or dual) representation of multiple clients resulting in a conflict
of interest,” where the “primary value at stake” is the duty of loyalty. (Ibid.) “[T]he rule of disqualification in
simultaneous representation cases is a per
se or ‘automatic’ one.” (Id. at p. 614 [italics in original].) “This per se rule is appropriate because ‘[a]
client who learns that his or her lawyer is also representing a litigation
adversary, even with respect to a matter wholly
unrelated to the one for which counsel was retained, cannot long be
expected to sustain the level of confidence and trust in counsel that is one of
the foundations of the professional relationship.” (Id. at pp. 614-615 [italics in original].)             DiscussionPlaintiff asserts that here, “Boreh, Osher
& Luftman, LLP’s concurrent representation of the individual defendants and
corporate defendants requires automatic disqualification.” (Mot. at p. 6:1-3.) Plaintiff notes that the TAC in this action
alleges, inter alia, that “Plaintiff brings this action based on
injuries suffered to himself and to Plant Ranch and Cena Kitchen derivatively
in light of Simms’ and Santillan’s failure to redress the injuries they are
negligently and/or intentionally causing to Plant Ranch and Cena Kitchen. Cena
Kitchen and Plant Ranch are named as nominal defendants.” (TAC, ¶ 27.)[1]
Plaintiff also notes that the TAC alleges that “[s]ince the wrongful
suspension of Plaintiff as CEO of Plant Ranch, Simms and Santillan have taken
no action to manage or oversee the operations of Plant Ranch. In fact, they
have failed to secure any investments in the company for scale up or to meet its
mounting expenses and debt,” and that “[u]ltimately, Defendants are seeking to
deprive Plaintiff of his interest in both companies and created this scheme to
bankrupt Plant Ranch…” (TAC, ¶ 26.) Plaintiff also alleges that “Simms and
Santillan have been secretly moving monies dedicated to Cena Kitchen to
unidentified accounts in an effort to deprive Plaintiff of his benefits and
ownership rights under these companies.” (TAC, ¶ 24.) Plaintiff asserts that
“[d]espite the conflict of interest between Simms, Santillan and the Corporate
Defendants, all defendants are represented by the same attorneys Boren, Osher
& Luftman, LLP.” (Mot. at p. 6:24-25.)In addition, on August
24, 2023, Plant Ranch and Cena Kitchen filed a Cross-Complaint against
Plaintiff, alleging causes of action for (1) breach of fiduciary duty, (2)
breach of contract (operating agreement), (3) breach of contract (bylaws), and
(4) declaratory relief. Plaintiff notes that the Cross-Complaint was filed by Boren,
Osher & Luftman, LLP on behalf of Plant Ranch and Cena Kitchen. Plaintiff asserts that “[i]n
drafting and filing the Cross-Complaint against Plaintiff, the attorneys of
Boren, Osher & Luftman, LLP are in direct violation of a corporate
attorney’s duty of loyalty to refrain from taking any part in controversies of
fractional difference with [sic] may exist between shareholders and/or members.” (Mot. at p. 7:3-6.) In support of this
assertion, Plaintiff cites to M’Guinness v. Johnson, supra, 243
Cal.App.4th at page 607,
where “James J. M’Guinness brought suit in 2013 against his fellow shareholder,
Steven Johnson, for breach of fiduciary duty and other claims arising out of
the operation of a small construction firm, Think It, Love It, Construct It,
Inc. (TLC). M’Guinness also named TLC in the suit. The claims against TLC
included involuntary dissolution of the corporation and the appointment of a
receiver. Johnson cross-complained against M’Guinness, TLC, and the third TLC
shareholder, Scott Stuart. Johnson was represented by the law firm of
Casas, Riley & Simonian, LLP (Law Firm or Firm).” “M’Guinness, Stuart, and
TLC…moved to disqualify the Law Firm.” (Ibid.) The Court of Appeal “conclude[d] the trial court abused its discretion in
denying the motion to disqualify,” and found that “[t]he undisputed facts demonstrate
that the Law Firm continued to represent TLC through the time the lawsuit was
instituted. If a party moving to disqualify an attorney establishes concurrent
representation, the court is required, ‘in all but a few instances,’ to
automatically disqualify the attorney without regard to whether the subject
matter of the representation of one client relates to the representation of a
second client in the lawsuit. Thus, the Law Firm should have been
automatically disqualified.” (Id. at p. 608 [internal citation omitted].)
The M’Guinness Court also noted that “[t]he issue of corporate counsel’s concurrent representation
of a corporation’s officers, directors, and shareholders has arisen in a number
of cases. As a general proposition, an attorney for a corporation’s first
duty is to the corporate entity. As such,
there are instances in which corporate counsel may not also represent officers,
directors or shareholders with whom the corporation has a conflict of interest.
Examples of such instances include where a shareholder has filed an action
questioning [the corporation’s] management or the actions of individual
officers or directors, such as in a shareholder derivative or…dissolution
action. Likewise, a corporate
attorney must refrain from taking part in any controversies or factional
differences which may exist among shareholders as to its control.” (M'Guinness v. Johnson, supra, 243 Cal.App.4th at p.
622 [internal quotations and citations omitted].) The Court of Appeal in M’Guinness found that “[h]ere,
the record shows the Law Firm’s representation of TLC had not terminated;
therefore, the Firm’s concurrent representation of TLC and Johnson as opposing
parties in the litigation could not continue. Both M’Guinness and Stuart—like
the minority shareholder in Gong—alleged
claims of breach of fiduciary duty against Johnson that involved alleged
self-dealing, diversion of corporate opportunities, and wasting of corporate
assets that harmed TLC. Under these circumstances, the Law Firm could not
defend Johnson against these claims because Johnson’s interests conflicted with
the interests of the corporation. Additionally, the Law Firm could not act as
Johnson’s counsel in pursuing his amended cross-complaint that included claims
for money against TLC.” (Id. at p. 623.) In the opposition, Defendants contend that Plaintiff has not
identified any purported potential conflict upon which the Court may disqualify
BOL as counsel for Defendants. As an initial matter, Defendants assert that
“BOL represents Simms and Santillan, in their capacities as individual defendants
against whom Plaintiff has asserted direct claims. BOL also represents Plant
Ranch and Cena Kitchen, in their capacities as Cross-Complainants asserting
cross-claims directly against [Plaintiff]. To be clear, BOL does not represent
Plant Ranch and Cena Kitchen in their capacities as nominal defendants
defending against Plaintiff’s derivative claims, nor could they as a matter of
law.” (Opp’n at p. 4:20-24.) Defendants cite to Patrick v. Alacer Corp. (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th
995, 1004, where the
Court of Appeal noted that “[t]hough the corporation is
essentially the plaintiff in a derivative action, [w]hen a derivative suit
is brought to litigate the rights of the corporation,
the corporation … must be joined as a nominal
defendant. The corporation must be joined because its rights, not those of the nominal
plaintiff, are to be litigated…” (Internal quotations and citations omitted.) “Because
the claims asserted and the relief sought in [the derivative] complaint would,
if proven, advance rather than threaten the interests of the nominal
defendants, the nominal defendants must remain neutral in this action.”
(Id. at p. 1007 [internal quotations omitted].)  Defendants also assert that
“BOL’s assertion of cross-claims by Plant Ranch and Cena Kitchen against
[Plaintiff] does not give rise to an identifiable conflict of interest as a
matter of law.” (Opp’n at p. 5:6-7.) Defendants cite to Coldren v.
Hart, King & Coldren, Inc. (2015) 239 Cal.App.4th 237, 240-241, where “Plaintiffs Robert S. Coldren (Coldren) and his wife, Brook Coldren,
sued defendants Hart, King & Coldren,
Inc. (HKC), and William R. Hart asserting several causes of action arising
out of Coldren’s departure from his law practice
at HKC…Defendants appeal[ed] from an order disqualifying HKC’s
counsel, Grant, Genovese & Baratta, LLP (Grant Genovese), who had
been representing both Hart and HKC. The court held there was an
unwaivable actual conflict between the two. The court concluded a conflict
existed because Coldren is a 50 percent shareholder
of HKC, and HKC would have duties to Coldren that were in conflict with Hart’s interests in
defeating the litigation.” The Court of Appeal in Coldren reversed, finding that “Coldren sued both Hart and HKC—directly, not
derivatively—on essentially the same claims. He is seeking over $8 million in
damages against both. Hart’s interest is perfectly aligned with HKC’s
interest in seeing Coldren’s claims defeated. Coldren’s position seems to be that he can sue his company and then,
because he is a 50 percent shareholder, have a say in its defense. That is not
the law. Moreover, Grant Genovese’s duty of loyalty, as counsel for HKC,
runs to HKC, not its shareholders. HKC is free to defend itself
and assert relevant counterclaims to the detriment of Coldren. Since there is no conflict, we reverse.” (Coldren v. Hart, King &
Coldren, Inc., supra, 239
Cal.App.4th at p. 241.) Defendants assert that “[s]imilarly,
here, as counsel for Plant Ranch and Cena Kitchen on the Cross-Complaint, BOL’s
duty of loyalty runs to those entities, not their shareholders and members.
Both entities are free to assert relevant cross-claims to the detriment of
(i.e., against) [Plaintiff], just as they have done.” (Opp’n at p. 5:14-17.) Defendants
also assert that “[a]ny attempt by Plaintiff to distinguish the Coldren
holding as inapposite because the claims against HKC and Hart were not
derivative would be spurious. The Coldren Court did not base this
portion of its ruling on this fact. More importantly, as noted above, BOL does
not represent the nominal defendants such that no actual conflict exists by
asserting cross-claims on their behalf.” (Opp’n at p. 5, fn. 8.)In the reply, Plaintiff asserts that Coldren is not applicable
here. Plaintiff notes that the Coldren Court also found that “[i]n our view, Gong should be read for the narrow
proposition that where a plaintiff’s allegations are essentially
derivative in nature, the failure to label them as such may still prohibit dual
representation of the corporation and the defendant shareholder. Here, Coldren’s lawsuit is not
derivative in nature.” (Coldren v. Hart, King & Coldren, Inc., supra, 239 Cal.App.4th at p.
251.) In addition, Plaintiff cites to Ontiveros v. Constable (2016) 245 Cal.App.4th
686, 689-690, where “Guadalupe A. Ontiveros, as the
minority shareholder in Omega Electric, Inc. (Omega), sued majority shareholder
Kent C. Constable, his wife (Karen Constable), and Omega, asserting direct and derivative
claims arising from a dispute over management of Omega and its
assets. Karen Moskowitz and Thomas Regele (together,
Counsel) represented all the defendants in the litigation. Ontiveros moved to disqualify Counsel on the basis
they could not simultaneously represent all the defendants because his
derivative claims against Omega rendered Omega and the Constables adverse to each other. The trial court
granted Ontiveros’s motion and disqualified Counsel from
representing any of the defendants. On appeal,
defendants contend[ed] the trial court erred by disqualifying Counsel
altogether. Alternatively, defendants contend[ed] the court should have allowed
Counsel to continue representing only the Constables.” The Court
of Appeal “affirm[ed] the order disqualifying
Counsel as to Omega, but reverse[d] as to the Constables.” (Id. at
p. 690.) The Ontiveros Court noted that “Omega’s and the Constables’ respective interests were clearly adverse to
one another. Although Ontiveros’s complaint nominally
named Omega a defendant, Omega ‘is the real plaintiff’ on those claims against
the Constables. ‘Current case law clearly forbids dual
representation of a corporation and directors in a shareholder derivative suit,
at least where, as here, the directors are alleged to have committed fraud.’” (Ontiveros v. Constable, supra,
245 Cal.App.4th at p. 696 [internal citations omitted].) Plaintiff
asserts that here, “Defendants’ counsel represents two parties with
adverse interests: the Corporate Defendants and Simms and Santillan…This a
breach of their duty of loyalty to the Corporate Defendants who have been
allegedly defrauded by Simms and Santillan.” (Mot. at p. 9:18-22.) As noted by
Plaintiff, the TAC in this case alleges a cause of action for constructive
fraud in which Plaintiff alleges that “Defendants, and each of them, breached
their fiduciary duty to Plaintiff when Defendants failed to: 1. Allocate all
net profits and losses, which shall include every item of income, deduction,
depreciation, gain, loss and credit, for each calendar year of the Cena Kitchen
and Plant Ranch, to each owner pro rata in accordance with their respective
interest; 2. Not act in any manner contrary to the Agreement including using
funds from the companies’ for personal benefit; 3. Account to the owners for
all expenses, profits and losses; 4. Disclose material facts involving
transfers to and from the companies; 5. Hold in trust any and all profits
derived for the companies; and 6. Act in good faith with the utmost care to
ensure that all acts are for the benefit of the companies.” (TAC, ¶ 32.) Based on a consideration of the foregoing, the Court finds that
Plaintiff has demonstrated good cause to disqualify BOL. In the opposition, Defendants also assert that “Plaintiff unreasonably
delayed bringing the instant motion, and disqualification at this late date
would result in significant prejudice to responding parties.” (Opp’n at p.
8:9-10.) Defendants note that “attorney
disqualification can be impliedly waived by failing to bring the motion in a
timely manner.” (Antelope Valley Groundwater
Cases (2018) 30 Cal.App.5th 602, 625
[internal quotations omitted].) “[T]o result in a waiver, the delay [and] … the prejudice to the
opponent must be extreme. Factors relevant to the reasonableness of a
delay include the stage of litigation at which the disqualification motion is
made and the complexity of the case. Delay
can also be an indication that the alleged breach of confidentiality was not
seen as serious or substantial by the moving party, and can suggest the
possibility that the party brought the motion as a tactical device…If the opposing party makes a
prima facie showing of extreme delay and prejudice, the burden then shifts to
the moving party to justify the delay.” (Ibid. [internal quotations and citations omitted].) Here, Defendants note that
Plaintiff argues in the motion that “[t]he attorneys of Boren, Osher
& Luftman, LLP are using corporate funds from Cena Kitchen to the detriment
and over the objection of Plaintiff.” (Mot. at p. 7:8-9.) In support of this
assertion, Plaintiff references “checks made out to Boren, Osher & Luftman,
LLP and Walter & Associates from March and April of 2022…” (Huerta Decl., ¶
26, Ex. F.)[2] In the
opposition, Defendants’ counsel states that “Plaintiff provides copies of
checks from March and April of 2022, which were Bates-labeled by my office and
provided in discovery to Plaintiff on February 8, 2023.” (Gladstein Decl., ¶
20.) The instant motion was filed on September 15, 2023. Defendants thus assert
that “Plaintiff had these checks for more than 7 months before filing his
Motion.” (Opp’n at p. 9:9-10.)             Plaintiff also asserts in the motion
that BOL “allowed Simms and/or Santillan to transfer valuable intellectual
property rights of Plant Ranch to themselves without any consideration,” citing
to Simms’s responses to Plaintiff’s Form Interrogatories, Set One. (Mot. at p.
7:15-17; Robson Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. B.) Plaintiff notes that the responses provide,
inter alia, that “certain intellectual property rights formerly owned by
Plant Ranch have been assigned to Responding Party and Carmen Santillan.”
(Robson Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. B, p. 23:4-6.) The responses are dated October 3, 2022,
and Defendants indicate that Simms’s responses to the Form Interrogatories were
transmitted to Plaintiff on October 3, 2022. (Gladstein Decl., ¶ 22.)
Defendants thus assert that “Plaintiff had been aware of this purported basis
for disqualification for 1 year before filing his Motion.” (Opp’n at p.
9:19-20.)            Defendants assert that “[t]he fact
that Plaintiff has been aware of these purported bases to seek disqualification
for the past year, yet intentionally chose to wait until 5 months before trial,
and only after counsel for Responding Parties has performed a substantial
amount of work…weighs heavily in favor of a finding that Plaintiff waived his
right to seek disqualification and/or is estopped from doing so now.” (Opp’n at
p. 9:21-25.)             But as Defendants acknowledge, Plant
Ranch and Cena Kitchen’s Cross-Complaint was filed on August 24, 2023, and
“[t]hree weeks later, on September 15, 2023, Plaintiff filed his instant
Motion…” (Opp’n at p. 3:9-10.) In addition, as set forth above, “[t]o result in a waiver, the delay [and]
… the prejudice to the opponent must be extreme.” (Antelope Valley Groundwater Cases, supra, 30 Cal.App.5th at p.
625 [internal quotations omitted].) Lastly, Defendants assert that “if the Court is inclined to disqualify
BOL, it should only do so with respect to its representation of Plant Ranch and
Cena Kitchen.” (Opp’n at p. 10:11-12.) Defendants cite to Blue Water
Sunset, LLC v. Markowitz (2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 477, 490-491, where the Court of Appeal found that “[t]he next issue is whether
Kurtz must be disqualified from the entire case or only from representing the
limited liability companies. The court in Forrest held that even in instances where an attorney must be
disqualified from jointly representing several corporations and insiders who
allegedly defrauded the corporations, the attorney could continue to represent
the insiders. The Forrest court distinguished Flatt and Truck because
they did not involve a shareholder’s derivative action and pointed out that
neither case specifically held that an attorney is required to cease
representing both clients. In addition, Forrest surveyed federal case law as well as commentary published in
law review journals and noted that they supported a rule of permitting an
attorney to continue representing the insiders.” (Internal citation omitted.) Defendants assert that “[n]owhere
within his Motion does Plaintiff provide authority for his proposition that
under the circumstances he alleges—none of which warrant disqualification—the
Court would be required to disqualify BOL from representing any party in
this lawsuit.” (Opp’n. at p. 10:20-22 [emphasis in original].) The Court notes
that Plaintiff does not dispute this point or address the foregoing legal
authority in the reply. ConclusionFor the foregoing reasons, the Court grants Plaintiff’s motion to
disqualify in part.The Court grants Plaintiff’s motion to “disqualify Boren, Osher
& Luftman, LLP from representing Plant Ranch and Cena Kitchen.” Plaintiff’s
motion is otherwise denied. ////////////Plaintiff is ordered to provide notice of this ruling.  DATED: 
October 24, 2023                            ________________________________Hon. Rolf M. TreuJudge, Los Angeles Superior Court 

