  Case Number:  21STCV05412    Hearing Date:   January 31, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     January 31, 2024                               TRIAL DATE:  July 30, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         Jennifer Gerard, et al. v. John
Haubrich, Jr., et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 21STCV05412
 

 
MOTION
FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant Travelers Casualty & Surety Co. of
America
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiffs
Jennifer Gerard and Gerard Cosmetics, Inc.
 
CASE
HISTORY:

02/10/21:
     Complaint filed.
05/26/21:
     First Amended Complaint filed.
07/14/21:
     Dismissal entered as to Connie M. Fickel and Tamar Yeghiayan.
07/14/21:
     Dismissal entered as to Tristan Mullis as to the third CoA for declaratory
     relief.
07/14/21:
     Dismissal entered as to Tom Ingrassia as to the third CoA for declaratory
     relief.
07/14/21:
     Dismissal entered as to Pettit Kohn as to the third CoA for declaratory
     relief.

 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for
declaratory and injunctive relief against a liability insurer and the attorneys
retained by the insurer to defend Plaintiffs in an underlying employment
discrimination lawsuit.
 
Defendant Traveler’s Casualty &
Surety Co. moves for summary adjudication on the issue of whether Defendant’s
February 26, 2020, reservation of rights letter created a duty for Defendant to
provide independent counsel to defend Plaintiffs in the underlying action. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendant’s motion for summary
adjudication is GRANTED.
 
//
 
//
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Defendant Traveler’s Casualty &
Surety Co. moves for summary adjudication on the issue of whether Defendant’s
February 26, 2020, reservation of rights letter created a duty for Defendant to
provide independent counsel to defend Plaintiffs in the underlying action. 
 
Evidentiary Objections to Declaration of Jennifer Gerard
 
            Defendant
raises numerous evidentiary objections to the declaration of Jennifer Gerard
submitted by Plaintiffs in opposition to this motion. The Court rules on these
objections as follows:
 
            Objections
Nos. 1-11: SUSTAINED as irrelevant. This testimony is not relevant to the
issue of whether Travelers’ reservation of rights created a duty to appoint
independent counsel.
 
Evidentiary Objections to Declaration of Stephen Thomas

 
            Defendant
also raises evidentiary objections to the Declaration of Stephen Thomas in
support of the opposition. The Court rules on these objections as follows:
 
            Objections
Nos. 1-4: SUSTAINED under Evidence Code section 1523. The Policy speaks for
itself. 
 
Request for Judicial Notice
 
            Defendant
requests that the Court take judicial notice of the Complaint in the action White
v. Gerard Cosmetics, Inc. LASC Case No. 19STCV33840. Defendant’s request is
GRANTED pursuant to Evidence Code section 452(d) (court records). 
 
Improper Reply Separate Statement
 
            Defendant
submitted a document entitled “Reply Re: Separate Statement of Undisputed
Material Facts in Support of Motion for Summary Adjudication.” No such filing
is authorized either by the Code of Civil Procedure or the Rules of Court. (See
Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(b); Cal. Rules of Court Rule 3.1350.) The Court
therefore refuses to consider this document in ruling on Defendant’s motion. 
 
Legal Standard
 
The function of a motion for
summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an
opposing party can show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and, if
not, to enable an order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Code of Civil
Procedure Section 437c(c) “requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment
if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from
the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that
there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is
entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” 
(Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110,
1119.)  “The function of the pleadings in
a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the
function of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any
triable issue of fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.” (Juge
v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI
Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367, 381-82.)
 
As to each claim as framed by the
complaint, the plaintiff moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial
burden of proof by presenting proving each element of a cause of action. (Code
Civ Proc. § 437c(p)(1).) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of
the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence
in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39
Cal.4th 384, 389.) Once the plaintiff has met that burden, the burden shifts to
the defendant to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists
as to that cause of action or a defense thereto. (Code Civ. Proc. §
437c(p)(1).) To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party opposing
the motion must produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster v.
Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)
 
Duty to Select Independent Counsel
 
            California
law requires insurance carriers to provide insured parties with independent
defense counsel when specific circumstances arise. As set forth in Civil Code
section 2860:
 
(a) If the provisions of a policy of
insurance impose a duty to defend upon an insurer and a conflict of interest
arises which creates a duty on the part of the insurer to provide
independent counsel to the insured, the insurer shall provide
independent counsel to represent the insured unless, at the time the insured is
informed that a possible conflict may arise or does exist, the insured
expressly waives, in writing, the right to independent counsel. An insurance
contract may contain a provision which sets forth the method of selecting that
counsel consistent with this section.
 
(b) For purposes of this section, a
conflict of interest does not exist as to allegations or facts in the
litigation for which the insurer denies coverage; however, when an insurer
reserves its rights on a given issue and the outcome of that coverage issue can
be controlled by counsel first retained by the insurer for the defense of the
claim, a conflict of interest may exist. No conflict of interest shall be
deemed to exist as to allegations of punitive damages or be deemed to exist
solely because an insured is sued for an amount in excess of the insurance
policy limits.
 
(Civ. Code § 2860(a)-(b).) 
 
Section 2860 does not state that
all conflicts of interest cause the right to independent counsel to vest. (James
3 Corp. v. Truck Ins. Exchange (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 1093, 1101.) As set
forth by numerous appellate opinions, the right to independent counsel vests if
“the way counsel retained by the insurance company defends the action will
affect an underlying coverage dispute between the insurer and the insured.” (Id.
at 1108.) “Attorney control of the outcome of a coverage dispute
involves insurance coverage, i.e., whether a certain risk or peril is covered
under the policy. Furthermore, the coverage dispute must be one that will be
litigated in the underlying action.” (Id [emphasis in original].)
Conversely, the right to independent counsel does not vest “where the
reservation of rights is based on coverage disputes which have nothing to do
with the issues being litigated in the underlying action.” (Gafcon, Inc. v.
Ponsor Associates (2002) 98 Cal.App.4th 1388, 1423; Dynamic Concepts,
Inc. v. Truck Ins. Exchange (1998) 61 Cal. App. 4th 999, 1006-1007 [“There is
no such entitlement, . . . , where the coverage issue is independent of, or
extrinsic to, the issues in the underlying action.”].)
 
A conflict of interest requiring the
appointment of independent counsel does not automatically arise where only some
damages are covered by the insurer.  Thus,
for example, the Court in Foremost Ins. Co. v. Wilks (1988) 206 Cal.
App. 3d 251, rejected the contention that an exclusion of coverage for punitive
damages that might be awarded against the insured created a disqualifying
conflict of interest.  In so ruling, the Foremost
Court noted that the insurance company would be liable for any compensatory
damages regardless of whether the jury found the insured acted with malice.  Noting the unity of interests in a strong
defense, the Court explained it was “in Foremost’s interest to vigorously
defend the suit to avoid liability for indemnification of compensatory damages,”
and that the company “gain[ed] no benefit from pursuing a theory that [the
insured] acted with malice.”  (Id.,
at p. 261.)  Thus, courts generally
conclude that no actual conflict of interest arises from non-coverage of only
certain damages, so long as the interests of the insured and insurer are fully
aligned on defending against liability contentions.  (Blanchard v. State Farm Fire and Casualty
Co. (1991) 2 Cal. App. 4th 345, 350.) 
This situation is in contrast to a case where appointed insurance
counsel has to make a decision between two possible defenses where one would
limit the insurer’s benefits obligation and the other would expand the coverage
available to the insured.  (See, e.g.,
Executive Aviation, Inc. v. National Ins. Underwriters (1971) 16 Cal. App.
3d 799 [conflict found where defense posture on commercial nature of flight
would impact coverage dispute].)  
 
Travelers’ Reservation of Rights
 
            Defendant
seeks summary adjudication of Plaintiffs’ primary claim against it: whether,
applying the standard set forth above, Defendant’s February 26, 2020
reservation of rights letter created a disqualifying conflict of interest for
its dependent counsel such that Defendant was obligated to provide independent
counsel.   Although Plaintiffs pose
arguments about Defendant’s alleged obligation to make disclosures about
possible conflicts and the Lewis Brisbois Defendants’ alleged breaches of their
duty to advise Plaintiffs on conflict issues, these are beyond the scope of
Defendant’s motion, so the Court will not address them.
 
            The Reservation
of Rights letter at issue here reserved Defendants’ right to deny coverage on
the underlying action against Plaintiffs on six bases: (1) damages excluded
from coverage, including, inter alia, under either the definition of
“Loss” or Exclusion “B.2.”; (2) coverage for Plaintiff Gerard to the extent she
was not acting in her capacity as an officer of Gerard Cosmetics; (3) to the
extent that Plaintiffs’ late reporting of an EEOC claim against them prejudiced
Defendant; (4) reserving the right to seek reimbursement of defense costs not
covered by the Insurance Policy; (5) reserving the right to assert that the
Policy exceeds other coverage available to Plaintiffs; and (6) denying coverage
for any loss, fees, or costs incurred or paid without Defendant’s consent. (Separate
Statement of Undisputed Material Fact Nos. 22-28.) 
 
1.     
Reservation of Rights Under Definition of “Loss” and
Exclusion B.2
 
Defendant first contends that its reservation
of rights as to the definition of loss and the exclusions in clause B.2 did not
create a disqualifying conflict of interest as a matter of law. As stated in
the policy and described in the reservation of rights letter, Loss is defined
to mean, as relevant here:
 
Defense Expenses and money which an
Insured is legally obligated to pay as a result of a Claim, including
settlements; judgments; back and front pay; compensatory damages; punitive or
exemplary damages or the multiple portion of any multiplied damage award if
insurable under the applicable law most favorable to the insurability of
punitive, exemplary, or multiplied damages; prejudgment and postjudgment
interest; and legal fees and expenses of a Claimant or Outside Claimant awarded
pursuant to a court order or judgment. “Loss” does not include: 
 
1. civil or criminal fines; sanctions;
liquidated damages other than liquidated damages awarded under the Age
Discrimination in Employment Act or the Equal Pay Act; payroll or other taxes;
or damages, penalties or types of relief deemed uninsurable under applicable
law; 
 
2. future compensation, including
salary or benefits, for a Claimant or Outside Claimant who has been or will be
hired, promoted or reinstated to employment pursuant to a
settlement, court order, judgment, award or other resolution of a Claim; or
that part of any judgment or settlement which constitutes front pay, future
monetary losses including pension and other benefits, or other future economic
relief or the value or equivalent thereof, if the Insured has been ordered, or
has the option pursuant to a judgment, order or other award or disposition of a
Claim, to promote, accommodate, reinstate, or hire the Claimant or Outside
Claimant to whom such sums are to be paid, but fails to do so; 
 
3. medical,
pension, disability, life insurance, Stock Benefit or other similar employee
benefits, except and to the extent that a judgment or settlement of a Claim
includes a monetary component measured by the value of: 
 
a. medical, pension, disability, life
insurance, or other similar employee benefits; or 
 
b. Stock Benefits of an Insured
Organization whose equity or debt securities are not publicly traded, including
on a stock exchange or another organized securities market, as consequential
damages for a Wrongful Act; or 
 
4. any amount allocated to non-covered
loss pursuant to Section III.
 
(SSUMF No. 7 [emphasis added].) 
 
Exclusion B.2 eliminates from the
definition of covered losses any coverage for damages other than defense costs
“[f]or any Claim seeking severance pay, damages or penalties under an express
written Employment Agreement, or under any policy or procedure providing for
payment in the event of separation from employment; or sums sought solely on
the basis of a claim for unpaid services.” (SSUMF
No. 8.)
 
In its reservation of rights
letter, Defendant reserved its right to disclaim coverage as to any of the
kinds of excluded damages identified in the definition of Loss, including
certain front pay, payroll and other taxes, severance pay, and money due for
unpaid services.  In opposition, Plaintiffs
voice a general concern that, as the plaintiff in the underlying lawsuit, Shaun
White could have sought future compensation, taxes, lost medical, pension,
disability, life insurance, or other employee benefits, and a reinstatement
order, and posits broadly that Defendant’s reservation of rights left Plaintiffs
exposed to pay for those damages without insurance support.
 
            With
respect to the exclusion of certain damages, the controlling authorities are
conclusive: even where non-covered damages might be awarded, a conflict of
interest does not arise because the existence or threat of those damages does
not create competing incentives for panel counsel in the way they defend the
underlying case. (Blanchard v. State Farm Fire and Casualty Co., supra,
2 Cal. App. 4th at p. 350.)  Even in such
circumstances, panel counsel retains the incentive to avoid liability
altogether. (Id.; see also Foremost Ins. Co. v. Wilks, supra, 206
Cal.App.3d at p. 261.)  Here, there is no
basis to conclude that appointed counsel would not vigorously defend against
the payment of back and front pay, reinstatement, and all lost benefits sought
by White, as part and parcel of defense counsel’s strident resistance to any
finding of liability in the underlying case. 

 
What is more, Defendant’s policy
provides broad coverage for “back and front pay,” which would be the source of
any obligation on Plaintiff’s part to pay payroll and related taxes, so the
parties’ interests in opposing such damages would be fully aligned, thus
negating any conflict of interest on behalf of insurance counsel.  Similarly, both Plaintiffs and Defendant
would have similar goals of defeating any orders for reinstatement.  The gap in coverage arises in that context
only if such an order is issued and Plaintiff is successful in buying-out the
obligation by advancing front pay to White in lieu of restatement.  Under those unique circumstances, Defendant
would not cover the front pay offered, but that is a mere theoretical
possibility and, in any event, does not lend itself to control by appointed
counsel.  In addition, as Defendant
argues, many of the other conflicts raised by Plaintiff are purely hypothetical.
There is no prayer for reinstatement in White’s complaint, nor any request for
severance pay.  Having been terminated by
Plaintiff, the time for severance pay had passed by the time White’s lawsuit
was commenced, so he was instead seeking past and future lost compensation, not
a severance package.  Nor is there any
claim in White’s complaint seeking payment for unpaid services or the actual
provision of medical, pension or other benefits.  Rather, as is typical in such employment
cases, White sought a monetary award that would include damages to compensate
him for lost salary and benefits, both of which are covered under Defendant’s
policy.  (SSUMF No. 7 [Loss excludes “medical,
pension, disability, life insurance, Stock Benefit or other similar employee
benefits, except and to the extent that a judgment or settlement of a Claim
includes a monetary component measured by the value of [those benefits]”
(emphasis added)].)
 
In sum, the Court finds no actual
conflict of interest arising from these exclusions based on the legal
authorities defining an insurance company’s obligation to appoint independent
counsel.  Consistent with those
authorities, the Court reaches this conclusion by conducting an analysis
focused on the facts of this case and examining “the nature of the coverage
issue[s], as [they] relate[ ]to the issues in the underlying case.”  (Blanchard, supra, at p. 350.)  Accordingly, Defendant has satisfied its
initial burden of showing that it is entitled to summary adjudication of the
duty issue as a matter of law.  While the
burden to demonstrate a triable issue of fact thus shifts to Plaintiffs, they
have “produced no evidence to show in what specific way the defense attorney
could have controlled the outcome of the damage issue to appellant’s detriment,
or had incentive to do so. [Plaintiff] merely urged that there was an
unspecified possibility of a conflict.” 
(Id. [Emphasis in original].) 
  
 
2.     
Reservation of Rights Under Definition of Insured
Person
 
Defendant also argues that no
actual conflict was created by its reservation of the right to disclaim
coverage for any loss attributable to Plaintiff Gerard to the extent that she did
not qualify as an insured person within the meaning of the policy. 
 
The definition of “Insured Person”
in Travelers’ Policy states, in pertinent part:
 
Insured Person means any natural person
who was, is or becomes an Employee, duly elected or appointed member of the
board of directors, officer, member of the board of trustees, member of the
board of regents, member of the board of governors, natural person partner, LLC
manager or a functional equivalent thereof of the Insured Organization for
Wrongful Acts committed in the discharge of his or her duties.
 
(SSUMF No. 24.)
 
            As
Defendant states, the White Action asserted only employment-based causes of
action-- specifically, employment discrimination, harassment, retaliation,
failure to prevent discrimination, harassment, and retaliation, and wrongful
termination. (SSUMF No. 17.) Defendant contends that, because the claims
asserted against Plaintiff Gerard only pertained to the discharge of her duties
as owner of the business, the Policy’s definition of Insured Person did not create
a dispute as to whether Plaintiff was covered for the purpose of those claims.
Moreover, Defendant argues, even if there was a dispute as to whether Plaintiff
was an Insured Person, that dispute is “independent of the issue of [the
insured’s] liability.” (McGee v. Super Ct. (1985) 176 Cal.App.3d
221, 227.) 
 
            Plaintiffs,
in opposition, argue that the White Action alleged facts which could give rise
to personal liability for Gerard for sexual harassment as well as common law claims
for sexual assault, defamation, and wrongful eviction against Plaintiff Gerard
in her personal capacity. As a preliminary matter, many of the allegations
which Plaintiffs recite are not set forth in the separate statement, which merely
offers assertions that the Complaint alleges facts giving rise to those claims
“in ordinary and concise language.” (See, e.g., Statement of Additional
Fact No 18.) Vague conclusions do not constitute statements of material fact,
disputed or otherwise, and the Court would be within its authority to disregard
those contentions and the citations to the White Action altogether. The Golden
Rule of Summary Adjudication is “if it is not set forth in the separate
statement, it does not exist.” (United Community Church v. Garcin
(1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 327, 337 [italics in original].) Notwithstanding those
issues, Plaintiffs’ argument is premised on the conclusion that the “plasticity
of modern pleading” requires independent counsel when the facts, as alleged,
could give rise to claims that would create a conflict of interest, even if
those claims have not yet been asserted, citing Gray v. Zurich Insurance Co.
(1966) 65 Cal.2d 263 at 276. Plaintiffs’ premise is flawed. Gray’s
discussion of the “plasticity of modern pleading” pertained to our Supreme
Court’s holding that the question of coverage is not limited to the claims
asserted in the pleadings with respect to whether the insurance carrier has a
duty to defend the action. (Id. at 276-77.) The question of
whether a claim is actually covered by the Policy relates not to the insured’s
duty to defend the action, but its duty to indemnify, i.e., to
cover Plaintiffs’ liability. 
 
            Even so,
Plaintiffs’ assertions of a conflict arising because of the “personal capacity”
exclusion are plainly unpersuasive.  If
Plaintiff Gerard had been found personally liable for sexual harassment as
White’s supervisor, Gerard Cosmetics would have been strictly liable for that
misconduct.  (State Dept. of Health
Services v. Superior Court (2003) 31 Cal. 4th 1026, 1040-1041.)  Thus, their defense interests are
inextricably intertwined.  As for the
common law claims to which Plaintiffs refer, there is virtually no possibility
that they could have been asserted against Plaintiff Gerard as an individual
because their limitations periods had expired by the time White commenced his
action.  Plaintiff White’s complaint
against Gerard Cosmetics, Inc., and Jennifer Gerard was filed on September 23,
2019, alleging only statutory discrimination, harassment, retaliation and
related claims under the Fair Employment and Housing Act, Government Code §
1294, et seq., and a common law claim for wrongful discharge in
violation of public policy.  While White
did allege that Gerard sexually assaulted him, falsely accused him of raping
his former roommate, and evicted him from his company-provided apartment just
before his June 15, 2016, termination (Defendant’s Exh. E, ¶¶ 14, 30, 31),
these allegations formed the predicate for White’s claims of sexual harassment
and retaliation.  He did not assert any
common law claims for assault, defamation, or wrongful eviction.  Indeed, by the time White filed his complaint
in September 2019, the limitations period for all these claims had already
expired.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 335.1 [two-year
limitations for assault or battery claims]; § 340(c) [one-year limitations for
defamation]; § 338(b) [three-year limitations for wrongful eviction].)  
 
For all these reasons, the Court
finds that Defendant has established as a matter of law that the exclusion for
persons sued in their personal capacity does not give rise to a duty to appoint
independent counsel.  In response to
Defendant’s initial showing, Plaintiffs have failed to rebut the evidence
presented by Defendant and have thus failed to demonstrate the existence of a
triable issue of fact as to whether the definition of Insured Person created an
actual conflict of interest requiring independent counsel. 
3. Other Reservations of Rights
 
Plaintiffs do not contest that the
other reservations of rights identified by Defendant do not give rise to a
conflict of interest that would require independent counsel. As there appears
to be no dispute between the parties on this point, the Court need not discuss
this matter further. 
 
Conclusion
 
            The Court
finds, based on the foregoing, that Defendant has demonstrated with admissible evidence
that the reservation of rights created no actual conflict of interest requiring
independent counsel with respect to the definition of “Loss” or its related
exclusions. Similarly, as to the other categories of reservations of rights,
the Court finds that Defendant has shown that no conflict of interest was
created by these provisions, and that Plaintiffs have failed to demonstrate a
triable issue of fact to the contrary. Accordingly, Defendant is entitled to
summary adjudication of the issue of duty raised by its motion. 
 
CONCLUSION
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s motion for
summary adjudication is GRANTED.
 
Moving Party give notice, unless
waived.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:   January 31,
2024                               ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 
 