 Case Number:  BC682898    Hearing Date:   January 31, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     January 31, 2024                   JUDGMENT:
August 17, 2022
                                                           
CASE:                         Andreas Kratky, et al. v. Downtown
Prime, LLC, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 BC682898            
 
MOTION
FOR ORDER FOR SALE OF DWELLING

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants Downtown Prime, LLC; Moses Babazadeh, David
Baradarian, and Pedram Yadidsion
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): No response on
eCourt as of 1/29/24
 
CASE
HISTORY:

11/08/17:
     Complaint filed.
07/20/20:
     Judgment entered.
08/21/20:
     Appeal filed by Plaintiff Jenna King
02/23/22:
     Remittitur of Appeal by Plaintiff Jenna King; Judgment affirmed.
08/17/22:
     Final Judgment entered. 

 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is a breach of lease
action. Plaintiffs sued Defendants for multiple habitability violations. All
parties entered into a move-out settlement agreement. Plaintiff Jenna King
contested the settlement agreement, and judgment was entered against her on July
20, 2020. Plaintiff appealed that order, and the Court of Appeal affirmed the
judgment. 
 
Defendants move for an order for
the sale of the dwelling under Code of Civil Procedure section 704.750. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendants’ Motion for Order for
Sale of Dwelling is CONTINUED to Friday, March 1, 2024, at 9:00 AM. 
 
            Defendants
are ordered to serve and file supplemental documentation describing the
information set forth in Code of Civil Procedure section 704.760 subdivision
(c) within 10 days of this order. 
 
            Moving
Parties to give notice.
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Defendants move for an order for
the sale of the dwelling under Code of Civil Procedure section 704.750. 
 
Timing of Application
 
Code of Civil Procedure section
704.750 provides, in relevant part: 
 
Promptly after a dwelling is levied
upon [. . .], the levying officer shall serve notice on the judgment creditor
that the levy has been made and that the property will be released unless the
judgment creditor complies with the requirements of this section. Service shall
be made personally or by mail. Within 20 days after service of the notice, the
judgment creditor shall apply to the court for an order for sale of the
dwelling and shall file a copy of the application with the levying officer. If
the judgment creditor does not file the copy of the application for an order
for sale of the dwelling within the allowed time, the levying officer shall
release the dwelling.
 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 704.750(a).) According to the Notice of
Levy included with Plaintiff’s ex parte application to stay execution of
the writ of levy on August 30, 2023, the Notice was served on Plaintiff by mail
on August 18, 2023. (See August 30, 2023 Ex Parte Application Exh. C.)
The last date to file this application was September 12, 2023, 20 days plus
five calendar days for mail service after the Notice was served. (See Code Civ.
Proc. § 1013.) Although Defendants’ Amended Application was submitted on September
14, 2023, the original Application was served and filed on September 12, 2023.
Defendants’ application is therefore timely. 
 
Contents of Application
 
            Code of
Civil Procedure section 704.760 sets forth the contents for an application for
an order for sale of a dwelling as follows:
 
The judgment creditor’s application
shall be made under oath, shall describe the dwelling, and shall contain all of
the following:
 
(a) A statement whether or not the
records of the county tax assessor indicate that there is a current homeowner’s
exemption or disabled veteran’s exemption for the dwelling and the person or
persons who claimed any such exemption.
 
(b) A statement, which may be
based on information and belief, whether the dwelling is a homestead and the
amount of the homestead exemption, if any, and a statement whether or not the
records of the county recorder indicate that a homestead declaration under
Article 5 (commencing with Section 704.910) that describes the dwelling has
been recorded by the judgment debtor or the spouse of the judgment debtor.
 
(c) A
statement of the amount of any liens or encumbrances on the dwelling, the name
of each person having a lien or encumbrance on the dwelling, and the address of
such person used by the county recorder for the return of the instrument
creating such person’s lien or encumbrance after recording.
 
(d) A statement that the judgment
is based on a consumer debt, as defined in subdivision (a) of Section 699.730,
or that the judgment is not based on a consumer debt, and if the judgment is
based on a consumer debt, whether the judgment is based on a consumer debt that
was secured by the debtor’s principal place of residence at the time it was
incurred or a statement indicating which of the exemptions listed in
subdivision (b) of Section 699.730 are applicable. If the statement indicates
that paragraph (7) of subdivision (b) is applicable, the statement shall also
provide the dollar amount of the original judgment on which the lien is based.
If there is more than one basis, the statement shall indicate all bases that
are applicable.
 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 704.760.) The application is supported by
a declaration from Defendants’ counsel, Alisa E. Sandoval. This Declaration,
made under oath, describes the property commonly known as 20003 S. Corning, Los
Angeles CA 90034 as:
 
THE SOUTHEAST 85 FEET OF LOT(S) 265 OF
TRACT NO. 1250, AS PER MAP RECORDED IN BOOK 18, PAGES 46 and 47, OF MAPS IN THE
OFFICE OF THE COUNTY RECORDER OF LOS ANGELES.
 
(Declaration of Alisa E. Sandoval ISO Mot. ¶ 3.) Attorney
Sandoval states that the records of the county tax assessor indicate that there
is a current homeowner’s exemption for the dwelling, but that she believes the
property is not the judgment debtor’s primary residence. (Id. ¶ 4.) The
declaration does not speak to any liens or encumbrances on the property.
Moreover, although the Memorandum of Points and Authorities provides the total
amount of liens on the property, it does not describe the holders of those
liens as required by subdivision (c). (See Memo of Ps. & As. p.3:15-18.) Attorney
Sandoval’s declaration states, on information and belief, that the judgment is
not based on a consumer debt. (Sandoval Decl. ¶ 6.) 
 
            Defendants’
application does not comply with the requirements of subdivision (c) of section
704.760 of the Code of Civil Procedure. In the interest of an expedient
resolution of this issue, the Court will exercise its discretion to permit
Defendants to submit supplemental materials setting forth “a statement of the
amount of any liens or encumbrances on the dwelling, the name of each person
having a lien or encumbrance on the dwelling, and the address of such person
used by the county recorder for the return of the instrument creating such
person’s lien or encumbrance after recording.” 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Defendants’ Motion for Order for Sale of Dwelling is CONTINUED to Friday, March
1, 2024, at 9:00 AM. 
 
            Defendants
are ordered to serve and file supplemental documentation describing the
information set forth in Code of Civil Procedure section 704.760 subdivision
(c) within 10 days of this order. 
 
            Moving
Parties to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  January 31,
2024                                ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 