  Case Number:  18PSCV00182    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2024    Dept:  G Motion by Plaintiffs Lingzhi Ma, Yunhan Chen, and  Topstar Freight Inc. for Terminating Sanction of Default Judgment Against  Defendants Xuefei Zhang, Lihong Liu, Jenny Liu, Sunny Way Trucking Inc. or in  the Alternative Issue Sanctions and Request for Monetary Sanctions Respondent: Defendants Xuefei  Zhang, Lihong Liu, Juan Liu, and Sunny Way Trucking Inc. Motion by Plaintiffs Lingzhi Ma, Yunhan Chen, and  Topstar Freight Inc. or Leave of Court to Amend the Complaint Respondent: Defendants Xuefei  Zhang, Lihong Liu, Juan Liu, and Sunny Way Trucking Inc. Motion by Plaintiffs Lingzhi Ma, Yunhan Chen, and  Topstar Freight Inc. to Permit Belated Service of Expert Information and To  Allow Plaintiffs’ Experts to Testify at Trial Respondent: Defendants Xuefei  Zhang, Lihong Liu, Juan Liu, Sunny Way Trucking Inc., and Sunny Way Corporation TENTATIVE RULING Motion by Plaintiffs Lingzhi Ma, Yunhan Chen, and  Topstar Freight Inc. for Terminating Sanction of Default Judgment Against  Defendants Xuefei Zhang, Lihong Liu, Jenny Liu, Sunny Way Trucking Inc. or in  the Alternative Issue Sanctions and Request for Monetary Sanctions is DENIED. Motion by Plaintiffs Lingzhi Ma, Yunhan Chen, and  Topstar Freight Inc. for Leave of Court to Amend the Complaint is DENIED. Motion by Plaintiffs Lingzhi Ma, Yunhan Chen, and  Topstar Freight Inc. to Permit Belated Service of Expert Information and To  Allow Plaintiffs’ Experts to Testify at Trial is DEEMED MOOT. BACKGROUND This is an action for  contractual fraud. Plaintiffs Lingzhi Ma and Yunhan Chen are Chinese nationals.  In 2015, they entered into an agreement with Defendants Xuefei Zhang, Lihong  Liu, and Juan Liu in which they agreed to form and invest funds in Plaintiff  Topstar Freight Inc. (Topstar) for the purpose of obtaining an EB-5 investor  visa for Chen. Pursuant to the agreement, Ma and Chen invested $800,000 in  Topstar. Subsequently, Ma and Chen allegedly discovered Zhang and the Lius had  managed Topstar for their own benefit and were transferring Topstar’s profits  to Defendant Sunny Way Trucking Inc. (Sunny Way Trucking). They also allege  Zhang and the Lius refused to return their investments. On December 12, 2018, Ma,  Chen, and Topstar (collectively Plaintiffs) filed a complaint against Zhang,  the Lius, Sunny Way Trucking, and Does 1-20, alleging the following causes of  action: (1) anticipatory breach of contract, (2) money had and received, (3)  conversion, (4) breach of contract, (5) money had and received, (6) conversion,  (7) intentional misrepresentation, (8) negligent misrepresentation, (9)  fraudulent concealment, (10) breach of fiduciary duty, (11) constructive fraud,  (12) unfair competition, and (13) declaratory relief. On July 7, 2021, Plaintiffs  filed an amendment to the Complaint that replaced Doe 4 with Defendant Sunny  Way Corporation (Sunny Way). On May 28, 2024, the court  stayed the present action following notice of pending bankruptcy proceedings  that involved Sunny Way Trucking. On October 4, 2024, Plaintiffs  filed the present motions for sanctions and leave to amend. On October 8, 2024,  Plaintiffs filed the present motion to permit the use of belatedly served  expert information. A hearing on the present  motions is set for October 24, 2024, along with a hearing on a motion to be  admitted pro hac vice and a final status conference/hearing on lifting of  bankruptcy stay. A non-jury trial is also set to commence on November 4, 2024. ANALYSIS Motion for Terminating or Issue Sanctions Plaintiffs  move for terminating or issue sanctions against Zhang, the Lius, Sunny Way, and  Sunny Way Trucking (collectively Defendants) for Defendants’ alleged failure to  comply with the court’s discovery orders on October 10, 2019, and December 19,  2019. For the following reasons, the court DENIES their motion. Legal Standard The  court may impose a monetary sanction, issue sanction, evidence sanction,  terminating sanction, or contempt sanction on a party who engages in conduct  that misuses the discovery process. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030.) Misuse of  the discovery process includes “[f]ailing to respond or to submit to an  authorized method of discovery” and “[d]isobeying a court order to provide  discovery.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010, subd. (d), (g).) Because the purpose  of sanctions is remedial and not punitive, sanctions should “serve to remedy  the harm caused to the party suffering the discovery misconduct.” (Kwan  Software Engineering, Inc. v. Hennings (2020) 58 Cal.App.5th 57, 74.)  “[A]bsent unusual circumstances, nonmonetary sanctions are¿warranted only if a  party willfully fails to comply with a court order.” (Aghaian v. Minassian (2021)  64 Cal.App.5th 603, 618-619.) Terminating sanctions should only be ordered when  there has been previous noncompliance and it appears a less severe sanction  would not be effective. (Link v. Cater (1998) 60 Cal.App.4th 1315,  1326.) Discussion As  an initial matter, Plaintiffs and Defendants dispute whether the present motion  was timely brought. (Motion, p. 6:22-9:4; Opp., p. 1:10-28.) The deadline for  discovery motions to be heard is fifteen days before the initial trial date and  a continuance or postponement of the trial does not extend this deadline unless  parties have agreed so. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2024.020, 2024.060.) Nonetheless,  the court has discretion to consider discovery motions on a later date by  taking into account the following factors: “(1) [t]he necessity and the reasons  for the discovery[;] (2) [t]he diligence or lack of diligence of the party  seeking the discovery or the hearing of a discovery motion, and the reasons  that the discovery was not completed or that the discovery motion was not heard  earlier[;] (3) [a]ny likelihood that permitting the discovery or hearing the  discovery motion will prevent the case from going to trial on the date set, or  otherwise interfere with the trial calendar, or result in prejudice to any  other party[; and] (4) [t]he length of time that has elapsed between any date  previously set, and the date presently set, for the trial of the action.” (Code  Civ. Proc., § 2024.050, subd. (a), (b).) This  action was initially set for trial on March 23, 2021. (02/25/2020 Minute  Order.) Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2024.020, the last date the  present motion could have been heard was March 8, 2021. While the initial trial  date of March 23 was repeatedly continued pursuant to stipulations signed by  the parties, these extensions did not extend the deadline for the present  motion to be heard without the parties’ agreement. In bringing the present  motion, Plaintiffs fail to point to any stipulation or agreement to extend the  discovery motion deadline that renders the present motion timely. Accordingly,  the present motion may only be heard if Plaintiffs first obtained leave pursuant  to Code of Civil Procedure section 2024.050, subdivision (a). Plaintiffs,  however, failed to do so and instead proceeded with the present motion, disregarding  these requirements. (See Pelton-Shepherd Industries, Inc. v. Delta Packaging  Products, Inc. (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 1568, 1587, 1587 & fn. 26 [noting  plaintiff could combine a motion to compel with a motion to reopen discovery].) To  the extent Plaintiffs may claim the present motion includes a motion to extend  the discovery motion deadline, it does not. Nowhere in the notice of the  present motion does it mention a request to extend the discovery motion  deadline or a reference to Code of Civil Procedure section 2024.050. Even if the  present motion is generously interpreted to include a motion to extend the  deadline, it fails to adequately address the factors outlined in Code of Civil  Procedure section 2024.050, subdivision (b). Specifically, it does not  demonstrate how Plaintiffs were diligent in obtaining discovery from Defendants  and why they delayed filing the present motion until now. On  October 10, 2019, the court ordered Zhang, the Lius, and Sunny Way Trucking to  provide verified responses to Chen’s first set of form interrogatories, special  interrogatories, and requests for production of documents by October 30, 2019.  (Ensberg Decl., ¶ 28-29; Appendix of Exhibits (AOE), Ex. 17.) Notably, the  court’s ruling was based on motions that were only brought by one of the three  plaintiffs, Chen, and did not include Sunny Way. While Defendants failed to  provide responses to the special interrogatories, counsel states Defendants’  counsel agreed to provide all accounting data and reports for Sunny Way  Trucking and Topstar by October 29, 2019. (Ensberg Decl., ¶ 30, 83.) Plaintiff’s  counsel asserts that Defendants subsequently failed to do so. (Ensberg Decl., ¶  34.) On  December 19, 2019, the court ordered Defendants to provide verified responses  to Chen’s second set of requests for production of documents by January 8,  2020. (Ensberg Decl., ¶ 39; AEO, Ex. 25.) Notably, this ruling was also only  based on a motion brough by Chen and did not include Sunny Way. While  Defendants served Plaintiffs with documents on January 8, 2020, Plaintiffs’  counsel states the production was scant, lacked bates stamps, and failed to  identify the  requests to which the  documents were responsive. (Ensberg Decl., ¶ 43-44.) In  August 2021, Plaintiffs’ counsel sent a letter to Defendants’ counsel that  admonished them from continuing to withhold documents, including Topstar’s  transportation contracts, client lists, personnel and payroll records, banking  records, vehicle and container information, location records, ownership  records, registration records, licensing records, repair records, and maintenance  records as well as lists of Topstar’s assets, receivables, debts, and liabilities.  (Ensberg Decl., ¶ 49.) In June 2023, Plaintiffs’ counsel “began reviewing the  voluminous pleadings, correspondence, and bank records received through  subpoena.” (Ensberg Decl., ¶ 53.) On January 31, 2024, Plaintiffs’ counsel  emailed Defendants’ counsel stating the parties needed to complete discovery  and noting Defendants had failed to turnover any meaningful business records.  (Ensberg Decl., ¶ 55.) Specifically, Plaintiffs’ counsel noted Defendants had  failed to provide employee information and returns. (AEO, Ex. 31.) Plaintiff’s  counsel also warned that Plaintiffs would be seeking issue sanctions prior to  trial. (AEO, Ex. 31.) On  April 11, 2024, the court reset the trial date from July 2, 2024, to June 10, 2024.  (Ensberg Decl., ¶ 57.) On April 23, 2024, Plaintiffs’ counsel served deposition  notices on Zhang and Lihong Liu that set depositions for May 2, 2024, and May  3, 2024. (Ensberg Decl., ¶ 58.) The deposition notices also requested  production of documents that had been previously requested in Chen’s two sets  of requests for production of documents. (Ensberg Decl., ¶ 58-61.) By the date  of the first deposition on May 2, 2024, Defendants failed to produce any  documents. (Ensberg Decl., ¶ 64.) After Defendants’ counsel represented that  Defendants had the documents which were “not in a form for electronic  transmission,” Plaintiffs’ counsel agreed to continue Zhang’s deposition to May  8, 2024, and Lihong Liu’s deposition to May 9, 2024, in order for Defendants’  counsel to provide the documents for Plaintiffs’ counsel. (Ensberg Decl., ¶  65.) On  May 7, 2024, Defendants’ counsel began emailing documents to Plaintiffs’  counsel that were not bates stamped, lacked verified responses that identified  which documents were responsive to which requests, and appeared to mostly  consist of bank records that Defendants had already previously provided.  (Ensberg Decl., ¶ 68-70.) Plaintiffs’ counsel states outstanding documents that  Defendants have failed to provide include Topstar’s employment records,  contracts or invoices for transactions between Topstar and Sunny Way, fuel card  statements, Topstar’s financial records, documentation of Sunny Way’s payment  for Topstar drivers, insurance documents, and repair receipts. (Ensberg Decl.,  ¶ 71.) But  despite this noncompliance by Defendants, Plaintiffs’ counsel never sought to  bring a motion to compel or for motion for sanctions during the period from May  7, 2024, to May 28, 2024, when this action was automatically stayed by  bankruptcy proceedings. Instead, Plaintiffs’ counsel filed a motion in limine  to preclude Defendants from contradicting admissions that were previously  deemed admitted, a brief to permit the testimony of Plaintiffs’ expert at  trial, and trial documents including a joint statement of the case, a joint  witness list, a notice of waiver of jury trial, a trial brief, an exhibit list,  and a special verdict form. However, the court finds that Plaintiffs’ claim  that the extreme remedy of terminating or issue sanctions is warranted because Plaintiffs  were denied key documents is directly contradicted by the fact that Plaintiffs  were initially ready to proceed to trial without them. Furthermore,  Plaintiffs do not point to any attempt to compel further responses from  Defendants after Defendants’ initial responses to the court’s 2019 orders were  deemed incomplete. Instead, Plaintiffs’ counsel waited until the proverbial eleventh  hour to attempt to obtain these documents via deposition notices served in  April 2024 and set in May 2024 for a trial that was set to begin in June. And  while the June trial date had been advanced by twenty-two days, this extra time  does not excuse Plaintiffs’ delay since Plaintiffs’ current counsel was aware  of the outstanding discovery issues as early as June 2023 and even sent  correspondence to Defendants’ counsel regarding the missing discovery in  January 2024. Plaintiffs  fail to provide the court with an explanation as to why Plaintiffs’ counsel  waited until the last minute to start noticing depositions and seeking the  additional discovery. Accordingly, the court finds Plaintiffs were dilatory in seeking  discovery from Defendants and failed to explain why they waited to seek  terminating sanctions until the eve of trial. Accordingly,  the court DENIES Plaintiffs’ motion. Motion for Leave to Amend the Complaint Plaintiffs  move for leave to file a First Amended Complaint (FAC) that adds a cause of action  for civil conspiracy. For the following reasons, the court DENIES their motion. Legal Standard “A  court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow  a party to amend any pleading.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a)(1).) The  court’s discretion will usually be exercised liberally to permit amendments of  the pleadings. (Nestle v. City of Santa Monica (1972) 6 Cal.3d 920,  939.) “A motion to amend a pleading before trial must . . . [s]tate what  allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and  where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the deleted allegations are  located; and [s]tate what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous  pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the  additional allegations are located.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(a).)  The motion must also be supported by a declaration that specifies the  amendment’s effect, why it is necessary and proper, when the facts supporting  the amended allegations were discovered, and why the request was not made  earlier.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(b).) If  the party seeking the amendment has needlessly delayed, and the delay has  prejudiced the opposing party, the court has the discretion to deny leave to  amend.  (See Hirsa v. Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486, 490.)  Prejudice exists where the amendment would require delaying the trial,  resulting in loss of critical evidence, or added costs of preparation.  (Solit  v. Tokai Bank, Ltd. New York Branch (1999) 68 Cal.App.4th 1435, 1448.) Discussion Plaintiffs  seek to add a cause of action for civil conspiracy that alleges Zhang and the  Lius worked in agreement to entice Ma into making an investment through Chen. The  declaration of Plaintiffs’ counsel, however, fails to specify why this  amendment is necessary and proper as required by California Rules of Court, Rule  3.1324, subdivision (b). This  amendment is not proper since conspiracy is not a separate cause of action. (Applied  Equipment Corp. v. Litton Saudi Arabia Ltd. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 503, 510-511.)  Nor is this amendment necessary as the operative Complaint already alleges Defendants  conspired to defraud Plaintiffs of their investment. (Complaint, ¶ 60, 74.) Accordingly,  the court DENIES their motion. Motion to Permit Belated Service of Expert Information  and to Permit Expert Testimony at Trial Plaintiffs  move for an order permitting the testimony of their expert witnesses  notwithstanding their failure to timely serve expert witness disclosures. For  the following reasons, the court finds Plaintiffs’ motion is moot. Legal Standard “On  motion of any party who has failed to submit expert witness information on the  date specified in a demand for that exchange, the court may grant leave to  submit that information at a later date.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2034.710, subd.  (a).) The motion “shall be made a sufficient time in advance of the time limit  for the completion of discovery under Chapter 8 (commencing with Section  2024.010) to permit the deposition of any expert to whom the motion relates to  be taken within that time limit. Under exceptional circumstances, the court may  permit the motion to be made at a later time.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2034.710,  subd. (b).) The motion must include a meet-and-confer declaration. (Code Civ.  Proc., § 2034.710, subd. (c).) Pursuant  to Code of Civil Procedure section 2034.720, “[t]he court shall grant leave to  submit tardy expert witness information only if all of the following conditions  are satisfied:“(a) The court has taken into account the extent to  which the opposing party has relied on the absence of a list of expert  witnesses.(b) The court has determined that any party opposing  the motion will not be prejudiced in maintaining that party's action or defense  on the merits.(c) The court has determined that the moving party  did all of the following:(1) Failed to submit the  information as the result of mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable  neglect.(2) Sought leave to submit  the information promptly after learning of the mistake, inadvertence, surprise,  or excusable neglect.(3) Promptly thereafter  served a copy of the proposed expert witness information described in Section  2034.260 on all other parties who have appeared in the action.(d) The order is conditioned on the moving party  making the expert available immediately for a deposition under Article 3  (commencing with Section 2034.410), and on any other terms as may be just,  including, but not limited to, leave to any party opposing the motion to  designate additional expert witnesses or to elicit additional opinions from  those previously designated, a continuance of the trial for a reasonable period  of time, and the awarding of costs and litigation expenses to any party  opposing the motion.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2034.720, subd. (a)-(d).) Discussion As  an initial matter, Plaintiffs and Defendants dispute whether Defendants’ demand  for the exchange of expert witness information and reports was timely. (Motion,  p. 11:11-18; Sunny Way Opp., p. 3:14-19.) A party “may make a demand for an  exchange of information concerning expert trial witnesses without leave of  court. . . . no later than the 10th day after the initial trial date has been set, or 70 days  before that trial date, whichever is closer to the trial date.” (Emphasis added;  Code Civ. Proc., § 2034.220.) On  April 5, 2024, Sunny Way served a demand for expert exchange on Plaintiffs’  counsel with a response date of April 25, 2024. (Motion, p. 11:11-12; Morrow  Decl., ¶ 7-9.) Plaintiffs argue this demand was untimely because it was not  served between April 11, 2024, and April 21, 2024. Plaintiffs’ calculation,  however, is inaccurate as the deadline is not calculated from the time the  current trial or most recent trial was set. The date is calculated from the initial  or first trial date, which was set for March 23, 2021, via minute order on  February 25, 2020. (02/25/2020 Minute Order.) Thus,  Sunny Way’s demand was untimely. While Sunny Way argues the court has wide  discretion to grant a party leave to serve discovery requests after the  discovery cutoff, Sunny Way failed to move for such relief. Further, the court  notes that the Discovery Act is silent as to the grounds upon which a party may  seek relief for a late demand.  At a  minimum, Sunny Way could have sought relief under Code Civ. Proc., §473(b).  It did not.   Because  there was no timely demand for expert exchange by Sunny Way, the court finds Sunny  Way has no proper grounds upon which to object to Plaintiffs’ compliance with  that demand. Accordingly,  the court deems MOOT Plaintiffs’ motion. CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, the  court makes the following rulings: Plaintiffs’ motion for  terminating or issue sanctions is DENIED. Plaintiffs’ motion for leave  to amend is DENIED. Plaintiffs’ motion for an  order permitting belatedly served expert information at trial is DEEMED MOOT.