 Case Number:  24TRCV02080    Hearing Date:   October 1, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 October 1, 2024
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   24TRCV02080
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        CHRISTIN
JESUS ALEGRIA, et al.  v. HUI Q.
WONG, et al.
¿¿ 
MOVING Parties:                  Defendants
Hui Q. Wong, Trustee of the Wong Living Trust (erroneously sued as Hui Q. Wong,
an individual), and the Wong Family Trust, a Living Trust
¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:        None
¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                        None
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              Demurrer with Motion to Strike
¿ 
Tentative Ruling:                    (1)
Overrule in part and sustain in part the Demurrer, with 30 days leave to amend.

(2) Deny the Motion to Strike. 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A.   
Factual¿¿ 
Christian Jesus Alegria and Paola Jannette Chaname
(collectively, “Plaintiffs”) brought this landlord-tenant action against
Defendants Hui Q. Wong, Trustee
of the Wong Living Trust (erroneously sued as Hui Q. Wong, an individual) and Wong
Family Trust, a Living Trust. Plaintiffs allege that for the last 30 years,
they have rented 14921 Firmona Ave., Lawndale, CA 90260 (the “Property”) from
Defendants. (Compl., ¶¶ 9, 10.) Throughout their tenancy, they allegedly
complained to Defendants regarding habitability issues (including roach
infestation), but Defendants never fixed those issues effectively. (Compl., ¶ 10.) In addition, on May 1, 2024, a fire erupted at the
Property allegedly due to faulty electrical cables that Plaintiffs had
complained about. (Compl., ¶ 11.) The fire not
only damaged Plaintiffs’ personal belongings but also left the entrance of the
house structurally compromised and unsafe for habitation. (Compl., ¶ 12.) 
B.   
Procedural 
             
¿           On June 24, 2024, Plaintiffs filed this lawsuit against
Defendants and Does 1 through 10, inclusive, asserting causes of action for (1)
constructive eviction, (2) breach of habitability, (3) negligence, (4) breach
of quiet enjoyment, (5) intentional infliction of emotional distress (“IIED”),
(6) violation of state and local Health and Safety Codes, and (7) loss of use. 
 
            On August 20, 2024, Defendants filed
the instant demurrer with motion to strike.  On September 25, 2024, Plaintiff filed his oppositions
to the demurrer and motion to strike, attaching proofs of service showing they
were mailed to defendant’s counsel that same date.  Defendants filed a notice of non-opposition
to each pleading motion on September 30, apparently having not received the opposing
papers.  
 ¿¿ 
¿III. ANALYSIS¿ 
 
A. Demurrer
 
A demurrer can be used only
to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or
from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank v.
Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) 
 
“To survive a demurrer, the
complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action; each
evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need
not be alleged.” (C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012)
53 Cal.4th 861, 872.) 
 
For the purpose of testing
the sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth of all
material facts properly pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist.
(1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does not admit contentions,
deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Daar v. Yellow Cab Co.
(1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.)¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A pleading is uncertain if
it is ambiguous or unintelligible. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f).) A
demurrer for uncertainty may lie if the failure to label the parties and claims
renders the complaint so confusing defendant cannot tell what he or she is
supposed to respond to.¿ (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986)
185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2.) However, “[a] demurrer for uncertainty is
strictly construed, even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain,
because ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury
v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)¿¿ 
 
“If a complaint does not state a cause of
action, but there is a reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by
amendment, leave to amend must be granted.” (Milligan v. Golden Gate Bridge
Highway & Transportation Dist. (2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 1, 6.)
 
Before filing
a demurrer, “the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by
telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for
the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would
resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
430.41, subd. (a).)
 
Defendants have
satisfied the meet and confer requirement. (Demurrer, p. 3:2-13 (section titled
“Conference Prior to Filing of Demurrer”).)
 
First Cause of Action for Constructive
Eviction 
 
“A
constructive eviction occurs when the acts or omissions to act of a landlord,
or any disturbance or interference with the tenant’s possession by the
landlord, renders the premises, or a substantial portion thereof, unfit for the
purposes for which they were leased, or which has the effect of depriving the
tenant for a substantial period of time of the beneficial, enjoyment or use of
the premises.” (Groh v. Kover’s Bull Pen, Inc. (1963) 221 Cal.App.2d
611, 614.) “Any interference by the landlord by which the tenant is deprived of
the beneficial enjoyment of the premises amounts to a constructive eviction if
the tenant so elects and surrenders possession.” (Johnson v. Snyder (1950)
99 Cal.App.2d 86, 88.)
Here, Defendants demur the first cause of action for constructive
eviction arguing that it is uncertain and fails to state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action for the following reasons. Constructive eviction
requires that the tenant abandon the premises within a reasonable time after
giving notice that the premises are uninhabitable. Here, Plaintiffs allege that
they knew of the uninhabitable conditions of the premises for the last thirty
(30) years but waited until they moved out in 2024 and sued on June 24, 2024.
Therefore, Defendants imply, Plaintiffs have failed to allege constructive
eviction because they have not alleged facts showing that they abandoned the
Property within a reasonable time after giving notice of the uninhabitable premises.

However,
whether Plaintiffs abandoned the Property within a reasonable time presents an
issue of fact that cannot be adjudicated on a demurrer. Moreover, the Complaint
alleges that as recently as May
1, 2024, a fire erupted at the Property due to faulty electrical wiring (that
Plaintiffs had complained about) and the fire damaged the structure of the
Property, making it unsafe for habitation. (Compl., ¶ 11.) The Complaint then alleges that Plaintiffs sent
Defendants two letters in May 2024, informing the latter about the fire and
stating that the Property was unhabitable, but Defendants never responded or
contacted Plaintiffs. (Compl., ¶¶ 4, 15.)
Therefore, on May 30, 2024, Plaintiffs vacated the Property. (Compl., ¶ 31.) A trier of fact may find those facts show that
Plaintiffs abandoned the Property within a reasonable time after giving
Defendants notice of the fire damage and need for repairs. 
 
While the Demurrer asserts that the constructive
eviction cause of action is inconsistent with the fourth cause of action for breach
of quiet enjoyment, the Court disagrees. 
“An eviction is
actual when a landlord takes direct action to physically expel the tenant from
the premises.  An eviction is
constructive if the landlord engages in acts that render the premises unfit for
occupancy for the purpose for which it was leased, or deprive the tenant of the
beneficial enjoyment of the premises.”  (Cunningham
v. Universal Underwriters (2002) 98 Cal.App.4th 1141, 1152.)  Further, “every lease includes a covenant of
quiet possession and enjoyment. (Civ. Code, § 1927.) This covenant is breached
upon actual or constructive eviction of the tenant.”  (Erlach v. Sierra Asset Servicing, LLC
(2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 1281, 1299.)  Taking the allegations as a whole, a former tenant may seek
contract damages for the period of time he or she allegedly endured problems
(which may include habitability issues) that affected the tenant’s quiet enjoyment
of the premises while Defendant still resided there, and also seek constructive
eviction remedies for the period of time AFTER the tenant vacated the allegedly
disturbed premises.  According, the Demurrer
is overruled as to the first cause of action. 
 
 
Second Cause of Action for Breach of Warranty of Habitability
 
To establish a breach of the implied warranty of
habitability, Plaintiffs must establish (1) “the existence of a material
defective condition affecting the premises’ habitability,” (2) “notice to the
landlord of the condition within a reasonable time after the tenant’s discovery
of the condition,” (3) “the landlord was given a reasonable time to correct the
deficiency, and” (4) “resulting damages.” (Erlach,
supra, 226 Cal.App.4th at p. 1297.)  Defendants
demur to the second cause of action arguing that it is insufficient and
uncertain just because it alleges the same facts as the fourth cause of action
for breach of quiet enjoyment. (Demurrer, p. 9:17-27.)
 
However, the second cause of action concerns
Defendants’ alleged failure to maintain the Property in a habitable condition
(Compl., ¶ 37), while the fourth cause of action alleges that Defendants
disrupted Plaintiffs’ peaceful enjoyment of the Property (Compl., ¶ 47).  Whether arising out of the same facts or different
set of facts, a tenant or former tenant may pursue both a quiet enjoyment claim
and a habitability claims.  
 
Therefore, the demurrer to the second cause of
action for breach of warranty of habitability is overruled. 
 
Third
Cause of Action for Negligence 
 
“To succeed in a negligence action, the plaintiff
must show that (1) the defendant owed the plaintiff a legal duty, (2) the
defendant breached the duty, and (3) the breach proximately or legally caused
(4) the plaintiff’s damages or injuries.” (Thomas v. Stenberg (2012) 206
Cal.App.4th 654, 662.)
 
Here, Defendants demur the third cause of action
arguing that (1) the Complaint fails to allege causation (specifically, that
the facts concerning causation are speculative and conclusory), (2) “the
damages claimed in the prayer and factually, appear not to have any
relationship to reality and are purely speculative,” and (3) “there is a
two-year statute of limitations for negligence and the allegations in the
complaint extend over 30 years.” (Demurrer, p. 11:6-11.)
 
The Court does find the time period argument to be
persuasive.  Plaintiff cannot recover for
harm caused outside the statute of limitations period, and there is vagueness
and ambiguity in the allegations of what damages were alleged to be caused by
what conduct.  On the other hand, the
Complaint alleges that Defendants’ failure to fix an electrical issue caused a
fire that damaged Plaintiffs’ belongings (property damage having a three-year
statute of limitations), and that fire allegedly happened in May 2024. Given
those facts, it is not evident from the face of the Complaint that the entirety
of Plaintiff’s negligence claim is barred by the statute of limitations. 
 
Therefore, the Demurrer to the third cause of action
for negligence is sustained, with 30 days leave to amend to specify what alleged
misconduct at what point in time is claimed to have caused what elements of
harm.   
 
Fourth Cause of Action for Breach of Quiet Enjoyment 
 
“‘In the absence of language to the contrary, every lease contains an
implied covenant of quiet enjoyment, whereby the landlord impliedly covenants
that the tenant shall have quiet enjoyment and possession of the premises.
[Citations.] The covenant of quiet enjoyment “insulates the tenant against any
act or omission on the part of the landlord, or anyone claiming under him,
which interferes with a tenant’s right to use and enjoy the premises for the
purposes contemplated by the tenancy. [Citations.]” [Citation.]’ [Citation.] ¶ The implied covenant
of quiet enjoyment implies a term in a contract, and a breach of the covenant
gives rise to an action in contract. As such, the damages available for a
breach of the covenant are contract damages.” (Ginsberg, supra, 205
Cal.App.4th at pp. 896–897.)
 
Here, Defendants argue that there are no facts to support the fourth
cause of action. 
 
However, the Court has found that the Complaint has alleged facts
sufficient to support breach of the covenant of quiet enjoyment. “This covenant is breached upon actual or
constructive eviction of the tenant.”  (Erlach,
supra, 226 Cal.App.4th at p. 1299.)  While
the remedies may overlap and the Court will be mindful of duplicative claims
affording the same remedies as this case progresses, at the pleading stage the demurrer lacks merit and is thus overruled. 
 
Fifth Cause of Action for IIED
 
“‘The elements of a prima facie case for the
tort of intentional infliction of emotional distress were summarized in
[citation], as follows: “(1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant
with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of
causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme
emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate causation of the emotional
distress by the defendant’s outrageous conduct.”’ [Citation.]” (Flynn v.
Higham (1983) 149 Cal.App.3d 677, 681.)
 
“Extreme and outrageous conduct is conduct
that is ‘“so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a
civilized community”’ [citation] and must be ‘“of a nature which is especially
calculated to cause, and does cause, mental distress.”’  [Citation.] ‘“‘[I]t is for the court to
determine, in the first instance, whether the defendant’s conduct may
reasonably be regarded as so extreme and outrageous as to permit recovery.’”’
[Citation.]” (Chang v. Lederman (2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 67, 86–87.)  Conduct
to be outrageous must be “so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually
tolerated in a civilized community.” (Wilson
v. Hynek (2012) 207 Cal.App.4th 999, 1009.) 
To meet the reckless disregard standard, plaintiff must allege
and show that the reckless conduct ignored the possibility that Plaintiff would
suffer emotional distress, not merely an injury. (Cervantes v. J.C. Penny
Co. (1979) 24 Cal.3d 579, 593; Little v. Stuyvesant Life Insur. Co.
(1977) 67 Cal.App.3d 451, 462.) Behavior may be considered outrageous if the
defendant abuses a close relationship (such as employer-employee,
lawyer-client, hospital-patient, or insurer-insured), or know the plaintiff is
particularly susceptible to emotional distress, or acts when recognizing that
the conduct is likely to result in mental or emotional injury. (Molko v.
Holy Spirit Ass’n (1988) 46 Cal.3d 1092, 1122.)  Liability for intentional infliction of
emotional distress “does not extend to mere insults, indignities, threats,
annoyances, petty oppressions, or other trivialities.” (Rest.2d Torts, § 46,
com. d), quoted in Molko, supra at p. 1122.)
 
For example, in Stoiber v. Honeychuck¿(1980) 101 Cal.App.3d 903, 921,
the appellate court concluded that the plaintiff tenant had stated a claim for
intentional infliction of emotional distress by alleging that she had suffered
“‘extreme emotional distress’ as a result of the [landlord’s and property
manager’s] ‘knowing, intentional, and willful’ failure to correct defective
conditions of the premises.” The Stoiber ¿court observed that whether
the failure to act was extreme and outrageous “under the present allegations
[in that case], present[ed] a factual question—it cannot be said as a matter of
law that [plaintiff] has not stated a cause of action.” (Id.¿at p. 922; Burnett
v. Chimney Sweep¿(2004) 123 Cal.App.4th 1057, 1069.)
 
Here, Defendants
demur to the IIED claim, arguing that because the Complaint concedes that Defendants
attempted to remedy the issues Plaintiffs complained about, Defendants’ conduct
was not extreme or outrageous. (Demurrer, pp. 12:23-13:3.)
 
The Court has seen
scores of suits by tenants against landlords alleging the failure to make
repairs over an extended period of time, such that less than all of them constitute
misconduct “so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a
civilized community.”  Those IIED claims
that survive demurrer tend to have greater detail of the nature of the
misconduct raising it above a mere habitability issue and to the level of
intending to inflict severe emotional distress. 
This Complaint, as pleaded, does not sufficient allege what is extreme
or what is outrageous to pass the pleading threshold for an IIED cause of
action.  The Court thus sustains the demurrer
to the IIED cause of action with 30 days leave to amend.  
 
 
Sixth
Cause of Action for Violation of State and Local Health and Safety Codes 
 
Defendants demur the sixth cause of action, arguing that
“[t]he allegations in the complaint are generally not specific and conclusive
in nature.” (Demurrer, p. 13:17-18.)
 
The Court agrees. The sixth cause of action alleges that
“Defendant has violated state and local health and safety codes by failing to
maintain the property in a safe condition.” (Compl., ¶ 49.)
However, it fails to specify which laws or Codes were violated. 
 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the sixth cause of action for
violation of state and local health and safety codes is sustained, with 30 days
leae to amend. 
 
Seventh Cause
of Action for Loss of Use
 
            Defendants demur the seventh cause
of action for loss of use, arguing that it is duplicative of some claims and that
the allegations are, among other things, conclusory. 
 
            The Court agrees that the seventh
cause of action fails to state a claim; instead it alleges an element of damages.  Plaintiffs allege that parts of the Property
are uninhabitable and that they should be compensated for the portion of the
Property that was unusable, but it is unclear (1) on what legal theory those
allegations are based (e.g., breach of contract) and (2) which portions of the
Property were unusable. 
 
            Therefore, the demurrer to the seventh cause of action for loss of use
is sustained, without leave to amend.
 
B. Motion to Strike
 
            “The court may, upon a motion made pursuant to Section
435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper: (a)
Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.
(b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity
with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the
court.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 436.) “Immaterial” or “irrelevant” matters
include allegations not essential to the claim, allegations neither pertinent
to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim, or a demand for judgment
requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the complaint. (Code Civ.
Proc. § 431.10, subds. (b)(1)-(3).)
 
“Before
filing a motion to strike …, the moving party shall meet and confer in person
or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to the
motion to strike for the purpose of determining if an agreement can be reached
that resolves the objections to be raised in the motion to strike.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 435.5, subd. (a).)
 
Here, Defendants have satisfied the meet and confer
requirement. (Motion to Strike, p.
4:2-12 (section titled “Conference Prior to Filing of This Motion to Strike”).)
 
Defendants move to
strike the punitive damages allegations, arguing that the Complaint fails to
allege any facts that support those damages. 
 
            “Civil Code section 3294, subdivision (a) states: ‘In an
action for the breach of an obligation not arising from contract, where it is
proven by clear and convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of
oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages,
may recover damages for the sake of example and by way of punishing the
defendant [i.e., punitive damages].’” (Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10
Cal.App.4th 1033, 1041.) 
 
As
used in Civil Code section 3294: “‘Malice’ means conduct which is intended by
the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is
carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others.” (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1).) “‘Oppression’
means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(2).)
“‘Fraud’ means an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a
material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the
defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or
otherwise causing injury.” (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(3).)
 
“In order to survive a motion to strike an allegation
of punitive damages, the ultimate facts showing an entitlement to such relief
must be pled by a plaintiff. [Citations.] 
In passing on the correctness of a ruling on a motion to strike, judges
read allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all
parts in their context, and assume their truth. 
[Citations.]  In ruling on a
motion to strike, courts do not read allegations in isolation. [Citation.]” (Clauson
v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.)
 
            Here, the Court finds that the
Complaint has alleged facts showing oppression, by alleging the following,
among other things. Defendants refused to fix electrical issues despite
Plaintiffs’ complaints and as a result of that failure, a fire broke out in
Plaintiffs’ home, and Plaintiffs narrowly escaped physical harm. (Compl., ¶¶ 11, 13.) There was allegedly
a cockroach infestation that Defendants did not eradicate, causing Plaintiffs
to experience rashes and other ailments. (Compl., ¶¶ 10, 21.) Even after notices
and orders to comply from the government entities regarding the habitability
issues, Defendants allegedly still failed to fix the habitability issues.
(Compl., ¶
25.) Those
facts raise sufficient allegations that, if believed, a jury could finds that Defendants
subjected Plaintiffs to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of
their rights. 
 
            Therefore, the motion to strike the
prayer for punitive damage is denied. 
 
IV. CONCLUSION
 
            The Motion to Strike is DENIED. 
 
            The Demurrer is OVERRULED IN PART
and SUSTAINED IN PART as discussed above, with 30 days leave to amend.  ¿ 
 
            Defendants to give notice of the ruling.
