 Case Number:  22STCP00098    Hearing Date:   January 24, 2024    Dept:  86 ALBERTONI V. LOS ANGELES UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT 
Case Number: 22STCP00098
Hearing Date: January 24, 2024 
 
[Tentative]       ORDER
DENYING PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE and
 
                             TRANSFERRING
SECOND CAUSE OF ACTION TO DEPARTMENT 1
                             FOR
REASSIGNMENT
 




















 
Petitioner, Diane
Albertoni, a school psychologist, seeks a writ of mandate directing Respondent,
Los Angeles Unified School District (LAUSD), to set aside its July 27, 2021 decision
denying Petitioner’s request to work remotely as a reasonable accommodation.
 
LAUSD’s request for
judicial notice of Exhibits A and B is granted. Petitioner’s objection is
overruled.  
 
For those reasons
discussed below in the court’s Analysis section, Petitioner’s request to
augment the administrative record is denied. 

 
The petition is
denied.
 
The court’s order
of April 26, 2023 staying the second cause of action for negligence is lifted.
The matter is transferred to Department 1 for reassignment of this matter (the second
cause of action) to an independent calendar court.
 
As noted in the court’s
April 26, 2023 order, LAUSD may calendar for hearing, if it chooses to do so, its
demurrer and motion to strike the second cause of action after this matter is reassigned
to an independent calendar court.
 
BACKGROUND
 
Petitioner is employed by LAUSD as a
school psychologist. (Second Amended Petition (SAP) ¶ 1; Answer (Ans.) ¶ 1.)
 
In June 2021, Petitioner requested of her
supervisor that she be permitted to continue to work remotely as a reasonable
accommodation for certain medical conditions and concerns regarding exposure to
variants of COVID-19 in the workplace. (SAP ¶ 2 and Exh. 2-3; Ans. ¶ 2.)
 
On July 27, 2021, LAUSD denied
Petitioner’s request for a reasonable accommodation. (SAP 
¶¶ 6-7, Exh. 2 and Ans. ¶¶ 6-7.)
 
Petitioner appealed the denial of the
request for a reasonable accommodation. On or about November 9, 2021, LAUSD’s
Reasonable Accommodation Appeal Committee (Appeal Committee) denied the appeal.
(SAP ¶ 8 and Exh. 3; Ans. ¶ 8.)  
 
Petitioner thereafter obtained a right
to sue letter from the Department of Fair Employment and Housing (DFEH). (SAP ¶
91, Exh. 4.)
 
This proceeding ensued.[1]
 
STANDARD OF REVIEW 
 
Petitioner contends that this writ action
is governed by Code of Civil Procedure section 1094.5.[2]  
 
Under
Code of Civil Procedure section 1094.5, subdivision (b), the issues for review
of an administrative decision are: whether the respondent has proceeded without
jurisdiction, whether there was a fair trial, and whether there was a
prejudicial abuse of discretion.  An
abuse of discretion is established if the respondent has not proceeded in the
manner required by law, the decision is not supported by the findings, or the
findings are not supported by the evidence. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1094.5, subd.
(b).)
 
“The courts must decide on a case-by-case
basis whether an administrative decision or class of decisions
substantially affects fundamental vested rights and thus requires independent judgment review.” (Bixby v.
Pierno (1971) 4 Cal.3d 130, 144.) “ ‘In determining whether the right is fundamental the courts do not
alone weigh the economic aspect of it, but the effect of it in human terms and
the importance of it to the individual in the life situation.’ ” (Benetatos v. City of Los Angeles (2015)
235 Cal.App.4th 1270, 1281.)  
 
Petitioner has not cited any case
suggesting or holding that a government employer’s denial of a request for a
reasonable accommodation related to a medical condition or disability necessarily
affects a fundamental vested right. As summarized in the opposition brief, none
of those cases cited by Petitioner address that issue. (See Opposition 7-10.) That
said, Respondent also has not cited any case suggesting or holding that denial
of a request for a reasonable accommodation does not impact a
fundamental right. 
 
In any event, the court need not decide
the issue because, as discussed below, the SAP raises purely legal questions
concerning the fairness of LAUSD’s procedures, bias of the adjudicators, and LAUSD’s
jurisdiction. Petitioner has not challenged any specific factual determination
made by LAUSD. Accordingly, the court reaches the same result on the SAP regardless
of whether the independent judgment or substantial evidence test applies to the
review of factual findings.  
 
Under either standard, “a trial court
must afford a strong presumption of correctness concerning the administrative
findings, and the party challenging the administrative decision bears the
burden of convincing the court” that the agency committed a prejudicial abuse
of discretion. (See Fukuda v. City of
Angels (1999) 20 Cal. 4th 805, 817.) Significantly, a reviewing court “will
not act as counsel for either party . . . and will not assume the task of
initiating and prosecuting a search of the record for any purpose of
discovering errors not pointed out in the briefs.” (Fox v. Erickson (1950) 99 Cal.App.2d 740, 742.) “When [a
petitioner] fails to raise a point, or asserts it but fails to support it with
reasoned argument and citations to authority, we treat the point as waived.” (Nelson
v. Avondale Homeowners Assn. (2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 857, 862-863; Pfeifer
v. Countrywide Home Loans, Inc. (2012) 211 Cal.App.4th 1250, 1282 [same].)
 
“ ‘On
questions of law arising in mandate proceedings, [the court] exercise[s]
independent judgment.’ . . . Interpretation of a statute or
regulation is a question of law subject to independent review.” (Christensen v. Lightbourne (2017) 15
Cal.App.5th 1239, 1251.) “A challenge to the procedural fairness of the
administrative hearing is reviewed de novo on appeal because the ultimate
determination of procedural fairness amounts to a question of law.” (Nasha L.L.C. v. City of Los Angeles (2004)
125 Cal.App.4th 470, 482.)  
 
ANALYSIS 
 
Does Code of Civil
Procedure Section 1094.5 Apply Here?
 
Petitioner contends
Code of Civil Procedure section 1094.5 applies to LAUSD’s decision and therefore
this proceeding. LAUSD disagrees. LAUSD argues administrative mandamus is inapplicable
because the decision did not result after a hearing required by law.[3]
 
“The proper method
of obtaining judicial review of most public agency decisions is by instituting
a proceeding for a writ of mandate. [Citation.] Statutes provide for two 
types of review by
mandate: ordinary mandate and administrative mandate. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 1085, 1094.5.) The
nature of the administrative action or decision to be reviewed determines the
applicable type of mandate. [Citation.] In general, quasi-legislative acts
are reviewed by ordinary mandate and quasi-judicial acts are reviewed by
administrative mandate. [Citation.] But judicial review via administrative
mandate is available ‘only if the decision[] resulted from a ‘proceeding in
which by law: 1) a hearing is required to be given, 2)
evidence is required to be taken, and 3) discretion in the determination of
facts is vested in the agency. [Citations.]’ [Citation.] . . . . Thus, ordinary
mandate is used to review adjudicatory actions or decisions when the agency was
not required to hold an evidentiary hearing.” (Bunnett v. Regents of University of California (1995) 35
Cal.App.4th 843, 848.)
 
“Section 1094.5 expressly provides that it is the requirement of
a hearing and taking of evidence—not whether a hearing is actually held and
evidence actually taken—that triggers the availability of mandamus review.” (Pomona
College v. Superior Court (1996) 45 Cal.App.4th 1716, 1729 [Code of Civil Procedure
section 1094.5 applied because “Pomona's Handbook requires both a hearing and
the taking of evidence in reaching its initial tenure decision, and provides
for a ‘formal hearing’ upon the filing of a grievance complaint by the
dissatisfied faculty member”]; compare Wasko v. Department of Corrections (1989) 211
Cal.App.3d 996, 1000-1002 [a regulation giving inmates the “right to appeal
decisions, conditions, or policies affecting [their] welfare,” and requiring a
system for “administrative review” of problems or complaints, did not entail a
“hearing” for purposes of Code of Civil Procedure section 1094.5].)  
 
Both parties rely
on a LAUSD Policy Bulletin titled Reasonable Accommodation for Individuals with
Disabilities (Bulletin) to argue their position on the applicability of Code of
Civil Procedure section 1094.5. (SAP Exh. 1; Resp. RJN Exh. A.)
 
In sections entitled
“Interactive Process” and “Reasonable Accommodation Process,” the Bulletin
describes interactive processes for “site administrators” to evaluate and
respond to employees’ requests for reasonable accommodations. In a section entitled
“Formal Process,” the Bulletin states in pertinent part: 
 
In addition, the disability coordinator may
convene a Reasonable Accommodation Committee. The Reasonable Accommodation
Committee shall be comprised of certificated and classified District employees
who convene to consider requests for reasonable accommodation where an
accommodation cannot be made at the local work site. The employee/applicant
requesting an accommodation shall participate in person or by
telephone to address the Committee and may provide additional
material and documents relevant to his/her accommodation request. The site
administrator may also be invited to address the Committee where
appropriate. (RJN Exh. A at 4-5 [emphasis added].)  
 
In a section entitled
“Appeal Process,” the Bulletin also states in pertinent part: 
 
An employee/applicant who disagrees with
the Reasonable Accommodation Committee’s decision may file a
written appeal . . . . [¶]
 
The Committee will meet within forty-five
(45) calendar days of receipt of the request for appeal. The employee/applicant
requesting an appeal shall participate in person or by telephone to
personally address the Committee, and may provide additional
materials and documents relative to the appeal. (RJN Exh. A at 5 [emphasis added].)  
 
“Ordinarily,
the word ‘may’ connotes a discretionary or permissive act;
the word ‘shall’ connotes a mandatory
or directory duty. This distinction is particularly acute when
both words are used in the same statute.”  (Woodbury v. Brown-Dempsey (2003) 108
Cal.App.4th 421, 433.)
 
Here, there are
colorable arguments both that a “hearing” was required by law, such that Code
of Civil Procedure section 1094.5 applies, or that a “hearing” was not required
by law, such that Code of Civil Procedure section 1094.5 does not apply. Specifically,
as LAUSD contends, the Bulletin provides the disability coordinator “may”
convene a Reasonable Accommodation Committee, which suggests that the hearing
procedure is optional and not required by law. On the other hand, as Petitioner
points out, primarily in her Reply Brief, the Bulletin also includes some
mandatory language (i.e., “shall”) to describe certain parts of the “Formal
Process” and “Appeal Process,” which could arguably imply that an evidentiary
hearing is required by LAUSD’s policies in certain cases, such as this one, in
which a Reasonable Accommodation Committee is convened.
 
Ultimately, this court
concludes Petitioner has raised purely legal questions the court may address
without resolving whether section 1085 or section 1094.5 of the Code of Civil
Procedure governs here.[4] That is, the result is the
same under either statute.
 
Fair Hearing and
Due Process 
 
In her Opening Brief, Petitioner contends: 
 
The
respondent's letters and record do not indicate that there was any transcript
of any of the hearing, nor was anyone sworn, nor does it indicate that there
was any opportunity for petitioner to question the quasi-evidence against her,
nor was petitioner notified of the time of the presentation of the
quasi-evidence against petitioner, nor was any opportunity afforded to
petitioner to rebut or reply, as required by the due process clause. (Opening
Brief 2:16-21.)[5]
 
“Generally, a fair procedure requires ‘notice reasonably calculated to
apprise interested parties of the pendency of the action . . . and an
opportunity to present their objections.’ ” (Doe v. University of Southern California (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th
221, 240.) “Notice of the charges sufficient to provide a reasonable
opportunity to respond is basic to the constitutional right to due process and
the common law right to fair procedure.” (Rosenblit v. Superior Court (1991)
231 Cal.App.3d 1434, 1445 [quoted by Doe v. University of Southern
California, supra, 246 Cal.App.4th at 240].) A government agency “is bound by its own policies and procedures.” (See Doe v.
Regents of the University of California (2016) 5 Cal.App.5th 1055, 1078.)
 
“[P]rocedural due process errors, even if
proved, are subject to a harmless error analysis.” (Hinrichs v. County of Orange (2004) 125 Cal.App.4th 921, 928.) “The
question is whether the violation resulted in unfairness, in some way depriving
[Petitioner] of adequate notice or an opportunity to be heard before impartial
judges.” (Rhee v. El Camino
Hospital Dist. (1988) 201
Cal.App.3d 477, 497; see also Thornbrough
v. Western Placer Unified School Dist. (2013) 223 Cal.App.4th 169, 200.)
 
Petitioner does not demonstrate under the circumstances here she was
entitled to a transcript of the meeting with the Reasonable Accommodation
Committee (RA Committee), the use of sworn statements by the RA Committee, and/or
an opportunity to question any witnesses pursuant to LAUSD policies, including
the Bulletin. Consistent with the procedures outlined in the Bulletin, Respondent’s
August 16, 2021 letter reveals Petitioner was given an opportunity to present
her reasons for requesting a reasonable accommodation to the RA Committee
during a Zoom conference. The letter also refers to written materials submitted
by Petitioner and statements of an administrative coordinator (Mary Susan
Kapamaci) considered by the RA Committee. (Albertoni Decl. Exh. 1.) The
November 9, 2021 appeal decision shows that the Appeal Committee considered the
same information presented to the RA Committee. (Albertoni Decl. Exh. 1.)  
 
In her Opening Brief, Petitioner develops no argument LAUSD failed to
follow any specific procedures set forth in the Bulletin or any other LAUSD
policy. As noted earlier, this court’s
role is not to “act as counsel for either party . . . and will not assume the
task of initiating and prosecuting a search of the record for any purpose of
discovering errors not pointed out in the briefs.” (Fox v. Erickson (1950) 99 Cal.App.2d 740, 742.)
 
Further, even if Code of Civil Procedure section 1094.5 applies under these
circumstances, Petitioner has not developed an argument of how the procedures
used by LAUSD denied her a fair hearing. “The ‘fair trial’
requirement of section 1094.5 is not synonymous
with constitutional due process and does not mandate ‘a formal hearing under
the due process clause.’ [Citation.] What is required is simply a ‘fair
administrative hearing’, which affords the appellant a ‘reasonable opportunity
to be heard.’ ” (Pinheiro v.
Civil Service Com. for County of Fresno
(2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 1458, 1463 [addressing due process/fair trial claim].) “[T]he precise procedures necessary to provide a
complainant with a meaningful opportunity to be heard ‘depend[ ] largely on
‘the nature of the tendered issue.’ ” (Boermeester v. Carry (2023)
15 Cal.5th 72, 87.) Here, the record
shows LAUSD provided Petitioner with a full and fair opportunity to present her
reasons for the request for reasonable accommodation, both in writing and in a
Zoom conference, with the RA Committee. The Appeal Committee considered this
same information in response to Petitioner’s 19-page appeal letter.[6]
 
Petitioner argues:
 
there is no indication that petitioner ever had an
opportunity to respond to what was purportedly stated by Mary Susan Capamaci,
who was the only witness for respondent. Nor does the administrative record
indicate that the petitioner was even present, nor notified of the time of the
testimony of Mary Susan Capamaci, Administrative Coordinator. (Opening Brief
3:10-16.)
 
LAUSD’s August 16, 2021 letter
indicates the RA Committee convened a meeting “to further engage in the interactive
process regarding [Petitioner’s] request for an accommodation.” (Albertoni
Decl. Exh. 1.) The letter indicates Petitioner participated in the meeting as
did the administrative coordinator. (Albertoni Decl. Exh. 1.) That LAUSD’s
letter does not constitute a transcript of the meeting or is not more formal
does not constitute error. The absence of evidence that does not answer the innuendo
of error asserted above by Petitioner does not demonstrate prejudicial error. (Pinheiro
v. Civil Service Com. for County of Fresno, supra, 245 Cal.App.4th at 1464.
[“Generally, we reverse only if the alleged error prejudicially affected the
appellant’s substantial rights.”]) 
 
Moreover, Petitioner’s 19-page appeal letter does not address her concerns
about the RA Committee hearing process or what the administrative record (at
that point the RA Committee’s letter) does not show. In fact, to the extent
Petitioner disagreed with the RA Committee’s narrative of the Zoom conference,
the appeal letter makes that disagreement clear. (See, e.g., Albertoni Decl.,
Exh. 1, October 6, 2021 appeal letter at p. 19 [Ms. Albertoni does not recall
stating that she would prefer preschool”].) Finally, Petitioner has also not
introduced (or attempted to introduce) evidence summarizing her version of the RA
Committee meeting to support her error innuendo. (See Evid. Code, §§ 412, 413.)[7]
 
Petitioner also asserts “[t]he due process clauses
require a fair hearing for the subject disability.” (Opening Brief 4:28:5:14;
see also Reply 4-5.) In her Opening Brief, Petitioner relies on Board of
Regents of State Colleges v. Roth (1972) 408 U.S. 564 [Roth], where the
United States Supreme Court held that a non-tenured professor did not
have a property interest in continued employment and was not entitled to
a hearing when the university declined to renew his contract of employment. Roth
does not suggest denial of a request for reasonable accommodation by a
government employer implicates a fundamental
interest and requires any specific type of hearing. “An opinion
is not authority for propositions not considered.” (People
v. Knoller (2007) 41 Cal.4th 139, 154-55.)[8] Through
her briefing, Petitioner does not demonstrate she was entitled to a more formal
evidentiary hearing pursuant to the 14th Amendment and constitutional due process principles. Petitioner
cites no authority on point, and her argument that the denial of her request had
an impact on a property interest is not fully or sufficiently developed to be persuasive.  
 
For the first time in her Reply Brief, Petitioner
argues LAUSD did not complete certain actions required by the Interactive Process
set forth in the Bulletin. For instance, Petitioner states “there is supposed
to be documented results of the interactive process done before the formal
process even begins” and that “the opposition does not state nor argue that any
these required actions were done.” (Reply 3:27-28, 4:5-6.) In reply, Petitioner
also argues, again for the first time, that LAUSD failed to comply with the
Appeal Process set forth in the Bulletin because the Appeal Committee conducted
a “paper review,” did not hold a de novo hearing, and did not allow
Petitioner to participate in the appeal meeting or provide additional
materials. (Reply 5-8.)  
 
“The salutary rule is that points raised in a reply
brief for the first time will not be considered unless good cause is shown for
the failure to present them before.” (Balboa Ins. Co. v. Aguirre, supra, 149
Cal.App.3d at 1010; see also Regency Outdoor Advertising v.
Carolina Lances, Inc. (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 1323, 1333.) Petitioner initiated this proceeding on January 10, 2022,
more than two years ago, and the court set this trial in April 2023. Petitioner
did not raise the arguments in her short six-page Opening Brief. Petitioner
does not show good cause to raise these entirely new arguments in her Reply
Brief. LAUSD has not had a full and fair opportunity to respond to the claims.
Accordingly, the court does not reach these new arguments.[9]
 
Based on the foregoing, Petitioner
has not shown LAUSD denied her a fair hearing or due process. Petitioner also
does not show LAUSD failed to follow its own procedures or, importantly, that
she was prejudiced by the procedure used by LAUSD to decide her request for a
reasonable accommodation.    
 
Bias and Lack of
Jurisdiction 
 
Petitioner contends: 
 
[I]t appears as if all the people who decided the case
were employees of respondent, and therefore likely to be biased, and even
possibly subject to work related problems if they decided against there [sic] employer/
respondent. The hearing officers even all appear to be employees of the
respondent in various positions as supervisors over employees. (Opening Brief 6:17-21.)
 
“Absent a financial interest, adjudicators are
presumed impartial.” (Today’s Fresh
Start, Inc. v. Los Angeles County Office of Education (2013) 57 Cal.4th
197, 219.) “Bias and prejudice are never implied and must be established by
clear averments.” (Burrell v. City of Los
Angeles (1989) 209 Cal.App.3d 568, 581-582.) Petitioner must show “ ‘an
unacceptable probability of actual bias on the part of those who have actual
decisionmaking power over their claims.’ ” 
(Nasha LLC v. City of Los Angeles,
supra, 125 Cal.App.4th at 483.)  
 
Petitioner has not
met her burden of demonstrating bias. The Bulletin
specifically states the RA
Committee and Appeal Committee shall be comprised of District employees. Petitioner
cites no evidence the members of the RA Committee or Appeal Committee had any
financial interest in the case or other otherwise demonstrated an
unacceptable probability of actual bias. Accordingly, Petitioner’s bias claim fails.
 
Petitioner also
contends “the committee members who decided this case indicate that they had no
qualifications to do so, because none of the committee members are alleged to
have any legal qualifications” or “qualifications in the legal field.” (Opening
Brief 6:1-4, 12.) However, the Bulletin does not require that the RA Committee
members have any “legal qualifications.” 
Petitioner does not show the RA Committee members lacked the
qualifications required by the Bulletin and LAUSD policies. Petitioner’s
arguments “the respondent failed to
assign qualified people to preside at the hearing, as required to constitute a
fair hearing” and, relatedly,
that Respondent lacked jurisdiction are not persuasive. (Opening Brief 6:11-16
and 6:22-24.)
 
Petitioner Has Not
Shown a Prejudicial Abuse of Discretion Under Code of Civil Procedure Section
1094.5, Subdivision (b)
 
After reviewing the
evidence, the RA Committee denied Petitioner’s request for a reasonable
accommodation. The RA Committee explained: 
 
After reviewing and taking into consideration all the
documentation you submitted as part of your request, the information you
presented during the meeting, and reviewing alternate accommodations, the
Committee, unfortunately, is unable to approve your request to continue to work
remotely from home, while you observe students via Zoom as a proper assessment
of a student needs to be done face-to-face. Your request for another
psychologist to perform a part of your essential function of assessment of a student,
while you observe the student and psychologist via the internet is not a
reasonable accommodation. (Albertoni Decl. Exh. 1.) 
 
The Appeal Committee affirmed that decision. (Albertoni
Decl. Exh. 1.) 
 
Significantly, Petitioner bears the burden of proof and persuasion in this proceeding.
(Steele v. Los Angeles County Civil Service Commission (1958) 166 Cal.
App. 2d 129, 137; Toigo v. Town of Ross (1998) 70 Cal.App.4th 309, 317; Shenouda v. Veterinary
Medical Bd. (2018) 27 Cal.App.5th
500, 513.)  
 
In her Opening Brief, Petitioner
argues LAUSD’s hearing procedure was unfair or deprived her of due process; the
RA Committee members were biased; and LAUSD lacked jurisdiction.  Petitioner does not develop, however, any
argument the reasons stated by LAUSD for denying her request for a reasonable
accommodation were unsupported by evidence or otherwise constitute a
prejudicial abuse of discretion.  
 
Petitioner argues “there
is not any evidence to support the decision denying the application for a
reasonable accommodation.” (Opening Brief 2:23-24; see also 5:6-8.) Petitioner
does not meet her burden of proof on her lack of evidence claim. The decisions
of the RA Committee and Appeal Committee refer to supporting evidence. While
that evidence does not appear in the record that has been certified, Petitioner
does not show no evidence existed to support LAUSD’s decisions. “In a section 1094.5 proceeding, it is the
responsibility of the petitioner to produce a sufficient record of the
administrative proceedings; ‘. . . otherwise the presumption of regularity will
prevail . . . .” (Elizabeth D. v. Zolin (1993)
21 Cal.App.4th 347, 354.)
 
Through her briefing, Petitioner does
not show a prejudicial abuse of discretion as to LAUSD’s findings and decision.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1094.5, subd. (b); see also Cal. Rules of Court, Rule
3.1113, subd. (a) and Quantum
Cooking Concepts, Inc. v. LV Associates, Inc., supra, 197 Cal.App.4th at 934.)[10] Petitioner
is therefore not entitled to a writ of administrative mandate.  
 
Even if Code of Civil
Procedure Section 1085 Applies, Petitioner Does Not Show Grounds for Relief 
 
There are two
essential requirements for the issuance of an ordinary writ of mandate under
section 1085: (1) a clear, present and ministerial duty on the part of the
respondent, and (2) a clear, present and beneficial right on the part of the
petitioner to the performance of that duty. (California Ass’n for Health Services at Home v. Department of Health
Services (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 696, 704.) 

 
“Normally, mandate will not lie
to control a public agency's discretion, that is to say, force the exercise of
discretion in a particular manner. However, it will lie to correct abuses of
discretion. In determining whether a public agency has abused its discretion,
the court may not substitute its judgment for that of the agency, and if
reasonable minds may disagree as to the wisdom of the agency's action, its
determination must be upheld. A court must ask whether the public agency's
action was arbitrary, capricious, or entirely lacking in evidentiary support,
or whether the agency failed to follow the procedure and give the notices the
law requires.” (County of Los Angeles v.
City of Los Angeles (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 643, 654.)
 
Here, even if
this action is governed by Code of Civil Procedure section 1085, Petitioner
does not show any grounds for which an ordinary writ of mandate would issue. For
the reasons discussed earlier, Petitioner does not demonstrate LAUSD failed to
follow its procedures or give the notices required by the Bulletin, other LAUSD
policies, or any statute or regulation. 
Petitioner’s arguments the RA Committee members were biased or lacked
“jurisdiction” on this record are fundamentally legal issues based on
undisputed facts. Therefore, the court’s analysis of those issues is the same
as set forth above.  
 
For the reasons discussed earlier, Petitioner also does not show LAUSD’s
reasons for denying the request for reasonable accommodation were arbitrary,
capricious, or entirely lacking in evidentiary support. Further, based on the
reasons discussed in the court’s ruling on demurrer, Petitioner does not allege
any mandatory duty compelling Respondent to grant a reasonable accommodation,
and Petitioner also had an adequate remedy at law in the Fair Employment and
Housing Act (FEHA).  (See Demurrer Ruling
4-5; see SAP ¶ 91, Exh. 4 [DFEH right to
sue letter].)
 
Based on the
foregoing, Petitioner does not demonstrate she is entitled to an ordinary writ
of mandate.
 
Third Cause of
Action for Declaratory Relief 
 
The third cause of action for declaratory relief is derivative of the
writ cause of action.  Accordingly, for
the reasons discussed earlier, Petitioner also is not entitled to any judicial
declaration. (See Hannon v.
Western Title Ins. Co. (1989) 211
Cal.App.3d 1122, 1128.)  
 
The Parties’
Requests to Augment the Administrative Record
 
In general, “a hearing on a writ of administrative mandamus is
conducted solely on the record of the proceedings before the administrative
agency.” (Toyota of Visalia, Inc. v. New
Motor Vehicle Bd. (1987) 188 Cal.App.3d 872, 881.) Extra-record
evidence may be admitted if, in the exercise of reasonable diligence, the
relevant evidence could not have been produced or was improperly excluded at
the hearing. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1094.5, subd. (e).) A request for judicial notice cannot be
used to circumvent the rules constraining the admission of extra-record
evidence. (Ballona Wetlands Land Trust v. City of Los Angeles (2011) 201
Cal.App.4th 455, 475, fn. 10.)  
 
Generally, “extra-record evidence is admissible if the proponent shows
that the evidence existed before the agency made its decision, but that it was
impossible in the exercise of reasonable diligence to present it to the agency
before the decision was made.” (Saraswati
v. County of San Diego (2011) 202
Cal.App.4th 917, 930.)
 
In her declaration dated November 24,
2023 and filed with her Opening Brief, Petitioner includes some evidence that
may have existed before LAUSD’s appeal decision dated November 9, 2021. (See
Albertoni Decl. ¶¶ 5-14.) Petitioner does not show the reasonable diligence
required of Code of Civil Procedure section 1094.5, subdivision (e) is met such
that augmentation of the record with evidence that existed before the November
9, 2021, decision is warranted.[11]
 
Petitioner also submits some evidence
that post-dates LAUSD’s November 9, 2021 decision, including information about
Petitioner’s current work assignment, Petitioner’s belief “the on-site work has
become more stressful and dangerous since this case was started about two years
ago,” and the reasons Petitioner would prefer to work for LAUSD’s “virtual
Academy.” (See Albertoni Decl. ¶¶ 5-14.) Petitioner does not show this evidence
existed before the agency made its decision. (See Saraswati v. County of San
Diego, supra, 202 Cal.App.4th at 930.) 
Further, even if post-decision evidence could be submitted in a writ
proceeding in some circumstances, Petitioner does not explain the relevance of
this new evidence to this proceeding. Specifically, Petitioner does not show under
the Bulletin, other LAUSD policies, or relevant statutes, regulations, or case
law, this new evidence has any bearing on whether LAUSD prejudicially abused
its discretion when it denied Petitioner’s request in 2021.  
 
Similarly, LAUSD submits two declarations in support of its opposition.
Like Petitioner, LAUSD has not addressed the requirements of Code of Civil Procedure
section 1094.5, subdivision (e) to allow the court to consider such
extra-record evidence. Accordingly, the court does not consider such evidence
for purposes of this proceeding.  
 
To the extent Petitioner properly brought this proceeding under Code
of Civil Procedure section 1085, the parties’ declarations do not impact the
court’s earlier analysis of the issues. The new evidence is not necessary to
resolve Petitioner’s fair trial, bias, and jurisdictional arguments.  Further,
as stated earlier, Petitioner does not demonstrate the new evidence is relevant
to whether LAUSD prejudicially abused its discretion when LAUSD denied her
request in 2021.  
 
This proceeding considered LAUSD’s
denial of Petitioner’s request for reasonable accommodation in 2021 only. Thus,
Petitioner is not precluded by this court’s ruling from making a new request
for a reasonable accommodation if her circumstances have changed.  Petitioner is also not precluded by this
court’s ruling from pursuing her available remedies, if any, under FEHA.[12]   
 
CONCLUSION 
 
The petition for
writ of mandate (first cause of action) is DENIED. The third cause of action
for declaratory relief is DENIED.
 
The court will
transfer the second cause of action for negligence to Department 1 for
assignment to an independent calendar court. (See LASC Rules 2.8, subd. (d) and
2.9.) The stay of the proceedings on the second cause of action is lifted.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
January 24, 2024                                                                                                                                                          
________________________________ 
Hon. Mitchell Beckloff  
Judge of the Superior Court 
 


