 Case Number:  23STCV00350    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


32




HEARING DATE


October 4, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23STCV00350




MOTIONS


Motion to Compel Mental Examination




MOVING PARTY


Defendants Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation
  Authority and Leo Gilbert Howard




OPPOSING PARTY


None



 
MOTION TO COMPEL MENTAL EXAMINATION
 
Plaintiff, Jose Ariel Mejia-Morales, a minor by and through the
Guardian, Ad Litem, Angelica Morales (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against
Defendants Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transit Authority and Leo Gilbert
Howard, (“Defendants”) for injuries arising from a bus v. pedestrian
incident. Defendants move to compel Plaintiff to submit to a mental
examination by Ari Kalechstein, Ph.D, a mental health professional certified in
neuropsychology. (See Declaration of Ari Kalechstein, Ph.D.) Plaintiff does not
oppose the motion. 
   
ANALYSIS 
 
“If any party desires to obtain discovery by a physical examination
other than that described in Article 2 (commencing with Section 2032.210), or
by a mental examination, the party shall obtain leave of court.  A motion
for an examination under subdivision (a) shall specify the time, place, manner,
conditions, scope, and nature of the examination, as well as the identity and
the specialty, if any, of the person or persons who will perform the
examination. The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration
under Section 2016.040.”  (Civ. Proc., § 2032.310, subds. (a)-(b).) 
“The court shall grant a motion for a physical or mental examination under
Section 2032.310 only for good cause shown.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2032.320, subd. (a); see also Sporich v. Superior Court (2000) 77
Cal.App.4th 422, 427 [“the good cause which must be shown should be such that
will satisfy an impartial tribunal that the request may be granted without
abuse of the inherent rights of the adversary”].) Further, a trial court
order must “describe in detail who will conduct the examination, where and when
it will be conducted, the conditions, scope and nature of the examination, and
the diagnostic tests and procedures to be employed. The way to describe these
‘diagnostic tests and procedures’—fully and in detail—is to list them by name.”
(Carpenter v. Superior Court (2006) 141 Cal.App.4th 249,
260.) 
 
A showing of good cause generally requires “that the party produce
specific facts justifying discovery and that the inquiry be relevant to the
subject matter of the action or reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery
of admissible evidence.” (Vinson v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833,
840.)  And “[a] party who chooses to allege that he has mental and
emotional difficulties can hardly deny his mental state is in
controversy.”  (Id. at p. 839.)   
   
Here, Plaintiff contends he suffered the following injuries as a
result of the incident: symptoms consistent with traumatic brain injury such as
headaches, dizziness, loss of balance and nausea. (See Declaration of Paul
O’Reilly, ¶ 4.)  Plaintiff claims that doctors have recommended continuing
and follow up treatment to address Plaintiff’s cognitive issues resulting from
traumatic brain injury suffered from the accident. (Ibid.)  Defendants
thus argue Plaintiff has placed his mental condition in controversy.
 
The Court finds Plaintiff’s assertions of symptoms consistent with traumatic
brain injury such as headaches, dizziness, loss of balance and nausea caused by
the incident, as well as his claims that doctors have recommended continuing
and follow up treatment to address Plaintiff’s cognitive issues resulting from
traumatic brain injury suffered from the accident, place his mental health at
issue such that good cause exists for Defendants’ requested examination of
Plaintiff. Further, Defendants properly specified the time, place, manner,
conditions, scope, and nature of the examination, as well as the identity and
the specialty, if any, of the person or persons who will perform the
examination. The proposed order properly specified the diagnostic tests and
procedures to be employed. The motion was also accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER 
 
Therefore, the Court grants Defendants’ motion to compel Plaintiff to
submit to the examination by Ari Kalechstein, Ph.D. Plaintiff shall appear for
examination within 30 days.
 
Defendants shall provide notice of this ruling and file a proof of
service of such.  
 
 
 