 Case Number:  23STCV18607    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


32




HEARING DATE


October
  4, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23STCV18607




MOTION


Motion for Terminating Sanctions 




MOVING PARTIES


Defendant
  Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority dba “Metro”




OPPOSING PARTY


Unopposed
  



 
MOTION
 
Defendant Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority dba
“Metro” moves for terminating sanctions against Plaintiff Roberto Frausto
Acevedo for Plaintiff’s failure to respond to Defendant’s Special
Interrogatories, Form Interrogatories, and Requests for Production of
Documents, Sets Number One; and Dismiss the Action. No opposition nor reply has
been filed. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
This case involves an auto negligence accident. Plaintiff alleges
negligent operation of a Metro bus which Plaintiff asserts hit him while he was
riding his bicycle, causing him to sustain bodily injuries and property damage.
The complaint was filed on August 4, 2023 and Defendant filed its answer on
September 11, 2023. 
 
Also on September 11, 2023, Defendant Metro propounded upon Plaintiff
Acevedo a set of Form Interrogatories (Set One), Requests for Production of
Documents (Set One), and Special Interrogatories (Set One) to ascertain further
information as to the basis of Plaintiff’s claims and damages alleged. (Mot.,
Pluma Decl., ¶ 3.) The responses were due on or before October 16, 2023. (Pluma
Decl., ¶ 4.) On October 9, 2023, Plaintiff’s counsel requested an extension to
December 11, 2023, which Defendant granted. (Id.) However, on December
11, 2023, Plaintiff failed to provide responses. (Id.) 
 
Thus, on May 14, 2024, Defendant filed motions to compel Plaintiff’s
responses to Special Interrogatories, Requests for Production, and Form
Interrogatories, as well as a Motion to have Requests for Admission Deemed
Admitted. The foregoing motions were all unopposed and then heard and granted
on August 1, 2024. (Id. at Ex. A, Notice of Ruling.) 
 
Given Defendant did not request monetary sanctions, the Court declined
to impose sanctions for the motions to compel. (Id.) However, because
sanctions are mandatory for  motions to
establish admissions, the Court awarded $60 in sanctions against Plaintiff to
represent the filing cost for the motion. (Id.)
 
Plaintiff was further ordered to provide verified responses within ten
(10) days and pay the $60 in monetary sanctions to Defense counsel within
thirty (30) days of said order`. (Id.) Defendant Metro then filed and
served the Notice of ruling on Plaintiff on August 1, 2024. (Id.)
 
 Trial is set for January 31, 2025,
and an OSC re Dismissal is set for August 1, 2025.
 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Legal Standard
 
“The discovery
statutes evince an incremental approach to discovery sanctions, starting with
monetary sanctions and ending with the ultimate sanction of termination . . .
[i]f a lesser sanction fails to curb misuse, a greater sanction is warranted:
continuing misuses of the discovery process warrant incrementally harsher
sanctions until the sanction is reached that will curb the abuse. A decision to
order terminating sanctions should not be made lightly. But where a violation
is willful, preceded by a history of abuse, and the evidence shows that less
severe sanctions would not produce compliance with the discovery rules, the
trial court is justified in imposing the ultimate sanction.” (Doppes v.
Bentley Motors, Inc. (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 967, 992, internal citation
omitted.) 
 
“The court may
impose a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the
discovery process, or an attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the
reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result
of that conduct. . . . If a monetary sanction is authorized by any provision of
this title, the court shall impose that sanction unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ Proc., §
2023.030(a).) 
 
“The court may
. . . impose an issue sanction by an order prohibiting any party engaging in
the misuse of the discovery process from supporting or opposing designated
claims or defenses.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030(b).) “Discovery sanctions
must be tailored in order to remedy the offending party's discovery abuse,
should not give the aggrieved party more than what it is entitled to, and
should not be used to punish the offending party.” (Karlsson v. Ford Motor
Co. (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 1202, 1217.) 
 
The court may
impose an evidence sanction by an order prohibiting any party engaging in the
misuse of the discovery process from introducing designated matters in
evidence. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030(c).) 
 
A motion for
issue or evidentiary sanctions must be accompanied by a separate statement.
(Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1345(a)(7).) “A separate statement is a separate
document filed and served with the discovery motion that provides all the
information necessary to understand each discovery request and all the
responses to it that are at issue. The separate statement must be full and
complete so that no person is required to review any other document in order to
determine the full request and the full response. Material must not be
incorporated into the separate statement by reference.” (Cal. Rules of Court,
Rule 3.1345(c).) However, a separate statement is not required when no response
has been provided to the request for discovery pursuant to California Rules of
Court, rule 3.1345(b)(1). 
 
The court may
impose a terminating sanction after considering the totality of the
circumstances. That is, the court must consider the willfulness of the actions,
the detriment to the propounding party, and the number of attempts to obtain
discovery. (Lang v. Hochman (2000) 77 Cal.App.4th 1225, 1246.) Courts
are justified in imposing a terminating sanction where a “violation is willful,
preceded by a history of abuse, and the evidence shows that less severe
sanctions would not produce compliance with the discovery rules. (Mileikowsky
v. Tenet Healthsystem (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 262, 279-280.) 
 
If
appropriate, the court may impose a terminating sanction against the party
misusing the discovery process by one of the following orders: (1) striking the
pleadings or parts of the pleadings, (2) staying further proceedings until the
discovery order is obeyed, (3) dismissing the action, or any party of the
action, (4) rendering judgment by default, or (5) imposing a contempt sanction.
(CCP § 2023.030 (d).
 
 
Discussion
 
Defendant requests the Court issue an order imposing terminating
sanctions by  dismissing Plaintiff’s
action. (Mot., pg. 4.) Defendant moves pursuant to CCP § 2023.030(d)(e) which
provides that when a party disobeys a court order to provide discovery, the
court may issue an order dismissing the action of that party and thus impose
terminating sanctions. In this case, Defendant contends that Defendant has been
severely prejudiced by Plaintiff’s failure to respond to discovery as Plaintiff
has failed to provide documentation, witnesses, and evidence regarding his
alleged claims and damages. (Id.) Given Plaintiff’s disobedience of the
Court’s August 1, 2024, Order to provide responses, Defendant now moves the
Court to dismiss Plaintiff’s action. (Id.) 
 
However, the minute order relieving counsel states that Plaintiff’s
counsel was informed that Plaintiff may be held in a correctional facility.
Accordingly, it is unclear whether Plaintiff had actual notice of this motion. Without
additional information regarding efforts to serve Plaintiff personally with the
motion, the Court finds that terminating sanctions are drastic. The motion is
therefore denied without prejudice.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
The Court DENIES Defendant’s Motion for Terminating Sanctions.
 
Defendant shall give notice of this order and file a proof of service
of such.
 
 
 