  Case Number:  22STCV19440    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


October
  4, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV19440




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Summary Judgment




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant American Honda Motor Co., Inc.




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Brian Massey



 
MOVING PAPERS
 
1.     Notice of Motion and Motion for Summary
Judgment 
2.     Separate Statement of Undisputed Material
Facts
3.     Request for Judicial Notice
4.     Declaration of Trenton Williams in Support
5.     Declaration of Jocelyn A. Julian in Support 
6.     Declaration of Beatrice Byrd-Williams in
Support 
7.     Separately Bound Volume of Exhibits in
Support
 
OPPOSITION PAPERS
1.     Plaintiff’s Opposition
2.     Plaintiff’s Responses to Defendant’s Separate
Statement 
3.     Declaration of Hamed Yazdanpanah; Exhibits
 
REPLY PAPERS 
1.     Reply to Plaintiffs’ Opposition
2.     Objections to Plaintiffs’ Evidence
 
BACKGROUND
 
On June 15, 2022, Plaintiffs
Brian Massey and Latanya Wiggs (“Plaintiffs”) filed a complaint against
Defendants Trenton Williams, Honda North America, Inc., American Honda Motor
Company Inc., Katrice Riley, and Does 1 to 50 for negligence related to a motor
vehicle accident. 
 
Plaintiffs allege that on August
24, 2024, Defendant owned, operated, or negligently entrusted a vehicle to
collide into Plaintiffs’ vehicle. (Complaint ¶ 6-9.) 
 
On September 13, 2023, the
Court consolidated this case with Riley v. Trenton Williams, et al. (case
number 22STCV24271). 
 
Defendant American Honda Motor Co., Inc. (“Defendant” now moves for
summary judgment against Plaintiffs complaint, arguing that Plaintiffs cannot
establish vicarious liability or independent negligence since it merely leased
the vehicle that Trenton Williams was driving. It also argues the Graves
Amendment precludes liability. Plaintiffs oppose and Defendant replies. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
“[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears the burden
of persuasion that there is no triable issue of material fact and that he is
entitled to judgment as a matter of law[.] There is a triable issue of material
fact if, and only if, the evidence would allow a reasonable trier of fact to
find the underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion in
accordance with the applicable standard of proof.”¿(Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.) ¿“[T]he party moving for summary
judgment bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of
the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact; if he carries his
burden of production, he causes a shift, and the opposing party is then
subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a prima facie showing of
the existence of a triable issue of material fact.” (Ibid.; Smith v.
Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 1463, 1474 [summary judgment
standards held by Aguilar apply to summary adjudication motions].) 
Further, in line with Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co., “[o]n a motion
for summary adjudication, the trial court has no discretion to exercise. 
If a triable issue of material fact exists as to the challenged causes of
action, the motion must be denied. If there is no triable issue of fact, the
motion must be granted.” (Fisherman's Wharf Bay Cruise Corp. v. Superior
Court (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 309, 320.) 
 
“On a summary judgment motion, the court must therefore
consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a factfinder could
reasonably draw from the evidence. While viewing the evidence in this manner,
the court must bear in mind that its primary function is to identify issues
rather than to determine issues.  Only when the inferences are
indisputable may the court decide the issues as a matter of law. If the
evidence is in conflict, the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” (Binder
v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839 [cleaned up].) 
Further, “the trial court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a
factfinder to determine whose version is more likely true.  Nor may the
trial court grant summary judgment based
on the court's evaluation of credibility.” (Id. at p. 840 [cleaned up];
see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of Transportation (2020) 9
Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or summary
adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the light
most favorable to the opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences in
favor of that party”].)        
 
JUDICIAL
NOTICE
 
The
Court denies Defendant’s request for judicial notice, but considers the
evidence submitted without objection by Plaintiffs.
 
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
 
The
Court sustains Defendant’s objections to Plaintiffs’ evidence. 
 
DISCUSSION
Negligence 
The
elements of a cause of action for negligence are: (1) a duty on the part of
defendant toward plaintiff; (2) defendant’s breach of that duty; and (3) harm
to the plaintiff caused by that breach. (Kesner v. Superior Court (2016) 1 Cal.5th 1132, 1142.)
Generally, “one who places or entrusts his [or her] motor
vehicle in the hands of one whom he [or she] knows, or from the circumstances
is charged with knowing, is incompetent or unfit to drive, may be held liable
for an injury inflicted by the use made thereof by that driver, provided the
plaintiff can establish that the injury complained of was proximately caused by
the driver's disqualification, incompetency, inexperience or recklessness.”¿(Flores
v. Enterprise Rent-A-Car Co. (2010) 188 Cal.App.4th 1055, 1063 [quoting Osborn
v. Hertz Corp. (1988) 205 Cal.App.3d 703, 708] [alteration in original;
citation omitted].)¿ 
Respondeat Superior 
An employer is
vicariously liable for an employee’s tort under the doctrine of respondeat superior
if the tort was committed within the scope of the employment.¿ (See Montague
v. AMN Healthcare, Inc. (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 1515, 1520.) “[A]n employee
must be driving a personal vehicle in the course and scope of his employment at
the time of the accident to extend vicarious liability to an employer.” (Newland v. County of Los Angeles¿(2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 676, 678–79.) “A
plaintiff suing an employer under the doctrine must prove the person who
committed the tort was acting within the scope of his or her employment.” (Marez
v. Lyft, Inc.¿(2020) 48 Cal.App.5th 569, 577.)  
There are two tests for determining when an employee was
“within the scope of employment.” Under the first test, “the employer is liable
if the activities that caused the employee to become an instrument of danger to
others were undertaken with the employer's permission and were of some benefit
to the employer, or in the absence of proof of benefit, the activities
constituted a customary incident of employment.” (Id. [quoting Purton
v. Marriott Internat., Inc. (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 499, 509, 159
Cal.Rptr.3d 912 (Purton)].)  
The second test (Halliburton Test) requires finding
that “(1) the act performed was either required or incident to his duties or
(2) the employee's misconduct could be reasonably foreseen by the employer in
any event. [citation.] ¿In this test, foreseeability means that in the context
of the particular enterprise, an employee's conduct is not so unusual or
startling that it would seem unfair to include the loss resulting from it among
the costs of the employer's business. [citation.]” (Marez, supra, 48
Cal.App.5th at 577.)  
Graves Amendment
The Graves Amendment provides in pertinent part:  
 
“An owner
of a motor vehicle that rents or leases the vehicle to a person … shall not be
liable under the law of any State … by reason of being the owner of the vehicle
… for harm to persons or property that results or arises out of the use,
operation, or possession of the vehicle during the period of the rental or
lease, if— 
(1) the
owner (or an affiliate of the owner) is
engaged in the trade or business of renting or leasing motor vehicles; and 
(2) there
is no negligence or criminal wrongdoing on the part of the owner (or an
affiliate of the owner)”
(49 U.S.C.
§30106 (a).)
 
“The term ‘affiliate’
means a person other than the owner that directly or indirectly controls, is
controlled by, or is under common control with the owner. In the preceding
sentence, the term ‘control’ means the power to direct the management and
policies of a person whether through ownership of voting securities or
otherwise.” (49 U.S.C. §30106 (d).)
 
The Graves Amendment also contains the following “savings
clause”: 
 
“Nothing in
this section supersedes the law of any State or political subdivision thereof— 
(1) imposing
financial responsibility or insurance standards on the owner of a motor vehicle
for the privilege of registering and operating a motor vehicle; or 
(2)
imposing liability on business entities engaged in the trade or business of
renting or leasing motor vehicles for failure to meet the financial
responsibility or liability insurance requirements under State law.”
 
(49 U.S.C.
§ 30106 (b).)
 
California
Vehicle Code section 17150
provides that “[e]very owner of a motor vehicle is liable and responsible for
death or injury to person or property resulting from a negligent or wrongful
act or omission in the operation of the motor vehicle … by any person using or
operating the same with the permission, express or implied, of the
owner.”¿However, under Vehicle Code section 17151, where the basis for
liability is permissive use and the relationship between the owner and the
driver is not that of “principal and agent or master and servant,” the owner's
liability is limited by statute to $15,000 per person, not to exceed $30,000
per accident.¿ 
 
The Court finds
the case of Garcia v. Vanguard Car Rental USA, Inc. (11th Cir.
2008) 540 F.3d 1242 to be instructive. There, the Eleventh Circuit held that
the Graves Amendment preempts Florida’s tort liability law, which “imposes
strict vicarious liability upon the owner of a motor vehicle who voluntarily
entrusts that motor vehicle to an individual whose negligent operation causes
damage to another.” (Garcia, supra, 540 F.3d at 1245 [citation
omitted].) Similar to California Vehicle Code section 17151, Florida’s
legislature also imposed statutory caps on the amount of vicarious liability a
rental car company could face. The Eleventh Circuit rejected the argument that
this statutory cap was a “financial responsibility” law within the meaning of
the savings clause. (Id. at 1247.) Rather, the court found that
“financial responsibility is closely linked to insurance requirements.” (Id.)
The court concluded that “neither the common law imposition of vicarious
liability on rental car companies, nor the Florida legislature’s endorsement of
and limitations on such vicarious liability, constitutes a 'financial
responsibility' requirement. … [States] simply may not impose such judgments
against rental car companies based on the negligence of their lessees.
[citation omitted.]” (Id. at 1249.) 
 
Analysis
 
Here, the following facts are undisputed. The car accident that is
the subject of this case took place on Monday, April 24, 2020 at approximately
4:00 p.m., at the intersection of Manhattan Beach Blvd. and Freeman Avenue in
Lawndale, California (the “Incident”). (UMF 1.) The accident was a two-vehicle
collision involving a 2019 Honda Insight driven by Mr. Williams and a 2016
Nissan Sentra driven by Katrice Riley, in which plaintiffs Massey and Wiggs
were passengers. (UMF 2.) At the time of the incident, Mr. Williams was driving
the Honda Insight from Jamba Juice to a friend’s home after Mr. Williams had
finished working. (UMF 3.) At the time of the incident, the Honda Insight was
being leased by Trenton Williams’s mother, Beatrice Byrd-Williams. (UMF 4.) At
the time of the incident, Beatrice Byrd-Williams was employed by Honda R&D
Americas, Inc. (UMF 5.) At the time of the incident, Beatrice Byrd-Williams was
leasing the Vehicle from AHM pursuant to the optional personal-lease benefit
offered by her employer as part of her compensation package. (UMF 6.) At the
time of the August 24, 2020 incident, Trenton Williams had not previously been
involved in any other vehicle accidents and had received no traffic tickets.
(UMF 13.) AHM was the lessor of the Vehicle and held title to the Vehicle. (UMF
15.) 
 
Defendant sets forth the following additional facts:
 
-       
Beatrice Byrd-Williams was not required, requested, or
relied upon to drive or use her Honda Insight for Honda R&D Americas, Inc.
or AHM at any time. (UMF 10.) 
-       
Trenton Williams was not working for AHM at the time of
the incident.[1] (UMF
11.) 
-       
Trenton Williams was never an employee of AHM or any
other Honda entity. (UMF 12.) 
-       
American Honda Finance Corporation is a wholly-owned
subsidiary of Defendant American Honda Motor Co., Inc., which in turn is a
wholly-owned subsidiary of Honda Motor Co., Ltd.[2]
(UMF 18.)
-       
AHM and American Honda Finance Corporation “provide
various forms of financing in the United States and Canada to purchasers and
lessees of Honda and Acura products,” including new motor vehicles. (UMF 19.)
-       
AHM and American Honda Finance Corporation “acquire
close-end vehicle lease contracts between Honda and Acura dealers and their
customers primarily for leases of new Honda and Acura automobiles … We service
the leases we acquire.” (UMF 20.)
-       
AHM is an authorized distributor of Honda and Acura
products, including motor vehicles, and sponsors incentive financing programs
in the United States. These programs offer promotional rates on loans and
leases to purchasers, lessees, and dealers of Honda and Acura products.” (UMF
21.)
-       
Among other operational risks relating to the business
of AHM and AHFC, “we are exposed to residual value risk on the vehicles we
lease.” (UMF 22.)
 
Defendant has met its initial burden to establish the absence of a
triable issue of fact. The burden shifts to Plaintiffs. In opposition,
Plaintiffs do not argue that Defendant negligently entrusted the vehicle to Williams
or his mother Beatrice Byrd-Williams. Instead, Plaintiffs argue there is
question of fact whether Williams was a permissive user of the vehicle under
Vehicle Code section 17150 and whether Williams was an “employee” of AHM
because “he was in the service of AHM when he drove the subject vehicle at the
request of AHM’s manager, Beatrice Byrd-Williams.” (Opp. at p. 10.) Finally,
Plaintiffs argue that the Graves Amendment does not apply because there is no
evidence of a lessor/lessee relationship since Defendant did not provide the
lease agreement or an affidavit of a person with knowledge, and because the
lease “was not made or offered in the normal ‘trade or business of renting or
leasing motor vehicles’.” (Opp. at p. 15.)
 
However, Plaintiff offers no admissible evidence to dispute the
declarations of Williams and Byrd-Williams. Moreover, even if Defendant
permitted Byrd-Williams to lease the vehicle and somehow benefitted from
Williams being allowed to drive it, there is no evidence that Williams was an
employee or otherwise working for Defendant at the time he drove the car and
got into the accident, sufficient to support a theory of respondeat superior.
Plaintiff also offers no evidence to raise a triable issue of fact regarding
whether Defendant gave express or implied permission for Williams to drive the
vehicle. Plaintiff argues that there is a question of fact regarding “what he
was doing and who he was doing it for,” but the only evidence presented is a
purported dispute about whether Williams was a full-time student or worked at
Jamba Juice. (Opp. at p. 9.) This dispute does not establish or raise an
inference of implied permission. Regarding the Graves Amendment, Plaintiff
argues that there is no evidence of the lease agreement, but does not dispute
that AHM was the lessor and holder of title to the vehicle and that
Byrd-Williams was leasing the vehicle from AHM. (UMF 6, 15.) Finally, Plaintiff
argues that the lease was not made in the normal business of renting, but the
plain language of the statute requires the owner or affiliate to be engaged in
the business of leasing motor vehicles, for which Plaintiff does not demonstrate
a triable issue of fact.
 
Accordingly,
the motion for summary judgment is granted. 
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Based on the foregoing, Defendant American Honda Motor Co.,
Inc.’s Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED. Defendant
shall file and serve a proposed judgment within 10 days.
 
            Defendant
is ordered to give notice of this ruling and file a proof of service of such. 
 
 


