 Case Number:  23STCV26021    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


October
  4, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


23STCV26021




MOTION:  


Motion
  for Leave to Amend Complaint and File First Amended Complaint
 




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Rodney Antonio Howard




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed 



 
BACKGROUND
 
 Plaintiff Rodney Antonio Howard (“Plaintiff”) now
moves for an order for leave to file First Amended Complaint. Plaintiff seeks
to amend the Complaint to assert allegations supporting a request for punitive
damages against Defendants Imperial Western Products aka Biotane Pumping,
Co-West Commodities, Inc., and Denali Water Solutions, LLC (collectively
“Defendants”). No opposition has been filed. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
California Code of Civil Procedure section
473, subdivision (a)(1) provides, in relevant part: “The court may, in
furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to
amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any
party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any
other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or demurrer.  The court may likewise, in its discretion,
after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an
amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like
terms allow an answer to be made after the time limited by this code.”
“This discretion should be exercised
liberally in favor of amendments, for judicial policy favors resolution of all
disputed matters in the same lawsuit.”  (Kittredge
Sports Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1047.)  Ordinarily, the court will not consider the
validity of the proposed amended pleading in ruling on a motion for leave since
grounds for a demurrer or motion to strike are premature.  The court, however, does have discretion to
deny leave to amend where a proposed amendment fails to state a valid cause of
action as a matter of law and the defect cannot be cured by further
amendment.  (See California Casualty
General Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1985) 173 Cal.App.3d 274, 281
(overruled on other grounds by Kransco v. American Empire Surplus Lines Ins.
Co. (2000) 23 Cal.4th 390).)
Under California Rules of Court Rule, rule
3.1324, subdivision (a), a motion to amend a pleading shall (1) include a copy
of the proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially numbered
to differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments; (2) state what
allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and
where, by page, paragraph and line number, the deleted allegations are located;
and (3) state what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous pleading,
if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the additional
allegations are located. 
Under California Rule of Court, rule
3.1324, subdivision (b), a separate declaration must accompany the motion and
must specify (1) the effect of the amendment; (2) why the amendment is
necessary and proper; (3) when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations
were discovered; and (4) the reasons why the request for amendment was not made
earlier.
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Plaintiff has
complied with California Rules of Court Rule, rule 3.1324. Here, Plaintiff’s
counsel attaches a declaration to the instant motion stating that the facts
giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered after filing the initial
complaint on April 16, 2024. (Chun Decl., ¶ 9; Mot. at p. 6.)  Also, Plaintiff’s counsel states that the
amendment is necessary and proper because the claim for punitive damages more
fully comports with the law and the events that transpired on the date of the
incident because Defendants knew Defendant Booth had a habit of speeding while
driving Defendants’ vehicle during his course and scope of his employment, but
Defendants did not stop him from driving for them. (Chun Decl., ¶¶ 5, 10.)
Moreover, Plaintiff’s counsel states that Defendants will not be prejudiced in
this matter as trial is not until April 22, 2025, and the factual basis for the
assertion for punitive damages was available to Defendants even prior to it
becoming known to Plaintiff. (Chun Decl., ¶ 11.) No opposition has been filed.
Accordingly, the Court grants the motion.
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to File Amended
Complaint is GRANTED. Plaintiff must file and serve the amended
complaint within 10 days of this ruling.
  
Plaintiff shall
provide notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of service of such.  
 