  Case Number:  22STCV01760    Hearing Date:   June 28, 2024    Dept:  57 The Court is denying the motion for summary adjudication of Plaintiffs, Bradley Bell and Maggie Bell, individually and as Trustees of the Bell Living Trust dated January 19, 2018 ("the Bells").  In the Court's view, the evidence that Defendants Steve Donovan and Catherine Stroud-Donovan ("the Donovans") submitted in their opposition to the Bells' motion demonstrates that there are disputed issues of material fact as to the Bells' claims in their complaint that are the subject of motion.  Thus, summary adjudication on those claims cannot be granted.  The claims in question fall into two categories: easement claims and encroachment claims.  After reviewing the record the parties presented, the Court has concluded that, as to all of the claims in both categories, the issues presented hinge on a determination of the correct and precise boundary between the Bells' property and the Donovans' property.  That determination cannot be made at this stage.  It has to be resolved at trial.  Additionally, the record shows there are disputed issues of material fact on whether the Bells' claims of quiet title to the encroached area, trespass, and private nuisance (which are in the encroachment category) are barred by the applicable statutes of limitations.In reaching its decision to deny the Bells' motion, the Court has considered the material that was the subject of the Bells' Request for Judicial Notice, which the Court is granting.  The Court is overruling the Donovans' objections to the Bells' separate statement and the Declaration of Kima Sehati that the Bells submitted in support of the moton.  The Court is sustaining the Donovans' objections to the additional evidence that the Bells submitted along with their reply brief in support of the motion.  The Court is overruling the Bells' objections to the Declarations of Steve Donovan, Frederick Jones, Jr, and Patrick C. McGarrigle that the Donovans submitted in support of their opposition.  The Court did not consider the Declaration of Christopher E. Deal that the Donovans submitted in support of their opposition and to which the Bells objected.  The Court is taking this opportunity to advise the parties that the time the Court is able to spend with the parties at the hearing today is constrained because the Court is engaged in a jury trial -- closing arguments in the trial will take place this afternoon. 