 Case Number:  23STCV05533    Hearing Date:   January 23, 2025    Dept:  56  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



 JANE DOE, an individual;  
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
KEVIN YOUNG A/K/A KEVIN YOUNG COMMANDER
  OF THE BRITISH EMPIRE, individually; and PROPERTIES GB7 LLC, 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.:  23STCV05533
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
MOTION TO QUASH SUBPOENA
 
Date: January 23, 2025
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY:  Defendant Kevin Young (“Defendant”)
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff
Jane Doe (“Plaintiff”)
 
            The Court has considered the moving,
opposition and reply papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
             On March 13, 2023, Plaintiff filed this action
for sexual harassment arising out of an employment relationship. The currently
operative first-amended complaint (“FAC”) alleges causes of action for: (1)
sexual battery; (2) sexual assault; (3) gender violence; (4) sexual harassment
and harassment based on sex, gender, national origin, and race in violation of
the Fair Employment and Housing Act [Cal. Gov’t Code §12940(j)]; (5)
constructive discharge in violation of public policy; and (6) intentional
infliction of emotional distress.  
On May 8, 2023, Defendant filed a cross-complaint
(“Cross-Complaint”) alleging causes of action for: (1) conspiracy to defraud;
(2) breach of fiduciary duty; (3) breach of contract; (4) conversion; (5) money
had and received; and (6) money paid. 
 
On October 22, 2024, Defendant filed the
instant motion to quash deposition subpoenas (the “Motion”). On January 9,
2025, Plaintiff filed an opposition to the Motion (the “Opposition”). On January
14, 2025, Defendant filed a reply (the “Reply”).       
 
DISCUSSION
            Code of Civil Procedure (“CCP”)
section 1987.1 states, “[w]hen a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness
or the production of books, documents or other things before a court, or at the
trial of an issue therein, …, upon motion reasonably made by the party, the
witness, or any consumer described in Section 1985.3, or upon the court's own
motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an
order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance
with it upon such terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including
protective orders.” There is no requirement that the motion contain a
meet-and-confer declaration demonstrating a good-faith attempt at informal
resolution. (Id.) A motion to quash does require a separate statement,
unless the party being subpoenaed did not provide any response to the subpoena.
(Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(a)(5), (b)(6).)  
 
“Unless otherwise limited by order of the
court in accordance with this title, any party may obtain discovery regarding
any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in
the pending action or to the determination of any motion made in that action,
if the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. Discovery may
relate to the claim or defense of the party seeking discovery or of any other
party to the action. Discovery may be obtained of the identity and location of
persons having knowledge of any discoverable matter, as well as of the
existence, description, nature, custody, condition, and location of any
document, electronically stored information, tangible thing, or land or other
property.” (CCP § 2017.010.) 
 
            Defendant moves to quash the
deposition subpoenas for production of business records issued to Gilead Services, Inc. and Amgen Inc. Defendant argues
that the subpoenas violate his right to privacy in seeking his personnel
records and employment history. (Mot., p. 2.) Defendant further argues that the
subpoenas are not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence because they seek information and documents from over thirty years ago
and are overly broad because they seek documents unrelated to Plaintiff’s
causes of action. (Mot., pp. 3-5.) Lastly, Defendant argues that subpoenas improperly
seek propensity evidence, are intended to harass and intimidate, and are an
attempt to circumvent a motion to compel. (Mot., pp. 5-7.) The subpoenas seek all
documents relating to complaints of sexual harassment, harassment,
discrimination, retaliation, sexual advances or other inappropriate conduct
made against Defendant as well as all documents related to performance reviews,
write-ups and filings with the DFEH or EEOC regarding Defendant. (Mot., Exs. A-B.)

 
            Plaintiff argues that the
information sought is relevant because there is evidence that Defendant engaged
in a similar pattern of behavior in a previous job. Plaintiff presents a
declaration from the former CEO of Amgen Inc. who states, “In or about 2004, I
learned that a female Amgen employee was claiming that Mr. Young had
romantically pursued her but that she was not interested in a relationship with
him. I vaguely recall hearing that the Company conducted some sort of
investigation.” (Opp., Ex. A.) 
            
            The Court disagrees with Defendant
that the subpoenas are overly broad. The scope of allowable discovery is
sufficiently broad as to allow the discovery sought from both Gilead Services,
Inc. and Amgen, Inc.  Discovery regarding
similar complaints against Defendant in the context of prior employment is
reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence and is
allowed, with the exception of Requests for Production Nos. 5, 6 and 7, which
are limited to any references to discussion of claims of sexual harassment,
discrimination, harassment or retaliation against Defendant or sexual advances by
Defendant.  With the exception of that
limitation, the Motion to Quash is DENIED.
 
Request
for Sanctions
The court shall impose monetary sanctions
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to quash a deposition notice, unless it finds that the one subject to
the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances
make the imposition of the sanction unjust (CCP, § 2025.410 subd. (d).) 
 
Defendant requests sanctions against
Plaintiff and/or her attorney of record, in the total amount of $6,281.50 and
Plaintiff seeks sanctions against Defendants in the total amount of $7,100. 
 
As the Motion is denied in part and
granted in part, the Court exercises its discretion and declines to award
sanctions to either party, in the hope that this ruling will be used by the
parties to resolve similar discovery issues without resorting to the Court.  
 
The Motion to Quash is GRANTED and DENIED in
part as set forth above. 
 
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 23rd day of January 2025
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



