 Case Number:  23TRCV03860    Hearing Date:   November 5, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                              Tuesday,
November 5, 2024
Department M                                                                                                              Calendar No. 5
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
            Robert Mills v. Thomas Wallin, et al.  
            23TRCV03860
1.      Robert
Mills’ Motion to Amend Judgment 
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Robert Mills’ Motion to Amend Judgment is denied
without prejudice. 
 
            Background
 
            Plaintiff
filed the Complaint on November 15, 2023. Plaintiff alleges the following
facts. This is an unlawful detainer action as
to the following residential property: 23250
Robert Road, Torrance CA 90505. On April 9, 2024, judgment was entered in favor
of Plaintiff and against Thomas Wallin, Roselyn Wallin, Austin Gutierrez,
Anthony Gutierrez, and Claudia Rivers. 
 
            Motion
to Amend Judgment
 
            A court has inherent power to use “all the means
necessary” to carry its jurisdiction into effect.  CCP § 187. 
 
                Code Civ. Proc., § 1169 states:
            “If, at the time appointed, any defendant served with a
summons does not appear and defend, the clerk, upon written application of the
plaintiff and proof of the service of summons and complaint, shall enter the
default of any defendant so served, and, if requested by the plaintiff,
immediately shall enter judgment for restitution of the premises and shall
issue a writ of execution thereon. The application for default judgment and the
default judgment shall include a place to indicate that the judgment includes
tenants, subtenants, if any, named claimants, if any, and any other occupants
of the premises. Thereafter, the plaintiff may apply to the court for any other
relief demanded in the complaint, including the costs, against the defendant,
or defendants, or against one or more of the defendants.
 
            Plaintiff moves, specifically pursuant to CCP § 1169, to
amend the judgment to add holdover damages, attorneys’ fees, and costs.
However, as set forth above, CCP § 1169 only applies to default judgments.
Here, the judgment was entered after trial. Plaintiff submitted no authority
for the proposition that the judgment may be amended in the manner requested
after a court trial rather than via a default judgment.
 
            Therefore, the motion to amend judgment is denied without
prejudice. 
             Plaintiff is ordered to give notice
of this ruling.