 Case Number:  24TRCV00549    Hearing Date:   November 5, 2024    Dept:  M 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka Tuesday, November 5, 2024
Department M      Calendar No. 7  



  
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Martin
Drees, et al. v. Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. LLP, et al.   
24TRCV00549
1.     
Kohlberg Kravis
Roberts & Co. LP, et al.’s Demurrer to Complaint
2.     
Kohlberg Kravis
Roberts & Co. LP, et al.’s Motion to Strike Portions of Complaint 
3.     
Kohlberg Kravis
Roberts & Co. LP, et al.’s Motion to File Documents Under Seal    
 
TENTATIVE RULING

Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. LP, et al.’s
Demurrer to Complaint is sustained with 20 days leave to amend. 
 
Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. LP, et al.’s Motion
to Strike Portions of Complaint is deemed moot. 
 
Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. LP, et al.’s Motion
to File Documents Under Seal is granted.   
 
Background
 
Plaintiffs’ Complaint was filed on February 15, 2024.
Plaintiffs allege the following facts. Defendants hacked into Plaintiff Martin Drees’
personal and private data from a work issued laptop. Defendants obtained this
private data of Plaintiffs to attempt to gain an advantage in the health
medical care business. Plaintiffs allege the following causes of action: 1.
Violation of the Computer Data Access and Fraud Act; 2. Intentional
Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage; 3. Negligent Interference
with Prospective Economic Advantage; 4. Violation of Bus. & Prof. Code
17200; 5. Unjust Enrichment. 
 
            Meet and Confer
             
            Defendants filed a meet and confer
declaration in sufficient compliance with CCP §§ 430.41 and 435.5.  (Decl., Blake
L. Osborn, ¶ 2.)
 
            Request for Judicial Notice
 
            Defendants’ request for judicial
notice is granted pursuant to Evidence Code 452(f) and (h).
 
            Demurrer

A demurrer tests the sufficiency of a
complaint as a matter of law and raises only questions of law. (Schmidt v.
Foundation Health (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 1702, 1706.)  In testing the sufficiency of the complaint,
the court must assume the truth of (1) the properly pleaded factual
allegations; (2) facts that can be reasonably inferred from those expressly
pleaded; and (3) judicially noticed matters. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39
Cal.3d 311, 318.)  The Court may not
consider contentions, deductions, or conclusions of fact or law.  (Moore v. Conliffe (1994) 7 Cal.App.4th
634, 638.) Because a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of a complaint, the
plaintiff must show that the complaint alleges facts sufficient to establish
every element of each cause of action.  (Rakestraw
v. California Physicians Service (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 39, 43.)  Where the complaint fails to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action, courts should sustain the demurrer.
 (C.C.P., § 430.10(e); Zelig v. County
of Los Angeles (2002) 27 Cal.App.4th 1112, 1126.)
Sufficient facts are
the essential facts of the case "with reasonable precision and with
particularity sufficiently specific to acquaint the defendant with the nature,
source, and extent of his cause of action.”  (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193
Cal.App.2d 636, 643-644.) "Whether
the plaintiff will be able to prove the pleaded facts is irrelevant to ruling
upon the demurrer."  (Stevens v.
Superior Court (1986) 180 Cal.App.3d 605, 609–610.)  Under Code Civil Procedure § 430.10(f), a
demurrer may also be sustained if a complaint is “uncertain.” Uncertainty exists where a complaint’s factual
allegations are so confusing they do not sufficiently apprise a defendant of
the issues it is being asked to meet.  (Williams
v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2.)
 
Defendants demur to
the Complaint and each cause of action for failure to state facts sufficient to
state a cause of action and for uncertainty. CCP § 430.10(e)(f).
Defendants first argue that
Plaintiffs Shklarek and Rademacher lack standing. “A person who invokes the judicial process lacks standing
if he, or those whom he properly represents, ‘does not have a real interest in
the ultimate adjudication because [he] has neither suffered nor is about to
suffer any injury of sufficient magnitude reasonably to assure that all of the
relevant facts and issues will be adequately presented.’” Schmier v. Supreme
Court (2000) 78 Cal.App.4th 703, 707.
As to Plaintiffs
Shklarek and Rademacher, the demurrer is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.
Plaintiffs have not alleged facts to demonstrate injury in fact suffered by
them, individually, as opposed to the businesses that they may have ownership
stakes within. The standing to assert harm to the business would belong to the
business entities. Fladeboe v. Am. Isuzu Motors Inc. (2007) 150 Cal.
App. 4th 42, 55.
 
Next, Defendants
assert that all claims are barred by res judicata. 
 
“Res judicata or
claim preclusion precludes the relitigation of a cause of action that
previously was adjudicated in another proceeding between the same parties or
parties in privity with them. Res judicata applies if (1) the decision in the
prior proceeding is final and on the merits; (2) the present proceeding is on
the same cause of action as the prior proceeding; and (3) the parties in the
present proceeding or parties in privity with them were parties to the prior
proceeding. Res judicata bars the litigation not only of issues that were
actually litigated but also issues that could have been litigated. Federation of Hillside & Canyon Assns.
v. City of Los Angeles (2004) 126 Cal.App.4th 1180, 1202 (internal
citations omitted.)
 
            “The
applicable principle that bars relitigation is issue preclusion, also known as
collateral estoppel. Issue preclusion prevents relitigation of issues argued
and decided in prior proceedings. The threshold requirements for issue
preclusion are: (1) the issue is identical to that decided in the former
proceeding, (2) the issue was actually litigated in the former proceeding, (3)
the issue was necessarily decided in the former proceeding, (4) the decision in
the former proceeding is final and on the merits, and (5) preclusion is sought
against a person who was a party or in privity with a party to the former
proceeding.” Castillo v. City of Los
Angeles (2001) 92 Cal.App.4th 477, 481 (internal citations and quotations
omitted.)
 
            “The
term “cause of action” has different meanings in different connections. (2) It
is commonly used in pleading as applying only to the relief sought, even though
the separately pleaded claims have origin in the same right or obligation. (3)
But this is not the meaning of “cause of action” as the term is used in stating
the doctrine of res judicata. When used in this connection the term relates not
to the remedy involved or the relief asked, but to the right or obligation
which is sought to be enforced. If a different title, right or obligation is
pleaded in the second action, the cause of action is different, even though the
relief sought is the same. But if the second is based upon the same right or
obligation the cause of action is the same even though different or additional
relief is sought. [. . . ] [¶] It is the title, right or obligation sought to
be established or enforced, not the remedy or the relief sought, which
determines the nature and substance of the cause of action. When this has once
been adjudicated it cannot be relitigated upon any grounds that were or that
could have been determined in the former action.” Ideal Hardware &
Supply Co. v. Department of Employment (1952) 114 Cal.App.2d 443, 448
(internal citations omitted).
 
            Here,
a review of the Hamburg, Germany regional court judgment does not reveal the
existence of a final decision on the merits as to the primary right sued upon
in the instant action. In fact, the Hamburg court essentially “punts” on the
issue by stating that a determination on the merits of the claim would be
resolved via arbitration. “[T]he current arbitration proceedings concern the
question of whether the Plaintiff in the injunction proceedings breeched the
business purchase agreement by co-founding and co-financing med.stream GmbH and
by poaching employees of coliquio GmbH for med.stream GmbH. In light of this,
the court holds that the matter of whether the Defendant is entitled to access
and use emails and data stored on the company laptop formerly used by the
Plaintiff, from his private Gmail account, falls within the scope of the
arbitration clause. While the question of whether accessing and using these
emails and data is admissible may not directly stem from the business purchase
agreement, it is inherently tied to a legal matter connected with such a
dispute. This is evident from the fact that such emails have been introduced as
evidence in the ongoing arbitration proceedings and the admissibility of using
these emails as evidence is being contested there[.]” (Decl., Blake L.Osborn,
Ex. 2.)
 
            Thus,
the Court determines that, for purposes of the demurrer, only, Defendants have
not established that Plaintiffs’ claims are barred by res judicata.
 
First Cause of
Action for Computer Data Access and Fraud Act – Cal. Penal Code § 502
 
Defendants’ demurrer
to the first cause of action is sustained with 20 days leave to amend. Plaintiff
fails to state facts sufficient to state a cause of action.
 
Cal. Penal Code § 502
is a long statute and will not be repeated verbatim here. However, essentially,
the statute is an “anti-hacking” statute that prevents unauthorized access to
computers and computer systems. Here, however, Plaintiff has failed to plead
facts or set forth sufficient authority to show that Defendants alleged act of accessing
information (albeit that Plaintiff Drees may have involved his own personal
information as opposed to company related matters) on a company-owned laptop
constitutes a violation of the statute.
 
Penal Code § 502(h)(1)
states: “Subdivision (c) does not apply to punish any acts which are committed
by a person within the scope of lawful employment. For purposes of this
section, a person acts within the scope of employment when the person performs
acts which are reasonably necessary to the performance of their work
assignment.” 
 
Here, Plaintiff does
not allege facts to demonstrate that the alleged acts of access were not done
in the normal performance of the alleged perpetrator’s work assignment.
Plaintiffs have not alleged facts to demonstrate that they would have a lawful
right of privacy to matters stored on a work laptop. 
 
In addition, Defendants
have demonstrated that access to the laptop may have been conducted in the
course of investigation and evidence recovery for purposes of the underlying
German arbitration proceeding referenced above. In such a scenario, the
litigation privilege may constitute a bar to Plaintiffs’ cause of action. “[T]he
privilege applies to any communication (1) made in judicial or quasi-judicial
proceedings; (2) by litigants or other participants authorized by law; (3) to
achieve the objects of the litigation; and (4) that have some connection or
logical relation to the action.” Silberg v. Anderson (1990) 50 Cal.3d
205, 212.
 
Thus, the demurrer to
the first cause of action is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.
 
Second Cause of
Action for Intentional Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage
Third Cause of
Action for Negligent Interference with Prospective Economic Relations

The demurrer to the second
and third causes of action is sustained with 20 days leave to amend. Plaintiffs
fail to state facts sufficient to state the causes of action.  
 
The elements of
Intentional Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage are: (a) An
economic relationship between the plaintiff and some third party, with the
probability of future economic benefit to the plaintiff; (b) The defendant's
knowledge of the relationship; (c) Intentional acts by the defendant designed
to disrupt the relationship; (d) Actual disruption of the relationship; (e)
Economic harm to the plaintiff proximately caused by the acts of the defendant;
(f) Conduct that was wrongful by some legal measure other than the fact of
interference itself. Della Penna v. Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A. (1995) 11
Cal.4th 376, 378.
 
“The tort of
negligent interference with prospective economic advantage is established where
a plaintiff demonstrates that (1) an economic relationship existed between the
plaintiff and a third party which contained a reasonably probable future
economic benefit or advantage to plaintiff; (2) the defendant knew of the
existence of the relationship and was aware or should have been aware that if
it did not act with due care its actions would interfere with this relationship
and cause plaintiff to lose in whole or in part the probable future economic
benefit or advantage of the relationship; (3) the defendant was negligent; and
(4) such negligence caused damage to plaintiff in that the relationship was
actually interfered with or disrupted and plaintiff lost in whole or in part
the economic benefits or advantage reasonably expected from the relationship.” Venhaus
v. Shultz (2007) 155 Cal.App.4th 1072, 1078. A claim for negligent
interference also requires the pleading of the independent wrongful conduct. National
Medical Transportation Network v. Deloitte & Touche (1998) 62
Cal.App.4th 412, 439-42.
 
Plaintiffs fail to
plead facts demonstrating the existence of an economic relationship between
Plaintiffs and third parties, and that Defendants knew or should have known of
the existence of an economic relationship between Plaintiffs and the third
parties. Plaintiffs have only pled conclusions. In addition, Plaintiffs have
not pled facts of independent wrongful conduct apart from the alleged
interference itself.
            
The demurrer to the
second and third causes of action is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.  
 
Fourth Cause of
Action for Unfair Competition – Violation of Cal. Bus. & Prof. Code 17200
 
Defendant’s demurrer
to the fourth cause of action is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.
Plaintiffs fail to state facts sufficient to state a cause of action.
 
“California Business
and Professions Code Sections 17000, et seq., and 17200, et seq., states [sic]
that unfair competition shall mean and include unlawful, unfair or fraudulent
business practices.” Khoury v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993) 14
Cal.App.4th 612, 618–19. “By proscribing ‘any unlawful’ business act or
practice, the UCL “borrows” rules set out in other laws and makes violations of
those rules independently actionable. [Citation.] However, a practice may
violate the UCL even if it is not prohibited by another statute.” Los
Angeles Memorial Coliseum Com. v. Insomniac, Inc. (2015) 233 Cal.App.4th
803, 835. “The unfair competition law is independent of the Unfair Practices
Act and other laws. Its remedies are “cumulative ... to the remedies or
penalties available under all other laws of this state” (§ 17205), but its
sanctions are less severe than those of the Unfair Practices Act. Prevailing
plaintiffs are generally limited to injunctive relief and restitution. (§
17203; see ABC Internat. Traders, Inc. v. Matsushita Electric Corp. (1997)
14 Cal.4th 1247, 1268 [61 Cal.Rptr.2d 112, 931 P.2d 290].) Plaintiffs may not
receive damages, much less treble damages, or attorney fees.” Cel-Tech
Communications, Inc. v. Los Angeles Cellular Telephone Co. (1999) 20
Cal.4th 163, 179.
 
Based on the
underlying allegations noted above, Plaintiffs failed to allege sufficient
facts to demonstrate unlawful, fraudulent, and/or unfair business practices on
the part of demurring Defendants. In addition, “[n]either the language of the
UCL nor its legislative history provides any basis for concluding the
Legislature intended the UCL to operate extraterritorially.” Sullivan v.
Oracle Corp. (2011) 51 Cal.4th 1191, 1207.
 
Defendants’ demurrer
to the fourth cause of action is sustained with 20 days leave to amend. 
 
Fifth Cause of
Action for Unjust Enrichment
 
Defendants’ demurrer
to the fifth cause of action is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.
Plaintiffs fail to state facts sufficient to state a cause of action.
 
Unjust Enrichment is
not a cause of action.  See, Hill v.
Roll Int'l Corp. (2011) 195 Cal.App.4th 1295, 1307.  The Court may, however, recognize a cause of
action based on quasi-contract to obtain the remedy of restitution.  See, McKell v. Washington Mutual, Inc. (2006)
142 Cal.App.4th 1457, 1490.  "The
elements of an unjust enrichment claim are the receipt of a benefit and [the]
unjust retention of the benefit at the expense of another."  Peterson v. Cellco Partnership (2008)
164 Cal.App.4th 1583, 1593-94. 
 
Here, Plaintiffs have
failed to plead facts to demonstrate that Defendants have unjustly retained a
benefit at the expense of Plaintiffs.
 
The demurrer to the
fifth cause of action is sustained with 20 days leave to amend. The scope of
leave to amend is to assert a quasi-contract claim to obtain the remedy of
restitution.
 
Finally, the Court
notes that Plaintiffs have not pled any facts of wrongful conduct specifically
conducted by Defendants Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. L.P. and MH Sub 1
LLC, d/b/a Internet Brands. 
 
Motion
to Strike  
            
The court may, upon a
motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper,
strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.  CCP § 436(a). 
The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of
the court.  CCP § 436(b).  The grounds for a motion to strike are that
the pleading has irrelevant, false or improper matter, or has not been drawn or
filed in conformity with laws.  CCP §
436.  The grounds for moving to strike
must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.  CCP § 437.
 
            Defendants
move to strike the following: “1. Paragraph 50 of the Complaint. 2. Paragraph
60 of the Complaint. 3. Prayer for Relief, Paragraph 3 (on page 16 of
Complaint).” (Notice of Motion, page 3, lines 2-4).
 
            Defendants’
motion to strike is deemed moot upon the sustaining of the demurrer in its
entirety.
 
Motion to Seal
Records
            
“A record must not be
filed under seal without a court order. The court must not permit a record to
be filed under seal based solely on the agreement or stipulation of the
parties.”  Cal Rules of Court, Rule
2.551(a).
            
“A party requesting
that a record be filed under seal must file a motion or an application for an
order sealing the record. The motion or application must be accompanied by a
memorandum and a declaration containing facts sufficient to justify the sealing.”  California Rules of Court, Rule
2.551(b)(1).  California Rules of Court,
Rule 2.551(b)(4) also provides that the party requesting that a record be filed
under seal must lodge it with the court when the motion or application is made
and, pending the determination of the motion or application, the lodged record
will be conditionally under seal.  
            
“The court may order
that a record be filed under seal only if it expressly finds facts that
establish:
(1) There exists an
overriding interest that overcomes the right of public access to the record;
(2) The overriding
interest supports sealing the record;
(3) A substantial
probability exists that the overriding interest will be prejudiced if the
record is not sealed;
(4) The proposed
sealing is narrowly tailored; and
(5) No less
restrictive means exist to achieve the overriding interest.” Cal Rules of
Court, Rule 2.550(d).
 
            Defendants
move for an order sealing the following documents which were filed in
connection with Defendants’ Demurrer and Motion to Strike: Exhibits B to D
attached to the declaration of Matthias Hadding. The motion is supported by a
memorandum of points and authorities and evidence submitted by Defendants.
Defendants identify the following overriding interest that supports sealing and
overcomes the public right of access: “public disclosure [of] a business’
proprietary information or other confidential business information that would
cause harm to the business and create a competitive disadvantage or other
economic hardship if the information is disclosed. See, e.g., Overstock.com,
Inc. v. Goldman Sachs Grp., 231 Cal.App.4th 471, 505 (2014)[.]” (Motion,
page 4, lines 17-20).  
 
The Court finds that
Defendants made a competent showing to support a finding that the overriding
interest identified by Defendants overcomes the public right of access to the
identified documents and that the overriding interest supports sealing the documents.
Defendants have adequately shown that there is a probability that the parties’
interests will be prejudiced if the documents are made public. The Court also
finds that the proposed sealing order is narrowly tailored. Defendants have
proposed sealing only the specific documents noted above in support of the demurrer
and motion to strike. The Court finds that there are no less restrictive means
to achieve the identified overriding interest. 

 
Therefore, for the
foregoing reasons, Defendants’ Motion to File Documents Under Seal is granted.  
 
Defendants are
ordered to give notice of this ruling. 