 Case Number:  23VECV04168    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2024    Dept:  T BARNETT V ROYAL GARDENS 23VECV04168
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendant Anza Management Company’s Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND. Defendant Anza Management Company’s Motion to Strike Portions of the First Amended Complaint is MOOT as to First Amended Complaint, paragraphs 67 and 92; and otherwise GRANTED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND as to First Amended Complaint, paragraphs 84, 114, 115, 130, 131, 150, and Prayer at page 38:2-4.
Defendant Anza Management Company is ORDERED to file an Answer to the remaining causes of action in the First Amended Complaint within 20 days.
Introduction
Defendant Anza Management Company (Defendant) demurred to Plaintiff Aleisha Barnett’s (Plaintiff) First Amended Complaint (FAC).  The demurrer placed into issue the first cause of action (COA) for battery, the third COA for intentional infliction of emotional distress (IIED), the eighth COA for Civil Code sec. 1942.3 violation, and the tenth COA for negligent violation of statutory duty to maintain habitable conditions.  The motion to strike sought to strike the request for punitive damages alleged in FAC paragraphs 67, 84, 92, 114, 115, 130, 131, 150, and the Prayer at page 38:2-4. 
Discussion
At the prior May 16, 2024 hearing on the demurrer to the original complaint, the Court found that the first COA for battery and the third COA for IIED lacked sufficient fact pleading as to the intent to harm element.  Plaintiff was required to add new factual allegations to support the intent element of both the first and third COAs.  However, a comparison of the original complaint and the FAC shows that no new facts were added.  The Court notes that the original complaint, paragraphs 12-58 coincide with FAC paragraphs 13-59.  The allegations to support battery alleged in the original complaint paragraphs 59-66 coincide with FAC paragraphs 60-67.  The allegations to support IIED alleged in the original complaint paragraphs 84-85 and 87-90 coincide with FAC paragraphs 85-86 and 88-92.  Because Plaintiff failed to add new factual allegations to support the intent element as to these two COAs, Plaintiff failed to cure the defect identified previously. 
Plaintiff argued that the intent to harm was in Defendant’s inaction and/or failure to remedy the cockroach infestation.  However, as reviewed previously, the facts alleged, even if liberally construed in Plaintiff’s favor, show Defendant acting upon Plaintiff’s complaints as to habitability (i.e., cockroach infestation, holes in the wall, and sink issues).  Plaintiff alleged that Defendant either attempted to address or addressed Plaintiff’s complaints.  There is insufficient fact pleading as to a reckless disregard of Plaintiff’s rights and safety.  Because Plaintiff failed to cure the pleading defect, Defendant’s arguments are persuasive.
The demurrer to the first and third COAs is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.
Defendant argued that the eighth COA for violation of Civil Code section 1942.3 is not a recognized COA but a rebuttable presumption.  To argue that the COA is sufficiently alleged, Plaintiff cited to FAC pars. 95, 121, and 162.  But Plaintiff’s contention does not address Defendant’s point that Civil Code, section 1942.3 does not form the basis of a recognized COA.  Plaintiff failed to dispute Defendant’s argument.  The Court finds the argument persuasive. 
The demurrer to the eight COA is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.
Defendant argued that the tenth COA for negligent violation for statutory duty to maintain habitable conditions is not a recognized COA and duplicative of the fifth COA for Tortious Breach of Implied Warranty of Habitability, the fourth COA for Statutory Breach of Warranty of Habitability (Civil Code sections 1941 and 1941.1), and the second COA for negligence, including negligent violations of Section 1790 of California Health and Safety Code.  The argument that the tenth COA is duplicative of the second COA for negligence was reviewed at the prior demurrer to the original complaint and found to be persuasive.  The Court notes that the original complaint, paragraphs 169-173 coincide with FAC paragraphs 171-175.  Plaintiff did not amend the COA or cure the previously identified pleading defect.  Plaintiff’s opposition further did not address Defendant’s argument as to duplicity.  Because the prior pleading defect was not cured and Plaintiff’s opposition fails to show that new facts can be alleged to cure the defect, the demurrer is persuasive.
The demurrer to the tenth COA is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND. 
Defendant moved to strike FAC paragraph 67 alleged in the first COA for battery and FAC paragraph 92 alleged in the third COA for IIED.  Because the demurrer was sustained without leave to amend as to the first and third COAs, the motion to strike FAC paragraphs 67 and 92 is no longer at issue.
The motion to strike FAC paragraphs 67 and 92 is MOOT.
Defendant further moved to strike FAC paragraph 84 alleged in the second COA for negligence, FAC paragraphs 114 and 115 alleged in the fourth COA for statutory breach of warranty of habitability, and FAC paragraphs 130 and 131 alleged in the fifth COA tortious breach of implied warranty of habitability.  Preliminarily, the Court noted that these requests for punitive damages are made within COAs that are based upon negligence.  Negligence claims are not usually grounds for punitive damages unless appropriate facts are alleged.  The FAC did not allege sufficient facts to plead willful or conscious disregard of Plaintiff’s safety or rights.  As reviewed in the demurrer, the Court finds that Plaintiff failed to allege sufficient facts to support the claim that Defendant’s conduct amounted to a willful disregard of Plaintiff’s rights or safety.  For this defect alone, there is good cause to strike the requests for punitive damages alleged in the second, fourth, and fifth COAs. 
Even if the negligence-based COAs (i.e., non-intentional tort claims) pled appropriate facts to support punitive damages by alleging a willful disregard of Plaintiff’s rights or safety, Plaintiff failed to plead specific facts to allege liability upon a corporate employer (i.e., misconduct by an officer, director, or managing agent, authorization, ratification, or prior knowledge of the unfitness of an employee).  There are insufficient facts to plead misconduct by an officer, director, or managing agent, or authorization, or ratification, or prior knowledge of the unfitness of an employee.  The allegations for punitive damages against a corporate employer are seen to be conclusory.  Defendant’s argument is persuasive as to FAC paragraphs 84, 114, 115, 130, and 131.
The motion to strike FAC paragraphs 84, 114, 115, 130, and 131 is GRANTED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND. 
Defendant moved to strike FAC paragraph 150 alleged in the seventh COA for breach of the covenant of quiet enjoyment.  The seventh COA is contract-based.  The contract claim, as alleged, is not a proper legal theory to support a request for punitive damages.  (Civ. Code, sec. 3294(a); Applied Equipment Corp. v. Litton Saudi Arabia Ltd. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 503, 516.)  Because Plaintiff did not plead sufficient facts to support a request for punitive damages, the motion to strike FAC paragraph 150 is persuasive. 
The motion to strike FAC paragraph 150 is GRANTED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.
With the above rulings as to allegations of punitive damages being stricken, there is no longer any grounds for the Prayer to request punitive damages.  Based upon the review above, the motion to strike Prayer at page 38:2-4 is persuasive. 
The motion to strike Prayer at page 38:2-4 is GRANTED WITHOUT LEAVE.
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE NOTICE.