 Case Number:  23STCP04300    Hearing Date:   May 22, 2024    Dept:  73 5/22/2024 
Dept. 73 
Hon.
Rolf Treu, Judge presiding 
 
KAM’S AUTOMOTIVE, INC. v. ANGELES RUIZ (23STCP04300) 
 
Counsel for
Petitioner/moving party:  Paul Bigley (Freeman Mathis & Gary, LLP)
 
PETITION FOR AN ORDER AUTHORIZING PRESERVATION OF
EVIDENCE PURSUANT TO CODE OF CIVIL PROCEDURE § 2035.010 (filed 11/27/2023) 
 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
 
The Petition for an
Order Authorizing Preservation of Evidence is GRANTED.
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On November
27, 2023, Petitioner Kam’s Automotive, Inc. (“Petitioner”) filed the instant Petition for an Order
Authorizing Preservation of Evidence. 
 
Petitioner
contends that it expects to be defendant in an action cognizable in a court in the
State of California, namely an action related to an automobile accident that
occurred on August 2, 2022 in Los Angeles, California. Petitioner’s expectation
is based on a letter of representation dated August 23, 2022, which included a
demand to disclose policy limits, sent by Wilshire Law Firm to the claims
department for New York Marine and General Liability Insurance. 
 
Petitioner
seeks to employ the following discovery methods to preserve evidence in
anticipation of Respondent filing a lawsuit: physical examinations of
Respondent and inspections of documents, things, and places, including document
production demands propounded onto Respondent and subpoenas to Respondent’s
medical providers as they become known.
 
No opposition or other response has been filed. 
 
II.
DISCUSSION
 
A.     Legal
Standard
 
"One
who expects to be a party or expects a successor in interest to be a party to
an action that may be cognizable in a court of the state, whether as a
plaintiff, or as a defendant . . . may obtain discovery . . . for the purpose
of perpetuating that person's own testimony or that of another natural person
or organization, or of preserving evidence for use in the event an action is
subsequently filed.” (CCP §¿2035.010(a).) “One shall not employ the procedures
of this chapter for¿purposes of¿either ascertaining the possible existence of a
cause of action or a defense to it, or of identifying those who might be made
parties to an action not yet filed.” (Id. at (b).) 
 
“One
who desires to perpetuate testimony or preserve evidence for the purposes set
forth in Section 2035.010 shall file a verified petition in the superior court
of the county of the residence of at least one expected adverse party, or, if
no expected adverse party is a resident of the State of California, in the
superior court of a county where the action or proceeding may be filed.” (CCP
§¿2035.030(a).) The petition must be titled in the name of the one who desires
the perpetuation of testimony or the preservation of evidence, and must set
forth all of the following: 
 
(1)
The expectation that the petitioner or the petitioner's successor in interest
will be a party to an action cognizable in a court of the State of California. 
(2)
The present inability of the petitioner and, if applicable, the petitioner's
successor in interest either to bring that action or to cause it to be brought. 
(3)
The subject matter of the expected action and the petitioner's involvement. A
copy of any written instrument the validity or construction of which may be
called into question, or which is connected with the subject matter of the
proposed discovery, shall be attached to the petition. 
(4)
The particular discovery methods described in Section 2035.020 that the
petitioner desires to employ. 
(5)
The facts that the petitioner desires to establish by the proposed discovery. 
(6)
The reasons for desiring to perpetuate or preserve these facts before an action
has been filed. 
(7)
The name or a description of those whom the petitioner expects to be adverse
parties so far as known. 
(8)
The name and address of those from whom the discovery is to be sought. 
(9)
The substance of the information expected to be elicited from each of those
from whom discovery is being sought. 
 
(CCP
§ 2035.030(b)(1)-(9).) “The petition shall request the court to enter an order
authorizing the petitioner to engage in discovery by the described methods for
the purpose of perpetuating the described testimony or preserving the described
evidence.” (CCP § 2035.030(c).) 
 
“When
a minor, a person who lacks legal capacity to make decisions, or a person for
whom a conservator has been appointed is a party, that person shall appear
either by a guardian or conservator of the estate or by a guardian ad litem
appointed by the court in which the action or proceeding is pending, or by a
judge thereof, in each case.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 372, subd. (a)(1).) 
 
B.    
Discussion
 
The Petition satisfies the requirements of Code
of Civil Procedure, section 2035.030.  
 
Petitioner sets forth grounds that it expects to be party to an
action in the State of California. According to the Petition, Petitioner
is the owner of the vehicle allegedly involved in the August 2, 2022 accident. (Cerezo Decl.,
¶ 3.) Petitioner is also the employer of driver James Thomas. (Cerezo Decl., ¶
3.) Based on information and belief, the subject accident occurred in the
County of Los Angeles and all involved parties are believed to reside within
the County of Los Angeles. (Cerezo Decl., ¶ 3, 4.) Petitioner has been issued a letter of representation and Designee
Authorization on behalf of Respondent. (Cerezo Dec., Ex. A.) Respondent’s
counsel also issued a demand to disclose insurance policy limits. (Ibid.)
Petitioner provides that no
litigation has yet been filed against it and Petitioner cannot cause the action
to be brought. (C.C.P. § 2035.030(b)(2).)
 
Petitioner
seeks the following discovery methods to preserve evidence in anticipation
of Respondent filing a lawsuit: physical examinations of Respondent,
inspections of documents, things, and places, including medical, billing, or
radiology records related to Respondent’s injury claims, subpoenas to
Respondent’s medical providers as they become known and Respondent’s employers
to discover employment records, paystubs, and related information related to
Respondent’s anticipated and potential claim for loss of earnings. These methods are
available for discovery under this provision. (CCP
§§¿2035.035(b)(4),¿2035.020(b) (authorizing discovery by “[i]nspections of
documents, things, and places” and “physical examinations”).) Petitioner
contends it desires to preserve the evidence requested because it is unclear
who Respondent’s employers and medical providers are or if they have policies
that would result in the destruction of records after a given time. Further, Petitioner requests the physical
examinations to be taken closer in time to the alleged incident to “assess the
Respondent’s injuries and potential damages in real-time.” (Petition, p. 9.) Petitioner’s
above-described discussion establishes the substance of the information
expected to be elicited from each of those from whom discovery is being sought
 
Petitioner has also identified expected adverse
parties, Angeles Cristina Ruiz, and provides the name and address of those from
whom the discovery is to be sought who have been ascertained at this time. (CCP
§¿2035.035(b)(7).) The Court finds Petitioner has satisfied the requirements of
Code of Civil Procedure, section 2035.030.  
 
Accordingly,
the Court GRANTS the Petition for an Order Authorizing Preservation of Evidence.
 
 
III. CONCLUSION 
 
The Petition for an
Order Authorizing Preservation of Evidence is GRANTED.