 Case Number:  19STCV42747    Hearing Date:   May 22, 2024    Dept:  73 05/22/2023
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge presiding
 
AARONS v. ALLIANCE PORTFOLIO PRIVATE
EQUITY FINANCE, INC. et al. (19STCV42747)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff/opposing party:  Pro Per
Plaintiff Ashley Aarons
Counsel for
Defendant/moving party:  Nigel Burns (The
Law Offices of Nigel Burns)
 
MOTION TO DISMISS (filed by Specially Appearing Defendant
Maria Cecelia S. Doratan on 11/16/23)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
The Court
dismisses the case as to Defendant Maria
Cecelia S. Doratan pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure sections 583.410(a) and 583.420(a)(2).
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On December
2, 2019, Plaintiff Ashley Aarons, individually and as trustee of the Ashley
Aarons 2015 Trust dated May 15, 2015, (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against
Defendants: Alliance Portfolio Private Equity Finance, Inc.; George Wong,
Trustee of the George Wong Retirement Plan; Robert N. Cleaves and Emmy S.
Cleaves, Trustees of the Cleaves Family Trust; Hal Dryan, Trustee of the
Geoffrey Michael Dryan 2009 Irrevocable Trust Dated June 9, 2009 (“Dryan”); and
Ray Gokaldas, Trustee of the Ray Gokaldas MD A Professional Corp Profit Sharing
Plan Trust Dated January 1, 2013. 
 
On December
20, 2021, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint alleging causes of action
for: (1) breach of contract, (2) breach of the implied covenant of good faith
and fair dealing, (3) negligence, (4) fraud, (5) cancellation of instruments,
(6) quiet title, (7) declaratory relief, (8) unfair business practices, (9)
accounting, and (10) wrongful foreclosure. 
 
On November 16 2023, Specially Appearing Defendant Maria Cecelia S.
Doratan filed a Motion to Dismiss, arguing:
·       Pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 583.250(a)(2), the Court must dismiss for failure to serve
defendant within 3 years or return proof of service within 60 days after the
three-year period. Plaintiff has failed to comply with both of these requirements
·      
Plaintiff filed her complaint on December
2, 2019, more than 4 1/2 years ago 
·      
Further, Section 583.420 allows dismissal because
service of the summons and complaint have not been made within two years after
the action was commenced nor has trial commenced within the three-year period 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues that:
·       Plaintiff named the Defendant Doratan in her First
Amended Complaint filed on December 20, 2021. When Plaintiff amended her
complaint, the “gravamen” of the Complaint changed because she added a new
cause of action based upon different facts. Thus, the period for service of
summons runs from the date of the amended complaint. Plaintiff served Defendant
on June 21, 2023. 
·       In March 2020, during the Covid outbreak, the courts
stopped holding hearings until July 1, 2020. Plaintiff argues this state
response was out of her control and delayed her case. 
·       Plaintiff’s bankruptcy matters have resulted in
stays in this matter
o   Plaintiff argues there is a tolling of time while
the bankruptcy trustee has control over the assets of the debtor. Here, Chapter
7 bankruptcy trustee tolled time for 13 months.
In reply, Defendant argues:
·       Plaintiff never served Defendant with the opposition
o   Plaintiff’s opposition must not be considered by the Court
o   The “DECLARATION OF SERVICE BY EMAIL”
submitted by the Plaintiff in support of her opposition lists no email address
of any kind showing to whom service of her “opposition” was made at the Law
Offices of Nigel Burns. The attorneys of record at the Law Offices of Nigel
Burns never received a service of copy of Plaintiff’s opposition paperwork as
required under California Code of Civil Procedure § 1005(b). 
·      
Plaintiff’s attached proof of service
show Defendant was never served with summons and complaint in this matter
o   Here, for proof of “substituted
service” Plaintiff’s submitted paperwork states that when service was
attempted, Plaintiff’s process server was informed that “[Defendant Doratan] no
longer lives at this residence address. Per John Doe [Defendant Doratan] is
unknown at address [Defendant Doratan] does not live here or receive mail.” 
o   Therefore Plaintiff, by her own
admission, never served Defendant at the Defendant’s “dwelling house, usual
place of abode, usual place of business, or usual mailing address other than a
United States Postal Service post office box, in the presence of a competent
member of the household or a person apparently in charge.” California Code of
Civil Procedure § 415.20. 
II. ANALYSIS
 
A.     Legal
Standard for Motion to Dismiss
 
Under
Code of Civil Procedure section 583.410, the court may dismiss an action for
delay in prosecution if the plaintiff does not serve the defendant within two
years, or bring the action to trial within three years. ¿(Code Civ. Proc., §§
583.410, 583.420.)  Dismissal is warranted where the plaintiff has failed
to prosecute the action with “reasonable diligence.”  (Dunsmuir Masonic
Temple v. Superior Court (1970) 12 Cal.App.3d 17, 23.)   The plaintiff has the burden of
showing excusable delay once a complaint is not served within the two-year
period. (Ladd v. Dart Equipment Corp. (1991) 230 Cal.App.3d 1088,
1099-110.) The court must consider all relevant matters, including the court’s
file in the case and declarations and supporting date submitted by the parties,
the diligence in seeking to effect service of process, whether the interests of
justice are best served by dismissal or trial of the case, and any other fact
or circumstance relevant to a fair determination of the issue. (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1342(e).) 
B.     Failure to Serve Opposition
 
California Code of Civil Procedure §
1005(b) states that “all opposition papers must be filed and served at least 9
court days before the hearing.” 
 
Defendant contends that Plaintiff
failed to serve Defendant with her opposition. The “DECLARATION OF SERVICE
BY EMAIL” submitted by the Plaintiff in support of her opposition fails to list
an email address that the opposition was served at. Defendant’s counsel state
in their declaration that they were not served with an opposition. (See Burns
Decl., Brown Decl.) Further, they state there has been no stipulation in the
case to allow email service of pleadings as required under 1010.6 (4)
(c)(i-ii). Given that Defendant addressed the opposition on their merits and
thus are not prejudiced, the Court will consider Plaintiff’s opposition.
 
C.     Discussion
 

Defendant
argues mandatory dismissal of the action is warranted under Code of Civil
Procedure section 583.210 for failure to serve the Defendant within 3 years.
 
Code of Civil
Procedure section 583.210 states as follows: 
 
(a) The summons and complaint shall be served upon a defendant within
three years after the action is commenced against the defendant. For the
purpose of this subdivision, an action is commenced at the time the complaint
is filed. 
(b) Proof of service of the summons
shall be filed within 60 days after the time the summons and complaint must be
served upon a defendant. 
Further, Code of Civil Procedure section 583.250 states: 
(a) If service is not made in an action within the time prescribed in
this article:
(1) The action shall not be further prosecuted and no further proceedings
shall be held in the action.
(2) The action shall be dismissed by the court on its own motion or on
motion of any person interested in the action, whether named as a party or not,
after notice to the parties.
(b) The requirements of this article are mandatory and are not subject to
extension, excuse, or exception except as expressly provided by statute.
 
Code of Civil
Procedure section 583.240 provides exceptions to this statute. In computing the
time within which service must be made pursuant to this article, there shall be
excluded the time during which any of the following conditions existed:
 
(a) The
defendant was not amenable to the process of the court.
(b) The
prosecution of the action or proceedings in the action was stayed and the stay
affected service.
(c) The
validity of service was the subject of litigation by the parties.
(d) Service, for any other reason,
was impossible, impracticable, or futile due to causes beyond the plaintiff's
control. Failure to discover relevant facts or evidence is not a cause beyond
the plaintiff's control for the purpose of this subdivision.
(Code of
Civil Procedure section 583.240)
 
Here, the Complaint in this action was filed on December 2, 2019.
Therefore, service of summons and complaint should have been effected within three years on or before
Monday, December 5, 2022.
Defendant argues that Defendant was never served with summons and complaint
in this matter. In support, Defendant cites to Plaintiff’s June 23, 2023
“Proof of Service of Summons” and February 22, 2024 “Amended Proof of Service.”
(Reply, Exs. A, B.) The proofs of service state that Plaintiff’s process server
was informed that “[Defendant Doratan] no longer lives at this residence
address. Per John Doe [Defendant Doratan] is unknown at address [Defendant
Doratan] does not live here or receive mail.” (Ibid.) California Code of
Civil Procedure § 415.20 requires service at Defendant’s “dwelling house, usual
place of abode, usual place of business, or usual mailing address other than a
United States Postal Service post office box, in the presence of a competent
member of the household or a person apparently in charge.” Thus, the proofs of
service do not indicate they were ever served upon Defendant pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure § 415.20. 
Accordingly, the Court finds that since Defendant Maria Cecelia S. Doratan was not
served within three years of the action being filed, the Court is required to
dismiss the action as to this Defendant pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure sections 583.210
and 583.250
 
III. CONCLUSION
 
Accordingly, the motion is GRANTED.  The Court dismisses the case as to Defendant Maria Cecelia S. Doratan pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure sections 583.410(a)
and 583.420(a)(2).