 Case Number:  23STCV27706    Hearing Date:   May 22, 2024    Dept:  73 05/22/2024
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge presiding
 
SHERRY TAHERI v. JOHN TIUNG HAN LI and JULIE MICHELLE YABU (23STCV27706)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff/moving party: Amy Mousavi (Mousavi Law, PC)
 
Counsel for
Defendants/opposing party: Jack M. LaPedis (The Law Offices of Jack M. LaPedis)
 
MOTION FOR PRELIMINARY INJUNCTION (filed 01/17/24)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
GRANTED
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On November 13, 2023, Plaintiff Sherry Taheri (“Plaintiff”) filed
this action against Defendants John Tiung Han Li and Julie Michelle Yabu (collectively
“Defendants”). 
 
On
December 13, 2023, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) alleging causes
of action for: (1) Trespass to Land (Continuing Trespass), (2) Financial Abuse
of Elder or Dependent Adult, (3) Quiet Title, and (4) Injunctive Relief. 
 
The parties are adjoining neighbors. Plaintiff alleges that
Defendants’ trees and planter at the property boundary are causing damage to
Plaintiff’s property. Plaintiff also alleges that Defendants are causing damage
by overwatering the trees and planter. Plaintiff seeks damages and an
injunction.
 
On January 17, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Motion
for Preliminary Injunction. On April 8, 2024, Plaintiff filed an Amended Motion
for Preliminary Injunction. 
·       
Plaintiff requests an order of the Court, ordering Defendants 1)
to immediately stop watering the trees bordering and/or encroaching on the
Plaintiff’s Property; and 2) removing and/or relocating the trees bordering,
and/or encroaching on the Plaintiff’s Property
·       
The Balancing Test Imposing a Preliminary Injunction Weighs In Plaintiff’s
Favor
o   The intrusion
of water and tree roots into Plaintiff’s Property constitutes continuing
trespass 
o   Absent an
injunction – Plaintiff will be forced to file successive actions periodically
to address the growth of the roots, water damage and damages she will incur in
replacing, reinforcing or reconstructing the retaining wall at issue.
·       
Plaintiff is Entitled to the Injunction Give Her Likelihood of
Success on the Merits
·       
Plaintiff Stands to Lose More if the Preliminary Injunction is
Denied
 
In opposition, Defendants argue:
·       Plaintiff
Does Not Have a Reasonable Probability of Success on Her Claims Since
Plaintiff’s Claims are Based Almost Entirely on False Factual Allegations.
Plaintiff will not suffer irreparable harm.
o   Defendants
assert that Defendants are not watering tress in the planter
o   There is no
“sprinkler” system on Defendants property to be turned off.
o   Any order for
Defendants to not water in the area would be moot and Plaintiff will not suffer
irreparable harm, as outlined in CCP § 526(a)(2), if the motion is denied.
 
In reply, Plaintiff argues:
·      
Plaintiff maintains she is entitled to a
preliminary injunction.
II. DISCUSSION
 
A.     Legal
Standard 
 
The function
of a preliminary injunction is the preservation of the status quo until a final
determination of the merits.” (Beehan v. Lido Isle Cmty. Ass’n (1977) 70
Cal.App.3d 858, 866.) “Trial courts traditionally consider and weigh two
factors in determining whether to issue a preliminary injunction. They are (1)
how likely it is that the moving party will prevail on the merits, and (2) the
relative harm the parties will suffer in the interim due to the issuance or
nonissuance of the injunction.” (Dodge, Warren & Peters Ins. Servs.,
Inc. v. Riley (2003) 105 Cal.App.4th 1414, 1420.) “The greater the showing
on one, the less must be shown on the other to support an injunction.” (Ibid.,
quoting Butt v. State of California (1992) 4 Cal.4th 668, 678, brackets
and ellipses omitted.) The burden of proof is on the plaintiff as the moving
party “to show all elements necessary to support issuance of a preliminary
injunction.” (O’Connell v. Superior Court (2006) 141 Cal.App.4th 1452,
1481.)¿¿ 
¿¿ 
Preliminary
injunctive relief requires the use of competent evidence to create a sufficient
factual showing on the grounds for relief. (See, e.g., Ancora-Citronelle
Corp. v. Green (1974) 41 Cal.App.3d 146, 150 [injunction erroneously
granted without verified complaint, affidavits, or declarations to support
injunctive relief].) Injunctive relief may be granted based upon a verified
complaint only if it contains sufficient evidentiary, as opposed to ultimate,
facts. (Code Civ. Proc., § 527, subd. (a).) A plaintiff seeking injunctive
relief must also show the absence of an adequate damages remedy at law. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 526, subd. (a)(4).)¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A preliminary
injunction may be classified as either a prohibitory injunction, which requires
parties “to refrain from a particular act,” or a mandatory injunction, which
requires parties to perform “an affirmative act that changes the position of
the parties.” (Davenport v. Blue Cross of California (1997) 52
Cal.App.4th 435, 446.) Mandatory preliminary injunctions are rarely granted. (Teachers
Insurance & Annuity Association v. Furlotti (1999) 70 Cal.App.4th 1487,
1493.) More specifically, “[t]he granting of a mandatory injunction pending
trial is not permitted except in extreme cases where the right thereto is
clearly established.” (Ibid.)¿¿ 
 
A preliminary
injunction may be granted upon affidavits where the complaint or affidavits
establish sufficient grounds. (Code Civ. Proc. §¿527(a).) The burden is on the
moving party to show all elements necessary to support issuance of a
preliminary injunction.¿ (O'Connell v. Superior Court¿(2006) 141
Cal.App.4th 1452, 1481.)¿ 
¿ 
“In deciding
whether to issue a preliminary injunction, a trial court weighs two
interrelated factors: the likelihood the moving party ultimately will prevail
on the merits, and the relative interim harm to the parties from the issuance
or nonissuance of the injunction.” (Hunt v. Superior Court¿(1999) 21
Cal.4th 984, 999.) “The trial court's determination must be guided by a ‘mix’
of the potential-merit and interim-harm factors; the greater the plaintiff's
showing on one, the less must be shown on the other to support an injunction.”
(Butt v. State of California¿(1992) 4 Cal.4th 668, 678.) 
 
B.     Request for
Judicial Notice
 
Defendants request
the Court take judicial notice of the Minute Order dated April 7, 2023 in Sherry
Taheri v. John Tiung Hanli, et al. Case No. 23SMSC00107.
 
The court
may take judicial notice of “official acts of the legislative, executive, and
judicial departments of the United States and of any state of the United
States,” “[r]ecords of (1) any court of this state or (2) any court of record
of the United States or of any state of the United States,” and “[f]acts and
propositions that are not reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of
immediate and accurate determination by resort to sources of reasonably
indisputable accuracy.” (Evid. Code § 452, subds. (c), (d), and (h).)¿¿ 
 
The court
grants Defendants’ request for judicial notice.
 
C.     Evidentiary
Objections
 
The Court rules on Plaintiff’s objections to the Declaration of Julie
Yabu as follows:
·      
¶¶ 6, 7: Overruled.
·       ¶
9: Sustained (Lacks foundation)
·       Yabu
Decl., Exhibit B: Sustained (Lacks foundation; Hearsay)
·       ¶
20: Overruled
 
D.     Discussion
 
Plaintiff requests an order of the Court, ordering Defendants 1)
to immediately stop watering the trees bordering and/or encroaching on the
Plaintiff’s Property; and 2) removing and/or relocating the trees bordering,
and/or encroaching on the Plaintiff’s Property.
 
a.     Likelihood of
Prevailing on the Merits
 
                                                   
i.     First Cause
of Action: Continuing Trespass; Fourth Cause of Action: Injunctive Relief
 
Plaintiff
argues that Defendants’ trespass of trees and water constitutes a continuous
trespass. Trespass is an unlawful interference with possession of property. (Staples
v. Hoefke (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 1397, 1406.) “[T]he two primary
characteristics of a continuing nuisance or trespass are: (1) the
nuisance/trespass is abatable, and/or (2) the damages from the
nuisance/trespass may vary over time. [If] an encroachment ... is abatable, the
law does not presume that such an encroachment will be permanently maintained.
The maintenance of such an encroachment is a continuing trespass or nuisance.” (Spar
v. Pac. Bell (1991) 235 Cal. App. 3d 1480, 1485.) “In these instances,
persons harmed by [the continuing nuisance] may bring successive actions for
damages until the nuisance is abated. [Citation.] Recovery is limited, however,
to actual injury suffered prior to commencement of each action. Prospective damages
are unavailable.” (Ibid.) 
 
Here, the FAC alleges that
Defendants’ actions of planting trees on Plaintiff’s property and watering the
trees constitutes a trespass onto Plaintiff’s property. (FAC, ¶¶ 47-52.) The FAC alleges Defendants
continue to water the encroaching trees which continues to cause damage to
Plaintiff’s property. (Ibid.) It further alleges that Defendants have
failed to monitor or cut back the roots of the encroaching trees. (Ibid.)
Plaintiff alleges the growing roots of the encroaching trees continues to cause
foundational damage to Plaintiff’s property and the new retaining wall. (Ibid.)

In opposition, Defendants merely
argue that Defendants do
not water near the property line between their property and Plaintiff’s
property. Defendants attach photographs showing that when they bought their
property, the trees in the planter area near Plaintiff’s property were already
present. (Yabu Decl., Ex. A.)
However, Plaintiff alleges that
she is experiencing continuing damage and cites to a letter from her contractor
in support. Plaintiff alleges that she wanted to erect an ADU on her property. (FAC, ¶ 26.) However, on June 10, 2023,
Plaintiff’s contractor was forced to halt the project due to damage caused by
Defendants trespassing. (FAC,
¶ 28.)
Plaintiff’s contractor sent her a letter stating: 
“To summarize, upon commencing the project, we encountered issues
with the north wall, specifically concerning its foundation and water damage.
This damage was caused by irrigation seeping through the neighboring planter
box located at the neighbor property with the address of 10764 Rochester Ave.
Additionally, the roots of the existing trees within that planter box had
adversely affected the wall's foundation…Regrettably, despite the
implementation of the new wall footing, we are still experiencing water seepage
through the wall…Due to this persistent issue, we are unable to proceed with
the construction work on the northern side of the building.” (FAC, Ex. 4.)
Since
Plaintiff’s FAC is based on Defendants’ alleged continuous trespass, the remedy
for a continuous trespass is either a suit for injunctive relief or successive
actions for damages as new injuries occur. (Kornoff v. Kingsburg Cotton Oil Co. (1955) 45 Cal.2d 265,
269.) 
 
The Court
finds Plaintiff has demonstrated a probability of success on the merits.
 
                                                  
ii.     Second Cause
of Action: Financial Abuse of Elder or
Dependent Adult
 
“[F]inancial abuse of an elder .
. . occurs when a person or entity does the following:”
 
(1) Takes, secretes, appropriates, obtains, or retains real or
personal property of an elder or dependent adult for a wrongful use or with
intent to defraud, or both.
 
(2) Assists in taking, secreting, appropriating, obtaining, or
retaining real or personal property of an elder or dependent adult for a
wrongful use or with intent to defraud, or both.
 
(3) Takes, secretes, appropriates, obtains, or retains, or
assists in taking, secreting, appropriating, obtaining, or retaining, real or
personal property of an elder or dependent adult by undue influence, as defined
in Section 15610.70.
 
(Welf. & Inst. Code §
15610.30(a).)
 
The FAC
alleges Plaintiff has been a senior citizen since February 2022. (FAC, ¶¶ 64-65.)
Due to her physical disabilities, Plaintiff alleges she is a dependent
adult. (FAC, ¶¶ 64-65.) The FAC alleges that Defendants continuing trespass has
deprived Plaintiff of her real property rights and full use of her home by
refusing to allow Plaintiff to waterproof her retaining wall, or remove/address
encroaching trees and roots. (FAC, ¶¶ 61-70.) Based on the same evidence discussed above attesting to damage
to Plaintiff’s property, the Court finds Plaintiff has demonstrated a
probability of success on the merits.
 
                                                
iii.     Third Cause
of Action: Quiet Title
 
CCP section 761.020 provides that a complaint for quiet title
shall be verified and include: (1) a description of the property that is the
subject of the action, including both the legal description and its street
address or common designation if the subject property is real property; (2) the
plaintiff’s title as to which determination is sought and basis of the title;
(3) the adverse claims to the plaintiff’s title against which determination is
sought; (4) the date of which the determination is sought; and (5) a prayer for
the determination of the title of the plaintiff against the adverse claims.
(See Code Civ. Proc., § 761.020.)  
 
The FAC describes
the Wilkins Property to be “10761 Wilkins Avenue, Los Angeles,
California 90024, Assessor’s
Identification Number 4325-014-014” and “Lot
14 of Block 29 of Tract No. 7803, in the City of Los Angeles, County of Los
Angeles, State of California, as per Map recorded in Book 88, Pages 73 to 75
inclusive of Maps, in the Office of the County Recorded of said County.” (FAC, ¶¶ 10, 75.) Plaintiff also describes the method of vesting
of title to the Plaintiff by fee simple title via grant deed dated February 13,
2006. (FAC, ¶ 11.) Plaintiff states the adverse claims to Plaintiff’s title on
the basis that Defendants claim an easement of the Wilkins Property where the
trees and tree planters lie on the northern side of the retaining wall. (FAC,
¶¶ 76-78.)
 
Upon
review of the FAC, the Court finds that Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged the
description of the subject property (FAC, ¶¶
10, 75),
that Plaintiff obtained title to the subject property (FAC, ¶ 11), and
Defendants’ adverse claims to Plaintiff’s title (FAC ¶¶ 76-78). Based on the
foregoing, the
Court finds
Plaintiff has demonstrated a probability of success on the merits.
 
b.     Balance of
Harms
 
The second factor which a trial court examines is the interim
harm that plaintiff is likely to sustain if the injunction is denied as
compared to the harm that the defendant is likely to suffer if the court grants
a preliminary injunction. (Donahue Schriber Realty Group, Inc. v. Nu
Creation Outreach, (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 1171, 1177.)  This factor
involves consideration of the inadequacy of other remedies, the degree of
irreparable harm, and the necessity of preserving the status quo.  (Ibid.) 
 
Plaintiff
argues that she will suffer irreparable harm. She asserts the constant watering and growing roots will lead to
further damage to the Plaintiff’s property and compromise her home’s foundation.
Plaintiff is also forced to put off erecting an ADU on her property. (Taheri
Decl., ¶¶ 26-28.)
 
In opposition,
Defendants do not argue they will suffer any harm. Instead, Defendants dispute
that any water damage is caused by Defendants. The Court finds the harm
Plaintiff is likely to sustain if the injunction is denied outweighs any harm
that the Defendant is likely to suffer if the court grants the preliminary
injunction.
 
Thus,
the Court finds Plaintiff has sufficiently established a reasonable probability
of success on her claims and that she will suffer irreparable harm if the
motion is denied. Based
on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion ordering Defendants 1) to immediately stop watering the trees
bordering and/or encroaching on the Plaintiff’s Property; and 2) removing
and/or relocating any trees bordering, and/or encroaching on the Plaintiff’s
Property.
 
III. DISPOSITION
 

Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion for
Preliminary Injunction is GRANTED.  