  Case Number:  23STCV01373    Hearing Date:   January 26, 2024    Dept:  15 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE MOTIONS TO COMPEL; PRO HAC VICE
APPLICATION
            The
parties filed five motions to compel discovery discussed below.  
Vanderbilt Minerals’ Motion to Compel IME
and Genetic Testing
            Defendant
Vanderbilt Minerals moves to compel an independent medical examination and
genetic testing of Plaintiff Roberto Sotomayor. 
Defendant contends there is scientific evidence that mesothelioma can be
caused by genetic anomalies without any exposure to asbestos.
The preference trial is February
13, 2024, and the expert discovery cutoff date is in less than two weeks.  Defendant gave no reason for waiting so close
to trial to seek an IME and genetic testing. 
Defendant does not explain how the IME can be conducted, the genetic
testing can be done, the defense expert can produce a report, the defense
expert can be deposed, and then Plaintiffs’ expert can be deposed, all in the
next 13 days before the February 8, 2024 expert discovery cutoff date.  Indeed, Defendant did not even identify its
expert on this matter.
The time pressure is
especially acute in this case because the case is far from ready for
trial.  Thirty defendants remain in this
case.  The parties have not filed a single
joint trial document.  Preparing joint
trial documents with so many parties involved and getting ready for trial will
take all of the next 18 days’ time. 
Because this is a preference case, the court cannot continue the trial
date merely because the parties have not completed discovery.
The motion is DENIED.
Kaiser Gypsum’s Motion to Compel
Verifications
            Defendant
Kaiser Gypsum Company, Inc. moves to compel verifications to 77 sets of
discovery responses.  Unless the response
consists entirely of objections, it must be signed under oath.  (See, e.g., Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.250,
subdivision (a).)
            Plaintiffs
argue the motion is not timely and there was no IDC.  The court set an expedited briefing schedule
only for defendants who have the preference trial date of February 13,
2024.  Kaiser Gypsum is not going to
trial on February 13, 2024.  Therefore Kaiser
Gypsum should not have filed this motion on the expedited schedule.
            For
future reference, if a party fails to serve a verification with a discovery
response that does not consist only of objections, the propounding party should
IMMEDIATELY request the verification.  If
the responding party fails to provide the verification forthwith, the
propounding party should IMMEDIATELY schedule an IDC.  Unverified responses are not proper, are not
timely, and can subject the responding party to monetary sanctions and
ultimately evidentiary sanctions.  A
practice of not verifying discovery responses is improper, violates the
discovery statutes, causes an increase in litigation costs, wastes court
resources, and is unprofessional.
            The
motion is OFF CALENDAR because the court did not allow Kaiser Gypsum to file
discovery motions on the expedited schedule.
Plaintiffs’ Motion to Compel Witness from
Plastic Sales Inc.
            Plaintiffs
filed a motion to compel a PMQ witness from Plastic Sales Inc.  Plaintiffs served a notice of deposition on
December 29, 2023 for a deposition on January 8, 2024.  Defendant contends that it dissolved in 1999
and no longer has anyone with knowledge.
            Plaintiffs
contend that James Quinn, who executed a declaration for Defendant’s motion for
summary judgment and who is the president of Defendant’s successor-in-interest,
can testify.  In that November 8, 2023 declaration,
Quinn testified under oath to information about Defendant.  Therefore, he has knowledge about Defendant. 
The motion is GRANTED as
to a deposition of James Quinn. 
Defendant Plastic Sales Inc. is to produce pursuant to the notice of
deposition for a deposition to take place by February 6, 2024.  Defendant states the deposition topics should
be limited.  If Defendant wanted to limit
the deposition topics, it should have filed a motion for a protective order.
The moving party is to
give notice.
Plaintiffs’ Motion to Compel Further
Responses and Deposition from Saint-Gobain Abrasives 
            Plaintiffs
move to compel further responses to requests for production and a notice of deposition
from Saint-Gobain Abrasives, Inc.  The
court rules as follows:
            A.        Document Requests
            General
Objections:  All of the general
objections and preliminary statements are improper and are stricken.
            Nos. 11,
12:  Denied.  These requests seek all color photographs of
grinding wheels containing asbestos from 1040 to 1980.  Forty years of photographs is excessive and
burdensome.  
            Nos.
13, 14:  Denied.  These requests seek all color photographs of
certain wheels during a vague period of time. This request is overbroad and
vague.
            No.
15:  Denied.  This request seeks the inspection of all
grinding wheels containing asbestos. 
This request is overbroad as not limited to time nor the types of
grinding wheels at issue.
            B.        Notice of Deposition 
            No. 11:  Denied. 
See No. 15 above.
            No.
23:  Denied.  See No. 15 above.
            The
motion is DENIED.  The moving party is to
give notice.
Plaintiffs’ Motion to Compel Further
Responses and Deposition from Industrial Holdings
            Plaintiffs
move to compel further responses to requests for production and a notice of
deposition from Industrial Holdings Company. 
The court rules as follows:
            A.        Document Requests
            No.
14:  Denied.  This request seeks the inspection of all
grinding wheels containing asbestos. 
This request is overbroad as not limited to time nor the types of
grinding wheels at issue.
            B.        Notice of Deposition 
            No.
23:  Denied.  See No. 14 above.
            The
motion is DENIED.  The moving party is to
give notice.
Pro Hac Vice Application of Jennifer
Whelan
            The application
is granted.
            The
moving party is to give notice.