 Case Number:  23SMCV03244    Hearing Date:   January 16, 2025    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING - NO. 1
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


January 16, 2025




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV03244




MOTION


Motion for Leave to Amend Complaint




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiff Ashlee Nicole Saldana




OPPOSING PARTY


Defendant Culver City Mall, LLC



 
BACKGROUND
 
This case arises from an incident where Plaintiff became trapped in
the back of the Victoria’s Secret store where she worked during an active
shooter situation at the mall where the store was located.  
 
On July 18, 2023, Plaintiff Ashlee Nicole Saldana (“Plaintiff”)
brought suit against Defendant Culver City Mall, LLC (erroneously sued as
Westfield Corporation) (“Defendant”) alleging two causes of action for (1)
premises liability; and (2) negligence and negligent hiring, training,
supervision, and/or retention.  
 
On June 3, 2024, Plaintiff added Defendant Allied Universal Security
Services Universal Protection Service LPP (“Allied”), via Doe amendment.  
 
On September 25, 2024, Allied answered the Complaint and filed its own
Cross-Complaint against Roes 1 through 20 for apportionment of fault,
indemnity, declaratory relief, and negligence. 

 
Plaintiff now moves for leave to amend the complaint.  Defendant opposes the motion and Plaintiff
replies.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Amendments
to Pleadings: General Provisions
 
            Under Code of Civil Procedure
section 473, subdivision (a)(1), “The court may, in furtherance of justice, and
on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or
proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a
mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may,
upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or demurrer. The court may
likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any
terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other
particulars; and may upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time
limited by this code.”
 
            To wit, without notice to the other
party the Court has wide discretion to allow either party (i) to add or strike
the name of a party or (ii) to correct a mistake in the name of a party or a
mistake in any other respect “in furtherance of justice” and “on any terms as
may be proper.” (See Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a)(1); see also Marriage
of Liss (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1426, 1429.) Alternatively, after notice to
the other party, the Court has wide discretion to allow either party to amend
pleadings “upon any terms as may be just.” (See Code Civ. Proc., § 473,
subd. (a)(1). Similarly, Code of Civil Procedure section 576 states “Any judge,
at any time before or after commencement of trial, in the furtherance of
justice, and upon such terms as may be proper, may allow the amendment of any
pleading or pretrial conference order.”
 
            Judicial policy favors resolution of
all disputed matters between the parties and, therefore, leave to amend is
liberally granted. (Berman vs. Bromberg (1986) 56 Cal.App.4th 936, 945; Hirsa
v. Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486, 488-489 [this has been an
established policy in California since 1901] (citing Frost v. Whitter
(1901) 132 Cal. 421, 424; Thomas v. Bruza (1957) 151 Cal.App.2d 150,
155).) The Court of Appeal in Morgan v. Superior Court held “If the
motion to amend is timely made and the granting of the motion will not
prejudice the opposing party, it is error to refuse permission to amend and
where the refusal also results in a party being deprived of the right to assert
a meritorious cause of action or a meritorious defense, it is not only error
but an abuse of discretion.” (Morgan v. Superior Court (1959) 172
Cal.App.2d 527, 530, citations omitted.) Moreover, “it is an abuse of
discretion for the court to deny leave to amend where the opposing party was
not misled or prejudiced by the amendment.” (Kittredge Sports Co. v.
Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048 [opposing party did not
establish harm by the delay in moving to amend the complaint].)
 
            “The court may grant leave to amend
the pleadings at any stage of the action.” (Weil & Brown, Cal. Practice
Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2023) ¶ 6:636 (hereafter
Weil & Brown).) Denial of a motion to amend is rarely justified if the
motion is timely made and granting the motion will not prejudice the opposing
party. (Id. at ¶ 6:639, citations omitted.) However, if the party
seeking the amendment has been dilatory, and the delay has prejudiced the
opposing party, the judge has discretion to deny leave to amend. (Id. at
¶ 6:655, citations omitted. Absent prejudice, any claimed delay alone is not
grounds for denial. “If the delay in seeking the amendment has not misled or
prejudiced the other side, the liberal policy of allowing amendments prevails.
Indeed, it is an abuse of discretion to deny leave in such a case even if
sought as late as the time of trial. (Id. at ¶ 6:653 (citing Higgins
v. Del Faro (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 558, 564-565).) “Prejudice exists where
the amendment would result in a delay of trial, along with loss of critical
evidence, added costs of preparation, increased burden of discovery, etc. . . .
But the fact that the amendment involves a change in legal theory which would
make admissible evidence damaging to the opposing party is not the kind of
prejudice the court will consider.” (Weil & Brown, supra, at
¶ 6:656, citations omitted.)
 
            “Even if some prejudice is shown,
the judge may still permit the amendment but impose conditions, as the Court is
authorized to grant leave ‘on such terms as may be proper.’” (Weil &
Brown, supra, at ¶ 6:663, citation omitted.) For example, the court
may cause the party seeking the amendment to pay the costs and fees incurred in
preparing for trial. (Id. at ¶ 6:664 (citing Fuller v. Vista Del
Arroyo Hotel, 42 Cal.App.2d 400, 404).)
 
California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1324: Procedural Requirements
 
            Pursuant to California Rules of
Court, rule 3.1324(a), a motion to amend a pleading before trial must:
 
“(1) Include a copy of the proposed amendment or
amended pleadings, which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from
previous pleadings or amendments;
(2) state what allegations in the previous
pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and
line number, the deleted allegations are located; and
(3) State what allegations are proposed to be
added to the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line
number, the additional allegations are located.”
 
            In addition, under Rule 3.1324(b), a
motion to amend a pleading before trial must be accompanied by a separate
declaration that specifies the following:
 
“(1) the effect of the amendment;
(2) why the amendment is necessary and proper;
(3) when the facts giving rise to the amended
allegations were discovered; and
(4) the reasons why the request for amendment was
not made earlier.”
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Plaintiff seeks to add allegations
about the newly-named Allied Defendant, as well as additional factual
allegations, including that Plaintiff was instructed to communicate using a
specific mall application, and of Plaintiff’s prior reporting of safety
concerns, as well as to correct grammatical errors.
 
            Counsel indicates the amendment was
not requested sooner because counsel wanted to review the deposition transcript
for Plaintiff’s worker’s compensation claim filed against Victoria’s Secret
only, which counsel did not receive until November 4, 2024, and due to
counsel’s excusable neglect in failing to keep track of the trial
deadline.  
 
            The Court finds that Plaintiff’s
motion does not satisfy the procedural requirements of Rule 3.1324(b).  As a threshold matter, the Court cannot
clearly discern, based on Counsel’s declaration exactly what allegations
are proposed to be added to the Complaint, because Plaintiff has not provided
the Court with sufficient detail of all changes, nor has Plaintiff
provided a redline for the Court to review.
 
            Further, neither Plaintiff’s motion
nor the accompanying declaration clearly state the effect of the proposed
amendments.  Based on the motion, it
appears that Plaintiff is simply adding additional factual detail.  Based on Defendant’s opposition, it sounds
like Plaintiff is adding causes of action or expanding the theory of
liability.  
 
            Nor has Plaintiff indicated when the
facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
            Therefore, Plaintiffs’ motion for
leave to amend the complaint is denied without prejudice on procedural grounds
for failure to comply with the requirements of Rule 3.1324(b).  
 
            The Court orders Plaintiff to
provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file the notice with a proof of
service forthwith.
 
 
 
 
DATED:  January 16, 2025                            ___________________________
                                                                  Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                  Judge
of the Superior Court
 TENTATIVE RULING- NO. 2
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


January 16, 2025




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV03244




MOTION


Continue Trial 




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiff Ashlee Nicole Saldana




OPPOSING PARTIES


none



 
BACKGROUND
 
This case arises from an incident where Plaintiff became trapped in
the back of the Victoria’s Secret store where she worked during an active
shooter situation at the mall where the store was located.  
 
On July 18, 2023, Plaintiff Ashlee Nicole Saldana (“Plaintiff”)
brought suit against Defendant Culver City Mall, LLC (erroneously sued as Westfield
Corporation) (“Defendant”) alleging two causes of action for (1) premises
liability; and (2) negligence and negligent hiring, training, supervision,
and/or retention.  
 
On June 3, 2024, Plaintiff added Defendant Allied Universal Security
Services Universal Protection Service LPP (“Allied”), via Doe amendment.  
 
On September 25, 2024, Allied answered the Complaint and filed its own
Cross-Complaint against Roes 1 through 20 for apportionment of fault,
indemnity, declaratory relief, and negligence. 

 
The Final Status Conference is currently scheduled for January 17,
2025 and a 5-7 day jury trial is scheduled for February 10, 2025.  
 
On November 19, 2024, the parties filed a joint stipulation to
continue the FSC, trial date, and attendant discovery and motion cut-off dates
by approximately seven months, which the Court denied for insufficient good
cause because the parties “failed to outline with specificity” the outstanding
non expert and expert discovery to warrant continuing the trial.  (See Minute Order, Dec. 4, 2024.)
 
On December 10, 2024, Plaintiff applied ex parte to continue the
trial, which the Court denied for failure to make an affirmative factual
showing of irreparable harm, immediate danger, o rother statutory basis for
granting ex parte relief, failure to demonstrate why the matter is
appropriately handled as an emergency hearing, and failure to demonstrate that
Plaintiff is without fault in creating the crisis that requires ex parte relief.  (See Minute Order, Dec. 12, 2024.)
 
Plaintiff now moves again to continue the trial, FSC, and attendant
cut-off dates.  Plaintiff’s motion is
unopposed and Defendant has filed a notice of non-opposition.
 
ANALYSIS
 
“Continuances are granted only on an affirmative showing of good cause
requiring a continuance.”  (In re Marriage of Falcone & Fyke
(2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 814, 823.)  A
trial court has broad discretion in considering a request for a trial
continuance.  (Pham v. Nguyen (1997) 54 Cal.App.4th 11, 13-18.)  California Rules of Court rule 3.1332 sets
forth factors for the Court to consider in ruling on a motion to continue
trial.  Whether the parties have
stipulated to the postponement is a relevant factor for consideration.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 595.2, but see Lorraine v. McComb (1934) 220 Cal. 753,
756-757 [finding a stipulation to be merely “directory].)
 
            California Rules of Court, rule
3.1332(c), provides:
 
Although continuances of trials are disfavored, each request for a
continuance must be considered on its own merits.  The court may grant a continuance only on an
affirmative showing of good cause requiring the continuance.  Circumstances that may indicate good cause
include:
 
(1)  The unavailability of an
essential lay or expert witness because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances;
 
(2)  The unavailability of a
party because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;
 
(3)  The unavailability of trial
counsel because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;
 
(4)  The substitution of trial
counsel, but only where there is an affirmative showing that the substitution
is required in the interests of justice;
 
(5)  The addition of a new party
if:
 
(A)  The new party has not had a
reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial; or
 
(B)  The other parties have not
had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial in
regard to the new party's involvement in the case;
 
(6)  A party's excused inability
to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite
diligent efforts; or
 
(7)  A significant,
unanticipated change in the status of the case as a result of which the case is
not ready for trial.
 
Factors the Court considers in ruling on a motion for continuance
include:
 
(1)  The proximity of the trial
date;
 
(2)  Whether there was any
previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to any party;
 
(3)  The length of the
continuance requested;
 
(4)  The availability of
alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the motion or
application for a continuance;
 
(5)  The prejudice that parties
or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance;
 
(6)  If the case is entitled to
a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status and whether the need
for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay;
 
(7)  The court's calendar and
the impact of granting a continuance on other pending trials;
 
(8)  Whether trial counsel is
engaged in another trial;
 
(9)  Whether all parties have
stipulated to a continuance;
 
(10)  Whether the interests of
justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by
imposing conditions on the continuance; and
 
(11)  Any other fact or
circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or application.
 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d).)
 
            Plaintiff
argues that a trial continuance of at least six months is warranted because “Plaintiff
has not yet had the opportunity to complete the Person Most Qualified
depositions for Culver City Mall, LLC and Allied Universal Security Service;
Plaintiff anticipates both defendants will object to some of the categories for
deposition thus requiring additional motion work including knowledge and
information pertaining to knowledge of similar criminal activity on the
property, and knowledge of prior complaints from store in owners inside the
mall with defective or malfunctioning doors.” 
(Motion at pp. 7-8.)
 
            Plaintiff’s
deposition is currently scheduled for January 17, 2025, but “Plaintiff is
awaiting the new trial date so she can coordinate Person most Qualified
depositions for each of the defendants.” 
(Kantzabedian Decl. ¶¶ 18-19.)    
 
            Plaintiff
will also “require depositions by defendants’ management and security personnel
to establish knowledge of dangerous and hazardous conditions on the property,
including doors….”  (Kantzabedian Decl. ¶
21.)
 
            Plaintiff
also points out that Allied was recently added as a party to the lawsuit and
only answered the complaint on September 9, 2024.  (Kantzabedian Decl. ¶ 22.)
 
            Also,
Plaintiff “is executing a discovery plan that includes Plaintiff’s deposition,
Person Most Qualified depositions for each defendant (dates to be determined),
and written discovery (in process).”  (Kantzabedian
Decl. ¶ 23.)  
 
            Further,
“Plaintiff is in the process of obtaining records under California Freedom of
Information Act from relevant public agencies” and requires additional time “to
receive, review, and incorporate this information into case preparation.”  (Kantzabedian Decl. ¶ 24.)
 
            Further,
Plaintiff needs additional time to pursue settlement discussions and mediation
before trial.  (Kantzabedian Decl. ¶ 25.)
 
            Plaintiff’s
failure to timely pursue and obtain discovery from Defendant does not
constitute good cause warranting a continuance.
 
            However,
Allied’s recent addition to the case, the need to conduct fulsome discovery
from Allied, to obtain and analyze records sought from public entities under
California’s Freedom of Information Act, and pursue, as appropriate, mediation
or settlement prior to trial do constitute good cause warranting the requested
continuance.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court grants Plaintiff’s motion to continue trial and
orders as follows:
 
·      
The trial date, currently set for February 10,
2025 is continued to September 15, 2025 at 10:00 A.M. in Department 207.
 
·      
The Final Status Conference, currently set for January
17, 2025, is continued to August 29, 2025 at 9:30 A.M. in Department 207. 
 
·      
All discovery and pre-trial motion cut-off dates
shall be based upon the trial date of September 15, 2025.
 
·      
Per the Discovery Act, the parties shall meet
and confer forthwith to schedule and complete all non-expert discovery and to
prepare for the completion of expert discovery to obviate the need for a
further continuance of the trial.  Plaintiff
shall take the lead in ensuring that this order is complied with.  
 
·      
The Court issued a Trial Preparation Order on
February 5, 2024.  The Parties shall
obtain a copy of the Order and comply with it. 

 
·      
No further continuance of the trial absent
sufficient good cause.  
 
 
            Plaintiff shall provide notice of
this order and file a proof of service forthwith.
 
 
 
DATED:  January 16, 2025                                                    ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court