 Case Number:  23SMCV02555    Hearing Date:   January 16, 2025    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


January 16, 2025




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV02555 (c/w 23SMCV03059)




MOTION


Continue Trial




MOVING PARTY


Defendant and Cross-Complainant Elisa Perlman




OPPOSING PARTY


(1)  
  Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant Malibu Road Homeowners
  Association, joined by Cross-Complainants Andrea L. Valero and Gelly Y.
  Valero as Co-Trustees of the Andrea Valero Family Trust dated November 6,
  2019
(2)  
  Cross-Defendant Andrea L. Valero



 
BACKGROUND
 
The consolidated actions arise from a dispute between Defendant and
Cross-Complainant Elisa Perlman (“Perlman”), and her neighbors, Andrea and
Gelly Valero (collectively, the “Valeros”). 
Cross-Defendant Andrea Valero (“Valero”) was also the sole member of the
board of directors for the Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant Malibu Road Homeowners
Association (“HOA”) that governs the property during most of the events giving
rise to the consolidated actions.  The
Valeros and the HOA brought two separate lawsuits against Perlman stemming from
the same factual dispute concerning water leaks into the Valeros’ unit,
allegedly caused by Perlman.
 
Perlman filed a Cross-Complaint against the HOA and Valero, alleging
nineteen causes of action for breach of the CC&Rs; breach of other
governing documents; violations of Civil Code sections 5210; 4950; 4910; 4920;
4765; 5600; 4923; 4930; 5605; 4925; 4935; 5610; 5615; and 4040; two causes of
action for breach of fiduciary duties; and declaratory relief.
 
Perlman now moves to continue the trial to December 2025 and all
trial-related deadlines.  The current
trial dates and related proceedings were set on December 5, 2023.  The Valeros and HOA oppose the motion and
Perlman replies.  
 
ANALYSIS
 
“Continuances are granted only on an affirmative showing of good cause
requiring a continuance.”  (In re Marriage of Falcone & Fyke
(2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 814, 823.)  A
trial court has broad discretion in considering a request for a trial
continuance.  (Pham v. Nguyen (1997) 54 Cal.App.4th 11, 13-18.)  California Rules of Court rule 3.1332 sets
forth factors for the Court to consider in ruling on a motion to continue
trial.  Whether the parties have
stipulated to the postponement is a relevant factor for consideration.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 595.2, but see Lorraine v. McComb (1934) 220 Cal. 753,
756-757 [finding a stipulation to be merely “directory].)
 
            California Rules of Court, rule
3.1332(c), provides:
 
Although continuances of trials are disfavored, each request for a
continuance must be considered on its own merits.  The court may grant a continuance only on an
affirmative showing of good cause requiring the continuance.  Circumstances that may indicate good cause
include:
 
(1)  The unavailability of an
essential lay or expert witness because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances;
 
(2)  The unavailability of a
party because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;
 
(3)  The unavailability of trial
counsel because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;
 
(4)  The substitution of trial
counsel, but only where there is an affirmative showing that the substitution
is required in the interests of justice;
 
(5)  The addition of a new party
if:
 
(A)  The new party has not had a
reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial; or
 
(B)  The other parties have not
had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial in
regard to the new party's involvement in the case;
 
(6)  A party's excused inability
to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite
diligent efforts; or
 
(7)  A significant,
unanticipated change in the status of the case as a result of which the case is
not ready for trial.
 
Factors the Court considers in ruling on a motion for continuance
include:
 
(1)  The proximity of the trial
date;
 
(2)  Whether there was any
previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to any party;
 
(3)  The length of the
continuance requested;
 
(4)  The availability of alternative
means to address the problem that gave rise to the motion or application for a
continuance;
 
(5)  The prejudice that parties
or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance;
 
(6)  If the case is entitled to
a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status and whether the need
for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay;
 
(7)  The court's calendar and
the impact of granting a continuance on other pending trials;
 
(8)  Whether trial counsel is
engaged in another trial;
 
(9)  Whether all parties have
stipulated to a continuance;
 
(10)  Whether the interests of
justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by
imposing conditions on the continuance; and
 
(11)  Any other fact or
circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or application.
 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d).)
 
            Perlman brings her motion on the
grounds that (1) “Due to the HOA’s failure to provide discovery responses, Ms.
Perlman hasn’t had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery despite
diligent efforts” and (2) “There have been significant and unanticipated
changes in the status of the case making the case not ready for trial.”
 
            As for the first ground, Perlman has
remedies if the HOA failed to provide discovery responses.  Contrary to Perlman’s characterization of
“diligent efforts,” Perlman did not even propound the discovery (Form
Interrogatories and Requests for Production of Documents, Set Two, and Requests
for Admission and Special Interrogatories, Set One) in question until November
1, 2024.  (See Galal Decl. ¶ 2.)  Perlman’s failure to timely propound and then
pursue the necessary remedies to obtain discovery responses demonstrates a lack
of diligence.  
 
            As for the second ground, the
“unanticipated changes in the status of the case” Perlman cites are (1) the
Court requiring the parties to attend an Informal Discovery Conference (“IDC”)
prior to filing a motion to compel “Delays Ms. Perlman’s ability to compel the
HOA to respond to discovery” and (2) Perlman has had trouble locating and
personally serving subpoenas on essential witnesses.
 
            As for the first “unanticipated
change,” the Court’s rules for attending an IDC have been consistent throughout
the entire case.  Nothing has changed in
this regard.  Moreover, the Court
requires the completion of an IDC before discovery motions are heard, not filed
and scheduled for hearing.  And if the
timing of an IDC is detrimental to ensuring that an action proceeds
expeditiously toward resolution or trial, a party, such as Perlman, can request
that the Court specially set an IDC.  But
the Court has no information that Perlman did so.  
 
            As for Perlman’s inability to locate
and serve subpoenas on third-party witnesses, the Court has reviewed the Galal
declaration and finds a similar lack of diligence.  Specifically, counsel only obtained
correspondence from its process server that it had a bad address for NAST
Enterprises Corporation on December 12, 2024. 
(Galal Decl. ¶ 14 and Ex. D.)  As
such, counsel declares, “A more comprehensive search is now required.”  (Ibid.)  But counsel’s failure to do a “comprehensive
search” to locate necessary third-party witnesses until the eve of trial does
not demonstrate diligence.
 
            Finally, Perlman’s counsel indicates
an unavailability due to a conflicting trial in another case that is older, Bruce
v. Cortez Blu Community Association, Inc.
 
            Counsel’s unavailability due to a
conflicting trial would constitute good cause to continue this trial, but not
the discovery cut-off dates, if that other trial indeed goes forward.  However, at this juncture, it is too early to
tell based on the record provided, whether the Bruce trial will indeed
go forward as scheduled.   
 
            Notwithstanding, the Court will be
Dark from April 9 through April 25.  As
such, the Court on its own motion will continue the Trial only, and not extend
any related deadlines including those related to non-expert and expert
discovery.  
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court denies Perlman’s motion to continue trial without
prejudice.  But in light of the Court’s
schedule, the Court continues the Trial to May 12, 2025 at 10:00 A.M.   
 
Further, the Final Status Conference remains scheduled on March 21,
2025, and the Court expects full compliance with the Trial Preparation Order
that was issued on  December 5,
2023.  
 
 Further, the Court orders
Perlman to provide notice of this order and file a proof of service of such.
 
 
DATED:  January 16, 2025                                                    ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 