


[1]              Lessee, in opposition, argues that
the Settlement is not enforceable on the basis that it “was signed by a person
lacking the requisite authority to sign on behalf of Plaintiff,” specifically
Victoria Chiang (“Chiang”) (Opp., 2:5-9). Lessee’s argument, which is not
supported by any legal authority or evidence which would refute Chiang’s
authority to sign the Settlement on behalf of Plaintiff, is rejected. Lessee
also notes that Chiang’s signature is not notarized while the other signatures
are. Plaintiff’s counsel Tiffany Truong (“Truong”), however, attests that on
July 24, 2023, Lessee’s counsel Rodney Lewin (“Lewin”) specifically asked her
to provide for Defendants to sign before a notary, and that prior to this
request, there was no notary request in prior versions of the settlement. (Truong
Decl., ¶ 3, Exh. A.) Truong further attests that she emailed Lewin the
Settlement and Stipulation on July 28, 2023 which were signed by Chiang as
Plaintiff’s agent and that at no time has Lessee, its attorneys of record, or
any other party disputed the enforceability of the Settlement prior to
Plaintiff’s receipt of Lessee’s opposition to the present motion. (Id.,
¶¶ 3-5, Exhs. A and B.) 


[2]              Truong explains that Plaintiff
originally filed the case naming defendant “So Cal Development 1, LLC,” but
discovered, when finalizing settlement, that said defendant had amended its
name to “So Calif Development 1, LLC” effective on or about February 7, 2022,
per its registration with the California Secretary of State. The Settlement and
Stipulation added the correct entity name for clarification. (Truong Decl., ¶¶ 3
and 4, Exh. 1, ¶ 2.2).


[3]              The term “Effectuve Date” is
defined as “the date that is the later of the date of execution of this
Agreement by Plaintiff or Defendant as shown below the Parties’ respective
signatures to this Agreement.” (Truong Decl., ¶ 3, Exh. 1, ¶ 1). The final
signature date was August 1, 2023. (Id.)


[4]              Lessee’s contention that the
“Notice of Default in Settlement” was improperly served because it was served
on its counsel of record fails. As Plaintiff points out, the Settlement does
not specify an address where notices of default are to be sent and Lewin
remains Lessee’s counsel of record in this case. Further, Truong attests that
Lewin never responded after she sent the “Notice of Default in Settlement” to
him, nor did he ever give her permission to contact Lessee directly regarding
its default of the Settlement. (Truong Decl., ¶ 7). 

