 Case Number:  22PSCV00430    Hearing Date:   March 14, 2024    Dept:  K Plaintiff Amir
Shamloo’s Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings (i.e., as to the Second Amended
Complaint) is DENIED as MOOT. Cross-Defendants Amir Shamloo’s and Zia Abhari’s Motion
for Judgment on the Pleadings (i.e., as to the cross-complaint) is DENIED.
Background   
Plaintiffs Zia Abhari (“Abhari”) and Amir Shamloo
(“Shamloo” and collectively with Abhari as the “Plaintiffs”) allege as follows:
On
May 2, 2020, Gordes Hospitality, Inc. (“Gordes”), through Ganyu Huang aka Gary Huang (“Huang”), and Shamloo, with Abhari serving as a silent partner, entered into an
“Asset Purchase Agreement” and a “Security Agreement” with Gordes for the transfer of ownership of
Hamilton’s Steakhouse (“Hamilton”) from Gordes, as seller, to Plaintiffs, as
buyers. On June 18, 2020, LVGEM Hotel Corporation (“LVGEM”), through Huang, and Shamloo, with Abhari
serving as a silent partner of Shamloo, entered into a “Lease Agreement” for the lease of the property upon which
Hamilton is located. Gordes, LVGEM and Huang have refused to transfer the
existing liquor license for Hamilton to Plaintiffs, failed to provide
Plaintiffs with the insurance information and have undertaken efforts to
deprive Plaintiffs of their real estate leasehold possessory interest in the
premises upon which the Hamilton is located. 
On January 30, 2023,
Plaintiffs filed two “Amendment[s] to Complaint,”
wherein Jing Qiu Kwok (“Kwok”) was named in lieu of Doe 1 and Winsome CPA, Inc. (“Winsome”) was named in lieu of
Doe 2.
On May 3, 2023, the court
sustained Gordes, LVGEM and Huang’s demurrer to the First Amended Complaint
with leave to amend. The same day, Gordes and LVGEM filed a Cross-Complaint
against Abhari, Shamloo and Xicheng Qian (“Qian”), and Roes 1-10 for
1.                 
Conversion (as to Abhari & Shamloo)
2.                 
Conversion (as to Qian)
3.                 
Money Had and Received (as to Abhari &
Shamloo)
4.                 
Money Had and Received (as to Qian)
5.                 
Fraud – Intentional Misrepresentation
6.                 
Fraud in the Inducement
7.                 
Conspiracy to Defraud
8.                 
Unjust Enrichment (as to Abhari & Shamloo)
9.                 
Unjust Enrichment (as to Qian)
10.             
Violations of Business & Professions Code
Section 17200
11.             
Breach of Fiduciary Duties
12.             
Declaratory Relief (LVGEM)
13.             
Declaratory Relief (Gordes)
14.             
Declaratory Relief (LVGEM & Gordes)
15.             
Indemnification
On June 1, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a Second Amended
Complaint (“SAC”), asserting causes of action against Gordes, LVGEM, Huang,
Kwok, Winsome, Marshall Brubacher (“Brubacher”), Mundell Odlum & Haws LLP
(“MO&H” and collectively with the others as “Defendants”), and Does 5-100
for:
1.                 
Breach of the
“Asset Purchase Agreement” Contract
2.                 
Breach of the
“Security Agreement” Contract
3.                 
Breach of the
“Lease Agreement” Contract
4.                 
Tortious
Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing as to the “Asset
Purchase Agreement” Contract
5.                 
Tortious
Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing as to the
“Security Agreement” Contract
6.                 
Tortious
Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing as to the “Lease
Agreement” Contract
7.                 
Fraud in the
Inducement of Forming at Least the “Asset Purchase Agreement” Contract
8.                 
Negligent
Misrepresentation 
9.                 
Inducing
Breach of Contract
10.             
Fraud by False
Promise
On August 28, 2023, the court sustained, without leave to
amend, the demurrer to the fourth, fifth, sixth, and tenth causes of action.
The court also granted Gordes, LVGEM and Huang’s motion to strike as to the
request for punitive damages. On December 18, 2024, the court sustained without
leave to amend, the demurrer to the seventh, eighth and ninth causes of action.
A Case Management Conference is set for March 14, 2024.
Legal Standard
The rules
governing demurrers are generally applicable to a motion for judgment on the
pleadings. (Cloud v. Northrop Grumman
Corp. (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 995, 999; Code Civ. Proc., § 438,
subd. (d) [“The grounds for motion. . . shall appear on the face of the
challenged pleading or from any matter of which the court is required to take
judicial notice. Where the motion is based on a matter of which the court may take
judicial notice. . ., the matter shall be specified in the notice of motion, or
in the supporting points and authorities, except as the court may otherwise
permit”].)
A motion by a
plaintiff may only be made on the grounds “that the complaint states facts
sufficient to constitute a cause or causes of action against the defendant and
the answer does not state facts sufficient to constitute a defense to the
complaint.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd. (c)(1)(A).) A motion by a defendant
may only be made on the grounds that (1) “[t]he court has no jurisdiction of
the subject of the cause of action alleged in the complaint” or (2) “[t]he
complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action
against that defendant.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd. (c).)
Although a
nonstatutory motion “may be made at any time either prior to the trial or at
the trial itself” (Stoops v. Abbassi
(2002) 100 Cal.App.4th 644, 650 [quotation marks and citation omitted]), a statutory
motion cannot be made after entry of a pretrial conference order or 30 days
before the initial trial date, whichever is later, unless the court otherwise
permits. (Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd. (e).)
Discussion
Shamloo moves the court, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
§ 438 and the common law, for judgment on the pleadings in his favor and
against Gordes and LVGEM on the SAC. Shamloo and Abhari also move the court, pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure § 438 and the common law, for judgment on the
pleadings in their favor and against Gordes and LVGEM on the cross-complaint.
Request for Judicial Notice
The court will deny judicial notice of Shamloo’s and Amir’s
Request No. 1. “A court may take judicial notice of the Existence of each document in a
court file, but can only take judicial notice of the truth of facts asserted in
documents such as orders, findings of fact and conclusions of law, and
judgments.” (Day v. Sharp (1975) 50 Cal.App.3d 904, 914 [internal
quotations and citation omitted].) The court will deny judicial notice of
Requests Nos. 2 and 3 as irrelevant.
Merits
Shamloo seeks judgment on the pleadings with respect to the
SAC on the basis that the SAC is verified but Gordes’ and LVGEM’s answer
thereto is unverified. This aspect of the motion is summarily denied as moot,
inasmuch as the court granted LVGEM’s and Gordes’ “Ex Parte Motion for Leave to
File First Amended Verified Answer” on March 1, 2024.
Shamloo and Abhari seeks judgment on the pleadings with
respect to the cross-complaint on the basis of a purported “October 25, 2023
written admission.”  Shamloo’s and
Abhari’s motion in this regard relies upon the content of the aforesaid
document, which is beyond the scope of judicial notice. This aspect of the
motion is denied.