 Case Number:  23PSCV02002    Hearing Date:   March 14, 2024    Dept:  K Proposed Plaintiff-In-Intervention Old Republic
Insurance Company’s unopposed Motion for Leave to Intervene is GRANTED. 
Background   
Plaintiff Ashton Terry Merritt (“Plaintiff”) sustained
injuries/damages in an August 18, 2021 motor vehicle accident.
On July 5, 2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint, asserting a
cause of action against Chun Xiang Jiao (“Jiao”) and Does 1-100 for:
1.                 
Motor Vehicle
On July 17, 2023, Old Republic Insurance Company filed a
“Notice of Right to Lien.”
A Case Management Conference is set for March 14, 2024.
Legal Standard
“A nonparty shall
petition the court for leave to intervene by noticed motion or ex parte
application. The petition shall include a copy of the proposed complaint in
intervention or answer in intervention and set forth the grounds upon which
intervention rests.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 387, subd. (c).) 
“The court shall,
upon timely application, permit a nonparty to intervene in the action or
proceeding if either of the following conditions is satisfied: (A) A provision
of law confers an unconditional right to intervene. (B) The person seeking
intervention claims an interest relating to the property or transaction that is
the subject of the action and that person is so situated that the disposition
of the action may impair or impede that person’s ability to protect that
interest, unless that person’s interest is adequately represented by one or
more of the existing parties.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 387, subd. (d)(1).)
“The court may, upon
timely application, permit a nonparty to intervene in the action or proceeding
if the person has an interest in the matter in litigation, or in the success of
either of the parties, or an interest against both.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 387,
subd. (d)(2).)
“Any employer who
pays, or becomes obligated to pay compensation, or who pays, or becomes
obligated to pay salary in lieu of compensation, or who pays or becomes
obligated to pay an amount to the Department of Industrial Relations pursuant
to Section 4706.5, may likewise make a claim or bring an action against the
third person. In the latter event the employer may recover in the same suit, in
addition to the total amount of compensation, damages for which he or she was
liable including all salary, wage, pension, or other emolument paid to the
employee or to his or her dependents. . .” (Lab. Code, § 3852.)
“If the action is
brought by either the employer or employee, the other may, at any time before
trial on the facts, join as party plaintiff or shall consolidate his action, if
brought independently.” (Lab. Code, § 3853.)
“If an employee
injured in the course of his or her employment by a third party commences an
action against that third party, Labor Code section 3853 grants the employee’s
employer an unconditional right to intervene in the action at any time before
trial on the facts.’” (Mar. v. Sakti Internat. Corp. (1992) 9 Cal.App.4th
1780, 1782.) “If the employer is insured against workmen’s compensation
liability, the insurer has the same right of action as the employer, or is
subrogated to the employer’s right. In enforcing its cause of action the
insurer may . . . join as party plaintiff in the suit previously filed by the
employee . . .” (Burum v. State
Compensation Ins. Fund (1947) 30 Cal.2d 575, 580-581.)
Discussion

Old Republic
Insurance Company (“Proposed Intervenor”), as subrogee of Osmose Holdings Inc.
(“Osmose”), seeks an order granting leave to intervene in the instant action
and to file its proposed Complaint-in-Intervention.
Proposed
Intervenor insured Osmose for workers’ compensation insurance. (Morgan Decl., ¶
3). On or about August 18, 2021, Osmose’s employee, Plaintiff, was injured in
the course and scope of his employment, when Plaintiff was side-swiped on the
I-605 by Defendant. (Id., ¶ 4). Plaintiff thereafter applied for and
filed a workers’ compensation claim, through which Proposed Intervenor has paid
a current total of benefits of $32,764.24 (i.e., $19,720.00 medical and
$13,042.24 indemnity). (Id., ¶ 5).
Proposed
Intervenor seeks to intervene in the instant case by filing the subject
Complaint-in-Intervention for recovery of workers’ compensation benefits. (Id., ¶4.)
The unopposed
motion is granted.