  Case Number:  22PSCV00796    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2023    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
DEMURRER
OF DEFENDANT PINNACLE LIMOUSINES MANUFACTURING, INC. TO THE SECOND AMENDED
COMPLAINT OF PAUL BOHN AND LIMO WORLD, LLC is SUSTAINED in its entirety,
with leave to amend, because the SAC alleges an oral contract and one for
services (not goods). 
 
Background
 
This is a
contracts case. Plaintiffs Bohn and Limo World (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) allege
the following against Defendants FRANKLIN FIGUEROA, an individual and PINNACLE
LIMOUSINES MANUFACTURING, INC (“Defendant” or “Pinnacle”): On April 24, 2017,
the parties into express Warranty Agreements for the conversion of a Corvette String
into a limo conversion. After a near one year delay from the promised
completion date, the Corvette limo conversion had numerous defects. The parties
also entered into another agreement on November 6, 2019 for the conversion of a
Chevrolet Camaro into a limo conversion, but that work too was defective. Despite
notifying Defendant of the defects that are covered by the warranty, Defendant
has not repaired the vehicles, leaving Plaintiffs damaged in the amount of
$182,776.90.
 
On July 29,
2022, Plaintiffs filed the instant lawsuit. 
 
On December
5, 2022, Defendants filed a demurrer with a motion to strike. 
 
On January 9,
2023, Plaintiffs filed their First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) 1) Breach of
Express Warranty; 2) Breach of Implied Warranty and 3) Fraudulent Inducement,
rendering the 12/05/22 ruling moot. (See 1/24/23 ruling.)
 
On March 28,
2023, Plaintiff dismissed Defendant Franklin Figueroa. And that same day,
Plaintiff filed a Second Amended Complaint (SAC) against Pinnacle alleging the
following five causes of action (COAs): 1.     Breach of Express Warranty 2.     Breach of Implied Warranty 3.     Breach of Written Contract 4.     Violation of California Business and
Professions Code section 17200 et seq.  5.     Violation of California Business and
Professions Code section 12500 et seq.
 
On May 1,
2023, Pinnacle filed the instant demurrer. 
 
On June 30,
2023, according to the court’s minute order, the court continued the hearing on
the demurrer in light of settlement discussions between the parties. 
 
On September
19, 2023, Plaintiffs filed their opposition.
 
On September
25, 2023, Defendant filed a substitution of attorney replacing Counsel Thomas
F. Nowland with James Gutierrez of the Gutierrez Law Firm.   
 
To date, as
of 9/27/23 at 8 AM, no reply has been received [Due 5 court days before hearing
(9/26)]. 
 
Legal
Standard
 
Defendant
demurs pursuant to CCP section 430.10, subdivisions (e) and (f). 
In turn, a
demurrer may be asserted the grounds that: (e) The pleading does not state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action and/or (f) The pleading is
uncertain (“uncertain” includes ambiguous and unintelligible). (Code of Civ.
Proc., § 430.10, subds. (e), (f).) As for testing the sufficiency of a
pleading, the grounds for a demurrer must appear on the face of the pleading or
from judicially noticeable matters.[1]
(Code of Civ. Proc., § 430.30 subd., (a); Blank v. Kirwan, (1985) 39
Cal.3d 311, 318; see also Melikian v. Truck Ins. Exchange (1955) 133
Cal.App.2d 113, 114 [“In approaching that issue
we are bound, just as the trial court was bound, by the allegations in the
verified complaint and cannot consider the outré-judicial statements of counsel
nor the additional facts found in the briefs.”].) 
 
Discussion
 
Defendant
demurs to the 1st through 3rd COAs. More specifically,
Defendant demurs to the 1st and 2nd COAs on two grounds:
(i) the contract was for services, not goods and (ii) if the court determines
the contract was for a sale of goods (not services), the contract is barred by
the statute of limitations (SOL). Defendant demurs to the 3rd COA
for breach of contract on the grounds that it fails to set forth “essential
facts with reasonable precision and particularity.” (Demurrer p. 2.) 
 
The court
will address each argument as presented in the order of the demurrer. 
 
1.     Whether the Invoice(s) Constitute a
Written Contract?[2] 
 
A COA for
breach of contract contains the following elements: (i) existence of a
contract, (ii) party’s performance of the contract or excuse from
nonperformance, (iii) defendant’s breach, and (iv) resulting damages. (Harris
v. Rudin, Richman & Appel (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 299, 307.) If the
contract is written, “the terms must be set out verbatim in the body of the
complaint or a copy of the written agreement must be attached and incorporated
by reference.” (Ibid.) 
 
After a review of the SAC and parties’ arguments,
the court determines that while the COA is labeled as a written contract,
the SAC alleges an oral contract.[3]

 
In support of
its contention that the invoices do not form a contract, Defendant cites to India
Paint and Lacquer Co. v. United Steel Products Corp. (1954) 123 Cal.App.2d
597 (India Paint). Indeed, the appellate court stated that “[T]he prevailing rule is that an invoice, standing
alone, is not a contract.” (Id. at p. 607.) More specifically, the
court, relying upon Professor Corbin Williston’s contract theories, observed
that:
 
The handwritten documents accompanying India's
shipments of merchandise, which are labeled ‘shipping copy invoices' but which
are actually, as found by the trial court, bills of parcels, clearly do not
represent anything more than receipts attesting to the delivery of merchandise
. . .they contain only data as to the date of shipment and the quantity
of a particular item delivered to the purchaser. Their informality, incompleteness,
and lack of contractual character show on the face of the
documents. 
 
(Id. at pp. 606-607, emphasis added.)
 
Here, similarly, the
invoices provide certain data such as a “bill to” address, a “ship to”
address, item codes (e.g., “disco floor”), description (e.g., “disco floor with
color changing lighting), price for each item code, and job total balance for
the work (SAC, Exs. 4-5, pp. 28-31 of 34 of PDF.) The invoices do not bear the (1)
signatures from either party nor (2) identifies either party. 
 
To the extent
that the invoices provide the “bill to” and “ship to” addresses, not only is
that insufficient to identify the parties in the contract, but the “bill to”
and “ship to” addresses are not consistently addressed to Plaintiffs. For
example, on invoice 20209 (Ex. 4), the “bill to” address is Innovative Lease
Services, Inc.; the court is uncertain from the pleadings if Innovative Lease
Services is related to Limo World L.L.C or the individual Plaintiff. 
 
Next, the
invoices do not bear certain material terms such as the completion date
of the two conversions, a material term as so alleged in the SAC. (SAC ¶15 [“As a condition precedent and part of the inducement for Limo
World to enter into the Agreement, Defendant, on or about April 24, 2017,
promised Bohn and Limo World that Defendant would complete the Corvette Limo
conversion per the invoice by in and around July 2017 and at latest August
2017.”], emphasis added.) Accordingly, as the SAC alleges that the
complete date was a material, relevant term, then said term should have been in
the invoice.  
 
Thus, while certain aspects as to the scope of the
projects may have been mentioned, the invoices are incomplete because not all
material forms were found within the invoices. (See also Kreuzberger v. Wingfield (1892)
96 Cal.251, 255-256 [“[The writing] does not
define the mutual obligations of the parties, and is only signed by the
plaintiff. In fact, it does not purport to bind any one. It contains no
contract stipulations, and shows upon its face that it was only intended as an
informal memorandum, to be considered in connection with the oral
negotiations which preceded it.”].)[4] Additionally, as
mentioned by Defendant in its demurrer, unlike the form in Marin Storage & Trucking, Inc. v. Benco
Contracting and Engineering, Inc. (2001)
89 Cal.App.4th 1042, 1049 wherein the appellate court determined that ‘Work
Authorization and Contract’ forms amounted to a binding contract because the form
explicitly state the form “is a contract” and the form explicitly stated the
contract “includes all terms and conditions” (included ten terms), here,
however, the form is labeled as an invoice and does not bear any terms nor
conditions. 
 
To the extent that Plaintiffs cite to India Paint for its rule
that an invoice would “not ipso facto transform
it into the contract between the parties, unless so intended by them or
unless such effect is given to it by the application or operation of some
principle of contract law” (India Paint, supra, p. 607, emphasis
added), the court is unpersuaded. (Opp. p. 7:15-19.) Even if “the parties
engaged in numerous telephone conversations and orally agreed to the terms of
the limo conversions. Defendant codified the terms of the limo conversions in
Invoices that detailed the relevant terms of the agreements” (SAC ¶48) Plaintiffs appear to misconstrue that the mere
fact of the meeting of the minds automatically forms a written
contract. 
 
To the extent that Plaintiffs aver the lack of a
signature are inapposite, it relies upon E.O.C. Ord, Inc. v. Kovakovich (1988)
200 Cal.App.3d 1194 but that actually undermines Plaintiffs’ argument as that
too requires that the writing to bear relevant terms. (Id. at p. 1199 [“In other words, the writing must contain the terms of
the contract. It cannot be only remotely or indirectly connected with the
transaction or only a link in the chain establishing the cause of action.”].) 
 
In sum, as Plaintiffs’ very own citation provides, absent relevant
terms, a writing does not amount to a written contract. (Opp. p. 6, citing Martini
E. Ricci Iamino S.P.A.-Consortile Societa Agricola v. Western Fresh Marketing
Services, Inc. (E.D. Cal. 2014) 54 F.Supp.3d 1094, 1104 [“In order for a
contract to be “founded on a writing,” the writing must contain the relevant
terms of the agreement and the defendant must have “accepted” the writing.”].) 
 
Thus, as the
terms of the parties’ agreement surely was not solely for “disco lights, Red
laser and interior strobe lights, a kill switch, and chevy logos,” amongst
other features, then the invoices are not contracts. 
 
Therefore, as the court determines that
the contract was oral, not written, the court SUSTAINS the demurrer WITH leave
to amend as to the 3rd COA for breach of written contract. 
 
2.     Whether the Alleged Contract is for
Services or Sale of Goods? 
 
Next, Defendant argues that the 1st and 2nd
COAs for breach of express and implied warranties, respectively, fail because
the work was for services, not goods, precluding any warranty. (Demurrer pp.
9-10, citing to Commercial Code sections 2313-2316; see also Fogo v. Cutter
Laboratories, Inc. (1977) 68 Cal.App.3d 744, 759 [“a sale is ordinarily an essential element of any warranty, express or
implied”]; see also Shepard v. Alexian Bothers Hosp. (1973) 33
Cal.App.3d 606, 615 [“since the furnishing of a blood transfusion is, by law, a
service and not a sale (s 1606), respondent cannot be held liable under a breach of
warranty theory.”].)[5]

 
In Opposition, Plaintiffs rely upon Gonsalves v. Montgomery (N.D.
Cal., Sept. 20, 2006, No. C 06-2747 SBA) 2006 WL 2711540 to support its
proposition that the construction of the limos is a good. (Opp. p. 5.) 
 
But the case is inapposite. For one, in Gonsalves,
the parties entered into a written contract for defendants to construct a
boat for a certain purchase price. (Id. at p. 1.) Here, however, the
cars already exist and are not being purchased. Next, the case is
not instructive as it does not discuss the distinction between a service and
good; in fact, neither party in Gonsalves disputed that the boat is good.
Rather, the parties disputed whether the boat was for the sale of a future good
or an existing good, which would affect whether plaintiffs obtained a special
property interest in the boat. 
 
In
any event, the SAC tacitly concedes that the contract was for
services. (SAC ¶9 [“Around this same time, a friend of
Plaintiff’s spoke very highly of Defendant and had recommended their SERVICES.”],
emphasis and capitalization added.) 
 
Therefore, as this involves a question
of law, not fact, the demurrer is SUSTAINED with leave to amend.[6] With that, the court need
not address Defendant’s last argument regarding the SOL under the UCC.
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the foregoing, the demurrer is
sustained with leave to amend. 
 
 


