 Case Number:  23PSCV01870    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2023    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
MOTION TO
STRIKE PORTIONS OF PLAINTIFF’S COMPLAINT is GRANTED, with leave to
amend.  
 
Background
 
This case
arises from a motor vehicle accident. 
 
On June 26,
2023, Plaintiff Perry Gerard Lucero filed suit against Defendant Jeadam Cho for
(1) Motor Vehicle Negligence and (2) Negligence. 
 
On August 17,
2023, Defendant filed the instant motion to strike punitive damages. 
 
On September
6, 2023, Plaintiff filed an opposition to the motion to strike damages. 
 
On September
25, 2023, Defendant filed a reply. 
 
Legal
Standard
 
Code of Civil Procedure (CCP) section 435 provides, in
pertinent part that the court may, upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435,
“(a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any
pleading. (b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or any order of the
court.” 
 
Discussion
 
Defendants seek to strike punitive
damages because “Plaintiff’s
Complaint does not state facts sufficient to plead the requisite factually
allegations to support a claim for punitive damages against Defendant.” (Motion p. 4.) The court agrees. 
 
California Civil Code section 3294 authorizes the recovery of
punitive damages in non-contract cases where “the defendant has been guilty of
oppression, fraud, or malice . . . .” (Civ. Code § 3294(a).) Malice, as
pertinent here, means conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause
injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the
defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or
safety of others.” (Id. § 3294(c)(1), emphasis added.) The conduct which permits punitive
damages must include "proof of an evil motive" or "hav[e] the
character of outrage frequently associated with crime." (Id; American
Airlines, Inc. v. Sheppard, Mullin, Richter & Hampton (2002) 96
Cal.App.4th 1017, 1050-51.) That said, even absent evil motive or intent, a
defendant’s conscious disregard of the probable dangerous consequences of his
conduct is sufficient to find punitive damages. (See Ramona Manor
Convalescent Hospital v. Care Enterprises (1986) 177 Cal.App.3d 1120, 1141
(Ramona) [“There are many California
decisions imposing punitive damages irrespective of the defendant's knowledge
of the victim's specific identity . . .  these cases require a conscious
disregard of the probable dangerous consequences.”]); see also Taylor v.
Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 895-896 [“We concur with the Searle
observation that a conscious disregard of the safety of others may constitute
malice within the meaning of section 3294
of the Civil Code.”], emphasis added and underline added.) 
 
Here, for one, the complaint is a negligence action
based upon a car accident, which evidences that a claim for punitive damages is
improper. (Kendall Yacht v. United Cal. Bank (1975) 50 Cal.App.3d 949,
958 [a claim for punitive
damages claim cannot be based on conduct that is merely unreasonable,
negligence, or even grossly negligent].) 
 
Next, to the extent that Plaintiff
attempts to illustrate malice or a conscious disregard for the safety of
others, Plaintiff conclusively alleges that Defendant was “distracted,
disabled, and/or impaired and [was] aware of the probable consequences of
Defendant being in such a state.” (See e.g., Complaint ¶12). But what does
it mean in this context to be distracted, disabled, and or impaired? Moreover,
how was Defendant distracted, disabled, or impaired? Specific answers
to those questions would provide the ultimate facts. (Weil & Brown,
California Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial, 6:158 (The Rutter
Group 1996) [In pleading punitive damages, a plaintiff must allege specific
facts].)  
 
To the extent that Plaintiff has filed an opposition, it generally
recites allegations in the complaint. To the extent that Plaintiff cites to Clauson
v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, the case is inapposite.
First, at issue in the case was whether
plaintiffs may seek at the pleading stage to recover both punitive damages as
permitted by Civil Code
section 3294 and statutory penalties for unlawful wiretapping
pursuant to Penal Code
section 637.2, subdivision (a). (Id. at 1256.) Here, however, statutory
penalties are not issue. Second, the facts are inapposite as Clauson involved allegations of
wiretapping, not a vehicular accident. Setting aside the factual
dissimilarities, Clauson supports Defendant’s argument that ultimate
facts are required. (Id. at p. 1255 [“In
order to survive a motion to strike an allegation of punitive damages, the
ultimate facts showing an entitlement to such relief must be pled by a
plaintiff.”].) Thus, even assuming the facts in the complaint to be true—which
is the crux of the opposition—that truth amounts to no more than the fact that
Defendant rear-ended Plaintiff, which clearly is insufficient for punitive damages.

 
Therefore, reading the Complaint in its entirety
and assuming the allegations true, Plaintiff has failed to allege facts
sufficient that Defendant acted with malice when he rear-ended Plaintiff. 
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the foregoing, the motion is granted, with leave
to amend. 