 Case Number:  23PSCV01130    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2023    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
(1)  
GENERAL
MOTORS LLC’S DEMURRER is MOOT.
 
(2)  
GENERAL MOTORS LLC’S MOTION TO STRIKE PUNITIVE DAMAGES is MOOT.
 
As
Plaintiff filed a FAC after the demurrer, which now serves as the operative
complaint, the demurrer and motion to strike to the original complaint are
moot.
 
Background
 
This is a
lemon law case. 
 
On April 17,
2023, Plaintiff filed the instant action against GM for: 1.     Violation Of Song-Beverly Act - Breach
Of Express Warranty 2.     Violation Of Song-Beverly Act - Breach
Of Implied Warranty 3.     Violation Of The Song- Beverly Act
Section 1793.2 4.     Fraud – Fraudulent Inducement –
Concealment.
 
On June 20,
2023, Defendant filed the instant demurrer with a motion to strike. 
 
On September
19, 2023, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint (FAC) realleging the same 4
causes of action. 
 
Discussion
 
Though the demurrer and motion to strike are moot,
the court finds it prudent to comment on a pattern exhibited by Plaintiff’s law
firm: filing amended complaints after Defendant files a demurrer.
 
For example,
in other recent cases before this court—such as HILARIO SALVADOR GARCIA vs GENERAL MOTORS LLC, A DELAWARE LIMITED
LIABILITY COMPANY (23PSCV00925)
and ALEXANDRA BERNARDA AREVALO vs GENERAL MOTORS LLC (22PSCV01729)—Plaintiff’s
firm (Quill & Arrow, LLP) filed amended complaints after GM filed a
demurrer. 
 
While a party
may file an amended complaint prior to the court’s hearing on the demurrer (CCP
section 472), Plaintiff’s firm appears to do so despite attesting that
Defendant’s arguments lack merit during meet and confer efforts. But filing an
amended complaint tacitly suggests that certain arguments are meritorious,
hence the need to amend the complaint prior the hearing. What is more, Defense
Counsel explains that Plaintiff’s firm has filed in excess of 150 demurrers
against GM and that now Plaintiff’s firm “refuses to substantively meet and
confer at all.” (Valencia Decl., p. 2.) A reasonable and good-faith attempt at
informal resolution “requires that counsel attempt to talk the matter over,
compare their views, consult, and deliberate.” (Townsend v. Superior Court
(1998) 61 Cal.App.4th 1431, 1439 [as used in discovery context].) 
 
Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s firm’s decision to not engage in meaningful, informal discussions with
GM’s counsel—whether it be with this case or with others, or with this motion
or with others—circumvents a fundamental tenant of the rule of legal ethics:
candor between counsel.  
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the
foregoing, the demurrer and motion to strike are moot. For any future motions
filed with this court, the court will ascertain whether good faith discussions
were met based upon the declarations/supporting documents filed in support thereof.
