 Case Number:  21STCV25441    Hearing Date:   August 2, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to Compel Deposition of Plaintiff Olivia Mizrahi 
Motion to Compel Deposition of Plaintiff Golda Mizrahi 
Motion to Compel Deposition of Plaintiff Yaron Mizrahi
Motion to Continue Trial 
 
Tentative
The three motions to compel are denied without
prejudice.
The motion to continue trial is denied
without prejudice.
Background
On July 9, 2021, Plaintiffs Olivia Mizrahi, Golda
Mizrahi, Yaron Mizrahi, Lian Beysson, and Shayla Beysson filed a complaint
against Defendants Samuel Karchmer, Donald Karchmer (collectively, “Defendants”),
and Does 1 through 50, asserting causes of action for motor vehicle negligence
and general negligence arising out of an accident on July 9, 2019, at or near
the intersection of Beverly Drive and South Santa Monica Boulevard.
 
Defendants filed their answer on April 26, 2022.
 
On July 1, 2024, Defendants filed these four motions:
motions to compel the depositions of Olivia Mizrahi, Golda Mizrahi, Yaron
Mizrahi, and a motion to continue trial.
 
No opposition has been filed.
 
 
Legal Standard

Motion to Compel Deposition
“Any party may
obtain discovery … by taking in California the oral deposition of any person,
including any party to the action.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.010.) 
Code of Civil Procedure sections 2025.210 through 2025.280 provide the
requirements for (among other things) what must be included in a deposition
notice, when and where depositions may be taken, and how and when the notice
must be served.  
“The service of a
deposition notice … is effective to require any deponent who is a party to the
action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party to
attend and to testify, as well as to produce any document, electronically
stored information, or tangible thing for inspection and copying.”  (Id., § 2025.280, subd. (a).)
Section 2025.410,
subdivision (a), requires any party to serve a written objection at least three
days before the deposition if the party contends that a deposition notice does
not comply with the provisions of sections 2025.210 through 2025.280.
Section 2025.450,
subdivision (a), provides:
“If, after
service of a deposition notice, a party to the action or an officer, director,
managing agent, or employee of a party, or
a person designated by an organization that is a party under Section 2025.230, without having served a valid objection under Section
2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce
for¿inspection any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move
for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the
production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information,
or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.”  
Any such motion
to compel must show good cause for the production of documents and, when a
deponent has failed to appear, the motion must be accompanied “by a declaration
stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the
nonappearance.”  (Id., subd.
(b).)  
When a motion to
compel is granted, “the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) in favor of the party who noticed the
deposition and against the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is
affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust.”  (Id., § 2025.450, subd. (g)(1).) 
In Chapter 7 of the Civil Discovery
Act, section 2023.010, subdivision (d), defines “[m]isuses of the discovery
process” to include “[f]ailing to respond to or to submit to an authorized
method of discovery.”  Where a party or
attorney has engaged in misuse of the discovery process, the court may impose a
monetary sanction in the amount of “the reasonable expenses, including
attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct.”  (Id., § 2023.030, subd. (a).)
Motion to
Continue Trial
Code of Civil Procedure section 128,
subdivision (a)(8), provides that the court has the power to amend and control
its process and orders so as to make them conform to law and justice. “The
power to determine when a continuance should be granted is within the
discretion of the trial court.” (Color-Vue, Inc. v. Abrams (1996) 44
Cal.App.4th 1599, 1603.) “A trial court has wide latitude in the matter of
calendar control including the granting or denying of continuances.” (Park
Motors, Inc. v. Cozens (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 12, 18.)  
“To ensure the prompt disposition of civil
cases, the dates assigned for trial are firm. 
All parties and their counsel must regard the date set for trial as
certain.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1332(a).)
“Although continuances of trials are
disfavored, each request for a continuance must be considered on its own
merits.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1332(c).)  “The court may grant a
continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the
continuance.”  (Ibid.)  Circumstances that may support a finding of
good cause include:  
“(1) The
unavailability of an essential lay or expert witness because of death, illness,
or other excusable circumstances;  
(2) The
unavailability of a party because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances;  
(3) The
unavailability of trial counsel because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances;  
(4) The
substitution of trial counsel, but only where there is an affirmative showing
that the substitution is required in the interests of justice;  
(5) The addition
of a new party if: (A) The new party has not had a reasonable opportunity to
conduct discovery and prepare for trial; or (B) The other parties have not had
a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial in regard
to the new party's involvement in the case; 

(6) A party's
excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material
evidence despite diligent efforts; or  
(7) A
significant, unanticipated change in the status of the case as a result of
which the case is not ready for trial.”  
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(c).)  
“In ruling on a motion or application for
continuance, the court must consider all the facts and circumstances that are
relevant to the determination.”  (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d).)  California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d) sets forth a non-exhaustive list of factors that
the court may consider:  
“(1) The
proximity of the trial date;  
(2) Whether
there was any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to
any party;  
(3) The length
of the continuance requested;  
(4) The
availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the
motion or application for a continuance; 

(5) The
prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance;

(6) If the case
is entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status and
whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; 
(7) The court's
calendar and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending trials; 
(8) Whether
trial counsel is engaged in another trial; 

(9) Whether all
parties have stipulated to a continuance; 

(10) Whether the
interests of justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the
matter, or by imposing conditions on the continuance; and  
(11) Any other
fact or circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or
application.”  
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d).) 
Discussion
Motions to Compel Depositions 
On April 21, 2022, Defendants noticed the
depositions of Yaron Mizrahi for August 23, 2022; Golda Mizrahi for August 25;
and Olivia Mizrahi for August 31. (Farazian Decls., ¶ 3.) Objections to these
depositions were served on August 18, 2022. (Id., ¶ 4.) 
On February 12, 2024, Defendants noticed the
depositions of Olivia and Golda Mizrahi for April 3, 2024, and Yaron Mizrahi for
April 4. (Id., ¶ 8.)  Plaintiffs’
counsel advised Defendants that the deponents were not available on those
dates.  (Id., ¶ 9.)
On June 7, 2024, Defendants noticed the
depositions of Olivia and Golda Mizrahi for June 19, 2024, and Yaron Mizrahi for
June 20. (Id., ¶ 10.) The three deponents did not object and did not
appear.  (Id., ¶¶ 10, 12.)
Defendants have shown that they noticed the
depositions and the three deponents did not object or appear.  But Defendants have not shown that after the
nonappearance, they “contacted the deponent to inquire about the
nonappearance.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
2025.450, subd. (b).)  That required in a
motion to compel, and it is missing here. 
Accordingly, the three motions to compel are denied without prejudice.
 
Motion to Continue
Defendants’ motion to continue to trial is
premised upon the success of their motions to compel: Defendants argue that
once their motions are granted, they will need sufficient time to take the
depositions and then conduct any necessary follow-up discovery.
As set forth above, however, the motions to
compel are denied without prejudice. 
Accordingly, the motion to continue trial is also denied without
prejudice.  On this record, and in the
absence of orders granting their motions to compel, there is not a basis for
the Court to find good cause for a continuance. 
The case has been at issue for more than two years, and it is unclear why
discovery was not completed (with the assistance of the Court if necessary)
long ago.
Accordingly, Defendant’s motion to continue trial
is denied without prejudice.
Conclusion
The Court DENIES WITHOUT PREJUDICE the Motions to Compel
Plaintiffs Olivia Mizrahi, Golda Mizrahi, and Yaron Mizrahi to Appear for
Deposition.  
The Court DENIES WITHOUT PREJUDICE Defendants’ Motion to
Continue Trial.
Moving party is ORDERED to give
notice.