 Case Number:  22STCV09073    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2023    Dept:  27 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Lee Arian, Department 27
 
 
HEARING DATE:     October
31, 2023                   TRIAL
DATE:  March 6, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                                Hayfa Matta v. Los Angeles Metropolitan Transportation
Authority, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV09073
 





















 
MOTION
TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO GENERAL FORM INTERROGATORIES
 
MOTION
TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES
 
MOTION
TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS
 
MOTION
TO DEEM THE MATTERS IN REQUEST FOR ADMISSIONS ADMITTED



 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff
Hayfa Matti
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     No opposition
 
 
I.          INTRODUCTION
 
            On March 13,
2023, Plaintiff, Hayfa Matta filed these motions to compel Defendant Los
Angeles Metropolitan Transportation Authority to provide responses to Plaintiff’s
First Set of General Form Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, and Request
for Production of Documents, and to deem Request for Admissions, Set One,
admitted against Defendant.  Plaintiff
seeks sanctions against Defendant.
                                                     
            The motions
are unopposed.[1]
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD TO COMPEL DISCOVERY
RESPONSES 
 
            If a party
to whom interrogatories and inspection demands were directed fails to serve a
timely response, the propounding party may move for an order to compel
responses without objections.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290, subd. (b),
2031.300, subd. (b).)  If a party to whom requests for admission are
directed fails to serve a timely response, the propounding party may move for
an order that the truth of the matters specified in the requests be deemed
admitted. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (b).)  Failure to timely
serve responses waives objections to the requests.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§
2030.290, subd. (a), 2031.300, subd. (a), 2033.280, subd.
(a).)    
 
            Monetary
Sanctions 
 
            Code of
Civil Procedure section 2023.030 is a general statute authorizing the Court to
impose discovery sanctions for “misuse of the discovery process,” which
includes (without limitation) a variety of conduct such as: making, without
substantial justification, an unmeritorious objection to discovery; making an
evasive response to discovery; and unsuccessfully and without substantial
justification making or opposing a motion to compel or limit discovery.¿ (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2023.010.)¿¿¿ 
¿ 
            If
sanctions are sought, Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.040 requires that
the notice specify the identity of the person against whom sanctions are sought
and the type of sanction requested, that the motion be supported in the points
and authorities, and the facts be set forth in a declaration supporting the
amount of any monetary sanction.¿¿ 
¿ 
            If the
court finds that a party has unsuccessfully made or opposed a motion to compel
responses to inspection demands, the court “shall impose a monetary sanction .
. . unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290, subd. (c), 2031.300, subd. (c).)  In the context of a motion to deem requests
for admission admitted, it is mandatory that the court impose monetary
sanctions on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure to serve a timely
response to the request necessitated the motion.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280,
subd. (c).)
 
III.      DISCUSSION
 
            Plaintiff
served Defendant with these discovery requests on October 12, 2022. At
defense counsel’s request, Plaintiff granted an extension to provide responses
on four occasions. However, to date, Defendant has not provided responses.¿ (See
Beloryan Decls.)¿ Therefore, all objections to the interrogatories and production
requests are waived.¿¿ 
 
            As
Plaintiff properly served the discovery requests and Defendant failed to serve
responses, the Court finds Plaintiff is entitled to an order directing
Defendant to provide responses to Plaintiff’s First set of General Form
Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, and Request for Production of
Documents.¿ In addition, Plaintiff is entitled to an order deeming admitted
Request for Admissions, Set One, against Defendant.
 
            
             Monetary
Sanctions
 
            Plaintiff
requests sanctions against Defendant. 
Given that the Court has granted these motions, sanctions are warranted.
 Indeed, in the context of requests for
admissions, sanctions are mandatory.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd.
(c).)  Accordingly, sanctions are imposed
against Defendant in the amount of $1,240, representing 2 hours at plaintiff’s
counsel’s hourly rate and $240 in filing fees.
 
IV.       CONCLUSION
 
            The
unopposed motions are granted.  Defendant
Los Angeles Metropolitan Transportation Authority is ordered to provide
verified, objection-free responses to Plaintiff’s First Set of General Form
Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, and Request for Production of
Documents.  Plaintiff’s Request for
Admissions, Set One, is deemed admitted against Defendant.
 
            The request
for sanctions is granted.  Defendant is ordered
to pay sanctions in the amount of $1,240 to Plaintiff, by and through her
counsel.
 
            Discovery
responses are to be provided and sanctions are to be paid within 30 days of the
date of this order. 
 
Moving party to give notice. 

 
 
Dated:   October 31,
2023                                         ___________________________________
                                                                                    Lee
S. Arian
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
            Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on
the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at
www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative
and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless
appear at the hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive
emails from the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and
there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion,
adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar. 


