 Case Number:  20STCV29215    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2023    Dept:  27 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Lee S. Arian, Department 27
 
 
HEARING DATE:      October 31, 2023                                         TRIAL DATE:  March 6,
2024
                                                           
CASE:                                Annabella Rodriguez v. American VIP Limo, Inc., et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 20STCV29215
 





















 
MOTION
TO BE RELIEVED AS COUNSEL



 
MOVING PARTY:               Daryl
J. Williams, Law Office of Daryl J. Williams 
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     No opposition
 
 
I.          INTRODUCTION
 
On September 5, 2023, Daryl J. Williams, counsel for Plaintiff
Annabella Rodriguez, filed this Motion to be Relieved as Counsel.  
 
The Motion was reviewed on October 4, 2023.  The Court could not grant the Motion because a
proposed order on MC-053 had not been submitted nor did counsel include all
future hearings in this matter. 
 
On October 11, 2023, Counsel filed an amended Motion.
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARDS 
 
California Rule of Court rule 3.1362 (Motion to Be Relieved
as Counsel) requires (1) notice of motion and motion to be directed to the
client (made on the Notice of Motion and Motion to be Relieved as Counsel—Civil
form (MC-051)); (2) a declaration stating in general terms and without
compromising the confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship why a
motion under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(2) is brought instead of
filing a consent under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(1) (made on the
Declaration in Support of Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil
form (MC-052)); (3) service of the notice of motion and motion and declaration
on all other parties who have appeared in the case; and (4) the proposed order
relieving counsel (prepared on the Order Granting Attorney's Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel—Civil form (MC-053)). 
 
The court has discretion to allow an attorney to withdraw,
and such a motion should be granted provided that there is no prejudice to the
client, and it does not disrupt the orderly process of justice.  (See Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21
Cal.App.4th 904, 915.)  
 
III.       DISCUSSION 
 
Daryl J. Williams seeks to be relieved as counsel of record
for Plaintiff for the following reason: “Client refused to sign a vonluntary
[sic] consent to substitute attorney. I met with her several times at her
residence attempting to agree to the substitution and/or sign a conflict of
interest waiver, and to cooperate with discovery responses.  She refused to cooperate.  Eventually, days before the original hearing
on this matter October 4, 2023, I received the signed waiver of the conflict
but absolutely no other communication from the client regarding discovery or
settlement issues.  I cannot properly
represent Mrs. Rodriguez due to her lack of cooperation and unreasonable
settlement demands in this matter.”  (MC-052.)   
 
Absent a showing of resulting prejudice, an attorney’s
request for withdrawal should be granted.  (People v. Prince (1968) 268 Cal.App.2d
398, 406.).  
 
Counsel has cured the defects noted in the Court’s previous
order.  The Motion complies with the
requirements of California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362.
 
IV.       CONCLUSION         
                Accordingly,
the unopposed Motion is granted and effective upon the filing of the proof of
service of this signed order upon Plaintiff. 

Counsel to give notice. 

 
 
Dated:   October 31,
2023                                         ___________________________________
                                                                                    Lee
S. Arian
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
            Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on
the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at
www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative
and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless
appear at the hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive
emails from the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and
there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion,
adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar. 
 