 Case Number:  22STCV28036    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2023    Dept:  27 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Lee S. Arian, Department 27
 
 
HEARING DATE:     October
31, 2023                               TRIAL
DATE:  February 23, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                                Vivian Lissett Gonzalez v. Leah Harris Komar, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV28036
 





















 
MOTION
FOR SANCTIONS



 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff
Vivian Lissett Gonzalez 
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Defendants Leah
Harris Komar, et al.
 
 
I.          INTRODUCTION

            
On August 26, 2022, Plaintiff Vivian Lissett Gonzalez initiated
this action against Defendants Leah Harris Komar (“Komar”) and Gerald W. Harris
for injuries arising from a motor vehicle collision. 
 
            On July 12,
2023, Plaintiff filed motions to compel Defendants’ responses to Form
Interrogatories, Set One, and to compel Komar’s responses to Request for
Production of Documents, Set One.  The Court granted Plaintiff’s motions
on August 8, 2023, and imposed monetary sanctions.  Defendants were ordered to provide verified,
objection-free responses to the discovery and to pay sanctions within 30 days
of the Court’s order.  On August 10,
2023, Plaintiff filed and served the Notice of Ruling on Defendants. To date,
Defendants have not provided the at-issue discovery responses or paid the
sanctions.
 
            On October
5, 2023, Plaintiff filed this motion for sanctions.  Plaintiff seeks four types of sanctions: (1)
issue sanctions preventing Defendants from establishing any of their
affirmative defenses; (2) evidentiary sanctions preventing Defendants from
offering any evidence in support of their affirmative defenses or in rebuttal
to any of Plaintiff’s evidence; (3) terminating sanctions striking Defendants’
Answer and placing them in default; and (4) imposition of further monetary
sanctions against Defendants and their counsel of record for the time and costs
in bringing this motion.
 
            Defendants
filed an opposition.  Plaintiff replied.
 
 
II.        LEGAL
STANDARD
 
            “The court
may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the
discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the
reasonable expenses, including attorney's fees, incurred by anyone as a result
of that conduct.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subd. (a).) Discovery sanctions
should be appropriate to the dereliction, and should not exceed that which is
required to protect the interests of the party entitled to, but denied,
discovery.  The trial court has wide discretion in granting discovery
orders, and by the provisions of Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030, it
is granted broad, though not unlimited, discretionary powers to enforce its
orders. Sanctions the court may impose must be suitable and necessary to enable
the party seeking discovery to obtain the objects of the discovery he
seeks.  The court, however, may not impose sanctions which are not
designed to accomplish the objects of discovery, but to impose punishment.  (Laguna Auto Body v. Farmers Ins. Exchange
(1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 481, 487; overruled on other grounds in Garcia v.
McCutchen (1997) 16 Cal.4th 469, 478, fn. 4.) 
 
            Under Code
of Civil Procedure section 2023.030, the court is empowered to impose monetary,
issue, evidence, or terminating sanctions for misuse of the discovery process,
which includes, but is not limited to, the following: 
 
(a) Persisting,
over objection and without substantial justification, in an attempt to obtain
information or materials that are outside the scope of permissible
discovery. 
 
(b) Using a
discovery method in a manner that does not comply with its specified
procedures. 
 
(c) Employing
a discovery method in a manner or to an extent that causes unwarranted
annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and expense. 
 
(d) Failing
to respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery. 
 
(e) Making,
without substantial justification, an unmeritorious objection to
discovery. 
 
(f) Making
an evasive response to discovery. 
 
(g) Disobeying
a court order to provide discovery. 
 
(h) Making
or opposing, unsuccessfully and without substantial justification, a motion to
compel or to limit discovery. 
 
(i) Failing
to confer in person, by telephone, or by letter with an opposing party or
attorney in a reasonable and good faith attempt to resolve informally any
dispute concerning discovery, if the section governing a particular discovery
motion requires the filing of a declaration stating facts showing that an
attempt at informal resolution has been made.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010.) 
 
III.      DISCUSSION
 
Misuse of the discovery process includes failure to respond
to an authorized method of discovery or disobeying a court order to provide
discovery.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010, subds. (d), (g), emphasis added.)¿

 
Here, it is undisputed that Defendants violated the Court’s August
8, 2023, order.  Indeed, Defendants
confirm in their opposition that discovery responses have yet to be provided.  Nevertheless, Defendants resist Plaintiff’s
motion for sanctions by arguing that (1) Plaintiff has not provided the
relevant information to allow Defendants to issue payment for the court-ordered
sanctions and (2) Defendants did not oppose Plaintiff’s July 12, 2023, motions because
defense counsel admittedly mis-calendared Plaintiff’s initial discovery
requests.  Further, defense counsel
represents that the discovery responses have been completed and are
forthcoming.
 
Defendants’ first argument is dubious.  Defendants’ failure to provide discovery
responses forms the primary basis for the motion, not their failure to pay
sanctions.  
 
Defendants’ second argument, however, is more
persuasive.  Given that defense counsel
represents having mis-calendared Plaintiff’s initial discovery requests, the
Court is inclined to impose monetary sanctions only.  Issue, evidence, or terminating sanctions in
this context would be unduly harsh and tantamount to punishing Defendants for
their counsel’s neglect.  Such a result would
not serve the objects of discovery.[1]  (Laguna Auto Body, supra, 231
Cal.App.3d at p. 487.)  
 
Accordingly, the motion for issue, evidence, and terminating
sanctions is DENIED.  However, if
Defendants have not served Plaintiff with their “forthcoming” discovery
responses by the time of the hearing for this motion, the Court will grant
Plaintiff’s request for issue and evidence sanctions.
 
Monetary Sanctions
 
The Court is authorized to impose sanctions for a misuse of
the discovery process under Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030.  The court also has the inherent power to
ensure the orderly administration of justice and control the litigation before
it.  This power derives from its
constitutional role and is not dependent on statute.  (Walker v. Superior Court (1991) 53
Cal.3d 257, 267, 279.)
 
As it is uncontested that Defendants have not served their
court-ordered discovery responses, the Court finds sanctions are warranted.  Further, as defense counsel attributes the
delay in serving discovery responses to having mis-calendared Plaintiff’s
discovery requests, the Court imposes the full requested sanctions of $1,500 against
defense counsel only.
 
 
 
III.       CONCLUSION
 
            The motion for
an order imposing issue, evidence, and terminating sanctions is DENIED.  
 
            The request
for monetary sanctions is granted.  Defense
counsel is ordered to pay Plaintiff, by and through her counsel, monetary
sanctions of $1,500 within 30 days of this order.  The parties are ordered to meet and confer
about payment of sanctions.
            
Moving party to give notice. 

 
 
Dated:   October 31,
2023                                         ___________________________________
                                                                                    Lee
S. Arian
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
            Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on
the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at
www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative
and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless
appear at the hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive
emails from the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and
there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion,
adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar. 
 
 


