 Case Number:  23BBCP00117    Hearing Date:   June 28, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
JUNE 28, 2024

MOTION
TO QUASH SUBPOENA

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCP00117

 



MP:  


David Minkin (Claimant)




RP:  


United Financial Casualty Company
  (Respondent)



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
David
Minkin (Claimant) brings this uninsured motorist action against his insurer United Financial Casualty Company (Respondent). This action
stems from an accident where claimant was struck by an uninsured motorist on April
17, 2018. 
 
Claimant now moves to
quash 11 of Respondent’s subpoenas requesting his medical records. Claimant
argues that the subpoenas are facially overbroad and outside the scope previously
agreed to by counsel. Respondent opposes the motion and Claimant replies. 
  
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Motions
to Quash
 
Code of
Civil Procedure (C.C.P.) § 1987.1 grants the trial court authority to quash a
subpoena when necessary.  C.C.P. 1987.1 states, “If a subpoena requires
the attendance of a witness or the production of books, documents, or other
things before a court, or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of
a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably made by any person described in
subdivision (b), or upon the court’s own motion after giving counsel notice and
an opportunity to be heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely,
modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as
the court shall declare, including protective orders.  In addition, the
court may make any other order as may be appropriate to protect the person from
unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the
right of privacy of the person.”   
 
Privacy
Claims
 
The party
asserting the right of privacy, bears the initial burden of demonstrating (1) a
“legally protected privacy interest”; (2) an “objectively reasonable
expectation of privacy in the given circumstances”; and (3) a “threatened
intrusion that is serious.” (Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th
531, 552.) If the asserting party meets this standard, responding party must
then show that the requested documents are “directly relevant” to the
litigation. (Tylo v. Superior Court (1997) 55 Cal.App.4th 1379, 1387,
citing Britt v. Superior Court (1978) 20 Cal.3d 844, 858-859.)
 
In
considering whether good cause has been shown to enforce a subpoena subjected
to a motion to quash, the California Supreme Court in the recent case of Facebook,
Inc. v. Superior Court of San Diego County (2020) 10 Cal.5th 329, 345-346,
provided a list of seven factors to be considered: (1) Whether the party
seeking production has met its burden of showing a “plausible justification”
for obtaining the documents from a third party witness; (2) whether the
material sought is adequately described and not overly broad; (3) whether the
material is “reasonably available” to the person from which the records are
sought and not readily available to the person seeking production; (4) whether
production would violate the “confidentiality or privacy rights” of a third
party; (5) the timeliness of the request; (6) whether the time required to
produce the requested information would unreasonably delay trial; (7) whether
production of the requested information places an unreasonable burden on the
third party.
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
The
Court notes that this is the second such motion to quash concerning Claimant’s
medical records. The Court previously granted a motion to quash 11 subpoenas
for Claimant’s medical records, finding that they were overbroad because they
were not temporally limited. In the briefing for that motion, both Claimant and
Respondent acknowledged that they had previously stipulated to limit the
language of the medical record subpoenas to documents relating to the injured
body parts within the last five years. 
 
It
appears that after the motion was granted, Respondent reissued the subpoenas
with the appropriate five-year time limitation. This was in contrast to the
previous subpoenas which requested all medical records, medical-billing,
pharmacy, insurance, and radiology records for Claimant with no limitation
whatsoever. The limitations on each subpoena now read as follows: 
 
1.     
Limited to five (5) years prior to the date of loss,
04/17/2018, to the present. 
 
2.     
Limited to the following body parts/conditions: upper right
back, cervical spine/neck, lumbar spine/low back, head, traumatic brain injury,
headaches, cognitive dysfunction, forgetfulness/memory loss, slowness,
‘fogginess’, difficulty concentrating, depression, post concussive
symptoms/cerebral concussion syndrome and ventral (abdominal) hernia
 
(Kim
Decl. ¶ 6.) 
 
In
bringing the instant motion, Claimant argues that Respondent has once again
requested documents which exceed the scope of this litigation. Specifically,
Claimant argues that request for documents in relation to “traumatic brain
injury, headaches, cognitive dysfunction, forgetfulness/memory loss, slowness,
fogginess, difficulty concentrating, depression, post concussive
symptoms/cerebral concussion syndrome” are improper because he is not claiming
any such injuries in this litigation. 
 
The
Court notes that the language in the subpoenas is drawn directly from
Claimant’s initial responses to Respondent’s Form Interrogatories. When asked
to “identify each injury you attribute to the incident and the area of your
body affected,” Claimant responded thusly: 
 
Responding Party
suffered from 2-3 cm abrasion in the upper right back, herniated cervical disc,
cervicalgia, cervical pain, herniated lumbar disc, lumbar pain, depression,
traumatic brain injury and post cerebral concussion syndrome with associated
post-concussive symptoms, including without limitation, post-traumatic
headaches, dizziness, cognitive dysfunction, memory problems, concentration
problems, and mental slowing. 
 
(Mot.
Exh. A., FROG No. 6.2) 
 
It is the Court’s perspective that these
reissued subpoenas are compliant with the parties’ agreement that the subpoenas
be limited to those documents related to Claimant’s alleged injuries.
Respondent then issued a subpoena mirroring Claimant’s own language regarding
his alleged injuries. Claimant’s argument that records pertaining to his
“cognitive, mental, emotional, and psychological records” are beyond the scope
of his claimed injuries was only ever presented after the subpoenas were
issued. 
 
Concerning the parties meet and confer
efforts after the subpoena was reissued, Claimant states that he has repeatedly
informed Respondent that his head injury claim is now fully resolved. On April
17, 2024, Claimant’s counsel emailed Respondent’s counsel to inform them the
head injury claim had fully resolved. (Kim Decl. ¶ 7.) After some back and
forth regarding putting the subpoenas on hold, on May 6, 2024 Claimant proposed
a stipulation limiting his head injury claim. (Kim Decl. ¶ 9.) It appears
that counsel for both parties agreed that further meet and confer regarding the
stipulation was necessary, but Respondent informed that they could not grant an
extension on Claimant’s deadline to file this motion without approval. (Kim
Decl. ¶ 12.) Claimant asserts that this approval never materialized,
leaving him with no choice but to file the instant motion on the deadline of
May 24, 2024. (Kim Decl. ¶¶ 6-7.) Also on May 24, 2024, Claimant served
amended responses to Respondent’s Form Interrogatories with the intention of
limiting his head injury claims. (Kim Decl. ¶ 14, Exh. H.) The amended
response to Form Interrogatory 6.2 reads: 
 
Responding Party
suffered from 2-3 cm abrasion in the upper right back, herniated cervical disc,
cervicalgia, cervical pain, herniated lumbar disc, lumbar pain, and a head
concussion (now fully resolved).
 
(Mot. Exh. H, p. 2.) 
 
Respondent’s primary contention is that the
subpoenas were relevant to Claimant’s alleged injuries at the time the
subpoenas were issued. Regarding the amended discovery responses, Respondent
argues they are irrelevant for purposes of this motion because they were
unverified. A review of the responses confirms that they were sent on May 24,
2024 without verification and without attorney signature. Unverified discovery
responses are tantamount to no response at all. (Appleton v. Superior Court
(1988) 206 Cal. App. 3d 632, 635-36.) Regardless, the Court notes that Claimant
apparently served the verification for the responses on June 17, 2024. (Reply
Exh. I.) 
 
The instant motion appears to have resulted
from miscommunication/misunderstanding on both sides. On one hand, Respondent
had no way of knowing prior to reissuing the subpoenas that Claimant intended
to limit the scope of his head injury claims. No mention was made of this
during the previous motion to quash and the first indication appears in
Claimant’s meet and confer efforts after the subpoenas were reissued. 
 
On the other hand, it appears that Respondent
was less than cooperative with respect to Claimant’s proposed stipulation
limiting his claims. Respondent argues that they agreed to a three-week
extension from the original May 3 filing deadline specifically to allow the
parties to meet and confer. (Selame Decl. ¶ 6.) This argument does not address
Respondent’s alleged non-response to Claimant’s proposed stipulation when the
time came to actually meet and confer. (See Kim Decl. ¶ 15.) Respondent
offers no explanation for their failure to approve further extension or their
radio silence to Claimant’s proposed stipulation. Further, Respondent’s
argument that they placed the subpoenas “on hold” is unavailing. (See Selame
Decl. ¶ 7.) The Court is unaware of the legal effect of placing the subpoenas
on hold, nor does Respondent cite to any authority on the matter. In the
Court’s view subpoenas are either served or withdrawn and, in this case, it is
clear that Respondent did not withdraw the subpoenas. 
 
Given the difficulties of the parties in
communicating and stipulating to the scope of the subpoenas, the Court is
inclined to exercise its discretion under C.C.P. § 1987.1 to modify the
subpoenas to reflect the current state of affairs. In the Court’s estimation
this approach will safeguard Claimant’s privacy interest without requiring
Respondent to incur the cost of reissuing the subpoenas yet again. To do so,
the Court will analyze Claimant’s proposed limitation and evaluate whether it
serves to adequately protect his interests. 
 
The Court maintains that Claimant has
adequately demonstrated a privacy interest in his medical records. The party
asserting a privacy right must establish a legally protected privacy interest,
an objectively reasonable expectation of privacy in the given circumstances,
and a threatened intrusion that is serious. (Williams supra, 3
Cal.5th at 552 [internal citations omitted].) The general rule is that medical
records are protected by the right of privacy. (John B. v. Superior Court
(2006) 38 Cal.4th 1177, 119.) Here, Claimant has appropriately asserted that
his medical records concerning his cognitive, mental, emotional, and
psychological health are subject to privacy protections. 
 
The party seeking information may raise in
response whatever legitimate and important countervailing interests disclosure
serves, while the party seeking protection may identify feasible alternatives
that serve the same interests or protective measures that would diminish the
loss of privacy. A court must then balance these competing considerations.” (Williams
supra, 3 Cal.5th at 552 [internal citations omitted].) 
 
Although a plaintiff waives privacy as to
information which relates to any physical or mental condition put in issue by
bringing the lawsuit, the plaintiff retains the privacy interest in unrelated
past medical or psychotherapeutic treatment; a disclosure of the entire
lifetime of medical history is unwarranted. (Britt supra, 20 Cal.3d at
865.) 
 
Regardless of the circuitous means by which
they were provided, the fact remains that Claimant has served verified
discovery responses amending his prior injury claims. Claimant no longer claims
injuries from this accident pertaining to depression, traumatic
brain injury and post cerebral concussion syndrome with associated
post-concussive symptoms. It follows that Claimant has not placed medical
records related to treatment for these injuries at issue in this case. As a
result, the currently issued subpoenas are impermissibly broad. 
 
Accordingly,
the motion to quash is DENIED. However, the Court
orders the 11 subpoenas issued to Claimant’s medical providers modified in the
following way: 
 
1.     
Requests for documents are limited to five years prior from
the date of loss, 4/17/2018, to the present. 
 
2.     
Requests are limited to the following body
parts/conditions: upper right back, cervical spine/neck, lumbar spine/low back,
head, and ventral (abdominal) hernia. 

 
Sanctions 
 
The court
may, in its discretion, order the losing party to pay the prevailing party’s
expenses, including reasonable attorney fees, incurred on the motion to quash,
if it finds that the motion was “made or opposed in bad faith or without
substantial justification or that one or more of the requirements of the
subpoena was oppressive.” (C.C.P. § 1987.2(a).) Here, the Court finds that the
motions were not made or opposed in bad faith. Nor does the Court find
Respondent’s opposition was without substantial justification. 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
David Minkin’s Motion
to Quash Subpoena came on regularly for hearing on June
28, 2024, with appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said
hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there
rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION TO QUASH IS DENIED.   
 
THE
COURT ORDERS THE 11 SUBPOENAS ISSUED TO CLAIMANT’S MEDICAL PROVIDERS MODIFIED
IN THE MANNER SPECIFIED IN THIS RULING.  
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, CLAIMANT TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
June 28, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 