 Case Number:  BC633340    Hearing Date:   June 28, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
JUNE 28, 2024

MOTION TO
QUASH APPLICATION AND ORDER 
FOR
APPEARANCE AND EXAMINATION 

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # BC633340

 



MP:  


Alexis Gevorgian (Defendant)




RP:  


Andrea Lui, Juan Godinez, and
  Patricia Healy (Plaintiffs)



 
NOTICE:
 
The Court is not requesting oral argument on this
matter.  Pursuant to California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) notice
of intent to appear is required.  Unless the Court directs argument in the
Tentative Ruling, no argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies all
other parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of
the party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will
become the ruling of the court if no notice of intent to appear is received.”  

 
Notice may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org
or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
On February 7, 2023, this
Court entered judgment against Coachella Management Partners LLC (Coachella).
The Court ruled that Coachella was liable for damages incurred by Patricia
Healy (Healy), Andrea Lui (Lui), Juan Godinez (Godinez), (collectively “Plaintiffs”)
resulting from the improper removal of a wooden structure on Coachella’s
property. 
 
The Court found that Alexis Gevorgian was
liable under alter ego for the damages liability of Coachella.  On August 16, 2023, the Court entered amended
judgment against Defendant and in favor of Plaintiffs. This amended judgment
has subsequently been appealed by both Gevorgian and Coachella. 
 
Before the Court is a motion by
Gevorgian to quash Plaintiff’s Application and Order for Appearance and
Examination (ORAP). On February 29, 2024, an ORAP occurred in which Gevorgian testified
on behalf of Coachella. This motion seeks to quash the ORAP requesting
Gevorgian testify as an individual judgment debtor. Plaintiffs oppose the
motion and Gevorgian replies. 
  
ANALYSIS: 
 
1.      LEGAL STANDARD 
 
C.C.P. §
1987.1 grants the trial court authority to quash a subpoena when
necessary.  C.C.P. § 1987.1 states, “If a subpoena requires the attendance
of a witness or the production of books, documents, or other things before a
court, or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition,
the court, upon motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision
(b), or upon the court’s own motion after giving counsel notice and an
opportunity to be heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely,
modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as
the court shall declare, including protective orders.  In addition, the
court may make any other order as may be appropriate to protect the person from
unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the
right of privacy of the person.”  
 
2.      MERITS
 
In moving
to quash the ORAP, Gevorgian argues (1) that he is not a judgment debtor
subject to independent examination and (2) that the examination is
impermissible as Gevorgian’s appeal has stayed enforcement measures. The Court
will address each of these arguments in turn. 
 
Gevorgian
argues that he is not a judgment debtor within the meaning of C.C.P.
708.110(a). This argument is largely one of the language employed by the
judgment, as Gevorgian argues that his alter ego liability is conditional upon
nonpayment by Coachella. For sake of clarity, the Court reproduces the portion
of the judgment which addresses alter ego below: 
 
The Court further rules that Plaintiffs have met
their burden to “pierce the corporate veil” under the alter-ego doctrine
against Coachella Management Partners, LLC. Alexis M. Gevorgian, as the sole
member-manager of Coachella Management Partners, LLC operated the LLC in such a
manner, including but not limited to the removal of all assets with the
knowledge of pending liabilities, such that member liability protection
afforded by a Limited Liability Company would be inequitable. Alexis M.
Gevorgian testified that any potential liabilities against Coachella Management
Partners, LLC may possibly be covered through a loan or other method of
recapitalizing the LLC. As such, Court ruled that Alexis M. Gevorgian,
individually, is liable for debts of Coachella Management Partners, LLC if the
LLC fails to satisfy dollar damages that may be awarded in Phase III (Damages).

 
The Court
first notes that the authority relied upon by both Gevorgian and Plaintiffs is
scant. This does not seem a reflection of the parties so much as the result of
the novel nature of the Court’s ruling on alter ego. The Court understands
Gevorgian’s argument, but ultimately finds it unpersuasive. 
 
If
Gevorgian’s argument is correct, it is unclear when, if ever, he would be
subject to a debtor’s examination. Gevorgian appears to agree that, under the
current judgment, he would be become a judgment debtor if Coachella failed to
pay the damages. The reality is that Coachella has not paid the judgment.  The difficulty stems from determining when
the transition from “conditional judgment debtor” to “judgment debtor” occurs.
Are Plaintiffs forced to wait until years down the road? How are Plaintiffs
expected to prove that Coachella will not pay except for the reality that
Coachella has not paid. 
 
In
resolving the above ambiguities, the Court finds it useful to revisit its logic
in imposing the conditional alter ego liability. The Court maintains that
Plaintiffs sufficiently demonstrated Gevorgian to be the alter ego of Coachella
at trial. Thus, the imposition of the condition was more of a practical
consideration than a concern with Gevorgian’s actual liability. The Court
wished to preserve a potential scenario in which Coachella had available assets
to pay the judgment and Plaintiffs needed to go no further.  For example, if Gevorgian returned money to
Coachella which was removed after the events leading to liability, the
Coachella could pay the judgment; or if Coachella obtained a loan to fund
payment, then Coachella could pay the judgment. This being said, it is apparent
at this point that such a scenario will not come to pass. 
 
Plaintiffs
contend that the February 29, 2024 ORAP of Coachella revealed that Coachella
has no assets and is unable to pay. Plaintiffs offer the testimony of Gevorgian
from his examination as the director of Coachella. Gevorgian testified that the
current value of the Coachella’s assets is “zero”. (Opp. Exh. 2, p. 18.)
Further, Gevorgian explicitly answered that Coachella had no assets and no
business activity. (Opp. Exh. 2, pgs. 38-39.) 
 
The Court
finds these showings sufficient to establish that Coachella is unable to pay
the damages. By Gevorgian’s own admission, Coachella appears to have no assets
and no way of accumulating assets. Gevorgian has offered no showing to the
contrary. Given Plaintiff’s showing of Coachella’s inability to pay, the Court
finds Gevorgian personally subject to examination. 
 
Gevorgian
also argues that the debtor examination cannot occur because enforcement of the
judgment is stayed pending his appeal. Gevorgian argues that his appeal,
including the alter ego finding, bars the examination from going forward as per
C.C.P. § 916. C.C.P. § 916 provides: 
 
(a) Except as provided in Sections 917.1 to
917.9, inclusive, and in Section 116.810, the perfecting of an appeal stays
proceedings in the trial court upon the judgment or order appealed from or upon
the matters embraced therein or affected thereby, including enforcement of the
judgment or order, but the trial court may proceed upon any other matter
embraced in the action and not affected by the judgment or order.
 
(b) When there is a stay of proceedings other
than the enforcement of the judgment, the trial court shall have jurisdiction
of proceedings related to the enforcement of the judgment as well as any other
matter embraced in the action and not affected by the judgment or order
appealed from.
 
The Court
notes that Coachella, an entity under the direct control of Gevorgian, did not
raise this concern with respect to its own ORAP, despite the fact that
Coachella is also appealing the Court’s judgment. 
 
As
concerns Gevorgian, the Court notes he has filed no undertaking in reference to
his appeal. C.C.P. § 916(a) explicitly states an exception to the mandatory
stay where C.C.P. § 917.1 applies. C.C.P. § 917.1 provides: 
 
(a) Unless an undertaking is given, the
perfecting of an appeal shall not stay enforcement of the judgment or order in
the trial court if the judgment or order is for any of the following:
 
(1) Money or the payment of money, whether
consisting of a special fund or not, and whether payable by the appellant or
another party to the action.
 
Given
that the judgment here is for money, it falls under the purview of C.C.P. §
917.1(a)(1). Thus, Gevorgian is required to file an undertaking if he wishes to
stay enforcement proceedings.  
 
Gevorgian
argues in his reply that C.C.P. § 917.1 cannot apply to this case because he is
not a judgment debtor. The Court finds this argument unpersuasive. As
previously discussed, the Court is not persuaded by Gevorgian’s argument that
he is not a judgment debtor. The same logic applies here. The judgment clearly
establishes Gevorgian’s obligation to pay should Coachella not have assets
sufficient to cover the damages. The Court does not see how the judgment is not
one which is “payable by the appellant” under C.C.P. § 917.1(a)(1). It follows
that Gevorgian is required to file an undertaking to stay enforcement of the
judgment pursuant to C.C.P. § 917(a). As Gevorgian has posted no such
undertaking, no stay of enforcement is in effect here. 
 
In short,
the Court finds that Gevorgian is a judgment debtor for the purposes of this ORAP.
As such, Gevorgian is subject to the debtor’s examination barring his filing of
an undertaking pending appeal. Accordingly, the motion to quash the ORAP is
DENIED. 
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Alexis
Gevorgian’s Motion to Quash came on regularly for hearing on June 28, 2024, with
appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the Court,
being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION TO QUASH IS DENIED.
 
ALEXIS GEVORGIAN IS ORDERED TO PARTICIPATE IN AN
ORAP WITHIN 30 CALENDAR DAYS UNLESS JUDGMENT CREDITORS STIPULATE TO A LATER
DATE. 
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, PLAINTIFFS LUI
AND GODINEZ TO GIVE NOTICE.  
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
June 28, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 