 Case Number:  23BBCV02786    Hearing Date:   June 28, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
JUNE 28, 2024

APPLICATION
FOR WRIT OF POSSESSION

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV02786

 



MP:  


Centra Funding, LLC (Plaintiff)




RP:  


None



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Plaintiff Centra
Funding, LLC brings this action against Anko Services and Andrii Benko
(Defendants) in connection with an Equipment Finance Agreement. Plaintiff
alleges that Defendants leased a “UTP 160-P3 160kW/200kVA Super Silent
Generator” (the Generator) from them and subsequently defaulted on payments. 
 
On November 17, 2023, Plaintiff filed its Complaint stating
five causes of action for (1) Breach of Contract, (2) Breach of
Guaranty, (3) Recovery of Personal Property, (4) Conversion, and (5) Common
Count (Money Lent). 
 
Before the Court is an
Application made by Plaintiff for a Writ of Possession. Plaintiff seeks to
recover the Generator so that it may recoup funds toward the defaulted
agreement. Defendants have filed no opposition, though as the Court will
explain, this is likely because service of process has not yet occurred. 
  
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
C.C.P. §
512.010 requires that the application for writ of possession be executed under
oath and include affidavits showing the following: 
 
(1)  
A showing
of the basis of the plaintiff's claim and that the plaintiff is entitled to
possession of the property claimed. If the basis of the plaintiff's claim is a
written instrument, a copy of the instrument shall be attached. 
 
(2)  
A showing
that the property is wrongfully detained by the defendant, of the manner in
which the defendant came into possession of the property, and, according to the
best knowledge, information, and belief of the plaintiff, of the reason for the
detention. 
 
(3)  
A
particular description of the property and a statement of its value. 
 
(4)  
A
statement, according to the best knowledge, information, and belief of the
plaintiff, of the location of the property and, if the property, or some part
of it, is within a private place which may have to be entered to take
possession, a showing that there is probable cause to believe that such
property is located there. 
 
(5)  
A
statement that the property has not been taken for a tax, assessment, or fine,
pursuant to a statute; or seized under an execution against the property of the
plaintiff; or, if so seized, that it is by statute exempt from such
seizure. 
 
C.C.P. §
512.030 provides that before the hearing on the Writ of Possession, the defendant
must be served with:  
 
(1)  
a copy of
the summons and complaint; 
 
(2)  
a Notice
of Application and Hearing; and 
 
(3)  
a copy of
the application and any affidavit in support thereof.  
 
C.C.P. §
512.060 permits the Court to issue a writ of possession when the Court finds
the following: 
 
(1)  
the
plaintiff has established the probable validity of the plaintiff's claim to
possession of the property; and 
 
(2)  
the
undertaking requirements of C.C.P. § 515.010 are satisfied. 
 
C.C.P. §
515.010 provides: “The undertaking shall be in an amount not less than twice
the value of¿the¿defendant's interest in the property or in a greater amount.”
 
“Before
issuance of a writ of attachment … the plaintiff shall file an undertaking to
pay the defendant any amount the defendant may recover for any wrongful
attachment by the plaintiff in the action.” (C.C.P. § 489.210.) But when a
defendant does not have any interest in the property, C.C.P. § 515.010(b)
permits the Court to waive the requirement of the plaintiff's undertaking and
set an undertaking for the defendant to keep possession or regain
possession. 
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
The Court notes that
service of process in this matter has not yet occurred. Although Plaintiff
filed its Complaint on November 17, 2023, no proof of service as to either Defendant
has been filed. On April 24, 2024, the Court entered an order for service via
publication on Andrii Bunko. On April 19, 2024, the Court entered an order approving
service on Anko Services via the California Secretary of State. No proofs of
service have been filed as of the hearing for this application. 
 
Given that service of both
Defendants is still pending, Plaintiff’s motion is premature under C.C.P. §
512.030. While the Court would usually entertain continuance of the motion to
allow Plaintiff to cure this procedural defect, the Court notes that service of
notice for this application has not been effectuated either. This being the
case, the Court is inclined to deny the application without prejudice to enable
Plaintiff to effectuate service of both the summons and the notice of the
application. 
 
Accordingly, the
Application for Writ of Possession is DENIED without prejudice. 
---
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Centra Funding, LLC’s
Application for Writ of Possession came on regularly
for hearing on June 28, 2024, with appearances/submissions as noted in the
minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the
premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE APPLICATION
FOR WRIT OF POSSESSION IS DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE.
 
OSC RE
PROOF OF SERVICE AND CASE MANAGEMENT CONFERENCE IS CONTINUED TO OCTOBER 16,
2024 AT 9:00 AM.
 
PLAINTIFF
TO GIVE NOTICE.
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
June 28, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 