 Case Number:  24NNCV01671    Hearing Date:   June 28, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
JUNE 28, 2024

PETITION
TO COMPEL ARBITRATION

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 24NNCV01671

 



MP:  


Agapeh Panosiyan (Petitioner)




RP:  


None



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Agapeh Panosiyan
(Petitioner) brings this petition to compel Tesla Insurance Services, Inc.
(Tesla) to arbitrate an uninsured motorist claim. Petitioner alleges that State
National Insurance Company, Inc., being handled by Tesla, provided uninsured
motorist insurance on Petitioner’s vehicle at the time of the accident. Tesla
has filed no opposition to this petition. 
  
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“On
petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a
written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses
to arbitrate such controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the
respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to
arbitrate the controversy exists, unless it determines that: (a) The right to
compel arbitration has been waived by the petitioner; or (b) Grounds exist for
the revocation of the agreement.” (C.C.P. §1281.2(a)-(b).)
 
The party
seeking to compel arbitration bears the burden of proving the existence of a
valid arbitration agreement by a preponderance of the evidence. (Fagelbaum
& Heller LLP v. Smylie (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 1351, 1363.) Courts “use
general principles of California contract law to determine the enforceability
of the arbitration agreement.” (Mission Viejo Emergency Medical Associates
v. Beta Healthcare Group (2011) 197 Cal.App.4th 1146, 1153.)
 
The
California Insurance Code requires an insurer to provide uninsured motorists
coverage in each bodily injury liability insurance policy it issues covering
liability arising out of the ownership, maintenance, or use of a motor vehicle.
(Ins. Code. § 11580.2(a)(1)-(2).) The policy “shall provide that the
determination as to whether the insured shall be legally entitled to recover
damages, and if so entitled, the amount thereof, shall be made by agreement
between the insured and the insurer or, in the event of disagreement, by
arbitration.” (Ins. Code., § 11580.2(f).)
 
“Any
demand or petition for arbitration shall contain a declaration, under penalty
of perjury, stating whether (i) the insured has a workers’ compensation claim;
(ii) the claim has proceeded to findings and award or settlement on all issues
reasonably contemplated to be determined in that claim; and (iii) if not, what
reasons amounting to good cause are grounds for the arbitration to proceed
immediately.” (Ins. Code. § 11580.2 (f).)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
October 13, 2023, Petitioner
was involved in an automobile collision with an uninsured motorist (Chichyan Decl.
¶ 3, Exh. A.) On April 13, 2024, Petitioner submitted her California Insurance
Code § 11580.2 demand for Uninsured Motorist Arbitration via Certified Mail. (Chichyan
Deel. ¶43, Exh. A.) Also on April 13, 2024, Petitioner submitted correspondence
to Tesla requesting their preferred list of neutral arbitrators. (Chichyan
Deel. ¶ 5, Exh. B.) This correspondence listed May 17, 2024 as the deadline for
Tesla to provide a list of arbitrators. (Id.) Petitioner states their counsel
has had multiple communications with the adjuster for the claim, but never
received a list of arbitrators. (Chichyan Decl. ¶ 6.) Petitioner states
that Tesla has thus far never responded regarding arbitration or selection of
arbitrators. (Chichyan Decl. ¶ 7.) 
 
The Court notes that the
insurance agreement under which Petitioner and Tesla are allegedly bound is
absent from the moving papers. Further, no agreement appears to be attached to
any of Petitioner’s other filings. Without the terms of this agreement, the
Court is without the information to determine that a valid and enforceable
arbitration agreement exists between the parties. Further, the Court notes that
Petitioner’s submissions do not contain the declaration required by Ins. Code.
§ 11580.2 (f). In fact, it appears that Petitioner has not alleged whether the
claim was even denied by Tesla. As it stands, the Court is unaware of any
arbitration agreement between the parties or what the status of the uninsured
motorist claim is. 
 
Accordingly, the petition
is DENIED without prejudice. 
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Agapeh Panosiyan’s Petition
to Compel Arbitration came on regularly for hearing
on June 28, 2024, with appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for
said hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and
there rule as follows: 
 
THE PETITION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION IS DENIED
WITHOUT PREJUDICE. 
 
UNLESS
ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, PETITIONER TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
June 28, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 