 Case Number:  23BBCV00731    Hearing Date:   June 28, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENATIVE
RULING
JUNE 28, 2024

MOTION
FOR TERMINATING SANCTIONS 

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV00731

 
MP:     Daniel Jose Mari Marquez (Defendant)
RP:      Karen Serrano
(Plaintiff)

 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS/HISTORY: 
 
Karen Serrano
(Plaintiff) brings this action against Daniel Jose Mari Marquez (Defendant) in
connection with an April 3, 2021 motor vehicle accident. Plaintiff alleges the
incident occurred because of Defendant’s negligence and resulted in damage to
Plaintiff’s vehicle and person. 
 
Before the Court is a
motion for terminating sanctions brought by Defendant. Defendant argues that
terminating sanctions should issue as the result of Plaintiff’s repeated
noncompliance with the Court’s order compelling discovery. Plaintiff opposes
the motion and Defendant replies. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
Where a party fails
to obey an order compelling answers to discovery, “the court may make those
orders that are just, including the imposition of an issue sanction, an
evidence sanction, or a terminating sanction.” (C.C.P. §§ 2030.290(c),
2023.010(c); R.S. Creative, Inc. v. Creative Cotton, Ltd. (1999) 75 Cal.
App. 4th 486, 495.) Terminating sanctions are appropriate when a party persists
in disobeying the court’s orders. (Deyo v. Kilbourne (1978) 84
Cal.App.3d 771, 795-796.) 
 
A terminating
sanction is a “drastic measure which should be employed with caution.” (Deyo
supra, 84 Cal. App. 3d at 793.) “A decision to order terminating sanctions
should not be made lightly. But where a violation is willful, preceded by a
history of abuse, and the evidence shows that less severe sanctions would not
produce compliance with the discovery rules, the trial court is justified in
imposing the ultimate sanction.” (Mileikowsky v. Tenet Healthsystem
(2005) 128 Cal. App. 4th 262, 279-280.) 
 
While the court has
discretion to impose terminating sanctions, these sanctions “should be
appropriate to the dereliction and should not exceed that which is required to
protect the interests of the party entitled to but denied discovery.” (Deyo
supra, at 793.) “[A] court is empowered to apply the ultimate sanction
against a litigant who persists in the outright refusal to comply with his
discovery obligations.” (Id.) 
 
LEGAL STANDARD: 
 
On March 1, 2024, the
Court granted Defendant’s motions to compel Plaintiff’s Form Interrogatories, and
Request for Production of Documents (RFPD.) the Court also ordered Plaintiff to
pay $980 in sanctions to Defendant. 
 
Defendant represents
to the Court that Plaintiff has not complied with this order. (Kandarian-Stein
Decl. ¶ 11.) Defendant states that despite sending notice of the Court’s
order to Plaintiff, they received no response by the March 21, 2024 deadline. (Kandarian-Stein
Decl. ¶¶ 8-11.) Defendant argues that this failure to comply is evidence of
willful behavior befitting terminating sanctions. 
 
In opposition,
Plaintiff contends that she has now served responses to all of Plaintiff’s
discovery demands. (Chiaverni Decl. ¶ 4.) The Court notes that Plaintiff
does not actually attach the discovery responses served, nor state which date
they were served on. As Defendant has attached the responses to their reply,
the Court observes that the responses were sent to Plaintiff’s counsel on May
31, 2024. The Court notes this compliance came a full two months after the
deadline in the Court’s order. 
 
The Court further
notes that the responses sent to Defendant’s counsel were unverified and were
not signed by Plaintiff’s attorney. Unverified discovery responses are
tantamount to no response at all. (Appleton v. Superior Court (1988) 206
Cal. App. 3d 632, 635-36.) As Plaintiff’s responses were unverified, she has
presented no evidence to this Court that she is in compliance with the March 1,
2024 order.  
 
Despite the lack of
verification, the Court finds the attempt at serving compliant responses is
demonstrative of the fact that Plaintiff’s failure to comply is not so defiant
such that terminating sanctions are warranted. “Lack of diligence may be deemed
willful in the sense that the party understood [their] obligation, had the
ability to comply, and failed to comply.” (Deyo supra, at 787.)  Here, Plaintiff appears to be attempting to
comply with Defendant’s discovery demands and additionally has been
corresponding with Defendant’s counsel to arrange for her deposition. (See Chiaverni
Decl. ¶ 7, Exh. B.) Further, Plaintiff’s counsel states that they were
recently assigned to this matter and that the prior handling attorney is no
longer associated with their firm as he is dealing with a grave personal and
acute medical diagnosis. (Chiaverni Decl. ¶ 8.) 
 
Given Plaintiff’s
subsequent attempts to comply with the Court’s order and cooperate with
Defendant’s counsel, the Court finds evidence of willful disregard of the
discovery process to be lacking. However, the Court is cognizant of the need
for Defendant to receive verified discovery responses. As such, the Motion for
Terminating Sanctions is DENIED without prejudice. Plaintiff shall serve the
verified responses and pay the sanctions by July 26, 2024.
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Daniel Jose Mari
Marquez’s Motion for Terminating Sanctions came on
regularly for hearing on June 28, 2024, with appearances/submissions as noted
in the minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the
premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
 HE MOTION FOR TERMINATING SANCTIONS IS DENIED.

 
PLAINTIFF IS TO PAY
SANCTIONS AND PROVIDE VERIFIED RESPONSES NO LATER THAN JULY 26, 2024.
 
TRIAL STATUS
CONFERENCE IS SET FOR SEPTEMBER 9, 2024 AT 9:00 AM.
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES
WAIVE NOTICE, PLAINTIFF TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
DATE: June
28, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles