 Case Number:  24BBCV00472    Hearing Date:   June 28, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
JUNE 28, 2024

DEMURRER
& MOTION TO STRIKE

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 24BBCV00472

 
MP:     Encompass Insurance Company (Defendant)

RP:     Raymond
Asatryan (Plaintiff) 

 
NOTICE:
 

The Court
is not requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice
may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818)
260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Raymond Asatryan (Plaintiff)
brings this action against Encompass Insurance Company (Defendant). Plaintiff
alleges he was improperly denied insurance benefits pertaining to a claim for
damage to his vehicle. Plaintiff’s Complaint does not allege when this loss
occurred or where it occurred in the body of his Complaint. It appears from the
Coverage Denial letter attached to the Complaint that the incident occurred
September 11, 2023. (Compl. Exh. A.) 
 
Plaintiff states two causes of
action for (1) Breach of the Duty of Good Faith and Fair Dealing and (2) Breach of Contract. 
 
Before the Court is a demurrer brought by Defendant
to the first cause of action. Defendant also moves to strike Plaintiff’s
request for punitive damages and the related allegations of despicable conduct
in Paragraph 19. Plaintiff opposes the motion and Defendant replies. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARDS
 
Demurrer
 
The grounds for a demurrer must appear on the
face of the pleading or from judicially noticeable matters. (C.C.P. §
430.30(a); Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal. 3d 311, 318.) A demurrer for
sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) The only issue involved in a
demurrer hearing is whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Id.)
 
A demurrer assumes the truth of all factual,
material allegations properly pled in the challenged pleading. (Blank v.
Kirwan, supra, 39 Cal. 3d at p. 318.) No matter how unlikely or improbable,
the plaintiff’s allegations must be accepted as true for the purpose of ruling
on the demurrer. (Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981)
123 Cal.  App. 3d 593, 604.) But this does not include contentions;
deductions; conclusions of fact or law alleged in the complaint; facts
impossible in law; or allegations contrary to facts of which a court may take
judicial notice.  (Blank, supra, 39 Cal. 3d at 318.)
 
Pursuant to C.C.P. §§ 430.10(e) and (f), the
party against whom a complaint has been filed may demur to the pleading on the
grounds that the pleading does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause
of action, or that the pleading is uncertain, ambiguous and/or unintelligible.
It is an abuse of discretion to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if
there is a reasonable probability that the defect can be cured by amendment. (Schifando
v. City of Los Angeles (2003) 31 Cal. 4th 1074, 1082.)
 
Motion to Strike
 
Motions to strike are used to reach defects or
objections to pleadings that are not challengeable by demurrer, such as words,
phrases, and prayers for damages. (See C.C.P. §§ 435, 436, and 437.) The proper
procedure to attack false allegations in a pleading is a motion to strike.
(C.C.P. § 436(a).) In granting a motion to strike made under C.C.P. § 435,
“[t]he court may, upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435 [notice of motion
to strike whole or part of complaint], or at any time in its discretion, and upon
terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter
inserted in any pleading.” (C.C.P. § 436(a).) Irrelevant matters include
immaterial allegations that are not essential to the claim or those not
pertinent to or supported by an otherwise sufficient claim. (C.C.P. § 431.10.) 
 
The court may also “[s]trike out all or any part
of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a
court rule, or an order of the court.” (C.C.P. § 436 (b).)
 
To succeed
on a motion to strike punitive damages allegations, it must be said as a matter
of law that the alleged behavior was not so vile, base, or contemptible that it
would not be looked down upon and despised by ordinary decent people. (Angie
M. v. Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal. App. 4th 1217, 1228-1229.)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Meet and Confer 
 
C.C.P. §§ 430.41(a) and 435.5(a) require that
the moving party meet and confer with the party who filed the pleading that is
subject to the demurrer and/or motion to strike. Upon review the Court finds
the meet and confer requirements were met. (Gargalis Decl. ¶3.) 
 
Demurrer

 
In
every contract, a duty of good faith and fair dealing is imposed on each party
“that neither party will do anything which will injure the right of the other
to receive the benefits of the agreement.” (Careau & Co. v. Security
Pacific Business Credit, Inc. (1990) 222 Cal. App. 3d 1371, 1393 [internal
citations and quotations omitted].) The nature and scope of the duty imposed is
a function of the contract's purposes. (Id. at 1393.) 
 
To
assert a cause of action for breach of the covenant of good faith and fair
dealing, the allegations “must show that the conduct of the defendant, whether
or not it also constitutes a breach of a consensual contract term, demonstrates
a failure or refusal to discharge contractual responsibilities, prompted not by
an honest mistake, bad judgment or negligence but rather by a conscious and
deliberate act, which unfairly frustrates the agreed common purposes and
disappoints the reasonable expectations of the other party thereby depriving
that party of the benefits of the agreement.” (Id. at 1395.) “Just what
conduct will meet these criteria must be determined on a case by case basis and
will depend on the contractual purposes and reasonably justified expectations
of the parties.” (Id.)
 
In the
insurance context, to maintain a claim for breach of the covenant of good faith
and fair dealing, a plaintiff must demonstrate misconduct by the insurer that
is more egregious than an incorrect denial of policy benefits. (Paslay v.
State Farm General Ins. Co. (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 639, 652.) Rather, “[i]n
the context of a bad faith claim, ‘an insurer's denial of or delay in paying
benefits gives rise to tort damages only if the insured shows the denial or
delay was unreasonable.’” (Id. quoting Wilson v. 21st Century Ins.
Co. (2007) 42 Cal. 4th 713, 723; see also Opsal v. United Services Auto.
Assn. (1991) 2 Cal. App. 4th 1197, 1205).
 
Here,
Defendant argues that Plaintiff has pled insufficient facts to support the
allegation that Defendant denied his insurance claim as a matter of bad faith.
Defendant further argues that the Complaint contains no facts supporting
Plaintiff’s contention that their denial was unreasonable. After a review of
the factual allegations of the Complaint, the Court agrees it contains
insufficient factual allegations to sustain a cause of action for breach of the
covenant of good faith and fair dealing. In order to explain the Court’s
reasoning, a brief summary of Plaintiff’s allegations is produced below. 
 
Plaintiff
alleges he fell ill with Covid and had left his vehicle at his friend’s home
until he was able to recover. (Compl. ¶ 5.) Plaintiff alleges he was
thereafter informed that his vehicle was struck in a hit and run while parked
at his friend’s house. (Compl. ¶ 6.) The police responded to the scene and
determined the offending vehicle involved was stolen. (Compl. ¶ 7.)
Plaintiff submitted the claim to Defendant and Defendant “sent a letter
acknowledging the claim and proceeded to conduct an investigation”. (Compl. ¶
10.) Defendant then denied Plaintiff’s claim, citing their belief that
Plaintiff had violated the “Insured’s Duties, and Concealment or Fraud”
provision of the insurance contract. (Compl. ¶¶ 11-12.) 
 
Defendant’s
Coverage Denial letter (the letter) is attached as Exhibit A to the Complaint.
In the letter, Defendant explains that Plaintiff’s claim was denied because of
several perceived misrepresentations he made in submitting the claim. Defendant
states that Plaintiff told them his friend called him at 4 a.m. on the night of
the incident, that Plaintiff stayed on the phone with his friend for an hour
and a half after, and that Plaintiff’s friend then called the police. (Exh. A.)
Plaintiff also informed Defendant that his friend discovered an LAPD business
card on the vehicle in the morning. (Id.) 
 
Defendant’s
letter states that their investigation revealed that minutes after the
incident, Plaintiff’s friend arrived on the scene and was informed that police
were called. (Id.) Defendant further states that Plaintiff’s friend then
left the scene without waiting for police to arrive. (Id.) Defendant
also states that Plaintiff’s cell phone records show no 4 a.m. call ever
occurred. (Id.) Defendant’s investigation also revealed that Plaintiff
was active and away from his home despite his claim that he was quarantined
with Covid. (Id.) Lastly, Defendant’s letter states that Plaintiff was
behind on his payments for the vehicle. (Id.) 
 
The
Court finds the allegations in the Complaint do not support a cause of action
for violation of the duty of good faith and fair dealing. As previously stated,
when such a claim is leveled at an insurer a plaintiff must allege facts
showing that the denial was the result of egregious misconduct. (Paslay
supra, 248 Cal.App.4th at 652.) Here, Plaintiff alleges explicitly that
Defendant received his claim and investigated. The denial letter reveals that
Defendant went so far as to pull Plaintiff’s phone records and verify the
statements he made to them. This stands in contrast with Plaintiff’s conclusory
allegation that Defendant failed to conduct a reasonable claim investigation.
(Compl. ¶ 14(c).) Plaintiff alleges no facts disputing the findings of
Defendant’s investigation, nor any facts as to how Defendant’s investigation
was unreasonable. At current, the Complaint merely states that Defendant was
unreasonable in a conclusory fashion with no factual allegations in support. 
 
Plaintiff
argues in opposition that Defendant’s investigation did not account for the offending
vehicle being stolen. The Court finds this argument unpersuasive. First, there
is no allegation in the Complaint that Defendant did not consider this factor
and the allegation only appears in Plaintiff’s opposition papers. Second, the
Court does not see why an allegation that the offending vehicle was stolen
bears any influence on Defendant’s investigation. It appears to the Court that
Defendant based its denial on the misrepresentations of Plaintiff in violation
of the insurance agreement. Whether or not the offending vehicle was stolen
appears entirely unrelated to the Plaintiff’s alleged violation of the
insurance agreement. 
 
In
short, Plaintiff’s allegations as to his first cause of action are factually
insufficient. Plaintiff does not allege facts demonstrating Defendant’s
unreasonable behavior and instead makes conclusory statements that Defendant
was acting in bad faith.  These
allegations are insufficient to sustain a cause of action for breach of the
duty of good faith and fair dealing. 
 
Accordingly,
the demurrer to the first cause of action is SUSTAINED with 30 days’ leave to
amend. 
 
Motion
to Strike 
 
Given
the Court has sustained the demurrer to the first cause of action with leave to
amend, the motion to strike punitive damages in connection with that cause of
action is MOOT. 
 
---
 
RULING:
 
In the event the parties submit on this
tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed order or the Court in its
discretion elects to sign a formal order, the following form will be either
electronically signed or signed in hard copy and entered into the Court’s
records.
 
ORDER
 
Encompass Insurance Company’s Demurrer came on regularly for hearing on June 28,
2024, with appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said
hearing, and the Court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there
rule as follows:
 
THE
DEMURRER TO THE FIRST CAUSE OF ACTION IS SUSTAINED WITH 30 DAYS’ LEAVE TO
AMEND. 
 
THE
MOTION TO STRIKE PUNITIVE DAMAGES IS MOOT.
 
CASE
MANAGEMENT CONFERENCE IS ADVANCED AND CONTINUED TO OCTOBER 16, 2024 AT 9:00 AM.
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, DEFENDANT TO
GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATE:  June
28, 2024                                    _______________________________
                                                                   
    F.M. Tavelman, Judge
                                                                        Superior
Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 