 Case Number:  21GDCV00283    Hearing Date:   June 28, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
JUNE 28, 2024


MOTION FOR
LEAVE TO AMEND CROSS-COMPLAINT

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case #21GDCV00283

 



MP:  


Medversant Technologies, LLC
  (Defendant/Cross-Complainant)




RP:  


None



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Ross
Felix (Felix) brings this action against Medversant Technologies, LLC, a
California Limited Company (Medversant) and Matthew Haddad (Haddad). Plaintiff
alleges he was employed by Medversant from January of 2014 to April of 2020,
when Medversant terminated Felix. Plaintiff alleges that Medversant, with
Haddad as the sole manager and CEO, committed numerous labor violations against
him and other employees during this time. 
 
On
November 23, 2021, Medversant filed a Cross-Complaint against Felix alleging
three causes of action: (1) Breach of Fiduciary Duty; (2) Misappropriation of
Trade Secrets (Uniform Trade Secrets Act); and (3) Violation of Computer Fraud
and Abuse Act 18 U.S.C. § 1030 et seq.
 
Medversant
now moves for leave to amend its Cross-Complaint to add an additional cause of
action for (4) Breach of Non-Disclosure Agreement, (5) Interference with
Prospective Advantage, and (6) Civil recovery of Stolen property Received in
Violation of Penal Code § 496. Medversant also seeks to name additional
Cross-Defendants Janardh Bantupalli, Oksana Denesiuk, Maria Han, and Tara
Gayatri Srinivasan. 
 
Felix has
filed no opposition to this motion. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
A party
requesting leave to amend must submit a motion that includes: (1) a copy of the
proposed amendment or amended pleading, serially numbered to differentiate it
from previous pleadings; (2) a statement of which allegations would be deleted
by the amendment, and where they are located in the previous pleading; and (3)
a statement of what allegations would be added by the amendment, and where they
are located in the proposed pleading.¿ (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324(a).)
The motion should also include a declaration stating: (1) the effect of the
amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts
giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4) why the request
was not made earlier.¿ (Id. at Rule 3.1324(b).)
 
A party
may amend its pleading once without leave of court at any time before an
answer, demurrer, or motion to strike is filed. C.C.P. § 472(a). After the
period for amending a pleading without leave of court has passed, the pleading
may be amended under C.C.P. § 473(a) and § 576.
 
The trial
court should permit a plaintiff to amend a pleading when doing so is in
furtherance of justice and in keeping with the fundamental policy that cases
should be decided on their merits.¿ (Honig v. Financial Corp. of America
(1992) 6 Cal.App.4th 960, 956-966.) While the trial court may deny a motion for
leave to amend on grounds that, e.g., the party seeking the amendment has
caused unreasonable delay in doing so, it probably abuses its discretion if it
denies any such motion in the absence of a finding of prejudice to the opposing
side.¿ (See Thompson Pacific Construction, Inc. v. City of Sunnyvale
(2007) 155 Cal.App.4th 525, 545.)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Medversant attaches a
proposed First Amended Cross-Complaint. (Janssen Decl. Exh. A.) Medversant also
states the allegations that are proposed to be added concerning the new causes
of action, the demand for jury trial, and the prayer for relief. (Mot. p. 2,
Jannssen Decl. ¶¶ 12-17.) Medversant states the purpose of this amendment
is to incorporate additional allegations that were not known to Medversant
prior to discovery. Specifically, Medversant states that it became aware
through Felix’s discovery responses that Felix and four other individuals
utilized Medversant’s proprietary information in presenting a business plan to
investors. (Janssen Decl. ¶¶ 13-16.) Medversant explains that this relief
was not requested sooner because they were unable to obtain Felix’s discovery
responses until March 7, 2024. (Janssen Decl. ¶ 11.) 
 
The Court finds the requirements
of California Rules of Court, Rules 3.1324(a) and (b) are satisfied.
Additionally, as the underlying facts are related to the original Cross-Complaint,
allowing Medversant to file the amended Cross-Complaint will increase the
likelihood of the case being resolved efficiently on the merits.
 
Requests to amend initial
pleadings are to be liberally considered and Felix has rendered no opposition
to the motion.  The Court notes that this
case was set for trial in May 2024.   Defense
counsel had a trial conflict with a matter in Riverside County, and despite the
case being over three years old, the trial was vacated.  The case is now three years and four months
old, and as such the Court, in granting the amended cross-complaint anticipates
that all parties will exercise due diligence in moving the case toward
expedited service and trial.
 
Accordingly,
Medversant’s Motion for Leave to Amend is GRANTED.  
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Medversant
Technologies, LLC’s Motion for Leave to Amend came on
regularly for hearing on June 28, 2024 with appearances/submissions as noted in
the minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the
premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION FOR LEAVE TO AMEND IS GRANTED.
 
THE CASE MANAGEMENT CONFERENCE IS CONTINUED TO AUGUST
16, 2024.
 
OSC RE PROOF OF SERVICE OF FIRST AMENDED CROSS
COMPLAINT IS SET FOR AUGUST 16, 2024.
 
MEDVERSANT TO PROVIDE NOTICE.  
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
June 28, 2024                                    _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 