 Case Number:  23STCV08246    Hearing Date:   September 4, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior  Court of California County of Los Angeles   DEPARTMENT  71   TENTATIVE RULING      HARRY    GINOZA,               vs.   INVESTMENT    PARTNERS, INC.    Case No.:     23STCV08246        Hearing Date:  September 4, 2024      Plaintiff  Harry Ginoza’s unopposed  motion for an order to substitute Plaintiff’s niece, Linda Ginoza-Grovier, in  place and stead of Plaintiff Harry Ginoza is continued to September 25, 2024,  at 8:30 a.m.  Plaintiff is to file  Exhibit A to the Declaration of Ginoza-Grovier by September 6, 2024.   Plaintiff Harry Ginoza (“Ginoza”) (“Plaintiff”)  moves unopposed for an order granting his niece, Linda Ginoza-Grovier  (“Ginoza-Grovier”), who is the trustee of the Harry Ginoza Trust, be  substituted in as Plaintiff in place and stead of Ginoza.  (Notice Motion, pgs. 1-2; C.C.P.  §377.32.)  Plaintiff moves on the grounds  that Ginoza died during the pendency of this action and Ginoza-Grovier is Ginoza’s  successor-in-interest as trustee of the Harry Ginoza Trust.  (Notice Motion, pg. 2.)   Procedural History Plaintiff filed his operative Complaint on April  13, 2023, against Defendant Investor Partners, Inc. (“Investor Partners”)  (“Defendant”) for five causes of action: (1) cancellation of written  instruments; (2) declaratory relief; (3) quiet title; (4) fraud; and (5) breach  of fiduciary duty. Plaintiff died on October 15, 2023.  (Decl. of Ginoza-Grovier ¶2.) Plaintiff filed the instant motion on May 16,  2024.  As of the date of this hearing no  opposition has been filed.   Legal Standard C.C.P. §377.32 provides the following  information is required for a statement from a successor in interest: (a)  The person who seeks to commence an action or  proceeding or to continue a pending action or proceeding as the decedent’s  successor in interest under this article, shall execute and file an affidavit  or a declaration under penalty of perjury under the laws of this state stating  all of the following:   (1)   The decedent’s name. (2)   The date and place of the decedent’s death. (3)   “No proceeding is now pending in California  for administration of the decedent’s estate.” (4)   If the decedent’s estate was administered, a  copy of the final order showing the distribution of the decedent’s cause of  action to the successor in interest. (5)   Either of the following, as appropriate, with  facts in support thereof: (A)   “The affiant or declarant is the decedent’s  successor in interest (as defined in Section 377.11 of the California Code of  Civil Procedure) and succeeds to the decedent’s interest in the action or  proceeding.” (B)   “The affiant or declarant is authorized to  act on behalf of the decedent’s successor in interest (as defined in Section  377.11 of the California Code of Civil Procedure) with respect to the  decedent's interest in the action or proceeding.” (6)   “No other person has a superior right to  commence the action or proceeding or to be substituted for the decedent in the  pending action or proceeding.” (7)   “The affiant or declarant affirms or declares  under penalty of perjury under the laws of the State of California that the  foregoing is true and correct.” (b)  Where more than one person executes the  affidavit or declaration under this section, the statements required by  subdivision (a) shall be modified as appropriate to reflect that fact.   (c)  A certified copy of the decedent’s death  certificate shall be attached to the affidavit or declaration.   (C.C.P. §377.32.)   Discussion Ginoza-Grovier executed and filed an affidavit or a declaration under penalty of perjury  under the laws of this state stating all of the following: (1) the decedent’s  name (Decl. of Ginoza-Grovier ¶2); (2)   the  date and place of the decedent’s death (id.); (3) “No proceeding is now  pending in California for administration of the decedent’s estate” (id.  at ¶3); (5A) “The affiant or declarant is the decedent’s successor in interest  (as defined in Section 377.11 of the California Code of Civil Procedure) and  succeeds to the decedent’s interest in the action or proceeding” (id. at  ¶¶4-5); (6) “No other person has a superior right to commence the action or  proceeding or to be substituted for the decedent in the pending action or  proceeding” (id. at ¶6); and (7) “The  affiant or declarant affirms or declares under penalty of perjury under the  laws of the State of California that the foregoing is true and correct” (id.  at pg. 3). However,  Plaintiff fails to attach a certified copy of the decedent’s death certificate to  her declaration in violation of C.C.P. §377.32(c).  (See  Decl. of Ginoza-Grovier ¶7) Plaintiff’s motion is continued to September 25,  2024, at 8:30 a.m. to allow Plaintiff to attach Exhibit A to the Declaration of  Ginoza-Grovier.  Plaintiff is to file Exhibit  A to the Declaration of Ginoza-Grovier by September 6, 2024.   Conclusion Plaintiff’s unopposed motion is  continued to September 25, 2024, at 8:30 a.m. to allow Plaintiff to attach  Exhibit A to the Declaration of Ginoza-Grovier.   Plaintiff is to file Exhibit A to the Declaration of Ginoza-Grovier by  September 6, 2024.   Moving Party to give notice.   Dated:   September _____, 2024                                                                                       