 Case Number:  24STCV00029    Hearing Date:   September 4, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior
Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



BEL ESPRIT BUILDERS, INC,  
  
         vs.
 
BEN WILKINS, et al.


 Case No.: 
  24STCV00029
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  September 5, 2024



 
Defendants
Ben Wilkins’, Karen Wilkins’,
and the Wilkins Family Living Trust’s demurrer to the 1st, 2nd,
and 3rd causes of action of Plaintiff Bel Esprit Builders, Inc.’s first
amended complaint is overruled.

The Court, sua sponte,
strikes Plaintiff’s 4th cause of action because Plaintiff was not granted leave
of Court to make such amendments to its pleading.
 
Defendants Ben Wilkins (“Ben”), Karen Wilkins (“Karen”), and the
Wilkins Family Living Trust (“Trust”) (collectively, “Defendants”) demur to the
1st, 2nd, 3rd, and 4th causes of action in Plaintiff Bel Esprit Builders, Inc.’s (“Bel Esprit”)
(“Plaintiff”) first amended complaint (“FAC”) on the basis the causes of action
fail to state facts sufficient to allege causes of action against Defendants
and are stated ambiguously and unintelligibly.  (Notice of Demurrer, pg. 2;
C.C.P. §§430.10(e), (f), (g).)
 
Background
Plaintiff filed its initial Complaint against Defendants on
January 2, 2024, alleging three causes of action: (1) breach of contract; (2)
common counts; and (3) foreclose a Mechanic’s Lien.
On May 29, 2024, this Court sustained Defendants’ demurrer to
Plaintiff’s 1st, 2nd, and 3rd causes of action in the initial Complaint with 20
days leave to amend.  (5/29/24 Minute
Order.)
Plaintiff filed the operative FAC on June 4, 2024, alleging four
causes of action: (1) breach of contract; (2) common counts; (3) foreclose a
Mechanic’s Lien; and (4) theft.
Plaintiff’s Complaint arises out of its entry into a written
contract (“Contract”) with Defendant whereby it agreed to provide services for
Ben’s and Karen’s residence located at 8181 Gould Avenue, Los Angeles,
California (“Project”).  (See FAC
¶8, Exh. A.)  Plaintiff alleges it is,
and at all times relevant herein was, a licensed California general contractor
that specializes in construction consultation. 
(FAC ¶8.)  Plaintiff alleges on
information and belief that the Contract is signed by Karen.  (FAC ¶8.) 

Plaintiff alleges Ben and/or Karen directed Plaintiff to send “the
Proposal” to Eric Chun, which it did via email on August 8, 2022.  (FAC ¶9, Exh. B.)  Plaintiff alleges Ben and Karen were copied on
the email.  (FAC ¶9.)  Plaintiff alleges on or about August 15,
2022, Plaintiff received notice from Ben that Eric Chun was his representative
for the work done on the Project.  (FAC
¶9, Exh. C.)  Plaintiff alleges at some
point Eric Chun terminated his relationship as Ben and Karen’s representative.
(FAC ¶9, Exh. D.)   
Plaintiff alleges it performed all obligations imposed upon it by
the terms of the Contract except for those excused by Defendants’ breach or
prevented by Defendants’ acts.  (FAC ¶10.)  
Plaintiff alleges the agreed price and reasonable value of the
labor and materials Plaintiff furnished to Defendant was and is the sum of
$54,063.98.  (FAC ¶11.)  Plaintiff alleges Ben and Karen paid Plaintiff
the sum of $25,000.00, leaving a balance due of $29,063.98, and nothing was
paid or credited thereon.  (FAC ¶11.)
Plaintiff alleges Defendant became indebted to it within the last
year for labor, services, and materials rendered at the special instance and
request of Defendant and for which Defendant promised to pay Plaintiff the
reasonable value.  (FAC ¶14.)  Plaintiff alleges the labor, services, and
materials furnished to Defendant were worth the sum of $29,063.98, and nothing
was paid or credited thereon.  (FAC ¶14.)  Plaintiff alleges although demand was made
therefore, Defendant failed, neglected, and refused to pay the sum of
$29,063.98.  (FAC ¶16.)  
Plaintiff alleges it duly gave Defendants a written preliminary
notice as prescribed by and in accordance with the requirements of Civil Code §3097,
and on November 13, 2023, it recorded its Mechanic’s Lien with the Los Angeles
County Recorder’s Office.  (FAC ¶¶18-19,
Exh. E.)  Plaintiff alleges no notice of
completion of the Project and/or cessation of labor thereon was ever filed in
the Los Angeles County Recorder’s Office, and at the time of the filing of
Plaintiff’s Mechanic’s Lien, ninety days had not elapsed or expired since the
completion of the Project or any cessation of labor thereon.  (FAC ¶20.)   

Plaintiff alleges its work was necessary and required for the
convenient use and occupation of the Project.  (FAC ¶21.) 
Plaintiff alleges Defendants have or claim to have some estate, lien,
right, title, or interest in or upon the Project or some part thereof, and all
such claims or liens are subject, subsequent, and subordinate to Plaintiff’s
Mechanic’s Lien.  (FAC ¶22.)  Plaintiff alleges it is owed and seeks a
Judgment for its lien in the amount of $29,063.98 against the subject property.
 (FAC ¶23.)  
Plaintiff alleges Defendants obtained building materials they knew
belonged to or were owned by Plaintiff. 
(FAC ¶25.)  Plaintiff alleges when
Defendants obtained the building materials, they intended to and did
permanently deprive Plaintiff of the materials while keeping the materials for
themselves.  (FAC ¶25.)  Plaintiff alleges Defendants retained
possession of the materials despite Plaintiff’s demand that the materials be
returned.  (FAC ¶26.)
On July 10, 2024, Defendants filed the instant demurrer.  On August 19, 2024, Plaintiff filed its
opposition.  Defendants filed their reply
on August 28, 2024.
 
          Meet and Confer
Before filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the demurring
party shall meet and confer in person, by telephone, or by video conference
with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the
purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve
the objections to be raised in the demurrer. 
(C.C.P. §430.41(a), emphasis added.) 
A declaration must be filed with a demurrer regarding the results of the
meet and confer process.  (C.C.P.
§430.41(a)(3).)
Defendants’ counsel declares she attempted to contact Plaintiff’s
counsel by telephone on July 3, 2024, to meet and confer, but was not able to
connect with anyone in his office or leave a voicemail.  (Decl. of Stepanian ¶5.)  Defendants’ counsel declares that she
attempted on July 5, 2024, to contact Plaintiff’s counsel by telephone but was
unable connect with anyone in his office or leave a voicemail.  (Decl. of Stepanian ¶6.)  Defendants’ counsel’s declaration is
sufficient under C.C.P. §430.41.  Accordingly,
the Court will consider the instant demurrer.
 
1.    
Demurrer
Summary of Demurrer
Defendants demur to the 1st cause of action on the basis Defendants
are not a party to the written contract, as demonstrated by the attached
Exhibit A to Plaintiff’s FAC, and therefore the alleged contract is illegal,
ambiguous, deficient, and unenforceable. 
(Demurrer, pg. 1.)  Defendants
demur to the 2nd and 3rd causes of action in Plaintiff’s Complaint on the basis
the causes of action fail to state facts sufficient to constitute causes of
action against Defendants.  (Demurrer,
pg. 1.)  Defendants demur to the 4th
cause of action on the basis Plaintiff fails to establish criminal intent.  (Demurrer, pg. 1.) Defendants demur to all
causes of action on the basis they are uncertain.  (Demurrer, pg. 1.)
 
Legal Standard
“[A] demurrer tests the legal
sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc.
(2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  A
demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the
pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially
noticeable.  (See Donabedian v.
Mercury Insurance Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 [in ruling on a
demurrer, a court may not consider declarations, matters not subject to
judicial notice, or documents not accepted for the truth of their
contents].)  For purposes of ruling on a
demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed to be true, but the
reviewing court does not assume the truth of conclusions of law.  (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital District
(1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)
If the exhibit is ambiguous and can be
construed in the manner stated in the complaint, the court must accept the
construction offered by plaintiff.  (SC
Manufactured Homes, Inc. v. Liebert (2008) 162 Cal.App.4th 68, 83.)
          
Breach of Contract (1st COA)
“To prevail on a cause of action for breach of contract, the plaintiff
must prove (1) the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance of the contract or
excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) resulting damage to
the plaintiff.”  (Richman v. Hartley
(2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186.)
If a breach of contract claim “is based on alleged breach of a
written contract, the terms must be set out verbatim in the body of the
complaint or a copy of the written agreement must be attached and incorporated
by reference.”  (Harris v. Rudin,
Richman & Appel (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 299, 307.)  In some circumstances, a plaintiff may also
“plead the legal effect of the contract rather than its precise language.”  (Construction Protective Services, Inc. v.
TIG Specialty Insurance Co. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 189, 198-199.)
Plaintiff alleges it entered into a written
contract with Defendants who breached their obligation. (FAC ¶8.)  Plaintiff attached and incorporated by
reference a true and correct copy of the alleged contract as Exhibit A.  (FAC ¶8, Exh. A.)  A review of the Contract shows that Defendant
entered into a contract with an individual named Eric Chun, who is not named
herein as a party.  Exhibit A is a letter
addressed to “Eric Chun,” with the subject line “PROPOSAL,” and directly below
the subject line states, “Bel Esprit proposes to provide all labor and material
to accomplish the following.”  (FAC ¶8,
Exh. A.)  Defendants’ names are not
printed anywhere on the document. 
Plaintiff alleges on information and belief that the Contract is signed
by Karen.  (FAC ¶8.)
Plaintiff alleges Ben and/or Karen directed
Plaintiff to send the Proposal to Eric Chun, which Plaintiff did via email on
August 8, 2022.  (FAC ¶9, Exh. B.)  Plaintiff alleges on or about August 15,
2022, Plaintiff received notice from Ben that Eric was his representative for
the Project.  (FAC ¶9, Exh. C.)
Plaintiff sufficiently alleges Karen signed
the Contract (FAC ¶8) and that the Contract was sent to Ben and Karen’s
authorized agent, Eric Chun, at Ben and Karen’s request (FAC ¶¶8-9, Exhs. B-C).  Plaintiff alleges the terms of the
contract.  (FAC ¶8, Exh. A.)  
Defendants’ argument that this Court should
not enforce the Contract on the basis it is illegal is unavailing.  Generally, a contract made in violation of a
regulatory statute is void.  (Vitek,
Inc. v. Aluarado Ice Palace, Inc. (1973) 34 Cal.App.3d 586, 591.)  The rule is not without exception, however,
and before the rule can be applied in any case of a statute prohibiting or
enjoining things to be done, with a prohibition or a penalty, or a penalty only
for doing a thing which it forbids, the statute must be examined as a whole, to
find out whether the makers meant a contract in contravention of it should be
void.  (Id. at pgs. 591-592.)
In Hinerfeld-Ward, Inc. v. Lipian, the
court determined that an oral home improvement contract may be enforceable
where the owners were sophisticated and actively involved with the construction
project, the work was completed to the owner’s satisfaction, and it would be an
injustice not to enforce the contract.  (Hinerfeld-Ward,
Inc. v. Lipian (2010) 188 Cal.App.4th 86, 94-95.)  The Hinerfeld-Ward Court relied on the
California Supreme Court’s opinion, Asdourian v. Araj (1985) 38 Cal.3d
276, which held that Business & Professions Code §7159 does not contain any
express prohibition against the enforcement of a contract; therefore, an oral
agreement may be enforceable under certain circumstances, including where the
work has been completed, performed under authority granted by the owners, and
was ratified by the owners.  (Hinerfeld-Ward,
Inc., 188 Cal.App.4th at pg. 92.)
Here, Plaintiff sufficiently alleges it fully
performed all obligations imposed upon it by the terms of the Contract (FAC
¶10), that the work has been completed and performed under authority granted by
the owners, and that Defendants would be unjustly enriched by not enforcing the
Contract (see FAC ¶¶9, 11). 
Despite the violations of Business and Professions Code §§7150-7168 et
seq. presented by the form of the Contract, the deficiencies present do not necessitate
this Court to render the Contract void on its face.
Accordingly, Defendants’ demurrer to
Plaintiff’s 1st cause of action is overruled.
 
Common Count (2nd COA)
“In the common law action of general assumpsit, it is customary to
plead an indebtedness using ‘common counts.’ In California, it has long been settled
that the allegation of claims using common counts is good against special or
general demurrers. The only essential allegations of a common count are ‘(1)
the statement of indebtedness in a certain sum, (2) the consideration, i.e.,
goods sold, work done, etc., and (3) nonpayment.’” (Farmers Insurance
Exchange v. Zerin (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 445, 460, internal citations
omitted.)
Plaintiff sufficiently alleges “Defendant” owes Plaintiff a sum
certain, that labor, services, and materials were rendered, and
nonpayment.  (FAC ¶¶14-16.)  Defendants’ repeat their arguments with
regard to the unenforceability of the Contract, which are also unavailing as to
the instant cause of action.
Accordingly, Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s 2nd cause of
action is overruled.
 
Foreclosure of Mechanic’s Lien (3rd COA)
“[T]he elements of a cause of action to foreclose on a mechanic’s
lien [are]: [(1) the lienholder’s] labor, services, and materials were used in
a work of improvement[; (2)] the reasonable value of its contribution[; and
(3)] . . . the date the work was complete.” 
(Vought Construction Inc. v. Stock (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 622,
637, review denied (Jan. 25, 2023).) 
The lien claimant has the burden of establishing the validity of the
lien.  (Basic Modular Facilities, Inc.
v. Ehsanipour (1999) 70 Cal.App.4th 1480, 1485.)
Plaintiff alleges it duly gave Defendants a written preliminary
notice as prescribed in Civil Code §3097. 
(FAC ¶18.)  Plaintiff alleges on
November 13, 2023, it recorded its Mechanic’s Lien with the Los Angeles County
Recorder’s Office under and by virtue of the Civil Code.  (FAC ¶19, Exh. E.)  Plaintiff alleges no notice of completion of
the Project and/or any cessation of labor thereon was ever filed in the Los
Angeles Recorder’s Office, and at the time of the filing of Plaintiff’s
Mechanic’s Lien, ninety days had not elapsed or expired since the completion of
the Project or any cessation of labor thereon. 
(FAC ¶20.)
Plaintiff alleges its work was necessary and required for the
convenient use and occupation of the Project. 
(FAC ¶21.)  Plaintiff alleges
Defendants have or claim to have some estate, lien, title, or interest in or
upon the Project or some part thereof, and all such claims or liens are
subject, subsequent, and subordinate to Plaintiff’s Mechanic’s Lien.  (FAC ¶22.) 
Plaintiff alleges it is owed and seeks a Judgment for its lien in the
amount of $29,063.98 against the Subject Property.  (FAC ¶23.)
Plaintiff sufficiently alleges its labor, services, and materials
were used in a work of improvement (FAC ¶14), the reasonable value of its
contribution (FAC ¶16), and that no notice of completion of the Project or any
cessation of the labor thereon was ever filed with the County Recorder’s Office
(FAC ¶20).  (Vought Construction Inc.,
84 Cal.App.5th at pg. 637.)  Plaintiff
fails to attach Exhibit E to the FAC. 
However, there is no requirement that a copy of the Mechanic’s Lien must
be attached to the pleading in order to sufficiently plead a foreclosure of
Mechanic’s Lien cause of action.  (See
id.)  
Defendants’ argument that Plaintiff’s Mechanic’s Lien was untimely
filed goes beyond the four corners of the FAC; the Court must take the
allegations in the FAC as true. 
Plaintiff’s cause of action alleges that on November 13, 2023, it recorded
the Mechanic’s Lien (FAC ¶19) and at the time of the filing of Plaintiff’s
Mechanic’s Lien ninety days had not elapsed or expired since the completion of
the Project or any cessation of labor thereon (FAC ¶20).  Defendant’s argument that Eric Chun’s
statement in Exhibit D of the FAC indicating that Ben texted him to “STOP WORK”
on September 8, 2022, at 8:00 p.m. is ambiguous in terms of the period of time
that work was directed to stop and must be construed favorably for Plaintiff;
the instruction stated in Exhibit D does not lead to the assumption that all
work ceased from that date forward.  (SC Manufactured Homes, Inc., 162 Cal.App.4th
68, 83 [“If the allegations in the complaint conflict with the exhibits, we
rely on and accept as true the contents of the exhibits. However, in doing so,
if the exhibits are ambiguous and can be construed in the manner suggested by
plaintiff, then we must accept the construction offered by plaintiff.”].)
Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s 3rd cause of
action is overruled.
 
Theft (4th COA)
California Penal Code §496 (c) provides: “Any person who has been
injured by a violation of subdivision (a) or (b) may bring an action for three
times the amount of actual damages, if any, sustained by the plaintiff, costs
of suit, and reasonable attorney’s fees.”  (Pen. Code §496(c).)
Penal Code §496(a) provides:
Every
person who buys or receives any property that has been stolen or that has been obtained
in any manner constituting theft or extortion, knowing the property to be so stolen
or obtained, or who conceals, sells, withholds, or aids in concealing, selling,
or withholding any property from the owner, knowing the property to be so
stolen or obtained, shall be punished by imprisonment in a county jail for not
more than one year, or imprisonment pursuant to subdivision (h) of Section
1170.
 
(Pen. Code §496.)
          The Court declines
to address the demurrer to Plaintiff’s 4th cause of action and will
address the cause of action, sua sponte, in a motion to strike.
 
Conclusion
Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint is overruled as to
the 1st, 2nd, and 3rd causes of action.
Moving Party to give notice.
 
2.    
Motion to Strike
Legal
Standard 
C.C.P. §436 provides that the Court may .
. . at any time within its discretion and upon terms it deems proper, “[s]trike
out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the
laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.”  (C.C.P.
§436(b).) 
 
Theft
(4th COA)
It is the general rule that when a court “sustains a demurrer with
leave to amend, the scope of the grant of leave is ordinarily a limited one. It
gives the pleader an opportunity to cure the defects in the particular causes
of action to which the demurrer was sustained, but that is all.”  (Community Water Coalition v. Santa
Cruz County Local Agency Formation Commission (2011) 200 Cal.App.4th 1317,
1329.)  “The Plaintiff may not amend the
complaint to add a new cause of action without having obtained permission to do
so, unless the new cause of action is within the scope of the order granting
leave to amend.”  (Id., quoting Harris
v. Wachovia Mortgage, FSB (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1018, 1023.)  “[L]eave to amend must be construed as
permission to the pleader to amend the cause of action which he pleaded in the
pleading to which the demurrer has been sustained.” (People ex rel. Department
of Public Works v. Clauson (1957) 248 Cal.App.2d 770, 785.)
The prior demurrer and motion to strike did not address a cause of
action pertaining to theft.  Here, in the
FAC, the 4th cause of action is newly stated against Defendants without leave
of this Court.  Plaintiff was not
permitted to amend its pleading in this manner based on this Court’s May 29,
2024, ruling, or by Plaintiff moving for leave of this Court to amend.
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s 4th cause of action is stricken from
Plaintiff’s FAC.
 
Conclusion
The Court overrules Defendants Ben Wilkins’, Karen Wilkins’,
and the Wilkins Family Living Trust’s demurrer to the 1st, 2nd,
and 3rd causes of action of Plaintiff Bel Esprit Builders, Inc.’s first
amended complaint.
The Court, sua sponte, strikes Plaintiff’s allegations
against Defendants in the 4th cause of action.
 
Dated:  September _____, 2024
                                                                             





  