  Case Number:  21STCV35575    Hearing Date:   April 17, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior Court
  of California
County of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance Dept. B




 
OSCAR
  AUSTEN REYES,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
21STCV35575




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
LA
  SMILES DENTISTRY, et al., 


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          April 17,
2024
 
Moving Parties:                      Defendants Pedram Sooferi,
D.D.S. and Pedram Sooferi, D.D.S, Inc.
Responding Party:                  None
Motion for Summary
Judgment, or in the alternative, Summary Adjudication           
The court considered the moving papers.  No opposition was filed.
RULING
            The motion for summary judgment is GRANTED.  The motion for summary adjudication is MOOT
in light of the ruling on the motion for summary judgment.  Defendants are ordered to lodge a proposed
judgment.
BACKGROUND
On September 28, 2021, plaintiff
Oscar Austen Reyes (self-represented) filed a complaint against LA Smiles
Dentistry, All in One Dental, Moshe Ezidi, Pedram Sooferi, and Pedram Sooferi,
D.D.S., Inc. for general negligence. 
On November 12, 2021, plaintiff
filed a FAC.
On February 23, 2022, the court
sustained a demurrer to the FAC.
On December 27, 2022, plaintiff
filed a SAC for (1) breach of contract, (2) medical negligence, and (3) bad
faith.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
The purpose of a motion for summary
judgment or summary adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut
through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their
allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.”  Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal. 4th 826, 843.  “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c,
subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the
evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’
and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.”  Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal. App. 4th 1110, 1119.
“On a motion for summary judgment,
the initial burden is always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing
that there are no triable issues of material fact.”  Scalf
v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal. App. 4th 1510, 1519.  A defendant moving for summary judgment or
summary adjudication “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of
action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the
cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a complete
defense to the cause of action.”  CCP §
437c(p)(2).  “Once the defendant . . .
has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a
triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or
a defense thereto.” CCP § 437c(p)(2). 
“If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.” Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical
Center (2008) 159 Cal. App. 4th 463, 467.
“When deciding whether to grant
summary judgment, the court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the
papers (except evidence to which the court has sustained an objection), as well
as all reasonable inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light
most favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.” Avivi, 159 Cal. App. 4th at 467; CCP §437c(c).
Discussion
Defendants Pedram Sooferi, D.D.S
and Pedram Sooferi, D.D.S., Inc. request that the court enter summary judgment
in their favor and against plaintiff pursuant to CCP §437c on the ground that
there is no triable issue of material fact and defendants are entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.  In the
alternative, defendants request summary adjudication as to each of the causes
of action on the ground that they have no merit.
In the SAC, plaintiff alleges that
on August 15, 2018, plaintiff initially sought treatment for severe tooth pain
at defendants for an evaluation and consultation with defendant Sooferi and
Moshe Ezidi, D.D.S.  Plaintiff explained
the painful symptoms of tooth #25. 
Sooferi diagnosed that #25 should be extracted at the earliest possible
time.  They advised plaintiff that they
would be putting a flipper apparatus (“flipper”), temporary tooth, in place of
#25.  Plaintiff explained that he had a
flipper before and that it was uncomfortable. 
Plaintiff asked if a bonded tooth could be put in instead.  They told plaintiff that a bonded tooth was
not possible. Plaintiff requested that they fill the toothless space during the
healing process for comfortability, which they explained was not possible.  A mold was taken to create a flipper and an
appointment for the extraction of #25 was scheduled for August 29, 2018.  SAC, ¶10. 
On August 29, 2018, while under local anesthesia, plaintiff was prepped
and awaiting surgery, when Sooferi decided to change the previously agreed upon
treatment plan, and advised plaintiff that he should extract tooth #11, which
would help additionally with the pain in #25. 
Id., ¶11.
The SAC further alleges that on
September 1, 2018, #25 continued to cause plaintiff pain, and Sooferi
recommended the extraction of #6.  On
October 24, 2018, #6 was extracted.  On
June 26, 2019, amalgam is removed from #18. 
Pain in the area continued. 
Plaintiff visited over the next few months for fluoride treatments on
#18 as the cure for the persistent pain. 
On June 28, 2019, #6 and #11 implants caused complications, which led to
severe pain and swelling.  On July 3,
2019, Sooferi sent text message that the #25 and #26 should be removed as soon
as possible.  On July 10, 2019, a
temporary filing was implanted.  On July
19, 2019, plaintiff continued complaints regarding #25.  On July 25, 2019, Ezidi discussed the
situation in depth with plaintiff and offered the option to extract only #25,
which he extracted, using mold and flipper from August 15, 2018.  On July 30, 2019, fluoride treatments
continued on #18.  Plaintiff incurred
additional flipper adjustments due to sharp edges on the flipper.  It was an uncomfortable fit and could come
out of place.  Id., ¶12.  
The SAC further alleges that at an
appointment on September 11, 2019, plaintiff informed Sooferi that he was
leaving for Arizona to visit family and that he “pleaded with Sooferi” to
repair the flipper because it was not fitting correctly; he demonstrated the
looseness of the flipper and how easily it popped out of place and pointed out
the sharp edges.  Sooferi replied that he
was too busy to fix the flipper and told plaintiff to call the office to
schedule an appointment.  Id.  On September 22, 2019, while taking vitamins,
plaintiff unknowingly swallowed the flipper and had trouble breathing.  He went to an urgent care.  He had various appointments with doctors on
September 24, 25, and 26 and October 3, 2019. 
At an appointment with Dr. Goldman at Southern California Dental, Dr.
Goldman bonded #25.  On November 11,
2019, plaintiff received a second opinion as to #6, 11, 18, 25, and 26 and
another evaluation on November 22, 2019. 
On November 4, 2019, plaintiff had an appointment to discuss flipper
swallowing with defendants.  He discussed
several items with Ezidi, including swallowing the flipper and hoarse voice,
past procedures by defendants, and upcoming appointments.  Id., ¶16. 
Plaintiff showed Ezidi the bonded tooth and declined all offers to
continue service on the implants or any future procedures.  Id., ¶17.
Statute of limitations
Defendants argues that the SAC is
barred by the statute of limitations under CCP §340.5, which states a
three-year period after the date of injury “or one year after the plaintiff
discovers, or through the use of reasonable diligence should have discovered,
the injury, whichever occurs first.”  Defendants
assert that the allegedly tortious conduct took place during plaintiff’s dental
treatment with moving defendants from August 18, 2018 to September 11, 2019, but
the complaint was not filed until September 28, 2021, almost two years after
the alleged conduct occurred.  Defendants
point out that plaintiff alleges that on November 4, 2019, plaintiff went to
defendants to discuss swallowing his stay plate, and that they discussed
possible settlement and that Dr. Ezidi requested a more detailed report to
determine “exact settlement figures.” 
See SAC, ¶18.  Plaintiff also
alleged and testified at his deposition that he sought second opinions, wherein
he was informed that his implants on #6 and #11 were improperly placed by Dr.
Sooferi.  Plaintiff sought a third
opinion on November 22, 2019 from an oral surgeon who informed plaintiff that
#18 had been misdiagnosed.  See Katerina
Shaller decl., Exh. D (deposition transcript).
Thus, defendants argue, “there is
no question Plaintiff was suspicious of and concluded in his mind there was
negligence or wrongdoing by Dr. Sooferi and his corporation in connection with
his alleged injuries by, at the latest, November 22, 2019” and that he was on inquiry
notice.  Defendants assert that with the
addition of the tolling period provided by Amended Emergency Rule 9, plaintiff
had until May 22, 2021 to file a complaint.  

The court finds that the complaint
is barred by the statute of limitations for medical malpractice actions.
 
First cause of action for breach of
contract
The SAC alleges that plaintiff
sought the professional services of defendants on August 15, 2018.  Defendants maintained their dental office and
held themselves out to the general public as competent and skilled dentists and
dental surgeons.  Plaintiff relied upon
said representations of skill and competency when retaining defendants to
examine, advise, and treat him.  SAC, ¶22.  As a proximate result of the breaches of the
agreement by defendants, plaintiff was injured. 
Id., ¶23.
Defendants argue that this cause of
action is based on professional negligence, and that “[a]n action against a
doctor arising out of his negligent treatment of a patient is an action
sounding in tort and not one based upon a contract.”  Bellah v. Greenson (1978) 81 Cal. App.
3d 614, 625.  Defendants present evidence
that during his deposition, plaintiff admitted that this claim was based upon a
contract to render dental services provided by Dr. Sooferi but did not meet the
standard of care.  Plaintiff testified
that this claim was based upon “contracted services which would have been the
providing of the dental flipper” and the implants on #6 and #11, and upon not
adjusting his stay plate.  Defendants
also contend that plaintiff did not provide any evidence of an express
contract.  See Katerina Shaller decl.,
Exh. D (deposition transcript).
The court finds that defendants
have met their burden of showing that plaintiff cannot establish the elements
for breach of contract, including the existence of an express contract.  The burden shifts to plaintiff who did not
file an opposition.  Therefore, plaintiff
has not met his burden to show a triable issue of material fact.
 
Second cause of action for gross
medical negligence 
The SAC alleges that defendants
negligently failed to exercise the proper degree of knowledge, skill, and
competence in examining, diagnosing, treating, and caring for plaintiff by
incompetently and negligently:  changing
agreed upon treatment plan; extraction of tooth #6 and #11; amalgam, fluoride
treatments and misdiagnosis of #18; extraction of #25; and poorly designed
flipper.  SAC, ¶28.
The elements of medical malpractice
are:  “(1) the duty of the professional
to use such skill, prudence, and diligence as other members of his profession
commonly possess and exercise; (2) a breach of that duty; (3) a proximate
causal connection between the negligent conduct and the resulting injury; and
(4) actual loss or damage resulting from the professional's negligence.”  Simmons
v. West Covina Medical Clinic (1989) 212 Cal. App. 3d 696, 701-02
(citations omitted).  “Both the standard
of care and defendants’ breach must normally be established by expert testimony
in a medical malpractice case.”  Avivi, 159 Cal. App. 4th at 467. 
Thus, in a medical malpractice
case, “[w]hen a defendant moves for summary judgment and supports his motion
with expert declarations that his conduct fell within the community standard of
care, he is entitled to summary judgment unless the plaintiff comes forward
with conflicting expert evidence.”  Munro v. Regents of University of California
(1989) 215 Cal. App. 3d 977, 984-985 (citations omitted).  An expert declaration, if uncontradicted, is
conclusive proof as to the prevailing standard of care and the propriety of the
particular conduct of the health care provider. 
Starr v. Mooslin (1971) 14
Cal. App. 3d 988, 999.
Defendants argue that they complied
with the standard of care and did not cause plaintiff’s alleged injuries.
Defendants present the declaration of Alan Shelhamer, D.D.S. who opines that
based on is review of plaintiff’s records, as well as his education, training,
and experience, Dr. Sooferi and his corporation Pedram Sooferi, D.D.S., Inc. at
all times complied with the standard of care in the care and treatment of plaintiff.  Alan Shelhamer, D.D.S. decl., ¶7.  Dr. Sooferi’s treatment planning was appropriate
and carried out in compliance with the standard of care.  The treatment plan was not changed; the only
modification was in the order in which treatment occurred.  Id., ¶7.a. 
The extraction of teeth #6, #11, and #25 were indicated and were
performed in a manner compliant with the standard of care.  The records and imaging did not show any
complications with the extractions and the areas healed appropriately.  Id., ¶7.b. 
Dr. Sooferi’s treatment on tooth #18 was appropriate and within the
standard of care.  Placement of a crown
was an acceptable course of treatment.  A
temporary crown breaking does not mean there was a violation of the standard of
care.  Further, fluoride treatments were
appropriate and conservative rather than risking the extraction.  Id., ¶7.c. 
Dr. Sooferi’s decision to utilize a stay plate rather than a bonded
tooth was appropriate and within the standard of care.  Plaintiff had suspected pathology on tooth
#25 along with his adjacent teeth which created a concern regarding the stability
of those teeth.  A bonded tooth creates
hygiene concerns and there was radiographic evidence of mandibular hardware
consistent with a previous procedure, which the patient failed to disclose.  Id., ¶7.d. 
The stay plate was adjusted appropriately and delivered within the
standard of care.  A stay plate is
designed for cosmesis and easy removal, not heavy function.  If a stay plate is too tight it can result in
pressure necrosis.  Id., ¶7.e.  The placement of dental implants on #6 and
#11 met the standard of care.  Dr.
Sooferi waited the appropriate amount of time after extractions and bone grafts
on the sites to place the implants.  Id.,
¶7.g.
Dr. Shelhamer further opines that
to a reasonable degree of medical probability, no negligent act or omission on
behalf of Dr. Sooferi or his corporation caused or significantly contributed to
plaintiff’s claimed injuries or damages. 
Specifically, nothing they did or failed to do caused or contributed to
the alleged damages plaintiff is claiming. 
Id., ¶8.
The court finds that defendants
have met their burden of showing that plaintiff cannot establish the elements
of medical negligence, including breach of standard of care and causation.  The burden shifts to plaintiff who did not
file an opposition.  Therefore, plaintiff
has not met his burden to show a triable issue of material fact.
 
Third cause of action for bad faith
The SAC alleges the same as the second
causes of action.
Defendants argue that this claim is
an exact recitation of the second cause of action and that plaintiff’s
deposition testimony shows that it is based on professional negligence.  Defendants assert that this claim fails for
the same reasons as the second cause of action.
The court finds that defendants
have met their burden of showing that plaintiff cannot establish the elements
of medical negligence, which is what this purported causes of action is based,
including breach of standard of care and causation.  The burden shifts to plaintiff who did not
file an opposition.  Therefore, plaintiff
has not met his burden to show a triable issue of material fact.
The motion for summary judgment is
therefore GRANTED.  The motion for
summary adjudication is MOOT in light of the ruling on the motion for summary
judgment.
 
ORDER
The motion for summary judgment is
GRANTED.
The motion for summary adjudication
is MOOT in light of the ruling on the motion for summary judgment.
Defendants are ordered to lodge a
proposed judgment.
            Moving party is ordered to give
notice.