 Case Number:  22STCV40554    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2023    Dept:  26  
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 26
 



 
TAWANDA HONORS, et al.,
 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
5505 ACKERFIElD APTS LLC; AJJ2020 LLC; MASUDA INVESTMENTS LLC;
  WESTAR PROPERTY MANAGEMENT, INC.; et al., 
 
                        Defendants,
 


 
  Case No.:  22STCV40554
 
  Hearing Date:  October 3, 2023
 
[TENTATIVE] order RE:
defndant AJJ2020, LLC and MASUDA
  INVESTMENTS, LLC’s demurrer and motion to strike portions of the first
  amended complaint 



 
Procedural Background
On
September 8, 2022, Plaintiffs Tawanda Honors, et al.[1]
(collectively “Plaintiffs”) filed the instant breach of habitability action
against Defendants 5505 Ackerfield Apts LLC, AJJ2020 LLC, Masuda Investments
LLC, and Westar Property Management, Inc. (collectively “Defendants”).  On May 11, 2023, Plaintiffs filed the
operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against Defendants.  The FAC asserts six causes of action for (1)
Breach of Contract, (2) Breach of the Implied Warranty of Habitability, (3)
Nuisance, (4) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress, (5) Negligence, and
(6) Violation of Civil Code § 1942.4.
            On May 22, 2023, Defendants AJJ2020
LLC and Masuda Investments, LLC (jointly “Moving Defendants”) filed the instant
demurrer and motion to strike portions of the FAC.  On September 11, 2023, Plaintiffs filed an
opposition.  On September 26, 2023, Moving
Defendants filed their respective replies.
 
Allegations
of the Operative Complaint
            The complaint alleges that:
            Defendants are/were the owners/managers
of the property at 5505 Ackerfield Ave. Long Beach, CA 90805 (“Subject
Property”).  (FAC ¶¶ 25-28, 31.)  Plaintiffs each entered into a written lease
agreement for the lease of their respective units at the Subject Property.  (FAC ¶¶ 1-24, 34, Exh. A.)
            “Plaintiffs have been living at the
property going back to as early as 2016 and the failure to remedy and fix these
uninhabitable conditions date back that far.” 
(FAC ¶ 35.)  “Pursuant to terms of
the LEASE AGREEMENT, plaintiffs agreed to pay monthly rents in exchange for
habitable, safe and clean-living quarters.” 
(FAC ¶ 36.)  However, “Defendants,
and each of them, have not maintained the SUBJECT PROPERTY therein causing and
allowing slum and substandard living conditions. During plaintiffs' tenancy,
the following conditions have existed at the SUBJECT PROPERTY, and have been
allowed to exist by defendants, and each of them (collectively, the ‘CONDITIONS’):
a. Insect infestation; b. Visible mold and mildew; c. Leaking roof; d. Lack of
hot water; e. Defective plumbing; f. Broken kitchen sink; 9. Broken stairs; h.
Excessive garbage or debris; i. No heat; j. Defective ventilation; k. Broken
shower/bathtub; I. Holes in wall[.]” 
(FAC ¶ 37.)
            “Plaintiffs suffered with lack of
sleep, stress and anxiety because of the CONDITIONS at the SUBJECT PROPERTY.
Plaintiffs continued to notify defendants of their suffering, but defendants
did nothing to help plaintiffs.”  (FAC ¶
38.)  
            “Fed up with the CONDITIONs at the
SUBJECT PROPERTY, plaintiffs made a formal complaint to The City of Long Beach
Department of Health.”  (FAC ¶ 39.)  “The city of Long Beach Department of Health
did an inspection of the SUBJECT PROPERTY on or about October 28, 2022. The
SUBJECT PROPERTY was cited for violations. After 35 days of being notified of
the violations, defendants did not fix or abate the SUBJECT PROPERTY.”  (FAC ¶ 40.)
            “The plaintiffs in this action
repeatedly notified the defendants of the defective and dangerous conditions in
their apartments and the defendants have simply ignored their pleas or tried to
avoid fixing them properly.”  (FAC ¶
41.)  “In addition, during their tenancy
at the SUBJECT PROPERTY, plaintiffs repeatedly notified the defendants of the
health issues they were experiencing as a result of the CONDITIONS, including,
but not limited to respiratory issues.” 
(FAC ¶ 42.)  “Moreover, plaintiffs
repeatedly informed defendants that the CONDITIONs at the SUBJECT PROPERTY were
causing them extreme anxiety and discomfort.” 
(FAC ¶ 43.)  
            “Despite their knowledge of the
CONDITIONs and plaintiffs' health issues, the defendants, and each of them,
failed to properly remedy the CONDITIONS, placing the health and safety of
plaintiffs at risk.”  (FAC ¶ 44.)
 
Request for
Judicial Notice
            In conjunction with the moving
papers, Moving Defendants request that the Court take judicial notice of:
1.     The
Grant Deed for the Subject Property recorded on October 13, 2021 attached as
exhibit 3 to Moving Defendants demurrer and motion to strike 
 
 
As the Court may
take judicial notice of court records and actions of the State, (See Evid.
Code, § 452(c)(d)), Moving Defendants’ unopposed request for judicial notice is
GRANTED.  However, the Court does not
take judicial notice of the truth of assertions within the records. (See Herrera
v. Deutsche Bank National Trust Co. (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 1366,
1375.)  
 
Legal Standard 
Demurrer
Standard 
A
demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the
pleading under attack; or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially
noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985)
39 Cal 3d 311, 318.) No other extrinsic evidence can be considered (i.e., no
“speaking demurrers”). (Ion Equipment Corp. v. Nelson (1980) 110
Cal.App.3d 868, 881.)
A
demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.
(Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App.
4th 740, 747.)  When considering
demurrers, courts “give the complaint a reasonable interpretation, and read it
in context.”  (Schifando v. City of
Los Angeles (2003) 31 Cal.4th 1074, 1081.)  In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be
apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice.  (Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal. App. 4th 968, 994.)  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters. 
Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the
pleading or are judicially noticed.”  (SKF
Farms v. Superior Ct. (1984) 153 Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.)  “The only issue involved in a demurrer
hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous
matters, states a cause of action.”  (Hahn,
supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.) 
 
Motion to Strike
Standard
Motions
to strike are used to reach defects or objections to pleadings that are not
challengeable by demurrer (i.e., words, phrases, prayer for damages,
etc.).  (See CCP §§ 435-437.)  A party
may file a motion to strike in whole or in part within the time allowed to
respond to a pleading.  However, if a
party serves and files a motion to strike without demurring to the complaint,
the time to answer is extended.  (CCP §§
435(b)(1), 435(c).)
A
motion to strike lies only where the pleading has irrelevant, false, or
improper matter, or has not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws.  (CCP § 436.) 
The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the
pleadings or by way of judicial notice. 
(CCP § 437.)
 
Meet and Confer
Requirement 
Code
of Civil Procedure § 430.41, subdivision (a) requires that “[b]efore filing a
demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and confer¿in
person or by telephone¿with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to
demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached
that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” The parties
are to meet and confer at least five days before the date the responsive
pleading is due, and if they are unable to meet, the demurring party shall be
granted an automatic 30-day extension.  (CCP § 430.41(a)(2).)  The
demurring party must also file and serve a declaration detailing the meet and
confer efforts.  (Id.¿at
(a)(3).)¿ If an amended pleading is filed, the parties must meet and confer
again before a demurrer may be filed to the amended pleading.  (Id.¿at (a).)  There is a similar
meet and confer requirement for motions to strike.  (CCP § 435.5.)
Here, Moving Defendants have fulfilled the
meet and confer requirements.  (Probst
Decl. ¶¶ 3-5.)[2]
 
Discussion –
Demurrer
First Cause of
Action: Breach of Contract
            Defendants contend that the first
cause of action fails because: (1) Plaintiffs fail to attach all applicable
contracts, and (2) it cannot be ascertained whether the contracts are written,
oral, and/or implied by conduct.  
“The elements of a cause of action for breach of contract are:
‘(1) the contract,
(2) plaintiff's performance or excuse for nonperformance,
(3) defendant's breach, and (4)
the resulting damages to plaintiff.’”  (Coles
v. Glaser (2016) 2 Cal.App.5th 384, 391 [internal citations
omitted].)  
“To state a
cause of action for breach of contract, it is absolutely essential to plead the
terms of the contract either in haec verba or according to legal effect.” (Progressive West Ins. Co. v. Yolo
County Superior Court (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 263, 270, Fn. 1.)  Further, a demurrer lies if “[i]n an action founded upon a contract, it
cannot be ascertained from the pleading whether the contract is written, is
oral, or is implied by conduct.”  (CCP §
430.10(g).)  
            Here, the FAC alleges in relevant
part “Plaintiffs entered into a written lease
agreement for the lease of their unit at the SUBJECT PROPERTY
(hereinafter ‘LEASE AGREEMENT’), and became tenants of defendants. A copy of a
LEASE AGREEMENT is attached as EXHIBIT A which is a sample of what all the
LEASE AGRREMENT look like.”  (FAC ¶ 34,
Exh. A, [Bold and Italics Added].)  The
FAC clearly specifies that each of the Plaintiffs entered into written
agreements.  
            Further, though Plaintiffs have
attached only an example of a lease, Plaintiff have alleged the essential terms
of the lease agreement at issue for the instant action.  “Pursuant to terms of the LEASE AGREEMENT,
plaintiffs agreed to pay monthly rents in exchange for habitable, safe and
clean-living quarters.”  (FAC ¶ 36.)  Moreover, the FAC does identify each specific
unit for each Plaintiff.  (FAC ¶¶ 1-24.)  “Defendants breached the contract by not
maintaining the property in habitable condition or remedying defects which were
requested by the plaintiffs on multiple occasions and by failing to properly
account for and return plaintiffs' security deposits.”  (FAC ¶ 48.) 
Though Plaintiffs have not alleged verbatim the exact terms of each
written lease, there is no requirement requiring Plaintiffs to do so; they
terms of the agreement can be alleged according to legal effect.  (Progressive West Ins. Co., supra, 135 Cal.App.4th at p.270, Fn. 1.)
            Accordingly, Moving Defendants’
demurrer to the first cause of action is OVERRULED.
 
 Second Cause of Action: Breach of the Implied
Warranty of Habitability
            Moving Defendants
contend that the second cause of action fails because Plaintiffs have made no
allegations against Moving Defendants.
            “[A] warranty of habitability is implied by law in residential leases in
California.”  (Green v. Superior Court (1974)
10 Cal.3d 616, 631.)  “The elements of a
cause of action for breach of the implied warranty of habitability ‘are the
existence of a material defective condition affecting the premises'
habitability, notice to the landlord of the condition within a reasonable time
after the tenant's discovery of the condition, the landlord was given a
reasonable time to correct the deficiency, and resulting damages.’
[Citation.]”  (Peviani v. Arbors at California
Oaks Property Owner, LLC (2021) 62 Cal.App.5th 874, 891.)  “This implied warranty of habitability does
not require that a landlord ensure that leased premises are in perfect,
aesthetically pleasing condition, but it does mean that ‘bare living
requirements' must be maintained.”  (Green
v. Superior Court (1974) 10 Cal.3d 616, 637.)  
            Here, the FAC alleges that Moving
Defendants were the owners/managers of the Subject Property.  (FAC ¶¶ 26-27, 31.)  Though the judicially noticed record shows
that Defendant AJJ2020 LLC sold the Subject Property to Defendant 5505
Ackerfield Apts LLC on September 14, 2021, (RJN Exh. 3), the alleged defective
conditions on the Subject Property existed and were unabated since 2016, (FAC ¶
35).  Further, the FAC alleges that
Moving Defendants were repeatedly notified of these unhabitable conditions but failed
to take any actions.  (FAC ¶¶ 38, 41-44.)  Thus, there are clear allegations against
Moving Defendants for breach of the implied warranty of habitability.
            Accordingly, Moving Defendants’
demurrer to the second cause of action is OVERRULED.
 
Third and Fifth Causes
of Action: Nuisance and Negligence
            Moving Defendants similarly contend
that no allegations against Moving Defendant have been made and that these
claims are duplicative. 
            “A private nuisance claim is a claim
for ‘a nontrespassory interference with the private use and enjoyment of land.’
[Citation.]”  (Wilson v. Southern
California Edison Co. (2018) 21 Cal.App.5th 786, 802.)  A claim for private nuisance requires (1)
interference with plaintiff’s use and enjoyment of plaintiff’s property; (2)
invasion of plaintiff's use and enjoyment involves substantial actual damage;
when (3) interference is unreasonable as to the nature, duration or
amount.  (San Diego Gas & Electric Co. v. Sup. Ct.  (1996) 13 Cal.4th 893, 938.)  
            “‘The elements of a negligence cause of
action are the existence of a legal duty of care, breach of that duty, and
proximate cause resulting in injury.’ [Citations.]”  (McIntyre v. The Colonies-Pacific, LLC
(2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 664, 671.)  “Where
negligence and nuisance causes of action rely on the same facts about lack of
due care, the nuisance claim is a negligence claim.”  (El Escorial Owners' Assn. v. DLC
Plastering, Inc. (2007) 154 Cal.App.4th 1337, 1349.)
            As noted above, the FAC alleges that
the Subject Property was subject to numerous unhabitable conditions starting
from 2016 – before Defendant AJJ2020 LLC sold the Subject Property to Defendant
5505 Ackerfield Apts LLC – and despite being aware of these defects, Moving
Defendants took no action.  (FAC ¶¶ 35,
37-44.)  Thus, the FAC does make
allegations against Moving Defendants. 
Moreover, the fact that the claims may be duplicative is not a basis for
the Court to sustain the demurrer.  (Blickman Turkus, LP v. MF Downtown
Sunnyvale, LLC (2008) 162
Cal.App.4th 858, 890 [that a cause of action is duplicative “is not a ground on
which a demurrer may be sustained”].)  
            Accordingly, Moving
Defendants’ demurrer to the third and fifth causes of action are OVERRULED.
 
Fourth Cause of
Action: Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress
Defendants contend that the fifth cause of action for intentional
infliction of emotional distress fails because the complaint fails to allege
sufficiently outrageous conduct.
            “A cause of action for intentional
infliction of emotional distress exists when there is ‘(1) extreme and
outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless
disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the
plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and
proximate causation of the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous
conduct.’ A defendant’s conduct is ‘outrageous’ when it is so ‘extreme as to
exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community.’ And the
defendant’s conduct must be ‘intended to inflict injury or engaged in with the
realization that injury will result.’”  (Hughes
v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035, 1050–1051.)   With regard to the first element,
intentional infliction of emotional distress “calls for intentional, or at
least reckless conduct—conduct intended to inflict injury or engaged in with the realization that injury will result.”  (Davidson
v. City of Westminster (1982) 32 Cal.3d 197, 210.)  
For “[c]onduct to be outrageous[, it] must be so extreme as to exceed all
bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community.”  (Davidson v. City of Westminster
(1982) 32 Cal.3d 197, 209.)  “[W]hether
conduct is outrageous is ‘usually a question of fact’ … [however] many cases
have dismissed intentional infliction of emotional distress cases on demurrer,
concluding that the facts alleged do not amount to outrageous conduct as a
matter of law.” (Bock v. Hansen (2014) 225 Cal.App.4th 215, 235,
[internal citations omitted].) 
“‘Behavior may be considered outrageous if a defendant (1) abuses a
relation or position that gives him power to damage the plaintiff’s interests;
(2) knows the plaintiff is susceptible to injuries through mental distress; or
(3) acts intentionally or unreasonably with the recognition that the acts are
likely to result in illness through mental distress. . . .’” (Molko v. Holy
Spirit Ass’n (1988) 46 Cal.3d 1092, 1122, superseded by statute on other
grounds as noted in Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25
Cal.4th 826, 853, Fn. 19 [internal citation omitted].)  “[T]he requisite
emotional distress may consist of any highly unpleasant mental reaction such as
fright, grief, shame, humiliation, embarrassment, anger, chagrin,
disappointment or worry.”  (Fletcher
v. Western National Life Ins. Co. (1970) 10 Cal.App.3d 376, 397.)  
Here, as noted above, the FAC alleges that the Subject Property was
subject to numerous unhabitable conditions starting from 2016.  (FAC ¶¶ 35, 37.)  These unhabitable conditions caused Plaintiffs
to suffer “lack of sleep, stress and anxiety”. 
(FAC ¶ 38.)  On the pleadings,
Plaintiff have alleged the requisite emotional distress required for a claim
for intentional infliction of emotional distress.  (Fletcher, supra, 10 Cal.App.3d at
p.397.)  
“Moreover, plaintiffs repeatedly informed defendants that the CONDITIONs
at the SUBJECT PROPERTY were causing them extreme anxiety and discomfort.”  (FAC ¶ 43.) 
Thus, “[d]espite their knowledge of the CONDITIONs and plaintiffs'
health issues, the defendants, and each of them, failed to properly remedy the
CONDITIONS, placing the health and safety of plaintiffs at risk.”  (FAC ¶ 44.) 
Thus, Moving Defendants were aware of the unhabitable conditions and
that their failure to abate these unhabitable conditions would result in
Plaintiffs suffering severe emotional distress. 
Moreover, the FAC alleges that Moving Defendants were in a position of
power over Plaintiffs – i.e., Plaintiffs’ landlord – and abused this
position.  (FAC ¶ 31; Molko, supra,
46 Cal.3d at p.1122.)
The conduct alleged is more than mere insulting language.  (See e.g., Agarwal v. Johnson (1979)
25 Cal.3d 932, 946 disapproved of on other grounds by White
v. Ultramar, Inc. (1999) 21 Cal.4th 563.)  Moving Defendants fail to cite any authority
indicating that as a matter of law the alleged conduct is insufficient to
constitute outrageous conduct.  Moreover,
“the availability of a remedy for breach of implied warranty of habitability
does not preclude a tenant from suing his landlord for intentional infliction
of mental distress if the landlord's acts are extreme and outrageous and result
in severe mental distress. Whether this is so under the present allegations,
presents a factual question—it cannot be said as a matter of law that appellant
has not stated a cause of action.”  (Stoiber
v. Honeychuck (1980) 101 Cal.App.3d 903, 922.) 
            Accordingly, Moving Defendants’
demurrer to the fourth cause of action is OVERRULED.
 
Sixth Cause of Action: Violation of Civil Code
section 1942.4
            Moving
Defendant contends that complaint does not plead that a public officer or
employee inspected the property and notified the landlord in writing to abate
the nuisance or repair the condition. 
The Court disagrees. 
            Under
Civil Code section 1942.4, “A landlord of a dwelling may not demand rent,
collect rent, …, if all of the following conditions exist prior to the
landlord's demand or notice: [¶] (1) The dwelling substantially lacks any of
the affirmative standard characteristics listed in Section 1941.1 or
violates Section 17920.10 of the Health and Safety Code, or is deemed and
declared substandard as set forth in Section 17920.3 of the Health and Safety
Code because conditions listed in that section exist to an extent that
endangers the life, limb, health, property, safety, or welfare of the public or
the occupants of the dwelling. [¶] (2) A public officer or employee who is
responsible for the enforcement of any housing law, after inspecting the
premises, has notified the landlord or the landlord's agent in
writing of his or her obligations to abate the nuisance or repair the
substandard conditions. [¶] (3) The conditions have existed and have not been
abated 35 days beyond the date of service of the notice
specified in paragraph (2) and the delay is without good cause. For
purposes of this subdivision, service shall be complete at the time of deposit
in the United States mail. [¶] (4) The conditions were not caused by an act or
omission of the tenant or lessee in violation of Section 1929 or 1941.2.”  
            Here,
the FAC directly alleges that “[a]t various times during plaintiffs' tenancies
a public officer responsible for the enforcement of housing laws noted the
substandard conditions in the SUBJECT PROPERTY and ordered the defendants by
written notice after inspection of the premises of the defendants' obligations
to abate the nuisances and/or repair the substandard conditions at the SUBJECT
PROPERTY.”  (FAC ¶ 89.)  “The conditions cited had existed and were
not abated 35 days beyond the date of the issuance of the notices, and
defendants had no good cause for delay in complying with the government
orders.”  (FAC ¶ 90.)  “In spite of the citations, defendants have
continued to demand and accept rent from plaintiffs in violation of Civil Code
Section 1942.4, and illegally served 3-Day Notices to Pay Rent or Quit in
violation of Civil Code Section 1942.4.” 
(FAC ¶ 91.)
            By
virtue of these factual allegations, the FAC clearly alleges that a government
agency gave written notice to Moving Defendants of unhabitable conditions and
that Moving Defendants failed to abate those conditions within 35 days.  
            Accordingly,
Moving Defendant’s demurrer to the sixth cause of action is OVERRULED.
 
 
Discussion –
Motion to Strike
            Defendants seek to strike the prayer for punitive damages and prayer
for attorney’s fees from the FAC.  
            
Attorney’s Fees
            Attorney’s
fees shall only be recoverable as provided for by statute, contract or other
law. (CCP §§1021, 1033.5(a)(10)).  
            Here,
the attached lease provides for attorneys’ fees of up to $500 based on
contract.  (FAC, Exh. A at ¶ 24.)  The FAC also claims that Plaintiffs are
entitled to attorney’s fees under Civil Code section 1942.4(b).  Civil Code section 1942.4(b) provides for
attorney’s fees only for actions where a landlord violates the following:
 
(a) A landlord of a dwelling may not demand
rent, collect rent, issue a notice of a rent increase, or issue a three-day
notice to pay rent or quit pursuant to subdivision (2) of Section 1161 of the
Code of Civil Procedure, if all of the following conditions exist prior to the
landlord's demand or notice:
(1) The dwelling substantially lacks any of
the affirmative standard characteristics listed in Section 1941.1 or violates
Section 17920.10 of the Health and Safety Code, or is deemed and declared
substandard as set forth in Section 17920.3 of the Health and Safety Code
because conditions listed in that section exist to an extent that endangers the
life, limb, health, property, safety, or welfare of the public or the occupants
of the dwelling.
(2) A public officer or employee who is
responsible for the enforcement of any housing law, after inspecting the
premises, has notified the landlord or the landlord's agent in writing of his
or her obligations to abate the nuisance or repair the substandard conditions.
(3) The conditions have existed and have not
been abated 35 days beyond the date of service of the notice specified in
paragraph (2) and the delay is without good cause. For purposes of this
subdivision, service shall be complete at the time of deposit in the United
States mail.
(Civ. Code, § 1942.4(a).)
            As
noted above, the FAC alleges that the Subject Property was inspected or cited
by a public officer as required.  Accordingly,
the applicability of Civil Code section 1942.4(b) would provide another
possible basis for attorney’s fees.
            Accordingly,
Defendants’ motion to strike the prayer for attorney’s fees is DENIED.
            
Punitive Damages
            California Civil Code section 3294
authorizes the recovery of punitive damages in non-contract cases where “the
defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice . . . .” (Civ. Code,
§ 3294(a).) “‘Malice’ means conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause
injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the
defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of
others.” (Id. at (c)(1).)
“‘Oppression’ means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and
unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” (Id. at (c)(2).) “‘Fraud’ means an
intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known
to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby
depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.” (Id. at (c)(3).) Punitive damages thus
require more than the mere commission of a tort. (See Taylor v. Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 894-895.) 
A demand for
punitive damages for the commission of any tort requires more than the mere
conclusory allegations of “oppression, fraud, and malice.”  (Civ. Code § 3294; see Perkins v. Superior
Court (1981) 117 Cal. App.3d 1, 6-7.) 
Rather, “[t]here must be circumstances of aggravation or outrage, such
as spite or malice, or a fraudulent or evil motive on the part of Defendant, or
such a conscious and deliberate disregard of the interest of others that its
conduct may be called willful or wanton.” (Taylor, supra, 24 Cal.3d
at pp.894-895, [italics added].)
The FAC alleges that the Subject Property was subject to numerous
unhabitable conditions starting from 2016. 
(FAC ¶¶ 35, 37.)  These
unhabitable conditions caused Plaintiffs to suffer “lack of sleep, stress and
anxiety”.  (FAC ¶ 38.)  On the pleadings, Plaintiff have alleged the
requisite emotional distress required for a claim for intentional infliction of
emotional distress.  (Fletcher, supra,
10 Cal.App.3d at p.397.)  
“Moreover, plaintiffs repeatedly informed defendants that the CONDITIONs
at the SUBJECT PROPERTY were causing them extreme anxiety and discomfort.”  (FAC ¶ 43.) 
Thus, “[d]espite their knowledge of the CONDITIONs and plaintiffs'
health issues, the defendants, and each of them, failed to properly remedy the
CONDITIONS, placing the health and safety of plaintiffs at risk.”  (FAC ¶ 44.) 
Thus, Moving Defendants were aware of the unhabitable conditions and the
dire consequences to Plaintiffs that would result from Defendants’ failure to
abate these unhabitable conditions.
These allegations
are sufficient to state a prayer for punitive damages.  These allegations are more than mere
conclusory allegations of “oppression, fraud, and malice[.]” (Perkins, supra, 117 Cal. App.3d at
pp.6-7.)  Plaintiffs have alleged clear
specific facts to support the prayer for punitive damages. 
            Accordingly, Moving Defendants’
motion to strike the prayer for punitive damages is DENIED.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
Based on the
foregoing, Defendants AJJ2020 LLC and Masuda Investments, LLC’s demurrer is
OVERRULED.
Defendants AJJ2020
LLC and Masuda Investments, LLC’s motion to strike is DENIED.
Defendants AJJ2020
LLC and Masuda Investments LLC are to file an answer within thirty (30) days of
notice of this order.
The case
management conference is continued to November 28, 2023 at 8:30 am.
Moving Parties are ordered to give notice
and file proof of service of such.
 
DATED:  October ___, 2023                                                  ___________________________
                                                                                          Elaine
Lu
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court


