  Case Number:  24TRCV02546    Hearing Date:   December 3, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior Court of California 
County of Los Angeles 
Southwest District 
Torrance Dept. B 




 
 
ALAN ELIAS, , 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
Plaintiff, 


 
Case No.: 
 


 
 24TRCV02546




 
vs. 


 


 
[Tentative] RULING 
 




 
WEST COAST LABORATORIES, INC. et al., 


 
 
 
 
Defendants. 
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date:                          December
3, 2024
Moving Parties:                      Plaintiff
Alan Elias
 
Responding Party:                  Defendants
West Coast Laboratories, Inc., Eddie Shad, Charles Shad, and Ron Ovadia
 
Motion for Appointment of a Receiver 
 
The court considered the moving,
opposition and reply papers.
RULING
The motion for the appointment of a
receiver is DENIED.
BACKGROUND
On July 31, 2024, plaintiff Alan Elias
filed a complaint against defendants West Coast Laboratories, Inc. (“WCL”),
Eddie Shad (“E. Shad”), Charles Shad (“C. Shad”), Ron Ovadia (“Ovadia”), Robert
Abdullah (“Abdullah”), and Does 1-10 for (1) derivative claim for breach of
fiduciary duty; (2) derivative claim to invalidate interested director
transactions (Corp. C. § 310); (3) direct claim for
removal of directors; and (4) derivative claim for accounting.
According to the complaint, nominal
defendant WCL is in the business of manufacturing and selling vitamin
products.  Complaint, ¶ 4.  The present shareholders
are plaintiff (25% or 33% as he provides differing percentages in different
submissions), defendant E. Shad (12.5%), defendant C. Shad (12.5%), Suheila
Ovadia (25%), and Carmen Abdullah (25%).  Id. at ¶ 1.  The Chief Executive Officer is defendant
Ovadia; the Secretary is defendant E. Shad; the Chief Financial Officer is
Defendant C. Shad; and the present director is defendant Abdullah.  Id. 
On September 16, 2024, defendants WCL, E.
Shad, C. Shad, and Ovadia (collectively “defendants”) filed their answer to the
complaint.[1] 
Before the court is Plaintiff’s motion for
the appointment of a receiver, which defendants opposed, and to which plaintiff
responded.[2]
LEGAL AUTHORITY
CCP section 564(b) provides
that the court has authority to appoint a receiver in any of the ascribed
circumstances, as well as (9) in all other cases where necessary to preserve
the property or rights of any party.
The appointment of a
receiver is a drastic remedy to be utilized only in “exceptional cases.”  As such, a receiver should not be appointed
unless absolutely essential and because no other remedy will serve its purpose.
 City & County of San Francisco v.
Daley, (1993) 16 Cal.App.4th 734, 744.  A plaintiff who seeks appointment of a
receiver of certain property, under CCP section 564(b)(1), has the burden to
establish by a preponderance of the evidence that plaintiff has a joint
interest with defendant in the property, that the property is in danger of
being lost, removed or materially injured and that plaintiff's right to
possession is probable.  Alhambra Shumway
Mines, Inc. v. Alhambra Gold Mine Corp., (1953) 116 Cal.App.2d 869, 873.
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
The court grants defendants’ request
for judicial notice pursuant to Evidence Code § 452, subdivision (d).
DISCUSSION
Plaintiff moves for the appointment of
a receiver for the purposes of managing and overseeing the affairs and
liquidation of defendants WCL.  The
motion is made pursuant to CCP §§ 564(b)(1),
(5), and (9) and 565, on the grounds that WCL is in the state of dissolution,
however, the officers of WCL have effectuated the winding up of WCL acting
under conflicting self-interest with the result that WCL’s property is in
danger of being materially injured if a receiver is not appointed.  Defendants opposed the motion, and plaintiff
responded.
Plaintiff contends that appointment of a
receiver is necessary to avoid undue harm. 
Motion, pp. 5-6.  Specifically,
the court should appoint a receiver because (1) WCL is in a state of
dissolution and is therefore entitled to the appointment of a receiver; and (2)
plaintiff’s interest in WCL property is in danger of being lost and materially
injured by defendants’ self-interest actions. 
Id.  In support, plaintiff
provide his own declaration as well as the declaration of his attorney, Frank
Revere.
Plaintiff’s declaration provides in
pertinent part as follows.  Mr. Revere
recently assessed WCL’s 2023 profit and loss statement and balance sheet, “revealing
serious mismanagement and self-dealing practices that threaten the company’s
viability.”  Declaration of Alan Elias, ¶ 9.  Defendants “have
engaged in self-dealing by amending the corporation’s bylaws to exclude [plaintiff]
from participating in the board of directors after [plaintiff] filed the
original lawsuit in 2015.”  Id. at
¶ 10.  “Additionally, they have deferred
their salaries as part of a long-term plan to dissolve the company and claim
its assets for themselves, falsely alleging that the company owes them money.”  Id. 
Specifically, plaintiff discovered that defendants “sold a building last
year while still operating on it until now, indicating self-dealing intended to
exclude plaintiff from rental income and asset benefits”; and Plaintiff has not
received any proceeds from this sale.  Id.
at ¶ 11.  Also, the continued refusal to
provide necessary financial documentation raises concerns about transparency
and accountability; while the refusal by the officers and board members of
plaintiff’s right to vote through cumulative voting to elect plaintiff to the
board of directors shows the efforts to exclude plaintiff from the company’s
governance and decision-making process.  Id.
at ¶¶ 12, 15.
Mr. Revere testifies that he “received
the profit and loss statement and balance sheet for WCL for the year ending in
December 2023.”  Declaration of Frank
Revere, ¶ 3; Ex. “1” and “2.”
In opposition, defendants do
not dispute that plaintiff has standing to move for the appointment of a
receiver.  Nor do defendants dispute the
motion is timely.  However, defendants primarily
contend that plaintiff had not presented evidence to support his assertions and
has not satisfied his burden of proof of the necessity for appointment of a
receiver, which is drastic remedy.
The Court agrees with
defendants.  Plaintiff has failed to
demonstrate that a receiver is appropriate under the facts presented to the
Court.  While accusations abound, Plaintiff
has not convinced the Court that a receiver is necessary.  Further whether the cost of and harm from a receiver outweigh
any benefit to the parties from a receiver is highly questionable.  See Hoover v. Galbraith, (1972)
7 Cal.3d 519, 528.  It is the duty of the
party moving for appointment to demonstrate by preponderance of evidence that a
receiver is necessary.  The court would
not hesitate to grant the motion if there were actual evidence that defendants
were engaging in “serious mismanagement and self-dealing practices that
threaten the company’s viability.” 
However, plaintiff’s only evidence is his own declaration, which
includes conclusory statements or statements that plaintiffs fails to explain
how he knows certain facts.  Mr. Revere’s
declaration also adds nothing to plaintiff’s argument because Mr. Revere merely
provides that he “received the profit and loss statement and balance sheet for
WCL for the year ending in December 2023.” 
Mr. Revere does not attest that the foregoing documents revealed practices
of mismanagement or self-dealing, unlike plaintiff with his declaration.  It is important to note that merely observing
net losses and lack of profitability does not establish mismanagement or self
dealing or other improper conduct.  Further,
the moving papers fail to provide that other remedies are unavailable.
According to all parties, the two remaining meaningful assets of the
entity – real property – are presently listed for sale with a licensed real
estate professional.  Concerns about the
handling of net proceeds of sale can be addressed without appointing a receiver.
The declaration of defendant E. Shad in support of defendants’
opposition to the motion contests the points that plaintiff raises in his
declaration.  See Declaration of Eddie
Shad.  Notably, the 2015 lawsuit that
plaintiff mentioned was settled pursuant to a settlement agreement, which provided
plaintiff with the opportunity to have an annual audit of WCL, paid for by WCL in
an amount of up to $5,000 each year.  Id.
at  ¶ 9.  Plaintiff was paid $5,000 for
accountants' fees in checks dated 01/01/2020, 01/01/2021 21 (for $6,751.51,
which included a rent payment), 01/01/2022 and 01/25/2023.  Id. at ¶ 10;
Ex. “C.”  Plaintiff only arranged
to have accountants perform their inspections during the years 2019 and 2020,
despite the fact that he was provided the funds to do so through 2023.  Neither WCL nor defendant E. Shad was
informed that there were any discrepancies found in the 2 years, and plaintiff
never requested that accountant be provided access in any other years.  Id. at ¶ 12.  Additionally, the settlement agreement also
contained mutual releases concerning any and all alleged actions or inactions
of defendants, which seemingly includes the appointment of a receiver based on
alleged conduct occurring before March 1, 2018.  Id. at ¶10; Ex. “B,” § 8.  Plaintiff did not discuss any of the
foregoing in his moving papers, and Plaintiff also relies on facts occurring
prior to March 1, 2018.
On balance, defendants present a more
compelling factual statement demonstrating that a receiver is not justified.
Accordingly, plaintiff has failed to meet
his burden of proving that a receiver should be appointed.  The motion is therefore denied.
ORDER 
The motion for the appointment of a
receiver is DENIED.  
Moving party is ordered to give notice
of ruling.


