 Case Number:  24TRCV02834    Hearing Date:   December 3, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior Court of California 
County of Los Angeles 
Southwest District 
Torrance Dept. B 




 
ANNA MICHELE ROFSKY, et al.,  
 


 
 
 
 
Plaintiffs, 


 
Case No.: 
 


 
 24TRCV02834




 
vs. 


 


 
[Tentative] RULING 
 




 
GENERAL MOTORS, LLC, et al.,


 
 
 
 
Defendants. 
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date:                          December
3, 2024
Moving Parties:                      Plaintiff
Anna Michelle Rofsky
Responding Party:                  Defendant
General Motors LLC
Motion to have Plaintiff’s Requests for Admission Deemed Admitted;
Request for Monetary Sanctions 
 
The court considered the moving and
opposition papers.  There is no reply
brief.
BACKGROUND 
On August 23, 2024, plaintiff Anna
Michelle Rofsky filed her complaint against defendants General Motors LLC (“GM”)
and Does 1-10 for violations of the Song-Beverly Act (Breach of Express
Warranty and Breach of Implied Warranty). 
On September 24, 2024, defendant GM filed its answer to the complaint.
On September 26, 2024, Plaintiff
served Defendant GM through its attorneys by email , with Plaintiffs discovery
requests, including Plaintiff’s Requests, for Admission.  No responses were served on Plaintiff’s
counsel as of the date he filed this Motion – October 31, 2024.
Plaintiff filed a motion to have her requests
for admission deemed admitted and for monetary sanctions for 2.5 hours of work
preparing the Motion.  She seeks
$1,875.  GM opposed.  There is no reply brief from plaintiff.
LEGAL AUTHORITY 
If a party to whom requests
for admission are directed fails to serve a timely response, the requesting
party may move for an order that the truth of any matters specified in the
requests be deemed admitted, as well as for a monetary sanction.  CCP § 2033.280, subd. (b).  The court “shall make this order, unless it
finds that the party to whom the requests for admission have been directed has
served, before the hearing¿on the motion, a proposed response to the requests
for admission that is in substantial compliance with Section 2033.220.”  CCP § 2033.280, subd. (c).  “It is mandatory that the court impose a
monetary sanction…on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure to serve a
timely response to requests for admission necessitated this motion.”  Id.
DISCUSSION – The Trigger Finger Motion
Yes, the Court expects
all counsel to fully and timely comply with their obligations to provide proper
responses to discovery.
Yes, the Court, in
conformity with the law, sanctions those whose conduct violates the discovery
statutes.
But yes, the Court also expects that professional counsel shall make a simple
yet reasonable effort to contact opposing counsel to learn why no timely
responses have been filed prior to engaging in the time consuming task of
drafting and filing a motion to compel.
In this case the Court concludes that
Plaintiff’s counsel would have received responses quickly without the need to
file a motion had he availed himself of that simple effort.  As a result of this conclusion, the Court
finds that the reasonable amount of time that should have been devoted to this
effort is…
But we get ahead of ourself.
Plaintiff requests an order that her
Requests for Admission (Set One) to defendant GM be deemed admitted and an
order imposing monetary sanctions in the amount of $1,875.00 against defendant GM.  On September 26, 2024, plaintiff’s counsel
served defendant GM through its attorneys, with plaintiff’s discovery requests,
including plaintiff’s requests for admission. 
Declaration of David Bijan Zand “Zand Decl.”, ¶ 5; Ex. “1.”  As of October
31, 2024, neither defendant GM nor its attorneys served plaintiff’s counsel
with defendant GM’s responses to plaintiff’s requests for admission.  Id. at ¶ 7.  Also, neither defendant GM nor its attorneys
requested an extension to respond to plaintiff’s requests for admission.  Id.
The story at that point fails
to show any effort by Plaintiff’s counsel to seek an explanation from Defendant’s
counsel.  Such effort is not required by
the codes.  But it might have obviated
the need to expend much more time preparing and filing this motion.
In opposition, defendant GM argues
that this court should deny the motion and request for sanctions on the ground
that GM’s counsel served its late responses. 
On November 4, 2024, defendant GM served responses to the subject
discovery.  GM claims that the untimely
discovery responses were a direct result of confusion in calendaring the
deadline correctly.  “The paralegal at
that time added the due date for GMs response deadline in our system for
11/26/2024 instead of 10/26/2024.”  Declaration
of Jesse Valencia, ¶ 5; Ex. “A.”
Since responses were belatedly
served the motion to deem the facts admitted is denied as moot.  CCP § 2033.280, subd. (c).
Sanctions
Monetary sanctions are
warranted because GM’s untimely response necessitated plaintiff’s motion.  CCP § 2033.280, subd. (c).  Plaintiff
requests monetary sanctions in the amount of $1,875.00, representing 4 hours
(2.5 hours preparing and reviewing the motion, 1 hour preparing the reply, and
0.5 hour attending the hearing) at the hourly rate of $450.00, plus e-filing
charges of $75.00. Zand Decl., ¶ 8.  (No reply was prepared.)  The request for monetary sanctions is granted
in the reduced amount of $300 plus $75.00 filing fee.  The reasonable amount of time that was
appropriate was less than one hour to seek an appropriate explanation of defense
counsel why the responses were not served.
The Next Motion – Is It Necessary?
The Court notes that calendared for
hearing on December 19, 2024 is General Motors LLC’s Notice of Motion; Motion for
Relief from Waiver of Plaintiff’s Motion to have Requests For Admissions Deemed
Admitted Without Objection And Request For Monetary Sanctions.
“GM’s Counsel failed to timely serve the responses and objections to
Plaintiff’s discovery requests due to Defendant’s Counsel’s inadvertence,
excusable neglect, and/or mistake.  On
October 31, 2024, Plaintiff served her discovery Motion: Motion to Have
Plaintiff’s Requests for Admission Deemed Admitted and Monetary Sanctions,
seeking an order deeming admitted each of the matters set forth in Plaintiff’s
set of requests for admission as well as an award of sanctions in the amount of
$1,875.00 against Defendant.”  (Motion
pg. 3:8-15.)
The Court suggests that the parties
meet and confer to determine if the December 19, 2024 motion is necessary.
ORDER
The motion to have plaintiff’s requests
for admission deemed admitted is DENIED as MOOT. 
The request for monetary sanctions is
GRANTED.  The court ORDERS monetary
sanctions against defendant in the sum of $375, payable to plaintiff within 20
days of this order. 
Moving party is ordered to give notice
of ruling.