 Case Number:  BC656279    Hearing Date:   January 14, 2025    Dept:  74 Cojulun v.
Melendez et al. 
Non-Party Carolyn A. Dye’s Motion to
Substitute in as Plaintiff and Judgment Creditor in Cross-Complaint
 
BACKGROUND  
            This
case arises from a quiet title action.
            On
April 3, 2017, plaintiff Rosa Cojulun (Plaintiff) filed a complaint against
defendants Liria Melendez, Luisa Melendez, Javier Perez, Victor Valle, and Best
Alliance Foreclosure and Lien Services Corp. 

            On
February 7, 2018, Liria Melendez filed a cross complaint against defendants
Best Alliance Foreclosure and Lein, Victore Valle, and Javier Perez.
            On
August 25, 2022, the Court entered judgment for Liria Melendez against Javier Perez
(Perez) for $1,400,000 in damages. 
            On
March 30, 2019, Liria Melendez filed for Chapter 7 Bankruptcy, but she failed
to disclose the existence of the cross-complaint claims. 
            On
July 30, 2024, the California Court of Appeal remanded the case to the trial
court to determine whether the trustee intended to administer Liria Melendez’s claims
and judgment 
            On
September 23, 2024, the Bankruptcy was reopened for the purpose of
administering the judgment. 
            Carolyn
A. Dye (Trustee) now files a motion to substitute as the real party in
interest. 
 
JUDICIAL NOTICE
Granted. 
 
LEGAL STANDARD 
            Pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (a)(1), “[t]he court may,
in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to
amend any pleading.” Amendment may be allowed at any time before or after
commencement of trial. (Code Civ. Proc., § 576.) 
            Amendment
is allowed to substitute in plaintiffs with standing for original plaintiffs
without standing.  (Cloud v. Northrop
Grumman Corp. (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 995, 1001.)  The trustee may intervene in the action or
move to be substituted as the real part of interest.  (Danielson v. ITT Industrial Credit Co.
(1988) 199 Cal.App.3d 645, 650.)
 
DISCUSSION
            Trustee
moves to be substituted as the real party in interest.  Neither Liria Melendez nor Perez oppose
Trustee’s substitution.  The Court grants
Trustee’s Motion to be Substituted as real party of interest. 
 
Trial Court v. Bankruptcy Court
            As
a preliminary matter, the trial court has jurisdiction over the case after Trustee
substitutes into the case.  When a plaintiff
files for bankruptcy and a trustee takes over a civil action, the trustee may
remove the claim to bankruptcy court but is not required to do so.  (28 U.S.C. § 1452.)  Here, Trustee choose to continue the action
in state court to allow for the trial court to amend its judgment.  Therefore, the trial court may proceed to
determine the effect of allowing Trustee to proceed as real party of interest
on the judgment. 
 
Judgment
            Liria
Melendez filed a cross-complaint on February 7, 2018.  On March 30, 2019, Liria Melendez filed a
Chapter 7 Bankruptcy, but did not disclose the existence of the
cross-complaint.  (Dye Decl., ¶ 4.)  After a jury trial, Liria Melendez was
awarded a total judgment of $1,400,000. 
Perez appealed the judgment.  The
Court of Appel found that Liria Melendez lacked standing because of the
bankruptcy proceeding and remanded the case to the trial court to determine the
effect of allowing the trustee to substitute in as the real party of interest. 
            Trustee
requests the Court amend the judgment so that Trustee becomes the judgment
creditor. Perez requests, on the other hand, that Trustee take over the case as
of March 30, 2019, making the judgment void. 
            Parties
identify a tension in legal precedent regarding the treatment of Trustee’s late
substitution into a case.  What is widely
accepted is that after a person files for bankruptcy protection, any causes of
action previously possessed by that person become the property of the bankrupt
estate.  (Cloud, supra, 67
Cal.App.4th at pp. 1001.)  Plaintiffs
lose their standing to pursue their claims unless the bankruptcy trustee
abandons the claims.  (Id. at
1003.)  
            In
cases where a cause of action would not be “wholly different,” the Supreme
Court has held that a complaint may be amended to substitute in the real party
of interest.  (Id. at 1005 [citing
Klopstock v. Superior Court (1941) 17 Cal.2d 13, 19-22; Kayel v.
Catalina Yachts (1986) 187 Cal.App.3d 1187, 1195].)  In Klopstock, a judgment was issued
and reversed on a stockholder derivative suit. (17 Cal.2d at 15.)  The trial could entered judgment for the
Plaintiff, which the Court of Appeal reversed on the grounds that the Plaintiff
was not the proper party to bring the cause of action and thus the trial court
erred in overruling the general demurrer to the complaint.  (Id. at 16.) Following the court of
appeal’s reversal, the trial court granted leave to file an amended complaint
naming the administrator of the estate, the real party of interest, as
plaintiff.  (Ibid.)  The Supreme Court upheld the trial court’s
decision on the grounds that Code of Civil Procedure section 473 permitted
amendments so long as the amendment does not present an entirely different set
of facts.  (Id. at pp. 19-21.) 
            Kaley
continued Klopstock’s line of reasoning.  In Kaley, while litigation was
pending, plaintiff filed bankruptcy proceedings but failed to list the cause of
action on any bankruptcy schedules.  (187
Cal.App.3d at pp. 1193.)  The Court of
Appeal in Kaley relied on, now repealed, California Code of Civil
Procedure section 385, which permitted an action to be continued in the name of
the original party after a transfer of interest.  (Id. at pp. 1194.)  Kaley found that the purpose of the
real party in interest statute was “to protect a defendant from a multiplicity
of actions predicated on the same gravamen and to preserve to that defendant
all personal and counterclaims available.” 
(Id. at pp. 1195.)  The
Court found that since the defendant was protected from further suit by
awarding the judgment to the Trustee, and the defendant was not denied any
personal defenses or setoffs, the protection of the statute was afforded.  (Ibid.)  Cloud v. Northrup Grumman restates the
legal theory supported by Klopstock and Kaley, applying Klopstock
to the bankruptcy context and extending Kaley.  (67 Cal.App.4th at pp. 1005.)
            Perez
contends the Court of Appeal for the Second District Court has “basically
abandoned” Kaley. In support, Perez cites Bostanian v. Liberty
Savings Bank, which ruled that a plaintiff has no standing to pursue an
appeal when the case had become property of the bankrupt estate, and the
trustee had not abandoned the case.  (52
Cal.App.4th 1075, 1087.)  Bostanian
stops the plaintiff from pursuing additional legal remedies until the Trustee
is allowed to either substitute in or abandon the case. Bostanian does
not allow the Parties to return the case to the filing of the bankruptcy
action, nor does it void any decision of the action filed after the plaintiff
had filed for bankruptcy.  
             In tracing the precedential progeny of both Kaley
and Bostanian, the Court is unable to find a case that supports Perez’s
contention that the Court must deem void all proceedings occurring after
Plaintiff’s bankruptcy filing and essentially turn back the action to 2019. 
 
Prejudicial Effect
            Trustee
alleges that Liria Melendez’s creditors would be prejudiced by the relitigating
of the case because of the additional administrative fees and costs, as well as
the delays and uncertainty of new litigation, all costs that would ultimately
be borne by the creditors.  Perez alleges
that Liria Melendez’s creditors would not be prejudiced because (1) Liria
Melendez failed to properly list all pending litigation in her bankruptcy
proceedings and (2) if she had, the case would have been stayed.  It’s unclear how the past failures overcome a
current prejudice, given that the Trustee has now been substituted in the case.

            Perez
also shows no prejudice in the original hearing caused by Plaintiff incorrectly
pursing the cause of action.  Perez does
not show that he was unable to assert and personal defenses or counterclaims
due to the failure to substitute the trustee. 
(See Kaley, supra, 187 Cal.App.3d at pp. 1195.)
            The
Court finds that Trustee is entitled to be substituted in as the real party of
interest and named in the judgment as the judgment creditor. 
 
CONCLUSION
            The
Court grants Trustee’s Motion for Order Authorizing Real Party in Interest to
Substitute as Judgment Creditor. 
            Trustee
to give notice.