  Case Number:  23STCV27584    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


39




HEARING DATE


September 26, 2023




CASE NUMBER


23STCV27584




MOTION


Motions to Compel Further Discovery Responses




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiffs Jane LA
  Doe and Jane MA Doe




OPPOSING PARTIES


Defendant Los Angeles Unified School District



 
MOTION
Plaintiffs Jane LA
Doe and Jane MA Doe (“Plaintiffs”) move to compel further responses from Defendant
Los Angeles Unified School District (“Defendant”) to Requests for Production of
Documents, set one (“RPD”).  Defendant
opposes the motions.
ANALYSIS
If the propounding
party deems responses to requests for production of documents unsatisfactory,
the propounding party may move to compel further responses.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310.)  Plaintiffs move to compel further responses
to RPD Nos. 7, 8, 14, 26, 51, and 53.  
In RPDs Nos. 7, 8,
14, and 26, Plaintiffs requests documents about themselves and about complaints
of misconduct against Defendant Corey Hogan (“Hogan”), an employee of
Defendant.  Plaintiffs contend Hogan
sexually abused Plaintiffs while Plaintiffs were students at Defendant’s school
district.  In RPD Nos. 51 and 53,
Plaintiffs seek documents relating to complaints or allegations of misconduct against
any of Defendant’s employees.  
Defendant states
it failed to serve a supplemental response to RPD No. 14 in error and
represents it will serve that supplemental response.  Defendant concedes it must produce documents
about Hogan that reflect complaints prior to the incidents of which Plaintiffs
complain in this case.  That is
insufficient because Plaintiffs are also entitled to discovery of Defendant’s
conduct after the allegations made in Plaintiffs’ complaint.  (See Lopez v. Watchtower Bible & Tract
Society of New York, Inc. (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 566, 593 [“An entity’s
actions and the intent with which the party engaged in such actions ‘may be
inferred from evidence of [its] subsequent conduct’”].)
Defendant’s
responses to the RPD consist of objections. 
As Plaintiff timely filed this motion to compel further responses, Defendant
has the burden to justify those objections. 
(Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (2000) 22 Cal.4th 245,
255.)  Defendant fails to do so.  Rather, Defendant argues the California
Public Records Act, or CPRA, precludes disclosure.  CPRA permits anyone to obtain, subject to
certain exemptions, “any writing containing information relating to the conduct
of the public's business prepared, owned, used, or retained by any state or
local agency regardless of physical form or characteristics . . . .”  (Gov. Code, § 7920.530.)  CPRA is, therefore, an alternative procedure
to obtain records from a public entity and is not pertinent to discovery in
civil litigation.  For the same reason,
Defendant’s reliance on the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974,
or FERPA, is misplaced.  FERPA is not
applicable to civil discovery.  (Doe
v. United States Swimming, Inc. (2011) 200 Cal.App.4th 1424, 1438.)
Defendant also
interposes objections under Evidence Code section 1040.  Under that
statute, a public entity has a privilege to refuse to disclose “official
information.”  (Evid. Code, § 1040, subd. (b).)  Official information
is information a public employee acquired in confidence in the course of his or
her official duties, which has not been disclosed to the public.  (Evid. Code, § 1040, subd. (a).)  The
privilege applies to information that cannot be disclosed under an act of
Congress or a California statute or that should not be disclosed “because there
is a necessity for preserving [its] confidentiality ... that outweighs the
necessity for disclosure in the interest of justice.”  (Evid. Code, §
1040, subd. (b).)  In the instant case, as discussed above, Defendant
fails to show any statutes prevent the disclosure of the records at issue.  Further, the public interest in maintaining
confidentiality does not outweigh the interest of justice in disclosing
pertinent information in this case.  “[P]rotecting
children from harm is a compelling interest[.]”  (Burt v. County of
Orange (2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 273, 285.)  It is not in the public’s
interest to shield otherwise discoverable information relevant to mistreatment of
children.
Defendant also contends
the RPD call for disclosure of documents that implicate the attorney-client
privilege and attorney work product protection. 
To the extent Defendant withholds any documents based on the attorney-client
privilege and attorney work product protection, Defendant must provide Plaintiffs
with a privilege log.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.240, subd. (c)(1).)  Without a privilege log, Plaintiffs cannot
evaluate such claims of privilege.
Lastly, Defendant
argues the RPD call for inadmissible character evidence.  This objection is invalid.  (See Volkswagen of America, Inc. v. Superior
Court (2006) 139 Cal.App.4th 1481, 1490-1491 [“A ‘claim that discovery is
not warranted because the evidence disclosed would not itself be admissible is untenable.  It is settled that admissibility is not prerequisite
to discovery’”].)  Thus, Plaintiffs need
not demonstrate the admissibility of evidence to obtain it in discovery.
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Plaintiffs’ motions
to compel further responses to the RPD are granted.  
Plaintiffs are ordered
to give notice of this order and to file proof of service of same.
 