

 
This is a fraud action. Plaintiff Eon Reality, Inc.
(Plaintiff) alleges it awarded Defendants Virtual Film School, Inc. (VFS) and
Frank Chindamo (Chindamo) a grant called the Grant Guarantee Program Offer
(GGPO), to launch extended reality programs. Defendants allegedly represented
in their grant application they will enroll 10,000 students, employ more than
50 faculty members, and create 250 lessons of content per year, Plaintiff
relied on those representations to give the defendants the GGPO, but those
representations turned out to be false. Plaintiff sues VFS and Chindamo for (1)
intentional misrepresentation, (2) negligent misrepresentation, (3) unfair
business practices pursuant to Business and Professions Code section 17200, and
(4) unjust enrichment.
 
VFS and Chindamo (collectively, “Defendants”) now move to
compel that Plaintiff’s claims be arbitrated based on the arbitration clause in
the GGPO:
 
In the event that the Parties cannot reach agreement on a
dispute through negotiations, any dispute, controversy or claim arising out of
or relating to this Agreement, or the breach, termination or validity thereof,
shall be mediated, or finally settled by arbitration through the low-cost
California Lawyers for the Arts, with the arbitrator to be mutually agreed upon
by the parties.
 
(Chindamo
Decl.), ¶ 4; Exhibit A, p. 11, Paragraph m(b).) 

 
Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s tort claims arise out of
or relate to the GGPO and, therefore, are subject to arbitration. 
 
Defendants further argue that even though Chindamo is not a
party to the GGPO, Plaintiff’s claims against that defendant should also be
compelled to arbitration based on agency, alter ego, and estoppel doctrines. (Motion,
p. 13:3-7.) 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues that the entire motion
should be denied because “(1) Mr. Chindamo is not a party to the [GPPO] between
[Plaintiff and VFS …, and (2) Plaintiff should not be forced to arbitrate its
claims with a biased and partial arbitrator.” (Opposition, p. 1:3-6.)
 
Defendants did not file a reply.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
            Defendants claim, and Plaintiff does
not dispute, that the Arbitration Clause is governed by the California
Arbitration Act. Under the CAA, “[o]n petition of a party to an
arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to
arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses to arbitrate such
controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to
arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the
controversy exists, unless it determines that: ¶ (a) The right to compel arbitration has been waived
by the petitioner; or (b) Grounds exist for the revocation of the agreement.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.)
 
“The petitioner [seeking to compel arbitration] bears the
burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by a
preponderance of the evidence, while a party opposing the petition bears the
burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence any fact necessary to its
defense.” (Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto Group, Inc. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th
836, 842 (“Ruiz”).)
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Plaintiff asserts fraud, UCL, and
unjust enrichment claims against the Defendants. 
 
A valid agreement to arbitrate the dispute exists
 
Under the CAA, “[t]he moving
party ‘can meet its initial burden [on a motion to compel arbitration] by
attaching to the petition a copy of the arbitration agreement purporting to
bear the [opposing party’s] signature.’ [Citation.] Alternatively, the moving
party can meet its burden by setting forth the agreement’s provisions in the
motion. [Citations.] For this step, ‘it is not necessary to follow the normal
procedures of document authentication.’ [Citation.]” (Gamboa v. Northeast
Community Clinic (2021) 72 Cal.App.5th 158, 165 (Gamboa).) 
 
“If the moving party meets its
initial prima facie burden and the opposing party does not dispute the
existence of the arbitration agreement, then nothing more is required for the
moving party to meet its burden of persuasion.” (Gamboa, supra, 72 Cal.App.5th at p. 165.) “If the moving
party meets its initial prima facie burden and the opposing party disputes the
agreement, then in the second step, the opposing party bears the burden of
producing evidence to challenge the authenticity of the agreement.” (Ibid.)
“The opposing party can do this in several ways. For example, the opposing
party may testify under oath or declare under penalty of perjury that the party
never saw or does not remember seeing the agreement, or that the party never
signed or does not remember signing the agreement.” (Ibid.)
 
Here, Plaintiff does not deny the
existence of the Arbitration Clause, does not deny its claims against VFS
are covered by the Arbitration Clause, and does deny that its claims against
VFS claims should be compelled arbitration. On the contrary, “Plaintiff admits
that Plaintiff and VFS are parties to [the] arbitration agreement ….”
(Opposition, p. 4:28.) 
 
Defendant Chindamo may invoke the arbitration agreement.
 
Plaintiff argues that its claims against Chindamo should not
be compelled to arbitration for the following reasons. First, an “identity of
interest” between the nonsignatory and signatory is not an exception to the
rule that a nonsignatory cannot invoke an arbitration agreement. (Opposition,
p. 3:2-9.) Second, Plaintiff is not suing Chindamo under an alter-ego or
piercing the corporate veil theory (instead, Plaintiff is suing the defendant
in his individual capacity) and, therefore, Defendants are reading words into
Plaintiff’s Complaint that do not exist. (Opposition, p. 3:10-22.) Finally, the
doctrine of equitable estoppel is inapplicable because Plaintiff’s claims
against Chindamo are based on representations that he made before Plaintiff and
VFS entered the GGPO and, therefore, those claims cannot be inextricably
intertwined with the GGPO. (Opposition, pp. 3:23-4:13.)
 
“[S]ubject to limited exceptions, only parties to an
arbitration contract may enforce it or be required to arbitrate.” (Nguyen v.
Tran (2007) 157 Cal.App.4th 1032, 1036 (Nguyen).)
 
“Exceptions in which an arbitration agreement may be
enforced by or against nonsignatories include … when a nonsignatory and one of
the parties to the agreement have a preexisting agency relationship that makes
it equitable to impose the duty to arbitrate on either of them.” (Nguyen,
supra, 157 Cal.App.4th at pp. 1036–1037.)
 
            A non-signatory seeking to compel
arbitration “bears the burden to establish he or she is a party to the
arbitration agreement/provision covering the dispute.” (Jones v. Jacobson (2011)
195 Cal.App.4th 1, 15.)  
 
            Here,
the Court finds that Chindamo has met its burden of establishing he is a party
to the Arbitration Clause based on preexisting
agency relationship between him and VFS. Indeed, the Complaint alleges that
“Chindamo is the president, chief executive officer, and chief financial
officer of VFS.” (Compl., ¶ 3.) Chindamo attests to the
same in his declaration. (Motion, Chindamo Decl., ¶ 2 [testifying that he is the Founder,
President, and current CEO of VFS].) The Complaint also alleges that Chindamo
“acted independently, or in the alternative, acted as the agent, representative, partner,
…, or employee of one or more of the remaining defendants,  and in doing the
things alleged herein, acted within the course and scope of such agency,
representation, … and employment”].) (Compl., ¶ 5 [emphasis added]; Chindamo Decl., ¶ 3 [testifying that he submitted the grant application
in his capacity as VFS’s president and on behalf of VFS].) Those allegations suffice to permit Chindamo to be
treated as a party to the arbitration agreement. (RN Solution, Inc. v.
Catholic Healthcare West (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 1511, 1520 (RN Solution)
[holding that a company’s president/CEO was bound by the arbitration agreement
in the recruitment agreement as an agent-employee of her corporation].)
 
Chindamo may also enforce arbitration as the alter ego of
VFS, based on Plaintiff’s pleading. An “[a]lter ego theory posits that the
individual defendants are inseparable from the corporation and in legal effect
are the corporation.” (D.N. & E. Walter & Co. v. Zuckerman
(1931) 214 Cal. 418, 420 [alter ego theory requires that the corporation and
individual should be considered as one] ). The corporate form is disregarded
and the entity is considered an association of individuals.” (Rowe v. Exline
(2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1276, 1284 (Rowe).) Here, contrary to Plaintiff’s
argument that it has not alleged an “alter ego” theory, the Complaint states
that each defendant “acted … as the … alter ego … of one or more of the
remaining defendants, and in doing the things alleged herein, acted within the
course and scope of such … alter ego ….” (Compl., ¶ 5.) The Court of Appeal has held that a nonsignatory can
compel an arbitration agreement against a signatory-plaintiff if the plaintiff
has alleged that the nonsignatory is an alter ego of a signatory. (RN
Solution, supra, 165 Cal.App.4th at p. 1519 [noting that “[t]he
appellate court [in Rowe, supra] held that the individual
defendants, although nonsignatories to the arbitration agreement, could enforce
the arbitration agreement against [the plaintiff] because of his allegation
that the corporation was an alter ego of these individuals”].)
 
Chindamo’s motion may also be granted on grounds of equitable
estoppel. Under the doctrine of equitable estoppel in “both
federal and California decisional authority, a nonsignatory defendant may
invoke an arbitration clause to compel a signatory plaintiff to arbitrate its
claims when the causes of action against the nonsignatory are ‘intimately
founded in and intertwined’ with the underlying contract obligations.” (Boucher
v. Alliance Title Co., Inc. (2005) 127 Cal.App.4th 262, 271.) “By relying
on contract terms in a claim against a nonsignatory defendant, even if not
exclusively, a plaintiff may be equitably estopped from repudiating the
arbitration clause contained in that agreement.” (Id. at p.
272.) “[I]f a plaintiff relies on the terms of an agreement to assert his
or her claims against a nonsignatory defendant, the plaintiff may be equitably
estopped from repudiating the arbitration clause of that very agreement. In
other words, a signatory to an agreement with an arbitration clause
cannot ‘“‘have it both ways’”’; the signatory ‘cannot, on the one hand,
seek to hold the non-signatory liable pursuant to duties imposed by the
agreement, which contains an arbitration provision, but, on the other hand,
deny arbitration’s applicability because the defendant is a non-signatory.’” (Goldman
v. KPMG, LLP (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 209, 220 (Goldman).)   
 
            There
are two common scenarios in which the causes of action are “intimately founded
in and intertwined” with the underlying contract obligations: “‘The first
occurs when “adjudication of the disputes between the signatory and
nonsignatory parties would require interpretation, and probably enforcement, of
the specific terms and conditions of the underlying contract” [citation]—in
other words, when the plaintiffs “‘must rely on the terms of the written
agreement in asserting their claims.’” [Citation]. The second factual scenario
warranting equitable estoppel occurs when the signatory raises allegations of
“not merely parallel or similar, but substantially interdependent and concerted
misconduct by both the nonsignatory and one or more of the signatories to the
contract.’ [Citation.]” (Goldman, supra, 173 Cal.App.4th at p.
220.)
 
            Here, the second scenario is met; the
Complaint repeatedly alleges that Chindamo’s conduct was interdependent and
concerted with VFS’s conduct. (See Compl., ¶ 5 [“defendants, VFS, Chindamo. . . acted as the agent,
representative, partner, co-conspirator, alter ego, successor-in-interest,
assignee, or employee of one or more of the remaining defendants, and in doing
the things alleged herein, acted within the course and scope of such agency,
representation, conspiracy, alter ego, and employment. Plaintiff alleges on
information and belief that directors, officers, or employees in management
positions with discretionary authority acting on behalf of each defendant has
ratified and approved the acts of the remaining defendants”]; id. ¶ 10
[“In the Grant Application submitted by Chindamo and Defendants, each
guaranteed that Defendants would enroll ten thousand (10,000) students after
two (2) years, that Defendants would employ more than fifty (50) faculty
members/year, and Defendants would create more than two- hundred fifty (250)
lessons of content/year”]; id. ¶ 33 [“Defendants engaged in
unlawful, unfair, and/or fraudulent conduct within the meaning of the Business and Professions Code section 17200, et
seq”]; id. ¶
38 [“It would be inequitable for Defendants to retain the
benefits Plaintiff provided Defendants”].)
 
            Plaintiff’s argument that its claims
cannot be compelled to arbitration because they concern pre-contract conduct is
unpersuasive. 
 
            It is true that Plaintiff’s fraud
claims arise from the grant application, which occurred before the parties
entered the GGPO, and, consequently, the arbitration clause. 
 
However,
“California law distinguishes between fraud in the ‘execution’ or ‘inception’
of a contract and fraud in the ‘inducement’ of a contract. In brief, in the
former case ‘“the fraud goes to the inception or execution of the agreement, so
that the promisor is deceived as to the nature of his act, and
actually does not know what he is signing, or does not
intend to enter into a contract at all, mutual assent is lacking, and [the
contract] is void. In such a case it may be disregarded
without the necessity of rescission.”’ [Citation.] Fraud in the inducement, by
contrast, occurs when ‘“the promisor knows what he is signing but his consent
is induced by fraud, mutual assent is present and a contract
is formed, which, by reason of the fraud, is voidable. In
order to escape from its obligations the aggrieved party must rescind....”’
[Citation.]” (Rosenthal v. Great Western Fin. Securities Corp. (1996) 14
Cal.4th 394, 415 (Rosenthal) [italics in original].)
 
“[C]laims
of fraud in the execution of the entire agreement are not arbitrable under
either state or federal law. If the entire contract is void ab initio because
of fraud, the parties have not agreed to arbitrate any controversy; under that
circumstance, … [case law] does not require a court to order arbitration.” (Rosenthal,
supra, 14 Cal.4th at p. 416.)
 
On
the other hand, “fraud in the inducement relating to other contractual terms
does not render the arbitration agreement unenforceable, even when it might
justify rescission of the contract as a whole. By entering into the arbitration
agreement, the parties established their intent that disputes coming within the
agreement’s scope be determined by an arbitrator rather than a court; this
contractual intent must be respected even with regard to claims of fraud in the
inducement of the contract generally.” (Rosenthal, supra, 14
Cal.4th at p. 416.)
 
            Here, the Complaint alleges fraud in
the inducement. (See Compl., ¶ 28 [“Defendants
intended for Plaintiff to rely on the representations in order for Plaintiff to approve VFS’ Grant Application for the Grant Guarantee
Program and enter into the GGP Agreement with
VFS; id. ¶ 29 [“Plaintiff reasonably relied on
Defendants’ representations in approving VFS’ Grant
Application for the
Grant Guarantee Program and entering into the GGP Agreement with VFS”].)
 
“[I]n
the absence of indication of contrary intent, and where the arbitration clause
is reasonably susceptible of such an interpretation, claims of fraud in the
inducement of the contract (as distinguished from claims of fraud directed to
the arbitration clause itself) will be deemed subject to arbitration.” (Ericksen,
Arbuthnot, McCarthy, Kearney & Walsh, Inc. v. 100 Oak Street (1983) 35
Cal.3d 312, 323; Rosenthal, supra, 14 Cal.4th at p. 416 [“[i]n
the absence of a contrary agreement, parties to a predispute arbitration
agreement are presumed to have intended arbitration of controversies, including
allegations of fraud in the inducement of the contract generally, that may
allow rescission or reformation of the contract or part of it”].)
 
Here,
Plaintiff has not pointed to any language in the GGPO that shows the parties
intended to exclude fraud in the inducement claims from the Arbitration Clause.
Therefore, in the absence of that contrary intent and in light of the fact that
the Arbitration Clause can be read to encompass the fraud claims since it
covers “any
dispute, controversy or claim arising out of or relating to [the GGPO], …
[including the] validity thereof …,” the fraud claims are subject to
arbitration. The Court also finds that the UCL and unjust enrichment claims
fall within the scope of the Arbitration Clause. 
 
Therefore,
Chindamo has established his right to compel arbitration of Plaintiff’s claims.

 
For
those reasons, the Court finds that the Defendants have proven the existence of
a valid agreement to arbitrate Plaintiff’s claims.  
 
There are no grounds
to revoke
the arbitration clause on the belief that the arbitrator will be biased.
 
Having
determined the existence of a written agreement
to arbitrate a controversy, the CAA requires the Court to compel
arbitration unless the Court “determines that: ¶ (a) The right to compel arbitration has been waived
by the petitioner; or (b) Grounds exist for the revocation of the agreement.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.)
 
Here,
Plaintiff argues that the Arbitration Clause should not be enforced because, in
a previous arbitration proceeding, the California Lawyers for the Arts and its arbitrator
were biased against Plaintiff. 
 
“Actual
bias is not listed as a basis for vacating an arbitration award under Code of
Civil Procedure section 1286.2, but subdivision (a)(6) does require a court to
vacate an arbitration award if the arbitrator (A) failed to disclose a ground
for disqualification or (B) was subject to disqualification. If an arbitrator
is actually biased, he or she is subject to disqualification, and the failure
to disqualify requires vacating an award under subdivision (a)(6)(B) of section
1286.2.” (Baxter v. Bock (2016) 247 Cal.App.4th 775, 789, fn. 7.)
 
Here,
however, there is no pending motion to vacate an arbitration award because no
arbitration award has been issued. In addition, Plaintiff has not cited (and
the Court has not found) any law that would allow the Court to disqualify an
arbitrator that has not even been selected, participated in an arbitration
proceeding, or issued an award. 
 
To
the extent Plaintiff is arguing that the Arbitration Clause is unconscionable
with regard to the selection of arbitrators, that argument is unpersuasive. The
Arbitration Clause says that the dispute will be decided in “arbitration through the
low-cost California Lawyers for the Arts, with the arbitrator to be mutually
agreed upon by the parties.” (Motion, Exhibit A – a copy of the GGPO, p.
11, Paragraph m(b) [emphasis added].) That clause negates substantive
unconscionability.
(See OTO, L.L.C. v. Kho (2019) 8 Cal.5th
111, 126 [“The burden of proving unconscionability rests upon the party
asserting it”]; Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000)
24 Cal.4th 83, 114 [“‘[U]nconscionability has both a “procedural” and a
“substantive” element,’ the former focusing on ‘oppression’ or ‘surprise’ due
to unequal bargaining power, the latter on ‘overly harsh’ or ‘one-sided’
results” (citations omitted)]; Torrecillas v. Fitness International, LLC
(2020) 52 Cal.App.5th 485, 492 [“As a matter of general contract law,
California courts require both procedural and substantive unconscionability to
invalidate a contract”]; Carmona v. Lincoln Millennium Car Wash, Inc. 226
Cal.App.4th at 74, 85.) [“‘Substantive unconscionability pertains to the
fairness of an agreement’s actual terms and to assessments of whether they are
overly harsh or one-sided. [Citations.] A contract term is not substantively
unconscionable when it merely gives one side a greater benefit; rather, the
term must be “so one-sided as to ‘shock the conscience’”’”].)
 
Plaintiff
has failed to meet its burden of showing that the Arbitration Clause is
unenforceable.  Defendant’s motion to
compel arbitration is granted. Proceedings in this court are stayed pending completion
of the arbitration.