 Case Number:  24CHCV02154    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2024    Dept:  F49  



Dept.
  F49




Date:
  10/23/24




Case
  Name: DrinkPAK, LLC v. Paylocity Corp., and Does 1 THROUGH 10




Case
  No. 24CHCV02154



 
 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH VALLEY DISTRICT
DEPARTMENT F49
 

OCTOBER 23, 2024
 

DEMURRER 

Los Angeles Superior
Court Case No. 24CHCV02154

 
Motion
filed: 9/9/24
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant Paylocity Corp.
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff DrinkPAK, LLC 
NOTICE: OK.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED: An
order sustaining Defendant’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint
 
TENTATIVE
RULING: The Demurrer
is SUSTAINED IN PART and OVERRULED IN PART.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a breach of contract and tort case between a canned
beverage manufacturer, Plaintiff DrinkPAK LLC (“Plaintiff” or “DrinkPAK”), and
a payroll services provider, Defendant Paylocity Corp. (“Defendant” or
“Paylocity”).
 
On June 11, 2024, Plaintiff filed the Complaint against
Defendant and Does 1 through 10, alleging the following causes of action: (1)
Breach of Contract, (2) Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair
Dealing, (3) Implied Indemnity, (4) Equitable Indemnity, (5) Contribution, and
(6) Declaratory Relief. Subsequently, on October 10, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
Request for Dismissal, dismissing the following causes of action in the
Complaint: Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing (Second
Cause of Action), Equitable Indemnity (Fourth Cause of Action), and Declaratory
Relief (Sixth Cause of Action). As a result, the remaining causes of action in
the Complaint are Breach of Contract, Implied Indemnity, and Contribution.
 
On September 9, 2024, Defendant Paylocity filed the instant
Demurrer to the Complaint (the “Demurrer”). Following this, Plaintiff filed its
Opposition on October 10, 2024, and Defendant replied on October 16, 2024.
 
ANALYSIS
 
A demurrer is an objection to a pleading, the grounds
for which are apparent from either the face of the complaint or a matter of
which the court may take judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd.
(a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) The purpose of
a demurrer is to challenge the sufficiency of a pleading “by raising questions
of law.” (Postley v. Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) 
 
At the pleading stage, a plaintiff need only allege
ultimate facts sufficient to apprise the defendant of the factual basis for the
claim against them. (Semole v.
Sansoucie (1972) 28 Cal.App.3d 714, 721.) “In the
construction of a pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its
allegations must be liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice
between the parties.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) The court “treat[s] the
demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions,
deductions or conclusions of fact or law[.]” (Berkley v. Dowds (2007)
152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525 (Berkley).) In applying these standards, the
court liberally construes the complaint to determine whether a cause of action
has been stated. (Picton v. Anderson Union High School Dist. (1996) 50
Cal.App.4th 726, 733.)
 
A.    Request
for Judicial Notice
 
Defendant requests that the Court take judicial notice
of the following matters:
 
1.     
Request for Judicial Notice (“RJN”) No. 1: Paylocity Corporation Full
Bundle Subscription Agreement between the parties. (RJN Ex. “A.”)
 
2.     
RJN No. 2: the complaint filed on September 1, 2023, in Veliz v.
DrinkPak, LLC, Case No. 22STCV37384 in the Superior Court of Los Angeles
County, California (RJN Ex. “B.”)
 
3.     
RJN No. 3: the complaint filed on January 13,
2023, in Bazzy v. DrinkPak, LLC, Case No. 23STCV00766 in the Superior
Court of Los Angeles County, California. (RJN Ex. “C.”)
 
Evidence Code section 425 provides, in pertinent part, “Judicial notice
may be taken of the following matters: ... (d) Records of (1) any court of this
state or (2) any court of record of the United States or of any state of the
United States....(h) Facts and propositions that are not
reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of immediate and accurate
determination by resort to sources of reasonably indisputable accuracy.”
Additionally, a court may take judicial notice of a contract referred to in the
complaint. (See, e.g., Align Tech., Inc. v. Tran (2009) 179 Cal.App.4th
949, 956 fn. 6.)
 
            However, the case file does not indicate that Defendant
has included the exhibits as claimed in its request. As a result, Defendant has
not provided sufficient information to enable the Court to take judicial notice
of the matter. (Evid. Code, § 453.)
 
            Accordingly, the RJN is DENIED.
 
B.     Meet
and Confer
 
A party filing a demurrer “shall meet and confer in person
or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to
demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached
that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ.
Proc., section 430.41(a).) A failure to meet and confer does not constitute
grounds to sustain or overrule a demurrer. (See Code Civ. Proc., sections
430.41 (a)(4).)
 
Here, Defendant’s good faith efforts to meet and confer were
sufficient. (Casillas Decl. ¶¶ 3-4, 6-7.)
 
C.   
Application of Illinois Law to the
Causes of Action
 
“California law recognizes a strong public policy favoring
enforcement of choice-of-law provisions[.]” (Colaco v. Cavotec SA (2018)
25 Cal.App.5th 1172, 1177.) California courts enforce choice of law
provisions, subject to two qualifications. (Nedlloyd Lines B.V. v. Superior
Court (1992) 3 Cal.4th 459, 465.) More specifically: 
 
If the parties state their
intention in an express choice-of-law clause, California courts ordinarily will
enforce the parties’ stated intention unless (1) the chosen state has no
substantial relationship to the parties or their transaction, and there is no
other reasonable basis for the parties’ choice, or (2) the chosen state’s law
is contrary to a fundamental policy of the state whose law otherwise would
apply, and the latter state has a materially greater interest in the matter
than does the chosen state. 
 
(Frontier Oil Corp. v. RLI Ins. Co. (2007) 153
Cal.App.4th 1436, 1451, fn. 7 [citing Nedlloyd Lines B.V. v. Superior Court
(1992) 3 Cal.4th 459].)
 
Although Defendant has not presented the actual copy of the
purported agreement to the Court, it argues that the parties agreed in the
Paylocity Corporation Full Bundle Subscription Agreement (“Agreement”) that
“Agreement shall be construed according to the laws of the State of Illinois.”
(Dem. at p. 2.) Additionally, Defendant maintains that substantial relationship
exists as it is headquartered in Illinois. (Dem. at p. 8, see also Casillas
Decl. Ex. “D.”) Therefore, the Court finds that the express choice-of-law
clause reflects the parties’ intention and establishes a substantial
relationship between the chosen state and the parties. 
 
Plaintiff does not dispute the application of Illinois law,
nor does it argue that Illinois law is contrary to any fundamental policy of
the State of California. Instead, Plaintiff relies on legal arguments based on
Illinois precedent. 
 
            Accordingly, the Court reviews the
Demurrer under Illinois law.
 
D.    Cause of Action – Breach of Contract
 
Defendant first argues that the Breach of Contract claim is
barred by the Agreement’s exculpatory clauses.
 
Defendant presents that the Agreement contains the following
provisions:
 
“§6: CLIENT AGREES THAT PAYLOCITY
IS NOT . . . RESPONSIBLE FOR
CLIENT’S COMPLIANCE WITH FEDERAL,
STATE, OR LOCAL STATUTES, REGULATIONS, OR ORDINANCES,
INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO . . . ANY WAGE AND HOUR LAWS . . . PAYLOCITY
SHALL NOT UNDER ANY CIRCUMSTANCES BE LIABLE FOR SPECIAL, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR OTHER SIMILAR DAMAGES (INCLUDING LOST PROFITS) EVEN
IF PAYLOCITY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.”
 
“§5: Client is solely responsible
for the content and accuracy of all data input and then subsequently processed by
Paylocity.
 
. . .
 
It is the CLIENT’s
responsibility to review the processed payroll and other information and to
promptly identify any errors. If the data submitted to Paylocity is
incorrect, incomplete, or not in proper form, then CLIENT agrees to pay
additional charges then in effect for the corrections to said data.
 
…
 
CLIENT IS SOLELY RESPONSIBLE FOR
ANY LIABILITY TO EMPLOYEES FOR FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH FEDERAL, STATE OR LOCAL
LAWS.”
 
(Dem. at p. 9.)
 
In response, Plaintiff contends
that the exculpatory clauses in the Agreement do not apply because they render
Defendant’s contractual duties illusory and that they are invalid under the
exception of willful and wanton conduct. (Opp’n., at p. 10.)
 
The Court proceeds to address the
two contentions separately. 
 
1)     
Exculpatory Clauses Rendering Promises
Illusory
 
            
 
            Although
exculpatory clauses are generally enforced under Illinois’s public policy that
strongly favors freedom to contract, “exculpatory clauses are not favored in
Illinois, and are to be strictly construed against the party they benefit,
especially when the party was also the drafters[.]” (Horne v. Electric Eel
Manufacturing Company, Inc. (2021) 987 F.3d 704, 718 (Horne), citing
Avery v. State Farm Mut. Ins. Co. (2015) 216 Ill.2d 100.) 
 
In Jewelers Mut. Ins. Co. v. Firstar Bank Illinois
(2004) 213 Ill.2d 58 (Jewelers), the plaintiffs were insurers of individuals and businesses that rented
safety deposit boxes at a bank. The rental agreement contained a broad
exculpatory clause, denying liability for loss of or injury to the contents of
the box unless the lessee entered into a separate agreement with the bank to
that effect. But the contract also provided that the “liability of said bank is
limited to the exercise of ordinary care to prevent the opening of said safe by
any person not authorized[.]” The Illinois Supreme Court stated
that “[a] party cannot promise to act in a certain manner in one portion of a
contract and then exculpate itself from liability for breach of that very
promise in another part of the contract.... [T]he exclusion of its specifically articulated obligations ... would
render [a] defendant's contractual duties illusory.”
(Id. at pp. 415-416.)
 
Conversely, Illinois courts have upheld exculpatory clauses that do not absolve
a party from liability for breach of a promise made in another part of the
contract. In Home Healthcare of Ill., Inc. v. Jesk (2017) 112 N.E.3d 594
(Jesk), an escrow agreement contained two exculpatory clauses: (1) “the
Escrow Agent shall incur no liability whatsoever except for willful misconduct
or gross negligence,” and (2) “[t]he Seller and Purchaser each release the
Escrow Agent from any act done or omitted to be done by the Escrow Agent in
good faith in the performance of its duties hereunder.” (Id. at p. 603.)
The Illinois appellate court reasoned that “[t]he net effect of the two
relevant sentences in that clause is that [the defendant] is not liable for
acts of ordinary negligence committed in good faith but is still liable for
actions taken in bad faith, i.e., acts constituting ‘willful misconduct or
gross negligence,’” concluding that these provisions did not render the
contract illusory. (Ibid.)
 
Here, the Complaint alleges that “[a]s a result of the errors in
Paylocity’s software, Paylocity’s software was erroneously calculating and
reporting to DrinkPAK the wages earned by DrinkPAK’s employees. Eventually,
DrinkPAK became aware of the errors contained in Paylocity’s software, and DrinkPAK
made multiple requests to Paylocity to correct the errors inherent in its
software. By way of example, on August 5, 2021, DrinkPAK’s general counsel, Jer
Monson, emailed Ana Espinoza at Paylocity and asked for a call to ‘address
several outstanding issues about which we have previously contacted customer
service.’ One of the issues that Mr. Monson identified was the ‘[m]ethodology
for calculating “regular rate of pay” overtime compensation and meal/rest
period premium payments.’ Indeed, Mr. Monson and DrinkPAK’s Chief Financial
Officer, Christina Kim, called Paylocity on August 9, 2021, to try to have
Paylocity correct the issue with its software. However, despite multiple
assurances by Paylocity to DrinkPAK that the problems would be rectified, the
issues with Paylocity’s software and services continued to persist, and the
software continued to improperly calculate the wages owed to DrinkPAK’s
employees.” (Compl. ¶
17.) “Despite DrinkPAK’s best efforts to have Paylocity correct the problems,
the issues with Paylocity’s software persisted—even after the lawsuits were
initiated against DrinkPAK.” (Id. ¶ 20.)
 
Plaintiff contends that, based on the allegations, the exculpatory
clauses in the Agreement effectively negate Defendant’s obligations to exercise
due care and to correct errors, rendering its promises illusory. The Court
agrees. 
 
The Court finds that the net effect of the provision that states “Client
is solely responsible for the content and accuracy of all data input and
then subsequently processed by Paylocity” (Dem. at p. 9) effectively
negates Paylocity’s specific contractual duty to “use due care in processing [DrinkPAK’s] work” and that Paylocity
“shall be responsible for correcting errors” caused by Paylocity.
(Opp’n., at p. 6.) (Underlines added.)
 
Unlike the exculpatory clauses in Jesk, Paylocity’s promise to
exercise due care and to correct errors conflicts with the exculpatory clauses
in the Agreement, which place sole responsibility for the content and accuracy
of the data processed by Paylocity. 
 
Furthermore, much like the
defendant in Jewelers, where the bank was prohibited from exculpating
itself from all liability after breaching an express obligation to exercise ordinary care to prevent
unauthorized persons from opening a safe, Paylocity allegedly breached its
express duty to use due care in processing DrinkPAK’s work and correcting
errors after DrinkPAK identified and reported the issue. Following the
reasoning in Jewelers, the Court finds Defendant’s argument unpersuasive,
as the exculpatory clauses do not shield Defendant from liability when it is
alleged to have materially breached its express obligations.
 
As for Defendant’s argument that the exculpatory
clauses at issue are narrower than those in Jewelers, claiming that they
do not bar all liabilities “from any causes whatever,” the Court finds this
argument unconvincing in light of its prior findings.
 
The primary obligation of Paylocity under the
Agreement was to provide the payroll services, which specifically included exercising
due care in processing DrinkPAK’s data and correcting errors. If Paylocity’s
breach of this core provision is the cause of the injury, then, as established in
Jewelers, it cannot exculpate itself from liability for that breach,
even if the exculpatory clauses limit other liabilities. 
 
            Accordingly, based on the argument presented,
the Court concludes that the exculpatory clauses render a primary obligation of
Paylocity illusory.
 
2)      Willful and Wanton Conduct Exception
 
In Illinois, when a defendant has engaged in willful and wanton
conduct, an exculpatory clause will not bar claims for injuries derived from
such gross negligence (See Garrison v. Combined Fitness Centre, Ltd. (1990) 201 Ill.App.3d 581; see also Hawkins v. Cap. Fitness, Inc.
(2015) 29 N.E.3d 442 [“Absent fraud or willful and wanton negligence, a
contract’s exculpatory clause will be valid ...”])
 
Willful and
wanton acts show “actual or deliberate intent to harm” or, if not intentional,
show “an utter indifference to or conscious disregard for a person's own safety
or the safety or property of others.” (Pfister v. Shusta (1995) 167
Ill.2d 417, 421 (Pfister).)
 
Here, Defendant argues that Plaintiff
does not allege willful and wanton conduct, asserting that the Complaint
contains no allegations that “Paylocity chose to ‘ignore the problem’ or ‘act
in a way that put [another] at risk,” citing Munoz v. Nucor Steel Kankakee,
Inc. (2022) 44 F.4th 595.) (Reply at p. 5.)
 
The Court finds that Defendant’s argument
unpersuasive in concluding that Plaintiff’s allegations lack any showing of
conscious disregard or indifference. The Supreme Court of Illinois recognized
that “[w]illful and wanton conduct is ‘a hybrid between acts considered
negligence and behavior found to be intentionally tortious.... Under the facts
of one case, willful and wanton misconduct may be only degrees more than
ordinary negligence, while under the facts of another case, willful and wanton
acts may be only degrees less than intentional wrongdoing. [Citations.]” (Pfister,
supra, 167 Ill.2d at p. 422.)
 
Here, the Complaint alleges that DrinkPAK became aware of the errors
contained in Paylocity’s software and made multiple requests to Paylocity to
correct the errors. (Compl. ¶
17.) One of the issues identified by DrinkPAK was the “[m]ethodology for
calculating ‘regular rate of pay’ overtime compensation and meal/rest period
premium payments.” (Ibid.) However, despite multiple assurances by
Paylocity to DrinkPAK that the problems would be rectified, the issue with
Paylocity’s software and services continued to persist, and the software continued
to improperly calculate the wages owed to DrinkPAK’s employees. (Ibid.)
Later, DrinkPAK was named in two class action lawsuits directly stemming from
the failures with Paylocity’s software. The lawsuits alleged failure to pay
various wages, including improper calculations of overtime, rest periods, and
meal periods, and failure to supply accurate wage statements. (Compl. ¶ 18.) The issues persisted even after the
lawsuits were initiated against DrinkPAK. (Id. ¶
20.) Paylocity’s own employees admitted that they had caused the errors. (Id.
¶ 21.)
 
Based on these allegations, and applying the reviewing standards for a
demurrer, in which the court “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all
material facts properly pleaded” (Berkley, supra, 152 Cal.App.4th
at p. 525), the Court finds that the Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged facts
to survive the demurrer. The issue of whether Paylocity’s conduct rises to the
level of willful and wanton misconduct is a question of fact that should be
resolved through factual findings, rather than being dismissed as a matter of
law. 
 
Accordingly, the Court finds that the
at this stage of the pleading, the allegations in the Complaint are sufficient
to invoke the willful and wanton conduct exception, providing an alternative
basis to overrule the Demurrer on this claim.
 
Therefore, the Court OVERRULES the
Demurrer as to the Cause of Action for Breach of Contract.
 
E.     Cause
of Action – Implied Indemnity
 
Defendant argues that Illinois law divides implied indemnity claims into
two buckets: implied contractual indemnity (see Zielinski v. Miller
(1995) 277 Ill.App.3d 735 (Zielinski), 740 [stating that implied
contractual indemnity applies “where one party’s breach of contract causes a
second party to breach a separate contract with a third party.”]), and implied
tort indemnity (see Id. at p. 739, see also UIRC-GSA Holdings Inc. v.
Willaim Blair & Co., L.L.C (N.D. Ill.2018) 289 F.Sup.3d 852, 861-63
[holding that the party seeking indemnification must also be blameless while
the other party is at fault.]) Defendant maintains that Plaintiff’s claim does
not fit into either bucket.
 
            In its Opposition, Plaintiff
contends that the underlying lawsuits gave rise to Defendant’s liability for
implied indemnity, as these underlying lawsuits are borne out of DrinkPAK’s
“nondelegable duty arising out of statutory law,” namely the California Labor
Code, the California Business and Professions Code, and the Fair Labor Standard
Act. (Frazer v. A.F. Munsterman, Inc. (1988) 123 Ill.2d 245, 255.) In Frazer,
the Supreme Court of Illinois provided an example where “a landowner held
responsible for failure to perform the duty imposed by law to maintain his
premises in a reasonably safe condition is allowed indemnity from the negligent
party who created the dangerous condition.” (Id. at p. 255, citing Rovekamp
v. Central Construction Co. (1964) 45 Ill.App.2d 441 (Rovekamp).)
 
            The Court distinguishes Rovekamp.
In that case, the Appellate Court of Illinois held that a general contractor
was entitled to maintain third party action against subcontractor on theory
that general contractor was exposed to statutory liability only because of its
technical violation of an [Scaffold] Act, but subcontractor was primary
tort-feasor wholly responsible for employee’s injuries. (Rovekamp, supra,
4 Ill.App.2d at pp. 450-451.) The Court finds Defendant’s following argument
persuasive.
 
            First, while the underlying lawsuits
in this case also involved nondelegable duties under the California Labor Code,
the California Business and Professions Code, and the Fair Labor Standard Act,
these do not sound in tort (see Reynolds v. Bement (2005) 36 Cal.4th
1075, 1090), distinguishing them from cases like Rovekamp, in which the
underlying lawsuit was specifically to recover damages for personal injuries
resulted from a fall from a scaffold. 
 
Second, Paylocity cannot be considered a “tortfeasor” in the underlying
lawsuits because the Labor Code impose liability solely on “employer,” and
Paylocity did not have an employment relationship with the plaintiffs in the
underlying lawsuits. (See Martinez v. Combs (2010) 49 Cal.4th 35, 49
[“That only an employer can be liable ...as no generally applicable rule of law
imposes on anyone other than an employer a duty to pay wages.”])
 
Accordingly, the Court finds that Plaintiff does not allege an implied
tort indemnity under Illinois law.
 
            Furthermore, the Complaint does not
allege that the Paylocity’s breach of Agreement caused DrinkPAK to breach a
separate contract with a third party, as required under Zielinski. Nor
does the Complaint present any legal argument that its violation of statutory
law, allegedly caused by Defendant’s breach of the Agreement, satisfy the Zielinski
element or is recognized under any legal theory to adequately state a cause of
action for implied contractual indemnify under Illinois law.
 
            Therefore, the Court SUSTAINS the
Demurrer as to the Cause of Action for Implied Indemnity.
 
F.     Cause
of Action - Contribution 
 
“[i]f the parties are not subject to liability in tort for the
plaintiff's injuries at issue in the underlying action, there is no right of contribution
between those parties.” (Giordano v. Morgan (1990) 197 Ill.App.3d 543,
548.)
 
“As established, liability in tort governing contribution has been interpreted to mean
‘potential’ tort liability of the party, determined at the time of the injury
to the initial plaintiff. [Citation]” (Raab v. Frank (2019) 157 N.E.3d
470, 477(Raab).) “Although a breach of contract is a nontort theory, that alone is
not determinative as to whether parties might also be subject to liability for
contribution. [Citation]” (Ibid.) However, “[a]bsent potential
liability in tort, a breach of contract claim does not warrant third-party contribution.”
(Id. at p. 478.)
 
            Here, as analyzed above, Plaintiff’s
claims sound in contract and the underlying lawsuit involved claims for
statutory violations, not tort. Therefore, unless Plaintiff can sufficiently allege
any “potential” tort liability, on which a claim for Contribution may be
premised (see Raab, supra), the Complaint’s allegations do not
give rise to liability for contribution. 

 
            Therefore, the Court SUSTAINS the Demurrer
as to the Cause of Action for Contribution.
 
            Based on the forgoing, the Court SUSTAINS IN PART the
Demurrer and OVERRULES IN PART the Demurrer. 
 
CONCLUSION
 
Defendant Paylocity Corp’s Demurrer to the Complaint is OVERRULED as to
the Cause of Action for Breach of Contract.
 
Defendant Paylocity Corp’s Demurrer to the Complaint is SUSTAINED as
to the Causes of Action for Implied Indemnity and Contribution. 
 
Plaintiff DrinkPAK, LLC is GRANTED 30 days’ leave to amend.
 
Moving
party to give notice.