  Case Number:  19STCV42761    Hearing Date:   January 4, 2024    Dept:  48  
                                                                                                   
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



HYUNG KOO, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
CENTRAL FITNESS PARTNERS, INC., et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 19STCV42761
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING MOTION TO COMPEL
  DEPOSITION OF NON-PARTY WITNESS
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
January 4, 2024



 
On
November 27, 2019, Plaintiff Hyung Koo filed this personal injury action.
On
July 17, 2023, Plaintiff served a subpoena for the August 9, 2023 deposition of
non-party Koen “Ken” Kim.  (S. Kim Decl. ¶
4 & Ex. 1.)
On
September 15, 2023, Plaintiff filed a motion to compel Kim’s deposition.  In addition to Kim being compelled to appear for
deposition, Plaintiff seeks an order to show cause why Kim should not be held in
contempt and an order providing a “failure to appear” notice informing Kim that
the failure to appear in response to the court order compelling him to appear for
deposition may later result in the issuance of an arrest warrant.
A
party may move to compel compliance with a subpoena that requires the attendance
of a non-party witness.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 1987.1.)
Here,
however, Plaintiff’s counsel agreed to postpone Kim’s deposition.  On August 2, 2023, Kim’s counsel told Plaintiff’s
counsel, “Mr. Kim is still under medical care and has a doctor’s note which asks
that his deposition be postponed for medical reasons.  [¶]  Please
let me know whether you still intend on pursuing his deposition despite the doctor’s
notes (attached hereto) or if you will agree to postpone his deposition.”  (Motion, Ex. 5.)  Three minutes later, Plaintiff’s counsel responded,
“For now, we will hold off on taking Koen Kim’s deposition.  In the meanwhile, we will take the doctor’s deposition
about the note and his care of Koen Kim. 
[¶]  Thank you for providing us with
the doctor note.”  (Motion, Ex. 5.)  Accordingly, Kim has not failed to appear for
his deposition, which Plaintiff agreed to delay.
Although
Plaintiff contends that the witness “is being shielded from deposition” by presenting
a doctor’s note that recommends that his deposition be delayed for 4 to 6 months,
there is no record of any other deposition subpoena being served on Kim.  The Court is guessing that Plaintiff subscribes
to the common belief that depositions cannot be scheduled until after a date is
agreed on by the parties and that to do otherwise is to “unilaterally” set the deposition
which is improper.  It is not improper to
“unilaterally” pick a date.  And pick a date
you must in order to have a proper notice or subpoena.
The
motion is DENIED.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 4th day of January 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 