 Case Number:  22VECV02465    Hearing Date:   January 5, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
SUPERIOR COURT
  OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS
  ANGELES
NORTHWEST
  DISTRICT
 




 
STANISLAV
  POLYVYAN,
 
Plaintiff.
 
   v.
 
JONES
  & JONES MANAGEMENT GROUP, INC., ET AL.,
 
Defendants.
 


 
 
   Case Number             Department
22VECV02465                 107




 
COURT’S
  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE A CROSS-COMPLAINT
 



 
[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE CASE]: 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
The Court GRANTS Defendant’s motion for leave to file a cross-complaint for
indemnification and apportionment of fault against Four Seasons Gardening &
Tree Service (the “Motion”). 
 
BACKGROUND
 
This action arises from a slip and fall at an
apartment complex that occurred on August 21, 2022. On December 19, 2022,
Plaintiff Stanislav Polyvyan (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Defendants
Jones & Jones Management Group, Inc. dba Jones & Jones Communities
(“Defendant”) and Does 1 to 20, alleging a cause of action for Premises Liability.
Plaintiff alleges that “he slipped on the first step from the top of the
subject stairway that had water pooled on the tread and running down the
stairway due to the sprinklers located near the subject stairway.” (Complaint,
p. 5.) 
 
On January 26, 2023, Defendant filed an
Answer to the Complaint. 
 
On September 29, 2023, Defendant filed and
served the instant unopposed motion for leave to file a cross-complaint (the
“Motion”). Defendant seeks to file a cross-complaint for indemnification and
apportionment of fault against Four Seasons Gardening & Tree Service.  
 
On November 1, 2023, the Court issued a
Notice re: Continuance of Hearing and Order which continued the hearing on the
Motion from December 27, 2023, to January 5, 2024. 
 
On November 2, 2023, Plaintiff filed a Proof
of Electronic Service as to the Notice re: Continuance of Hearing and Order. 
 
On November 21, 2023, Plaintiff filed an
Amendment to Complaint which substituted Four Seasons Landscape Masters, LLC
dba Four Seasons Gardening & Tree Service for Doe 1. On December 20, 2023,
Plaintiff filed a Proof of Service of Summons which indicated that Four Seasons
Landscape Masters, LLC dba Four Seasons Gardening & Tree Service was served
with the summons and complaint on December 13, 2023, by substituted service. 
 
The Motion is unopposed. Any opposition to
the Motion was required to have been filed and served at least nine court days
prior to the hearing. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1005, subd. (b).) 
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
Code Civ. Proc., § 428.50, subd. (a) provides that
“[a] party shall file a cross-complaint against any of the parties who filed
the complaint or cross-complaint against him or her before or at the same time
as the answer to the complaint or cross-complaint.” “Any other cross-complaint
may be filed at any time before the court has set a date for trial.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 428.50, subd. (b).) “A party shall obtain leave of court to file any
cross-complaint except one filed within the time specified in subdivision (a)
or (b). Leave may be granted in the interest of justice at any time during the
course of the action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 428.50, subd. (c).) 
 
Under Code Civ.
Proc. § 428.10(a) “[a] party against whom a cause of action has been asserted
in a complaint or cross-complaint may file a cross complaint setting forth . .
. [a]ny cause of action he has against any of the parties who filed the
complaint or cross-complaint against him.” (K.R.L. Partnership v. Superior
Court (2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 490, 498.) Code Civ. Proc. § 428.10(b) allows
a party to file a cross-complaint alleging “[a]ny cause of action he has
against a person alleged to be liable thereon, whether or not such person is
already a party to the action, if the cause of action asserted in his
cross-complaint (1) arises out of the same transaction, occurrence, or series
of transactions or occurrences as the cause brought against him.” “[A] related
cause of action is a cause of action which arises out of the same transaction,
occurrence, or series of transactions or occurrences as the cause of action which
the plaintiff alleges in his complaint.” (K.R.L. Partnership v. Superior
Court, supra, 120 Cal.App.4th 490, 498.) “Cross-complaints for
comparative equitable indemnity would appear virtually always transactionally
related to the main action.” (Time for Living, Inc.
v. Guy Hatfield Homes/All American Development Co. (1991) 230 Cal.App.3d 30,
38.)   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
In support of the Motion, Kelly W. Migoya
(“Migoya”) declares that she is counsel for Defendant. (Migoya Decl., ¶ 1.)
Defendant filed its Answer to the Complaint on January 26, 2023. (Id., ¶
3.) According to the contract between Defendant and Four Seasons Gardening
& Tree Service (“Four Seasons”), Four Seasons maintains the sprinkler
system. (Id., ¶ 4; Exhibit B.) In light of Plaintiff’s contention that
the sprinklers caused the water to be pooled on the stairs, counsel determined
that it is necessary to file a cross-complaint for indemnification and
apportionment of fault against Four Seasons. (Id., ¶ 5.) A copy of the
proposed cross-complaint is attached to counsel’s declaration in support of the
Motion. (Id., ¶ 6 and Exhibit C.)  
 
The Court finds that it is appropriate to
allow Defendant to file the proposed cross-complaint. Defendant seeks indemnity
against Four Seasons and therefore the cross-complaint is related to the main
action under Time for Living, Inc. v. Guy Hatfield Homes/All American
Development Co., supra, 230 Cal.App.3d 30, 38. Moreover, the Motion
is unopposed which leads to the inference that the Motion has merit. (Sexton
v. Superior Court (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410.) 
 
CONCLUSION
 
The Motion is therefore GRANTED. Moving party is ordered to file the proposed cross-complaint—which is
attached as Exhibit C to the declaration of Migoya in support of the
Motion—within five days of the date of this order so that it becomes an
operative pleading in this action. 
 
Moving party is
ordered to give notice. 