 Case Number:  22VECV02019    Hearing Date:   January 5, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
SUPERIOR COURT
  OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS
  ANGELES
NORTHWEST
  DISTRICT
 




 
PATRICIA
  ANN MENDEZ, 
 
Plaintiff.
 
   v.
 
DONG HAI
  LE, ET AL.,
 
Defendants.


 
 
   Case Number             Department
        22VECV02019           107




 
COURT’S
  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: Defendant
  Home Depot U.S.A., Inc.’s MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO SPECIAL
  INTERROGATORIES, FORM INTERROGATORIES, AND REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION OF
  DOCUMENTS
 
 



[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE CASE]: 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
The Court GRANTS Defendant Home
Depot’s: (1) motion to compel Plaintiff’s responses to Defendant Home Depot’s
Special Interrogatories, Set One (the “Special Interrogatories Motion”); (2)
motion to compel Plaintiff’s responses to Defendant Home Depot’s Form
Interrogatories, Set One (the “Form Interrogatories Motion”) and (3) motion to
compel Plaintiff’s responses to Set One of Defendant Home Depot’s Request for
Production of Documents (the “RPD Motion”) (collectively, the “Motions”).
 
Plaintiff
is ordered to provide verified, complete, and code-compliant responses, without
objection, to Set One of Defendant Home Depot’s Special Interrogatories, Form
Interrogatories, and Request for Production of Documents within 20 days of the
date of notice of this order. 
 
The Court GRANTS IN PART Defendant Home Depot’s request
for monetary sanctions. Plaintiff is ordered to pay monetary sanctions in the
total amount of $600.00 to Defendant Home Depot within 30 days of the date of
notice of this order. This amount represents total monetary sanctions as to the
Special Interrogatories Motion, Form Interrogatories Motion, and the RPD
Motion. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
This action arises from a motor vehicle collision that
occurred November 24, 2020. On November 15, 2022, Plaintiff Patricia Ann Mendez
(“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Defendants Dong Hai Le, Home Depot
U.S.A., Inc. (“Home Depot”), and Does 1 to 50, alleging a cause of action for negligence.
 
 
 
On April 12, 2023, after hearing, the Court granted Carlos
A. Gomez’s motion to be relieved as counsel for Plaintiff. 
 
On April 14, 2023, Carlos A. Gomez filed a Proof of
Service of the order granting the motion to be relieved as counsel. The Proof
of Service shows that Plaintiff was served with the order granting the motion
to be relieved as counsel on April 14, 2023 via mail. 
 
On May 18, 2023, Defendant Home Depot filed an Answer to
the Complaint.
 
On November 29, 2023, Defendant Home Depot filed and
served an unopposed motion to compel Plaintiff’s
responses to Defendant Home Depot’s Special Interrogatories, Set One (the
“Special Interrogatories Motion”), an unopposed motion to compel Plaintiff’s
responses to Defendant Home Depot’s Form Interrogatories, Set One (the “Form
Interrogatories Motion”), and an unopposed motion to compel Plaintiff’s
responses to Set One of Defendant Home Depot’s Request for Production of
Documents (the “RPD Motion”) (collectively, the “Motions”). The Motions each
request monetary sanctions against Plaintiff in the amount of $1,000.00. The proofs
of service attached to the Motions show that the Motions were served on
Plaintiff on November 29, 2023. 
 
On January 2, 2024, after hearing, the Court continued
the hearing on Special Interrogatories Motion and RPD Motion due to Plaintiff
not being present “and in an abundance of caution as to correct notice to that
party of advancing the 1/3/24 motion to this date.” (01/02/24 Minute Order.)
The Court continued the hearing on such motions to January 5, 2024. (01/02/24
Minute Order.) 
 
The Motions are unopposed. Any opposition was required to
have been filed and served at least nine court days prior to the hearing. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 1005, subd. (b).) 
 
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
“Within 30 days after service of
interrogatories, the party to whom the interrogatories are propounded shall
serve the original of the response to them on the propounding party, unless on
motion of the propounding party the court has shortened the time for response,
or unless on motion of the responding party the court has extended the time for
response.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.260,
subd. (a).)  If the party to whom
interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response, “[t]he party to
whom the interrogatories are directed waives any right to exercise the option
to produce writings under Section 2030.230, as well as any objection to the
interrogatories, including one based on privilege or on the protection for work
product.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290,
subd. (a).) “The party propounding interrogatories may move for an order
compelling response to the interrogatories.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (b).)  
“Any party may
obtain discovery . . . by inspecting, copying, testing, or sampling documents,
tangible things, land or other property, and electronically stored information
in the possession, custody, or control of any other party to the action.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2031.010, subd. (a).) Where a party fails to timely respond to
demand for inspection, copying, testing or sampling “[t]he party to whom the
demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling is directed waives any
objection to the demand, including one based on privilege or on the protection
for work product.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (a).) Code Civ. Proc. §
2031.300(b) provides that “[t]he party making the demand may move for an order
compelling response to the demand.” 
Code Civ. Proc. §
2023.010(d) provides that a misuse of the discovery process is “[f]ailing to
respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery.” Code Civ. Proc. §
2023.010(h) states that a misuse of the discovery process includes “[m]aking or
opposing, unsuccessfully and without substantial justification, a motion to
compel or limit discovery.” A court has discretion to “impose a monetary
sanction against a party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process or any
attorney advising such conduct” under Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.030(a). A court
has discretion to fix the amount of reasonable monetary sanctions. (Cornerstone
Realty Advisors, LLC v. Summit Healthcare Reit, Inc. (2020) 56 Cal.App.5th
771, 791.)
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Special Interrogatories Motion
 
Counsel for Defendant Home Depot, Sarah C.
Denis (“Denis”), declares that on June 23, 2023, Defendant Home Depot served Special
Interrogatories on Plaintiff. (Denis Decl., ¶ 3; Exhibit 1.) No responses to
Defendant Home Depot’s Special Interrogatories, Set One, have been received. (Id.,
¶ 7.) Counsel declares that her billing rate is $200 per hour, that she has
spent two hours preparing the motion, and that she anticipates spending three
hours reviewing Plaintiff’s opposition, preparing a reply, and attending the
hearing on the motion. (Id., ¶ 8.) Defendant Home Depot therefore
requests sanctions in the amount of $1,000. (Id.) 
 
The Court finds that Plaintiff should be
compelled to respond to Set One of Defendant Home Depot’s Special
Interrogatories. Moreover, given that the Special Interrogatories Motion is
unopposed there is an inference it has merit. (Sexton v. Superior Court (1997)
58 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410.) 
 
Accordingly, the Court GRANTS the Special
Interrogatories Motion.  Plaintiff is ordered to provide verified,
complete, and code-compliant responses, without objection, to Set One of
Defendant Home Depot’s Special Interrogatories within 20 days of the date of
notice of this order.
 
As to monetary
sanctions, the Court exercises its discretion and GRANTS IN PART Defendant Home
Depot’s request for monetary sanctions against Plaintiff in the reasonable
amount of $200.00. Such amount represents 1 hour of work on the Special
Interrogatories Motion. The Court reduces the hours given the simplicity of the
motion, the fact that the Motions are similar, and the fact that the Motions
are unopposed. Plaintiff is ordered to pay monetary sanctions to Defendant Home
Depot in the amount of $200.00 within 30 days of notice of this order as to the
Special Interrogatories Motion. 
 
The Form
Interrogatories Motion
 
Counsel for
Defendant Home Depot, Sarah C. Denis (“Denis”), declares that on June 23, 2023,
Defendant Home Depot served Form Interrogatories on Plaintiff. (Denis Decl., ¶
3; Exhibit 1.) No responses to Defendant Home Depot’s Form Interrogatories, Set
One, have been received. (Id., ¶ 7.) Counsel declares that her billing
rate is $200 per hour, that she has spent two hours preparing the motion, and
that she anticipates spending three hours reviewing Plaintiff’s opposition,
preparing a reply, and attending the hearing on the motion. (Id., ¶ 8.)
Defendant Home Depot therefore requests sanctions in the amount of $1,000. (Id.)

 
The Court finds
that Plaintiff should be compelled to respond to Set One of Defendant Home
Depot’s Form Interrogatories. Moreover, given that the Form Interrogatories
Motion is unopposed there is an inference it has merit. (Sexton v. Superior
Court, supra, 58 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410.) 
 
Accordingly, the
Court GRANTS the Form Interrogatories Motion. 
Plaintiff is ordered to provide verified, complete, and code-compliant
responses, without objection, to Set One of Defendant Home Depot’s Form
Interrogatories within 20 days of the date of notice of this order.
 
As to monetary
sanctions, the Court exercises its discretion and GRANTS IN PART Defendant Home
Depot’s request for monetary sanctions against Plaintiff in the reasonable
amount of $200.00. Such amount represents 1 hour of work on the Form
Interrogatories Motion. The Court reduces the hours given the simplicity of the
motion, the fact that the Motions are similar, and the fact that the Motions
are unopposed. Plaintiff is ordered to pay monetary sanctions to Defendant Home
Depot in the amount of $200.00 within 30 days of notice of this order as to the
Form Interrogatories Motion. 
 
The RPD Motion
 
Counsel for
Defendant Home Depot, Sarah C. Denis (“Denis”), declares that on June 23, 2023,
Defendant Home Depot propounded Request for Production of Documents, Set One, on
Plaintiff. (Denis Decl., ¶ 3; Exhibit 1.) No response to Defendant Home Depot’s
Request for Production of Documents, Set One, has been received. (Id., ¶
7.) Counsel declares that her billing rate is $200 per hour, that she has spent
two hours preparing the motion, and that she anticipates spending three hours
reviewing Plaintiff’s opposition, preparing a reply, and attending the hearing
on the motion. (Id., ¶ 8.) Defendant Home Depot therefore requests
sanctions in the amount of $1,000. (Id.) 
The Court finds
that Plaintiff should be compelled to respond to Set One of Defendant Home Request
for Production of Documents. Moreover, given that the RPD Motion is unopposed
there is an inference it has merit. (Sexton v. Superior Court, supra,
58 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410.) 
 
Accordingly, the
Court GRANTS the RPD Motion. Plaintiff is ordered to provide verified,
complete, and code-compliant responses, without objection, to Set One of
Defendant Home Depot’s Request for Production of Documents within 20 days of
the date of notice of this order.
 
As to monetary
sanctions, the Court exercises its discretion and GRANTS IN PART Defendant Home
Depot’s request for monetary sanctions against Plaintiff in the reasonable
amount of $200.00. Such amount represents 1 hour of work on the RPD Motion. The
Court reduces the hours given the simplicity of the motion, the fact that the
Motions are similar, and the fact that the Motions are unopposed. Plaintiff is
ordered to pay monetary sanctions to Defendant Home Depot in the amount of
$200.00 within 30 days of notice of this order as to the RPD Motion. 
 
 
CONCLUSION
 
The Motions are GRANTED. Plaintiff is
ordered to provide verified, complete, and code-compliant responses, without
objections, to Set One of Defendant Home Depot’s Special Interrogatories, Form
Interrogatories, and Request for Production of Documents within 20 days of the
date of notice of this order.
 
Plaintiff is ordered to pay monetary
sanctions in the total amount of $600.00 to Defendant Home Depot within 30 days
of the date of notice of this order. This amount represents total monetary
sanctions as to the Special Interrogatories Motion, Form Interrogatories
Motion, and the RPD Motion. 
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice.
 
 
 
January 3, 2024                                                           _________________________
                                                                                    Hon.
Eric Harmon