 Case Number:  BC653241    Hearing Date:   September 29, 2023    Dept:  30 Dept.
30 
Calendar
No. 
Howard
Finn MD, et. al. vs. California Anesthesia Medical, et. al., Case No.
BC653241
Tentative Ruling
re:  Motion for Leave to Amend Complaint
Plaintiffs Howard Finn, M.D., Douglas Thom, M.D., and Ricky
Lee Sedgwick, D.O. move to substitute Sam Leslie, as Chapter 7 Trustee in
Bankruptcy for California Anesthesia Medical Consultants, Inc., as plaintiff in
this action. The motion is granted.
The court may, in its discretion
and after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an
amendment to any pleading, including adding or striking out the name of any
party, or correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any
other respect. (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a)(1).)  
 
In this action, Plaintiffs have
asserted claims against Defendants under the Uniform Voidable Transactions Act
(UVTA).
On March 29, 2023, Defendant
California Anesthesia Medical Consultants, Inc. (CAMC) filed for Chapter 7
Bankruptcy. (Hess Decl. ¶ 2, Ex. A.) Sam Leslie has been appointed as Chapter 7
Trustee for CAMC. (Hess Decl. ¶ , Ex. B.) Plaintiffs move to substitute Sam
Leslie as plaintiff for their UTVA cause of action.
 
“It is of course indisputable that any causes
of action which accrue to a debtor who has filed for relief under the
Bankruptcy Act before the filing of the bankruptcy petition become the property
of the bankruptcy estate and may thereafter be prosecuted only by the trustee
or a duly appointed representative of the estate.” (Haley v. Dow Lewis
Motors, Inc. (1999) 72 Cal.App.4th 497, 504.) “[Courts] construe Code of
Civil Procedure section 473 to permit amendment to substitute a plaintiff with
standing for one who is not a real party in interest.” (Id. at 507.)
Substitution of
Leslie as the real party in interest is appropriate. Plaintiffs have attached a
copy of the proposed Fourth Amended Complaint. (Hess Decl. ¶ 5, Ex. D.) The
motion is granted.