  Case Number:  20STCV33179    Hearing Date:   September 5, 2024    Dept:  T Motion to Compel Defendant's Deposition Moving Party: Plaintiff Nilou Naderi SettimioResponding Party: N/ATentative Ruling: GRANTBACKGROUNDThis is a personal injury case arising from a vehicle collision on September 10, 2018. Plaintiff alleges that Abigail Van Horn (“Defendant”) failed to clear her garage driveway pathway and backed into the street Plaintiff was driving down, causing Defendant vehicle’s rear to strike the front of Plaintiff’s vehicle. Plaintiff alleges injuries as a result. This case has been ongoing for six years. (Declaration Of Kaveh Keshmiri ¶1–2.) Plaintiff noticed Defendant’s deposition several times, beginning first in November, 2023. Plaintiff’s requested that Defendant provide dates, but did not receive them. (Id. ¶5–6.) Plaintiff was instead informed the day prior to deposition that Defendant would not attend, at which point Plaintiff requested potential dates and sent another notice for July, 2024, after not receiving dates from Defendant for two months. When Defendant did reply seeking to schedule a deposition once again, Plaintiff asked Defendant to provide a firm deposition date by August 9, and gave notice that if no date was received by then, Plaintiff would bring a motion to compel. (Id. ¶7–10.)MOVING PARTY POSITIONPlaintiff argues the Court should compel Defendant’s deposition because Plaintiff has attempted unsuccessfully multiple times to take Defendant’s deposition, and has yet to provide any date to Plaintiff. Plaintiff also seeks sanctions in the amount of $2,500.00 based on an hourly rate of $400 and an anticipated total five hours of work. Plaintiff’s counsel’s declaration provides: 3.5 hours for ongoing attempts to retrieve a deposition and submit this motion, 0.5 anticipated hours reviewing the opposition, and 1 hour preparing for the hearing. (Declaration Of Kaveh Keshmiri ¶12.)OPPOSITIONThere is no opposition filed for this motion.ANALYSISI. Motion to Compel Deposition Where a would-be deponent fails to appear, proceed with, or produce documents for deposition in a duly noticed deposition notice, the noticing party may move for an order to compel said deponent’s attendance, testimony, and/or production for inspection of any document described in the deposition notice.¿ Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2025.230, 2025.450 (a). Where a party fails to serve timely responses to discovery requests, the court may make an order compelling responses. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290; 2031.300; Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 403.) Here, Plaintiff’s declaration and exhibits demonstrate Plaintiff repeatedly attempted to meet and confer with Defendant to schedule a deposition — but to no avail. (Declaration Of Kaveh Keshmiri ¶5–9; Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Deposition, p.8–35.) Defendant repeatedly failed to attend scheduled depositions, and subsequently failed to provide potential deposition dates to Plaintiff by ceasing communication. In doing so, Defendant has effectively frustrated Plaintiff’s ability to engage in discovery necessary to resolve this six-year-long action. The Court accordingly finds an order compelling Defendant to attend deposition by Plaintiff to be appropriate.  II. SanctionsIf the court grants a motion to compel deposition and produce documents, “the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) in favor of the party who noticed the deposition and against the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (g)(1).) Here, Plaintiff requests $2,500.00 in fees for an anticipated five hours of total work, including 3.5 hours attempting to obtain Defendant’s deposition and drafting this motion, an anticipated 0.5 hours reviewing an opposition, and 1 hour to attend the hearing. Because no opposition has been filed, the Court will award reduced sanctions for 4.5 hours of work total. Notably, Plaintiff’s request for $2,500 for five hours of work is erroneous based on Plaintiff’s counsel’s declaration claiming an hourly rate of $400.00. (Declaration Of Kaveh Keshmiri ¶12.) The Court will therefore award sanctions in the amount of $1,800.00 based on a $400.00 hourly rate and 4.5 hours of work.RULINGPlaintiff’s motion to compel deposition is GRANTED.  Defendant to appear for a deposition on September 26, 2024 at 10:00 a.m. at a location to be determined by Plaintiff’s counsel.  The parties may stipulate, in writing, to a different date and time.  Plaintiff’s motion for sanctions jointly and severally against defendant and defense counsel in the amount of $1,800 is GRANTED.  Sanctions to be paid within 30 days of Plaintiff giving notice of this ruling.