 Case Number:  23STCV20564    Hearing Date:   April 9, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



GOODSON
  REAL ESTATE CO., 
  
         vs.
 
TORRES
  GENERAL CONTRACTORS INC., et al.


 Case No.:  23STCV20564
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  April 9, 2024



 
Defendants Torres General Contractors
Inc.’s, Thomas Kim’s, Richard Kim’s, Jacob Mullem’s, and Joghwa Won’s demurrer
to Plaintiff Goodson Real Estate Co.’s first amended complaint is
sustained with 20 days leave to amend as to the 4th cause of action, without
leave to amend as to the 8th cause of action, and overruled as to the 1st, 2nd,
5th, 6th, and 7th causes of action.
 
          Defendants Torres General Contractors Inc. (“Torres”),
Thomas Kim (“Thomas”), Richard Kim (“Richard”), Jacob Mullem (“Jacob”), and Jonghwa
Won (“Won”) (collectively, “Defendants”) demur to the 1st, 2nd, 4th, 5th, 6th, and
7th causes of action in Plaintiff Goodson Real Estate Co.’s (“GRE”) (“Plaintiff”)
first amended complaint (“FAC”).[1]  (Notice of Demurrer, pgs. 1-3; C.C.P. §430.10(e).)
 
Meet and Confer
Before filing a demurrer,
the moving party must meet and confer in person, by telephone, or by video
conference with the party who filed the pleading to attempt to reach an
agreement that would resolve the objections to the pleading and obviate the
need for filing the demurrer.  (C.C.P.
§430.41.) 
Defendants’ counsel filed
a declaration stating he called Plaintiff’s counsel on March 3, 2024, to meet
and confer regarding the FAC and was unable to reach him.  (Decl. of Kim ¶3.)   Defendants’ counsel declares that on March 4,
2024, he sent Plaintiff’s counsel a meet and confer letter.  (Decl. of Kim ¶4, Exh. A.)  Defendants’ counsel
declares on March 4, 2024, shortly after sending the
meet and confer letter, he met and conferred with Plaintiff’s counsel via
telephone regarding the demurrer and counsel was able to come to a resolution,
necessitating the instant motion.  (See
Decl. of Kim ¶5.)  Defendants’
counsel’s declaration is sufficient per the requirements of C.C.P. §430.41(a). 
(C.C.P. §430.41(a).)  Therefore, the Court will consider the
instant demurrer.
 
          Background
          Plaintiff filed the initial Complaint on August 28, 2023, against
Defendants.  On January 5, 2024, this
Court sustained Torres’, Thomas’, Richards’, and Jacob’s demurrer to the initial
complaint in part with 90 days leave to amend and overruled the demurrer in
part.  (See 1/5/24 Minute Order.)  On February 5, 2024, Plaintiff filed the
operative FAC alleging eight causes of action: (1) breach of contract; (2) negligence;
(3) disgorgement of funds pursuant to Business & Professions Code §7031
fraud; (4) fraud; (5) intentional interference with prospective economic
advantage; (6) negligent interference with prospective economic advantage; (7) intentional
interference with contractual relations; and (8) negligent interference with
contractual relations, arising from Plaintiff’s entry into a Subcontract
Agreement with Torres to do electrical work at real property located at 1124-1138
S. Normandie Ave., Los Angeles, CA 90006 (“Property”) that is developed by
Plaintiff.  (FAC ¶¶10-14, Exh. 1.)
          Defendants filed the instant demurrer on March 8, 2024.  Plaintiff filed its opposition on March 25,
2024.  Defendants filed their reply on April
2, 2024.
 
Summary of Demurrer
Defendants demur on the
basis that Plaintiff’s 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th,
6th, 7th, and 8th causes of action fail to state facts
sufficient to constitute causes of action. 
(Demurrer, pgs. 6-13; C.C.P. §430.10(e).)
 
Legal Standard
“[A]
demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.” (Lewis
v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  A demurrer can be used only to challenge
defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters
outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable.  (See Donabedian v. Mercury Insurance Co. (2004)
116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 [in ruling on a demurrer, a court may not consider
declarations, matters not subject to judicial notice, or documents not accepted
for the truth of their contents].)  For
purposes of ruling on a demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed
to be true, but the reviewing court does not assume the truth of conclusions of
law.  (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital
District (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)
 
Failure to State a Claim
Breach of Contract (1st
COA)
A
plaintiff must allege the following elements to state a breach of contract: (1)
existence of contract; (2) plaintiffs’ performance or excuse for
nonperformance; (3) defendants’ breach (or anticipatory breach); and (4)
resulting damage to plaintiff.  (Reichert v. General Insurance Co.
(1968) 68 Cal.2d 822, 830; Hale v.
Sharp Healthcare (2010) 183
Cal.App.4th 1373, 1387.)  Although a
written contract is usually pleaded by alleging its making and attaching a copy
which is incorporated by reference, a written contract can also be pleaded by
alleging the making and the substance of the relevant terms.  (Construction Protective Services, Inc. v. TIG Specialty
Insurance Co. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 189,
198-199; Perry v. Robertson
(1988) 201 Cal.App.3d 333, 341.)
Plaintiff
alleges GRE and Torres, acting through Thomas, Richard, Jacob and Won, entered
into a contract to do electrical work at the Property on or about December 13,
2021 (“Contract”).  (FAC ¶31.)  Plaintiff alleges on information and belief
that Thomas, Richard, Jacob, and Won are all officers, directors, managing
employees, and personnel of record of Torres. 
(FAC ¶32.)  Plaintiff alleges
Torres, during work on the Property, at one point, had a contractor’s license
that was not in good standing.  (FAC ¶35.)  Plaintiff alleges Thomas, Richard, Jacob, and
Won would all have liability under the Contract as both a matter of statute and
cause authority based upon their relationships with Torres for the work
performed on the Property without Torres having a license in good
standing.  (FAC ¶36.)  
Plaintiff
alleges the Contract called for payments to Torres in the amount of $1,240,000.  (FAC ¶¶37-38, Exh. 1.)  Plaintiff alleges GRE has paid
Torres more than $480,000 pursuant to the Contract.  (FAC ¶39.) 
Plaintiff alleges the Contract called for Torres to prosecute work at
“all possible speed,” and in a continuous and uninterrupted manner.  (FAC ¶40.) 

Plaintiff
alleges once Thomas, Richard, and Won were confronted on a string of
misstatements which were made including but not limited to a failure to order
parts worth more than $250,000, which had a long lead time, Thomas unilaterally
indicated that Torres was not being paid enough to perform under the Contract
and quit.  (FAC ¶41.)  Plaintiff alleges Pursuant to ¶4 of the
Contract, Defendants are readily in default. (FAC ¶42.)  Plaintiff alleges pursuant to ¶4.1 of the
Contract, Defendants are liable to GRE for any sums necessary to compensate GRE
for damages or losses sustained as a result of the default, including from sums
already paid to Torres.  (FAC ¶43.)  Plaintiff alleges Pursuant to ¶4.2 of the
Contract, Defendants are liable for the cost to correct deficiencies and
complete the work contracted for.  (FAC ¶44.)
Plaintiff
alleges GRE has performed all conditions and covenants to be performed on its
part under the Contract, except as excused. 
(FAC ¶46.)  Plaintiff alleges Defendants
are in breach of the Contract.  (FAC ¶47.)   Plaintiff
alleges as a direct and proximate result of Defendants’ breach of the Contract,
GRE has incurred general and special damages, and such other damages are
permitted by the Civil Code, in an amount subject to proof at trial, and
interest on such sum at the statutory rate, which damages are within the
jurisdiction of this Court.  (FAC ¶48.)  
Pursuant to Business and Professions
Code §7028.5, it is unlawful for a person, who is an officer, director,
manager, managing employee, member, or any individual who is listed in the
personal of record, of a licensed corporation, to engage in the business in the
capacity of a contractor in California without having a license in good
standing.  (Bus. & Prof. Code §7028.5.)  Business and Professions Code §7076.2(b)
provides, “[w]here the license of the entity is suspended, each person
identified within the entity in Section 7028.5 shall be personally liable up to
one million dollars ($1,000,000) each for damages resulting to third parties in
connection with the company’s performance, during the period of suspension, of
any act or contract where a license is required by this chapter. This personal
liability shall not apply where there has been substantial compliance with the
licensure requirements, as described in subdivision (e) of Section 7031.”  (Bus. & Prof. Code §7076.2(b).)
Plaintiff sufficiently alleges Torres
is an alter ego of Thomas, Richard, Jacob, and Won.  (FAC ¶9.) 
Plaintiff sufficiently alleges the existence of a contract between
Plaintiff and Torres.  (FAC ¶¶31, 38,
Exh. 1.)  Plaintiff
sufficiently alleges its performance or excuse for nonperformance.  (FAC ¶46.) Plaintiff sufficiently alleges Defendants’
breach.  (FAC ¶¶41-42, 47.)  Plaintiff sufficiently alleges resulting
damages.  (FAC ¶¶43-44.) 
Accordingly, Defendants’
demurrer to Plaintiff’s 1st cause of action for breach of contract is overruled.

 
Negligence (2nd COA)
“The elements of a cause
of action for negligence are well established. They are (a) a legal duty to use
due care; (b) a breach of such legal duty; [and] (c) the breach as the
proximate or legal cause of the resulting injury.”  (Ladd v. County of San Mateo (1996) 12
Cal.4th 913, 917, internal quotations omitted.)
Plaintiff alleges Defendants
had a duty to reasonably perform the services contracted for with regard to the
Property, on behalf of GRE.  (FAC ¶51.)  Plaintiff alleges Defendants breached their
duty to GRE by failing to build as provided for under the Contract, providing
defective work, and walking off the job. 
(FAC ¶52.)    Plaintiff alleges on information and belief
that Thomas, Richard, Jacob and Won all performed work on the Property, that
Thomas, Richard, Jacob and Won were all hired by Torres, that each of them had
a duty of care in their actual performance of work on the Property, and each
failed by amongst other things providing defective work on the Property.  (FAC ¶55.) 
Plaintiff alleges Thomas, Richard and Won were all on site regularly performing
work.  (FAC ¶55.)  
Plaintiff alleges said
defective work included but was not limited to: the failure to follow plans for
electrical in the kitchens (running the wrong cables for stoves- by Won and
Richard, running outlets in the wrong spots- Won and Richard, not following
cabinet plans, ruining the structural integrity of sheer wall), failing to run
and/or drill holes for home runs, failing to use fire rated can lights, and
using the wrong kind of wiring for the HVAC systems-Jacob.  (FAC ¶56.) 

Plaintiff alleges the
license of Torres was not in good standing at some point during the performance
by Torres, Thomas, Richard, Jacob and Won, while they were working on the
Property.  (FAC ¶57.)  Plaintiff alleges pursuant Business and
Professions Code §7028.5, it is unlawful for a person, who is an officer,
director, manager, managing employee, member, or any individual who is listed
in the personal of record, of a licensed entity, to engage in the business in
the capacity of a contractor in California without having a license in good
standing.  (FAC ¶57.)  Plaintiff alleges Business and Professions
Code §7076.2(b) readily provides that where the license of the entity is suspended,
each person identified within the entity in §7028.5, shall be personally
liable.  (FAC ¶57.)  
Plaintiff alleges as a
direct and proximate result of Defendants’ breach of their duty, GRE has been injured
as outlined herein.  (FAC ¶58.)  Plaintiff alleges as a result of Defendants’
behavior GRE has been damaged in an amount according to proof at trial.  (FAC ¶59.) 

Plaintiff sufficiently
alleges a cause of action for negligence. 
Plaintiff
sufficiently alleges Torres is an alter ego of Thomas, Richard, Jacob, and
Won.  (FAC ¶9.)  Plaintiff alleges
Defendants had a legal duty to use due care. 
(FAC ¶51.)  Plaintiff alleges a
breach of such legal duty.  (FAC ¶¶52, 55-56,
57.)  Plaintiff alleges the breach as the
proximate or legal cause of the resulting injury.  (FAC ¶¶27, 58.)
Accordingly, Defendants’
demurrer to Plaintiff’s 2nd cause of action for negligence is overruled.
 
Fraud (4th COA)
A cause of action for fraud requires
the following elements: (1) misrepresentation; (2) knowledge of falsity (or
“scienter”); (3) intent to defraud (induce reliance); (4) justifiable reliance;
and (5) resulting damage.  (Engalla v.
Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 974.)
Fraud actions are subject to strict requirements of
particularity in pleading.  (Committee
on Children’s Television, Inc. v. General Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197,
216.)  Fraud must be pleaded with
specificity rather than with general and conclusory allegations.  (Small v. Fritz Companies, Inc. (2003)
30 Cal.4th 167, 184.)  The specificity
requirement means a plaintiff must allege facts showing how, when, where, to
whom, and by what means the representations were made, and, in the case of a
corporate defendant, the plaintiff must allege the names of the persons who
made the representations, their authority to speak on behalf of the
corporation, to whom they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when the
representation was made.  (Lazar v.
Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645; West v. JPMorgan Chase Bank,
N.A. (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 780, 793.)
Plaintiff alleges prior to entering the Contract, Torres,
acting through Thomas, Richard, Jacob and Won, represented to GRE that they
performed top quality work, that they would perform at top speed, and that Torres
was and would continue to carry all necessary licenses and insurance.  (FAC ¶68.) 
Plaintiff alleges Torres,
acting through Thomas, Richard, Jacob and Won, knew that said representations were
false when they made them to GRE.  (FAC ¶69.)  Plaintiff alleges Torres, acting
through Thomas, Richard, Jacob and Won, intended that GRE would rely on said
representations to enter into the Contract with Torres.  (FAC ¶70.)  
Plaintiff alleges Torres, acting
through Thomas, Richard, Jacob and Won have compounded on this fraud, by
actively lying and concealing a failure to order more than $250,000, worth of
parts, with a very long lead time, which were imperative to moving the work
they were doing in a timely manner, and making additional misrepresentations
with regards to timing.  (FAC ¶71.)  Plaintiff alleges in July of 2023, Thomas
through numerous emails, text messages and phone calls with GRE, actively lied
about a supplier (American Ace), not accepting a check for the purchase of
switch gears, that there would be a “10 day hold,” on said check, and that a
supplier would not “deal with joint checks.”  (FAC ¶72.) 
Plaintiff alleges Thomas never presented American Ace with said check
and that clearly American Ace never made any of the other statements, but
rather Thomas simply was lying and never arranged for the purchase.  (FAC ¶72.) 
Plaintiff alleges in June and July of 2023 (June 20th-July 27th) Thomas
made numerous representations to GRE both orally and in writing about the
specifications of switchgears, indicating that he was waiting on
specifications, that the supplier was finishing them, and that the “person in
charge was not in.”  (FAC ¶72.)  Plaintiff alleges GRE later found out that said
statements were untrue and that Thomas had the specifications and was
previously provided with them the entire time that he was fabricating excuses.  (FAC ¶72.) 

Plaintiff alleges Won verbally stated
to the principal of GRE on multiple occasions throughout June and July of 2023,
in person, at the Property, that he already did the home runs, and when called
out, would immediately be doing the home runs that day.  (FAC ¶73.) 
Plaintiff alleges said statements were a fabrication for which he was called
out.  (FAC ¶73.)
Plaintiff alleges Richard verbally
stated to the principal of GRE on multiple occasions in June and July of 2023,
in person, at the Property, first that the home runs were done and then that he
would be doing them, along with other items later that day.  (FAC ¶74.) 
Plaintiff alleges said statements were a fabrication for which he was
called out.  (FAC ¶74.)
Plaintiff alleges it reasonably relied on said misrepresentations. (FAC
¶75.)  Plaintiff alleges it has
readily been harmed by said misrepresentations as provided for herein.  (FAC ¶76.) 
Plaintiff alleges its reliance on said misrepresentations
was a substantial factor in causing said harm. 
(FAC ¶77.)  Plaintiff alleges said
active misstatements and concealments were done with the intention of ensuring Plaintiff
would not terminate the Contract and immediately fire Defendants.  (FAC ¶78.)
Plaintiff fails to allege with the requisite specificity when
each of the representations on behalf of Torres were made by Thomas,
Richard, Jacob, and Won.  (See FAC
¶¶68-74; See Lazar, 12 Cal.4th at pg. 645; West, 214
Cal.App.4th at pg. 793.)  Further,
Plaintiff fails to allege any specific representations made by Jacob.
Accordingly, Moving Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s 4th cause of action for fraud is sustained with 20
days leave to amend.

 
Intentional Interference with
Prospective Economic Relations (5th COA)
“Intentional interference with
prospective economic advantage has five elements: (1) the existence, between
the plaintiff and some third party, of an economic relationship that contains
the probability of future economic benefit to the plaintiff; (2) the defendant’s
knowledge of the relationship; (3) intentionally wrongful acts designed to
disrupt the relationship; (4) actual disruption of the relationship; and (5)
economic harm proximately caused by the defendant’s action.”  (Roy Allan Slurry Seal, Inc. v. American
Asphalt South, Inc. (2017) 2 Cal.5th 505, 512.)
A plaintiff must show that the
defendant engaged in “intentionally wrongful acts designed to disrupt the
plaintiff’s relationship” in an act independently wrongful in violation of some
constitutional, statutory, regulatory, common law, or other determinable legal standard.
 (Korea Supply Co. v. Lockheed Martin
Corp. (2003) 29 Cal.4th 1134, 1164.)
Plaintiff alleges it has a prospective
economic relationship with Southebys International Realty, in that Southebys
sells finished properties on behalf of Plaintiff, and this Property is 84 units
with an expected to have a market value in excess of $30,000,000.  (FAC ¶83.) 
Plaintiff alleges Defendants were readily aware of this and of the
economic opportunities which are available in the sale of 84 units within Los
Angeles, as they were hired to be paid more than $1.2M to work on the Property
on behalf of GRE.  (FAC ¶84.)  
Plaintiff alleges within the year last past Defendants
interfered with GRE’s prospective economic relationship by failing to provide
the entirety of the contracted for services, by failing to order necessary
parts with a long lead time, and when being called out on lies, simply quitting.  (FAC ¶85.)  Plaintiff alleges said failures have both
delayed development of the Property and have significantly increased the cost
of developing the Property and has made it so that Southebys could not timely
go forward and sell the finished units which would benefit Plaintiff.  (FAC ¶86.) 

Plaintiff alleges Torres and its
officers/shareholders, Thomas, Richard, Jacob and Won, all partook in wrongful
conduct in addition to the interference by way of working on the Property
without a contractor’s license in good standing, as pursuant to CA B&P §
7028.5, it is unlawful for a person, who is an officer, director, manager,
managing employee, member, or any individual who is listed in the personal of
record, of a licensed entity, to engage in the business in the capacity of a
contractor in California without having a license in good standing.  (FAC ¶88.) 
Plaintiff alleges B&P §7076.2(b) readily provides that where the
license of the entity is suspended, each person identified within the entity in
§7028.5, shall be personally liable.  (FAC ¶88.) 
Plaintiff alleges that is not only was conduct engaged in by Defendants wrongful,
but it was also statutorily unlawful.  (FAC ¶88.) 
Plaintiff alleges this is in addition to the other wrongful actions as
stated above.  (FAC ¶88.)
Plaintiff alleges Defendants
intentionally interfered with the prospective business and economic opportunities
of Plaintiff by engaging in the acts as set forth herein above.  (FAC ¶87.)  Plaintiff alleges each of the Defendants made
specific representations which were untrue which delayed the development of the
Property and interfered with the ultimate selling by Southebys which would
benefit GRE.  (FAC ¶89.)  Plaintiff alleges as a direct and
proximate result of actions of Defendants, as set forth above, GRE has suffered
damages, in an amount according to proof at the time of trial.  (FAC ¶90.)
Plaintiff sufficiently alleges Defendants
engaged in an independently wrongful act and that Plaintiff has an actual
relationship with a third party with which there is a probable future economic
benefit to Plaintiff.  (FAC ¶¶83, 88; Korea
Supply Co., 29 Cal.4th at pg. 1164.)
Accordingly, Moving Defendants’
demurrer to Plaintiff’s 5th of action for intentional interference with
prospective economic relations is overruled.
 
Negligent Interference with
Prospective Economic Relations (6th COA)
“The tort of negligent
interference with prospective economic advantage is established where a
plaintiff demonstrates that (1) an economic relationship existed between the
plaintiff and a third party which contained a reasonably probable future
economic benefit or advantage to plaintiff; (2) the defendant knew of the
existence of the relationship and was aware or should have been aware that if
it did not act with due care its actions would interfere with this relationship
and cause plaintiff to lose in whole or in part the probable future economic
benefit or advantage of the relationship; (3) the defendant was negligent; and
(4) such negligence caused damage to plaintiff in that the relationship was
actually interfered with or disrupted and plaintiff lost in whole or in part
the economic benefits or advantage reasonably expected from the relationship.”  (North American Chemical Co. v. Superior
Court (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 764, 786.)
“The fact that the
defendant’s conduct was independently wrongful is an element of the
interference cause of action itself. In addition, the wrongful interfering act
can be independently tortious only as to a third party; it need not be
independently wrongful as to the plaintiff. Accordingly, . . . to state a cause
of action for intentional or negligent interference with prospective economic
advantage, it is not necessary to also plead a separate, stand-alone tort cause
of action.”  (Redfearn v. Trader Joe’s
Co. (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th 989, 1006, internal citations omitted.)
Plaintiff alleges it has a
prospective economic relationship with Southebys International Realty in that
Southebys sells finished properties on behalf of GRE, and this Property is 84
units with an expected market value in excess of $30,000,000.  (FAC ¶93.) 
Plaintiff alleges Defendants were readily aware of this, of said
relationship, and of the economic opportunities which are available in the sale
of 84 units within Los Angeles, as they were hired to be paid more than $1.2M
to work on the Property on behalf of GRE. 
(FAC ¶94.)
Plaintiff alleges Defendants
had a duty to act reasonably in providing services to GRE and not injure their
business relationships or potential profits, and said duty was created pursuant
to the hiring of Defendants and by each of Defendants individually performing
work on the Property.  (FAC ¶95.)  
Plaintiff alleges Torres
and its officers/shareholders, Thomas, Richard, Jacob and Won, all partook in wrongful
conduct in addition to the interference by way of working on the Property
without a contractor’s license in good standing, as pursuant to B&P §
7028.5, it is unlawful for a person, who is an officer, director, manager,
managing employee, member, or any individual who is listed in the personal of
record, of a licensed entity, to engage in the business in the capacity of a
contractor in California without having a license in good standing.   (FAC ¶96.) 
Plaintiff alleges B&P §7076.2(b) readily provides that where the
license of the entity is suspended, each person identified within the entity in
§7028.5, shall be personally liable.  (FAC ¶96.) 
Plaintiff alleges that is not only was conduct engaged in by Defendants
wrongful, but it was also statutorily unlawful.  (FAC ¶96.) 
Plaintiff alleges this in addition to the other wrongful actions as
stated above.  (FAC ¶96.)
Plaintiff alleges within
the last year Defendants breached their duty to GRE by acting in such a manner
as to injure GRE as described above.  (FAC
¶97.)   Plaintiff alleges it was readily foreseeable
by Defendants that by failing to provide the entirety of the contracted for
services, by failing to order materials with a long lead time, by working
without a license in good standing, by each of the Defendants individually and
collectively negligently performing work on the Property and actively lying
about what had been done and what would be done, and when, and by simply
quitting, that they would cause injury to Plaintiff.  (FAC ¶98.) 
Plaintiff alleges Defendants did in fact cause harm to Plaintiff.  (FAC ¶99.) 
Plaintiff alleges as a direct and proximate result of Defendants’ breach
of duty to Plaintiff, it has been injured and has lost prospective economic
advantages as described above.  (FAC ¶100.)  Plaintiff alleges as a result of Defendants’
conduct, it has been damaged in an amount according to proof at trial.  (FAC ¶101.)
Plaintiff sufficiently
alleges a cause of action for negligent interference with prospective economic
relations.  Plaintiff sufficiently alleges Defendants
engaged in an independently wrongful act and that Plaintiff has an actual
relationship with a third party with which there is a probable future economic
benefit to Plaintiff.  (FAC ¶¶93, 96; Korea
Supply Co., 29 Cal.4th at pg. 1164.)
Accordingly, Moving Defendants’
demurrer to Plaintiff’s 6th of action for negligent interference with
prospective economic relations is overruled.
 
Intentional Interference with
Contractual Relations (7th COA)
“The elements which a
plaintiff must plead to state the cause of action for intentional interference
with contractual relations are (1) a valid contract between plaintiff and a
third party; (2) defendant’s knowledge of this contract; (3) defendant’s
intentional acts designed to induce a breach or disruption of the contractual
relationship; (4) actual breach or disruption of the contractual relationship;
and (5) resulting damage.”  (Pacific
Gas & Electric Co. v. Bear Stearns & Co. (1990) 50 Cal.3d 1118,
1126, internal citations omitted.)
“Because interference with
an existing contract receives greater solicitude than does interference with
prospective economic advantage, it is not necessary that the defendant’s
conduct be wrongful apart from the interference with the contract itself.”  (Quelimane Co. v. Stewart Title Guaranty
Co. (1998) 19 Cal.4th 26, 55, internal citations omitted.)
“Plaintiff need not allege
an actual or inevitable breach of contract in order to state a claim for
disruption of contractual relations. We have recognized that interference with
the plaintiff’s performance may give rise to a claim for interference with
contractual relations if plaintiff’s performance is made more costly or more
burdensome. Other cases have pointed out that while the tort of inducing breach
of contract requires proof of a breach, the cause of action for interference
with contractual relations is distinct and requires only proof of
interference.”  (Pacific Gas &
Electric Co., 50 Cal.3d at pg. 1129, internal citations omitted.)
Plaintiff alleges it contracted
with HIMR Normandie JV, LCC, (the owner of the Property), to serve as the
developer of the Property.  (FAC
¶103.)  Plaintiff alleges Umpqua Bank,
contracted to be the lender for the development of the Property.  (FAC ¶103.) 
Plaintiff alleges each of the Defendants knew of said contracts.  (FAC ¶104.) 

Plaintiff alleges
Defendants’ conduct as described throughout this complaint, including
performing work without a contractor’s license in good standing, negligently
performing work, failing to order materials of paramount import with long lead
times (and lying about it), actively lying about items that were alleged to
have been done or when they would be done, and walking off a job, prevented the
timely performance of the contracts, made performance more expensive (and
increased carrying costs), and made performance more difficult as new
electrical contractors needed to be hired. 
(FAC ¶105.) 
Plaintiff alleges
Defendants knew disruption of Plaintiff’s performance of obligations to the
Property owner and the bank was substantially certain to occur by way of
Defendants’ conduct as described herein, and it was.  (FAC ¶106.) 
Plaintiff alleges it was harmed by Defendants’ conduct.  (FAC ¶107.) 
Plaintiff alleges Defendants’ conduct was a substantial factor in
causing its harm.  (FAC ¶108.)  Plaintiff alleges as a result of Defendants’
conduct, Plaintiff has been damaged in an amount according to proof at
trial.  (FAC ¶109.)
Plaintiff sufficiently
alleges a cause of action for intentional interference with contractual
relations.  (FAC ¶¶103-109.)
Accordingly, Defendants’
demurrer to Plaintiff’s 7th cause of action is overruled.
 
Negligent Interference
with Contractual Relations (8th COA)
There is no cognizable
cause of action for negligent interference with contractual relations.  While there exists a cause of action for
negligent interference with prospective economic, the California Supreme
Court has rejected a cause of action for negligent interference with contract.  (Davis v. Nadrich (2009) 174
Cal.App.4th 1, 9.)
Accordingly, Defendants’
demurrer to Plaintiff’s 8th cause of action is sustained without leave
to amend.
 
Conclusion
Defendants’ demurrer to
Plaintiff’s FAC is overruled as to the 1st, 2nd, 5th, 6th,
and 7th causes of action, sustained with 20 days leave to amend as to
the 4th cause of action, and without leave to amend as to the 8th cause
of action.

Moving Party to give
notice.
 
 
Dated:  April
_____, 2024
                                                                             





  