  Case Number:  22STCV07441    Hearing Date:   December 5, 2024    Dept:  A SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES – SOUTH CENTRAL DISTRICT  DELICIA MOSLEY-ANDERSON , et al.,      Plaintiff,  vs.  SALLYANNE PAYTON, et al. ,       Defendants.   ________________________________ ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO:  22STCV07441   [TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING DEFENDANT LASHON ENGLISH’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT   Dept. A  DATE: December 5, 2024 TIME: 8:30 A.M.   COMPLAINT FILED: 03/01/2022 TRIAL: 01/22/2024 Background This is an action arising from landlord-tenant dispute. Plaintiffs Delicia Mosley-Anderson and David Anderson (collectively, Plaintiffs) allege in their First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) that defendants Sallyanne Payton, Chineche Delarosa, and Bertie Beasley (collectively, Landlords) maintained in an uninhabitable condition the property located at 432 Laconia Blvd., Compton, California 90061 (the Property).  Plaintiffs lived in a rental unit on the Property until they vacated the premises, allegedly due to an intolerable odor emanating from the Property and into Plaintiffs’ rental unit, which Landlords allegedly failed to repair. The FAC also alleges that defendants Lashon English (“English”) and SFV Associates induced Landlords to maintain the Property in an uninhabitable condition and pressured Plaintiffs to vacate the Property.   The FAC alleges causes of action against Landlords for breach of contract, breach of warranty of habitability, breach of the covenant of quiet enjoyment, negligence, and constructive eviction.  The FAC also alleges a sixth cause of action against English and SFV Associates for tortious interference with prospective economic advantage. Motion for Summary Judgment Defendant English moves for summary judgment on the sixth cause of action for tortious interference with prospective economic advantage. English contends the FAC fails to allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action for intentional interference with prospective economic advantage, as it does not allege any independently wrongful conduct, a required element to the cause of action.  She further contends that there is no triable issue of material fact as to the sole cause of action asserted against her, because there is no evidence that she engaged in independently wrongful conduct. Plaintiffs oppose English’s motion for summary judgment on the grounds that English, as an agent of Landlords, harassed or pressured Plaintiffs to move in violation of Civil Code section 1940.2, subdivision (a)(3).  Plaintiffs contend that their allegation in the operative pleading that English harassed or pressured them to move without advising them that she was the buyer is sufficient to create a triable issue of material fact, and that as a result the motion must be denied.  (Opposition, p. 4.)  They further contend that Plaintiff Mosley-Anderson’s deposition testimony that English asked her on two occasions whether she intended to move constituted harassment and pressure to move, and caused her to feel pressured and harassed, thereby satisfying the “independent wrongful act” element to the sixth cause of action and precluding summary judgment.  Motion for Summary Judgment Standards The purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.”  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) “On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material fact.”  (Scalf v. D.B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.)  A defendant or cross-defendant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)  “Once the defendant or cross-defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff or cross-complainant to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)  “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.”  (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)  “When deciding whether to grant summary judgment, the court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers (except evidence to which the court has sustained an objection), as well as all reasonable inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light most favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.”  (Id. at p. 467; Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)  To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.) A triable issue of material fact exists only if the evidence would allow a reasonable trier of fact to find the underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion. (Falcon v. Long Beach Genetics, Inc. (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1263, 1271.) Undisputed Facts Plaintiffs are former tenants of the Property, where they resided from 2006 until March 15, 2021. (DMF ¶¶ 2, 4.)1 The property was owned by Payton and managed by Beasley. (DMF ¶ 3.) Plaintiffs noticed a foul smell in their bathroom in January 2021, which they were unable to remove. (DMF ¶¶ 6, 7.) Soon thereafter, Mosley-Anderson reported the smell to Beasley. (DMF ¶ 8.) Because of the strong smell, Mosley-Anderson alternately stayed in various hotels or with her daughter from January 19, 2021 until the date on which Plaintiffs vacated the Property. (DMF ¶ 9.) Various handymen, plumbers, and inspectors attempted to resolve the smell but were unable to do so. (DMF ¶¶ 10-21, 30-34.) On January 29, 2021, Beasley and Delarosa informed Mosley-Anderson that the property would be sold “as is.” (DMF ¶¶ 22-23.) Mosley-Anderson asked Delarosa about moving into one of the vacant units on the Property until the foul smell was resolved, but Delarosa refused in order to keep the vacant units empty to show to prospective purchasers. (DMF ¶ 24.) On January 30, 2021, Payton sent a letter to Plaintiffs providing them two options: (1) stay in the unit with the foul smell; or (2) vacate the Property, in which case Payton would waive the February rent and provide $3,000 in moving expenses if Plaintiffs vacated by March 1, 2021. (DMF ¶ 28.) On February 4, 2021, Mosley-Anderson contacted the Department of Public Health, which subsequently sent a notice to Payton to correct the condition. (DMF ¶ 35.) On February 5, 2021, Payton sent a text to Mosley-Anderson stating that the solution seemed to be for Plaintiffs to move out and that Payton would pay for moving expenses. (DMF ¶ 36.) On February 13, 2021, Delarosa contacted Mosley-Anderson to inform her that there was a buyer for the Property, and that Landlords were waiting for Plaintiffs’ decision on whether to move out because Payton would be unable to provide rent relief and moving expenses after the sale. (DMF ¶ 40.) A buyer home inspection occurred on February 19, 2021, during which Mosley-Anderson was informed by the inspector that English was the buyer. (DMF ¶ 42.) In 2020, Payton had retained English as a real estate agent to help sell the Property. (DMF ¶ 46; PMF ¶ 1.) In 2020, English knew that Plaintiffs were tenants in the Property. (PMF ¶ 2.) English put in a bid to purchase the Property on February 12, 2021, and the sale of the Property to English was consummated on March 16, 2021, the day after Plaintiffs vacated the Property. (DMF ¶¶ 48-49.) English did not inform Plaintiffs that she was the buyer. (PMF ¶ 5.) No one asked Plaintiffs to move out of the Property because of the impending sale. (DMF ¶ 53.) It is undisputed that English did not threaten Mosley-Anderson about moving, instruct Plaintiffs to move, raise her voice at them, use derogatory language at them, or force them to do anything. (DMF ¶ 55, 58.) Mosley-Anderson did not tell English that Plaintiffs did not want to move. (DMF ¶ 56.) Mosley-Anderson did not notify English of the foul smell or feel that English was responsible for resolving the smell, nor does she have personal knowledge that English told Landlords not to make repairs on the Property. (DMF ¶ 57.) Request for Judicial Notice English requests that the court take judicial notice of the grant deed between Sallyanne Payton and LME Estates LLC recorded on March 16, 2021, bearing document number 20210417918. The court GRANTS English’s request for judicial notice and takes judicial notice that the described grant deed documenting the transfer of the Property from Payton to LME Estates, LLC was recorded on March 16, 2021. “[A] court may take¿judicial¿notice¿of the fact of a document's recordation, the date the document was recorded and executed, the parties to the transaction reflected in a recorded document, and the document's legally operative language, assuming there is no genuine dispute regarding the document's authenticity.” (Fontenot v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 256, 266.) Discussion To establish a cause of action for tortious interference with economic advantage, a plaintiff must show “(1) an economic relationship between the plaintiff and some third party, with the probability of future economic benefit to the plaintiff; (2) the defendant's knowledge of the relationship; (3) intentional or negligent acts on the part of the defendant designed to disrupt the relationship; (4) actual disruption of the relationship; and (5) economic harm to the plaintiff proximately caused by the acts of the defendant.” (Crown Imports, LLC v. Sup. Court (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 1395, 1404 [citations omitted].) The defendant’s interference must be unlawful, independently actionable conduct by some measure beyond the fact of the interference itself. (Ibid.)  The California Supreme Court has described an act to be unlawful in this context if it is proscribed by some constitutional, statutory, regulatory, common law or other determinable legal standard.  (Korea Supply Co. v. Lockheed Martin Corp. (2003) 29 Cal.4th 1134, 1159 (“Korea Supply”).) A plaintiff must plead that the defendant engaged in such an independently wrongful act.  (Ibid; Della Penna v. Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A., Inc. (1995) 11 Cal.4th 376 (“Della Penna”).) English primarily contends that Plaintiffs cannot establish the required element that she engaged in a requisite independently wrongful conduct. At her deposition, Mosley-Anderson testified that she spoke with English four times in total. (Deposition of Delicia Mosley-Anderson, 249:7-249:23 (“Mosley-Anderson Depo.”)). She concedes that English did not threaten her to move, did not ask her to move, did not use derogatory language, raise her voice, or tell her that she must move.  (Mosley-Anderson Depo., 249:24-250:5, 251:6-251:8.) According to Mosley-Anderson, she and English spoke on less than four occasions, and on two occasions English asked her if she was going to move. (Mosley-Anderson Depo., 251:10-252:21.) English contends she never spoke to Plaintiffs about whether they were planning to move, did not hear about their moveout until they had already moved, did not want them to move as she was counting on their rental income, and never spoke with Plaintiffs about her plan to buy the Property.  (English Declaration, para. 9-11.)  Nonetheless, English contends that even assuming the facts asserted by Mosley-Anderson are true, they do not rise to the level of independently wrongful conduct required by Korea Supply.  The court agrees. The sixth cause of action as alleged against English appears to be based entirely on Plaintiffs’ allegation that English induced Landlords to breach their agreement with plaintiffs.  (FAC, para. 96-98.)  While that allegation would be sufficient to meet the pleading requirements set forth in Della Penna, supra, plaintiffs do not make this argument in opposition to the motion for summary judgment. Moreover, there is no evidence presented in opposition to the motion to support that allegation.  The undisputed evidence establishes that Mosley-Anderson has no personal knowledge that English told Landlords not to make repairs on the Property, which is Plaintiffs’ chief complaint against Landlords. (DMF ¶ 57; see also Compl. ¶¶ 63-68.)  Accordingly, the court finds that English has met her initial burden of showing that the sixth cause of action has no merit because an essential element to the claim cannot be established, namely the “wrongful conduct” element of a claim for tortious interference. In opposition, Plaintiffs argue that English’s conduct, namely her “repeated” (allegedly two) queries as to whether Plaintiffs intended to move, constituted unlawful “pressure” under Civil Code 1940.2, subdivision (a)(2).  Section 1940.2 states in pertinent part that it is unlawful to “[u]se, or threaten to use, force, willful threats, or menacing conduct constituting a course of conduct that interferes with the tenant's quiet enjoyment of the premises in violation of¿Section 1927¿that would create an apprehension of harm in a reasonable person.”  However, Plaintiffs’ FAC makes only a passing reference to section 1941.1 of the Civil Code and section 17920.3 of the Health and Safety Code, alleging that the defective condition which violated local and/or state building, health and/or housing codes and laws existed while Plaintiffs occupied their unit on the Property.  (FAC, para. 51.) There is no allegation that English (or the other defendants) violated Civil Code Section 1940.2, either in connection with the sixth cause of action or any other cause of action. The First Amended Complaint therefore fails to meet the pleading requirements set forth in Korea Supply and Della Penna as to this contention.  Moreover, even interpreting the allegations in the amended pleading broadly, the undisputed evidence shows that the only conduct by English that Plaintiffs allege constitutes “pressure” is asking, on two occasions, whether Plaintiffs intended to vacate the Property. It is unclear whether, when allegedly doing so, English was acting on behalf of Landlords. Even construing this issue liberally in favor of Plaintiffs and assuming that English was acting on behalf of Landlords during these conversations, no reasonable trier of fact could find that English’s alleged conduct constituted the “use, or threat[en] to use, force, willful threats, or menacing conduct constituting a course of conduct” that interfered with plaintiffs’ quiet enjoyment of the premises...that would create an apprehension of harm in a reasonable person, as required by Civil Code section 1940.2, subdiv. (a).  Plaintiffs concede that English did not make any threats, raise her voice, or tell plaintiffs to move out.  Even under Mosley-Anderson's version of events, English merely asked Mosely-Anderson if they planned to move out on two occasions out of four in which English and Mosely-Anderson allegedly spoke.  There is simply no evidence that English attempted to compel Plaintiffs to move from their unit. Plaintiffs also argue that English did not inform Plaintiffs that she was the buyer of the Property as well as the real estate agent. Plaintiffs do not identify any statute or other legal authority requiring English to identify herself as the buyer of the Property to tenants of the Property, and do not explain how this allegation constitutes independently “wrongful conduct” sufficient to state a cause of action. Civil Code section 1962 requires successors of real property to inform tenants of their name, telephone number and address at which personal service of process may be effected to tenants of that property within 15 days of succeeding the previous owner; however, Section 1962 is inapplicable here because lpaintiffs vacated the Property on March 15, 2021, and English became the owner of the Property on March 16, 2021, at which time escrow closed and English recorded the grant deed.  Plaintiffs contend that English, a real estate agent, owed them a duty to disclose her status as a prospective buyer under the common law as outlined in Greif v. Sanin (2022) 74 Cal.App.5th 412 (Greif). However, Greif stands for the proposition that a real estate agent owes duties to other parties in a real estate transaction besides those that they are in direct privity of contract with, as determined by “whether a reasonable person would have foreseen an unreasonable risk of harm to a third party and whether, in view of such risk, the broker exercised ordinary care under the circumstances.” (Id. at p. 428.) In Greif, a real estate agent was found to owe a duty to the seller in a real estate transaction despite only being in privity of contract with the buyer. (Id. at p. 429.) Greif is not analagous, and does not provide that real estate agents owe duties to all third parties in a real estate transaction, let alone a duty to advise tenant that the agent is the purchaser of the property at issue.  Plaintiffs have failed to carry their burden to demonstrate that there is a triable issue of material fact as to whether English engaged in independently wrongful behavior, a necessary element of tortious interference with economic advantage.  Conclusion After considering all of the evidence set forth in the papers, as well as all reasonable inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light most favorable to Plaintiffs, the court finds that Plaintiffs have not submitted substantial evidence sufficient to allow a reasonable trier of fact to rule in their favor.  There is no triable issue of material fact as to English’s liability for tortious interference with economic advantage, and English is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.  The court therefore GRANTS English’s motion for summary judgment.    Moving party is ordered to give notice and is further ordered to submit and serve a proposed judgment in her favor. DATED: December 5, 2024     Hon. Elizabeth L. Bradley Judge of the Superior Court  