  Case Number:  22STCV09585    Hearing Date:   August 13, 2024    Dept:  57 Defendants Joanna
Borbon and Francisco Fernando Borbon (collectively, “the Borbons”) moved for
summary judgment, or alternatively, summary adjudication, on the causes of
action that Plaintiff Shara Rodriguez (“Rodriguez”) asserted against them in
her complaint.  The basis of the Borbons’
motion is that there are no triable issues of material fact bearing on the
Borbons’ contention that all six of Rodriguez’s causes of action are subject
to, and barred by, a three-year statute of limitations, and that therefore the
Borbons are entitled to summary judgment or summary adjudication.   The
Court agrees and is granting the Borbons’ motion for summary judgment.
 
Through their
separate statement of undisputed material facts submitted with their motion and
opening memorandum in support of the motion, the Borbons carried their initial
burden of production to make a prima facie showing that are no triable issues
of material fact on the statute of limitations issued they raised.  The burden thus shifted to Rodriguez in her
opposition to the motion to present evidence showing that a triable issue of
material fact exists.  (Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2000) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850 [discussing burden shifting
rules in connection with motions for summary judgment or summary
adjudication].)  Rodriguez failed to
carry that burden.
 
Preliminary,
the Court notes two procedural defects with Rodriguez’s opposition papers.  
 
First, under
Code of Civil Procedure Section 437c(b)(2), Rodriguez’s opposition papers were
due 14 days prior to the hearing on the Borbons’ motion.  Rodriguez missed that deadline by a
week.  She filed and served her
opposition papers only 7 day before the hearing, which left the Borbons with
only two days to file and serve their reply papers. Rule 3.1300(d) of the California
Rules of Court gives the Court discretion to decline to consider Rodriguez’s
untimely opposition papers.  The Court decided
to consider the papers, anyway even though they were very tardy.  The Court admonishes Rodriguez’s counsel to
observe filing deadlines, and, at minimum, to seek an extension of time to file
papers if counsel believes that a deadline cannot be met.
 
Second, under
Code of Civil Procedure Section 437c(b)(3), Rodriguez was required to include with
her opposition papers a separate statement responding to each of the material set
forth in the Borbons’ separate statement. 
Rodriguez failed to comply with that requirement.  She simply submitted a declaration of her own,
along with her brief in opposition to the Borbons’ motion.  Section 437c(b)(3) gives the Court discretion
to grant the Borbons’ motion based on Rodriguez’s failure to provide a separate
statement with her papers.  The Court is
declining to exercise that discretion, however, because the evidentiary issues
presented by the Borbons’ motion are relatively minimal and forward thereby limiting
the utility for the Court of a separate statement accompanying  Rodriguez’s opposition papers.  (Gilbertson v. Osman (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d
308, 315 [discussing the circumstances in which a court should consider an
opposition to a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication even when
the opposition papers do not contain a separate statement as required by
Section 437c(b)(3); see also Security Pacific Nat. Bank v. Bradley (1992)
4 Cal.App.4th 89, 93-94 [same].) 
 
All told, notwithstanding
the late-file opposition papers and the absence of a separate statement accompanying
those papers, the Court has considered Rodriguez’s opposition brief and the declaration
she submitted with the opposition.  (The
Borbons’ evidentiary objections to the declaration are overruled.)   Having
considered Rodriguez’s brief and declaration, the Court has concluded that Rodriguez
failed to carry her burden of showing the existence of triable issues of
material fact as to the statute of limitations issues presented by the Borbons
in their motion.
 
Rodriguez
concedes in her opposition brief and supporting declaration that four of the
six causes of action in her complaint against the Borbons are subject to, and
barred by, a three-year statute of limitations.   She argues, however, that the remaining two
causes of action, which are for an order to quiet title to the real property
that is at the heart of this action and for breach of fiduciary duty are
subject to a four-year statute of limitations and are not time-barred.  Rodriguez bases this argument on the
proposition that those two cause of action do not sound in fraud, and hence are
not subject to three-year statute of limitations for claims on fraud.   
 
Rodriguez has
failed to offer any evidence to support that proposition.  The allegations in her complaint supporting the
quiet title and breach of fiduciary duty causes of action plainly show that those
claims rest on assertions of fraudulent conduct by the Borbons.  This is critical because a defendant’s motion
for summary judgment or summary adjudication is framed by the plaintiff’s
complaint; put another way, summary judgment/summary adjudication motions are
directed at the allegations in the complaint. 
(Meda v. Autozone, Inc. (2022) 81 Cal.App.5th 366, 373-374; Scolinos
v. Kolts (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 635, 641.)  
Nothing in Rodriguez’s declaration in support of her opposition to the
Borbons’ motion is to the contrary.  Indeed,
the declaration, like the complaint itself, speaks of the quiet title and
breach of fiduciary claims in terms of fraud by the Borbons.  Rodriguez’s bald assertion in the declaration
that the claims are not predicated on fraud is supported by no evidence
whatsoever, just her say-so.  Rodriguez’s
complaint, which, as indicated above, frames the issues for summary
judgment/summary adjudication, governs over the unsubstantiated, contrary
assertion in the declaration. 
 
In sum, the Court
has determined that all of Rodriguez’s claims are subject to, and barred by, a
three-year statute of limitations. 
Accordingly, the Borbons are entitled to summary judgment in this
action.  In light of that determination,
the Court is vacating the final status conference and trial in the action.  The Court directs counsel for the Borbons to
prepare a proposed order memorializing the Court’s ruling on their motion for
summary judgment and a proposed judgment.
 
 
 