 Case Number:  23LBCV02156    Hearing Date:   June 27, 2024    Dept:  S27 
Background Facts

Plaintiff, Tracy McCrackin filed
this action against Defendants, Uber Technologies, Inc. and William Doe for
negligence, IIED, NIED, negligent hiring, supervision, and retention, violation
of the Bane Act, and violation of the Ralph Act.  Plaintiff alleges William Doe, a driver for
Uber, picked her up, but instead of going south to Long Beach as requested and
instructed on the maps app, William began driving north on the freeway away
from her destination.  She alleges that
she repeatedly asked William to let her out of the car, but he refused.  She called her husband, who also asked him to
let her out of the car, but he continued to refuse.  Ultimately, William exited the freeway in
Carson, turned around, dropped Plaintiff at the Aquarium (not her chosen
destination), and sped off.  
 

Motion to Compel
     Arbitration

a.    
Parties’ Positions
Uber moves to compel arbitration,
contending Plaintiff agreed to the terms of service in 2016 and again in 2021,
and both times the terms of service including an arbitration provision.  
 
Plaintiff opposes the motion.  She argues there is a factual dispute as to
whether she signed the 2016 agreement. 
She argues the 2021 agreement cannot be enforced because the agreement
excepts claims for gender-related violence, which is what she asserts in this
case.  Finally, she contends there is a
risk of inconsistent rulings if the motion is granted, because she will have to
arbitrate her claims against Uber but litigate her claims against William.  
 
Uber, in reply, indicates it will
proceed based solely on the 2021 agreement, which Plaintiff does not dispute
accepting.  It indicates any
determination as to whether the 2021 agreement should be enforced or not is delegated
to the arbitrator.  If the Court is
inclined to interpret the 2021 agreement, it contends the agreement excepts
only claims for gender-related assault and harassment, not for kidnapping,
which is alleged in the complaint. 
Finally, it contends §1281.2(c) cannot be applied to preclude arbitration
because the parties’ agreement requires interpretation under the FAA, which
does not have an exception for potential conflicting rulings.
 
b.     Arbitration
Agreement 
Plaintiff contends she did not
accept the 2016 agreement.  Uber, in
reply, indicates it will proceed solely based on the 2021 agreement, which
Plaintiff does not deny accepting by agreeing to the terms of service.  The Court, therefore, finds Plaintiff agreed
to the 2021 arbitration provision when she agreed to the 2021 terms of
service.  
 
c.     FAA
or State Law
Plaintiff argues state law
precludes enforcement of the arbitration agreement (see discussion below).  Thus, the Court must determine whether state
law or the FAA applies.  §2 of the
parties’ agreement provides that the FAA applies.  
 
Even where there is no evidence
that the parties' dealings involve interstate commerce, the parties may elect
to have the FAA govern enforcement of their agreement, thereby preempting
application of state law.  Victrola 89,
LLC v. Jaman Properties 8 LLC (2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 337, 354-355.  Thus, the Court finds the FAA, not state law,
governs the parties’ relationship.  
 
d.     Arbitrator
or Court Determination of Interpretation of Agreement
Plaintiff contends the 2021
agreement does not require her to arbitrate her claims against Uber because the
2021 agreement exempts claims for gender-related violence.  She cites to a provision in the agreement,
§2(b), which provides that the agreement does not require arbitration of claims
involving sexual assault or sexual harassment. 

 
Uber contends the arbitrator must
interpret this provision and determine whether or not Plaintiff’s claims are
arbitrable.  Uber cites to §2 of the
agreement, which makes clear that the arbitrator has the exclusive authority to
resolve the threshold issue of arbitrability. 

 
An arbitration clause that “clearly
and unmistakably” empowers the arbitrator to decide what matters are arbitrable
will doubtless be given effect. (E.g., “The Arbitrator, and not any federal,
state, or local court or agency, shall have exclusive authority to resolve any
dispute relating to the interpretation, applicability, enforceability or
formation of this Agreement including, but not limited to any claim that all or
any part of this Agreement is void or voidable.”)   Rent-A-Center, West, Inc. v. Jackson (2010)
561 US 63, 66, 68-69, fn. 1; B.D v. Blizzard Entertainment, Inc. (2022) 76 Cal.App.5th
931, 957-958.  
 
Notably, the U.S. Supreme Court
resolved the issue for cases decided under the FAA, holding that where an
arbitration agreement clearly and unmistakably delegates to an arbitrator the
determination of arbitrability of a claim or a dispute, there is no exception allowing
a court to ignore that arbitration provision just because the court agrees with
the opposing party's contention that the moving party's assertion of
arbitrability is “wholly groundless.” That exception is inconsistent with the
FAA (citing Rent-A-Center, West, Inc. v. Jackson (2010) 561 US 63, 68-70).
Arbitration is a creature of contract, and the question of who decides
arbitrability is a question of contract that the FAA allows parties to
determine. The Supreme Court abrogated contrary federal cases.  
 
Thus, the Court finds the
arbitrator must determine arbitrability. 

 
The Court notes, but does not
decide, that Plaintiff’s complaint does not appear to sound in sexual assault
or sexual harassment, but instead in kidnapping.  The Court does not wish to minimize the
experience, but the experience described in the complaint does not lend itself
to the conclusion that Plaintiff was assaulted or harassed based on her
gender.  
 
e.     CCP
§1281.2(c)
Plaintiff’s final contention is
that the Court should deny the motion because requiring her to arbitrate her
claims against Uber and litigate her claims against William could result in
conflicting rulings. As Uber correctly notes in reply, the FAA does not have a
provision akin to §1281.2(c), and any agreement interpreted under the FAA must
be enforced despite the risk of inconsistent rulings.  See Victrola 89, LLC, supra, at 346-347.  
 
f.     
Conclusion 
Uber successfully established there
is a binding arbitration agreement between Plaintiff and Uber.  Plaintiff failed to show a defense to the
agreement.  The motion to compel arbitration
is therefore granted.  The action against
Uber is stayed pending the outcome of arbitration.  
 
Uber is ordered to give notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.  If
the parties do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear
remotely.