 Case Number:  23LBCV02241    Hearing Date:   June 27, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Complaint
Plaintiff, Michael Brown filed this
action against Defendants, Community Loan Servicing, LLC and Nationstar
Mortgage, LLC (erroneously sued and served as Community Loan Services Right
Path Servicing) on 11/22/23.  The
complaint includes a cause of action for constructive fraud and related
claims.  The complaint arises out of
Defendants’ servicing of Plaintiff’s loan and attempts at foreclosure on the
loan.
 
2.     Demurrer
a.     Legal
Standard on Demurrer
A demurrer is a pleading used to
test the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not
fact, regarding the form or content of the opposing party’s pleading.  It is not the function of the demurrer to
challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purpose of the ruling on
the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true,
however improbable they may be.
 
A demurrer can be used only to
challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or from
matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. Blank v. Kirwan 39
Cal.3d 311 (1985). No other extrinsic evidence can be considered (i.e., no
“speaking demurrers”). A demurrer is brought under CCP § 430.10 [grounds], §
430.30 [as to any matter on its face or from which judicial notice may be
taken], and § 430.50(a) [can be taken to the entire complaint or any cause of
action within].  Specifically, a demurrer
may be brought per CCP § 430.10(e) if insufficient facts are stated to support
the cause of action asserted.  Per CCP
§430.10(a) a demurrer may be brought where the court has no jurisdiction of the
subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading.  Furthermore, demurrer for uncertainty will be
sustained only where the complaint is so bad that the defendant cannot
reasonably respond.  CCP §
430.10(f).  
 
However, in construing the
allegations, the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that
may modify or limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations. Financial
Corporation of America v. Wilburn, 189 Cal.App.3rd 764, 769 (1987). And, if the
facts pled in the complaint are inconsistent with facts which are incorporated
by reference from exhibits attached to the complaint, the facts in the
incorporated exhibits control. Further, irrespective of the name or label given
to a cause of action by the plaintiff, a general demurrer must be overruled if
the facts as pled in the body of the complaint state some valid claim for
relief. Special demurrers are not allowed in limited jurisdiction courts. (CCP
§ 92(c).)
 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. Goodman v.
Kennedy, 18 Cal.3d 335, 348 (1976). The burden is on the complainant to show
the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.) 
 
Finally, CCP section 430.41
requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer.” (CCP §430.41(a).) The parties are to meet and confer
at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (CCP
§430.41(a)(2).) Thereafter, the demurring party shall file and serve a
declaration detailing their meet and confer efforts. (CCP §430.41(a)(3).)
 

Procedural History

Defendants filed their demurrer on 3/21/24, setting it for hearing on
8/20/24.  Thereafter, the Court granted
Plaintiff’s motion for leave to amend to add a third defendant, Rushmore, to
the complaint, but expressly indicated it would still rule on the
demurrer.  The Court rescheduled the
demurrer for hearing on 6/27/24.  
 
On 5/13/24, Plaintiff filed opposition to the original demurrer.  On 5/20/24, Defendants filed an amended
demurrer, which merely reflects the fact that Plaintiff is now suing three
entities instead of two.  Plaintiff has
not filed opposition to the amended demurrer, but it appears he intends his
opposition to the original demurrer to serve as his opposition to the amended
demurrer.
 

Meet and Confer

Defense Counsel declares he and Plaintiff met and conferred many times
prior to the filing of the demurrer, but were unable to resolve the issues
presented by way of the demurrer.  The
meet and confer requirement is therefore satisfied.  
 

First Cause of Action, Constructive Fraud

Defendants demur to Plaintiff’s
first cause of action for constructive fraud, contending the parties are not in
a fiduciary relationship and therefore no claim for constructive fraud can be
pled.  Defendants cite numerous cases
holding that lenders and borrowers are not in a fiduciary relationship.  See, for example, Nymar v. Heart Fed. Sav.
& Loan Ass’n (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 1089, 1093.  
 
Plaintiff, in opposition to the
demurrer, argues Defendants were not lenders, but instead loan servicers,
especially when providing a loan modification, do stand in a fiduciary
relationship with the persons seeking modification.  Plaintiff does not cite any case so holding,
and instead cites the general law regarding fiduciary duties.  
 
Defendants, however, addressed this
argument in their moving papers.  They
noted that numerous federal courts have held that loan servicers do not owe
fiduciary duties to borrowers.  See, for
example, Shepherd v. Am. Home Mortg. Servs. (E.D. Cal.) 2009 LEXIS 108523.  
 
While neither party cites any
on-point California state law authority, the Court finds the reasoning of the
various federal cases cited to be compelling. 
If a bank or lender does not owe a fiduciary duty, then it seems
reasonable that a servicer’s duties would also not be fiduciary in nature.  Absent a fiduciary duty, a claim for
constructive fraud fails.  See Tindell v.
Murphy (2018) 22 Cal.App.5th 1239, 1249-50.  
 
The demurrer to the first cause of
action for constructive fraud is sustained. 
Because this is a purely legal issue, leave to amend is denied.
 

Promissory Estoppel

Plaintiff’s second cause of action
is for promissory estoppel.  Defendants
demur to the cause of action on two grounds. 
First, they contend the complaint fails to allege any promise with
sufficient specificity for them to respond. 
Second, they contend any promise alleged was made by Community, but not
by Nationstar or Rushmore, such that the cause of action fails against them.
 
The demurrer is sustained with
leave to amend on the first ground.  The
second cause of action merely indicates there was a promise with no intent to
perform, but fails to indicate what the promise was.  The opposition is also silent in this
regard.  It appears the promise was the
modification.  Notably, the complaint
purports to attach various exhibits, but none are attached.  Plaintiff must amend his complaint to clearly
state, in the body of the second cause of action, what promise was made, by
whom, when, and how he relied on that promise. 
If the promise was made in writing, he must attach as an exhibit to the
amended complaint the subject writing.
 
The demurrer on the second ground
is overruled.  Defendants do not brief
the issue, but it appears clear that any subsequent loan servicer would step
into the shoes of a prior servicer, and would be bound by any promises made by
that prior servicer.  If Defendants
believe this is not a correct statement of the law, they must adequately brief
the issue in a pleading challenge directed at Plaintiff’s amended complaint.

Negligence

Plaintiff’s third cause of action
is for negligence.  Defendants contend
the cause of action fails because they have no duties, outside of those created
by contract, to their borrowers. 
Additionally, they contend Plaintiff has not alleged the breach of any
duty owed to him.  
 
Defendants cite Sheen v. Wells
Fargo Bank, N.A. (2022) 12 Cal.5th 905, 915 to support their
position that lenders do not owe a duty of care to borrowers outside of the
scope of the parties’ contract. 
Plaintiff cites nothing to the contrary in opposition.  He argues loan servicers should not be
allowed to abuse their position.  The
Court agrees.  The Court finds, however,
that the relationship is governed by the original loan agreement and any
subsequent modification thereto, and any cause of action would sound in
contract, not in negligence.  If
Plaintiff can allege Defendants breached a term of the contract running between
them and Plaintiff, then he can state a claim. 
He cannot, however, state a claim sounding in negligence, as there is no
duty between Defendants and Plaintiff outside the four corners of the parties’
contract(s).  The demurrer is therefore
sustained.  Leave to amend is denied as
to negligence, but granted as to breach of contract if Plaintiff can plead the
terms of a specific contract that were breached.
 

Intentional
     Misrepresentation

Plaintiff’s fourth cause of action
is for intentional misrepresentation.  
 
The elements of fraud are: (1)
misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (2)
knowledge of falsity (scienter); (3) intent to defraud or induce reliance; (4)
justifiable reliance; and (5) damages. 
(See Civil Code §1709.)  Fraud
actions are subject to strict requirements of particularity in pleading.  Committee on Children’s Television, Inc. v.
General Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal. 3d 197, 216.
Since allegations of fraud involve
a serious attack on character, fairness to the defendant demands that he should
receive the fullest possible details of the charge in order to prepare his
defense.  Accordingly the rule is
everywhere followed that fraud must be specifically pleaded, such that: (a)
General pleading of the legal conclusion of “fraud” is insufficient; the facts
constituting the fraud must be alleged; and (b) Every element of the cause of
action for fraud must be alleged in the proper manner (i.e., factually and
specifically), and the policy of liberal construction of the pleadings will not
ordinarily be invoked to sustain a pleading defective in any material
respect.  Id.   
 
Defendants, in their demurrer,
correctly note that Plaintiff failed to plead the claim for misrepresentation
with the requisite specificity. 
Plaintiff, in opposition to the demurrer, argues the modification itself
was the misrepresentation because Defendants then never honored the
modification.  As noted above, Plaintiff
purported to attach the modification as an exhibit to his complaint, but there
are no exhibits to the complaint.  To the
extent Plaintiff is alleging the modification itself is the fraud, Plaintiff
must attach a copy to his amended complaint.
 
Plaintiff next argues Defendants
have been “too many misrepresentations to recount.”  Plaintiff must plead those misrepresentations
with the requisite specificity, detailed above, if he wishes to state a claim
based on those misrepresentations.  
 
The demurrer is sustained with
leave to amend.
 

BPC §17200

Plaintiff’s fifth cause of action
is for violation of BPC §17200, et seq. 
Defendants correctly note that the cause of action for violation of BPC
§17200 fails because Plaintiff has not stated any substantive claim against
them.  Plaintiff does not address this
argument in opposition to the demurrer. 
The demurrer is sustained with leave to amend for the reasons discussed
above.
 

Violation of Civil Code
     §§2924.11 and 2924.17

Plaintiff’s sixth cause of action
is for violation of Civil Code §§2924.11 and 2924.17.  §2924.11 precludes a mortgage servicer or
related entity from initiating foreclosure proceedings if a foreclosure
prevention alternative is approved in writing prior to recordation of a notice
of default.  
 
Defendants correctly note that
nothing Plaintiff alleges they did constitutes a violation of the section.  Plaintiff alleges Defendants refused to
review evidence and refused payments. 
Plaintiff does not, however, allege Defendants initiated foreclosure
proceedings.  The demurrer is therefore
sustained.  Leave to amend is granted if
and only if Plaintiff can allege an actual violation of the section.
 
Plaintiff concedes his claim under
§2924.17 fails, and therefore the demurrer to that cause of action is sustained
without leave to amend.  Plaintiff
indicates he intended to use under Penal Code §15610.30.  Plaintiff may amend to state a claim if he is
able to do so.  
 

Conclusion

Defendants’ demurrer is sustained
with leave to amend in part and without leave to amend in part as set forth
fully above.  Plaintiff must file an
amended complaint within twenty days. 
Defendants must file a responsive pleading within the statutory time
thereafter.  
 
3.     Ex
Parte Application
On 2/26/24, Plaintiff filed an ex
parte application for a temporary restraining order and an OSC re: preliminary
injunction.  On 2/28/24, the Court
granted the application and scheduled a hearing on the request for a
preliminary injunction for 4/26/24.  The
Coutt ordered the parties to submit briefs by 4/12/24. 
 
4.     Motion
for Preliminary Injunction
a.    
Law Governing Issuance of a Preliminary
Injunction
“In deciding whether to issue a
preliminary injunction, a court must weigh two ‘interrelated’ factors: (1) the
likelihood that the moving party will ultimately prevail on the merits and (2)
the relative interim harm to the parties from issuance or nonissuance of the
injunction. Common Cause v. Board of Supervisors (1989) 49 Cal.3d 432, 441-442.
 Appellate review is limited to whether
the trial court's decision was an abuse of discretion.”  Butt v. State of California (1992) 4 Cal.4th
668, 677-678.
 
b.    
RJN
On 4/12/24, Defendants filed a
request for judicial notice of the complaint, deed of trust, and ex parte
application papers.  The RJN Is
granted.  
 
c.    
Parties’ Positions
Plaintiff seeks a preliminary
injunction precluding Defendants from going forward with any sale of his
property.  Plaintiff contends he entered
into a loan modification agreement with Defendants’ predecessor, and Defendants
are wrongfully refusing to honor the agreement. 
plaintiff contends he will suffer irreparable harm if his home is
sold.  
 
On 4/12/24, Defendants filed points
and authorities concerning Plaintiff’s request for relief.  Defendants correctly note that Plaintiff’s
entire action is premised on his allegations that his prior loan servicer, Community,
entered into a loan modification agreement with him in September of 2020, and
that Defendants, the current loan servicers, are not honoring the terms of the
loan modification agreement.  Defendants argue
that Plaintiff has not provided a copy of the loan modification agreement with
his moving papers.    
 
Plaintiff filed reply papers the
day before the original hearing on this motion. 
The Court was not able to review the papers prior to the hearing, and
therefore continued the hearing to consider all papers presented.  Plaintiff in his reply, contends he did
provide a copy of the modification agreement, as well as all related documents,
with his original application.  
 
b.     Analysis

The Court has reviewed the
documents submitted with the original application.  Notably, the documents were not
authenticated.  The first attached
exhibit appears to be a modification agreement between Bayview (Community’s
predecessor) and Plaintiff, dated 9/01/20. 
The modification agreement provides for monthly payments in the amount
of $853.33 beginning on 9/01/20 and continuing until 8/01/60.  The agreement is not signed by Bayview and is
only signed by Plaintiff.  It appears,
however, to have been professionally drafted, so the Court can only presume
that it was drafted by Bayview.  
 
Plaintiff then provides copies of
monthly payments in the amount of $1106.23 made between May of 2020 and July of
2022.  It appears, per Exhibit 3, that
the difference between $853.33 and $1106.23 was the property taxes that were
being impounded into the monthly payment. 

 
Plaintiff then provides documents
as Exhibits 4-5 that the Court cannot clearly determine the purpose of.  It appears these documents are to show
Plaintiff attempted to continue to make his required monthly payments, but they
were not accepted.  Plaintiff must be
prepared, at the hearing, to explain what these documents are and what they
show.  
 
If the Court is satisfied, after
the hearing, with Plaintiff’s showing that Defendants are in breach of their
obligations under the modification agreement, the Court will grant the request
for a preliminary injunction precluding Defendants from initiating foreclosure
proceedings.  The Court notes that the
balancing of harms clearly weighs in favor of Plaintiff, who will lose his home
if Defendants are allowed to foreclose.  
 
3.         Case Management Conference
The parties are reminded that there
is a CMC on calendar today concurrently with the hearing on the demurrer and
motion for preliminary injunction.  The
Court asks the parties to make arrangements to appear remotely at the CMC and
hearing on the demurrer and motion.