 Case Number:  23LBCV02017    Hearing Date:   June 27, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Damon Scott Stansbury
filed this action against Defendants, Harborlight Landing, LLC, et al. for
damages arising out of an incident that occurred on 1109/22.  Specifically, Plaintiff alleges Defendant,
Anders Stefan Thene, assaulted and battered him at a marina owned, operated,
managed, controlled, and/or otherwise occupied by the remaining
defendants.  
 
2.     Motion
to Quash

Parties’ Positions
     (original papers)

Defendants, Hilton Worldwide Holdings, Inc., Hilton Franchise Holding LLC
and Hilton Domestic Operating Company, Inc. (hereafter collectively referred to
as “Hilton”) move to quash service of the summons and complaint on them,
contending the Court has neither general nor specific jurisdiction over them,
and therefore the action against them should be dismissed.
 
Plaintiff, in opposition to the motion, contends the incident occurred on
property owned by the Maya Hotel, which is the moving defendants’
franchisee.  Plaintiff contends the
franchise agreement provides numerous standards the franchisee is required to
uphold, thus showing the moving defendants retain control over the
property.  Plaintiff contends the moving
defendants have purposely availed them of the benefits of this jurisdiction by
virtue of their franchise relationships, and contends the moving defendants’
acts in the forum state are directly relevant to this lawsuit, which alleges
Maya Hotel staff, in keeping with the moving defendants’ training standards,
failed to protect Plaintiff from the assault that occurred on the property.  Plaintiff, in the event the Court is inclined
to grant the motion, asks for a continuance to conduct jurisdictional
discovery.
 
In reply, Defendant argues Plaintiff failed to meet his burden to show
jurisdiction is proper because the agreement upon which he relies is only an
exemplar agreement, and not the agreement that binds the franchisor and
franchisee in this case.  It argues the
cases permitting imposition of jurisdiction based on a franchisor/franchisee
relationship have involved an additional factual showing linking the agreement
to the claims of the case.  It argues
Plaintiff has not made a showing linking training or lack of training to this
case because he has used only an exemplar agreement, and the exemplar agreement
does not have the level of training specificity that would be required to show
a link between the purported minimum contacts and the incident that forms the
basis of this lawsuit.
 

Prior Hearing

The Court was originally scheduled to hear this motion on 3/28/24.  The Court continued the hearing date to
permit Plaintiff to conduct jurisdictional discovery.

Supplemental Papers

Plaintiff, in his supplemental opposition to the motion, argues the
franchise agreement between Moving Defendant and Hotel Maya contains an
extensive “standards” section that include training and training materials, and
that permit Defendant to terminate the franchise agreement in the event of
non-compliance.  He contends Defendant is
subject to jurisdiction in light of the franchise agreement.  In the alternative, he seeks leave to conduct
additional discovery as to the management and operation of the hotel, including
training of employees.  
 
Defendant, in supplemental reply, contends the opposition should be
disregarded because it was untimely filed. 
It contends a franchise agreement with general provisions governing
standards applicable to all Hilton hotels to ensure the Hilton name and brand
are not diluted is insufficient to support imposition of jurisdiction.  
 

Initial Note re: Opposition

In light of the Juneteenth holiday, Plaintiff’s supplemental opposition
papers were due on or before 6/13/24.  As
Defendant correctly notes in reply, they were untimely filed and served on
6/17/24.  Because dismissal is a harsh
remedy, the Court has read and considered the opposition papers.  Plaintiff is admonished to ensure timely
filing and service of all future papers.
 

Redacted Agreement

Plaintiff filed a redacted copy of the subject franchise agreement.  Plaintiff also quoted the agreement at length
in the supplemental opposition papers, but blacked out the provisions of the
agreement on which he relies.  Plaintiff
did not file a motion to seal, and did not follow the procedure in CRC
2.551(b)(3) to lodge agreements subject to confidentiality agreement or
protective order without seeking a sealing order.  This is not a situation where the Court can
simply review the redacted points and authorities and redacted agreement and
rule on the motion; Plaintiff contends the redacted portions of the agreement
are the evidence that support his jurisdictional argument.
 

Continuance

Pursuant to Elkman v. National
States inc. Co. (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 1305, 1313, the burden of
proof is on the plaintiff to show, by a preponderance of the evidence, that the
defendant had sufficient minimum contacts with the forum state to justify
imposition of personal jurisdiction over it. 

 
 
Pursuant to HealthMarkets, Inc. v. Superior Court (2009) 171
Cal.Ap.4th 1160, 1173, the trial court has discretion to continue
the hearing on a motion to quash to permit the plaintiff to conduct
jurisdictional discovery.  
 
Plaintiff, in his supplemental
opposition, indicates there is outstanding discovery, including written
discovery and depositions, that has not been completed.  He seeks such a continuance in the
opposition, and Defendants do not contest the request in reply.  
 
The hearing on the motion is
continued for 90 days, to Tuesday, 10/01/24 at 8:30 a.m. in Department
S27.  Plaintiff is permitted to conduct
jurisdictional discovery ONLY in support of his case against the moving
defendants during this time (Plaintiff’s rights to conduct other discovery as
to other defendants are not affected by this ruling).  The parties must file supplemental opposition
and supplemental reply per Code.
 
If the parties want the Court to
rely on documents that they believes are confidential, the parties must follow
the procedures set forth in the Rules of Court to have the documents
sealed.  They must lodge an unredacted
copy of all documents on eCourt so the Court can review the unredacted
documents prior to the hearing.
 
Moving Defendants are ordered to
give notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.  If
the parties do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear
remotely.