  Case Number:  23VECV03301    Hearing Date:   May 3, 2024    Dept:  T Reliable  v Waypoint 23VECV03301 [TENTATIVE]  ORDER:  Plaintiff Reliable Permit  Solutions, LLC’s Motion for a Protective Order is GRANTED. IntroductionPlaintiff Reliable Permit
Solutions, LLC (Plaintiff) moved for a protective order that includes an
“attorneys’ eyes only” provision. 
Plaintiff and Defendants Waypoint Permits LLC, Ben Lopez, and Nancy
Lopez (collectively, Defendants) are noted to have entered into a stipulated
protective order, sans the “attorneys’ eyes only” provision, which was signed
by the Court on March 12, 2024.Discussion The  Court “may make any order that justice requires to protect any party […] “from  unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and  expense. This protective order may include, but is not limited to: […] [t]hat a  trade secret or other confidential research, development, or commercial  information not be disclosed,” or be disclosed only in a certain way or to  certain persons. [Bolding added.]   (Code Civ. Proc., secs. 2030.090(b)(6), 2031.060(b)(5).)  The burden is on the party seeking the  protective order to show “good cause” for whatever order is sought. (Fairmont  Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255.)  Defendants argued that there is no legal  authority to limit the manner in which the protective order is  effectuated.  However, the statutory  authority herein provides the Court with legal authority to limit the way in  which discovery can be disclosed and to whom discovery can be disclosed.  Defendants’ argument otherwise is  unpersuasive. Plaintiff  provided that the “attorneys’ eyes only” provision is necessary to respond to  Defendants’ Requests for Production Nos. 9, 10, and 12, and Special  Interrogatory Nos. 5, 7, and 8 and potentially other discovery.  The responses include trade secrets, like  Plaintiff’s Client List, Client Entry System (CES), and data on the CES.  (Peter Lehrack Decl. par. 3.)  Plaintiff asserted that the disclosure of  trade secrets to Defendants, who are direct competitors of Plaintiff, would  provide them with an unfair advantage and irreparably damage Plaintiff.  Based upon these facts, Plaintiff provided  good cause to add the “attorneys’ eyes only” provision into the protective  order.             Defendants argued that the motion  lacked evidentiary support.  However, the  argument is unpersuasive in that it ignores the declaration of Mr.  Lehrack.  Mr. Lehrack’s declaration  sufficiently provides foundation for his testimony and provides testimony as to  how the information is secured.  (Lehrack  Decl. pars. 1, 4-5.)               Defendants also argued that their  ability to defend the action would be hampered because Defendants would not be  able review the evidence being used against them.  However, the proposed protective order  provides methods to dispute the “attorneys’ eyes only” designation.  The proposed protective order contains a  method to minimize prejudice to Defendants’ defense.             Defendants’ opposition arguments are  not persuasive.             The motion for protective order is  GRANTED.            _________________________[TENTATIVE]
ORDER:  Plaintiff Reliable Permit Solutions,
LLC’s Unopposed Motion for Leave to File a First Amended Complaint is
GRANTED.  Plaintiff Reliable Permit
Solutions, LLC is ORDERED to file the Proposed First Amended Complaint within ten
days.Introduction
            Plaintiff
Reliable Permit Solutions, LLC moved for leave to file the Proposed First
Amended Complaint (PFAC).  Defendants
Waypoint Permits LLC, Ben Lopez, and Nancy Lopez’s (collectively, Defendants)
opposition was due April 22, 2024, and none was filed.                       Procedure             A party requesting
leave to amend must include a copy of the proposed amended pleading and attach
a declaration by counsel to show: (1) the effect of the amendment; (2) why the
amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts giving rise to the amended
allegations were discovered; and (4) why the request was not made earlier. The
motion itself must state what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed
to be deleted and what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous
pleading, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the deleted or
additional allegations are located. 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324.) 
Counsel’s declaration complied with the procedural requirements.              Discussion             Plaintiff seeks leave to plead
common law claims in the alternative and based upon new facts that are
independent of the misappropriation facts. 
Plaintiff conceded that common law claims, other than breach of contract,
based upon the same nucleus of facts as the cause of action for violation of
California’s Uniform Trade Secrets Act (Civ. Code, sec. 3426 et al; UTSA) are
preempted, or more correctly stated as being displaced.  (K.C. Multimedia, Inc. v. Bank of America
Tech. and Operations, Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 939, 954; Zengen, Inc.
v. Comerica Bank (2007) 41 Cal.4th 239, 247.)  Because Plaintiff provided that new facts
independent of the misappropriation facts were discovered, there is good cause
presented for the request to file the PFAC. 
A
court can deny leave to amend after long, inexcusable delay, where there is
cognizable prejudice, such as discovery needed, trial delay, critical evidence
lost, or added preparation expense.  (Solit
v. Tokai Bank (1999) 68 Cal.App.4th 1435, 1448.)  There are no facts to show any long and
inexcusable delay and no facts to show prejudice upon Defendants.  Plaintiff
met their burden on the motion.  The
motion for leave to amend is GRANTED.   





















    IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE NOTICE.