  Case Number:  21STCV03620    Hearing Date:   March 26, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


March
  26, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV03620




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Summary Judgment, or Alternatively, Summary Adjudication




MOVING PARTY:


Defendants Brian L. Flowers and Rachel B.
  Flowers, individually and as trustees for The Brian and Rachel Flowers
  Revocable Trust




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Willie Redmond and Defendant City of Los Angeles



 
MOVING PAPERS
 
1.      Notice of Motion and Motion for Summary
Judgment or Alternatively, Summary Adjudication; Memorandum of Points and Authorities 
2.      Separate Statement of Undisputed Material
Facts
3.      Evidence in Support of Motion
 
OPPOSITION PAPERS
1.      Plaintiff’s Opposition to Motion for Summary
Judgment
2.      Plaintiff’s Statement of Genuine Issues
Submitted in Opposition 
3.      Declaration of Brian T. Dunn and Exhibits
4.      Defendant City of Los Angeles’ Opposition to Defendant’s
Motion
5.      Defendant City of Los Angeles’ Opposition to
Defendant’s Separate Statement
 
REPLY PAPERS
1.      Reply to Opposition
2.      Response to Separate Statement
3.      Objection to Evidence
4.      Proposed Order
 
BACKGROUND
 
On July 14, 2021, Plaintiff
Willie Redmond (“Plaintiff”) filed the operative first amended complaint
(“FAC”) against Defendants City of Los Angeles and Does 1 to 100 for dangerous
condition of public property, negligence, and premises liability. On July 22,
2021, Plaintiff filed an amendment to the complaint substituting Brian
L. Flowers and Rachel B. Flowers, individually and as trustees for The Brian
and Rachel Flowers Revocable Trust as Does 51 and 52 respectively. The FAC
alleges negligence and premises liability against Does 51 and 52 (“Defendants”).
It alleges that on January 29, 2019, Plaintiff was walking on a sidewalk
adjacent to Defendants’ property when a tree on Defendants’ property which hung
over and obstructed the sidewalk caused him to move around the branches and fall
on an adjacent planter. (FAC ¶ 33.) 
 
Defendants now move for summary judgment, or in the alternative,
summary adjudication,[1] arguing
the following: (1) they did not own or control the property where Plaintiff
fell; (2) Defendants did not owe a duty of care as owners of adjacent land; (3)
Defendants did not create the dangerous condition because the City trims
overhanging trees; and (4) Defendants had no notice of the sidewalk
obstructions. Plaintiff and co-Defendant City of Los Angeles oppose.  
 
OBJECTIONS
 
            The Court declines to rule on
Defendants’ objections to Plaintiff’s evidence because the Court does not rely
on such evidence in reaching the ruling herein.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
“[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion
that there is no triable issue of material fact and that he is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law[.] There is a triable issue of material fact if,
and only if, the evidence would allow a reasonable trier of fact to find the
underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion in accordance with
the applicable standard of proof.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  “[T]he party moving for summary judgment
bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the
nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of
production, he causes a shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a prima facie
showing of the existence of a triable issue of material fact.” (Ibid.;
Smith v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 1463, 1474
[summary judgment standards held by Aguilar apply to summary
adjudication motions].)  Further, in line
with Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co., “[o]n a motion for summary
adjudication, the trial court has no discretion to exercise.  If a triable issue of material fact exists as
to the challenged causes of action, the motion must be denied. If there is no triable
issue of fact, the motion must be granted.” (Fisherman's Wharf Bay Cruise
Corp. v. Superior Court (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 309, 320.)
 
“On a summary judgment motion, the
court must therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a
factfinder could reasonably draw from the evidence. While viewing the evidence
in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its primary function is to
identify issues rather than to determine issues.  Only when the inferences are indisputable may
the court decide the issues as a matter of law. If the evidence is in conflict,
the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” (Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co.
(1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839 [cleaned up].) 
Further, “the trial court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a
factfinder to determine whose version is more likely true.  Nor may the trial court grant summary
judgment based on the court's evaluation of credibility.” (Id. at p. 840
[cleaned up]; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of Transportation
(2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or
summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the
light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences
in favor of that party”].)            
 
DISCUSSION
 
Negligence and Premises Liability
The
elements of a cause of action for negligence are: (1) a duty on the part of
defendant toward plaintiff; (2) defendant’s breach of that duty; and (3) harm
to the plaintiff caused by that breach. (Kesner v. Superior Court (2016) 1 Cal.5th 1132, 1142.) The
elements of a cause of action for premises liability are the same as those for
negligence: duty, breach, causation, and damages. (McIntyre v. The Colonies-Pacific,
LLC (2014) 228
Cal.App.4th 664, 671.) 
Therefore,
to prevail on a claim for premises liability, Plaintiff must prove: (1)
defendant owned or controlled the subject property; (2) defendant was negligent
in the use or maintenance of the property; (3) plaintiff was harmed; and (4)
defendant’s negligence was a substantial factor in causing plaintiff’s harm.
(See Rowland v.
Christian (1968)
69 Cal.2d 108.) Liability in a premises liability action is based not on
responsibility for the conduct of others, but on the failure of the landowner
or occupier to act reasonably under the circumstances when he or she has reason
to anticipate the probability of injury and has an opportunity to prevent the
injury or warn of the peril. (Cody
F. v. Falleti (2001)
92 Cal.App.4th 1232, 1242.) 
a.      Duty
of Due Care
A
“general duty to maintain the property one owns or occupies [generally does
not] extend to abutting property that is owned by others – and, in particular,
to abutting property owned by public entities.” (Lopez v. City of Los
Angeles (2020) 55 Cal.App.5th 244, 255.) “That is because, for more than
150 years, the ‘general rule’ has been that, ‘in the absence of a statute[,] a
landowner is under no duty to maintain in a safe condition a public street’ or
‘sidewalk’ ‘abutting upon his property.’” (Id.)
“This general rule has one notable exception: A
person who owns or occupies land will owe a duty to maintain abutting, publicly
owned property in a reasonably safe condition if that person has ‘exercise[d]
control over th[at] property.’” (Lopez, 55 Cal.App.5th at 255.) An owner
of private property exerts control of abutting, publicly owned property either
“(1) when the owner or occupier has created that hazard [citation
omitted], or (2) if the hazard was created by a third party, when the owner or
occupier has ‘dramatically asserted’ dominion and control over the abutting
publicly owned property by effectively treating the property as its own.” (Id.
at 256 [emphasis in original, alteration omitted].)
Accordingly, the issue is whether the alleged
defect “is somehow attributable to the abutting property owner.” (See Jones v.
Deeter (1984) 152 Cal.App.3d 798, 803 [distinguishing Moeller v. Fleming (1982) 136 Cal.App.3d 241, 245; “here,
the disruptive roots extended from a tree which was located in the parkway,
rather than in the defendant’s front yard, as was the case in Moeller.
This case turns on this distinction. As explained below, the unsafe condition
was caused by the magnolias, here, its attributable to the City, not to
defendant. Accordingly, defendant is not liable in tort for injuries caused by
this condition.”]; see also Alpert
v. Villa Romano Homeowners Assn. (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 1320, 1335 [liability imposed for fall on
sidewalk where there was evidence that adjacent landowner placed sprinklers on
either side of the sidewalk and the trees it planted and maintained had caused
the sidewalk uplift].)
Plaintiff
and Defendants set forth the following undisputed facts. Defendants own
19864 Horace Street, Los Angeles, California. Plaintiff was injured on a
sidewalk behind Defendants’ property. (UMF 5.) Defendants did not construct the
planter box at or near the scene of the incident. (UMF 9.) Defendants did not
purchase or otherwise come into possession of the subject sidewalk prior to the
subject incident. (UMF 11.) Defendants did not construct the sidewalk at or
near the scene of the incident. (UMF 12.) The sidewalk was the property of the
City of Los Angeles. (UMF 13.) 
Defendants set forth the following additional
facts:
-         
The City also trims trees on private property if the
trees hang too low over the sidewalk, that people cannot pass by or get under
the trees to proceed on the sidewalk. (UMF 16.) 
-         
In 2004, a citizen reported a tree encroaching on a
sidewalk, on Corbin Avenue near Chatsworth Street. The City inspected the area,
and found no foliage over the sidewalk. (UMF 18.) 
-         
If the City receives a service request and a City
inspector observes that a tree on private property is causing an obstruction,
the City will send a notice to the private property owner that it is the
private property owner’s responsibility to maintain the clearance that is
obstructed by the tree. Before the subject incident, the City never sent
Defendants a notice that their tree obstructed the sidewalk where Plaintiff
fell. (UMF 21.) 
Here, Defendants have not met their burden of
establishing there are no triable issues of fact. Defendants appear to concede
that the overhanging tree originates on their property. The unsafe conditions
alleged by Plaintiff are that the tree was so overgrown, he could not properly walk
on the sidewalk, and fell into a planter. Although Defendants set forth some
evidence that the City trims private trees that encroach on sidewalks,
Defendants do not establish that this absolves them of any responsibility to
maintain trees on their property. (See Jones, supra, 152 Cal.App.3d at 805
[“In settings where the abutting owners have planted the trees or have
habitually trimmed or cared for them, these abutting owners have the duty to
maintain the trees in a safe condition toward pedestrians. The contrary
situation exists when the city has planted the trees on the parkway and has
performed all necessary maintenance on them. Under these latter circumstances,
the duty to maintain the trees in safe condition rests with the city; dangerous
conditions caused by the trees are attributable to the city, not to abutting
owners.”].) Defendants do not set forth evidence that the City planted the tree
or habitually maintained it.
Although Defendants argue “Defendants had no notice
of a dangerous condition,” they rely on Jones, supra, 152 Cal.App.3d at
801 in support of this argument (Motion at pp. 10-11); moreover, the notice of
motion asserts that “Defendants did not create a dangerous condition on the
sidewalk because the City trim overhanging trees. Defendants had no notice of
any sidewalk obstructions because the City had not received any reports of
overhanging trees since 2004.” (Notice of Motion at p.2.) Accordingly, to the
extent that Defendants argue that the defect is attributable to the City,
rather than to Defendants, this argument is addressed above. To the extent
Defendants raise some other argument regarding lack of notice because the City
did not notify them regarding the overgrown trees, Defendants did not
sufficiently present this argument and, in any event, did not present any facts
or legal authority for the argument that it is established as a matter of law
that they do not have actual or constructive notice of overgrown trees on their
property that hang over a sidewalk just because the City did not notify them of
such. In their reply brief, Defendants argue that “Plaintiff and the City
present no evidence to demonstrate a dispute that Defendants lacked notice of a
dangerous condition.” (Opposition at p. 4.) However, Defendants bear the initial
burden of production and have produced no facts that they lacked actual notice
of the tree overgrowth. Instead, they rely on the argument that before the
incident “the City never sent Defendants a notice that their tree obstructed
the sidewalk where Plaintiff fell.” (UMF 21.) This does not establish that they
had no knowledge of the tree overgrowth. The facts presented by Defendants merely
go to whether they were separately told by the City.
Therefore, the motion for summary
judgment/adjudication is denied. 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Based on the foregoing, Defendants Brian L. Flowers and
Rachel B. Flowers, individually and as trustees for The Brian and Rachel
Flowers Revocable Trust’s Motion for Summary Judgment/Adjudication is DENIED.
 
            Defendants
shall give notice of this ruling and file a proof of service of such.
 
 


