 Case Number:  24SMCV02610    Hearing Date:   October 10, 2024    Dept:  N TENTATIVE
ORDER
 
Defendant Lucid Group USA, Inc.’s Petition
to Compel Arbitration and Stay Proceedings is GRANTED.
 
The
proceedings are hereby STAYED pending the outcome of arbitration.
 
Defendant Lucid Group USA, Inc. to give notice.
 
REASONING
 
Defendant Lucid Group USA, Inc. (“Defendant”) moves to compel Plaintiff Jonathan
Zepp (“Plaintiff”) to submit to arbitration on the ground that Plaintiff
entered into a Purchase Agreement, wherein he agreed to arbitrate all claims
relating to the condition of the 2022 Lucid Air vehicle at issue in this
action. Defendant argues that the contract includes a valid arbitration
provision, Plaintiff did not opt out of the arbitration provision, and
Plaintiff’s claims fall within the scope of the arbitration provision.
Plaintiff opposes the motion on the ground that the arbitration clause is
unconscionable.
 
“[I]n considering a . . . petition to compel arbitration, a trial court
must make the preliminary determinations whether there is an agreement to
arbitrate and whether the petitioner is a party to that agreement (or can
otherwise enforce the agreement).” (M & M
Foods, Inc. v. Pac. Am. Fish Co. (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 554, 559; see also Giuliano v. Inland Empire Personnel, Inc.
(2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1276, 1284 [“petitioner bears the burden of proving the
existence of a valid arbitration agreement by the preponderance of the
evidence”].) In deciding a petition to compel arbitration, trial courts must
first decide whether an enforceable arbitration agreement exists between the parties,
and then determine whether plaintiff’s claims are covered by the agreement. (Omar v. Ralphs Grocery Co. (2004) 118
Cal.App.4th 955, 961.) The burden then shifts to the opposing party to prove,
by a preponderance of evidence, a defense to enforcement of the agreement. (Rosenthal v. Great Western Financial
Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413.)
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 1281 states, “A written agreement to
submit to arbitration an existing controversy or a controversy thereafter
arising is valid, enforceable and irrevocable, save upon such grounds as exist
for the revocation of any contract.” Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2
provides, in relevant part:
 
On
petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a
written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses
to arbitrate such controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the
respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to
arbitrate the controversy exists, unless it determines that:
 
(a)   The right
to compel arbitration has been waived by the petitioner; or
 
(b)  Grounds
exist for the revocation of the agreement.
 
(c)   A party
to the arbitration is also a party to a pending court action or special
proceeding with a third party . . . .
 
“The right
to arbitration depends upon contract; a petition to compel arbitration is
simply a suit in equity seeking specific performance of that contract.” (Engineers & Architects Association v.
Community Development Department (1994) 30 Cal.App.4th 644, 653.) General
principles of contract law determine whether the parties have entered a binding
agreement to arbitrate. (Chan v. Drexel
Burnham Lambert, Inc. (1986) 178 Cal.App.3d 632, 640-641 [“The existence of
a valid agreement to arbitrate involves general contract principles”].)
 
Here,
Plaintiff entered into a Purchase Agreement with an arbitration provision
stating, in part, as follows:
 
11. Disputes,
Arbitration, Waiver of Jury Demand
 
If either you or we have a dispute,
the party raising the dispute will send a written notice of the dispute to the
other, along with the requested resolution. You can send your request to us at
disputes@lucidmotors.com. If a dispute is not resolved within 60 days, you and
we agree that any dispute or claim between you and us or relating in any way to
this Agreement will be resolved by binding arbitration, rather than in court,
except that either you or we may assert claims in small claims court if the claims
qualify. . . . Claims arising out of or relating to the validity, application,
scope, enforceability, or interpretation of this provision (the “Arbitration
Agreement”) shall also be decided by an arbitrator and will be governed by the
Federal Arbitration Act, 9 U.S.C § 1 et seq. (“FAA”). . . .
 
We also both agree that you or we
may bring suit in court to: 1) enjoin infringement or other misuse of
intellectual property rights; 2) file bankruptcy; 3) enforce a security
interest in the Vehicle by repossession; 4) take legal action in court enforce
the arbitrator’s decision; or 5) request that a court review whether the
arbitrator exceeded the authority granted by this Arbitration Agreement. . . .
 
Opt-Out: You may opt-out of the Arbitration
Agreement, within 60 days from the date you accept this Agreement, by sending
an email to Optout@LucidMotors.com from the email associated with your order
with “Arbitration Opt-Out” in the subject line and indicating your request to
optout of the arbitration provision in the body of the email.
 
(Mot., Hupman
Decl. ¶ 3, Ex. A, at ¶ 11.) Plaintiff does not dispute that he signed this
agreement. Instead, Plaintiff argues that the arbitration agreement is unconscionable.
 
At the
outset, Plaintiff contends that unconscionability is an issue to be decided by
the Court, while Defendant argues that the arbitrator decides issues of
unconscionability. Again, the agreement expressly provided that “[c]laims
arising out of or relating to the validity, application, scope, enforceability,
or interpretation of this provision (the ‘Arbitration Agreement’) shall also be
decided by an arbitrator.” (Mot., Hupman Decl. ¶ 3, Ex. A, at ¶ 11.) The
question of who decides issues of arbitrability is described as follows:
 
Parties may agree to have an
arbitrator decide not only the merits of a particular dispute but also gateway
questions of arbitrability, such as whether the parties have agreed to
arbitrate or whether their agreement covers a particular controversy. But
courts should not assume that the parties agreed to arbitrate arbitrability
unless there is clear and unmistakable evidence that they did so.
 
This is a heightened standard that
pertains to the parties’ manifestation of intent, not the agreement’s validity.
That is because the question of who would decide gateway questions like the
unconscionability of an arbitration provision is not one that the parties would
likely focus upon in contracting, and the default expectancy is that the court
would decide the matter. Although parties are free to authorize arbitrators to
resolve such questions, courts will not conclude that they have done so based on
silence or ambiguity in their agreement, because doing so might too often force
unwilling parties to arbitrate a matter they reasonably would have thought a
judge, not an arbitrator, would decide. The “clear and unmistakable” test
applies under both the FAA and California law.
 
Courts have held that there are two
prerequisites for a delegation clause to be effective. First, the language of
the clause must be clear and unmistakable. Second, the delegation must not be
revocable under state contract defenses such as fraud, duress, or
unconscionability.
 
(Mendoza v. Trans Valley Transport (2022)
75 Cal.App.5th 748, 772-773, quotation marks, brackets, citations omitted.)
 
The Court
finds that the language of the Purchase Agreement makes clear that the parties
intended to delegate all issues to the arbitrator, including issues of
unconscionability, with the language that “[c]laims arising out of or relating
to the validity, application, scope, enforceability, or interpretation of this
provision (the ‘Arbitration Agreement’) shall also be decided by an
arbitrator.” (Mot., Hupman Decl. ¶ 3, Ex. A, at ¶ 11.) The provision meets the
first prerequisite for a delegation clause to be effective, i.e., the language
of the clause is clear and unmistakable. The second requirement is that the
delegation clause cannot “be revocable under state contract defenses such as
fraud, duress, or unconscionability.” (Mendoza
v. Trans Valley Transport, supra, 75 Cal.App.5th at p. 773.)
 
As to
unconscionability, it is axiomatic that
“a party opposing the petition [to compel arbitration] bears the burden of
proving by a preponderance of the evidence any fact necessary to its defense.
[] In these summary proceedings, the trial court sits as a trier of fact,
weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other documentary evidence, as
well as oral testimony received at the court’s discretion, to reach a final
determination.” (Giuliano v. Inland
Empire Personnel, Inc., supra,
149 Cal.App.4th at p. 1284.) “Courts analyze the unconscionability standard in
Civil Code section 1670.5 as invoking elements of procedural and substantive
unconscionability.” (McManus v. CIBC
World Markets Corp. (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 76, 87 (McManus).) “The procedural element of unconscionability focuses on
whether the contract is one of adhesion” and “whether there is oppression
arising from an inequality of bargaining power or surprise arising from buried
terms in a complex printed form.” (Ibid.,
quotation marks omitted.) “The substantive element addresses the existence of
overly harsh or one-sided terms.” (Ibid.)
“An agreement to arbitrate is unenforceable only if both the procedural and
substantive elements are satisfied.” (Ibid.)
 
“Procedural unconscionability pertains to the making of the agreement; it
focuses on the oppression that arises from unequal bargaining power and the
surprise to the weaker party that results from hidden terms or the lack of
informed choice.” (Ajamian v. CantorCO2e,
L.P. (2012) 203 Cal.App.4th 771, 795.) An arbitration provision is
substantively unconscionable where the provision “does not fall within the
reasonable expectations of the weaker or ‘adhering’ party,” is “unduly
oppressive,” or has “overly harsh or one-sided” terms. (Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24
Cal.4th 83, 113-114 (Armendariz); McManus, supra, 109 Cal.App.4th at p. 87.) “An arbitration agreement is
lawful if it (1) provides for neutral arbitrators, (2) provides for more than
minimal discovery, (3) requires a written award, (4) provides for all of the
types of relief that would otherwise be available in court, and (5) does not
require [the assenting party] to pay either unreasonable costs or any
arbitrators fees or expenses as a condition of access to the arbitration
forum.” (Armendariz, supra, 24 Cal.4th at p. 102, quotation
marks omitted.)
 
Plaintiff
argues that the agreement is procedurally unconscionable because it was a
preprinted consumer sales contract presented to Plaintiff on a “take it or
leave it” basis, such that Plaintiff had no meaningful opportunity to negotiate
the terms. This argument is not well taken. First, the agreement included an
opt-out provision, but Plaintiff provides no evidence that he attempted to opt
out of the arbitration agreement. Second, presentation of an arbitration
agreement on a “take it or leave it” basis, even in an employment context, does
not automatically render the agreement procedurally unconscionable; Plaintiff
must also show that there was no opportunity for meaningful negotiation or that
he was subjected to oppressive tactics that forced him to sign the agreement.
(See Lagatree v. Luce, Forward, Hamilton
& Scripps (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 1105, 1127 [“a compulsory predispute
arbitration agreement is not rendered unenforceable just because it is required
as a condition of employment or offered on a ‘take it or leave it’ basis”].)
Notably, Plaintiff makes no argument that he was not given the agreement to
review and study before purchasing the vehicle, and there is no evidence that
anyone exerted pressure on Plaintiff. Further, the agreement is relatively
short, in a normal sized typeface, with headings making clear that the
agreement was one to arbitrate claims.
 
Plaintiff
also argues that the failure to provide a copy of the relevant arbitration
rules or stating which rules would be chosen is improper. This is belied by the
agreement, which states that “[u]nless otherwise agreed, the arbitration will
be conducted by the American Arbitration Association (‘AAA’),” and “[t]he
arbitration must be conducted in accordance with AAA’s Consumer Arbitration
Rules, which are available at www.adr.org or by calling the AAA at
800-778-7879.” (Mot., Hupman Decl. ¶ 3, Ex. A, at ¶ 11.)
 
As to
substantive unconscionability, Plaintiff argues that the clause only allows for
a choice of arbitration forum for the party electing to arbitrate. The
agreement expressly provides that AAA is the forum “unless otherwise agreed”
(Mot., Hupman Decl. ¶ 3, Ex. A, at ¶ 11), and there is no evidence that
Plaintiff asked to arbitrate in JAMS but that the request was rejected. Insofar
as Plaintiff argues that the agreement will result in a biased arbitration in
favor of Defendant, the agreement expressly provides for the appointment of a
neutral arbitrator. (Mot., Hupman Decl. ¶ 3, Ex. A, at ¶ 11.) Plaintiff also
argues that the agreement requires the consumer to pay all costs above $5,000,
which improperly prevents a buyer from seeking to enforce his legal rights. There
is no such provision in the agreement, and even if there were, Plaintiff
provides no evidence to support his argument that any costs would be
prohibitive based on his ability or inability to pay.
 
For these
reasons, Defendant Lucid Group USA,
Inc.’s Petition to Compel Arbitration and Stay Proceedings is GRANTED.
The proceedings are hereby STAYED pending the outcome of arbitration.