  Case Number:  23STCV07982    Hearing Date:   May 7, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior
Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department
50
 



NIKA CAROLINE CLELLAND, et al.,
 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
THE ELITE GROUP PROPERTY INSPECTION
  SERVICE, INC, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


 23STCV07982




Hearing Date:


May 7, 2024




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m. 




[TENTATIVE] ORDER
  RE: 
 
MOTION OF
  DEFENDANT, THE ELITE GROUP PROPERTY INSPECTION SERVICE, INC., TO COMPEL
  BINDING ARBITRATION WITH PLAINTIFFS 



            
Background
Plaintiffs Nika Caroline Clelland and Phillip
Perry-Lara Roush (jointly, “Plaintiffs”) filed this action on April 11, 2023
against Defendants The Elite Group Property Inspection Service, Inc. and Oakley
Ross. The Complaint alleges causes of action for (1) breach of contract, 
(2) negligence,
(3) intentional misrepresentation, (4) negligent misrepresentation, (5)
recovery on bond, and (6) declaratory relief. 
            The Complaint alleges that on or
about January of 2022, Ivan Halpern entered into a written purchase agreement
for the sale of 417 N Ave 54, Los Angeles, CA 90042 (the “Subject Property”) on
behalf of CAM Venture 1 REO, LLC with Plaintiffs. (Compl., ¶ 13.) On or about
February 7, 2022, the seller executed a grant deed and shortly thereafter
completed the sale of the Subject Property to Plaintiffs. (Compl., ¶ 13.)  
Plaintiffs
allege that on or about February 2, 2022, “Elite Group Inspection Group” and
their inspector, Oakley Ross performed an inspection of the Subject Property.
(Compl., ¶ 14.) Plaintiffs allege that “[t]he Defendants failed to discover the
significant defects and state of disrepair of the foundation of the Subject
Property. The inspection report only identified separation of a post from the
beam.” (Compl., ¶ 14.) 
Plaintiffs
allege that “[i]t has now come to Plaintiffs attention that the Sellers, the
Sellers Agent and the Defendants made material misrepresentation and/or
concealed the foundation issues to induce Plaintiffs to proceed with the
purchase of the Subject Property. Additionally, the Sellers, the Sellers’
Agents, and the Defendants failed to disclosure [sic] material information
which was known by them at the time of sale of the Subject Property to
Plaintiffs. There is significant cracking on the ceiling and around the windows
throughout the Subject Property due to the foundation issues. Additionally, the
substandard subflooring and the concealed foundation issues have caused
significant damage to the flooring throughout the Subject Property.” (Compl., ¶
16.) 
The
Elite Group Property Inspection Service, Inc. (“Elite Group”) now moves for an
order “1) providing that all claims between [Plaintiffs] and Elite Group be
submitted to binding arbitration…except that the parties shall select an
arbitrator from Construction Dispute Resolution Services, Inc., who is familiar
with the real estate profession, and utilizing its Rules and Procedures; and 2)
staying the civil litigation only as between Plaintiffs and Elite Group pending
completion of the arbitration proceedings.” The motion is unopposed. 
Legal Standard
In a motion to compel arbitration, the moving
party must prove by a preponderance of evidence the existence of the
arbitration agreement and that the dispute is covered by the agreement. The
burden then shifts to the resisting party to prove by a preponderance of
evidence a ground for denial (e.g.,
fraud, unconscionability, etc.). (Rosenthal
v. Great Western Fin. Securities Corp. (1996) 14
Cal.4th 394, 413-414.)   
Generally, on a petition to compel
arbitration, the court must grant the petition unless it finds either (1) no
written agreement to arbitrate exists; (2) the right to compel arbitration has
been waived; (3) grounds exist for revocation of the agreement; or (4)
litigation is pending that may render the arbitration unnecessary or create
conflicting rulings on common issues. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 1281.2; Condee v.
Longwood Management Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 218-219.) 
“California
has a strong public policy in favor of arbitration and any doubts regarding the
arbitrability of a dispute are resolved in favor of arbitration.” (Coast Plaza Doctors Hospital v.
Blue Cross of California (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 677, 686.) “This
strong policy has resulted in the general rule that arbitration should be
upheld unless it can be said with assurance that an arbitration clause is not
susceptible to an interpretation covering the asserted dispute.” (Ibid. [internal quotations omitted].)
This is in accord with the liberal federal policy favoring arbitration
agreements under the Federal Arbitration Act (“FAA”), which governs all
agreements to arbitrate in contracts “involving interstate commerce.” (9 U.S.C. § 2, et
seq.; Higgins v.
Superior Court (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 1238, 1247.) 
            Discussion
A.    Existence of Arbitration Agreement
In support of the motion, Elite Group
submits the Declaration of Tim Maher, the Director of Operations of Elite
Group. (Maher Decl., ¶ 1.) Mr. Maher states that “[o]n or about January 31,
2022, Plaintiffs and Elite Group entered into a written agreement for Elite
Group to perform an inspection of the Property for Plaintiffs…” (Maher Decl., ¶
3.) Exhibit “A” to Mr. Maher’s declaration includes a “Standard Inspection
Agreement” (herein, the “Agreement”). (Maher Decl., ¶ 3.) 
The
Agreement references “Client Name: Nika Clelland & Perry Roush,” and Mr.
Maher states that the Agreement was signed by Nika Caroline Clelland on January
31, 2022. (Maher Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. A.) The Agreement provides, inter alia,
as follows: 
 
“BINDING
ARBITRATION: Any dispute, based in contract or tort, concerning the
inspection, the inspection report, the interpretation or enforcement of this
Agreement, or any other dispute arising out of this relationship, shall be
resolved between the parties by binding arbitration conducted in accordance
with Federal Arbitration Act 9 U.S.C Section 1 et
seq., ARBITRATION AND WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL: Any dispute concerning: the
interpretation or enforcement or interpretation of this Agreement; the adequacy
of the Inspection, the adequacy of the Report, any allegation that Inspector
breach this Agreement or the standard of care; or any claims, causes of action,
or damages, whether in tort, contract, or equity (collectively “Claims”), shall
be submitted to and resolved by binding arbitration conducted by Construction
Dispute Resolution Services, Inc., utilizing their Rules and Procedures. Client
and Inspector shall be entitled to all discovery rights and legal motions as
provided in the California Code of Civil Procedure and propounding or
responding to discovery shall not be considered a waiver of the right to compel
binding arbitration. The decision of the Arbitrator shall be final 
and binding and
judgment on the award may be entered in any Court of competent jurisdiction.
This arbitration agreement shall be interpreted pursuant to the terms of the
Federal Arbitration Act and then by California law. Any dispute as to whether
any Claims between Client and Inspector are subject to binding arbitration
shall be decided by the arbitrator, not the court. The parties agree that by
agreeing to this binding arbitration agreement they are waiving their right to
trial by jury. The parties agree that they shall be entitled to discovery
procedures within the discretion of the arbitrator. The award of the arbitrator
shall be final, and a judgment may be entered on by any court having
jurisdiction. Each party is to pay their own fees and costs of arbitration.” (Maher
Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. A.)
The
Agreement further provides that “[c]lient expressly acknowledges that this
Agreement contains a Binding Arbitration Agreement that waives the right to
jury trial…” (Maher Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. A.)
Elite
Group argues that “[t]he dispute between Elite Group and Plaintiffs is covered
by the binding arbitration agreement.” (Mot. at p. 12:9-10.) Elite Group
asserts that “[t]he language of the arbitration agreement specifically states
that the arbitration agreement applies to all disputes based in contract or
tort, and is broad enough to encompass all causes of action alleged by
Plaintiffs against Elite Group in the Complaint.” (Mot. at p. 12:22-25.) 
In
addition, as set forth above, Elite Group moves, inter alia, for an
order that the parties shall select an arbitrator from Construction Dispute
Resolution Services, Inc. As set forth above, the subject Agreement provides, inter
alia, that “[a]ny dispute concerning: the interpretation or enforcement or
interpretation of this Agreement; the adequacy of the Inspection, the adequacy
of the Report, any allegation that Inspector breach this Agreement or the
standard of care; or any claims, causes of action, or damages, whether in tort,
contract, or equity (collectively ‘Claims’), shall be submitted to and resolved
by binding arbitration conducted by Construction Dispute Resolution Services,
Inc., utilizing their Rules and Procedures.” (Maher Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. A.)
As
set forth above, Plaintiffs do not oppose the instant motion. Thus, Plaintiffs
do not dispute that they entered into the Agreement or that it covers the
claims alleged by Plaintiffs in the Complaint. Based on the foregoing, the Court finds
that Elite Group has established that an arbitration agreement exists
and that it covers the claims asserted by Plaintiffs in this action. In addition, as
Plaintiffs do not oppose the instant motion, they have not raised any grounds for denial.  
Conclusion
For the foregoing reasons, Elite Group’s motion to compel arbitration is granted. The action is stayed as
between Plaintiffs and Elite
Group pending completion of arbitration of Elite Group’s arbitrable claims.[1] 
The Court sets an arbitration completion
status conference on May 7, 2025, at 10:00 a.m. in Dept. 50. The parties are
ordered to file a joint report regarding the status of the arbitration five
court days prior to the status conference, with a courtesy copy delivered
directly to Department 50. Elite Group is ordered to provide notice of this
Order.
 
DATED:  May 7, 2024                                   
________________________________
Hon.
Teresa A. Beaudet
Judge,
Los Angeles Superior Court


