 Case Number:  22SMCV01872    Hearing Date:   April 5, 2024    Dept:  I The court is inclined to DENY the application to continue
the trial.  The reasons given are a
scheduling conflict and the fact that plaintiff very recently saw a  new doctor and was busy on the day scheduled
for the defense medical examination. 
That is not really good cause. 
The trial has been set for a year. 
Plaintiff’s decision to go to a new doctor a month before trial and then
to be too busy to attend the defense medical examination is a problem of her
own making.  The other issue is that
plaintiff has changed counsel and new counsel is busy on the day of trial.  But that, too, is a problem of plaintiff’s
making.  She is, of course, free to
change counsel, but new counsel needs to be available to try the case. 
 
A word on the situation. 
The court has 1000 cases on its docket. 
All of them want trials.  The
court is now setting initial trial dates about 18 months from the date of the
CMC, which is itself often 6 months after filing.  The court is currently working on the
assumption that 11 out of 12 cases will settle or resolve.  That is probably realistic, but it gives the
court no breathing room.  The problem
with continuing cases is that it has the effect of bumping a case where the
parties have truly been diligent, which is not fair to them.  Or it has the effect of creating a hole in
the court’s calendar, which results in even longer delays.  Accordingly, while the court used to give an
initial continuance almost reflexively, it just no longer has that luxury.
 
Plaintiff will need to make herself available for the
defense medical expert examination very quickly or she will likely have a hard
time getting the new damages before a jury. 
If the case is important enough to try, it is important enough for
plaintiff and her counsel to find time in their schedules to try it.
 
The court will hear argument, but the primary issue that
could give rise to the court reaching a different conclusion would be that
there was some dramatic and unforeseeable change in plaintiff’s condition that
caused her to see a new doctor so close to trial and an affirmative showing
that there would be no prejudice to the defense.  Even then, plaintiff may need to be prepared
for a very long continuance—perhaps the better part of a year or even longer.