 Case Number:  22SMCV02268    Hearing Date:   April 5, 2024    Dept:  I The motions to compel are GRANTED IN PART AND DENIED IN
PART.  Sanctions are GRANTED as prayed.
 
This was originally a UD case, but possession is no longer
at issue.  Accordingly, the normal
discovery rules apply rather than the accelerated ones applicable to UD
actions.
 
Plaintiff served discovery on October 30, 2023, by
email.  That meant that the responses
were due on Friday, December 1 (30 days plus 2 court days for the method of
service).  However, no responses were
served.  According to plaintiff,
extensions were granted, but still no responses.  Defendant does not oppose the motion nor does
defendant provide any excuse for simply ignoring discovery obligations.
 
However, the court cannot quite grant the motion in
full.  Plaintiff, when compelling
responses to an RFP, must establish good cause for the RFP.  That is not a high bar—usually it only means
that the discovery is within normal parameters and not obviously objectionable
on its face.  Most of the RFP’s fit that
bill, but a few do not.  RFP 20-23 are
facially improper.  They require
defendants to produce images of their drivers’ licenses, passports, official
identity cards, and social security cards. 
That request goes beyond the normal identification requests in the form
interrogatories, which are needed so that a party can find other pertinent
information.  (And that sort of discovery
is generally not permitted at all in a UD case.)  Rather, it smacks of an attempt to suggest
that plaintiff is interested in the immigration status of the defendants, which
has no bearing on this case at all.
 
Accordingly, the motion is GRANTED except as to RFP 20-23 as
to which it is DENIED.  Verified
responses without objection (other than privilege) are due in 10 court
days.  The documents are due with the
responses.  If any documents are withheld
on privilege, they will be logged and the log will be detailed enough to itself
create a prima facie case for the privilege.  Plaintiff seeks $886.50 in sanctions on one
motion and $724 on the other.  That is a
fairly small amount.  The court finds
that the rates are reasonable and the number of hours is reasonable as
well.  Although the motion was not fully
granted, the court cannot see that the portion that was denied would have had
any material effect on the amount of time needed to draft the moving
papers.  Sanctions are imposed upon
defendant only, not counsel, and are payable within 30 days.
 
The court reminds the parties that there is an upcoming
trial date.  The court expects full
compliance with its FSC and trial rules, which can be found on line.  The failure to comply will result in
sanctions against one or both parties, and those sanctions could be evidentiary
in nature.