 Case Number:  23STCV10421    Hearing Date:   October 17, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept.
68
Date:
10-17-24
Case:
23STCV10421
Trial
Date: First Trial, 11-18-24 c/f 10-7-24 c/f 9-9-24 c/f 6-3-24; Second Trial, 1-6-25
c/f 12-2-24 c/f 9-23-24
 
SUMMARY ADJUDICATION
 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendant/Cross-Complainant, Jason Lee
RESPONDING
PARTY: Cross-Defendant, B&K Enterprise, Inc.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Motion
for Summary Adjudication
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
Plaintiff
Kelly Soojin Kim alleges Defendant Jason Lee approached her in “early 2021” to
establish a business relationship, whereby Lee would work with Kim at an
existing establishment owned and operated by Kim, and identified as Star Night.
Kim alleges Defendant proposed the joint venture in order to improve revenue at
Star Night given Lee’s prior operation of a similar restaurant business lost to
a fire. Lee purportedly represented to offer certain proprietary “secret”
recipes and “restaurant management know how” as part of said incentive. 
 
In
March 2021, the parties entered into a shareholder agreement, identified as the
B&K Enterprise, Inc., Agreement between Shareholders. The agreement
provides Kim with a 51% ownership share of the of the B&K Enterprise, Inc.
business entity, and Lee with the remaining 49%. The agreement articulates
certain responsibilities between the owners based on either the first or second
floor location within the premises, and also provided Lee with the right to
open additional OB Bear Restaurant locations outside the state of California
without the consent of majority shareholder Kim. 
 
The
parties’ working relationship was unsuccessful, with multiple accusations of
embezzlement and improper operational management practices. Lee subsequently
requested cessation from the partnership. Kim alleges Lee solicited the
purported business with the intention of either acquiring Star Night for
himself, or to destroy the business and open a new competing business upon
payment on the insurance casualty claim following the business premises fire.
Kim also contends that the failure to ever turn over the alleged secret recipes
constituted a violation of the partnership agreement, and therefore a lack of
consideration. Kim therefore denies any enforceable shareholder agreement,
thereby entitling Lee to any rights as a shareholder.
 
On
May 9, 2023, Kim filed a verified complaint for Breach of Contract; Breach of
Fiduciary Duty; Fraud [Cal. Civ. Code § 1710(1)]; Unfair Competition [Cal.
B&P Code §§ 17200 Et Seq.]; Rescission of Written Instrument Based Upon
Fraud [Cal. Civ. Code §§ 3399, 1571.73 and 1689(1)]; Declaratory Relief [C.C.P.
§ 1060]; and, Injunctive Relief. On June 26, 2023, Lee answered the complaint
and filed a cross-complaint for Involuntary dissolution of Corporation;
Accounting; Breach of Fiduciary Duty; Breach of Contract; Breach of Implied Covenant
of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; and Constructive Wrongful Discharge. On October
13, 2023, Lee filed a first amended cross-complaint for Involuntary dissolution
of Corporation; Accounting; Breach of Fiduciary Duty; Breach of Contract;
Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; Constructive Wrongful
Discharge; Unjust Enrichment; and Theft by False Pretense.
 
Lee
confirms the represented terms of the deal, but also adds in an agreement for a
50-50 split of profits, with Lee receiving a $4,000/month salary as well. If
operations were successful, Lee would be entitled to a 1% share, thereby
rendering the parties as equal shareholders. Lee also concedes to the agreement
to provide certain recipes, which apparently included a popular Korean fried
chicken recipe popular with customers. Lee also maintains tendering a $150,000
check to Kim towards the agreement. 
 
Contrary
to Kim, Lee maintains the recipes were provided. Kim, however, began
interfering with operations. After “two or three months,” Lee sought to
negotiate the termination of the business relationship. 
 
On
October 26, 2023, the court granted Plaintiff’s motion to bifurcate the trial
on the issue of shareholder status of defendant Lee.
 
On
April 17, 2024, the court sustained the demurrer in part and overruled the
demurrer in part to the first amended cross-complaint. On May 21, 2024, the
court granted leave to file an amended cross-complaint. On May 28, 2024, Lee
filed an 18 cause of action second amended verified cross-complaint Involuntary
dissolution of Corporation; Accounting; Breach of Fiduciary Duty; Breach of Contract;
Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; Constructive Wrongful
Discharge;  Restitution; Theft By False
Pretense; Breach Of Implied-In-Fact Contract (Joint Venture/ Partnership);
Breach Of Implied Covenant Of Good Faith And Fair Dealing (Joint Venture/
Partnership); Breach Of Implied-In-Fact Contract (Loan); Breach Of Implied
Covenant Of Good Faith And Fair Dealing (Loan);
Quantum
Meruit/Quantum Valebant/Quasi-Contract; Promissory Estoppel; Promissory Fraud;
Fraud – Intentional Misrepresentation; Fraudulent Transfer; and Common Law
Fraudulent Transfer.
 
On
July 24, 2024, the court granted cross-complainants ex parte application for
temporary restraining order enjoining any transfer of, sale, liquidation, or
other disposition of property pending the hearing on the motion for preliminary
injunction. 
 
On
July 25, 2024, the court (Department 85) granted the writ of attachment for
$150,000 in favor of Lee and against B&K Enterprises only. 
 
On
October 7, 2024, the court entered the parties stipulation enjoining the
transfer of, sale, liquidation, or other disposition of B&K Enterprise
property.
 
RULING: Denied.
Request
for Judicial Notice: Granted in Part/Denied in Part.
·        
The
court takes judicial notice of its own minute prior order continuing the first
trial date.
·        
The
court cannot take judicial notice of the filed declaration submitted in support
of the writ of attachment for the truth of the matter asserted.
 
 
Evidentiary
Objections to the Declaration of Norma Garcia: 
·        
Numbers
1-3, 5-10: Overruled.
·        
Number
4, 11-15: Sustained.
 
Evidentiary
Objections to the Declaration of Domingo Vazquez: Overruled/Not Considered
(Code Civ. Proc., 437c, subd. (q).)
 
Evidentiary
Objections to the Declaration of Ismael Medrano: Overruled/Not Considered (Code
Civ. Proc., 437c, subd. (q).)
 
Evidentiary
Objections to the Declaration of Hyon Kang: Overruled/Not Considered (Code Civ.
Proc., 437c, subd. (q).)
 
Evidentiary
Objections to the Declaration of Young Lee: Overruled/Not Considered (Code Civ.
Proc., 437c, subd. (q).)
 
Evidentiary
Objections to the Declaration of Brandon Kim 
·        
Numbers
1-3: Sustained
·        
Numbers
4-7: Overruled.
 
Evidentiary
Objections to the Declaration of Kelly Kim
·        
Numbers
1-3: Sustained
·        
Numbers
4-5: Overruled.
 
Defendant/Cross-Complainant,
Jason Lee moves for summary adjudication “on the issue of shareholder status.”
Lee brings the motion for the purpose of conclusively establishing shareholder
status, thereby obviating the need for the first of the parts of the bifurcated
trial. Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants Kim, B&K Enterprises, Inc. and Kim
challenge the motion on grounds of procedural defects, untimeliness, and lack
of admissible evidence establishing the existence of any valid, enforceable
agreement. Lee in reply, invoking William Faulkner and classical reference, dismisses
the opposition and asserts Lee’s shareholder status. Lee also maintains the
motion is timely. Lee challenges reference to “theoretical affirmative
defenses” never presented by Lee. Lee maintains the agreement is both properly
before the court, and the agreement in no way fails for lack of consideration
or on the basis of estoppel.
 
Lee
“conditionally” lodged certain documents without any apparent application or
motion to seal. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.551(b).) The court will not
consider such documents. Lee may retrieve the documents from the courtroom.
 
Lee
appears to move for summary adjudication as to both the complaint and
cross-complaint. The pleadings frame
the issues for motions, “since it is those allegations to which the
motion must respond. (Citation.)” 
(Scolinos v. Kolts (1995) 37
Cal. App. 4th 635, 640-641; FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 382-383; Jordan-Lyon Prods., LTD., v. Cineplex Odeon Corp. (1994) 29
Cal.App.4th 1459, 1472.) The purpose of a motion for summary judgment or
summary adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the
parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations,
trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.”  (Aguilar
v. Atl. Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c,
subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the
evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’
and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)  
 
“On
a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on the moving party
to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material
fact.”  (Scalf v. D.B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510,
1519.)  A defendant moving for summary
judgment “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has no
merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of action .
. . cannot be established.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)  “Once the
defendant . . . has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . .
to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the
cause of action or a defense thereto.”  (Ibid.) 
“A plaintiff … has met his
or her burden of showing that there is no defense to a cause of action if that
party has proved each element of the cause of action entitling the party to
judgment on the cause of action. Once the plaintiff … has met that burden, the
burden shifts to the defendant … to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(1).) “There is a triable issue of material fact
if, and only if, the evidence would allow a reasonable trier of fact to find
the underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion in accordance
with the applicable standard of proof.” 
(Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at
850.) The defendant “shall not rely upon the allegations or denials of its
pleadings to show that a triable issue of material fact exists but, instead,
shall set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue of material
fact exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(1).)
 
“When deciding whether to grant summary judgment, the court
must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers (except evidence to
which the court has sustained an objection), as well as all reasonable
inference that may be drawn form that evidence, in the light most favorable to
the party opposing summary judgment.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159
Cal.App.4th 463, 467; see also Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)  “An issue of fact can only be created by a
conflict in the evidence.  It is not
created by speculation, conjecture, imagination or guesswork.”  (Lyons
v. Security Pacific National Bank (1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 1001, 1041
(citation omitted).)  
 
“A party may move for summary adjudication as to one or more
causes of action within an action... or one or more issues of duty if the party
contends that the cause of action has no merit, that there is no
affirmative defense to the cause of action that there is no merit to an
affirmative defense as to any cause of action, that there is no merit to a
claim for damages, as specified in Section 3294 of the Civil Code, or that one
or more defendants either owed or did not owe a duty to the plaintiff or
plaintiffs. A motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only if it
completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for
damages, or an issue of duty.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).) 
 
While Lee disputes the procedural standard in reply, the
court finds the format and framing of the requested relief motion requires
address. Nothing in the 88 separate denials, and 32 affirmative defenses in the
June 26, 2023, answer to the complaint appears to actually articulate any form
of defense thereby specifically identifying the particular issue of shareholder
rights. While Lee dismisses any and all “theoretical defenses,” as established
in the standard, such pleadings frame the motion. Given the disclaimer of any
affirmative defenses in the answer to the operative complaint, the court
assumes Lee only relies on the 18 cause of action 144 page verified second
amended cross-complaint identifying the shareholder agreement [¶¶ 47-50]. Multiple
causes of action directly reference said shareholder agreement, but again, it
remains unclear from as to which causes of action Lee seeks summary adjudication,
or how “shareholder” status constitutes an “issue” subject to summary
adjudication. (DeCastro West Chodorow & Burns, Inc. v. Superior Court (1996)
47 Cal.App.4th 410, 422 accord Hood v. Superior Court (1995) 33
Cal.App.4th 319, 323-324.)
 
While Lee may depend on the October 26, 2023, bifurcation
order in support, bifurcation of a trial in and of itself only constitutes a
trial management device, not a substantive basis of support for framing issues
in a motion for summary adjudication. A declaration of shareholder status in
conformance with the bifurcation order insufficiently identifies the source of
support for the motion. The court therefore DENIES the motion for summary
adjudication on this basis.
 
The court also finds the separate statement fails to
actually identify the basis of the relief sought in violation of California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1350(b). Responding parties correctly object to the
omission(s). (California-Am. Water v. Marina Coast Water Dist. (2022) 86
Cal. App. 5th 1272, 1297; Troyk v. Farmers Group, Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.
App. 4th 1305, 1350.) Violation of this section is an additional basis for
denial. Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (b)(1).)
 
On timeliness, Responding Parties also addresses the June
28, 2024, order to advance the summary adjudication hearing date or continue
the trial date. The court continued the first trial date from October 7 to
November 18, 2024, but declined to address the timeliness of the motion for
summary adjudication. The motion itself was filed on June 24, 2024, which is
more than 75 days before the hearing date, and 32 days before the new trial
date. Responding parties maintain the filing of the motion before the order
continuing the hearing was an improper action. The court declines to find the
motion untimely given the extension of trial date, even if such action occurred
after the filing date.
 
Notwithstanding the procedural bases for denial, the motion
lacks any admissible evidence establishing the existence of the shareholder
agreement (see evidentiary objections to the Declaration of Norma Garcia).
(Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (d).) Even if the court considered the existence
of the agreement, the motion itself relies on an assumption that the alleged
agreement automatically supports a finding of shareholder status. Responding
parties challenge any valid agreement, due to a lack of formation and
consideration. Assuming the admissibility of the agreement, Responding Parties
challenge any execution. While Brandon admits to transferring shares in Star
Night, but any nexus to B&K remains unclear. The court finds the dispute
constitutes triable issues of material fact. [Declarations of Soojin Kim,
Brandon Kim (not relying on any objected hearsay).] (Corp. Code, § 409; Brown
v. North Ventura Road Development Co. (1963) 216 Cal.App.2d 227, 233; Young
v. New Pedrara Onyx Co. (1920) 48 Cal.App. 1, 17; Majors v. Girdner (1916)
31 Cal.App. 47, 54; see Long Beach Drug Co. v. United Drug Co. (1939)
13 Cal.2d 158, 164.) The motion is therefore DENIED on this basis as well.

The motion is therefore DENIED in its entirety on both procedural and
substantive grounds.
 
Motion to compel further responses, OSC re: Dismissal,
Status Conference/Case Management Conference, and OSC re: Preliminary
Injunction all set for October 24, 2024. Trial on shareholder status remains
set for November 18, 2024.
 
Lee to provide notice.
 