

 
This is a case
arising out of the sale of residential home. On June 22, 2017, Defendant
Eduardo Thackeray (Defendant Thackeray) listed for sale the real property
located at 1217 Daniels, Los Angeles 90035 (Property). The marketing
information showed that the Property was a 1,627 square foot house with a
pre-approved plan for an additional 1,050 square feet. On July 10, 2017,
Plaintiffs Rebecca
West and Luca Giorgetti (Plaintiffs) executed a Purchase
Agreement with Defendant for the Property. In November 2017, Plaintiffs learned
that, in April 2017, Defendant had withdrawn the request for the permit for an
additional 1,050 square feet and sought a refund of the $5,811.02 fee that had
been paid; the permit was revoked and a refund issued on June 14, 2017.
 
Thereafter, on
July 16, 2019, Plaintiffs sued Defendants Thackeray (as trustee of the
Thackeray Family Revocable Trust and individually), Rodeo Realty, Belen
Palacios, and Alex Griswold. The Complaint alleges causes of action for (1.)
intentional misrepresentation, (2.) negligent misrepresentation, (3.) breach of
fiduciary duty, and (4.) breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair
dealing. 
 
On March 26, 2020,
Plaintiffs filed a motion to compel arbitration to arbitrate their claims
against Defendant Thackeray. On November 4, 2020, the Court granted the motion.

 
On July 11, 2023, the
Arbitrator submitted the Final Award, which was twenty-two pages in length. The
Arbitrator found in favor of Plaintiff West – awarding actual damages in the
amount of $206,300 against Respondent Eduardo Thackeray, as Trustee of the
Thackeray Family Revocable Trust. Plaintiff was also awarded $210,000 in
attorneys’ fees and $50,239.86 in costs as the prevailing party. 
 
On September 13,
2023, Plaintiff Rebecca West (Plaintiff) filed a Motion to Confirm the Arbitration
Award and sought attorney fees and costs in the amount of $20,720. Defendant
Thackeray opposed the motion on limited grounds. A reply was filed. On December
1, 2023, Thackeray filed a Sur-Reply; the Court disregards this unauthorized
filing.  
 
The
motion to confirm the Arbitration Award is granted in part. Plaintiff’s
Proposed Judgment does not conform with the Arbitration Award; Plaintiff is to
file and serve a new proposed judgment against Defendant Thackeray, in his
capacity as trustee only. Moreover, the request for attorney fees is granted in
the reduced amount of $8,125. 

 
Legal Standard
 
When
parties agree to private arbitration, the scope of judicial review is strictly
limited to give effect to the parties’ intent “to bypass the judicial system
and thus avoid potential delays at the trial and appellate levels....” (Moncharsh
v. Heily & Blase (1992) 3 Cal.4th 1, 10.) “By agreeing to arbitration,
parties anticipate a relatively speedy, inexpensive and final resolution, one
that may be based on ‘ “broad principles of justice,” ’ rather than strictly
the rule of law. [Citation.] Consequently, ‘as a general rule courts will
indulge every reasonable intendment to give effect to arbitration proceedings.’
[Citation.]” (Toal v. Tardif (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 1208, 1218.) 
 
Further,
“the scope of judicial review of arbitration awards is extremely narrow.” (California
Faculty Assn. v. Superior Court (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 935, 943; see Moncharsh
v. Heily & Blase (1992) 3 Cal.4th 1, 10–11, 27–28, 33.) Generally,
courts may not review the merits of the dispute, the sufficiency of the
evidence, or the reasoning in support of the arbitrator's decision. (Pierotti
v. Torian (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 17, 23.) “Because ‘arbitral finality is a
core component of the parties' agreement to submit to arbitration’ [citation]
and because arbitrators are not required to make decisions according to the
rule of law, parties to an arbitration agreement accept the risk of arbitrator
errors [citation], and arbitrator decisions cannot be judicially reviewed for
errors of fact or law even if the error is apparent and causes substantial
injustice [citations].” (Berglund v. Arthroscopic & Laser Surgery Center
of San Diego, L.P. (2008) 44 Cal.4th 528, 534.)
 
“ ‘[I]t is within
the power of the arbitrator to make a mistake either legally or factually. When
parties opt for the forum of arbitration they agree to be bound by the decision
of that forum knowing that arbitrators, like judges, are fallible.’ ” (Moncharsh v. Heily & Blasé¸ supra, 3 Cal.4th  at 12,; accord, Cable
Connection, Inc. v. DIRECTV, Inc. (2008) 44 Cal.4th 1334, 1340 [“[T]he
California Legislature ‘adopt[ed] the position taken in case law ... that is,
“that in the absence of some limiting clause in the arbitration agreement, the
merits of the award, either on questions of fact or of law, may not be reviewed
except as provided in the statute.” ’ ”].)
 
Under
section 1286.2, the grounds on which a court may vacate an award are if it was
(1) procured by corruption, fraud, or undue means, (2) issued by corrupt
arbitrators, (3) affected by prejudicial misconduct on the part of the
arbitrators, or (4) in excess of the arbitrators' powers. (Cable Connection,
Inc. v. DIRECTV, Inc. (2008) 44 Cal.4th 1334, 1340; Code Civ. Proc., §
1286.2, subd. (a).) There is a presumption in favor of the validity of the
award, and the challenger bears the burden of establishing a claim of
invalidity. (Betz v. Pankow (1993) 16 Cal.App.4th 919, 923.)


Analysis
 
            Plaintiff
West moves for an order confirming the Arbitrator’s final Arbitration Award
(Award). She also seeks additional attorney fees and costs in the sum of
$20,720.
 
Plaintiff seeks to confirm an arbitration award issued by
the arbitrator, Robert Mann of ADR Services, Inc. The Motion complies with Code
Civil Procedure section 1285.4. Plaintiff has attached a copy of the
arbitration agreement. (West Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. A; Code Civ. Proc., § 1285.4,
subd. (a).) Further, the Award sets forth the name of the arbitrator, Robert
Mann, and a copy of the award and opinion is attached. (West Decl., ¶
6, Ex. C; Code
Civ. Proc., § 1285.4, subds. (b)-(c).)  
 
            Thus,
the Motion to Confirm the Arbitration Award complies with all the statutory
requirements. 
 
            In
opposition, Defendant Thackeray does not oppose or otherwise challenge the
underlying Arbitration Award. Rather, the only dispute between the parties concerns who the
Judgment is against and the amount of attorney’s fees awardable to Plaintiff. 
 
With respect to the Judgment to be entered, the dispute centers
on whether the Arbitration Award was against Defendant Thackeray, solely in his
capacity as trustee, or if the Arbitration Award was also against Defendant
Thackeray in his individual capacity. 
 
In moving to confirm the arbitration award, Plaintiff
submits a Proposed Judgment that states: “IT IS ORDERED that the award of the
arbitrator dated July 11, 2023 be and the same is confirmed. Judgment is hereby
entered in favor of Plaintiff Rebecca West and against Defendant Eduardo
Thackeray, as an individual and as Trustee of the Thackeray Family
Revocable Trust, in the amount of $466.539.86.” (Emphasis added)
 
 
Plaintiff argues that “Eduardo Thackeray,
Trustee of the Thackeray Family Revocable Trust, and individually” was merely
one party such that the purported Award against Thackeray, as Trustee, necessarily
incorporated him in his individual capacity, as well. 
 
The Opposition argues simply that the Arbitration Award was
clearly only entered against Eduardo Thackeray as Trustee.
 
The Opposition is correct. The Arbitration Award is unambiguous.
Following the arbitration, the
Arbitrator issued a Final Award stateubg that the award was only against the
Trustee: “Claimant Rebecca West is awarded actual damages in the amount of
$206,300 from Respondent Eduardo Thackeray, as Trustee of the Thackeray
Family Revocable Trust[.]” (Emphasis added.) Moreover, the caption of the Award refers
to Thackeray in his capacity as “Trustee of the Thackeray Family Revocable Trust, and
individually,” but not in the terms of the Final Award – suggesting the
omission was deliberate.[1] 
 
Further, the law is clear that a person sued as trustee is
not necessarily sued in their individual capacity. Plaintiff’s attempt to
conflate Thackeray as Trustee of the Thackeray Family Revocable Trust with
Thackeray individually is unsupported by any relevant law. 
 
“A trust itself can neither sue nor
be sued in its own name. Instead, the real party in interest in litigation
involving a trust is always the trustee. (Powers v. Ashton (1975) 45
Cal.App.3d 783, 787; Code Civ. Proc., § 369.)” However, “[t]he powers of a
trustee are not personal to any particular trustee but, rather, are inherent in
the office of trustee.” (Moeller v. Superior Court (1997) 16 Cal.4th
1124, 1131.) 
 
In Andrews v. Horton (1935) 8
Cal.App.2d 40, the court held that an attorney could recover fees against a
trustee individually because in that case, the trustees were named in the case
in which the attorney represented them in their individual capacities, and the
trial court found that the defendants entered into the attorney fee contract in
their individual capacities. Also in that case, the defendants had previously
paid the plaintiff’s attorneys out of their personal funds. Moreover, that
agreement did not specify that the representation of the trustees was in their
capacity as trustees. 
 
The reply argues that “California law requires that the
Award as it is written be interpreted as holding Thackeray liable in his
capacity both as trustee and as an individual.” (Reply 4:11-12.) Plaintiff then
proceeds to cite Probate Code section 18002, which states “A trustee is
personally liable for torts committed in the course of administration of the
trust only if the trustee is personally at fault.”
 
            However, Probate Code
section 18005 states that “[t]he question of liability as between the trust
estate and the trustee personally may be determined in a [separate]
proceeding....” According to the Law Revision Commission Comment: “Under this
section, ultimate liability as between the estate and the trustee need not be
determined before the third person's claim can be satisfied. It is permissible,
and may be preferable, for judgment to be entered against the trust without
determining the trustee's ultimate liability until later. Where judgment is
entered against the trustee individually, the question of the trustee's right
to reimbursement may be settled informally with the beneficiaries or in a
separate proceeding in the probate court.” (Galdjie v. Darwish (2003)
113 Cal.App.4th 1331, 1348.) That is, whether the Thackeray Revocable Trust
will reimburse Thackeray as trustee for his liability here, is not relevant to whether
Plaintiff’s Award is against Thackeray in his individual capacity. 
 
The case Andrews v. Horton
highlights the elements that are necessary for any attorney to recover against
a trustee individually – demonstrating that while a trustee may be sued in his individual capacity for
torts that he commits as a trustee in the course of administration of the
trusts under Probate Code section 18002 – the two cannot be treated as one “by
operation of law” as argued by Plaintiff.
 
            Plaintiff is to submit a new,
Proposed Judgment consistent with the Court’s order. 
 
Attorney
Fees and Costs: 
 
            Plaintiff also requests attorney
fees in the sum of $20,720.
 
            In connection with the motion to
compel arbitration, Plaintiffs seek reasonable attorney’s fees and costs in the
sum of $11,345.00. (West Decl., ¶ 7). However, as the reply notes, Plaintiff
previously requested the $11,345 incurred in connection with the motion to
compel arbitration from the arbitrator; the “arbitrator denied those fees.” (Reply
6:15-16 [citing West Decl., Ex. C at Section VII, pp. 20:28-22:5].) Thus, even
if Plaintiff is correct that the Court awarding the motion to compel
arbitration fees does involve “double-dipping”, the
Court – on this motion to confirm the arbitration award – has no authority to
correct the arbitration award where the Arbitrator already made a determination
on the fees on the motion to compel arbitration. Plaintiff did not move to correct or
vacate the arbitrator's award as it pertained to attorney fees, and she has
expressed no reasoning or authority for the Award’s correction on this motion.
(Code Civ. Proc., §§ 1285, 1286.2, 1286.6.)
 
            In connection with the filing of
this Motion to Confirm Arbitration Award, Plaintiff claims she has incurred and
will incur reasonable attorney’s fees and costs in the sum of $9,375.00.
(Hughes Decl., ¶¶ 2-3). In contrast to the motion to compel arbitration,
Plaintiff could not have submitted her fees for the motion to confirm the
arbitration award to the Arbitrator. Further, there is no dispute that
Plaintiff was the prevailing party on the arbitration. Thus, Plaintiff is entitled
to reasonable fees incurred in this incurred in post-arbitration
judicial proceeding. (Carole Ring & Associates v. Nicastro (2001) 87
Cal.App.4th 253, 261 [“Because Nicastro was the prevailing party as a matter of
law, the mandatory language of the contractual attorney fees clause and section
1293.2 entitle Nicastro to reasonable attorney fees and costs incurred in
post-arbitration judicial proceedings.”]; Corona v. Amherst Partners
(2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 701, 707 [“Corona was entitled to recover his attorney
fees and costs relating to the judicial proceedings.”].)
 
            Plaintiff’s counsel represents
that he spent 8 hours preparing this Motion to
Confirm Arbitration and anticipates spending an additional 5 hours reviewing Defendant
Thackeray’s opposition and preparing a reply brief, and an additional 2 hours
preparing for and attending a hearing of this matter, for a total of 15 hours.
(Hughes Decl., ¶ 2.) His hourly rate is $625. (Hughes Decl., ¶ 2.) 
 
In this motion, Plaintiff
advanced unmeritorious positions with respect to whom the Judgment was against
and a request for fees that the arbitrator had previously denied.  Without a controversy on those matters, the
motion to confirm would likely have been unopposed, take much less time, and
not require a hearing or this Court’s ruling. 
The Court awards Plaintiff fees for four hours of work on the motion for
total of $2,500. 
 
            Thus, fees are awarded against
trustee Thackeray in favor of Plaintiff in the reduced amount of $2,500.  Plaintiff is ordered to include this amount in
an amended proposed Judgment.
 
Conclusion
 
The motion to
confirm the Arbitration Award is granted in part. Plaintiff’s Proposed Judgment
does not conform with the Arbitration Award.  Plaintiff is to file and serve a new Proposed Judgment
against Defendant Thackeray, in his capacity as trustee only. Moreover, the
request for attorney fees is granted in the reduced amount of $2,500 and shall
be added to the Judgment.  Plaintiff shall
prepare, serve, and submit the Proposed Judgment on or before December 14,
2023. 
 


