  Case Number:  21SMCV00532    Hearing Date:   July 12, 2024    Dept:  205 Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles – West District Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205   THOMAS HARDEMAN,    Plaintiff, v.  POSSE LOVE CORPORATION,  et al.,   Defendants.    Case No.:  22SMCV02389     Hearing Date:  July 12, 2024      [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:   PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO CONTINUE    TRIAL   BACKGROUND  This is an employment discrimination case.  Plaintiff Thomas Hardeman worked at Defendant Posse Love Corporation dba Lone Star Board and Care (“PLC”), an assisted living facility.  Defendants Otis Alexander and Rahmid Stinson are Plaintiff’s supervisors.   Plaintiff alleges he was discriminated against on the basis of his age (over 70) and disability (a heart condition).  Plaintiff claims Stinson called him an “old motherfucker” and said “look at you, you’re so old you can’t even move.”   When he returned to work after a hospitalization for a heart condition, he was told he had been replaced and assigned to a new position for only two days a week.  He asked for time to consider the new position, but Defendants told him he had quit and he could not get his job back.   Plaintiff also claims Defendants failed to pay him overtime, failed to timely pay wages upon termination, did not provide accurate wage statements, and did not cure its failure to pay minimum, regular, overtime or double-time wages at the time of separation.          Based on these facts, Plaintiff alleges eleven claims for (1) discrimination, (2) retaliation, (3) failure to prevent discrimination or retaliation, (4) harassment, (5) wrongful termination, (6) unfair competition, (7) failure to timely pay wages upon termination, (8) failure to maintain and produce accurate wage statements, (9) failure to pay overtime wages, (10) failure to pay minimum wages, and (11) CFRA Rights violation.   This hearing is on the Plaintiff’s motion to continue trial to February 3, 2025.  Trial is currently set for July 22, 2024.  Plaintiff argues that a continuance is necessary because he has been unable to depose the individual defendants, and defense counsel’s withdrawal has also impeded discovery.   LEGAL STANDARD Trial dates are firm to ensure prompt disposition of civil cases. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332, subd. (a).)  Continuances are thus generally disfavored.  (See id., rule 3.1332, subd. (b).)  Nevertheless, the trial court has discretion to continue trial dates.  (Hernandez v. Superior Court (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th 1242, 1246.)  Each request for continuance must be considered on its own merits and is granted upon an affirmative showing of good cause.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332, subd. (c); Hernandez, supra, 115 Cal.App.4th at p. 1246.)   Circumstances that may indicate good cause include: (1) the unavailability of an essential lay or expert witness due to death, illness, or other excusable circumstances; (2) the unavailability of a party due to death, illness, or other excusable circumstances; (3) the unavailability of trial counsel due to death, illness, or other excusable circumstances; (4) the substitution of trial counsel where there is an affirmative showing that the substitution is required in the interests of justice; (5) the addition of a new party if (A) the new party has not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial, or (B) the other parties have not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial in regard to the new party’s involvement in the case; (6) a party’s excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite diligent efforts; or (7) a significant, unanticipated change in the status of the case as a result of which the case is not ready for trial.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332, subd. (c).)  The court must also consider such relevant factors as: (1) the proximity of the trial date; (2) whether there was any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial caused by any party; (3) the length of the continuance requested; (4) the availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the motion or application for a continuance; (5) the prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance; (6) if the case is entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status and whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; (7) the court’s calendar and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending trials; (8) whether trial counsel is engaged in another trial; (9) whether all parties have stipulated to a continuance; (10) whether the interests of justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by imposing conditions on the continuance; and (11) any other fact or circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or application.  (Id., rule 3.1332, subd. (d).) DISCUSSION Plaintiff requests a six month continuance from July 22, 2024 to February 3, 2025.  This would be the first continuance in the case.  Plaintiff argues that while he has diligently pursued discovery in this case, he has still been unable to depose the individual defendants.   The record does not reflect diligence.  Plaintiff served a notice of deposition on Ramid Stinson on March 7, 2023, to which Stinson objected.  Plaintiff did not pursue the deposition again until October 2, 2023 when he served an amended deposition notice for Stinson.  There is no explanation for the nearly eight month gap in seeking to pursue the deposition.  Plaintiff also did not serve a notice of deposition on Otis Alexander until April 2, 2024.  There is no explanation as to why Plaintiff did not seek the deposition of Alexander sooner.   While Plaintiff contends the parties agreed to hold off depositions until a mediation could take place, Plaintiff does not say when the agreement was reached; Plaintiff only states the mediation, which was ultimately unsuccessful, took place on March 11, 2024. Plaintiff suggests Defendants were obstructing discovery by improperly objecting to the deposition notices.  But the solution was to seek to compel their depositions.  Plaintiff cannot sit on his hands and wait for Defendants’ cooperation.   Plaintiff also points to the withdrawal of defense counsel.  But counsel’s motion to withdraw was filed on May 30, 2024, and granted on June 26, 2024.  It does not explain why discovery could not have taken place sooner.   Notwithstanding, given the proximity of this hearing to the trial date, the Court will grant the parties a short continuance to September 23, 2024.   CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, the Court DENIES Plaintiff’s motion to continue trial.  The final status conference is set for September 13, 2024 at 9:00 a.m., and trial will start on September 23, 2024 at 9:00 a.m.    IT IS SO ORDERED.  DATED:  July 12, 2024    ___________________________ Edward B. Moreton, Jr. Judge of the Superior Court 