 This is an action regarding the repossession of Plaintiff Ihab Youssef’s vehicle.  Plaintiff alleges causes of action for (1) Violations of the Collateral Recovery Act; (2) Violations of the Rosenthal Fair Debt Collection Practices Act; (3) Conversion; and (4) Violations of the Unfair Competition Law. Defendants Loss Prevention Services, LLC (“LPS”) and Benchmark Asset Resolution, Inc. (“Benchmark”) seek to strike the Complaint’s references to punitive damages and other “irrelevant matters”.Motions to strike are used to challenge defects in the pleadings not subject to demurrer.  Any party may move to strike the whole or any part of a pleading within the time allotted to respond to the pleading.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 435(b)(1).)  The grounds for a motion to strike shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading or from any matter of which the Court is required to take judicial notice.  (Id. § 437(a).)  The Court may strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading, and strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Id. § 436.)  An “irrelevant” matter includes any “demand for judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the complaint or cross-complaint.”  (Id. § 431.10(b)(3), (c); see also Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1033, 1036-1042.)Punitive damages are available when the plaintiff establishes oppression, fraud, or malice by clear and convincing evidence.  (Civ. Code § 3294(a).)  Malice means “conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.”  (Civ. Code § 3294(c)(1).)  In this context, despicable conduct is conduct considered “so vile, base, contemptible, miserable, wretched or loathsome that it would be looked down upon and despised by ordinary decent people.”  (Scott v. Phoenix Schools, Inc. (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 702, 715, internal quotation marks omitted.)  Oppression means “despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights.”  (Civ. Code § 3294(c)(2).)  Fraud means “an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.”  (Id. § 3294(c)(3).)The Motion to Strike is denied as to punitive damages because the Complaint alleges that the repossession was orchestrated by LPS, which is an unlicensed entity, and that Benchmark was knowingly acting at LPS’s direction and conspiring with LPS to allow it to act without a license; if true, this is a crime and constitutes malicious conduct.  (Bus. & Prof. Code §§ 7502.1(a), 7507.9, 7507.10.)Defendants also challenge paragraphs 33 and 52.Paragraph 52 refers to other cases in which LPS has been sued for unlicensed activity.  The Motion to Strike is denied as to this paragraph because such a motion is not be used a line item veto.  Paragraph 33 states, “Defendants violated Civil Code § 1788.17, incorporating by reference 15 U.S.C. § 1692f, by using unfair or unconscionable means to collect or attempt to collect a debt, including but not limited to taking nonjudicial action to effect dispossession of property when there was no present right to possession of the property claimed as collateral through an enforceable security interest, and/or the property was exempt by law from dispossession or disablement.”  Defendants contend that this conflicts with the allegation that Plaintiff fell behind on his car payments.  The Motion to Strike is denied as to paragraph 33.  While confusing, the Court believes the gist of this paragraph is that Defendants knowingly engaged in unlicensed repossession activity.The Motion to Strike is denied.  The Request for Judicial Notice is granted.Moving parties to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 