 Case Number:  23STCP04048    Hearing Date:   April 12, 2024    Dept:  82 Davien Long, et
al. v. County of Los Angeles
Case No.
23STCP04048
Petition for Order
Permitting Late Claim 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            Petitioners
Davien Long and Kamryn Long (collectively, “Petitioners”) filed this petition
for an order permitting them to file a late claim against Respondents County of
Los Angeles and the individual defendants, who were acting in their official
capacity (collectively, “Respondents”). 
Petitioners allege as follows:
 
            Davien Long
was driving on or about June 23, 2022, when he was pulled over by Los Angeles
County Sheriff deputies.  One of the
deputies, Deputy Blake Runge, “reached into the car through the window, opened
the door, grabbed Mr. Long’s left arm and twisted it.”  Both deputies then dragged him out of the car
and put him on the ground.  Kamryn Long,
who was present, attempted to ascertain why her husband had been stopped.  In response, the deputies grabbed her arm and
shoved her to the side, and the deputies threatened to call Child Protective
Services.  Davien Long was taken to the
hospital for treatment and then to jail, and his car was impounded.  Eventually, on March 13, 2023, Davien Long’s
criminal case was dismissed.
 
            Now,
Petitioners seek an order authorizing them to file a late claim against a
governmental entity and individuals acting in their official capacity, per
Government Code section 946.6. 
Respondents oppose the petition.  The
court denies the petition with respect to claims for malicious prosecution and
wrongful use of legal process because those claims were timely filed.  The court denies the petition with respect to
the remaining claims because Petitioners do not demonstrate that they failed to
file a timely claim due to mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable
neglect.  
 
LEGAL STANDARD 
 
Government
Code section 911.2(a) states that “a claim relating to a cause of action for
death or for injury to person or to personal property . . . shall be presented
. . . not later than six months after the accrual of the cause of action.”  If a claimant fails to make a claim within
six months pursuant to Government Code section 911.2, the claimant may make a
written application to the board of the public entity for permission to present
a late claim within a reasonable time but not to exceed one year from the
accrual of the cause of action.  (Gov.
Code § 911.4(a)-(b).)  If, pursuant to
the provisions of Government Code section 911.6, the board denies the
application to present a late claim, the claimant may petition the court for
relief from the requirements of Government Code section 945.4.  (Gov. Code § 946.6(a).)
 
Government
Code section 946.6(b) requires that the petition to the court must show each of
the following: (1) that the late claim application made to the board was denied
or deemed denied; (2) the reason for failure to present the claim within six
months of the accrual of the cause of action; and (3) the contents of the claim
as required by Government Code section 910. 
The petition must be filed within six months after the application to
present a late claim to the board was denied or deemed to be denied.  (Ibid.) 

 
The
petitioner bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence that
the late-claim application was made within a reasonable time and that one of
the statutory requirements under Government Code section 946.6(c) was met.  (Drummond
v. County of Fresno (1987) 193 Cal.App.3d 1406, 1410.)  Under section 946.4(e), the trial court must
make its determination upon the petition, “relying upon any affidavits in
support of, or in opposition to, the petition and any additional evidence
received at hearing on the petition.”  (Ebersol v. Cowan (1983) 35 Cal.3d 427,
431.)  
 
“Section
946.6 is a remedial statue intended to provide relief from technical rules
which otherwise provide a trap for the unwary claimant.”  (Id. at 435.) 
“[D]oubts will be resolved in favor of the party attempting to get to
trial to the end that wherever possible, cases may be heard on their
merits.”  (Kaslavage v. West Kern
County Water Dist. (1978) 84 Cal.App.3d 529, 537.) 
 
PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
            The
underlying incident occurred on or about June 23, 2022, and the criminal case
against Petitioner Davien Long was dismissed on March 13, 2023.  Petitioners seek to assert the following
causes of action: (1) Excessive force, (2) Unlawful detention and arrest, (3)
Violation of the Fourth Amendment, (4) Illegal search and seizure, (5) Illegal
detention, (6) Violation of California’s Constitutional right to privacy, (7)
Battery, (8) Assault, (9) Violation of the Bane Act, (10) Violation of the
Ralph Act, (11) Violation of the Unruh Civil Rights Act, (12) Negligence, (13)
Intentional infliction of emotional distress, (14) Negligent infliction of
emotional distress, (15) False arrest, (16) False imprisonment, (17) Malicious
prosecution, (18) Wrongful use of legal process, and (19) Judicial deception.  Petitioners filed a late claim application on
June 12, 2023, which was within one year of the incident.  The County denied the application, giving
rise to this petition.  
 
            A.        Claims for Malicious Prosecution and
Wrongful Use of Legal Process
            
            Petitioner
Davien Long’s claims for malicious prosecution and wrongful use of legal
process were not untimely.  The criminal
case against Davien Long was dismissed on March 13, 2023.  Claims for malicious prosecution accrue “at
the time of successful termination of the prior proceeding.”  (Bob Barker Enterprises, Inc. v. Chrysler
Corp. (1994) 30 Cal.App.4th 678, 683.)  Respondents
do not address this issue in the opposition. 
The petition is denied with respect to these claims because they were
timely.
 
            B.        Petitioners’ Remaining Claims 
 
            Pursuant to Government Code section
946.6(c)(1), the court may grant relief from section 945.4 if “the failure to
present the claim was through mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable
neglect unless the public entity establishes that it would be prejudiced in the
defense of the claim if the court relieves the petitioner from the requirements
of Section 945.4.”  
 
The showing
required of a petitioner seeking relief because of mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or excusable neglect is the same as required by CCP section
473(b).  (Viles v. State (1967) 66 Cal.2d 24, 29.) “Although the statutes
refer, as a requirement for relief,  to ‘mistake,
inadvertence, surprise or excusable neglect,’ only ‘neglect’ is qualified by
the adjective ‘excusable.’  However, it
is uniformly held that for relief on any or all of the stated grounds it must
be shown that one's misconception was reasonable, or that it might have been
the conduct of a reasonably prudent person under similar circumstances.” (Kaslavage v. West Kern County Water Dist.
(1978) 84 Cal.App.3d 529, 539 fn.1, quoting Shaddox v. Melcher
(1969) 270 Cal.App.2d 598, 601).
 
“The party
seeking relief based on a claim of mistake must establish he was diligent in
investigating and pursuing the claim.”  (Department
of Water & Power v. Sup.Ct. (2000) 82 Cal.App.4th 1288, 1293.)  “[N]eglect is not excusable where a party does not take any action
within six months after the accrual of a cause of action; at the very least,
the party must attempt to engage the services of an attorney to investigate the
facts to identify potential defendants in any cause of action arising out of a
damaging incident.”  (DeVore v.
Dept. of California Highway Patrol (2013) 221 Cal.App.4th 454, 460-461;
accord Ebersol v. Cowan (1983) 35 Cal.3d 427, 436 [“the
claimant must at a minimum make a diligent effort to obtain legal
counsel”].)  
 
In this
case, Petitioners’ counsel admits that his clients did not seek legal advice
until after the dismissal of the criminal case against Davien Long on March 13,
2023, well after the six-month limitations period had expired.  (Carter Decl. ¶ 11.)  Petitioners have not filed declarations and
have not given any explanation for failing to engage legal counsel to
investigate their legal claims against the County within six months of the June
23, 2022, incident.  In the
petition, however, Petitioners represent that they did not present their claims
sooner because “they mistakenly believed they could not file on any of the
claims until the dismissal of the criminal proceeding.”  Putting aside that there are no declarations
on this issue, mistakes of law generally do not constitute mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or excusable neglect.  To determine whether a person is entitled to relief for a mistake
of law, the controlling factor is the reasonableness of the misconception of
the law under the circumstances of the particular case.” (Harrison v. County
of Del Norte (1985) 168 Cal.App.3d 1, 7.) 
“As a general rule, a statute of limitations accrues when the act occurs
which gives rise to the claim . . . that is, when ‘the plaintiff sustains
actual and appreciable harm.’  Any
‘manifest and palpable’ injury will commence the statutory period.”  (Costa
Serena Owners Coalition v. Costa Serena Architectural Committee (2009) 175
Cal.App.4th 1175, 1195-96.)  In this
case, Petitioners allegedly suffered injuries for nearly all of their causes of
action (e.g., excessive force, assault, battery, violations of their civil
rights, etc.) at the time of the incident. 

 
In their
reply brief, Petitioners argue that they are not claiming ignorance of the law
but instead focus on the “complexity” of suing a public entity over a related
set of actions.  This argument is not
persuasive.  Petitioners admit that they
did not seek counsel within the six-month limitations period.  Nor do Petitioners articulate any reasonable
diligence in investigating and pursuing their claims before the limitations
period expired.  Therefore, Petitioners
have not demonstrated that they made a reasonable mistake of law.  
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
            Based
upon the foregoing, the Court orders as follows:
 
1.         The court denies the
petition with respect to claims for malicious prosecution and wrongful use of
legal process because those claims were timely filed.  
2.         The
court denies the petition with respect to the remaining claims because
Petitioners do not demonstrate that they failed to file a timely claim due to
mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.  
 
3.         Petitioners’
counsel shall provide notice and file proof of service with the court.  
 
 