  Case Number:  23VECV01477    Hearing Date:   February 28, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE
  STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
NORTHWEST DISTRICT
 




EFRAIN
  HERNANDEZ GOMEZ, et al. 
Plaintiff.
 
   v.
 
PARK RESEDA
  CONDOMINIUM ASSOCIATION INC., A CALIFORNIA CORPORATION, et al.,
Defendants. 


          Case Number             Department
      23VECV01477                     107




 
COURT’S [TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:    
(1)
  Demurrer to First Amended Complaint
(2)
  Motion to Strike 
 



[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE CASE:]
 
A demurrer here is the inappropriate means of attacking the punitive
damages of the FAC. (In its December 18, 2023, ruling, this court asserted in a
typographical error that punitive damages should be attacked by means of
demurrer, not a motion to strike.) The court GRANTS the motion to strike punitive
damages.  Plaintiff may amend its
complaint. The court OVERRULES the demurrer as moot.
 
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
A.   
Factual
 
The following factual background is drawn from the First Amended Complaint
(as defined below).
 
Plaintiffs Efrain Hernandez Gomez (“Gomez”) and Norma Letisia Valencia
(“Valencia” and, together with Gomez, “Plaintiffs”) are a married couple who
live at Park Reseda Condominiums (the “Property”) with their children. On April
5, 2021, Plaintiffs were involved in a violent altercation with defendant
Raymundo Reducindo Oliva (“Reducindo Oliva”) on the Property, at which Reducindo
Oliva was a security guard employed by defendant GTO Security Corp. (“GTO
Security”). The remaining named defendants, Reseda Condominium Association Inc.
(“Association”) and LB Property Management Inc. d/b/a LBPM (“LBPM” and,
together with Reducindo Oliva, GTO Security, and Association, “Defendants”) are
the owners, operators, or managers of the Property.
 
B.   
Procedural
 
On April 4, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a complaint (the “Complaint”) against
Defendants alleging causes of action for (1) battery, (2) assault, (3)
negligence, (4) negligent hiring, supervision, or retention of employee, and
(5) loss of consortium.
 
On November 13, 2023, GTO Security moved to strike punitive damages from
the Complaint as to itself, which motion was granted on December 18, 2023.
 
On January 12, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an amended complaint (the “First
Amended Complaint” or the “FAC”), with the same causes of action and again
seeking punitive damages against all Defendants.
 
On January 23, 2023, GTO Security filed a demurrer (the “Demurrer”) and a
motion to strike (the “Motion to Strike”). Plaintiffs opposed both on February
13, 2024.
 
II. PARTY
ARGUMENTS
            
A.    The Demurrer
 
GTO Security demurs to the FAC on the grounds that it fails to state facts
sufficient to state a valid claim for punitive damages against GTO Security.
(Notice of Demurrer p. 2.) 
 
GTO Security observes in the Demurrer that “[l]eave was granted because the
Court stated that the moving party should have attacked the sufficiency of the
Prayer for punitive damages by means of a Demurrer.” (Demurrer p. 4.) GTO
Security then argues that Valencia is “barred from barred from obtaining
punitive damages…on her claim for loss of consortium” because “[l]oss of
consortium is a derivative…and cannot itself warrant punitive damages.” (Id.
at p. 6.) GTO Security further argues that the first two tort causes of action
are “insufficient to establish the imposition of punitive damages” because they
“clearly lack anything more than conclusions attributed to [GTO Security].” GTO
Security emphasizes that “the threshold [] in defining situations in which
punitive damages can be awarded” has been set high, that punitive damages are
disfavored, and that punitive damages cannot be pled generally. (Id. at
pp. 8–9.) GTO Security contends that the FAC “do[es] nothing more than copy the
wording of Civil Code section 3294” and that “not a single fact is pled that
remotely describes or establishes any evidence of malice, oppression, or fraud
against GTO [Security].” (Id. at p. 9.) It goes on to cite California Civil
Code section 3294(b), which “specifically deals with an employer-employee
relationship where punitive damages may be available” and explains that this
statute limits the imposition of punitive damages on employers to situations
where an “officer, director or managing agent actually knew about the
misconduct and its malicious character,” which the FAC fails to allege. (Id.
at p. 10.)
 
Plaintiffs argue in their opposition to the Demurrer that the Demurrer’s “gravamen
[] is that Plaintiffs alleged conclusions rather than facts,” which
cannot be raised in a general demurrer. (Opposition to Demurrer pp. 2–3,
emphasis original.) Plaintiffs counter that punitive damages are available for
loss of consortium and quote dicta from a California Supreme Court ruling to
that point, which they urge this court to follow. (Id. at pp. 3–4.)
Plaintiffs further argue that the FAC sufficiently pleads facts to impose
punitive damages on GTO Security because it specifically alleges facts that GTO
Security had prior knowledge of prior similar behavior by Reducindo Oliva but
nonetheless armed and continue to employ him. (Id. at 4–5.) Plaintiffs
content that this also acted as GTO Security’s ratification of Reducindo
Oliva’s actions, and thus may have punitive damages imposed upon it despite
being a corporate employer. (Id.at p. 6.) Finally, Plaintiffs ask for
leave to amend if the demurrer is sustained.
 
B.    The Motion to
Strike
            
GTO Security moves to strike the FAC’s claims for punitive damages “because
they are substantively defective and/or impermissible claims of relief.”
(Notice of Motion p. 2.)
 
GTO Security first observes that punitive damages are disfavored. (Motion
to Strike p. 6) GTO Security then argues that Valencia may not obtain punitive
damages on her claim for loss of consortium because it is a derivative claim,
and that the first two causes of action are insufficient to warrant punitive
damages against itself. (Id. at pp. 6–7.) It then repeats that punitive
damages are disfavored, that the threshold has been set “high in defining
situations in which punitive damages can be awarded,” and that the deterrent
effect of punitive damages in cases of negligence is “dubious.” (Id. at
p. 8.) GTO Security argues further that although claims for punitive damages
must contain specific factual “allegations of ultimate facts sufficient to
support a finding of oppression, fraud or malice, as those terms are defined by
Civil Code section 3294(c),” “[h]ere, the punitive damage claim as to GTO is
based solely upon factual conclusions, not facts to support those conclusions.”
(Id. at p. 9, emphasis removed.) GTO Security contends that the
imposition of punitive damages on employers “who were merely negligent or
reckless” is limited by California Civil Code section 3294(b) and that in this
case, Plaintiffs need to show “specific allegations identifying the officer,
director or managing agent who apparently engaged in/authorized or ratified the
alleged conduct of defendant Oliva.” (Id. at p. 10.)
 
Plaintiffs argue in their opposition to the Motion to Strike that, as this
court previously found, a motion to strike is not the proper method by which to
attack the FAC’s claim for punitive damages. (Opposition to Motion to Strike p.
2.) Plaintiffs counter that punitive damages are available for loss of
consortium and quote dicta from a California Supreme Court ruling to that
point, which they urge this court to follow. (Id. at pp. 4–5.)
Plaintiffs identify specific facts pled in the FAC that show malice or fraud on
the part of GTO Security and argue that “[a] reasonable juror could find that
GTO’s conduct…was both malicious…as well as oppressive. (Id. at pp.
5–6.) Plaintiffs further argue that GTO Security agents did not need to be on
the scene of or contribute to the underlying tort to have punitive damages
imposed upon it, but rather, that GTO Security may be held vicariously liable
for Reducindo Oliva’s acts if they ratified them. (Id. at pp. 6–7.)
Finally, Plaintiffs ask that leave to amend be granted if the motion to strike
is granted.
 
III. ANALYSIS 
 
A.    Meet and Confer
Requirements
 
Cal. C. Civ. Proc. §¿430.41(a) and §¿435.5(a) requires parties to “meet and confer” in good
faith before the filing of a demurrer or a motion to strike, respectively, to
attempt to informally resolve the objections raised in the demurrer or the
motion to strike. GTO Security’s counsel submits with the Demurrer and the
Motion to Strike a declaration that he and Plaintiffs’ counsel were unable to
satisfy this requirement because Plaintiffs’ counsel did not respond to his
request for such. (Snyder Decl. p. 2.) We remind parties and Plaintiff’s
counsel of their obligations to meet and confer with each other in good faith. 
 
B.   
The Demurrer
 
As a general matter, in a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent
on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004)
116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the pleading alone, and not
the evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab,
Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Servs.
(2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes the truth of the
complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Ibid.) The only issue a demurrer is
concerned with is whether the complaint, as it stands, states a cause of
action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)
 
In its December 18, 2023, ruling, this court asserted in a typographical
error that punitive damages should be attacked by means of demurrer, not a
motion to strike. However, "[s]ince a demurrer does not lie to
a part of a cause of action, petitioners' punitive damage
allegations were not subject to real parties' demurrers. There is no cause of
action for punitive damages. Punitive or exemplary damages are remedies
available to a party who can plead and prove the facts and circumstances.
Punitive damages are merely incident to a cause of action, and can never
constitute the basis thereof." (Grieves v. Superior Court (1984)
157 Cal.App.3d 159, 163, attached and relevant text highlighted on p. 3.)
 
Thus, we find a demurrer here is the inappropriate means of attacking the
punitive damages of the FAC and address the motion to strike first.
 
C.   
The Motion to
Strike
 
The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon
terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter
inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436(a).) The court may also
strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with
the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Id., § 436(b).) The grounds for a motion
to strike are that the pleading has irrelevant, false or improper matter, or
has not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws. (Id. § 436.) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the
face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Id. § 437.)
 
//
//
            Punitive Damages
 
California Civil Code section 3294 authorizes the recovery of punitive
damages “[i]n an action for the breach of an obligation not arising from
contract, where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that the
defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice….” (Civ. Code §
3294(a).) “In order to survive a motion to strike an allegation of punitive
damages, the ultimate facts showing an entitlement to such relief must be pled
by a plaintiff. In passing on the correctness of a ruling on a motion to
strike, judges read allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike as
a whole, all parts in their context, and assume their truth. In ruling on a
motion to strike, courts do not read allegations in isolation.” (Clauson v.
Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255, internal citations removed;
accord Doe v. City of Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th 531, 550 [“Thus, the
complaint ordinarily is sufficient if it alleges ultimate rather than
evidentiary facts.”].) “What is important is that the complaint as a whole
contain sufficient facts to apprise the defendant of the basis upon which
the plaintiff is seeking relief.” (Doheny Park Terrace Homeowners Assn.,
Inc. v. Truck Ins Ins. Exchange (2005) 132 Cal.App.4th 1076, 1099.) “Moreover,
plaintiff may allege on information and belief any matters that are not within
his personal knowledge, if he has information leading him to believe that the
allegations are true.” (Doe v. City of Los Angeles, supra at 550,
internal quote marks omitted.)
 
“The mere allegation an intentional tort was committed is not sufficient to
warrant an award of punitive damages. Not only must there be
circumstances of oppression, fraud or malice, but facts must be alleged in the
pleading to support such a claim.” (Grieves v. Superior Court (1984) 57
Cal.App.3d 159, 166, internal quote marks and citations omitted.) “A claim for
exemplary damage may be supported by pleading that the wrong was committed
willfully or with a design to injure. The claim may also be supported by
showing despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful
and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others. To establish
conscious disregard, the plaintiff must show that the defendant was aware of
the probable dangerous consequences of his conduct, and that he wilfully and
deliberately failed to avoid those consequences.
Conversely, punitive damages are not allowed in the absence of
factual allegations that defendants [acted] intentionally, as opposed to
negligently or mistakenly….” (Spinks v. Equity Residential Briarwood
Apartments (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1004, 1055, internal quote marks and
citations omitted.) 
 
“[A] vicariously liable employer may be subject to an award
of punitive damages when an employee was negligent” only “upon a
suitable demonstration of employer misconduct.” (CRST, Inc. v.
Superior Court (2017) 11 Cal.App.5th 1255, 1261.) California Civil Code
section 3294 also provides that an employer shall be liable for such punitive
damages only if it “had advance knowledge of the unfitness of the employee and
employed him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights or safety of
others or authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct for which the damages are
awarded or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice,” and further,
“[w]ith respect to a corporate employer, the advance knowledge and conscious
disregard, authorization, ratification or act of oppression, fraud, or malice
must be on the part of an officer, director, or managing agent of the
corporation.” (Civ. Code § 3294(b).) “In order to demonstrate that an employee
is a true managing agent under section 3294, subdivision (b), a plaintiff
seeking punitive damages would have to show that the employee exercised
substantial discretionary authority over significant aspects of a corporation's
business.” (White v. Ultramar, Inc. (1999) 21 Cal.4th 563, 577.)
Moreover, “liability under Civil Code section 3294, subdivision
(b) requires actual knowledge by an employer.” (Weeks v. Baker
& McKenzie (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 1128, 1158.)
 
Parties disagree as to whether “any punitive damage allegations cannot
inure to the benefit of plaintiff Valencia.” Plaintiffs point to a California
Supreme Court ruling which expressly states that “a common law action for loss
of consortium is a civil action sounding in tort, and therefore punitive
damages are available.” (Boeken v. Philip Morris USA, Inc. (2010) 48
Cal.4th 788, 796.) Although the language cited is not binding precedent but
rather dictum, as we did in our December 18 ruling, this court will abide by
it.
 
Parties further disagree as to whether the first and second causes of
action of the FAC adequately plead facts showing that punitive damages may be
imposed upon GTO Security. Although the FAC alleges that GTO Security “had
advance knowledge of the unfitness of the employee and employed him or her with
a conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others or authorized or
ratified the wrongful conduct for which the damages are awarded or was
personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice,” such actions must be on the
part of “an officer, director, or managing agent of the corporation” GTO Security,
which the FAC fails to plead.
 
III. CONCLUSION
 
Accordingly, this court
GRANTS the motion to strike punitive damages. 
Plaintiff may amend its complaint.
 
Accordingly, this
court OVERRULES the demurrer as moot.
 
 
Dated:  February 28, 2024                                                                                                        
Hon. Eric Harmon
Judge of the
Superior Court