  Case Number:  23PSCV00156    Hearing Date:   January 31, 2024    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
PLAINTIFF’S MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE SECOND AMENDED
COMPLAINT is DENIED without prejudice, notably for the reason that
Plaintiff has not provided a red-lined amendment nor explained exactly when the
new information was discovered. 
 
Background
 
This case is an alleged discrimination case. Plaintiff
RICHARD CHOI alleges the following against Defendants THE CLAREMONT COLLEGES,
INC., a California corporation; STAN SKIPWORTH, an individual; and CINDY
CAHILL, an individual: Plaintiff began his employment at Claremont College’s
Department of Campus Safety as a Campus Safety Officer in 2004. Due to his
religious Christian beliefs, around 2018, Plaintiff requested a religious
accommodation for his schedule to be arranged so that he could ensure his attendance
of church on Sundays. Defendants did not grant the request and instead engaged
in a concerted effort to make Plaintiff quit such as (i) unwarranted and
disproportionate discipline; (ii) extended meetings where Plaintiff would be
verbally berated and yelled at; (iii) questioning of Plaintiff’s character and
integrity; (iv) and precluding Plaintiff from being promoted due to his
religious beliefs. Plaintiff was also alienated due to his Korean ethnicity. 
 
On January 18, 2023, Plaintiff filed suit. 
 
On March 8, 2023, Plaintiff filed his first amended
complaint (FAC) for: 1.    
Religious Discrimination (Cal. Govt. Code § 12940, et
seq.) 2.    
Racial Discrimination (Govt. Code §12940, et seq.) 3.    
Hostile Work Environment (Govt. Code §§ 12923 and
12940(j)) 4.    
Retaliation (Govt. Code § 12940(h)) 5.    
Retaliation (Lab. Code § 1102.5(b))  6.    
Constructive Discharge
 
On May 5, 2023, the Claremont Colleges and Cahill filed
their answer. 
 
On May 8, 2023, Skipworth filed his answer.
 
On September 11, 2023, Plaintiff a motion for relief from
jury waiver, which the court granted. (The Claremont Colleges and Cahill filed
a notice of non-opposition to the instant motion.)
 
On November 20, 2023, Plaintiff dismissed Cahill from the
lawsuit. 
 
On December 21, 2023, Plaintiff filed the instant motion. 
 
On January 18, 2024, the Claremont Colleges filed a notice
of non-opposition to Plaintiff’s motion. 
 
Legal
Standard
 
The court may, in furtherance of justice and on any
proper terms, allow a party to amend any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd.
(a)(1); Branick v. Downey Savings & Loan Association (2006)
39 Cal.4th 235, 242.) The court may also, in its discretion and after notice to
the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any
pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an
answer to be made after the time limited by this code. (Code Civ. Proc., §
473, subd. (a); Branick, supra, 39 Cal.4th at
242.)  The court may deny the plaintiff’s leave to amend if there is
prejudice to the opposing party, such as delay in trial, loss of critical
evidence, or added costs of preparation. (Id.)  
 
Under California Rules of Court, rule
3.1324, a motion to amend a pleading before trial must (1) include a copy of
the proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially numbered
to differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments; (2) state what
allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and
where, by page, paragraph and line number, the deleted allegations are located;
and (3) state what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous
pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the
additional allegations are located. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(a).) A
separate supporting declaration specifying (1) the effect of the amendment; (2)
why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts giving rise to
the amended allegations were discovered; and (4) the reason why the request
for amendment was not made earlier must accompany the motion. (Id., rule
3.1324(b).)
Discussion
 
Plaintiff brings forth the instant motion on the grounds
that “[i]n the course of discovery, and after further evaluation of the facts
of this case, it has become known to Plaintiff that he has a legitimate claim
against Claremont for its failure to accommodate his religious belief or
observance and its failure to prevent discrimination, harassment, and
retaliation against Plaintiff. Plaintiff further intends to allege that
Claremont’s failures were intentional.” (Motion p. 2:5-9.)
 
However, aside from repeating the above in various forms, the
motion does not meet either CCP or CRC requirements. For example, Plaintiff
fails to: -       
Explain when Plaintiff learned of the additional
facts. -       
Explain what discovery it has conducted. -       
Explain with what discovery device Plaintiff learned of
the additional facts. -       
Provide an amended pleading that is not serially numbered to differentiate it
from previous pleadings or amendments. -       
Explain how any new information reveals intentional
conduct when the original complaint already alleges intentional
conduct (see e.g., complaint P27, 34, 41). -       
Explain how the two additional COAs for (1) Failure to
Accommodate Religious Belief or Observance and (2) Failure to Prevent
Discrimination, Harassment, and Retaliation were not initially pled when
Plaintiff himself maintains that the claims are based on the same facts and
circumstances. (Motion p. 2.)
 
Without an
explanation of why the request for amendment was not made earlier (suggesting
lack of diligence on part of Plaintiff’s Counsel), the court is left persuaded
by the Claremont College’s non-opposition that the facts and circumstances were
known to Plaintiff at the time he filed his initial complaint a year
ago. (Non-Opp. p. 2.)[1] 
 
Thus, while
leave to amend is liberally granted (Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213
Cal.App.3d 1045, 1047; Kolani v. Gluska (1998) 64
Cal.App.4th 402, 411) and Defendants will not necessarily be prejudiced by the
amendment, leave to amend is not automatic, and Plaintiff has failed to
meet its burden in requesting so. 
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the
foregoing, the motion is denied without prejudice. 


