


[1]
The District’s 19-page opposition violates the 15-page limit of CRC 3.1113(d)
and its 11-point footnotes violate the 12-point type requirement of CRC 2.104.  LAUSD’s counsel is admonished to follow these
requirements in all future cases or some or all its brief will be disregarded.


            [2] All
further statutory references are to the Education Code unless otherwise stated.


            [3] Knopke
requests judicial notice of three assertions: (1) The International Covenant on
Civil and Political Rights (“ICCPR”) is an international treaty that became the
supreme law of the land when the United States Congress ratified it in 1992
(RJN No. 1); (2) Engaging in an activity without knowing the outcome in advance
constitutes an experiment, and a person who submits to such a medical
intervention is engaging or participating in a human medical experiment (RJN No.
2); and (3) An “N of 1” trial is a clinical trial in which a single patient is
the entire trial, a single case study (RJN No. 3).
            For
RJN No. 1, Knopke cites Evid. Code section 451(a), which requires judicial
notice of the decisional, constitutional, and public statutory law of this
state and of the United States.  RJN at
1.  He asserts that the ICCPR became the
law of the United States when Congress ratified it in 1992.  Id. at 2-3.  As LAUSD notes in opposition, Knopke’s exhibits
do not demonstrate that Congress ratified the ICCPR in 1992.  RJN Opp. at 2.  Aside from the 1967 ICCPR, Knopke only
submits the “International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights,” a
resolution the United Nations General Assembly adopted in 1976.  Pepper RJN Decl., Exs. 1-2.  RJN No. 1 is denied.
            Knopke asserts that RJN Nos. 2-3 are capable of immediate
and accurate determination by resort to sources of reasonably indisputable
accuracy.  RJN at 3.  The sources are “common sense and common knowledge”
for RJN No. 2 and several scientific articles for RJN No. 3.  Id. 
These sources are not sufficient to make the assertions universally
true.  RJN Nos. 2-3 are denied.


[4]
Knopke calls this the “scope of review”, but it is more accurate to state that
the court is reviewing whether the vaccination policy complies with its authorizing
law in that it is consistent with
its authorizing statute and necessary to 
effectuate that statute’s purpose.  Poverty, supra, 213 Cal.App.3d at 305.  An administrative agency has only that
rulemaking power that is invested in it by statute.  Carmel Valley Fire Protection District v.
State of California, (2001) 25 Cal.4th 287, 299.  The limitations on an agency’s regulatory
authority apply equally to its authority to adopt a policy which would not be
permitted as a formal regulation.  Agnew
v. State Board of Equalization, (1999) 21 Cal.4th 310, 321. 


[5]
Section 35160 provides: “The governing board of any school district may
initiate and carry on any program, activity, or may otherwise act in any manner
which is not in conflict with or inconsistent with, or preempted by, any law
and which is not in conflict with the purposes for which school districts are
established.” 


[6] In
reply, Knopke states that the belated nature of the full Board’s formal action
to adopt a formal vaccine policy is evidence of District's slipshod management
of the COVID crisis.  That laissez-faire attitude is also reflected
by the fact that the administrative record contains no evidence of any
vaccination policy that the Board ever adopted. 
As the party accusing Knopke of failing to comply with the vaccination
policy, it was the District's burden to produce evidence of such a valid policy
as the basis for the case against Knopke. 
Reply at 4.
Knopke is wrong.  His argument
that the District was required to present at the hearing evidence of the
Board’s formal adoption of the vaccination policy is raised for the first time
in reply and is waived.  Regency Outdoor Advertising v. Carolina Lances, Inc.,
(“Regency”) (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 1323, 1333.  The argument also is disposed of by
Knopke’s admission that both parties assumed at the CPC hearing that the August
13 Memo reflected an officially adopted Board resolution.  Reply at 4. 
The District presented its vaccination policy in the Memo and it was
Knopke’s burden to contest its validity.


[7] Finally,
Knopke argues that the District’s contention that the vaccination policy made
vaccination a condition of employment to work at a school site in an in-person
setting is not supported by evidence. 
"Conditions of employment" are matters of contract for
unionized public school teachers.  So, the
record should show the parties' written contracts of employment, and
specifically the provision that makes mandatory COVID vaccination a condition
of employment.  Reply at 7.
This argument fails for several reasons.  First, Knopke failed to exhaust it before the
CPC.  See City
of San Jose, supra, 49 Cal.4th at 609.  Second, it is improperly raised for
the first time in reply.  See Regency,
supra, 31 Cal.App.4th at 1333.  Third,
the record shows that the vaccination policy imposed vaccination as a condition
of employment.  See, e.g., AR
522.  Fourth, Knopke fails to show that
the District cannot impose vaccination as a condition of employment without
collective bargaining.


[8] Knopke
elaborates on his Fourth Amendment argue as follows.  Since individuals cannot lawfully be forced, in the
absence of due process and a warrant or truly exigent circumstances, to
surrender their persons for the seizure of genetic material, it follows that
persons are protected from an intrusion into the body for the purpose of
injecting a substance the actual identity and side effects cannot be known
beforehand without research and long-term testing.  Given the controlling and strict laws against
human medical experimentation, and the fact that the People did not surrender
the right to make their own medical decisions, no rationale can justify
ignoring the Fourth Amendment’s right to be secure in one’s persons from
unreasonable seizures.  Pet. Op. Br. at 8,
n. 7.


[9] Moreover,
Knopke only summarily referred to issues of consent to medical experimentation
and individual rights in his objections to the District.  AR 487-88. 



[10] Knopke also argues that
it is against public policy to terminate an employee for refusing to
commit an illegal act or for exercising a legal right.  Stevenson v. Superior Court, (1997) 16
Cal.4th 880, 887.  There are four
categories of employee conduct subject to protection under a claim of wrongful
discharge in violation of fundamental public policy: "(1) refusing to
violate a statute; (2) performing a statutory obligation; (3) exercising a
statutory right or privilege; and (4) reporting an alleged violation of a
statute of public importance."  Gantt v. Sentry Insurance, (1992)
1 Cal.4th 1083, 1090-91, 1095 (citations omitted).  Because his discharge was not supported by the
law or the weight of the evidence, he was wrongfully terminated and therefore
entitled to damages.  Pet. Op. Br. at 14.
This is not a wrongful termination damages case; it is an
administrative mandamus case to which wrongful discharge law does not directly
apply.  More important, there is no
violation of public policy for the termination of a public employee who refuses
a vaccination requirement as well as a reasonable accommodation.  In fact, public policy supports such a
termination.

