  Case Number:  22STCV30740    Hearing Date:   March 13, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



MARCUS WEBSTER, an individual,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, a public
  corporation; SASHA YOUNG, an individual; JASMINE BRIONES, an individual;
  SCOTT KARAS, an individual; BRENDA QUIROGA, an individual; and DOES 1-5-,
  inclusive,
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          22STCV30740
 Hearing Date:   3/13/24
 Trial Date:        9/10/24
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Plaintiff Marcus
  Webster’s Motion for an Order Compelling Jasmine Briones’s Answers to
  Deposition Questions and Request for Sanctions; and
Plaintiff
  Defendant The Regents of the University of California’s Cross-Request for
  Monetary Sanctions.



 
I. Background
A. Pleadings
Plaintiff Marcus Webster sues
Defendants the Regents of the University of California (the Regents)—as owner,
operator, and/or entity controlling medical clinics and hospitals that are part
of the UCLA health system, including the Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center
(UCLA Reagan)—and Does 1 through 50 pursuant to a June 22, 2023 Second Amended
Complaint alleging claims of (1) Discrimination in Violation of the FEHA [Fair
Employment and Housing Act], (2) Retaliation in Violation of the FEHA, (3)
Harassment in Violation of the FEHA, (4) Failure to Take Steps to Prevent
Discrimination, and Harassment in Violation of FEHA, (5) Retaliation Under Cal.
Health & Safety Code § 1278.5, (6) Declaratory Relief, and (7) Retaliation
under Labor Code § 1102.5.
While the caption of the SAC continues
to name a number of individuals as Defendants in this action—including Jasmine
Briones—the claims alleged in the SAC are only directed at the Regents and Does
1 through 50.
On July 21, 2023, the Regents filed
an Answer to the SAC.
B. Motion Before the Court
On October 17, 2023, Plaintiff
Webster’s counsel deposed Defendant Jasmine Briones, at which time defense
counsel objected to and instructed Jasmine Briones to not answer four specific
questions raised by Plaintiff’s counsel.
On February 2, 2024, Plaintiff
Webster filed a motion for an order compelling Defendant Jasmine Briones’s deposition
for the purpose of providing answers to the objected-to deposition questions,
and for monetary sanctions against the Regents and counsel, the having parties
stipulated to continue the deadline for filing a motion to compel.
On February 29, 2023, the Regents
filed an opposition to Plaintiff Webster’s motion.
On February 6, 2024, Plaintiff
Webster filed a reply to the Regents’ opposition.
On February 7, 2024, the Regents
filed an objection to a declaration from counsel attached to Plaintiff Webster’s
reply.
Plaintiff Webster’s motion is now
before the Court.
 
II. Requests for Judicial Notice
A. Motion’s Request for Judicial
Notice
Per Plaintiff Webster’s request,
the Court takes judicial notice of the Complaint in this action. (Mot., RJN,
Ex. A; Evid. Code, §§ 452, subd. (d), 453, subds. (a)-(b).)
 
III. Evidentiary Objections
A. The Regents’ Opposition
Objections to Motion’s Kalinowski Declaration: 
Objection Nos. 1-3: OVERRULED.
B. The Regents’ Objections to
Reply’s Kalinowski Declaration: 
Objection Nos. 1-3: OVERRULED.
C. The Regents’ Objections to
Reply Brief: 
Objection Nos. 1-5: OVERRULED.
 
IV. Motion to Compel Deposition Answers
A. Legal Standard
If a deponent fails to answer any
question or to produce any document, electronically stored information, or
tangible thing under the deponent’s control that is specified in the deposition
notice or a deposition subpoena, the party seeking discovery may move the court
for an order compelling that answer or production.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.480, subd. (a); see Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1.)
This motion shall be made no later
than 60 days after the completion of the record of the deposition and shall be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.480, subd. (b).) 
Notice of this motion shall be
given to all parties and to the deponent either orally at the examination, or
by subsequent service in writing. If the notice of the motion is given orally,
the deposition officer shall direct the deponent to attend a session of the
court at the time specified in the notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480, subd.
(c).)
If a deposition transcript is
available, it must also be filed with the Court not less than five days prior
to the hearing on this motion. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480, subd. (h); Unzipped
Apparel, LLC v. Bader (2007) 156 Cal.App.4th 123, 135 (Unzipped)
[deposition transcript need not be lodged when motion to compel involves
failure to produce documents requested in business-records subpoena because no
part of transcript will be relevant].)
If the court determines that the
answer or production sought is subject to discovery, it shall order that the
answer be given or the production be made on the resumption of the deposition.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480, subd. (i).)
If the proposed deponent made some
response, then a separate statement must accompany any motion to compel
deposition attendance or production. (See Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345,
subd. (b).)
B. Motion for Order Compelling
Deposition: 
1. Procedural
Requirements
a. Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.480, subd. (b)
i. Timeliness
This motion shall be made no later
than 60 days after the completion of the record of the deposition. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.480, subd. (b).) The record is completed once the entire
inspection at issue is finished, including the raising of objections during
that process. (See, e.g., Unzipped, supra, 156 Cal.App.4th at pp.
134-136.) The 60-day timeframe is jurisdictional and if it is not met, the
court is in excess of its jurisdiction to act other than to deny the motion. (Id.
at pp. 134-136; Weinstein v. Blumberg (2018) 25 Cal.App.5th 316, 321-322
(Weinstein) [same and stating court can grant relief].) However, “[i]t
is unclear whether the deposition record is ‘completed’ when the
reporter sends notice that the transcript is available for review [internal
citation] or only after the expiration of time to sign or correct the
transcript [internal citation],” for which reason “[t]he safer course is to use
the date of the reporter’s notice.” (Weil & Brown, Cal. Practice Guide:
Civil Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2023) ¶ 8:801, italics in
original; cf. Unzipped, supra, 156 Cal.App.4th at pp. 134-136
[completion of record in response to subpoena for production of business
records triggered upon objections to subpoena]; Board of Registered Nursing
v. Superior Court (Johnson & Johnson) (2021) 59 Cal.App.5th 1011,
1031-1032 [same].)
Here, it is unclear when the notice
of the transcript’s availability took place or when the time for Jasmine
Briones to sign or correct the transcript elapsed. (See Mot., Kalinowski Decl.,
Exs. 1-2, Certificates of Reporter [signed Nov. 1-2, 2022].) However, the
parties stipulated to continue the timeframe for Plaintiff Webster to file a
motion to compel further deposition answers from Jasmine Briones. (Mot.,
Kalinowski Decl., ¶¶ 8-9, Exs. 3-4.)
ii. Meet and
Confer Declaration
This motion shall also be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.480, subd. (b).)
Here, Plaintiff’s counsel met and
conferred with defense counsel prior to the filing of this motion. (Mot.,
Kalinowski Decl., ¶¶ 8-12, Exs. 3-7.)
b. Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.480, subd. (c)
Notice of this motion must be given
to all parties and to the deponent. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480, subd. (c).)
Here, the notice of motion is not
attached to the moving papers, but the Regents—the only Defendants against
which claims are stated and who represent the entity for which Jasmine Briones
was deposed as PMQ, though not as an individual—have opposed the motion. (Cf.
Reply, Proof of Service.)
c. Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.480, subd. (h)
If a deposition transcript is
available, it must also be filed with the Court not less than five days prior
to the hearing on this motion. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480, subd. (h).)
Here, the relevant portions of the
transcript have been filed with the Court. (Mot., Kalinowski Decl., Exs. 1-2
[relevant portions of individual and PMQ deposition transcripts for Jasmine
Briones].)
d. Cal. Rules
of Court, rule 3.1345, subd. (b)
If the proposed deponent made some
response, then a separate statement must accompany any motion to compel
deposition attendance or production. (See Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345,
subd. (b).)
Here, at the October 17, 2023,
deposition, defense counsel and Jasmine Briones made a number of objections to
and refused to answer certain deposition questions raised by Plaintiff’s
counsel, which are now before the Court, with defense counsel specifically
instructing Briones not to answer (Mot., Separate Statement, pp. 2-13), thus
satisfying California Rules of Court, rule 3.1345, subdivision (b).
2. Substantive
Discussion
a. Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.480, subd. (a)
Here, Jasmine Briones as a deponent
failed to answer various deposition questions pertaining to information under
her control, as summarized in Plaintiff Webster’s separate statement, with
defense counsel instructing Jasmine Briones not to respond to four specific
questions under various objections. (Mot., Separate Statement, pp. 2-13; Mot.,
Kalinowski Decl., Ex. 2, Briones Ind. Depo., 161:14-19; 162:2-7, 181:7-18,
188:8-16.)
Plaintiff Webster thus has standing
to file a motion pursuant to this statutory section.
b. Deposition
Questions at Issue
The four deposition questions at
issue here, which were asked of Jasmine Briones in her individual capacity, fall
into four categories: (1) awareness of number and identification of Black
employees that were also terminated from employment since Plaintiff’s
termination (Questions 1-2); (2) whether an employee identified as Sean Smith,
a Black individual, was terminated (Question 2); (3) bias in promoting
non-Filipino employees (Question 3); and (4) whether another employee—briefed
as Siobhan Johnson in the moving papers but as Eric Johnson in the opposition
and reply and implied as such in the transcript (“Mr. Johnson”)—made
complaints to Jasmine Briones related to matters other than discrimination,
harassment, and retaliation based on race (Question 4). (Mot., Separate
Statement, pp. 2-13; Mot., Kalinowski Decl., Ex. 2, Briones Ind. Depo., 188:8-16,
emphasis added.)
The Court notes that it reads
Question 4 as relating to Eric Johnson, not Siobhan Johnson, based on the
transcript’s identification of the relevant individual as Mr. Johnson and the
moving party’s explanation in the Reply. (Mot., Separate Statement, pp. 2-13;
Mot., Kalinowski Decl., Ex. 2, Briones Ind. Depo., 188:8-16, Reply, p. 2 fn.1.)

In response to these questions,
defense counsel raised three general groups of objections before instructing
Jasmine Briones not to answer: (1) third-party privacy rights, lack of
relevance, or requests not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence (Questions 1-4); (2) overbreadth or vagueness and ambiguity
(Questions 3-4); and (3) lacks foundation or calls for speculation (Question
3). (Mot., Separate Statement, pp. 2-13; Mot., Kalinowski Decl., Ex. 2, Briones
Ind. Depo., 161:14-19; 162:2-7, 180:17-181:7-18, 188:8-16.)
c. Arguments
re: Further Deposition of Jasmine Briones
In his motion, Plaintiff Webster
argues that defense counsel’s October 17, 2023, instructions to Jasmine Briones
not to answer were improper pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
2025.460, subdivisions (a) to (c), which governs the form of objections to
deposition questions. Plaintiff Webster also argues that objections based on
relevance are improper where two of the questions at issue pertained to
information relating to racial discrimination in the workplace and relate to a
declaration from Siobhan Johnson (Eric Johnson, per the Reply). Plaintiff
Webster argues that the Regents’ objections were improper for various additional
reasons. The first set of arguments relate to privacy and contend that: (1) the
identification of witnesses—either Black employees whose employment was
terminated or individuals promoted by Jasmine Briones—is not protected in
discovery proceedings, particularly where they experienced or observed the
discriminatory treatment at issue; (2) no privacy exists as to Siobhan/Eric Johnson,
who has provided a declaration attesting to her/his experiences and
observations of discrimination, harassment, and retaliation in the workplace;
and (3) the Regents should have filed a motion for protective order if they
truly wished to preserve rights in privacy. The second set of arguments address
objections to the question related to Siobhan/Eric Johnson (Question 4) and
contend that Question 4 was not posed in a vague, ambiguous, or overbroad
manner given that the information requested relates to personal knowledge of
complaints by Siobhan/Eric Johnson. (Mot., pp. 6-9.)
In opposition, the Regents argue
that they have an obligation to protect third-party privacy rights, that the
private information relating to hiring and firing is protected as relating to
third party non-litigants who have a greater privacy interest than a party litigant,
that the disclosures sought are neither relevant nor essential to determining
the truth of the matters in dispute, and that Plaintiff has failed to show no
less intrusive alternatives exist. (Opp’n, pp. 3-11.)
In reply, Plaintiff Webster argues
that he is entitled to the discovery at issue regardless of his privacy rights
in relation to medical records sought in a subpoena by the Regents and
challenged by Plaintiff in a pending motion to quash. Next, Plaintiff
reiterates arguments in favor of the relevance of the discovery. Last,
Plaintiff highlights Regents’ rejection of less intrusive means of discovery,
e.g., an offer by Plaintiff Webster to allow Jasmine Briones to file written
answers to the deposition questions rather than proceeding with a second
deposition, meet and confer efforts, and a proposed IDC. (Reply, pp. 3-8.)
d. Determination
on Merits of Objections and Further Deposition
The Court finds in favor of
Plaintiff Webster.
The Court dismisses the vagueness,
ambiguity, and overbreadth objections to the four questions at issue,
summarized in Section IV.B.2.b. above. The questions posed are clear and relate
to bias and discrimination, harassment, or retaliation based on race, with
anti-Black and pro-Filipino sentiments at issue, and only Question 4 relating
to whether a specific employee—Eric Johnson—made complaints beyond
discrimination, harassment, or retaliation based on race, which could show
other discriminatory conduct and lead to admissible evidence showing intent.
For the same
reasons, the Court also determines that the deposition questions seek
discoverable information based on relevance to this action. If Jasmine Briones,
as an individual, has knowledge of Black employees who were terminated as well
as their identity, of promotions favoring Filipinos, or of other complaints
made to her beyond race, that information could be helpful in assisting a jury to
determine whether Plaintiff Webster was fired based on his race, as supported
by circumstantial evidence of, for example, anti-Black bias.
For the sake of completeness, the
Court notes that the objections to Question 3 relating to lack of foundation
and calling for speculation do not appear applicable. While those objections
appear in the record for Question 3, as excerpted from the deposition and
copied into the separate statement, the challenged portion of the transcript
only involves page 181, lines 7 to 18 of the deposition, which does not include
these objections. (Mot., Separate Statement, p. 8.) To the extent that the
objections are applicable, the Court notes that Jasmine Briones responded to
questions relating to whether Briones only promoted Filipino applicants,
undercutting lack of foundation, and Plaintiff’s counsel did not ask Jasmine
Briones to speculate as to whether the non-promoted employees were Black.
(Mot., Separate Statement, p. 8.)
Last, the Court finds that the
right to privacy of the Regents and any third parties is overcome here. The
right to privacy is qualified, not absolute. (John B. v. Superior Court
(2006) 38 Cal.4th 1177, 1199.) Even an obvious invasion of a privacy interest
that is fundamental to the holder’s personal autonomy can be overcome by a
compelling interest or need. (Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3
Cal.5th 531, 556.) And while the Regents cannot waive third-party privacy
rights (Boler v. Superior Court (1987) 201
Cal.App.3d 467, 472, fn. 1 [party did not waive third parties’ sexual
privacy rights by not timely objecting to discovery demand because third
parties were not notified and given opportunity to object]), California courts
have determined that a compelling interest overcoming third-party privacy
rights exists in FEHA actions involving racial or ethnic discrimination. (Department
of Fair Employment and Housing v. Superior Court (2002) 99 Cal.App.4th 896,
905 [“the state has a compelling interest in prohibiting racial or ethnic
discrimination. …. Th[is] compelling state interest[] outweigh[s] the intrusion
on the privacy of third party tenants and applicants that might result from
disclosure of rental records. Petitioner has no other means of obtaining the
requested records because the only known records are solely within the custody
and control of Keller and Mattox.”].)
Here, as discussed above, the
information sought from Jasmine Briones is relevant to the determination of the
FEHA claims before the Court. Plaintiff Webster has a compelling interest in
that information—including the identification of third-party potential
witnesses, which is discoverable information. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2017.010 [“… Discovery
may be obtained of the identity and location of persons having knowledge of any
discoverable matter, as well as of the existence, description, nature, custody,
condition, and location of any document, electronically stored information,
tangible thing, or land or other property”].) 
As to the last question, whether Mr.
Johnson had ever raised any issues other than discrimination, harassment, and
retaliation with Ms. Briones, the Court finds that the question is well within
the realm of legitimate inquiry. Plaintiff first asked specific questions
regarding discrimination, harassment and retaliation, and was informed that Mr.
Johnson raised no such issue to her. Given that the questions required the deponent
to categorize whether an issue raised may or may not fall into those categories,
and given Plaintiff’s possession of a declaration by Mr. Johnson in which he
states that he did raise such issues with Ms. Briones, (Reply, DK Dec., Exhibit
10, ¶¶ 8, 11) this question may well lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.
Plaintiff’s motion is therefore
GRANTED.
C. Request for Sanctions: DENIED.
The court shall impose a monetary
sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party,
person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel an
answer or production, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction
acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the
imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480, subd. (j).)
1. Plaintiff Marcus Webster
Here, based on the discussion above, the Court determines that the
Regents have unsuccessfully opposed a motion to compel further answers at a
deposition. Plaintiff thus seeks monetary sanctions.
While the Regents’ opposition raises a number of arguments responsive to
the moving papers’ request for monetary sanctions (Opp’n, pp. 11-12), all of
these arguments arise from the premise that the discovery sought by Plaintiff
Webster was improper, a premise with which the Court disagreed above. 
However, the Court concludes that the Regents’ arguments were raised in
good faith and raised issues relating to third persons that justified their
failure to agree, and to require that plaintiff obtain a court order. Thus, the
Court finds that circumstances exist that would make the imposition of
sanctions unjust. 
2. Defendant The Regents of the University
of California
Based on the outcome above, the
Court DENIES the Regents’ cross-request for sanctions. (Opp’n, pp. 12-13.)
 
V. Conclusion
A. Plaintiff Marcus Webster
1. Further Deposition
Plaintiff Marcus Webster’s Motion for an Order Compelling Jasmine
Briones’s Answers to Deposition Questions is GRANTED.
Defendant The Regents of the
University of California are ORDERED to
produce and/or Defendant Jasmine Briones is ORDERED to appear for a second
deposition to answer the following questions (and any follow-up questions
related to them) without objection:
(1) The names of other Black employees fired in Jasmine Briones’s
department at UC following Plaintiff Marcus Webster’s termination;
(2) Whether a Black employee named Sean Smith was terminated;
(3) The names of employees Jasmine Briones promoted to “the program”
identified by Plaintiff’s counsel at the October 17, 2023, deposition; and
(4) Whether former employee, Eric Johnson, ever reported to Jasmine
Briones issues with working at UC outside of discrimination, harassment, and
retaliation based on race.
2. Monetary Sanctions
Marcus Webster’s Request for Sanctions is DENIED.
 
B. Defendant The Regents of the University of California
Defendant The Regents of the
University of California’s Cross-Request for Monetary Sanctions is DENIED.