 Case Number:  22STCV20297    Hearing Date:   August 14, 2024    Dept:  29 Martinez v. Winfield  22STCV20297  Plaintiff’s Motion to Quash Subpoenas Tentative The motion is granted. The request for sanctions is granted in part. BACKGROUND This case arises out of a motor vehicle accident  on January 16, 2021, near the intersection of South Western Avenue and West  89th Street in Los Angeles.   On June 21, 2022, Plaintiffs Uriel Calzada  Martinez (“Plaintiff”) and Aracely De Los Santos filed a complaint asserting  causes of action for motor vehicle negligence and general negligence against  Defendants Jerome Winfield (“Defendant”) and Does 1 through 50.   On April 13, 2023, Defendant filed an answer to  the complaint. On June 29, 2024,  Defendant issued a deposition subpoena for testimony and the production of  documents to the Workers’ Compensation Appeals Board (“WCAB”).  (Taban Decl., ¶ 6 & Exh. 1.)   On July 1, 2024,  Defendant noticed the deposition of the Whates Law Firm, the law firm that had  represented Plaintiff in a workers’ compensation matter.  (Id., ¶ 8 & Exh. 3.)  No subpoena to the Whates Law Firm was served  on Plaintiff.  (Id., ¶ 8.)   On July 15, 2024,  Plaintiff filed this motion to quash the subpoena issued to WCAB and the subpoena  that was presumably issued to the Whates Law Firm.  Plaintiff also seeks sanctions.  Plaintiff filed an amended motion on July 18.   No opposition has  been filed.   As set forth in  the Court’s Minute Order dated August 8, 2024, the trial date has been  continued to September 26, 2024, but fact discovery closed on April 3,  2024.  Defendant’s ex parte application to  reopen discovery was denied on July 2.   Defendant’s noticed motion to reopen discovery was denied on August 8.   LEGAL  STANDARD    Code of Civil  Procedure § 1987.1(a) states:     If a subpoena requires the attendance of a  witness or the production of books, documents, electronically stored  information, or other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue  therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably  made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the court's own motion  after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order  quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it  upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective  orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as may be appropriate  to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including  unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the person.     “[I]n making an  order pursuant to motion made … under Section 1987.1, the court may in its  discretion award the amount of the reasonable expenses incurred in making or  opposing the motion, including reasonable attorney’s fees, if the court finds  that the motion was made or opposed in bad faith or without substantial  justification or that one or more of the requirements of the subpoena was  oppressive.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.2,  subd. (a).)   DISCUSSION Plaintiff argues the subpoenas are improper  for three reasons: (1) the discovery cut-off date has passed; (2) Defendant  failed to serve a copy of the subpoena with the notice of deposition on Whates  Law Firm; and (3) the notice of deposition failed to specify the matters to be  discussed during the deposition. The first ground asserted by Plaintiff is  dispositive.  Fact discovery closed on April  3, 2024.  (Minute Order dated August 8,  2024.)  Fact discovery has remained  closed.  (Ibid.)  There is no basis for Defendant to issue deposition  subpoenas or notice depositions for fact witnesses months later, in June and July  2024. Accordingly, Plaintiff’s motion to quash  the subpoena issued to WCAB is granted.   The Court also grants the motion to quash the subpoena presumably issued  to Whates Law Firm.  (The Court says “presumably”  as Defendant noticed the deposition of this nonparty, and a deposition subpoena  must be issued to a nonparty witness.)     Plaintiff requests sanctions against Defendant  under Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.2, subdivision (a).  The Court finds that issuing subpoenas months  after the fact discovery cutoff is oppressive conduct that supports an award of  sanctions under the statute, and that a number of the requirements of the  subpoena issued to WCAB are oppressive.   Given the reasonably straightforward nature of this motion, the Court  sets sanctions in the amount of $961.65, based on three hours of attorney time,  multiplied by counsel’s reasonable billing rate of $300 per hour, plus the  $61.65 reservation fee.  (See Taban  Decl., ¶ 11.) CONCLUSION   The Court GRANTS Plaintiff Uriel Calzada  Martinez’s motion to quash the subpoena directed to Workers  Compensation Appeals Board and the subpoena presumably issued to Whates Law  Firm.    The Court QUASHES  the subpoena issued by Defendant on June 29, 2024 to Workers Compensation  Appeals Board.   The Court QUASHES  the subpoena presumably issued by Defendant to Whates Law Firm on or about July  1, 2024.   The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s request for  sanctions.   The Court ORDERS Defendant’s counsel Gates,  Gonter, Guy, Proudfoot & Muench, LLP, to pay monetary sanctions to Plaintiff  in the amount of $961.65 within 30 days of notice.   Moving Party is to give notice.