 Case Number:  23STCV07907    Hearing Date:   August 14, 2024    Dept:  29 Haugen v. Linnetz
23STCV07907
Defendant’s Motion for Leave to File Cross-Complaint
Tentative
The motion is granted.
Background
On April 10, 2023, Calvin Haugen (“Plaintiff”)
filed a complaint against Rochelle Linnetz (“Linnetz”), Linda McLean
(“McLean”), and Does 1 through 50 for common law negligence and statutory
liability under Civil Code section 3342 arising out of a dog bite incident
occurring on April 14, 2021.  Plaintiff alleges that Linnetz owned
the dog that bit him and that McLean owned the property on which the incident
occurred.
Linnetz filed her answer on February 23,
2024.  Linnetz is representing herself, in pro per.
McLean filed her answer on February 27, 2024.
On April 2, 2024, McLean filed this motion for
leave to file a cross-complaint against Linnetz.  The motion was initially heard on June
26; the Court continued the hearing to August 2 as McLean had not served
Linnetz with the motion.
On June 27, 2024, McLean filed an amended motion for
leave to file a cross-complaint against Linnetz.  The hearing date identified in this amended
motion was August 2.
 
On July 15, 2024, McLean filed a second amended motion
for leave to file a cross-complaint against Linnetz, along with a notice that
the hearing date was continued to August 14.
 
On July 30, 2024, Linnetz filed an opposition.  On August 7, McLean filed what appears to be
a duplicate copy of the second amended motion for leave to file a
cross-complaint.
 
Legal Standard
The Code of Civil Procedure distinguishes
between compulsory and permissive cross-complaints. 
A compulsory cross-complaint, under Code of
Civil Procedure section 426.30, is one that asserts (1) a “related cause of
action”; (2) that a party against whom a “complaint” has been filed and served
has against the “plaintiff”; and (3) that exists as of the time the answer to
the “complaint” is served.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 426.30, subd.
(a).) 
As used in section 426.30, a “related cause of
action” is defined as “a cause of action which arises out of the same
transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or occurrences as the cause
of action which the plaintiff alleges in his complaint.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 426.10, subd. (c).)  “Complaint” is defined to include a
cross-complaint, and “Plaintiff” is defined as “a person who files a complaint
or cross-complaint.”  (Id., subds. (a) & (b).) 
Subject to the exceptions set forth by statute,
if a party fails to assert fails to assert a related cause of action against the
plaintiff that exists as of the time the party answers the complaint, “such
party may not thereafter in any other action assert against the plaintiff the
related cause of action not pleaded.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 426.30,
subd. (a).)
A permissive cross-complaint, in contrast, is
much broader.  Under Code of Civil Procedure section 428.10, in a
permissive cross-complaint a party may assert an unrelated cause of action
“against any of the parties who filed the complaint or cross-complaint against
him.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 428.10, subd.
(a).)  Alternatively, in a permissive cross-complaint a party may
assert a “cause of action he has against a person alleged to be liable thereon,
whether or not such a person is already party to the action, if the cause of action
asserted in his cross-complaint (1) arises out of the same transaction,
occurrence, or series of transactions or occurrences as the cause brought
against him or (2) asserts a claim, right, or interest in the property or
controversy which is the subject of the cause brought against him.” (Id.,
subd. (b).)  Cross-complaints for contribution or indemnity against
co-defendants generally fall within the definition of a permissive
cross-complaint in section 428.10.
A party must file a compulsory cross-complaint
at the same time as (or before) the answer to the complaint.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 426.30, subd. (a).)  If a party fails to do so, and
then later on seeks leave to file the cross-complaint, the court “after notice
to the adverse party, shall grant, upon such terms as may be just to the
parties, leave to amend the pleading, or to file the cross-complaint, to assert
such cause if the party who failed to plead the cause acted in good
faith.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 426.50.)  The “good
faith” standard must “be liberally construed to avoid forfeiture of causes of
action.”  (Ibid.)
A party must file a permissive cross-complaint
before the court has set a date for trial, or, if the causes of action in the
cross-complaint are asserted against “any of the parties who filed the
complaint or cross-complaint against him or her,” at or before the party files
the answer to the complaint or cross-complaint.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
428.50, subds. (a) & (b).)  If a party fails to do so, and then
later on seeks leave to file the cross-complaint, the court may grant leave “in
the interests of justice.” (Id., subd. (c).)
Discussion
McLean contends good causes exist for leave to
file a cross-complaint against co-Defendant Linnetz for contribution,
indemnity, and declaratory relief.  The
proposed cross-complaint plainly arises out of the same set of facts as
Plaintiff’s complaint.  
Linnetz opposes the motion, arguing (essentially):
(1) that Plaintiff’s case is a “made up” claim without any merit; (2) that
Plaintiff and one of his friends are serial plaintiffs who have brought a number
of other lawsuits in the past few years; and (3) it is not in the interests of
justice to allow McLean to file a cross-complaint now, less than two months before
trial. 
Linnetz’s first two arguments relate to the
underlying merits of Plaintiff’s case.  But
the Court cannot adjudicate the merits of the claims or defenses on a motion
for leave to file a cross-complaint. 
Indeed, Linnetz argues primarily that Plaintiff is not credible and his
claims have no merit – but this motion has little or nothing to do with Plaintiff’s
claims against Linnetz.  Plaintiff’s
claims against McLean and Linnetz will move forward regardless of whether this
motion is granted or denied.  The issue before
the Court is whether McLean can bring a cross-complaint against Linnetz for
contribution and indemnity, not whether Plaintiff can pursue his claims against
Linnetz.
Linnetz’s third argument raises more substantial
issues, as trial is scheduled for October 7. 
There does appear, however, to be substantial, and perhaps a complete,
overlap in the facts relating to the complaint (Plaintiff’s claims against McLean
and Linnetz) and the proposed cross-complaint (McLean’s claims for indemnity
and contribution against Linnetz). 
Moreover, if Linnetz contends that allowing the filing of the
cross-complaint at this stage of the litigation would cause her undue
prejudice, she may file a motion (or ex parte application) to continue the trial
so that she can conduct whatever additional discovery and investigation is
necessary to address the cross-complaint. 
In that regard, the Court notes that there have been no prior requests
for continuances of trial, and that both McLean and Linnetz appeared in this
action less than six months ago.
The Court finds that granting McLean’s motion
for leave to file a permissive cross-complaint is in the interests of
justice.  If Linnetz contends that she
needs additional time to conduct her investigation or discovery to prepare for
trial, she may file an appropriate motion or application for a continuance of
the trial date.
The motion is granted.
Conclusion
 
The Court GRANTS McLean’s motion
for leave to file a cross-complaint against Linnetz.
 
The
Court GRANTS McLean leave to file the cross-complaint submitted within the
moving papers within 7 days of the hearing. 

 
Moving Party to give notice.