 Case Number:  20STCV43588    Hearing Date:   August 14, 2024    Dept:  29 Rivera v. Solares
20STCV43588
Defendants’ Motion to Reopen Discovery, Conduct Second Deposition of Plaintiff,
Conduct Further Neurosurgical Examination of Plaintiff, and Conduct Further
Mental Examination of Plaintiff
Tentative
The motion is denied without prejudice.
BACKGROUND
On November 13, 2020, Carlos Rivera (“Plaintiff”) filed a
complaint against Menahem Roberto Solares, Venco Power Sweeping, Inc.
(collectively “Defendants”), and Does 1 through 25 for motor vehicle negligence
and general negligence arising out of an accident occurring on June 16, 2020. 
Defendants filed an answer on January 20, 2021.
On filing, the case was assigned a trial date of May 13,
2022.  Based on the stipulation of the
parties, the Court continued the trial date to March 21, 2023, and then to
October 6, 2023.  On Defendants’ motion,
trial was continued to February 14, 2024. 
On Plaintiff’s ex parte application, trial was continued to June 14,
2024, with all discovery deadlines reset based on the new trial date.  On April 11, 2024, Defendants moved to
continue trial again but withdrew the motion one day before the hearing.  On Plaintiff’s ex parte application, trial
was continued to October 18, 2024; expert discovery deadlines were reset based
on the new trial date, but the fact discovery deadlines were not reset.  Accordingly, fact discovery closed on May 15,
2024.
On June 11, 2024, Defendants filed this motion seeking
four fairly discrete items of relief: (1) an order reopening fact discovery;
(2) an order granting them leave to take a second deposition of Plaintiff; (3) an
order granting them leave for a further physical (neurosurgical) examination of
Plaintiff; and (4) an order granting them leave for a further mental
examination of Plaintiff.
Plaintiff filed an opposition on July 10, along with a
request for sanctions.  Defendants filed
reply on July 16. 
The hearing was initially scheduled for July 23,
2024.  As a result of the cyber attack on
the Los Angeles Superior Court, the hearing was continued to August 14.
LEGAL STANDARD 
Reopen Discovery
“On motion of any party, the court may
grant leave to complete discovery proceedings, or to have a motion concerning
discovery heard, closer to the initial trial date, or to reopen discovery after
a new trial date has been set.¿ This motion shall be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration under Section 2016.040.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.050,
subd. (a).)¿ 
“A meet and confer declaration in support
of a motion shall state facts showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an
informal resolution of each issue presented by the motion.” (Code Civ. Proc., section
2016.040.)¿¿ 
“In exercising its discretion to grant or
deny this motion, the court shall take into consideration any matter relevant
to the leave requested, including, but not limited to, the following: (1) The
necessity and the reasons for the discovery.¿ (2) The diligence or lack of
diligence of the party seeking the discovery or the hearing of a discovery
motion, and the reasons that the discovery was not completed or that the
discovery motion was not heard earlier.¿ (3) Any likelihood that permitting the
discovery or hearing the discovery motion will prevent the case from going to
trial on the date set, or otherwise interfere with the trial calendar, or
result in prejudice to any other party.¿ (4) The length of time that has
elapsed between any date previously set, and the date presently set, for the
trial of the action.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., section 2024.050, subd.
(b)(1)-(4).)¿¿¿  
“The court shall impose a monetary sanction
under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person,
or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to extend or to reopen
discovery, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., section 2024.050, subd. (c).)¿¿¿ 
Second Deposition of Plaintiff
Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.610 provides in relevant part:
 
(a) 
Once any party has taken the
deposition of any natural person, including that of a party to the action,
neither the party who gave, nor any other party who has been served with a
deposition notice pursuant to Section 2025.240 may
take a subsequent deposition of that deponent. 
 
(b)  Notwithstanding
subdivision (a), for good cause shown, the court may grant leave to take a
subsequent deposition, and the parties, with the consent of any deponent who is
not a party, may stipulate that a subsequent deposition be taken. 
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.610, subds. (a) and
(b).) 
 
Further Physical and Mental Examination of
Plaintiff
“Any party may obtain discovery . . . by means of a
physical or mental examination of (1) a party to the action, (2) an agent of
any party, or (3) a natural person in the custody or under the legal control of
a party, in any action in which the mental or physical condition (including the
blood group) of that party or other person is in controversy in the action.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.020, subd. (a).)
In a personal injury action, the defendant may
demand one physical examination of plaintiff as of right, without advance leave
of the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2032.220.)  
If a defendant seeks a further physical examination
of plaintiff, or a mental examination, the defendant must first file a motion
and “obtain leave of court.” (Id., § 2032.310, subd. (a).) Such a motion
must “specify the time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and nature of the
examination, as well as the identity and the specialty, if any, of the person
or persons who will perform the examination.” (Id., subd. (b).) The
court may grant such a motion “only for good cause shown.” (Id., §
2032.320, subd. (a).) A showing of good cause generally requires “that the
party produce specific facts justifying discovery and that the inquiry be
relevant to the subject matter of the action or reasonably calculated to lead to
the discovery of admissible evidence.” (Vinson v. Super. Ct. (1987) 43
Cal.3d 833, 840.)  
 “An order granting a physical or mental
examination shall specify the person or persons who may perform the
examination, as well as the time, place, manner, diagnostic tests and
procedures, conditions, scope, and nature of the examination.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2032.320, subd. (d).) “The court is to describe¿in detail¿who
will conduct the examination, where and when it will be conducted, the
conditions, scope and nature of the examination, and the diagnostic tests and
procedures to be employed.  The way to describe these ‘diagnostic tests
and procedures’—fully¿and¿in detail—is to list them by
name.” (Carpenter v. Super. Ct.¿(2006) 141 Cal.App.4th 249,
260.)¿¿ 
The moving party¿must support the motion with a meet
and confer declaration.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.310, subd. (b).) A
meet and confer declaration must state facts “showing a reasonable and good
faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented by the
motion.”¿ (Id., § 2016.040.)¿¿¿¿ 
The examination will be limited to whatever
condition is “in controversy” in the action.¿ (Id., § 2032.020, subd.
(a).) A mental examination is appropriate only if the plaintiff alleges
continuing emotional distress. (Doyle v. Super. Ct. ¿(1996) 50
Cal.App.4th¿1878, 1886-1887.) “While a plaintiff may place his mental
state in controversy by a general allegation of severe emotional distress, the
opposing party may not require him to undergo psychiatric testing solely on the
basis of speculation that something of interest may surface.”  (Vinson,¿supra,
43 Cal.3d at 840.) By alleging a causal link between the emotional
distress and the defendant's conduct, however, a plaintiff “implicitly claims
it was not caused by a preexisting mental condition, thereby raising the
question of alternative sources for the distress.” (Ibid.) 
DISCUSSION
As a preliminary matter, the Court notes that Defendants seek
four discrete items of relief in what is presented as a single motion.  At best, this is poor practice; at worst, it
is impermissible.  As a leading treatise states,
“Each motion or demurrer should normally be set forth in a separate document.”  (2 Weil & Brown, California Practice
Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial [2024] ¶ 9:24.3.)
The Court exercises its discretion, on this one occasion, to disregard
this procedural defect.  The Court moves
on to consider each of Defendants’ four requests for relief.  In the future, however, the Court expects the
parties to file separate motions when multiple disparate items of relief are requested.
Request to Reopen Discovery
The motion to reopen discovery is denied without
prejudice.  
There is a mandatory statutory requirement for a motion to
reopen discovery: the motion must “be accompanied by
a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.050,
subd. (a).)¿
Defendants have not satisfied
this requirement.  The declaration of
counsel filed with the moving papers provides no indication of any efforts to
meet and confer with Plaintiff’s counsel. 

Defendants’ attempt to cure this
defect by submitting a declaration of counsel with the reply papers fails for
two independent reasons.  First, the reply
declaration is too late: the statute requires the declaration to accompany the
motion, not the reply papers.  Second, even
the reply declaration does not show an adequate effort to meet and confer:
instead, it appears that Defendants sent Plaintiff an email that said, in
effect, “Stipulate or else.”  (Johnson
Reply Decl., Exh. D [email dated May 9, 2024].) 
That is not a good faith or reasonable effort at informal resolution.
Accordingly, the motion is
denied.
Requests for Further Deposition, Physical
Examination, and Mental Examination
The granting of Defendants’ request to reopen discovery is a
necessary prerequisite to the granting of any of the three other requests for relief
in this motion.  Without a reopening of fact
discovery, there is no basis for a further deposition, a further physical
examination, or a further mental examination. 
For that reason alone, these three requests are denied without
prejudice.
The Court also notes that as to the further physical and
mental examinations, the motion is not accompanied with a proper meet and
confer declaration, and the moving papers do not satisfy the other requirements
of Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.310, subdivision (b). 
CONCLUSION 
The Court DENIES WITHOUT PREJUDICE the
motion of Defendants Menahem Roberto Solares and Venco
Power Sweeping, Inc. to reopen discovery,
to take a further deposition of Plaintiff, and to conduct further physical and
mental examinations of Plaintiff.
Moving Party to provide notice.