 Case Number:  23AHCV01818    Hearing Date:   July 2, 2024    Dept:  26  Palmer
v. Torres, et al.MOTION TO SUBSTITUTE SUCCESSOR IN
INTEREST(CCP § 377.10, et seq.)
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
Non-party Bobby Marcellus Gould’s Motion to Substitute Bobby Marcellus Gould, an Individual and
as Successor In Interest To Decedent Simone Palmer, is DENIED.
 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
The
instant action was commenced by Plaintiff Simone Palmer (“Palmer”), Ahnesti
Johnson, and Knowledge Johnson (“minor Plaintiffs”) on August 10, 2023. The
action for motor vehicle negligence is brought against Defendants Hortencia
Reyes Torres and Samantha Reyes Torres (“Defendants”). On May 9, 2024, Moving
Party Bobby Marcus Gould (“Gould”) filed the instant Motion to Substitute Bobby
Marcellus Gould, an Individual and as Successor In Interest To Decedent Simone
Palmer. The Motion was initially heard on June 12, 2024 and continued to allow
Gould to file supplemental papers. (Minute Order, 06/12/24.) No additional
papers, nor opposition has been filed to date. 
 
 
 
Discussion
 
Gould moves to be substituted into this action, following the death of
Palmer, as her surviving husband and the successor in interest of the Estate of
Simone Palmer. Code of
Civil Procedure, section 377.31 states, “[o]n motion after the death of a
person who commenced an action or proceeding, the court shall allow a pending
action or proceeding that does not abate to be continued by the decedent’s
personal representative or, if none, by the decedent’s successor in
interest.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.31.) 
 
Code of
Civil Procedure, section 377.11 defines “successor-in-interest” as “the
beneficiary of the decedent’s estate or other successor in interest who
succeeds to a cause of action or to a particular item of the property that is
the subject of a cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.11.) 
 
Under Code
of Civil Procedure, section 377.32:
 
(a)
The person who seeks to commence an action or proceeding or to continue a
pending action or proceeding as the decedent’s successor in interest under this
article, shall execute and file an affidavit or a declaration under penalty of
perjury under the laws of this state stating all of the following:
 
(1)
The decedent’s name.
(2) The date and place of the
decedent's death.
(3) “No proceeding is now pending
in California for administration of the decedent's estate.”
(4)
If the decedent’s estate was administered, a copy of the final order showing
the distribution of the decedent's cause of action to the successor in
interest.
(5)
Either of the following, as appropriate, with facts in support thereof:
 
(A)
“The affiant or declarant is the decedent’s successor in interest (as defined
in Section 377.11 of the California Code of Civil Procedure) and succeeds to
the decedent’s interest in the action or proceeding.”
(B)
“The affiant or declarant is authorized to act on behalf of the decedent’s
successor in interest (as defined in Section 377.11 of the California Code of
Civil Procedure) with respect to the decedent’s interest in the action or
proceeding.”
 
(6)
“No other person has a superior right to commence the action or proceeding or
to be substituted for the decedent in the pending action or proceeding.”
 
(7)
“The affiant or declarant affirms or declares under penalty of perjury under
the laws of the State of California that the foregoing is true and correct.”
 
(b)
Where more than one person executes the affidavit or declaration under this
section, the statements required by subdivision (a) shall be modified as
appropriate to reflect that fact.
 
(c)
A certified copy of the decedent’s death certificate shall be attached to the
affidavit or declaration.
 
(Code Civ.
Proc., § 377.32.)
 
Discussion
 
The Motion
is supported by the declarations of Gould and of Palmer’s attorney, to which is
attached a certified copy of the death certificate. (Motion, Gould Decl., Exh.
B.) The declarations set forth some but not all of the information required by
Code of Civil Procedure, section 377.32.
 
Gould’s
declaration states Palmer’s name, and that “no proceeding is now pending in
California for administration of the decedent’s estate.” (Id. at ¶¶1,
5.) There is no statement, however, of Palmer’s date and place of death. Gould
also declares that there has been no administration of Palmer’s estate. (Id.
at ¶¶5-6.) Finally, Gould declares he is Palmer’s successor in interest, as set
forth in Code of Civil Procedure section 377.11. (Id. at ¶6.) Section
377.11 defines successor in interest as the “beneficiary of the decedent’s
estate or other successor in interest who succeeds to a cause of action or to a
particular item of the property that is the subject of a cause of action.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 377.11.) Neither the declaration of Gould nor Palmer’s
counsel, however, set forth supporting facts to show that Gould is the
beneficiary of Palmer’s estate or that he succeeds to a cause of action or to a
particular item of the property that is the subject of a cause of action. 
 
The
supporting declarations, therefore, do not comply with the statutory
requirements set forth above. 
 
Conclusion
 
Non-party Bobby Marcellus Gould’s Motion to Substitute Bobby Marcellus Gould, an Individual and
as Successor In Interest To Decedent Simone Palmer, is DENIED.
 
 
Court
clerk to give notice. 
 
 
 
 