 Case Number:  22TRCV01258    Hearing Date:   November 9, 2023    Dept:  B 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                 Thursday, November 9, 2023  
Department B                                                                                                                            Calendar No. 5  



 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
John
Doe L.W. v. Doe #1, et al.    
22TRCV01258

1.     
Doe #1’s Demurrer
to Complaint
2.     
Doe #1’s Motion
to Strike Portions of Complaint 
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING

Doe #1’s Demurrer to Complaint is sustained with 20
days leave to amend, in part, and without leave to amend, in part.
 
Doe #1’s Motion to Strike Portions of Complaint is granted
without leave to amend, in part, and denied, in part.
 
Background
 
Plaintiff’s Complaint was filed on November 15, 2022.
Plaintiff alleges the following facts. In or about 1980, Plaintiff, a special
needs student, was sexually assaulted as a child at Inglewood High School by a
teacher – Doe # 2. Plaintiffs allege the following causes of action: 1. Childhood
Sexual Abuse; 2. Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress; 3. Negligent
Hiring, Training, and Supervision; 4. Failure to Report Suspected Child Abuse; 5.
Negligent Supervision of a Minor; 6. Negligence.  
 
            Meet and Confer
             
            Defendant set forth a meet and
confer declaration in sufficient compliance with CCP § 430.41 and CCP §
435.5.  (Decl., Robert Kostrenich.)  
 
            Demurrer

A demurrer tests the sufficiency of a
complaint as a matter of law and raises only questions of law. (Schmidt v.
Foundation Health (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 1702, 1706.)  In testing the sufficiency of the complaint,
the court must assume the truth of (1) the properly pleaded factual
allegations; (2) facts that can be reasonably inferred from those expressly
pleaded; and (3) judicially noticed matters. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39
Cal.3d 311, 318.)  The Court may not
consider contentions, deductions, or conclusions of fact or law.  (Moore v. Conliffe (1994) 7 Cal.App.4th
634, 638.) Because a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of a complaint, the
plaintiff must show that the complaint alleges facts sufficient to establish
every element of each cause of action.  (Rakestraw
v. California Physicians Service (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 39, 43.)  Where the complaint fails to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action, courts should sustain the demurrer.
 (C.C.P., § 430.10(e); Zelig v. County
of Los Angeles (2002) 27 Cal.App.4th 1112, 1126.)
Sufficient facts are the essential facts
of the case "with reasonable precision and with particularity sufficiently
specific to acquaint the defendant with the nature, source, and extent of his
cause of action.”  (Gressley v.
Williams (1961) 193 Cal.App.2d 636, 643-644.) "Whether the plaintiff will be able to
prove the pleaded facts is irrelevant to ruling upon the demurrer."  (Stevens v. Superior Court (1986) 180
Cal.App.3d 605, 609–610.)  Under Code
Civil Procedure § 430.10(f), a demurrer may also be sustained if a complaint is
“uncertain.” Uncertainty exists where a
complaint’s factual allegations are so confusing they do not sufficiently
apprise a defendant of the issues it is being asked to meet.  (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp.
(1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2.)
Defendant demurs to
the third through sixth causes for failure to state sufficient facts and
uncertainty.
 
At the outset the
Court recognizes the following authority applicable to alleging statutory
liability against a public entity. “[U]nder the Tort Claims Act all
governmental tort liability is based on statute, the general rule that
statutory causes of action must be pleaded with particularity is applicable.
Thus, to state a cause of action against a public entity, every fact material
to the existence of its statutory liability must be pleaded with
particularity.” Lopez v. Southern Cal. Rapid Transit Dist. (1985) 40
Cal.3d 780, 795 (internal quotation omitted).
 
Third Cause of
Action for Negligent Hiring, Training, and Supervision
 
Defendant’s demurrer
to the third cause of action is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.
Plaintiff fails to state facts sufficient to state a cause of action.
As to the third cause of action
for Negligent Hiring, Training, and Supervision, the Court recognizes the
following authority. “An employer may be liable to a third person for the
employer's negligence in hiring or retaining an employee who is incompetent or
unfit. Liability for negligent hiring ... is based upon the reasoning that if
an enterprise hires individuals with characteristics which might pose a danger
to customers or other employees, the enterprise should bear the loss caused by
the wrongdoing of its incompetent or unfit employees. Negligence liability will
be imposed on an employer if it knew or should have known that hiring the
employee created a particular risk or hazard and that particular harm
materializes. California follows the rule set forth in the Restatement Second
of Agency section 213, which provides in pertinent part: ‘A person conducting
an activity through servants or other agents is subject to liability for harm
resulting from his conduct if he is negligent or reckless: ... [¶] (b) in the
employment of improper persons or instrumentalities in work involving risk of
harm to others[.]’ Liability for negligent ... retention of an employee is one
of direct liability for negligence, not vicarious liability.” Phillips v. TLC Plumbing, Inc. (2009)
172 Cal.App.4th 1133. 1139 (internal citations and quotations omitted). 
“One who employs another to act
for him is not liable ... merely because the one employed is incompetent,
vicious, or careless. If liability results it is because, under the
circumstances, the employer has not taken the care which a prudent man would
take in selecting the person for the business in hand.... [¶] Liability results
... not because of the relation of the parties but because the employer
antecedently had reason to believe that an undue risk of harm would exist
because of the employment.” Federico v.
Superior Court (Jenry G.) (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 1210, 1213-14.
            Here,
Plaintiff merely pleads conclusions with respect to the essential element that
Defendant hired and retained Doe #2 with reasonable suspicion that he would
harm students. This essential fact is only set forth upon information and
belief. (Complaint, ¶ 26.) These facts
are then repeated throughout the Complaint, but, presumably, all the repeating
allegations are again based simply upon information and belief. 
“[P]laintiff may allege on
information and belief any matters that are not within his personal knowledge,
if he has information leading him to believe that the allegations are true and
thus a pleading made on information and belief is insufficient if it merely
assert[s] the facts so alleged without alleging such information that lead[s]
[the plaintiff] to believe that the allegations are true.”  Gomes v. Countrywide Home Loans, Inc.
(2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 1149, 1158–1159 (internal citations and quotations are
omitted; emphasis in original.) As to the allegations made on “information and
belief,” Plaintiff failed to allege sufficient facts that would support the
contention that the belief is true. Thus, Plaintiff did not plead the
particularized facts to support the conclusion such as the underlying facts showing
why Defendant was aware or should have been aware that Doe # 2 was incompetent
or unfit. Such facts would have supported the reason why Defendant’s hiring,
supervision, and retention was negligent. Plaintiff fails to plead the
underlying facts to demonstrate that demurring Defendant had notice of Doe # 2’s
incompetence or unfitness yet still proceeded to hire, retain, and train this
individual. Plaintiffs simply stated that such facts were made on information
and belief without a showing of why the belief would be true. 
Therefore, the demurrer to the third
cause of action is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.  
Fourth Cause of
Action for Failure to Report Suspected Child Abuse
Defendant’s demurrer to the fourth cause of action
is sustained with 20 days leave to amend. Plaintiff fails to state facts
sufficient to state a cause of action.
Under California’s Child Abuse
and Neglect Reporting Act (“CANRA”), all teachers, certificated employees, and
counselors in public and private schools are mandated reporters.  Pen. Code § 11165.7(a)(1)-(5), (17), (21).  Mandated reporters are required to report any
suspicions of child abuse or neglect. 
Pen. Code § 11166(a).  The term
“child abuse or negligent” includes “the willful harming or injuring of a child
or the endangering of the person or health of a child.”  Pen. Code § 11165.6. 
“CANRA employs an objective
standard for evaluating the reasonableness of a mandated reporter's suspicion.
Penal Code section 11166, subdivision (a)(1), states “ ‘reasonable suspicion’
means that it is objectively reasonable for a person to entertain a suspicion,
based upon facts that could cause a reasonable person in a like position,
drawing when appropriate, on the person's training and experience, to suspect
child abuse or neglect.” Doe v. Lawndale Elementary School Dist. (2021)
72 Cal.App.5th 113, 138–139. “Reading this definition in isolation, it is not
immediately clear whether the facts that could cause a reasonable person to
suspect abuse are limited to the facts known to the person, or whether they
include facts a reasonable person should have discovered. But considered in the
context of other provisions of CANRA, the former interpretation is the correct
one.” Id. at 139–140.
First, as noted by the
authorities listed above, the statutory basis for liability can only be based
upon information known to Defendant and not what Defendant theoretically should
have discovered. Plaintiff’s allegations are made in part on accusations that
Defendant should have discovered the conduct of Doe # 2. In addition, as noted
above, allegations are only set forth upon information and belief without the
requisite supporting facts to support this belief. In addition, even the
allegations made on information and belief as set forth in paragraphs 26 to 30
appear to only support conclusions as to Doe #2’s actions against other
individuals and not Plaintiff directly. No particularized facts are alleged to
show that Defendant had any knowledge of Doe #2’s alleged abuse of Plaintiff.
The demurrer to the fourth cause
of action is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.
Fifth Cause of Action for
Negligent Supervision of a Minor
Defendant’s demurrer to the
fifth cause of action is sustained with 20 days leave to amend. Plaintiff fails
to state facts sufficient to state a cause of action.
“[S]chool personnel owe students
under their supervision a protective duty of ordinary care, for breach of which
the school district may be held vicariously liable. If a supervisory or
administrative employee of the school district is proven to have breached that
duty by negligently exposing plaintiff to a foreseeable danger of molestation
by his guidance counselor, resulting in his injuries, and assuming no immunity
provision applies, liability falls on the school district under section 815.2.”
C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861,
865–66 (internal citations omitted).
The factual basis for this cause
of action is again based upon alleged facts that Defendant had regarding Doe
#2’s conduct toward minor students. (Complaint, ¶ 67.)  As noted above, no particularized facts to
support these conclusions were set forth. The facts were alleged only upon
information and belief without the underlying facts to show why the belief
would be true.
The demurrer to the fifth cause
of action is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.
Sixth Cause of Action for Negligence
Defendant’s demurrer to the sixth cause of
action is sustained without leave to amend. This cause of action is merely
duplicative of both the third and fifth cause of action. 
 
            Motion
to Strike  
 
The court may, upon a motion, or at any
time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.  CCP § 436(a). 
The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of
the court.  CCP § 436(b).  The grounds for a motion to strike are that
the pleading has irrelevant, false or improper matter, or has not been drawn or
filed in conformity with laws.  CCP §
436.  The grounds for moving to strike
must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.  CCP § 437.
 
Defendant moves to strike the following:
“1. Paragraph 4, page 2, lines 15 [through]
17, in its entirety, stating as follows: “...while employed at Inglewood High.
At all times relevant herein, Defendant Doe #2 was a teacher employed by
Defendant Doe #1 ...” 
2. Paragraph 8, page 3, lines 6 [through] 8,
in its entirety, stating as follows: “At all times herein mentioned, Defendants
were the agents, servants, employees, and joint venturers of each other and of
their co-defendants and were acting within the course and scope of their
employment, agency and joint venture.” 
3. Paragraph 17, page 4, lines 19 [through]
20, in its entirety, stating as follows: “Defendant Doe #2 was under the direct
supervision, employ, agency, and/or control of Defendants Doe #1...” 
4. Paragraph 24, page 6, lines 6 [through]
7, in its entirety, stating as follows: “At all relevant times, Defendant Doe
#2 was acting within the course and scope of his agency and employment with Doe
#1....” paragraphs 57, 75, 88, 109, and page 30, line 2.” (Notice of Motion, p.
2, lines 4-16.)
 
As to Items 2 and 4 (paragraphs 8 and 24),
Plaintiff concedes to the motion and the motion to strike is granted without
leave to amend.
 
As to Items 1 and 3 (paragraphs 4 and 17),
the motion to strike is denied. There is nothing facially irrelevant, false, or
improper about these allegations. The Court cannot attempt to speculate whether
these allegations are used to support a cause of action, claim of damages, or
an element thereto that may not be supported with essential underlying facts. 
 
Therefore, the motion to strike is granted
without leave to amend, in part, and denied in part.
 
Defendant is ordered to give notice of
this ruling.