 Case Number:  22TRCV00333    Hearing Date:   November 9, 2023    Dept:  B LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                   Thursday,
November 9, 2023 
Department B                                                                                                                              Calendar No. 4
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
R&R Surgical Institute v. Health Net
Life Insurance Company, et al.     
22TRCV00333
1.      William B. Walheim’s Application to Appear as Counsel
Pro Hac Vice for Defendant Health Net Life Insurance Company     

TENTATIVE RULING
 
            William
B. Walheim’s Application to Appear as Counsel Pro Hac Vice for Defendant Health
Net Life Insurance Company is granted. 
 
             Background
 
            Plaintiff filed its Complaint on May 2,
2022. Plaintiff alleges the following facts. Plaintiff is an out-of-network
medical provider with a history of treating participants of the health plan of
Defendants. Plaintiff alleges that it provided medically necessary services to an
insured member patient. Plaintiff alleges that Defendants made oral promises
and representations that they would pay certain percentages of the allowable
rate and that no pre-authorization was required. However, ultimately, the
benefits paid were inadequate. Plaintiff asserts causes of action for (1)
Breach of Oral Contract; (2) Promissory Estoppel; (3) Intentional
Misrepresentation; (4) Negligent Misrepresentation; (5) Violation of Bus. &
Prof. Code 17200. 
 
            Application
to Appear Pro Hac Vice
 
            Cal.
Rules of Court, Rule 9.40 states, in relevant part:
            “(d)
The application must state:
            (1)
The applicant's residence and office address;
            (2)
The courts to which the applicant has been admitted to practice and the dates
of admission;
            (3)
That the applicant is a licensee in good standing in those courts;
            (4)
That the applicant is not currently suspended or disbarred in any court;
            (5)
The title of each court and cause in which the applicant has filed an
application to appear as counsel pro hac vice in this state in the preceding
two years, the date of each application, and whether or not it was granted; and
            (6)
The name, address, and telephone number of the active licensee of the State Bar
of California who is attorney of record.
            (e)
An applicant for permission to appear as counsel pro hac vice under this rule
must pay a reasonable fee not exceeding $50 to the State Bar of California with
the copy of the application and the notice of hearing that is served on the
State Bar.”
 
            The
applicant has met all the requirements mandated in Rule 9.40. The application
to be admitted as counsel pro hac vice is therefore granted. 
 
            William
B. Walheim is admitted as counsel pro hac vice in the pending matter.
 
            Defendant
is ordered to give notice of this ruling.