  Case Number:  19STCV35081    Hearing Date:   November 9, 2023    Dept:  B 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                  Thursday, November 9, 2023 
Department B                                                                                                                             Calendar No. 6  



 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Natassja
Greene v. Wyndham Worldwide Corporation, et al.   
19STCV35081

1.     
401 South Hoover
Property, Inc., et al.’s Demurrer to Second Amended Complaint
2.     
401 South Hoover
Property, Inc., et al.’s Motion to Strike Portions of Second Amended Complaint
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING

401 South Hoover Property, Inc., et al.’s Demurrer to Second
Amended Complaint is sustained without leave to amend.
 
401 South Hoover Property, Inc., et al.’s Motions to
Strike Portions of Second Amended Complaint is moot, in part, and granted without
leave to amend, in part.
 
Background
 
Plaintiffs’ Complaint was filed on October 1, 2019. Plaintiffs’
First Amended Complaint was filed on February 6, 2023. Plaintiffs’ Second
Amended Complaint was filed on July 31, 2023. Plaintiffs allege the following
facts. Plaintiffs suffered bed bug bites after staying at Defendants’ hotel.
Plaintiffs allege the following causes of action: 1. Battery; 2. Negligence; 3.
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress; 4. Fraudulent Concealment; 5.
Private Nuisance; 6. Public Nuisance.  
 
            Meet and Confer
             
            Defendants set forth meet and confer
declarations in sufficient compliance with CCP § 430.41 and CCP § 435.5.  (Decls., Allison K. Howard.)  
 
            Demurrer

A demurrer tests the sufficiency of a
complaint as a matter of law and raises only questions of law. (Schmidt v.
Foundation Health (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 1702, 1706.)  In testing the sufficiency of the complaint,
the court must assume the truth of (1) the properly pleaded factual
allegations; (2) facts that can be reasonably inferred from those expressly
pleaded; and (3) judicially noticed matters. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39
Cal.3d 311, 318.)  The Court may not
consider contentions, deductions, or conclusions of fact or law.  (Moore v. Conliffe (1994) 7 Cal.App.4th
634, 638.) Because a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of a complaint, the
plaintiff must show that the complaint alleges facts sufficient to establish
every element of each cause of action.  (Rakestraw
v. California Physicians Service (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 39, 43.)  Where the complaint fails to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action, courts should sustain the demurrer.
 (C.C.P., § 430.10(e); Zelig v. County
of Los Angeles (2002) 27 Cal.App.4th 1112, 1126.)
Sufficient facts are the essential facts
of the case "with reasonable precision and with particularity sufficiently
specific to acquaint the defendant with the nature, source, and extent of his
cause of action.”  (Gressley v.
Williams (1961) 193 Cal.App.2d 636, 643-644.) "Whether the plaintiff will be able to
prove the pleaded facts is irrelevant to ruling upon the demurrer."  (Stevens v. Superior Court (1986) 180
Cal.App.3d 605, 609–610.)  Under Code
Civil Procedure § 430.10(f), a demurrer may also be sustained if a complaint is
“uncertain.” Uncertainty exists where a
complaint’s factual allegations are so confusing they do not sufficiently
apprise a defendant of the issues it is being asked to meet.  (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp.
(1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2.)
Defendants’ demurrer to the first, and
third through sixth causes of the Second Amended Complaint is sustained for
failure to state sufficient facts.
First Cause of Action for Battery

            Defendants’ demurrer to the first cause
of action is sustained without leave to amend. Plaintiffs fail to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action.
 
            “The elements of a cause of action
for battery are: (1) the defendant touched the plaintiff, or caused the
plaintiff to be touched, with the intent to harm or offend the plaintiff; (2)
the plaintiff did not consent to the touching; (3) the plaintiff was harmed or
offended by the defendant's conduct; and (4) a reasonable person in the
plaintiff's position would have been offended by the touching.” Carlsen v.
Koivumaki (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 879, 890.
 
Plaintiffs fail to plead facts to support the element
of intent to harm or offend. Plaintiffs merely stated conclusions. Plaintiffs
rely upon conclusory statements such as allegations that Defendants acted
intentionally, willfully, and recklessly without facts to support these
conclusions. Plaintiffs rely upon conclusions that Defendant “deliberately and
recklessly chose not to inspect or otherwise ensure that Plaintiff’s room was
free of Cimex lectularius (“bedbugs”) immediately before Plaintiffs’ stay at the
hotel.” (SAC, ¶ 21.)  However, Plaintiffs
allege no facts to demonstrate that Defendants were aware of any bed bug
infestation in Plaintiff’s room immediately prior to Plaintiffs’ stay at the
hotel, and that despite this awareness, Defendants knowingly allowed Plaintiffs
to stay in the bed bug infested room with the intent to harm or offend the
Plaintiffs. Plaintiffs allege that they notified of the infestation after being
bitten, but then Plaintiffs allege that “management stated that they would
inspect the rooms; however, the management denied any findings.” (SAC, ¶ 18).
Therefore, apparently, according to Defendants, after inspecting the rooms, did
not find any bed bugs in the rooms. Plaintiffs have alleged a series of
conclusions that Defendants had knowledge of the existence of a bed bug
infestation in the room without any underlying facts to support the conclusions.
(SAC, ¶¶ 21-28.)
 
Thus, the factual element of intent to harm or offend
Plaintiff remains conclusory and lacking in facts.            
 
Therefore, Defendants’ demurrer to the first cause of
action is sustained without leave to amend. 
 
Third Cause of Action for IIED
 
Defendants’ demurrer is sustained without leave to
amend. Plaintiffs fail to state facts sufficient to state a cause of action. 
 
“The elements of a prima facie case for the tort of
intentional infliction of emotional distress are: (1) extreme and outrageous
conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard
of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff's
suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate
causation of the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous
conduct.”  Miller v. Fortune Commercial Corp. (2017) 15 Cal.App.5th 214,
228–29.
 
For the same reasons noted above in the ruling to the
demurrers to the first cause of action, Plaintiffs fail to plead facts
demonstrating extreme and outrageous conduct on the part of Defendants with the
intent of causing or with reckless disregard of causing emotional distress as
well as causation of emotional distress by any outrageous conduct. Plaintiffs
have merely set forth conclusions.
 
Thus, the demurrer to the third cause of action is sustained
without leave to amend.
 
Fourth Cause of Action for Fraudulent Concealment 

Defendants’ demurrer to the fourth cause of action is
sustained without leave to amend. Plaintiffs fail to state facts sufficient to
state a cause of action. 
            
“A complaint for fraud must allege the following
elements: (1) a knowingly false representation by the defendant; (2) an intent
to deceive or induce reliance; (3) justifiable reliance by the plaintiff; and
(4) resulting damages.”  Service by
Medallion, Inc. v. Clorox Co. (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 1807, 1816. “[T]he
elements of an action for fraud and deceit based on a concealment are: (1) the
defendant must have concealed or suppressed a material fact, (2) the defendant
must have been under a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff, (3) the
defendant must have intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact with the
intent to defraud the plaintiff, (4) the plaintiff must have been unaware of
the fact and would not have acted as he did if he has known of the concealed or
suppressed fact, and (5) as a result of the concealment or suppression of the
fact, the plaintiff must have sustained damage.” Boschma v. Home Loan
Center, Inc. (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 230, 248.
 
“Every element of the cause of action for fraud must
be alleged in the proper manner and the facts constituting the fraud must be
alleged with sufficient specificity to allow defendant to understand fully the
nature of the charge made.”  Tarmann
v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157.  Plaintiffs must state facts which “show how,
when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were
tendered.”  Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.
 
Plaintiffs fail to plead specific facts to state a
cause of action for Fraudulent Concealment, including specific facts as to the
alleged intentional concealment of a material fact with the intention to
deceive Plaintiffs. As noted above, Plaintiffs have only pleaded conclusions
that Defendants had knowledge of a bedbug infestation in Plaintiffs’ room and
intentionally concealed this information from Plaintiffs.
 
Thus, Defendants’ demurrer to the fourth cause of
action is sustained without leave to amend. 
 
Fifth Cause of Action for Private Nuisance
Sixth Cause of Action for Public Nuisance
 
Defendants’ demurrer to the fifth and sixth causes of
action is sustained without leave to amend. Plaintiffs fail to state sufficient
facts to state the causes of action.
 
“Civil Code section 3479 defines a nuisance as
‘[a]nything which is injurious to health, or is indecent or offensive to the
senses, or an obstruction to the free use of property, so as to interfere with
the comfortable enjoyment of life or property.’” Stoiber v. Honeychuck
(1980) 101 Cal.App.3d 903, 919.    
 
“The elements of an action for private nuisance are:
First, the plaintiff must prove an interference with his use and enjoyment of
his property. Second, the invasion of the plaintiff's interest in the use and
enjoyment of the land [must be] substantial, i.e., that it cause[s] the
plaintiff to suffer ‘substantial actual damage. Third, [t]he interference with
the protected interest must not only be substantial, but it must also be
unreasonable, i.e., it must be of such a nature, duration or amount as to constitute
unreasonable interference with the use and enjoyment of the land.”  Mendez v. Rancho Valencia Resort Partners,
LLC (2016) 3 Cal.App.5th 248, 262-63 (internal citations and quotations
omitted).
 
“[I]n determining whether a particular activity constitutes a public nuisance,
a court considers three elements: (1) the proscribed act,
(2) whether the result of the act interferes with
the comfortable enjoyment of life or property,
and (3) whether the act affects a sufficient number of persons.”
People v. McDonald (2006) 137 Cal.App.4th 521, 535.
 
“A private nuisance cause of action requires the
plaintiff to prove an injury specifically referable to the use and enjoyment of
his or her land.  Pursuant to Civil Code
section 3501, a plaintiff seeking to remedy a private nuisance is
limited to a civil action or abatement. Unlike public nuisance,
which is an interference with the rights of the community at large, private
nuisance is a civil wrong based on disturbance of rights in land.... [T]o
proceed on a private nuisance theory the plaintiff must prove an injury
specifically referable to the use and enjoyment of his or her land. The injury,
however, need not be different in kind from that suffered by the general
public.” Mendez v. Rancho Valencia Resort Partners, LLC (2016) 3
Cal.App.5th 248, 262 (internal citations and quotations omitted).
 
First, Plaintiffs failed to provide any authority to
support the contention that a guest at a hotel has the type of property interest
in the subject property necessary to state and maintain a cause of action for
nuisance. As noted above, Mendez refers to an interference in the use
and enjoyment of “his or her” land. Second, Plaintiffs fail to plead
facts necessary to state a cause of action for public nuisance. Plaintiffs have
not pled facts to show that the alleged offensive act affected a sufficient
number of persons to qualify as a public nuisance. Plaintiffs have merely set
forth a conclusion that the infestation may theoretically affect the community
at large. (SAC, ¶¶ 127-128.)
 
Thus, the demurrer to the fifth and sixth causes of
action is sustained without leave to amend. 
 
            Motion
to Strike  
 
The court may, upon a motion, or at any
time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.  CCP § 436(a). 
The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of
the court.  CCP § 436(b).  The grounds for a motion to strike are that
the pleading has irrelevant, false or improper matter, or has not been drawn or
filed in conformity with laws.  CCP §
436.  The grounds for moving to strike
must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.  CCP § 437.
 
Defendants move to strike paragraphs 57, 75,
88, 109, and page 30, line 2. 
 
As to the motions to strike paragraphs 57,
88, and 109, the motion is moot upon the sustaining of the demurrer to the first,
third, and fourth causes of action.  
 
As to the motion to strike paragraph 75
and page 30, line 2, the motion is granted without leave to amend. 
 
Civ. Code, § 3294 states, in relevant
part:
“(a) In an action for the breach of an
obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and
convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages
for the sake of example and by way of punishing the defendant.
(b) An employer shall not be liable for
damages pursuant to subdivision (a), based upon acts of an employee of the
employer, unless the employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness of the
employee and employed him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights or
safety of others or authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct for which the
damages are awarded or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.
With respect to a corporate employer, the advance knowledge and conscious
disregard, authorization, ratification or act of oppression, fraud, or malice
must be on the part of an officer, director, or managing agent of the
corporation.”
 
Plaintiffs set forth conclusory
allegations that Defendants acted willfully, maliciously, intentionally, and/or
recklessly to try to support Plaintiffs’ allegations and prayer for punitive
damages. A Complaint’s “conclusory characterization of defendant's conduct as
intentional, wilful and fraudulent is a patently insufficient statement of
oppression, fraud, or malice, express or implied, within the meaning of section
3294.” Brousseau v. Jarrett (1977) 73 Cal.App.3d 864, 872. 
 
Therefore, the motion to strike is moot,
in part, and granted without leave to amend, in part.
 
Defendants are ordered to give notice of
this ruling. 