  Case Number:  22STCV39144    Hearing Date:   February 22, 2024    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



JOSEFINA DIAZ, et al., 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
GENERAL MOTORS LLC,
 
                        Defendant.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 22STCV39144
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING IN PART PLAINTIFFS’
  MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
February 22, 2024



 
On December 16, 2022, Plaintiffs
Josefina Diaz and Jose Aguilera filed this action against Defendant General Motors
LLC arising from Plaintiffs’ purchase of an allegedly defective vehicle.
On
February 23, 2023, Plaintiffs served Request for Production of Documents on Defendant.  (Thomas Decl. ¶ 5.)  On March 27, 2023, Defendant served responses,
which Plaintiffs deemed insufficient.  (Thomas
Decl. ¶ 6.)  After attempting to meet and
confer (see Thomas Decl. ¶¶ 10-16, 18, 21-22), Plaintiffs filed a motion to compel
further responses on August 30, 2023.
E-FILING DEFICIENCIES
Under
the Court’s First Amended General Order for electronic filing, “[e]lectronic documents
must be electronically filed in PDF, text searchable format when technologically
feasible without impairment of the document’s image.” (General Order No. 2019-GEN-014-00,
at ¶ 6(a).)  The table of contents and all
attachments, including exhibits, must be bookmarked.  (General Order No. 2019-GEN-014-00, at ¶¶ 6(b)-(d);
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1110(f)(4).) 
Plaintiffs’ filings do not comply with these requirements.  If Plaintiffs continue to electronically file
noncompliant documents, the Court may strike the filings or issue sanctions.
Additionally,
for a motion to compel further, Plaintiffs must meet and confer with Defendant and
file a Separate Statement or follow the Court’s alternative method of outlining
the disputes.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310,
subd. (b); California Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(b).)  This Department requires the parties to follow
the procedures outlined in Exhibit A of Department 48’s Courtroom Information (available
on the Court’s website) and file a joint statement.  Plaintiffs’ counsel’s declaration makes clear
that Defendant did not respond and follow Department 48’s procedures for a joint
statement.  (Thomas Decl. ¶¶ 21-22.)
MOTION
TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES
A
party may move to compel a further response to a demand for production of documents
if the demanding party deems that the statement of compliance with the demand is
incomplete; the representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete,
or evasive; or an objection in the response is without merit or too general.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (a).)  The motion must set forth specific facts showing
good cause justifying the discovery sought by the demand.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (b)(1).)
Plaintiff
seeks further responses to three categories of documents: (1) documents relating
to general policies and procedures relied upon when handling vehicle repurchase
or replacement requests and calculating repurchase offers (RFP Nos. 16, 19-32);
(2) documents that would explain the various codes used as a shorthand in the repair
orders and other internal documents produced by Defendant (RFP Nos. 37-41); and
(3) documents showing Defendant’s handling of similarly situated consumers’ complaints
concerning the same problems, with the same year, make, and model of vehicle as
Plaintiffs’ vehicle (RFP Nos. 45-46).
RFP
Nos. 16, 19-32 request all warranty claims policy and procedure manual(s) from 2021
to the present; documents—including training materials, scripts, and flow charts—regarding
turn-around time and procedures for evaluating and responding to complaints, repair
presentations, refund requests, and repurchases regarding Defendant’s vehicles manufactured
or distributed since 2021; and documents related to determining Defendant’s meanings
of “non-conformity,” “substantial impairment,” and “reasonable number of repair
attempts.”  Defendant’s objections for overbreadth
and relevance are sustained in part.  These
documents are relevant to the warranties, defects, and repairs alleged by Plaintiffs
and whether Defendant acted willfully, but the requests go beyond Plaintiffs’ allegedly
defective vehicle, and Plaintiffs have not shown good cause for documents relating
to completely different makes and models. 
Defendant’s other objections are overruled.  The motion is GRANTED IN PART.  Defendant must produce supplemental responses
relating to the same make and model as Plaintiffs’ vehicle.
RFP
Nos. 37-41 request documents to identify all of Defendant’s OBDII codes, vehicle
symptom codes, vehicle component repair codes, and labor operation codes for the
same year, make, and model as Plaintiffs’ vehicle.  Plaintiffs explain in their Reply that these codes
“are essential to generally interpreting the repair orders and internal GM documents
produced in this litigation.”  Defendant’s
objections are overruled.  The motion is GRANTED.
RFP
Nos. 45-46 request all documents evidencing complaints by owners and warranty repairs
of the 2017 Chevrolet Suburban with the same complaints that Plaintiffs had.  These requests are relevant to Plaintiffs’ allegations
of Defendant’s knowledge and willful failure to repair or replace the vehicle.  Defendant’s objections are overruled.  The motion is GRANTED.
CONCLUSION
The
motion is GRANTED IN PART as set forth above. 
Defendant is ordered to provide verified, supplemental responses within 30
days.
The
requests for sanctions are DENIED.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 22nd day of February 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 