 This is an employment action.  Defendants ABM Industry Groups, LLC and ABM Industries Incorporated, joined by Defendants Cedars-Sinai Medical Center and Mercedes Del Cid, seek to compel arbitration based on an arbitration agreement signed by Plaintiff Emerson Sato as a component of his employment.  ABM Defendants also seek leave to add arbitration as an affirmative  defense. The Court may, in the furtherance of justice, and upon any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading.  (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 473, 576.)  In general, California courts liberally exercise discretion to permit amendment of pleadings in light of a strong policy favoring resolution of all disputes between parties in the same action.  (Nestle v. Santa Monica (1972) 6 Cal.3d 920, 939; Morgan v. Superior Court (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530.)  “[T]here is a strong policy in favor of liberal allowance of amendments.”  (Mesler v. Bragg Management Co. (1985) 39 Cal.3d 290, 296.)  Pursuant to this policy, requests for leave to amend generally will be granted unless the party seeking to amend has been dilatory in bringing the proposed amendment before the Court, and the delay in seeking leave to amend will cause prejudice to the opposing party if leave to amend is granted.  (Hirsa v. Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486, 490; Higgins v. Del Faro (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 558, 564-565.)  The decision on a motion for leave is directed to the sound discretion of the trial court.  (See generally Weil & Brown, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2014) ¶¶ 6:637 et seq.)The Motion for Leave to Amend is granted because any prejudice would be minimal.  With respect to arbitration, Plaintiff argues that (1) there has been a waiver of arbitration, (2) Defendants cannot establish that Plaintiff executed the subject agreement, and (3) neither the FAA nor CAA applies such that there is no mechanism by which to compel or hold arbitration. “Because arbitration is a highly favored means of settling such disputes, the courts have been admonished to ‘closely scrutinize any allegation of waiver of such favored right’ [Citations], and to ‘indulge every intendment to give effect to such proceedings’ [Citations.]”  (Doers v. Golden Gate Bridge etc. Dist. (1979) 23 Cal. 3d 180, 189.)  Factors to be considered in evaluating waiver include: “(1) whether the party's actions are inconsistent with the right to arbitrate; (2) whether ‘the litigation machinery has been substantially invoked’ and the parties ‘were well into preparation of a lawsuit’ before the party notified the opposing party of an intent to arbitrate; (3) whether a party either requested arbitration enforcement close to the trial date or delayed for a long period before seeking a stay; (4) whether a defendant seeking arbitration filed a counterclaim without asking for a stay of the proceedings; (5) ‘whether important intervening steps [e.g., taking advantage of judicial discovery procedures not available in arbitration] had taken place’; and (6) whether the delay ‘affected, misled, or prejudiced’ the opposing party.”  (Sobremonte v. Superior Court (1998) 61 Cal. App. 4th 980, 992.)   The Court will not find waiver because the jury trial is set for January 2026 and it is not apparent how Plaintiff was prejudiced to the extent Defendants did not gain an advantage by taking actions unique only to the litigation process.Further, the Court finds that the existence of the subject agreement, as well as Plaintiff’s consent, has been established.  (See Adams Decl. ¶¶ 1-18.)Finally, even if the FAA does not apply, the agreement’s language with respect to the application of the FAA would be inoperative and the CAA would apply.Because a valid arbitration agreement encompasses Plaintiff’s claims, the Motion to Compel Arbitration is granted.  This action is stayed pending the resolution of arbitration.  (CCP § 1281.4.)Moving parties to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 