  Case Number:  22STCV18501    Hearing Date:   June 14, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



HUGO VILLASENOR,
 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
ROBERTO D. BANUELOS, JR., et al.,
 
                        Defendant.


 


     
  CASE NO.:  22STCV18501
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION FOR SUMMARY
  JUDGMENT AND/OR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION
 
Date: 
  June 14, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
Judge: Holly J. Fujie
Jury Trial: September 3, 2024



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendants Roberto D. Banuelos (“Banuelos”) and Revel
Management Group, LLC (“Revel”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Hugo Villasenor (“Villasenor”) individually
and derivatively on behalf of Revel Management Group, LLC
 
The Court has reviewed the moving, opposition and reply papers.  
 
BACKGROUND
This action arises
out of a business relationship. The currently operative first amended complaint
(the “FAC”) alleges: (1) breach of oral/implied operating agreement; (2) breach
of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing; (3) breach of fiduciary
duty; (4) judicial dissolution by manager; (5) judicial dissolution by member;
(6) accounting; (7) breach of oral contract; (8) breach of implied-in-fact
contract; (9) violation of Corporations Code section 17704.10, subdivision (g);
(10) unjust enrichment; (11) quantum meruit; (12) willful misclassification;
(13) willful refusal to pay wages earned; (14) failure to indemnify employee
for costs and expenditures; (15) declaratory relief; (16) injunctive relief;
(17) constructive trust; and (18) Business and Professions Code section
17200.  
 
On August 14,
2023, Defendants filed the instant motion for summary judgment, and/or in the
alternative, summary adjudication (the “Motion”).  On June 3, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an
opposition to the Motion and on June 10, 2024, Defendants filed a reply. 
 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
            The
Court GRANTS Defendants’ request for judicial notice in full.
 
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
            Plaintiff’s objections to Defendant
Banuelos’ Declaration and Exhibits:
                        SUSTAINED: none
                        OVERRULED: in full
            Defendants’ objections to the
Declaration of Alexandra Del Salto (“Del Salto”):
                        SUSTAINED: none
                        OVERRULED: in full
            Defendants’ objections to the
Declaration of Plaintiff Villasenor:
                        SUSTAINED: none
                        OVERRULED: in full
Defendants’ objections to the Declaration of Mohamad Hadwan (“Hadwan”)
                        SUSTAINED: none
                        OVERRULED: in full
 
DISCUSSION
Defendants argue that there are no triable issues of fact as to
Plaintiff’s claims which are invalidated by a written operating agreement and
Plaintiff’s discovery responses which show his allegations are factually
unsubstantiated.  Revel is a digital
influencer management company, which Defendants claim was solely formed by
Defendant Banuelos pursuant to a written operating agreement identifying him as
the lone interest-holding member.  (UMF
no. 1.)  Plaintiff  Villasenor, whom Defendants claim is an
independent contractor hired by Banuelos to manage certain clients, alleges that
he was a 50% interest holder in Revel based on an alleged oral operating
agreement.  Alternatively, Plaintiff
claims he was misclassified as an independent contractor and was actually an
employee, on the basis of which he alleges various employment-related causes of
action.  Defendants assert that Plaintiff
has failed to provide substantial facts or evidence through discovery supporting
either theory of liability or proof of damages. Consequently, the Motion claims
that there are no triable issues of fact as to the claims alleged in the FAC,
and that Defendants are entitled to summary judgment or adjudication as a
matter of law.
 
Oral
Agreement
            On June 3, 2016, Banuelos filed the
Articles of Organization for KS Talent Management, LLC (“KS Talent”).  (UMF no. 1; Banuelos Decl. ¶ 3; Exh. C.)  On June 22, 2016, he signed a written
operating agreement (the “Operating Agreement”), identifying himself as the
sole 100% interest holder of KS Talent. 
(UMF no. 2; Banuelos Decl. ¶ 4; Exh. D.) 
On July 17, 2018, Banuelos filed an amendment to change the name of KS
Talent to Revel.  (UMF no. 6; Banuelos
Decl. ¶ 16; Exh. E.)  Plaintiff, who was designated
as an independent contractor, started working with KS Talent around June 2016
and received 1099-MISC forms of the type typically given to independent
contractors during his tenure with KS Talent and then with Revel.  (UMF no. 11; Banuelos Decl. ¶ 7.)  Banuelos managed Revel's finances,
accounting, bank accounts, payroll, client management and contract negotiations
with third-party advertisers, while Plaintiff was responsible for executing
contracts and managing clients assigned to him by Banuelos.  (UMF nos. 14-15; Banuelos Decl. ¶¶ 10-11.)  On or about April 14, 2022, Plaintiff resigned
from Revel due to a disagreement with Banuelos regarding his role.  (UMF no. 226; Banuelos Decl. ¶22; Exh. K.)
 
            Plaintiff’s claims of part-ownership
of Revel hinge on the existence of an oral operating agreement or an
implied-in-fact agreement entitling him to 50% of Revel’s profits.  Defendants, however, Defendants argue that
the written Operating Agreement supersedes all of Plaintiff’s ownership claims,
and that the parol evidence rule bars Plaintiff from introducing evidence of
any alleged prior agreement or contemporaneous oral agreement that contradicts
the contents of the written Operating Agreement.  Throughout the history of KS Talent/Revel,
Plaintiff was never identified as an LLC member or manager; the written Operating
Agreement for KS Talent identifies Banuelos as the sole manager and sole member
with a 100% interest in the company; and no other members or signatories are
noted besides Defendant Banuelos.  (UMF
nos. 1-6.)  EIN assignment confirmations
for KS Talent also identify Defendant Banuelos as the sole member.  (UMF nos. 8-9; Banuelos Decl. ¶ 5, Exhs. F
& G.)  Additionally, section 2.3 of
the written Operating Agreement specifies that additional members can only be
added through a unanimous written agreement signed by all existing members,
which Defendants assert does not exist in this case.  (Id.)  Plaintiff presents no evidence to refute this
showing.
 
Defendants point out that Plaintiff’s discovery responses are
factually devoid and fail to support his allegations of an oral operating
agreement or ownership, and the documents that Plaintiff did produce only show
that he performed tasks assigned by Roberto Banuelos but do not prove any
ownership interest or entitlement to profits. 
The identified documents include proof of payments made by Eventbrite to
Plaintiff, email receipts, Venmo payments, email orders, payment receipts and
text messages between Banuelos and Plaintiff regarding expenses and
communications with clients, potential client referral, logo, twitter, handle
and domain name.  These documents do not
indicate any terms of an oral agreement or confirm Villasenor as a 50% interest
holder, but rather reflect routine business operations and expenditures
authorized by Banuelos.  Defendants argue
that Plaintiff fails to establish the essential elements of contract formation,
such as mutual consent and sufficient consideration and that Plaintiff is
unclear and vague about the oral agreement. 

 
For example, Form Interrogatory 50.1(b) asked Plaintiff to “state
each part of the agreement not in writing, the name, address, and telephone
number of each person agreeing to that provision, and that date that part of
the agreement was made.”  (Diba Decl.
¶15, Exhib. O.)  In response, Plaintiff
responded that:“
For the most part, the subject Revel Operating Agreement is not in
writing.  It is an implied/oral operating
agreement per California’s LLC laws. 
Defendant, Roberto Banuelos and I are parties to this agreement.  The agreement was formed between us in
2015.  There are also emails, bank
statements, payroll records, etc., that are not in my possession, which are
being withheld from me, which also evidence our agreement.”  (Id.) 

Defendants provide evidence that they have produced 18,550 pages of
emails, bank statements, payroll records, and Revel’s general ledger, none of
which evidence the existence of the alleged oral operating agreement, oral
contract, or implied-in-fact contract. 
(Diba Decl. ¶22.)  Additionally,
in response to Defendants’ Special Interrogatory No. 1 asking Plaintiff to
“[s]tate all facts in support of YOUR contention that YOU are “…one of the two
founding Managers of… Revel Management Group, LLC…” Plaintiff restated the
allegations of the operative complaint, “[b]etween 2015 and 2022, Plaintiff and
Defendant Banuelos equally split Revel’s responsibilities, company management,
profits, expenses, payroll, client gifts, rent, and all business-related
expenditures, less the income and expenses generated from Ms. Gonzales,
pursuant to their oral and implied operating agreement(s).”  (Diba Decl. ¶21, Exhib. M.)  When asked to identify writings to support
this contention, Plaintiff identified the documents in the table summary on
pages 17 and 18 of the Motion, which were not responsive.
 
Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s claim to 50% of Revel’s profits is
further refuted by the actual agreement between the parties which states that
Plaintiff was to receive 50% of the commissions from influencer clients
assigned to him before 2019, not a share of the total profits of Revel.  (Banuelos Decl. ¶ 8.)  Plaintiff was hired to manage specific
clients and assist with tasks assigned by Banuelos, usually working two to four
hours per day while pursuing various other business ventures.  (Id. ¶¶ 12-13.)  Defendants highlight that starting in 2019,
Plaintiff was offered and accepted a flat monthly salary of $10,000, with a
potential discretionary bonus for exceptional performance.  (Id. ¶ 10.)  Defendants state that the duties and
responsibilities of other team members, such as Del Salto and Adriana Najera,
who had more extensive roles, further contrast with Plaintiff’s limited
involvement.  (Id. ¶ 19, Exhib.
J.)
 
Additionally, Defendants argue that the alleged oral operating
agreement and related claims are invalid under the statute of frauds because
the agreement was not in writing although it should have been given that the
nature and subject matter of the arrangement between the parties implied that
they contemplated a longer period than one year for its performance for the
alleged shareholders to receive the benefits of their stake in Revel.  According to documents and responses produced
in discovery, Defendants claim, the parties necessarily must have contemplated
that the continued performance of the contract was to last more than one year
from the date of execution of the alleged oral/implied operating agreement. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff
contends that he and Defendant Banuelos agreed to co-found and co-own Revel
(initially KS Talent) and to split management responsibilities, expenses, and
profits equally.  (Hugo Decl.)  This verbal agreement, Plaintiff asserts, was
consistently honored until he confronted Banuelos about formalizing their
arrangement, at which point Banuelos began to deny the existence of any such
agreement and misrepresented Plaintiff’s role in the company.  (Hugo Decl. ¶ 11.)  Plaintiff claims that Banuelos’s shifting
descriptions of his role—from employee to independent contractor to client
manager—demonstrate inconsistency and an attempt to obscure the truth.  Plaintiff argues that he played a crucial
role in the growth and success of Revel, contributing to daily operations and
financial responsibilities as a co-owner. 
He presents evidence of paying business taxes, managing employees,
executing contracts and receiving distributions reflective of their agreed
profit-sharing arrangement.  (Hugo Decl.,
Exhibs. 1-12.)  Plaintiff highlights that
he and Banuelos received distributions similar to his own in 2016, reinforcing
their equal partnership.  (Hugo Decl. ¶
6, Exhib. 13.)  He also notes that
Banuelos never allowed him access to the company’s financial books, which Banuelos
controlled exclusively.  (Exhib. 1,
110:22-25.)  
 
Plaintiff argues that
questions regarding the existence and terms of their agreement should be
decided by a jury, as these issues involve conflicting evidence and
interpretations.  He maintains that under
California law, oral operating agreements are permissible, and the statute of
frauds does not invalidate their verbal agreement because it could have been
performed within a year.  Plaintiff
asserts that the alleged written Operating agreement presented by Banuelos is
not enforceable.  First, Plaintiff was
never given a copy of the Operating Agreement nor did he sign it, which
Banuelos admits, meaning Plaintiff is not bound by its terms, and the parol
evidence rule does not apply.  (Exhibit
1, 39: 11-17; Defendants Exhibit D.) 
Second, Plaintiff raises  questions about when the Operating Agreement
was actually signed, suggesting it may have been created after the litigation
began to defend against Plaintiff’s claims. 
(Hadwan Decl. ¶11 Defendants’ Exhibit D.)  
 
Plaintiff also contends that
the Operating Agreement is illusory and lacks consideration, making it
unenforceable under California law because Banuelos purportedly made a $10,000
capital contribution in July 2016, but this same account was used for personal
expenses, and the document Banuelos relies on to show his contribution is
heavily redacted and includes personal purchases.  (Exhibit 1, 114:11-25.)  Plaintiff thus contends that there was no
mutual assent as the Operating Agreement was a unilateral agreement made solely
by Banuelos.  
 
Plaintiff also argues that
Banuelos should be equitably estopped from using the Operating Agreement to
shield himself from liability for his actions because he led Plaintiff to
believe that Plaintiff was a shareholder, causing Plaintiff to pay for business
expenses and rely on this representation to his detriment.  Plaintiff asserts that even if the Operating
Agreement is valid, it was modified by the parties’ conduct and oral promises,
and the statute of frauds does not apply to his claims because the agreement to
operate Revel did not provide any terms that stated it could not have been
performed within a year from the date it was made. 
 
Plaintiff also argues that
California’s LLC Act supports his rights and claims.  Specifically, Cal. Corp. Code § 17704.01(b)
indicates that if a limited liability company is to have more than one member
upon formation, those members are as agreed by the persons before the
formation.  Plaintiff contends that Plaintiff
and Defendant Banuelos agreed to co-ownership of Revel before the filing of the
Articles of Incorporation in 2016. 
Furthermore, Plaintiff asserts that Cal. Corp. Code § 17701.12(d)
provides that if a record filed with the Secretary of State conflicts with the
operating agreement, the operating agreement prevails among members,
dissociated members, transferees and managers, while the record prevails for
others who reasonably rely on it. 
Plaintiff claims he reasonably relied on the 2016 Articles of
Incorporation and Banuelos’ representations that Plaintiff was a shareholder in
Revel, which contradicts the Operating Agreement.
 
In reply, Defendants assert
that the evidence unequivocally shows Banuelos is the sole 100% interest holder
in Revel from its inception, and that Plaintiff’s claims of 50% ownership are
unsubstantiated and rely solely on self-serving declarations and those of his
business partner, Del Salto.  Defendants
highlight the existence of a valid and enforceable written Operating Agreement
that identifies Banuelos as the sole member, which Plaintiff fails to credibly
refute.  Defendants emphasize that
Plaintiff offers no concrete evidence to support his claim of an oral agreement
prior to the formation of Revel, or of any subsequent implied agreement.  They assert that the Operating Agreement
explicitly precludes any additional members without a written agreement, which
Plaintiff neither signed nor presented. 
Furthermore, Defendants argue that any claim of an oral operating
agreement is barred by the statute of frauds, as it was not in writing and
could not be performed within one year. 
Defendants also address the allegations of an implied-in-fact contract,
stating that the integration clause in the Operating Agreement and the lack of
evidence for any implied agreement nullify such claims.  They argue that the existence and validity of
the Operating Agreement are legal questions that the court should decide, not
matters for a jury, as Plaintiff fails to provide conflicting evidence that
would necessitate a jury’s determination.
 
The Court finds that Defendants have provided uncontradicted evidence
of a valid and enforceable written Operating Agreement for Revel.  (UMF nos. 3-6.)  While Plaintiff disputes the enforceability
of this document on the grounds that it was not notarized, it was not shown to
Plaintiff and he was not told about it, and he claims the document is void and
unenforceable because it lacks consideration, mutual obligations and mutual
assent, the Court is unpersuaded.  
 
Defendant Banuelos’ declaration and bank ledgers show a legitimate
capital contribution concurrent with the formation of the LLC.  (Banuelos Decl. ¶ 4, Exhib. L.)  Further, the Operating Agreement in question
involves the formation of a single-member LLC, which does not require
consideration between two parties or mutual assent as alleged by
Plaintiff.  This agreement identifies Banuelos
as the sole member with a 100% ownership interest.  Plaintiff fails to provide sufficient
evidence to refute the authenticity or validity of the Operating Agreement. 
 
Plaintiff’s claim of 50% ownership based on an oral agreement is also
unsupported by credible evidence.  The
Court notes that Plaintiff has not signed any documents indicating ownership
interest, nor is there any written agreement or corroborative evidence to
support his claims.  The self-serving
declarations by Plaintiff and Del Salto do not constitute sufficient evidence
to establish an ownership interest. 
Plaintiff’s discovery responses and production of documents also fail to
provide any evidence of any terms of the alleged oral agreement or that he was
entitled to 50% of the profits of Revel. 
Although Plaintiff argues that Defendant referred to Plaintiff as his
partner to third parties, in light of all the evidence, this is not sufficient
to raise a triable issue of fact as to the existence of an oral agreement
superseding the written Operating Agreement.
 
As to Plaintiff’s argument that Plaintiff reasonably relied on the
2016 Articles of Incorporation and Banuelos’s representations that Plaintiff
was a shareholder in Revel, Plaintiff is unable to produce any evidence of such
oral representations.  Plaintiff provides
no evidence to show that he was a member or manager of Revel.  On the other hand, Defendants present a
written Operating Agreement identifying Banuelos as the sole member.  
 
Thus, the Court finds that the undisputed facts establish that
Banuelos was the sole member/manager of Revel pursuant to a written Operating Agreement
which supersedes Plaintiff’s alleged oral operating agreement.  Accordingly, the Court GRANTS Defendant’s
motion for summary adjudication as to issues 1-6, 8-9, 15 and 16, which are all
of the causes of action that rely on the existence of the alleged oral
agreement. 
 
Employment
Claims
Defendants argue that
Plaintiff failed to exhaust administrative remedies for his employment causes
of action, and that the statute of limitations for these claims has run.  They claim that even if Plaintiff’s employment
claims were to survive the Motion, his potential recovery would be nominal due
to his failure to timely exhaust administrative remedies. Additionally, Defendants
assert that Plaintiff has not identified any other damages arising from his
remaining employment causes of action.  Defendants
assert that Plaintiff’s claim for civil penalties under the Private Attorneys
General Act (PAGA) lacks merit because he failed to meet the administrative
prerequisites outlined in Labor Code section 2699.3(a).  The statute of limitations for civil penalties
under PAGA is one year, as specified in Code of Civil Procedure section 340(a).
 
Further, although Plaintiff claims that he is an employee, Defendants
assert that this is undermined by his own discovery responses, which claim that
he does not have any documents or records in his possession to prove he was an
employee of Defendant Revel and specifically states that he denies “providing
services as an employee, IC, or anything other than as a partner, or co-owner
of Revel or KS Talent.”  (Diba Decl. ¶21,
Exhib. O.)  Therefore, Defendants assert
that there are no triable issues of fact, and they are entitled to summary
judgment or adjudication in their favor as a matter of law.
 
In opposition, Plaintiff
contends that his employment claims are valid and that Defendants incorrectly
argue that Plaintiff did not exhaust administrative remedies before filing the
suit pursuant to PAGA statutes. 
Plaintiff points out that this is not a PAGA suit since Plaintiff filed
claims as an individual, which do not require administrative
prerequisites.  Additionally, Plaintiff
claims that Defendants misinterpret Plaintiff’s response to a Request for
Admission (RFA), suggesting he admitted he was not an employee.  Rather, Plaintiff clarified that he was
working as a founder and shareholder, and the question posed was vague and
implied a different relationship than co-owner of Revel.  California employs the ABC test (Dynamex
Test) to determine employment status, considering whether the worker is free
from control and direction, performs work outside the usual course of the
hiring entity’s business, and is engaged in an independent trade, occupation,
or business.  Although Defendants argue
that issuing a 1099 Tax Form disqualifies Plaintiff from being considered an
employee, Plaintiff asserts that the burden is on Defendants to prove the
elements of the Dynamex Test, which they have failed to do.
 
In reply, Defendants argue
that Plaintiff’s employment claims were an afterthought and are contradicted by
his own admissions in discovery, where he denied being an employee.  They also state that Plaintiff’s failure to
exhaust administrative remedies for the willful misclassification claim bars
this cause of action.  [1]
 
The Court finds that Plaintiff’s employment claims are not meritorious.
 Plaintiff's assertions regarding his
employment status are contradicted by his own statements and the evidence,
including his identification as an independent contractor and the issuance of
1099 forms.  Defendants have demonstrated
that Plaintiff was compensated according to a fee-splitting agreement for
managing certain clients, and there is no substantial evidence to suggest he
was misclassified as an independent contractor. 
The Court finds that Defendants sufficiently satisfied their burden in
showing that  Banuelos is the sole owner
of Revel and that Plaintiff’s claims fail as a matter of law.  Plaintiff fails to provide substantial
evidence to rebut Defendants’ showing as his alleged employment status.  Thus, the Court GRANTS Defendant’s motion for
summary adjudication as to issues 7, 10, 11-14.
 
Accordingly, the Court GRANTS Defendants’ motion for summary judgment
in its entirety. 
 
Moving party is
ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to
the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the instructions provided on
the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive
an email and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed
off calendar. 
 
 
  Dated
this 14th day of June 2024
 



  






Hon. Holly J. Fujie 
Judge of the Superior Court 
 





