  Case Number:  23STCV14544    Hearing Date:   March 27, 2024    Dept:  39 Berry Gordy v.
Timothy Bogart, et al.
Case No.
23STCV14544

Order #1 of 2
Motion to Lift
Stay of Discovery for Limited Purposes
 
            Plaintiff
Berry Gordy (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants, alleging as
follows:
 
“This case concerns the conception,
development, and production of a motion picture known as ‘Spinning Gold’ (the
‘Picture’). The Picture presents a defamatory, fraudulent, and dishonest
fictional subplot in which Plaintiff Berry Gordy the 94 year old iconic founder
of Motown records is portrayed as a gangster and a thug. Of course, none of
this is true and the character assassination of Plaintiff was done solely for
the commercial gain of Defendants by smearing the legendary reputation of
Plaintiff for their own pecuniary benefit. Defendants either knew this or
should have known this as the opposition to the motions will argue and
deposition testimony will show. Herein, most importantly, Defendants created a
false, but inescapable, conclusion in the mind of a reasonable viewer that
Plaintiff had committed a crime or crimes.”
 
(Plaintiffs’ Memorandum of Points & Authorities, p.
3:13-21.)  Based upon these allegations,
Plaintiff asserts the following causes of action in the operative complaint: 
 
            First COA –
Declaratory relief 
            Second COA
– Defamation: Libel per se 
            Third COA –
Defamation: Libel
            Fourth COA
– Invasion of privacy 
            Fifth COA –
False light invasion of privacy 
            Sixth COA –
Violation of the right to publicity
            Seventh COA
– Intentional infliction of emotional distress
            Eighth COA
– Unfair competition
 
Defendants have filed special motions to dismiss under Code
of Civil Procedure section 425.16, commonly known as “anti-SLAPP motions.”  This automatically stays discovery.  Plaintiffs now seek to lift this stay in
order to conduct limited discovery as necessary to oppose the anti-SLAPP
motions.  
 
In ruling on
anti-SLAPP motions, the trial court uses a two-step process.  First, the defendants must show that the act
or acts of which the plaintiff complains were taken in furtherance of their
right of petition or free speech under the United States or California
Constitutions in connection with a public issue.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd.
(b)(1).)  The defendant has the burden of
making a prima facie showing that a cause of action arises from an act in
furtherance of his or her constitutional rights of petition or free speech in
connection with a public issue.  (Equilon
Enterprises, LLC v. Consumer Cause, Inc. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 53, 67.)  If the defendant carries that burden, the
burden shifts to the plaintiff to demonstrate a probability of prevailing on
the claim.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16,
subd. (b)(3).) 
 
As a general
rule, discovery is stayed upon the filing of an anti-SLAPP motion.  (See Balla v. Hall (2021) 59
Cal.App.5th 652, 692, citing Code of Civil Procedure, section 425.16, subd.
(g).)  However, the Court has discretion
to order “specified discovery” based upon a showing of “good cause.”  (Ibid., citation omitted).  In the anti-SLAPP context, “good cause”
requires “a showing that the specified discovery is necessary for the plaintiff
to oppose the [anti-SLAPP] motion and is tailored to that end.”  (Ibid., citation omitted.) 
 
            As
an initial matter, Plaintiff seeks to lift the discovery stay by arguing that
“there is substantial doubt that C.C.P. § 425.16 applies at all to this
case.”  (Plaintiff’s Memorandum of Points
& Authorities, p. 5:4-5.)  This is
not a basis to grant the motion.  As
discussed, Plaintiff must identify “specified discovery [that] is necessary for
[him] to oppose the [anti-SLAPP] motion . . . .”  In the alternative, Plaintiff requests to
take the depositions of Defendant Timothy Bogart and the persons most knowledgeable
from Defendants Universal City Entertainment Group and Amazon Prime Video.  
 
            The
Court continues the hearing on this motion to the same date/time as Defendants’
anti-SLAPP motions: June 10, 2024, at 8:30 a.m. 
If the Court cannot determine the special motions to strike without considering
the second prong, and the requested discovery may result in a different
outcome, the Court will grant Plaintiff’s motion for discovery at that time and
order additional briefing on any remaining issues.  (See The Garment Workers Center v.
Superior Court (2004) 117 Cal.App.4th 1156, 1162.)
 
            Based
upon the foregoing, the Court orders as follows:
 
            1.         The Court continues the hearing on
Plaintiff’s motion to lift the stay of discovery for limited purposes to June
10, 2024, at 8:30 a.m.
 
            2.         Defendants’ counsel shall provide
notice and file proof of such with the Court.
 
 
Order
#2 of 2
Motions
to Seal
 
Defendants move
to seal the following documents: (1) Exhibit A to the declaration of Patrick
Cooper, and (2) Exhibit A to the declaration of Alexandra Glenn.  Civil court proceedings are presumptively
open to the public. (See Richmond Newspapers, Inc. v. Virginia (1980)
448 U.S. 555, 580, fn. 17.)  Before
sealing records, “a trial court must hold a hearing and expressly find that (i)
there exists an overriding interest supporting closure and/or sealing; (ii)
there is a substantial probability that the interest will be prejudiced absent
closure and/or sealing; (iii) the proposed closure and/or sealing is narrowly
tailored to serve the overriding interest; and (iv) there is no less
restrictive means of achieving the overriding interest.” (NBC Subsidiary
(KNBC-TV), Inc. v. Superior Court (1999) 20 Cal.4th 1178, 1217-1218.)
 
The Court finds
that sealing is appropriate.  The Court
finds that there is an overriding interest in sealing the documents (which are agreements
regarding the distribution of the film at issue) because they contain
proprietary information.  The Court finds
that there is a substantial probability that Defendants’ interests will be
compromised absent sealing.  The Court
finds that the request is narrowly-tailored to cover only the necessary
information.  The Court finds that there
is no less restrictive means of protecting Defendants’ proprietary
information.  Finally, the Court finds
that the public’s right to understand the proceedings will not be compromised
by sealing these exhibits.
 
Based upon the
foregoing, the Court orders as follows:
 
1.         The Court grants Defendants’ motions to
seal.
 
2.         The Court orders that the following
documents shall be sealed: (1) Exhibit A to the declaration of Patrick Cooper,
and (2) Exhibit A to the declaration of Alexandra Glenn.
 
3.         Defendants’ counsel shall provide
notice and file proof of such with the Court.   

 