 Case Number:  23STCV16743    Hearing Date:   September 30, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION TO DEEM RFA ADMITTED AND REQUESTS FOR SANCTIONS
Hearing Date: 9/30/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 23STCV16743 ALAYNA HERCULES,
et al. vs RUBEN MARTINEZ SAN DIERO, et al. 
Moving Party: Defendant Los Angeles
Unified School District
Responding Party: Unopposed
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
Ruling: MOTION TO DEEM RFA ADMITTED AND
REQUESTS FOR SANCTIONS ARE GRANTED
 
Legal Standard¿¿ 
 
“Any party may obtain discovery . . . by a written
request that any other party to the action admit the genuineness of specified
documents, or the truth of specified matters of fact, opinion relating to fact,
or application of law to fact. A request for admission may relate to a matter
that is in controversy between the parties.”¿ CCP § 2033.010.¿ “Within 30 days
after service of requests for admission, the party to whom the requests are
directed shall serve the original of the response to them on the requesting
party, and a copy of the response on all other parties who have appeared ....”¿ CCP § 2033.250(a).¿¿ 
 
If a party to whom request for admissions are served
fails to provide a timely response, the party to whom the request was directed
waives any objections, including based on privilege or the work product
doctrine. CCP § 2033.280(a). The requesting party can move for an order that
the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in the
request be deemed admitted, as well as for monetary sanctions. CCP §
2033.280(b). The court shall issue this order unless the party to whom the request
was made serves a response in substantial compliance prior to the hearing on
the motion. CCP § 2033.280(c). Unlike a motion to compel further discovery
responses, a motion to deem RFA admitted does not have any meet and confer
requirements.
 
Discussion
 
On July 15, 2024,
Defendant Los Angeles Unified School District (“LAUSD”) served Requests for
Admission, Set One, on Plaintiff, Alayna Hercules. Defendant granted Plaintiff
an extension to provide responses by August 16, 2024. However, as of September
3, 2024, when the motion was filed, no responses were provided. Defendant now
moves to deem the contents of its Requests for Admission, Set One, admitted.
Plaintiff did not serve
the responses at issue before the statutory deadline. Plaintiff did not file an
opposition or any other documents indicating to the Court that responses were
served prior to the hearing. Thus, the Court grants Defendant’s motion, and the
contents of Defendant’s Requests for Admission, Set One, are deemed admitted
against Alayna Hercules.
Defendant requests
sanctions in the amount of $440. Sanctions are mandatory, and the Court finds
that Plaintiff did not act with substantial justification. The amount of
sanctions is also reasonable. The Court enters sanctions in the amount of $440
against Plaintiff and her attorney, jointly and severally, payable to Defendant
within 20 days of today's date.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party
must send an email to the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the
Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties
submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear
remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the
Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of
the subject motion without leave.