 Case Number:  21STCV04337    Hearing Date:   September 30, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27¿ 
¿ 
MOTION FOR RELIEF FROM WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL 
Hearing Date: 9/30/24¿¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 21STCV04337 PULASKI
STRINGFELLOW vs OWENS-ILLINOIS, INC., et al.
Moving Party: Plaintiff¿ 
Responding Party: Unopposed 
Notice: Sufficient¿¿ 
Ruling: MOTION FOR RELIEF FROM WAIVER OF JURY
TRIAL IS GRANTED.¿ 
 
Legal Standard¿ 
¿ 
“The right to a trial by jury as declared by
Section 16 of Article I of the California Constitution shall be preserved to
the parties inviolate.”¿ (Code
Civ. Proc., § 631(a).)¿ “In
civil cases, a jury may only be waived pursuant to subdivision (f).”¿ (Id.)¿ CCP
section 631(f) provides that a party waives trial by jury by (1) failing to
appear at the trial; (2) written consent filed with the clerk or judge; (3)
oral consent, in open court, entered in the minutes; (4) failing to announce
that a jury is required, at the time the cause is first set for trial, if it is
set upon notice of stipulation, or within five days after notice of setting if
it is set without notice or stipulation; (5) failing to timely pay the fee
described in subdivision (b), unless another party on the same side of the case
has paid that fee; or (6) failing to deposit with the clerk or judge, at the
beginning of the second and each succeeding day’s session, the sum provided in
subdivision (e).¿(Id., § 631(f).)¿ 
¿ 
“The court may, in its discretion upon just
terms, allow a trial by jury although there may have been a waiver of a trial
by jury.”¿ (Id., § 631(g).)¿ “The trial court should grant a motion for relief of a jury waiver
‘unless, and except, where granting such a motion would work serious hardship
to the objecting party.’” (Mackovska v. Viewcrest Road Properties LLC
(2019) 40 Cal.App.5th 1, 10 (quoting Boal v. Price Waterhouse & Co.
(1985) 165 Cal.App.3d 806, 809).)¿ “When
there is doubt about whether to grant relief from a jury trial waiver, the
court must resolve that doubt in favor of the party seeking a jury trial.”¿(Id.)¿ 
¿ 
“In a motion for relief from waiver of a jury
trial, the crucial question is whether the party opposing relief will suffer
any prejudice if the court grants relief.”¿ (Mackovska, supra, 40 Cal.App.5th at 10.)¿ “‘‘The prejudice which must be shown from granting relief from the
waiver is prejudice from the granting of relief and not prejudice from the jury
trial.’’”¿ (Id. (quoting Massie v. AAR Western
Skyways, Inc. (1992) 4 Cal.App.4th 405, 411).)¿ “‘The mere fact that trial will be by jury is not prejudice per
se.’”¿ (Id. (quoting Johnson-Stovall v.
Superior Court (1993) 17 Cal.App.4th 808, 811).)¿ “Denying relief where the party opposing the motion for relief has
not shown prejudice is an abuse of discretion.”¿ (Id.) 
 
Discussion
 
Plaintiff filed the present case on February 3, 2021. Under Code of
Civil Procedure section 631(c)(2), jury fees are required to be paid no later
than 365 calendar days after filing the complaint, setting the deadline for
February 3, 2022. However, the jury fees were not paid until September 25,
2023. Plaintiff's counsel declared that she believed a jury trial was demanded,
and fees had been posted shortly after filing the complaint. However, upon a
recent review of the register of actions, counsel discovered that the fees had
not been paid as presumed and that a jury trial had not been demanded, due to
inadvertent oversight. Upon learning of the oversight, Plaintiff promptly paid
the jury fees and now seeks relief from the waiver of the right to a jury trial.
Defendant did not allege prejudice by filing an opposition, and therefore granting
relief would not result in serious hardship to the objecting party. Thus, the
present motion is granted.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting. 
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the
hearing to argue. 
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion
without leave. 
 
 