 Case Number:  23STCV12657    Hearing Date:   September 30, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL
Hearing Date: 9/30/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 23STCV12657 EDWIN SUCHITE vs
JEFFREY JOSUE MUNOZARRIAGA et al.
Moving Party: Plaintiff and Defendants VJB Transport
Corp. and Jeffrey Munozarriaga
Responding Party: Unopposed
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
Ruling: MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL IS GRANTED
 
On June 5, 2023,
Plaintiff filed the present motor vehicle accident case. The current trial date
is set for December 2, 2024. Both Plaintiff and Defendants VJB Transport Corp.
and Jeffrey Munozarriaga move the Court to continue the trial to sometime in
June 2025 to allow more time to conduct discovery, including depositions of the
persons most qualified for Defendants VJB, depositions of both Plaintiffs, the
deposition of Defendant Munozarriaga, and expert witness depositions.
Furthermore, the moving parties agreed to mediate this case with John Raleigh
on February 4, 2025.
This is the parties’
first continuance. The motion was filed several months ahead of the trial date.
No opposition was filed alleging prejudice. The Court finds good cause to
continue the trial in consideration of the parties' need for further discovery.
However, based on the
discovery requested, including the IME and depositions, the parties do not need
nine months to complete the required discovery. The Court finds good cause to
continue the trial to April 2025, allowing the parties to attend the mediation
set for February 4, 2025, and providing ample time for the parties to prepare
for trial should mediation fail.
The new Trial Date is
set for April 1, 2025, at 8:30 a.m. The Final Status Conference is continued to
March 17, 2025, at 10:00 a.m. All case-related deadlines will follow the new
trial date. 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party
must send an email to the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the
Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties
submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear
remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the
Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of
the subject motion without leave.
 
 
 