 Case Number:  21STCV00321    Hearing Date:   November 30, 2023    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposing, and reply papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
January 5, 2021, Plaintiff Arlex Parra (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against
Defendants ASM Global Parent, Inc. (“ASM”), City of Long Beach (“City”), and
Does I-XX for personal injuries and damages. 
On
March 10, 2022, ASM filed an answer. 
On
August 18, 2023, ASM filed a motion to compel Plaintiff’s further deposition testimony,
to be heard on November 30, 2023. On November 15, 2023, Plaintiff filed an
opposition. On November 20, 2023, ASM filed a reply. 
Trial
is scheduled for April 10, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
ASM
requests that the Court order Plaintiff to answer questions asked at his deposition
and produce documents. 
Plaintiff
requests that the Court deny the motion. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2025.480 provides in part: 
“(a) If a deponent fails to answer any question or to
produce any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing
under the deponent’s control that is specified in the deposition notice or a
deposition subpoena, the party seeking discovery may move the court for an
order compelling that answer or production. 
“(b) This motion shall be made
no later than 60 days after the completion of the record of the deposition,
and shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040. 
“(c) Notice of this motion shall be given to all
parties and to the deponent either orally at the examination, or by subsequent
service in writing. If the notice of the motion is given orally, the deposition
officer shall direct the deponent to attend a session of the court at the time
specified in the notice. 
* * * 
“(h) Not less than five days prior to the hearing on
this motion, the moving party shall lodge with the court a certified copy of
any parts of the stenographic transcript of the deposition that are relevant to
the motion. If a deposition is recorded by audio or video technology, the
moving party is required to lodge a certified copy of a transcript of any parts
of the deposition that are relevant to the motion. 
“(i) If the court determines that the answer or
production sought is subject to discovery, it shall order that the answer be
given or the production be made on the resumption of the deposition. 
“(j) The court shall impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or
attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel an answer or
production, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust. . . .” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480,
subds. (a), (b), (c), (h), (i), (j).) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   Timeliness 
Plaintiff
argues that ASM’s motion is untimely.  Under
Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.480, subdivision (b), the deadline for the
motion is “60 days after the completion of the record of the deposition.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480, subd. (b).)  Citing a “Reporter’s Certificate,” Plaintiff asserts
that the record of the deposition was completed on June 15, 2023. (Plaintiff’s
Exhibit A.)  If the Reporter’s Certificate
established completion of the record of the deposition, the last day to file
the motion would have been August 14, 2023, four days before ASM filed the
motion. 
The “Reporter’s
Certificate,” dated June 15, 2023 and attached to the June 7, 2023 deposition
transcript, states that (1) “previous to the commencement of the examination,
the deponent was duly sworn by me to testify to the truth,” (2) “this
deposition was taken remotely in shorthand by me at the time and place herein set
forth and thereafter reduced to a typewritten form and that the foregoing
constitutes a true and correct transcript,” and (3) “I am not related to,
employed by, nor of counsel for any of the parties or attorneys herein, nor
otherwise interested in the result of the within action.” 
“It
is unclear whether the deposition record is ‘completed’ when the reporter sends
notice that the transcript is available for review [citation] or only after the
expiration of time to sign or correct the transcript [citation].”  (L. Edmon & C. Karnow, Cal. Practice
Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2023) ¶
8:801, pp. 8E-145 to 8E-145 (Cal. Practice Guide).)  The Practice Guide observes that “[t]he safer
course is to use the date of the reporter’s notice.”  (Id., p. 8E-146.)  Presumably, using the date of the reporter’s
notice is safer because the law is unclear and using the earlier date as the beginning
for the 60-day deadline avoids the kind of dispute we have here. 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.520, subdivision (b), gives the deponent
30 days to “change the form or the substance of the answer to a question” and “either
approve the transcript of the deposition by signing it, or refuse to approve
the transcript by not signing it.”  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2025.520, subd. (b); see Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.520, subds. (c),
(f).)  ASM asserts that “[t]he Court Reporter
provided notice to [ASM] through service of the finalized transcript on June 21,
2023 . . . .”  (Reply pp. 3-4.)  ASM has not provided a copy of the notice.
The
Court concludes that the 60-day period for filing ASM’s motion did not
begin to run on June 15, 2023 as Plaintiff contends but instead began to run either when the court reporter provided notice that the transcript had been finalized or when the 30-day period provided by Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.520 ended.  The motion is timely. 
B.   Meet and confer 
Plaintiff
argues that ASM did not engage in adequate meet and confer efforts before
filing the motion.  The Court has
reviewed parties’ papers and concludes that ASM’s meet and confer efforts were
adequate. 
C.   Deposition testimony 
1.    Previous lawsuits and workers’ compensation claims 
In
his complaint, Plaintiff alleges that in January 2020, while attending an event
at the Long Beach Convention Center, he slipped and fell on a wet surface. As a
result, Plaintiff allegedly suffered pain in his neck, back, left and right
shoulders, right elbow, right and left hips, and right knee.  He also alleges that he suffered resulting left-hand
numbness, head contusion, headaches and vertigo. 
On
May 15, 2023, ASM served a notice of Plaintiff’s deposition with a request for production
of documents.  The deposition was
scheduled for June 7, 2023. Plaintiff did not object to the notice. 
On
June 7, 2023, Plaintiff appeared for the deposition. During the deposition,
Plaintiff’s counsel instructed Plaintiff not to answer several questions about Plaintiff’s
previous lawsuits, a workers’ compensation claim, and Plaintiff’s medical
history.  Plaintiff followed his counsel’s
instructions and did not answer these questions. 
 At a deposition, “an objection does not excuse
the deponent from the duty to answer unless the objecting party demands the
deposition be suspended to permit a motion for protective order, or if the
witness is instructed not to answer to protect privilege or privacy.”  (Cal. Practice Guide,
supra, ¶ 8:733, p. 8E-123.) 
“It
is generally improper, however, for counsel to instruct a witness not to answer
on grounds other than privilege, privacy, trade secrets, or other matters
statutorily or constitutionally exempt from discovery.” (Cal. Practice Guide, supra,
¶ 8:734.2, p. 8E-124, citing Stewart
v. Colonial Western Agency, Inc.
(2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 1006, 1013-1005.)  “Irrelevance
alone is an insufficient ground to justify instructing a witness not to answer
a deposition question . . . .”  (Id.,
¶ 8:734.4, p. 8E-124.) 
In
instructing Plaintiff not to answer questions about his previous lawsuits and
workers’ compensation claims, Plaintiff’s counsel asserted objections based on
relevance.  Counsel’s instruction to
Plaintiff not to answer these questions was improper.  (See Cal. Practice Guide, supra, ¶
8:734.4, p. 8E-124.)  The Court grants
ASM’s motion to compel further answers to these questions. 
2.    Medical history 
 “A deponent who has objected to a question and
refused to answer bears the burden of justifying such refusal on the motion to
compel.  For example, if the objection was
that the question called for privileged information, the burden is on the
deponent to show that the question in fact calls for information protected by a
privilege.”  (Cal. Practice Guide, supra,
¶ 8:814, pp. 8E-148 to 8E-149.) 
“Although
a plaintiff suing for personal injuries waives the physician-patient privilege
with respect to the conditions in controversy [citation], plaintiff still has a
right of privacy in plaintiff’s medical records.  Compelled disclosure of the records turns on
balancing the need for disclosure against the need for confidentiality.  Ordinarily, disclosure of relevant medical
history is allowed because defendants have no other means by which to obtain
this information.  [Citations.] [¶]  But this does not open up plaintiff’s
‘lifetime’ medical history.  Plaintiff
still has privacy rights as to physical and mental conditions unrelated to the
claim or injury sued upon.”  (R. Fairbank,
N. Epstein, M. Wegner & L. Wegner, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Trials and
Evidence (Rutter 2022) ¶ 8:2720, p. 8E-235.)  
Here,
Plaintiff’s counsel asserted a privacy objection in instructing Plaintiff not
to answer questions about his medical treatment, hospitalizations, and
physicians before 2018 and doctor’s visits before the incident in January 2020. 
The
Court has reviewed the deposition transcript excerpts and concludes that
Plaintiff has not carried his burden of showing that the questions ASM’s
counsel asked regarding Plaintiff’s medical treatment violates his right to privacy.  Balancing the need for disclosure against the
need for confidentiality, the Court finds that these questions seek information that is
relevant to Plaintiff’s claimed injuries in this case.  Therefore, the Court grants ASM’s motion to
compel Plaintiff to answer these questions. 
D.   Documents 
ASM requests
that the Court order Plaintiff to produce all documents requested in the
deposition notice. Although Plaintiff did not object to the document request or
seek a protective order, he failed to produce some of the documents included in
the request. 
The Court
orders Plaintiff to produce all documents requested in ASM’s deposition notice
that Plaintiff did not previously produce.  
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS Defendant ASM Global Parent, Inc.’s motion to compel Plaintiff
Arlex Parra’s further deposition testimony. 
The Court orders Plaintiff to appear for a further deposition within 30
days of the hearing on the motion and answer the questions he previously
refused to answer and produce the responsive documents he previously did not produce. 
The
Court DENIES Plaintiff Arlex Parra’s request for sanctions. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days. 