 Case Number:  21STCV24740    Hearing Date:   November 30, 2023    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposing, and response papers, the Court rules as
follows.  
BACKGROUND 
On
July 6, 2021, Plaintiff Adriana Beatriz Sandoval (“Plaintiff”) filed this
action against Defendants Avedis Nazarian (“Nazarian”) and Does 1-50 for
negligence, negligence per se and statutory liability. 
On
November 10, 2021, Nazarian filed an answer. 
On
October 11, 2022, Plaintiff amended the complaint to include Defendant Wine Warehouse
(“Warehouse”) as Doe 1.  On January 4,
2023, Warehouse filed an answer. 
On June 27, 2023, Plaintiff filed motions (1) to
compel Warehouse’s responses to request for
production and identification of documents and things, set one, and for
sanctions, (2) to compel Warehouse’s responses to form interrogatories, set
one, and for sanctions, and (3) to
deem admitted the truth of matters specified in requests for admission, set
one, served on Warehouse and for sanctions. 
The motions were set to be heard on November 30, 2023. On November 16,
2023, Warehouse filed oppositions.[1]
On November 20, 2023, Plaintiff filed responses to the oppositions. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for April 10, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Plaintiff
requests that the Court compel Warehouse to serve full and complete verified
responses, without objections, to the request for production and identification
of documents and things, set one, and form interrogatories, set one, and deem
admitted the matters specified in requests for admission, set one, served on
Warehouse. Plaintiff also requests $1,110.00 in sanctions for each motion. 
Warehouse
requests that the Court deny the motions. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.   Inspection demand 
“If a party to whom a demand for
inspection, copying, testing, or sampling is directed fails to serve a timely
response to it, the following rules shall apply: 
“(a) The party to whom the demand for inspection,
copying, testing, or sampling is directed waives any objection to the demand,
including one based on privilege or on the protection for work product under
Chapter 4 (commencing with Section 2018.010). The court, on motion, may relieve
that party from this waiver on its determination that both of the following
conditions are satisfied: 
“(1) The party has subsequently served a response that
is in substantial compliance with Sections 2031.210, 2031.220, 2031.230,
2031.240, and 2031.280. 
“(2) The party’s failure to serve a timely response
was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect. 
“(b) The party making the demand may move for an order
compelling response to the demand. 
“(c) Except as provided in subdivision (d), the court
shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section
2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to compel a response to a demand for inspection, copying,
testing, or sampling, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction
acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the
imposition of the sanction unjust. If a party then fails to obey the order
compelling a response, the court may make those orders that are just, including
the imposition of an issue sanction, an evidence sanction, or a terminating
sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010). In lieu of or in
addition to this sanction, the court may impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010). 
“(d) (1) Notwithstanding subdivision (c), absent
exceptional circumstances, the court shall not impose sanctions on a party or
any attorney of a party for failure to provide electronically stored
information that has been lost, damaged, altered, or overwritten as a result of
the routine, good faith operation of an electronic information system. 
“(2) This subdivision shall not be construed to alter
any obligation to preserve discoverable information.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.300.) 
B.   Interrogatories 
“If a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails
to serve a timely response, the following rules apply: 
“(a) The party to whom the interrogatories are
directed waives any right to exercise the option to produce writings under
Section 2030.230, as well as any objection to the interrogatories, including
one based on privilege or on the protection for work product under Chapter 4
(commencing with Section 2018.010). The court, on motion, may relieve that
party from this waiver on its determination that both of the following
conditions are satisfied: 
“(1) The party has subsequently served a response that
is in substantial compliance with Sections 2030.210, 2030.220, 2030.230, and 2030.240. 
“(2) The party’s failure to serve a timely response
was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect. 
“(b) The party propounding the interrogatories may
move for an order compelling response to the interrogatories. 
“(c) The court shall impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or
attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to
interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust. If a party then fails to obey an order compelling
answers, the court may make those orders that are just, including the imposition
of an issue sanction, an evidence sanction, or a terminating sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010). In lieu of or in addition to that
sanction, the court may impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing
with Section 2023.010).” 
(Code Civ. Proc., §
2030.290.) 
C.      Requests for admission 
“If a party to whom requests for admission are
directed fails to serve a timely response, the following rules apply: 
“(a) The party to whom the requests for admission are
directed waives any objection to the requests, including one based on privilege
or on the protection for work product under Chapter 4 (commencing with Section
2018.010). The court, on motion, may relieve that party from this waiver on its
determination that both of the following conditions are satisfied: 
“(1) The party has subsequently served a response that
is in substantial compliance with Sections 2033.210, 2033.220, and 2033.230. 
“(2) The party’s failure to serve a timely response
was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect. 
“(b) The requesting party may move for an order that
the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in the
requests be deemed admitted, as well as for a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010). 
“(c) The court shall make this order, unless it finds
that the party to whom the requests for admission have been directed has
served, before the hearing on the motion, a proposed response to the requests
for admission that is in substantial compliance with Section 2033.220. It is
mandatory that the court impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing
with Section 2023.010) on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure to
serve a timely response to requests for admission necessitated this motion.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., §
2033.280.) 
D.      Discovery
sanctions 
“The court may impose a monetary sanction ordering
that one engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney
advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including
attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct. The court may
also impose this sanction on one unsuccessfully asserting that another has
engaged in the misuse of the discovery process, or on any attorney who advised
that assertion, or on both. If a monetary sanction is authorized by any
provision of this title, the court shall impose that sanction unless it finds
that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or
that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subd. (a).) 
“Misuses of the discovery process include, but are not
limited to, the following: 
* * * 
“(d) Failing to respond or to submit to an authorized
method of discovery.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010,
subd. (d).) 
DISCUSSION 
On
March 28, 2023, Plaintiff served a request for production and identification of
documents and things, set one, form interrogatories, set one, and requests for
admission, set one.  Plaintiff granted Warehouse
several extensions of time to respond, extending the deadline to June 23, 2023.
Warehouse had not provided responses by the time Plaintiff filed these motions. 
Warehouse
asserts that its counsel “has been unable to reach
[Warehouse], which is no longer an operating business, by phone or email.”  Warehouse’s counsel has kept Plaintiff’s
counsel informed of this problem. 
Warehouse
is a party to the case and filed an answer to the complaint.  Plaintiff is entitled to timely discovery
responses from Warehouse.  Because
Warehouse has not provided responses, the Court grants the motions. 
Plaintiff
seeks sanctions of $1,110.00 for each motion, based on three hours of
attorney’s work at a rate of $350.00 per hour and one $60.00 filing fee.  Plaintiff’s counsel spent one hour drafting each
motion, one hour reviewing and responding to each opposition, and anticipates
spending one hour attending the hearing on the motion. 
The motions
are substantially similar and will be heard together. The Court awards
sanctions of $1,180.00 for all three motions based on four hours of attorney’s
work at a reasonable rate of $250.00 per hour and three $60.00 filing fees.  The Court imposes sanctions only on Warehouse and
not on Warehouse’s counsel because counsel has tried diligently but without
success to contact Warehouse. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS the motion of Plaintiff Adriana Beatriz
Sandoval to compel Defendant Wine Warehouse to
respond to the request for production and identification of documents and
things, set one, and orders Defendant
Wine Warehouse to provide verified, code-compliant responses and to produce the
documents, electronically stored information, and/or other things requested
without objections by January 2, 2024. 
The
Court GRANTS the motion of Plaintiff Adriana Beatriz
Sandoval to compel Defendant Wine Warehouse to
respond to form interrogatories, set one, and orders Defendant Wine Warehouse to
provide verified, code-compliant responses to the form interrogatories without
objections by January 2, 2024. 
The
Court GRANTS the motion of Plaintiff Adriana Beatriz Sandoval to deem admitted
the matters specified in the requests for admission served on Defendant Wine
Warehouse.  The matters specified in the
requests for admission are deemed admitted. 
The
Court GRANTS the request for sanctions of Plaintiff Adriana Beatriz Sandoval and
orders Defendant Wine Warehouse to pay Plaintiff Adriana Beatriz Sandoval $1,180.00
by January 2, 2024. 
Moving
party is to give notice of this ruling.
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.


