  Case Number:  24STCV03113    Hearing Date:   June 13, 2024    Dept:  61 MUDS PRODUCTION LLC, et al. vs BOOM.RECORDS LLCTENTATIVEPlaintiffs Muds Production LLC and Xanakin Skywok’s Motion for Leave to Serve Defendant Boom Records, LLC through the California Secretary of State is GRANTED.Moving party to give notice.DISCUSSION   MOTION FOR LEAVE TO SERVE SECRETARY OF STATEIf an agent for the purpose of service of process has resigned and has not been replaced or if the agent designated cannot with reasonable diligence be found at the address designated for personally delivering the process, or if no agent has been designated, and it is shown by affidavit to the satisfaction of the court that process against a domestic corporation cannot be served with reasonable diligence upon the designated agent by hand in the manner provided in Section 415.10, subdivision (a) of Section 415.20 or subdivision (a) of Section 415.30 of the Code of Civil Procedure or upon the corporation in the manner provided in subdivision (a), (b), or (c) of Section 416.10 or subdivision (a) of Section 416.20 of the Code of Civil Procedure, the court may make an order that the service be made upon the corporation by delivering by hand to the Secretary of State, or to any person employed in the Secretary of State's office in the capacity of assistant or deputy, one copy of the process for each defendant to be served, together with a copy of the order authorizing such service. Service in this manner is deemed complete on the 10th day after delivery of the process to the Secretary of State.(Corp. Code § 1702, subd. (a).) The statute thus requires a showing by the plaintiff that the defendant to be served through the secretary of state cannot be personally served with the exercise of due diligence upon its designated agent or in any other manner provided by law. (See Batte v. Bandy (1958) 165 Cal.App.2d 527, 534.)Here, Plaintiffs Muds Production LLC and Xanakin Skywok (Plaintiffs) seek an order authorizing service in this manner upon Defendant Boom Records, LLC (Defendant) based on the declaration of counsel Elliot A. Singer. Defendant’s principal business address registered with the California Secretary of State is an apartment on Poinsettia Drive in West Hollywood, which is also the address listed for service of process. (Singer Decl. Exh. A.) This is apparently the address of Luis Favela, the listed manager and agent for service of process in the same records. (Ibid.) Plaintiffs’ counsel has enlisted two process server companies to attempt service on the address, who have together made seven attempts to serve Defendant at the address, within the period from February 8 to 29, 2024, without success.(Singer Decl. Exh. B.)In a supplemental declaration, Singer states that he contacted Defendant’s attorney, Larry Katz, with whom Plaintiffs were attempting informal settlement talks, but Katz informed Plaintiffs that he was not authorized to accept or waive service. (Supp. Singer Decl. ¶ 5.) Singer has since attempted to serve Defendant by mail under Code of Civil Procedure § 415.30, but the notices of acknowledgement and receipt served on March 20, 2024, have not been returned. (Supp. Singer Decl. ¶¶ 6–7.) Singer finally attempted to locate other addresses associated with Defendant, and found two — one on Michigan Avenue in Santa Monica, and one on Larchmont Boulevard in Los Angeles. (Supp. Singer Decl. ¶ 8.) Attempted service at these addresses, as well as two additional attempts on the registered address, were without success. (Ibid.) The declarations of the process servers indicate little affiliation between Defendant and the Michigan and Larchmont addresses, but ample indication that Defendant’s manager resides at the Poinsettia Drive address, as registered: Luis Favela’s name is listed on the complex’s intercom for the unit in question; the manager of the complex has confirmed to the servers that Favela resides in the unit, and on March 20, 2024, the server observed a package on Favela’s doorstep with his name listed as the intended recipient. (Singer Decl. Exh. B; Supp. Singer Decl. Exh. H.)Plaintiffs here have demonstrated that Defendant cannot be served with the exercise of reasonable diligence. Plaintiffs have made eleven attempts at personal service, nine of them at Defendant’s principal address and the address officially designated for service of process. Plaintiffs have attempted mail service at the same address, to no avail. They have sought consent to accept service from Defendant’s counsel, but no consent was given. Service has been attempted personally (Code Civ. Proc. § 415.10), by substitute service (Code Civ. Proc. § 415.20), by mail (Code Civ. Proc. § 415.30), and upon the designated agent and corporate officers. (Code Civ. Proc. § 416.10.) Service cannot with reasonable diligence be accomplished in another fashion. Service therefore cannot be accomplished with reasonable diligence by othermeans, save upon the California Secretary of State, as provided in Corporations Code § 1702.The motion is GRANTED.