 Case Number:  24TRCV03245    Hearing Date:   November 14, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling   HEARING DATE:                 November 14, 2024   CASE NUMBER:                  24TRCV03245  CASE NAME:                        Georgiana Rosenkranz  v. Cox Communications California, LLC, et al.   MOVING PARTY:                Defendant, Cox Communications California,  LLC   RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff,  Georgiana Rosenkranz    TRIAL DATE:                         Not Set.   MOTION:                              (1) Demurrer   Tentative Rulings:                  (1) SUSTAINED. Plaintiff  has twenty (20) days leave to amend.    I. BACKGROUND   A. Factual  On September 30, 2024, Plaintiff, Georgiana  Rosenkranz (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants, Cox  Communications California, LLC, Crown Castle Fiber, LLC, Inland Engineering  Services, Inc., Frontier California, Inc., Line Works Construction, Inc.,  Southern California Edison Company, Southern California Gas Company, Henkels  & McCoy, Inc., and DOES 1 through 25. The complaint alleges causes of  action for: (1) Nuisance; and (2) Negligence. This action is based on  Plaintiff’s allegations that she owns a home located at 384 Via Almar, Palos  Verdes Estates, CA 90274 (“Subject Property”). (Complaint, ¶ 1.) Plaintiff  asserts that under her home, as well as under a portion of the street directly  in front of the Subject Property, there are underground utilities which  include, but are not limited to, sewer line that serves the Subject Property,  communications lines including fiber optic and other types of lines, gas and  electrical. (Complaint, ¶¶ 17-18.) Plaintiff claims that as contractors, each  of the Defendants performed work on the utilities located under the Subject  Property or the near street involving boring and/or excavating to work on or  install utilities that are located on, under, or adjacent to the Sewer Lines.  (Complaint, ¶ 19.)    During their work, Plaintiff states that  one or more of said contractors ruptured, broke, and/or pierced the Sewer Line  and had a duty to either repair it and/or give the City and/or Plaintiff notice  of the damage. (Complaint, ¶ 21.) However, Plaintiff alleges that the  Contractors did not disclose the damage to the Sewer Line to the City or  Plaintiff during their work, whether they caused it or observed it. (Complaint,  ¶ 21.) Plaintiff’s complaint contends the Contractors concealed the damage from  Plaintiff and from the City and back-filled the excavation and/or borings in  the Street and paved over it without repairing the broken Sewer Line, further  concealing the damage from Plaintiff and the City. (Complaint, ¶ 21.)    Based on the above, Plaintiff argues  Defendants are liable for damages she suffered upon observations and  photographs of the damaged sewer line including that her toilets on the Subject  Property would not flush properly. (Complaint, ¶¶ 22-23.)                Now,  Defendant, Cox Communications California, LLC (“Cox”) demurs to Plaintiff’s  complaint on the grounds that Cox argues it is uncertain, ambiguous, and  unintelligible.    B. Procedural  On October 21, 2024, Cox filed a demurrer  to Plaintiff’s complaint. On October 24, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition  brief. On October 30, 2024, Cox filed a reply brief.    II. ANALYSIS   A.    Legal Standard    A demurrer can be used  only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack  or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank  v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) “To survive a demurrer, the complaint  need only allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action; each evidentiary  fact that might eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need not be  alleged.” (C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53  Cal.4th 861, 872.) For the purpose of testing the sufficiency of the cause of  action, the demurrer admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded. (Aubry  v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does  not admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Daar v.  Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.)   A pleading is uncertain  if it is ambiguous or unintelligible. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f).) A  demurrer for uncertainty may lie if the failure to label the parties and claims  renders the complaint so confusing defendant cannot tell what he or she is  supposed to respond to. (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986)  185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2.) However, “[a] demurrer for uncertainty is  strictly construed, even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain,  because ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury  v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)¿¿    B.      Discussion   i.                  Meet and Confer Requirement                          The declaration of Jorge  A. Lopez, Esq. (“Lopez Decl.”) is offered in support of Defendant Cox’s  counsel’s compliance with Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41. Lopez  declares that on October 10, 2024 and October 12, 2024 he emailed Plaintiff’s  counsel regarding the ambiguity and uncertainty of the complaint in order to  avoid having to file a demurrer. (Lopez Decl., ¶¶ 8-10.) However, Lopez states  that he did not receive a response to either email. (Lopez Decl., ¶¶ 9-10.)     In opposition,  Plaintiff’s counsel argues that on October 9, 2024, he advised Cox’s counsel  that: (1) given the nature of the loss, only Defendants, and not  Plaintiff, know when the damage causing the loss occurred; (2) that Plaintiff  discovered the loss in October, 2022 when a plumbing contractor for the Gas  Company informed Plaintiff that he had discovered the damage to the sewer pipe,  and; (3) that Plaintiff repaired the damage in October, 2023 after the City and  the utility defendants refused to do so. (Declaration of Mark B. Simpkins  (“Simpkins Decl.”), ¶ 3.)   Instead of  agreeing to amend the Complaint to include these dates, Plaintiff apparently  declined to do so.  Thus, the court finds that Cox has  met the meet and confer requirements.   ii.                   Uncertainty   Defendant  Cox demurs to the complaint on the grounds that it argues the complaint is  uncertain and ambiguous because Plaintiff does not state when the incident  giving rise to her nuisance and negligence causes of action occurred or even  when she discovered any sort of damage to her property. Defendant Cox argues  even assuming the allegations in Plaintiff’s complaint are true, the action  might be barred by the statute of limitations, but that Defendants would have  no way of knowing this.  Defendant Cox  cites to George Pepperdine Foundation v. Pepperdine, where the Second  District Court of Appeal held that when dates are material facts, the time of  the occurrence of such facts must be stated with certainty. (George  Pepperdine Foundation v. Pepperdine (1954) 126 Cal.App.2d 154, 162-163 (“Pepperdine”).)     In  Pepperdine, which was overruled in part on other grounds, a company president  brought an action against former directors of a charitable corporation to  recover damages for loss resulting from the unsuccessful investment of  corporation’s assets by president with acquiescence of former directors. (Id.  at 154.) The Court of Appeal held that the trial court “committed no  prejudicial error in sustaining any of [the special demurrers]” as the  pleadings were “egregiously uncertain.” (Id. at 162.) The Court in Pepperdine  reasoned that “[w]hile actions for negligence are barred after the lapse of two  years from the act complained of no dates [were] given whereby it [could] be  ascertained which investments were made after” a material date. (Ibid.)  The Court further reasoned that “[n]either [could] it be ascertained which  notes were sold after that date or which transactions were completed prior  to…the date the action was filed.” (Ibid.) The same can be said here.    Here,  Plaintiff in the case at bar fails to allege the date of the alleged breach of  duty. Although Plaintiff’s opposition argues and relies on precedent holding  that “[a] demurrer for uncertainty will not lie where the ambiguous facts  alleged are presumptively within the knowledge of the demurring party” (Merlino  v. West Coast Macaroni Mfg. Co. (1949) 90 Cal.App.2d 106, 108  ("Merlino")), Plaintiff’s reliance is misplaced. By not alleging any  dates whatsoever, it is impossible for Defendants to be able to determine when,  or even if they worked on or near the Sewer Pipe when it was damaged. At  minimum, Plaintiff can certainly be able to allege the date or dates of  discovery of facts upon which the allegations are based.  Paragraph 23 alleges that after one or more  of the contractors allegedly broke the sewer line, the Plaintiff’s toilets in  the subject property would not flush properly.   Paragraph 24 alleges that plaintiff hired plumbers, and an in Paragraph  25 that Matucci Plumbing notified Plaintiff that it had discovered a broken  sewer line.  Paragraph 26 alleges that  Plaintiff incurred costs in identifying and repairing the alleged damages.  The Complaint does not allege when these  events occurred, and the Complaint is therefore uncertain and subject to  demurrer.  The “Discovery Rule” of  delayed accrual of the statute of limitations applies to property damage cases,  and it assists the plaintiff who may be blamelessly ignorant of the exact date  of the defendants’ alleged actions.  Formal  discovery in a lawsuit may reveal facts of which the defendants may possess  superior or exclusive knowledge, but that does not excuse the plaintiff from  alleging a factual basis for the application of the Discovery Rule.  For example, were plaintiff to allege that  she first noticed problems with toilet flushing in October of 2022, hired a  plumber in January of 2023, learned of the broken sewer line in April of 2023,  and made the first payment for repair of the damage in June of 2023, such  allegations would cure the uncertainty raised by the subject demurrer.   Plaintiff’s  complaint, as currently pleaded, is uncertain. The demurrer is SUSTAINED, with  twenty (20) days leave to amend.    III. CONCLUSION    For  the foregoing reasons, Defendant Cox’s demurrer is SUSTAINED. Plaintiff is  granted twenty (20) days leave to amend.  Cox is ordered to give notice.     