  Case Number:  24TRCV01224    Hearing Date:   November 14, 2024    Dept:  8 
Tentative RulingHEARING DATE:  November 14, 2024¿¿ CASE NUMBER:  24TRCV01224 CASE NAME: Jeffrey Orlando Santos Zamora, et al. v. Tesla Motors, Inc., et al. MOVING PARTY: Defendant, Tesla Motors, Inc.   RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiffs, Jeffrey Orlando Santos Zamora and Miriam Canales Ortega TRIAL DATE:   Not Set.  MOTION:  (1) Motion to Compel Arbitration  (2)  CMC Tentative Rulings:  (1) GRANTED.  The Court will set an arbitration status date approximately 9 months out, and otherwise stay the civil action  (2) In light of the granting or arbitration, the CMC is mooted   I. BACKGROUND  A. FactualOn April 9, 2024, Plaintiffs, Jeffrey Orlando Santos Zamora and Miriam Canales Ortega (collectively “Plaintiffs”) filed a complaint against Defendant, Tesla Motors, Inc., and DOES 1 through 10. The complaint alleges causes of action for” (1) Violation of Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Express Warranty; and (2) Violation of Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Implied Warranty.    The complaint is based on a July 12, 2023 purchase by Plaintiffs of a 2023 Tesla Model 3, manufactured and/or distributed by Defendant, with corresponding Vehicle Identification Number 5YJE1EA2PF598416. Plaintiffs notes they purchased the Vehicle from Tesla, a manufacturer and/or distributor. (Complaint, ¶ 11.) Plaintiffs contends they received an express written warranty with their purchase. (Complaint, ¶ 27.) Plaintiffs state defects and nonconformities to the warranty manifested themselves within the applicable express warranty period and that Tesla continued to misrepresent its ability to repair the vehicle in conformity with the warranty throughout the warranty period. (Complaint, ¶¶ 14, 28.)  Defendant, Tesla Motors, Inc. (“Tesla”) filed a Motion to Compel Binding Arbitration as its initial responsive pleading.     B. Procedural On May 13, 2024, Tesla filed a Motion to Compel Binding Arbitration. On October 31, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an opposition brief. On November 11, 2024, Tesla filed a reply brief.    II. REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE  In addition to filing Tesla’s Motion to Compel Arbitration, Tesla also filed a request for this Court to take Judicial Notice of the following document:   Plaintiffs Jeffrey Orlando Santos Zamora and Miriam Canales Ortega’s Complaint, filed on or about April 9, 2024, attached to the Declaration of Ali Ameripour as Exhibit “3.”  This Court GRANTS Tesla’s request and takes judicial notice of the above.   III. ANALYSIS  Legal Standard    California Code of Civil Procedure, Section 1281 provides that “[a] written agreement to submit to arbitration an existing controversy or a controversy thereafter arising is valid, enforceable, and irrevocable, save upon such grounds as exist for the revocation of any contract.”¿ “California law, like federal law, favors enforcement of valid arbitration agreements.”¿ (Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 97.)¿ “On petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party to the agreement refuses to arbitrate that controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy” unless grounds exist not to compel arbitration.¿ (Code Civ. Proc. § 1281.2.) The Song-Beverly Act also favors arbitration of Lemon Law disputes with a series of “carrot and stick” provisions that immunize a warrantors from a species of civil penalty if they have a certified lemon arbitration program in place.  The AAA arbitration provision in Tesla’s contract is not the pre-litigation lemon arbitration program contemplated by Song-Beverly, but rather is a litigation diversion provision contemplated by the Federal Arbitration Act and by the California Arbitration Act.  Tesla’s provisions do not indicate that federal law controls, so this Tentative Ruling will rest on California law.  “There is no public policy favoring arbitration of disputes which the parties have not agreed to arbitrate.” (Engineers & Architects Assn. v. Community Development Dept.¿(1994) 30 Cal.App.4th 644, 653.) Nevertheless, the strong public policy promoting private arbitration of civil disputes gives rise to a presumption in favor of arbitrability and compels the Court to construe liberally the terms of the arbitration agreement. (Vianna v. Doctors’ Management Co.¿(1994) 27 Cal.App.4th 1186, 1189). Discussion   Existence of Arbitration Agreement   Here, the parties agree that there were two written agreements, the Retail Installment Sales Contract (“RISC”), and the Order Agreement, that included an arbitration agreements. However, Plaintiffs argue that the Order Agreement is a contract of adhesion and is unconscionable and/or otherwise revocable.   Here, the Order Agreement contained an arbitration agreement, which stated:   Agreement to Arbitrate. Please carefully read this provision, which applies to any dispute between you and Tesla, Inc. and its affiliates, (together “Tesla”).   If you have a concern or dispute, please send a written notice describing it and your desired resolution to resolutions@tesla.com.   If not resolved within 60 days, you agree that any dispute arising out of or relating to any aspect of the relationship between you and Tesla will not be decided by a judge or jury but instead by a single arbitrator in an arbitration administered by the American Arbitration Association (AAA) under its Consumer Arbitration Rules. This includes claims arising before this Agreement, such as claims related to statements about our products. You further agree that any disputes related to the arbitrability of your claims will be decided by the court rather than an arbitrator, notwithstanding AAA rules to the contrary.   To initiate the arbitration, you will pay the filing fee directly to AAA and we will pay all subsequent AAA fees for the arbitration, except you are responsible for your own attorney, expert, and other witness fees and costs unless otherwise provided by law. If you prevail on any claim, we will reimburse you your filing fee. The arbitration will be held in the city or county of your residence. To learn more about the Rules and how to begin an arbitration, you may call any AAA office or go to www.adr.org.   The arbitrator may only resolve disputes between you and Tesla, and may not consolidate claims without the consent of all parties. The arbitrator cannot hear class or representative claims or requests for relief on behalf of others purchasing or leasing Tesla vehicles. In other words, you and Tesla may bring claims against the other only in your or its individual capacity and not as a plaintiff or class member in any class or representative action. If a court or arbitrator decides that any part of this agreement to arbitrate cannot be enforced as to a particular claim for relief or remedy, then that claim or remedy (and only that claim or remedy) must be brought in court and any other claims must be arbitrated.   If you prefer, you may instead take an individual dispute to small claims court.  You may opt out of arbitration within 30 days after signing this Agreement by sending a letter to: Tesla, Inc.; P.O. Box 15430; Fremont, CA 94539-7970, stating your name, Order Number or Vehicle Identification Number, and intent to opt out of the arbitration provision. If you do not opt out, this agreement to arbitrate overrides any different arbitration agreement between us, including any arbitration agreement in a lease or finance contract.  (Declaration of Raymond Kim (“Kim Decl.”), Ex. 1, p. 3.)  Further, Tesla points to the section of the Order Agreement that contains a 30-day opt-out provision, enabling a Tesla purchaser or lessee to send a letter to Tesla within 30 days expressing the customer’s desire to reject arbitration for matters embraced by the Order Agreement arbitration provision.  The Kim declaration in support of the motion indicates Tesla did not receive any opt-out letter from Plaintiffs. (Kim Decl., ¶ 7.)   This court finds that the complaint alleges various statutory violations for alleged vehicle defects. The court acknowledges that the Arbitration Agreement applies to, “any dispute between you and Tesla, Inc. and its affiliates.” (Kim Decl., Ex. 1, p. 3.) The court finds that the claims in Plaintiffs’ complaint are covered within the scope of the arbitration agreement. Because Plaintiffs do not raise any issues of the claims not arising within the agreement, and only focus on the unconscionability argument, this Court finds that on the face of the agreement made between the parties, the Arbitration clause is enforceable.   Unconscionability  Plaintiffs main argument in their opposition is that the contract drafted by Tesla is one of adhesion and is unconscionable and/or otherwise revocable.  Unconscionability is a valid defense to a petition to compel arbitration. (Sonic-Calabasas A, Inc. v. Moreno (2013) 57 Cal.4th 1109, 1143.) State law governs the “unconscionability” defense. (Doctor’s Assocs., Inc. v. Casarotto (1996) 517 US 681, 687.) The core concern of the unconscionability doctrine is the “absence of meaningful choice on the part of one of the parties together with contract terms which are unreasonably favorable to the other party.” (Sonic-Calabasas, supra, 57 Cal.4th at 1145.) The unconscionability doctrine ensures that contracts—particularly contracts of adhesion—do not impose terms that have been variously described as overly harsh, unduly oppressive, so one-sided as to shock the conscience, or unfairly one-sided. (Id.)  Here, Plaintiffs have not identified any overly harsh or unduly oppressive provisions, other than depriving them of the court system to resolve their dispute without any other option.  The Court finds that such a deprivation, without much more, is not overly harsh, unduly oppressive, nor shocking of the conscience.   “The procedural element of unconscionability focuses on whether the contract is one of adhesion. (Armendariz, supra, 24 Cal.4th at p. 113; Mercuro v. Superior Court, supra, 96 Cal.App.4th at p. 174.) Procedural unconscionability focuses on whether there is “oppression” arising from an inequality of bargaining power or “surprise” arising from buried terms in a complex printed form. (Armendariz, supra, 24 Cal.4th at p. 114; Mercuro v. Superior Court, supra, 96 Cal.App.4th at p. 174.) The substantive element addresses the existence of overly harsh or one-sided terms. (Little v. Auto Stiegler, Inc. (2003) 29 Cal.4th 1064, 1071 [130 Cal.Rptr.2d 892, 63 P.3d 979]; Armendariz, supra, 24 Cal.4th at p. 114.) An agreement to arbitrate is unenforceable only if both the procedural and substantive elements are satisfied. (Armendariz, supra, 24 Cal.4th at p. 113; Mercuro v. Superior Court, supra, 96 Cal.App.4th at p. 174.) However, Armendariz held, “[T]he more substantively oppressive the contract term, the less evidence of procedural unconscionability is required to come to the conclusion that the term is unenforceable, and vice versa.” (Armendariz, at p. 114; see also Kinney v. United HealthCare Services, Inc., supra, 70 Cal.App.4th at p. 1329.).” McManus v. CIBC World Markets Corp. (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 76, 87.)  Procedural Unconscionability   Plaintiffs argue that the Purchase Agreement is adhesive and therefore procedurally unconscionable. Plaintiffs base their arguments on the fact that the Order Agreement is a ‘take it or leave it’ contract that gave Plaintiffs no meaningful opportunity to negotiate or discuss any of the terms outlined in the Agreements. In Plaintiffs’ unconscionability argument, they reference the case of Gutierrez v. Autowest, Inc. (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 77. In Gutierrez, a plaintiff entered into an automobile lease agreement with the defendant, an automobile dealer. The plaintiff subsequently sued the dealer over alleged fraud in the transaction, and the adhesive agreement contained an inconspicuous arbitration clause. (Id. at 83-84.) There, based on the AAA rules in effect at the time the defendant moved to compel arbitration, the Plaintiff would have had to pay $8,000 in administrative fees to initiate arbitration. . (Id. at 90-91.) The Gutierrez Court held that “where a consumer enters into an adhesive contract that mandates arbitration, it is unconscionable to condition that process on the consumer posting fees he or she cannot pay.” (Id. at 89-90.)  Here, Plaintiffs attempt to draw an analogy to Gutierrez, by claiming that the take it or leave it contract was adhesive, and consequently procedurally unconscionable. However, the contract in Gutierrez was not found to be unconscionable because it was adhesive. In fact, the Gutierrez court noted that “simply because a provision within a contract of adhesion is not read or understood by the non-drafting party does not justify a refusal to enforce it.” (Id. at 88.) Instead, the Court reasoned that the unbargained-for term may only be denied enforcement if it is also substantively unreasonable. (Ibid.) Here, although not specifically argued by Plaintiffs, the adhesive nature of the arbitration agreements arguably flows in part from the digital nature of the Agreement.  A Tesla buyer must click on the hyperlink to visualize the arbitration agreements, and if they did so on the screen would appear five pages of an easy-to-read document with prominently displayed agreement with distinctive border on page three (3) of the Order Agreement. When there is no other indication of oppression other than the adhesive aspect of an agreement, the degree of procedural unconscionability is low. (Serpa v. California Surety Investigations, Inc. (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 695, 704.)  Further, the record before the Court indicates that the entirely of the sales transaction was performed digitally or on line, rendering the digital nature of the arbitration agreement less concerning.  As such, this Court finds that there is procedural unconscionability, but that aspect of the unconscionability defense is low.    Substantive Unconscionability  Next, Plaintiffs argue that the arbitration provisions are substantively unconscionable because of inadequate discovery preventing Plaintiffs from vindicating statutory rights under Song-Beverly. An arbitration agreement is generally enforceable, if it (1) provides for neutral arbitrators, (2) provides for more than minimal discovery, (3) requires a written award, (4) provides for all of the types of relief that would otherwise be available in court, and (5) does not require the parties to pay unreasonable costs and fees as a condition of access to an arbitration forum. (See Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 102.) Substantive unconscionability focuses on overly harsh or one-sided results.  (Fuentes v. Empire Nissan, Inc. (2023) 90 Cal.App.5th 919, 929.)  An agreement that is even-handed and imposes the same requirements and restrictions on each side is not substantively unconscionable.  (Id. at p. 932.)     Plaintiffs argue that Tesla’s severely limits discovery, including a lack of any depositions. (See AAA Rules, R-22.) Further, beyond a very ambiguous description of the exchange of information (i.e., “specific documents and other information”), the AAA rules state: “No other exchange of information beyond what is provided for in section (a) above is contemplated under these rules, unless an arbitrator determines further information exchange is needed to provide for a fundamentally fair process.”  What Plaintiffs fail to acknowledge is that these discovery limitations apply equally to both sides. Tesla also will be deprived of the right to take depositions, but it will be required to exchange specific documents and, on application to the arbitrator, both sides may be required to exchange other information such as exchanging expert reports.  Substantive unconscionability may occur if the arbitration agreement requires the plaintiff to pay the entirely of the arbitrator’s fees, or if the venue for the arbitration is remote and unreasonably costly to the Plaintiff, or if the arbitration agreement bars recovery of attorneys fees or a civil penalty by a prevailing plaintiff.  None of those concerns are presented here.  The Court’s assessment is that the claimed substantive unconscionability is low.  Here, the court does not find that Plaintiffs have carried their burden in showing how the arbitration provisions are unconscionable or against public policy. As such, and without any argument as to waiver by Tesla under the recent decision in Quach, the court GRANTS Tesla’s Motion to Compel Arbitration.   IV. CONCLUSIONFor the foregoing reasons, Tesla’s Motion to Compel Arbitration is GRANTED.  The civil action will be stayed, and the Court will set an arbitration status date approximately 9 months out.  Tesla is ordered to give notice.