  Case Number:  23TRCV00943    Hearing Date:   January 25, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior Court
  of California
County of Los
  Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance Dept. B




 
DIANE
  BURNETT, 


 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV00943




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative] RULING




 
CITY OF
  SANTA MONICA,


 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          January 25, 2024
Moving
Parties:                      Defendant City of Santa Monica
Responding Party:                  Plaintiff Diane Burnett
Demurrer
to Complaint
 
            The court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
            The demurrer is SUSTAINED
WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND as to the 2nd cause of action.  Defendant is ordered to file an answer within
20 days.
BACKGROUND
On March
29, 2023, plaintiff Diane Burnett filed a complaint against City of Santa
Monica for (1) negligence and (2) negligence and statutory liability.  
LEGAL AUTHORITY
When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context. 
Taylor v. City of Los Angeles
Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters. 
Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the
pleading or are judicially noticed.”  SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153
Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.  “The only issue
involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.
DISCUSSION
Defendant
City of Santa Monica demurs to the 2nd cause of action on the ground
that it fails to state sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action.  
            The
complaint alleges that on August 9, 2022, plaintiff was a fare paying passenger
aboard defendant City’s Big Blue Bus. 
She was seriously injured when the bus driver of the Big Blue Bus failed
to restrain her wheelchair to the bus. 
Upon a sudden and extreme maneuver by the bus driver while driving,
plaintiff was thrown across the bus, her wheelchair tipped over, and she was
injured.  Complaint, ¶7.  The incident occurred at or near the 96th
station bus stop of the Big Blue Bus. 
Id., ¶8.  At the time of the
incident, the City’s Big Blue Bus was a common carrier operating a bus line
under Civil Code 2168, and during which plaintiff was a passenger for
hire.  Id., ¶9.
            2nd
Cause Of Action For Negligence/Statutory Liability
            Under
Government Code §835, a public entity is “liable for injury caused by a
dangerous condition of its property if the plaintiff establishes that the
property was in a dangerous condition at the time of the injury, that the
injury was proximately caused by the dangerous condition, that the dangerous
condition created a reasonably foreseeable risk of the kind of injury which was
incurred, and either:  (a) A negligent or
wrongful act or omission of an employee of the public entity within the scope
of his employment created the dangerous condition; or (b) the public entity had
actual or constructive notice of the dangerous condition . . . a sufficient
time prior to the injury to have taken measures to protect against the
dangerous condition." Gov. Code §835.
            “’Dangerous
condition’ means a condition of property that creates a substantial (as
distinguished from a minor, trivial or insignificant) risk of injury when such
property or adjacent property is used with due care in a manner in which is
reasonably foreseeable that it will be used.” 
Gov. Code §830(a).
Under the
2nd cause of action, the complaint alleges that defendants owned,
leased, controlled, maintained, managed, operated, and/or were otherwise in
possession of the Big Blue Bus.  Complaint,
¶21.  On August 9, 2022, defendants City
and Does and/or their management, administrative, designers, planners,
engineers, maintenance personnel, inspectors, contractors, and/or other
employees, staff, agents, or contractors, acting within the course and scope of
their duties and/or employment failed to properly install, maintain, repair,
operate, monitor, and/or control the subject Big Blue Bus.  The Big Blue Bus had a handicap area where
individuals with wheelchairs could be strapped in and restrained.  The fact that the bus driver did not restrain
plaintiff coupled with his erratic driving constituted a dangerous condition
created by the negligence of the driver. 
Plaintiff would not have experienced the injuries she did had this
dangerous condition been absent or remedied. 
Id., ¶22.  These failures, acts,
and omissions were inherently dangerous and created a peculiar risk and
nuisance.  Defendants, acting within the
course and scope of their duties and through negligent or wrongful acts or
omissions created, or allowed to be created, a dangerous condition under Gov.
Code §835.  The installation,
maintenance, repair, operation, monitoring, safety and/or control of the Big
Blue Bus was done negligently, inadequately, and improperly and created a
hazard, trap, and dangerous condition under Gov. Code §835.  Id., ¶23.
            Defendant
argues that the allegations are conclusory and that it is entitled to
specificity in pleading.  To state a
claim against a public entity, “every fact essential to the existence of
statutory liability must be pleaded with particularity . . . .”  Searcy v. Hemet Unified School Dist. (1986)
177 Cal. App. 3d 792, 802 (citation omitted). 
Further, defendant contends that this claim appears to be based on the
bus driver’s purported failure to restrain plaintiff and his driving and she
does not contend that any physical condition of the bus led to her injuries.  “[A] dangerous condition of public property
requires ‘a physical deficiency in the property itself.’” Salas v.
Department of Transportation (2011) 198 Cal. App. 4th 1058, 1070
(citation omitted).
            In
opposition, plaintiff argues that the allegations are sufficient, and that Gov.
Code §835 does not use the word “physical” and refers only to “dangerous
condition of its property.”  Plaintiff
also asserts that she alleged that she was not physically “strapped in and
restrained” to the bus in the handicap area. 
She contends that “[o]bviously, the straps used to restrain individuals
with wheelchairs were physically attached to the bus, and indeed were a part of
the bus.”  Thus, plaintiff argues, she
alleges that the bus was in a physical condition that led to her injuries as
the straps of the bus were not physically affixed in order to restrain
plaintiff and the wheelchair while the bus was moving.
            The
court rules as follows:  “‘[A] claim
alleging a dangerous condition may not rely on generalized allegations but must
specify in what manner the condition constituted a dangerous condition.’  A plaintiff’s allegations, and ultimately the
evidence, must establish a physical deficiency in the property itself.  A dangerous condition exists when public
property ‘is physically damaged, deteriorated, or defective in such a way as to
foreseeably endanger those using the property itself,’ or possesses physical
characteristics in its design, location, features or relationship to its
surroundings that endanger users. . . . ‘[P]ublic liability lies under section
835 only when a feature of the public property has ‘increased or intensified’
the danger to users from third party conduct.’” 
Cerna v. City of Oakland (2008) 161 Cal. App. 4th 1340, 1347-1348
(citations omitted).  “[T]o constitute a
dangerous condition under Government Code section 835, public 
property must possess a physical defect which
creates a substantial, as distinguished from a minor, 
trivial or insignificant, risk of injury. (Gov. Code
§ 830(a).)  Harmful conduct in and of
itself cannot form a basis for recovery without a direct causal connection with
the physical defect.” Bartell v. Palos Verdes Peninsula Sch. Dist.
(1978) 83 Cal. App. 3d 492, 497.  “Property
is not ‘dangerous’ within the meaning of the statutory scheme if the property
is safe when used with due care and the risk of harm is created only when
foreseeable users fail to exercise due care.” 
Brenner v. City of El Cajon (2003) 113 Cal. App. 4th
434, 439 (citation omitted).
            The
court finds that the allegations are insufficient.  Plaintiff does not adequately describe the
“dangerous condition”—i.e., a physical deficiency as to the bus.  Rather plaintiff alleges that the driver did
not use due care in using the wheelchair straps to restrain plaintiff’s
wheelchair and drove erratically, which is not a “dangerous condition” within
the meaning of the statutory scheme.
            The
demurrer is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND as to the 2nd cause of
action.
ORDER
            The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITHOUT
LEAVE TO AMEND as to the 2nd cause of action. 
Defendant City is ordered to file an
answer within 20 days.
            Defendant
is ordered to give notice of ruling.