 Case Number:  22STCV22838    Hearing Date:   October 12, 2023    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
July 14, 2022, Plaintiff Rocko Moore (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against
Defendants City of Los Angeles, Los Angeles Department of Water and Power,
Crowley Lake Fish Camp, Inc. (“Crowley”), and Sierra Recreation Associates,
Inc. (“Sierra”) for dangerous condition of public property, government
liability for acts and omissions of independent contractors, breach of
mandatory duty, negligence, and premises liability. Plaintiff later amended the
complaint to include Defendant Mono County. 
On
January 11, 2023, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint, adding causes of
action for assault, battery and parental liability. The First Amended Complaint
also added Defendants Albert Cano, Marc Cano, and Jennifer Ziegler. Plaintiff
removed Defendant Mono County from the complaint.  On September 29, 2023, Sierra and Crowley
filed an answer. 
On
September 29, 2023, Defendants and Cross-Complainants Crowley and Sierra filed
a cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants Roes 1-50 for indemnification,
apportionment of fault, equitable implied indemnity, full indemnity,
contribution, and declaratory relief. 
On
September 13, 2023, Crowley and Sierra (“Moving Defendants”) filed a motion to continue
the trial to be heard on October 12, 2023. 
No opposition has been filed. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for January 11, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Moving
Defendants request that the Court continue trial to allow the Court to hear a motion for summary judgment prior
to trial. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(b), provides that “a party seeking a continuance of
the date set for trial, whether contested or uncontested or stipulated to by
the parties, must make the request for a continuance by a noticed motion or an
ex parte application under the rules in chapter 4 of this division, with
supporting declarations. The party must make the motion or application as soon
as reasonably practical once the necessity for the continuance is discovered.” 
          Under
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(c), the Court may grant a continuance
only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the continuance.
Circumstances that may indicate good cause include “a party's excused inability
to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite
diligent efforts,” or the unavailability of a party, counsel, or expert due to
death, illness or other excusable circumstance. The Court should consider all
facts and circumstances relevant to the determination, such as proximity of the
trial date, prior continuances, prejudice suffered, whether all parties have
stipulated to a continuance, and whether the interests of justice are served.
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d).) 

DISCUSSION 
Moving
Defendants ask the Court to continue the trial until after the hearing on their
summary judgment motion.  Moving Defendants
have reserved a hearing date in June 2024 for a summary judgment motion but
they have not yet filed a motion. 
Moving
Defendants also request a trial continuance because discovery has not been
completed.  
The
Court has not granted any previous continuances. In addition, some of the
defendants have not appeared.  
The Court
finds good cause and grants the request for a continuance. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS the motion to continue the trial filed by Defendants Crowley Lake Fish
Camp, Inc. and Sierra Recreation Associates, Inc.. Trial is continued to August
12, 2024, at 1:30 p.m. in Department 28 of the Spring Street Courthouse. The
Final Status Conference is July 29, 2024, at 10:00 a.m. in Department 28 of the
Spring Street Courthouse. All discovery and related dates are set to trail the
new trial date. 
Moving
parties are ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
parties are ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.