 Case Number:  21STCV13947    Hearing Date:   October 12, 2023    Dept:  28 Having  considered the moving, opposing, reply, and supplemental papers, the Court rules as  follows.  PROCEDURAL HISTORY  On  April 13, 2021, Plaintiff Patricia Avila (“Plaintiff”) filed this action  against Defendant Chris Brown (“Brown”) and Does 1-50 for premises liability,  negligent infliction of emotional distress, and strict liability. On October  25, 2021, Plaintiff amended the complaint to include Defendant Black Pyramid,  LLC (“Black Pyramid”) as Doe 1.  On  February 16, 2022, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint against Brown,  Black Pyramid, and Does 2-50 for premises liability, negligent infliction of  emotional distress, and negligence. On May 23, 2022, Brown and Black Pyramid  (“Defendants”) filed an answer.  On  June 13, 2022, the Court found that this case (21STCV13947) and case number 21STCV24811 are related within the meaning of California Rules of Court, rule 3.300(a).  21STCV13947 became the lead case. The Court reminded the parties that related cases are still independent of each other.  The cases have not been consolidated.   On  July 31, 2023, Plaintiff filed a motion to compel third party witness Maria  Avila (“Third Party”) to comply with Plaintiff’s deposition subpoena for production  of business records and remaining document production and for sanctions of  $2,256.65, to be heard on October 4, 2023.  On October 3, 2023, Third Party filed an  opposition.  Also on October 3, 2023, Plaintiff  filed an objection to Third Party’s opposition because it was untimely.  On  August 11, 2023, Plaintiff filed a motion to compel Third  Party’s appearance at a deposition and for sanctions of $2,904.65, to be heard  on October 5, 2023.  On September 27,  2023, Plaintiff filed a reply arguing Third Party’s opposition served on  September 25, 2023 was untimely.  The  Court, however, had not received Third Party’s opposition.  On October 5, 2023, Third Party filed an  opposition (or, according to the document’s footer, “amended” opposition),  which Third Party apparently had previously filed in the related case (21STCV24811).  On October  4, 2023, the Court heard argument and continued the hearing on the motion to  compel Third Party’s compliance with Plaintiff’s deposition subpoena for  production of business records and remaining document production, as well as the  hearing on Plaintiff’s motion to compel Third Party’s appearance at a  deposition (scheduled for October 5, 2023), to October 12, 2023.  On  October 9, 2023, Plaintiff's counsel filed a supplemental declaration.  Trial  is currently set for July 15, 2024.  PLAINTIFF’S AND THIRD PARTY'S REQUESTS  Plaintiff  requests that the Court order Third Party to produce all documents requested in Plaintiff’s deposition subpoena for  production of business records and document production.  Plaintiff also requests that the Court order Third Party to appear for a deposition.  Plaintiff seeks sanctions on both motions. Third Party asks the Court to deny the motions and impose sanctions on Plaintiff.  LEGAL STANDARD  A  party seeking discovery from a person who is not a party to the action may  obtain discovery by oral deposition, written deposition, or deposition subpoena  for production of business records. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.010.)  A deposition subpoena may command the  attendance and testimony of the deponent, as well as the production of business  records, other documents, electronically stored information, and tangible  things. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.020.) The Court may order a third party to  comply with a deposition subpoena upon any terms or condition that the court  declares. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1.)            Code of Civil Procedure section  2025.480 provides in part:  “(a) If a deponent fails to answer any question or to  produce any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing  under the deponent’s control that is specified in the deposition notice or a  deposition subpoena, the party seeking discovery may move the court for an  order compelling that answer or production.  “(b) This motion shall be made no later than 60 days  after the completion of the record of the deposition, and shall be accompanied  by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.  “(c) Notice of this motion shall be given to all  parties and to the deponent either orally at the examination, or by subsequent  service in writing. If the notice of the motion is given orally, the deposition  officer shall direct the deponent to attend a session of the court at the time  specified in the notice.  * * *   “(i) If the court determines that the answer or  production sought is subject to discovery, it shall order that the answer be  given or the production be made on the resumption of the deposition.  “(j) The court shall impose a monetary sanction under  Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or  attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel an answer or  production, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with  substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of  the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480,  subds. (a), (b), (c), (i), (j).)  Code  of Civil Procedure section 2023.030, subdivision (a), provides that “[t]he  court may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse  of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay  the reasonable expenses, including attorney's fees, incurred by anyone as a  result of that conduct.” Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.010, subdivision  (d), provides that misuse of the discovery process includes “making . . .  unsuccessfully and without substantial justification, a motion to compel or to  limit discovery.”  DISCUSSION  I.                Motion to  compel compliance with deposition  subpoena for production of business records and remaining document production  A.   Plaintiff properly served the motion on  Third Party’s counsel  California  Rules of Court, rule 3.1346, provides: “A written notice and all moving papers  supporting a motion to compel an answer to a deposition question or to compel  production of a document or tangible thing from a nonparty deponent must be  personally served on the nonparty deponent unless the nonparty deponent agrees  to accept service by mail or electronic service at an address or electronic  service address specified on the deposition record.”  Plaintiff  served her motion on Third Party’s counsel, not on Third Party personally.  As an attachment to her counsel’s  declaration, Plaintiff provided an email from Third Party’s counsel to  Plaintiff’s counsel dated July 7, 2023 stating: “[Third Party] is a party to a  related action and you are NOT allowed to have any contact with her. All  communication must be through me or my office. Moving forward please do NOT  have any contact with my client, whether through correspondence or process  servers.”  (Murphy Dec. Exh. 5.)  Based on this directive, Plaintiff's service  of the motion on Third Party’s counsel was proper under rule 3.1346.  B.   Third Party is required to comply with  Plaintiff’s deposition subpoena  1.    Background  On  June 21, 2023, Plaintiff’s counsel issued a deposition subpoena for production  of business records to Third Party with a production deadline of July 21,  2023.  On June 29, 2023, Plaintiff’s  counsel’s attorney service served the deposition subpoena on Third Party at her  home.  On July 5, 2023, Plaintiff’s  counsel served a copy of the deposition subpoena for production of business  records and a deposition notice to take Third Party’s deposition on August 3,  2023, on Third Party's counsel's office.  On  July 7, 2023, Third Party’s counsel wrote to Plaintiff’s counsel stating that  Third Party was “not available for deposition so it will have to be  rescheduled.”  Third Party’s counsel  added: “I would prefer not to put [Third Party] through the trauma of a  deposition and relieve [sic] this nightmare, and her testimony will be  detrimental to your client's case. Please withdraw the deposition notice  immediately.” (Murphy Dec. Exh. 5.)  Plaintiff’s  counsel responded that he would not withdraw the subpoena and he requested  alternative dates for the deposition. (Murphy Dec. Exh. 5.)  Third Party’s counsel emailed back: “My  client will not appear for deposition on the date you have chosen, as I am not  available. I am urging to reconsider your position, her testimony will not be  favorable to your client and you will confirm your client has no damages, why  would you do this? My client has been through enough. Please withdraw the  request to depose her. In either event we are not available on the date you  chose. I will file a motion for protective order to preclude her deposition but  prefer to meet and confer with you further in the hopes of securing your  cooperation.” (Murphy Dec. Exh. 5.)  Plaintiff’s  counsel again asked for alternative dates for Third Party’s deposition.  Counsel warned that, unless he received  alternative dates, the deposition would go forward and counsel would take a  non-appearance and file a motion to compel.  On  July 21, 2023, the deadline for the document production, Third Party did not  produce any documents.  On  July 25, 2023, Plaintiff’s counsel told Third Party’s counsel: “I’ll give your  client until this Friday, July 28, 2023, to produce her documents in response  to our subpoena and then we’ll be filing motions to compel and seeking  sanctions against your office.”  (Exh.  8.)  On  July 27, 2023, Third Party served objections to the August 3, 2023 deposition  stating Third Party and her counsel were not available that day.  (Murphy Dec. ¶ 15 & Exh. 9.)  The objection stated: “[Third Party’s]  counsel is willing to meet and confer with Plaintiff Patricia Avila’s counsel.  [Third Party] will be produced for a remote deposition on a mutually agreed  upon date and time. There is NO refusal to proceed with deposition. There is NO  refusal to produce [Third Party] for deposition.”  (Exh. 9.)  On  August 3, 2023, Plaintiff took a certificate of non-appearance.  Third  Party has not provided an alternative date for the deposition and has not  produced the documents requested in the deposition subpoena. (Murphy Dec. ¶  15.)  Third Party’s counsel has not  cooperated with Plaintiff’s counsel’s efforts to schedule a new deposition date  and obtain the requested documents.  2.   Analysis  In  her complaint, Plaintiff alleges that she perceived Third Party – Plaintiff’s  sister – being attacked and injured by a dog at Defendants’ home, where Plaintiff  and Third Party worked.  Third  Party filed a separate lawsuit against Defendants, which remains pending.  Third Party’s lawsuit, however, does not  relieve Third Party of her obligation to comply with Plaintiff’s deposition  subpoena and request for production of documents.  Third  Party argues the Court should deny Plaintiff’s motion because Plaintiff failed  to meet and confer before filing the motion.   Based on the email correspondence attached to the motion, the Court  finds that Plaintiff's counsel repeatedly attempted to meet and confer with Third Party’s  counsel, without success.  Third  Party asserts that Plaintiff should have scheduled an informal discovery conference (IDC)  before filing the motion.  The Court requires  an IDC before a hearing on a motion to compel further discovery responses.  An IDC was not required here.  The  Court grants the motion to compel Third Party to comply with Plaintiff’s  deposition subpoena for production of business records and remaining document  production.  Third Party is ordered to provide code-compliant responses to Plaintiff's requests for production numbers 1-21, 24-38, and 40-47 and to produce  the documents, electronically stored information, and/or other things requested  by within 30 days of the hearing on this motion.  Plaintiff  requests monetary sanctions of $2,256.65 based on five hours of attorney time  to prepare the moving papers and one hour to prepare for and attend the hearing  at a rate of $350 per hour, $15.00 to e-file the motion, a filing fee of  $61.65, and $80.00 to have paper copies delivered to Department 28.  The  Court grants $561.65 in sanctions based on two hours of attorney time at a  reasonable rate of $250 per hour and one filing fee.  II.             Motion to  compel Third Party’s appearance at a deposition   The  Court has already addressed most of the issues raised by this motion in its  discussion, above, of the motion to compel compliance with the deposition  subpoena for production of business records and remaining document production.   In addition to the issues addressed above, Third  Party argues that “this is not a third party witness situation” because  the Court has related this case (21STCV13947) with the case Third Party brought against  Defendants (21STCV24811).  Therefore, Third Party  argues, Plaintiff was required to notice her deposition and, if Third Party  failed to appear, file a motion to compel.   Third  Party’s premise is incorrect.  When the  Court related the cases, it reminded the parties that related cases are still  independent of each other.  Plaintiff was  entitled, and required, to follow the rules that apply to third-party  witnesses.  In addition, Plaintiff has  provided evidence that her counsel served a copy of the deposition subpoena and  deposition notice on Third Party’s counsel on July 5, 2023.   The  Court grants the motion and orders Third Party to appear for a deposition within  30 days of the hearing on this motion.   Plaintiff  requests sanctions of $2,904.65 based on four  hours of attorney time to prepare the moving papers and one hour to prepare for  and attend the hearing at a rate of $350 per hour, $15.00 to e-file the motion,  a filing fee of $61.65, $80.00 to have paper copies delivered to Department 28, and $498 in court reporter’s fees for the certificate of non-appearance.  Plaintiff also requests that Third Party’s  counsel pay $500.00 to Plaintiff's counsel "due to the failure to appear.”   It is unclear why Plaintiff proceeded with the August 3, 2023 deposition after Third Party served an objection.  Therefore, the Court will not include the court reporter's fee in the sanctions award.  The  Court grants $561.65 in sanctions based  on two hours of attorney time at a reasonable rate of $250 per hour and one  filing fee.            The Court denies Third Party’s request for sanctions.  CONCLUSION  The  Court GRANTS Plaintiff Patricia Avila’s motion to compel Third Party witness  Maria Avila’s compliance with Plaintiff’s deposition subpoena for production of  business records and remaining document production and for sanctions.  Third Party Maria Avila is ordered to produce  code-compliant responses to Plaintiff’s requests for production numbers 1-21, 24-38, and 40-47 and to produce the documents, electronically stored  information, and/or other things requested within 30 days of the hearing on  this motion.  The  Court GRANTS Plaintiff Patricia Avila’s motion to compel Third Party witness Maria Avila’s  appearance at a deposition and orders Third Party Maria Avila to appear  for a deposition within 30 days of the hearing on this motion.  The  Court GRANTS Plaintiff Patricia Avila’s requests for sanctions and orders Third  Party Maria Avila and her attorney to pay Plaintiff $1,123,30 ($561.65 for each  motion) within 30 days of the hearing on this motion.  The  Court DENIES Third Party witness Maria Avila’s request for sanctions.  Moving  party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.  Moving  party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court  within five days.