 Case Number:  20STCV46671    Hearing Date:   July 31, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




annette turner

   , et al.;
 


   Plaintiffs,
 
 
vs.
 
 
aids healthcare foundation

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


20STCV46671




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


July
   31, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
plaintiffs’ motion for leave to file fourth
  amended complaint
 



 
MOVING PARTIES:              Plaintiffs Annette Turner and
Tammy Davis             
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Defendant AIDS Healthcare Foundation
Motion for Leave to File Fourth Amended Complaint
The court
considered the amended moving papers filed on April 23, 2024, and the
opposition and reply papers filed in connection with this motion. 
DISCUSSION
Plaintiffs Annette Turner (“Turner”) and Tammy Davis (“Davis”)
(collectively, “Plaintiffs”) move the court for an order granting them leave to
file their proposed Fourth Amended Complaint in this action (1) to delete
references to the causes of action and supporting allegations to which the
court sustained the demurrer filed by defendant AIDS Healthcare Foundation
(“Defendant”) in its June 29, 2023 order (i.e., the first cause of action
alleged by plaintiff Turner, the second cause of action alleged by Plaintiffs,
and the sixth cause of action alleged by plaintiff Davis); (2) to delete
references to Doe defendants; (3) to separate the cause of action for
negligence into two causes of action, to be alleged separately by plaintiffs
Turner and Davis; (4) to change the title of the fourth cause of action from
“Violation of Civil Code §1941.1—Uninhabitable Conditions” to “Violation of
Breach of Implied Warranty of Habitability as Listed in Civil Code
§1941.1—Uninhabitable Conditions;” (5) to delete references to allegations of
other tenants’ behavior to clarify the negligence claims asserted by
Plaintiffs; and (6) to add a negligence cause of action against defendant
Victor’s Services, LLC by plaintiff Davis. 
(Notice of Mot., pp. 2:11-3:5; June 29, 2023 Order, pp. 4:25-5:6.)
“The
court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow
a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name
of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake
in any other respect . . . .  The court
may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon
any terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other
particulars . . . .”  (Code Civ. Proc., §¿473, subd. (a)(1).)  “Statutes like 473 are ‘construed liberally so
that cases might be tried upon their merits in one trial where no prejudice to
the opposing party . . . is demonstrated.’ 
[Citation.]  Further, this liberal
policy applies to amendments ‘ “at any stage of the proceedings, up to and
including trial,” ’ absent prejudice to the adverse party.  [Citation.]” 
(Tung v. Chicago Title Company (2021) 63 Cal.App.5th 734, 747
[internal citations omitted].) 
The court finds that (1) it is in furtherance of justice to allow
Plaintiffs to amend their complaint in the manner proposed, and (2) Defendant,
and the other named defendants, have not demonstrated that they will be unduly
prejudiced by the amendment.  The court
therefore grants Plaintiffs’ motion. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a)(1); Tung, supra, 63
Cal.App.5th at p. 747.) 
First, the court finds that Plaintiffs have shown that amendment is
necessary so that Plaintiffs may clarify their negligence claims, delete
irrelevant allegations, and add a negligence cause of action to be asserted by
plaintiff Davis against defendant Victor’s Services, LLC.  Moreover, Plaintiffs have stated, and
Defendant does not appear to dispute, that many of the proposed alterations are
based on the same set of facts that Plaintiffs have previously alleged, such
that Plaintiffs are not changing the theory of this action.  (Notice of Mot., pp. 2:25-26, 3:3-4; Harings
Decl., ¶ 9 [the factual allegations will remain the same against defendant
Victor’s Services, LLC, and the new negligence cause of action will join the
sexual assault cause of action against it]; Opp., p. 9:3-10 [contending that
Plaintiffs should not be permitted to stylistically alter their pleading “as to
their otherwise same allegations”].)  Thus, the court finds that it is in
furtherance of justice to permit Plaintiffs to amend their complaint. 
Second, the court finds that Defendant has not shown that it will be
unduly prejudiced by the proposed amendment.  
To the extent that Defendant is concerned that Plaintiffs will raise
claims that will be deleted in the Fourth Amended Complaint at trial or in
opposition to its dispositive motions, Defendant may address that concern at a
more appropriate time (i.e., at trial or in reply to its motion).  (Opp, p. 9:13-16.)  Further, the court recognizes that various of
Defendant’s motions directed to the Third Amended Complaint have not yet been
ruled on (i.e., its motion for judgment on the pleadings, motion for summary
adjudication, and motion to file amended answer to the Third Amended Complaint)
and will be rendered moot by Plaintiffs’ filing of their Fourth Amended
Complaint.  However, trial has been
continued in this action to January 22, 2025. 
Thus, Defendant will have approximately six months to refile its motions
directed to the operative pleading, and may file an ex parte application or
other appropriate motion requesting that the court advance any hearing that is
scheduled after trial.  
ORDER
            The court grants plaintiffs Annette
Turner and Tammy Davis’s motion for leave to file fourth amended complaint.
            The court orders plaintiffs Annette
Turner and Tammy Davis to file with the court their Fourth Amended Complaint,
in the form attached as Exhibit 5 to the declaration of Annette Harings, no
later than August 2, 2024. 
            The court orders plaintiffs Annette
Turner and Tammy Davis to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
DATED:  July 31, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court