..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 22STCV28831
Case Title: Deborah Gollette, et al. v. Deborah Ketcham, et al.
Judge's Tentative Ruling:

Plaintiff's Motions in Limine (MIL):

1. Exclude all evidence not disclosed in discovery.
Tentative Ruling: Denied.
Reasoning: Plaintiffs failed to identify specific evidence that should be excluded and did not demonstrate a right to an exclusion order.

2. Exclude all experts not disclosed in expert disclosures and/or not produced for deposition.
Tentative Ruling: Denied.
Reasoning: Plaintiffs failed to offer evidence supporting their vague accusations of misconduct or inaction by Defendant.

Defendant's Motions in Limine (MIL):

1. Bifurcate punitive damages and exclude evidence of Defendant's financial condition until after the jury makes rulings on liability, compensatory damages, and fraud, malice, or oppression.
Tentative Ruling: Granted in part, pursuant to Civil Code § 3295(d).
Reasoning: Evidence of Defendant's financial condition will be excluded from the first phase of trial to the extent it is relevant solely to a potential award of punitive damages.

2. Exclude evidence of Plaintiffs' medical billing records.
Tentative Ruling: Denied.
Reasoning: The Court lacks any information about the medical expenses incurred by Plaintiffs, what medical bills were provided to Plaintiffs, how they may be authenticated, or how the medical bills provided to Plaintiff and the amounts on those bills may be relevant to prove Plaintiffs' damages.

3. Exclude settlement discussions.
Tentative Ruling: Denied, without prejudice to specific objections raised as to settlement communications used to prove or contest liability.
Reasoning: The Court lacks any evidentiary basis to exclude statements made during the course of a mediation or settlement discussions.

4. Exclude all evidence and argument regarding Defendants' insurance coverage.
Tentative Ruling: Granted.
Reasoning: Not specified.

5. Exclude all evidence and argument regarding property damage.
Tentative Ruling: Denied.
Reasoning: Plaintiffs may testify about the nature and description of their damaged property, state the amounts they paid for certain remedial products, and testify about the value of their belongings and the basis for those values.

6. Exclude from the courtroom all non-party witnesses.
Tentative Ruling: Granted.
Reasoning: Not specified.

7. Exclude testimony regarding medical diagnosis or medical causation by Plaintiffs' social work expert Monica Martinez.
Tentative Ruling: Denied, without prejudice to objections being raised at trial.
Reasoning: The Court lacks any information about Ms. Martinez's educational or professional credentials.

Roles:

* Judge: [Name]
* Plaintiff: Deborah Gollette, et al.
* Defendant: Deborah Ketcham, et al.
* Expert: Monica Martinez

Significant Statements:

* "Absent unusual circumstances, such as repeated and egregious discovery abuses, courts will not impose an evidentiary sanction for a failure to disclose unless there has been a 'willful' failure to disclose." (Biles v. Exxon Mobil Corp.)
* "Plaintiff has a two-step burden of proof in establishing damages for past medical services." (Hanif v. Housing Authority)
* "Evidence which might be admissible in one case might not be admissible in another." (Corenbaum v. Lampkin)

Laws and Statutes:

* Evidence Code § 1152
* Evidence Code § 1154
* Evidence Code § 720(a)
* Civil Code § 3294
* Civil Code § 3295(d)
* Evidence Code § 1119
