 Case Number:  22STCV28831    Hearing Date:   May 13, 2024    Dept:  47 CASE:             Deborah
Gollette, et al. v. Deborah Ketcham, et al. 
CASE NO.:     22STCV22831
 
TENTATIVE
RULINGS ON MOTIONS IN LIMINE
 
Plaintiff’s
MIL #1 – to exclude all evidence
not disclosed in discovery.
TENTATIVE RULING:  DENIED.  Plaintiffs
have not identified any specific evidence that should be excluded nor
demonstrated a right to an exclusion order. 

In
general, a party who has responded to formal written discovery has no
affirmative duty to supplement its responses when new information comes into
its possession.  (Biles
v. Exxon Mobil Corp. (2004) 124
Cal.App.4th 1315, 1318–1319, 1328.) 
“[A]bsent unusual circumstances, such as repeated and egregious
discovery abuses,” courts will not impose an evidentiary sanction for a failure
to disclose unless there has been a “willful” failure to disclose.  (Id., at p. 1327.)  Here, there has been no showing that any of Defendant’s
discovery responses were willfully false or incomplete.  (Id., at p. 1323-1324.)  Nor have Plaintiffs pointed to any violation
of a court order directing Defendant to provide further answers to Plaintiffs’ discovery.  
Here,
Plaintiffs have not only failed to identify specific evidence that they claim should
be excluded, but they have also made no effort to show that any non-disclosure
by Defendant was willful or that the failure to disclose violated a court
order.  On this record, there is no basis
for an exclusion order. 
Plaintiff’s
MIL #2 – to exclude all experts
not disclosed in expert disclosures and/or not produced for deposition.
TENTATIVE RULING:  DENIED.
 
Plaintiffs have failed to
offer any evidence supporting their vague accusations of misconduct or inaction
by Defendant.  There has been no showing
that Defendant failed to comply fully with expert disclosure requirements, nor
any evidence that Plaintiff sought to take the depositions of any defense
expert, much less that Defendant withheld its experts from deposition.    
Defendants’
MIL #1
– to bifurcate punitive damages and exclude evidence
of Defendant’s financial condition until after the jury makes rulings on
liability, compensatory damages and makes a finding of fraud, malice or
oppression under Civil Code § 3294.
TENTATIVE RULING:  GRANTED
IN PART, pursuant to Civil Code §
3295(d).  Evidence of Defendants’
financial condition will be excluded from the first phase of trial to the
extent that it is relevant solely to a potential award of punitive damages.  The second phase of trial on the amount of
punitive damages, if any, will follow immediately after the first in the event
that the jury finds Defendants acted with fraud, malice or oppression under
Civil Code § 3294 such that punitive damages are warranted. 
Defendants’
MIL #2 – seeking to exclude any
evidence of Plaintiffs’ medical billing records.
TENTATIVE RULING:  DENIED.
The Court
lacks any information about what medical expenses were actually incurred by
Plaintiffs, what medical bills were provided to Plaintiffs, how they may be
authenticated, or how the medical bills provided to Plaintiff and the amounts
on those bills may be relevant to prove Plaintiffs’ damages in this case.  The absence of specifics in the motion is
exacerbated by the lack of any substantive opposition offered by Plaintiffs. 
“Plaintiff
has a two-step burden of proof in establishing damages for past medical
services. The measure of recovery is well established: “[A] person injured by
another's tortious conduct is entitled to recover the reasonable value of
medical care and services reasonably required and attributable to the tort.” (Hanif
[v. Housing Authority (1988) 200 Cal.App.3d 635,] 640, 246 Cal.Rptr.
192.) First, plaintiff must prove that she actually incurred the medical
expenses and the amount of her liability for the expenses caps her potential
recovery.  (Hanif, followed by Nishihama
v. City and County of San Francisco (2001) 93 Cal.App.4th 298, 112
Cal.Rptr.2d 861 (Nishihama) and Howell [v. Hamilton Meats
& Provisions, Inc. (2011) 52 Cal.4th 541] . . . Second, plaintiff must
prove the reasonable value of the medical services but is entitled to no more
than the expenses she actually incurred. ‘[A] plaintiff may recover as economic
damages no more than the reasonable value of the medical services received and
is not entitled to recover the reasonable value if his or her actual loss was
less.’  (Howell, supra, 52 Cal.4th
at p. 555, 129 Cal.Rptr.3d 325, 257 P.3d 1130.)”  (Moore v. Mercer (2016) 4 Cal. App.
5th 424, 436-437.)
            Even if the defendants in a particular case might be
entitled to a reduction based on negotiated discounts available under MediCal
or through private insurance, the actual amounts billed to plaintiffs and the
bills reflecting those amounts may be admissible at trial, “as they reflect[ ]
on the nature and extent of plaintiffs' injuries and [are] therefore relevant
to their assessment of an overall general damage award.”  (Katiuzhinsky v. Perry (2007) 152 Cal.
App. 4th 1288, 1296.)  Further, even if
the liens provided in exchange for medical services are sold to a third party,
the amounts paid for the liens as receivables may be excluded at trial as
irrelevant, so long as the plaintiffs remain fully liable for the full amount
of the medical provider’s charges.  (Id.,
at p. 1296; Moore v. Mercer, supra, at pp. 438-439.)  Indeed, the Second District Court of Appeal has
acknowledged that, while they may not be relevant in many cases, full medical
bills may be admissible in a situation where the plaintiffs remain fully liable
to their medical providers for the full amount billed.  (Corenbaum v. Lampkin (2013) 215 Cal.
App. 4th 1308, 1328 fn. 10.)   
Here,
Defendants do not provide sufficient information for the Court to determine
whether there is a specific basis for excluding Plaintiff’s medical bills,
despite the general rule that they are admissible to show the reasonable value
of the medical services provided.  In the
absence of such details, the Court cannot grant the motion in limine.  The specific facts in a particular case
determine what is or is not relevant because “evidence which might be
admissible in one case might not be admissible in another.”  (Id., at p. 442.)     
 
Defendants’ MIL #3 - seeking exclusion of all settlement
discussions.  
TENTATIVE RULING:  DENIED,
without prejudice to specific objections raised as to settlement communications
used to prove or contest liability.  
Under subdivision (a) of Evidence
Code section 1152, “[e]vidence that a person has, in compromise or from
humanitarian motives, furnished or offered or promised to furnish money or any
other thing, act, or service to another who has sustained or will sustain or
claims that he or she has sustained or will sustain loss or damage, as well as
any conduct or statements made in negotiation thereof, is inadmissible to prove
his or her liability for the loss or damage or any part of it.”  Similarly, Evidence Code section 1154
provides that “[e]vidence that a person has accepted or offered or promised to
accept a sum of money or any other thing, act, or service in satisfaction of a
claim, as well as any conduct or statements made in negotiation thereof, is
inadmissible to prove the invalidity of the claim or any part of it.”
“Both provisions are based on the
public policy in favor of the settlement of disputes without litigation and are
intended to promote candor in settlement negotiations: ‘The rule prevents
parties from being deterred from making offers of settlement and facilitates
the type of candid discussion that may lead to settlement.’”  (Zhou v. Unisource Worldwide (2007)
157 Cal. App. 4th 1471, 1475.)  These
statutes have been interpreted broadly to sweep in conduct and statements made
in the context of settlement discussions. 
(Id.)  
Depending on the content of the
communication, however, it may be interpreted as a demand for payment like a
bill rather than an invitation to compromise a claim.  (Id., at p. 1477 [discussing
cases].)  The question in each case is
whether the communication at issue is “connected” with settlement discussions
or “independent” of them.  (Caira v.
Offner (2005) 126 Cal. App. 4th 12, 36.) A related question is whether the
targeted interaction concerns the liability or invalidity of the dispute at
issue in the case or a settlement discussion about a separate dispute.  (Zhou v. Unisource Worldwide, supra, at
p. 1478.)  
Evidence may also be excluded under
Evidence Code 1119 if reflects statements made in the context of a mediation,
as they are deemed confidential.  
Because neither party has submitted
the evidence Defendants seek to exclude, nor even shown that the parties
engaged in a mediation where confidential settlement discussions were pursued, the
Court cannot determine whether the communications were made in connection with
settlement discussions related to the dispute in this case or independent of
any such negotiations.  Nor can the Court
assess whether they would be offered to support or undermine liability in violation
of the Evidence Code provisions or are admissible for some other purpose.
Similarly, the Court lacks any evidentiary basis to exclude statements made
during the course of a mediation, since there has been no effort to prove that
the parties attended any alternative dispute resolution meeting.  
//
Defendants’ MIL #4 - seeking exclusion of all
evidence and argument regarding Defendants’ insurance coverage.  
RULING:  GRANTED.
Defendants’ MIL #5 - seeking exclusion of all
evidence and argument regarding property damage.  
TENTATIVE RULING:  DENIED.  Plaintiffs may testify about the nature and
description of their damaged property, state the amounts they paid for certain
remedial products, and testify about the value of their belongings and the
basis for those values.  In response,
Defendants may cross-examine Plaintiffs about their disposal of these items and
criticize Plaintiffs for not producing receipts or other more probative
evidence of their losses.
Defendants’ MIL #6 - seeking exclusion from
the courtroom of all non-party witnesses pursuant to Evidence Code §
777(a).    
TENTATIVE RULING:  GRANTED.
Defendants’ MIL #7 – seeking exclusion of any
testimony regarding medical diagnosis or medical causation by Plaintiffs’
social work expert Monica Martinez.
TENTATIVE RULING:  DENIED, without prejudice to
objections being raised at trial.  
In their motion, Defendants fail to provide any information
about Ms. Martinez’s educational or professional credentials other than quoting
a description from Plaintiff’s expert designation that she is “a licensed
social worker, who specializes in trauma, child health and safety, quality of
life for parents and children within homes, and in intervention services.”  For example, the Court has no resume or any
testimony about Ms. Martinez’s experience or expertise.  On this record, the Court is unable to determine
whether Ms. Martinez “has special knowledge, skill, experience, training, or
education sufficient to qualify [her] as an expert on the subject to which
[her] testimony relates,” under Evidence Code § 720(a).  The Court will hear testimony from Ms.
Martinez about the basis for her qualifications as an expert with respect to
the opinions she intends to offer at trial.  
 
 
 
 
 