 Case Number:  BC720314    Hearing Date:   May 13, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     May 13, 2024             TRIAL DATE: October
8, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         Annabel Aghajanian v. City of Glendale,
et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 BC720314            
 
MOTION
TO REOPEN DISCOVERY

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants City of Glendale, Stephen Zurn, Burhan
Alshanti, and Matthew Doyle
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Annabel
Aghajanian
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
08/30/18: Complaint filed by Annabel Aghajanian
·        
09/20/18: Complaint filed by Vahik Haddadian
·        
11/19/21: Cases ordered consolidated.
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for employment discrimination and wrongful termination.
Plaintiff alleges that she was subjected to a campaign of harassment by
Defendant Alshanti on the basis of her race, national origin, religious
beliefs, and marital status, and that she was terminated by Defendant City of
Glendale in retaliation for complaining about this treatment. 
 
Defendants move for leave to reopen
discovery to investigate Plaintiff’s mitigation efforts and to augment their
expert witness list. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendants’ Motion to Reopen
Discovery is DENIED. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Defendants move for leave to reopen
discovery to investigate Plaintiff’s mitigation efforts and to augment their
expert witness list. 
 
Legal Standard to
Reopen Discovery
 
            The discovery cut-off date to
complete discovery is the 30th day before the date initially set for the trial;
the cut-off date to have discovery motions heard is the 15th day before the
date initially set for the trial. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2024.020(a).) “Except as
provided in Section 2024.050, a continuance or postponement of the trial date
does not operate to reopen discovery proceedings.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
2024.020(b).)
 
            Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 2024.050, the Court may grant leave to complete discovery closer to the
trial date or to reopen discovery after a new trial date is set:
 
(a)
On motion of any party, the court may grant leave to complete discovery
proceedings, or to have a motion concerning discovery heard, closer to the
initial trial date, or to reopen discovery after a new trial date has been set.
This motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040.
 
(b)
In exercising its discretion to grant or deny this motion, the court shall take
into consideration any matter relevant to the leave requested, including, but
not limited to, the following:
 
(1) The necessity and the reasons for the discovery.
 
(2) The diligence or lack of diligence of the party seeking the discovery
or the hearing of a discovery motion, and the reasons that the discovery was
not completed or that the discovery motion was not heard earlier.
 
(3) Any likelihood that permitting the discovery or hearing the discovery
motion will prevent the case from going to trial on the date set, or otherwise
interfere with the trial calendar, or result in prejudice to any other party.
 
(4) The length of time that has elapsed between any date previously set,
and the date presently set, for the trial of the action.
 
(c)
The court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with
Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully
makes or opposes a motion to extend or to reopen discovery, unless it finds
that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or
that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.
 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2024.050.)
 
Meet and Confer
 
            A party
seeking to reopen discovery must file a declaration in which states facts “showing
a reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue
presented by the motion.” (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2016.040; 2024.050(a).) 
 
            The
Declaration of Antony Pizarro in support of the motion states that counsel for
the moving parties attempted to meet and confer with Plaintiff’s counsel via
email between February 28 and March 19, 2024. (Declaration of Antony R. Pizarro
ISO Mot. ¶¶ 7-8; Exhs. 9-10.) Plaintiff’s counsel advised that Plaintiff would
categorically oppose reopening discovery. (Id. ¶ 8, Exh. 10.) Defendants
have therefore satisfied their meet-and-confer obligations. 
 
Analysis
 
            Defendants
seek to reopen discovery as to Plaintiff’s efforts to mitigate her damages, and
as to expert witnesses so that Defendants may add a vocational rehabilitation
expert to their witness list. 
 
1.     
Necessity of Discovery
 
Defendants contend that further
discovery into Plaintiff’s mitigation efforts and augmentation of the expert
witness list is necessary to prepare for trial because Defendants bear the
burden to establish that Plaintiff failed to mitigate her damages. (see, e.g., Parker
v. Twentieth Century-Fox Film Corp. (1970) 3 Cal.3d 176, 182.) However,
Defendants offer no specific reason why further discovery on this point is
necessary save that Plaintiff’s expert valued her potential damages at
approximately $2.6 million. (Pizarro Decl. Exh. 4.) While the amount of
Plaintiff’s wage loss calculations may be higher than Defendants anticipated,
this fact cannot support the reopening of discovery since expert calculations
are often received on the eve of trial when fact discovery is complete or soon
to be closed.  That said, to the extent
that an affirmative defense of failure to mitigate has been raised in the case,
the proposed discovery is relevant to that defense.  On the other hand, there is little to support
Defendants’ implicit contention that a necessity for this discovery has arisen
since the May 2023 deadline for completing fact discovery.  The Court therefore finds that this factor provides
minimal support for reopening discovery. 
 
2.     
Diligence in Seeking Discovery
 
            Turning to
Defendants’ diligence in pursuing the discovery sought, Defendants claim that
they acted diligently pursuing this discovery, but their own admissions belie
that assertion. As Defendants state, they investigated Plaintiff’s efforts to
mitigate her damages through Plaintiff’s deposition testimony. (Pizarro Decl.
¶¶ 2-3.) That deposition was completed on September 29, 2021. (Id.) Although
Defendants bemoan the instruction from Plaintiff’s counsel directing Plaintiff
not to answer a follow-up question on her job search efforts, Defendants did
not move to compel an answer.  Nor do
they point to any follow-up written discovery conducted on the mitigation
issue.  At that time Plaintiff’s
deposition was completed, trial was set for April 18, 2022. (November 5, 2020
Minute Order.) Trial was thereafter continued in November 2021—with all related
dates—to November 28, 2022 (November 19, 2021 Minute Order.) Following a
one-day continuance in August 2022, trial was again continued to June 20,
2023—also with all related dates—in October of 2022. (Pizarro Decl. Exh. 5
[Notice of Ruling].) On May 5, 2023, the Court again continued trial to
September 19, 2023, but did not continue the discovery cutoff dates.
(May 5, 2023 Minute Order.) In August 2023, trial was again continued, this
time to January 2024, based on the stipulation of all counsel who requested
extension of expert witness and pretrial deadlines only. (Pizarro Decl. Exh.
7.) The current trial date of October 8, 2024 was set in February 2024.
(February 6, 2024 Minute Order.) No pre-trial deadlines were continued with
that order. (Id.) 
 
Defendants had the entire period
from September 2021 through May 2023—more than a year and a half—to conduct
additional discovery on Plaintiff’s mitigation efforts but provide no
indication that they conducted any further discovery during that time. In
addition, Defendants stipulated to continue the trial to January 2024 based on
a joint request that left fact discovery closed and asked only that expert
discovery be permitted based on the new trial date.  This stipulation was filed in August 2023,
and it marks Defendants’ confirmation that as of that date, they needed no
additional fact discovery to defend this case. 
When the trial was continued again in February 2024 to its current date,
the Court maintained the status quo as to closed pre-trial dates, but there is
nothing in the record indicating that Defendants sought to reopen discovery at
that time to seek evidence of mitigation or to designate a new expert.  The absence of any such request is
significant since defense counsel concedes receipt of the wage loss report from
Plaintiff’s expert in October 2023.  On
this record, it appears Defendants made no effort to reopen discovery in
response to the October 2023 report until February 28, 2024 – four months after
the expert report and several weeks after the Court’s order continuing trial
without reopening any pretrial deadlines. 
Put simply, the recode does not show Defendants acted with diligence. To
the contrary, it appears that Defendants were lax in pursuing this discovery.
This factor manifestly does not weigh in favor of reopening discovery.  
 
3.     
Likelihood of Interference with Calendar or
Prejudice
 
            Although
Defendants assert that there will be no interference with the trial calendar or
prejudice to Plaintiff, and Plaintiff asserts the opposite, neither party
offers any substantive basis for their conclusions. The Court therefore finds
that, based on the record presented, this factor does not weigh in favor of or
against reopening discovery. 
 
4.     
Length of Time Since Previous and Current Trial
Date
 
            Trial
in this action was previously set for January 30, 2024. Five days earlier, the
Court vacated that trial date and set a trial setting conference. (See January
25, 2024 Minute Order.) The Trial Setting Conference was vacated in advance of
the hearing following review of the parties’ trial availability, and the Court issued
an order on February 6, 2024, setting the case for trial on October 8, 2024.
(February 6, 2024 Minute Order.) This motion was filed on March 22, 2024,
nearly two months after the previous trial date and seven months in advance of
the current trial date. 
 
            In light of
the paucity of evidence demonstrating that Defendants were diligent in pursuing
this discovery before the statutory cutoff and the meager showing of its
necessity based on events after the discovery cutoff, the Court finds that
Defendants have not demonstrated that discovery should be reopened. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
Accordingly, Defendants’
Motion to Reopen Discovery is DENIED. 
 
Moving Parties to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated: May 13, 2024                          ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 