


[1] The definition of the
proposed class is:
 
All California residents who, from August 20, 2017 to
the present (both dates inclusive), were or are holders of a vehicle service contract
administered by Safe-Guard (or as to which Safe-Guard is the obligor) which
contains a tire and wheel protection provision, and which contains a provision
stating that the customer will be charged a single deductible per visit or
claim for the replacement of any tires or wheels, regardless of the number of
tires or wheels replaced at the time.
 
(Notice
of Motion, p. 1; see also Motion, p. 5.)
 
The
definition of the complaint class is:
 
All California residents who (1) are holders of a
vehicle service contract administered by Safe-Guard (or as to which Safe-Guard
is the obligor) which contains a provision stating that the customer will be
charged a single deductible per visit or claim for the replacement of any tires
or wheels, regardless of the number of tires or wheels replaced at the time,
and (2) were charged multiple deductibles on a per tire/wheel basis in
connection with a single visit or claim, within the applicable statute of limitations.
 
(Complaint,
¶ 25.)


[2]
The definition of the proposed subclass is:
 
All California
residents who, from August 20, 2017 to the present (both dates inclusive), were
or are holders of a vehicle service contract administered by Safe-Guard (or as
to which Safe-Guard is the obligor) which contains a tire and wheel protection
provision, and which contains a provision stating that the customer will be
charged a single deductible per visit or claim for the replacement of any tires
or wheels, regardless of the number of tires or wheels replaced at the time,
who: (1) were charged multiple deductibles on a per tire/wheel basis in
connection with a single visit or claim, and/or (2) were charged deductibles
(whether labeled as “deductibles”, “fees,” or any other name) in excess of the
amount provided for by their vehicle service contract.
 
(Notice of Motion, p. 1; see also Motion, pp. 5-6.)
 
Again, the definition of the complaint class is:
 
All California residents who (1) are holders of a
vehicle service contract administered by Safe-Guard (or as to which Safe-Guard
is the obligor) which contains a provision stating that the customer will be
charged a single deductible per visit or claim for the replacement of any tires
or wheels, regardless of the number of tires or wheels replaced at the time,
and (2) were charged multiple deductibles on a per tire/wheel basis in
connection with a single visit or claim, within the applicable statute of
limitations.
 
(Complaint,
¶ 25.)
 


[3]
Plaintiff speculates that thousands more subclass members exist, but the
evidence only shows nine potential members. 
(See Motion, pp. 9-11.)  Plaintiff
is not entitled to represent a bigger subclass than he establishes, and the
Court will not assume or infer a bigger-than-established subclass.

