  Case Number:  21STCV30808    Hearing Date:   October 27, 2023    Dept:  11 21STCV30808 (Sotoodeh)
 
Tentative Ruling Re: Motion for Class Certification
 
Date:                           10/27/23
Time:                          1:45
pm
Moving Party:           Hossein
Sotoodeh (“Plaintiff” or “Sotoodeh”)
Opposing Party:        Safe-Guard Products International, LLC
(“Defendant” or “Safe-Guard”)
Department:              11
Judge:                        David
S. Cunningham III
________________________________________________________________________
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Plaintiff’s motion for class certification is denied without prejudice as
to the proposed class.  The proposed
class is not alleged in the complaint. 
Plaintiff needs to amend the complaint to allege the proposed class, and
Defendant needs to be given a chance to file a demurrer or motion to strike.
 
Plaintiff’s motion is denied as to the proposed subclass. Plaintiff fails to meet all certification prongs.
 
BACKGROUND
 
Safe-Guard provides vehicle
service contracts (“VSCs”), which are agreements to repair and/or replace
covered parts of leased vehicles.
 
Sotoodeh alleges that he obtained
a VSC from Safe-Guard for his leased Rolls Royce.  (See Complaint, ¶¶ 6, 8.)  He claims the VSC required Safe-Guard to
replace the vehicle’s tires, and charge him a $100 deductible, regardless of
the number of tires that need to be replaced during a service visit.  (See id. at ¶¶ 1, 10.)  He alleges that Safe-Guard breached the VSC
on multiple occasions by charging him $100 per tire instead of the $100
deductible.  (See id. at ¶¶ 1, 6, 8-20.)
 
The complaint asserts causes of
action for breach of contract, violation of the Unfair Competition Law (“UCL”),
and violation of the Consumer Legal Remedies Act (“CLRA”).  (See id. at ¶¶ 32-57.)
 
Here, Sotoodeh moves to certify a
class and subclass of similarly situated customers.
 
DISCUSSION
 
The plaintiff bears the burden of
demonstrating that class certification is proper.  (See City of San Jose v. Superior Court
(1974) 12 Cal.3d 447, 460; see also Caro v. Procter & Gamble Co.
(1993) 18 Cal.App.4th 644, 654.)  He or
she “must demonstrate the existence of an
ascertainable and sufficiently numerous class, a well-defined community of
interest, and substantial benefits from certification that render proceeding as
a class superior to the alternatives.”  (Brinker
Restaurant Corp. v. Superior Court (2012) 53 Cal.4th 1004, 1021.)
 
Scope
of the Pleadings
 
The
Court finds that Plaintiff’s motion should be denied without prejudice as to
the proposed class because:
 
* the
proposed class is much broader than the class alleged in the complaint;[1]
 
* it is
appropriate to “deny class certification or [to] strike [the] certification
motion where the plaintiffs seek certification that is beyond the scope of the
pleadings” (Lampe v. Queen of the Valley Medical Center (2018) 19
Cal.App.5th 832, 842-843; see also Jones v. Farmers Ins. Exchange
(2013) 221 Cal.App.4th 986, 999); 
 
* if
Plaintiff wants to continue pursuing the proposed class, he needs to amend the
complaint; and 
 
*
Defendant needs to receive an opportunity to file a demurrer or motion to
strike.
 
Providing Defendant an
opportunity to file a demurrer or motion to strike is important because the
proposed class appears to include people who did not suffer damages or actual
harm and who may be unable to satisfy other critical elements of the causes of
action – e.g., breach, reliance, and causation. 
(See Careau & Co. v. Security Pacific Business Credit, Inc.
(1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 1371, 1388 [instructing that “a cause of action for damages for breach of contract is
comprised of the following elements: (1) the contract, (2) plaintiff's
performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant's breach, and
(4) the resulting damages to plaintiff.”], emphasis added; see also,
e.g., Stern,, Business & Professions Code Section 17200 Practice (The
Rutter Group March 2023 Update) ¶¶ 3:128.1 [citing In re Firearm Cases
(2005) 126 Cal.App.4th 959 for the proposition that “the
‘unfairness’ prong of the UCL requires proof of causation, i.e., a ‘link
between a defendant’s business practice and the alleged harm[]’”]; Naranjo
v. Doctors Medical Center of Modesto, Inc. (2023) 90 Cal.App.5th
1193, 1216 n.7 [noting that “reliance and causation of damages” are necessary
elements under the CLRA].)
 
In reply, Plaintiff asserts that the proposed class is
alleged in the complaint.  (See Reply,
pp. 1-2.)
 
The Court disagrees. 
Plaintiff’s own moving brief states that the proposed class is at odds
with the complaint class.  Indeed,
Plaintiff acknowledges that the complaint needs to be amended.  (See Motion, p. 5 n.10 [stating that
“Plaintiff seeks to certify a Class that differs from that contemplated
in the complaint” and that he “will promptly move for leave to amend his
complaint to conform with the definitions of the proposed Class and Subclass”],
emphasis added.)
 
The Court also disagrees with Plaintiff’s case
citations.  (See Reply, pp. 3-4.)  None of his cases addresses the situation
here.  None of them permits certification
of an unalleged class, particularly an unalleged class that is broader than the
alleged class and that contains members who arguably cannot meet the elements
of the causes of action.  (See Harper
v. 24 Hour Fitness, Inc. (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 966 [analyzing
the trial court’s decertification order and the plaintiffs’ post-certification
attempts to modify the class definition]; see also Massachusetts Mutual Life
Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (2002) 97 Cal.App.4th 1282 [analyzing
commonality and the requisite proof for class reliance under the UCL and the
CLRA]; Brinker, supra, 53 Cal.4th 1004 [finding that the
scope of the defendant’s duties to provide meal and rest periods constituted
predominating common legal issues]; Arce v. Kaiser Foundation Health Plan,
Inc. (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 471 [reversing the trial court’s
demurrer ruling because the alleged facts created a “reasonable possibility”
that the plaintiff would be able to show predominating common questions at the
certification stage]; Sav-On Drug Stores, Inc. v. Superior Court (2004)
34 Cal.4th 319 [finding that the plaintiffs’ misclassification
theories raised common legal questions and were “amenable to class
treatment”].)
 
The proposed subclass is a different story.  It is nearly the same as the complaint class.[2]  The Court finds that the motion should go forward as to the proposed subclass and that the
certification prongs should be analyzed.
 
Ascertainable
Class
 
A class is “ascertainable when it is defined ‘in terms of objective
characteristics and common transactional facts’ that make ‘the ultimate
identification of class members possible when that identification becomes
necessary.’”  (Noel v. Thrifty
Payless, Inc. (2019) 7 Cal.5th 955, 980.)
 
“The
class must be ‘numerous’ in size.  But
there is no fixed minimum or maximum number . . . The numerosity analysis is
limited to how many individuals fall within the class definition and
whether their joinder is impracticable, not how many ‘net’ class members there
might be after considering affirmative defenses.” (Edmon & Karnow, Cal.
Practice Guide: Civ. Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group June 2023 Update)
¶ 14:21, emphasis in original.)
 
“A party seeking class
certification bears the burden of satisfying the requirements of Code of Civil
Procedure section 382, including numerosity, and the trial court is entitled to
consider ‘the totality of the evidence in making [the] determination’ of
whether a ‘plaintiff has presented substantial evidence of the class action
requisites.’” (Soderstedt v. CBIZ S. California, LLC (2011) 197
Cal.App.4th 133, 154.)
 
Plaintiff’s showing
suffices.  The parties agree that the
proposed subclass has at least nine potential members.  (See Motion, pp. 9-10; see also Opposition,
p. 18.)  Nine is an adequate number.  (See Edmon & Karnow, supra, at ¶ 14:21.1
[instructing that “[n]o minimum number of plaintiffs is required as a matter of
law for maintenance of a state court class action”]; see also id. at ¶ 14:21.3
[recognizing that a class of 10 is permissible]; Hendershot v. Ready to Roll
Transportation, Inc. (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 1213, 1222-1223
[reversing the trial court’s denial of a nine-member class].)  Moreover, Defendant’s person most
knowledgeable (“PMK”) found the nine customers through an internal audit
(see Archer Decl., ¶¶ 64-65), so “[t]here is no dispute that Defendant
possesses the means to identify members.” 
(Motion, p. 11; see also Reyes v. San Diego County Bd. of Supervisors
(1987) 196 Cal.App.3d 1263, 1274-1275 [noting that “the issue is whether there
exists sufficient means for identifying class members”], emphasis in
original.)[3]
 
Predominating Common
Questions
 
“[T]he proponent of certification
must show, inter alia, that questions
of law or fact common to the class predominate over the questions affecting the
individual members[.]” (Washington Mutual Bank, FA v. Superior Court
(2001) 24 Cal.4th 906, 913.) This means “each member must not be
required to individually litigate numerous and substantial questions to
determine his [or her] right to recover following the class judgment[.]”  (Edmon & Karnow, supra, at ¶
14:11.6.)  “[T]he issues which may be
jointly tried, when compared with those requiring separate adjudication, must
be sufficiently numerous and substantial to make the class action advantageous
to the judicial process and to the litigants.” (Ibid.)
 
Plaintiff claims “common
questions . . . are likely to arise” because “Defendant itself told Plaintiff
that the deductible overcharges he was subjected to were due to a ‘system
malfunction in which the computer program used to process claims was inadvertently
applying the $100 deductible to all tires and not the claim as should be the
case.’”  (Motion, p. 12.)  Plaintiff says “[t]here is no evidence that
this ‘system malfunction’ solely impacted Plaintiff.”  (Ibid.)
 
Defendant contends:
 
Notably, instead of
affirmatively proving the existence of class-wide “system malfunction,”
Plaintiff argues there is no evidence that this ‘system malfunction’ solely
impacted Plaintiff.” [Citation.] Plaintiff, however, attempts to flip the
burden of proof. It is not SafeGuard’s burden of proving the absence of a
class-wide “system malfunction,” whatever that might be since, again, it is
unexplained by Plaintiff. Rather, it is Plaintiff’s burden of proving that
this system malfunction adversely affected the class such that there is a
predominating common issue. 
 
Without evidence of
class wide conduct causing harm to members of the classes, Plaintiff provides
no basis for this Court to conclude that the salient factual and legal issues
attendant to his three causes of action will not give rise to predominating individualized
questions. Without more, questions of whether there has even been harm, much
less the extent of that harm for damage calculation purposes, so as to give
rise to a claim requires an examination of each class member’s circumstances.
Also, without more, claims that class members have been subject to misleading
and/or fraudulent advertisement (both of which are required under Plaintiff’s
CLRA and fraud-based UCL claim) would need to be assessed on an individualized
class member basis. 
 
The specter of
predominating individualized questions of fact and law are particularly
heightened with Plaintiff’s proposed Subclass. While Safe-Guard has identified
nine possible instances where customers have been charged an excessive
deductible, it is Plaintiff’s contention that there are thousands more members
of this Subclass that have not been identified due to so-called “critical gaps
and limitations in Defendant’s records.” [Citations.] 
 
Safe-Guard disagrees
with this speculative assertion. Nevertheless, as made clear by this view of
his Subclass, Plaintiff challenges the accuracy of Safe-Guard’s records and
intends to seek discovery confirming the same. Assuming the truth of
Plaintiff’s assertion, however, would require an individualized examination of
each and every one of the more than 300,000 claims at issue to review the
underlying records applicable to those claims (and possibly the records of
dealers that provided repairs to confirm the same) to determine (1) the
accuracy of Plaintiff’s electronic records concerning deductibles and (2)
whether a customer was incorrectly assessed a multiple deductible. This cannot
be done on a class wide basis. Resolution of claims of each member of the
Subclass would require litigation of the facts of each member of that class.
 
(Opposition, pp. 16-17, emphasis
in original, footnote omitted.)
 
Plaintiff responds:
 
Defendant argues
that Plaintiff has not provided “evidence” of the extent of Defendant’s
class-wide conduct and therefore individualized questions predominate.
[Citation.] This is incorrect. In determining whether there is sufficient
evidence to support certification, courts are to “consider whether the theory
of recovery advanced by the proponents of certification is, as an analytical
matter, likely to prove amenable to class treatment.” [Citation.] Plaintiff has
submitted sufficient evidence to show that Defendant employed uniform, systemic
practices and subjected all Class and Subclass members to common systems,
policies and procedures for claims processing, and further, Defendant’s own
data supports this claim. [Citations.] . . . Further, it is not Plaintiff’s
duty to explain to Defendant its own assertion that Plaintiff’s claim arose due
to a system malfunction – Defendant itself stated that it had a system
malfunction. [Citation.] The exact scope of that system malfunction is, again,
a merits issue.
 
(Reply, p. 11.)
 
The Court agrees with
Defendant.  To show that a “system
malfunction” occurred, Plaintiff cites paragraph seven of his declaration.  (See Motion, p. 12; see also Reply, p. 11.)  Paragraph seven states that, on May 7, 2021,
Safe-Guard corresponded with him, “explain[ing] that the overcharges were the
result of ‘a system malfunction in which the computer program used to process
claims was inadvertently applying the $100 deductible to all tires and not the
claim as should be the case.’”  (Sotoodeh
Decl., ¶ 7; see also Pang Decl., Ex. 2.) 
The statement is hearsay, and, anyway, it does not show that the
malfunction affected other customers. 
Plaintiff’s argument – the record lacks evidence that the malfunction
“solely impacted Plaintiff” (Motion, p. 12) – amounts to an improper attempt to
shift the burden to Defendant and fails to justify an inference of commonality.
 
Plaintiff’s additional evidence
is unavailing.  Defendant’s PMK
testified.  Plaintiff cites pages 38, 39,
and 72 of his testimony.  (See Motion, p.
12; see also Reply, p. 11.)  On those
pages, the PMK says Safe-Guard’s underwriting department manually enters all
VSCs into Safe-Guard’s CMS computer system (see Pang Decl., Ex. 1, pp. 38-39)
and Safe-Guard’s call center enters and processes customer claims through
Safe-Guards’ SG-Connect computer system. 
(See id. at Ex. 1, p. 72.)  These
statements fail to demonstrate a common malfunction and common mischarges. 
 
The fact that Defendant’s PMK
found nine potential members does not change the result. The PMK reviewed
Safe-Guard’s computer systems. Instead of confirming that mischarges and
excessive payments took place, his declaration is agnostic, noting that nonparty
dealership records need to be examined to determine what really happened.  (See Archer Decl., ¶¶ 64-65.)  Plaintiff fails to cite or attach the
dealership records.
 
The Court finds Plaintiff’s
burden unsatisfied.
 
Typical Class
Representative
 
“The ‘test
of typicality is whether other members have the same or similar injury, whether
the action is based on conduct which is not unique to the named plaintiffs, and
whether other class members have been injured by the same course of conduct.’”  (Edmon & Karnow, supra, at ¶ 14:29
[quoting Martinez v. Joe’s Crab Shack Holdings (2014) 231 Cal.App.4th
362, 375].)
 
“That
the purported class representative's claims must be ‘typical’ does not mean
they must be identical to the claims of other class members.  It is sufficient that the representative is
similarly situated so that he or she will have the motive to litigate on behalf
of all class members.”  (Id. at ¶
14:29.2.)  “Thus, it is not necessary
that the class representative have personally incurred all of the
damages suffered by each of the other class members.”  (Ibid., emphasis in original.)
 
However,
the class representative’s claim is atypical “if it is subject to ‘factually
intensive or legally complex unique defenses that pose any significant risk
of diverting [plaintiff’s] attention from class
issues.’”  (Id. at ¶ 14:35.10 [citing Fireside
Bank v. Superior Court (2007) 40 Cal.4th 1069] emphasis in
original.)
 
Plaintiff
contends “he ‘was subjected to the same alleged wrong, by the same defendant,
as the other members of the putative class[.]” 
(Motion, p. 13.)
 
Defendant
argues:
 
*
Plaintiff fails to cite evidence showing that the putative members “were the
subject of any conduct that resulted in any harm, much less the same conduct
and same harm, concerning the alleged charging of excessive deductibles”
(Opposition, p. 14);
 
* in
some instances, the dealerships, not Defendant, overcharged Plaintiff (see id.
at pp. 14-15); and 
 
*
unique defenses and cross-claims (unclean hands, breach of contract, estoppel,
unjust enrichment, and fraud) apply to Plaintiff (see id. at pp. 15-16).   
 
Plaintiff
asserts in reply that “the existence of affirmative defenses” does not render a
class representative atypical and that Defendant fails to cite substantial
evidence supporting the affirmative defenses. 
(Reply, pp. 8-11 [arguing that the affirmative defenses “bear no
relation to the ‘major focus of the litigation,’ which concerns whether
Defendant’s system, which includes its practices and procedures for
claims processing, is susceptible to charging incorrect deductibles and whether
multiple deductibles were improperly charged by Defendant”], emphasis in
original.)
 
The
Court agrees with Defendant’s first point. 
As explained above, Plaintiff’s evidence fails to demonstrate a common
malfunction and common mischarges. Plaintiff fails to show that the members of
the proposed subclass “have the same or similar injury” and “have been injured
by the same course of conduct.’”  (Edmon
& Karnow, supra, at ¶ 14:29.)
 
It is
unnecessary to address Defendant’s other points.  
 
As a
matter of guidance, though, it appears premature to decide whether Defendant’s
defenses and cross-claims make Plaintiff atypical.  Defendant contends: 
 
*
Plaintiff sought to replace tires “on vehicles that were used for ‘prohibited
commercial purposes’” (Opposition, p. 15); and 
 
* he
filed substantially more replacement claims than average customers filed (see
id. at p. 16).
 
These
are merits arguments.  They probably cannot
be resolved on the current record given that the parties have not conducted
merits discovery yet.  At this time, the
record seems too undeveloped.
 
Adequate
Representation
 
“The
class representative, through qualified counsel, must be capable of ‘vigorously
and tenaciously’ protecting the interests of the class members.”  (Edmon & Karnow, supra, at ¶ 14:36.)
 
“The prospective
class representative must file a declaration stating that he or she desires to
represent the class and understands the fiduciary obligations of serving as
class representative.  Counsel’s
declaration to that effect will not suffice.” 
(Ibid.)
 
Defendant
does not challenge the adequacy prong. (See Opposition, pp. 12-18.)
 
The
Court finds that Plaintiff’s evidence meets his burden. (See Sotoodeh Decl., ¶¶
10-13; see also Pang Decl., ¶ 7, Ex. 7.)
 
Manageable
and Superior
 
“The
proponent of class certification must demonstrate that the proposed class
action is manageable [citation].”  (Edmon
& Karnow, supra, at ¶ 14:11.10.)  “This
requires the trial court ‘to carefully weigh the respective benefits and
burdens of a class action, and to permit its maintenance only where
substantial benefits will be accrued by both litigants and the courts alike.’  [Citation.]” 
(Ibid., emphasis in original.)  
 
“In certifying a class action,
the court must also conclude that litigation of individual issues, including
those arising from affirmative defenses, can be managed fairly and
efficiently.”  (Duran v. U.S. Bank
Nat. Assn. (2014) 59 Cal. 4th 1, 28-29.) 
“Trial courts must pay careful attention to manageability when deciding
whether to certify a class action.  In
considering whether a class action is a superior device for resolving a
controversy, the manageability of individual issues is just as important as the
existence of common questions uniting the proposed class.”  (Id. at 29.)
 
“A class action is not ‘superior’ where there are numerous and substantial questions affecting each
class member's right to recover, following determination of liability to the
class as a whole.”  (Edmon & Karnow,
supra, at ¶ 14:46, emphasis in original.)
 
This prong is uncontested. 
(See Opposition, pp. 12-18.)
 
Still, the Court finds the prong unsatisfied.  While nine potential members is a manageable
number, the class method is inferior since
Plaintiff fails to establish predominating common issues and typicality.   
 
Summary
 
Plaintiff’s
motion is denied without prejudice as to the proposed class because it is not
alleged in the complaint.
 
The
motion is denied as to the proposed subclass because Plaintiff fails to show predominating common
questions, typicality, and superiority. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


