  Case Number:  20STCV24719    Hearing Date:   August 14, 2024    Dept:  E 


Superior Court
  of California
County of Los
  Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance Dept. E




 
JOSHUA
  PAYTON,
 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
20STCV24719




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
LOS
  ANGELES COUNTY METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY., et al.,
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:              August
14, 2024         
 
Moving
Parties:          Plaintiff, Joshua Payton
Responding Party:      Defendants Los Angeles County Metropolitan
Transportation Authority and Geneva Smith
HEARING: MOTION FOR
LEAVE TO AUGMENT EXPERT WITNESS DESIGNATION TO ADD TOXICOLOGY EXPERT
            The Court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.  
 
RULING
Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to Augment Expert
Witness is GRANTED.
 
BACKGROUND
On June 30, 2020, plaintiff Joshua Payton
(“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendants Geneva Smith (“Smith”) and
Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (“Metro”)
(collectively, “Defendants”), alleging (1) motor vehicle and (2) general
negligence. Plaintiff alleges that on December 8, 2019, Smith was driving
Metro’s bus in the course of her employment with Metro. (Compl., GN-1.) While
at a bus stop, Smith abruptly drove off, Plaintiff fell, and Smith ran over
Plaintiff’s legs with the bus.  
 
On September 3, 2020, Defendants filed an
answer.  
 
On July 12, 2022, the Court granted Metro’s ex
parte application to continue the trial date from August 12, 2022 to May 5,
2023.  
 
On August 18, 2022, the Court granted
Defendant’s unopposed motion to reopen discovery.  
 
On October 18, 2022, the Court denied Metro’s motion
for leave to take a subsequent deposition of Plaintiff.  
 
On October 26, 2022, the parties conducted an
IDC.
 
On April 28, 2023, the Court granted Metro’s
ex parte application to continue the trial date from May 5, 2023 to July 19,
2023. 
 
On September 1, 2023, the Court granted
Metro’s ex parte application to continue the trial date from September 15, 2024
to December 14, 2023. 
 
On November 27, 2023, the Court granted
Metro’s ex parte application to continue the trial date from December 5, 2023
to February 20, 2024.
 
On February 13, 2024, the Court denied Metro’s
ex parte application to continue the trial date.
 
On April 15, 2024, due to unavailability of
trial courtrooms, the Court on its own motion continued the trial to April 29,
2024.
 
On April 29, 2024, the Court on its own motion
continued the trial to April 29, 2024. At 11:13 a.m., Department 1 informed the
Court that there were no assignments left. Department 1 informed Department 27
that the trial estimate does not match the witness list indicated in the trial
transfer order. Department 1 noted that the operative witness list filed on
4/11 indicates 81hrs of testimony. Counsel were ordered to file any revised
version of the trial binders before the next hearing to avoid trial assignment
delays.
 
On May 9, 2024, the Court granted Metro’s ex
parte application to continue trial without re-opening discovery. Jury trial
was continued to September 25, 2024. 
 
On July 12, 2024, the denied Plaintiff’s
motion to re open discovery. In the tentative, the Court granted in part
Plaintiff’s motion to reopen discovery for the limited purpose of taking PMQ
depositions, and denied all other aspects of the motion, but the Court later
modified the ruling by denying additional depositions to be held, stating:
“Discovery, consistent with the tentative, remains closed.” (7/12/24 Minute
Order.)
 
On July 18, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant
motion for leave to augment expert witness designation and add toxicology
expert. On July 13, 2024, Defendant filed an opposition. On August 7, 2024,
Plaintiff filed a reply.
 
On August 6, 2024, Metro filed a notice of
change of address for its counsel, Ashour Yehoushua, APC.
 
            Trial is set for September
25, 2024.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
Under California Code of Civil Procedure
section 2034.610(a), a party who has timely exchanged expert witness
information may, with the court's permission, either:
 
1.     Add
a new expert witness to their expert list and declaration.
2.     Amend
the declaration to modify the general substance of testimony expected from an
already designated expert.
 
According to section 2034.610(b), motion for
an Order for leave to augment expert designation “shall be made at a sufficient
time in advance of the time limit for the completion of discovery.” The court
may allow a later filing under exceptional circumstances. The motion must be
accompanied by a “meet and confer” declaration (Code Civ. Proc., § 2034.610).
 
Under section 2034.620, the court will grant
leave to augment or amend the expert list or declaration only if:
 
1.     The
court considers how much the opposing party has relied on the original expert
list.
2.     The
opposing party will not be prejudiced in maintaining their case on the merits.
3.     The
moving party either:
a.      Could
not have reasonably determined to call the new expert or offer the new
testimony earlier.
b.     Failed
to do so due to mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect, and
promptly sought leave to amend or augment after realizing the need.
 
The motion’s approval is conditional upon
making the expert available for deposition and may include additional terms,
such as allowing the opposing party to designate additional experts or granting
a trial continuance. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2034.620.)
 
The court’s decision to grant or deny such
relief is discretionary and subject to appellate review only for abuse of
discretion. (Bonds v. Roy (1999) 20 Cal.4th 140, 149.) Prejudice under
section 2034.620(b) relates to the opposing party’s ability to respond to the
new expert or testimony, not merely the adverse nature of the testimony. (Dickison
v. Howen (1990) 220 Cal.App.3d 1471, 1479.)
 
DISCUSSION 
 
Plaintiff argues
that he has conducted reasonable diligence throughout the litigation process.
The complaint was filed on June 30, 2020, and the trial has been continued
approximately six times. Both Plaintiff and Defendants have exchanged expert
witness designations multiple times, with the most recent exchange occurring on
January 2, 2024. Neither party has designated a toxicology expert at any point
in the case. Plaintiff contends that he could not have anticipated the need for
a toxicology expert, as Defendants had not designated one, despite including an
intoxication instruction in their proposed jury instructions. Plaintiff asserts
that his diligence is evidenced by the timely exchange of designations and
their inability to foresee the relevance of toxicology without prior indication
from Defendants. (Miles Decl. at ¶¶ 5-6, Ex. B-C.) Plaintiff also argues that
the request for leave to designate a toxicology expert is justified by
surprise. The incident in question involved Plaintiff attempting to board a
Metro bus, and Plaintiff was not operating a motor vehicle at the time. Given
this context, Plaintiff argues that any blood alcohol level or impairment
should be considered irrelevant to the case. Moreover, Plaintiff’s hospital
records indicate an extremely low blood alcohol level, and drug testing from an
emergency room is rarely admissible in court. Plaintiff was surprised when
Defendants included an intoxication instruction in the trial documents,
prompting Plaintiff to file a Motion in Limine to exclude such evidence. With
the trial still over two months away, Plaintiff asserts that it would be
prejudicial not to grant leave to designate a toxicology expert now, as doing
so would ensure a fair trial. (Miles Decl. at ¶ 7, Ex. D.)
 
Additionally,
Plaintiff emphasizes that the request for leave to add a toxicology expert has
been made in a timely manner. Although the trial was previously set for April
2024, it was continued to September 25, 2024, without reopening discovery.
Plaintiff had previously filed a motion to reopen discovery, which was denied
on the grounds that it pertained only to fact discovery, not the designation of
expert witnesses. Recognizing this, Plaintiff has now brought a motion
specifically to augment the expert witness designation to include a toxicology
expert, arguing that this request is both timely and necessary under the
circumstances. (Ca. Civ. Proc. Code § 2024.050.) Plaintiff further argues that
granting leave to add one expert will not prejudice Defendants or delay the
trial. The trial is scheduled for September 25, 2024, and Plaintiff has
provided Defendants with the supplemental designation of the toxicology expert
more than 50 days before the trial date. This timeframe provides Defendants
ample opportunity to prepare for expert discovery. Finally, Plaintiff notes
that they have made efforts to meet and confer with Defendants’ counsel
regarding this motion. On July 15, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel reached out to
Defendants’ counsel to discuss the motion and requested a stipulation to the
augmented expert witness designation. However, Defendants’ counsel did not
respond to this communication. (Miles Decl. at ¶ 10, Ex. F.)
 
In opposition,
Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s motion is untimely and should be denied. They
emphasize that discovery and expert discovery cutoffs have long passed, and
Plaintiff’s previous motion to reopen discovery was denied by the court on July
12, 2024. According to Defendants, Section 2034.610 of the California Code of
Civil Procedure mandates that such a motion be filed “in sufficient time in
advance of the time limit for the completion of discovery,” which Plaintiff
failed to do. Even though Plaintiff claims to have been surprised by Defendants’
proposed intoxication jury instruction, Defendants argue that Plaintiff has
been aware of this issue for over three months, yet waited until now to file
the motion. This delay renders the motion untimely under Section 2034.610(b). Defendants
also contend that there are no exceptional circumstances justifying the late
filing of this motion. They point out that Metro has been investigating
Plaintiff’s potential intoxication throughout the litigation, as evidenced by
various discovery requests concerning Plaintiff’s history of substance use,
including admissions related to drug and alcohol use. These requests, made as
early as October 2021 and again in May 2022, clearly indicate that the issue of
intoxication was known to Plaintiff long before the current motion was filed.
(Ashour Decl. ¶¶ 5-7.) Furthermore, Defendants argue that granting this motion
would be highly prejudicial to them. The parties have already appeared twice
for trial, on April 15 and April 29, 2024, but were delayed due to courtroom
unavailability. Plaintiff’s current motion, filed three months after these
trial dates, would disrupt Defendants’ trial preparation, especially with the
trial only six weeks away and the Final Status Conference just four weeks away
at the time of the hearing. Defendants assert that allowing the motion would
force them to reassess their trial strategy, possibly requiring them to
designate additional expert witnesses, which would prolong litigation in an
already old case. Defendants argue that this case is nearly five years old, and
Plaintiff’s repeated motions are merely attempts to delay proceedings and waste
the court's time and resources. (Ashour Decl. ¶ 5.)
 In reply, Plaintiff
argues that Defendants are attempting to challenge Plaintiff’s toxicology
without having designated a toxicology expert themselves. Throughout the case,
neither party designated a toxicology expert, and Plaintiff asserts that he
conducted reasonable diligence by exchanging timely designations. Plaintiff
contends that he could not have anticipated Defendants raising the issue of
Plaintiff’s toxicology levels, as no such expert was designated by Defendants.
To address Defendants’ proposed intoxication instruction, Plaintiff now seeks
to designate a toxicology expert. Plaintiff also refutes Defendants’ claim that
this motion was untimely. Plaintiff outlines the timeline of events, noting
that on May 9, 2024, Defendants’ ex parte application to continue the trial was
granted, and Plaintiff opposed it, requesting discovery be reopened. This
request was denied on July 12, 2024, because the Court considered it under the
statute pertaining to fact discovery, not expert designation. Plaintiff argues
that he has been diligently attempting to address this issue since the trial
was continued and have already provided Defendants with the proposed
supplemental designation of the toxicology expert, giving Defendants ample time
to prepare. Furthermore, Plaintiff contends that the discovery requests made by
Defendants concerning Plaintiff’s substance abuse history do not prove
intoxication at the time of the incident. Plaintiff argues that while
Defendants sought information about substance abuse, this did not indicate an
intent to question Plaintiff’s intoxication during the incident, especially
since Defendants never designated a toxicology expert. Plaintiff emphasizes
that he denied being under the influence at the time of the incident and that
their hospital records show a low blood alcohol level, with drug testing from
an emergency room being rarely admissible. Finally, Plaintiff argues that
Defendants have shown no evidence of prejudice from the late designation of a
toxicology expert. While Defendants mention that the trial has been delayed
twice, Plaintiff notes that these delays were due to the unavailability of
courtrooms, not any fault of their own. With nearly two months remaining before
the trial and a supplemental designation deadline of August 26, 2024, Plaintiff
asserts that there is no prejudice to Defendants. On the contrary, Plaintiff
argues that he would be severely prejudiced if he is not allowed to designate a
toxicology expert..After consideration
of the arguments and evidence presented, the Court finds that the motion was
timely under the circumstances, that Plaintiff has demonstrated good cause for
the late designation, and that granting the motion will not unduly prejudice Defendants
or delay the trial. While discovery and expert discovery deadlines have passed,
the Court finds that Plaintiff acted with reasonable diligence in bringing this
motion. Although the Court denied the reopening of discovery under Code of
Civil Procedure section 2024.050, which pertains to fact discovery, Plaintiff
shows that he has been attempting to address the need for a toxicology expert
since learning of Defendants’ intent to include an intoxication jury
instruction. The Court also finds that Plaintiff has shown sufficient
justification for the late designation of a toxicology expert. The issue of
intoxication was not initially central to the case, as neither party designated
a toxicology expert during the discovery phase. Moreover, our Supreme Court has
emphasized the importance of the general policy in favor of a trial on the
merits, stating that this policy should be honored with “some showing” of
excusable delay. (Salas v. Sears, Roebuck & Co. (1986) 42 Cal.3d
342, 347). In Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (2000) 22 Cal.4th 245,
the court reviewed several reasons supporting the trial court’s discretion to
allow additional discovery and suggested that, in the absence of discovery
being unduly burdensome or oppressive, the policy should favor allowing it. (Id.
at 254). In the present case, the Court finds that there has been an adequate
showing of excusable delay on the part of Plaintiff. Allowing Plaintiff to
augment the expert witness list is in line with the public policy of permitting
a trial on the merits and encouraging pretrial settlements based on the
knowledge gained from such depositions. Furthermore, the Court is not persuaded
by Defendants’ claims of prejudice. While Defendants argue that granting this
motion would disrupt their trial preparation, the Court notes that the trial is
still nearly two months away. The Court also acknowledges that while the
parties have appeared for trial twice, these delays were due to the
unavailability of courtrooms and not due to any fault of the PlaintifThus, the Court
GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to augment expert witness designation. 