 Case Number:  21STCV20321    Hearing Date:   August 14, 2024    Dept:  E 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Southwest District
Torrance Dept. E




 
THELIDRIA
  CALHOUN, in and through her Successor-in-Interest Dimitria Calhoun


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
21STCV20321




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  ORDER SUSTAINING DEMURRER 
 




 
TORRANCE
  MEMORIAL MEDICAL Center, et al.


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:             August 15, 2024
 
Moving
Party:             Defendant KND
Development 53, LLC dba Kindred Hospital SouthBay
Responding Party:      Plaintiff Thelidria Calhoun, through her
Successor-in-Interest Dimitria Calhoun        
 
Demurrer with Motion
to Strike
 
            The court considered the moving,
opposing and reply papers. 
 
RULING
 
Defendant’s demurrer is SUSTAINED
with 20 days leave to amend as to the cause of action for Elder Abuse, and
SUSTAINED without leave to amend as to the cause of action for negligence. 
 
 
 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            On
May 28, 2021, plaintiff Thelidria Calhoun, in and through her
successor-in-interest Dimitria Calhoun, filed a complaint against Defendants
Torrance Memorial Medical Center, Transitional Care Unit, Kindred Hospital
SouthBay (“Kindred”), and Memorial Hospital of Gardena.
On September 25, 2023, plaintiff
filed a first amended complaint (“FAC”), alleging causes of action for (1)
elder abuse, (2) negligence, (3) willful misconduct, (4) violation of Patient’s
Bill of Rights, and (5) wrongful death.
On April 9, 2024, the court
sustained with 20 days leave to amend Defendant Kindred’s demurrer to the second
cause of action for negligence, and sustained without leave to amend Defendant Kindred’s
demurrer to the fourth cause of action for Violation of Patient’s Bill of
Rights. The court also granted Defendant’s motion to strike.
On May 29, 2024, Plaintiff filed
the second amended complaint (“SAC”) which alleges causes of action for (1)
elder abuse, (2) negligence, and (3) wrongful death. The SAC alleges that while
Plaintiff’s mother, Thelidria Calhoun was under the care of Defendants, she
developed a Stage 4 infected pressure ulcer on her coccyx, which caused septic
shock and death. 
            On June 17, 2024, Defendant Kindred
Hospital South Bay filed this demurrer and motion to strike the SAC. On August
6, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition. On August 8, 2024, Defendant Kindred
filed a reply.
            
LEGAL AUTHORITY
 
A demurrer for sufficiency tests
whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007)
147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the
allegations liberally and in context. (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept.
of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.) The court “treat[s]
the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law ….” (Berkley v. Dowds
(2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525).) In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must
be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994).) A demurrer tests the
pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters; therefore, it
lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are
judicially noticed. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.30, 430.70.) The only issue
involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action. (Hahn, supra,
147 Cal.App.4th at 747.) 
 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v.
Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is on the complainant
to show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.) 
 
DISCUSSION
I.               
Untimely Opposition
 
As an initial matter, Plaintiff’s opposition is
untimely.  Plaintiff’s opposition was filed and served on August 6,
2024.  Plaintiff’s Opposition was due nine court days before the August
15, 2024 hearing date, which was August 2, 2024. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1005,
subd. (b).) “A trial court has broad discretion to overlook late-served papers
and to resolve the matter on the merits.”   (Gonzalez v. Santa
Clara County Dept. of Social Services (2017) 9 Cal.App.5th 162, 168
[“(E)ven if the service had been untimely, the trial court was vested with
discretion to overlook the defect”]; see also Bozzi v. Nordstrom, Inc. 
(2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 755, 765 [“A trial court has broad discretion under rule
3.1300(d) of the Rules of Court to refuse to consider papers served and filed
beyond the deadline without a prior court order finding good cause for late
submission.”].) Defendant has not argued it was prejudiced by the delay and the
reply addresses the merits of the opposition. Thus, the Court exercises its
discretion and considers the merits of the opposition.
 
II.             
Demurrer
 
Defendant
demurs to the entire SAC, arguing that Plaintiff failed to file the amended
complaint within the time allowed by the court. Defendant also demurs to the
first cause of action for Elder Abuse and second cause of action for
negligence. Defendant contends the cause of action for negligence is barred by
the statute of limitations and the cause of action for elder abuse fails to
plead specific facts sufficient to support the claim.
Defendant’s Request for Dismissal
of the SAC under Code of Civil Procedure §581(f)(2)
Code of
Civil Procedure section 581 provides in relevant part that “[t]he court may
dismiss the complaint as to that defendant…after a demurrer to the complaint is
sustained with leave to amend, the plaintiff fails to amend it within the time
allowed by the court and either party moves for dismissal.” (Id. at
subd. (f)(2).) 
 
“The
authority of the trial court to dismiss an action under the provisions of Code
Civ. Proc., § 581… (action may be dismissed when plaintiff fails to amend
complaint within time allowed by court after demurrer has been sustained or
when plaintiff fails to amend complaint within time allowed by court after
motion to strike has been granted), rests in the sound discretion of the
trial court.” (Harding v. Collazo (1986) 177 Cal.App.3d 1044, 1046.) 
Defendant points out that its
demurrer was sustained on April 9, 2024 and Plaintiff was given 20 days leave
to amend. In fact, Defendant argues, Plaintiff did not file the SAC until May
29, 2024 – fifty days following the hearing. 
However, Defendant’s demurrer was
sustained with leave to amend as to the negligence cause of action only.
Defendant had not previously demurred to the entire FAC. As such, the entire
SAC would not be subject to dismissal under this section, because the court
never ruled that the allegations pertaining to Defendant Kindred had to be
amended with respect to the other causes of action. In addition, as discussed
more fully below, the demurrer to the cause of action for negligence is being
sustained without leave to amend. Thus, the court declines to dismiss the
entire SAC. Moreover, dismissal under this section is discretionary. 
First Cause of
Action for Elder Abuse 
In order to state a cause of
action under the Elder Abuse Act, “a plaintiff must allege conduct essentially
equivalent to conduct that would support recovery of punitive
damages.” (Covenant Care, Inc. v. Superior Court (2004) 32 Cal. 4th 771,
789.) There must be a showing of recklessness, fraud, malice, or oppression. (Id.
at 783.) 
“[T]he facts constituting the
neglect and establishing the causal link between the neglect and the injury
‘must be pleaded with particularity,’ in accordance with the pleading rules
governing statutory claims.” (Carter v. Prime Healthcare Paradise Valley (2011)
198 Cal. App. 4th 396, 407 (citing Covenant Care).) “Allegations of
misconduct directed against one defendant . . . do not state a cause of action
against another defendant against whom the allegations of misconduct are not
directed.” (Id. at 410 (citation omitted).) “[W]hen a plaintiff asserts
a claim against a health care provider on a legal theory other than
professional negligence, courts must determine whether the claim is nonetheless
based on the health care provider’s professional negligence.” (Larson v. UHS
of Rancho Springs, Inc. (2014) 230 Cal. App. 4th 336, 347 (citation
omitted).) Citing to the content of the definition of “neglect” in Welf. and
Inst. Code §15610.57(b), the Supreme Court stated, “[w]hat they each seem to
contemplate is the existence of a robust caretaking or custodial
relationship—that is, a relationship where a certain party has assumed a
significant measure of responsibility for attending to one or more of an
elder’s basic needs that an able-bodied and fully competent adult would
ordinarily be capable of managing without assistance.” (Winn v. Pioneer
Medical Group, Inc. (2016) 63 Cal. 4th 148, 58.) “What seems beyond doubt
is that the Legislature enacted a scheme distinguishing between – and decidedly
not lumping together – claims of professional negligence and neglect.” (Id. at
159.)
“If some care is provided, that
will not necessarily absolve a care facility of [elder or] dependent abuse
liability. For example, if a care facility knows it must provide a certain type
of care on a daily basis but provides that care sporadically, or is supposed to
provide multiple types of care but only provides some of those types of care,
withholding of care has occurred. In those cases, the trier of fact must
determine whether there is a significant pattern of withholding portions or
types of care. A significant pattern is one that involves repeated withholding
of care and leads to the conclusion that the pattern was the result of choice
or deliberate indifference.” (Sababin v.
Superior Court (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 81, 90.)
            Here,
the SAC alleges the following. On January 27, 2019, Thelidria was transferred
to Kindred for rehabilitation of her hip and to help wean her off her
ventilator. During a cardiology consultation on February 25, 2019, it was noted
that she had “a recent cervical neck fracture, multiple orthopedic fractures,
malnutrition, interstitial lung disease (likely related to rheumatoid
arthritis), acute on chronic respiratory failure status post tracheostomy with
trach collar, decubitus wound with wound Vac” after being transferred from
Torrance Memorial Medical Center to Kindred. It is clear that the medical
records noted she required frequent repositioning every two hours for pressure
relief on the decubitus wounds she suffered. (SAC, ¶ 27.)
At the time in 2018, Thelidria was
discharged from Torrance Memorial to Kindred the emergency department noted
that she had a UTI and was septic, emaciated, severely anemic,
hypotensive, and hyperglycemic. Additionally, Thelidria had a large, necrotic,
foul-smelling, black, purple and yellow oozing unstageable ulcer on her sacral
area covered by a bandage saturated in feces and urine. (Id., ¶ 28.)
 On March 5, 2019, she was taken to Memorial
Hospital of Gardena after 911 was called “because of her horrific treatment and
Kindred.” Memorial Hospital of Gardena prepared a skin care protocol, including
a foam mattress, frequent repositioning, and floating of her heels to prevent
any more pressure ulcears from developing. These protocols had been required at
Kindred but never provided. Later, she was transferred back to Kindred. (Id., ¶
29.)
On April 1, 2019, Thelidria’s
daughter Dimitria Calhoun demanded a meeting with the CEO of defendant Kindred and
head of all departments at the hospital. She requested that Thelidria be
transferred to Kindred Orange, but they refused to do so. Dimitria informed the
CEO and other department heads that Thelidria was not being turned, that she
had severe bed sores, that she looked swollen, and that her GI tube was
leaking, but the treatment stayed the same. By April 30, 2019, she had
developed an infection and was taken to ICU. (Id., ¶ 31.) By May 12, 2019,
Kindred’s nursing staff indicated that Thelidria’s pressure ulcer had yellow
slough and drainage, indicating infection. (Id., ¶ 32.) On May 15, 2019,
Kindred completed a wound care consult that indicated that the two scattered
Stage 4 pressure ulcers progressed to being unstageable. (Id., ¶ 35.) She died
on June 1, 2019 from septic shock secondary to the large, infected, necrotic
sacral decubitus ulcer. (Id., ¶ 34.) 
The court finds that the
allegations in the SAC are insufficient to meet the elements for a cause of
action for Elder Abuse, as the SAC does not plead facts that rise to oppression,
fraud, or malice or a conscious disregard of the high probability of such
injury (unstageable bedsore). The allegations against Kindred relate to the
failure to turn or reposition Thelidria in order to prevent her bedsores. However,
there are no specific factual allegations pertaining to this allegation, let
alone any allegations showing a significant pattern of withholding
portions or types of care. The allegations as to Defendant Kindred are made in
passing or conclusory. For example, Plaintiff alleges she informed the CEO and
other department heads that Thelidria was not being turned, and that she had
severe bed sores.
Next, Defendant argues that Plaintiff has not pled facts amounting to authorization
or ratification on the part of an officer, director or managing agent of the
moving defendant, as is required to establish a cause of action for
elder abuse.
 
Welfare and Institutions Code
§15657(c) states, “The standards set forth in subdivision (b) of Section 3294
of the Civil Code regarding the imposition of punitive damages on an employer
based upon the acts of an employee shall be satisfied before any damages or
attorney’s fees permitted under this section may be imposed against an
employer.”  
            
Civil Code §3294(b) provides, “An
employer shall not be liable for damages pursuant to subdivision (a), based
upon acts of an employee of the employer, unless the employer had advance
knowledge of the unfitness of the employee and employed him or her with a
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others or authorized or ratified
the wrongful conduct for which the damages are awarded or was personally guilty
of oppression, fraud, or malice. With respect to a corporate employer, the
advance knowledge and conscious disregard, authorization, ratification or act
of oppression, fraud, or malice must be on the part of an officer, director, or
managing agent of the corporation.” 
The SAC also fails to allege any
specific facts that an officer, director or managing agent, authorized or
ratified Defendant’s employees’ conduct. The allegations pertaining to
informing the CEO are conclusory, and fail to plead with specificity as
required.
As a result, the demurrer to the cause
of action for Elder Abuse is sustained. As this is Kindred’s first demurrer to
this cause of action, and there is a possibility of curing the defect, the
court will allow 20 days leave to amend.
Second Cause
of Action for Negligence 
Defendant argues that the cause of
action is barred by the one-year statute of limitations under CCP §340.5. Code of Civil
Procedure section 340.5 provides that an action for injury against a health
care provider based on a person’s alleged professional negligence must be
commenced within three years after the date of injury or one year after the
plaintiff discovers the injury, whichever occurs first. (Code Civ. Proc. §
340.5.) Defendant asserts that it is a healthcare provider, and that the
allegations against it relate to professional negligence. Defendant contends
that the complaint was not filed until May 28, 2021, almost two years after
decedent died on June 1, 2019. 
Here, as ruled on by the court in
Defendant Kindred’s prior demurrer, the conduct that is alleged to have been
provided by Kindred was that of medical care. The incidents giving rise to the
negligence cause of action occurred in June 2019. Thus, the complaint is time
barred on its face as the complaint was filed in May 2021. 
In opposition, Plaintiff concedes
that the cause of action for negligence should be dismissed. As such, the
demurrer to the second cause of action for negligence is sustained without
leave to amend.
CONCLUSION
Defendant’s demurrer is SUSTAINED
with 20 days leave to amend as to the cause of action for Elder Abuse, and
SUSTAINED without leave to amend as to the cause of action for negligence. 
Moving party is ordered to give
notice.
 