

Hearing Date:             May
16, 2024
Case Name:                Sassan Salehipour v. Ford
Motor Company, et al. 
Case No.:                    21STCV09414
Motion:                       Motion
for Summary Judgment/Adjudication
Moving
Party:             Defendants Ford Motor
Company and Advantage Ford Lincoln
Responding
Party:      Plaintiff Sassan Salehipour 
 

Tentative Ruling:      The
Motion for Summary Judgment is denied.  
                                    The
Motion for Summary Adjudication is denied as to the second and third causes of
action. The Motion for Summary Adjudication is granted as to the fifth cause of
action. 

 
Background
 
This matter arises from the purchase
of an allegedly defective 2015 Ford Edge (the “Subject Vehicle”). On March 10,
2021, Plaintiff Sassan Salehipour (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against
Defendants Ford Motor Company (“Ford”), Advantage Ford Lincoln (“Advantage”)
(collectively, “Defendants”) alleging causes of action for: (1) violation of
subdivision (d) of Civ. Code § 1793.2; (2) violation of subdivision (b) of Civ.
Code § 1793.2; (3) violation of subdivision (a)(3) of Civ. Code § 1793.2; (4)
breach of express written warranty pursuant to Civ. Code §§ 1791.2(a) and 1794;
and (5) breach of the implied warranty of merchantability pursuant to Civ. Code
§§ 1791.1, 1794, and 1795.5. 
 
Plaintiff alleges that he purchased
the Subject Vehicle on or about July 17, 2015 from Defendant Advantage, which
was manufactured and/or distributed by Defendant Ford. (Complaint, ¶ 9.) Plaintiff
received various warranties in connection with the purchase of the Subject
Vehicle. (Complaint, ¶ 10.) Plaintiff received warranties including, but not
limited to, a 3 year/36,000 miles bumper to bumper warranty and a 5 year/60,000
miles powertrain warranty, which covers the engine and transmission.
(Complaint, ¶ 10.) During the warranty period, the Subject Vehicle contained or
developed defects including, but not limited to, defects causing an oil leak,
defects causing a tire to lose air, and defects requiring the resealing of the
front engine cover. (Complaint, ¶ 11.) Plaintiff alleges that Defendant Ford
and its representatives in this state have been unable to service or repair the
Subject Vehicle to conform to the applicable express warranties after a
reasonable number of attempts. (Complaint, ¶ 12.) Plaintiff alleges that he
discovered Defendants’ wrongful conduct alleged in the Complaint shortly before
the filing of the Complaint as the Subject Vehicle continued to exhibit
symptoms of defects following Defendant Ford’s unsuccessful attempts to repair
them. (Complaint, ¶ 8.) Defendant Ford failed to provide restitution pursuant
to the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act. (Complaint, ¶ 8.) 
 
 
Defendants now move for summary
judgment or, alternatively, summary adjudication as to the second, third, and
fifth causes of action in the Complaint. Given that Defendants do not move for
summary judgment as to the entire Complaint, Defendants have filed, for
operative purposes, a motion for summary adjudication. 
 
Plaintiff filed an opposition brief
and Defendants filed a reply brief. 
 
Evidentiary Objections 
 
Plaintiff objects to paragraph 4 of
the declaration of Reeti H. Patel in support of the motion. The objection is
overruled. 
 
Defendants object to paragraph 3 of
the declaration of Rabiya Tirmizi in support of the opposition. The Court
sustains the objection to the sentence beginning “Despite these warranty…” (p.
2, lines 16-18.). In other respects, the objection is overruled.
 
Separate statement issue
 
            An opposing
Separate Statement must comply with the requirements of California Rule of
Court 3.1350(e), (f) and (h).  Counsel
must respond to “[e]ach material fact” and if it disputed, “must unequivocally
state whether that fact is ‘disputed’ or ‘undisputed” on the right side of the
page directly opposite the fact in dispute. 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1350(f)(1), (f)(2).)
 
Plaintiff failed to comply. In the
Separate Statement, Plaintiff improperly inserted legal argument in some of their
responses.  The Separate Statement is not
the proper place for objections or argument and Plaintiff’s counsel is
admonished to comply with Rules of Court. 
To the extent Plaintiff purported to dispute Defendants’ statement of
undisputed facts without offering evidence but merely making legal arguments,
the Court deems the statements of fact undisputed.  (Beltran v. Hard Rock Hotel Licensing,
Inc. (2023) 97 Cal.App.5th 865, 876 [courts should “not hesitate
to disregard attempts to game the system by the opposing party claiming facts
are ‘disputed’ when the uncontroverted evidence clearly shows otherwise”].)
 
Legal Standard
 
A party may move for summary judgment
“if it is contended that the action has no merit or that there is no defense to
the action or proceeding.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 437c,¿subd. (a).)  “[I]f all the
evidence submitted, and all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence
and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law,” the moving party will be entitled to summary
judgment.  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare
Corp.¿(1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) 
 
The moving party has the initial
burden of production to make¿a prima facie¿showing of the nonexistence of any
triable issue of material fact, and if he does so, the burden shifts to the
opposing party to make¿a prima facie¿showing of the existence of a triable
issue of material fact.  (Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co.¿(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850; accord Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c,¿subd. (p)(2).) A Defendant moving for summary judgment may meet its
initial burden by proving that for each cause of action alleged, plaintiff
cannot establish at least one element of the cause of action.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(p)(2).) 
 
“The
summary judgment procedure should be used with caution and any doubt as to the
propriety of granting summary judgment should be resolved in favor of the party
opposing the motion.” (Saldana v. Globe-Weis Systems Co. (1991) 233
Cal.App.3d 1505, 1510.) “Motions for summary adjudication are procedurally
identical to motions for summary judgment.” (Dunn v. County of Santa Barbara
(2006) 135 Cal.App.4th 1281, 1290.) 
 
Discussion
 
Second and Third causes of action – failure to repair 
 
Defendants contend that Plaintiff
cannot establish his second cause of action because he cannot establish that
any repair took longer than 30 days to complete. Plaintiff argues that a
triable issue of fact exists as to the second cause of action. As to the third
cause of action, Defendants argue that Plaintiff fails to present any facts
that Defendant Ford failed to make sufficient literature and replacement parts
to authorized service and repair facilities during the express warranty period.
Plaintiff argues that a triable issue of fact exists as to the third cause of
action.
 
For the second cause of action, Civil
Code section 1793.2, subdivision (b) states “[w]here those service and repair
facilities are maintained in this state and service or repair of the goods is
necessary because they do not conform with the applicable express warranties,
service and repair shall be commenced within a reasonable time by the
manufacturer or its representative in this state. Unless the buyer agrees in
writing to the contrary, the goods shall be serviced or repaired so as to
conform to the applicable warranties within 30 days. Delay caused by conditions
beyond the control of the manufacturer or its representatives shall serve to
extend this 30-day requirement. Where delay arises, conforming goods shall be
tendered as soon as possible following termination of the condition giving rise
to the delay.” To state a cause of action under Civ. Code § 1793.2, subdivision
(b), Plaintiff must show that Defendant Ford failed to “complete any single repair
attempt within 30 days.” (Schick v. BMW of North America, LLC (9th
Cir. 2020) 801 Fed.Appx. 519, 521, emphasis in original.) Civil Code section 1793.2,
subdivision (d)(1), provides that “if the manufacturer or its representative .
. . does not service or repair the goods to conform to the applicable express
warranties after a reasonable number of repair attempts, the manufacturer shall
either replace the goods or reimburse the buyer in an amount equal to the
purchase price paid by the buyer, less that amount directly attributable to use
by the buyer prior to the discovery of the nonconformity.” Civ. Code § 1794,
subdivision (b) provides that “[w]here the buyer has rightfully rejected or
justifiably revoked acceptance of the goods or has exercised any right to
cancel the sale, Section[] 2711 . . . of the Commercial Code shall apply.” (Ramos
v. Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC (2020) 55 Cal.App.5th 220, 225.) Where a buyer
rightfully rejects or justifiably revokes acceptance with respect to goods, the
buyer may cancel the contract and recover “so much of the price as has been
paid.” (Comm. Code, § 2711, subd. (1).) 
 
As to the third cause of action,
Civil Code section 1793.2, subdivision (a)(3) requires that a manufacturer must
“[m]ake available to authorized service and repair facilities sufficient
service literature and replacement parts to effect repairs during the express
warranty period.” 
 
Analysis as to the Second Cause of
Action
 
Pursuant to the second cause of
action, Plaintiff alleges that Defendant Ford and its representative failed to
commence the service or repairs within a reasonable time and failed to service
or repair the Subject Vehicle so as to conform to the applicable warranties
within 30 days. (Complaint, ¶ 19.) Plaintiff did not extend the time for
completion of repairs beyond the 30-day requirement. (Complaint, ¶ 19.)
Plaintiff has rightfully rejected and/or justifiably revoked acceptance of the
Subject Vehicle, and has exercised a right to cancel the purchase. (Complaint,
¶ 21.) 
 
Defendants present evidence that none
of Plaintiff’s repair visits for the Subject Vehicle—either singularly or
collectively—took more than 30 days to complete. (Statement of Undisputed Fact
(SUF), 1SUF1, 2-13.)[1] Defendants
cite to evidence indicative of four repair visits all of which lasted less than
one day, four days, six days, or eleven days to complete. (1UMF3, 5, 7, 8, 9,
10, 11, 12.) 
 
Plaintiff presents the following
evidence: Plaintiff declares that he presented the Subject Vehicle to Defendant
Ford’s authorized repair facilities on at least four occasions for warranty
repairs, which did not successfully fix the Subject Vehicle. (Salehipour Decl.,
¶ 8; Exh. 3.) Plaintiff declares that the Subject Vehicle was out of service
for a total of 75 days for various concerns related to the Subject Vehicle.
(Salehipour Decl., ¶¶ 10-21; Exh. 3.) In fact, Plaintiff declares that on
August 22, 2020, he took the Subject Vehicle to Defenant Ford’s authorized
repair facility for, among other concerns, a rattling noise and lack of
acceleration and the Subject Vehicle was out of service for 41 days.
(Salehipour Decl., ¶ 18; Exh. 3.) Despite the warranty repair opportunities,
Defendant Ford did not conform the Subject Vehicle to its warranties and
Plaintiff continued to experience symptoms of the Subject Vehicle’s defects. (Id.
¶ 22.) 
 
Initially, the Court notes that
Plaintiff’s citation to Milicevic v. Fletcher Jones Imports, Ltd.
(9th Cir. 2005) 402 F.3d 912 is inapposite as it interprets Nevada law. Plaintiff,
however, has presented evidence to show a triable issue of material fact as to
the second cause of action. Plaintiff has presented evidence that—both
singularly and collectively—repair attempts took more than 30 days to complete.
 
 
            Analysis
as to the Third Cause of Action
 
            Pursuant to
the third cause of action, Plaintiff alleges that Defendant Ford failed to make
available at its authorized service and repair facilities sufficient literature
and replacement parts to effect repairs during the express warranty period.
(Complaint, ¶ 24.) Plaintiff alleges that Defendant Ford knew of its obligation
to provide literature and replacement parts sufficient to allow its repair
facilities to effect repairs during the warranty period, yet Defendant Ford
failed to take any action to correct its failure to comply with the law.
(Complaint, ¶ 25.) 
 
            As to the
failure to provide sufficient service literature and replacement parts, Plaintiff provides
evidence that he has continued to experience issues with the Subject Vehicle
even after the last repair.  (Salehipour Decl., ¶ 22.) Defendants argue
that “Plaintiff produced no evidence in discovery regarding any failure by Ford
to provide sufficient literature or replacement parts.” (Memorandum of Points
and Authorities at p. 7:24-26.) Plaintiff sets forth numerous visits to
Defendant Ford’s authorized repair facility and unsuccessful attempted warranty
repairs. (Salehipour Decl., ¶¶ 9-20; Exh. 3.)  
 
Furthermore, “[e]vidence that a
problem was fixed for a period of time but reappears at a later date is
relevant to determining whether a fundamental problem in the vehicle was ever
resolved.”  (Donlen v. Ford Motor Co.
(2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 138, 149.)  On
summary adjudication, the court must consider all the evidence and draw
inferences in the light most favorable to the opposing party. (Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  Given that the Subject Vehicle continued to
experience ongoing problems, such as engine defects, after being presented for
repairs, an inference is created that sufficient literature and/or replacement
parts were not provided by Defendant Ford to Defendant Advantage. As such, triable
issues of fact exist as to whether: (1) any repair presentation took more than
30 days to complete; and (2) Defendant Ford provided sufficient literature and replacement
parts to Defendant Advantage.  For those
reasons, summary adjudication is denied as to the second and third causes of
action. 
 
Fifth cause of action – breach of implied warranty of
merchantability 
 
Under Civil Code section 1791.1,
subdivision (c), the duration of an implied warranty of merchantability “shall
be coextensive in duration with an express warranty which accompanies the
consumer goods, provided the duration of the express warranty is reasonable;
but in no event shall such implied warranty have a duration of less than 60
days nor more than one year following the sale of new consumer goods to a
retail buyer.” “‘Implied warranty of merchantability’ or ‘implied warranty that
goods are merchantable’ means that the consumer goods meet each of the
following: [¶] (1) Pass without objection in the trade under the contract
description. [¶] (2) Are fit for the ordinary purposes for which such goods are
used. [¶] (3) Are adequately contained, packaged, and labeled. [¶] (4) Conform
to the promises or affirmations of fact made on the container or label.” (Civ.
Code, § 1791.1, subd. (a).) 
 
“[T]he implied warranty ensures not simply
that a product substantially free of defects, but in particular that a vehicle
. . . is in safe condition.” (Brand v. Hyundai Motor America (2014) 226
Cal.App.4th 1538, 1547 (Brand).) “This minimum guarantee in the implied
warranty of merchantability protects not only the vehicle purchaser, but other
motorists, passengers, pedestrians, and the public generally.” (Ibid.) “[A]
new car need not be perfect in every detail; rather, its implied
merchantability requires only that a vehicle be reasonably suited for ordinary
use.” (Ibid.) “A merchantable vehicle under the statute requires more
than the mere capability of just getting from point ‘A’ to point ‘B’.” (Id.
at p. 1546.) 
 
The Song-Beverly Act “supplements,
rather than supersedes, the provisions of the California Uniform Commercial
Code.”  (Krieger v. Nick Alexander Imports,
Inc. (1991) 234 Cal.App.3d 205, 213.)  “The Act itself contains no express
limitations period for a civil action.  Section
2725 of the California Uniform Commercial Code provides for a four-year
limitations period for breach of warranty.” (Id. at pp. 213-214.)  Under this statute, “(1) An action for breach
of any contract for sale must be commenced within four years after the cause of
action has accrued. … [¶] (2) A cause of action accrues when the breach
occurs, regardless of the aggrieved party’s lack of knowledge of the breach.
A breach of warranty occurs when tender of delivery is made, except that where
a warranty explicitly extends to future performance of the goods and discovery
of the breach must await the time of such performance the cause of action
accrues when the breach is or should have been discovered.” (Cal. U. Com. Code,
§ 2725, subds. (1), (2), italics added.) “There are no hard and fast rules for
determining what facts or circumstances will compel inquiry by the injured
party and render him chargeable with knowledge.” (United States Liab. Ins.
Co. v. Haidinger-Hayes, Inc. (1970) 1 Cal.3d 586, 597.) “A cause of action
for breach of warranty of future performance . . . accrues upon discovery of
the breach.” (Mills v. Forestex Co. (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 625, 642.) “[T]he
statute of limitations begins to run when the plaintiff suspects or should
suspect that her injury was caused by wrongdoing, that someone has done wrong
to her.” (Jolly v. Eli Lilly & Co. (1988) 44 Cal.3d 1103, 1110.) 
 
            Defendants
assert that the fifth cause of action is time-barred because Plaintiff purchased
the Subject Vehicle on July 17, 2015—which is the date of delivery—and
therefore the implied warranty cause of action expired on July 17, 2019.
(Memorandum of Points and Authorities at p. 8:24-27.) Plaintiff filed the
instant action on March 10, 2021, which Defendants argue is almost one year
after the statute of limitations expired. (Memorandum of Points and Authorities
at p. 8:27-9:2.) 
 
            Here the 36
month and five-year warranties explicitly cover the future performance of the
vehicle. Accordingly, under California Uniform Commercial Code section 2725,
subdivisions (1) and (2), the implied warranty of merchantability “cause of
action accrues when the breach is or should have been discovered.” Plaintiff
indicates that as a result of the ongoing problems with the Subject Vehicle, he
discovered that Defendant Ford and its authorized repair facilities never
permanently repaired or successfully fixed the Subject Vehicle during the
warranty, despite having given them a reasonable number of opportunities to do
so. Plaintiff is not an automotive expert and relied on the expertise of
Defendant Ford’s certified technicians who informed him on each visit that the
Subject Vehicle was repaired. Defendant Ford failed to disclose the existence
of any defect. (Salehipour Decl., ¶ 23.) 
 
            Defendants’
statute of limitations argument rests on the assertions that the implied
warranty claim accrues upon the vehicle’s delivery and the delayed discovery
doctrine does not apply.  First, because
the California Uniform Commercial Code limitations period applies, the cause of
action may accrue when the breach is or should have been discovered.  Moreover, resolution of the “statute of
limitations is normally a question of fact.” 
(Paredes v. Credit Consulting Services, Inc. (2022) 82 Cal.App.5th
410, 427.) 
 
Second, whether the delayed discovery
rule applies to this claim is far from settled. To be sure, Nguyen v. Nissan
North America, Inc. (2020) 487 F.Supp.3d 845 supports Defendants’ position
that the delayed discovery doctrine does not apply to implied warranty of merchantability
claims. But other district courts have concluded that delayed discovery may
toll the statute of limitations for breach of implied warranty.  ((Smith v. Ford Motor Co. (N.D.Cal.
Feb. 4, 2020, No. 19-cv-05170-CRB) 2020 WL 609864,*4 [“[T]he majority of courts
that have considered this issue . . . have found that the implied warranties at
issue could extend to the future performance of goods and thus that California
law does not ‘obviously foreclose’ the application of the ‘delayed discovery’
theory”]; Yeager v. Ford Motor Co. (N.D.Cal. Jan. 8, 2020, No. C
19-06750 WHA) 2020 WL 95645, *3.)  
 
            An issue of
fact exists concerning the date Plaintiff reasonably could have discovered breach
of the implied warranty. This precludes summary adjudication based on the
statute of limitations.
 
            Defendants,
however, also contend that the fifth cause of action fails because Plaintiff
cannot establish the element of breach. Specifically, Defendants argue that the
implied warranty expired one year after Plaintiff purchased the Subject Vehicle
on July 17, 2015 and Plaintiff first presented the Subject Vehicle for
non-maintenance warranty repair on August 19, 2016. (Memorandum of Points and
Authorities at p. 10:18-23; 4SUF3.) The Court notes that “[t]he implied
warranty of merchantability may be breached by a latent defect undiscoverable
at the time of sale.” (Mexia v. Rinker Boat Co., Inc. (2009) 174
Cal.App.4th 1297, 1304-05.) “In the case of a latent defect, a product is
rendered unmerchantable, and the implied warranty of merchantability is
breached, by the existence of the unseen defect, not by its subsequent
discovery.” (Id. at p. 1305.) 
 
            Here,
Plaintiff has presented no evidence that an oil leak, battery replacement, or
any of the non-warranty issues in the Subject Vehicle, such as rattling noises
and lack of acceleration, were a latent defect. Plaintiff’s citation to Mexia
v. Rinker Boat Co., Inc., supra, 174 Cal.App.4th 1297 is inapposite
as it does not support Plaintiff’s contention as to latency. In Mexia, where
a boat needed repairs approximately 27 months after purchase for corrosion
issues under written warranties, the Mexia court held, in reversing the
trial court order sustaining a demurrer without leave to amend, that “there is
no evidence in the record one way or the other as to whether the alleged
defects existed at the time of sale” and that “evidence produced at the later
stages of the case could show that the corrosion was due to improper
maintenance, [and] it is also possible that [appellant] can present evidence
that the corrosion was due to a defect that existed at the time of sale but
remained latent and undiscoverable for two years.” (Mexia v. Rinker Boat
Co., Inc., supra, 174 Cal.App.4th 1297, 1308.) 
 
Plaintiff presents no evidence that
the warranty-related oil leaks and battery issues, or the other non-warranty
related repairs for, among other issues, rattling noises and leaking coolant, or
any other breach of the merchantability warranty existed during the one year
following sale. Plaintiff did not present the Subject Vehicle for repair under
warranty until over one year after he purchased the Subject Vehicle. 
 
            In contrast,
issues that arise during the first year of ownership such as brake noises,
hesitant transmission shifting, and white smoke emitting from the exhaust are
deemed breaches of the implied warranty of merchantability. (Isip v.
Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC (2007) 155 Cal.App.4th 19, 27.)  Moreover, when a vehicle’s sunroof began
opening spontaneously two days after purchase, it was deemed a breach of the
implied warranty of merchantability. (Brand, supra, 226
Cal.App.4th at p. 1550.) While neither Brand nor Isip addressed
latent defects, the purported defects at issue here did not manifest themselves
until well after the Subject Vehicle was sold. Plaintiff has not presented any
evidence that the oil leaks or any other purported maintenance issues with the
Subject Vehicle existed within one year of sale but could not have been
discovered until later. 
 
            A party can
move for summary judgment or summary adjudication “by showing that the
plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence.” (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co., supra, 25 Cal.4th 826, 854.) Plaintiff
has failed to present any evidence that a latent defect existed at the time of
sale. In fact, in the opposition, Plaintiff merely argues that Defendants do
not meet their burden to disprove latency. (Opp’n at p. 11:1-8.) It is
undisputed that Plaintiff first presented the Subject Vehicle for warranty
repair over one year after purchase. 
 
            The Court therefore
finds that Plaintiff has not created a triable issue of fact as to breach
because Plaintiff has not presented any evidence of a breach of the warranty of
merchantability during the term of that warranty. Plaintiff was required produce
substantial responsive evidence and cannot rely on speculation to establish a
triable issue of material fact. (Granadino v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2015)
236 Cal.App.4th 411, 415.) Plaintiff has failed to do so concerning the issue
of breach. 
 
            On those
bases, the Court grants Defendant summary adjudication on the fifth cause of
action for breach of the implied warranty of merchantability.
 
Conclusion
 
            The motion for summary judgment is denied.
Summary adjudication is denied as to the second and third causes of action in
the Complaint. The Court grants summary adjudication as to the fifth cause of
action in the Complaint.  
 


