 Case Number:  24STCV29056    Hearing Date:   January 7, 2025    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     January 7, 2025                     TRIAL
DATE: NOT SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Pasaca Capital, LLC et al. v. Daniel
Elliott, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 24STCV29056            
 
MOTION
TO SEAL

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiffs Pasaca Capital LLC, Pasaca Capital, Inc.,
Innova Medical Group, Inc., and Charles Huang
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): No response on
eCourt as of 01/02/25
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
11/05/24: Complaint filed.
·        
12/04/24: First Amended Complaint filed. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for declaratory relief. Plaintiffs contend that
Defendants are attempting to force arbitration of claims which fall outside the
scope of a stipulation to arbitrate. 
 
Plaintiffs move to seal portions of
the First Amended Complaint in this action. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Plaintiffs move to seal portions of
the First Amended Complaint in this action.
 
The sealing of court records is
governed by California Rules of Court rules 2.550 and 2.551.  (Mercury
Interactive Corp. v. Klein (2007) 158 Cal.App.4th 60,
68.)  The presumption of open access to court records does not apply
to “records that are required to be kept confidential by law.” (Cal. Rules
of Court, rule 2.550(a)(3).) A party seeking to seal a court record or
seeking to file a record under seal must do so by motion or application
supported by a declaration showing facts justifying the record’s sealing.  (Id.,
rule 2.551(b)(1).)  
California Rules of Court rule
2.550(d) states: “The court may order that a record be filed under seal only if
it expressly finds facts that establish: 
(1) There exists an overriding interest that overcomes
the right of public access to the record;
(2) The overriding interest supports sealing the
record; 
(3) A substantial probability exists that the
overriding interest will be prejudiced if the record is not sealed; 
(4) The proposed sealing is narrowly tailored;
and 
(5) No less restrictive means exist to achieve the
overriding interest.”  
            Once
sealed, a record can only be unsealed by order of court.  (Id.,
rule 2.551(h)(1).)  So long as it remains under seal, all parties
must refrain from filing anything not under seal that would disclose the sealed
matter.  (Id., rule 2.551(c).)  If a party files a
new document referring to sealed matter, it must submit an unredacted version
of the document under seal and a redacted one for the public
record.  (Id., rule 2.551(b)(5); H.B. Fuller Co. v.
Doe (2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 879, 889.) 
            Plaintiffs
move to seal the portions of the First Amended Complaint pertaining to the
contents and subject of the arbitration agreement at the center of this
dispute, as well as the agreement itself, on the grounds that the agreement
contains a confidentiality provision. Leaving aside Plaintiffs’ failure to
serve the named Defendants with this motion to seal the central portions of the
operative pleading against them, Plaintiffs offer no California authority
expressly recognizing such a provision as an overriding interest beyond a
single footnote recognizing federal authority to that effect in NBC
Subsidiary (KNBC-TC), Inc. v. Super. Ct. (Locke) (1999) 20 Cal. 4th 1178,
at 1222 footnote 46. Moreover, Plaintiffs’ proposed sealing is not narrowly
tailored, as the information sought to be restricted is central to the case,
and Plaintiffs offer nothing to support a finding that no less restrictive
means are available. This showing is not sufficient to support the disfavored
measure of sealing the record. 
Accordingly, Plaintiffs’ Motion to Seal is DENIED.
 
Plaintiffs are ordered to file and serve a clean, unredacted
copy of the First Amended Complaint within 10 days of this order. 
 
Moving Parties to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  January 7,
2025                                  ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 