  Case Number:  21STCV33265    Hearing Date:   March 26, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 March 26, 2024¿ 
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                  21STCV33265
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Plaintiff Doe v.
Innovative Fertility Center, et al. 
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Defendants, Innovative Fertility Center; Mark Rispler
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff, Plaintiff Doe 
¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                        May 6, 2024
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion for Summary
Adjudication 
                                                
¿ Tentative Rulings:                 (1) DENIED 
 
 
 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿ 
¿¿ 
Plaintiff
Doe filed this action against Defendants Innovative Fertility Center, Mark J.
Rispler (collectively “Defendants”), and Does 1-50 on September 9, 2021. On
November 15, 2021, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against
Defendants alleging the following causes of action: (1) Battery; (2) Sexual Assault;
(3) Medical Negligence; and (4) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress.
These causes of action are based on Plaintiff’s allegation that on October 1,
2019, during her medical appointment with Mark J. Rispler, M.D., that he
intentionally and inappropriately used the transvaginal ultrasound wand in a
sexual nature as he was performing the exam. 
 
Defendants
have now filed a Motion for Summary Adjudication stating that the First,
Second, and Fourth causes of action lack merit and that there are grounds for summary
adjudication of ¾ of the causes of action. 
 
B. Procedural¿¿ 
¿ 
On August 23, 2023, Defendants filed a Motion for
Summary Adjudication. On December 20, 2023, Plaintiff filed an ex parte
application to continue the hearing on Defendant’s Motion for Summary Adjudication,
which was granted in part. On March 11, 2024,  Plaintiff filed an opposition with a
declaration from the Plaintiff and from counsel. On March 18, 2024, Defendants
filed a reply brief. 
 
 
 
II. EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
 
Defendants’ Evidentiary Objections to Plaintiff’s
Opposition Evidence
SUSTAIN: 3, 4, 5 on ambiguity grounds only (“that he did it”
and “I did that” and “he did that”), 9 (all but 1st sentence), 14
 
OVERRULE: 1-2, 6, 7, 8 and 9 first sentence (lay opinion,
not expert opinion, based on the Plaintiff’s stated experience with other
transvaginal ultrasounds)
 
There are no objections numbered 10-13 in the document filed
by defendant on March 18, 2024
 
III. ANALYSIS¿ 
 
 
A. Legal Standard 
 
The function of a motion for summary
judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing
party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an
order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) CCP Section 437(c) “requires the
trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all
inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other
inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material
fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”¿ (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)¿ “The function
of the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of
the issues; the function of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose
whether there is any triable issue of fact within the issues delimited by the
pleadings.”¿ (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67,
citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367,
381-382.)¿ 
 
As to each claim as framed by the
complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial
burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to
establish a defense. (CCP § 437c(p)(2); Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005)
128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520. ) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in
support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning
the evidence in favor of that party.”¿ (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc.¿(2006)
39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)¿ 
 
Once the defendant has met that burden,
the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto.¿¿¿ 
To establish a triable issue of material
fact, the party opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive
evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.) 
 
B. Discussion 
 
Preliminarily, the Court observes that its role on a dispositive
motion is not to consider the weight or credibility
of the evidence. It should only determine if a triable issue of material fact
exists which requires the weighing procedures of trial. (Id.) In making
its motion, Defendants lay out Plaintiff’s allegations, statements made in her
deposition, indicate that as of the time the motion was filed Dr. Rispler had
not had his deposition taken, but did provide a declaration in support of his view
and recollection of what transpired when
re-positioning the probe or lubricating the tip. Assuming for sake of argument that
Defendants may have met their initial burden, Plaintiff’s opposition papers -- which
include her declaration of her view and recollection of what transpired several
times during the ultrasound examination -- demonstrate that a finder of fact
must decide between the parties’ competing views and recollections.  Plaintiff’s evidence, particularly her own
declaration as to the matters to which the Court overruled objections reveals
several triable issues of material fact including the movements of the wand
during the examination, the location of the wand during the examination, and
perhaps whatever the “that” is where Plaintiff recounts statements made by Dr.
Rispler during the procedure. As such, for the Battery, Sexual Assault, and
IIED claims, the Court finds that at minimum, Plaintiff has carried her shifted
burden as the same type of evidence, declaration/deposition testimony, is
provided by both parties and the Court refuses nor is permitted to weigh the
strength of the evidence of these parties’ testimonies. 
 
Defendants
seem to rely on the fact that Dr. Rispler’s declaration as to his intent is
dispositive to whether Plaintiff can carry the intentional tort causes of
action. However, if this were true, any declaration or deposition testimony of
a party accused of an intentional tort asserting that it was not their intent,
would rarely proceed to trial. Further, this case involves a medical procedure.
As such, the rules for medical battery and assault are different. Lack of
consent in a medical procedure is different than the general intentional torts.
As such, simply because Plaintiff consented to a transvaginal ultrasound
procedure does not mean that a battery or assault may not have occurred when Plaintiff’s
consent was allegedly exceeded by Dr. Rispler’s actions. It is undisputed that
Plaintiff gave conditional consent to receive a transvaginal ultrasound,
however there is no evidence of what documents Plaintiff was provided or that
she signed. There is no evidence of whether the documents Plaintiff may have
signed indicated the procedure for a transvaginal ultra sound. There is no
evidence of whether consent for a transvaginal ultrasound includes the alleged
movement of the wand to spread lubricant multiple times on portions of the
Plaintiff’s vulva up near the superior part of the clitoris.  The trier of fact may well believe Dr. Rispler’s
testimony as to the need to lubricate the labia and to reposition the wand to
gain a view of each ovary, but they may believe Plaintiff’s testimony
instead.  
 
Unlike
sexual battery crimes that require proof of the alleged perpetrator’s mens rea
as to gratification or arousal, in a civil battery setting the intentional tort
only requires proof that the act of moving the wand was done intentionally
rather than negligently, and the Plaintiff’s declaration raises a triable issue
of fact bearing on that species of intent given the number of times she states the
wand touched her clitoris.  She says he
rubbed the wand across her clitoris 5 times; he “absolutely” denied that he did
so.  That is sufficient by itself to deny
summary adjudication.  
 
The
fact that Plaintiff’s counsel elected to refrain from asking her client question
at the deposition noticed by defense counsel is not sufficient to raise the Benavides
v. San Jose Police Department issue because the declaration does not CONTRACDICT
the deposition testimony.  Nowhere in the
objections or reply brief are any specific deposition passages cited where plaintiff
allegedly contradicted deposition testimony in her declaration.  
 
Thus,
the Motion for Summary Adjudication as to the First, Second, and Fourth causes
of action are DENIED. 
¿¿¿ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 