  Case Number:  23STCV16680    Hearing Date:   December 17, 2024    Dept:  49 Katherine Gelber, et al. v. Ayala Tamir, et al.OSC RE: PRELIMINARY INJUNCTION MOVING PARTY: Ayala and Yoav TamirRESPONDING PARTY(S): En Ville Owners Association, Inc.STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: Plaintiffs Katherine Gelber and Jean Phillippe Nessler occupy a residential unit within a multi-family condominium complex in Beverly Hills, CA. Defendant En Ville Owners Association, Inc., is the homeowners association of the complex. Defendants Ayala and Yoav Tamir own the residential unit directly above Plaintiffs’ unit. Plaintiffs allege their unit suffered significant water damage originating from the deck on the Tamir’s Unit and/or the common area beneath the deck. The water infiltration caused and continues to cause damages and mold to Plaintiffs’ unit. Plaintiffs allege the Tamir Defendants and Defendant En Ville have failed to undertake the required repairs, and refuse to provide the necessary access and/or cooperation with Plaintiffs to cure the ongoing leak. The Tamir Defendants have filed a Cross-Complaint against the HOA for indemnity. The HOA has cross-complained against the Tamirs. After an ex parte application made by the Tamir Defendants, the court set an OSC re: preliminary injunction. The HOA opposes the preliminary injunction. TENTATIVE RULING:The Order to Show Cause re: Preliminary Injunction is GRANTED.The October 1, 2024 assessment lien is ordered released and/or extinguished WITHOUT PREJUDICE, to be sought at a future date, when and if appropriate.The HOA is precluded from foreclosing on the assessment lien pending a trial on the merits.Moving parties are ordered to give notice, unless waived.DISCUSSION:OSC Re: Preliminary InjunctionI. Legal StandardThe purpose of a preliminary injunction is to preserve the status quo pending final resolution upon a trial. (See Scaringe v. J.C.C. Enterprises, Inc. (1988) 205 Cal.App.3d 1536.) The status quo has been defined to mean the last actual peaceable, uncontested status which preceded the pending controversy. (14859 Moorpark Homeowner’s Assn. v. VRT Corp. (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 1396. 1402.) Preliminary injunctive relief requires the use of competent evidence to create a sufficient factual showing on the grounds for relief. (See, e.g., ReadyLink Healthcare v. Cotton (2005) 126 Cal.App.4th 1006, 1016; Ancora-Citronelle Corp. v. Green (1974) 41 Cal.App.3d 146, 150.) Injunctive relief may be granted based on a verified complaint only if it contains sufficient evidentiary, not ultimate, facts. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 527(a).) The burden of proof is on the plaintiff as moving party. (O’Connell v. Superior Court (2006) 141 Cal.App.4th 1452, 1481.) A plaintiff seeking injunctive relief must show the absence of an adequate damages remedy at law. (Code Civ. Proc. § 526(4); Thayer Plymouth Center, Inc. v. Chrysler Motors (1967) 255 Cal.App.2d 300, 307.)    The trial court considers two factors in determining whether to issue a preliminary injunction: (1) the likelihood the plaintiff will prevail on the merits of its case at trial, and (2) the interim harm the plaintiff is likely to sustain if the injunction is denied as compared to the harm the defendant is likely to suffer if the court grants a preliminary injunction. (Code Civ. Proc. § 526(a); Husain v. McDonald’s Corp. (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 860, 866-67.) The balancing of harm between the parties “involves consideration of such things as the inadequacy of other remedies, the degree of irreparable harm, and the necessity of preserving the status quo.” (Husain, supra, 205 Cal.App.4th at 867.) Thus, a preliminary injunction may not issue without some showing of potential entitlement to such relief.  (Doe v. Wilson (1997) 57 Cal.App.4th 296, 304.) The decision to grant a preliminary injunction generally lies within the sound discretion of the trial court and will not be disturbed on appeal absent an abuse of discretion. (Thornton v. Carlson (1992) 4 Cal.App.4th 1249, 1255.)  A preliminary injunction ordinarily cannot take effect unless and until the plaintiff provides an undertaking for damages which the enjoined defendant may sustain by reason of the injunction if the court finally decides that the plaintiff was not entitled to the injunction. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 529(a); Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1150(f); City of South San Francisco v. Cypress Lawn Cemetery Assn. (1992) 11 Cal.App.4th 916, 920.) II. AnalysisA. BackgroundFollowing a disciplinary hearing on June 3, 2024, the HOA imposed a special assessment of over $90,000 against the Tamirs, contending that the Tamirs were solely at fault for the water leaks. The HOA subsequently filed two assessment liens, the most recent on October 1, 2024 (the “lien”.) The HOA has indicated it will foreclose on the lien. Defendants and Cross-Complainants Ayala and Yoav Tamir now move for a preliminary injunction releasing the Lien and prohibiting the HOA from taking any action to foreclose on the lien. The matter initially came for hearing as an ex parte on October 30, 2024, where the Tamirs sought:(1) An order for preliminary injunction, or in the alternative, an temporary restraining order and order to show cause why a preliminary injunction should not issue enjoining the HOA, and all those persons or entities acting in concert with it, on their behalf, or as agents for it, from taking any action to foreclose on the assessment lien which the HOA improperly recorded on or about October 1, 2024 in the amount of $94,022.34 (the “Lien”) against the Tamirs’ property located at 415 South Spalding Dr., Unit 306, Beverly Hills, California 90212 (the “Property” or “Unit 306”);(2) An order determining that the Lien is defective and improperly recorded, andtherefore null and void and of no legal force or effect; and(3) An order requiring that the HOA cause the Lien to be released.(See Ex Parte Application, p. ii.)The HOA filed an initial opposition to the ex parte application. After this court conferred with counsel at the ex parte hearing, the “homeowners association indicate[d], agree[d], and assure[d] that they [would] take no action to foreclose on the lien, pending further order.” (See 10-30-2024 Minute Order.) Therefore, the court denied the ex parte application, and set an OSC re: preliminary injunction for December 17, 2024. (Id.) The court permitted the parties to supplement the pleadings with an opposition and reply due per code. (Id.)B. The Application is Not MootIn its supplemental opposition, the HOA contends the OSC is moot because it has no intention of foreclosing on the loan until the liability disputes are resolved at trial. The HOA effectively asks the Tamirs and this court to take their word for it. However, an increasingly-sour relationship between the parties and/or their respective counsel leaves the hanging threat of foreclosure. Indeed, very recently, the HOA was receptive to formally making this OSC moot by entering into a written agreement not to foreclose on the lien. But due to quibbles over the language in the agreement relating to what was said at the ex parte hearing—an issue which appears to be of little or no consequence—no agreement was finalized. Therefore, to formally resolve the issue and eliminate the hanging threat of foreclosure, a court order is necessary and appropriate. C. Injunctive Relief is AvailableSecond, the HOA argues injunctive relief is unavailable because the Tamirs have not sought that relief in their Cross-Complaint. As explained by the Court of Appeal, that “contention is not sound.” (Dennis v. Overholtzer (1957) 149 Cal. App. 2d 101, 104.) “It is true that if a preliminary injunction is sought upon a complaint rather than upon affidavits the complaint must state a cause of action for such relief. [Citation]. However, “upon a proper showing in any type of action a court may issue an injunction to maintain the status quo or to prevent irreparable injury during pendency of the suit.” (Id.) Therefore, despite not seeking injunctive relief in their cross-complaint for indemnification, the Tamirs can now seek a preliminary injunction to maintain the status quo. D. Validity of the LienTherefore, the court now turns to the merits of the action. The Tamirs contend the lien itself is defective because the HOA recorded the lien before the parties engaged in mediation. Under the Civil Code, “[p]rior to recording a lien for delinquent assessments, an association shall offer the owner and, if so requested by the owner, participate in dispute resolution pursuant to the association’s ‘meet and confer’ program required in Article 2 (commencing with Section 5900) of Chapter 10.” (Civil Code 5670.) Similarly, “[p]rior to initiating a foreclosure on an owner’s separate interest, the association shall offer the owner and, if so requested by the owner, participate in dispute resolution pursuant to the association’s “meet and confer” program required in Article 2 (commencing with Section 5900) of Chapter 10 or alternative dispute resolution as set forth in Article 3 (commencing with Section 5925) of Chapter 10…” (Civil Code § 5705(a.)On August 5, 2024, the parties agreed to proceed with mediation pursuant to both Civil Code sections 5670 and 5705. (Tamirs’ Exh. 11.) In other words, the parties effectively skipped any informal dispute resolution process (required before recording a lien) and jumped right to mediation (required before initiating a foreclosure.) Before the mediation commenced, the HOA filed the liens. Under these circumstances, the court concludes that the Tamirs (1) impliedly waived any necessary compliance with section 5670 by requesting to proceed straight to mediation or, alternatively, (2) the parties’ communications satisfied the informal dispute resolution requirements necessary before recording the lien. Second, the Tamirs argue the lien is invalid because the HOA failed to restart the lien process when it withdrew the September 10th lien and recorded the second. This argument is better taken.It is not clear why the first lien was released. Be that as it may, prior to the HOA recording the second lien on October 1, 2024, they had not restarted the notice process. Under Civil Code section 5690, “[a]n association that fails to comply with the procedures set forth in this article shall, prior to recording a lien, recommence the required notice process. Any costs associated with recommencing the notice process shall be borne by the association and not by the owner of a separate interest.” (Civil Code § 5690, emphasis added.)To this argument, the HOA responds only: “The Tamirs’ claims that a New Prelien Notice was needed is also unsupported because the original September 10, 2024 lien was released and the Tamirs were served with the updated October 1, 2024 lien.” (Supp. Opp. 8: 18-20.) This bare argument is insufficient to establish that the HOA satisfied the necessary notice requirements before recording the second lien. Therefore, the court concludes that the lien was procedurally defective and must be extinguished.E. Foreclosure of LienFinding the lien procedurally defective would naturally mean any foreclosure is unavailable. That would seem to end the issue. However, there may be a reasonable argument that a court cannot adjudicate that issue—i.e. extinguish the lien—through a TRO or preliminary injunction. But even in that event, foreclosure of the lien is still inappropriate under the circumstances because the Tamirs have established a likelihood of success on the merits.Under the CC&Rs, the Tamir’s have the duty to “maintain, service, waterproof and repair the floors and interior walls of their Balconies, Patios, Terraces and Courtyards.” (Ex. 1, CC&Rs, § 6.1.) The HOA, on the other hand, has “the duty to repair and maintain the exterior surfaces, railings, and structural components of Balconies.” (Ex. 1, CC&Rs, § 6.2.) It is the Tamirs’ position that the HOA’s failure to repair and maintain the structural components of the balconies is a cause of the water damage to Plaintiff’s unit. In support of the preliminary injunction, the Tamirs present a declaration from Stephen Wilson, an expert consultant. (See Wilson Decl. ¶¶ 1, 2.) Based on Wilson’s multiple inspections of the subject units, he disputes the HOA’s conclusion that the Tamirs are completely responsible for the water damage to the Plaintiffs’ unit. (Id. ¶ 6.) Instead, it is Wilson’s opinion that a failed drainage system and the faulty structure and design of the deck caused the damage. (Id. ¶¶ 9-17.) The HOA has not disputed this evidence with any expert or compelling evidence of their own. Therefore, on the evidence presented, the HOA’s failure to maintain the structural components of the balconies is, at the very least, a concurrent cause of the water leaks. Therefore, the Tamirs have established a likelihood of success on their Cross-Complaint for indemnity. Next, the court considers the harm to the Tamirs if the motion were not granted with the harm to the HOA if the motion were granted.  Here, if the preliminary injunction is denied, the Tamirs face extreme and potentially irreparable harm as the HOA could foreclose on their unit.On the other hand, the HOA’s harm is less if the preliminary injunction is granted. At most, the HOA will be unable to foreclose on the property until liability is adjudicated at trial and may face temporary financial stress. Trial is set for July of 2025.  Considering these harms, this court concludes the balance shifts in favor of granting the motion for a preliminary injunction and maintaining the status quo pending trial on the merits.Accordingly, the Order to Show Cause re: Preliminary Injunction is GRANTED.IT IS SO ORDERED.Dated:   December 17, 2024 ___________________________________ Randolph M. Hammock Judge of the Superior Court