 Case Number:  23STCV28326    Hearing Date:   December 17, 2024    Dept:  49 Farzad Rad v. Lending Star Capital, LLC, et al. PLAINTIFF’S MOTION FOR TRIAL PREFERENCE MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff Farideh Rad and The Rad Family Trust Dated 9/8/2003RESPONDING PARTY(S): Defendants Coastal Capital Group, LLC, Chris Tomaszewski, SF Services, LLC, California TD Specialists, Scott Griest, and Anh-Thu Le  [FN 1]STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: Plaintiff Farzad Rad, an individual, and Plaintiff Farideh Rad, individually and as trustee of The Rad Family Trust dated September 8, 2003, bring this action for elder financial abuse and other claims. Plaintiffs allege that Defendants induced Farideh Rad—who was behind on her conventional mortgage—to enter into a predatory hard money loan. The loan devoured Plaintiff Farideh Rad’s life savings in home equity, resulting in the foreclosure of her family home and the eviction of her family. In the Second Amended Complaint, Plaintiffs asserted causes of action for (1) Elder Financial Abuse, (2) Wrongful Foreclosure, (3) Attorneys’ Fees Under Contract, (4) Breach of Fiduciary Duty, and (5) Quiet Title. On November 18, 2024, the court sustained Defendants’ demurrer to the First, Second, Third, and Fifth causes of action. Plaintiffs were given 30-days leave to amend the First and Second causes of action only. As of the date of this Ruling, Plaintiffs have not filed a Third Amended Complaint. Plaintiffs now move for trial preference. Defendants opposed.TENTATIVE RULING:Plaintiffs’ Motion for a Trial Preference is GRANTED. Trial will be set within 120-days of this ruling, to be determined at the hearing.Moving parties are ordered to give notice.DISCUSSION:Motion for Trial Preference I. Objections to EvidenceDefendants submit objections to the declarations of Farzad and Farshad Rad. This court is unaware of any legal authority which requires a court to rule on evidentiary objections on a motion, except as to a motion for summary motion/adjudication (CCP § 437c (q)) or a special motion to strike (CCP § 425.16 (b)(2)); see also, Sweetwater Union High School Dist. v. Gilbane Building Co. (2019) 6 Cal.5th 931, 947-949.)As such, the court respectfully declines to rule on these objections.  The court is well aware of the rules of evidence, and to how much weight, if any, should be given to any of the proposed evidence.   II. Judicial NoticePursuant to Defendants’ request, the court takes judicial notice of Exhibits 1 through 8.III. Legal StandardA party to a civil action who is over 70 years of age may petition the court for a preference, which the court shall grant if the court makes both of the following findings:(1) The party has a substantial interest in the action as a whole.(2) The health of the party is such that a preference is necessary to prevent prejudicing the party’s interest in the litigation.(CCP § 36(a) (bold emphasis and underlining added).) If granted, the Court “shall set the matter for trial not more than 120 days from that date.” (CCP § 36(f).) IV. AnalysisPlaintiffs move for a trial preference, arguing that Plaintiff Farideh Rad’s age and deteriorating physical and mental health conditions qualify the case for trial preference.Plaintiff Farideh Rad is 78-years old. (Farzad Rad Decl. ¶ 2, Exh. A.) Plaintiff is mostly dependant on her children for care, who “prepar[e] her meals and provid[e] most of her physical care, including bathing and incontinence care.” (Farshad Decl. ¶ 3.) Her son, Farshad, attests that his mother “is physically and cognitively incapable of caring for herself.” (Id. ¶ 3.) Farshad also states that her health has deteriorated rapidly in the past year, as he has observed a “rapid decline” in her ability “to think, understand, and remember things clearly.” (Id. ¶ 4.) Her other son, Farzad, attests to the same difficulties in his declaration. (See Farzad Decl., generally.)In the past year, Plaintiff has spent three separate hospital visits requiring overnight care. (Farshad Decl. ¶¶ 5, 6.) The first, in March 2024, came after Plaintiff fainted while being treated for a UTI. (Id. ¶ 5.) Plaintiff spent a night in the hospital. (Id.) In August, Plaintiff spent 5 days in the hospital after experiencing confusion and difficulty controlling her blood sugar levels. (Id. ¶ 6.) Notably, at the time Plaintiffs filed their reply to this motion, Mrs. Rad was back in the hospital with “general confusion and physical weakness” relating to another UTI and Covid-19. (Reply 2: 9-10.) This third stay began on September 20 and she remained in the hospital as of October 4. (Id.)Plaintiffs submit a declaration from Mrs. Rad’s primary care physician, Sohail Davoudian, M.D., a doctor of interal medicine. Dr. Davoudian’s declaration attaches “some [his] notes related to Mrs. Rad.” (Id. ¶ 2.) In those notes, Dr. Davoudian writes that Mrs. Rad has, among other ailments, a “longstanding history of diabetes mellitus type 2, hypertension, dyslipidemia, [and] osteoarthritis.” (Id., Exh. A.) In addition, a recent CT scan showed “ischemic changes on the brain” and moderate “brain loss.” (Id.)Finally, Plaintiffs also submit a declaration from Sil Vossler, one their attorneys in this matter. Vossler met with Farideh Rad via Zoom in August 2024. (Vossler Decl. ¶ 3.) Vossler attests that Rad was “unable to recall significant and material details related to her case,” including the subject matter of this litigation; who took her house; why they took her house; or any defendant in this litigation. (Id. ¶ 3.) As a result, “Mrs. Rad has been largely unable to assist [counsel] as [they] gather evidence and prosecute this matter.” (Id. ¶ 4.) While Plaintiff can still recall “some details about the signing of the at-issue loan,” counsel has “serious concerns that she will not be able to recall those facts or circumstances should she decline any further or should the preference motion be denied.” (Id. ¶ 5.) Defendants oppose a trial preference. First, they contend that Mrs. Rad’s health does not warrant a preference. They also argue that she does not have a “substantial interest” in the litigation, especially since her son is acting as her attorney-in-fact. They further contend that a trial preference would violate the due process rights of the Defendants given the vast number of parties and legal theories. Defendants are especially concerned for those Defendants that have not yet appeared in this action. In the event the court does grant the motion, Defendants ask that certain conditions be imposed, including that “[1] Plaintiff's counsel must serve on each defendant a list of third-party witnesses and documents they intend to use at trial; [2] Plaintiff's counsel provide dates for the depositions of the identified third-party witnesses within three weeks of the granting of trial preference; and [3] Plaintiff must provide responses to all defense written discovery within fifteen days of service.” (Id. 14: 10-15.) First, there is little question that Plaintiff, as trustee of the trust owning the subject property, has a “substantial interest in the action as a whole.”  (CCP § 36(a)(2).)  The issue then is whether Plaintiff’s advanced age and corresponding health conditions are sufficient such that a preference is necessary to prevent prejudicing Plaintiff’s interests.  Under the particular circumstances here, this court finds that it does.  Second, Mrs. Rad is 78-years old, and there exists compelling evidence that her already fragile mental and physical health continues to deteriorate. This inhibits her ability to assist counsel with the case and places her ability to attend a distant trial in question. Given these developments, preference is necessary to prevent prejudicing Plaintiff’s interests in the litigation—thus, she falls into the class of persons that section 36(a) is designed to serve. As one court has explained:There can be little argument that section 36 was enacted for the purpose of assuring that an aged or terminally ill plaintiff would be able to participate in the trial of his or her case and be able to realize redress upon the claim asserted. Such a preference is not only necessary to assure a party’s peace of mind that he or she will live to see a particular dispute brought to resolution but it can also have substantive consequences. The party’s presence and ability to testify in person and/or assist counsel may be critical to success.(Looney v. Superior Court (1993) 16 Cal.App.4th 521, 532.)This court appreciates that this is a complicated case involving numerous issues and parties. An expedited trial is far from convenient or ideal for the Defendants. However, “mere inconvenience to the court or to other litigants is irrelevant” under section 36(a).  (Swaithes v. Superior Ct. (1989) 212 Cal. App. 3d 1082, 1085.)  And even the “[f]ailure to complete discovery or other pre-trial matters does not affect the absolute substantive right to trial preference for those litigants who qualify for preference under subdivision (a) of section 36. The trial court has no power to balance the differing interests of opposing litigants in applying the provision. The express legislative mandate for trial preference is a substantive public policy concern which supersedes such considerations.”  (Id. at 1085-86; See also Miller v. Superior Ct. (1990) 221 Cal. App. 3d 1200, 1206 [recognizing the “absolute command of section 36(a)” over even a “legitimate or seemingly compelling public interest” demonstrated by the opposing party].)Under the totality of the circumstances, Mrs. Rad meets both prongs of section 36(a) and therefore qualifies for a mandatory trial preference. Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion for Trial Preference is GRANTED. Trial will be set within 120-days of this ruling, to be determined at the hearing. Moving party to give notice, unless waived.  IT IS SO ORDERED.Dated:   December 17, 2024 __________________________________ Randolph M. Hammock Judge of the Superior CourtFN 1 - Defendants Scott Griest and Anh-Thu Le filed a notice of joinder on October 4, 2024.