  Case Number:  21PSCV01004    Hearing Date:   November 7, 2023    Dept:  6 CASE NAME:  Rebecca  Castillo v. CR Newbury Street Corp.Motion to Serve Defendant Through Secretary of State TENTATIVE  RULING The Court DENIES without prejudice the motion to serve Defendant  through Secretary of State.  BACKGROUND This is an ADA/Unruh Civil Rights Act case. On December 2, 2021, Plaintiff  Rebecca Castillo (Plaintiff) filed this action against Defendant CR Newbury  Street Corp. (Defendant) and Does 1 through 10, alleging one cause of action  for Violations of the Unruh Civil Rights Act, California Civil Code § 51 et  seq. On January 31, 2023, Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint  (FAC), alleging the same cause of action against Defendant.  On October 3, 2023, Plaintiff filed the instant motion to serve  Defendant through Secretary of State. The motion is unopposed.  LEGAL  STANDARD             “A summons may be served on a corporation by  delivering a copy of the summons and the complaint by any of the  following methods… (d) If  authorized by any provision in Section 1701, 1702, 2110, or 2111 of the Corporations Code (or Sections 3301  to 3303, inclusive, or Sections 6500 to 6504, inclusive, of the Corporations  Code, as in effect on December 31, 1976, with  respect to corporations to which they remain applicable), as provided by that provision.” (Code Civ. Proc., §  416.10, subd. (d).)  If an agent for the purpose of service of process has  resigned and has not been replaced or if the agent designated cannot with  reasonable diligence be found at the address designated for personally  delivering the process, or if no agent has been designated, and it is shown by  affidavit to the satisfaction of the court that process against a domestic  corporation cannot be served with reasonable diligence upon the designated  agent by hand in the manner provided in Section 415.10, subdivision (a) of  Section 415.20 or subdivision (a) of Section 415.30 of the Code of Civil  Procedure or upon the corporation in the manner provided in subdivision (a),  (b), or (c) of Section 416.10 or  subdivision (a) of Section 416.20 of the Code of Civil Procedure, the court may  make an order that the service be made upon the corporation by delivering by  hand to the Secretary of State, or to any person employed in the Secretary of  State's office in the capacity of assistant or deputy, one copy of the process  for each defendant to be served, together with a copy of the order authorizing  such service. Service in this manner is deemed complete on the 10th day after  delivery of the process to the Secretary of State.  (Corp. Code § 1702, subd.  (a).)              More simply stated, “If no agent has been designated, or  a designated agent has resigned and has not been replaced, or a designated  agent cannot be found with reasonable diligence, service may be made on the Secretary of State.  [Citations.]” ((c) [§ 1111] Secretary of State., 3 Witkin, Cal. Proc. 6th  Actions § 1111 (2023).)  DISCUSSION Analysis A declaration in support of a request to serve a corporation must  demonstrate "a domestic corporation cannot be served with reasonable  diligence upon the designated agent by hand in the manner provided in Section  415.10, subdivision (a) of Section 415.20 or subdivision (a) of Section 415.30  of the Code of Civil Procedure or upon the corporation in the manner provided  in subdivision (a), (b) or (c) of Section 416.10 or subdivision (a) of Section  416.20 of the Code of Civil Procedure."  Construing the prior version of the statute with similar  requirements, the Court of Appeal in Batte v. Bandy (1958) 165  Cal.App.2d 527 found that "said provisions are given meaning and effect if  they are construed as requiring, as a condition precedent to the issuance of an  order for such substituted service, a showing by affidavit that the corporation  cannot be served with the exercise of due diligence in any other manner  provided by law." (Id. at p. 535.) Interpreting Corporations Code  section 1702(a), courts have held "[w]e do not believe the Legislature  intended to require a less effective method of service upon a corporation when  a more effective method is available, or to require the courts or the Secretary  of State to participate in such service except as a 'last resort' after a party  has exhausted other authorized procedures." (Gibble v. Car-Lene  Research, Inc. (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 295, 312.) "Only if it can show  it cannot accomplish service by one of these methods [enumerated in  Corporations Code section 1702] is a party required to seek the assistance of  the court and the Secretary of State in obtaining jurisdiction over such a  corporate defendant." (Ibid.)  Plaintiff asks the Court to issue an order permitting Plaintiff to  complete service of the FAC on Defendant via the California Secretary of State.  Plaintiff contends that she has encountered numerous issues attempting to effect  service on Defendant, but that despite her efforts, she has not been able to do  so. (Manning Decl., ¶¶ 3-11, Exs. A-E.) Plaintiff’s process server previously  attempted service at 8820 Washington Blvd. #I 01, Culver City, CA 90232, the address  listed in the Statement of Information, but was not able to effect service  because Defendant’s agent for service Cynthia Rowley, was no longer a tenant  there and the space was rented to a restaurant. (Manning Decl., ¶¶ 3-4, Ex. A.)  Plaintiff also was unsuccessful in attempting to serve Ms. Rowley at 22 Morton  St., New York, which was also listed on the Statement of Information. (Manning  Decl., ¶ 5, Ex. B.) Plaintiff located another address for Ms. Rowley, 30 Perry  St., New York, at which she was previously able to serve Ms. Rowley with the  original Complaint. Plaintiff’s process server tried to serve Ms. Rowley 3  times at that address but was ultimately told by Ms. Rowley through a doorbell microphone  that she was not there and did not know when she would be there in person.  (Manning Decl. ¶¶ 6, 8-9, Ex. D.) Finally, Plaintiff had been in communication  with an attorney for Defendant who refused to accept service on behalf of Defendant.  (Manning Decl. ¶¶ 7, 8.)    Plaintiff has demonstrated an inability to serve Defendant's agent  for service and CEO, Cynthia Rowley, via personal service at the business  address and her residence. (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 415.10(a); 415.20(a).) However, Plaintiff  has not demonstrated any attempt to serve Defendant’s agent, out of state, by mail  or by mailing an acknowledgment and receipt (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 415.30(a), 415.40).  Plaintiff also declared that Defendant was previously served with the original  Complaint at the 30 Perry St. address, but that efforts have not been successful  to serve Defendant’s agent with the FAC at the same address. Plaintiff also  submitted a declaration stating that Ms. Rowley appears to reside at the Perry  St. address, but she was not sure when she would return. This is not sufficient  to resort to service upon the Secretary of State.  Plaintiff has not demonstrated exhaustion of all alternative  methods of service enumerated in Corporations Code section 1702 before service  upon the Secretary of State may be properly authorized. The motion is DENIED  without prejudice.  CONCLUSION                   The Court DENIES without prejudice the motion to serve Defendant through Secretary of State.