  Case Number:  21CHCV00956    Hearing Date:   August 6, 2024    Dept:  F47 Dept. F47
Date: 8/6/24
Case #21CHCV00956
 
MOTION FOR
ATTORNEY FEES
 
Motion filed on 3/19/24.
 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff GGP
Northridge Fashion Center, LP
RESPONDING PARTY: Defendants Alibaba
Express Mediterranean Grill, Inc.; Shamdan Restaurant, Inc.; Ali Mirghaffari
and Yana Mirghaffari
NOTICE: ok
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: An order
awarding and fixing costs and attorney’s fees in for Plaintiff in this action
pursuant to Civil Code 1717 and CCP 1032.

 
RULING: The motion is granted. 
 
SUMMARY OF FACTS & PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
This action arises out of a commercial lease agreement
and guaranty between Plaintiff GPP Northridge Fashion
Center, LP (Plaintiff) and Defendants Shamdan Restaurant, Inc. (Shamdan),
Ali Mirghaffari (Ali), Yana Mirghaffari (Yana) and Alibaba Express
Mediterranean Grill, Inc. (Alibaba).  Alibaba
was the tenant under the subject lease.  Shamdan, Ali and Yana were guarantors of the
subject lease. 
 
Plaintiff filed this action on 12/14/21 against the
guarantors only and filed a separate unlawful detainer action against Alibaba.  In February 2022, Alibaba vacated the
premises.  Therefore, Plaintiff moved to
amend the complaint in this action resulting in the First Amended Complaint
which alleged causes of action against Defendants, tenant and guarantors, for:
(1) Breach of Guaranty and (2) Breach of Lease. 
The guarantors and the tenant each filed cross-complaints which were
ultimately dismissed after being challenged by demurrer and motion for judgment
on the pleadings.
 
After a two-day court trial, on 2/6/24, judgment was
entered in favor of Plaintiff  and
against Defendants, jointly and severally, in the amount of $612,608.74.  (See 2/6/24 Judgment).  The judgment provides that “Plaintiff may
have costs and attorney’s fees by post-judgment application and motion, as
appropriate.”  Id.
 
On 3/19/24, Plaintiff filed and served the instant motion
seeking an order awarding and fixing costs and attorney’s fees in for Plaintiff
in this action pursuant to Civil Code 1717 and CCP 1032.  Defendants have not opposed or otherwise
responded to the motion.  
 
ANALYSIS
 
Generally, prevailing parties in an action are entitled
to recover their costs.  See CCP
1032(a)(4), (b).  A prevailing party may
recover attorney fees when authorized by contract, statute or law.  CCP 1033.5(a)(10).
 
Additionally, Civil Code 1717 provides, in relevant part:

 
“(a) In any action on a contract,
where the contract specifically provides that attorney’s fees and costs, which
are incurred to enforce that contract, shall be awarded either to one of the
parties or to the prevailing party, then the party who is determined to be the
party prevailing on the contract, whether he or she is the party specified in
the contract or not, shall be entitled to reasonable attorney’s fees in
addition to other costs.
 
Where a contract provides for
attorney’s fees, as set forth above, that provision shall be construed as
applying to the entire contract, unless each party was represented by counsel
in the negotiation and execution of the contract, and the fact of that
representation is specified in the contract.
 
Reasonable attorney’s fees shall be
fixed by the court, and shall be an element of the costs of suit.
 
* *
*
 
(b) (1) The court, upon notice and
motion by a party, shall determine who is the party prevailing on the contract
for purposes of this section, whether or not the suit proceeds to final
judgment. Except as provided in paragraph (2), the party prevailing on the
contract shall be the party who recovered a greater relief in the action on the
contract. The court may also determine that there is no party prevailing on the
contract for purposes of this section.”
 
As noted above, Plaintiff is the prevailing party in this
action as judgment was entered in its favor. 
(See 2/6/24 Judgment); CCP 1032(a)(4).  Additionally, the lease and guaranty on which
this action was based provide for the recovery of attorney’s fees by the
prevailing party.  (See Byrne
Decl., Ex.C, Article 28; Ex.D).  
 
Based on  the
lodestar method of calculation (reasonable number of hours expended multiplied
by the reasonable hourly rate), Plaintiff has established that it reasonably
incurred $82,103.00 in attorney fees in obtaining the judgment against
Defendants in this action.  (See
Byrne Decl., Ex.F); PLCM Group (2000) 22 C4th 1084, 1095-1096.
 
CONCLUSION
 
The motion is granted. 
Plaintiff GGP Northridge Fashion Center, LP is awarded $82,103.00 in
attorney’s fees against Defendants Alibaba Express Mediterranean Grill, Inc.;
Shamdan Restaurant, Inc.; Ali Mirghaffari and Yana Mirghaffari.
 
 