  Case Number:  22AHCV00264    Hearing Date:   December 27, 2024    Dept:  B Coverage Attorney: Nazenin Eghbal, neghbal@lacourt.org, VolP: 55-2464
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
Meredith
  paz,
  et al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
CITY OF SIERRA MADRE., 
                        Defendant.


 
  Case No.:  22AHCV00264
 
  Hearing Date:  December 27, 2024
 
[TENTATIVE] order RE:
motion to compel further responses TO REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION OF
  DOCUMENTS, SET ONE



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations 
            Plaintiffs Meredith Paz and Victor
Paz (“Plaintiffs”) allege that their home is a wood-frame, single family,
one-story dwelling located at 1100 Arno Drive in Sierra Madre.  They allege that Defendant City of Sierra
Madre (“the City”) controls and operates a main water pipe located along and
directly above Plaintiffs’ property. 
Plaintiffs allege that beginning August 1, 2021, they noticed a large
amount of water on and underneath the property and that water continues to seep
onto and under their property.  They allege
that the City’s conduct, including but not limited to their construction,
design, management, maintenance, operation, and/or control of its water pipes,
as well as its failures to appreciate the impact and danger the water pipes
would cause adjacent real property caused Plaintiffs damages.  
            The first amended complaint (“FAC”),
filed June 23, 2022, alleges causes of action for: (1) inverse condemnation;
(2) negligence (Gov’t Code, § 815.2(a)); (3) dangerous condition of public
property (Gov’t Code, § 835); and (4) nuisance.   
B.     Cross-Complaint
On July 28, 2022, the
City filed a cross-complaint against Roes 1-10 for: (1) equitable indemnity;
(2) contribution; and (3) declaratory relief. 
C.    
Motion on Calendar
On September 4, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a
motion to compel the City to further respond and produce documents in response to
Request for Production of Documents, set one (“RPDs 1”).  
On December 13, 2024, the City filed an
opposition brief.  
On December 19,
2024, Plaintiffs filed a reply brief.  
 
DISCUSSION 
Plaintiffs
move to compel the City’s further responses to RPDs 1, Nos. 1-65. Plaintiffs
argue that the City’s responses do not comply with CCP § 2031.210 as the City fails
to substantively respond or produce any documents, and provides only
boilerplate objections/responses. Plaintiffs also contend that Defendant
asserts privilege as a basis for withholding but fails to explain why privilege
applies, in violation of CCP § 2031.240. Additionally, Plaintiffs argue that
Defendant fails to establish any oppression or burden by failing to state the
unreasonable amount of work created, an intent to create an unreasonable burden
or that the ultimate effect of the burden is incommensurate with the result
sought as required by West Pica Furniture Co. v. Superior Court (1961)
56 Cal.2d 407, 417.
CCP § 2031.210 states: 
(a) The
party to whom a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling has been
directed shall respond separately to each item or category of item by any of
the following:
(1) A
statement that the party will comply with the particular demand for inspection,
copying, testing, or sampling by the date set for the inspection, copying,
testing, or sampling pursuant to paragraph (2) of subdivision (c) of Section
2031.030 and any related activities.
(2) A
representation that the party lacks the ability to comply with the demand for
inspection, copying, testing, or sampling of a particular item or category of
item.
(3) An
objection to the particular demand for inspection, copying, testing, or
sampling.
 
(b) In
the first paragraph of the response immediately below the title of the case,
there shall appear the identity of the responding party, the set number, and
the identity of the demanding party.
 
(c) Each
statement of compliance, each representation, and each objection in the
response shall bear the same number and be in the same sequence as the
corresponding item or category in the demand, but the text of that item or
category need not be repeated.
 
(d) If a
party objects to the discovery of electronically stored information on the
grounds that it is from a source that is not reasonably accessible because of
undue burden or expense and that the responding party will not search the
source in the absence of an agreement with the demanding party or court order,
the responding party shall identify in its response the types or categories of
sources of electronically stored information that it asserts are not reasonably
accessible. By objecting and identifying information of a type or category of
source or sources that are not reasonably accessible, the responding party
preserves any objections it may have relating to that electronically stored
information.
 
(CCP § 2031.210.)
The City responded as follows to RPDs Nos. 1-65:
“Responding Party objects to this Discovery Request on the grounds that it
calls for speculation and is compound, vague, ambiguous, uncertain, confusing,
unintelligible and overbroad. Responding Party further objects to this
Discovery Request on the grounds that it is overly broad and remote and, as
such, is not relevant to the subject matter nor is it calculated to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence. Responding Party further objects to this
Discovery Request on the grounds that it is unduly burdensome and so overly
broad and unlimited as to time and scope as to be an unwarranted annoyance,
embarrassment, and is oppressive; to comply with the Discovery Request would be
an undue burden and expense on Responding Party and is calculated to annoy and
harass Responding Party. Responding Party further objects to this Discovery
Request on the grounds that it, as phrased, is argumentative and requires the
adoption an assumption, which is improper; the question assumes facts which may
or may not be true, but the form of the question requires that the answer adopt
the assumption. Responding Party further objects to this Discovery Request on
the grounds that it is irrelevant to the subject matter of this lawsuit and not
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. Responding Party
further objects to this Discovery Request on the grounds that it calls for
confidential and proprietary information that is wholly irrelevant and outside
the scope of this lawsuit, and seeks to invade Responding Party’s right to
privacy and the privacy rights of third parties. Responding Party further
objects to this Discovery Request on the grounds that it improperly violates
the attorney-client privilege and/or attorney work product doctrines.
Responding Party further objects to this Discovery Request on the grounds that
the information sought is equally and/or more readily available to the
Propounding Party. Responding Party further objects to this Discovery Request
on the grounds that it calls for an expert opinion and a legal conclusion, and
seeks the legal reasoning and theories of Responding Party’s contentions;
Responding Party is not required to prepare the Propounding Party’s case.
Responding Party further objects to this Discovery Request on the grounds that it
seeks premature disclosure of expert witness information and opinions.”  
 Here, the City fails to substantively respond
or produce any documents, instead providing only boilerplate
objections/responses. The
City asserts privilege as a basis for withholding but fails to explain why
privilege applies, in violation of CCP § 2031.240. Further, the City fails to
establish any oppression or burden by failing to state the unreasonable amount
of work created, an intent to create an unreasonable burden or that the
ultimate effect of the burden is incommensurate with the result sought.
While the
City argues in opposition that every single request is “so overbroad and
ambiguous that they preclude intelligent reply,” the Court disagrees. For
example, RPD No. 1 seeks any and all documents referred to in the City’s
responses to FROGs 1, which includes FROG 17.1. The City identified documents
that they would produce during document production in their response to FROG
17.1 regarding RFA No. 35-41, 50-52 as follows: “Siena Madre Municipal Codes
15.06.020, 15.06.030, 15.04.130, and 15.60.050; all of which are equally
available to Propounding Party online. Plaintiffs' historical water usage data;
2021 permit application; which will be produced with Responding Party's
document production.” However, in response to RPD No. 1, the City responds with
boilerplate objections and fails to produce documents that they already agreed
to produce. This conduct is evasive and obstructive to the discovery process. 
Further,
the document production requests largely seek potentially relevant information
relating to the City’s conduct, including but not limited to the City’s construction,
design, management, maintenance, operation, ownership and/or control of water
pipes under and around
Plaintiffs’ home, which are at issue in this case, as the City is no doubt
aware. In light of the plain meaning of the language in the requests,
intelligent reply is surely possible. Even if certain terms in the requests
were ambiguous,
Plaintiffs contend that they have offered to amend the definitions of the terms
at issue to allay the City’s concerns, but the City has still not cooperated. Further,
to the extent that the City argues that “Responding Party is not required to
prepare the Propounding Party’s case,” the City is required to participate in
the discovery process in good faith by providing responses and documents to the
best of its knowledge rather than outright evading the obligation to
substantively respond and produce documents where appropriate. Thus, further
responses are warranted. 
In
Opposition, the City states that it has already produced all documents within
its possession and will amend the responses to identify the same. The City’s
counsel is surely aware that to the extent that the documents are not in the
City’s possession or do not exist, a code-compliant response must be given per CCP § 2031.230.
CCP § 2031.230 outlines that such a response must state that a diligent search and a reasonable inquiry has
been made in an effort to comply with that demand and shall specify whether the
inability to comply is because the particular item or category has never
existed, has been destroyed, has been lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has never
been, or is no longer, in the possession, custody, or control of the responding
party. The statement shall also set forth the name and address of any natural
person or organization known or believed by that party to have possession,
custody, or control of that item or category of item. As the City similarly
failed to properly respond regarding the unavailability of any documents,
further responses are required. 
Therefore, the motion is granted as to RPDs Nos. 1-65. 
Plaintiffs
request sanctions in the amount of $2,510 against the City and its counsel of
record. Plaintiffs’
counsel Jeffrey A. Slott states that he spent 12 hours on meeting and
conferring and preparing 5 total motions to compel further and separate
statements, and he anticipates spending 5.5 hours to prepare the reply briefs
and to attend the hearings, for a total of 17.5 hours at $700/hour. (Slott
Decl., ¶¶ 12-13.) He states that Plaintiffs will pay him over $12,250 in legal
fees on these 5 motions, or $2,510 per motion for 5 total motions. (Id.,
¶ 14.) The City argues that
sanctions are inappropriate since the City acted with substantial justification
with its objections/responses and that the requested sanctions are excessive. 
The Court
finds these sanctions to be reasonable. Further, the City did not act with
substantial justification in making boilerplate objections, refusing to respond
substantively or produce any documents, and failing to properly identify which
documents are unavailable. Thus, the Court awards $2,510 in sanctions. 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
Plaintiffs
Meredith Paz and Victor Paz’s motion to compel Defendant City of Sierra Madre’s
further responses to RPDs set one, Nos. 1-65 is GRANTED. 
Plaintiffs
Meredith Paz and Victor Paz’s request for sanctions is GRANTED in the amount of
$2,510. 
Plaintiffs shall
provide notice of this order. 
 
 
DATED: December 27, 2024                                                 ___________________________
                                                                              John
Kralik
                                                                              Judge
of the Superior Court ________________________________________________________________________________________________________Coverage
Attorney: Nazenin Eghbal, neghbal@lacourt.org, VolP: 55-2464
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
Meredith
  paz,
  et al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
CITY OF SIERRA MADRE., 
                        Defendant.


 
  Case No.:  22AHCV00264
 
  Hearing Date:  December 27, 2024
 
[TENTATIVE] order RE:
motion to compel DEPOSITION OF LAURA AGUILAR 



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations 
            Plaintiffs Meredith Paz and Victor
Paz (“Plaintiffs”) allege that their home is a wood-frame, single family,
one-story dwelling located at 1100 Arno Drive in Sierra Madre.  They allege that Defendant City of Sierra
Madre (“the City”) controls and operates a main water pipe located along and
directly above Plaintiffs’ property. 
Plaintiffs allege that beginning August 1, 2021, they noticed a large
amount of water on and underneath the property and that water continues to seep
onto and under their property.  They allege
that the City’s conduct, including but not limited to their construction,
design, management, maintenance, operation, and/or control of its water pipes,
as well as its failures to appreciate the impact and danger the water pipes
would cause adjacent real property caused Plaintiffs damages.  
            The first amended complaint (“FAC”),
filed June 23, 2022, alleges causes of action for: (1) inverse condemnation;
(2) negligence (Gov’t Code, § 815.2(a)); (3) dangerous condition of public
property (Gov’t Code, § 835); and (4) nuisance.   
B.     Cross-Complaint
On July 28, 2022, the
City filed a cross-complaint against Roes 1-10 for: (1) equitable indemnity;
(2) contribution; and (3) declaratory relief. 
C.    
Motion on Calendar
On October 17, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a
motion to compel the deposition of Laura Aguilar, Deputy City Manager of the
City. 
On December 13, 2024, the City filed its
opposition. 
On December 19, 2024, Plaintiffs filed
their reply. 
Plaintiffs have filed seven (7) additional
motions to compel depositions of various persons associated with the City set
for January 10, 2025, and January 17, 2025, four (4) of which were taken off
calendar by Plaintiffs on December 16, 2024. 
 
DISCUSSION 
Plaintiffs move for
an order compelling the deposition of Laura Aguilar, Deputy City Manager of the
City. 
On July
25, 2024, the Court ordered the City to produce the person most knowledgeable
(“PMK”) for deposition by August 21, 2024. (Minute Order, 7/25/24.) Plaintiffs’
counsel took the deposition of the City's selected PMK but contends that the
witness was unable to respond to numerous questions posed, testifying that
others identified would be better able to respond, which necessitated the
deposition of Laura Aguilar. (Slott Decl., ¶13.)
Plaintiffs’
counsel declares that on August 30, 2024, he served a notice of deposition on
the City for Laura Aguilar, set for September 18, 2024. (Slott Decl., ¶4, Ex. A.) Plaintiffs’ counsel sent a
meet and confer letter explaining that the deposition was unilaterally set
because of the upcoming discovery cut-off date and trial, and inviting the
City’s counsel to meet and confer regarding scheduling. (Id., ¶5, Ex. B.)
On September 3, 2024, the City’s counsel agreed to meet and confer on September
4, 2024, at 12:00 P.M. (Id., ¶6.) The City’s counsel cancelled the call at
11:54 A.M. stating that she would call later, but Plaintiffs’ counsel did not
receive a call back. (Id., ¶6, Ex. C.)
On
September 11, 2024, Plaintiffs’ counsel received the City’s objection to the
deposition notice stating that the deposition was unilaterally set for a date that
was not available and/or convenient for counsel for the deponent, and that
Defendants' counsel and Laura Aguilar will not be present at the deposition,
but will coordinate with Plaintiffs’ counsel to reach a mutually agreeable and
convenient date. (Slott
Decl., ¶7, Ex. D.) In response,
Plaintiffs’ counsel sent a meet and confer letter to schedule Laura Aguilar’s
deposition. (Id., ¶8, Ex. E.) Plaintiffs’ counsel and the City’s counsel
scheduled a meet and confer telephone call which Plaintiffs’ counsel initiated,
but the City’s counsel did not answer. (Id., ¶9.) The City’s counsel
advised Plaintiffs’ counsel that she had been in a deposition but would call on
Monday, but she failed to do so. (Id., ¶9, Ex. F.) Plaintiffs contend
that no other action was taken by the City to cancel or schedule the deposition
of Laura Aguilar. (Id., ¶10.) 
Plaintiffs’
counsel further declares that the City did not file a motion for protective
order nor call to advise that Laura Aguilar would not appear for the scheduled
deposition, so Plaintiffs’ counsel went forward with the deposition and took a
non-appearance when Laura Aguilar failed to appear. (Slott Decl., ¶10.)
In
Opposition, the City does not dispute the above timeline but argues that the
instant motion is moot because the parties have since agreed to depose Laura
Aguilar on January 2, 2025. The City provides a December 9-11, 2024, email
exchange in which the City’s attorney stated, “[t]he following have
been confirmed, to occur in-person at the City’s office... Laura Aguilar –
December 30 or January 2 starting at 11:00 am” and “if we can go with Larua Aguilar on January 2 starting at
11:00 am that would be best” to which Plaintiffs’ counsel responded, “[y]es but
on that date those must be in person and my office.” (Stecker Decl., ¶ 2, Ex.
2.) In Reply, Plaintiffs contend that the motion is not moot because
“the actual scheduling of it has not been confirmed.” (Slott Decl., ¶ 4.)
The City
also argues in Opposition that it has “demonstrated a pattern of
cooperation and communication regarding deposition scheduling” as the City's
counsel participated in an extensive in-person meet and confer session with
Plaintiffs' counsel on December 3, 2024, during which the parties specifically
discussed coordinating dates for outstanding depositions. (Stecker Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. 3.) 
Here, the
Court grants the motion to compel the deposition of Laura Aguilar. Laura
Aguilar failed to appear at her properly noticed deposition, and the City invalidly
objected on the basis of unavailability by failing to provide alternate dates. The
City’s counsel agreed that the deposition should go forward on a mutually
agreed upon date but failed to engage with Plaintiffs’ counsel to schedule the
deposition until December 3, 2024, which is over three months after Plaintiffs
served the deposition notice. Plaintiffs’ counsel attempted to meet and confer
numerous times before December 3, 2024, but the City’s counsel was
uncooperative. Thus, the City failed to proceed with the properly noticed
deposition, entitling Plaintiffs to an order compelling the deposition of Laura
Aguilar. Although it appears the parties have tentatively agreed to conduct the
deposition on January 2, 2025, the parties have not agreed upon the modality or
location of the deposition, and no deposition notice or further communication
outside of a brief email exchange has been provided to the Court. Thus, the
parties are ordered to finalize the January 2, 2025, date and conduct the
deposition on said date, or pick a mutually agreeable date and conduct the
deposition on that date, within 3 weeks of this order.  
With
respect to sanctions, Plaintiffs seek $2,325 against the City and its counsel
of record for fees and costs associated with the instant motion. Plaintiffs’
counsel does not provide individual hourly fee breakdowns or itemized costs for
the instant motion but instead provides a lump sum of attorney time spent and
costs incurred on a total of eight (8) motions to compel depositions filed by
Plaintiffs, equaling $18,600. Plaintiffs’ counsel spent sixteen (16) hours at
$700 an hour meeting and conferring, preparing for depositions, taking
transcripts of non-appearance, and researching and preparing the instant motion
and the other seven (7) motions to compel deposition. Plaintiffs’ counsel
anticipates two and a half (2.5) hours for review of oppositions and preparation
of replies, and three (3) hours to travel to and from the hearings, totaling
twenty-one and a half (21.5) hours for all eight (8) motions. (Slott Decl., ¶¶18-19.) Plaintiffs also seek $480 total
in filing fees for the eight (8) motions, and $3,070 for the costs of four (4)
transcripts of non-appearance, one of which was taken for the deponent in the
instant motion. 
The Court
first notes that Plaintiffs’ counsel failed to state the specific number of hours
spent on the instant motion and instead requests a lump sum of sanctions for
eight (8) motions to compel depositions. Based on the Court’s calculations,
Plaintiffs’ counsel seeks a $60 filing fee and a $767.50 certificate of non-appearance
for the instant motion. The Court also awards $500 in attorneys fees for a
total sanctions award of 1327.50. 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Plaintiffs’ motion to compel the deposition of Laura
Aguilar is granted. The parties are ordered to finalize the January 2, 2025,
deposition date and conduct the deposition on said date, or pick a mutually
agreeable date and conduct the deposition on that date, within 3 weeks of this
order.  
Plaintiffs’ request for sanctions is granted in the
amount of $1,327.
 
Plaintiffs shall
provide notice of this order. 
 
 
DATED: 
December 27, 2024                                                ___________________________
                                                                              John
Kralik
                                                                              Judge
of the Superior Court 