 Case Number:  23STCV01373    Hearing Date:   February 13, 2024    Dept:  15 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE MOTIONS IN LIMINE; MOTION TO  BIFURCATE Defendants’ MIL No. 1 Defendants seek to  exclude evidence of a 1986 document prepared by the EPA referred to as the Gold  Book because a 2007 EPA publication replaced it and it is hearsay.  The document could be relevant to notice of  the dangers of asbestos pre-2007.  If  Plaintiffs seek to use the document to show notice or knowledge, the documents  may not be hearsay if it is not offered for the truth of the matter  asserted.  Also, the contents of the  document may be admissible at trial via an expert if the expert establishes  that it is general background information of the type relied upon by experts in  the field.  That the document was based  on unscientific sources can be the subject of cross-examination and goes to the  weight to be given the document and whether an expert can establish it is the  type of information relied upon by experts.             The  motion is denied without prejudice to a contemporaneous objection at trial. Defendants’ MIL No. 2 Defendants move to  exclude evidence relating to the Friction Materials Standard Institute as  unauthenticated, irrelevant, and hearsay.   Except for three documents, the motion does not identify the specific  documents or even state whether the documents appear on the parties’ joint  witness list.  This motion is too  vague.   Defendants contend the  three documents – two sets of meeting minutes and a ballot about warnings – are  hearsay and prejudicial.  That the  documents contain hearsay does not make them categorically inadmissible.  For example, if a defendant contends it had  no knowledge about the presence or danger of asbestos in brakes, the documents  could be admissible as providing notice.   Defendant did not attach the documents, so that court cannot determine  whether they are prejudicial. The court cannot predict  whether Plaintiffs will be able to authenticate and establish the admissibility  of unidentified documents at trial.   Defendant should object if and when Plaintiffs seek to use specific FMSI  documents at trial.  For example, an  expert might rely on a FMSI document, and such a document might be admissible  if the expert establishes that it is the type of document relied upon as  accurate by experts in the field.             The  motion is denied. Defendants’ MIL No. 3 Defendants move to  exclude a letter and a memo from E.A. Martin because they cannot be  authenticated, are hearsay, are not relevant, and are more prejudicial than  probative.  Defendants state the  documents are unsigned and there is no evidence about who wrote or received  them.  The court cannot determine at this  point that no witness will be able to authenticate the documents.  If Plaintiffs seek to introduce  unauthenticated documents at trial, Defendants should object then. The documents could be  relevant to Defendants’ notice or knowledge of the dangers of asbestos.  If Plaintiffs seek to use the documents to  show notice, the documents may not be hearsay if they are not offered for the  truth of the matter asserted (assuming they can be authenticated).  The last paragraph of the  letter is more prejudicial than probative.   If Plaintiffs authenticate the letter and establish its relevance and  non-hearsay use at trial, the last paragraph of the letter is to be redacted  before the letter is admitted.   Plaintiffs did not establish the author of the letter was a managing  agent or authorized to speak for the company.    The motion is granted in  part and denied in part without prejudice to objections at trial. Defendants’ MIL No. 4 Defendants move to  exclude evidence of workers’ compensation actions.  If notice of the dangers of asbestos or  asbestos in the products at issue is contested, some evidence of these claims  may be relevant and for a non-hearsay purpose.   However, the details of the claims would be unduly prejudicial,  time-consuming, and confusing to the jury.   It is for the trial judge to determine how much is too much.  To the extent a party seeks to introduce the  amounts of any settlement, judgment, verdict, or award in another litigation,  the motion is deemed granted and made pursuant to the July 8, 2022 CMO.             The  motion is granted in part and denied in part subject to objections at trial. Defendants’ MIL No. 5 Defendants seek to  exclude testimony and videos about William Longo and Richard Hatfield’s work  simulations because the simulations are not similar to Plaintiff’s  exposure.  Defendant argues the  simulations took place in small sealed chambers, used improper testing methods  such as TEM analysis not recognized by OSHA, and will be confusing to the jury  because the conditions are so different.   Whether TEM is an appropriate method “goes to the weight and not the  admissibility of the opinions.”  (Strobel  v. Johnson & Johnson (2021) 70 Cal.App.5th 796, 811-812.)             At  trial, Defendants can cross-examine the experts about the similarities and  differences of Plaintiff’s exposure to a small, sealed chamber and argue the  jury should give the videos no weight because of the different conditions.  The motion is denied without prejudice to  objections at trial. Defendants’ MIL No. 6 Defendants seek to  exclude evidence from the Saranac experiments.   Pursuant to the July 8, 2022 CMO, this motion is deemed made and  granted.  Plaintiffs did not show good  cause to depart from that order.             The  motion is granted. Defendants’ MIL No. 7 Defendants move to  exclude reference to a 1989 proposed EPA ban that never went into effect  because it was invalidated by the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals as not  supported by sufficient evidence.  This  evidence may go to notice or knowledge.   Defendant can cross-examine the witness about the fact that the proposed  ban was never effective and was invalidated by the court for lack of evidence. The motion is denied  without prejudice to objections at trial. Defendants’ MIL No. 8             See  No. 5. Defendants’ MIL No. 9 Defendants move to  exclude evidence about sales of brake grinding machines that had warning labels  on them outside the United States in the 1990s.   Post-exposure warnings can be admissible to prove a product defect in a  strict liability action.  The evidence  could be relevant to prove a product defect, even if the warnings existed after  the last exposure date.             The  motion is denied without prejudice to objections at trial. Defendants’ MIL No. 10 Defendants move to  exclude a 1986 study about asbestos generated from use of Defendants’ products  because an insurance company did the study and evidence of liability insurance  is not admissible.  If the study states  that Defendants are insured, such references are to be redacted.  The study may be relevant to notice and  knowledge and failure to recall a defective product, even if it was issued  after the last date of exposure.             The  motion is denied without prejudice to objections at trial and subject to the  redaction of references to Defendants being insured. Defendants’ MIL No. 11 Defendants move to  exclude a 1978 insurance industry survey because an insurance company did the  survey and it is prejudicial and cumulative.   If the survey states that Defendants are insured, such references are to  be redacted.  The survey may be relevant  to notice and knowledge.               The  motion is denied without prejudice to objections at trial and subject to the  redaction of references to Defendants being insured. Defendants’ MIL No. 12 Defendants move to  exclude the Don’t Blow It video and any evidence referring to the video as  hearsay, unscientific, and prejudicial.   The video may be admissible at trial via an expert if the expert  establishes that it is general background information of the type relied upon  by experts in the field.  The claim that  the video is unscientific can be the subject of cross-examination and goes to  the weight to be given the video.   Defendants contend the EPA updated its guidance in 2007 so the video is  outdated.  That too can be the subject of  cross-examination. Defendants argue the  video’s references to an article and wives and children lack foundation.  That section of the video is irrelevant  because there is no claim in this case about injury to wives and children.  If Plaintiff establishes that the video is  admissible, the portion of the video about the magazine article and wives and  children are to be redacted.             The  motion is granted in part and denied without prejudice to objections at trial. Defendants’ MIL No. 13             Defendants  move to preclude Plaintiff Patricia Bilgin from testifying about her work as an  attorney involving asbestos at the City Attorney’s Office.  The motion is granted to the extent  Plaintiffs seek to elicit expert testimony from her.  Otherwise, the motion is too vague to  determine what non-expert testimony may be relevant during trial.               The  motion is granted in part and denied in part without prejudice to objections at  trial. Defendants’ MIL No. 14 Defendant moves to  exclude arguments that there is no safe level of asbestos and every exposure  contributes to a cumulative dose as unsupported by science and contrary to the  law.  This motion is too vague as Defendants  does not identify any specific expert testimony to be excluded.     In addition, the motion  would exclude arguments about the standard for proving causation and what  “substantial factor” means.  Under the  July 8, 2022 CMO, motions to exclude expert opinion about the term “substantial  factor” are deemed made and denied without prejudice to objections at  trial.  Defendants did not show good  cause to depart from this order. Defendants also argue  OSHA and EPA reports are hearsay.  This  motion is too vague as Defendants did not identify any specific report to be  excluded.  If Plaintiffs ask to admit the  reports for the truth of the matter asserted in them, Defendants can object at  that time.  However, an expert may rely  on the reports even if they are hearsay.   The motion is denied without prejudice to objections at trial. Defendants’ MIL No. 15 Defendants move to  exclude evidence of all governmental (including EPA and OSHA) commentary on the  causal connection between exposure to asbestos and the development of  disease.  The motion is too vague.  The information in existence before the last  date of alleged exposure is potentially relevant to show Defendant’s knowledge  and notice.               The  motion is denied without prejudice to a contemporaneous objection at trial. Defendants’ MIL Nos. 16-22             No  motions were filed. Defendants’ MIL No. 23 Defendants move to  exclude evidence of any claims related to mine and mill employees, as well as  workers’ compensation actions.  If notice  of the dangers of asbestos or asbestos in the products at issue is contested,  some evidence of these claims may be relevant and for a non-hearsay  purpose.  However, the details of the  claims would be unduly prejudicial, time-consuming, and confusing to the  jury.  It is for the trial judge to  determine how much is too much.  To the  extent a party seeks to introduce the amounts of any settlement, judgment,  verdict, or award in another litigation, the motion is deemed granted and made  pursuant to the July 8, 2022 CMO.             The  motion is granted in part and denied in part subject to objections at trial. Defendants’ MIL No. 24 Defendants move to  exclude the Hull Paper as “nothing more than junk science” because its authors  serve as expert witness for plaintiffs, it was not subject to peer review, and  it did not follow the proper methodology.   If an expert establishes that the Hull Paper is the type of material  that experts in the field rely upon, evidence about the Hull Paper may be  admissible.  Defendants can then  cross-examine the expert about the perceived deficiencies in the study and  argue to the jury that it should be given little or no weight.             The  motion is denied without prejudice to objection at trial. Defendants’ MIL No. 25 Defendants move to  exclude evidence of communications with OSHA about a proper definition of  asbestos.  If Defendants contend they did  not know about the presence or hazards of asbestos in talc at the times of the  communications, the communications may be relevant to Defendants’ notice or  knowledge about asbestos in talc.   Defendants’ argument that the evidence is speculative is addressed in  the July 8, 2022 CMO, which deems such a motion made and denied.  Defendants did not show good cause to depart  from the CMO.  The objection that  documents are hearsay depends on the use of the documents.  If they are used for non-hearsay purposes,  such as notice, this objection lacks merit.   But that cannot be determined at this time.               The  motion is denied without prejudice to objection at trial. Defendants’ MIL No. 26 Defendants seek to  preclude any mention of an investigation against John Gamble relating to a  change in his work at NIOSH under Evidence Code section 352.  The investigation into Gamble is irrelevant,  will be a confusing side-show, and will take an undue amount of time in a trial  that will already require too much time of the jury.  The motion is granted as to an investigation  into Gamble. Defendants’ MIL No. 27 Defendants seek to  exclude all evidence of any documents from Johns-Manville Corporation about  Vanderbilt Minerals.  This motion is too  vague and broad in referring to all such documents.   Defendants then specify three  (or maybe four; one is repeated twice) documents to exclude, arguing they are  hearsay and Plaintiffs cannot establish that the documents are business  records.  If Plaintiffs seek to use the  documents at trial for the truth of the matter asserted (rather than for some  non-hearsay purpose), and if they fail to show they are business records,  Defendants can object at that time. The motion is denied  without prejudice to objections at trial. Defendants’ MIL No. 28             Defendants  move to exclude a November 11, 1983 letter from McCrone Research Associated  written by Gene Prentice and Gary Nichols to R.W. Owens about testing a talc  sample as contrary to scientific fact, lacking authentication, hearsay, and prejudicial.  Defendants contend they cannot cross-examine  the expert who wrote the letter.             The  court cannot determine before trial if a party will be able to authenticate a  trial exhibit.  If the offering party  fails to authenticate an exhibit, the objecting party should object at that  time.  The court cannot determine before  trial how the offering party will seek to use the letter.  If it is offered for a non-hearsay purpose (such  as notice) or if it is admissible as a business record or under some other  exception, this objection may have no merit.   That cannot be determined now.  If  the letter is otherwise admissible, Defendants can have they experts explain  why the letter is contrary to scientific fact, and Defendants can cross-examine  any expert who relies on the letter.             The  motion is denied without prejudice to objections at trial. Defendants’ MIL No. 29 Defendants move to exclude  March 24, 1982 and March 31, 1982 OSHRC documents about asbestos in R.T.  Vanderbilt Company’s talc as lacking foundation, hearsay, and improper expert  testimony.  If Plaintiffs are able to  authenticate the documents at trial, they may be admissible for a non-hearsay  purpose, such as notice or knowledge about asbestos in talc.  Or an expert may be able to establish that it  is the type of material that experts in the field rely upon.             The  motion is denied without prejudice to objection at trial. Defendants’ MIL No. 30 Defendants seek to  exclude statements that their products kill people and poison the world as  argumentative and prejudicial.  This  motion is too vague.  If at trial someone  makes an improper statement, Defendants should object at that time.             The  motion is denied without prejudice to objection at trial. Defendants’ MIL No. 31 Defendants move to  exclude evidence of a position statement from the Joint Policy Committee of the  Societies of Epidemiology published on July 24, 2012 as hearsay, irrelevant and  more prejudicial than probative.  The  document was prepared by a body established “to coordinate and unify joint  policy actions globally,” and the document itself states it is a call for  political action against asbestos rather than an unbiased scientific  document.  Explaining the origins and  development of the document would consume an undue amount of time and confuse  the jury.  Therefore, the motion is  granted. Defendants’ MIL No. 32 Defendants move to  exclude evidence of a proposed 1971 Illinois ban that never went into effect as  hearsay and irrelevant.  The evidence may  go to notice or knowledge.  Defendants  can then cross-examine the witness about the fact that the proposed ban was  never effective.  The motion is denied without prejudice to objections at  trial. Defendants’ MIL No. 33             See  No. 7. Defendants’ MIL No. 34             No  motion was filed. Defendants’ MIL No. 35             Defendants  move to exclude all references to “asbestiform fibers” and “asbestos  contamination” unless Plaintiffs first show that the asbestos meets OSHA’s  definition of asbestos and can cause injury.   The motion is vague and overbroad.   It does not identify the specific documents to be excluded.  It does not state that any of the unidentified  documents actually appear on the parties’ joint witness list.  Also, some documents referring to asbestiform  fibers could be relevant or the type of material experts rely on.  The motion does not identify any specific  expert testimony to be excluded.  In any  event, what constitutes asbestos that can harm someone is a disputed issue for  the jury after weighing the competing expert testimony. Further, “asbestos  contamination” is the type of phrase that will be used in a trial where the  Plaintiffs need to prove that a product contained asbestos.  “Asbestos contamination” is not inherently  prejudicial.  Excluding those words from  the trial would make it unreasonably difficult for Plaintiffs to explain their  allegations.  The motion is denied  without prejudice to objections at trial. Defendants’ MIL No. 36             Defendant  Dunn-Edwards moves to exclude evidence of products that Sotomayor never  obtained from Defendant, such as Plastacoat, Prokote, Synkoloid brand products,  and drywall finishing and patching products.   The motion is too vague as to the unnamed and unidentified products  Plaintiffs did not obtain from Defendant.   As for Plastacoat, Prokote, and Synkoloid products, if Plaintiffs argue Sotomayor  bought those specific products from Dunn-Edwards and then fail to produce any  such evidence at trial, Defendant can argue that Plaintiffs failed to make  their case.  Also, relevant documents  could mention those products.  This  motion is too vague in not identifying the specific evidence to be excluded.             The  motion is denied without prejudice to objections at trial. Defendants’ MIL No. 36             Defendants  move to exclude evidence of products not at issue in this case.  This motion is too vague.  It does not identify the particular products  that are not at issue or the specific evidence to be excluded.  The motion is denied without prejudice to  objections at trial.  Defendants’ MIL No. 37             Defendant  Industrial Holdings moves to exclude various claims.  This is an improper motion for summary  adjudication.  It is also too vague as it  does not identify the specific evidence, document, or testimony to be  excluded.  The motion is denied without  prejudice to objections at trial. Defendants’ MIL No. 37 Defendants move to  exclude documents produced by Pfizer as hearsay.  This motion has many problems.  First, the motion does not identify the  specific documents to be excluded except to say they are sales records post  1978.     Defendants say the sales  records are not relevant because the exposure ended in 1977.  The court cannot determine before trial that  unspecified and unattached records are not relevant.  If at trial a party attempts to use an  irrelevant document, Defendants should object at that time.             Defendants  do not state whether all of the Pfizer documents are on the parties’ joint  exhibit list.  If they are not on the  exhibit list, they will not be used at trial except possibly for impeachment.             Defendants  say the sales records are hearsay.   However, Plaintiffs may be able to establish they are business  records.  Sales records sound like the  epitome of a business record.  Defendants  say that there is no evidence from the discovery in this case that the Pfizer  records are business records.  However,  Defendants did not attach all of the discovery from this case to support that  assertion.  And the court is not going to  review all of the discovery in this case to see if Plaintiffs can establish a  hearsay exception.             Further,  Defendant fails to recognize that merely because a document is not admissible  as a business record does not mean it is categorically inadmissible.  The unidentified documents could be  admissible for non-hearsay purposes.             Defendants  contend Plaintiffs experts cannot rely on the sales records because they lack  foundation.  Again, the court cannot  determine before trial whether Plaintiffs will be able to establish the  admissibility of the sales records.             In  sum, this motion is too vague and premature.   If at trial a party seeks to use a document that is not admissible,  Defendant should object at that time. Defendants’ MIL No. 38 Defendants move to  exclude all references to a continuing duty to warn.  Pursuant to the July 8, 2022 CMO, a motion to  exclude evidence of a post-sale duty to warn and failure to conduct a recall or  post-sale warning campaign is deemed made and denied so long as there is an  operative negligence cause of action.   Defendants did not show good cause to depart from this order.        The  motion is denied without prejudice to objections at trial. Defendants’ MIL No. 39             Defendants  move to exclude evidence that talc causes diseases other than mesothelioma as  prejudicial and irrelevant.  Evidence of  other diseases will consume an undue amount of time, be confusing, and be  prejudicial.  The motion is granted.   Defendants’ MIL Nos. 40-42             No  motions were filed. Defendants’ MIL No. 43             See No.  36. Motion to Bifurcate             Defendants  move to bifurcate punitive damages.  The  motion is granted.             The  moving party is to give notice.[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE
MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT (PLASTIC SALES)

On January 20, 2023,
Plaintiffs Roberto E. Sotomayor and Patricia Bilgin filed this action alleging
Sotomayor developed mesothelioma as a result of exposure to asbestos-containing
products from Defendant Plastic Sales, Inc.  On November 14, 2023, Defendant filed a motion
for summary judgment, and alternatively a motion for summary adjudication of
the fraud cause of action and request for punitive damages.  

Plaintiffs contended in
their opposition that they needed a continuance of the hearing so they could
take the deposition of Defendant to establish if Plastic Sales sold
asbestos-containing products.  At the January
30, 2024 hearing, Plaintiffs’ counsel stated that Westinghouse made different
types of Micarta, not all contained asbestos, and only Plastic Sales would know
what kind of Micarta is sold.  The court
continued the hearing to February 13, 2024. 
The parties then filed supplemental briefs.

Plaintiff’s Objection Nos.
1-6:  The court did not rely on this evidence.


A defendant seeking
summary judgment must “conclusively negate[] a necessary element of the
plaintiff’s case, or . . . demonstrate[] that under no hypothesis is there a
material issue of fact that requires the process of trial.”  (Guz v. Bechtel Nat. Inc. (2000) 24
Cal.4th 317, 334.)  To show that a
plaintiff cannot establish an element of a cause of action, a defendant must
make the initial showing “that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot
reasonably obtain, needed evidence.”  (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 854.)  “The defendant may, but need not, present
evidence that conclusively negates an element of the plaintiff’s cause of
action.  The defendant may also present
evidence that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,
needed evidence – as through admissions by the plaintiff following extensive
discovery to the effect that he has discovered nothing.”  (Id. at p. 855.)  A plaintiff’s deposition testimony that the
plaintiff has no knowledge of any exposure to the defendant’s products may be
sufficient to shift the burden to the plaintiff to demonstrate the existence of
triable issues of fact. (McGonnell v. Kaiser Gypsum Co., Inc. (2002) 98
Cal.App.4th 1098, 1103-1104.)  The
plaintiff’s deposition testimony that he did not recall ever working with a
product manufactured by the defendant may not be sufficient to shift the burden
if the plaintiff is able to prove his case by another means.  (Weber v. John Crane, Inc. (2006) 143
Cal.App.4th 1433, 1439.)  “ ‘If
plaintiffs respond to comprehensive interrogatories seeking all known facts
with boilerplate answers that restate their allegations, or simply provide
laundry lists of people and/or documents, the burden of production will almost
certainly be shifted to them once defendants move for summary judgment and
properly present plaintiff’s factually devoid discovery responses.’”  (Id. at p. 1440.)

Defendant contends
Plaintiffs have no evidence Sotomayor was exposed to asbestos-containing
products from Defendant, citing Plaintiffs’ interrogatory responses.  (Motion at p. 8.)  In response to interrogatories asking for all
facts supporting Plaintiffs’ contention that Defendant is liable, Plaintiffs
respond vaguely and without any specific evidence that Sotomayor was exposed to
asbestos from Defendant’s machining plastic parts, including plastic molding
compounds, phenolic molding compounds, phenolic resin materials, and Micarta.  (Defendant’s Index, Ex. B at pp. 1-3.)  Plaintiffs solely identified Sotomayor as a person
with knowledge of facts of his exposure.  (Id. at p. 5.)  In response to requests for production of all
documents supporting exposure to asbestos from products supplied by Defendant, Plaintiffs
generally identified Sotomayor’s interrogatory responses, deposition testimony,
and his employment and medical records.  (Defendant’s
Index, Ex. D at pp. 1-2.)  

Defendant also cites
Sotomayor’s deposition testimony that his company, S&K Precision
Engineering, worked with a lot of material from Plastic Sales, purchased
Micarta from Plastic Sales, placed orders from Plastic Sales, and had an
account with Plastic Sales.  (Defendant’s
Index, Ex. I at pp. 655-656, 657, 690, 691, 698.)  He does not know the ingredients of the parts
he purchased from Plastic Sales or the brand of the materials he bought from
Plastic Sales and has no documents about the sales with Plastic Sales.  (Id. at pp. 695, 698.)  

None of these discovery
responses or testimony contained evidence that Sotomayor was exposed to
asbestos from Defendant’s products.  Thus
Defendant shifted the burden.

In opposition, Plaintiffs
emphasize that Sotomayor bought Micarta, which they say was manufactured by
Westinghouse, from Defendant. 
(Opposition at p. 12.)  However,
Plaintiffs submit no evidence that Micarta contained asbestos with their
opposition.

On February 5, 2024,
Plaintiffs filed their supplemental opposition, attaching the deposition of
Defendant’s witness and a Plastic Sale Inc. catalog listing dozens of Micarta
products, a few of which contained asbestos. 
Plaintiffs ask for another continuance because the deposition of Defendant’s
witness was not finished.  

That is not possible, or
warranted, for several reasons.  First,
today is the trial date.  Plaintiffs
filed this lawsuit against Defendant on January 20, 2023.  Thus, Plaintiffs had many months to depose
Defendant.  Instead, Plaintiffs waited
until December 29, 2023, six weeks after being served with Defendant’s motion
on November 14, 2023, to serve the deposition notice.  If Plaintiffs had served the deposition
notice immediately after November 14, 2023, Defendant’s deposition could have been
completed many weeks ago, and Plaintiffs would have had plenty of time to
follow up on the information they obtained from that deposition.  Plaintiffs showed no good cause for their
lack of diligence in pursuing discovery. 
This is a preference case, and Plaintiffs’ failure to complete discovery
before trial is not a good reason to continue a preference trial date.

Also, Plaintiffs did not
comply with Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (h) in requesting
yet another continuance.  That section
requires a declaration submitted with the opposition stating that facts
essential to justify opposition may exist but cannot be presented.  Plaintiffs’ counsel’s declaration does not
identity the facts essential to their opposition that they cannot present.  Most importantly, Plaintiffs have not
submitted evidence that Sotomayor purchased asbestos-containing Micarta from Defendant,
as opposed to the many other types of non-asbestos-containing Micarta listed in
the catalog.  That information is solely
in Plaintiffs’ possession.  Plaintiffs
did not explain how Defendant would know what types of Micarta Sotomayor used.

The motion is GRANTED.  Defendant is to file a proposed judgment
within five days.

The moving party is to
give notice.