  Case Number:  23STCV30362    Hearing Date:   April 11, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     April 11, 2024                        TRIAL
DATE: NOT SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Harris Shukran v. County of Los Angeles,
et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV30362            
 
MOTION
TO QUASH SERVICE OF SUMMONS AND COMPLAINT

 
MOVING PARTY:               Specially Appearing Defendant Kimball, Tirey, &
St. John LLP
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): No response on
eCourt as of 4/8/24
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is a civil rights action that was filed on December 13, 2023. Plaintiff
alleges that Defendants are attempting to evict him from his rental unit under
color of a judgment in an unlawful detainer action which Plaintiff contends is
invalid. 
 
            Specially
Appearing Defendant Kimball, Tirey, & St. John LLP moves to quash service
of the summons and complaint. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
            Defendant
Kimball, Tirey, & St. John, LLP’s Motion to Quash Service of Summons is
GRANTED. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
            Specially
Appearing Defendant Kimball, Tirey, & St. John LLP moves to quash service
of the summons and complaint. 
 
Special Appearance 
 
No motion under Code of Civil Procedure 418.10 “shall be
deemed a general appearance by the defendant.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 418.10(d).)
Here, Specially Appearing Defendant (“Defendant”) brought this motion under
section 418.10. Thus, filing this motion does not constitute a general
appearance.  
Timeliness 
 
A motion to quash must be made as Defendant’s initial appearance
in the action, on or before the last day to plead “or within any further time
that the court may for good cause allow.” (Code Civ. Proc.  § 418.10(a).) Filing the motion also extends
the time within Defendant may answer or demur. (Code Civ. Proc. § 418.10(b).) 
 
Here,
the proof of service which is challenged states that Defendant was served by
personal service on December 22, 2023. (Proof of Service filed December 28,
2023.) A party has 30 days to answer or demur to a complaint
after service is received. (Code Civ. Proc. § 471.5.) The time to respond to
the Summons and Complaint therefore expired on January 22, 2024. (See Code Civ.
Proc. § 12.) This motion was served and filed on that date. (Motion p. 6; Proof
of Service.) The motion is therefore timely. 
 
Legal Standard
 
“When a motion to quash is properly brought, the burden of
proof is placed upon the plaintiff to establish the facts of jurisdiction by a
preponderance of the evidence.”  (Aquila,
Inc. v. Sup. Ct. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 556, 568; see also Elkman v.
National States Ins. Co. (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 1305, 1312-13 [“Where a
nonresident defendant challenges jurisdiction by way of a motion to quash, the
plaintiff bears the burden of establishing by a preponderance of the evidence
that minimum contacts exist between the defendant and the forum state to
justify imposition of personal jurisdiction.”].) Evidence of the facts giving
rise to personal jurisdiction or their absence may be in the form of
declarations. (Arensen v. Raymond Lee Organization, Inc. (1973) 31
Cal.App.3d 991, 995.) The Court should exclude evidence that would be
inadmissible at trial. (See, e.g., Judd v. Superior Court (1976) 60
Cal.App.3d 38, 43-44 [Court of Appeal excluded inadmissible hearsay evidence
offered in support of affirmation of trial court’s denial of motion to quash,
and subsequently reversed the trial court’s denial].) 
 
“[C]ompliance with the statutory procedures for service of
process is essential to establish personal jurisdiction. [Citation.]” (Dill
v. Berquist Construction Co. (1994) 24 Cal.App.4th 1426, 1444.) “[T]he
filing of a proof of service creates a rebuttable presumption that the service
was proper” but only if it “complies with the statutory requirements regarding
such proofs.” (Id. at 1441-1442.) When a defendant moves to quash service of
the summons and complaint, the plaintiff has “the burden of proving the facts
that did give the court jurisdiction, that is the facts requisite to an
effective service.” (Coulston v. Cooper (1966) 245 Cal.App.2d 866, 868.)
“A court lacks jurisdiction over a party if there has not been proper service
of process.” (See Ruttenberg v. Ruttenberg (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 801,
808.) 
 
Request for Judicial Notice
 
            Defendant
requests that the Court take judicial notice of the filings in this case. This
request is not strictly necessary but is nonetheless GRANTED pursuant to
Evidence Code section 452(d) (court records).
Analysis
 
            Defendant
moves to quash service of the summons and complaint on the grounds that
Plaintiff did not properly effect service of process on Defendant as a
partnership.
 
            Code of
Civil Procedure section 416.40 governs service of process on a partnership. This
section states, in relevant part, that a summons may be served on a limited partnership
by delivering a copy of the summons and complaint “to the person designated as
agent for service of process in a statement filed with the Secretary of State
or to a general partner or the general manager of the partnership.” (Code Civ.
Proc. § 416.40(a).) 
 
            Defendant
contends that service of the summons and complaint was defective because
Plaintiff did not serve Defendant’s agent for service of process, nor did he
serve a general partner or general manager of Defendant. As Defendant argues,
the Proof of Service on this Defendant claims that Notice was completed on
behalf of Defendant as a corporation, not a partnership, (POS ¶ 6d); was not
served by a registered process server (¶7) and does not identify the person to
whom the papers were purportedly presented. (See ¶ 3b.) Defendant also offers
sworn testimony from its agent for service of process that no papers were
presented to him on behalf of Plaintiff. (Declaration of Patrick O’Laughlin ISO
Mot. ¶ 2.) 
 
            Plaintiff
has not responded to this motion. As Plaintiff bears the burden of proof that
service was properly made, Plaintiff’s lack of response is fatal. Defendant has
therefore shown its entitlement to an order quashing service of the summons and
complaint. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Defendant Kimball, Tirey, & St. John, LLP’s Motion to Quash Service of
Summons is GRANTED. 
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  April 11, 2024                                    ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 