 Case Number:  21STCV44410    Hearing Date:   February 29, 2024    Dept:  27 Complaint Filed:        12/6/21
Trial Date:                  5/6/24 
 
 
Hon.
Lee S. Arian 
Department
27 
Tentative Ruling
 
Hearing Date:                            2/29/2024
at 1:30 p.m. 
Case Name:                            Marco Chavira vs. California Landmark
Group CLG Management LLC and DOES 1-5
Case No.:                                 21STCV44410
Motion:                                   DEFENDANT ROBLES GLASS & SUPPLIES, INC.’S NOTICE OF MOTION AND
MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL AND TRIAL-RELATED DATES
Moving Party:                        Defendant ROBLES GLASS & SUPPLIES,
INC.
Responding Party:                 Plaintiff MARCO CHAVIRA
Notice:                                    Sufficient
 
Ruling:                                    The Court GRANTS Defendant Robles Glass’
Request to Advance Its MSJ Hearing Date.
 
 
Background
 
The present case involves Plaintiff,
Marco Chavira, who suffered injury when attempting to close heavy metal blinds
in a property managed by Defendants, resulting in the blinds falling on
Plaintiff’s head. Plaintiff alleges negligence and seeks damages for personal
injuries. Defendant, ROBLES GLASS & SUPPLIES INC., filed a motion for
summary judgment on January 12, 2024, with a hearing date set way past the
trial date. Defendant Robles Glass is requesting a continuance of the trial
date to allow its motion for summary judgment to be heard or, alternatively,
for an order to advance its MSJ hearing.
 
Legal Standard and Analysis
 
Although continuances of trials are
disfavored, each request for a continuance must be considered on its own
merits.  (CRC Rule 3.1332(c).)  The Court may grant a continuance
only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the continuance. 
(CRC Rule 3.1332(c).) The Court may look to the following factors in
determining whether a trial continuance is warranted: (1) proximity of the
trial date; (2) whether there was any previous continuance of trial due to any
party; (3) the length of the continuance requested; (4) the availability of
alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the motion; (5) the
prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance;
and (6) whether trial counsel is engaged in another trial.  (See
generally, CRC Rule 3.1332(d)(1)-(11).)  Additional factors for the Court
to consider include: a party’s excused inability to obtain essential testimony,
documents, or other material evidence despite diligent efforts; whether all
parties have stipulated to a continuance; and any other fact or circumstance
relevant to the fair determination of the motion or application.  (CRC
Rule 3.1332(c), (d).)  A
trial court cannot refuse to hear a summary judgment motion filed within the
time limits of California Code of Civil Procedure (CCP) § 437c. (Wells Fargo
Bank, N.A. v. Superior Court (1988) 206 Cal.App.3d 918, 919.)
 
The
motion for summary judgment (MSJ) in question was served on January 12, 2024,
with a hearing date set for February 20, 2025. The current trial date is May 6,
2024. The parties are amenable to advancing the MSJ hearing before the trial
date, even on a shortened notice. (Opposition at pg. 4.) Although motions are
generally not advanced in the Personal Injury Hub due to the extreme number of
cases in the Hub, the Court is able to do so here.  Upon reviewing its calendar, the Court has
identified an available slot on April 5, 2024, to hear the MSJ in question;
that date also happens to be the last date to hear the MSJ before the 30-day
statutory deadline under CCP 437c(a)(3).
Therefore,
the Court advances Defendant Robles Glass’ MSJ to today’s date and continues it
to April 5, 2024, thereby enabling the MSJ to be heard and the current trial
date maintained.  
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
·        
If
a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an
email to the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed
by the case number.  The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting.   
·        
Unless all parties
submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear
remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.  You should assume
that others may appear at the hearing to argue.   
·        
If
the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion
off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court. 
After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the
withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.  
 
 
 