

 
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is an auto accident case filed
on 5/24/22. Defendants JAIME LOPEZ and CLAUDIA MADERO filed an answer on
2/28/24 and served form interrogatories, set one, on Plaintiff on October 11,
2022. (Declaration of Jonathan D. Lee, Esq., ¶2.) Responses to the Form
Interrogatories, Set One, were due in November 2022. Plaintiff failed to serve
any responses by this deadline. (Declaration of Jonathan D. Lee, Esq., ¶3.)  On December 1, 2022, Plaintiff's counsel
requested additional time to provide responses and Defendants granted an
extension until December 16, 2022, to receive Plaintiff's verified responses
without objections. (Declaration of Jonathan D. Lee, Esq., ¶4.) As of the May
12, 2023, Plaintiff failed to respond to the discovery request at issue.
(Declaration of Jonathan D. Lee, Esq., ¶6.) Defendants did not request sanctions
and this motion is unopposed.
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.      Legal Standard
 
“Within 30 days after service of interrogatories, the party
to whom the interrogatories are propounded shall serve the original of the
response to them on the propounding party, unless, on motion by the propounding
party, the court extends or shortens the time to respond.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2030.260, subd. (a).) If the party to whom interrogatories are directed fails
to serve a timely response, “[t]he party to whom the interrogatories are
directed waives any right to exercise the option to produce writings under
Section 2030.230, as well as any objection to the interrogatories, including
one based on privilege or on the protection for work product ... The court, on
motion, may relieve that party from this waiver on its determination that both
of the following conditions are satisfied: (1) The party has subsequently
served a response that is in substantial compliance ... (2) The party’s failure
to serve a timely response was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or
excusable neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (a).)  
 
“The party propounding interrogatories may move for an
order compelling response to the interrogatories.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2030.290, subd. (b).)  
 
“Unlike a motion to compel further responses, a motion to
compel responses is not subject to a 45-day time limit, and the propounding
party does not have to demonstrate either good cause or that it satisfied a
“meet and confer” requirement. (Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v.
Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 404
(Sinaiko).)  
 
Code of Civil
Procedure section 2023.030, subdivision (a) provides, in pertinent part, that
the court may impose a monetary sanction on a party engaging in the misuse of
the discovery process to pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s
fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct. A misuse of the discovery
process includes failing to respond or submit to an authorized method of
discovery. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010, subd. (d).)¿¿¿A court has
discretion to fix the amount of reasonable monetary sanctions. (Cornerstone
Realty Advisors, LLC v. Summit Healthcare Reit, Inc. (2020) 56 Cal.App.5th
771, 791.) 
 
Here, Defendants propounded Form
Interrogatories, Set One, to Plaintiff on October 11, 2022. (Declaration of
Jonathan D. Lee, Esq., ¶2.) The deadline for responses to the Form
Interrogatories, Set One, was in November of 2022. Plaintiff failed to serve
any responses by this deadline. (Declaration of Jonathan D. Lee, Esq., ¶3.) On
December 1, 2022, Plaintiff's counsel requested additional time to provide
responses, and Defendants granted an extension until December 16, 2022, for
Plaintiff to serve verified responses without objections. (Declaration of
Jonathan D. Lee, Esq., ¶4.) As of May 12, 2023, the date in which the present
motion was filed, there had been no responses to the discovery served on
Plaintiff. (Declaration of Jonathan D. Lee, Esq., ¶6.)
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s Motion to
Compel Form Interrogatories – Set One is GRANTED. Plaintiff is ordered to provide responses
to Form Interrogatories - General, Set One, within 10 days of February 26, 2024,
without any objections, including those based on privilege or the protection of
work product (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (a)). The lack of response
also constitutes a waiver of any right to exercise the option to produce
writings under Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.230.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
·        
If a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with
the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.  The body of the
email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information,
and the identity of the party submitting.   
·        
Unless all parties submit by
email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely
(encouraged) or in person for oral argument.  You should assume that
others may appear at the hearing to argue.   
·        
If the parties neither submit nor appear
at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative
ruling as the order of the Court.  After the Court has issued a tentative
ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without
leave.  
 
 
 