  Case Number:  21STCV36188    Hearing Date:   February 29, 2024    Dept:  27 Complaint filed: 10/1/2021
Trial date: 6/5/2024 
Hon.
Lee S. Arian¿ 
Department
27¿ 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
¿ 
Hearing Date:             ¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿    2/29/2024
at 1:30 p.m.¿ 
Case Name:                             RAMON VASQUEZ, et al. vs JESSICA PARK
Case No.:                                21STCV36188 
Motion:                                   MOTION TO RECLASSIFY (WALKER MOTION)
Moving Party:                         Defendant
Jessica Park
Responding Party:                   Plaintiff Ramon Vasquez and
Magaly Vasquez
Notice:                                    Sufficient 
¿ 
Recommended Ruling:           Defendant’s Motion to Reclassify is DENIED
¿ 
¿ 
¿ 
BACKGROUND¿ 
 
On October 1, 2021, Plaintiffs Ramon Vasquez and Magaly
Vasquez initiated an auto accident claim against Defendant Jessica Park. The
answer was filed on April 24, 2023. Defendant now presents this motion to
reclassify, asserting that driver Ramon Vasquez lacked insurance at the time of
the accident and is consequently subject to Proposition 213, which restricts
his ability to recover damages for pain and suffering. Furthermore, Defendant
argues that both Ramon Vasquez and Magaly Vasquez have accrued medical expenses
significantly below the statutory limit of $25,000.
  
Legal Standard 
¿ 
Code of Civil Procedure section
403.040 allows a plaintiff to file a motion for reclassification of an action
within the time allowed for that party to amend the initial pleading. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 403.040, subd. (a).) “A party may amend its pleading once without
leave of court at any time before an answer, demurrer, or motion to strike is
filed, or after a demurrer or motion to strike is filed if the amended pleading
is filed and served no later than the date for filing an opposition to the
demurrer or motion to strike. (Code Civ. Proc., § 472, subd. (a).) If the
motion is made after the time for the plaintiff to amend the pleading, the
motion may only be granted if (1) the case is incorrectly classified; and (2)
the plaintiff shows good cause for not seeking reclassification earlier. (Code
Civ. Proc.,¿ § 403.040, subd. (b).)¿¿ 
¿ 
In Walker v. Superior Court
(1991) 53 Cal.3d 257, 262, the California Supreme Court held that a matter may
be reclassified from unlimited to limited only if it appears to a legal
certainty that the plaintiff's damages will necessarily be less than $25,000. (Walker
v. Superior Court (1991) 53 Cal.3d 257.) If there is a possibility that the
damages will exceed $25,000.00, the case cannot be transferred to limited. (Ibid.)
This high standard is appropriate in light of “the circumscribed procedures and
recovery available in the limited civil courts.” (Ytuarte v. Superior Court (2005)
129 Cal.App.4th 266, 278.)¿¿ 
¿ 
In Ytuarte, the Court of
Appeals examined the principles it set forth in Walker and held that
“the court should reject the plaintiff's effort to reclassify the action as
unlimited only when the lack of jurisdiction as an “unlimited” case is
certain and clear.” (Id. at 279.) (Emphasis added.)¿ 
 
Discussion 
 
Defendant
demonstrated good cause for the delay in filing the current motion. Specifically,
Defendant was only recently able to gain access to Plaintiff's medical expenses
through discovery (Declaration of Cindy N. Mader ¶ 12) and did not file the
present motion with significant delay.
 
However, there
exists a possibility that Plaintiff's recovery could exceed $25,000. To date,
Plaintiff has incurred approximately $12,000 in medical expenses, with a
significant portion attributable to Plaintiff Magaly Vasquez. (Opposition at
page 4.) Plaintiff has reported ongoing complaints including headaches,
dizziness, sleepless nights, neck, and back pain. (Id.) Additionally,
Plaintiff Magaly Vasquez has been recommended for further pain management
treatments, indicating the potential for additional special damages in the
future. (Id.) Furthermore, Plaintiff Magaly Vasquez may pursue general
damages for pain and suffering, typical for plaintiffs undergoing pain
management. General damages are typically calculated at two to three times the
amount of special damages, raising the possibility that damages could surpass
the statutory limit of $25,000. Accordingly, Defendant’s motion to reclassify
is DENIED.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
·        
If a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with
the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.  The body of the
email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information,
and the identity of the party submitting.  

·        
Unless all parties submit
by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear
remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.  You should assume
that others may appear at the hearing to argue.  

·        
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion
without leave.  
 
 