 Case Number:  22TRCV01128    Hearing Date:   April 18, 2024    Dept:  8                                                                                                                                                             Tentative RulingHEARING DATE: April 18, 2024CASE NUMBER: 22TRCV01128CASE NAME: Maurice Stephenson v. Leo Ramsey, et al.ATTORNEY NAME: Defendants, Federal and State Income Tax Services, LLC and Leo Ramsey’s attorney, Robert M. MossTRIAL DATE: February 24, 2025MOTION: (1) Motion to be Relieved as CounselTentative Rulings: (1) GRANTED. In giving notice of the Court’s ruling, Mr. Moss must notify his clients that an LLC cannot represent itself in California courts without a lawyerI. BackgroundOn November 3, 2022, Plaintiff, Maurice Stephenson (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Defendants, Leo Ramsey, Federal and State Income Tax Services, LLC, and DOES 1 through 50. The Complaint alleges causes of action for: (1) Breach of Oral Contract; (2) Breach of Fiduciary Duty; (3) Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; (4) Intentional Misrepresentation; (5) Intentional Misrepresentation; (6) Unjust Enrichment; (7) Negligence; (8) Declaratory Relief; and (9) Unfair Business Practices in Violation of Business and Professions Code § 17200, et seq.On March 19, 2024, Defendants, Federal and State Income Tax Services, LLC and Leo Ramsey’s attorney, Robert M. Moss (“Moss”) filed a Motion to be Relieved as Counsel for both of the Defendants.II. Legal Standard & DiscussionCode of Civil Procedure § 284 states that “the attorney in an action…may be changed at any time before or after judgment or final determination, as follows: (1) upon the consent of both client and attorney…; (2) upon the order of the court, upon the application of either client or attorney, after notice from one to the other.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 284; CRC 3.1362.) The withdrawal request may be denied if it would cause an injustice or undue delay in proceeding; but the court's discretion in this area is one to be exercised reasonably. (See Mandell v. Superior (1977) 67 Cal.App.3d 1, 4; Lempert¿v. Superior Court (2003) 112 Cal.App.4th 1161, 1173.)In making a motion to be relieved as counsel, the attorney must comply with procedures set forth in Cal. Rules of Court 3.1362. The motion must be made using mandatory forms: Notice of Motion and Motion to be Relieved as Counsel directed to the client – Civil (MC-051); Declaration “stating in general terms and without compromising the confidentiality of theattorney-client relationship” reasons the motion was brought (MC-052); and a Proposed Order (MC-053). (Ibid.) The forms must be filed and served on all parties who have appeared in the case. (Ibid.)Here, Defendants’ counsel, Moss, moves the Court to relieve him as attorney of record for Defendants, Federal and State Income Tax Services, LLC and Robert M. Moss properly filed a Notice of Motion, Motion to be Relieved as Counsel, Declaration, and Proposed Order in accordance with Cal. Rules of Court 3.1362. On March 19, 2024, all forms for the pending motion were served on Defendants by mail. Additionally, the moving papers demonstrate that Moss has confirmed via telephone that Defendants’ addresses were current in the past thirty (30) days. Further, on March 19, 2024, proof of service for said documents were filed with the Court.In the declaration Moss notes that “there has been an irreparable breakdown in communication between the undersigned attorney (Robert M. Moss of the Law Offices of Robert M. Moss, Inc.) and Defendants Leo Ramsey and Federal & State Income Tax Services LLC (the defendants in the within action). This breakdown in communication has made it impossible for the undersigned attorney to continue to represent Defendant Leo Ramsey [and Federal & State Tax Services in this action].”Since Defendants’ attorney has complied with all procedural requirements in filing a motion to be relieved as counsel and because the withdrawal would not cause an injustice or undue delay in proceedings, the Court finds that withdrawal of Robert M. Moss as attorney of record for Defendants, Federal & State Income Tax Services LLC and Leo Ramsey can be accomplished without undue prejudice to their interests.III. Conclusion & OrderFor the foregoing reasons, Robert M. Moss, Motion to Be Relieved As Counsel is GRANTED and the Order will be signed at the hearing. “After the order is signed, a copy of the signed order must be served on the client and on all parties that have appeared in the case.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362(e).) The Order on this Motion will not be effective “until proof of service of a copy of the signed order on Plaintiff and Defendant has been filed with the court.” (Id.)Moving party is ordered to give notice.