  Case Number:  21TRCV00666    Hearing Date:   April 18, 2024    Dept:  8   Tentative Ruling  HEARING DATE:   April 18, 2024 CASE NUMBER:   21TRCV00666  CASE NAME: Sebastian Medvei v. Dominique Nikko, et al.  MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff, Sebastian Medvei  RESPONDING PARTY: Defendant, Dominique Nikko Westmoreland  TRIAL DATE:  March 24, 2025   MOTION:  (1) Motion to Quash Deposition Subpoena  Tentative Rulings:  (1) GRANTED.  (2)  The Court will discuss ordering the parties into a mandatory settlement conference given the fact that both parties appear to have engaged in host of litigation conduct disproportionate to the limited civil jurisdictional amount in controversy    I. BACKGROUND A. Factual  On September 10, 2021, Plaintiff, Sebastian Medvei (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Defendant, Dominque Nikko Westmoreland, and DOES 1 through 100. The Complaint alleges a cause of action for Malicious Prosecution.   Plaintiff, as a lawyer of Medvei Law Group, APC, represented a party that sued one of Defendant’s clients, Brandi Linton, in Case No. 20STCV42456. Thereafter, in a subsequent case, 21STCV07905, Defendant, via his client Brandi Linton, filed a Complaint against Plaintiff, who is not an immigration consultant as defined in the Immigrations Consultants Act (“ICA”), for violating the ICA. Plaintiff informed Defendant that the ICA does not apply to attorneys. Plaintiff repeatedly asked Defendant to dismiss the case and Defendant refused. Eventually, Plaintiff served a motion for sanctions under Code of Civil Procedure section 128.7 on Defendant. In response to that motion, Defendant voluntarily dismissed Plaintiff. Plaintiff alleges a cause of action for Malicious Prosecution.  Plaintiff’s moving papers assert that on February 23, 2024, this Court granted Plaintiff’s motion to compel the deposition of Defendant, ordering the Defendant to sit for the deposition on March 5, 2024. Plaintiff notes that in opposition to that motion, Defendant had argued that the action was stayed and that he was unavailable on March 5, 2024 due to a lengthy trial he was involved in commencing on March 1, 2024. At that time, Plaintiff contends that Defendant had not provided a case number or any case information for the case that was set for trial on March 8, 2024.   Per the moving papers, on February 27, 2024, Defendant filed an ex parte application seeking a stay of the action. The application was denied, except that the Court, based on Defendant’s affirmative representation to the Court that he was commencing a lengthy trial on March 1, 2024, changed the deposition date from March 5, 2024 to March 22, 2024. Plaintiff explained that the Court encouraged the parties “to discuss an earlier date for deposition if the trial defendant represents he will be engaged in does not go forth 3/1/24 or is delayed.”  However, Plaintiff’s moving papers further assert that unbeknownst to the Court or to his counsel, on February 26, 2024, Defendant had already stipulated with his opposing counsel to continue the trial that was supposed to commence on March 1, 2024 to April 24, 2024. Plaintiff’s counsel discovered this after the February 27, 2024 hearing, and in keeping with the Court’s order to try and get the deposition done earlier, Plaintiff’s counsel contacted Defendant about proceeding with the deposition in person on March 8, 2024.  The moving papers claim that Defendant responded as follows: “You are stalker. Im [sic] going to get a restraining order against you.” (Declaration of Adrian Medvei (“AMED Decl.”), Exhibit 2.) Plaintiff further notes that ten minutes later, Defendant further provided: “You are a really loser [sic] tracking me. I will be filing a restraining order against you and your stalker son. And I feel as though I should report you both to the bar.” (AMED Decl., Exhibit 2.)   Now, Plaintiff notes that as part of the aforementioned communications, Defendant issued the subpoena in question on this motion. Per the moving papers, the subpoena seeks to depose Non-Party Medvei Law Group, APC (the “Deponent”), the law corporation of Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s counsel. Plaintiff notes that the subpoena seeks the personal appearance of the person most qualified (“PMQ”) at the Deponent and the production of the following documents: “Payroll records & statements pertaining to Sebastian Medvei.” The subpoena also asked the Deponent to produce a PMQ to testify as to “Sebastian Medvei [sic]… employment at Medvei Law Group, wages, job duties.” Plaintiff further notes that the subpoena was not personally served on an authorized agent or officer for the Deponent (AMED Decl., ¶ 4.)  As such, Plaintiff has filed this Motion to Quash the Subpoena as to Medvei Law Group, APC.   B. ProceduralOn March 15, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Motion to Quash. On April 4, 2024, Defendant Westmoreland filed an opposition brief. On April 11, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply brief.   II. ANALYSIS  Legal Standard   Code of Civil Procedure § 1987.1 grants the trial court authority to quash a subpoena when necessary. Code of Civil Procedure § 1987.1 provides: “If a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the production of books, documents, or other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the court’s own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as may be appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the person.” Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 1987.1(b), “[t]he following persons may make a motion pursuant to subdivision (a): (1) A party; (2) A witness; (3) A consumer described in Section 1985.3; (4) An employee described in Section 1985.6; and (5) A person whose personally identifying information, as defined in subdivision (b) of Section 1798.79.8 of the Civil Code, is sought in connection with an underlying action involving that person’s exercise of free speech rights.   Discussion    Service  First, Plaintiff argues that the subpoena was not personally served on the Deponent, non-party, Medvei Law Group, APC. Plaintiff notes, as does the process server, that the subpoena was served to Elena Stepanyan, who is a front desk/receptionist. Plaintiff argues that Ms. Stepanyan is not an employee of Medvei Law group and is not, in any event, an employee who is authorized to accept service of a subpoena on Medvei Law Group’s behalf. As such, Plaintiff argues that pursuant to the requirements of Code of Civil Procedure section 2020.220(b)(2), which states: “[a]ny person may serve the subpoena by personal delivery of a copy of it as follows: (2) if the deponent is an organization, to any officer, director, custodian of records, or to any agent or employee authorized by the organization to accept service of a subpoena.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.220(b)(2). Because Ms. Stepanyan is none of these people identified, Plaintiff argues that service was improper.   Here, Defendant attempts to argue that service of this subpoena was proper as Medvei Law Group is a party-affiliate pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.280(a). However, the Defendant fails to establish how this is. Specifically, Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.280(a) states, “The service of a deposition notice under section 2025.240 is effective to require any deponent who is a party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party to attend and to testify, as well as to produce any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing for inspection and copying.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.280.) The Court is unaware how a law firm could be identified as an “officer, director, managing agent, or employee” of Plaintiff, Sebastian Medvei.   As such, this Court finds that service of the subpoena was improper, without reaching the issue of the propriety of Defendant’s seeking to depose the opposing counsel of record in apparent retaliation for seeking to re-schedule Defendant’s own Court-ordered deposition.   Information Sought by the Subpoena   Although failure to properly serve a subpoena would be grounds alone for granting this motion to quash, this Court also discusses the information sought by said subpoena in order to give Defendant Westmoreland guidance for a potential future subpoena. As noted in the moving papers, the subpoena requests from the Deponent, Medvei Law Group, to produce payroll records and statements pertaining to the Plaintiff, Sebastian Medvei. Plaintiff argues that this is a case for malicious prosecution as against Defendants, and that he is not seeking damages for lost wages, and thus, the items sought would be irrelevant.   However, as noted by Plaintiff in his reply brief, he is not seeking “business losses” and has even conceded in discovery that he was not aware of any. Plaintiff also argues that his wages and other financial data are irrelevant to his claim for noneconomic damages in the form of inconvenience and annoyance. As argued by Plaintiff, “’[n]oneconomic damages compensate an injured plaintiff for nonpecuniary injuries. . . . [Citation.]’” (Bigler-Engler v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7 Cal. App. 5th 276, 300.) Here, the Court agrees. The Court is not persuaded that the items sought by the subpoena would amount to relevant evidence as to the noneconomic damages sought by Plaintiff. Without further persuasive argument, the Court would be inclined to find that the subpoena may be quashed because it does not seek relevant information that would outweigh privacy information.    Moreover, the Court recently granted Defenant’s motion to reclassify this case, which rested in large part on Plaintiff’s discovery responses that essentially disclaimed and economic damages aside from the attorneys fees allegedly paid to resolve the underlying action.  Just as Plaintiff will be bound by those discovery responses to the limited scope of economic damages claimed here (should this case proceed to trial), the scope of Defendant’s discovery to Plaintiff will similarly be limited.     Sanctions  In Plaintiff’s moving papers, he seeks to recover his expenses for filing this motion. In opposition, Defendant also argues that they are entitled to monetary sanction for Plaintiff’s allegedly filing a frivolous motion.  At the time this motion was filed, the Court had not yet considered or ruled on the motion to reclassify or reviewed the Plaintiff’s verified discovery responses addressing the categories of claimed damages in this matter.  As of earlier this week, this case is now reclassified as a limited civil matter.  The Court does not find good cause to award monetary sanctions to either side at this time, and gives notice to each side that the Court will look with substantial skepticism at future requests or cross-requests for monetary sanctions on discovery matters.  No party will profit from making or opposing a discovery motion and the Court will limit its future consideration of sanctions requests by the stringent “substantial justification” standard in the Discovery Act.   For the foregoing reasons, Plaintiff’s Motion is GRANTED, but monetary sanctions are not awarded to either party. Plaintiff is ordered to give written notice of this ruling, to include attaching this tentative ruling.      


