


            [1] The courts look to the
substance of an injunction to determine whether it is prohibitory or
mandatory.  Agricultural Labor
Relations Bd. v. Superior Court, (1983) 149 Cal.App.3d 709, 713.  A mandatory injunction — one that mandates a
party to affirmatively act, carries a heavy burden: “[t]he granting of a
mandatory injunction pending trial is not permitted except in extreme cases
where the right thereto is clearly established.”  Teachers Ins. & Annuity Assoc. v.
Furlotti, (1999) 70 Cal.App.4th 187, 1493.


            [2] However, a court may issue an
injunction to maintain the status quo without a cause of action in the
complaint.  CCP §526(a)(3).


[3] Plaintiff Modlin requests
judicial notice of the following documents from his bankruptcy case: (1) his Summary
of Assets and Liabilities and Schedules (Modlin RJN, Ex. 1); (2) his application
for an order authorizing employment of special litigation counsel (Modlin RJN, Ex.
2); (3) his reply in support of the application to employ special litigation
counsel (Modlin RJN, Ex. 3); (4) PLS’s motion to convert or dismiss the
bankruptcy case (Modlin RJN, Ex. 4); (5) a bankruptcy court order dismissing Modlin’s
Chapter 11 case (Modlin RJN, Ex. 5); (6) Modlin’s notice of appeal (Modlin RJN,
Ex. 6); (7) his motion for a stay pending appeal (Modlin RJN, Ex. 7); (8) his application
to set the stay application hearing on shortened notice (Modlin RJN, Ex. 8);
(9) PLS’s opposition to a hearing on shortened notice (Modlin RJN, Ex. 9); (10)
the bankruptcy court order on Modlin’s application (Modlin RJN, Ex. 10); and
(11) Modlin’s Ninth Circuit Bankruptcy Appellate Panel motion for reinstatement
of bankruptcy case pending appeal (Modlin RJN, Ex. 11).  Modlin RJN, ¶¶ 1-11.  
At the TRO/OSC hearing, both counsel agreed that the
exhibits are conformed copies.  The
requests are granted.  Evid. Code
§452(d).


[4] At the
hearing on Modlin’s application for a TRO, the court allowed for the
possibility that the prohibition against advance waivers might only apply to
the anti-deficiency rules and not the one-action rule. The Court invited
Oakhurst to focus on that issue in its response, but Oakhurst’s papers have
nothing to say on this point. Reply at 2-3.


[5] Finally,
Modlin contends that Oakhurst’s secret arrangement with Bierman violates the
notice provisions in the deed of trust, which states all notices must be given
to the "Property Address." 
Modlin Decl., Ex. A.  The
“Property Address” is defined as both Bierman’s and Modlin’s addresses.  Id. 
Oakhurst’s $1 million paydown notice was only provided to Bierman.
Modlin Decl., Ex. B.  App. at 8.
PLS does not respond to this argument, but Modlin does not
explain how the lack of proper notice affects the one-action rule.  It does not. 
Instead, it merely helps explain why Modlin was ignorant of the release
of Bierman’s property.

