 Case Number:  22STCV19770    Hearing Date:   April 3, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



LETICIA VASQUEZ,
  
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
CENTRAL BASIN MUNICIPAL WATER DISTRICT,
  ALEX ROJAS, ROBERT BAKER, and DOES 1 through 25, inclusive, 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.: 22STCV19770
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
APPLICATION FOR CONTEMPT OF COURT CITATION
 
Date: April 3, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff
Leticia Vasquez 
 
RESPONDING PARTY: Defendants
Central Basin Municipal Water District (the “District”) and Alex Rojas (“Rojas”)
(collectively, “Defendants”)
 
            The Court has considered the papers
filed by the parties. 
 
BACKGROUND
             On June 16, 2022, Plaintiff filed the
operative Complaint against Defendants, Robert Baker and DOES 1 through 25,
inclusive, for: (1) Damages in Violation of the Bane Civil Rights Act –
California Civil Code Section 52.1; and (2) Injunctive Relief. 
            
            On August 1, 2023, the Court issued
a preliminary injunction (the “PI”) against Defendants, limited to the
following:
 
“conduct
prohibiting, stopping or interfering with Plaintiff’s exercising her rights to
speak in her capacity as a board member during [District] board meetings.” (PI
order, p. 5.)
 
On
October 26, 2023, Plaintiff filed an Ex Parte Application for Issuance of an
Order to Show Cause Re Contempt of Court. On November 2, 2023, this Court
entered an Order to Show Cause Re Contempt of Court (the “OSC”) and set the
hearing on this matter for February 23, 2024. On December 22, 2023, Defendants
filed their opposition. On February 9, 2024, Plaintiff filed her reply. 
 
            On February 23, 2024, this Court on
its own motion continued the matter to April 3, 2024. 
 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS (if applicable)
             In support of their opposition, Defendants submitted
the declaration of Rojas (the “Rojas Declaration”). Plaintiff objects to portions
of the Rojas Declaration. The Court rules on Plaintiff’s objections as follows:
            OVERRULED: 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9,
10, 11, 12, 13, 14
            SUSTAINED: 2
 
JUDICIAL NOTICE (if applicable)
             Plaintiff requests judicial notice of: (1) the
District’s Board of Directors (the “Board”) Meeting Agendas for September 25,
2023, October 23, 2023, November 27, 2023, December 18, 2023, January 22, 2024
and February 7, 2024 as published on the District’s website (Bates Nos.
RJN001-RJN017); (2) the Court’s PI (Bates Nos. RJN018-RJN022); (3) the Court
Clerk’s Certificate of Mailing of Minute Order for the PI (Bates No. RJN023);
(4) Proofs of Service of the Court’s PI on Arturo Chacon, Rojas and Elizabeth
Brizuelas aka Elizabeth Rojas (Bates Nos. RJN024-RJN026); (5) the Court’s OSC dated
November 22, 2023 (Bates Nos. RJN027-RJN029); (6) Proofs of Service of the
Court’s OSC on Arturo Chacon and Rojas (Bates Nos. RJN030-RJN033); and (7)
Proofs of Service of Subpoenas for witnesses to testify at Contempt Hearing for
Thomas Bekele, Elizabeth Brizuelas aka Elizabeth Rojas, James Crawford, Juan
Garza and Michael Gualtieri (Bates Nos. RJN034-RJN043).
 
            Plaintiff’s request for judicial
notice is GRANTED pursuant to Evidence Code Sections 452, subdivision (d), (h),
and 453. 
 
DISCUSSION
Pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure Section 1209, subdivision (a)(5), “Disobedience of
any lawful judgment, order, or process of the court” constitutes a contempt of
the authority of the court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1209, subd. (a)(5).) “Upon the
answer and evidence taken, the court or judge shall determine whether the
person proceeded against is guilty of the contempt charged, and if it be
adjudged that the person is guilty of the contempt, a fine may be imposed on
the person not exceeding one thousand dollars ($1,000), payable to the court,
or the person may be imprisoned not exceeding five days, or both. In addition,
a person who is subject to a court order as a party to the action, or any agent
of this person, who is adjudged guilty of contempt for violating that court
order may be ordered to pay to the party initiating the contempt proceeding the
reasonable attorney’s fees and costs incurred by this party in connection with
the contempt proceeding.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1218, subd. (a).)
 
Generally,
“[t]he elements of proof necessary to support punishment for contempt are: (1)
a valid court order, (2) the alleged contemnor's knowledge of the order, and
(3) noncompliance.” (Inland Counties Regional Center, Inc. v. Superior Court
(2017) 10 Cal.App.5th 820, 827.) “Contempt that occurs outside the presence of
the court is indirect contempt, which is also known as constructive contempt.”
(In re Marcus (2006) 138 Cal.App.4th 1009, 1014.) Thus, “[a]s a
proceeding to punish for constructive contempt is criminal or quasi–criminal in
its nature, the guilt of the accused must be established by clear and
satisfactory evidence to sustain a conviction. A mere preponderance of evidence
is not enough.” (Pomin v. Superior Court in and for El Dorado County
(1941) 44 Cal.App.2d 206, 210.)
 
Application for Contempt of Court Citation
            As an initial matter, Plaintiff presents
evidence that the PI was authorized and entered by the Court on August 1, 2023.
(RJN No. 1.) The PI restrained Defendants from “prohibiting, stopping or
interfering with Plaintiff’s exercising her rights to speak in her capacity as
a board member during [District] board meetings.” Plaintiff contends that the
PI is a valid court order issued in accordance with California law and that it remains
unchanged and valid because there has been no challenge to it. 
 
Plaintiff
presents evidence that Defendants have actual knowledge of the PI because each Defendant
was personally served with a copy of it. (Wilson Decl., ¶ 7, Ex. 4.)  Plaintiff also presents evidence that the
District’s Deputy General Counsel, Derrick Lowe, appeared in this case on the
District’s behalf on August 1, 2023, and was present at the time that the Court
issued the PI. Plaintiff also presents evidence that during the Public Comment
segment of the District’s regular Board meeting on August 21, 2023, Plaintiff’s
counsel, Ronald Wilson, informed each Board member that they had been served
with the PI and explained its contents. (Id.) 
Plaintiff
contends that Defendants have the ability to comply with the PI because the District’s
Administrative Code gives its Board President the right of final approval on
the contents of the agendas for all regular, special and emergency meetings of
the District’s Board. (Ex Parte App. Vasquez Decl., ¶ 7.) Furthermore,
Plaintiff asserts Derek Lowe’s email dated September 22, 2023 acknowledges that
the Board President of the District has such authority. (Ex Parte App. at
11:7-13.) 
 
Plaintiff
also contends that the District’s Board President, Arturo Chacon, is subject to
contempt for the violation of the PI even as a non-party to this litigation
because it is well settled law in California that nonparties who are agents and
representatives of the named party are responsible for aiding and abetting the
violations at issue. (Ross v Superior Court (Woods) (1977) 19 Cal.3d
899, 905-906.) Plaintiff further contends that Defendants’ willful disobedience
may be inferred. Lastly, Plaintiff argues that she is entitled to her attorney’s
fees and costs in seeking the OSC. 
 
            In opposition, Defendants present
evidence that there was no refusal to agendize or discuss Plaintiff’s items
because they were in fact agendized and came up regularly for discussion. (Rojas
Decl., ¶¶ 2-3.) Defendants further provide evidence that Plaintiff voluntarily
chose not to discuss either of her items at the November and December 2023
Board Meetings, and that she voted to continue Item B to the January 2024 Board
Meeting. (Id. at ¶¶ 6-10, Exs. 1-2.) 
 
Defendants
argue that Plaintiff fails to identify any right that has been violated because
Government Code Section 5454.2, subdivision (a)(3) only directs staff to
agendize an item on a future agenda subject to the rules or procedures of the
legislative body, not immediately, as Plaintiff claims. Finally, Defendants
argue there was no violation of the temporary restraining order (“TRO”)[1]
because Plaintiff was freely able to speak to make her request to agendize the
Vasquez Items, the items were agendized, and she was then fully and freely able
to discuss them with the Board in November of 2023. 
 
            Plaintiff argues that Defendants
misrepresent the nature of the requested relief because Defendants’ counsel is
fully aware that the issue before the Court relates to the September and
October, 2023 meetings and continuing dates and not simply to the November,
2023 meeting. (Wilson Decl., ¶, Ex. 3.) Plaintiff also asserts that Defendants
falsely contend that the items she requested were placed on the November 2023
agenda. Plaintiff contends that the items were placed in the information and
discussion portion and not on the action item portion of the agenda and that by
refusing to provide adequate legal descriptions of the agenda items as
requested she was unable to make motions and further seek changes.  
 
Plaintiff
contends that even if she were successful in obtaining action on these items at
the November Board meeting, they would have been subject to judicial challenge
because of the inadequacy and misleading nature of the descriptions. As such,
Plaintiff argues that this conduct intentionally interferes with and prevents
her ability to make a motion and to discuss changes to the district maps and
the Administrative Code. Moreover, Plaintiff argues that the items were not
placed on the December 2023 or on the January 2024 Board Meeting agendas
because only one of the requested items was placed and that was with a woefully
inadequate description in the information and discussion portion of the agenda,
and it was not placed in the action items section.
 
            The Court finds that Defendants’
conduct does not constitute indirect contempt (constructive contempt) for the
purposes of issuing a contempt citation. Although Plaintiff presents evidence
that: (1) there a valid court order in place, i.e., the PI issued on August 1,
2023 and (2)  Defendants had knowledge of
the PI being issued, Plaintiff has not established by clear and satisfactory
evidence that Defendants’ actions were noncompliant with the PI. The PI only
enjoined Defendants from prohibiting, stopping or interfering with Plaintiff’s
exercising her rights to speak in her capacity as a board member during
District Board Meetings, and Defendants did not so violate the PI. 
 
            Initially, the Court finds that the
language of the PI relates only to Plaintiff’s right “to speak in her capacity
as a board member during the [District] board meetings”  The PI does not prohibit Defendants from “interfer[ing]
with and prevent[ing] her ability to make a motion and to discuss changes to
the district maps and the Administrative Code” as Plaintiff contends.  The Court very narrowly drafted the
language of the PI to only prohibit activities that limited Plaintiff’s
right to “speak.” The PI deliberately does not address any alleged
“right” to have specific items placed on the District Board’s agenda, much less
require affirmatively that such items be placed in a specific part of the
agenda or with specific descriptive language. 
The PI was intentionally issued by this Court with this very specific limitation
on its injunctive relief, particularly in response to Plaintiff’s contention
that she was physically prevented from speaking at Board meetings. The actions
asserted by Plaintiff in connection with the OSC, in contrast, do not and
cannot come within the scope of the PI as it was issued.  The Court finds that none of Defendants’
alleged actions constitute “prohibiting, stopping or interfering with
Plaintiff’s exercising her rights to speak in her capacity as a board
member during [District] board meeting[s].” (PI, p. 5, emphasis added.)  The Court further finds that no additional
evidence to support Plaintiff’s claims as set forth in her papers for the
issuance of the OSC would support the issuance of a contempt citation to
Defendants.
Moreover,
even if the PI did specifically prohibit activity relating to the placement of
items on the Board’s meeting agendas as opposed to actually speaking at Board
meetings, which it does not, Plaintiff’s evidence does not  support her own argument regarding the
issuance of the OSC.  Plaintiff submitted
evidence that she requested throughout the months of September 2023, October
2023, November 2023, December 2023 and January 2024 that two items be placed on
the agenda for “discussion and action.”  The requests did not, however, specify that
these items be placed in the “Action Items” portion of the agenda. 
 
Plaintiff
herself appears to concede that the items she requested were in fact placed on
the agenda, but she insists that they were not adequately described or placed
in the right section of the agenda for motions to be made on them. Because the
prohibitions in the PI are so circumscribed, even if the PI were read to
require that Plaintiff must be unconditionally allowed to place items on the
agenda, which the Court finds cannot be done, Defendants’ conduct in simply
placing Plaintiff’s requested items on the agenda would render it in compliance
with the PI, regardless of which portion of the agenda they were on and how
they were described. 
 
Therefore,
the Court finds that the evidence before the Court therefore did not and cannot
support the issuance of the OSC.  Because
the Court finds that the activities of which Plaintiff complains as being
violative of the PI cannot in fact be held to be in violation of the PI, the
Court on its own motion DISCHARGES the OSC and DENIES the application for
contempt of court citation. 
 
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 


 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative
must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the
instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 3d day of April 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 






