  Case Number:  21STCV44739    Hearing Date:   April 3, 2024    Dept:  56  COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  
 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES -
CENTRAL DISTRICT 
 
 



NORMA OROZCO,
  
Plaintiff, 
vs. 
 
BODEGA LATINA CORPORATION, et al,,  
                                                                               
Defendants.                                


 


      CASE NO.:  21STCV44739
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER
  RE:  
MOTION TO COMPEL COMPLIANCE
  WITH SUBPOENA DUCES TECUM 
 
Date: April 3,
  2024
Time: 8:30
  a.m. 
Dept. 56 
 
 



 
 
MOVING PARTY:  Defendant Bodega Latina Corporation (now
Chedraui USA, Inc.) (“Moving Defendant”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY:  Plaintiff Norma Orozco 
 
The Court has considered the moving,
opposition and reply papers.  
 
BACKGROUND 
  
This action arises out of an employment
relationship.  Plaintiff’s complaint (the
“Complaint”) alleges: (1) hostile work environment harassment; and (2) failure
to prevent and/or remedy harassment.
 
On February 15, 2024, Moving Defendant
filed the instant motion to compel nonparty Spine Care & Orthopedic
Physicians (“SCOP”) to produce all documents called for in the subpoena duces
tecum served on it.  Plaintiff filed her
opposition on February 29, 2024, and Moving Defendant filed its reply on March
26, 2024.  SCOP has not opposed this
motion.  
 
SEPARATE STATEMENT 
 
The Court notes that if a proposed deponent made some response to the
deposition notice, then a separate statement must accompany any motion to
compel deposition attendance or production. 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345, subd. (b).)  Here, SCOP
provided no written response to the subpoena. 
Therefore, a separate statement was not required.
 
DISCUSSION 
 
“[T]he process by which a
nonparty is required to provide discovery is a deposition subpoena.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.010, subd. (b).)  A deposition subpoena may command any of the
following: (a) Only the attendance and the testimony of the deponent; (b) Only
the production of business records for copying; or (3) The attendance and the
testimony of the deponent, as well as the production of business records, other
documents, electronically stored information, and tangible things.  (Id. § 2020.020, subd. (a)-(c).)
 
“If a deponent fails to answer
any question or to produce any document, electronically stored information, or
tangible thing under the deponent's control that is specified in the deposition
notice or a deposition subpoena, the party seeking discovery may move the court
for an order compelling that answer or production.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.480, subd. (a).) “This motion shall be made no later than 60 days after
the completion of the record of the deposition, and shall be accompanied by a
meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.” (Id. § 2025.480,
subd. (b).)
Timeliness 
The date specified for
production in the subject subpoena was January 30, 2024.  (Declaration of Laura Reathaford (“Reathaford
Decl.”); Ex. “C.”)  Moving Defendant
filed the instant motion to compel on February 15, 2024.  Therefore, the motion is timely pursuant to
section 2025.480, subdivision (b).   
 
Meet and Confer 
The motion also satisfies the
meet and confer requirement under section 2025.480, subdivision (b).  
 
Deposition Subpoena 
Moving Defendant seeks an
order compelling SCOP to produce all documents called for in the subpoena duces
tecum served on it, without objection.  
 
Moving Defendant’s motion is
premised on numerous grounds including the following:  On November 29, 2023,
this Court ordered Plaintiff to identify her health care providers.  (Id. ¶
2; Ex. “A.”)  Plaintiff served a second
supplemental interrogatory response that purported to comply with this order,
identifying 34 previously unidentified providers, including SCOP.  (Id. ¶
3; Ex. “B.”)  On January 10, 2024, Moving
Defendant served third-party subpoenas duces tecum on SCOP, which called for
medical records referencing Plaintiff, and all communications with Plaintiff
regarding her physical, mental, medical, psychiatric, psychological, and/or
emotional condition from January 1, 2016 to the present.  (Id. ¶
4; Ex. “C.”)  On January 16, 2024,
Plaintiff served written objections to the subpoena, stating in part: “Should
Defendant fail to withdraw the subpoena, Plaintiff will proceed with filing a
Motion to Quash and request monetary sanctions.” Moving Defendant did not
withdraw its subpoena and Plaintiff has not filed a Motion to Quash it..   (Id. ¶¶
5, 6; Ex. “D.”)  No other party or
nonparty served objections to the subpoena. 
(Id. ¶ 7.)  SCOP has not produced any documents.  (Id. ¶
8)   Emotional distress damages constitute the vast
majority of Plaintiff’s claimed damages in this case.  Plaintiff contends that her damages in this
case consist of $7,592.01 in lost wages, $3,850.00 in medical expenses, and
general damages attributable to emotional distress in an amount “in excess of
$1,000,000.00.”  (Id.
¶ 11; Ex. “F.”)  
 
In its opposition, Plaintiff argues: (1) Moving
Defendant lacks standing to sue because Chedraui USA, Inc. served the subpoena
duces tecum; (2) Plaintiff did not instruct SCOP to refuse production and/or
ignore the correspondence from Moving Defendant’s counsel; and (3) Plaintiff
was not required to file a motion to quash as argued by Moving Defendant.  (Opposition pp. 2-3.)   
 
Moving Defendant responds by arguing: (1) SCOP
has not opposed this motion; (2) Moving Defendant and Chedraui USA, Inc. are
not separate Entities because Moving Defendant is now known as Chedraui USA,
Inc.; (3) Plaintiff instructed SCOP to refuse production in Plaintiff’s written
objection to the subpoena, which Plaintiff never withdrew or modified; (4) Plaintiff
was not required to file a motion to quash but her decision not to file such
motion meant SCOP was not excused from compliance with the subpoena; and (5)
Plaintiff’s opposition does not rebut Moving Defendant’s showing of
discoverability.  (Reply pp. 1-4; Reathaford Decl., ¶¶ 1, 5; Ex. “D.”)
The Court finds there is good cause
for enforcing the subpoena’s document requests. 
As argued in the moving papers, Plaintiff has put her mental condition
at issue because Plaintiff contends that her damages
in this case consist of $7,592.01 in lost wages, $3,850.00 in medical expenses,
and general damages attributable to emotional distress in an amount “in excess
of $1,000,000.00.”  As a result, the
deposition subpoena seeks information relevant to this action.  Moving Defendant has a compelling interest in
obtaining discovery relating to Plaintiff’s mental condition because such
information is directly relevant to Moving Defendant’s defense and disclosure
is essential to a fair resolution of this action.  Plaintiff does not argue to the contrary and
does not even address the discoverability of such information at all in her opposition.  Instead, Plaintiff puts forth procedural
arguments, which the Court finds unconvincing. 
Further, Notice of this Motion and Motion were
properly served by personal service on SCOP, which has not
opposed this motion.  (Proof of Service 02-12-2024.)  
 
Thus, the Court grants the motion to
compel compliance with subpoena duces tecum to  nonparty SCOP. 
 
SCOP is ordered to produce to Moving
Defendant, without objection, all documents responsive to the subject subpoena
within 10 days of the date of this order.  
 
Moving Party is ordered to give notice
of this ruling.               
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If
the department does not receive an email and there are no appearances at the
hearing, the motion will be placed off calendar. 
 
Dated this 3rd day
of April 2024 
 



  


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie 
Judge of the
  Superior Court 
 



 