 Case Number:  24STCP02293    Hearing Date:   January 3, 2025    Dept:  71 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



VAHE SAYAN,
  et al., 
  
         vs.
 
PROGRESSIVE
  INSURANCE COMPANY.


 Case No.: 
  24STCP02293
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  January 3, 2025



 
Petitioners Vahe Sayan’s, Shushanna
Tovmasyan’s, and Azathui Muradyan’s motion to compel arbitration of this matter
as to Respondent Progressive Insurance Company is denied, without prejudice. 
 
Petitioners Vahe Sayan (“Sayan”), Shushanna Tovmasyan (“Tovmasyan”),
and Azathui Muradyan (“Muradyan”) (collectively, “Petitioners”) move for an
order compelling Respondent Progressive Insurance Company (“Progressive”) (“Respondent”)
to arbitrate this matter based on Petitioners’ demand for arbitration served on
Respondent on May 21, 2024.  (Notice of
Motion; C.C.P. §§1281.2; Ins. Code §115820.2(f).)
 
Background
Petitioners filed the operative Petition on July 18, 2024, against
Respondent pursuant to the uninsured motorist provisions of their Uber driver,
Mohammad Kadkhodazadeh’s (“Kadkhodazadeh”), insurance policy.  (See Petition ¶5.)  
Petitioners allege that on November 18, 2023, they were involved
in a hit-and-run car accident, which caused bodily injury and property
damage.  (See Petition ¶6.)  Petitioners allege Kadkhodazadeh and
Respondent have resolved property damage claims, but as to Petitioners’ bodily
injury claims, Respondent disputes if Petitioners are legally entitled to
collect damages from the owner or operator of the uninsured motor vehicle
and/or the amount of those damages.  (See
Petition ¶7.)
Petitioners filed a notice of motion on August 2, 2024.  Respondent filed its opposition on November
27, 2024.  Petitioner filed their reply
on December 5, 2024.
 
Motion to Compel Arbitration
Insurance
Code §11580.2(f) provides, in part:
Title 4 (commencing with
Section 2016.010) of Part 4 of the Code of Civil Procedure shall be applicable
to these determinations, and all rights, remedies, obligations, liabilities
and procedures set forth in Title 4 (commencing with Section 2016.010) of Part
4 of the Code of Civil Procedure shall be available to both the insured and the
insurer at any time after the accident, both before and after the
commencement of arbitration, if any, with the following limitations:
 
(1) Whenever in Title 4
(commencing with Section 2016.010) of Part 4 of the Code of Civil Procedure reference
is made to the court in which the action is pending, or provisions is made for
application to the court or obtaining leave of court or approval by the court, the
court which shall have jurisdiction for the purposes of this section shall be
the superior court for the State of California.
 
(Ins.
Code §11580.2(f), emphasis added.)
          Under Insurance Code §11580.2(f), this
Court has jurisdiction over the instant uninsured motorist action.
If
an insurer refuses to arbitrate or the parties cannot agree on the method of
arbitration, the proper remedy is to file a petition for an order compelling arbitration
(C.C.P. §1281.2) or appointing an arbitrator (C.C.P. §1281.6).  (Ins. Code §11580.2(f); see Gordon v.
G.R.O.U.P., Inc. (1996) 49 Cal.App.4th 998, 1005.)
“When
the parties to an arbitrable controversy have agreed in writing to arbitrate it
and one has refused, the court, under C.C.P. §1281.2, must ordinarily grant a
petition to compel arbitration.”  (McIsaac
v. Foremost Insurance Co. Grand Rapids, Michigan (2021) 64 Cal.App.5th 418,
422, quoting Wagner Construction Co. v. Pacific Mechanical Corp. (2007)
41 Cal.4th 19, 26.)  
Section
1281.2 provides, in relevant part, that “[o]n petition of a party to an
arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to
arbitrate a controversy and that a party to the agreement refuses to arbitrate
that controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to
arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the
controversy exists,” unless one of three enumerated exceptions applies.  (C.C.P. § 1281.2, italics added.)  
Once
the existence of a valid arbitration clause has been established, “[t]he burden
is on ‘the party opposing arbitration to demonstrate that [the] arbitration
clause cannot be interpreted to require arbitration of the dispute.’”  (McIsaac, 64 Cal.App.5th at pg. 422,
quoting Buckhorn v. St. Jude Heritage Medical Group (2004) 121
Cal.App.4th 1401, 1406.)
          Respondent does not dispute the existence of an enforceable
arbitration provision in Kadkhodazadeh’s insurance policy.  Rather, Respondent argues it is entitled to
investigate and evaluate Petitioners’ claim before arbitration is initiated.
          Kadkhodazadeh’s insurance policy provides:
If we and an insured cannot
agree on:
 
1.    
the legal liability of the
operator or owner of an uninsured auto or an underinsured auto; or
2.    
the amount of the damages
sustained by the insured; this will be determined by arbitration. If the
accident involves an uninsured auto, any demand for arbitration must be made
within two years of the date of the accident. If the accident involves an
underinsured auto, the demand must be made within two years after all
applicable bodily injury liability bonds or policies have been exhausted by
payment of judgments or settlements and prior to the expiration of the bodily
injury statute of limitations in the state in which the accident occurred. An
insured demanding arbitration must send written notice to us, or our agent for
process, by certified mail, return receipt requested.
 
Arbitration
shall be conducted by a single neutral arbitrator.
 
The
costs and fees of the arbitrator will be shared equally. 
 
Unless both parties agree
otherwise, arbitration will take place in the county in which the insured
resides. Local rules of procedure and evidence will apply.
 
(Decl.
of Young ¶3, Exh. A at pg. 21, emphasis added.)
In
Brehm v. 21st Century Insurance Co. (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 1225, the Court
of Appeal explained the statutory intent of Insurance Code §§11580.2 and
11580.26, which governs UM Arbitrations. The Brehm Court stated:
Neither provision grants the
insurer the unfettered right to demand arbitration as soon as a UM/UIM claim is
filed; both obligate the insurer to attempt to reach an agreement with its
insured before it may invoke arbitration as a means of resolving any
disagreement. Section 11580.2, subdivision (f), requires any questions concerning
liability or the amount of damages to be decided “by agreement between the
insured and the insurer”; only “in the event of disagreement” may the dispute be
resolved by arbitration. Similarly, under section 11580.26, subdivision (b),
arbitration is available “in the event of disagreement” between the insurer and
the insured as to whether the insured is legally entitled to recover the
property damages sought. This duty to attempt to agree before arbitrating,
clearly imposed by the Legislature, invokes a corresponding duty to do so in
good faith.
 
(Brehm
v. 21st Century Insurance Co. (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 1225, 1245.)
          Here, Kadkhodazadeh’s insurance policy provides:
You and a person seeking coverage must:
 
1.    
cooperate with us in any matter
concerning a claim or lawsuit, including providing us with information
regarding the driver’s use of other transportation network company applications
at the time of the accident or loss;
2.    
provide any written proof of loss we
may reasonably require;
3.    
allow us to take
signed and recorded statements, including sworn statements and examinations
under oath, which we may conduct outside the presence of you or any person
claiming coverage, and answer all reasonable questions we may ask as often as
we may reasonably require;
4.    
promptly call us to notify us about
any claim or lawsuit and send us any and all legal papers relating to any claim
or lawsuit;
5.    
attend hearings and trials as we
require;
6.    
submit to medical examinations at our
expense by doctors we select as often as we may reasonably require;
7.    
authorize us to obtain medical
records that are reasonably related to the cause of loss or the injuries being
asserted and other pertinent records;
8.    
take reasonable steps after a loss to
protect the insured auto from further loss if the coverage sought is for damage
to the insured auto under Part II of this policy. We will pay reasonable
expenses incurred in providing that protection. If failure to provide such
protection results in further loss, any additional damages will not be covered
under this policy; and
9.    
allow us to have the damage to an
insured auto or other vehicle involved in the accident or loss inspected and
appraised before its repair or disposal.
 
(Decl.
of Young ¶3, Exh. A at pgs. 1-2, emphasis added.)
          An insured’s compliance with a policy
requirement to submit to an examination under oath is a prerequisite to the
right to receive benefits under the policy.  If a party seeks to recover by reason of a
contract, and he must show that he has complied with such contract on his part.
If it appears that the contract has been violated, and thus terminated by the
assured, he cannot recover. After an
insured
has failed to comply with an insurer’s initial demand for an examination under
oath, it becomes incumbent upon him to fulfill the requirement of being
examined by offering to submit to such an examination at a later time.  (See Brizuela v. CalFarm Insurance Co.
(2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 578, 579.)
          Here, Respondent demanded Petitioners appear
for or schedule an examination under oath (“EUO”) on numerous occasions.  Kadkhodazadeh’s
insurance policy explicitly states, “We may not be sued by a person,
corporation or entity insured by this policy unless there is full compliance
by that same insured person, corporation or entity with all the terms of this
policy.”  (Decl.
of Young ¶3, Exh. A at pg. 23, emphasis added.) 
Petitioners have failed to comply with their duty to appear for
EUOs.  (See Decl. of Young ¶¶5-13,
Exhs. C, D, E.)
          Accordingly, Petitioners’ motion is
denied, without prejudice.
 
Conclusion
Petitioners’
motion to compel arbitration is denied without prejudice.
Moving Party to
give notice.

 
Dated:  January _____, 2025
                                                                             





  