  Case Number:  23VECV02568    Hearing Date:   November 17, 2023    Dept:  W VILORY
MEZHERITSKY vs MARILYN DISHELL
 
DefendanT’S motion
for change of venue / transfer action from los angeles county to ventura county

 
Date of Hearing:        November
17, 2023                          Trial Date:       None set. 
Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        23VECV02568
 
Moving Party:            Marilyn Dishell
Responding Party:     No opposition. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a motor vehicle collision
action. Plaintiff alleges Defendant was driving behind Plaintiff’s vehicle at
an unsafe speed, in violation of California Vehicle Code Section § 22350, when
she was unable to stop and rear-ended Plaintiff’s vehicle. As a result,
Plaintiff has suffered damages. On June 12, 2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint
against Defendant for motor vehicle negligence and general negligence. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendant’s Motion for Change of Venue/Transfer
Action From Los Angeles County to Ventura County is GRANTED. 
 
discussion
 
Defendant Marilyn Dishell moves the
court for an order transferring this action to the Superior Court of Ventura
County, California based on the grounds the incident occurred in Ventura County
and the sole defendant in this matter resides San Bernandino County. 
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure,
section 397, “[t]he court may, on motion, change the place of trial in the
following cases: . . . [¶] (a) When the court designated in the complaint is
not the proper court. . . .” (CCP §397(a).) A motion for transfer on the ground
that the action was filed in an “improper” court (mandatory transfer) must be
made within the time permitted to plead; i.e., 30 days after service, unless
extended by stipulation or court order. (CCP §396b(a).) The burden rests on the
party seeking change of venue to defeat the plaintiff’s presumptively correct
choice of court. (Buran Equipment Co. v. Superior Court (1987) 190
Cal.App.3d 1662, 1666.)
 
The instant matter arises out of an
automobile incident that occurred on March 27, 2023 on the US 101 Highway near
Moorpark Road in the City of Thousand Oaks, Ventura County. (Compl. GN-1.) Defendant
also attaches the Traffic Collision Report, which provides Defendant resides in
San Bernadino County – not Los Angeles County. (Hall Decl., Exh. 1.)
 
Because Plaintiff’s alleged injuries
occurred in Ventura County, and Defendant does not reside in Los Angeles
County, Defendant’s motion to change venue to Ventura County is GRANTED.