 Case Number:  22STCV33817    Hearing Date:   September 4, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving and opposition papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
October 19, 2022, Plaintiff Mario Hernandez Gomez
(“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants Belmont Enterprises, LLC (“Belmont”),
The Saint Agnes Hotel, LLC (“Hotel”), and Does 1-30 for general negligence and
premises liability. 
On
January 9, 2023, Belmont filed an answer. 
On
February 24, 2023, the Court dismissed Hotel without prejudice at Plaintiff’s
request. 
On
June 14, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion for leave to file a first amended complaint.  The motion was set for hearing on July 24,
2024.  On July 11, 2024, Belmont filed an
opposition.  The Court continued the
hearing to September 4, 2024. 
Trial
is currently set for October 4, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Plaintiff
asks the Court for leave to file a first amended complaint. 
Belmont
asks the Court to deny the motion. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
“The
court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow
a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name
of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake
in any other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or
demurrer. The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the
adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any
pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an
answer to be made after the time limited by this code.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473,
subd. (a)(1).) 
“Any
judge, at any time before or after commencement of trial, in the furtherance of
justice, and upon such terms as may be proper, may allow the amendment of any
pleading or pretrial conference order.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 576; see Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324.) 
“ ‘While
a motion to permit an amendment to a pleading to be filed is one addressed to
the discretion of the court, the exercise of this discretion must be sound and
reasonable and not arbitrary or capricious. [Citations.] And it is a rare case
in which “a court will be justified in refusing a party leave to amend his
pleadings so that he may properly present his case.” [Citations.] If the motion
to amend is timely made and the granting of the motion will not prejudice the
opposing party, it is error to refuse permission to amend and where the refusal
also results in a party being deprived of the right to assert a meritorious
cause of action or a meritorious defense, it is not only error but an abuse of
discretion. [Citations.]’ ”  (Redevelopment
Agency v. Herrold (1978) 86 Cal.App.3d 1024, 1031, quoting Morgan v.
Superior Court (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530.) 
“[I]t
is an abuse of discretion to deny leave to amend where the opposing party was
not misled or prejudiced by the amendment.” (Kittredge Sports Co. v.
Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048 (Kittredge).)  “Prejudice exists where the amendment would
result in a delay of trial, along with loss of critical evidence, added costs
of preparation, increased burden of discovery, etc.”  (L. Edmon & C. Karnow, Cal. Practice
Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2023) ¶ 6:656, p. 6-193 (Cal.
Practice Guide).) 
“Ordinarily,
the judge will not consider the validity of the proposed amended pleading in
deciding whether to grant leave to amend. . . . After leave to amend is
granted, the opposing party will have the opportunity to attack the validity of
the amended pleading.” (Cal. Practice Guide, supra, ¶ 6:644, pp. 6-189
to 6-190.) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   Plaintiff’s complaint 
The
complaint alleges the following: 
On
July 10, 2022, at 560 Gladys Avenue, Los
Angeles, CA 90013, Defendants’ negligence “caused a dangerous condition which
created a substantial and reasonably foreseeable risk of the types of injuries
suffered by Plaintiff when the premises were used with due care in a manner in
which it was reasonably foreseeable that they would be used. On the date and at
the place above, Plaintiff was lawfully on the premises when, as a proximate
result of the dangerous condition and the negligence of Defendants, and each of
them, Plaintiff was punctured by a nail, causing injuries and damages to Plaintiff.” 
B.   Plaintiff’s motion to file an amended complaint 
Plaintiff
seeks leave to file an amended complaint that changes the date of the incident
from July 10, 2022 to June 12, 2022.  Plaintiff
asserts that the request is based on information he obtained after filing the
original complaint and that amendment of the complaint will not prejudice
Defendants. 
Belmont
opposes the motion, arguing the two-year statute of limitations for personal
injury actions bars the amendment because the amended complaint would not “relate
back” to the original complaint. 
An
amended complaint filed after the statute of limitations has run that alleges
new causes of action “relates back” to the original complaint if it (1) is
based on the “same general set of facts” as those in the original complaint,
(2) seeks recovery against the same defendants for the same injuries alleged in
the original complaint, and (3) refers to the “same incident” alleged in the
original complaint – i.e., the “same accident” caused by “the same offending
instrumentality.”  (K. Banke & J.
Segal, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial, Statutes of Limitations
(Rutter 2024) ¶ 8:160, p. 21.)  “In
general, courts liberally apply the relation-back doctrine.”  (Ibid.)  “In determining whether an amended complaint
alleges facts sufficiently similar to those in the original complaint, the
critical issue is whether the original complaint gives defendant adequate notice
of plaintiff’s claims.”  (Id., ¶
8:161, p. 22.) 
For
purposes of Plaintiff’s motion to file an amended complaint, the Court finds
that an amended complaint which changes only the date of the incident from July
10, 2022 to June 12, 2022 relates back to the original complaint.  Belmont may, however, challenge the amended
complaint based on the statute of limitations without seeking reconsideration
of this finding. 
The
Court grants Plaintiff’s motion for leave to file an amended complaint. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS Plaintiff Mario Hernandez Gomez’s motion to
file a first amended complaint.   Plaintiff Mario Hernandez Gomez is ordered to file and serve a first amended complaint within
10 days of the hearing on this motion. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.