  Case Number:  22STCV17208    Hearing Date:   November 12, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Mario Cardona,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22STCV17208




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling 
 




 
City of Los Angeles,  


 
 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: November 12, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
(2) Pitchess Motions
 
T/R:     PLAINTIFF’S PITCHESS MOTION IS
GRANTED.
 
DEFENDANT’S PITCHESS MOTION IS
GRANTED.
 
PLAINTIFF TO NOTICE.
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply.
 
“A party seeking discovery of a peace
officer's personnel records must follow a two-step process.  First, the party must file a written motion
describing the type of records sought, supported by ‘[a]ffidavits showing good
cause for the discovery. . ., setting forth the materiality thereof to the
subject matter involved in the pending litigation and stating upon reasonable
belief that the governmental agency identified has the records or information
from the records.’  [Cal. Evid. Code §
1043(b)(3).]  This initial burden is a
‘relatively relaxed standard [ ].’ 
Information is material if it ‘“will facilitate the ascertainment of the
facts and a fair trial.”’  ‘[A]
declaration by counsel on information and belief is sufficient to state facts
to satisfy the “materiality” component of that section.’”  (Haggerty v. Superior Court (2004) 117
Cal. App. 4th 1079, 1085–1086 [citations omitted].)
 

“Second, if ‘the trial court concludes
the defendant has fulfilled these prerequisites and made a showing of good
cause, the custodian of records should bring to court all documents
“potentially relevant” to the defendant's motion. . . .  The trial court “shall examine the
information in chambers” [Cal. Evid. Code § 1045(b).], “out of the presence and
hearing of all persons except the person authorized [to possess the records]
and such other persons [the custodian of records] is willing to have present.”.
. . Subject to statutory exceptions and limitations. . . the trial court should
then disclose to the defendant “such information [that] is relevant to the
subject matter involved in the pending litigation.”’”  (Haggerty, supra at 1086.)
 
A. Plaintiff’s Pitchess Motion 
 
Plaintiff seeks the following records: 
 
Personnel Investigation
Information of Complaints Made By LAPD Sergeant Mario Cardona Against LAPD
Commander Al Neal -- Plaintiff requests any and all files and records related
to any investigation conducted by the City of Los Angeles and/or the LAPD related
to the unredacted personnel investigations of Al Neal regarding the incidents
set forth in the following Complaints: CF No. 20-002336, CF No. 21-000124, and
CF No. 24-003038. These are personnel complaints initiated by Plaintiff against
Neal which form the basis of his allegations of retaliation against LAPD
Commander Al Neal. Each of the requested documents include but are not limited
to: investigation reports; notes taken during or after the investigation;
witness statements; any and all personnel files; internal City of Los Angeles
and/or LAPD files; audiorecordings, video-recordings, digital recordings, voice
recordings, computer files, documents obtained during the course of the
investigation, data files, videotapes, and/or documents memorializing or
summarizing any and all interviews of any witnesses, employees conducted by the
City of Los Angeles and/or LAPD in relation to the herein mentioned
investigation.
 
Plaintiff alleges Neal, his former
supervisor, retaliated against Plaintiff for filing personnel complaints
against Neal by removing him from his previous assignment. This establishes
good cause for disclosure of the requested information. 
 
In opposition, Defendant asserts that
Plaintiff is not entitled to the investigator’s notes under Haggerty v. Superior Court of San Diego County (2004) 117 Cal.4th 1079. Haggerty did not hold that an
investigator’s notes are never discoverable, but rather that a balancing test
of relevancy versus the need for secrecy must be conducted. Here, these notes
could be relevant to Plaintiff’s claims as they arise directly from the
complaints at issue in the motion. 
 
Defendant also argues that other officers’ personnel records and
information regarding the ongoing complaint investigation should not be
disclosed. As stated, Plaintiff has established good cause for the requested
records. Any records that appear to be irrelevant or could interfere with an
ongoing investigation may be excluded after in camera review. The Court will
not deny the motion on these grounds. 
 
Plaintiff’s motion is GRANTED.
 
B. Defendant’s Pitchess Motion
 
Defendant seeks the audio recording of the witness interview for LAPD
Officer Jonathan Chandler in the matter of CF No. 21-000124 and the audio
recording of LAPD Sergeant Scott Blackman in the matter of CF No. 21-000124.
Defendant asserts that disclosure is necessary to determine whether Chandler
and Blackman have given conflicting testimony on factual matters relevant to
this action. Plaintiff does not oppose.
 
Defendant’s motion is GRANTED.