 Case Number:  23BBCV01131    Hearing Date:   February 23, 2024    Dept:  NCB  Superior Court of CaliforniaCounty of Los AngelesNorth Central DistrictDepartment B  TANIA MURRIETA, et al.,                    Plaintiffs,         v. AMERICAN HONDA MOTOR CO., INC.,                    Defendant.   Case No.:  23BBCV01131 Hearing Date:  February 23, 2024  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:DEMURRER; MOTION TO STRIKE  BACKGROUNDA.   AllegationsPlaintiffs Tania Murrieta and Jose Murrieta Garcia (“Plaintiffs”) allege that on October 15, 2018, they purchased a new 2019 Honda Odyssey.  They allege they entered into an express written contract with Defendant American Honda Motor Co., Inc. (“Defendant”), referred to as the New Vehicle Limited Warranty.  Plaintiff alleges that the transmission was defective.  The transmission defect is described in the FAC as follows:The defective nature of the transmission equipped in vehicles such as the Subject Vehicle, (“9-Speed Transmission Defect”, “ZF9HP defect”, or “Transmission Defect”) is caused by its use of a 9.8 ratio speed, as opposed to six (6), which ideally allows for shorter shifts between gears, and in turn, keeps the engine in a narrow, optimal band of RPMs for as long as possible, thus contributing to greater fuel-efficiency. Further, the ZF9HP Automatic Transmission borrows characteristics typically seen in manual transmissions, such as “dog clutches,” which use less power to shift than the friction clutches normally utilized in automatic transmissions. However, in contrast to manual transmission, the ZF9HP Automatic Transmission engages the dog clutches with computer software commands from an electronic control unit order to save space and ensure that the complex transmission actually fits the vehicles. Then, the ZF9HP software responds by initially cutting power, and then as the gears shift upward and downward, the dog clutches are engaged, and the throttle command is reinstated. As a result, there is a major delay from the time the gas pedal is engaged and the vehicle accelerates, where it then aggressively surges forwarded.(FAC, ¶12.) They allege that they hereby revoke acceptance of the subject vehicle by contacting Defendant and demanding that the vehicle be repurchased pursuant to the Song-Beverly Act.The first amended complaint (“FAC”), filed November 2, 2023, alleges causes of action for: (1) violation of the Song Beverly Act – breach of express warranty; and (2) fraudulent inducement – concealment.     B.    Motions on CalendarOn December 8, 2023, Defendant filed a demurrer and motion to strike portions of the FAC. On February 8, 2024, Plaintiffs filed opposition briefs.On February 15, 2024, Defendant filed reply briefs.DISCUSSION RE DEMURRER         Defendant demurs to the 2nd cause of action for fraudulent inducement – concealment against it. The elements for fraudulent concealment are the following: (1) the defendant must have concealed or suppressed a material fact; (2) the defendant must have been under a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff; (3) the defendant must have intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the plaintiff; (4) the plaintiff must have been unaware of the fact and would not have acted as he did if he had known of the concealed or suppressed fact; and (5) as a result of the concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff must have sustained damage.  (Lovejoy v. AT&T Corp. (2004) 119 Cal. App. 4th 151, 157-158.) “As with all fraud claims, the necessary elements of a concealment/suppression claim consist of (1) misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (2) knowledge of falsity (scienter); (3) intent to defraud (i.e., to induce reliance); (4) justifiable reliance; and (5) resulting damage. [Citations.]”  (Hoffman v. 162 North Wolfe LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 1178, 1185–1186 [internal quotation marks and citations omitted].)  This cause of action is a tort of deceit and the facts constituting each element must be alleged with particularity; the claims cannot be saved by referring to the policy favoring liberal construction of pleadings. (Committee on Children's Television, Inc. v. General Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197, 216.)  Since the claim must be pleaded with particularity, the cause of action based on misrepresentations must allege facts showing how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the misrepresentations were tendered.  (Stansfield v. Starkey (1990) 220 Cal.App.3d 59, 73.)In the 2nd cause of action, Plaintiffs allege that Defendant and its agents intentionally concealed and failed to disclose facts relating to the transmission defect.  (FAC, ¶124.)  Plaintiffs allege that Defendant was the only party with knowledge of the transmission defect, which was never made publicly available nor was the information disclosed to Plaintiffs.  (Id., ¶125.)  Plaintiff alleges that Defendant produced and distributed marketing materials to its authorized dealerships to be distributed to consumers like Plaintiff.  (Id., ¶126.)  Plaintiffs allege that Defendant communicates indirectly to consumers about its vehicles through these materials and that its authorized dealerships are its agents for the purposes of lease/sale of Honda vehicles to consumers.  (Id., ¶¶127-128.)  They allege that Defendant’s marketing brochures and its agents touted the characteristics of the subject vehicle and its 9-Speed Transmission without disclosing the defects.  (Id., ¶129.)  Plaintiffs allege that Defendant actively concealed information from the public, such that Plaintiffs did not know about the transmission defect at the time of sale.  (Id., ¶¶130-131.)  They allege that Defendant intended to deceive them by concealing the known issues of the transmission defect in an effort to sell the vehicle and Defendant fraudulently induced Plaintiffs to purchase the vehicle.  (Id., ¶¶132-133.)  Plaintiffs allege that prior to the date of sale, Defendant had the opportunity to disclose the transmission defect to Plaintiffs, but instead concealed and failed to disclose it to Plaintiffs.  (Id., ¶135.)         Defendant demurs to the 2nd cause of action, arguing that the complaint does not establish that Defendant omitted a material fact that was contrary to a material representation made to Plaintiff.  Defendant argues that Plaintiffs allege certain representations that Defendant made on its website about the 9-speed transmission (see FAC, ¶¶61-65), but this does not establish that it knew of any particular defect and intended to conceal it.          Plaintiffs allege that Defendant knew or should have known about the transmission defect when it verified the parts, from consumer complaints, testing due to complaints, internal investigations, etc.  (FAC, ¶¶15, 18.)  Plaintiffs allege that the transmission was manufactured in May 2013 for Fiat and Chrysler and was discovered to be ineffective in 2014, such that Defendant knew or should have known that the transmission was defective.  (Id., ¶¶23-24.)  Plaintiffs also allege that various TSBs were issued regarding the transmission and that Defendant had received hundreds of complaints since 2014.  (Id., ¶¶26-40.)Here, Plaintiffs have alleged additional facts that Defendants knew or should have known about the alleged transmission defects in the transmission that was used in the subject vehicle.  Thus, they have alleged facts showing that Defendant omitted a material fact that they knew of (through customer complaints and testing), but that they failed to disclose this to Plaintiffs at the time of purchase.  Although specific representations made by dealership agents have not been alleged, the cause of action may go forward with respect to written representations on Defendant’s website regarding misrepresentations and concealment of material facts.  As there is a claim based on the marketing materials, the demurrer will be overruled on this basis. Defendant also argues that Plaintiffs have not established a duty to disclose the information omitted.  There is a duty to disclose: “(1) when the defendant is in a fiduciary relationship with the plaintiff; (2) when the defendant had exclusive knowledge of material facts not known to the plaintiff; (3) when the defendant actively conceals a material fact from the plaintiff; and (4) when the defendant makes partial representations but also suppresses some material facts.”  (Heliotis v. Schuman (1986) 181 Cal.App.3d 646, 651.)          Plaintiffs allege that the information about the transmission defect was solely in the knowledge of Defendant and Defendant did not make this knowledge publicly available nor did it disclose the information to Plaintiffs.  (FAC, ¶125.)  Plaintiffs allege that Defendant has exclusively known about the transmission defect since 2014 and yet knowingly sold a dangerous/defective vehicle to Plaintiffs.  (See id., ¶¶21-42.)  However, despite these allegations, Defendant argues that Plaintiffs also allege that the Technical Service Bulletins and National Highway Traffic Safety Administration reports regarding transmission defects were made publicly available.  (Id., ¶¶26-39.)  Thus, as currently alleged, Plaintiffs have not alleged how Defendant owed a duty to Plaintiffs to disclose the omitted material facts when Plaintiffs had access to the publicly available TSBs, such that Defendant did not have “exclusive knowledge” of the material facts since Plaintiff could have accessed this information.  This element of a fraudulent concealment claim has not been adequately alleged.  This was an issue raised by the Court in its prior ruling on the demurrer to the initial complaint.            Finally, Defendant argues that Plaintiffs’ fraud claim is barred by the economic loss rule because Plaintiffs fail to allege that Defendant breached any duty independent of the warranty or that they suffered any independent tort loss beyond the alleged breach of warranties under the Act.  The economic loss rule prevents the law of contract and law of tort from dissolving into one another.  (Robinson Helicopter Co., Inc. v. Dana Corp. (2004) 34 Cal.4th 979, 988.)  Economic losses consist of damages for inadequate value, cost of repair, replacement of defective products or consequent loss of profits—without any claim of personal injury or damages to other property.  (Id.)  The rule requires a purchaser to recover in contract for purely economic loss due to disappointed expectations, unless he can demonstrate harm above and beyond a broken contractual promise.  (Id.)  Tort damages are recoverable in contract cases where the breach of duty directly causes physical injury, for breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing in insurance contracts, for wrongful discharge in violation of fundamental public policy, or where the contract was fraudulently induced.  (Id. at 989-90.)          In the FAC, Plaintiffs allege that they were exposed numerous times to “potential” personal injury, physical harm, and related liability from motor vehicle accidents caused by the transmission defect and problems presented by the vehicle as a result of Defendant’s fraudulent concealment.  (FAC, ¶136.)  They allege they were harmed by purchasing the vehicle including the diminution in the value of the vehicle, out-of-pocket expenses, damages in the amount of the difference between the value of the vehicle equipped with a defective transmission and the value of the vehicle if it had been equipped as warranted, and reliance damages, as well as registration, insurance, and maintenance costs.  (Id., ¶137.)           Although Plaintiffs make claims for damages based on fraudulent inducement – concealment, the damages sought are essentially identical to those sought in the 1st cause of action for violation of the Act (breach of express warranty).  In the 1st cause of action, Plaintiffs seek “all incidental, consequential, and general damages resulting from AMERICAN HONDA’s failure to comply with its obligations under the Song-Beverly Act. Those damages include, but are not limited to, registration fees and insurance for the Subject Vehicle,” as well as costs, expenses, attorney’s fees, and civil penalties.  (Id., ¶¶119-120.)  As currently alleged, Plaintiffs have not alleged a breach of a tort duty independent from Defendant’s contractual duties under the warranties.          While Plaintiff has amended the complaint to allege additional facts to support certain elements of the 2nd cause of action, there are still issues with the fraudulent inducement – concealment cause of action that do not appear to be capable of amendment.  As such, the demurrer to the 2nd cause of action is sustained without leave to amend.DISCUSSION RE MOTION TO STRIKEDefendant moves to strike the 2nd cause of action in its entirety (FAC ¶¶123-139) and the prayer for damages seeking punitive damages (page 28, line 3, subpart 6). For the reasons discussed above, the motion to strike the 2nd cause of action in its entirety is moot as the demurrer to the 2nd cause of action is sustained without leave to amend. A complaint including a request for punitive damages must include allegations showing that the plaintiff is entitled to an award of punitive damages.  (Clauson v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.)  A claim for punitive damages cannot be pleaded generally and allegations that a defendant acted "with oppression, fraud and malice" toward plaintiff are insufficient legal conclusions to show that the plaintiff is entitled to an award of punitive damages.  (Brousseau v. Jarrett (1977) 73 Cal.App.3d 864, 872.)  Specific factual allegations are required to support a claim for punitive damages.  (Id.)Civil Code § 3294 authorizes a plaintiff to obtain an award of punitive damages when there is clear and convincing evidence that the defendant engaged in malice, oppression, or fraud.  Section 3294(c) defines the terms in the following manner:(1)  "Malice" means conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.(2)  "Oppression" means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person's rights.(3)  "Fraud" means an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury. Further, when the punitive damages are sought against an employer, Civil Code § 3294(b) requires the plaintiff to establish the following:(1)  the employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness of the employee and employed him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others or authorized,(2)  the employer ratified the wrongful conduct for which the damages are awarded, or(3)  the employer was personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.With respect to a corporate employer, section 3294(b) requires that the advance knowledge and conscious disregard, authorization, ratification or act of oppression, fraud, or malice must be on the part of an officer, director, or managing agent of the corporation.         The Court has reviewed the allegations of the complaint and finds that it does not reach the level of particularly required to request punitive damages.  The allegations are lacking regarding Defendant’s malicious and oppressive behavior.  At most, Plaintiffs allege that Defendant willfully failed to comply with its responsibilities under the Act, but this allegation is insufficient to meet the requisite level of particularity for punitive damages.  (See FAC, ¶121.)  Further, as discussed above, the allegations for fraud are not sufficiently pled.         The motion to strike is granted without leave to amend.CONCLUSION AND ORDER         Defendant American Honda Motor Co., Inc.’s demurrer to the 2nd cause of action in the First Amended Complaint is sustained without leave to amend.         Defendant’s motion to strike the entirety of the 2nd cause of action is moot in light of the ruling on the demurrer.  The motion to strike the request for punitive damages in the prayer for relief is granted without leave to amend.