 Case Number:  22BBCV00765    Hearing Date:   February 23, 2024    Dept:  NCB  Superior Court of CaliforniaCounty of Los AngelesNorth Central DistrictDepartment B  KRISTA PANSINI, et al.,                   Plaintiffs,         v. BURBANK UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT,                   Defendant. Case No.:  22BBCV00765   Hearing Date:  February 23, 2024 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:MOTION TO COMPEL PLAINTIFFS’ DEFENSE MENTAL EXAMINATIONS  BACKGROUNDA.   AllegationsPlaintiffs Krista Pansini, Jane Creager, Vick Astamendi Edwards, Michelle Funston, Andrea Graber, Theresa Heldt-Valverde, Tracy Henry, Tricia Henry, Michael Kimmel, and Marlene Wieden (“Plaintiffs”) allege that they were employees of Defendant Burbank Unified School District (“Defendant” or “BUSD”) at all times relevant for this action. Plaintiffs allege that they filed charges with the California Department of Fair Employment and Housing (“DFEH”) and were issued right-to-sue letters. The FAC alleges that the BUSD, through its board, adopted a resolution mandating that its employees be vaccinated with respect to COVID-19. (FAC ¶¶23-24.) According to the FAC, this requirement was based on misleading and exaggerated claims, and not based on scientific data. (Id., ¶¶25-33.)  The policy stated that “a limited number of individuals” “may” be exempt if they provide a statement “declining vaccination based on Religious Beliefs ….”  (Id., ¶¶31, 34.)  Additional policies were enacted providing for specific accommodations that were not offered to Plaintiffs.  (Id., ¶¶31-37.)Plaintiffs allege that they requested an exception for BUSD’s COVID-19 vaccination policy as a reasonably accommodation to their sincerely held religious beliefs and/or medical conditions. Plaintiffs allege that the work requirement of being vaccinated conflicted with their religious beliefs that “their bodies are temples of the Holy Spirit and that to inject medical products that have any connection whatsoever to aborted fetal cell lines would be defiling the temple of the Holy Spirit.”  (FAC, ¶44.) Plaintiffs allege that they each received a similar denial stating that BUSD was not disputing the sincerity of their religious beliefs at that time, but BUSD was unable to identify a reasonable accommodation that would permit Plaintiffs to work on site and satisfy the health and safety protections of vaccinations, except unpaid leave, that would not pose an undue burden on BUSD.  (FAC, ¶21.)  The letter further stated that if Plaintiffs elected not to get vaccinated, then their only options were to submit a request for unpaid leave of absence or submit their resignation.  (Id.)  Plaintiffs argue that they know for certain that unvaccinated individuals can work safely in school environments with safety protocols in place, and that these protocols were not offered to them.  (Id., ¶33.)  Plaintiffs allege that BUSD failed to provide factual evidence to support its claim of undue burden and failed to follow the law for religious exemption and reasonable accommodation. The first amended complaint (“FAC”), filed February 9, 2023, alleges causes of action for: (1) religious discrimination violation of Government Code, § 12940(a) et seq.; (2) religious discrimination – failure to provide reasonable accommodations in violation of Government Code, § 12940(1) et seq.: (3) harassment in violation of Government Code, § 12940 et seq.; and (4) retaliation in violation of Government Code, § 12940(h, l) et seq.B.    Motion on CalendarOn December 12, 2023, BUSD filed a motion to compel Plaintiffs’ defense mental examinations. The Court is not in receipt of an opposition brief. On February 13, 2024, the stipulation re Certain Plaintiffs’ Emotional Distress Claims; Order was entered.  The parties stipulated that BUSD met and conferred with Plaintiffs about BUSD’s intent to pursue a defense mental examination of each Plaintiff and the parties agreed and stipulated that the following Plaintiffs are not making a claim for unusual mental or emotional distress or injuries over and above that usually associated with their injuries claimed (i.e., “garden variety”): Jane Creager, Vicki Edwards, Michelle Funston, Andrea Graber, Theresa Heldt-Valverde, Tracy Henry, Tricia Henry, and Marlene Wieden.  They stipulated that no expert testimony regarding this usual mental and emotional distress will be presented at trial to support their claim for damages. LEGAL STANDARD         CCP § 2032.230 states in relevant part:(a) The court shall grant a motion for a physical or mental examination under Section 2032.310 only for good cause shown.(b) If a party stipulates as provided in subdivision (c), the court shall not order a mental examination of a person for whose personal injuries a recovery is being sought except on a showing of exceptional circumstances.(c) A stipulation by a party under this subdivision shall include both of the following:(1) A stipulation that no claim is being made for mental and emotional distress over and above that usually associated with the physical injuries claimed.(2) A stipulation that no expert testimony regarding this usual mental and emotional distress will be presented at trial in support of the claim for damages.(d) An order granting a physical or mental examination shall specify the person or persons who may perform the examination, as well as the time, place, manner, diagnostic tests and procedures, conditions, scope, and nature of the examination.(CCP § 2032.320.) DISCUSSION         BUSD moves to compel Krista Pansini, Jane Creager, Vicki Edwards, Michelle Funston, Andrea Graber, Theresa Heldt, Tracy Henry, Tricia Henry, Michael Kimmel, and Marlene Wieden to undergo their defense mental examinations (“DME”).  Of these Plaintiffs, the one that were not a mentioned in the stipulation are Krista Pansini and Michael Kimmel.  Plaintiff each claimed emotional distress.  (See Mot., Exs. A-J.)          The motion is moot as to Plaintiffs Jane Creager, Vicki Edwards, Michelle Funston, Andrea Graber, Theresa Heldt-Valverde, Tracy Henry, Tricia Henry, and Marlene Wieden.  The parties have signed a stipulation in compliance with CCP § 2032.230(b)-(c) regarding these Plaintiffs.  In addition, there is no showing that there are exceptional circumstances to warrant DMEs on these Plaintiffs.          As such, the motion shall only be considered with respect to Plaintiffs Krista Pansini and Michael Kimmel. BUSD seeks to have the DMEs conducted by Marc A. Cohen, MD. M.S., a licensed medical doctor who is certified with the American Board of Psychiatry and Neurology.  BUSD seeks to conduct the DMEs on mutually agreeable dates and times, but no later than April 19, 2024 at Dr. Cohen’s office located at 333 S. Beverly Drive, Suite 200, Beverley Hills, CA 90212.  BUSD seeks to conduct the DMEs such that only Dr. Cohen and the plaintiff being examined will be present.  BUSD states that Plaintiffs will not be required to complete any patient information forms and the examinations will not consist of any invasive tests or procedures.  BUSD proposes that the DMEs of each Plaintiff shall consist of one 8-hour session (including breaks) to begin at 10 a.m. (or a mutually convenient time), the psychiatric examination will be video and audio recorded in its entirety and both the Plaintiff and Dr. Cohen will be video recorded. BUSD proposes that the examination will consist of a psychiatric interview and the administration of one or more psychological tests. The examination will involve a detailed inquiry into many different pertinent topics, including the onset and course of current symptoms as well as several other clinical domains, such as psychiatric and mental health treatment history, social history, substance use, criminal history, medical history and current medications, family history, and relationship histories, as well as other subject matters. The examination may also include the administration of one or more of the following psychological tests or assessments: Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory-2 (MMPI-2); Millon Clinical Multiaxial Inventory (MCMI); Personality Assessment Inventory (PAI); Structured Interview of Reported Symptoms (SIRS-2); Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MOCA); Rey 15 Item Test; Morel Emotional Numbing Test (MENT); and/or the Trauma Symptom Inventory-2 (TSI-2).Here, BUSD has shown that there is good cause for Plaintiffs Krista Pansini and Michael Kimmel to undergo their DMEs as they have put their emotional and mental distress at issue in this case as a result of BUSD’s alleged conduct.  (See Mot., Exs. H, J.)  In addition, Plaintiffs have not opposed the motion to have their DMEs taken. Thus, the Court grants the motion to compel Plaintiffs Krista Pansini and Michael Kimmel to attend their DMEs. CONCLUSION AND ORDER         Defendant Burbank Unified School District’s motion to compel Plaintiffs Krista Pansini and Michael Kimmel to attend their defense mental examination is granted.  The DMEs shall be conducted by Marc A. Cohen, MD. M.S., at his office located at 333 S. Beverly Drive, Suite 200, Beverley Hills, CA 90212 on a mutually agreeable time and date no later than April 19, 2024.  The exams shall be limited to the exams listed more fully in this written order and shall not include the completion of patient information forms or invasive tests or procedures.  