  Case Number:  18STCV04752    Hearing Date:   July 2, 2024    Dept:  49 Kurt Knutsson, et al. v. Judith Salkow Shapiro, et al.PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION FOR LEAVE TO AMEND MOVING PARTIES: Plaintiffs Kurt Knutsson and Woojivas, Inc.RESPONDING PARTY(S): Defendants Judith Salkow Shapiro, A.P.C., et al.STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: Plaintiffs Kurt Knutsson and Woojivas, Inc. bring this suit against the law corporation of their deceased former lawyer, Judith Salkow Shapiro, for legal malpractice and fraud in the handling of an underlying employment and right of publicity action against KTLA, Local TV, and other television stations.  The operative Third Amended Complaint asserts causes of action for (1) Breach of Contract, (2) Professional Negligence/Legal Malpractice, (3) Fraud and Deceit, (4) Negligent Misrepresentation, and (5) Breach of Fiduciary Duty.  Plaintiffs now move for leave to file a Fourth Amended Complaint. Defendants opposed. TENTATIVE RULING:Plaintiffs’ Motion for Leave to Amend is GRANTED. Plaintiffs are ordered to file and serve a standalone copy of the 4AC within 10-days of this Ruling.Defendants are free to file a new formal response to 4AC within 30 days after service of same.  In the alternative they may simply choose to stand by their current Answer to the 3AC, by indicating same or doing nothing.Plaintiffs are ordered to give notice, unless waived.DISCUSSION:Motion for Leave to AmendI. Legal StandardIf a plaintiff wishes to amend a complaint after the answer has been filed or after the demurrer has been filed and after the hearing on the demurrer, or if he or she has already amended the complaint “of course,” permission of the court must be obtained before the amendment will be allowed. (CCP §§ 473(a)(1), 576.)   Motions for leave to amend the pleadings are directed to the sound discretion of the court. “The court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading . . . .” (CCP § 473(a)(1); see CCP § 576.) Policy favors liberally granting leave to amend so that all disputed matters between the parties may be resolved. (See Howard v. County of San Diego (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1422, 1428.) Absent prejudice to the adverse party, the court may permit amendments to the complaint “at any stage of the proceedings, up to and including trial.” (Atkinson v. Elk Corp. (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 739, 761 [internal quotes omitted].)  Although denial is rarely justified, a judge has discretion to deny leave to amend if the party seeking the amendment has been dilatory, and the delay has prejudiced the opposing party. (Morgan v. Sup.Ct. (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530; see also Hirsa v. Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486, 490). An opposing party is prejudiced where the amendment would necessitate a trial delay along with a loss of critical evidence, added preparation expense, increased burden of discovery, etc. (Magpali v. Farmers Group, Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 486-488.  Ordinarily, the court will not consider the validity of the proposed amended pleading in ruling on a motion for leave since grounds for a demurrer or motion to strike are premature.  The court, however, does have discretion to deny leave to amend where a proposed amendment fails to state a valid cause of action as a matter of law and the defect cannot be cured by further amendment.  (See California Casualty General Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1985) 173 Cal.App.3d 274, 281 (overruled on other grounds by Kransco v. American Empire Surplus Lines Ins. Co. (2000) 23 Cal.4th 390).) II. AnalysisPlaintiffs move for leave to amend to file a Fourth Amended Complaint. This comes after this court granted Defendants’ motion to strike portions of the Third Amended Complaint containing new allegations that exceeded the scope of leave previously granted by this court. (See 05/13/24 Ruling on Defendants’ Motion to Strike.) In that Ruling, the court instructed Plaintiffs to file a noticed motion for leave to amend if they wished to revive the stricken allegations. (Id.) Plaintiffs state the allegations to be added are “essentially the same as those allegations that were previously included in the Third Amended Complaint.” (Notice 1: 9-10.)Under CRC Rule 3.1324(a), a plaintiff seeking leave to amend must provide (1) the effect of the amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4) the reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier. (CRC, Rule 3.1324(b).)Plaintiffs argue the proposed allegations, while “more detailed,” are “based on the same general facts of the prior pleadings.” (Mtn. 8: 3-4.) The allegations provide the following:(a) An update of the identities of the Beneficiary Defendants, including informationprovided shortly before the filing of this Motion;(b) An update regarding the jurisdictional statutes that became effective in January 2024and facts relating to them;(c) An update of allegations based on facts obtained through discovery or follow-updiscovery and, in particular, matters that were discovered after depositions weretaken and expert opinions were obtained;(d) An explanation of and elaboration on the reasons Knutsson contends the statute oflimitations does not bar this action, including the basis for applicability of the“relation back” doctrine and the “continuing representation” exception to CCPsection 340.6;(e) Clarification of the basis of liability of San Pasqual (based on Shapiro’s acts) andShapiro APC as opposed to that of the Beneficiary Defendants;(f) Revision or supplementation of certain allegations based on the OriginalDefendants’ contentions in their motion for summary judgment and matters thatsurfaced in Knutsson’s opposition to that motion; and(g) An explanation of the basis for liability of the Beneficiary Defendants.Defendants oppose leave to amend. Defendants argue (1) the declaration of counsel does not “sufficiently describe why the amendment is necessary and proper,” (2) that Plaintiffs delayed in seeking leave to amend, and (3) that the amendment is prejudicial. First, the declaration of counsel, James W. Denison, sufficiently details the effect of the amendments, when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered, and reasonably justifies why the request for amendment was not made earlier. (See Denison Decl., generally.) A redlined version of the 4AC detailing the new amendments is included with the declaration as Exhibit 2. There would, however, appear to be some reasonable doubt as to whether the amendments are truly necessary. In substance, the allegations largely mirror the arguments made in Plaintiffs’ opposition to Defendants’ motion for summary judgment, particularly as it pertains to the statute of limitations. They merely assert Plaintiffs’ version of the operative facts on the statute of limitations issue. In some sense, it’s more argument than substance. Other amendments appear to be mostly “housekeeping” matters, which again, may not be entirely necessary in a pleading. Be that as it may, while the parties can reasonably argue the necessity or timeliness of the amendments, there is little evidence Defendants will be unfairly prejudiced if leave to amend is given. Attempting to demonstrate prejudice, Defendants argue they “have conducted discovery and prepared their case based on the allegations that have existed.” (Opp. 8: 21-22.) They further assert they would have “little to no time to conduct additional discovery based on the new allegations and would add significantly to the costs of preparation…” (Opp. 8: 23-25.) However, the amendments hardly present any new issues and should require little, if any, additional discovery. Moreover, at the very latest, Defendants were placed on notice of the relevant issues raised in the amended pleading when they briefed the motion for summary judgment and addressed them then. Therefore, Defendants have not demonstrated they will be unduly prejudiced by the amendments.  As noted by this court previously, absent prejudice to the adverse party, the court may permit amendments to the complaint “at any stage of the proceedings, up to and including trial.” (Atkinson v. Elk Corp. (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 739, 761 [internal quotes omitted].) Courts recognize a “policy of great liberality in allowing amendments at any stage of the proceeding so as to dispose of cases upon their substantial merits.”  (Bd. of Trustees v. Superior Ct. (2007) 149 Cal. App. 4th 1154, 1163.) Consistent with these settled policies, Plaintiffs’ motion for leave to amend is proper. This court takes no position at this time on the viability of any allegation raised by the amendments. Rather, the “better course of action” is to permit the amendment, “and then let the parties test its legal sufficiency in other appropriate proceedings.”  (Atkinson v. Elk Corp. (2003) 109 Cal. App. 4th 739, 760.) Accordingly, Plaintiffs’ Motion for Leave to Amend is GRANTED. IT IS SO ORDERED.Dated:   July 2, 2024 ___________________________________ Randolph M. Hammock Judge of the Superior Court Any party may submit on the tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept49@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day before the hearing.  All interested parties must be copied on the email.  It should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.