 Case Number:  23STCV10863    Hearing Date:   July 17, 2024    Dept:  26 07/17/2024
Dept. 26
Rolf Treu, Assigned Judge presiding.
 
Nydia Del Socorro Lazo v. Sun Gun Inc.
(23STCV10863)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff/opposing party:  N. Cory
Barari, Esq.
Counsel for
Defendant/moving party:  Evelina M.
Serafini, Esq.
 
motion FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT AND/OR FOR
SUMMARY ADJUDICATION (filed 04/29/2024)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
Defendant’s motion for summary judgment is CONTINUED
TO _(determined at hearing) . Defendant is ordered to provide an unredacted
copy of the relevant email correspondence forthwith. Any supplemental
opposition to the motion for summary judgment must be filed no later than (d.a.h).
Any supplemental reply must be filed no later than (d.a.h.)
I. BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant violated the Fair Employment
Housing Act’s (FEHA) prohibition against age discrimination when, after working
at Carl’s Jr. for 34 years without issue, Plaintiff was suddenly terminated for
false reasons at 76-years old and replaced with employees who were 19-20 years
of age.
 
On May 15, 2023, Plaintiff Nydia Del Socorro Lazo, filed the
operative Complaint against Defendant alleging (1) age discrimination; (2)
failure to provide meal and rest breaks; (3) inaccurate wage statements; (4)
failure to pay unpaid wages at the time of discharge; (5) failure to produce
personal records; and (6) unfair business practices in violation of business
and Professions Code §§ 17200 et seq.
 
On April 29, 2024, Defendant filed the instant motion for summary
judgment and/or in the alternative summary adjudication, arguing:
·                
Summary judgment should be granted as to
Plaintiff’s entire complaint. Alternatively, Summary adjudication should be
granted to each of Plaintiff’s six causes of action and prayer for punitive
damages. 
·                
Plaintiff cannot establish a prima facie
case of age discrimination because she cannot show that she performed her job
satisfactorily or suffered an adverse action based on age. (Mot. pp.
14.)
·                
Plaintiff’s second cause of action fails
because (a) Plaintiff was permitted reasonable opportunities to take compliant
breaks; (b) Plaintiff misrepresented she wasn’t receiving breaks; and (c)
Plaintiff lacks evidence to support this claim. (Id. pp. 20-21.)
·                
Plaintiff’s third cause of action fails
because (a) Plaintiff’s wage statements were accurate;
(b) Plaintiff is estopped, has unclean hands and/or has waived her right to
claim otherwise; (c) Plaintiff cannot establish injury; and (d) Defendant did
not knowingly or intentionally fail to comply with the statute. (Id. p.
23.)
·                
Plaintiff’s fourth cause of action fails
because (a) Plaintiff was timely paid; and (b) Defendant did not willfully fail
to pay wages. (Id. p. 24.)
·                
Defendant asserts that Plaintiff’s fifth
cause of action fails because Defendant timely responded to Plaintiff’s request
with a computer-generated record that accurately showed the required
information. (Id. pp. 26-27.)
·                
Plaintiff’s sixth cause of action fails
because (1) Plaintiff lacks standing as she did not suffer any injury, and (2)
there is no predicate act of “unfair competition.” (Id. p. 27.)
·                
Plaintiff’s prayer for punitive damages
fails because (a) Plaintiff cannot prove that Defendant’s actions qualify as
malicious, oppressive, or fraudulent. (Id. p. 30.)
In opposition, Plaintiff argues that:
·                
The Defendant's Separate Statement combines multiple facts and
arguments violating CRC Rule 3.1350(d)(2) by citing a large group of evidence
without clarifying which evidence supports each point. The Defendant's MSJ does
not cite any of the material facts as numbered in the Separate Statement. (Opp’n p. 12-13.)
·                
The termination reasons were not the actual basis of Plaintiff’s
termination and were not known to Defendant at the time of Plaintiff’s
dismissal. (Id. p. 14.)
·                
The evidence clearly shows violations of
California's labor laws. Both the Plaintiff and the cook testified that they
worked through breaks, were unable to leave the restaurant, and could not cover
for each other. The defendant's argument that the Plaintiff never reported her
inability to take breaks is contradicted by the facts, as the Plaintiff's
managers created her schedule and were aware of her work hours. (Id. p.
18-19.)
·                
Defendant did not provide Plaintiff with
her signed payroll reports and paystubs, thereby violating Plaintiff’s rights
under Labor Code §§ 1198.5 and 226(b)-(c). (Id. p. 19:12-14.)
·                
A reasonable jury could conclude that
Defendant’s managing agents orchestrated a fraudulent and malicious termination
to cover up age discrimination. (Id. p. 19:16-21.)
·                
The motion should be denied under CCP §
437c(h) because the defendant produced two new email chains that present
essential evidence that Plaintiff was unable to timely present prior to her
opposition. The email chains evidencing discussions among the defendant’s
decision-makers prior to the plaintiff’s termination. Defendant has redacted
and refused to unredacted emails where decision-makers (Kalinsky, Pierce,
Nunez) were discussing Plaintiff’s termination. (Id. pp. 19-20.)
No reply was filed. 
 
II. ANALYSIS
 
A.     Legal
Standard for [Motion] 
 
Under CCP section 437c(h), the Court may continue or deny a motion
for summary judgment, summary adjudication, or both when a party submits facts
in a declaration to demonstrate that essential evidence may exist but cannot
then be presented to oppose the motion. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(h).) Where the
opposing party submits an adequate affidavit showing that essential facts may
exist but cannot be presented in a timely manner, the Court must either deny
the motion or grant a continuance. (Dee v. Vintage Petroleum, Inc. (2003) 106
Cal.App.4th 30, 34-35.)
 
B.     Discussion
 
Plaintiff's counsel stated that on June 26, 2024, Defendant
produced two new email chains showing discussions among Defendant's
decision-makers before Plaintiff’s termination. (Barari Decl. ¶ 14.) Certain
portions of the communications have been redacted in one of these email chains.
Counsel affirms that the provided documents are responsive to Plaintiff’s RFP
Nos. 21-23, 25-27, 32-33, and 35-37. (Id. ¶ 15.) Defendant only produced
these documents after Defendant’s witnesses revealed their email communications
in their depositions, but shortly before Plaintiff’s opposition deadline for
the current motion. (Id.) Counsel further declares that Defendant will
not unredacted the witness communication on attorney-client privilege grounds
even though it contradicts Defendant’s contention that they are relying on all
communications and events leading up to Plaintiff’s termination.  (Id. ¶ 16.) Counsel contends that
Defendant’s continual withholding of this discovery is prejudicial to her
ability to present “all facts essential to justify opposition to the MSJ. (Id.
¶ 17.)
 
Here, based
on counsel’s declaration, Plaintiff has adequately shown that essential facts
may exist but cannot be presented on time. The recently provided email
correspondents may contain essential facts regarding the motives behind Plaintiff’s
termination. However, Plaintiff could not provide the information in a timely
manner because certain emails are redacted, and Defendant refuses to provide an
unredacted version. Defendant and its counsel indicate that they are relying on
all communications and events leading up to the termination to support Defendant's
motion for summary judgment. This evidence may contradict that contention. Defendant
does not file a reply justifying why attorney-client privilege applies to the
email correspondence. Thus, based on this, Plaintiff should be allowed to
receive an unredacted version of the correspondence. 
 
 

III. DISPOSITION
Accordingly,
the Defendant’s motion for summary judgment is CONTINUED TO (d.a.h.) Defendant
is ordered to provide an unredacted copy of the relevant email correspondence
forthwith. Any supplemental opposition to the motion for summary judgment must
be filed no later than (d.a.h.) Any supplemental reply must be filed no later
than (d.a.h.).
Moving
party to give notice.