  Case Number:  23STCV10833    Hearing Date:   July 17, 2024    Dept:  26 07/17/2024
Dept. 26
Rolf M. Treu, Assigned Judge presiding
 
Luis Mejia, et al. v. Amirian
Management Company (23STCV10833)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff/opposing party:  Bryan J. Lazarski
Counsel for
Defendant/moving party:  Lyne Richardson
and Steven Mannix
 
Motion to Compel Arbitration (filed 11/14/2023)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
The Court GRANTS Defendant’s Motion to Compel Arbitration against
Plaintiffs Luis Mejia and Rachel Aceves to Arbitration. The action is stayed
under Code of Civil Procedure § 1281.4 pending the outcome of the parties'
arbitration. 
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On May 15, 2023, Plaintiffs Luis Mejia (“Mejia”) and Rachel Aceves (“Aceves”) (collectively
“Plaintiffs”) filed the operative complaint against Defendants Amirian
Management Company and Nareg Amirian alleging 1) failure to pay state minimum
wage; 2) failure to pay overtime; 3) failure to provide meal periods; 4)
failure to provide rest periods; 5) failure to furnish timely and accurate wage
statements; 6) waiting time penalties; 7) failure to indemnify for all
necessary expenditures and losses; 8) failure to provide timely access to employee
payroll and personnel records; and 9) unfair competition in violation of
business and professions code § 17200, et seq.
 
On July 3, 2023, Defendants jointly
filed an answer to the Complaint. 
 
On November 14, 2023, Defendant filed the Motions to Compel Plaintiffs
Luis Mejia and Rachel Aceves to Arbitration, arguing:
 
As to both Plaintiffs Mejia and Aceves
·                
The FAA controls the parties’ agreement because
Amirian’s business affects interstate commerce. (Mot. p. 7.)
·                
Plaintiff and Amirian agreed to binding
arbitration and that no statutory exceptions apply.
·                
Plaintiff cannot establish any valid
basis to revoke the agreement, including under the doctrine of
unconscionability. 
o   The Agreement is not procedurally unconscionable because there is no
evidence that the agreement was presented as a “take it or leave it.” Plaintiff
had time to review the agreement and did not indicate that he had any
questions. Finally, the agreement contains no element of oppression or
surprise. 
o   The Agreement is not substantively unconscionable because the agreement
contains mutual language and meets the requirements under Armendariz v. Foundation
Health Psychcare Service, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 82, 114.
·                
The Court should dismiss the case or
stay the proceedings pending the completion of the arbitration proceedings. 
In opposition, Plaintiffs argue that:
·                
Citing Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto Group (2014)
232 Cal. App. 4th 836, the motion should be denied as Defendant has not
satisfied its burden in showing that the electronic signature was an “act of” the
Plaintiffs under Civil Code § 1633.9.  Moreover, Plainitffs do not recall signing the
Agreement. 
In reply, Defendant argues that
Plaintiffs’ reliance Ruiz is misguided as Defendants provide the
evidence that the Ruiz court held was necessary to attribute an
electronic signature to the signatory. 
 
II. Evidentiary Motions 
              
Plaintiffs’ Objections
 
Plaintiffs’ objections Nos. 1-9 are OVERRULED as the declarant makes the
statements based on her knowledge and experience as the Director of Human
Resources for Amirian Management Company since 2011. 
 
Plaintiffs’ objection No. 8 is OVERRULED for the reasons specified below
in the Court’s order. 
 
Plaintiffs’ objection No. 9 is OVERRULED as the evidence tends to show
that Ms. Aceves did sign the arbitration agreement as part of their onboarding
documentation.  
 
III. ANALYSIS
 
A.     
Legal Standard for Motion to Compel
Arbitration 

Under California law, the trial court has authority to compel arbitration
pursuant to CCP §1281.2 where a written agreement for such arbitration exists
and one of the parties refuses to arbitrate.¿ Specifically, the statute
provides that, “[o]n petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging
the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a
party thereto refuses to arbitrate such controversy, the court shall order the
petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines that
an agreement arbitrate the controversy exists.”¿ The statute further sets forth
four grounds upon which the trial court may refuse to compel arbitration: (a)
the right to compel arbitration was waived, (b) recission of the agreement, (c)
there is a pending action or special proceeding with a third party, arising out
of the same transaction; and (d) petitioner is a state or federally chartered
depository institution.¿ 
 
“[T]he petitioner bears the burden of
proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by the preponderance of
the evidence . . . .”¿¿(Giuliano v. Inland Empire Personnel, Inc.¿(2007)
149 Cal.App.4th 1276, 1284¿(Guiliano).)¿“In determining whether an
arbitration agreement applies to a specific dispute, the court may examine only
the agreement itself and the complaint filed by the party refusing arbitration
[citation]. The court should attempt to give effect to the parties' intentions,
in light of the usual and ordinary meaning of the contractual language and
the¿circumstances under which the agreement was made.”¿¿(Weeks v. Crow¿(1980)
113 Cal.App.3d 350, 353.)¿ “To determine whether a contractual arbitration
clause requires arbitration of a particular controversy, the controversy is
first identified and the issue is whether that controversy is within the scope
of the contractual arbitration clause.”¿¿(Titolo¿v. Cano¿(2007) 157
Cal.App.4th 310, 316.)¿ “Doubts as to whether an arbitration clause applies to
a particular dispute are to be resolved in favor of sending the parties to
arbitration. The court should order them to arbitrate unless it is clear that
the arbitration clause cannot be interpreted to cover the dispute.”¿¿(California
Correctional Peace Officers¿Ass'n¿v. State¿(2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 198,
205.)¿¿¿¿ 
 
“[A] party opposing the petition bears
the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence any fact necessary to
its defense. [Citation.] In these summary proceedings, the trial court sits as
a trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other
documentary evidence, as well as oral testimony received at the court's
discretion, to reach a final determination.”¿¿(Giuliano, supra, at p.
1284.)¿¿ 
 
B.     
Motion to Compel Arbitration as to Plaintiff
Luis Mejia 
 
1.     
Existence of Arbitration Agreement 
 
In determining the enforceability of an
arbitration agreement, the court considers “two ‘gateway issues’ of
arbitrability: (1) whether there was an agreement to arbitrate between the
parties, and (2) whether the agreement covered the dispute at issue.”¿ (Omar
v. Ralphs Grocery Co. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 955, 961 (Omar).)¿¿¿¿¿ 
 
i.                    
Agreement Between Parties: 
 
The moving party can meet its initial
burden of proving the existence of an arbitration agreement by attaching a copy
of the Agreement to this motion bearing the signature of the opposing party.
(See Bannister v. Marinidence Opco, LLC (2021) 64 Cal.App.5th 541,
541-543 [“The party seeking arbitration can meet its initial burden by
attaching to the petition a copy of the arbitration agreement purporting to
bear the¿respondent's signature.”].) Alternatively, the moving party can meet its
initial burden by setting forth the agreement’s provisions in the motion. (See
Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1330; see also Condee v. Longwood Management
Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 219.)  
 
Defendant argues that it meets its
initial burden and provides a copy of the parties’ agreement to arbitrate.
(Mot., p. 7; Atanesyan Decl. Exh. A.) Defendants provide the declaration of its
Director of Human Resources, Alice Atanesyan, who states that Defendant requires
new hires to complete their onboarding process through a third-party cloud-based
human resource software called, TalentReef. (Atanesyan Decl. ¶ 4.) When
applying for a job, employees create a TalentReef account and set a unique password.
(Id. ¶ 5.)  They review onboarding
materials and sign documents digitally, and TalentReef automatically timestamps
the acceptance. (Id.) Only employees can sign documents using their
password, and HR personnel cannot change this restriction. (Id.) Atanesyan
further states that Plaintiff digitally signed the Agreement on May 23, 2022, a
copy of which was provided to him. The Arbitration Agreement provides the
following: 
 
I agree and acknowledge that the Company and I will utilize binding arbitration
to resolve any and all disputes that may arise between us as a result of my
employment with the Company or any of its affiliates. I agree to be bound by
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement…
 
“If the moving party meets its initial
prima facie burden and the opposing party disputes the agreement, then in the
second step, the opposing party bears the burden of producing evidence to
challenge the authenticity of the agreement.” (Gamboa v. Northeast Community
Clinic (2021) 72 Cal. App. 5th 158,165 (Gamboa).) The evidence must
be sufficient to create a factual dispute to shift the burden back to the
arbitration proponent who retains the ultimate burden of proving, by a
preponderance of the evidence, the authenticity of the signature. (Iyere v.
Wise Auto Group (2023) 87 Cal.App.5th 747, 755 (Iyere).) 
 
In response, Mejia contends that
Defendant has not carried its burden of proving an enforceable agreement
because it has failed to authenticate his signature citing Ruiz v. Moss
Bros. Auto Group (2014) 232 Cal. App. 4th 836. (Opp., pp. 2-3.) Plaintiff
further argues that he has no recollection of signing the agreement. (Id.,
pp. 3-4, lines 6-7; Lazarski Decl. Exh, A; Mejia Depo at 29:25-30:15.) However,
the Court is not persuaded. Ruiz is clearly distinguishable as the Court
of Appeal held that the evidence provided was insufficient to support the
finding that the electronic signature on the arbitration agreement was
attributable to the act of the employee. (Ruiz, supra 232 Cal.App.4th
844.) Indeed, the evidence proffered did not explain that the electronic
signature; (1) could have only been placed by a person using the signator's unique
login ID and password; (2) that the date and time printed next to the
electronic signature indicated the date and time the electronic signature was
made; (3) that all employees were required to use their unique login ID and
password when they logged into the HR system and signed electronic forms and
agreements; and the electronic signature was apparently made by the signatory.
(Id.) Here, Defendant’s evidence does just that. Ms. Atanesyan’s
declaration states that only employees can sign documents using their
TalentReef password, and HR personnel cannot change this restriction. During the
application process, employees create a TalentReef account and set a unique
password. Employees review onboarding materials and sign documents digitally.
TalentReef automatically timestamps the acceptance. Based on this, the only
person who could have signed the documents was Mejia. Mejia does not provide
any other challenges to the validity of the Agreement; therefore, Defendant
establishes that an agreement to arbitrate exists. 
 
ii.                  
The Agreement Covers the Dispute at
Issue: 
 
Defendant contends that the Agreement
covers the subject dispute. Plaintiff’s opposition does not argue that the
arbitration clause does not apply to the action. The Agreement states that the
parties agree to “any and all claims and disputes that may arise between us,
including but not limited to those arising out of or relating to my employment
with, or the termination of my employment by, the Company, including, without
limitation, any dispute with regard to: tort claims; benefits claims; family or
medical leave claims; claims of discrimination, retaliation, or harassment
under federal or state law; claims of wrongful termination; claims for unpaid
wages, reimbursements, meal and/or rest breaks; unfair competition, and
misappropriation of trade secrets; and, any other claim that could be brought
under local, state, or federal employment statutes or common law. This includes
claims brought under the California Fair Employment and Housing Act.” (Atanesyan
Decl.; Exh. A.) Here, the complaint arises from alleged discrimination that
occurred during Mejia’s term of employment with Defendant. (Compl.) Thus, the
Arbitration Agreement covers Plaintiff’s claims because they arise from his employment.

 
2.     
Enforceability of the
Arbitration Agreement
 
Once it is determined that a valid
arbitration agreement exists, the burden shifts to the opposing party to “prove
by a preponderance of the evidence any defense to the petition.” (Lacayo v.
Catalina Restaurant Group Inc. (2019) 38 Cal.App.5th 244, 257, review
denied (Nov. 13, 2019)).¿ Mejia’s opposition does not assert any grounds
arguing that the Agreement is unenforceable. Defendant argues that the
agreement is enforceable. Thus, the Court finds the Agreement to be enforceable
against Plaintiff Mejia. 
 
C.     
Motion to Compel Arbitration as to
Plaintiff Rachel Aceves 
 
The Court notes that the parties present
the same arguments as addressed in part B of the Courts order. 
 
Atanesyan’s
declaration indicates that Aceves digitally signed the Agreement on August 21,
2018. (Atanesyan Decl. ¶ 7.) Aceves similarly argues that Defendant has not
carried its burden under Civil Code § 1633.9 citing Ruiz. (Opp’n pp.
3-4.) However, as previously discussed in the sections above the Court is not
persuaded by this argument. Aceves does not argue any other grounds that bars
enforcement of the Agreement. 
 
Therefore, since the agreements are enforceable,
the Motions are GRANTED. 
 
The Court also finds that a stay of the
action is appropriate in this case once the motion is granted, as Code of Civil
Procedure § 1281.4 stipulates that the Court shall stay the action until
arbitration is completed. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.4.) 
 

III. DISPOSITION
 
For the foregoing reasons, the Court GRANTS
Defendant’s Motion to Compel Arbitration. The action is stayed under Code of
Civil Procedure § 1281.4 pending the outcome of the parties' arbitration. 
Moving party is ordered to give notice.  