 Case Number:  22STCV18736    Hearing Date:   March 20, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 50
 



EUGENE CHORNY, et al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
SAMUEL OHANA, et al., 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


22STCV18736 




Hearing Date:


March 20, 2024




Hearing
  Time:    2:00
  p.m. 
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:
DEMURRER BY
  DEFENDANTS THE BARBARA WILLA JOHANNA KATT LIVING TRUST AND MARKS &
  ASSOCIATES, AN ACCOUNTANCY CORPORATION, TO CROSS-COMPLAINT OF DEFENDANTS
  SAMUEL OHANA AND TAMIM, LLC 




AND RELATED CROSS-ACTION


 



            
Background 
On June 8, 2022, Plaintiffs Eugene Chorny
(“Chorny”) and Irina Ermakova (“Ermakova”) filed the instant action against
Defendants Samuel Ohana (“Ohana”), Tamim, LLC (“Tamim”), The Barbara Willa
Johanna Katt Living Trust (the “Trust”), and Marks and Associates, a
California Accountancy Corporation. 

On February 14, 2023, Plaintiffs filed the operative Second Amended
Complaint, alleging causes of action for (1) breach of covenant of good faith and fair dealing, (2) fraud, 
(3) cancellation of title, and (4)
intentional interference with prospective
economic advantage. 
On October 5, 2023, the
Court entered a Judgment of Dismissal in this action providing, inter alia,
as follows: 
 
“On April 12, 2023, the Demurrer by defendants The Barbara
Willa Johanna 
Katt Living
Trust and Marks & Associates, An Accountancy Corporation (‘Defendants’) to
the Second Amended Complaint filed by plaintiffs Eugene Chorny and Irina
Ermakova (‘Plaintiffs’), came on for hearing in the above-entitled court before
the Honorable Teresa A. Beaudet, Judge presiding. Having read the moving,
opposition, and reply papers and after oral argument, the court sustained the
demurrer as to all causes of action plead against Defendants in the Second
Amended Complaint, without leave to amend. THEREFORE, 
IT IS ADJUDGED,
ORDERED, AND DECREED that: 
1. All causes of
action against Defendants in Plaintiffs’ Second Amended Complaint are hereby
dismissed with prejudice. 2. Defendants shall have and recover from Plaintiffs
their statutory costs and attorneys’ fees pursuant to a timely filed Memorandum
of Costs and a motion for attorneys’ fees.” 
            In addition, on November 15, 2023,
another Judgment of Dismissal was entered in this action providing, inter
alia, as follows: 
 
“[O]n April 12,
2023, the demurrer by defendants Samuel Ohana and Tamim, LLC (collectively
‘Defendants’) to the second, third and fourth causes of actions in the Second
Amended Complaint filed by plaintiffs Eugene Chorny and Irina Ermakova
(‘Plaintiffs’), were sustained without leave to amend, leaving only the first
cause of action for breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing
against Defendants. On October 18, 2023, the Motion for Judgment on the
Pleadings (the ‘Motion’) by Defendants to the Second Amended Complaint filed by
Plaintiffs, came on for hearing in the above-entitled court before the
Honorable Judge Rolf Treu, Judge Presiding for Honorable Teresa A. Beaudet.
Having read the moving, opposition, and reply papers, and after oral argument,
the Court granted the Motion, and dismissed the first cause of action for
Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing in the Second
Amended Complaint, without leave to amend.
THEREFORE, 
IT IS ADJUDGED,
ORDERED, AND DECREED that: 
1. The first
cause of action for Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair
Dealing in the Second Amended Complaint is hereby dismissed with prejudice. 2.
Plaintiffs’ Second Amended Complaint against Defendants is hereby dismissed
with prejudice.” 
On April 19, 2023, Ohana and Tamim (jointly, the “Cross-Complainants”)
filed a Cross-Complaint against Chorny, Ermakova, and the Trust, alleging
causes of action for (1) fraud, 
(2)
negligent misrepresentation, (3) indemnity, (4) contribution, and (5)
declaratory relief. The first and second causes of action of the
Cross-Complaint are alleged against Chorny and Ermakova. The third, fourth, and
fifth causes of action of the Cross-Complaint are alleged against all
cross-defendants. 
The Trust and Marks and Associates, an Accountancy
Corporation[1] (jointly, the “Demurring
Parties”) now demur to the third, fourth, and fifth causes of action of the
Cross-Complaint. The demurrer is unopposed.    
Discussion 
A.   
Legal Standard  
A demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that
appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters outside the
pleading that are judicially noticeable.¿(¿Blank v. Kirwan
(1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318¿.)¿“¿To survive a
demurrer, the complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a cause of
action; each evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the
plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.¿”¿(¿C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872¿.)¿For the
purpose of testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer admits
the truth of all material facts properly pleaded.¿(¿Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967¿.)¿A
demurrer “¿does not admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of
fact or law.¿”¿(¿Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713¿.)¿ 
B.   
Allegations of the
Cross-Complaint 
In the Cross-Complaint,
Cross-Complainants allege that in June 2005, Chorny and Ermakova (the
“Lessees”) entered into a lease (the “Lease”) with the Trust to rent the
property located at 13300 Burbank Blvd., Sherman Oaks, CA 91401 (the
“Property”). (Cross-Compl., ¶¶ 2, 9.) The Lease was for an original term of 10
years (the “Original Term”) and contained a “First Addendum” which provided Chorny
and Ermakova a right of first refusal (“ROFR”) to purchase the Property during
the Original Term of the Lease. (Cross-Compl., ¶ 9.) The ROFR required Chorny
and Ermakova to provide written notice of their intent to exercise their ROFR
within five days of receiving a notice of sale from the Trust. (Cross-Compl., ¶
9.) 
Cross-Complainants allege
that sometime in March 2021, and after the expiration of the Original Term, the
Trust accepted a third party offer to purchase the Property. (Cross-Compl., ¶
10.) On June 22, 2021, the Trust emailed Lessees and provided them with a
written notice of sale and the right to match the terms of said offer within 5
days (the “Notice of Sale”). (Cross-Compl., ¶ 11.) Lessees had until June 27,
2021 (the “Deadline”) to provide written notice of their intent to purchase the
Property on the same terms as set forth in the Notice of Sale. (Cross-Compl., ¶
11.) 
Cross-Complainants allege
that on June 29, 2021, two days after the Deadline, Lessees declined and waived
their right to exercise their right to the ROFR in writing by sending an email
to the Trust that stated, “[u]nfortunately, my financial situation does not
allow me to purchase the property at this time…” (Cross-Compl., ¶ 12.)
Cross-Complainants further allege that after having declined the ROFR, Lessees informed
Ohana about the potential sale of the Property, and asked Ohana if he would be
interested in purchasing the Property with them. (Cross-Compl., ¶ 13.) 
Cross-Complainants allege
that thereafter, and because Lessees did not have the funds necessary to
purchase the Property with Ohana, Lessees put Ohana on notice that they no
longer wanted to purchase the Property. (Cross-Compl., ¶ 16.)
Cross-Complainants allege that “[t]hereafter, Tamim, LLC purchased the Property
without objection from the Lessees, who…at all times before and after the sale
were aware that the Property was going to be and that it was ultimately sold to
Tamim, LLC.” (Cross-Compl., ¶ 20.) 
C.   
Third Cause of Action for Indemnity 
In the third cause of
action or indemnity, Cross-Complainants allege that “[o]n or about June 8,
2022, Plaintiff and Cross-Defendants [Chorny and Ermakova] filed a complaint in
the above entitled action, seeking damages against Cross-Complainants (the
‘Complaint’).” (Cross-Compl., ¶ 33.) Cross-Complainants allege that “[i]f
Cross-Complainants are held liable for the claims made in the Complaint or for
damages as a result of the incidents and occurrences alleged in the Complaint,
Cross-Complainants’ liability would be based solely on a derivative form of
liability not resulting from their conduct, but from an obligation imposed on
them by law; whereas Cross-Defendants [Chorny and Ermakova] and the Trust, and
each of them, were actively negligent in causing the damages, if any, and were
at fault as a result of their own respective acts and/or omissions. Therefore,
Cross-Complainants would be entitled to complete indemnity from cross-defendants,
and each of them.” (Cross-Compl., ¶ 35.) 
“The
right to indemnity flows from payment of a joint legal obligation on another’s
behalf. The elements of a cause of action for indemnity are (1) a showing
of fault on the part of the
indemnitor and (2) resulting damages to the indemnitee for which the indemnitor
is contractually or equitably responsible.” (Great Western
Drywall, Inc. v. Interstate Fire & Casualty Co. (2008) 161
Cal.App.4th 1033, 1041 [internal emphasis and reference to [Citations.] omitted.) 
The
Demurring Parties assert that here, “[n]o contractual relationship
between the parties or law giving rise to an indemnity claim is alleged in the Cross-Complaint.”
(Demurrer at p. 8:1-2.) Cross-Complainants do not oppose the demurrer and thus
do not point to any such allegations. The Demurring Parties also assert that
“as the claims of Plaintiffs against Cross-Complainants have all been dismissed,
Cross-Complainants can no longer allege that they have been damaged, another
element of the claim for indemnity. While they allege that they have incurred
attorneys’ fees and costs defending the action, they do not allege a basis for
a recovery of such fees and costs…” (Demurrer at p. 8:10-13.) This point is not
disputed by Cross-Complainants, who, as discussed, do not oppose the demurrer. 
Based on the foregoing,
the Court sustains the demurrer to the third cause of action of the
Cross-Complaint. 
D.   
Fourth Cause of Action for Contribution  
In the fourth cause of action for contribution,
Cross-Complainants allege that “[i]f Cross-Complainants are held
liable to Plaintiffs, or to anyone else, for damages as a result of the
incidents and occurrences alleged in plaintiffs Complaint, the damages, if any,
were either wholly or in part directly and proximately caused by the negligence
or culpable conduct of Cross-Defendants [Chorny and Ermakova] and the Trust,
and each of them. Each cross-defendant should be required to pay a share of the
damages that is in proportion to the comparative negligence and responsibility
of that cross-defendant in causing the damages, and should further be required
to reimburse Cross-Complainants for any payment of damages they makes [sic] in
excess of their proportional share, if any, of all parties’ negligence and
responsibility for the damages.” (Cross-Compl., ¶ 37.) 
The Demurring Parties
cite to Code of Civil Procedure section 875, which
provides in part as follows: 
 
“(a) Where a money judgment has been rendered
jointly against two or more defendants in a tort action there shall be a right
of contribution among them as hereinafter provided.
 
(b) Such right of contribution shall be
administered in accordance with the principles of equity.
 
(c) Such right of contribution may be enforced
only after one tortfeasor has, by payment, discharged the joint judgment or has
paid more than his pro rata share thereof. It shall be limited to the excess so
paid over the pro rata share of the person so paying and in no event shall any
tortfeasor be compelled to make contribution beyond his own pro rata share of
the entire judgment.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 875, subds.
(a)-(c).) 
            The
Demurring Parties note that “[t]he fourth cause of action for
contribution fails to allege either that a money judgment has been rendered
jointly against two or more defendants or that Cross-Complainants have paid
more than their pro rata share of the judgment.” (Demurrer at p. 9:6-8.)
Cross-Complainants do not oppose the demurrer and thus do not dispute this
point. 
            Based
on the foregoing, the Court sustains the demurrer to the fourth cause of action
of the Cross-Complaint.  
E.    
Fifth Cause of Action for Declaratory Relief

In the fifth cause of
action for declaratory relief, Plaintiff alleges, inter alia, that “[a]n
actual controversy exists between cross-complainants and cross-defendants, and
each of them. Plaintiffs and Cross-Defendants [Chorny and Ermakova] contend
that they had a ROFR to purchase the Property. Cross-Defendant the Trust claims
that they gave notice to [Chorny and Ermakova] of the potential sale to Tamim,
LLC and in doing so, met their contractual obligation in the Lease to provide a
Notice of Sale to [Chorny and Ermakova] or that they otherwise waived their
ROFR. Cross-Complainants contend that they were informed by the
Cross-Defendants, and each of them, that all the prerequisites necessary to
purchase the Property from the Trust and been met, including any waiver of the
ROFR, Notice of Sale and/or declining the same, and that based on said
representations, Cross-Complainants purchased the Property.” (Cross-Compl., ¶
39.) Cross-Complainants further allege that “Cross-Defendants deny that if
Cross-Complainants are held liable under the Complaint or for any cause of
action related to their purchase of the Property, or as a result of the
incidents and occurrences alleged in plaintiff’s Complaint, the liability would
be based solely on a derivative form of liability not resulting from any action
or omission of Cross-Complainants, but only from an obligation imposed by law;
whereas Cross-Defendants, and each of them, were actively negligent and/or are
at fault as a result of their own acts and/or omissions.” (Cross-Compl., ¶ 40.)
Cross-Complainants “desire a judicial declaration of the rights and duties of
the parties with respect to the matters alleged in [the] cross-complaint.”
(Cross-Compl., ¶ 41.) 
The Demurring Parties
cite to The Tiburon v. Northwestern P. R. Co. (1970) 4 Cal.App.3d 160, 170, where the Court of Appeal noted that “[i]t
is general rule that in an action for declaratory relief the complaint is
sufficient if it sets forth facts showing the existence of an actual
controversy relating to the legal rights and duties of the respective parties
under a contract and requests that the rights and duties be adjudged.” With
regard to the declaratory relief cause of action, the Demurring Parties assert
that “[a]s the Plaintiff’s claims have been resolved in favor of both
Cross-Complainants and Cross-Defendants, and no showing is made in the
Cross-Complaint that Cross-Complainants have any independent claim against
Cross-Defendants, the cause of action fails to state facts showing an actual
controversy involving justiciable questions relating to the rights or
obligations of a party.” (Demurrer at p. 10:12-16.) Cross-Complainants do not
oppose the demurrer and thus do not dispute this point. 
Based on the foregoing,
the Court sustains the demurrer to the fifth cause of action of the
Cross-Complaint. 
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, the Demurring Parties’ demurrer to the third, fourth, and fifth causes of
action of the Cross-Complaint is sustained, with leave to amend. 
The
Court orders Cross-Complainants to file and serve an amended cross-complaint,
if any, within 20 days of the date of this order. If no amended cross-complaint
is filed within 20 days, the Court orders the Demurring Parties to file and
serve a proposed judgment of dismissal within 30 days of the date of this
order.¿
The Demurring Parties are ordered to give notice of this Order.
 
 
DATED:  March 20, 2024                              ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A. Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court


