 Case Number:  23PSCV02790    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2025    Dept:  G Plaintiff Luis Edgardo Hurtado Majano’s Motion for  Leave to File First Amended Complaint Respondent: Defendant Esvin  Aroldo Vasquez TENTATIVE RULING Plaintiff Luis Edgardo Hurtado Majano’s Motion for  Leave to File First Amended Complaint is GRANTED. Plaintiff Luis Edgardo Hurtado Majano is ordered to file the proposed First  Amended Complaint separately with the Court forthwith. BACKGROUND This  is a personal injury action arising from a motor vehicle collision. On March 3,  2023, Plaintiff Luis Edgardo Hurtado Majano filed a complaint against  Defendants Robert Antonio Keith, Esvin Aroldo Vasquez, and Does 1-50, alleging  a sole cause of action for general negligence. On  January 8, 2024, the court entered default against Vasquez after Vasquez failed  to timely file an answer. On June 18, 2024, the court entered default against  Keith after Keith also failed to timely file an answer. On  July 25, 2024, Hurtado Majano and Vasquez stipulated to setting aside the entry  of default against Vasquez. On December  19, 2024, Hurtado Majano filed the present motion. A hearing on the present  motion is set for January 22, 2025. A CMC/status conference re: ADR and OSC Re:  Default Judgment Setting are also set for February 6, 2025. ANALYSIS Hurtado  Majano seeks  leave to file a First Amended Complaint (FAC) that alleges an additional cause  of action for negligent entrustment of a motor vehicle. For the following  reasons, the court GRANTS Hurtado Majano’s motion. Legal  Standard “A  court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow  a party to amend any pleading.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a)(1).) The  court’s discretion will usually be exercised liberally to permit amendments of  the pleadings. (Nestle v. City of Santa Monica (1972) 6 Cal.3d 920,  939.)“A motion to amend a pleading before trial must . . . [s]tate what allegations in the  previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page,  paragraph, and line number, the deleted allegations are located; and [s]tate what allegations are  proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page,  paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations are located.” (Cal.  Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(a).) The declaration must also specify the  amendment’s effect, why it is necessary and proper, when the facts supporting  the amended allegations were discovered, and why the request was not made  earlier. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(b).) If  the party seeking the amendment has needlessly delayed, and the delay has  prejudiced the opposing party, the court has the discretion to deny leave to  amend. (See Hirsa v. Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486, 490.) Prejudice exists where the amendment would require delaying the trial,  resulting in loss of critical evidence, or added costs of preparation. (Solit v. Tokai Bank, Ltd. New  York Branch (1999) 68 Cal.App.4th 1435, 1448.) Discussion In this case,  Hurtado  Majano’s counsel provides that the effect of the proposed FAC is to add a  second cause of action for negligent entrustment of a motor vehicle. (Katzman  Decl., ¶ 7.) While Hurtado Majano’s counsel states counsel has discovered Vasquez was allegedly  negligent in entrusting the subject vehicle to Keith, Hurtado Majano’s counsel  fails to state when these facts were first discovered. (Katzman Decl., ¶ 4.)  Nor does counsel explain why Hurtado Majano delayed in amending the Complaint  with these facts. Nonetheless, because Hurtado Majano’s motion was brought within  five months of Vasquez filing an answer to the original Complaint, any delay by  Hurtado Majano in amending the Complaint appears minimal. Furthermore, while Hurtado  Majano’s counsel fails to explicitly state why the proposed amendment is necessary  and proper, counsel does claim the amendment provides specificity that will  resolve any impediments to settlement and prevent unnecessary law and motion  matters. (Katzman Decl., ¶ 10.) In  opposition, Vasquez argues the proposed amendment prejudices Vasquez because it  asserts an entirely new cause of action based on entirety new factual  allegations. (Opp., p. 8:21-26.) For the same reasons, Vasquez also argues the  new cause of action is time-barred because the relation-back doctrine is  inapplicable. (Opp., p. 6:19-8:11.) But both arguments fail as they misconstrue  the effect of Hurtado Majano’s proposed amendment. In the initial Complaint, Hurtado  Majano alleges that on March 12, 2021, in Los Angeles, Keith and Vasquez negligently  caused damage to Hurtado Majano. (Complaint, p. 4.) The Complaint alleges “the  parties were involved in a traffic accident” and that Defendant “breached the  duty of care he owed to Plaintiff by acting in a manner that negligently caused  Plaintiff to suffer severe personal injuries.” (Complaint, p. 4.) In  the proposed FAC, the additional cause of action for negligent entrustment  alleges that Vasquez failed to exercise reasonable care in hiring or retaining Keith  as a driver and entrusting Vasquez’s truck to Keith. (Proposed FAC, ¶ 12-14.) While  these allegations provide additional detail and information, they do not assert  a new cause of action as they arise from the same allegation that Vasquez acted  in a manner that negligently caused Hurtado Majano injury on March 12, 2021.  Although the initial Complaint does not clarify what these negligent acts were,  the proposed FAC establishes they were Vasquez’s failure to properly vet Keith  as a driver. Vasquez  also fails to establish how this amendment would prejudice Vasquez when trial  has yet to be set and discovery has not yet commenced. (Katzman Suppl. Decl., ¶  10-12.) In fact, the proposed amendment does the opposite as it clarifies the  issues for any potential settlement or mediation discussions and allows Vasquez  to avoid demurring to the initial Complaint. Accordingly, the court GRANTS  Hurtado Majano’s motion. CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, Hurtado Majano’s motion  for leave to file a FAC is GRANTED and Hurtado Majano is ordered  to file the proposed FAC separately with the court forthwith.