  Case Number:  21CHCV00467    Hearing Date:   October 13, 2023    Dept:  F49 Dept.
F-49
Date:
10-13-23 (a/f 1-30-24 via 9-29-23 ex parte order)
Case:
21CHCV00467
Trial
Date: 10-16-23
 
JUDGMENT ON THE PLEADINGS
 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendants, Prohealth Professional Services, et al.
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiff, Vanessa Silvas
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Motion
for Judgment on the Pleadings to the Complaint
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
On
June 22, 2021, Plaintiff Vanessa Silvas filed a 15 cause of action complaint
for wage and hour claim, wrongful termination, and emotional distress.
Defendants Prohealth Professional Services, et al. answered the complaint on
October 12, 2021.
 
RULING: Granted.
Request
for Judicial Notice: Granted
The
court takes judicial notice of the existence of the filing of the October 15,
2020, Bankruptcy Petition, and both the existence and content of the March 25,
2020, Notice of Filing of Discrimination Complaint, and Order Approving
Compromise and Release. (Friends of Shingle Springs Interchange, Inc. v. County of El Dorado (2011) 200 Cal.App.4th 1470, 1484.) 
 
Defendants
Prohealth Professional Services, Regency Surgery Center, Central Valley
Occupational Medical Group, Inc., Pro-Health Valley Occupational Medical Group,
Inc., and Sean Younai, move for judgment on the pleadings to the complaint on
grounds of the first affirmative defense for failure to state a valid claim on
the eighth through thirteenth causes of action, the second affirmative defense
for the statute of limitations, the third affirmative defense for judicial
estoppel, the twelfth affirmative defense for failure to exhaust administrative
remedies, the fifteenth affirmative defense for lack of standing, and the
twenty-first affirmative defense for workers compensation preclusion.
 
Plaintiff
submits an extensive opposition on both procedural and substantive arguments.
Plaintiff first challenges the lack of any sufficient, demonstrated meet and
confer effort. Plaintiff next challenges the timing of the motion 18 days prior
to the trial date. Plaintiff next challenges the reliance on extrinsic
information outside the scope of the pleading, specifically the content of the
bankruptcy petition itself, the tolling agreement, settlement communications,
etc. On the substance, Plaintiff concedes to the filing of the bankruptcy, but
maintains the potential claims were disclosed in the petition, thereby
apprizing the trustee of the potential claims. Plaintiff challenges any finding
of judicial estoppel in a motion for judgment on the pleadings. Plaintiff
maintains all administrative remedies were exhausted, and that the naming of
certain entities constituted a designation of all entities given the
co-defendants’ alleged relationship via a shared registered agent for service.
Plaintiff challenges the analogy of the emotion distress and wrongful
termination claims as akin to one of common counts. Plaintiff maintains the
right to independently prosecute the failure to prevent discrimination claim.
Finally, Plaintiff denies any workers’ compensation preclusion.

Defendants in reply reiterate the lack of standing, and challenge the arguments
in opposition regarding the purported disclosure of the claims in the
bankruptcy petition and abandonment of said claims by the trustee. Defendants
maintain a sufficient meet and confer effort, though not required. Defendants
reiterates the right to take judicial notice of the bankruptcy petition.
Finally, Defendants challenge the lack of any declaration denying the basis for
a finding of judicial estoppel.
 
“A motion for judgment on the pleadings serves the
function of a demurrer, challenging only defects on the face of the complaint…
[¶] The grounds for a motion for judgment on the pleadings must appear on the
face of the complaint or from a matter of which the court may take judicial
notice.” (Richardson-Tunnell v. School
Ins. Program for Employees (2007) 157 Cal.App.4th 1056, 1061.)
In considering a motion for judgment on the pleadings, courts consider whether
the factual allegations, assumed true, are sufficient to constitute a cause of
action. (Fire Insurance Exchange v.
Superior Court (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 446, 452-453.)
 
“No
motion may be made pursuant to this section if a pretrial conference order has
been entered pursuant to Section 575, or within 30 days of the date the action
is initially set for trial, whichever is later, unless the court otherwise
permits.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 438, subd.
(e).) The motion was untimely filed under the first portion of the statute, but
lacks any specific argument against court exercised discretion to consider the
motion. “[S]ection 438, subdivision (e) ‘authorizes the trial court to permit
late filings of such motions and does not specify any grounds which might serve
to limit its power to do so.’” (Korchemny v. Piterman
(2021) 68 Cal.App.5th 1032, 1054.) While the docket shows no challenges to the
form or substance of the subject action prior to the instant hearing, and the
court finds no explanation for the presented timing of the motion on the eve of
trial, the court in its discretion finds the motion presents arguments
impacting the trial and therefore considers the motion.
 
As for the sufficiency of the meet and confer effort,
the court declines to deny the motion on grounds of an insufficient effort. “A
determination by the court that the meet and confer process was insufficient shall not be
grounds to grant or deny the motion for judgment on the pleadings.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 439, subd. (a)(4).) Furthermore, “This section does not apply to any
of the following: ... (4) A motion brought less than 30 days before trial. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 439, subd. (d)(4).)
 
On the merits, Defendants first challenge the
complaint on grounds of standing. Any and all assets or rights belonging to the
debtor at the time of the filing clearly vest with the bankruptcy court and
assigned trustee. (Cloud v. Northrop Grumman Corp. (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 995, 1003 [“Property that
is neither abandoned nor administered by the bankruptcy trustee remains
property of the bankruptcy estate”]; Bostanian v. Liberty Savings Bank (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 1075, 1079 [“‘the
bankruptcy court supervises the liquidation of failed chapter 7 debtors, who
can begin or maintain lawsuits in their own name only with the bankruptcy
court's and trustee's approval’”].)
 
The June 22, 2021, filed complaint lacks any
reference to the bankruptcy petition or workers’ compensation claim. As allowed
under the standard for judgment on the pleadings, the court takes judicial
notice of the filed Chapter 7 Bankruptcy petition filed on October 15, 2020, a
date after the March 25, 2020, Notice of Filing of Discrimination Complaint
with the Department of Fair Employment & Housing. [Req. Jud. Not., Ex.
A-B.] Plaintiff in opposition acknowledges the bankruptcy petition as well. 
 
While Plaintiff challenges reliance on extrinsic
evidence by the court, Plaintiff also asks the court to consider the content of
the listed assets on grounds of sufficient identification of the claim(s). As
stated above, the court declines to consider the factual content of any
potential claims as a function of the motion, and instead relies on the four
corners of the operative pleading as well as the judicially noticed filed
petition date. The presented pleadings and petition lacks any information regarding
knowledge of the trustee regarding the subject claims, and/or the date of any
dismissal or discharge of debt on the Bankruptcy petition with or without
regard to said potential claims. Given the related, potentially overlapping
timing with the workers’ compensation claim, including the January 4, 2023, order
awarding Plaintiff $30,000, the omissions from the complaint and limited
information available via judicial notice, precludes any finding of abandonment
of said claims by the bankruptcy trustee. Thus, the court concludes from the
state of the operative pleading, and available information available under
judicial notice, at a minimum the workers’ compensation proceeds remain part of
the bankruptcy estate pending further clarification. The complaint, as
presented, therefore demonstrates Plaintiff’s lacks standing to prosecute the
subject action.
 
California law requires consideration for leave to
amend in order to substitute the bankruptcy trustee into the action, rather
than a presumption of dismissal. (Cloud v. Northrop Grumman Corp. (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th at pp. 1005–1006.) The same standard
applies for a judgment on the pleading. (Id. at pp. 1018-1010.) 
 
In considering whether leave to amend is
warranted, the court considers the arguments regarding judicial estoppel.
Defendants maintains the failure to disclose the subject potential employment
and workers’ compensation claims constitutes a basis for a bar on judicial
estoppel. Judicial estoppel requires a factual finding of intentional conduct
to deceive the court. (Id. at p. 1017.)
The court declines to make a factual
determination of judicial estoppel based on the allegations in the complaint
itself and the three judicially noticed documents for purposes of concluding an
intentional withholding of information from the bankruptcy trustee and filing
of the instant action (with new counsel). (Id. at pp. 1017-1020.) Such a
determination exceeds the scope of review for the subject motion. 
 
The statute of limitations also constitutes a
valid basis for denial of leave to amend, where the claims in no way relate
back. (Id. at pp. 1009-1010.) The DFEH letter is dated March 25, 2020,
and the complaint was filed on June 22, 2021. [Req. Jud. Not., Ex. B.]
Paragraph seven of the complaint acknowledges the one year deadline, but
Defendants acknowledge a tolling agreement. Plaintiff in opposition to the
challenge regarding the naming of all parties also presents extrinsic
information based argument on the common registered agent for service thereby
somehow establishing joint notice notwithstanding any implicitly acknowledged
lack of any identification of said parties in the DFEH complaint or proof of
service. 
 
While Defendants maintain the DFEH complaint
lacks identification of defendants “Regency” (Surgery Center) and “CVOMG”
(Central Valley Medical Occupational Medical Group, Inc.) and the tolling
agreement was “only between Prohealth and Plaintiff,” and Plaintiff maintains
service on the common agent for service effectively named everyone, the court
declines to consider any and all extrinsic reference arguments. In other words,
given the concession that the entire action is not barred by the one year
statute of limitations, due at least in part to a tolling agreement on some
defendants, the court lacks the ability to verify the veracity and terms of the
tolling agreement as part of a motion for judgment on the pleadings. The court
also declines to consider the newly made argument in opposition regarding
proper service of all parties. The court therefore declines to make any finding
barring leave to amend on this legal basis. The court therefore finds a basis
for leave to substitute the trustee in as a real party in interest.
 
On the argument equating a common count claim
with intentional infliction of emotional distress, the court finds the motion lacks
any actual address of the standard for intentional infliction of emotional
distress, or argument of how a party lack the ability to alternatively state a
claim based on a common core of facts. (Berryman v. Merit Property
Management, Inc. (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 1544, 1560; McBride
v. Boughton (2004) 123 Cal.App.4th 379, 394.) The court declines to make the
arguments for Defendants. The motion is denied on this argument.
 
On the two sentence argument regarding no
private right of action for claims under Government Code section 12940,
subdivision (k), the court finds support. “Thus,
we hold the DFEH may prosecute a “stand alone” failure to take all reasonable
steps as an independent statutory violation of Government Code section 12940,
subdivision (k), with the important limitation that we do not find that such a
cause of action exists as an independent claim for private litigants. We
further clarify that, while we affirm the DFEH's right, in the exercise of its
police powers, to prosecute an independent violation of Government Code section
12940, subdivision (k), we expressly do not find that such a claim gives rise
to an actionable tort or private cause of action in civil proceedings between
private litigants.” (In the Matter of the Accusation of the Dep't of Fair Employment
& Hous. (Oct. 19, 2010) FEHC Dec. No. 10-04-P.) Plaintiff’s argument in
opposition cites to cases that both precede the latest administrative decision
and otherwise fail to address the specific subsection. (Trujillo
v. North County Transit Dist. (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 280,
286-289; Kohler v. Inter-Tel Technologies (9th Cir. 2001) 244
F.3d 1167, 1173-1174.) While an argument can perhaps be made for a claim under
the other subsections, the court can only find lack of support under
subdivision (k) under the minimal authority provided by both sides. Again, the
court declines to make the arguments for the parties. The court therefore
grants the motion on this basis as well. 
 
Finally,
on workers’ compensation exclusivity of the emotional distress claim, the court
finds the tersely presented argument insufficiently addresses the actual
standard. While emotional distress in general may be subject to workers’
compensation preclusion, claims of emotional distress arising from
discriminatory practices or conduct in violation of public policy remains
outside preclusion defenses. (Livitsanos v. Superior Court
(1992) 2 Cal.4th 744, 756; Cole v. Fair Oaks Fire Protection Dist.
(1987) 43 Cal.3d 148, 160.) The court again declines to address any argument
potentially relying on extrinsic inference.
 
In
summary, the motion for judgment on the pleading is granted without
prejudice/with leave to amend. Plaintiff must substitute in the bankruptcy
trustee in order to proceed with the action. The court will not address any
issues involving bankruptcy laws or procedures regarding the requirements of
how the trustee can elect to proceed with the bankruptcy and/or the subject
action. If the bankruptcy trustee elects to take over the action, the trustee
may also decide on how to address the Government Code section 12940,
subdivision (k) cause of action. The court therefore allows Plaintiff to
continue with the potential claim pending further decisions from the trustee.
 
Plaintiff
has 30 days to file an amended complaint with the substituted trustee as the
real party in interest, or secure proof of abandonment of the claims in order
to establish a restoration of standing by Plaintiff. The October 16, 2023,
trial date will either be vacated or continued at the time of this hearing.
 
Moving Defendants are also ordered to give notice.
 