 Case Number:  22CHCV00449    Hearing Date:   October 13, 2023    Dept:  F49 Dept. F-49
Date: 10-13-23 c/f 10-11-23
Case # 22CHCV00449
Trial Date: 11-13-23
 
SUMMARY JUDGMENT/SUMMARY ADJUDICATION
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant, State Farm Mutual Automobile
Insurance Company
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiffs, Natalie Mansour
 
RELIEF REQUESTED
Motion for Summary Judgment/Summary Adjudication
·        
1st Cause of Action: Breach of
Contract
·        
2nd Cause of Action: Bad Faith
 
SUMMARY OF ACTION
On April 6, 2021, plaintiff Natalie Mansour obtained
automobile insurance coverage for a 2020 Bentley Continental vehicle with
defendant State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Company. On the same date, the
vehicle was involved in an accident, thereby leading to a declaration of the
vehicle as a “total loss.” Plaintiff alleges defendant failed to adequately
adjust the claim, thereby leading to an underpayment of benefits due under the
policy. 
 
On June 17, 2022, and October 14, 2022, Plaintiff filed a
complaint and first amended complaint for Breach of Contract, Insurance Bad
Faith, and Professional Negligence. Defendant answered the first amended
complaint on December 5, 2022.
 
RULING: Granted.
Defendant State
Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Company (State Farm) moves for summary
judgment/Summary adjudication on the first amended complaint of Natalie Mansour
as to the Breach of Contract and Bad Faith causes action. State Farm moves for
summary judgment/summary adjudication on grounds of no breach or bad faith
arising insufficient payment of policy benefits. Plaintiff in opposition maintain
State Farm underpayment under the terms of the policy. State Farm in reply reiterates
compliance with the policy terms, and maintains the opposition lacks any
admissible evidence in opposition. State Farm also challenges the relied upon
authority in opposition. Finally, State Farm notes the lack of any separate
statement. 
 
The pleadings frame the issues for motions, “since it is
those allegations to which the motion must respond. (Citation.)”  (Scolinos
v. Kolts (1995) 37 Cal. App. 4th 635, 640-641; FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 382-383; Jordan-Lyon Prods., LTD., v. Cineplex Odeon Corp. (1994) 29
Cal.App.4th 1459, 1472.) Fire only remains named in the first
cause of action for negligence in the second amended complaint based on the
alleged failure of insurance agent Vivian Garcia to obtain sufficient coverage
with Farmers Group, Inc. (Fire).
 
The purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary
adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’
pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in
fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” 
(Aguilar v. Atl. Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  “Code of
Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to
grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences
or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and
that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)  
 
“On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is
always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no
triable issues of material fact.”  (Scalf v. D.B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128
Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.)  A defendant
moving for summary judgment “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause
of action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the
cause of action . . . cannot be established.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) 
“Once the defendant . . . has met that burden, the burden shifts to the
plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts
exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.”  (Ibid.)  
 
“When deciding whether to grant summary judgment, the court
must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers (except evidence to
which the court has sustained an objection), as well as all reasonable
inference that may be drawn form that evidence, in the light most favorable to
the party opposing summary judgment.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th
463, 467; see also Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)  “An issue of fact can only be created by a
conflict in the evidence.  It is not
created by speculation, conjecture, imagination or guesswork.”  (Lyons
v. Security Pacific National Bank (1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 1001, 1041
(citation omitted).)  
 
State Farm maintains all payments follow policy guidelines,
and in fact exceeded limits in certain part. The payment amounts are undisputed:
$237,102.59 to the lien holder based on a $266,697 cash value for the vehicle,
plus taxes and transfer fees for total valuation of $292,910.22 less prior
payments of $54,807.63 and a $1,000 deductible; $267.89 for costs to the
original body shop chosen by Plaintiff, but not approved by State Farm for work
on Bentley vehicles; $1,450 in rental car expenses, which exceeded the $1,200
policy limit; and, $7,340 to Premier Collision Center, an authorized facility,
where State Farm conducted its inspection of the vehicle before declaring it a
total loss. Plaintiff presents no dispute to the payments, but contends the
“delays” in the adjustment process caused by “needless” disassembly of the
vehicle, while still requiring Plaintiff to make lease payments constitutes a
basis of recoverable damages. The opposition lacks a responsive separate
statement disputing any factual assertions, or any actual evidence articulating
an amount of additional damages as a result of the delays in the adjustment
process. The opposition solely relies on legal argument and citation to the
unverified “complaint” (no identification of the first amended complaint).
 
1st Cause of Action: Breach of Contract
“‘While insurance contracts have special
features, they are still contracts to which the ordinary rules of contractual
interpretation apply.’ (Citation.) ‘The principles governing the interpretation of
insurance policies in California are well settled. “Our goal in construing
insurance contracts, as with contracts generally, is to give effect to the
parties' mutual intentions.”’ (Citation.) “‘Such intent is to be inferred, if
possible, solely from the written provisions of the contract. (Citation.) The
“clear and explicit” meaning of these provisions, interpreted in their
“ordinary and popular sense,’ unless ‘used by the parties in a technical sense
or a special meaning is given to them by usage’ (Citation), controls judicial
interpretation. (Citation.)’” (Citation) “‘If contractual language is clear and explicit, it
governs.’”
 
“‘If the terms
are ambiguous [i.e., susceptible of more than one reasonable interpretation],
we interpret them to protect “‘the objectively reasonable expectations of the
insured.’” (Citation.) This rule stems from the principle that “‘[i]f the terms
of a promise are in any respect ambiguous or uncertain, it must be interpreted
in the sense in which the promisor believed, at the time of making it, that the
promisee understood it.’” (Citation.) “‘Only if these rules do not resolve a claimed ambiguity
do we resort to the rule that ambiguities are to be resolved against the insurer....’ The
‘tie-breaker’ rule of construction against the insurer stems from the
recognition that the insurer generally drafted the policy and received premiums
to provide the agreed protection.” (Citation.) “[L]anguage in a contract must be interpreted as a
whole, and in the circumstances of the case, and cannot be found to be
ambiguous in the abstract.... Courts will not strain to create an ambiguity
where none exists. [¶] ‘The insured has the burden of establishing that a
claim, unless specifically excluded, is within basic coverage, while the
insurer has the burden of establishing that a specific exclusion applies.’ (Citation.) The principles of
contractual interpretation, as applied to insurance policies ‘do not include using public
policy to redefine the scope of coverage.’” (Inns-by-the-Sea v. California Mutual Ins.
Co. (2021) 71 Cal.App.5th 688, 697–698.)
 
The
court quotes the undisputed, relevant section of the policy:
 
“Supplementary Payments – Comprehensive Coverage and Collision
Coverage 
If the covered vehicle sustains loss for which we make a payment
under Comprehensive Coverage or Collision Coverage, then we will pay reasonable
expenses incurred to: 
1. tow the covered vehicle immediately after the loss: a. for a
reasonable distance from the location of the loss to any one repair facility
chosen by an insured or the owner of the covered vehicle, if the covered
vehicle is not drivable; or b. to any one repair facility or commercial storage
facility, neither of which was chosen by an insured or the owner of the covered
vehicle. We will also pay reasonable expenses incurred to tow the covered
vehicle for a reasonable distance from this facility to any one repair facility
chosen by an insured or the owner of the covered vehicle, if the covered
vehicle is not drivable; 
2. store the covered vehicle, if it is not drivable immediately
after the loss, at: a. any one repair facility or commercial storage facility,
neither of which was chosen by an insured or the owner of the covered vehicle;
and b. any one repair facility chosen by the owner of the covered vehicle, and
we determine such vehicle is a total loss. If the owner of the covered vehicle
consents, then we may move the covered vehicle at our expense to reduce storage
costs. If the owner of the covered vehicle does not consent, then we will pay
only the storage costs that would have resulted if we had moved the damaged
covered vehicle; and 
3. clean up debris from the covered vehicle at the location of the
loss. The most we will pay to clean up the debris is $250 for any one loss. 
 
Limits and Loss Settlement – Comprehensive Coverage and Collision
Coverage 
1. We have the right to choose to settle with you or the owner of
the covered vehicle in one of the following ways: (a) Pay the cost to repair
the covered vehicle minus any applicable deductible. (1) We have the right to
choose one of the following to determine the cost to repair the covered
vehicle: (a) The cost agreed to by both the owner of the covered vehicle and
us; (b) A bid or repair estimate approved by us; or (c) A repair estimate that
is written based upon or adjusted to: (i) the prevailing competitive price;
(ii) the lower of paintless dent repair pricing established by an agreement we
have with a third party or the paintless dent repair price that is competitive
in the market; or (iii) a combination of (i) and (ii) above. The prevailing
competitive price means prices charged by a majority of the repair market in
the area where the covered vehicle is to be repaired as determined by a survey
made by us. If asked, we will identify some facilities that will perform the
repairs at the prevailing competitive price. The estimate will include parts
sufficient to restore the covered vehicle to its pre-loss condition. You agree
with us that the repair estimate may include new, used, recycled, and
reconditioned parts. Any of these parts may be either original equipment
manufacturer parts or non-original equipment manufacturer parts. You also agree
that replacement glass need not have any insignia, logo, trademark, etching, or
other marking that was on the replaced glass. (2) The cost to repair the
covered vehicle does not include any reduction in the value of the covered
vehicle after it has been repaired, as compared to its value before it was
damaged. (3) If the repair or replacement of a part results in betterment of
that part, then you or the owner of the covered vehicle must pay for the amount
of the betterment. (4) If you and we agree, then windshield glass will be
repaired instead of replaced; b. Pay the actual cash value of the covered
vehicle minus any applicable deductible. (1) The owner of the covered vehicle
and we must agree upon the actual cash value of the covered vehicle. If there
is disagreement as to the actual cash value of the covered vehicle, then the
disagreement will be resolved by appraisal upon written request of the owner or
us, using the following procedures: (a) The owner and we will each select a
competent appraiser. (b) The two appraisers will select a third competent
appraiser. If they are unable to agree on a third appraiser within 30 days,
then either the owner or we may petition a court that has jurisdiction to
select the third appraiser. (c) Each party will pay the cost of its own
appraiser, attorneys, and expert witnesses, as well as any other expenses
incurred by that party. Both parties will share equally the cost of the third
appraiser. (d) The appraisers shall only determine the actual cash value of the
covered vehicle. Appraisers shall have no authority to decide any other
questions of fact, decide any questions of law, or conduct appraisal on a
class-wide or class representative basis. (e) A written appraisal that is both
agreed upon by and signed by any two appraisers, and that also contains an
explanation of how they arrived at their appraisal, will be binding on the
owner of the covered vehicle and us. (f) We do not waive any of our rights by
submitting to an appraisal. (2) The damaged covered vehicle must be given to us
in exchange for our payment, unless the owner chooses to keep it. If the owner
keeps the covered vehicle, then our payment will be reduced by the value of the
covered vehicle after the loss; or c. Return the stolen covered vehicle to its
owner and pay, as described in 1.a. above, for any direct, sudden, and
accidental damage that resulted from the theft.
2. The most we will pay for
transportation expenses under Comprehensive Coverage is $25 per day subject to
an aggregate limit of $750 per loss. 
3. The most we will pay for loss
to a non-owned trailer or a non-owned camper is $2,500. 
 
Limits – Car Rental and Travel
Expenses Coverage 
1. Car Rental Expense 
The limit for Car Rental Expense
is shown on the Declarations Page under “Limit – Car Rental Expense – Each Day,
Each Loss”. a. The limit shown under “Each Day” is the most we will pay for the
daily rental charge. If: (1) a dollar amount is shown, then we will pay the
daily rental charge up to that dollar amount; or (2) a percentage amount is
shown, then we will pay that percentage of the daily rental charge. b. Subject
to the “Each Day” limit, the limit shown under “Each Loss” is the most we will
pay for Car Rental Expense incurred as a result of any one loss. 
2. Travel Expenses 
The most we will pay for Travel
Expenses incurred by all insureds as a result of any one loss is $500. 
3. Rental Car – Repayment of
Deductible Expense 
The most we will pay for Rental
Car – Repayment of Deductible Expense incurred as a result of any one loss is
$500. Nonduplication We will not pay for any loss or expense under the Physical
Damage Coverages for which the insured or owner of the covered vehicle has
already received payment from, or on behalf of, a party who is legally liable
for the loss or expense.” [Colucci Decl., Ex. A: Comprehensive and Collision
Coverage, pp. 20-22.]
 
The policy terms
remain undisputed. [Declaration of David Colucci, Ex. A.] Plaintiff presents no
argument of any ambiguity of any terms. The payment amounts also remain
undisputed. [Declaration of Devin Burrow.] The vehicle was declared a loss and
not repairable. State Farm determined the actual cash value of the vehicle at
$266,697, plus $25,336.22 in
taxes and $877 in transfer fees for total valuation of $292,910.22. State Farm
deduced prior payments of $54,807.63, and a $1,000 deductible. Payment in the
amount of $237,102.59 was made to the lien holder. [Burrow Decl., ¶¶ 10-12, Ex.
H, J, K.] The $292,910.22 valuation exceeds the $264,720 identified vehicle
valuation in the attached lease agreement by $28,640. [Burrow Decl., Ex. K.] 
 
It’s
not clear from the motion or opposition whether the payment satisfied the
entire outstanding lease agreement obligation, which from the opposition
appears as part of the core basis for the “valuation” dispute over the vehicle.
Regardless, as provided in the terms of the contract, Plaintiff accepted the
cash valuation based on the execution of the title transfer, even with a
retrospective conditional, qualified acceptance by Jesse Cohen who otherwise
lacked any prior recollection of the e-mail exchanges, and recall of any
details over the valuation dispute by Plaintiff. [Declaration of Marlene
Flores, Ex. A: Deposition of Jesse Cohen, 50:24-51:21; Ex. B: Deposition of
Natalie Mansour, 21:10-19, 24:16-22.] As also established, State Farm complied
with the rental car costs, and storage fee terms. Again, other than citation to
three paragraphs in the “complaint,” the opposition lacks any factually
supported dispute. The court therefore finds State Farm complied with all terms
of the contract for valuation and payment of the vehicle, rental car, and
storage fees with both vehicle repair facilities.
 
Plaintiff
may not rely on allegations in the operative, unverified “complaint” in order
to establish triable issues of material fact. (Committee to Save Beverly Highlands Homes Ass'n v. Beverly
Highlands Homes Ass'n (2001) 92 Cal.App.4th 1247, 1260 [“Notwithstanding the strict
construction given the moving party's evidence and the liberal construction
given to that of the opposing party, the opponent has the burden of showing
triable issues of material fact do exist; he or she may not rely on the pleadings”].)
The court otherwise finds no legal
support for any breach of the contract under any of the theories generally
cited cases without pinpoint citation for the majority of the cases, or
specific argument addressing the cases. (State Farm Fire & Casualty Co. v. Von Der Lieth (1991) 54 Cal.3d 1123; Pennsylvania General Ins. Co.
v. American Safety Indemnity Co. (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1515; Truck Ins. Exchange v. County of Los Angeles (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 13,
17; Campbell
v. Cal-Gard Sur. Services, Inc. (1998) 62
Cal.App.4th 563; Thompson
v. Cannon (1990)
224 Cal.App.3d 1413; Delos v. Farmers Group, Inc. (1979) 93 Cal.App.3d 642, 649.)
 
The
court therefore finds Plaintiff fails to establish a viable basis for breach of
contract, as alleged. 
 
2nd Cause of Action: Breach of Covenant of Good
Faith and Fair Dealing
Given the lack of a valid contract
claim, the court also finds an invalid cause of action for bad faith. (McMillin Scripps North
Partnership v. Royal Ins. Co. (1993) 19
Cal.App.4th 1215, 1222;  Careau & Co.
v. Security Pacific Business Credit, Inc. (1990)
222 Cal.App.3d 1371, 1395; Love v. Fire Ins. Exchange (1990)
221 Cal.App.3d 1136, 1153.)
 
The motion for summary judgment is GRANTED.
 
State Farm may submit a judgment to the court. The November
13, 2023, trial date is vacated.
 
Moving Defendant Fire to give
notice.
 
 