 Case Number:  24NWCV00022    Hearing Date:   May 14, 2024    Dept:  C Zhoie Perez vs Sandra Ngayan, et al.
Case No.: 24NWCV00022
Hearing Date: May 14, 2024 @ 9:30 AM
 
#7 
Tentative Ruling 
Plaintiff Zhoie Perez’s Motion to Compel
Responses to Request for Production of Documents is DENIED. 
Defendant to give notice. 
 
Background 
This action was filed on January 3, 2024 by Plaintiff Zhoie
Perez (“Plaintiff”) against Defendants Sandra Ngayan and Francisco Alejandro
Ngayan (“Defendants”). On March 13, 2024, a First Amended Complaint was filed
alleging causes of action for: (1) intentional infliction of emotional
distress; (2) negligence; (3) violations of the Ralph Civil Rights Act; (4)
violations of the Bane Civil Rights Act; (5) Violations of the Unruh Act; and
(6) false imprisonment. 
Plaintiff now files the instant motion to compel responses
to requests for production of documents. 
Legal Standard 
A party may make a demand for production of documents and
propound interrogatories without leave of court at any time 10 days after the
service of the summons on, or appearance by, the party to whom the demand is
directed, whichever occurs first. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.020, subd. (b); Code
Civ. Proc., § 2030.020, subd. (b).) 
If a party fails to timely respond to a request for
production or interrogatories, the party to whom the request is directed waives
any right to exercise the option to produce writings under Code Civ. Proc., §
2030.230, and waives any objection, including one based on privilege or on the
protection for work product. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (a); Code Civ.
Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (a).)  
The party who propounded the discovery request may bring a
motion to compel and the court shall impose a monetary sanction against any
party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to
compel a response to a demand for production of documents or interrogatories,
unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (c); Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2030.290, subd. (c).) 
Discussion 
Plaintiff, representing herself
pro per, avers that on January 5, 2024, Plaintiff served a Request for
Production of Documents on the Los Angeles County Sheriff Department Body
Camera Unit. (Perez Decl., ¶ 2; Exhibit A.) Plaintiff contends that in response
the unit stated it would not be releasing the items. 
In opposition, Defendant argues
that Plaintiff has presented no evidence that this was the position
adopted by the Sheriff’s Department. Moreover, Defendant argues Plaintiff
cannot compel the production of documents through a motion that was not served upon
the entity from which the documents are sought. 

The Court is persuaded that Plaintiff has brought the
motion against the wrong entity. Defendants are not representatives of the Los
Angeles County Sheriff’s Department. Even if the Court were to grant the
instant motion, it is likely that Defendant would be unable to produce the
documents sought. 
Accordingly, Plaintiff motion is DENIED.
Sanctions 
Legal Standard 
The party who propounded the discovery request may bring a
motion to compel and the court shall impose a monetary sanction against any
party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to
compel a response to a demand for production of documents or interrogatories,
unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (c); Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2030.290, subd. (c).)
Plaintiff’s
request for Sanctions
Plaintiff requests sanctions in the amount of $720.00 in
connection with the cost of filing this motion. 
The motion is denied and therefore the sanctions are moot.  However, the Court also notes that a party
litigating in propria person “may not be awarded monetary discovery sanctions
based on compensation for time and effort expended as a result of a misuse of
the discovery process.” (Argaman v. Ratan (1999) 73 Cal.App.4th 1173,
1180-1181.) 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s request for sanctions is DENIED. 
 