 Case Number:  24NWCV00604    Hearing Date:   May 14, 2024    Dept:  C Jebarah Investments Inc. vs Osamah Khaled
Case No.: 24NWCV00604
Hearing Date: May 14, 2024 @ 9:30 AM
 
#8 
Tentative Ruling
Counsel Rafat H. Abdeljaber’s
application to appear Pro Hac Vice on behalf of Defendant Osamah Khaled is
GRANTED.
Defendant to give notice. 
 
Background 
This is an unlawful detainer action brought by Plaintiff
Jebarah Investments Inc. (“Plaintiff”) against Defendant Osamah Khaled
(“Defendant”). 
Counsel Rafat H. Abdeljaber requests permission to appear
Pro Hac Vice on behalf of Defendant Osamah Khaled.
 
Analysis 
 
a.           
Notice 
 
Under
the Rules of Court, rule 9.40(c), an applicant seeking to appear pro hac
vice: 
 
must
file with the court a verified application together with proof of service by
mail in accordance with Code of Civil Procedure section 1013a of a copy of the
application and of the notice of hearing of the application on all parties who
have appeared in the cause and on the State Bar of California at its San
Francisco office. 
 
(Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 9.40(c).) 
 
Here,
Movants filed a proof of service indicating they served copies of their
application upon Plaintiff.  
Included
in
their application, Movants submit the Declaration of Ashley
N. Vernick who attests she served the State Bar of California by uploading
the pro hac vice application to its system. (Decl. Vernick Supp.
Pro Hac Vice Appl. ¶ 3; Exhibit B.) 
Because
Movants served all necessary parties, they have satisfied the rule for notice.
 
b.           
Application to Be
Admitted Pro Hac Vice 
 
An
attorney who is a member in good standing of the bar of another state, who has
been retained to appear in a particular cause pending before a court of this
state may, “in the discretion of such court” be permitted to appear as counsel pro
hac vice. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 9.40(a).) No person is eligible to
appear pro hac vice if the person is a California resident, regularly
employed in California, or regularly engaged in substantial business in
California. (Ibid.)  
 
The
attorney seeking to appear pro hac vice must then file an application
with the Court indicating: 
 
(1)
the applicant's residence and office address; 
(2)
the courts to which the applicant has been admitted to practice and the dates
of admission; 
(3)
that the applicant is a licensee in good standing in those courts; 
(4)
that the applicant is not currently suspended or disbarred in any court; 
(5)
the title of each court and cause in which the applicant has filed an
application to appear as counsel pro hac vice in this state in the
preceding two years, the date of each application, and whether or not it was
granted; and 
(6)
the name, address, and telephone number of the active licensee of the State Bar
of California who is attorney of record. 
 
(Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 9.40(d).) 
 
Lastly,
in addition to serving the application and notice of hearing on the State Bar
(as discussed above), the applicant must remit an application fee to the State
Bar. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 9.40(e).) 
 
According
to the Declaration of Rafat H. Abdeljaber in Support of Pro Hac Vice
Application, Rafat
H. Abdeljaber is an attorney in good standing of the
bar of the State of Arizona. (Decl. Abdeljaber Supp. Pro Hac Vice Appl. ¶ 1.)
He has been retained by Movants to represent them in this matter. He attests
that he resides in Arizona; therefore, he is not a resident of California; nor
is she regularly employed in California or regularly engaged in substantial
business here. (Id., ¶ 1.) 
 
Additionally,
Abdeljaber
correctly provided his residence and office addresses, the courts he is
admitted to practice before, the dates of these admissions, and a promise that
he is in good standing of all those courts. (Decl. Abdeljaber Supp. Pro Hac
Vice Appl. ¶ 1.) He states he is not currently suspended or disbarred in any
court and has not filed any pro hac vice applications in the last two years. (Id.,
¶¶ 2, 3.) He provided the name, address, and telephone number of the active
licensee of the State Bar of California who is the attorney of record (Ashley
Vernick, Stevem J. Goon, and Joelle Leib). (Id., ¶ 3). 
 
Finally,
in Exhibit B attached to the Declaration of Ashley N. Vernick,
Vernick shows the $50 fee has been paid to the State Bar of California. (Decl.
Vernick Supp. Pro Hac Vice Appl., Exhibit B.) 
 
Accordingly,
Rafat H. Abdeljaber is eligible for admission pro hac vice, and the
application contains all the requisite components.