 Case Number:  23NWCV02864    Hearing Date:   May 14, 2024    Dept:  C ODK Capital, LLC vs Sergio Salup
Case No.: 23NWCV02864
Hearing Date: May 14, 2024 @ 9:30 AM 
 
#5
Tentative Ruling 
Plaintiff ODK Capital, LLC’s motion to deem
Request for Admissions admitted is GRANTED.
Plaintiff to give notice. 
 
Background 
This is a breach of contract action. 
Plaintiff ODK Capital, LLC (“Plaintiff”) brought this
action against Defendant Sergio Salup (“Defendant”) relating to a Business Line
of Credit Agreement.  Plaintiff alleges Defendant
owes $44,839.88 under the agreement.  
On January 8, 2024, Plaintiff served Defendant with Request
for Admissions, Set One. Counsel for Plaintiff contends that Defendant has not
responded to the Request for Admissions. 
As of May 10, 2024, this motion is unopposed. 
Legal Standard
Where there has been no timely response to requests for
admissions, a “requesting party may move for an order that the genuineness of
any documents and the truth of any matters specified in the requests be deemed
admitted, as well as for a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with
section 2023.010).”  The court “shall”
grant the motion to deem requests for admission admitted “unless it finds that
the party to whom the requests for admission have been directed has served,
before the hearing on the motion, a proposed response to the requests for
admission that is in substantial compliance with Section 2033.220.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280(c).)
Discussion 
Plaintiff moves to deem its Request for Admissions admitted
as to Defendant.  
Plaintiff is entitled to an order deeming its Request for
Admissions admitted. Plaintiff supports its claims with a declaration from
Counsel. On January 8, 2024, Plaintiff served Defendant with Request for
Admissions, Set One. (Hoar Decl., Ex. A.) Counsel contends that at this
juncture, Defendant has not produced any responses.  
Because Defendant has not sent verified responses to
Plaintiff’s Request for Admissions, Plaintiff’s motion is granted. The
genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in
Plaintiff’s motion is admitted.   
Sanctions with respect to motions to deem requests for
admissions admitted are mandatory if a party to whom the requests for
admissions have been directed failed to serve a timely response to the request
for admission. (Code Civ. Proc., §2033.280(c).) Here, sanctions are mandatory
because Defendant failed to serve timely responses to Plaintiff’s RFAs.  However, Plaintiff does not request sanctions.  Accordingly, the Court declines to award
sanctions. 
 