 Case Number:  23NWCV03519    Hearing Date:   May 14, 2024    Dept:  C Abner Hinojos vs Omar Deniz
Case No.: 23NWCV03519
Hearing Date: May 14, 2024 @ 10:30 AM 
 
#11 
Tentative Ruling 
Defendant Omar Deniz’s Demurrer to the
Complaint is OVERRULED. 
Plaintiff to give notice. 
 
Defendant Omar Deniz Demurs to the Complaint on the grounds
that the Complaint fails to state a cause of action for Unlawful Detainer and
the Complaint is vague and ambiguous. 
Background
This is an unlawful detainer action filed on October 31,
2023 by Plaintiff Abner Hinojos (“Plaintiff”) against Defendant Omar Deniz dba
JS Auto Body (“Defendant”) for unpaid rents totaling $30,000.00 and holdover
damages of $240 per day starting September 15, 2023.  
As of May 13, 2024, this motion is unopposed. 
Legal Standard 
The party against whom a complaint has been filed may
object to the pleading, by demurrer, on several grounds, including the ground
that the pleading does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action. (CCP § 430.10(e).) A party may demur to an entire complaint, or to any
causes of action stated therein. (CCP § 430.50(a).)
Discussion 
“When the tenant continues in possession, in person or by
subtenant, without the permission of the landlord, or the successor in estate
of the landlord, if applicable, after default in the payment of rent, pursuant
to the lease or agreement under which the property is held, and three days'
notice, excluding Saturdays and Sundays and other judicial holidays, in
writing, requiring its payment, stating the amount that is due, the name,
telephone number, and address of the person to whom the rent payment shall be
made, and, if payment may be made personally, the usual days and hours that
person will be available to receive the payment (provided that, if the address
does not allow for personal delivery, then it shall be conclusively presumed
that upon the mailing of any rent or notice to the owner by the tenant to the
name and address provided, the notice or rent is deemed received by the owner
on the date posted, if the tenant can show proof of mailing to the name and
address provided by the owner), or the number of an account in a financial
institution into which the rental payment may be made, and the name and street
address of the institution (provided that the institution is located within
five miles of the rental property), or if an electronic funds transfer
procedure has been previously established, that payment may be made pursuant to
that procedure, or possession of the property, shall have been served upon the
tenant and if there is a subtenant in actual occupation of the premises, also
upon the subtenant.” (CCP § 1162(2).)
Here, Defendant argues “the service of a five-day notice to
pay rent or quit is premature because the tenant was not in default under the
terms of the lease when it was served on him.” (Demurrer, p. 4:21-23.)  
The lease agreement states in relevant part: 
“Tenant shall be in default of
this lease if Tenant fails to fulfill any lease obligation or term by which
Tenant is bound. Subject to any governing provisions of the law to the
contrary, if Tenant fails to cure any financial obligations within five days {or
any other obligation within 10 days} after written notice of such default is
provided by Landlord to Tenant, Landlord may take possession of the premises
without further notice (to the extent permitted by law), and without
prejudicing Landlord's rights to damages.”
Paragraph 6(a) of the Complaint alleges that the parties
agreed to a one-year lease whereby Defendant agreed to pay monthly rent in the
amount of $7,200.00.  Paragraph 9(a)(7)
alleges that Defendant was served a Five-Day Notice to Pay Rent or Quit.  Paragraph 9(b) alleges that the five-day
period in the notice expired on October 13, 2023.  Paragraph 12 alleges that at the time the
five-day notice to pay rent or quit was served, the amount of rent due was
$30,000.00.  Therefore, the Complaint
adequately alleges that Defendant was in default when the Notice was
served.  
Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer is OVERRULED.  