  Case Number:  19STCV08154    Hearing Date:   November 9, 2023    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




roger manlin

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
steve milner

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


19STCV08154




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


November
   9, 2023




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
motion to be relieved as counsel for
  plaintiff
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                Keith J. Moten
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Unopposed
Motion to be Relieved as Counsel for Plaintiff
The court
considered the moving papers filed in connection with this motion.  No opposition papers were filed.
DISCUSSION
Keith J. Moten (“Plaintiff’s Counsel”) moves to be relieved as counsel
for plaintiff Scott Manlin, Administrator of the Estate of Roger Manlin
(“Plaintiff”).
“The
question of granting or denying an application of an attorney to withdraw as
counsel (Code Civ. Proc., § 284, subd. 2) is one which lies within the sound
discretion of the trial court ‘having in mind whether such withdrawal might
work an injustice in the handling of the case.’”¿ (People v. Prince
(1968) 268 Cal.App.2d 398, 406 [internal quotations omitted].)¿ The court
should also consider whether the attorney’s “withdrawal can be accomplished
without undue prejudice to the client’s interests.”¿ (Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994)
21 Cal.App.4th 904, 915.)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
For
a motion to be relieved as counsel under Code of Civil Procedure section 284,
subdivision (2), California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362 requires (1) a notice
of motion and motion directed to the client (made on the Notice of Motion and
Motion to be Relieved as Counsel -- Civil form (MC-051)); (2) a declaration
stating in general terms and without compromising the confidentiality of the
attorney-client relationship why a motion under Code of Civil Procedure section
284, subdivision (2) is brought instead of filing a consent under Code of Civil
Procedure section 284, subdivision (1) (made on the Declaration in Support of
Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel -- Civil form (MC-052)); (3)
service of the notice of motion and motion, declaration, and proposed order on
the client and on all other parties who have appeared in the case; and (4) the
proposed order relieving counsel (prepared on the Order Granting Attorney’s
Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel -- Civil form (MC-053)).¿
The court
finds that Plaintiff’s Counsel has served Plaintiff with the moving papers (1) by
mail at Plaintiff’s last known address, which Plaintiff’s Counsel has confirmed
within the past 30 days is current, and (2) by email.  (MC-052, ¶¶ 3, subds. (a)(2), (b)(1)(d),
7.)  The court also finds that
Plaintiff’s Counsel has shown sufficient reasons why the motion should be granted, and
why counsel has brought the motion under Code of Civil Procedure section 284,
subdivision (2) instead of filing a consent under section 284, subdivision
(1).  (MC-052, ¶ 2.) 
The court
therefore grants Plaintiff’s Counsel’s motion to be relieved as counsel for
Plaintiff. 
Keith J. Moten will be relieved as counsel of record for plaintiff
Scott Manlin, Administrator of the Estate of Roger Manlin, effective upon the
filing of the proof of service of the signed “Order Granting Attorney’s Motion
to be Relieved as Counsel – Civil” on the client. 
 
 
 
 
The court orders Keith J. Moten to give notice of this ruling and the
“Order Granting Attorney’s Motion to be Relieved as Counsel – Civil” to
plaintiff Scott Manlin, Administrator of the Estate of Roger Manlin, and to all
other parties who have appeared in this action. 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  November 9, 2023
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court