  Case Number:  22STCV07432    Hearing Date:   August 16, 2024    Dept:  49 Vitoli Builders, Inc. v. Jonathan Goldhammer, et al.(1) PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL REBECCA ANN BUCK’S COMPLIANCE WITH SUBPOENA;(2) PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL ITSHAK SANANES AKA ISAAC SANANES’ COMPLIANCE WITH SUBPOENA MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff Vitoli BuildersRESPONDING PARTY(S): Non-party Itshak SananesSTATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: Plaintiff Vitoli Builders, Inc., is a Los Angeles based company providing landscaping and related services to high-net-worth customers. Through the course of business, Plaintiff alleges it maintained “customized invoices” and “customized contracts” as an advantage over its competitors. Plaintiff alleges two of its former employees, Defendants Jonathan Goldhammer and Itay Zeltser—along with Goldhammer’s wife, Moran Vaknin—stole Plaintiff’s trade secrets to use in a competing business, Defendant Sequoia Pools and Masonry, Inc.Defendant Goldhammer has filed a cross-complaint against Vitoli Builders and its sole shareholder, Reuven Nathaniel Litman. Cross-complainant alleges that he is a 50% owner of Vitoli Builders, Inc., and that Cross-Defendants have committed breach contract, and breach of fiduciary duties, among other things, by terminating him from the company.Plaintiff now moves to compel the depositions of non-parties Rebecca Ann Buck and Itshak Sananes. Non-party Shananes filed an opposition. Non-party Buck has not filed an opposition. TENTATIVE RULING:Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel the Deposition of Rebecca Ann Buck is DENIED.Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel the Deposition of Itshak Sananes is DENIED. DISCUSSION:Motion to Compel Deposition of Itshak SananesPlaintiff moves to compel the deposition of non-party Itshak Sananes. Plaintiff represents that it noticed Sananes’ deposition for May 13, 2024, but that Sananes failed to appear or produce any documents. (See Mateescu Decl., Exh. A [“Deposition Subpoena”].)“When a subpoenaed nonparty fails to appear for a deposition or produce documents that were properly requested, the party who subpoenaed the witness may move to compel compliance with the subpoena.” (Sears, Roebuck & Co. v. Nat'l Union Fire Ins. Co. of Pittsburgh (2005) 131 Cal. App. 4th 1342, 1351.)In opposition, Sananes argues the motion must be denied because Plaintiff failed to personally serve the motion. Plaintiff served the motion on Sananes by mail and email on July 18, 2024. (See Proof of Service.)Under Rule of Court Rule 3.1346, “[a] written notice and all moving papers supporting a motion to compel an answer to a deposition question or to compel production of a document or tangible thing from a nonparty deponent must be personally served on the nonparty deponent unless the nonparty deponent agrees to accept service by mail or electronic service at an address or electronic service address specified on the deposition record.” (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1346 [emphasis added].)In reply, Plaintiff contends that Rule 3.1346 applies only where a party fails to answer questions at a deposition, but not where the party fails to appear at all. The court disagrees with that position. Where, as here, the nonparty does not appear, the motion is plainly one to “compel an answer to a deposition question or to compel production of a document.” (Rule 1.1346.) The court therefore concludes the motion needed to be personally served on Sananes.Plaintiff then argues that Sananes waived any personal service requirement by filing an opposition to the motion and failing to demonstrate prejudice. In support, it relies on Carlton v. Quint (2000) 77 Cal. App. 4th 690, 696, where the party opposing a motion for summary judgment contended the proof of service was inadequate because “it did not reveal on whom, where, and when the summary judgment documents were served,” and because he claimed “he was out of California on” the date of service. The trial court rejected those arguments. On appeal, the Court affirmed, concluding Carlton waived the service requirements when he “filed an opposition to the motion for summary judgment eight days before the hearing,” “appeared and argued at the summary judgment hearing,” and “[a]t no time did he request a continuance of the summary judgment hearing or contend he was prejudiced by inadequate notice or service.” (Id. at 697.)Carlton, however, did not involve the lack of completed (or attempted) personal service where it is plainly required by the Rules of Court. In other words, the issue was the propriety of service, not the manner of service. Thus where, as here, the Rules require the motion to compel be served by personal service, the court concludes the failure to do so requires denial of the motion.  Even assuming that the service requirements were waived, the motion fails for a more compelling reason. As Salanes notes, a motion compelling an answer or production from a deponent “shall be made no later than 60 days after the completion of the record of the deposition.” (CCP 2025.480(b).) The deposition record is “complete” as of the “date specified for production” or the date objections are served. (Board of Registered Nursing v. Sup.Ct. (2021) 59 Cal. App. 5th 1011, 1032-1033.)Here, the deposition and production were scheduled for May 13, 2024. (Mateescu Decl., Exh. A.) This means the deposition record was “complete” as of that date. Plaintiff did not file this motion until July 18, 2024, which is more than 60-days later. For these reasons, the motion is procedurally defective.  This is a jurisdictional issue.  (Id., See also, Rutledge v. Hewlett-Packard Co. (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 1164, 1192. Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel is DENIED.Motion to Compel Deposition of Rebecca Ann BuckPlaintiff also moves to compel the deposition of Rebecca Ann Buck. Plaintiff set Buck’s deposition for May 17, 2024. (Mateescu Decl., Exh. A.) Buck did not appear. Plaintiff then filed this motion, with service occurring on Buck’s counsel by email. (See Proof of Service.)Again, based on the failure to personally serve Buck within 60-days of the scheduled deposition, the motion must be denied, as this Court lacks the required jurisdiction to hear this motion, other than to deny it.  (Id.)Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel is DENIED.IT IS SO ORDERED.Dated:   August 16, 2024 ___________________________________ Randolph M. Hammock Judge of the Superior Court Any party may submit on the tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept49@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day before the hearing.  All interested parties must be copied on the email.  It should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.