  Case Number:  23STCV15838    Hearing Date:   August 12, 2024    Dept:  73 8/12/2024 
Dept. 73 
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding 
 
SUAREZ, et al. v. CDJR OF WEST COVINA, et al. (23STCV15838) 
 
Counsel for
Plaintiffs/moving party:  Shahane Martirosyan (Stephan Filip PC) 
Counsel for
Defendants/opposing party:  Debra Meppen (Gordon Rees Scully Mansukhani,
LLP) 
 
PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION TO AMEND COMPLAINT AND ADD CLASS
ACTION ALLEGATIONS (filed 05/28/2024) 
 
TENTATIVE RULING 
 
Plaintiffs’ Motion to Amend the
Complaint and Add Class Action Allegations is GRANTED. Plaintiffs must file and
serve the proposed First Amended Complaint within 10 days of the date of this
order. 
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On July 7, 2023,
Plaintiffs Fidel Suarez, Alvin Neal, Miguel Lopez, Mahali Cardoza, Christy
Aguilar, Abran Esparza, Reyes Romo, Eric Ruiz and Eloy Hernandez filed the
instant action against Defendants CDJR of West Covina, Envision
WC CDRJ Auto, LLC, Envision Motors Holdings, LLC, Envision Motors Management,
LLC, Envision Motors Investments, LLC, Frank Zarabi and Ayman Sarriendine. 
 
The Complaint
alleges that Plaintiffs were employed by Defendants and that Defendants failed
to compensate Plaintiffs for all hours worked. Plaintiffs
allege the following causes of action:
1.     
Failure to pay overtime wages;
2.     
Minimum wage violations;
3.     
Unpaid meal periods;
4.     
Unpaid rest periods;
5.     
Violation of Labor Code section 226;
6.     
Violation of Labor Code section 203; 
7.     
Unfair business practices;
8.     
Failure to timely provide personnel records;
9.     
Failure to timely provide payroll records;
10. 
Failure to reimburse necessary business expenses;
11. 
Discrimination based on age;
12. 
Failure to investigate harassment in violation of
California Government Code section 12940(J); 
13.  Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress.
 
On
May 28, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a Motion to amend Complaint, arguing:
·       Plaintiffs request
the Court to grant them leave to amend the current pleading to add causes of
actions on behalf of all similarly situated employees.
o   The
proposed amendments allow for Plaintiffs to represent similarly situated
employees for the wage and hour causes of actions that are already alleged.
There are no substantive changes to the allegations, as in, there are no new
causes of actions.
·       The
Motion is timely as Plaintiffs are within the statute of limitations to file a
separate action raising class action allegations
·       Defendants
will not suffer any prejudice because they have not conducted any discovery
since appearing in this action in August 2023.
·       Lastly,
the trial date is set for March 24, 2025.
 
Defendants
Envision Motors Holdings LLC, Envision Motors Investments, LLC, Envision WC
CDRJ Auto, LLC, Envision Motors Management, LLC, Frank Zarabi and Ayman
Sarriendine (collectively “Defendants”) filed an opposition, arguing:
·       Plaintiffs’
Motion is futile because they are barred from bringing class actions after
having signed arbitration agreements with class action waivers
·       Plaintiffs’
proposed class action allegations are moot because they are subsumed by other,
earlier-filed class actions.
o   Plaintiffs’
belated amendment brings no benefit to any party but to prejudice Defendants
and increase the litigation costs.
·       Plaintiffs
waited nearly one year to amend their Complaint to add class allegations, but
offer no explanation as to the delay.
o   Plaintiffs’
amendments are too late and futile.
o   Moreover,
trial is scheduled for March 2025. Thus, even if Plaintiffs were able to
certify a class, it would not be before the start of the trial date.
 
Plaintiffs
filed a reply, arguing:
·       Defendants
never filed a Motion to Compel Arbitration in this action. Any argument that an
arbitration agreement is applicable herein is frivolous.
·       Plaintiffs’ class action allegations are not “completely
subsumed by Varela
v. Envision WC CDJR Auto LLC.” (Theriault Decl. ¶ 4.) This is
because Varela dismissed the class allegations on September 22, 2023. 
o   Thus, the proposed class allegations are fully intact,
proper, and necessary.
·       Further, Plaintiffs decided that a class action was
appropriate only after Defendants produced over 1000 pages of records to
Plaintiffs, which allowed Plaintiffs to determine that a class action was
appropriate. The produced records demonstrate that the wage and hour issues are
evident on the wage statements for all members of the potential class,
rendering this matter prime for a class action.
·       Nevertheless, even if there was delay, which there is not,
there is no prejudice to Defendants. 
 
II.
ANALYSIS
 
A.      Request for
Judicial Notice
 
Plaintiffs request the Court take judicial notice of the
following: The September 26, 2023, Stipulation and Order issued by Los Angeles
Superior Court Judge Lawrence P. Riff dismissing the class allegations in Varela
v. Envision WC CDJR Auto LLC.
 
The court may
take judicial notice of “official acts of the legislative, executive, and
judicial departments of the United States and of any state of the United
States,” “[r]ecords of (1) any court of this state or (2) any court of record
of the United States or of any state of the United States,” and “[f]acts and
propositions that are not reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of
immediate and accurate determination by resort to sources of reasonably
indisputable accuracy.” (Evid. Code § 452, subds. (c), (d), and (h).)
 
The
Court GRANTS Plaintiffs’ request for judicial notice. The Court notes that although it may take judicial notice of the
document, the document is only judicially noticeable to show its existence and
what orders were made. The facts and findings within the documents are not
judicially noticeable. (See Lockley v.
Law Office of Cantrell, Green, Pekich, Cruz & McCort (2001) 91
Cal.App.4th 875, 885.)
B.      Legal
Standard 
Code of Civil Procedure section 473(a)(1) provides, in
relevant part:  “The court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any
terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by
adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the
name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may, upon like terms,
enlarge the time for answer or demurrer.  The court may likewise, in its
discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just,
an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon
like terms allow an answer to be made after the time limited by this
code.” 
“This discretion should be exercised liberally in
favor of amendments, for judicial policy favors resolution of all disputed
matters in the same lawsuit.” (Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court
(1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1047.) Under CRC Rule 3.1324(a), a motion to amend
a pleading shall (1) include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended
pleading, which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from previous
pleadings or amendments; (2) state what allegations in the previous pleading
are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph and line
number, the deleted allegations are located; and (3) state what allegations are
proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page,
paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations are located. 
Under CRC Rule 3.1324(b), a separate declaration must
accompany the motion and must specify (1) the effect of the amendment; (2) why
the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts giving rise to the
amended allegations were discovered; and (4) the reasons why the request for
amendment was not made earlier. 
C.     
Discussion
 
Plaintiffs
move to amend the Complaint to add class action allegations. 
 
The Court
finds that Plaintiffs’ motion for leave to file the First Amended Complaint (“FAC”)
substantially complies with Rules 3.1324(a) and (b) of the California Rules of
Court. Plaintiffs included a copy of the proposed FAC, and have identified the
proposed allegations to be added. (Martirosyan Decl., Ex. A.) Plaintiffs also
provided a separate declaration specifying the effect of the amendments, why
they are necessary and proper, and the reasons why the request for amendment was
not made earlier. (Martirosyan Decl., ¶¶¿8-17.) Plaintiffs assert that the
parties engaged in informal discovery, which allowed Plaintiffs to determine that a class action was
appropriate. (Martirosyan Decl., ¶¿13.) Plaintiffs contend that the documents produced by Defendants demonstrated
that the alleged wage and hour issues are evident on the wage statements for
all members of the potential class, rendering this matter prime for a class
action. Plaintiffs also assert that the proposed amendments are timely as there
is no statute of limitations issues when the amendments are “based on the same
general set of facts pleaded in the [Complaint].” (Union Bank v. Wendland
(1976) 54 Cal.App. 3d 393, 400-401.) Here, Plaintiff’s FAC amends the causes of
action to add class allegations to the wage and hour claims, which are based on
the same set of facts, include same parties, and are concerning the exact same
issues.
 
The Court finds
Defendants’ arguments in opposition to the motion for leave to amend
unpersuasive. Defendants argue that seven of the nine Plaintiffs signed
arbitration agreements that specifically stated “[b]y signing this agreement, I
am agreeing to waive any substantive or procedural rights that I may have to
bring or participate in an action brought on a class or collective basis.” (Theriault
Decl., Exs. A-G.) However, Defendants did not move to compel this action to
arbitration and to exercise the alleged arbitration agreements. Instead,
Defendants requested a jury trial. (Martirosyan Decl. ¶ 11, Ex. D.) Further,
the Court does not find Plaintiffs’ amendments are too late or futile. As
discussed above, Plaintiffs’ proposed amendments are timely, and Plaintiffs explained
why the request for amendment was not made earlier. While Defendants argue that
Plaintiffs’ proposed class action allegations are futile
because they are subsumed by other, earlier-filed class actions, Plaintiffs assert
that the class allegations were actually dismissed in the earlier-filed class
action that Defendants are referring to. (Plaintiffs’ RJN, Ex. A.) Thus, Plaintiffs’
amendment will allow them to represent other similarly situated class members
and allow a larger number of employees to adjudicate their claims through one
lawsuit. Defendants also argue they will be prejudiced by delays in the
litigation proceedings. While the Court is sympathetic to the costs of
attorney’s fees and discovery, this is part and parcel with litigation and is
not unique to Defendants’ situation here. Virtually all lawsuits lead the
parties to incur attorney’s fees and costs. 
 
Based
on the foregoing and the judicial policy favoring amendment, the Court GRANTS
Plaintiffs’ motion for leave to file the First Amended Complaint. 
 
III. CONCLUSION 
 
Plaintiffs’ Motion to Amend the
Complaint and Add Class Action Allegations is GRANTED. Plaintiffs must file and
serve the proposed First Amended Complaint within 10 days of the date of this
order. 