  Case Number:  22TRCV00835    Hearing Date:   June 3, 2024    Dept:  P Motion to Direct Compliance with Subpoena to VA HospitalThe court considered the moving papers. No opposition was filed.RULINGDefendant’s motion to compel compliance with deposition subpoena is DENIED without prejudice.BACKGROUNDOn September 16, 2022, Plaintiff Stanley Matthews filed a complaint against Defendants Centinela Hospital Medical Center Auxiliary, Cedars Foot & Ankle Center, and Ashkan Soleymani, M.D., alleging causes of action for: (1) medical malpractice; and (2) negligent misrepresentation.This case arises out of the care and treatment provided by Dr. Soleymani to Plaintiff for an infection of his right big toe and part of his foot. Plaintiff contends that Dr. Soleymani performed a surgery claiming to have removed pieces of rotten bones out of Plaintiff’s right foot and that the surgery was successful. Plaintiff claims that he believed his foot still looked infected, so he visited another doctor, who performed an x-ray of Plaintiff’s right foot and concluded that his right big toe had to be amputated.On May 1, 2024, Defendant Cedars filed this motion to direct compliance with subpoena to VA Hospital. No opposition has been filed.LEGAL AUTHORITYA party seeking discovery from a person who is not a party to the action may obtain discovery by oral deposition, written deposition, or deposition subpoena for production of business records. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.010.) A deposition subpoena may command: (1) only the attendance and testimony of the deponent, (2) only the production of business records for copying, or (3) the attendance and testimony of the deponent, as well as the production of business records, other documents, electronically stored information, and tangible things. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.020.)Personal service of any deposition subpoena is effective to require a deponent who is a resident of California to: personally appear and testify, if the subpoena so specifies; to produce any specified documents; and to appear at a court session if the subpoena so specifies. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.220, subd. (c).) A deponent who disobeys a deposition subpoena may be punished for contempt without the necessity of a prior order of the court directing compliance by the witness. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.240.)A “written notice and all moving papers supporting a motion to compel an answer to a deposition question or to compel production of a document or tangible thing from a nonparty deponent must be personally served on the nonparty deponent unless the nonparty deponent agrees to accept service by mail or electronic service at an address or electronic service address specified on the deposition record.” (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1346.)California Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.1, subdivision (a) states, “[i]f a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the production of books, documents, or other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the court’s own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as maybe appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the person.”“[U]pon motion reasonably made by the party, judges may rule upon motions for quashing, modifying or compelling compliance with, subpoenas.” (Lee v. Swansboro Country Property Owners Ass'n (2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 575, 582-583.)DISCUSSIONOn February 8, 2024, Defendant Cedars served a subpoena to obtain medical records from the VA Hospital, where plaintiff had apparently received treatment. (Lender Decl., ¶ 1; Exh. A.) The VA Hospital has refused to comply with document subpoena, claiming that a signed authorization is required. (Id.) Plaintiff Stanley Matthews is deceased, and therefore, defense counsel cannot obtain a signed authorization. (Id., ¶ 2.)The motion is denied without prejudice on procedural grounds. First, the subpoena to a third party must be served by personal service. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.220, subd. (c).) The Court notes that the proof of service as to the VA Hospital in Exhibit 1 is incomplete. No other proof of service has been submitted. Although the VA Hospital has responded to the subpoena, there is another issue. California Rules of Court, rule 3.1346 requires a motion to compel compliance with a deposition subpoena to be personally served on the non-party whose compliance is sought, unless the non-party agrees to accept service by mail or electronically. (California Rule of Court, rule 3.1346.) Defendant has filed proof of service indicating that the VA Hospital was served with the motion by mail and email, not by personal service and no agreement to accept such service has been filed. As a result, the motion cannot be granted at this time. Any further motion should be accompanied with proof of personal service on the VA Hospital of both the motion and the subpoena.Defendant is ordered to give notice of ruling.