 Case Number:  24TRCV00255    Hearing Date:   June 3, 2024    Dept:  P Having considered defendants’ demurrer, plaintiff’s opposition, defendants’ reply, and the associated request for judicial notice, the court rules as follows: the Demurrer to the second, third, fourth and fifth causes of action is SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend.I. PROCEDURAL BACKGROUNDOn January 24, 2024, Plaintiff Lana Brown as personal representative of Estate of Grace Elaine Taylor Barnwell (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Defendants PLD Family Home Care, Inc., (“PLD”), Precious Lamoura Dennis (“Precious”), Louretta Sandra Dennis (“Louretta”)1 (collectively “Defendants”), and DOES 1 through 100, inclusive, alleging causes of action for: (1) Neglect Elder Abuse; (2) Financial Elder Abuse; (3) False Imprisonment; (4) Conspiracy to Commit Elder Abuse; and (5) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress.On May 1, 2024, Defendants filed a demurrer to the second, third, fourth, and fifth causes of action in the Complaint on the grounds that each of the challenged causes of action fail to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. Defendants also demur to such causes of action on the grounds that they are vague, ambiguous, and uncertain such as to render it a sham pleading.As to the third cause of action, Defendants argue that such cause of action is barred by the statute of limitations.On May 16, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition to the demurrer, to which Defendants replied on May 23, 2024.II. FACTUAL BACKGROUNDPlaintiff brings this action on behalf of Decedent Grace Elaine Taylor Barnwell (“Decedent”) who died on August 1, 2022. (Complaint, ¶ 4.) The Residential Care Facility for the Elderly (the “PLD”) admitted Decedent against her will in a period from 2019 to the time of her death on August 1, 2022. (Complaint, ¶ 12.) Plaintiff alleges that the RCFE is located at 139 West Ellis Ave., Inglewood, CA 90302, and was operated by Defendant PLD. (Complaint, ¶ 13.) Defendants Precious and Louretta were shareholders of Defendant PLD and directly and personally involved in facilitating the forced confinement of Decedent in their facility and provided services and care to Decedent and kept Decedent as a resident until she died at Defendant PLD three years later. (Complaint, ¶ 14.) Defendants forced Decedent to become a resident of Defendant PLD after a niece of Decedent, named Shavonne Hunter, conspired with Defendants to take Decedent as a resident against her will. (Complaint, ¶ 15.)Plaintiff alleges that Defendants callously and fraudulently allowed Ms. Hunter to sign all of their admission contracts knowing that Ms. Hunter did not have any legal authority to do so. (Complaint, ¶ 16.) Defendants had no medical documentation showing Decedent had been declared incapacitated or diagnosed with dementia yet they allowed someone without authority to sign their contacts so they could force Decedent to live in their 3-bedroom RCFE house. (Complaint, ¶¶ 17-18.) In violation of their own policies and procedures and standard of care for an RCFE under California law, Defendants allowed Ms. Hunter to sign and register Decedent on their admission of resident documents and financial agreements on behalf of Decedent, knowing that Ms. Hunter had no authority to do so. (Complaint, ¶ 19; Exh. A.) Plaintiff alleges that Decedent did not want to be there and wanted to return to her home and being forced into Defendant PLD and held against her will directly causes emotional distress. (Complaint, ¶ 20.)Plaintiff further alleges that Defendants conspired with Ms. Hunter to hold Decedent as a resident against her will and, further, in conspiracy with Ms. Hunter, Defendants refused to allow Kaiser Permanente’s ordered Home Health Care visits. (Complaint, ¶¶ 21-25.) Plaintiff alleges that refusing access is sordid and was done to keep Social Services away from Decedent, which would have discovered that Decedent did not want to be there, had regained capacity, and was aware she was being held against her will. (Complaint, ¶ 27.) Plaintiff alleges that during the next 20 days, after admitting Decedent against her will, she was held captive and traumatized as she was malnourished, not kept hydrated, and rapidly started to lose weight. (Complaint, ¶ 28.) Defendants refused to take Decedent in for medical intervention. (Complaint, ¶ 29.) Plaintiff then sets forth numerous health issues that Decedent began to experience, such as weeks of rectal bleeding, which Defendants initially refused to seek medical treatment for and then attempted to cover up upon taking Decedent to Kaiser Permanente. (Complaint, ¶¶ 30-33.) Decedent was admitted to Kaiser Permanente to undergo emergency blood transfusions, intravenous hydration and emergency surgery. (Complaint, ¶ 34.)Plaintiff then alleges medical issues that Defendants sought to cover up such as Decedent presenting with an ulcer and did not seek proper medical care until the wounds worsened. (Complaint, ¶¶ 37, 41-46.) Plaintiff alleges that Decedent’s health deteriorated and Defendants, due to their need to cover up their elder abuse, did not request hospice care for Decedent as her ulcer turned from Stage 3 to Stage 4, which led to her death. (Complaint, ¶ 47.) Decedent passed away shortly passed midnight at Defendant PLD On August 1, 2022. (Complaint, ¶¶ 51-52.) Plaintiff alleges that Defendants refused to take Decedent to the hospital and allowed her to suffer excessively until she died. (Complaint, ¶ 51.) Plaintiff alleges that one bedsore on Decedent’s coccyx reached Stage 4, which infected the bone, went into Decedent’s bloodstream, and, according to her doctor, contracted sepsis, and Decedent died. (Complaint, ¶ 54.)III. LEGAL STANDARDA party may demur to a complaint on the grounds that it “does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) A party may also demur to a complaint on the grounds that the complaint is uncertain. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f).) A demurrer tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) A special demurrer for uncertainty under Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (f) is disfavored and will only be sustained where the pleading is so bad that defendant or plaintiff cannot reasonably respond—i.e., cannot reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what counts or claims are directed against him or her. (Khoury v. Maly’s of Calif., Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)When considering demurrers, courts accept all well pleaded facts as true. (Fox v. JAMDAT Mobile, Inc. (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1068, 1078.) “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.” (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p. 747.)Although courts construe pleadings liberally, sufficient facts must be alleged to support the allegations pled to survive a demurrer. (Rakestraw v. California Physicians' Serv. (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 39, 43.) Where a demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.) The burden is on the party who filed the pleading subject to demurrer to show the court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Ibid.)IV. DISCUSSIONMoving Party’s ArgumentsDefendants contend that each cause of action in the Complaint fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action, the Complaint is uncertain, and the third cause of action is barred by the applicable statute of limitations.Responding Party’s OppositionPlaintiff contends the demurrer to each cause of action in the Complaint should be denied, and that if the Court is inclined to sustain the demurrer, leave to amend should be granted.Moving Party’s ReplyDefendants argue that the second, fourth, and fifth causes of action should be dismissed because they rely on upon facts inconsistent with Plaintiff’s previous complaints. Defendants contend that the Complaint fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action for financial elder abuse and intentional infliction of emotional distress. Defendants assert that the third cause of action for false imprisonment is time-barred.DISCUSSIONA. Meet and ConferBefore filing a demurrer, the demurring party is required to meet and confer “in person, by telephone, or by video conference with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to the demurrer for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be reached through a filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).)The Court finds that the meet and confer requirement has not been met as Defendants’ counsel only attempts to sending a meet and confer letter to Plaintiff’s counsel. (Hoban Decl., ¶¶ 3-5.) Defendants did not meet and confer in person, by telephone, or by video conference prior to filing the instant demurrer. The Court will still consider the merits of the demurrer; however, Defendants are reminded to comply with the requirements of the Code of Civil Procedure.B. Judicial NoticeThe Court GRANTS Defendants’ request for judicial notice pursuant to Evid. Code §§ 452 and 453.C. UncertaintyInitially, the Court will address the contention of Defendants that the Complaint is uncertain. A demurrer for uncertainty will “not be sustained if the allegations are sufficiently clear to apprise the defendant of the issues that must be met, even if the allegations of the complaint may not be as clear and detailed as might be desired.” (Bacon v. Wahrhaftig (1950) 97 Cal.App.2d 599, 606.) “A demurrer for uncertainty will not lie where the ambiguous facts alleged are presumptively within the knowledge of the demurring party.” (Ibid.)Here, the Court does not find that the Complaint is uncertain and therefore OVERRULES the demurrer of Defendants on the grounds of uncertainty. The Complaint differentiates between the parties and Defendants are therefore Defendants are apprised of the issues that they must meet.D. Second Cause of Action for Financial Elder AbuseFinancial abuse of an elder or dependent adult occurs when a person or entity does any of the following:(1) Takes, secretes, appropriates, obtains, or retains real or personal property of an elder or dependent adult for a wrongful use or with intent to defraud, or both.(2) Assists in taking, secreting, appropriating, obtaining, or retaining real or personal property of an elder or dependent adult for a wrongful use or with intent to defraud or both.(3) Takes, secretes, appropriates, obtains, or retains, or assists in taking, secreting, appropriating, obtaining, or retaining, real or personal property of an elder or dependent adult by undue influence, as defined in Section 15610.70.(Wel. & Inst. Code § 15610.30(a)(1)-(3).)A person or entity is “deemed to have taken, secreted, appropriated, obtained, or retained property for a wrongful use if, among other things, the person or entity takes, secretes, appropriates, obtains, or retains the property and the person or entity knew or should have known that this conduct is likely to be harmful to the elder or dependent adult.” (Wel. & Inst. Code § 15610.30, subd. (b).) Statutory causes of action must be alleged with particularity. (Carter v. Prime Healthcare Paradise Valley LLC (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 396, 410.) “[U]nder subdivision (b) of [Section] 15610.30, wrongful conduct occurs only when the party who violates the contract actually knows that it is engaging in a harmful breach, or reasonably should be aware of the harmful breach.” (Paslay v. State Farm General Ins. Co. (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 639, 658.)Pursuant to the second cause of action, Plaintiff alleges that Defendants entered into an agreement with Ms. Hunter, the Decedent’s niece, to receive money from Decedent’s bank account. (Complaint, ¶ 94.) Plaintiff alleges that Defendants allowed Ms. Hunter, without authority, to sign and enter into a financial contract for Decedent, though no actual power of attorney document or conservator documents existed and allowed Defendant PLD to require Decedent to pay for any services or residency. (Complaint, ¶ 95.) Defendants had no one authorized to sign an agreement that allowed them to charge $100.00 a day in late fees. (Complaint, ¶ 96.)The Court finds that the second cause of action is insufficiently alleged. Plaintiff does not allege that Defendants knew they were engaging in a harmful breach or should have known that they were engaging in a harmful breach. Moreover, Plaintiff has failed to allege particular facts establishing that Defendants took the money (that plaintiff concedes was used to pay for Decedent’s residence and care) wrongfully or with an intent to defraud.The Court therefore SUSTAINS the demurrer to the second cause of action in the Complaint with 20 days leave to amend.E. Third Cause of Action for False ImprisonmentA cause of action for false imprisonment is subject to a one year statute of limitations. (Code Civ. Proc., § 340, subd. (c).) “Generally speaking, a cause of action accrues at the time when the cause of action is complete with all of its elements.” (Fox v. Ethicon Endo-Surgery, Inc. (2005) 35 Cal.4th 797, 806.) “An important exception to the general rule of accrual is the discovery rule, which postpones accrual of a cause of action until the plaintiff discovers, or has reason to discover, the cause of action.” (Id. at p. 807.) “A plaintiff has reason to discover a cause of actionwhen he or she has reason at least to suspect a factual basis for its elements.” (Ibid.) “[S]uspicion of one or more of the elements of a cause of action, coupled with knowledge of any remaining elements, will generally trigger the statute of limitations period.” (Ibid.) “The discovery rule only delays accrual until the plaintiff has, or should have, inquiry notice of the cause of action.” (Ibid.) “In order to rely on the discovery rule for delayed accrual of a cause of action, [a] plaintiff whose complaint shows on its face that his claim would be barred without the benefit of the discovery rule must specifically plead facts to show (1) the time and manner of discovery and (2) the inability to have made earlier discovery despite reasonable diligence.” (Id. at p. 808.) “In assessing the sufficiency of the allegations of delayed discovery, the court places the burden on the plaintiff to show diligence; conclusory allegations will not [suffice].” (Ibid.)The Court finds that the third cause of action alleges that Decedent was falsely imprisoned by Defendants from June 28, 2019 until here death on August 1, 2022. (Complaint, ¶ 106.) Here, the Complaint does not indicate any facts showing the time and manner of discovery or reasonable diligence in order to invoke the delayed discovery rule. The Complaint was not filed until January 24, 2024, which is outside of the one-year statute of limitations. The false imprisonment cause of action must have been brought no later than August 1, 2023. Plaintiff has failed to allege when she discovered Decedent’s purportedly false imprisonment and does not make any showing of reasonable diligence.The Court therefore SUSTAINS Defendants’ demurrer to the third cause of action.Because Plaintiff asserts that facts may be alleged to show that the statute of limitations was tolled, the court grants leave to amend within 20 days.F. Fourth Cause of Action for Conspiracy to Commit Elder Abuse“Civil conspiracy is not an independent tort. Instead, it is a legal doctrine that imposes liability on persons who, although not actually committing a tort themselves, share with the immediate tortfeasors a common plan or design in its perpetration.” (City of Industry v. City of Fillmore (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 191, 211-212, quotation marks omitted.) “The elements of a civil conspiracy are (1) the formation of a group of two or more persons who agreed to a common plan or design to commit a tortious act; (2) a wrongful act committed pursuant to the agreement; and (3) resulting damages.” (Id. at p. 212.)The fourth cause of action in the Complaint is for conspiracy to commit elder abuse. However, civil conspiracy is not an independent tort. Instead, civil conspiracy is a legal doctrine concerned with the imposition of liability. Thus, the fourth cause of action is not an independent cause of action and merely states a mechanism to impose liability for the elder abuse causes of action onto each of the defendants.As such, the Court SUSTAINS the demurrer of Defendants to the fourth cause of action in the Complaint WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND as conspiracy is not an independent cause of action.G. Fifth Cause of Action for Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress“The elements of a prima facie case for the tort of intentional infliction of emotional distress are: (1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate causation of the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous conduct. Conduct to be outrageous must be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community.” (Wilson v. Hynek (2012) 207 Cal.App.4th 999, 1009, citation and ellipses omitted.)As evidence of the intentional infliction of emotional distress, plaintiff asserts: “Mrs. Barnwell did not want to be [at PLD] and wanted to return home. Being forced into PLD and held against her will directly causes emotional distress.” (Complaint ¶ 20.) Thereafter, Plaintiff alleges a series of failures to provide appropriate medical care to Mrs. Barnwell. Finally, Plaintiff asserts that “Defendants…owed a duty to Mrs. Barnwell to act as reasonable, prudent persons” and that they “refus[ed] to seek medical intervention on many occasions and even refusing (sic) treatment were intentional and extremely grossly reckless and was known (sic) that refusing to allow her medical treatment would also cause her emotional distress.” (Complaint ¶¶ 127, 131.) The Court finds that the fifth cause of action in the Complaint is insufficiently alleged. Although Plaintiff has alleged that Decedent suffered “severe mental anguish and emotional and physical distress” there is no way to determine which intentional acts form the basis for this cause of action sufficient to show causation. (Complaint, ¶ 133.)The Court therefore SUSTAINS the demurrer of Defendants to the fifth cause of action in the Complaint with 20 days leave to amend.H. Sham PleadingDefendants argue that the second, fourth, and fifth causes of action should be dismissed because they rely on facts inconsistent with Plaintiff’s previously filed complaints in other actions. Because the court has sustained the demurrer as to each of the contested causes of action, the court declines to determine whether the factual assertions in this complaint are undermined by the factual assertions in the judicially noticed complaints.CONCLUSIONBased on the foregoing, the Court SUSTAINS the demurrer of Defendants to the second, third, and fifth causes of action with 20 days leave to amend. The Court SUSTAINS the demurrer of Defendants to the fourth cause of action in the Complaint without leave to amend.