  Case Number:  24STCV16071    Hearing Date:   January 21, 2025    Dept:  78  Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles Department 78 ¿ ALEXIS MAXWELL, Plaintiff(s), vs. 650 S SPRING OWNER LLC, et al., Defendant(s). Case No.: 24STCV16071 Hearing Date: January 21, 2025   [TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING (1) MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO INITIAL DISCOVERY AND (2) MOTION TO DEEM ADMITTED REQUESTS FOR ADMISSION   I. BACKGROUND On June 27, 2024, plaintiff Alexis Maxwell (“Plaintiff”) initiated this action against defendants 650 S Spring Owner LLC, SBDTLA 1 LLC, SBDTLA 2 LLC, SBDTLA 3 LLC, SBDTLA 4 LLC and Does 1 through 10. On August 8, 2024, Plaintiff served set one of form interrogatories, special interrogatories, request for production of documents (“RPDs”), and requests for admission (“RFAs”) on counsel for defendant 650 S Spring Owner LLC (“Defendant”). Plaintiff argues service on Defendant’s counsel was made pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure (“CCP”)  §§ 1010.6(a)(2), (4), (5) and 1010.6(e), and that responses were due on or before September 13, 2024. (Oronsaye Decl. ¶¶ 2-3.) On October 1, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant motions. Plaintiff seeks an order compelling Defendant to respond, without objections, to the outstanding discovery and pay sanctions. In addition, Plaintiff seeks to deem RFAs, set one, admitted against Defendant. In opposition, Defendant argues that the discovery requests were improperly served on Defendant’s counsel David Bernardoni (“Mr. Bernardoni”) prior to Mr. Bernardoni appearing on behalf of Defendant. Defendant contends it informed Plaintiff’s counsel that the discovery requests should be served on Defendant’s agent for service of process, but that Plaintiff refused. Defendant contends that Mr. Bernardoni’s August 7, 2024 email to Plaintiff’s counsel informing him of Defendant’s representation was not a ”notice of appearance” or that Mr. Bernardoni was authorized to accept service on behalf of Defendant at the time. In reply, Plaintiff argues that service was proper and that Defendant’s counsel’s August 7, 2024 email stating that his firm representing Defendant in the matter constitutes an appearance.  II. DISCUSSION Plaintiff cites CCP §§ 1010.6(a)(2), (4), (5) and 1010.6(e) in the moving papers.1 In short, these statutes are not relevant to the issue of whether service on Defendant’s counsel was proper.  It is undisputed that a plaintiff may propound interrogatories to a party without leave of court at any time that is 10 days after the service of the summons on, or appearance by, that party, whichever occurs first. (CCP §§ 2030.020(b), 2031.020(b), CCP 2033.020(b).) Here, Defendant was served with the summons on July 15, 2024, and Plaintiff served on Defendant’s counsel Mr. Bernardoni the written discovery on August 8, 2024, prior to any court appearance by Mr. Bernardoni. The issue disputed by the parties is the narrow issue of whether service on Mr. Bernardoni on behalf of Defendant was proper. Section 1014 of the CCP states that “[a] defendant appears in an action when the defendant answers, demurs, files [certain notices of motion or motion], gives the plaintiff written notice of appearance, or when an attorney gives notice of appearance for the defendant.”  (Ibid.) This list is not exclusive, however: Instead: “A general appearance is not necessarily a formal, technical step or act. The term is applied to various acts which, under established principles of procedure, are deemed to confer jurisdiction of the person. The underlying theory is that a defendant makes a general appearance when he takes any part in the action or proceeding, ...” ([Citation omitted]; emphasis in original.) “A ‘general appearance’ must be express or arise by implication from the defendant's seeking, taking, or agreeing to some step or proceeding in the cause beneficial to himself or detrimental to the plaintiff, other than one contesting the jurisdiction only.” [Citations omitted] It will be established where a party in some manner recognizes “the authority of the court to proceed in the action [Citation omitted]; or “takes any ... step which is part of the regular proceeding in the case ... upon the hypothesis only that the court had jurisdiction of his person” [Citation omitted]. “An act of a defendant ... which may reasonably be construed to imply that the court has, in [the] action, acquired jurisdiction of the person of the defendant, will be equivalent to an appearance, ...” [Citation omitted]. And: “As a rule one cannot avail himself of the advantage of being a party and escape the responsibilities.” [Citation omitted]. And if a party participates in any matter “which itself would be a regular proceeding in the case, it is a general appearance regardless of how adroitly, carefully or directly the appearance may be denominated or characterized as special.” [Citations omitted].”  (Creed v. Schultz (1983) 148 Cal. App. 3d 733, 739–40.) Plaintiff focuses on the language “gives the plaintiff written notice of appearance” of section 1014 to argue that Mr. Bernardoni informing Plaintiff’s counsel, via e-mail, that he is representing Defendant constitutes an “appearance.” The Court disagrees. “[A] ‘written notice of appearance’ mentioned in the code section ‘is a document to be drawn up especially for that purpose.’” (Russell v. Landau (1954) 127 Cal. App. 2d 682, 698.) This interpretation aligns with the principles outlined in the parties’ cited authority. “A general appearance occurs where a party, either directly or through counsel, participates in an action in some manner which recognizes the authority of the court to proceed. It does not require any formal or technical act.” (Mansour v. Superior Ct. (1995) 38 Cal. App. 4th 1750, 1756.) Mansour provides some case examples of factual situations that are considered an “appearance”: Creed v. Schultz (1983) 148 Cal. App. 3d 733, 738 [attorney issued deposition subpoenas to two doctors; by initiating discovery unrelated to the issue of jurisdiction, she made a general appearance]; Sanchez v. Superior Ct. (1988) 203 Cal. App. 3d 1391, 1395 [defendants' counsel appeared at plaintiff-initiated depositions, but made no representation regarding their appearance; no general appearance]; Botsford v. Pascoe (1979) 94 Cal.App.3d 62, 69 [counsel for parties named as doe defendants in complaint who were also sued in a related cross-complaint initiated discovery identifying themselves only as attorneys for cross-defendants; no general appearance].)  The Court thus finds that an email by Mr. Bernardoni that merely informs Plaintiff of his representation of Defendant is not an “appearance” within the meaning of CCP section 1014. An introductory email and any informal meet and confer efforts thereafter are neither actions that “in some manner recognizes the authority of the court to proceed” (Hamilton v. Asbestos Corp. (2000) 22 Cal. 4th 1127, 1147, citing Sanchez v. Superior Court (1988) 203 Cal.App.3d 1391, 1397), nor is it “ “[a] general appearance by a party [that] is equivalent to personal service of summons on such party.” ” (Code Civ. Proc., § 410.50, subd. (a).)” (Ibid.) Pursuant to CCP §1010.6(b)(2), “[a] person represented by counsel, who has appeared in an action or proceeding, shall accept electronic service of a notice or document that may be served by mail, express mail, overnight delivery, or facsimile transmission.” Because there was no “appearance” preceding electronic service of the discovery responses, Mr. Bernardoni was not mandated to accept service on behalf of Defendant at the time the discovery was served on him.  III. CONCLUSION Plaintiff’s motions to compel responses to initial discovery, motion to deem RFAs admitted, and requests for monetary sanctions are DENIED. Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions is also denied.  Moving Party is ordered to give notice.  [Footnote 1] These sections state as follows. “If a document is required to be served by certified or registered mail, electronic service of the document is not authorized.” (CCP §1010.6(a)(2).) “Any document that is served electronically between 12:00 a.m. and 11:59:59 p.m. on a court day shall be deemed served on that court day. Any document that is served electronically on a noncourt day shall be deemed served on the next court day.” (CCP §1010.6(a)(4).) “Confidential or sealed records shall be electronically served through encrypted methods to ensure that the documents are not improperly disclosed.” (CCP §1010.6(a)(5).) “A trial court may adopt local rules permitting electronic filing of documents, subject to rules adopted by the Judicial Council pursuant to subdivision (h) and the following conditions: ….” (CCP §1010.6(e).)  DATED: January 17, 2025 __________________________ Hon. Tiana J. Murillo Judge of the Superior Court  PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: • Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. • If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the court at SMCDEPT78@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number. The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting. • Unless all parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument. You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue. • If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court. After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave. 