 This is a habitability matter.  On June 8, 2023, Pabla “Paulina” Hernandez Trinidad, her father Gustavo Hernandez Vallejo, her brothers Jose Antonion Hernandez and Juventino Froylan Hernandez, her daughter Guadalupe Pollido, her daughter Graciela Hernandez, and Graciela’s two children, Aiden Angel Jonathan Areliano Hernandez (age 9) and Malaya Grace Rodriguez (age 3) filed a Complaint against Defendant Maria Leon. Defendant answered on October 3, 2023.    Plaintiffs now seek a trial preference under Code Civ. Proc. § 36(b).Code Civ. Proc. § 36(b) states, “A civil action to recover damages for wrongful death or personal injury shall be entitled to preference upon the motion of any party to the action who is under 14 years of age unless the court finds that the party does not have a substantial interest in the case as a whole. A civil action subject to subdivision (a) shall be given preference over a case subject to this subdivision.”Here, the minor children, Aiden and Malaya, are under the age of fourteen and have a substantial interest as a whole in this matter as tenants of the subject premises, who were allegedly exposed to cockroaches, bed bugs, rodents, mold, water leaks, crumbling walls and ceilings, and deteriorated floors.  There is some evidence that they suffer from respiratory issues and skin problems.  Therefore, Plaintiffs are entitled to a trial preference in this matter under Code Civ. Proc. § 36(b).Defendant argues that her due process rights will be violated because there isn’t enough time to conduct discovery for all Plaintiffs. The language of Code Civ. Proc. § 36(b), however, is mandatory, and the Court does not see why counsel need so much time to prepare for a run-of-the-mill habitability matter, particularly as Defendant answered in early October 2023.  Either the property was defective or it wasn’t.  The Motion for Trial Preference is granted.  The trial date is set for July 24, 2024.Moving parties to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 