  Case Number:  24TRCV01056    Hearing Date:   September 30, 2024    Dept:  P Demurrer
to Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint and Motion to Strike Punitive Damages Moving
Party: Defendant American
Honda Motor Co., Inc.             Responding Party: Plaintiff Elana Mossazadeh RULING 













Having
considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply, the court SUSTAINS the
demurrer to the fifth cause of action and GRANTS the motion to strike punitive
damages.PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND On March 27, 2024, Plaintiff Elana Mossazadeh
(“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants American Honda Motor
Company, Inc. (“Defendant”) and DOES 1-10. On April 29, 2024, Defendant filed a demurrer to the
complaint. Plaintiff amended her complaint on June 21, 2024.  Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) alleged
causes of action for (1) Violation of Civ. Code Section 1793.2, subd. (d); (2)
Violation of Civ. Code Section 1793.2, subd. (b); Violation of Civ. Code
Section 1793.2, subd. (A)(3); (3) Violation of Civ. Code Section 1793.2, subd.
(d); (4) Breach of Implied Warranty of Merchantability; and (5) Fraudulent
Inducement – Concealment. On August 2, 2024, Defendant filed a demurrer to the
fifth cause of action and a motion to strike punitive damages. Plaintiff filed
an opposition on September 16, 2024. Defendant replied on September 20, 2024. FACTUAL BACKGROUND On March
5, 2021, Plaintiff bought a 2021 Honda Odyssey (the “Vehicle”), which was
manufactured or distributed by Defendant. (FAC, ¶¶ 6-7.) Plaintiff
alleges that, within the warranty period, Plaintiff discovered defects with the
Vehicle that rendered its value worthless or de minimis. (FAC, ¶¶ 12-14.) Plaintiff
alleges that Defendant knew of a defect in the sensing system (“Sensing Defect”)
but fraudulently concealed the defect from her when she bought the Vehicle.
(FAC, ¶ 73.) Plaintiff alleges that Defendant was required to replace or
repurchase the vehicle under the Song-Beverly Act, but Defendant failed to do
so. (FAC, ¶¶ 15-16.) Defendant
now demurs to the fifth cause of action for fraudulent inducement and moves to
strike Plaintiff’s request for punitive damages.            LEGAL STANDARD           A party may demur to a complaint on the grounds that it “does not state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause
of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) A party may also demur to a
complaint on the grounds that the complaint is uncertain. (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.10, subd. (f).) A demurrer tests whether the complaint states a cause of
action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) A special
demurrer for uncertainty under Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10,
subdivision (f), is disfavored and will only be sustained where the pleading is
so bad that defendant or plaintiff cannot reasonably respond—i.e., cannot
reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what counts or
claims are directed against him or her. (Khoury v. Maly’s of Calif.,
Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) When considering demurrers, courts accept all
well pleaded facts as true. (Fox v. JAMDAT Mobile, Inc. (2010) 185
Cal.App.4th 1068, 1078.) “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the
evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects
appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v.
Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) “The only issue involved in
a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with
extraneous matters, states a cause of action.” (Hahn, supra, 147
Cal.App.4th at p. 747.) On demurrer, a court does “not accept contentions,
deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Simonyan v. Nationwide Insurance Company of America (2022) 78 Cal.App.5th 889, 895.) Although courts construe pleadings liberally,
sufficient facts must be alleged to support the allegations pled to survive a
demurrer. (Rakestraw v. California Physicians' Serv. (2000) 81
Cal.App.4th 39, 43.) Where a demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be
allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.)
The burden is on the party who filed the pleading subject to demurrer to show
the court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Ibid.) The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon
terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter
inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc. §436(a).) The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an
order of the court. (Code Civ. Proc. § 436(b).) The grounds for moving to
strike must appear on the face of the pleading or from any matter of which the
court is required to take judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc. § 437.) DISCUSSION             Moving Party’s Argument Defendant argues that the claim is time-barred, and Plaintiff failed to
allege sufficient facts to establish a cause of action. Opposing Party’s Argument Plaintiff contends that her claim is not time-barred because the statute
of limitations did not toll until discovery of the defect. She also argues that
her fifth cause of action is sufficiently pleaded. Reply Argument Defendant argues Plaintiff did not adequately address its argument that
her claim is time-barred. Plaintiff does not plead with particularity
sufficient to maintain a fraud cause of action. Further, Plaintiff has not sufficiently
pleaded that Defendant had a duty to disclose any defects. Merits of the Motion A.  Meet and Confer Before filing a demurrer, the demurring party is required to meet and
confer “in person, by telephone, or by video conference with the party who
filed the pleading that is subject to the demurrer for the purposes of
determining whether an agreement can be reached through a filing of an amended
pleading that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).) A motion to strike also requires a meet and
confer process, which is procedurally identical to the meet and confer process
prior to filing a demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5.)  Defense counsel declares that she met and conferred with Plaintiff’s
counsel on July 9, 2024 to attempt to resolve this dispute, but the parties
were unable to reach an agreement. (Hernandez Decl., ¶ 2.) Accordingly, the
court finds that the parties have satisfied the meet and confer requirements. B.  Statute of Limitations Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s claim is time-barred. Plaintiff contends
that the statute of limitations is equitably tolled due to Defendant’s
fraudulent conduct. Alternatively, Plaintiff argues that the statute of
limitations was tolled due to a class action lawsuit initiated in 2018.  The court declines to address these arguments because, as discussed
below, Plaintiff has not pleaded facts sufficient to establish a fraudulent
concealment cause of action. C.  Fifth Cause of Action for Fraudulent
Concealment To state a claim for fraudulent inducement-concealment, a
plaintiff must allege: (1) the defendant “concealed or suppressed a material
fact,” (2) the defendant was “under a duty to disclose the fact to the
plaintiff,” (3) the defendant “intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact
with the intent to defraud the plaintiff,” (4) the plaintiff was “unaware of
the fact and would not have acted as he did if he had known of the concealed or
suppressed fact,” and (5) “as a result of the concealment or suppression of the
fact, the plaintiff must have sustained damage.” (Bigler-Engler v. Breg,
Inc. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 276, 310–11.)  Absent a fiduciary relationship
between the parties, a duty to disclose can arise in only three circumstances:
(1) the defendant had exclusive knowledge of the material fact; (2) the
defendant actively concealed the material fact; or (3) the defendant made
partial representations while also suppressing the material fact. (Bigler-Engler,
supra, 7 Cal.App.5th at 311; LiMandri v. Judkins (1997) 52
Cal.App.4th 326, 336.) Such circumstances “presuppose[ ] the existence of some other
relationship between the plaintiff and defendant in which a duty to disclose
can arise.” (LiMandri, supra, 52 Cal.App.4th at p. 337.) The California Supreme Court “has described the
necessary relationship giving rise to a duty to disclose as a ‘transaction’
between the plaintiff and defendant ….” (Bigler-Engler, supra, 7
Cal.App.5th at p. 311; Warner Construction Corp. v. City of Los Angeles
(1970) 2 Cal.3d 285, 294 [“In transactions which do not involve fiduciary or
confidential relations”]; Hoffman v. 162 North Wolfe LLC (2014) 228
Cal.App.4th 1178, 1187–89 [rejecting concealment claim where plaintiffs “were
not involved in a transaction with the parties they claim defrauded them”]; LiMandri,
supra, 52 Cal.App.4th at p. 337 [“such a relationship can only come into
being as a result of some sort of transaction between the parties”].)  Defendant
contends that it did not have exclusive knowledge of the alleged defect because
it is alleged that this alleged defect was publicly disclosed through the NHTSA
and there was no direct transaction between the parties. (Memo. Of Points and
Authorities, pp. 9-10.) In this regard, Defendant argues that sufficient facts
have not been alleged to suggest that Defendant’s authorized dealerships are
its agents for the purpose of selling cars. (Id. at pp. 10.) Moreover,
Defendant asserts that the express warranty does not create a duty to disclose
because it is not part of the sale contract. (Ibid., relying on Ford
Motor Warranty Cases (2023) 89 Cal.App.5th 1324 611, 619-620.) In opposition, Plaintiff maintains that the fifth cause of action has
been sufficiently alleged and reasons that a transaction relationship is not
required under California law for the manufacturer to have a duty to disclose.
Regardless, Plaintiff asserts that for pleading purposes, her allegations are
sufficient to establish a transactional relationship. (Opposition, pp. 6-7,
relying on Dhital v. Nissan North America (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 828.) The plaintiffs in Dhital sued Nissan for Song-Beverly violations.
They alleged the transmission was faulty and unreliable, and that it placed
them at risk for an accident though they did not allege they had actually been
injured. The pleading included a claim for fraudulent inducement. Plaintiffs
alleged that Nissan concealed defects it had a duty to disclose in order to
induce the purchase. The trial court sustained Nissan’s demurrer to the
fraudulent inducement cause of action on the basis that it was barred by the
economic loss doctrine. Within its decision reversing the lower court’s
decision, the appellate court found that:  “[a]t the pleading stage (and in the absence of a
more developed argument by Nissan on this point), we conclude Plaintiff’s
allegations are sufficient. Plaintiff alleged that they bought the car from a
Nissan dealership, that Nissan backed the car with an express warranty, and
that Nissan’s authorized dealerships are its agents for purposes of the sale of
Nissan vehicles to consumers. In light of these allegations, we decline to hold
Plaintiff’s claim is barred on the ground there was no relationship requiring
Nissan to disclose known defects.” (Dhital, supra, 84 Cal.App.5th at pp. 727-729.) However, other courts have called into question Dhital’s presumption of a
transactional relationship between the parties. 
Antonov v. General Motors LLC (C.D. Cal., Jan. 19, 2024, No.
823CV01593FWSMJR) 2024 WL 217825, at *11 (“[I]n Dhital the California
Court of Appeal conducted limited substantive analysis of the plaintiffs'
transactional relationship allegations due to the defendant's failure to fully
brief the argument” making the conclusion that there was a transaction
unconvincing.”)  Defendant here has set
forth a satisfactory argument as to why it should not be summarily presumed
that an agency relationship existed between Defendant and the dealership that
sold the subject vehicle to Plaintiff. “[A] dealer or retailer may in a
layman's view be an agent of the [manufacturer], but he is not an agent in the
legal sense of that relationship.” (Avalon Painting Co. v. Alert Lumber Co.
(1965) 234 Cal.App.2d 178, 184; see also Herremans v. BMW of N. Am., LLC,
No. (C.D.Cal. 2014) 2014 WL 5017843, at *6 [“[t]he relationship between
automobile manufacturers and their dealers has been examined by a host of
courts throughout the country, all of which have agreed that dealers are not
‘agents’ of manufacturers.”].) Plaintiff’s FAC does not allege that Defendant’s
authorized dealerships are its agents. Critically, “fraud must be pleaded specifically; general and conclusory allegations do
not suffice.” (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.)
Thus, without sufficiently alleging the existence of a transactional
relationship, the complaint fails to sufficiently allege the existence of a
duty. Further, Plaintiff’s own
complaint undermines the assertion that the information regarding the Sensing
Defect was solely in the possession of Defendant. In Paragraph 66 of the FAC,
Plaintiff sets forth a series of complaints about the “sensing defects” in
Honda vehicles which were publicly available between March 9, 2017 and April
17, 2020, all of which were posted prior to Plaintiff’s purchase of the subject
vehicle. Accordingly, because the complaint does not sufficiently allege a direct
transaction between the parties, the fifth cause of action for fraudulent
concealment has not been sufficiently alleged. Because Plaintiff’s own
complaint makes clear that information regarding the existence of the Sensing Defect
was available to the public prior to Plaintiff’s purchase of the vehicle, the
court finds that there is no possibility of successful amendment. C.  Motion to Strike Punitive
Damages Because Defendant’s demurrer has been sustained as to the fifth cause of
action, and the motion to strike attacks the punitive damages that would flow
only from that cause of action, it is GRANTED. CONCLUSION            Based on the foregoing, Defendant’s demurrer to the fifth cause of action
is SUSTAINED and the motion to strike is GRANTED without leave to amend. Defendant is ordered to give notice of ruling.















































































































































































 