  Case Number:  23TRCV01544    Hearing Date:   November 25, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling 
¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 November 25, 2024 
¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   23TRCV01544
¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Brent Johnson v. Republic Services, Inc.,
et al. 
¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Defendants, Consolidated Disposal
Service, LLC and Terry Marshall
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Brent Johnson and Charlotte Duncan (No Opposition.)
¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                       23TRCV01544
– Not Set. 
                                                23TRCV02843
– Not Set.
                                                23STLC06227
– Not Set. 
                                                23TRCV03406
– Not Set.
                                                23TRCV03505
– Not Set.
 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion to
Consolidate  
 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) Motion to Consolidate is GRANTED.  The Court will consolidate for all purposes,
including trial.  Trial date will likely
be set at the 1/16/25 CMC
 
¿ 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A.   
Factual¿¿ 
 
This motion
involves the present case, Case No. 23TRCV01544 Brett Johnson v. Republic Services Inc., et al. filed
May 16, 2023, Case No. 23TRCV02843, Laura Del Carmen Soria, et
al. v Consolidated Disposal Service, LLC, et al. filed August 29, 2023,
Case No. 23STLC06227 Genaro Vazquez v Brent Johnson, et al. filed
September 27, 2023, Case No. 23TRCV03406 Osazee Aiyanyi v Consolidated
Disposal Service, LLC, et al. October 13, 2023, and Case No. 23TRCV03505 Chenita
Watson v Brent Johnson, et al. filed October 20, 2023. 
 
On May 16, 2023, Plaintiff in the present case, Brent
Johnson filed a complaint against Defendants, Republic Services, Inc. and Terry
Marshall (“Marshall”) alleging causes of action for: (1) Negligence/Negligence
Per Se; and (2) Negligent Entrustment. The complaint asserts that it arises out
of a collision which was negligently caused by Defendant Marshall when he made
a right turn onto Western Ave. in his garbage truck, cutting off Plaintiff, and
requiring him to swerve to avoid the truck. (Complaint, ¶ 10.) Plaintiff
further alleged that after being forced to swerve to avoid the collision,
Plaintiff rear-ended a city bus and sustained serious injuries along with five
of the nine passengers on the bus. (Complaint, ¶ 10.) 
 
            On
September 12, 2024, Defendants in the present case, Terry Marshall and
Consolidated Disposal Services, LLC (“CDS”) in the present case note that there
have been several complaints, as listed above, filed regarding the incident.
Defendants Marshall and CDS move for this court to consolidate the listed
matters as they argue that the facts of each of the related cases are
identical, and the evidence at trial will almost certainly be the same. 
 
B.   
Procedural 
 
On September 12, 2024, Defendants Marshall and CDS
filed this Motion to Consolidate Actions. To date, no opposition has been
filed. On September 16, 2024, Brent Johnson and Charlotte Duncan filed a Status
Report. 
 
On October 10, 2024, this court DENIED the ruling on
procedural grounds, without prejudice to it being renewed as the previous
motion failed to list all the named parties in each of the cases, name those
parties who have appeared in each of the cases, or contain the captions of all
of the cases sought to be consolidated. Further the motion was not filed in
each of the listed cases. 
 
On October 25, 2024, Defendants Marshall and CDS have
filed another Motion to Consolidate Cases. To date, no opposition brief has
been filed. 
 
II. ANALYSIS¿ 
¿ 
A.   
Legal
Standard
 
California Rules of Court,
rule 3.350, subdivision (a) states in relevant part: 
 
(1) A notice of motion to consolidate must: 
(A) List all named parties in each case, the names of those who
have appeared, and the names of their respective attorneys of record; 
(B) Contain the captions of all the cases sought to be
consolidated, with the lowest-numbered case shown first; and 
(C) Be filed in each case
sought to be consolidated. 
 
(2) The motion to consolidate: 
(A) Is deemed a single motion for the purpose of determining the
appropriate filing fee, but memorandums, declarations, and other supporting
papers must be filed only in the lowest-numbered case; 
(B) Must be served on all attorneys of record and all
non-represented parties in all of the cases sought to be consolidated; and 
(C) Must have a proof of
service filed as part of the motion. 
 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.350, subd. (a)). Also, the consolidation statute, Code of Civil Procedure
section 1048, states in relevant part: 
 
(a)  When actions involving a common question of law or fact
are pending before the court, it may order a joint hearing or trial of any or
all the matters in issue in the actions; it may order all the actions
consolidated and it may make such orders concerning proceedings therein as may
tend to avoid unnecessary costs or delay. 
 
(b)  The court, in furtherance of convenience or to avoid
prejudice, or when separate trials will be conducive to expedition and economy,
may order a separate trial of any cause of action, including a cause of action
asserted in a cross-complaint, or of any separate issue or of any number of
causes of action or issues, preserving the right of trial by jury required by
the Constitution or a statute of this state or of the United States. 
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1048,
subd. (a).)  
 
The granting or denial of the
motion to consolidate rests in the sound discretion of the trial court and will
not be reversed except upon a clear showing of abuse of discretion. (See Fellner
v. Steinbaum (1955) 132 Cal.App.2d 509, 511.)  
 
B.   
Discussion

 
In this court’s
previous minute order, it denied the motion to consolidate on the grounds that
although Marshall and CDS complied with some of the requirements to file a
motion to consolidate, they have failed to comply with all of the requirements.
For example, Defendants Marshall and CDS’s previous motion did not list all
named parties in each of the cases, did not name those parties who have
appeared in each of the cases, nor did their motion contain the captions of all
of the cases sought to be consolidated, with the lowest numbered case shown first
(despite listing each of the case numbers.) (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.350, subd. (a)(1)(A), (B).) Further, the previous notice of motion to
consolidate is not filed in each of the listed cases. (Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 3.350, subd. (a)(1)(C).)
 
Now, in the Defendants’
new motion to consolidate, the court finds that they have complied with
California Rules of Court, rule 3.350, subdivision (a). Defendants’ motion
lists all named parties in each case and their attorneys, contained the
captions of each case sought to be consolidated, with the lowest-numbered case
shown first. The motion also lists the parties who have appeared in the cases,
and also filed motion in each of the cases sought to be consolidated. Lastly,
the motion also includes the proof of services served on each attorney. Thus,
because this new motion to consolidate complies with Rule 3.350, the court
GRANTS this motion. 
 
III. CONCLUSION¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
For the foregoing reasons, Defendants
Marshall and CDS’s Motion to Consolidate is GRANTED. 
 
Defendants Marshall and CDS
are ordered to give notice. 