 Case Number:  23PSCV01053    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2023    Dept:  G Defendant Mt. San Antonio Community College District’s  Demurrer to Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint   Respondent: Plaintiff Allison Oliver   Defendant Mt. San Antonio Community College District’s  Motion to Strike Portions of Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint   Respondent: Plaintiff Allison Oliver   TENTATIVE  RULING   Defendant Mt. San Antonio Community College District’s  Demurrer to Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint is OVERRULED.   Defendant Mt. San Antonio Community College District’s  Motion to Strike Portions of Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint is GRANTED IN PART as to Plaintiff Allison Oliver’s punitive  damages allegations and DENIED IN PART on all other grounds.   Defendant  Mt. San Antonio Community College shall file its Answer to the First Amended  Complaint, with allegations regarding emotional distress and punitive damages  stricken, within ten (10) days.   BACKGROUND   This is an employment discrimination action. In the summer  of 2016, Defendant Mt. San Antonio Community College District (Mt. SAC) hired  Plaintiff Allison Oliver as a professor in its kinesiology department with an  option for a tenured position after four years. Oliver also served as Mt. SAC’s  head volleyball coach. In September 2019, Oliver’s union representative  informed Oliver that Mt. SAC had received several complaints from student  athletes that claimed Oliver had used curse words around volleyball players. In  a meeting with human resources representatives and Oliver’s tenure committee,  Mt. SAC’s athletic director, Joe Jennum, told Oliver that Oliver could not use  curse words in front of student athletes. When Oliver’s union representative  inquired if that requirement also applied to other male coaches who used  similar language, Jennum allegedly stated that the ban on curse words only  applied to Oliver.   In October 2019, Oliver attended another meeting with union  representatives where they informed Oliver that student athlete questionnaire  responses had corroborated the allegations that Oliver had used curse words. In  the same month, Mt. SAC placed Oliver on involuntary paid administrative leave  for the remainder of the fall semester. On December 11, 2019, Oliver’s tenure  committee held a final vote that recommended Oliver not receive tenure. In  February 2020, Oliver’s counsel contacted Mt. SAC twice to inform them that the  student athlete complaints were the likely result of gender stereotyping and  bias. Nonetheless, Mt. SAC President William Scroggins recommended denying  tenure for Oliver and on February 26, 2020, Mt. SAC’s Board of Trustees adopted  Scroggins’ recommendation. As a result, Oliver’s employment contract with Mt.  SAC expired on June 30, 2020, and was not renewed.   On April 11, 2023, Oliver filed a complaint against Mt. SAC  as a college and a district as well as Does 1-50, alleging the following causes  of action: (1) gender discrimination, (2) retaliation, (3) failure to prevent  discrimination, (4) failure to conduct adequate investigation, (5) wrongful  termination in violation of public policy, (6) intentional infliction of  emotional distress (IIED), and (7) negligent infliction of emotional distress  (NIED). On August 29, the court sustained Mt. SAC’s  demurrer to the complaint with leave to amend as to the first five causes of  action and without leave to amend as to the last two.   On  September 8, 2023, Oliver filed a First Amended Complaint (FAC) against the  same defendants alleging the same causes of action minus the sixth and seventh.   On October 6, 2023, Mt. SAC filed the present  demurrer and motion to strike. Prior to filing on September 29, Mt. SAC’s  counsel met and conferred telephonically with Oliver’s counsel and was unable  to reach a resolution. (Kostrenich Decl., ¶ 3.)   A hearing on the demurrer and motion to  strike is set for November 15, 2023, along with a case management conference.   REQUESTS FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE   Mt. SAC requests judicial notice of an  arbitration decision involving Oliver’s claims. The court GRANTS Mt.  SAC’s request pursuant to Evidence Code section 452, subdivision (d). (See  Greenspan v. LADT, LLC (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 486, 525 [noting trial court  properly took judicial notice of an arbitration award].) Oliver’s request for  judicial notice of this court’s ruling on Mt. SAC’s previous demurrer is also GRANTED.   ANALYSIS  Demurrer  Mt. SAC demurs to Oliver’s entire FAC on the  grounds that Oliver failed to exhaust judicial remedies before filing the  present action. For the following reasons, the court OVERRULES Mt. SAC’s demurrer.   Legal Standard   A party may demur to a complaint on the  grounds that it “does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of  action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) A demurrer tests whether the  complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147  Cal.App.4th 740, 747 (Hahn).) When considering demurrers, courts accept  all well pleaded facts as true. (Fox v. JAMDAT Mobile, Inc. (2010) 185  Cal.App.4th 1068, 1078.) In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent  on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v.  Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the  pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it  lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are  judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d  902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the  complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of  action.” (Hahn, supra, at p. 747.)   Discussion   Mt. SAC argues the operative issue here is  the legal effect of Oliver’s failure to exhaust judicial remedies and overturn  an adverse arbitration ruling. Mt. SAC argues the effect is the barring of  Oliver’s present action in accordance with the principles of res judicata and  collateral estoppel. To address this argument, the court must first clarify  these principles.   Courts “have frequently used ‘res judicata’  as an umbrella term encompassing both claim preclusion and issue preclusion,  which [courts] described as two separate ‘aspects’ of an overarching doctrine.”  (DKN Holdings LLC v. Faerber (2015) 61 Cal.4th 813, 823 (DKN Holdings).)  But courts have also used “res judicata” to specifically describe claim  preclusion while referring to issue preclusion as “collateral estoppel.” (Id.,  at p. 823-824.) “It is important to distinguish these two types of preclusion  because they have different requirements.” (Id., at p. 824.)   Claim preclusion “prevents relitigation of  the same cause of action in a second suit between the same parties or parties  in privity with them.” (Mycogen Corp. v. Monsanto Co. (2002) 28 Cal.4th  888, 896.) It “arises if a second suit involves: (1) the same cause of action  (2) between the same parties (3) after a final judgment on the merits in the  first suit” and has the effect of barring the claim’s relitigation. (DKN  Holdings, supra, 61 Cal.4th at p. 824.) Meanwhile, “[i]ssue  preclusion prohibits the relitigation of issues argued and decided in a  previous case, even if the second suit raises different causes of action.” (Ibid.)  “[I]ssue preclusion applies: (1) after final adjudication (2) of an identical  issue (3) actually litigated and necessarily decided in the first suit and (4)  asserted against one who was a party in the first suit or one in privity with  that party.” (Id., at p. 825.) But unlike claim preclusion, issue  preclusion does not bar entire causes of action. Instead, it prevents  relitigation of previously decided issues.” (Id., at p. 824.)   Here, Mt. SAC’s argument relies on a rule  that states when “a public employee pursues administrative civil service  remedies, receives an adverse finding, and fails to have the finding set aside  through judicial review procedures, the adverse finding is binding on  discrimination claims under the FEHA.” (Johnson v. City of Loma Linda (2000)  24 Cal.4th 61, 76 (Johnson).) The authorities cited by Mt. SAC have held  this rule is based on the principles of issue preclusion or collateral estoppel.  (See Wassmann v. South Orange County Community College District (2018)  24 Cal.App.5th 825, 849 (Wassmann) [applying issue and claim preclusion  to hearings conducted pursuant to Education Code section 87680]; Basurto v.  Imperial Irrigation Dist. (2012) 211 Cal.App.4th 866, 894 (Basurto)  [holding administrative decision had collateral estoppel effect on subsequent  FEHA claims]; California Public Employees’ Retirement System v. Superior  Court (2008) 160 Cal.App.4th 174, 180 (CalPERS) [“The concept of  exhaustion of judicial remedies is rooted in the principles embodied in  collateral estoppel. The two are integrally intertwined.”]; Miller v. City  of Los Angeles (2008) 169 Cal.App.4th 1373, 1382 (Miller) [holding  when an administrative decision is final and on the merits, it is “entitled to collateral  estoppel effect”]; Page v. Los Angeles County Probation Dept. (2004) 123  Cal.App.4th 1135, 1142 (Page) [holding civil service commission’s findings  regarding plaintiff’s disability grievance had “issue and claim preclusive  effect” on plaintiff’s FEHA claims]; Castillo v. City of Los Angeles (2001)  92 Cal.App.4th 477, 486-487 (Castillo) [holding plaintiff precluded from  relitigating findings of hearing examiner pursuant to issue preclusion].)   The court finds that Mt. SAC’s argument  confuses and muddles the two doctrines of issue preclusion and claim  preclusion. While Mt. SAC suggests the doctrine of “res judicata” or claim  preclusion and “collateral estoppel” or issue preclusion are a complete bar to  this action, only claim preclusion can serve as a complete bar to this action.  (See DKN Holdings, supra, 61 Cal.4th at p. 824.) For the  purposes of claim preclusion, a cause of action is defined as “the right to  obtain redress for a harm suffered, regardless of the specific remedy sought or  the legal theory (common law or statutory) advanced.” (Boeken v. Philip  Morris USA, Inc. (2010) 48 Cal.4th 788, 798.) “[T]he determinative factor  is the harm suffered. When two actions involving the same parties seek  compensation for the same harm, they generally involve the same primary right.”  (Ibid.)   In George v. California Unemployment Ins.  Appeals Bd. (2009) 179 Cal.App.4th 1475 (George), the court noted “case  law recognizes two distinct rights or interests at stake when a civil service  employee challenges discipline or termination on discriminatory or retaliatory  grounds. The primary right protected by the state civil service system is the  right to continued employment, while the primary right protected by FEHA is the  right to be free from invidious discrimination and from retaliation for  opposing discrimination.” (Id., at p. 1483.) As a result, the court in George held a civil service commission’s administrative review of employee’s  suspensions did not have claim preclusive effect against a subsequent FEHA  suit. (Id., at p. 1478-1482, 1483-1484.) Similarly,  here, Oliver’s grievance was based on Oliver’s primary right to be considered fairly  and evaluated for tenure while Oliver’s FEHA action is based on Oliver’s right  to be free from gender discrimination and retaliation. Thus, claim preclusion  is inapplicable.   Because Mt. SAC  cannot establish claim preclusion as a matter of law, all that is left is Mt.  SAC’s issue preclusion argument. But even if Mt. SAC is correct in arguing issue  preclusion applies, Mt. SAC failed to demonstrate how the issues adjudicated in  the previous arbitration serve as a complete bar to Oliver’s present action. Instead,  the arbitrator’s findings addressed whether Mt. SAC complied with its policies  in making its decision on Oliver’s tenure, provided Oliver due process, and  made a reasonable decision. (Mt. SAC RJN, Ex. 1, p. 98-99.)   In a  discrimination action after a plaintiff has established a prima facie case of discrimination, the  employer must establish “its action was taken for a legitimate, nondiscriminatory  reason.” (Guz v. Bechtel Nat. Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 355-356.) Once  it has done so, “plaintiff must then have the opportunity to attack the  employer's proffered reasons as pretexts for discrimination, or to offer any  other evidence of discriminatory motive.” (Id., at p. 356.) Similarly,  to succeed on retaliation claims, plaintiff must defeat a legitimate and nonretaliatory  explanation for an employer’s actions with proof “that the defendant's  proffered explanation is merely a pretext for the illegal termination.” (Flait  v. North American Watch Corp. (1992) 3 Cal.App.4th 467, 476.)   Thus, even if Mt. SAC is correct in arguing  issue preclusion applies, the prior arbitration proceeding merely established  that Mt. SAC had reasonable grounds for denying Oliver tenure and these  findings do not prevent Oliver from demonstrating that decision had a  retaliatory or discriminatory motive. In fact, Oliver so alleges by claiming  the same conduct that Oliver had been punished for was also committed by  Oliver’s male colleagues without reprimand. (FAC, ¶ 78, 83; see Gupta v.  Trustees of California State University (2019) 40 Cal.App.5th 510, 519,  quoting Guz, supra, 24 Cal.4th at p. 366 [“Evidence that an  employer treated ‘similarly situated’ employees outside the plaintiff's  protected class ‘more favorably’ is probative of the employer's discriminatory  or retaliatory intent.”]; see also George, supra, 179 Cal.App.4th  at p. 1488 [noting administrative agency findings regarding propriety of  discipline did not completely defeat retaliation claims].) For the same  reasons, Oliver’s claims of failure to prevent discrimination, failure to  conduct adequate discrimination, and wrongful termination are not barred as  they are derivative of Oliver’s retaliation and discrimination claims.   Accordingly, the court finds Mt. SAC failed  to demonstrate the applicability of claim preclusion and issue preclusion as a  complete bar to Oliver’s action as a matter of law.  Therefore, Mt. SAC’s demurrer is OVERRULED.   Motion to Strike  Mt. SAC moves to strike the following from  Oliver’s FAC: (1) requests for lost wages or job benefits, (2) emotional  distress damages, (3) requests for attorney fees, (4) requests for interest, (5)  punitive damages, and (6) irrelevant allegations. For the following reasons,  the court GRANTS IN PART Mt. SAC’s motion as to the emotional distress  and punitive damages allegations and DENIES IN PART Mt. SAC’s  motion on all other grounds.   Legal Standard   Upon a party’s motion or the court’s own motion, the court  may strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a).) The court may also “[s]trike out all or  any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this  state, a court rule, or an order of the court.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd.  (b).) “The grounds for a motion to strike shall appear on the face of the  challenged pleading or from any matter of which the court is required to take  judicial notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437, subd. (a).)   Requests for Lost Wages or Job Benefits   Mt. SAC argues Oliver’s requests for lost  wages or job benefits are barred for the same reasons argued in Mt. SAC’s  demurrer. Accordingly, Mt. SAC’s motion to strike on this ground is DENIED for the reasons detailed above.   Emotional Distress Damages   Mt. SAC contends Oliver cannot request damages  for emotional distress because the court has previously sustained demurrers to  Oliver’s causes of action for intentional inflectional of emotional distress  (IIED) and negligent infliction of emotional distress (NIED) without leave to  amend. The court also notes that Oliver agreed to withdraw her claims for emotional  distress.  Accordingly, Mt. SAC’s motion  to strike on this ground is GRANTED.   Requests for Attorney Fees   Mt. SAC maintains Oliver failed to allege a  proper statutory basis for requesting attorney fees. However, the court finds Mt.  SAC failed to provide any citation to authority that requires such an  allegation to be made. Accordingly, Mt. SAC’s motion to strike on this ground  is DENIED.   Requests for Interest   Mt. SAC argues Oliver cannot seek interest  against a public entity pursuant to Civil Code section 3291. The court  disagrees.   Civil Code section 3291 allows interest on  damages in personal injury actions but states the section does not apply to public  entities. In response, Oliver argues interest is allowed pursuant to Civil Code  section 3287, subdivision (a) which states the following:   “A person who is entitled to recover damages certain, or capable of being  made certain by calculation, and the right to recover which is vested in the  person upon a particular day, is entitled also to recover interest thereon from  that day, except when the debtor is prevented by law, or by the act of the  creditor from paying the debt. This section is applicable to recovery of  damages and interest from any debtor, including the state or any county, city,  city and county, municipal corporation, public district, public agency, or any  political subdivision of the state.” (Civ. Code, § 3287, subd. (a).)   Mt. SAC’s reply did not address this  authority or provide any grounds upon which it is inapplicable. Accordingly,  Mt. SAC’s motion to strike on this ground is DENIED.   Requests for Punitive Damages   Mt. SAC contends Oliver’s request for  punitive damages is barred by Government Code section 818. The court agrees.   Pursuant to Government Code section 818, “[n]otwithstanding  any other provision of law, a public entity is not liable for damages awarded  under Section 3294 of the Civil Code or other damages imposed primarily for the  sake of example and by way of punishing the defendant.” (See State Personnel  Bd. v. Fair Employment & Housing Com. (1985) 39 Cal.3d 422, 434 [noting  punitive damages “may be awarded by a superior court in a private enforcement  action under the FEHA, though punitive damages are not available against a  public entity”]; see also Los Angeles Unified School Dist. v. Superior Court  (2023) 14 Cal.5th 758, 768 [“Government Code section 818 clearly shields  public entities from punitive damages, which are also sometimes referred to as  exemplary damages.”].)   In response, Oliver failed to identify any  statutory authority that creates an exception to the clear prohibition on punitive  damages in Government Code section 818. Accordingly, Mt. SAC’s motion to strike  on this ground is GRANTED.   Irrelevant Allegations   Mt. SAC contends any irrelevant allegations  mentioned in the notice of motion should be stricken. But because Mt. SAC failed  to develop this argument with any support as to how specific allegations are  irrelevant, the court summarily DENIES  Mt. SAC’s motion to strike on this  ground.   CONCLUSION  Based on the  foregoing, Mt. SAC’s demurrer to Oliver’s FAC is OVERRULED.   Furthermore, Mt.  SAC’s motion to strike portions of Oliver’s FAC is GRANTED IN PART as to  Oliver’s emotional distress and punitive damages allegations and DENIED IN  PART on all other grounds.   Defendant  Mt. San Antonio Community College shall file its Answer to the First Amended  Complaint, with allegations regarding emotional distress and punitive damages  stricken, within ten (10) days.