 Case Number:  24BBCV00342    Hearing Date:   May 3, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
MAY 3, 2024

MOTION
TO STRIKE

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 24BBCV00342

 



MP:  


Erewhon Studio City (Defendant) 




RP:  


None



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not requesting
oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by California Rules of
Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear is requested. 
Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling, no argument is
requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other parties and
the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the party’s
intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become the
ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Emon
Sarraf-Yazdi (Plaintiff) brings this action against Nowhere California, LLC dba
Erewhon Studio City (Defendant). Plaintiff alleges he was injured while using
the self-serve soup at a grocery store operated by Defendant. 
 
Defendant
now moves to strike Plaintiff’s request for punitive damages, arguing the
Complaint does not allege facts speaking to Defendant’s malice, oppression, or
fraud. Plaintiff does not oppose the motion. 
  
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Motion to Strike
 
Motions to strike are used to reach
defects or objections to pleadings that are not challengeable by demurrer, such
as words, phrases, and prayers for damages. (See C.C.P. §§ 435, 436, and 437.)
The proper procedure to attack false allegations in a pleading is a motion to
strike. (C.C.P. § 436(a).) In granting a motion to strike made under C.C.P. §
435, “[t]he court may, upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435 [notice of
motion to strike whole or part of complaint], or at any time in its discretion,
and upon terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or
improper matter inserted in any pleading.” (C.C.P. § 436(a).) Irrelevant
matters include immaterial allegations that are not essential to the claim or
those not pertinent to or supported by an otherwise sufficient claim. (C.C.P. §
431.10.) The court may also “[s]trike out all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an
order of the court.” (C.C.P. § 436 (b).)
 
Punitive
Damages 
 
Punitive
damages may be imposed where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that
the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. (Cal. Civ. Code,
§ 3294.) “Malice” is conduct intended by the defendant to cause injury to the
plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on with a willful and
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others. (Cal. Civ. Code, § 3294
(c)(1).) “‘Punitive damages are proper only when the tortious conduct rises to
levels of extreme indifference to the plaintiff’s rights, a level which decent
citizens should not have to tolerate.’ [Citation.]” (Lackner v. North
(2006) 135 Cal.App.4th 1188, 1210.)
 
A motion
to strike punitive damages is properly granted where a plaintiff does not state
a prima facie claim for punitive damages, including allegations that defendant
is guilty of oppression, fraud or malice. (Turman v. Turning Point of Cent.
California, Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63.) “Mere negligence, even
gross negligence, is not sufficient to justify such an award” for punitive
damages. (Kendall Yacht Corp. v. United California Bank (1975) 50
Cal.App.3d 949, 958.) Moreover, conclusory allegations are not sufficient to
support a claim for punitive damages. (Brousseau v. Jarrett (1977) 73
Cal.App.3d 864, 872.)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Meet and Confer 
 
C.C.P. § 435.5(a)
requires that the moving party meet and confer with the party who filed the
pleading that is subject to a motion to strike. Upon review the Court finds the
meet and confer requirements were met. (Ortiz Decl. ¶¶ 4-12.) 
 
Discussion
 
The Court first notes that
Plaintiff’s Complaint is a Form Complaint. While the Complaint identifies
causes of action for General Negligence and Premises Liability, there are no causes
of action attached as required by Section 10 of the Form Complaint. The only
attachment to Plaintiff’s Complaint is Exhibit A. Exhibit A contains three
pictures of an injured hand, presumably Plaintiff’s. Further, there are no
factual allegations in the body of the Form Complaint. The only reason the
Court is aware of Plaintiff’s allegation that he was burned by the self-serve
soup station is because these facts were stated in Defendant’s motion.  
 
As the Complaint is bereft
of any facts, it follows that there are no facts alleged supporting Defendant’s
malice, oppression, or fraud. Plaintiff may be able to allege such facts, but
he has not done so here. 
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s unopposed
Motion to Strike is GRANTED with 20 days’ leave to amend. 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Nowhere California,
LLC dba Erewhon Studio City’s Motion to Strike came on regularly for hearing on May 3, 2024, with
appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the
court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as
follows: 
 
THE MOTION TO STRIKE IS GRANTED WITH 20 DAYS’
LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
THE CASE MANAGEMENT CONFERENCE SET FOR JULY 1,
2024 REMAINS. 
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, DEFENDANT TO
GIVE NOTICE.  
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
May 3, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 