 Case Number:  23BBCV02014    Hearing Date:   May 3, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
MAY 3, 2024

MOTION
TO SET ASIDE DEFAULT

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV02014

 



MP:  


Kathleen F. Davis
  (Defendant)




RP:  


Matthew C. Moore (Plaintiff)



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Matthew
C. Moore (Plaintiff) brings this action against Kathleen F. Davis (Defendant).
Plaintiff alleges causes of action for Wrongful Eviction, Theft, Civil Extortion,
and Defamation as well as Property Damage. Plaintiff alleges that Defendant
locked him out of a residential living he rented from Plaintiff and refused him
access to his personal belongings. On March 4, 2024, Plaintiff entered default
against Defendant. 
 
Before
the Court is Defendant’s Motion to Set Aside the Default. Defendant argues she
was never personally served with process and, in the alternative, should be
relieved from Default due to her excusable neglect. Defendant appears in pro
per. Plaintiff opposes the motion and Defendant replies. 
  
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
C.C.P. §
473.5
 
The Court
notes that Defendant erroneously requests relief from default under C.C.P. §
473(d). Plaintiff argues she is entitled to relief under this code section
because she was not properly served. C.C.P. § 473(d) governs the Court’s
authority to correct clerical mistakes in judgments or orders it issues and
does not relate to proper service on a party. It appears to the Court more
likely that Defendant is seeking relief under C.C.P. § 473.5. 
 
CCP §
473.5(a) provides: “When service of a summons has not resulted in actual notice
to a party in time to defend the action and a default or default judgment has
been entered against him or her in the action, he or she may serve and file a
notice of motion to set aside the default or default judgment and for leave to
defend the action. The notice of motion shall be served and filed within a
reasonable time, but in no event exceeding the earlier of: (i) two years after
entry of a default judgment against him or her; or (ii) 180 days after service
on him or her of a written notice that the default or default judgment has been
entered.”
 
C.C.P. §
473(b)
 
C.C.P. §
473(b) has both a discretionary relief provision and a mandatory relief
provision. The discretionary provision of C.C.P. § 473(b), in pertinent part,
reads as follows: 
 
The court may, upon any terms as may be just,
relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal,
order, or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall
be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed
therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall be made
within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment,
dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken…
 
The
mandatory provision of C.C.P. § 473(b) reads, in pertinent part, as follows: 
 
Notwithstanding any other requirements of this
section, the court shall, whenever an application for relief is made no more
than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper form, and is accompanied
by an attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1) resulting default entered by the clerk
against his or her client, and which will result in entry of a default
judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment or dismissal entered against his or
her client, unless the court finds that the default or dismissal was not in
fact caused by the attorney’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
neglect. 
 
The
general underlying purpose of C.C.P. § 473(b) is to promote the
determination of actions on their merits. (Even Zohar Construction
& Remodeling, Inc. v. Bellaire Townhouses, LLC (2015) 61 Cal.4th
830.) Under this statute, an application for relief must be made no more than
six months after entry of the judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding
from which relief is sought and must be accompanied by an affidavit of fault
attesting to the mistake, inadvertence, surprise or neglect of the moving party
or its attorney. (C.C.P., § 473(b); English v. IKON Business Solutions
(2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 130, 143.)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Proof of Service 
 
Plaintiff’s proof of
service reflects that personal service of the Summons and Complaint was
effectuated on Defendant. The proof of service reflects personal delivery on
Defendant at 10701 Walnut Drive, Shadow Hills, CA 91040 on January 7, 2024. As
will be discussed below, Defendant disputes the representations of the process
server. 
 
C.C.P. § 473.5
 
Defendant first moves for
relief on grounds that she was never properly served. Defendant essentially
argues that she never received service such that she could be said to have
actual notice of the action. As previously discussed, relief of this nature is
governed by C.C.P. § 473.5.
 
“[A]ctual notice in section
473.5 means genuine knowledge of the party litigant…[A]ctual knowledge has been
strictly construed, with the aim of implementing the policy of liberally granting
relief so that cases may be resolved on their merits.’” (Ellard v. Conway
(2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 540, 547 [Citations Omitted].) 
 
“[A] party can make a
motion showing a lack of actual notice not caused by avoidance of service or inexcusable
neglect . . .” (Trackman v. Kenney (2010) 187 Cal. App. 4th 175, 180.)
“‘[I]t does not require a showing that plaintiff did anything improper…[T]he
defaulting defendant simply asserts that he or she did not have actual
notice’.” (Id.)
 
Defendant argues that the
proof of service in this matter improperly shows that she was personally
served, when in fact it was her friend Phil Swanson who spoke with the process
server. (Davis Decl. ¶ 3, Swanson Decl. ¶ 3.) Defendant argues that
she was not present at her home at the time of service and that the process
server instead attempted to hand the documents to Swanson at her address. (Id.)

 
The Court finds the above
arguments are irrelevant to relief under C.C.P. § 473.5.C.C.P. § 473(a) is
concerned with whether service resulted in actual notice in time to defend the
action. Here, Plaintiff clearly states she received notice of the action when
she returned home to find the Summons and Complaint on the floor of her garage.
(Davis Decl. ¶ 4.) Further, Plaintiff’s counsel attaches email
communications from Defendant dating as early as September 6, 2023 showing that
she was aware of a potential action. (Cordier Decl. Exh. 1.)  At the very least it appears that the attempt
at personal service on January 7, 2024 was an extension of the communication
between Defendant and Plaintiff’s counsel. Further, Defendant stated in her
September 6, 2023 email that she needed further time to retain an attorney to
negotiate settlement, further indicating her knowledge of the action by the
time she found the Summons and Complaint. (Cordier Decl. Exh. 1.) 
 
To the extent that
Defendant believes the service was not proper, such belief does not affect the
facts showing she had notice of the action. “It is axiomatic that strict
compliance with the code's provisions for service of process is not required. (Ramos
supra, 223 Cal.App.4th at 1443.) “[I]n deciding whether service was valid,
the statutory provisions regarding service of process should be liberally
construed to effectuate service and uphold the jurisdiction of the court if
actual notice has been received by the defendant.” (Gibble v. Car-Lene
Research, Inc. (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 295, 313.) In essence, substantial
compliance with the code’s requirements for service of process is sufficient. (Id.)
Here, although Plaintiff’s service may have been procedurally deficient in some
respects, it was sufficient to provide Defendant notice within the time to file
a responsive pleading. 
 
C.C.P. § 473 
 
Defendant alternatively
seeks relief under the discretionary provisions of C.C.P. § 473(b). 
 
C.C.P. §473(b) provides
that the Court may relieve a party from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other
proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or excusable neglect, which “shall be made within a reasonable time,
in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment, or proceeding was taken.”
(C.C.P. § 473(b).)
 
In the absence of an
attorney affidavit of fault, the burden is on the moving party to show that the
default could not have been avoided through the exercise of ordinary care. (Jackson
v. Bank of America (1983) 141 Cal.App.3d 55, 58.) However, “when relief
under section 473 is available, there is a strong public policy in favor of
granting relief and allowing the requesting party his or her day in court. The
Court has broad discretion to vacate a default and/or default. That discretion,
however, “may be exercised only after the party seeking relief has shown that
there is a proper ground for relief, and that the party has raised that ground
in a procedurally proper manner, within any applicable time limits.” (Cruz
v. Fagor America, Inc. (2006) 146 Cal.App.4th 488, 495.)
 
Excusable neglect under C.C.P.
§ 473(b) is whether “a reasonably prudent person under the same or similar
circumstances” might have made the same error. (Los Rios Community College
District (1986) 42 Cal.3d 270, 276.) Inadvertence is defined as lack of
heedfulness or attentiveness, inattention, fault from negligence. (Hodge
Sheet Metal Products v. Palm Springs Riviera Hotel (1961) 189 Cal.App.2d
653, 656.) In addition, inadvertence and excusable neglect can be the result of
a medical condition that clouds judgment and affects mental capacity. (See Noceti
v. Whorton (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1062.)
 
The Court finds that
Defendant has made a sufficient showing of excusable neglect to justify relief
under C.C.P. § 473(b). While Defendant was aware of the action against her, her
failure to render a responsive pleading appears to have resulted from the
mistaken belief that service had not been properly effectuated. Defendant’s
email to Plaintiff’s counsel indicates that she believed the service on Swanson
was insufficient to apprise her of the suit such that she would need to file a
responsive pleading. (Davis Decl. Exh. C.) Given Defendant’s lack of legal
expertise, the Court views it as reasonable for her to assume that she need not
file a responsive pleading until service had been “properly” effectuated. 
 
Plaintiff’s argument that a
mistake of law is insufficient to grant relief from default is not persuasive
on this matter. The case that Plaintiff relies on in making this argument, McClain
v. Kissler, is factually inapposite to the situation here. In McClain,
the Court considered relief from default entered against an attorney in a
breach of contract action. (McClain v. Kissler (2019) 39 Cal.App.5th
399.) The Court found that ignorance of the law could not serve as a basis for
relief under C.C.P. § 473 where the evidence clearly demonstrated the
attorney’s “mistakes of fact and law” were instead deliberate attempts to avoid
responding to the pleadings. (Id. at 418.) Here, the Court is dealing
with a Defendant in pro per and not a person admitted to the State Bar. While
the law requires equal treatment of parties who are represented and those who
are in pro per, the reality of the matter is that the Court cannot expect equal
knowledge of the law from both parties. From the perspective of a person
similarly situated, Defendant’s error was reasonable in light of her legal
knowledge and her belief that service was not valid. 
 
In short, the Court finds
Defendant has demonstrated at least excusable neglect in her failure to file a
timely responsive pleading. This showing, accompanied by the strong public
policy in favor of granting relief, is sufficient to obtain relief under C.C.P.
§ 473(b). Accordingly, the motion to set aside default is GRANTED. Defendant is
to file her Answer within 10 days.  The proposed
answer attached to the Plaintiff’s motion must be filed with the court as a
separate document.
 
Sanctions

 
Lastly,
the Court addresses Plaintiff’s request for sanctions in the opposition. Plaintiff
cites to C.C.P. § 473(c)(1)(A) which states:
 
Whenever the court grants relief from a default,
default judgment, or dismissal based on any of the provisions of this section,
the court may do any of the following:
 
Impose a
penalty of no greater than one thousand dollars ($1,000) upon an offending
attorney or party.
 
Plaintiff
states that sanctions are required to offset the costs of obtaining the default
and opposing this motion. It appears that on April 1, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel
sent an email offering to stipulate to set aside the default on the condition
that Defendant pay $700 to compensate for legal costs in obtaining the default.
(Cordier Decl. Exh. 6.) It appears that Defendant rejected this stipulation on
the mistaken belief that her request would not be subject to any penalties as
it was made under C.C.P. § 473(d) and not C.C.P. § 473(b). (Reply. Exh. A.) 
 
Given the
representations of the parties, the Court finds some penalty is in order to
compensate Plaintiff for the expenses incurred in pursuing Defendant’s default.
While Plaintiff’s counsel submits estimations of time spent opposing this
motion, there is no declaration as to time spent pursuing the default. (See Cordier
Decl. ¶ 13.) In the Court’s experience, $375 would be sufficient to compensate
Plaintiff for their efforts in obtaining the default after Defendant’s
nonresponse. Accordingly, the Court enforces a penalty of $375 against
Defendant, payable to Plaintiff within 30 days. 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Kathleen
F. Davis’s Motion to Set Aside Default came on regularly for hearing on May 3, 2024, with
appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the
court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as
follows: 
 
THE MOTION TO SET ASIDE DEFAULT IS GRANTED. 
 
THE COURT
ENFORCES A PENALTY PURSUANT TO C.C.P. § 473(C)(1)(A) OF $375 AGAINST DEFENDANT,
PAYABLE TO PLAINTIFF WITHIN 30 DAYS. 
 
DEFENDANT
IS TO FILE HER ANSWER WITHIN 10 DAYS. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: May
3, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 