 Case Number:  24BBCV00278    Hearing Date:   May 3, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
MAY 3, 2024

MOTION
TO HOLD DEFAULT IN ABEYANCE

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 24BBCV00278

 



MP:  


The Sangari and Rechner Family Trust,
  Jefferey Rechner, and Marzieh Nikbakht-Sangari (Plaintiffs)




RP:  


None



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
The Sangari and
Rechner Family Trust, Jefferey Rechner, and Marzieh Nikbakht-Sangari
(Plaintiffs) bring this action against Serob Habesyan, Archstone Design
Showroom Inc. (Archstone), Kitchen Bath & Flooring Center; KB Flooring
Center; NOHO Tile Center, Hudson Insurance Company, Alfredo Mendoza, Mendoza
Pool & Plaster, Inc., and Hartford Insurance Company of the Midwest
(Hartford) (collectively Defendants). Plaintiffs allege the negligence of each
defendant in the construction of a property located at 3400 Longridge Terrace,
Sherman Oaks, CA 91423. 
 
On March 15,
2024, the Court entered default against Alfredo Mendoza and Mendoza Pool &
Plaster, Inc. (Mendoza Defendants). Before the Court is a motion by Plaintiffs
to hold this default in abeyance until the matter is fully litigated. No
opposition has been filed by any party. 
  
ANALYSIS: 
 
This action concerns
several alleged defects in the construction of Plaintiffs’ home. Plaintiffs
allege Mendoza Defendants were hired to perform pool work alongside the work
that Archstone was conducting on the pool deck. (Compl. ¶¶ 28-29.) Both
Archstone and Mendoza defendants are alleged to be in some way responsible for
waterproofing around the pool. (Id.) Plaintiffs allege that soon after
the work on the pool was completed, the guest house under the pool deck
experienced significant leaks. (Compl. ¶ 31.) Plaintiffs allege that
Archstone disclaimed liability and instead suggested the leaks were caused by negligence
on Mendoza Defendant’s behalf. (Id.) 
Plaintiffs allege that Archstone then conducted repairs on what they
claimed was Mendoza’s defective work for additional payment. (Compl.
¶ 32.) Plaintiffs maintain that it was the defective work of both
Archstone and Mendoza Defendants that caused the leaking in the guest house.
(Compl. ¶ 38.) Plaintiffs allege Mendoza Defendants failed to install
waterproof tile on the adjacent spa and that Archstone installed defective
waterproofing through the pool deck. (Compl. ¶¶ 36-39.) 
 
In determining whether to
hold a default judgment in abeyance, the primary authority on the matter is the
4th District Court of Appeal ruling in Mirabile v. Smith. There, a
plaintiff sued two partners on a contract. One partner answered but the other
defaulted. (Mirabile v. Smith (1953) 119 Cal.App.2d 685.) The
answering defendant contended that no contract existed. The court held that the
default should be held in abeyance until the case was “finally determined upon”
by the answering defendant where the answering defendant's position is “equally
applicable against both of these defendants.” (Id. at 688.) The court
stated that were the law otherwise, “a grave injustice would result.” (Id.
at 689; see also Freeman v. Churchill (1947) 30 Cal.2d 453, 461 [where a
defense presented by a non-defaulting defendant is not personal to him but goes
to the merits of the case, the defense pleaded by the non-defaulting defendant
inures to the benefit of the defaulting defendant as well].)
 
The Court finds Plaintiffs’
arguments in support of the abeyance persuasive. Plaintiffs’ claims of
negligence leading to leaks in the guest house are equally applicable to the
appearing Archstone as to the non-appearing Mendoza Defendants. Further,
Hartford, the company which issued the contractors insurance bond to Mendoza
Defendants, has appeared in this action. To this extent, the allegations
against Mendoza Defendants and Hartford are inseparable. As such, the Court
finds it would be appropriate to hold default in abeyance until such time as
Plaintiffs’ claims against Archstone and Hartford are finally determined. 
 
The Court also notes that
no party to this action has opposed this motion. As per California Rules of
Court, Rule 8.54(c) “A failure to oppose a motion may be deemed a consent to
the granting of the motion.” 
 
Accordingly, the unopposed motion
to hold the default in abeyance is GRANTED. 
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
The Sangari and
Rechner Family Trust, Jefferey Rechner, and Marzieh Nikbakht-Sangari’s Motion to
Hold Default in Abeyance came on regularly for
hearing on May 3, 2024, with appearances/submissions as noted in the minute
order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the premises, did
then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION TO HOLD THE DEFAULT AGAINST ALFREDO
MENDOZA AND MENDOZA POOL & PLASTER, INC. IN ABEYANCE IS GRANTED.  
 
PLAINTIFF TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: May
3, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 