 Case Number:  22BBCV00653    Hearing Date:   May 3, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
MAY 3, 2024 

MOTION FOR
SANCTIONS

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 22BBCV00653

 



MP:  


American Honda Motor Co., Inc.
  (Defendant) 




RP:  


Tammyrose Lustre (Plaintiff)



 
NOTICE: 
 
The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Tammyrose Lustre (Plaintiff) brings this action against American Honda Motor Co., Inc.  (Honda) for alleged violations of the Song
Beverly Act. Plaintiff’s claims relate to the purchase of a 2019 Honda Civic
(Subject Vehicle). 
 
Before
the Court is a motion for sanctions brought by Honda. Honda argues that
Plaintiff spoliated evidence when she traded in the Subject Vehicle in October
of 2023, despite Honda having previously noticed the vehicle of inspection.
Honda argues Plaintiff’s conduct is grounds for terminating sanctions or, in
the alternative, evidentiary sanctions. Plaintiff opposes the motion and Honda
responds. 
 
 
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS:   
 
Plaintiff
objects to paragraph 11 of the declaration of Honda’s counsel Ian Schuler. This
paragraph reads: 
 
American Honda has made efforts to locate the
subject vehicle, including searching its warranty records and pulling a CarFax
report. To date, neither American Honda nor its counsel have been able to
locate the vehicle, nor do they have any information about the vehicle’s
current state of repair.
 
Plaintiff
objects to this statement on grounds that it is hearsay, lacks authentication,
lacks foundation, calls for expert opinion, and is speculative.  The objection is sustained on hearsay grounds
as to what was done by Honda and on foundation grounds as to counsel’s actions.

 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“Spoliation
of evidence means the destruction or significant alteration of evidence or the
failure to preserve evidence for another's use in pending or future litigation…
While there is no tort cause of action for the intentional destruction of
evidence after litigation has commenced, it is a misuse of the discovery
process that is subject to a broad range of punishment, including monetary,
issue, evidentiary, and terminating sanctions.” (Williams v. Russ (2008)
167 Cal.App.4th 1215, 1223. “[A] party moving for discovery sanctions based on
the spoliation of evidence must make an initial prima facie showing that the
responding party in fact destroyed evidence that had a substantial probability
of damaging the moving party's ability to establish an essential element of his
claim or defense.” (Id at 1227.)
 
In New
Albertsons, Inc. v. Superior Court, the appellate court considered when a motion
for sanctions for spoliation of evidence should be made. “A party moving for
discovery sanctions based on the intentional destruction of evidence could
argue that the mere fact that the evidence no longer exists supports an
inference of intentional spoliation. Rather than decide the facts with respect
to the intentional destruction of evidence and impose a nonmonetary sanction on
a pretrial motion in circumstances not contemplated by the discovery statutes,
we believe that in most cases of purported spoliation the facts should be
decided and any appropriate inference should be made by the trier of fact after
full hearing at trial.” (New Albertsons, Inc. v. Superior Court (2008)
168 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1431.) 
 
Evidence
Code § 413 provides: “In determining what inferences to draw from the evidence
or facts in the case against a party, the trier of fact may consider, among
other things, the party's failure to explain or [to deny by his testimony such
evidence or facts in the case against him, or his willful suppression of
evidence relating thereto, if such be the case.” Where there is evidence of
spoliation, the Court may instruct the jury as follows: “You may consider
whether one party intentionally concealed or destroyed evidence. If you decide
that a party did so, you may decide that the evidence would have been
unfavorable to that party.” (CACI 204.)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Relevant Facts 
 
Honda states that it
noticed a vehicle inspection for the Subject Vehicle on October 7, 2022,
shortly after this action was filed. (Schuler Decl. ¶ 4, Exh. B.) On
November 16, 2022, Plaintiff served an objection to the inspection. (Schuler
Decl. ¶ 5, Exh. C.) Honda thereafter requested alternative dates for the
vehicle inspection and the parties reached a mutual agreement that the Subject
Vehicle would be inspected on July 11, 2023. (Schuler Decl. ¶ 6, Exh. D.)
The agreement on the date was reached on March 2, 2023. (Id.) On June 6
and June 26, 2023, Honda took Plaintiff’s deposition. (Schuler Decl. ¶ 7.)

 
On June 20, 2023, Plaintiff
informed Honda that they would not be able to proceed with the calendared
vehicle inspection. (Schuler Decl. ¶ 8, Exh. D.) On January 4, 2024, Honda
followed up with Plaintiff and requested dates for inspection. (Schuler Decl.
¶ 9, Exh. E.) It was at this time that Plaintiff informed Honda that she
no longer had possession of the Subject Vehicle, as she had traded it in with
the dealership. (Id.) Plaintiff apparently traded the vehicle in October
of 2023. (Schuler Decl. Exh. E.) To date Honda has been unable to inspect the
subject vehicle. (Schuler Decl. ¶ 11.) 
 
Discussion 
 
Honda moves for terminating
sanctions on the grounds of spoliation of evidence. Honda argues that Plaintiff
disposed of the Subject Vehicle prior to Honda’s scheduled inspection. Honda
insinuates that Plaintiff purposefully disposed of the vehicle in response to
the vehicle inspection demand. As circumstantial evidence, Honda points to
Plaintiff’s failure to forewarn Honda that she intended to trade the vehicle in
until after the vehicle inspection was noticed. 
 
Plaintiff’s relies on Martinez
v. Kia Motors America, Inc. In Martinez, the appellate court
reviewed a trial court’s granting of summary judgment for Kia. (Martinez v.
Kia Motors America, Inc. (2011) 193 Cal.App.4th 187.) The trial court
reasoned that because the plaintiff in the case no longer had possession of the
vehicle, they could not sustain a cause of action against Kia for violation of
Song Beverly. (Id.) The appellate court reversed, finding that Song
Beverly did not require indefinite retention of the vehicle for a plaintiff to
prevail. (Id. at 194.) The Martinez court reasoned that the
statutory language was concerned with a manufacturer’s failure to comply with
its warranty obligations under the act after the vehicle was delivered and
contained no requirement that plaintiff retain the vehicle. (Id.) 
 
The Court finds that Martinez
is inapplicable to this case.  The
issue here is not whether the Plaintiff retained the vehicle, but the Plaintiff
disposing of the vehicle knowing that an inspection was pending.   The disposal deprived Honda of the ability
to examine the vehicle to determine whether there was a defect.  Likewise, Plaintiff does not attach any
declaration to explain why Plaintiff would sell the car with an inspection
pending that was agreed to with her counsel. 

 
While Plaintiff argues that
Defendant is not prejudiced the Court disagrees.   The inability to have experts examine the
vehicle in question does prejudice a Defendant.   While the Court agrees that continued
ownership is not required for a Song Beverly case, the intentional disposal of
the vehicle after an agreement to permit an inspection does justify sanctions.
 
Plaintiff submits her own
deposition testimony as evidence that Honda was aware of Plaintiff’s intent to
trade the vehicle. In her deposition, Plaintiff testified that she was in
communication with Mang Gil at Scott Robertson Honda regarding the condition of
the Subject Vehicle. (Tran Decl. Exh. A, Lustre Depo. p. 32:1.) Plaintiff
testified at multiple points that she had spoken to Gil about wanting to trade
the Subject Vehicle for a Honda CRV because of the reliability issues she had
experienced. (Id. p. 35:10-17; 36:14-19; 40:7-11.) Plaintiff’s
deposition occurred on June 6, 2023, a month before the scheduled inspection.
At this point it should have been clear to Plaintiff’s counsel that Plaintiff
intended to trade the vehicle if at all possible; however, Plaintiff’s counsel neither
admonished Plaintiff not to trade the car until after the inspection or
contacted Honda to set an earlier inspection date so that Plaintiff could trade
the car.  Honda sought inspection in
2022, but it was Plaintiff that objected. 
There was subsequently a mutual agreement to inspect the vehicle on July
11, 2023.  Plaintiff again delayed the
inspection and advised Honda that the agreed upon July 11th date
would need to be rescheduled. Plaintiff’s counsel was certainly aware of the
client’s desire to trade in the vehicle and likewise was aware that since 2022
Honda sought to inspect the vehicle.  
 
The Court believes that
Plaintiff’s actions justify sanctions; however, terminating sanctions are not warranted
given that the service records of the vehicle remain available.   At the final status conference for trial the
Court will consider sanctions which may include CACI 204 and excluding
testimony concerning any expert witness that Plaintiff seeks to testify
concerning a vehicle inspection completed by that expert.  The Court will also consider any other
evidentiary sanction that appear to be appropriate and requested by the
Defendant.
 
Accordingly, the motion for
sanctions is GRANTED.  The evidentiary
sanctions to be imposed will be determined at the final status conference. 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the following
form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and entered
into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
American Honda Motor
Co., Inc.’s Motion for Sanctions came on regularly
for hearing on May 3, 2024, with appearances/submissions as noted in the minute
order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the premises, did
then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION FOR SANCTIONS IS GRANTED IN
PART.   THE COURT WILL GRANT EVIDENTIARY
SANCTIONS BUT DECLINES TO GRANT TERMINATING SANCTIONS.
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, HONDA TO
PROVIDE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: May
3, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M. TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 