 Case Number:  23GDCV01808    Hearing Date:   May 3, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
MAY 3, 2024

MOTIONS
TO COMPEL DISCOVERY RESPONSES & DEEM RFA MATTERS ADMITTED

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23GDCV01808

 



MP:  


Baldomero Henriquez (Plaintiff)




RP:  


None



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Baldomero Henriquez
(Plaintiff) brings this action against FCA, US
LLC. (Defendant) for claims arising out of the
purchase of a 2021 Jeep Wrangler (the Subject Vehicle). The Complaint alleges
several causes of action for violation of the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty
Act. 
 
Plaintiff now moves to compel Defendant’s initial response
to his Form Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, and Request for the
Production of Documents (RFPD). Plaintiff also moves to deem matters in his Request
for Admissions (RFA) matters admitted. Defendant has not opposed these motions.

 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
If a party
to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response, the
propounding party may move for an order compelling response and for a monetary
sanction.  (C.C.P. § 2030.290(b).)  The statute contains no time
limit for a motion to compel where no responses have been served.  All
that need be shown in the moving papers is that a set of interrogatories was
properly served on the opposing party, that the time to respond has expired,
and that no response of any kind has been served.  (See Leach v.
Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal. App. 3d 902, 905-906.) 
 
Where
there has been no timely response to a demand to produce documents, the
demanding party may seek an order compelling a response.  (C.C.P. §
2031.300(b).)  Failure to timely respond waives all objections, including
privilege and work product.  (C.C.P. § 2031.300 (a).)  Thus, unless
the party to whom the demand was directed obtains relief from waiver, he or she
cannot raise objections to the documents demanded. There is no deadline for a
motion to compel responses.  Likewise, for failure to respond, the moving
party need not attempt to resolve the matter outside court before filing the
motion. 
 
If a party fails to respond
to requests for admission in a timely manner, the requesting party may move for
an order that the matters be deemed admitted. (C.C.P. § 2033.280(b).) The requesting party’s motion must be
granted by the court unless the party to whom the requests for admission have
been directed has served a proposed response to the requests for admission that
is in substantial compliance with C.C.P. § 2033.220 prior to the hearing. 
(C.C.P. § 2033.280(c).)  By failing
to timely respond, the party to whom the requests are directed waives any
objection to the requests, including one based on privilege or work
product.  (C.C.P. §
2033.280(a).) 
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Request to Compel Responses

 
Plaintiff
states his interrogatories, RFPD, and RFA were propounded on Defendant via
email upon counsel for Defendant, on October 17, 2023. (Sogogyan Decl. ¶ 8,
Exh. 1.) Discovery responses were due November 16, 2023 but Plaintiff received
no responses. (Sogogyan Decl. ¶ 10.) Plaintiff’s counsel states that, despite
having no obligation to do so, Plaintiff refrained from bringing the instant
motions for a period of four months to allow Defendant time to respond.  (Sogogyan Decl. ¶ 11.) As of the filing
of this motion, Plaintiff has received no responses. (Sogogyan Decl.
¶ 13.) 
 
Based on
the foregoing, Plaintiff’s unopposed motions to compel initial response
to his Form Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, and RFPD are GRANTED. 
 
Plaintiff’s
unopposed motion to deem RFA matters admitted is also GRANTED. 
 
Sanctions

 
The Court may impose a
monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the discovery
process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable
expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that
conduct. (C.C.P. § 2023.030(a).) 
 
The Court shall impose
monetary sanctions for failure to timely respond to requests for admission
unless the party acted with substantial justification, or the circumstances
render imposition of sanctions unjust. (C.C.P. §
2033.280(c).) The Court must impose a monetary sanction on the party or
attorney whose failure to serve timely Requests for Admission responses
necessitated the motion. (Id.)
 
Further,
it is customary to grant sanctions where a party has filed a motion to compel,
and the other party fails to file an opposition. (C.R.C., Rule 3.1348(a).)  
 
Here,
Plaintiff requests no sanctions in connection with the three motions to compel.
The Court notes that sanctions are mandatory where a party has not rendered a timely
response to RFA as per C.C.P. § 2033.280(c). While the Court would ordinarily
grant sanctions in a matter such as this, Plaintiff’s counsel has provided no
information to guide the Court’s determination of reasonable rates and hours
expended. Accordingly, the Court declines to grant sanctions.
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Baldomero
Henriquez’s Motions to Compel Responses to
Discovery and Deem Request for Admissions Matters Admitted came on regularly for hearing on May 3, 2024, with
appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the
court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as
follows: 
 
THE MOTIONS TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO PLAINTIFF’S
FORM INTERROGATORIES, SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES, AND REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION ARE
GRANTED.
 
THE MOTION TO DEEM RFA MATTERS ADMITTED ARE
GRANTED. 
 
RESPONSES ARE DUE WITHIN 30 CALENDAR DAYS. 
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, PLAINTIFF IS
TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
  
DATE: 
May 3, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M. Tavelman, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 