 Case Number:  23BBCV02251    Hearing Date:   May 3, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
MAY 3, 2024

MOTION
TO COMPEL APPEARANCE AT DEPOSITION

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV02251

 



MP:  


Kumar & Associates,
  Inc., and Vijay Kumar (Defendants)




RP:  


Eileen Figueroa
  (Plaintiff)



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Eileen
Figueroa (Plaintiff) brings this action against 7-Eleven, Inc., Kumar &
Associates, Inc., and Vijay Kumar. Plaintiff alleges that she was threatened by
a 7-Eleven employee with a gun. Plaintiff alleges this interaction occurred
after an altercation that occurred while Plaintiff and her friend patronized
the 7-Eleven store. Plaintiff has amended her Complaint to replace fictitious
names with Kumar & Associates, Inc., and Vijay Kumar (Kumar Defendants).
Kumar & Associates, Inc. is the company which owns the individual 7-Eleven
locations and Vijay Kumar is the owner of the company. 
 
Before
the Court is a motion brought by Kumar Defendants seeking to compel Plaintiff’s
attendance at a deposition. Plaintiff opposes the motion and Kumar Defendants
reply. 
  
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“If,
after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action…without having
served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for
examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling
the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in
the deposition notice.”(C.C.P. § 2025.450(a).)
 
“Any
party served with a deposition notice that does not comply with Article 2
(commencing with Section 2025.210) waives any error or irregularity unless that
party promptly serves a written objection specifying that error or irregularity
at least three calendar days prior to the date for which the deposition is
scheduled, on the party seeking to take the deposition and any other attorney
or party on whom the deposition notice was served.” “If an objection is made
three calendar days before the deposition date, the objecting party shall make
personal service of that objection pursuant to Section 1011 on the party who
gave notice of the deposition.” (C.C.P. § 2025.410(b).)
 
C.C.P. §
2025.450(b) provides: “A motion under subdivision (a)... shall be accompanied
by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when the deponent
fails to attend the deposition and produce the documents, electronically stored
information, or things described in the deposition notice, by a declaration
stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the
nonappearance.” 
 
Further,
the motion to compel must also “set forth specific facts showing good cause
justifying the production for inspection of any document, electronically stored
information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.” (C.C.P.§
2025.450(b)(1).)
 
“Good
cause” is construed liberally, with justification for discovery found where
specific facts show the documents are necessary for effective trial preparation
or to prevent surprise at trial. (Associated Brewers Distributing Co. v.
Superior Court of Los Angeles County (1967) 65 Cal.2d 583, 586-587; see Glenfed
Development Corp. v. Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 1113, 1117.) The
trial court has discretion to determine that relevance to the subject matter
alone constitutes “good cause.” (Id. at 586.) The fact that there is no
alternative source for the information sought is an important factor in
establishing “good cause,” but it is not essential. (Id. at 587-588.)
Once good cause is shown, the burden shifts to the party opposing the motion to
justify the objection(s). (Kirkland v. Superior Court (2002) 95
Cal.App.4th 92, 97.)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Deposition Timeline 
 
Kumar Defendants state that
their counsel initially attempted to schedule Plaintiff’s deposition via email
with Plaintiff’s counsel in early March 2024. (Ross Decl. Exh. A.) It appears
that Plaintiff’s counsel informed Kumar Defendants that she would not be
available for deposition until Kumar Defendants produced documents which were
being improperly withheld (namely the videotape). (Id.) Kumar Defendants
thereafter unilaterally noticed Plaintiff’s deposition for March 19, 2024.
(Ross Decl. Exh. B.) On March 15, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel informed that she would
not be appearing and served an objection to the deposition notice via email.
(Ross Decl. Exh. C.) Plaintiff’s objection stated that neither she nor her
counsel were available on the noticed date. (Id.) 
 
Discussion 
 
Plaintiff objected to the
noticed deposition stating “The date of the deposition of Plaintiff was
unilaterally set by Defendant. Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s counsel are not
available on the date and time noticed.” (Ross Decl. Exh. C.)
 
The Court first addresses Kumar
Defendants’ argument that Plaintiff’s objection to her noticed deposition
should be disregarded as untimely. C.C.P. § 2025.410(b) establishes a cutoff
period for valid objections of three days prior to the noticed deposition. The
statute further requires that objections made three calendar days prior to the
deposition shall be made by personal service upon the noticing party. Service
via email extends any statutory period of notice by two court days as per C.C.P. § 1010.6(3)(B). 
 
Here, Plaintiff’s objection
was served electronically on March 15, 2024. (See Ross Decl., Exh. C.)  A period of two court days before the three-day
statutory period would be March 14, 2024. As such, Plaintiff’s written
objection served on March 15, 2024 could be considered untimely. At the same
time, the Court recognizes that email service appeared to be routine between
the parties. For example, Kumar Defendants appear to have served their notice
of deposition in this manner. (See Ross Decl. Exh. B.) In this instance, the
Court declines to consider Plaintiff’s objections waived where she was still
within the time period to personally serve the objection on Kumar Defendants.
Plaintiff would have had up to March 16, 2024, to personally serve written
objections. The fact that Plaintiff’s counsel instead chose to serve them electronically
the weekday before should not be held against Plaintiff. Although Plaintiff’s
objection was technically untimely, the Court does not find it should be waived
for purposes of adjudicating this motion. 
 
The Court next addresses Kumar
Defendants’ failure to meet and confer. C.C.P. § 2025.450(b) requires a motion
to compel be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration, except where no
valid objection has been served and a party fails to appear. Here, it was Kumar
Defendants’ position that there was no valid opposition to the unilaterally
noticed deposition, therefore they could not have been expected to meet and
confer. As such, the Court does not consider the failure to meet and confer
dispositive of the motion. 
 
Kumar Defendants do not
brief any other way in which Plaintiff’s objection to a unilaterally noticed
deposition based on unavailability is invalid. While the Court understands
Kumar Defendants’ contention that Plaintiff was improperly withholding
deposition availability until they received videotape of the incident, the fact
remains that the official objection was on grounds of unavailability. Further,
Plaintiff’s failure to provide alternative dates in her objection does not
speak to the validity of the objection itself.  
 
In the interest of moving
this case along in an expeditious manner, the Court is inclined to grant the
motion to compel Plaintiff’s deposition. Plaintiff has presented no reason why
good cause does not exist to depose her on this matter and it appears the only
barrier is availability. The Court notes that the Plaintiff’s counsel advised
that deposition could take place in June or July after written discovery.  This does not appear to be unreasonable and
is consistent with the timing of depositions this Court has seen.  Unless leave of the Court is obtained, the
deposition shall take place no later than July 31, 2024.  The parties are ordered to meet and confer within
the next 30 calendar days to agree on a deposition date.  Should the parties be unable to reach an
agreement on this date, they are to call the Court and a date will be assigned.

 
The Court has also read
emails between the counsel in this matter and reminds counsel that the
California State Bar believes that dignity and respect are so important that
the following is part of an attorney’s oath, “As an officer of the court, I will strive to conduct myself at all
times with dignity, courtesy and integrity.” 
This Court shares that belief and does not view inflammatory rhetoric or
vitriolic interactions to be particularly helpful in resolving legal disputes.
 
Lastly, the Court declines
to issue sanctions in the matter. C.C.P. 2025.450(g)(1) provides that sanctions
are mandatory where a motion to compel is granted, except where the Court finds
the opposing party to have acted with substantial justification. While the
Court ultimately grants the motion to compel, it does not find Plaintiff to
have acted without substantial justification. 
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Kumar
& Associates, Inc., and Vijay Kum’s
Motion to Compel Appearance at Depositon came on
regularly for hearing on May 3, 2024, with appearances/submissions as noted in
the minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the
premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION TO COMPEL APPEARANCE AT DEPOSITION IS
GRANTED.  THE DEPOSITION SHALL OCCUR NO
LATER THAN JULY 31, 2024.
 
THE PARTIES ARE ORDERED TO FURTHER MEET AND
CONFER REGARDING THE SCHEDULING OF PLAINTIFF’S DEPOSITION. 
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, DEFENDANTS TO
GIVE NOTICE.  
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
May 3, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 