 Case Number:  23BBCV02538    Hearing Date:   May 3, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
MAY 3, 2024

DEMURRER
& MOTION TO STRIKE

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV02538

 



MP:  


Ability Pathways Inc. (Defendant)




RP:  


Sevan Hawandjian, through Guardian ad
  Litem, Salpi Seukunian (Plaintiff)



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Sevan Hawandjian, by and through her
Conservator and Guardian ad Litem, Salpi Seukunian (Plaintiff) brings this
action against Ability Pathways Inc. (API) and Right Choice In-Home Care, LLC
(Right Choice). Plaintiff alleges she was injured when she was dropped while
being transferred from her bed to a wheelchair while she resided in API’s care
facility. 
 
Before the Court
are a Demurrer and Motion to Strike brought by API. API demurs to Plaintiff’s
second cause of action for Elder Abuse and fifth cause of action for Negligent
Hiring/Retention. API argues that the FAC contains insufficient factual
allegations to support either of these causes of action. API also moves to
strike Plaintiff’s request for punitive damages and attorney’s fees in connection
with their cause of action for Elder Abuse. Plaintiff opposes both motions and
API replies. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
The grounds for a
demurrer must appear on the face of the pleading or from judicially noticeable
matters. (C.C.P. § 430.30(a); Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal. 3d 311,
318.) A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of
action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) The only issue
involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint states a cause of action.
(Id.)
 
A demurrer assumes
the truth of all factual, material allegations properly pled in the challenged
pleading. (Blank v. Kirwan, supra, 39 Cal. 3d at p. 318.) No matter how
unlikely or improbable, the plaintiff’s allegations must be accepted as true
for the purpose of ruling on the demurrer. (Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural
Materials Co. (1981) 123 Cal.  App. 3d 593, 604.) But this does not
include contentions; deductions; conclusions of fact or law alleged in the
complaint; facts impossible in law; or allegations contrary to facts of which a
court may take judicial notice.  (Blank, supra, 39 Cal. 3d
at 318.)
 
Pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure (“C.C.P.”) §§ 430.10(e) and (f), the party against whom a
complaint has been filed may demur to the pleading on the grounds that the
pleading does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action, or
that the pleading is uncertain, ambiguous and/or unintelligible. It is an abuse
of discretion to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is a
reasonable probability that the defect can be cured by amendment. (Schifando
v. City of Los Angeles (2003) 31 Cal. 4th 1074, 1082.)
 
Motions to strike are
used to reach defects or objections to pleadings that are not challengeable by
demurrer, such as words, phrases, and prayers for damages. (See C.C.P. §§ 435,
436, and 437.) The proper procedure to attack false allegations in a pleading
is a motion to strike. (C.C.P. § 436(a).) In granting a motion to strike made
under C.C.P. § 435, “[t]he court may, upon a motion made pursuant to Section
435 [notice of motion to strike whole or part of complaint], or at any time in
its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.” (C.C.P. § 436(a).)
Irrelevant matters include immaterial allegations that are not essential to the
claim or those not pertinent to or supported by an otherwise sufficient claim.
(C.C.P. § 431.10.) 
 
The court may also
“[s]trike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity
with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.” (C.C.P. §
436 (b).)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Meet and Confer 
 
C.C.P. §§ 430.41(a)
and 435.5(a) requires that the moving party meet and confer with the party who filed
the pleading that is subject to the demurrer and/or motion to strike. Upon
review the Court finds the meet and confer requirements were met. (Masters Decl.
¶ 5.) 
 
Facts 
 
Plaintiff
alleges that API provided her nursing and caretaking services while she was a
resident at their Norris House care facility. (FAC. ¶ 5.) Plaintiff states
that she is a disabled person suffering from cerebral palsy and cannot ambulate
on her own. (Id.) On November 2, 2022, Plaintiff alleges she was being
assisted by caregivers Maria Murillo (Murrillo) and Maria Aguirre (Aguirre) to
move from her bed to a wheelchair. (Id.) Plaintiff alleges the
caregivers implemented the use of a Hoyer lift to accomplish this task. (Id.)
Plaintiff alleges that, due to the caregivers’ negligence, she was dropped from
the lift onto the floor causing severe injury. (Id.) Plaintiff alleges
that Murillo and Aguirre “knew, based on the training they received in moving
immobile patients via a lift, that it was highly probable that failing to
properly secure a patient would cause the patient to fall and become seriously
injured.” (Id.) 
 
Plaintiff
further alleges that “Defendants had a significant and known pattern and
practice of understaffing and undertraining its staff to cut costs, in direct
violation of state staffing regulations, which was known to Defendants’
managing agents, and which foreseeably resulted in the abuse and neglect of
Plaintiff.” (FAC ¶ 21.) Plaintiff also alleges, “API, knew, or in the
reasonable exercise of diligence should have known that the nurses and
caretakers hired to move immobile patients such as Plaintiff were unfit and
incompetent to perform the duties for which they were hired, and that an undue
risk to persons such as Plaintiff would exist because of the hiring.” (FAC
¶38.) 
 
First
Cause of Action - Elder Abuse - Sustained with Leave to Amend 
 
To plead
elder or dependent adult abuse, the plaintiff must allege “facts establishing
that the defendant: (1) had responsibility for meeting the basic needs of the
elder or dependent adult, such as nutrition, hydration, hygiene or medical care
[citations]; (2) knew of conditions that made the elder or dependent adult
unable to provide for his or her own basic needs [citations]; and (3) denied or
withheld goods or services necessary to meet the elder or dependent adult’s
basic needs, either with knowledge that injury was substantially certain to
befall the elder or dependent adult (if the¿plaintiff¿alleges oppression, fraud
or malice) or with conscious disregard of the high probability of such injury
(if the plaintiff alleges recklessness) [citations].” (Carter v. Prime
Healthcare Paradise Valley LLC¿(2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 396, 406-07.) 
 
“The
plaintiff must also allege . . . that the neglect caused the elder or dependent
adult to suffer physical harm, pain or mental suffering.” (Id.¿at 407.)
“[T]he¿facts constituting the neglect and establishing the causal link between
the neglect and the injury ‘must be pleaded with particularity,’ in accordance
with the pleading rules governing statutory claims.” (Id.¿quoting¿Covenant
Care, Inc. v. Superior Court¿(2004) 32 Cal.4th 771, 790).)¿¿ 
 
Case law
is clear that neglect within the meaning of Welf and Inst. Code § 15610.57
covers an area of misconduct distinct from professional negligence. (Covenant
Care, Inc. v. Superior Court¿(2004) 32 Cal.4th 771, 783.)¿ “As used in the
Act, neglect refers not to the substandard performance of medical services but,
rather, to the ‘failure of those responsible for attending to the basic needs
and comforts of elderly or dependent adults, regardless of their professional
standing, to carry out their custodial obligations.’”¿ (Id.)¿¿¿ 
 
In order
to distinguish Dependent Adult Abuse from Professional¿Negligence, there must
be a showing of recklessness, fraud, malice, or oppression. (See¿Covenant
Care, Inc. supra, 32 Cal.4th¿at 783.) “Oppression, fraud, and malice
involve intentional, willful, or conscious wrongdoing of a despicable or
injurious nature.” (Carter supra, 198 Cal.App.4th at 405 [internal
quotation marks omitted].) Recklessness requires deliberate disregard of a high
degree of probability an injury will occur. (Id.) The enhanced remedies
for Elder Abuse are only available for “acts of egregious abuse against elder
and dependent adults.” (Id.)
 
The Court
finds Plaintiff’s allegations are insufficient to sustain a cause of action for
Elder Abuse. Plaintiff alleges a singular incident in which Murillo and Aguirre
failed to properly secure her in the Hoyer lift before attempting to move her
to a wheelchair. The failure to secure Plaintiff before moving her appears to
the Court more an accusation of medical negligence than the failure to provide
basic custodial care. 
 
By way of
contrast, in Carter the California Court of Appeals discussed situations
of Elder Abuse in which care facilities had (1) failed to provide a man
suffering from Parkinson’s disease sufficient food and water and necessary
medication and left him unattended for long periods of time, (2) left a woman
with a broken ankle lying unattended for long periods of time resulting
pressure ulcers, and (3) an elderly man was abused beaten, and unlawfully
restrained. (Id. at 406.) Each of these situations indicates a pattern
of abuse or refusal to render basic custodial services supporting an Elder
Abuse action. Here, Plaintiff does not allege that API’s employees refused to
move her, or that they routinely neglected their duties in any other way.
Without further factual allegations, the Court finds the failure to secure
Plaintiff on this one instance to be more indicative of negligence than elder
abuse. 
 
Further,
the Court finds the Plaintiff has alleged insufficient facts as to API’s
oppression, fraud, and malice. Plaintiff’s argument that she has alleged such
behavior by way of her allegations of understaffing is unpersuasive. First,
Plaintiff’s allegations of understaffing are conclusory and present no
assertions of fact. The facts from which Plaintiff believes API engaged in
deliberate understaffing must be pled with specificity. Second, Plaintiff’s
arguments that said understaffing led API staff to be undertrained is in
conflict with her allegations that Murillo and Aguirre were trained to relocate
her. Plaintiff alleges that Murillo and Aguirre knew from their training that
they should have secured her before moving her, yet Plaintiff also alleges that
API staff was untrained in this procedure. These allegations are at ends with
one another. 
 
In short,
the Court finds Plaintiff has not pled sufficient facts to sustain a cause of
action for Elder Abuse. Plaintiff’s allegations speak to a singular incident of
medical negligence rather than routine denial of care. Further, Plaintiff has
alleged no facts speaking to API’s oppression, fraud, and malice. Regardless,
the Court finds that it remains possible Plaintiff could amend her pleading to
cure these defects. Accordingly, the demurrer to the cause of action for Elder
Abuse is SUSTAINED with 20 days’ leave to amend. 
 
Fifth
Cause of Action – Negligent Hiring/Retention – Sustained with Leave to Amend 
 
The
elements of a cause of action for negligent hiring, retention, or supervision
are: (1) the employer’s hiring, retaining, or supervising an employee; (2) the
employee was incompetent or unfit; (3) the employer had reason to believe undue
risk of harm would exist because of the employment; and (4) harm occurs. (Evan F. v. Hughson United Methodist Church
(1992) 8 Cal.App.4th 828, 836-837.)
 
API
argues that the FAC contains no allegations of their foreknowledge of Murillo
or Aguirre’s unfitness for their positions. Plaintiff argues she properly
alleges that API should have known that their employees were neither qualified
nor able to safely operate the Hoyer Lift in a manner that is reasonably
expected of an employee or agent. (FAC ¶ 38.) 
 
The Court
first notes that the FAC is unclear as to who Murillo and Aguirre are employed
by. Plaintiff states this cause of action against both API and Right Choice.
Plaintiff specifically alleges that Right Choice “assigns nurses and caregivers
to in-home nursing facilities that they contract with…” (FAC ¶ 2.) The FAC
does not contain any factual allegations as to whether API or Right Choice
actually employ Murillo and Aguirre. To the extent that Plaintiff believes
Murillo and Aguirre were employed by both, she has not stated as such in her
FAC. In order for Plaintiff to sustain her cause of action for Negligence
Hiring, she must allege that API actually employed Murrillo and Aguirre. 
 
The Court
also notes that Plaintiff’s allegations of API’s foreknowledge are conclusory
and not factual. Plaintiff alleges that API should have been aware that their
employees were not properly trained in the use of the Hoyer lift. (FAC
¶ 38.) Plaintiff alleges no facts as to how API should have been aware of
this fact, outside the general allegation that API’s facilities were
understaffed. As previously discussed, this allegation is at odds with
Plaintiff’s allegation that Murillo and Aguirre were in fact trained in the use
of the Hoyer lift. (FAC ¶ 5.) As such, the Court finds these facts do not
serve to allege API’s foreknowledge of Murillo and Aguirre’s unfitness.
 
Accordingly,
the demurrer to the cause of action for Negligent Hiring/Retention is SUSTAINED
with 20 days’ leave to amend.   
 
Motion to
Strike 
 
API also
moves to strike Plaintiff’s request for punitive damages and attorney’s fees.
These requests appear in connection with Plaintiff’s cause of action for Elder
Abuse. As the Court has sustained the demurrer to the Elder Abuse cause of
action, the motion to strike attorney’s fees, costs, and punitive damages is
MOOT. 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Ability Pathways Inc.’s Demurrer and Motion to Strike
came on regularly for hearing on May 3, 2024, with appearances/submissions as
noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised
in the premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE
DEMURRER TO THE SECOND CAUSE OF ACTION FOR ELDER ABUSE IS SUSTAINED WITH 20
DAYS’ LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
THE
DEMURRER TO THE FIFTH CAUSE OF ACTION FOR NEGLIGENT HIRING/RETENTION IS
SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS’ LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
THE
MOTION TO STRIKE IS MOOT.
 
THE CASE
MANAGEMENT CONFERENCE SET FOR MAY 3, 2024 IS CONTINUED TO AUGUST 28, 2024 AT
9:00 A.M. 
 
UNLESS
ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, API TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
May 3, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M. TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 