  Case Number:  21STCV27254    Hearing Date:   May 3, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENATIVE
RULING
MARCH 8, 2024

MOTIONS
TO SET ASIDE COURT ORDERS

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 21STCV27254

 



MP:  


Yuqin Liu (Plaintiff) 




RP:  


Beverly Hills New Life Medical Group,
  LLC (Defendant) & Beverly Hills New Life Beauty & Wellness (Specially
  Appearing Defendant)



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Yuqin Liu
(Plaintiff) brings this action against Beverly
Hills New Life Medical Group, LLC (New Life), Beverly Hills New Life Beauty
& Wellness (B&W), Ling M. Smith (Smith), and Cici Yun Zhang (Zhang)
(collectively Defendants). B&W, Smith, and Zhang (hereinafter Specially
Appearing Defendants) were named parties to the Complaint via Doe Amendment
filed on November 15, 2023. Plaintiff alleges that Defendants negligently
administered derma filler injections which resulted in personal injury. 
 
Before
the Court are two motions brough by Plaintiff, both for relief from orders of
this Court which granted (1) New Life’s Motion for Undertaking and (2) B&W’s
Motion to Quash Service. New Life and B&W oppose the motions. Plaintiff has
filed no replies.
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.           
LEGAL STANDARD 
 
C.C.P. § 473(b) 
 
C.C.P. § 473(b) has
both a discretionary relief provision and a mandatory relief provision. The
discretionary provision of C.C.P. § 473(b), in pertinent part, reads as
follows: 
 
The Court may, upon
any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative
from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her
through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.
Application for this relief shall be accompanied by a copy of the answer or
other pleading proposed to be filed therein, otherwise the application shall
not be granted, and shall be made within a reasonable time, in no case
exceeding six months, after the judgment, dismissal, order, or proceeding was
taken…
 
The mandatory
provision of C.C.P. § 473(b) reads, in pertinent part, as follows: 
 
Notwithstanding any
other requirements of this section, the court shall, whenever an application
for relief is made no more than six months after entry of judgment, is in
proper form, and is accompanied by an attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting to
his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1)
resulting default entered by the clerk against his or her client, and which
will result in entry of a default judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment
or dismissal entered against his or her client, unless the court finds that the
default or dismissal was not in fact caused by the attorney’s mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or neglect. 
 
Under this statute,
an application for relief must be made no more than six months after entry of
the judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding from which relief is sought
and must be accompanied by an affidavit of fault attesting to the mistake, inadvertence,
surprise or neglect of the moving party or its attorney. (C.C.P., § 473(b); English
v. IKON Business Solutions (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 130, 143.)
 
C.C.P. § 1008(a)
 
C.C.P. § 1008(a)
provides “When an application for an order has been made to a judge, or to a
court, and refused in whole or in part, or granted, or granted conditionally,
or on terms, any party affected by the order may, within 10 days after service
upon the party of written notice of entry of the order and based upon new or
different facts, circumstances, or law, make application to the same judge or
court that made the order, to reconsider the matter and modify, amend, or
revoke the prior order. The party making the application shall state by
affidavit what application was made before, when and to what judge, what order
or decisions were made, and what new or different facts, circumstances, or law
are claimed to be shown.” 
 
C.C.P. § 1008(c)
provides “If a court at any time determines that there has been a change of law
that warrants it to reconsider a prior order it entered, it may do so on its
own motion and enter a different order.” 
 
II.           
MERITS 
 
The Court begins by
noting that it is unsure if Plaintiff’s motions are ones for reconsideration or
for relief from the entry of the order. While Plaintiff states she is seeking
relief under C.C.P. § 473(b), the contents of her memorandum and declarations
speak almost entirely to reconsideration of the motions upon which the Court’s
orders were based. It appears to the Court that Plaintiff has conflated the
standards of a motion for relief pursuant to C.C.P. § 473(b) with that of a
motion for reconsideration under C.C.P. § 1008(a). The distinction between
these two motion types is important because their burdens of proof vary and
because C.C.P. § 1008 imposes a strict time limit for filing. Here, relief
under C.C.P. § 1008(a) is unavailable to Plaintiff as the ten-day time limit
passed before the filing of the instant motions. As such, Plaintiff’s motions
are solely construed as motions for relief pursuant to C.C.P. § 473(b). 
 
To prevail on her
motions pursuant to C.C.P. § 473(b), Plaintiff must show that the entry of each
order resulted from her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.
Alternatively, Plaintiff could show that the entry of the orders resulted from
the mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect of her counsel. This showing
must speak to the entry of the order and has nothing to do with the merits of
the motions upon which the orders were based. Arguments presented as to whether
Plaintiff was mistaken as to the address for service (concerning the Motion to Quash)
or that an undertaking would be inequitable have no bearing on a motion made
pursuant to C.C.P. § 473(b). Plaintiff must simply show why the entry of both
orders was the result of mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect. As will
be discussed below, the Court finds Plaintiff has made no such showing.
 
Plaintiff’s
submissions as to the Motion for an Undertaking do not explain why she did not
oppose the motion or why the entry of the order otherwise resulted from
mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Plaintiff only submits
the declaration of her counsel stating her failure to oppose the motion was the
“result of procedural ambiguities and miscommunications.” (Deng Decl. p. 2.)
Plaintiff does not detail what these procedural ambiguities or
miscommunications were. The Court does not see what ambiguity exists in the
notion that Plaintiff had the opportunity to oppose the motion before it was
heard. Plaintiff’s counsel further states that he believes equity
considerations strongly favors setting aside the undertaking. (Id.) This
statement has no relevance to the entry of the order and instead speaks to
reconsideration on the merits. 
 
In short, Plaintiff’s
declaration and memorandum present no explanation as to how the order of this
Court was entered due to her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable
neglect. Further, Plaintiff submits no declaration that the failure to timely oppose
these motions (or to timely bring a motion for reconsideration) was the result
of the mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect on the part of her counsel.
Accordingly, Plaintiff has not shown she is entitled to relief from the order
for an undertaking. 
 
The same can be said
of Plaintiff’s motion for relief from the order quashing service on B&W.
Plaintiff’s memorandum and declaration speak entirely to the merits of the
motion to quash, rather than the entry of the order. Plaintiff submits no
declaration from herself or her counsel, instead submitting a declaration of
the process server who purportedly attempted service on B&W. Plaintiff’s brief
argument primarily asserts that her failure to properly serve B&W was the
result of excusable neglect because she failed to include a suite number in the
service address. (Mot. p. 2.) Again, this argument speaks to the merits of the Motion
to Quash and not the circumstances surrounding the entry of the Court’s order.
Plaintiff makes no representation as to why she failed to oppose this motion
and why she failed to timely file a motion for reconsideration. 
 
As Plaintiff notes,
the general underlying purpose of C.C.P. § 473(b) is to promote the
determination of actions on their merits. (Even Zohar Construction
& Remodeling, Inc. v. Bellaire Townhouses, LLC (2015) 61 Cal.4th
830.) “[W]hen relief under section 473 is available, there is a strong public
policy in favor of granting relief and allowing the requesting party his or her
day in court.” (Cruz v. Fagor America, Inc. (2006) 146 Cal.App.4th 488,
495.) The Court’s discretion to vacate, however, “may be exercised only after
the party seeking relief has shown that there is a proper ground for relief,
and that the party has raised that ground in a procedurally proper manner,
within any applicable time limits.” (Id.) 
 
In essence, while the
bar to vacate a court order can often be low, a plaintiff must still make the
requisite showing of mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect to obtain
relief. The Court finds that Plaintiff has not done so here. As previously
stated, Plaintiff’s motions speak almost entirely to the merits of the Motion
for Undertaking and the Motion to Quash. These arguments are irrelevant to
Plaintiff’s motions for relief. Plaintiff is required to show through affidavit,
of herself or her counsel, that her failure to oppose the motions or
subsequently move for reconsideration was the result of mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect. Plaintiff has failed to do so. 
 
Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s motions to vacate the order for an undertaking and the order
quashing service are DENIED. 
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Yuqin Liu’s Motions to Set Aside came on
regularly for hearing on May 3, 2024, with appearances/submissions as noted in
the minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the
premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE
MOTION TO SET ASIDE THE COURT’S ORDER REQUIRING PLAINTIFF’S UNDERTAKING IS
DENIED. 
 
THE
MOTION TO SET ASIDE THE COURT’S ORDER QUASHING SERVICE OF SUMMONS ON BEVERLY HILLS NEW LIFE BEAUTY & WELLNESS IS DENIED.
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES
WAIVE NOTICE, PLAINTIFF TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
DATE: May
3, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles