 Case Number:  23BBCV01821    Hearing Date:   May 3, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
MAY 3, 2024

MOTION
TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSE

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV01821

 



MP:  


Cheryl Redden (Plaintiff) 




RP:  


Arnold Mooradian (Defendant) 



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Cheryl Redden
(Plaintiff) brings this action against Arnold Mooradian (Defendant). Plaintiff
alleges that she was injured by virtue of Defendant’s negligent operation of a
motor vehicle. 
 
Before the Court is Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Further Responses to her Form Interrogatories, Set One. Plaintiff
requests that further responses be compelled without objections. Plaintiff also
seeks sanctions in the amount of $1,750 and terminating sanctions against
Defendant. Defendant opposes the motion and Plaintiff replies. 
  
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                        
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
On
receipt of a response to interrogatories, the propounding party may move for an
order compelling a further response if the propounding party deems that the
responses contain: (1) answers that are evasive or incomplete, (2)¿an
unwarranted or insufficiently specific exercise of an option to produce
documents in lieu of a substantive response, or (3) unmerited or overly
generalized objections.  (C.C.P.
§¿2030.300(a).) The responding party has the burden of justifying the
objections thereto. (Coy v. Sup.Ct. (1962) 58 Cal.2d 210, 220-21.)
 
 
 
II.                       
MERITS 
 
Separate
Statement 
 
California
Rules of Court, Rule 3.1345(a) requires that a Motion to Compel Further
Responses be accompanied by a Separate Statement providing all the information
necessary to understand each discovery request and all the responses to it that
are at issue. (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1345(a)-(c). Plaintiff’s motion is
unaccompanied by such a Separate Statement, however C.C.P. § 2030.300(b)(2)
states the Court court “may allow a moving party to submit a concise outline of
the discovery request and each response in dispute.” 
 
In this
instance, the Court Plaintiff has outlined the discovery request in dispute
such that a Separate Statement is not needed. It is clear from Plaintiff’s
submissions that she only seeks further response to her Form Interrogatory No.
2.6. 
 
Gov. Code
§ 70617
 
The Court
finds Defendant’s argument that Plaintiff’s motion is not compliant with
Government Code § 70617 to be unpersuasive. The Court does not see how
Plaintiff’s motion is an improper combination of two separate sets of discovery
requests. Plaintiff seeks further response to a singular Form Interrogatory to
which Defendant has now rendered multiple responses. 
 
Discussion

 
Plaintiff
seeks further response to Form Interrogatory 2.6 which reads as follows: 
 
State: (a) the name, ADDRESS, and telephone
number of your present employer or place of self-employment; and (b) the name,
ADDRESS, dates of employment, job title, and nature of work for each employer
or self-employment you have had from five years before the INCIDENT until today.
(Aydin Decl., Exh. A.) 
 
Defendant’s
response to this interrogatory, after subsequent responses were rendered, is as
follows: 
 
Self employed. Owner/operator of gas station/car
wash on 3402 Foothill Blvd., La Crescenta, CA 91214. Over five years. (Aydin
Decl., Exh. B.) 
 
Responding party is not an “employee” of the gas
station located at 7101 Foothill Blvd., Tujunga, CA 91042, which is the gas
station near the subject accident. Furthermore, the gas station located at 3402
Foothill Blvd., La Crescenta, CA 91214 is owned and operated by Foothill
Petroleum, Inc. Responding Party is the President of Foothill Petroleum, Inc.
(Aydin Decl. Exh. G.) 
 
Plaintiff
contends the above response remains incomplete because it omits information
about the other gas stations Defendant owns. Plaintiff argues that Defendant
testified at his deposition that he is self-employed and owns several gas
stations. A review of the deposition testimony reveals that Defendant testified
he is self employed and owns a gas station at 3402 Foothill Blvd., La
Crescenta, CA 91214. (Exh. J, Mooradian Depo 9:19-11:7.) Defendant also testified
that he owns a gas station at 7101
Foothill Boulevard, Tujunga, California. (Id.) Defendant testified that
the La Crescenta gas station operates under the corporate name of Pinewood
Petrol (Pinewood). (Id.) 
 
The Court
finds Plaintiff’s argument that Defendant’s response to the interrogatory is
incomplete in light of his deposition testimony to be persuasive. Defendant’s
current response to the question identifies that he is self-employed as the President
of Foothill Petroleum, Inc (Foothill). Despite Defendant’s deposition testimony
that he owns a gas station which operates under Pinewood, he has provided no
information regarding his position with that company. While Defendant may not
be an employee of any individual gas station, it appears he does derive a
livelihood from his participation in both Foothill and Pinewood. Furthermore, self-employed
is an appropriate response for a non-business entity, such as a sole
proprietorship but not for a legal entity such as a corporation.   The Defendant may still be both an employee
of a corporation and its sole shareholder. 
As such, the Court views the Defendant an employee of Foothill
Petroleum, Inc. and any other legal entity for which he holds a position.  It follows that any answer to Form
Interrogatory 2.6 which omits information regarding Pinewood is incomplete. 
 
While not
explicitly stated, it appears that Defendant objects to further production on
grounds of relevance. Defendant argues that information regarding his ownership
of gas stations not in close proximity to the incident is irrelevant to this
action. 
 
For
discovery purposes, information is regarded as relevant “if it might reasonably
assist a party in evaluating the case, preparing for trial, or facilitating settlement
thereof.” (City of Los Angeles v. Superior Court (2017) 9 Cal.App.5th
272, 288.) The Court finds Defendant’s ownership of other companies, such as
Pinewood Petroleum, is relevant to Plaintiff’s assertion that Defendant was
acting within the scope of his employment during the time of the accident. The
relevance of Defendant’s employment information is not limited by the physical
proximity of any individual gas station to the incident. It stands to reason
that the incident could have occurred while Plaintiff was acting in his capacity
as the owner of any gas station, not just the one which is physically close to
the incident. It seems just as likely that Defendant was acting in his capacity
as President of Foothill as he was in his capacity as owner of Pinewood when
the collision occurred. 
 
In short,
the Court finds Plaintiff has sufficiently shown Defendant’s response to Form
Interrogatory 2.6 to be incomplete. While Defendant has provided information as
to Foothill, his responses are silent as to Pinewood despite his clear
involvement with the company. Further, Defendant’s objection on the grounds of
relevance is without merit. 
 
Accordingly,
the motion to compel further response to Plaintiff’s Form Interrogatory 2.6 is
GRANTED. 
 
Sanctions

 
The court shall impose a monetary sanction
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel a further response, unless it finds that the one subject to
the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances
make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (C.C.P. §¿2030.300(d).) 
 
Here, the Court finds Defendant has opposed this motion
without substantial justification. Defendant’s opposition consists primarily of
arguments along procedural lines which were ultimately unmerited. Further, the
Court finds Defendant’s objection of relevance was presented without
substantial argument.
 
The request for sanctions of $1,750 does not include a
breakdown of the hours and hourly rate that was expended.  As such, the Court awards sanctions in the
amount of one hour of attorney time at $350 per hour, plus the filing fee of
$60 for a total of $410. In the Court’s experience such an amount is consistent
with the effort involved in bringing a motion to compel further responses as to
a single discovery demand. Sanctions are granted against Defendant and his
counsel jointly and severally. 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Cheryl Redden’s
Motion to Compel Further Responses came on regularly
for hearing on May 3, 2024, with appearances/submissions as noted in the minute
order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the premises, did
then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE
MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSE TO PLAINTIFF’S FORM INTERROGATORY NO 2.6 IS
GRANTED. 
 
FURTHER
RESPONSE DUE WITHIN 30 DAYS.
 
SANCTIONS
ARE GRANTED IN THE AMOUNT OF $410 AS AGAINST DEFENDANT AND HIS COUNSEL JOINTLY
AND SEVERALLY. 
 
SANCTIONS
TO BE PAID WITHIN 30 DAYS. 
 
UNLESS
ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, PLAINTIFF TO GIVE NOTICE.  
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
May 3, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 