 Case Number:  22STLC08091    Hearing Date:   October 9, 2023    Dept:  26  
Steigleder v. Badalyans, et al.DEMURRER;
MOTION TO STRIKE(CCP §§ 430.31, et seq., 435, et seq.)
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Cross-Defendant
Peter Steigleder’s Demurrer to the First Amended Cross-Complaint is SUSTAINED             WITH 20 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
Cross-Defendant
Peter Steigleder’s Motion to Strike Portions of the First Amended Cross-Complaint
is PLACED OFF CALENDAR AS MOOT.
 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
Plaintiff Peter
Steigleder (“Cross-Defendant”) filed the instant action for breach of contract
and common counts against Defendant Garnik Badalyans (“Cross-Complainant”) on
December 6, 2022. Cross-Complainant filed a Cross-Complaint for breach of
contract, breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, and
fraud against Cross-Defendant, on January 20, 2023. 
 
On June 29,
2023, the Court sustained Cross-Defendant’s demurrer to the Cross-Complaint
with leave to amend. (Minute Order, 06/29/23.) Cross-Complainant filed the
First Amended Cross-Complaint on July 19, 2023.
 
Cross-Defendant
filed the instant Demurrer to, and Motion to Strike Portions of, the First
Amended Cross-Complaint on August 22, 2023. Cross-Complainant filed and served oppositions
on September 12, 2023 and Cross-Defendant replied on October 2, 2023. 
 
Discussion
 
Allegations in the Complaint and First Amended Cross-Complaint
 
The Complaint alleges that around May 22, 2021, the parties
entered into an oral agreement (the “Agreement”) for the sole benefit of
Cross-Complainant under which Cross-Defendant agreed to advance certain funds
for the cost of an environmental site assessment for the real property at 1767
Standard Avenue, Glendale, California (“the Property”). (Compl., ¶6.) In
exchange, Cross-Complainant agreed to timely reimburse Cross-Defendant upon
demand for the funds advanced. (Id. at ¶7.) Cross-Defendant made three
payments totaling $4,425.32 to Fulcrum Resources, Inc. for work done at the
Property. (Id. at ¶9.) On July 2, 2021, AdvancedGeo, Inc. proposed an
additional environmental site assessment at the Property and on July 8, 2021,
Cross-Defendant entered into an agreement with AdvancedGeo, Inc. to pay for its
work. (Id. at ¶¶10-11.) On July 24, 2021, Cross-Defendant paid
AdvancedGeo $3,105.00 for the work. (Id. at ¶12.) Despite numerous
demands, Cross-Complainant has not reimbursed Cross-Defendant for the payments.
(Id. at ¶13-16.)
 
The First Amended Cross-Complaint alleges that Cross-Defendant entered
into a written agreement to represent Cross-Complainant as a real estate agent.
(FACC, ¶3.) Cross-Defendant was aware Cross-Complainant was trying to refinance
the Property, and if the refinancing did not succeed, would sell the Property.
(Id. at ¶4.) Cross-Defendant promised to inform each potential buyer
that Cross-Complainant was trying to refinance so Cross-Complainant could pull
out of a pending sale with no obligations to the potential buyer. (Id.
at ¶5.) A potential buyer was identified but Cross-Complainant was able to
refinance the Property during the pendency of the sales transaction. (Id.
at ¶¶6-7.) Cross-Complainant informed Cross-Defendant that the pending sale
should be canceled but learned that Cross-Defendant had not informed the
potential buyer of the refinancing. (Id. at ¶¶7-8.) The potential buyer
was unwilling to cancel the purchase of the Property without compensation for
attorney’s fees and other losses. (Id. at ¶8.) Cross-Defendant falsely
represented that he would make potential buyers aware of the refinancing to
induce Cross-Complainant into signing the real estate representation agreement.
(Id. at ¶10.) Cross-Complainant reasonably relied on Cross-Defendant’s
representations to enter into the representation agreement and was
substantially damaged as a result. (Id. at ¶11.) Upon learning of the
false representation, Cross-Complainant elected to void the representation
agreement pursuant to Civil Code section 1689, subdivision (b)(1). (Id.
at ¶9.) 
 
The parties also entered into an oral contract that each would pay
for half of some expenses claimed by Cross-Defendant with a potential sale of
the property (Id. at ¶13.) Cross-Complainant
paid for half of the expenditures as agreed. (Id. at ¶¶14-15.) By filing
the Complaint in this action, Cross-Defendant breached the oral agreement and
caused Cross-Complainant damages. (Id. at ¶16.) Cross-Defendant’s false
representation that he would share some expenses breached the implied covenant
of good faith and fair dealing. (Id. at p. 5, ¶14.) 
 
Demurrer to First Amended Cross-Complaint
 
The First Amended Cross-Complaint alleges causes of action for (1)
fraudulent misrepresentation; (2) breach of contract; and (3) breach of the
implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing. Cross-Defendant demurs on
grounds of failure to allege facts sufficient to state a cause of
action, the sham pleading doctrine, and uncertainty. (Citing Code Civ. Proc., §
430.10, subds. (e) and (f).) The
Demurrer is accompanied by a meet and confer declaration that substantially
complies with Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41. (Demurrer, Thompson-Mann
Decl., Exh. 2.) The Court takes note of Cross-Cromplainant’s objection that the
meet and confer was not in-person or over the phone. However, Cross-Complainant
does not indicate any prejudice from the written meet and confer letter or
indicate that the meet and confer effort would have been successful otherwise.
Nor is non-compliance with the meet and confer statute grounds to overrule the
demurrer. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a)(4).)
 
1.      First Cause of Action for Fraud
 
Cross-Defendant
demurs to the first cause of action for fraudulent misrepresentation on the
grounds that it fails to allege sufficient facts under Code of Civil Procedure
section 430.10, subdivision (e). The elements of fraud are (1) misrepresentation;
(2) knowledge of falsity (or "scienter"); (3) intent to defraud
(induce reliance); (4) justifiable reliance; and (5) resulting damage. (Conroy
v. Regents of Univ. of Cal. (2009) 45 Cal. 4th 1244, 1255.) It is also
black letter law that fraud must be alleged with specificity, meaning that the pleadings
must allege facts as to “‘how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the
representations were tendered.”  (Stansfield
v. Starkey (1990) 220 Cal. App. 3d 59, 73.) The First Amended
Cross-Complaint does not allege any of these details about Cross-Defendant’s
alleged misrepresentation regarding informing potential buyers of
Cross-Complainant’s attempt to refinance the property. (See FACC, ¶5.) It
simply alleges that the promise to do so was made, but the manner in which the
promise was made, the date, location, and other relevant details are not
alleged. (See FACC, ¶5.) In opposition, Cross-Complainant does not address
where these specific facts are alleged in the First Amended Cross-Complaint.
(Opp., pp. 3:13-4:13.) The first cause of action, therefore, is not
sufficiently alleged as a fraud cause of action. 
 
To the extent Cross-Defendant also argues that
Cross-Complainant is improperly attempting to allege a breach of contract claim
as a tort, the Court declines to make such a finding. Cross-Defendant
previously alleged the same facts and sought to frame them as a breach of oral
contract cause of action. (See Cross-Compl., ¶¶1-11.) However, the alleged
conduct must amount to a breach of contract a party can be barred from alleging
it as a tort. (See Freeman & Mills, Inc. v. Belcher Oil Co. (1995)
11 Cal.4th 85, 95 [“[c]onduct amounting to a breach of contract
becomes tortious only when it also violates an independent duty” [emphasis
added].) According to Cross-Defendant, Cross-Complainant did not sufficiently
allege that this conduct amounted to a breach of contract. Therefore,
Cross-Complainant is not barred from seeking to frame it as a fraud cause of
action, assuming the fraud cause of action is sufficiently alleged. 
 
The demurrer to the
first cause of action is sustained.
 
2.      2nd Cause of Action for Breach of Oral
Contract
 
Cross-Defendant demurs to the second cause of action on the grounds that
it confusingly alleges two different oral contracts, making it unclear which
contract is at issue. The first oral contract concerns the parties’ agreement
to split expenses Cross-Defendant claimed with respect to the potential sale of
the Property. (FACC, ¶¶13-17.) The second contract is based on the earlier
allegations that Cross-Defendant misrepresented that he would inform potential
purchasers of the Property about the refinancing. (Id. at ¶¶19-22.) In
addition to alleging damages from these breaches, Plaintiff alleges rescission
of one or both contracts. (Id. at ¶18.) These remedies, however, cannot
be sought together; one must be alleged as an alternative to the other. (Alder
v. Drudis (1947) 30 Cal.2d 372, 381-382.) 
 
Again, the opposition does not
speak to why these two oral contracts are confusingly alleged together or how
the Court can discern which remedy is sought. (Opp., p. 4:5-16.) In light of
the allegations that improperly combine the breach of two separate agreements
into a single cause of action and seek remedies that cannot be sought together,
the demurrer to the second cause of action is also sustained.
 
3.       Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair
Dealing
 
Cross-Defendant’s demurrer to the third cause of action is based on the second
cause of action failing to state a cause of action. “[T]he duty of good faith
and fair dealing derives from and exists solely because of the contractual
relationship between the parties.” (Austero v. National Cas. Co. (1976)
62 Cal.App.3d 511, 515.) Cross-Defendant cannot be liable for breach of the
implied covenant if there are insufficient allegations of an existing contract.
(Ibid.) 
 
Therefore, the demurrer to the third cause of action for breach of the
implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing is also sustained.
 
Motion to Strike Portions of Cross-Complaint
 
Cross-Defendant moves to strike the allegations in support
of, and the request for, punitive damages. The allegations in relation to the
request for punitive damages are only available with respect to the cause of
action for fraud. (See Civ. Code, § 3294.) The Court having sustained Cross-Defendant’s
Demurrer to the fraud cause of action, the Motion to Strike is moot.
 
Leave to Amend
 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment, however, the
burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended
successfully. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) Cross-Complainant
was previously given a chance to amend and it remains that the causes of action
are insufficiently pled. However, Cross-Complainant requests another
opportunity to amend and the Court finds it possible for the fraud cause of
action to be alleged with the requisite specificity and for the breach of
contract cause of action to clarify the contract at issue and remedy sought. Therefore,
leave to amend is granted. 
 
Conclusion
 
Cross-Defendant
Peter Steigleder’s Demurrer to the First Amended Cross-Complaint is SUSTAINED             WITH 20 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
Cross-Defendant Peter
Steigleder’s Motion to Strike Portions of the First Amended Cross-Complaint is
PLACED OFF CALENDAR AS MOOT.
 
 
Moving party to give notice. 