 Case Number:  24VECV03765    Hearing Date:   November 20, 2024    Dept:  T 24VECV03765 MERCURY INSURANCE
COMPANY, ... vs CHRISTOPHER T BARONE
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Cross-Defendant Nairmac, Inc. dba Premier Coach
Auto Collision’s Special Motion to Strike the Cross-Complaint is GRANTED as to
the third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth, and tenth causes of
action.
Cross-Defendant Mercury Insurance
Company’s Joinder to the Special Motion to Strike is GRANTED.
The Cross-Complaint’s third, fourth,
fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth, and tenth causes of action as alleged
against Cross-Defendant Nairmac, Inc. dba Premier Coach Auto Collision and
Cross-Defendant Mercury Insurance Company are STRICKEN.  
Cross-Defendant Nairmac, Inc. dba Premier
Coach Auto Collision is DISMISSED WITH PREJUDICE from the Cross-Complaint.  
The First Amended Cross-Complaint is
STRICKEN in its entirety as to Cross-Defendant Nairmac, Inc. dba Premier Coach
Auto Collision.
The First Amended Cross-Complaint’s third,
fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth, and tenth causes of action is
STRICKEN as to Cross-Defendant Mercury Insurance Company.
Introduction 
Cross-Defendant Nairmac, Inc. dba Premier
Coach Auto Collision (Premier) specially moved to strike Cross-Complainants
Christopher T. Barone, Dragana Barone, and Diana Barone’s (collectively,
Barones) Cross-Complaint (XC).  The
Special Motion to Strike placed into issue the third COA for fraud, the fourth
COA for negligent misrepresentation, the fifth COA for intentional infliction
of emotional distress (IIED), the sixth COA for negligent infliction of
emotional distress (NIED), the seventh COA for conversion, the eighth COA for
violation of Business and Professions Code, section 17200 (UCL), the ninth COA
for declaratory relief, and the tenth COA for conspiracy.  
Cross-Defendant Mercury Insurance Company
(Mercury) requested joinder to Premier’s Special Motion.  However, the first COA for breach of
contract, the second COA for breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair
dealing, and the twelfth COA for breach of duty to defend/appoint independent
counsel are not at issue in the instant motion because they are only alleged
against Mercury.  Premier’s Special
Motion did not place into issue the first, second, and twelfth COAs. The first,
second, and twelfth COAs are excluded from Mercury’s joinder to Premier’s
Special Motion to Strike.  The Court did
not review the first, second, and twelfth COAs. 

The instant Special Motion to Strike also
did not place into issue the eleventh COA for professional negligence because
it is only alleged against Co-Cross-Defendant Shaver Korff & Castronovo LLP
(SKC).  
Premier further reserved their request for
attorneys’ fees and costs to be made in a separate motion.
Barones’ opposition was due November 6,
2024 and none was filed.
Procedure 
The Court noted that the Special Motion to
Strike was entered into the Court’s e-filing system on October 11, 2024 at 9:29
a.m.  Barones filed a First Amended
Cross-Complaint (FAXC) on the same day, October 11, 2024, at the public
counter.  The FAXC was entered into the
Court’s e-filing system on the same day at 4:12 p.m. The time entries show that
the Special Motion to Strike was entered first. 
Because the Special Motion to Strike was entered first, Barones’ filing
of the FAXC was improper to avoid the Special Motion to Strike.  (Salma v. Capon (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 1275,
1280.)  The Court reviewed the Special
Motion to Strike with the Cross-Complaint filed on August 15, 2024 being the
operative pleading.
Discussion 
The Special Motion to Strike is a two-step
process.  The moving party defendant has
the initial burden to show that the claims are based upon protected
activity.  (Code Civ. Proc., sec. 425.16;
Briganti v. Chow (2019) 42 Cal.App.5th 504, 508.)  If the initial burden is met, the burden
transfers to the opposing party plaintiff to show a probability of prevailing
on the claims.  (Id.)  Premier argued that the COAs alleged claims
that are protected activity because they were statements made in connection
with an issue under consideration or review by a judicial body.  (Code Civ. Proc., sec 425.16(e)(2).)  Barones alleged that Mercury/Premier made
false statements during the settlement negotiations in the underlying complaint
filed in the instant action; coerced Barones into a settlement; and initiated a
baseless lawsuit via the underlying complaint in this action.  Barones alleged that Mercury/Premier’s
underlying lawsuit sought to impose additional, unwritten conditions that were
never a part of the settlement agreement. 
(XC pars. 39, 64, 75, 85.)  The
fraud-based claims alleged that Mercury/Premier misrepresented the terms of the
proposed settlement.  (XC pars. 64, 72,
75, 76.)  The emotional distress claims
are grounded on Mercury/Premier’s alleged threats to file legal action and
filing a meritless lawsuit.  (XC par.
85.)    The conversion COA and the UCL
COA incorporated the allegations in the prior COAs.  (XC pars. 100 and 111.)  The Court finds Premier’s argument
persuasive.  Because Barones’ XC alleged
claims regarding the settlement agreement in the underlying complaint, the
statements upon which Barones base their claims are protected activity.  Premier met its initial burden as to the
third COA thru the tenth COA.  
The burden shifted to the Barones to show,
through admissible evidence, that the COAs have a probability of
prevailing.  Because Barones failed to
file an opposition, Barones failed to meet their burden.
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE NOTICE.
 