 Case Number:  23BBCV02097    Hearing Date:   April 26, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
APRIL 26,
2024

MOTION
TO STRIKE

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV02097

 



MP:  


GWH3,
  LLC.  (Defendant)  




RP:  


Lloyd Mosley (Plaintiff)



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Llyod
Mosely (Plaintiff) brings this action against GWH3, LLC. (Defendant) alleging
violation of his rights under California Civil Code § 51. Plaintiff alleges
that Defendant’s restaurant, located at 5342 Vineland Avenue in North
Hollywood, California, contains physical conditions which deny him equal access
to the facilities as a person who is quadriplegic. Plaintiff alleges that the
bathroom at the restaurant does not contain the required amount of grab bars
and that the toilet seat covers are placed in an inaccessible location. (FAC ¶
8.) Plaintiff’s FAC states causes of action for (1) Violation of California
Civil Code § 51 and (2) Violation of California Civil Code §§ 54 and 54.1. 
 
Defendant
now moves to strike Plaintiff’s request for injunctive relief. (FAC Prayer for
Relief ¶ 1.) Plaintiff specifically states in his FAC that his is not
seeking injunctive relief under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). Defendant
argues that injunctive relief is not permitted in an action brought solely
under California Civil Code § 51. Plaintiff opposes the motion and Defendant
replies. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.           
LEGAL STANDARD 
 
Motions to strike are used to reach
defects or objections to pleadings that are not challengeable by demurrer, such
as words, phrases, and prayers for damages. (See C.C.P. §§ 435, 436, and 437.)
The proper procedure to attack false allegations in a pleading is a motion to
strike. (C.C.P. § 436(a).) In granting a motion to strike made under C.C.P. §
435, “[t]he court may, upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435 [notice of
motion to strike whole or part of complaint], or at any time in its discretion,
and upon terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or
improper matter inserted in any pleading.” (C.C.P. § 436(a).) Irrelevant
matters include immaterial allegations that are not essential to the claim or
those not pertinent to or supported by an otherwise sufficient claim. (C.C.P. §
431.10.) The court may also “[s]trike out all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an
order of the court.” (C.C.P. § 436 (b).)
 
II.           
MERITS 
 
Meet and Confer 
 
C.C.P. § 435.5(a)
requires that the moving party meet and confer with the party who filed the
pleading that is subject to a motion to strike. Upon review the Court finds the
meet and confer requirements were met. (Sahelian Decl. ¶ 3.) 
 
Motion to Strike
 
Defendant moves to
strike Plaintiff’s request for injunctive relief in the Complaint. Defendant
argues that Plaintiff’s claim for injunctive relief should be struck because
the type of relief it requests is barred by California Civil Code (Cal. Civ
Code) § 52. Defendant reasons that because Plaintiff does not state any causes
of action under the Americans with Disabilities Act, his claims for injunctive
relief must be predicated on the Unruh Civil Rights Act (Unruh). While the
Court agrees that Plaintiff’s request for injunctive relief must derive from
Unruh, it disagrees that Cal. Civ. Code § 52 functions to limit the type of
injunctive relief requested. 
 
Cal. Civ. Code § 52
provides the remedies that may be imposed for a violation of the Unruh Act.
Civil Code § 52(c)(3) provides that a complaint under the act must include: 
 
A request for preventive relief, including an
application for a permanent or temporary injunction, restraining order, or
other order against the person or persons responsible for the conduct, as the
complainant deems necessary to ensure the full enjoyment of the rights described
in this section.
 
The Court notes that
Cal. Civ. Code §52(c) does not define preventive relief. As a result,
Defendant cites to Cal. Civ. Code § 3368 which defines preventive relief as
“prohibiting a party from doing that which ought not to be done.” Defendant
contrasts this definition with the California Supreme Court definition of mandatory
relief. “As a general rule, we think we may say that when the injunction
merely grants preventive relief it is prohibitive, but when it
directly or indirectly grants affirmative relief it is mandatory.”
(Ohaver v. Fenech (1928) 206 Cal. 118, 122; see also Davenport v.
Blue Cross of California (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 435, 446-447 [“[T]he general
rule is that an injunction is prohibitory if it requires a person to refrain
from a particular act and mandatory if it compels performance of an affirmative
act that changes the position of the parties.”].)
 
In short, injunctions
which seek to prohibit illegal conduct are deemed prohibitive/preventive while
injunctions which seek to require affirmative action from the defendant are
deemed affirmative/mandatory. This is a distinction derived from common law that
the California Supreme Court has subsequently enshrined in case law. (See Daly
v. San Bernardino County Bd. of Supervisors (2021) 11 Cal.5th
1030 [“…courts have understood the default statutory rule governing stays
pending appeal to apply to some injunctive orders but not others, embracing a
common law distinction between prohibitory, or preventive, injunctions and
those mandating performance of an affirmative act.”].) 
 
The Court finds that
the employment of the word preventive in Civil Code § 52(c)(3) was intended by
the Legislature to limit the availability of injunctive relief requiring
affirmative acts. If a word or phrase has a particular meaning in one part of
the law, the court will give it the same meaning in other parts of the law. (Scottsdale
Ins. Co. v. State Farm Mutual Automobile Ins. Co. (2005) 130 Cal.App.4th
890, 899; see also Balasubramanian v. San Diego Community College Dist.
(2000) 80 Cal.App.4th 977, 988 [“We must construe identical words in different
parts of the same act or in different statutes relating to the same subject
matter as having the same meaning.”].) Cal. Civ. Code § 3368 is a general
statute which was enacted in 1872 outlining the tenets of injunctive relief. In
instances where a specific statute does not define a term, the Court must look
to the general statute for guidance in interpreting the legislative intent
behind the use of that term. Here, the use of the term preventive in Cal. Civ.
Code § 52 is undefined and thus its meaning is guided by the definition in the
general statute dealing with injunctive relief, Cal. Civ. Code § 3368. 
 
Further, in analyzing
legislative intent the Court generally presumes the Legislature had knowledge
of the legal principles and decisions relevant to the legislation. (See Mattco
Forge Inc. v. Arthur Young & Co. (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 820, 854 [“It is
generally accepted principle that in adopting legislation the Legislature is
presumed to have knowledge of existing domestic judicial decisions and to have
enacted and amended statutes in the light of such decisions as have a direct
bearing upon them.”].) Here, the Court presumes the Legislature was aware of
the general principles of common law governing injunctions and the Supreme
Court decisions which have implemented those principles. Viewed under this
lens, it is logical to conclude that the Legislature purposefully employed the
word preventive to mean injunctive relief which does not require affirmative
acts on behalf of the enjoined party. 
 
In applying the above
reasoning to this case, the Court finds the injunctive relief requested by the Complaint
to be improper. Plaintiff cedes that he is not requesting injunctive relief
pursuant to any provision of the ADA. (FAC Prayer for
Relief ¶ 1.) Plaintiff’s prayer for injunctive relief seeks to enjoin
Defendant from “further violations of the ADA”. Given that the violations
alleged are physical fixtures in Defendant’s bathroom facilities, Plaintiff’s
request would require Defendant to affirmatively alter the property. As claims
made solely under Cal. Civ. Code § 52 cannot seek preventive relief, the Court
finds Plaintiff’s request should be struck. 
 
Accordingly,
the motion to strike is GRANTED without leave to amend.
 
Reclassification

 
Actions in which the
amount in controversy is $25,000 or less are classified as limited jurisdiction
cases. (C.C.P. § 86(a)(1).) The court may order a case reclassified as a
limited civil case upon finding to a legal certainty that a judgment over
$25,000 cannot be obtained. (C.C.P. §§ 396, 403.040(a).) A court on its own
motion cannot reclassify an unlimited civil case to a limited civil case,
without notice and without giving the opposing party an opportunity to contest
the reclassification with evidence. (Stern v. Superior Court (2003)
105 Cal.App.4th 223, 232.) Evidence in making a determination of reclassification
can include the complaint, arbitration awards and a settlement recommendation.
(Id. at 233.) Without sufficient evidence as to the value of the case,
where the allegations of the complaint preclude a finding that the verdict will
“necessarily” fall short of the $25,001 jurisdictional requirement, a
reclassification order may be an abuse of discretion. (Id.) 
 
Plaintiff’s request
for injunctive relief having been struck, the only remaining claims for relief
in the Complaint are those for statutory damages. Plaintiff’s claims total
damages of $8,000, which falls below the minimum threshold of $25,000 for an
unlimited civil action. Cal. Civ. Code § 52(a) authorizes statutory damages no
less than $4,000 for each occurrence. Reviewing the Complaint, Plaintiff only
alleges a single occurrence in which Defendant violated Unruh. Plaintiff
alleges no actual damages suffered as a result of this violation. Given the
allegations of the Complaint, the Court finds any verdict rendered would
necessarily fall short of the $25,001 jurisdictional requirement. (See Stern
v. Superior Court (2003) 105 Cal.App.4th 223, 230.)
 
Accordingly, the
Court orders the matter reclassified as a limited civil matter. The case is
referred to the Clerk’s Office for reclassification. 
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
GWH3, LLC.’s Motion to Strike came on regularly for hearing on April 26, 2024 with
appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the
court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as
follows: 
 
THE MOTION TO STRIKE IS GRANTED WITHOUT LEAVE TO
AMEND. 
 
THE COURT ORDERS THE CASE RECLASSIFIED AS
LIMITED CIVIL AND REFERS THE CASE TO THE CLERK’S OFFICE FOR RECLASSIFICATION. 
 
UNLESS
ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, DEFENDANT TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
April 26, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M. TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 