 Case Number:  23BBCV02952    Hearing Date:   April 26, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
APRIL 26, 2024

MOTION
TO COMPEL ARBITRATION

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV02952

 



MP:  


Tesla, Inc. (Defendant)




RP:  


Armen Elvis Sahakian (Plaintiff)



 
NOTICE:
 
The Court is not requesting oral argument on this
matter.  Pursuant to California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) notice
of intent to appear is required.  Unless the Court directs argument in the
Tentative Ruling, no argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies all
other parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of
the party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will
become the ruling of the court if no notice of intent to appear is received.”  

 
Notice may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org
or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Armen Elvis Sahakian (Plaintiff)
filed suit against Tesla, Inc. (Tesla). Plaintiff alleges Tesla violated
certain provisions of Civil Code § 1791.2, commonly known as the Song Beverly
Act.
 
Tesla now moves to
compel Plaintiff’s claims to arbitration. Plaintiff opposes the motion and
Tesla replies. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
C.C.P. §
1281.2 states: “[o]n petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging
the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a
party thereto refuses to arbitrate such controversy, the court shall order the
petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines
that an agreement arbitrate the controversy exists.” 
 
A party
seeking to compel arbitration has the initial burden to prove, by a
preponderance of the evidence, the existence of a valid and enforceable
arbitration agreement. (Engalla v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997)
15 Cal.4th 951, 972.) If the moving party has met its initial burden, then the
burden shifts to respondents to prove the falsity or unenforceability of the
arbitration agreement. (Id.) 
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Existence
of Agreement
 
Plaintiff
does not dispute that a valid arbitration agreement exists between himself and
Tesla. It appears that there are two arbitration provisions accompanying
Tesla’s motion to compel. The first arbitration agreement is contained in the Motor
Vehicle Order Agreement (MVOA). Tesla states that Plaintiff, as with everyone
else who purchases a vehicle from Tesla online, signed and submitted a MVOA as
part of the online ordering process. (Kim Decl. ¶ 4, Exh. 1.) Plaintiff
does not dispute that he signed this agreement as part of his purchase. The
arbitration provision in the MOVO reads as follows: 
 
Please carefully read this provision, which
applies to any dispute between you and Tesla, Inc. and its affiliates,
(together “Tesla”). If you have a concern or dispute, please send a written
notice describing it and your desired resolution to resolutions@tesla.com. If
not resolved within 60 days, you agree that any dispute arising out of or
relating to any aspect of the relationship between you and Tesla will not be
decided by a judge or jury but instead by a single arbitrator in an arbitration
administered by the American Arbitration Association (AAA) under its Consumer
Arbitration Rules. This includes claims arising before this Agreement, such as
claims related to statements about our products. We will pay all AAA fees for
any arbitration, which will be held in the city or county of your residence. To
learn more about the Rules and how to begin an arbitration, you may call any
AAA office or go to www.adr.org. The arbitrator may only resolve disputes
between you and Tesla, and may not consolidate claims without the consent of
all parties. The arbitrator cannot hear class or representative claims or
requests for relief on behalf of others purchasing or leasing Tesla vehicles.
In other words, you and Tesla may bring claims against the other only in your
or its individual capacity and not as a plaintiffs or class member in any class
or representative action. If a court or arbitrator decides that any part of
this agreement to arbitrate cannot be enforced as to a particular claim for
relief or remedy, then that claim or remedy (and only that claim or remedy)
must be brought in court and any other claims must be arbitrated. 
 
If you prefer, you may instead take an
individual dispute to small claims court. You may opt out of arbitration within
30 days after signing this Agreement by sending a letter to: Tesla, Inc.; P.O.
Box 15430; Fremont, CA 94539-7970, stating your name, Vehicle Identification
Number, and intent to opt out of the arbitration provision. If you do not opt
out, this agreement to arbitrate overrides any different arbitration agreement
between us, including any arbitration agreement in a lease or finance contract.
 
Plaintiff
also appears to have executed a Lease Agreement (Lease) shortly before delivery
of the vehicle. (Kim Decl. ¶ 8, Exh. 2.) The Lease contains an arbitration
agreement which appears to be identical to that in the MVOA. Plaintiff also
does not dispute having signed this agreement. 
 
As Tesla
has demonstrated the existence of a valid agreement, the burden therefore
shifts to Plaintiff to demonstrate the falsity or unenforceability of the
agreement. Plaintiff’s opposition contends that the agreement in the MVOA is
unenforceable as it is both procedurally and substantively unconscionable. 
 
Procedural
Unconscionability 
 
Procedural
unconscionability focuses on the oppression or surprise due to unequal
bargaining power between the parties generally demonstrated by a contract of
adhesion which is “imposed and drafted by the party of superior bargaining
strength, relegates to the subscribing party only the opportunity to adhere to
the contract or reject it.” (Nyulassy v. Lockheed Martin Corp. (2004)
120 Cal.App.4th 1267, 1280-1281 [internal quotations omitted].) Here, Plaintiff
argues that the MVOA is procedurally unconscionable because it is a contract of
adhesion which left Plaintiff no choice but to accept if he wanted a vehicle
from Tesla.  
 
When a
contract is an adhesion contract, imposed and drafted by the party with
superior bargaining power, the adhesive nature of the contract is evidence of
some degree of procedural unconscionability. (Sanchez v Carmax Auto
Superstores Cal., LLC (2014) 224 CA 4th 398, 403.) However, this fact alone
is insufficient to make an agreement unconscionable. (Diaz v Sohnen Enters.
(2019) 34 CA 5th 126, 132.) When there is no other indication of oppression or
surprise, the degree of procedural unconscionability of an adhesion agreement
is low, and it will be enforceable unless the degree of substantive
unconscionability is high. (Ajamian v CantorCo2e, L.P. (2012) 203 CA 4th
771, 796.) 
 
Here, the contract between Plaintiff
and Tesla may be considered one of adhesion; however, while Plaintiff may be
obligated to sign it without negotiation, Plaintiff also has the right to
subsequently opt out of the agreement up to 30 days afterwards. The MVOA is presented
electronically and without meaningful opportunity to bargain the terms, only
allowing a potential buyer to consent via agreeing to the terms and conditions.
(Kim Decl. ¶ 4.) Regardless, the Court finds the MVOA is devoid of the other
factors which would result in a high degree of procedural unconscionability. As
the court in Ajamian made clear, there must be other showings of
oppression or surprise by Plaintiff. 
 
The Court finds it useful
to contrast the agreement here with one cited by Plaintiff, Sanchez v.
Valencia Holding Co., LLC (2015) 61 Cal.4th 899. Plaintiff references Sanchez
as supporting their argument for procedural unconscionability, but the
Court finds Sanchez to be factually inapposite. In Sanchez, the
contract at issue was printed on a single page which was 26 inches long. (Sanchez
supra, 61 Cal.4th. at 908.) The contract was covered in different
provisions which were printed on the front and the back, but only the front had
signature blocks. (Id.) The arbitration agreement was located on the
back at the bottom, as far away from notice as it could possibly be. (Id.)
Here, the link to the MVOA was presented in bold font on the order page and
displayed via hyperlink. (Kim Decl. ¶ 4.) The MVOA itself is presented as
an electronic document with the arbitration provisions clearly marked in the
center of the document. (Kim Decl. Exh. 1, p. 3.) The arbitration provision is
further highlighted by virtue of being surrounded by a box and having its
heading bolded. (Id.) 
 
While Plaintiff is correct
that the MVOA is a contract of adhesion, the Court finds this fact only
demonstrates a slight amount of procedural unconscionability. Accordingly,
Plaintiff must demonstrate substantial substantive unconscionability in order
to defeat Tesla’s motion.
 
Substantive
Unconscionability 
 
Substantive
unconscionability pertains to the fairness of an agreement’s actual terms and
to an assessment of whether these terms are overly harsh or one-sided. (OTO,
L.L.C. v. Kho supra at 129.) A term is not substantively
unconscionable when it merely gives one party a greater benefit; instead, it
must be so one-sided as to “shock the conscience.” (Pinnacle Museum Tower
Ass'n v Pinnacle Mktg. Dev. (US), LLC (2012) 55 CA 4th 223, 246.) 
 
Plaintiff
argues that the arbitration provisions require AAA with no alternative and
therefore are substantively unconscionable. An arbitration agreement is
generally enforceable, if it (1) provides for neutral arbitrators, (2) provides
for more than minimal discovery, (3) requires a written award, (4) provides for
all of the types of relief that would otherwise be available in court, and (5)
does not require the parties to pay unreasonable costs and fees as a condition
of access to an arbitration forum. (See Armendariz v. Foundation Health
Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 102.)
 
Plaintiff’s
argues that by requiring him to submit to the AAA rules, the agreement inherently
favors Tesla. Plaintiff states that the AAA rules (1) do not provide choice of
an arbitrator and (2) provide for inadequate discovery. Plaintiff’s argument
particularly focuses on AAA Rules Rule 22, which limit discovery and preclude
the taking of any depositions. (See Oppo. Exh. A.) 
 
As
concerns discovery limitations, the Court finds that limiting discovery is not
inherently unconscionable. While it is true that California courts have
recognized that “adequate” discovery is indispensable for the vindication of
statutory claims (Fitz v. NCR Corp. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 702, 715), “adequate”
does not mean “unfettered” or unlimited. (Armendariz, supra, 24 Cal.4th
at pp. 105-106; Mercuro v. Superior Court (2002) 96 Cal.App.4th 167,
184; Torrecillas v. Fitness International, LLC (2020) 52 Cal.App.5th
85.) Plaintiff’s primary contention is that he will not be able to vindicate his
statutory claims without conducting depositions of Tesla employees. Plaintiff
argues that deposition of Tesla’s service technicians is needed to determine
(1) Tesla’s process for restitution to buyers, (2) Tesla’s repurchase policies,
(3) if there was any independent investigation of the Subject Vehicle, (4) if
there were safety recalls, (5) the repair history of the Subject Vehicle, and (6)
Tesla’s knowledge pertaining to defects. Having reviewed these categories, it
appears that much of the information could be obtained through written
discovery, which Rule22 permits. Plaintiff presents no argument as to why this
information must be obtained through deposition, when most if not all of
these matters could be attested to by documentary evidence. 
 
Further,
the Court finds that the limitation on discovery and the restriction on the
ability to choose an arbitrator are not substantively unconscionable because
they apply equally to both sides. If the AAA rules prohibited only Plaintiff
from choosing an arbitrator or from participating in discovery, such rules
would indeed be so one-sided as to shock the conscience. However, the AAA rules
are binding on both parties to the MVOA, restricting Tesla’s access to discovery
and ability to choose an arbitrator equally.  
 
Lastly,
the Court finds Plaintiff’s argument that the AAA rules inherently favor Tesla unpersuasive.
An arbitration agreement is unconscionable unless there is a modicum of
bilaterality in the arbitration remedy; parties are free to contract for
asymmetrical remedies and arbitration clauses of varying scope, but the
doctrine of unconscionability limits the extent to which a stronger party may,
through a contract of adhesion, impose the arbitration forum on the weaker
party without accepting that forum for itself. (Flores v. Transamerica
HomeFirst, Inc. (2001) 93 Cal.App.4th 846, 854.) A contract term is not
substantively unconscionable when it merely gives one side a greater benefit;
rather, the term must be so one-sided as to shock the conscience. (Lane v.
Francis Capital Management LLC (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 676, 692 [internal
citation omitted].) 
 
Here, the
Court does not find any advantage conferred on Tesla to be so one-sided as to
shock the conscience. Tesla presumably included the AAA arbitration provision
because it was in some way preferable to them. The same is true of almost every
arbitration agreement. A party would not seek to arbitrate claims if the
arbitration process was not in some way preferable to a full court trial.
Plaintiff’s logic would indicate that any arbitration agreement which elects
the AAA is substantively unconscionable, which is clearly not the case.  Unlike other arbitration agreements with
substantively problematic provisions, the Tesla agreement does not require
Plaintiff to travel to another state to arbitrate, does not apply the law of
any state besides California, does not contain its own internal statute of
limitations, does not require Plaintiff to advance the costs of the arbitrator,
and does not contain a limitation of remedies provision preventing Plaintiff
from obtaining a refund or a civil penalty or their attorney’s fees if they
prevail. Those types of provisions, where present, raise the substantive
unconscionability level above the Court's threshold for finding an arbitration
agreement unenforceable.
 
Conclusion

 
The Court
finds that Tesla has provided adequate evidence of a valid arbitration
agreement between itself and Plaintiff. While Plaintiff has shown a modicum of
procedural unconscionability, via a contract of adhesion, he has not shown the
substantial substantive unconscionability required to avoid enforcement of the
agreement.
 
Accordingly,
the motion to compel arbitration is GRANTED.  
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Tesla Inc.’s Motion to
Compel Arbitration came on regularly for hearing on April
26, 2024, with appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said
hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there
rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION IS GRANTED.
 
THE COURT SETS A STATUS CONFERENCE RE
ARBITRATION FOR JANUARY 8, 2025 AT 9:00 A.M.
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, TESLA TO GIVE
NOTICE.  
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
April 26, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 