  Case Number:  22BBCV01209    Hearing Date:   April 26, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
APRIL 26, 2024

DEMURRER


Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 22BCV01209

 



MP:  


Laurel Canyon Collection, Inc.
  (Defendant)




RP:  


Mehrin May (Plaintiff)



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Mehrin May (Plaintiff) brings this action agaisnt Soheil Kashani,
Cassandra Yekani, and Laurel Canyon Collection, Inc. (Laurel Canyon) (collectively
Defendants). Laurel Canyon serves as the Home Owner’s Association (HOA) for
properties owned by Plaintiff, Kashani, and Yekani. Plaintiff alleges Laurel
Canyon failed to soundproof the floors in various units. Plaintiff alleges that
this has resulted in significant noise from adjacent properties in violation of
her quiet enjoyment. 
 
The Complaint contains causes
of action for (1) Private Nuisance (as against Kashani and Yekani), (2)
Negligence (as to all Defendants), (3) Injunction (as to all Defendants), (4)
Damages (as to all Defendants), and (5) Breach of Contract (as to all
Defendants). 
 
Laurel Canyon now demurs to
each cause of action stated against them, arguing that each fails to allege
sufficient fact. Laurel Canyon also demurs to the entire Complaint on grounds
that Plaintiff failed to pursue arbitration prior to litigation as required by
the Davis Stirling Act. Plaintiff opposes and Laurel Canyon replies. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
 
Demurrer
 
The grounds for a demurrer must appear on the
face of the pleading or from judicially noticeable matters. (C.C.P. §
430.30(a); Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) A demurrer for
sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) The only issue involved in a
demurrer hearing is whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Id.)
 
A demurrer assumes the truth of all factual,
material allegations properly pled in the challenged pleading. (Blank v.
Kirwan, supra, 39 Cal. 3d at 318.) No matter how unlikely or improbable,
the plaintiff’s allegations must be accepted as true for the purpose of ruling
on the demurrer. (Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981)
123 Cal.  App. 3d 593, 604.) But this does not include contentions;
deductions; conclusions of fact or law alleged in the complaint; facts
impossible in law; or allegations contrary to facts of which a court may take
judicial notice.  (Blank, supra, 39 Cal. 3d at 318.)
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure (“C.C.P.”) §§
430.10(e) and (f), the party against whom a complaint has been filed may demur
to the pleading on the grounds that the pleading does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action, or that the pleading is uncertain,
ambiguous and/or unintelligible. It is an abuse of discretion to sustain a
demurrer without leave to amend if there is a reasonable probability that the
defect can be cured by amendment. (Schifando v. City of Los Angeles
(2003) 31 Cal. 4th 1074, 1082.)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Meet and Confer 
 
C.C.P. §§ 430.41(a) requires that the moving party meet
and confer with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to the
demurrer. Upon review the Court finds the meet and confer requirements were not
met. Laurel Canyon submits no declaration attesting to informal attempts to
meet and confer prior to this motion. Regardless, failure to meet and confer is
not grounds to overrule or sustain a demurrer. (C.C.P. § 430.1(a)(4).) While
the Court could continue this matter and order the parties meet and confer, it
finds to do so would only delay the litigation further.  However, the moving party is admonished to
comply with the meet and confer process in the future.
 
Davis Stirling Act ADR Requirements 
 
The Court first addresses the argument that
Plaintiff’s entire Complaint is subject to demurrer as a result of her failure
to comply with the Alternative Dispute Resolution requirements of the Davis
Stirling Act. In order to render its analysis, the Court must first outline the
relevant statutory provisions. 
 
Cal. Civ. Code § 5930 sets forth requirements
for litigants seeking to file enforcement actions. The section provides in
relevant part: 
 
(a)
An association or a member may not file an enforcement action in the superior
court unless the parties have endeavored to submit their dispute to alternative
dispute resolution pursuant to this article.
 
(b)
This section applies only to an enforcement action that is solely for
declaratory, injunctive, or writ relief, or for that relief in conjunction with
a claim for monetary damages not in excess of the jurisdictional limits stated
in Sections 116.220 and 116.221 of the Code of Civil Procedure.
 
The Court finds the requirements of Cal. Civ.
Code § 5930 to be inapplicable to this action. Plaintiff’s Complaint requests
both injunctive relief and damages in excess of $25,000. This would render the
action outside of Cal. Civ. Code § 5930(b) which provides that alternative
dispute resolution is only required where the claim is solely for injunctive
relief or for damages not exceeding the jurisdictional limit of Small Claims
Court. 
 
Second
COA – Negligence – Sustained with Leave to Amend
 
In order
to state a claim for negligence, Plaintiff must allege the elements of (1) “the
existence of a legal duty of care,” (2) “breach of that duty,” and (3)
“proximate cause resulting in an injury.” (McIntyre
v. Colonies-Pacific, LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 664, 671.)
 
The Court
finds the facts in the Complaint are insufficient to allege a duty owed to
Plaintiff by Laurel Canyon. Plaintiff’s Complaint is completely silent as to
any duty owed to Plaintiff. There are no allegations that this duty is owed by
virtue of common law, contract, or special relationship. To the extent that
Plaintiff believes a duty is created by the Declaration of Covenants,
Conditions & Restrictions (CC&R’s), the Complaint does not identify
which provisions do so. Plaintiff attaches the CC&R’s to the Complaint but
does not reference them outside of her Breach of Contract Action. 
 
The
CC&R’s which are referenced in the Breach of Contract action are Articles
3.03(b) & (c) and 15.04(b). Article 3.03 provides: 
 
(b) An Occupant may not cause the level of noise
or sound from the Unit to interfere with the quiet enjoyment of an Occupant of
a Unit within the Project (i.e., loud music or television, shouting, slamming
of doors, and other such actions.) 
 
(c) The Board shall have the right to determine
if any unreasonable action, odor, noise or other conduct constitutes a
nuisance, and to appropriately deal with the situation. Each Owner shall be
accountable to the Association and other Owners for the conduct and behavior of
Occupants of the Unit.
 
(d) Each Owner shall be liable for any damage to the Common Area
property of the Association, or property of another Owner, caused by such
Occupant shall be repaired at the sole expense of the Owner of that Unit.
 
Article
15.04(b) provides that the HOA Board may: 
 
Impose a monetary penalty on any Owner in such
amounts as determined by the Board and as more fully described in a schedule of
monetary penalties set forth in the Rules and Regulations adopted and amended
by the Board, for the failure to comply with and/or for any violation of the
Governing Documents committed by such Owner, or such Owner's guests, servants,
family members, tenants or invitees.
 
Plaintiff
points to these two provisions in her opposition as establishing a duty. This
is unpersuasive for two reasons. First, these articles are not incorporated
into Plaintiff’s claim for Negligence and only appear later in the Complaint.
Laurel Canyon cannot be required to presume that the duty owed under the
Negligence cause of action is derived from the factual pleadings in an entirely
different and unincorporated cause of action. 
 
Second, nothing
in the text of these articles established that Laurel Canyon owes Plaintiff a
duty to mitigate noises in the apartment complex. The articles merely state
that Laurel Canyon has the right to determine if an action constitutes a
nuisance and that each owner is responsible to other occupants for any nuisance
that occurs. 
 
The Court
also notes that duties based on CC&R’s have been held to relate to contract
claims and not negligence claims. In Martin v. Bridgeport, the
tenants of a unit within an HOA sued the HOA premised on duties the HOA owed to
the owner under the HOA's governing documents and the Davis-Stirling Act. (Martin v. Bridgeport Community Assn., Inc. (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 1024.) Specifically, the plaintiffs alleged the HOA
had breached its duties by “improper use and maintenance of the watering
system, which caused water damage to the property.” (Id. at 1037.) The
court sustained the demurrer as to the Negligence cause of action on the
grounds that “The duty they pleaded as being breached, however, was [the HOA’s]
duty to maintain the common grounds. That duty arises out of the Davis-Stirling
Act and the CC & Rs, not out of common law principles of negligence. Thus,
as we previously concluded, it is a duty owed only to members of [the HOA],
i.e., the owners." (Id. at 1037)
 
Here,
Plaintiff’s allegations are sparser than those in Martin. Plaintiff does
not allege damage to common areas and does not point to any provision of the
CC&R’s which create a duty owed to Plaintiff for purposes of common law
negligence. 
 
Accordingly,
the demurrer to the second cause of action is SUSTAINED with 20 days’ leave to
amend. 
 
Third &
Fourth COA - -Sustained with Leave to Amend 
 
Laurel
Canyon’s arguments, that these causes of action are prayers for relief and not
proper causes of action. Plaintiff asks in her opposition that she be granted
leave to amend these causes of action. It is not clear whether Plaintiff is
conceding to the merits of Laurel Canyon’s demurrer in making this request,
though the Court notes that no other argument is presented. Regardless, the
Court will SUSTAIN the demurrer to both of these causes of action with leave to
amend. The Court notes that Laurel Canyon’s arguments appear persuasive. Should
Plaintiff choose to retain these causes of action she should be prepared to
defend them on subsequent demurrer.
Fifth COA
-Breach of Contract – Sustained with Leave 
 
To state
a cause of action for breach of contract, Plaintiff must be able to establish
“(1) the existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for
nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damages to the
plaintiff.” (Oasis West Realty, LLC v.
Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811, 821.)
 
The Court
finds the Complaint contains insufficient facts to allege a breach of the
CC&R’s by Laurel Canyon. As previously mentioned, Plaintiff’s claim of
breach is based on Article 3.03 of the CC&R’s. The Court does not see which
provision of Article 3.03 creates an affirmative duty owed by Laurel Canyon to prevent
any and all nuisances in the complex. Again, the Article states that Laurel
Canyon has the right to determine nuisance, but it says nothing about a responsibility
to ensure they do not occur.  Further,
Plaintiff’s allegations referring to Article 15.04 appear confusing. Plaintiff
alleges “When a landlord is not in compliance with Articles in the CC&Rs,
Article 15.04(b) permits the HOA to levy fines.” This is simply untrue given
the text of Article 15.04. Article 15.04 explicitly refers to fines which can
be levied by the Board, Laurel Canyon, on owners. There is no reference to a
landlord or fines which can be imposed on Laurel Canyon itself. Further,
Article 15.04 appears entirely permissive, meaning it only enables Laurel
Canyon to levy fines and does not require it. 
 
Accordingly,
the demurrer to this cause of action is SUSTAINED with 20 days’ leave to amend.

 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Laurel Canyon
Collection, Inc.’s Demurrer came on regularly for
hearing on April 26, 2024, with appearances/submissions as noted in the minute
order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the premises, did
then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE
DEMURRER TO THE SECOND, TIRD, FOURTH, AND FIFTH CAUSES OF ACTION IS SUSTAINED
WITH 20 DAYS’ LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
THE CASE
MANAGEMENT CONFERENCE SET FOR APRIL 26, 2024 IS CONTINUED TO AUGUST 26, 2024 AT
9:00 A.M. 
 
UNLESS
ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, LAUREL CANYON TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
April 26, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 