 Case Number:  23BBCV02033    Hearing Date:   April 26, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
APRIL 26,
2024

DEMURRER


Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV02033

 
MP:     Pacifica of the Valley Corporation and
Pacifica Hospital of the Valley (Defendants)
 
RP:     Marisol Sanchez, Maria Jose Sanchez, & Guadalupe
Selene Sanchez, as individuals and successors in interest to Jose Sanchez (Plaintiffs)

 
NOTICE:
 

The Court
is not requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice
may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818)
260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Marisol Sanchez, Maria Jose Sanchez, &
Guadalupe Selene Sanchez, as individuals and successors in interest to Jose
Sanchez (collectively Plaintiffs) bring this action against Pacifica of the
Valley Corporation, Pacifica Hospital of the Valley (collectively Pacifica), Woody
Herman Jackson, M.D., Mehboob Ali Makhani, M.D., Edmond Melikterminas, M.D., and
Farsheed Nikbakht, M.D. (collectively Defendants).  Plaintiffs allege that Defendants failed to assess and address the medical
condition and needs of Jose Sanchez (Decedent)
when he was admitted to Pacifica on July 21, 2022, resulting in his death. 
 
On January 5, 2024, the Court sustained
Pacifica’s demurrer to Plaintiffs’ cause of action for Elder Abuse with leave
to amend. Pacifica now demurs to same cause of action in Plaintiffs’ First
Amended Complaint (FAC), arguing that the amendments have not cured the insufficient
factual allegations. Plaintiffs oppose and Pacifica replies. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARDS
 
The grounds for a demurrer must appear on the
face of the pleading or from judicially noticeable matters. (C.C.P. §
430.30(a); Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal. 3d 311, 318.) A demurrer for
sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) The only issue involved in a
demurrer hearing is whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Id.)
 
A demurrer assumes the truth of all factual,
material allegations properly pled in the challenged pleading. (Blank v.
Kirwan, supra, 39 Cal. 3d at p. 318.) No matter how unlikely or improbable,
the plaintiff’s allegations must be accepted as true for the purpose of ruling
on the demurrer. (Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981)
123 Cal.  App. 3d 593, 604.) But this does not include contentions;
deductions; conclusions of fact or law alleged in the complaint; facts
impossible in law; or allegations contrary to facts of which a court may take
judicial notice.  (Blank, supra, 39 Cal. 3d at 318.)
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure (“C.C.P.”)
§§ 430.10(e) and (f), the party against whom a complaint has been filed may
demur to the pleading on the grounds that the pleading does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action, or that the pleading is uncertain,
ambiguous and/or unintelligible. It is an abuse of discretion to sustain a
demurrer without leave to amend if there is a reasonable probability that the
defect can be cured by amendment. (Schifando v. City of Los Angeles
(2003) 31 Cal. 4th 1074, 1082.)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Meet and Confer 
 
C.C.P. §§ 430.41(a) requires that the moving party meet
and confer with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to the
demurrer. Upon review the Court finds the meet and confer requirements were
met. (Peterson Decl. ¶ 3, Exh. A.) 
 
Facts Remaining From the
Complaint
 
Plaintiffs’ FAC contains basic
facts that were present in the Complaint. For the purpose of completeness, the
Court identifies these facts and their location in the FAC below. 
 
On July 17, 2022, Decedent was
admitted to Harbor UCLA Medical Center after being placed on a 72-hour Welfare
& Institutions Code § 5150 hold. (FAC ¶ 19.) On July 21, 2022,
Decedent was transferred to Pacifica for continuing psychiatric observations as
well as for COVID-19 positive viral infection, depression, and confusion. (FAC
¶ 20.) Decedent was admitted to Pacifica’s medical psychiatric department.
(FAC ¶ 20.) Upon admission to Pacifica, Defendants ordered that Decedent
be placed on a one-to-one psychiatric protocol due to his ongoing suicidal
ideations. (FAC ¶ 20.) 
 
Decedent was determined to be a
high fall risk during several nursing and doctor visits, requiring Defendants,
nurses, and staff to take fall prevention precautions such as raising his
hospital bed side rails, lowering and locking his bed to the lowest position,
and providing him with slip resistant footwear. (FAC ¶ 25.) During his
last nursing visit at 7:26 p.m. on July 23, 2022, despite having been
previously assessed to be a fall risk earlier that day, Decedent was not
assessed to be a high fall risk. (FAC ¶ 27.) Plaintiffs allege Defendants knowingly
disregarded Decedent’s fall risk, ignored past notations and assessments that
Decedent was a fall risk, and knowingly failed to take the proper fall
precautions. (Compl. ¶ 27.) 
 
On July 24, 2022, sometime between
1:00 a.m. and 2:15 a.m., Decedent was found on the floor after having fallen on
the concrete floor and hitting his head. (FAC ¶ 28.) Decedent received a brain
CT scan, and despite showing signs of a concussion, returned to his room where
he was allowed to fall asleep. (FAC ¶ 28.) At 8:51 a.m., Decedent was found
naked and sitting on his roommate’s bed, appearing confused and in distress. (FAC
¶ 29.) Decedent began showing respiratory distress, gasping for air and turned
unresponsive. (FAC ¶ 29.) Decedent was pronounced dead at 9:57 a.m. (FAC ¶ 24.)
Plaintiffs allege that Decedent was not properly examined for or diagnosed with
pneumonia or other respiratory related ailments. (FAC ¶ 42.) 
 
New Facts 
 
Plaintiffs now allege that Woody
Herman Jackson ordered Pacifica to place Decedent on a one-to-one psychiatric
protocol or otherwise known as a sitter protocol for an indefinite period of
time. (FAC ¶ 21.) The sitter protocol was shortly thereafter acknowledged
by a Pacifica employee or agent named Carlo Pascual. (FAC ¶ 21.) Plaintiffs
allege that the slightest deviation from the strict requirements of a sitter
protocol can lead to a patient committing acts which can result in death or
serious injuries. (FAC ¶ 22.) Plaintiffs also allege that this sitter
protocol is also initiated to assure that individuals deemed a high fall risk
are closely observed and monitored. (FAC ¶ 22.) Plaintiffs allege that
sitters are required to be within arm’s distance of a patient on a 24/7 basis.
(FAC ¶ 23.)
 
Plaintiffs further allege that, from
initial protocol being ordered on July 21, 2022 at 10:53 p.m. until Decedent’s death
on July 24, 2022 at 9:57 a.m., Pacifica deliberately violated and ignored the
protocol on approximately 59 separate occasions. (FAC ¶ 24.) Plaintiffs
explain that this number is derived from the 59 hours between initially placing
the order to the time of Decedent’s passing. (FAC ¶ 24.) 
 
Lastly, Plaintiffs allege that
Decedent was charged “approximately $15,000 for his acute psychiatric care and
treatment without providing or hiring competent sitters” to carry out the
protocol. (FAC ¶ 24.) Plaintiffs also assert that “based on information
and belief, Pacifica knowingly and intentionally refused to provide or hire
competent and adequate sitters to carry out” the protocol. (FAC ¶ 24.) 
 
Elder Abuse Standard 
 
To plead elder
or dependent adult abuse, the plaintiff must allege “facts establishing that
the defendant: (1) had responsibility for meeting the basic needs of the elder
or dependent adult, such as nutrition, hydration, hygiene or medical care
[citations]; (2) knew of conditions that made the elder or dependent adult
unable to provide for his or her own basic needs [citations]; and (3) denied or
withheld goods or services necessary to meet the elder or dependent adult’s
basic needs, either with knowledge that injury was substantially certain to
befall the elder or dependent adult (if the¿plaintiff¿alleges oppression, fraud
or malice) or with conscious disregard of the high probability of such injury
(if the plaintiff alleges recklessness) [citations].” (Carter v. Prime
Healthcare Paradise Valley LLC¿(2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 396, 406-07.) “The
plaintiff must also allege . . . that the neglect caused the elder or dependent
adult to suffer physical harm, pain or mental suffering.” (Id.¿at 407.)
“[T]he¿facts constituting the neglect and establishing the causal link between
the neglect and the injury ‘must be pleaded with particularity,’ in accordance
with the pleading rules governing statutory claims.” (Id.¿quoting¿Covenant
Care, Inc. v. Superior Court¿(2004) 32 Cal.4th 771, 790).)¿¿ 
 
Case law is clear that, “‘neglect’ within the meaning of
Welfare and Institutions Code section 15610.57 covers an area of misconduct
distinct from ‘professional negligence.’”¿ (Covenant Care, Inc. v. Superior
Court¿(2004) 32 Cal.4th 771, 783.)¿ “As used in the Act, neglect refers not
to the substandard performance of medical services but, rather, to the ‘failure
of those responsible for attending to the basic needs and comforts of elderly
or dependent adults, regardless of their professional standing, to carry out
their custodial obligations.’”¿ (Id.)¿¿¿ 
 
In order to distinguish Dependent Adult Abuse from
Professional¿Negligence, there must be a showing of recklessness, fraud,
malice, or oppression. (See¿Covenant Care, Inc. supra, 32
Cal.4th¿at 783.) “Oppression, fraud, and malice involve intentional, willful,
or conscious wrongdoing of a despicable or injurious nature.” (Carter supra,
198 Cal.App.4th at 405 [internal
quotation marks omitted].) Recklessness requires deliberate disregard of a high
degree of probability an injury will occur. (Id.) The enhanced remedies
for Elder Abuse are only available for “acts of egregious abuse against elder
and dependent adults.” (Id.)
 
Discussion
 
Pacifica demurs to the first
cause of action of Elder Abuse, arguing the factual allegations in the FAC do
not amount to Elder Abuse. Pacifica argues these allegations fail to meet the
heightened pleading requirements for statutory claims and fail to allege
specific facts supporting Plaintiffs’ allegations that Pacifica acted with
oppression, fraud, or malice.
 
The Court previously found that
the Complaint did not allege the routine denial of basic care that is required
to sustain a cause of action for Elder Abuse. The Court contrasted the facts of
the Complaint to other instances in which courts have found Elder Abuse to be
present. For example, in Carter the California Court of Appeals
discussed situations in which care facilities had (1) failed to provide a man
suffering from Parkinson’s disease sufficient food and water and necessary
medication and left him unattended for long periods of time, (2) left a woman
with a broken ankle lying unattended for long periods of time resulting
pressure ulcers, and (3) an elderly man was abused beaten, and unlawfully restrained.
(Id. at 406.) The Court found that the Complaint alleged only a singular
incident of negligence, by a nurse named Aivie Janeo (Janeo), who failed to
assess Decedent as a high fall risk after Pacifica employs had routinely done
so. 
 
The FAC retains the allegation
that Janeo failed to assess Decedent as a high fall risk on July 23, 2022. (FAC
¶ 27.) The FAC also retains the allegations that Decedent did receive
routine assessment for fall risk by Pacifica prior to July 23, 2022. (FAC
¶ 25.) Plaintiffs have now added additional allegations about a
psychiatric sitter protocol, seemingly seeking to establish a pattern of abuse.

 
The Court finds these allegations
do not cure the defects present in the original Complaint. To begin, it is
unclear from the FAC whether the protocol is alleged to have been for the purpose
of preventing Decedent’s self-harm or preventing a fall. Plaintiffs
specifically refer to the protocol as a “psychiatric protocol” and allege at
length that these protocols are commonly utilized in psychiatric health
facilities. (FAC ¶¶ 21-23.) At the same time, Plaintiffs allege that the
protocol “is also initiated to concurrently assure that individuals deemed as a
high fall risk are closely observed and monitored.” (FAC ¶ 22.) The
allegation that the protocol is meant to protect against high fall risks is in
conflict with Plaintiffs’ allegation that fall risk assessments were being
routinely conducted by Pacifica staff. (FAC ¶ 25.) Plaintiffs seem to
allege that the protocol was completely ignored while also alleging that
Pacifica was conducting fall risk assessments. 
 
If we are to consider that the
protocol only concerned Decedent’s psychiatric health another problem arises.
The pleadings in an Elder Abuse action must allege a causal link between the
neglect and the harm suffered. (Carter supra, at 407.) Here, Plaintiffs allege that
the harm which caused Decedent’s passing was explicitly his fall and related
trauma and not his mental health. As such Plaintiffs’ new allegations are
entirely unrelated to the harm Decedent incurred and their original allegations
remain insufficient. 
 
Further, the Court finds Plaintiffs’
allegation that there were 59 incidences of neglect to be unpersuasive. The
Court does not see how this number was reached, even with Plaintiffs’
explanation in the opposition. If Plaintiffs allege that the protocol required
24/7 supervision of Decedent, the decision to categorize each hour as an
individual act of negligence appears completely arbitrary. Under this logic
Plaintiffs could allege that there were as many incidences of negligence as
there were seconds and minutes between the issuing of the protocol and Decedent’s
fall. Such categorization makes little sense. Common sense indicates that even
if the protocol was not followed for 59 hours after if was issued, the failure
to follow that protocol constitutes a singular act of negligence. Additionally,
this allegation of a pattern of abuse is again in contradiction with
Plaintiffs’ allegation that fall risk assessments were being conducted. 
 
For the
reasons stated above the Court finds the added allegations of the FAC remain
insufficient to establish a pattern of neglect within the meaning of the Elder
Abuse statute. 
 
The Court also previously remarked that Plaintiffs had not
alleged any systematic failure on Pacifica’s behalf which would constitute
elder abuse. The Court referenced Fenimore¿v. Regents of University of California,
where it was ruled that allegations of a pattern and practice of understaffing
and undertraining hospital staff to cut costs were sufficient to state a cause
of action under the Elder Abuse Act. (Fenimore¿v. Regents of University of
California¿(2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 1339, 1350.) The Fenimore court
concluded “Recklessness may be inferred when the neglect recurs in a
significant pattern.” (Id.) 
 
While
Plaintiffs’ opposition references understaffing, the requisite allegations are
not present in the FAC. Plaintiffs at most allege that, on information and
belief, Pacifica knowingly and intentionally refused to provide or hire
competent and adequate sitters to carry out Decedent’s protocol. This
allegation is not indicative of a pattern of understaffing such as would
constitute Elder Abuse. Plaintiffs only allege the failure to appropriately
staff in a singular instance. Further, Further still, the allegation of failure
to staff is contradicted by the allegation that Pacifica’s staff was routinely
conducting fall risk assessments for Decedent. Even in the instance where
Plaintiffs allege a failure to assess a fall risk, the FAC still identifies a
specific staff member who was present and supposed to be attendant to
Decedent.  
 
Conclusion
 
The Court finds the Elder Abuse cause of
action in the FAC remains without sufficient factual allegations. Plaintiffs
added allegations are not indicative of a pattern of abuse under the Elder
Abuse statute. Although Plaintiffs must maintain their allegations of routine
fall assessments, lest they run afoul of the sham pleading doctrine, the Court
finds it is reasonably possible that further amendment can cure these defects. Accordingly,
the demurrer to the first cause of action for Elder Abuse is SUSTAINED with
leave to amend. 
---
RULING:
 
In the event the parties submit on this
tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed order or the court in its discretion
elects to sign a formal order, the following form will be either electronically
signed or signed in hard copy and entered into the court’s records.
 
ORDER
 
Pacifica of the Valley Corporation and Pacifica
Hospital of the Valley’s Demurrer came on
regularly for hearing on April 26, 2024, with appearances/submissions as noted
in the minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the
premises, did then and there rule as follows:
 
THE
DEMURRER TO THE FIRST CAUSE OF ACTION IS SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS’ LEAVE TO
AMEND.
 
UNLESS
ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, PACIFICA TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATE:  April
26, 2024                                   _______________________________
                                                                   
    F.M. TAVELMAN, Judge
                                                                        Superior
Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 