  Case Number:  22STCV30914    Hearing Date:   October 1, 2024    Dept:  14 #3Case Background
This is an action for violations of the FEHA and the
Labor Code, breach of contract, wrongful termination, and intentional
infliction of emotional distress. Plaintiff alleges that while she was employed
as a donor processing associate, Plaintiff suffered discrimination, harassment,
and retaliation due to her age, race, sexual orientation, and gender.
On September 21, 2022, Plaintiff Myesha Jones filed her
Complaint against Defendants Biomat USA, Inc. (Biomat) and Grifols USA, LLC
(Grifols).
On June 10, 2024, Defendants filed this motion for
summary judgment.
On September 17, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition.
Instant Pleading
Defendants move for summary judgment or adjudication.
Decision
The motion for summary judgment filed by Defendants
Biomat and Grifols is DENIED.
Discussion
Over the past several years,
various courts have noticed certain problematic uses of separate statements.
The Court of Appeal has recently urged trial courts to take a more active
approach in policing separate statements. (See Beltran v. Hard Rock Hotel
Licensing, Inc. (2023) 97 Cal.App.5th 865, 874-876.) And because
the separate statement enables the court to focus its deliberations, proper
preparation of the separate statement is critical to court function.
Both parties’ separate statements
do not comply with Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1350. Rule 3.1350. Subdivision
(d) of that Rule contemplates that a party moving for summary judgment will
identify every material fact supporting the motion in numerical sequence.
Instead, Defendants used both the format prescribed for summary judgment and
summary adjudication, one after the other. Although the summary judgment
section numbers each fact in sequence from one through 43, it was not in a
two-column format. The summary adjudication format begins directly after with
Issue No. 1, which is supported by Fact No. 3. The next twelve issues are also
supported by Fact No. 3 because issues 2-12 are all the same issue: whether
Grifols employed Plaintiff. The facts then leap to Facts 21-31 for Issue
numbers 14 and 15. The remainder of the separate statement follows a similar
pattern.
The numbers in the opening
separate statement should have proceeded in sequence all the way through the
statement; if one fact applied to multiple issues, it should have been set
forth once, then incorporated by reference under the heading of any subsequent
issue. Although the facts referenced in the summary adjudication portion of the
separate statement are identical to the facts in the summary judgment section, the
one-column format in the summary judgment section caused Plaintiff to only
respond to the summary adjudication section of the separate statement, leaving
the summary judgment section without responses. Because the same facts are
repeated over and over again in the opening separate statement, Plaintiff
provided identical responses to the facts for 32 issues, leaving the Court with
a 58-page response separate statement that is unusable because the Court cannot
easily locate the evidence referenced in a particular fact without searching
first for the issue containing that fact.
Both separate statements also
contain legal conclusions which do not belong in a separate statement. For
example, Fact No. 3 states that Grifols never employed Plaintiff. The fact is
supported by paragraph 12 of the Trask Declaration, which merely repeats that
Grifols never employed Plaintiff. However, both the fact stated in the separate
statement and the supporting evidence are legal conclusions. Plaintiff in
response makes a legal argument that Grifols was a joint employer. Rather than
cite any supporting evidence, Plaintiff argues that the Laird factors support a
finding that Grifols was a joint employer. Argument and legal conclusions do
not belong in a separate statement.
The Court also notes that Plaintiff submitted three
volumes of evidence, each consisting of hundreds of pages, totaling 1,314 pages
of evidence. The evidence consists largely of deposition transcripts which were
submitted in their entirety. The Court may ignore evidence not disclosed in the
separate statement and cannot be expected to address every piece of evidence
contained in a voluminous record which the party has not relied on or directed
the Court to consider. (See Eddins v. Redstone (2005) 134 Cal.App.4th
290, 318.) 
Here, Plaintiff’s separate statement only cites the
same handful of deposition excerpts and exhibits. Thus, about 1,000 pages of
evidence were not pertinent to Plaintiff’s opposition because the evidence was
not referenced in the separate statement. Each volume of evidence begins with
the same table of contents, which does not state which volume contains which
exhibits or which page numbers the exhibits begin on. Plaintiff’s separate
statement, although it cites to lines and paragraphs of depositions and declarations,
does not contain page numbers. The evidence is unusable and would require the
Court to sift through a voluminous record to consider all the evidence as it is
required to do under Code Civ. Proc., section 437c(c). 
The Court is not obliged to reconstitute the separate
statements itself, or to go diving in the other papers looking for ways to
reach a ruling. (See San Diego Watercrafts, Inc. v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.
(2002) 102 Cal.App.4th 308, 313-316.) 
Here, both parties have failed to supply the court with
separate statements it can properly use. Therefore, the motion for summary
judgment is DENIED.
Conclusion
The motion for summary judgment filed by Defendants
Biomat and Grifols is DENIED.