 Case Number:  23PSCV01989    Hearing Date:   September 30, 2024    Dept:  H Sam
v. The Board of Trustees of the California State University on Behalf of the
California State Polytechnic Pomona, Case No. 23PSCV01989
ORDER
ON DEFENDANT’S DEMURRER
Defendant Board of Trustees of the California State
University’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED. The Court
will hear from Plaintiff’s counsel as to whether leave to amend is requested
and as to which cause(s) of action, and if so, will require an offer of proof.

I.        Background 
Plaintiff
Isabel Sam (“Plaintiff”) alleges as follows:

Plaintiff has been employed by Board of Trustees of the California State University (erroneously sued as
“The Board of Trustees of the California State University on Behalf of the
California State Polytechnic Pomona”) (“Defendant”) as a Communication Analyst
since March 25, 1999. Plaintiff has been diagnosed with anxiety, thyroid
disease, GERD, head, hand, and full body tremors, and other medical conditions.
Since March 2019, a lead staff member at Plaintiff’s work has intimidated,
stalked, and harassed Plaintiff and mimicked Plaintiff’s head and body tremors.
Plaintiff requested the use of an unoccupied private office so that her tremors
would not occur in plain view of the other employees and to shield her from the
aforementioned lead staff member. Plaintiff also requested that she be allowed
to continue to work remotely, as she did during the pandemic. Plaintiff’s
requests were denied. Defendant’s Office of Compliance and Equity conducted an
investigation of Plaintiff’s complaints regarding the lead staff member, which
first resulted in a “no contact” directive issued to the lead staff member and
later, after Plaintiff complained that lead staff member’s conduct was
continuing, in a “mutual no contact directive.” Plaintiff has, inter alia, been
subjected to disparate treatment regarding time off and has been denied a
promotion. 
On
April 22, 2024, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC” or the
“Operative Complaint”), asserting causes of action against Defendant and Does 1-25 for: (1)
discrimination based on medical condition under the Fair Employment and
Housing Act (“FEHA”) (Cal. Gov. Code §§ 12900 et seq.); (2) harassment due to
medical condition under FEHA (Cal. Gov. Code §§ 12900 et seq.); (3) retaliation
for complaining of discrimination and harassment in violation of FEHA (Cal.
Gov. Code §§ 12900 et seq.); (4) hostile work environment in violation of FEHA
(Cal. Gov. Code §§ 12900 et seq.); (5) retaliation in violation of Labor Code §
6310; (6) failure to prevent discrimination, harassment, and retaliation in violation
of FEHA (Cal. Gov. Code §§ 12900 et seq.); and (7) intentional infliction of emotional
distress. 
A
Case Management Conference is set for September 30, 2024. Pending before the
Court is Defendant’s demurrer to all seven causes of action in the First
Amended Complaint. 
II.      Legal Standard 
A demurrer
may be made on the grounds that the pleading, inter alia, does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd.
(e).) 
“A demurrer
tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters.
Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or
are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153
Cal.App.3d 902, 905 [citations omitted].) At the pleading stage, a plaintiff
need only allege ultimate facts sufficient to apprise the defendant of the
factual basis for the claim against him. (Semole
v. Sansoucie (1972) 28 Cal.App.3d 714, 721.) “[A] demurrer does not,
however, admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law alleged in
the pleading, or the construction placed on an instrument pleaded therein, or
facts impossible in law, or allegations contrary to facts of which a court may
take judicial knowledge.” (S. Shore Land
Co. v. Petersen (1964) 226 Cal.App.2d 725, 732 [citations omitted].) 
III.     Discussion
Defendant
demurs, per Code of Civil Procedure § 430.10, subdivision (e), to the first
through seventh causes of action in the Operative Complaint, on the basis that
they each fail to state facts sufficient to constitute causes of action.
A.       Citation to
Judicial Council of California Civil Jury Instructions (“CACI”)
As
an initial matter, much of Defendant’s demurrer relies on the Judicial Council
of California Civil Jury Instructions (“CACI”) as its authority, which
Plaintiff asserts is improper. Indeed, “jury instructions, whether published or
not, are not themselves the law, and are not authority to establish legal
propositions or precedent. They should not be cited as authority for legal
principles.” (Evans v. Hood Corp. (2016) 5 Cal.App.5th 1022, 1049,
quoting People v. Morales (2001) 25 Cal.4th 34, 48, fn. 7 [“Morales”]).
Defendant,
in turn, argues that “a defendant can rely on CACI and BAJI instructions in
support of a demurrer when the complaint fails to contain allegations
supporting the required elements.” (Carr & Schwing, 1 Cal. Affirmative Def. (2d
ed. 2023) § 10:13), that CACI instructions “when they are accurate. . . restate
the law” (Morales, supra, 25 Cal.4th at 48, fn. 7), and that CACI
instructions are encouraged for use and are regularly used for trial (see Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 2.1050). 
The Court agrees that
Plaintiff has not cited to any legal authority demonstrating inaccuracies in
the CACI instructions referenced in Defendant’s demurrer and that Plaintiff has
submitted a substantive opposition, undermining any claimed prejudice. Under
the circumstances presented, the Court declines to summarily overrule
Defendant’s demurrer on this basis.
B.       Request for Judicial Notice 
Defendant
requests that the Court take judicial notice of certain California State
University and California Department of General Services records. A court may
take judicial notice of, among other things, “official acts of the legislative,
executive, and judicial departments of a state and of facts and propositions
that are not reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of immediate and
accurate determination by resort to sources of reasonably indisputable
accuracy.” People v. Terry, 38 Cal. App. 3d 432, 439, 113 Cal. Rptr.
233, 237 (Ct. App. 1974) [citing Evid. Code § 452].) With this standard in mind, the Court grants Defendant’s Request for Judicial Notice in full.
 
C.       First, Second and Fourth Causes of Action
(i.e., for Discrimination Based on Medical Condition and Disability,
Harassment, and Hostile Work Environment, Respectively) 
Defendant
asserts that Plaintiff has failed to allege facts sufficient to establish a
qualifying medical condition or disability with respect to the first, second,
and fourth causes of action. The Court agrees. 
FEHA
(Gov. Code § 12900 et seq.) prohibits employment discrimination on the basis of
“physical disability, mental disability [and] medical condition.” (Gov. Code §
12940, subd. (a).)
Under
FEHA, a physical disability includes “(1) [h]aving any physiological disease,
disorder, condition, cosmetic disfigurement, or anatomical loss that . . . both
. . . (A) [a]ffects one or more of the following body systems: neurological,
immunological, musculoskeletal, special sense organs, respiratory, including
speech organs, cardiovascular, reproductive, digestive, genitourinary, hemic
and lymphatic, skin, and endocrine” and “(B)[l]imits a major life
activity” or (2) “[a]ny other health impairment. . . that requires
special education or related services.” (Gov. Code § 12926, subd. (m)(1) and
(2)). A mental disability includes “(1) [h]aving
any mental or psychological disorder or condition, such as intellectual
disability, organic brain syndrome, emotional or mental illness, or specific
learning disabilities, that limits a major life activity” or “(2) [a]ny
other mental or psychological disorder. . . that requires special education or
related services.” (Gov. Code § 12926, subd. (j)(1) and (2).) A medical
condition means “either of the following: (1) [a]ny health impairment
related to or associated with a diagnosis of cancer or a record or history of
cancer [or] (2) [g]enetic characteristics . . . [such as a] scientifically or
medically identifiable gene or chromosome . . that is known to be a cause of a
disease or disorder in a person or that person’s offspring.” (Gov. Code § 12926, subd. (i)(1) and (2).) 
The term “major life activity” is “broadly construed” and
includes “physical, mental, and social activities and working.” (Gov. Code §
12926, subds. (j)(1)(C) and(m)(1)(B)(iii).) “[L]imits” means “it makes the
achievement of the major life activity difficult” (Gov. Code § 12926, subds.
(j)(1)(B) and(m)(1)(B)(i)). 
Plaintiff
alleges that she “has been diagnosed with Anxiety, Thyroid Disease, Gerd, head,
hand, full body tremors and other medical conditions, which . . . when
triggered at work result in her disability.” (FAC, ¶ 11.)  Plaintiff alleges that she “suffers from
anxiety due to open glares and gazes when others notice the pronounced tremors
of her head and body.” (Id., ¶ 15.) 
Plaintiff’s
alleged “disability” of not wanting to be “stare[d], gaze[d] and glare[d]” at
does not limit a major life activity. “FEHA does not guarantee employees a
stress-free working environment.” (Arteaga v. Brinks, Inc. (2008) 163
Cal.App.4th 327, 344 [internal quotations and citation omitted].) Plaintiff
fails to allege that any of the disabilities and/or medical conditions cited
above themselves limit a major life activity.
Defendant’s
demurrer to the first, second, and fourth causes of action is sustained on this
basis.[FN1] 
 
D.      Third and Fifth Causes of Action (i.e.,
for Retaliation in Violation of FEHA, and Retaliation in Violation of Labor
Code Section 6310, Respectively) 
Defendant
asserts that Plaintiff’s third and fifth causes of action fail because
Plaintiff has failed to allege causation. The Court agrees. Plaintiff must
allege causation in both a FEHA claim for retaliation and a claim for
retaliation in violation of Labor Code section 6310. (Flait v. North
American Watch Corp. (1992) 3 Cal.App.4th 467, 476; Muller v. Automobile
Club of So. California (1998) 61 Cal.App.4th 431, 451, disapproved of on
other grounds by Colmenares v. Braemar Country Club Inc. (2003) 29 Cal.4th
1019, 1031, fn. 6.) 
Plaintiff
alleges that she complained of harassment and filed a complaint of
discrimination with the Department of Fair Employment and Housing and the Equal
Employment Opportunity Commission. (FAC, ¶¶ 22 and 26.) Plaintiff further
alleges that “[t]he Parties engaged in an unsuccessful Mediation on or about
September of 2022[],]” and that “[t]hereafter, Defendants engaged in a course
of retaliation against [her][,]” which included not allowing her requested job
reclassification or 100% remote work, creating additional job duties for her,
having her edit her “alternate work schedule” form, not providing her with
access to an empty counseling room during ADA sessions, and reclassifying her
to a different assignment. (Id., ¶ 28.) Plaintiff fails to allege facts
connecting the purported adverse employment actions to her complaints. 
Defendant
next asserts that Plaintiff has alleged insufficient facts indicating that she
made a whistleblower health or safety complaint with respect to her fifth cause
of action. The Court agrees. Labor Code section 6310 provides, in relevant
part, that no employee may be discriminated against because they “[m]ade any
oral or written complaint to the division, other governmental agencies having
statutory responsibility for or assisting the division with reference to
employee safety or health, their employer, or their representative.”
Plaintiff’s allegations are based on her individual experience as Defendant’s
employee and do not concern unsafe or unhealthy working conditions as a whole.
“The voicing of a fear about one’s safety in the workplace does not necessarily
constitute a complaint about unsafe working conditions under Labor Code section
6310.” (Muller, supra, 61 Cal.App.4th at 452.) 
Defendant
also argues that Plaintiff’s fifth cause of action fails for non-compliance
with claims presentation requirements. The Court agrees. “Under the Claims Act,
no suit for ‘money or damages’ may be brought against a public entity until a
written claim has been presented to the entity and the claim either has been
acted upon or is deemed to have been rejected.” (Canova v. Trustees of
Imperial Irrigation Dist. Employee Pension Plan (2007) 150 Cal.App.4th
1487, 1493.) The “failure to allege facts demonstrating or excusing compliance
with the claim presentation requirement subjects a claim against a public
entity to a demurrer for failure to state a cause of action.” (State of
California v. Superior Court (2004) 32 Cal.4th 1234, 1239.) While
Plaintiff correctly notes that “[a]ctions under FEHA are not subject to the
Tort Claims Act’s claim presentation requirements” (Opp., 7:24-25, citing Garcia
v. Los Angeles Unified School Dist. (1985) 173 Cal.App.3d 701, 711), she
overlooks the fact that her fifth (and seventh) causes of action are not FEHA
causes of action. 
The
Court thus sustains Defendant’s demurrer to the third and fifth causes of
action.


E.       Sixth Cause of Action (i.e., for Failure
to Prevent Discrimination, Harassment, and Retaliation)         
Defendant
asserts that Plaintiff’s sixth cause of action fails because Plaintiff’s
discrimination, harassment, and retaliation claims fail. The Court agrees.
There can be no liability under Government Code section 12940(k) where there is
no viable cause of action for discrimination, harassment, and retaliation. (Trujillo
v. North County Transit Dist. (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 280, 289 [“The trial
court correctly interpreted the verdict as not including an essential
foundational predicate of harassment or discrimination, as required by the
statutory scheme to support a finding of violation of Government Code section
12940, subdivision (i).”].)
Defendant’s
demurrer to the sixth cause of action is sustained on this basis.
F.       Seventh Cause of Action (i.e., for
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress)
Defendant asserts that Plaintiff’s seventh cause of
action fails because public entities are not liable for common law torts. The
Court agrees. “Under the Government Claims Act (Gov. Code, § 810 et seq.),
there is no common law tort liability for public entities; instead, such
liability must be based on statute (Gov. Code § 815, subd. (a) [‘Except as
otherwise provided by statute: A public entity is not liable for an injury,
whether such injury arises out of an act or omission of the public entity . . .’].”
(Guzman v. County of Monterey (2009) 46 Cal.4th 887, 897; Cochran v. Herzog
Engraving Co. (1984) 155 Cal.App.3d 405, 409 [“in the absence of some
constitutional requirement, public entities may be liable only if a
statute declares them to be liable”] and Miklosy v. Regents of University of
California (2008) 44 Cal.4th 876, 899 [“our own decisions
concern that section 815 abolishes common law tort liability for public
entities”].) Plaintiff has not identified a statute authorizing an intentional
infliction of emotional distress cause of action against Plaintiff.
Plaintiff asserts that there is
an “exception. . . noted in Leon v. County of Riverside (2023) 14 Cal.5th
910, 923 . . .,” but fails to explain what this exception is that would create
liability for Defendant. (Opp., 8:11-12.) Further, while Plaintiff argues that
“a public entity may be vicariously liable for its employee’s actions,”
Plaintiff has not alleged vicarious liability. (Opp. 8:15-16.)
Defendant also argues that Plaintiff’s seventh cause of
action fails for non-compliance with claims presentation requirements. The
Court agrees, for the reasons set forth
above.
Defendant next asserts that
workers’ compensation is Plaintiff’s exclusive remedy for injuries arising out
of and in the course of her employment. The Court agrees. Labor Code section
3600 establishes an employee’s right to workers’ compensation “for any injury
sustained. . . arising out of and in the course of the employment. . .” Section
3602 provides what, where section 3600 applies, “the right to recover
compensation is. . . the sole and exclusive remedy of the employee. . .”
Plaintiff, in turn, asserts that “claims for intentional infliction of
emotional distress in the employment context may be asserted where the
actionable conduct also forms the basis for a FEHA violation.” (Light v.
Department of Parks & Recreation (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 75, 97.) While
true, Plaintiff overlooks the fact that she has not adequately pled a FEHA
violation.
Defendant also asserts that Plaintiff has failed to
adequately plead the elements of this cause of action. The Court agrees. “The elements of a cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional
distress are (i) outrageous conduct by defendant, (ii) an intention by
defendant to cause, or reckless disregard of the probability of causing,
emotional distress, (iii) severe emotional distress, and (iv) an actual and
proximate causal link between the tortious conduct and the emotional distress.”
(Nally v. Grace Community Church (1988) 47 Cal.3d 278, 300.) “Severe
emotional distress means emotional distress of such substantial quantity or
enduring quality that no reasonable man in a civilized society should be
expected to ensure it.” (Kiseskey v. Carpenters’ Trust for So. California
(1983) 144 Cal.App.3d 222, 231 [quotations and citation omitted].)
Personnel management
decisions are not considered “outrageous.” (See Janken v. GM Hughes
Electronics (1996) 46 Cal.App.4th 55, 80 [“Managing personnel is not
outrageous conduct beyond the bounds of human decency, but rather conduct
essential to the welfare and prosperity of society. A simple pleading of
personnel management activity is insufficient to support a claim of intentional
infliction of emotional distress, even if improper motivation is alleged. If
personnel management decisions are improperly motivated, the remedy is a suit
against the employer for discrimination”].) Plaintiff has not pled “outrageous”
conduct by Defendant, that Defendant intended to cause (or recklessly
disregarded the probability of causing) emotional distress, and that she suffered
from “severe” emotional distress. 
The demurrer to the
seventh cause of action is sustained on this basis. 
IV.     Conclusion

For the foregoing reasons, the Court sustains Defendant’s demurrer to the first
through seventh causes of action. At the hearing, the Court will hear from Plaintiff’s counsel as to whether
leave to amend is requested and as to which cause(s) of action, and if so, will
require an offer of proof.

