 Case Number:  22PSCV01000    Hearing Date:   September 30, 2024    Dept:  H Aknine
Group, et al. v. Wang, et al., Case No. 22PSCV01000
 
ORDER
ON MOTIONS FOR RECONSIDERATION
1.
      Plaintiff Aknine Group Inc.’s Motion
for Reconsideration Re: August 1, 2024 Ruling on Plaintiffs’ Accounting of the
Funds Obtained from the Bank Accounts Subject to the Preliminary Injunction is
DENIED. 
2.
      Plaintiff Key Ecommerce Inc.’s
Motion for Reconsideration Re: August 1, 2024 Ruling on Plaintiffs’ Accounting
of the Funds Obtained from the Bank Accounts Subject to the Preliminary
Injunction is DENIED.
3.
      Plaintiff Yizhong Chen’s Motion for
Reconsideration Re: August 1, 2024 Ruling on Plaintiffs’ Accounting of the
Funds Obtained from the Bank Accounts Subject to the Preliminary Injunction is
DENIED.
 
I.        Background
Plaintiffs Aknine Group Inc. (“Aknine”), Key
Ecommerce Inc. (“KEI”), and Yizhong Chen (“Chen”) (together, “Plaintiffs”)
allege that their former employee, Zhongliang Wang (“Wang”), embezzled at least
$4.5 million from Plaintiffs’ various business bank accounts between August 26,
2022 and September 9, 2022 and transferred the funds to various bank accounts
solely controlled and managed by him, including those opened in the names of AZ Express Group Inc. (“AZ Express”), KB Int’l Inc. (“KB
Int’l”), Luckie Trading LLC (“Luckie Trading”), and EZ Supply Group LLC (“EZ
Supply”) (collectively, “Defendants”). 
On September 12, 2022, Plaintiffs filed a First
Amended Complaint, asserting causes of action against Wang, AZ Express, KB
Int’l, Luckie Trading, EZ Supply, and Does 1-50 for (1) breach of contract, (2)
conversion, (3) breach of fiduciary duty, (4) theft and misappropriation under
California Penal Code § 496(c); and (5) unjust enrichment. 
On May 2, 2023, pursuant to the parties’
stipulation, the Court (the Honorable Thomas Falls) issued an order granting
Plaintiff’s Motion for Preliminary Injunction. The Court ordered Defendants to
return to Plaintiffs all proceeds, monies, funding, cash, and savings obtained
by Defendants. The Court ordered Plaintiffs to maintain and provide a detailed
accounting of the receipt and usage of any funding returned to Defendants and
ordered Plaintiffs to use the funds in the normal course of business. 
On May 7, 2024, the Court (the Honorable Bryant
Yang) granted Defendant Wang’s Motion to Vacate and Set Aside the May 2, 2023
Order because the motion was not opposed and because Plaintiffs had failed to
comply with the Court’s order to provide a detailed accounting of the funds.
The Court ordered Plaintiffs to transfer the funds back into a trust account. 
On June 21, 2024, Wang filed a Second Amended
Cross-Complaint asserting causes of action against Aknine, KEI, Ainien, Inc.
(“Ainien”), Chen and Roes 1-50 for (1) breach of written contract, (2) breach
of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, (3) breach of fiduciary duty,
(4) fraud, (5) promissory estoppel, (6) negligent misrepresentation, (7) accounting,
(8) failure to pay minimum and overtime wages, (9) failure to provide accurate wage
statement, (10) failure to provide rest and meal breaks, (11) failure to keep accurate
records, and (12) failure to comply with Labor Code § 226 demand. 
On July 31, and August 1, 2024, Judge Yang held an
evidentiary hearing to obtain an accounting of the funds and to determine how
the funds were used by Plaintiffs. Following the hearing, the Court found that
Plaintiffs had not established by a preponderance of the evidence that the
funds transferred by Defendants to Plaintiffs were used in the normal course of
business, as required by the May 2, 2023 Order. Accordingly, on August 1, 2024,
the Court ordered Plaintiffs to post bond in the amount of $2,956,675.49 or
transfer said amount into the trust account by September 30, 2024. 
A Case Management Conference and Order to Show Cause
Re: Compliance of the August 1, 2024 Order of Posting Bond or Transferring
Funds Into Trust Account are set for October 10, 2024.
Aknin, KEI, and Chen have each moved for
reconsideration of Judge Yang’s August 1, 2024 ruling
regarding Plaintiffs’ accounting of the money obtained from the bank accounts
subject to the preliminary injunction; in the alternative, they request that
the Court order a new evidentiary hearing pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 657(4). For the reasons stated
herein, the motions are denied.
 
II.      Legal Standard
“When an application for an order has been made to a judge,
or to a court, and refused in whole or in part, or granted, or granted
conditionally, or on terms, any party affected by the order may, within 10 days
after service upon the party of written notice of entry of the order and based
upon new or different facts, circumstances, or law, make application to the
same judge or court that made the order, to reconsider the matter and modify,
amend, or revoke the prior order. The party making the application shall state
by affidavit what application was made before, when and to what judge, what
order or decisions were made, and what new or different facts, circumstances,
or law are claimed to be shown.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1008, subd. (a).)
“A party who originally made an application for an order which was refused
in whole or part, or granted conditionally or on terms, may make a subsequent
application for the same order upon new or different facts, circumstances, or
law, in which case it shall be shown by affidavit what application was made
before, when and to what judge, what order or decisions were made, and what new
or different facts, circumstances, or law are claimed to be shown. For a
failure to comply with this subdivision, any order made on a subsequent
application may be revoked or set aside on ex parte motion.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1008, subd.
(b).) 
“The burden
under section 1008 is comparable to that of a party seeking a new trial on the
ground of newly discovered evidence: the information must be such that the
moving party could not, with reasonable diligence, have discovered or produced
it at the trial.” (New York Times Co. v. Superior Court (2005) 135
Cal.App.4th 206, 213.)
“The verdict may be vacated and any other decision may be modified or
vacated, in whole or in part, and a new or further trial granted on all or part
of the issues, on the application of the party aggrieved, for any of the
following causes, materially affecting the substantial rights of such party: .
. . 4. Newly discovered evidence, material for the party making the
application, which he could not, with reasonable diligence, have discovered and
produced at the trial.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 657(4).)

 
III.     Discussion 
Aknine,
KEI and Chen (together, “Plaintiffs”) each move the Court, per Code of Civil
Procedure section 1008, for reconsideration of its August 1, 2024 ruling
regarding Plaintiffs’ accounting of the money obtained from the bank accounts
subject to the preliminary injunction; in the alternative, they request that
the Court order a new evidentiary hearing pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 657(4). 
The
Court will address the three motions together, as they appear to be identical
in all respects. 
A.       Jurisdiction 
The Court
determines that it has jurisdiction to consider a motion for reconsideration of
the evidentiary hearing, notwithstanding the fact that the August 1, 2024
ruling was made by Judge Yang. Plaintiffs’ motions are predicated on Code of
Civil Procedure section 1008, subdivision (b), which does not require that the
same judge hear a renewal motion. (See Deauville Restaurant, Inc. v.
Superior Court (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 843, 849-851). 
Moreover,
even if the motions were deemed motions for reconsideration pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure section 1008, subdivision (a), Judge Yang is “unavailable”
following his acceptance of the peremptory challenge filed by Cross-Defendant
Ne Miracle Inc. on August 8, 2024. (See Geddes v. Superior Court (2005)
126 Cal.App.4th 417, 425-426 [“Where a judge has been disqualified, the
newly-assigned judge may review the ruling of the disqualified judge because
the disqualified judge, having no authority to rule, is ‘unavailable.’ Any
comity concern that ordinarily would preclude the second judgment from
reviewing the first judge’s ruling would not prevent the court from making
rulings necessary to resolve the matter.”].) 
Accordingly,
the Court will address the merits of the motions. 
B.       Merits 
The Court
has familiarized itself with the instant dispute. By way of background, Judge
Yang granted Wang’s Motion to Vacate and Set Aside Order Granting Plaintiffs’
Motion for Preliminary Injunction and the Order re: Defendants’ Ex Parte
Application Modifying the Temporary Restraining Order and Writ of Attachment to
Prohibit Plaintiffs from Using or Moving Funds Obtained by Plaintiffs and
Transferring All Funds Received by Plaintiffs into a Trust Account on March 7,
2024. 
On March 11,
2024, Judge Yang issued an Order to Show Cause Re: Why the Court’s March 7,
2024 Order Regarding the Trust Account Should Not Be Modified (“OSC”) for March
28, 2024. 
On March 28,
2024, the hearing on the OSC was held; at that time, in light of Plaintiffs’
counsel’s representation that funds had already been used in accordance with
Judge Falls’ May 2, 2023 order granting Plaintiffs’ Motion for Preliminary
Injunction, Judge Yang ordered Plaintiffs to file an accounting of all funds
used or transferred pursuant to the previously entered Stipulated Order
Granting Plaintiffs’ Motion for Preliminary Injunction, stayed the March 7,
2024 order, and scheduled an evidentiary hearing for June 27, 2024. 
On June 21,
2024, Plaintiffs filed an “Accounting of the Funds Obtained from the Bank
Accounts Subject to the Preliminary Injunction,” with a supporting declaration
from Plaintiff Chen; Wang filed a response thereto on June 26, 2024. 
The matter
proceeded to an evidentiary hearing on June 27, 2024, but the hearing had to be
continued to July 31, 2024, as Plaintiffs sought to introduce exhibits that
defense counsel had not reviewed. The Court continued the hearing to July 31,
2024 and ordered the parties to exchange all exhibits by no later than July 10,
2024 and to file their exhibits lists with the Court by July 24, 2024. 
On July 24, 2024, the parties filed
their exhibit lists. On July 31, 2024, Judge Yang held the evidentiary hearing,
orally pronounced his tentative findings and orders, and continued the hearing
to August 1, 2024. On August 1, 2024, the Court issued its final order and
ruling regarding the evidentiary hearing, finding that Plaintiffs had not
established by a preponderance of the evidence that the funds transferred by Defendants
back to Plaintiffs were used in the normal course of business, as required by
Judge Falls’ May 2, 2023 order.
Plaintiffs
first contend that Exhibits 9-12 and “JD Logistics USA’s additional
information” and the issue of hardship constitute “new or different facts,
circumstances or law that was not known or could not have been presented to the
Court at the time of the original hearing.” (Motion, 2:7-10.) Plaintiffs claim
that “WANG raised the fake sale argument to rebut Plaintiffs’ accounting report
and Plaintiffs’ prima facie case presented in the hearing” and that Judge Yang
sustained Wang’s counsel’s objections to Plaintiffs’ attempt to introduce
Exhibits 9-12 into evidence even after Plaintiffs’ counsel explained that “she
did not know that Defendant WANG was planning to use the fake sale argument
until the time she received Defendant WANG’s exhibits.” (Id., 4:27-5:1
and 5:3-10.)
Exhibits
9-12 do not constitute new or different facts, circumstances, or law. The
foregoing, in fact, reflects that Plaintiffs’ counsel sought to introduce
Exhibits 9-12 into evidence at the time of the hearing but was precluded from
doing do by Judge Yang’s rulings sustaining Wang’s counsel’s objections. The
Court declines to “second guess” Judge Yang’s evidentiary rulings.[FN1]
Further, the
issue of hardship and “JD Logistics USA’s additional information” do not
constitute new or different facts, circumstances, or law. There is no reason
that Plaintiffs could not, with reasonable diligence, have obtained the
information regarding JD Logistics USA identified in Paragraph 9 of Helen
Quan’s declaration before the evidentiary hearing. Wang, moreover, has provided
the Court with excerpts from the August 1, 2024 hearing transcript, which
reveal that Plaintiffs did present information regarding JD Logistics at
the hearing, but that Judge Yang found Plaintiffs’ argument “speculative” and
unsupported by evidence or testimony. (York Decl., ¶ 4, Exh. A, 3:17-4:5.)
These excerpts also reflect that Plaintiffs did argue the issue of hardship. (Id.,
10:26-12:26.)
Next, Plaintiffs take issue with the evidence presented
at the hearing and the hearing procedure, claiming, inter alia, that there was
no substantial evidence that Wang had refuted Plaintiffs’ prima facie case and
that Plaintiffs were denied their due process right to a fair hearing. (Motion,
3:13-15.) Plaintiffs’ dissatisfaction with Judge Yang’s ruling does not
constitute “new or different facts, circumstances or law.” The Court will not
reweigh the evidence and “second guess” Judge Yang’s decision.
The Court declines to consider Plaintiffs’ equipment
(projector) failure argument, raised for the first time in reply. “Points
raised for the first time in a reply brief will ordinarily not be considered,
because such consideration would deprive the respondent of an opportunity to
counter the argument.” (American Drug Stores, Inc. v. Stroh (1992) 10
Cal.App.4th 1446, 1453.)
Finally, the Court declines Plaintiffs’ request to
consider the instant motions as a motion for new trial. Plaintiffs filed a
separate motion for new trial, which was denied by the Court on September 19,
2024.
The motions are denied.


