 Case Number:  23STCV21920    Hearing Date:   February 2, 2024    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Demurrer to the Complaint
 
Moving Party: Defendant
City of Los Angeles
Resp. Party:    Plaintiffs Jose Luis Rodriguez and Guillermina
Rodriguez
                                    
        
The Demurrer is SUSTAINED without leave to amend the Complaint. 
 
BACKGROUND:
 
On September 12, 2023, Plaintiffs Jose Luis Rodriguez and
Guillermina Rodriguez filed their Verified Complaint for quiet title and
declaratory relief against Defendants City of Los Angeles, City of Los Angeles
Housing Department, and All Persons Unknown, Claiming Any Legal or Equitable
Right, Title, Estate, Lien, or Interest in the Property Described in the
Complaint Adverse to Plaintiffs’ Title, or Any Cloud Upon Plaintiffs’ Title
Thereto. 
 
On November 16, 2023, Defendant City of Los Angeles
(which includes City of Los Angeles Housing Department) filed its Demurrer to
the Complaint. In support of its Demurrer, Defendant concurrently filed: (1)
Declaration of Peter Walford; (2) Request for Judicial Notice; and (3) Proposed
Order. 
 
On January 9, 2024, Plaintiffs filed their Opposition to
the Demurrer. In support of their Opposition, Plaintiffs concurrently filed:
(1) Declaration of Kevin S. Sinclair; (2) Request for Judicial Notice; (3)
Objection to Defendant’s Request for Judicial Notice; and (4) Proof of Service.

 
On January 16, 2024, Defendant filed its Reply in support
of the Demurrer. 
 

ANALYSIS:
 
I.         
Requests
for Judicial Notice
 
A. 
    Defendant’s
Request for Judicial Notice
 
Defendant requests that the Court take judicial notice of: (1) City of
Los Angeles Municipal Code, article 2, section 12.22.A25; and (2) Government
Code sections 65915 through 65918, as of January 1, 2005 through December 13,
2005. 
 
Plaintiffs object to the Court taking judicial notice of these items,
claiming that “[t]he facts that allegedly emanate from these documents,
pursuant to Defendants’ interpretation thereof, are not subject to judicial
notice.” (Objection, p. 2:13–15.)
 
“While courts may notice
official acts and public records, we do not take judicial notice of the truth
of all matters stated therein. The taking of judicial notice
of the official acts of a governmental entity does not in and of itself require
acceptance of the truth of factual matters which might be deduced therefrom,
since in many instances what is being noticed, and thereby established, is no
more than the existence of such acts and not, without supporting evidence, what
might factually be associated with or flow therefrom.” (Mangini v. R. J.
Reynolds Tobacco Co. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 1057, 1063–1064 [cleaned up],
overruled on other grounds by Lorillard Tobacco Co. v. Reilly (2001) 533
U.S. 525 and In re Tobacco Cases II (2007) 41 Cal.4th 1257, 1276.)
 
Judicial notice of these pieces of public statutory law of this state is
required pursuant to Evidence Code section 451, subdivision (a). The Court
would still take judicial notice of these items even if it were discretionary. 
 
The Objection is OVERRULED.  The
Court grants judicial notice of these items. 
 
B. 
    Plaintiffs’
Request for Judicial Notice
 
Plaintiffs request that the Court take judicial notice of a deed of
trust, a contract, a trustee’s deed upon sale, and a grant deed — all four of
which have been recorded in the Official Records of Los Angeles County. 
 
        The Court grants judicial notice of
these items. 
 
II.      
Legal
Standard
 
“The party
against whom a complaint or cross-complaint has been filed may object, by
demurrer or answer as provided in Section 430.30, to the pleading on any one or
more of” various grounds listed in statute. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10.)
 
“When any ground
for objection to a complaint, cross-complaint, or answer appears on the face
thereof, or from any matter of which the court is required to or may take
judicial notice, the objection on that ground may be taken by a demurrer to the
pleading.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a).)
 
“A demurrer to a
complaint or cross-complaint may be taken to the whole complaint or
cross-complaint or to any of the causes of action stated therein.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 430.50, subd. (a).)
 
“In reviewing the sufficiency
of a complaint against a general demurrer, we are guided by long-settled rules.
We treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law. We also consider matters which may be judicially
noticed. Further, we give the complaint a reasonable interpretation,
reading it as a whole and its parts in their context.” (Blank v. Kirwan (1985)
39 Cal.3d 311, 318, citations and internal quotation marks omitted.)
 
III.    
Discussion
 
Defendant demurs to both causes of action in the Complaint. 
 
A. 
    Quiet
Title
 
1. 
    Legal
Standard
 
“A
cause of action to quiet title is clearly not a tort claim, and it does not
seek to hold a defendant liable for damages. Rather, actions to quiet title,
like true declaratory relief actions, are generally equitable in nature. A
quiet title action is a statutory action that seeks to declare the rights of
the parties in realty. The object of the action is to finally settle and
determine, as between the parties, all conflicting claims to the property in
controversy, and to decree to each such interest or estate therein as he may be
entitled to. The purpose of a quiet title action is to determine any adverse
claim to the property that the defendant may assert, and to declare and define
any interest held by the defendant, so that the plaintiff may have a decree finally
adjudicating the extent of his own interest in the property in controversy.” (Weeden
v. Hoffman (2021) 70 Cal.App.5th 269, 291 [cleaned up].)
 
An action for quiet title may be brought “to establish title against
adverse claims to real or personal property or any interest therein.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 760.020, subd. (a).) 
 
“The complaint shall
be verified and shall include all of the following:
 
(a)       “A description of the
property that is the subject of the action. In the case of tangible personal
property, the description shall include its usual location. In the case of real
property, the description shall include both its legal description and its
street address or common designation, if any.
 
(b)       “The title of the
plaintiff as to which a determination under this chapter is sought and the
basis of the title. If the title is based upon adverse possession, the
complaint shall allege the specific facts constituting the adverse possession.
 
(c)       
“The
adverse claims to the title of the plaintiff against which a determination is
sought.
 
(d)       “The date as of which
the determination is sought. If the determination is sought as of a date other
than the date the complaint is filed, the complaint shall include a statement
of the reasons why a determination as of that date is sought.
 
(e)       “A prayer for the
determination of the title of the plaintiff against the adverse claims.”
 
(Code Civ. Proc., §
761.020, subds. (a)–(e).)
 
“[A] quiet title action
against a possessor with claimed legal title may be maintained only by one with
a right to immediate possession founded on legal title and may not be brought
by a mere lienholder.” (Elbert, Ltd. v.
McKenna (1953) 116 Cal.App.2d 480, 483, citation omitted.)
 
2. 
    The
Parties’ Arguments
 
Defendant demurs to the first cause of action for quiet title, arguing:
(1) that the density bonus law applies to the property regardless of the
foreclosure; (2) that the affordability covenant is part of land use
regulation; (3) that allowing a foreclosure to wipe out the affordability
covenant is contrary to the intent and purpose of the density bonus law; (4)
that a covenant running with the land is not subject to foreclosure; (5) that
equitable considerations weigh in favor of Defendant; and (6) that the
Complaint is time barred. (Demurrer, pp. 6:2–3, 8:7–8, 10:18, 12:3, 12:19.)
 
Plaintiffs disagree, arguing: (1) that jurisprudence confirms that the
contract at issue is extinguished; (2) that Defendant make novel arguments that
are not viable; (3) that the contract at issue is not an exercise of police
power; (4) that Defendant misconstrues the legislative intent here; (5) that
the contract at issue is not a real covenant and is not immune from
extinguishment by foreclosure; (6) that the Court may not weigh equitable
considerations on quiet title claims, which are actions in law; and (7) that
the statute of limitations argument lacks merit. (Opposition, pp. 8:14–15,
11:15, 11:23, 14:1, 15:4–5, 16:9–10, 16:22.)
 
In its Reply, Defendant argues: (1) that the affordability restriction
is not just another stick in the bundle of rights; (2) that the Legislature’s
command to ensure affordability would make little sense if the affordability
covenant could be wiped out by foreclosure; (3) that the density bonus
agreement touches and concerns the property; and (5) that Plaintiffs’ quiet
title action is equitable in nature. (Reply, pp. 2:3, 2:27–28, 3:21, 4:9,
4:17.)
 
3. 
    Legal
Authority for Covenants
 
“Certain
covenants, contained in grants of estates in real property, are appurtenant to
such estates, and pass with them, so as to bind the assigns of the covenantor
and to vest in the assigns of the covenantee, in the same manner as if they had
personally entered into them. Such convenants are said to run with the land.”
(Civ. Code, § 1460.)
 
“The only
covenants which run with the land are those specified in this Title, and those
which are incidental thereto.” (Civ. Code, § 1461.)
 
“Every covenant
contained in a grant of an estate in real property, which is made for the
direct benefit of the property, or some part of it then in existence, runs with
the land.” (Civ. Code, § 1462.)
 
“The last section
includes covenants “of warranty,” “for quiet enjoyment,” or for further assurance
on the part of a grantor, and covenants for the payment of rent, or of taxes or
assessments upon the land, on the part of a grantee.” (Civ. Code, § 1463.)
 
“A covenant
running with the land binds those only who acquire the whole estate of the covenantor
in some part of the property.” (Civ. Code, § 1465.)
 
“Each covenant, made
by an owner of land with the owner of other land or made by a grantor of land
with the grantee of land conveyed, or made by the grantee of land conveyed with
the grantor thereof, to do or refrain from doing some act on his own land,
which doing or refraining is expressed to be for the benefit of the land of the
convenantee, runs with both the land owned by or granted to the covenantor and
the land owned by or granted to the covenantee and shall, except as provided by
Section 1466, or as specifically provided in the instrument creating such
covenant, and notwithstanding the provisions of Section 1465, benefit or be
binding upon each successive owner, during his ownership, of any portion of
such land affected thereby and upon each person having any interest therein
derived through any owner thereof where all of the following requirements are
met:
 
“(a) The land of the covenantor which is to
be affected by such covenants, and the land of covenantee to be benefited, are
particularly described in the instrument containing such covenants;
 
“(b) Such successive owners of the land are
in such instrument expressed to be bound thereby for the benefit of the land
owned by, granted by, or granted to the covenantee;
 
“(c) Each such act relates to the use,
repair, maintenance or improvement of, or payment of taxes and assessments on,
such land or some part thereof, or if the land owned by or granted to each
consists of undivided interests in the same parcel or parcels, the suspension
of the right of partition or sale in lieu of partition for a period which is
reasonable in relation to the purpose of the covenant;
 
“(d) The instrument containing such covenants
is recorded in the office of the recorder of each county in which such land or
some part thereof is situated.
 
“Where several
persons are subject to the burden of any such covenant, it shall be apportioned
among them pursuant to Section 1467, except that where only a portion of such
land is so affected thereby, such apportionment shall be only among the several
owners of such portion. This section shall apply to the mortgagee, trustee or
beneficiary of a mortgage or deed of trust upon such land or any part thereof
while but only while he, in such capacity, is in possession thereof.”
 
(Civ. Code, § 1468.)
 
 
“Covenants run with the land
only if they are specified in the Civil Code or incidental to those specified
in the code. (Civ. Code, § 1461.)
Covenants for the direct benefit of the property run with the land if they are contained in a
grant. (Civ. Code, § 1462.) Covenants which impose a burden upon the land run with the
land if a written instrument between a grantor and a grantee or between owners
of separate property meets all of the following requirements: (1) it must
include a particular description of the land of the covenator and the land of
the covenantee; (2) it must state expressly that successive owners of the land
are to be bound by the covenant for the benefit of the land owned by or granted
to the covenantor and the land owned by or granted to the covenantee; (3) it
must establish a covenant which relates to the use, repair, maintenance or
improvement of, or payment of taxes and assessments on, such land or some part
thereof; and (4) it must be recorded in the county where the property is situated. (Civ. Code, § 1468.)” (Soman Props. v. Rikuo Corp. (1994) 24
Cal.App.4th 471, 481–482 [cleaned up].)
 
“A covenant
running with the land is binding upon all subsequent purchasers of the
covenantor’s property, including a foreclosure sale purchaser.” (Soman
Props., supra, at p. 483, citing Civ. Code, § 1468 and Oceanside
Cmty. Ass’n v. Oceanside Land Co. (1983) 147 Cal.App.3d 166, 175, 176, fn.
7.)
 
“There is no
requirement that both parties sign the covenant for it to be enforceable.” (Oceanside
Cmty. Ass’n, supra, at p. 175, citing Chandler v. Hart (1911)
161 Cal. 405.)
 
“Even when a covenant does not run with the
land, it may be enforced against a transferee of the covenantor who takes with knowledge of its terms if it would be inequitable to permit him to
avoid the restriction. Enforcement of these
servitudes prevents unjust enrichment. Presumably, a purchaser who purchases
land knowing it is burdened with a covenant will negotiate for a lower purchase
price. To allow the purchaser to receive the benefit of the reduced price without
the corresponding burden would constitute unjust enrichment at the expense of
his neighbor who was relying on enforcement of the servitude.” (Oceanside
Cmty. Ass’n, supra, at pp. 175–176, citations omitted.)
 
4. 
    Discussion
 
For the purposes of a demurrer, the Court must assume the truth of the
allegations pleaded by the non-moving party. Here, the Parties do not disagree
on the relevant allegations pleaded:
 
(1)      
that
there is a piece of real property (“the Property”) located at 443 West 49th
Street, Los Angeles, California 90037;
 
(2)      
that on
February 28, 2005, Non-Party Jose Benavidez owned the Property;
 
(3)      
that on
February 28, 2005, Non-Party Jose Benavidez encumbered the Property with a deed
of trust, recorded as Instrument No. 05 0441062 in the Official Records of Los
Angeles County;
 
(4)      
that on
January 18, 2006, Non-Party Jose Benavidez entered into an agreement with the
City of Los Angeles and the Los Angeles Housing Department, recorded as
Instrument No. 06 0119543 in the Official Records of Los Angeles County;
 
(5)      
that on
November 26, 2013, HSBC Bank USA, National Association became the owner of the
property via non-judicial foreclosure and trustee’s deed upon sale, recorded as
Instrument No. 20131684571 in the Official Records of Los Angeles County; and
 
(6)      
that as
of July 30, 2019, Plaintiffs own the Property by way of a grant deed, recorded
as Instrument No. 20190748857 in the Official Records of Los Angeles County. 
 
(Complaint, ¶¶ 1–5.)
 
Pursuant to Plaintiffs’ request, the Court has taken judicial notice of
each of the four recorded instruments. 
 
There are only two questions that need to be answered at this time: (1)
whether the instrument recorded on January 18, 2006 is a covenant that runs
with the land; and (2) if so, whether the foreclosure subsequent to the
recording of that instrument extinguished the covenant. 
 
a.         
The Covenant
Runs with the Land
 
The agreement between Defendant and the former owner of the Property,
Non-Party Jose Benavidez, is formally titled “City of Los Angeles Agreement
Number 108560 of City Contracts Relating to a Rental Covenant and Agreement.”
The agreement is signed by Non-Party Jose Benavidez and Defendant, dated June
16, 2005, and recorded January 18, 2006. The Court will refer to this agreement
as “the 2006 Agreement.”
 
Since the 2006 Agreement includes burdens on the land, it must comply
with all of the requirements of Civil Code section 1468 in order to be a
covenant that runs with the land. (Soman Props., supra, 24 Cal.App.4th at pp.
481–482.)
 
First, the 2006 Agreement does describe the land at issue with
particularity. (Decl. Sinclair, Exh. 2, sub-Exh. A [actual page 42 of 53].) The
legal description is for 443 West 49th Street, and the particular description
is as follows:
 
“LOT 85 AND THE WEST 2 FEET OF LOT 84 OF THE LENNOX FIGUEROA STREET
TRACT, IN THE CITY OF LOS ANGELES, COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES, STATE OF CALIFORNIA,
AS PER MAP RECORDED IN BOOK 7 PAGE 88 OF MAPS, IN THE OFFICE OF THE COUNTY
RECORDER OF SAID COUNTY.”
 
Second, the 2006 Agreement does expressly bind the successive owners of
the land. (Decl. Sinclair, Exh. 2, ¶ 10 [actual page 37 of 53].) The relevant
section states:
 
“Successors and Assigns. This agreement shall be an
equitable servitude and a Covenant running with the land as a burden on the
Property [sic] shall be binding upon the owner and its successors and assigns
in ownership of the property and shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit
of City of Los Angeles, and its successors, and assigns in the ownership or
administration of the adjacent public streets. City reserves the right to
designate another public agency to perform City’s obligations or to exercise
City’s rights under this Agreement.” 
 
Third, the burdens placed on the Property in the 2006 Agreement relate
to the use of the Property, including restrictions on one of the residential
units in the Property that limit the eligibility of certain renters and the
amount of rental payments that can be charged to such renters by owners of the
Property. (Decl. Sinclair, Exh. 2, ¶¶ 4–7 [actual pages 33–36 of 53].)
 
Finally, the 2006 Agreement is recorded in the office of the recorder
of the county in which the Property is situated. (Decl. Sinclair, Exh. 2, p. 1
[actual page 26 of 53].)
 
Since all the requirements of Civil Code section 1468 have been met
here, the 2006 Agreement is a covenant that runs with the land. 
 
b.         
The Foreclosure
did not Extinguish the Covenant
 
“A covenant
running with the land is binding upon all subsequent purchasers of the
covenantor’s property, including a foreclosure sale purchaser.” (Soman
Props., supra, at p. 483, citing Civ. Code, § 1468 and Oceanside
Cmty. Ass’n v. Oceanside Land Co. (1983) 147 Cal.App.3d 166, 175, 176, fn.
7.)
 
Unlike certain liens, a covenant that runs with the land does not
extinguish upon foreclosure. It is notable that the 2006 Agreement was not a
lien. Rather, it is a covenant that benefitted the land in certain ways (by
allowing for additional development of the property and providing a reduced
parking variance, among other development incentives) while burdening the land
in certain other ways (as discussed briefly above). 
 
At this time, the Court need not, and does not, reach the other issues
brought up by the Parties, including issues with the statute of limitations,
the limits of the police power, the equitable nature of a cause of action for
quiet title, and so on. 
 
The Court SUSTAINS the Demurrer to the first cause of action for quiet
title, without leave to amend the Complaint. 
 
B. 
    Declaratory
Relief
 
1. 
    Legal
Standard
 
“To qualify for declaratory relief, a party
would have to demonstrate its action presented two essential elements: (1) a
proper subject of declaratory relief, and (2) an actual controversy involving
justiciable questions relating to the party’s rights or obligations.” (Jolley
v. Chase Home Finance, LLC (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 872, 909, quotation marks
and brackets omitted.)
 
A cause of action for declaratory relief
should not be used as a second cause of action for the determination of
identical issues raised in another cause of action. (Gen. of Am. Ins. Co. v.
Lilly (1968) 258 Cal.App.2d 465, 470.) “The availability of another form of
relief that is adequate will usually justify refusal to grant declaratory
relief” (Cal. Ins. Guar. Ass’n v. Super. Ct. (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 1617,
1624), and a duplicative cause of action is subject to demurrer (Palm
Springs Villas II Homeowners Ass’n, Inc. v. Parth (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th
268, 290). 
 
Further, “there is no basis for declaratory
relief where only past wrongs are involved.” (Osseous Tech. of Am., Inc. v.
DiscoveryOrtho Partners LLC (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 357, 366, quotation
marks omitted.)
 
2. 
    Discussion
 
Defendant demurs to the second cause of action for declaratory relief
on the basis that it is derivative of the first cause of action for quiet
title. (Demurrer, p. 13:14–17.)
 
Plaintiff does not make any new arguments specifically for this cause
of action. 
 
The Court agrees with Defendant’s argument. For the same reasons
discussed above regarding the first cause of action for quiet title, there is
no basis for declaratory relief here. 
 
The Court SUSTAINS the Demurrer to the second cause of action for
declaratory relief, without leave to amend the Complaint. 
 
IV.     
Conclusion
 
The Demurrer is SUSTAINED, without leave to amend the Complaint. 
 
Since the Demurrer to all causes of action has been sustained without
leave to amend, the case is dismissed.
 