  Case Number:  22STCV39007    Hearing Date:   February 2, 2024    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Motion to
Compel Initial Responses to Form Interrogatories and Request for Sanctions
 
Moving Party: Plaintiff
Pranav Popat
Resp. Party:    Defendant Hardik B. Kapadia
 
SUBJECT:        Motion to
Compel Compliance with Responses to Requests for Production, Set One and
Request for Sanctions
 
Moving Party: Plaintiff
Pranav Popat
Resp. Party:    None
 
 
Plaintiff’s FROGs Motion is DENIED as moot. 
 
        Plaintiff’s RPDs Motion is GRANTED.  Plaintiff shall provide initial responses to
the RPDs within seven (7) days of the issuance of this Order.  
 
Monetary sanctions are AWARDED in favor of Plaintiff and against
Defendant and Defense Counsel, jointly and severally, in the total amount of $1,723.00.
 
BACKGROUND:
 
        On
December 15, 2022, Plaintiff Pranav Popat filed his Complaint against Defendant
Hardik B. Kapadia on a cause of action for breach of contract. 
 
        On
March 27, 2023, Plaintiff filed his First Amended Complaint (FAC). 
 
        On
June 8, 2023, the Court sustained Defendant’s Demurrer to the second and third
causes of action in the FAC, without leave to amend. 
 
        On
June 16, 2023, Defendant filed his Answer to the FAC. 
 
        On
October 12, 2023, the Court denied as moot Defendant’s Motion to Compel
Plaintiff’s Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set No. One [and] Request for
Monetary Sanctions (“Defendant’s FROGs Motion”). The Court also denied
Defendant’s request for sanctions. 
 
        On
January 8, 2024, Plaintiff filed his Motion to Compel Initial Reponses to Form
Interrogatories and Request for Sanctions (“Plaintiff’s FROGs Motion”). In
support of Plaintiff’s FROGs Motion, he concurrently filed: (1) Declaration of
Justin J. Eballar; and (2) Separate Statement. 
 
        On
January 22, 2024, Plaintiff filed his Motion to Compel Compliance with
Responses to Requests for Production, Set One and Request for Sanctions
(“Plaintiff’s RPDs Motion”). In support of Plaintiff’s RPDs Motion, he
concurrently filed: (1) Declaration of Justin J. Eballar; and (2) Separate
Statement.
 
        On
January 30, 2024, Defendant late filed his Opposition to Plaintiff’s FROGs
Motion. 
 
        No
opposition or other response has been filed to Plaintiff’s RPDs Motion. 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.         
Legal
Standard
 
California Code of Civil Procedure requires a
response from the party to whom form interrogatories, special interrogatories,
and demand requests are propounded within 30 days after service of the
requests, unless the time is extended by agreement of the parties. (Code Civ.
Proc., §§ 2030.260, subd. (a), 2030.270, subd. (a), 2031.260, subd. (a),
2031.270, subd. (a).) If a party fails to serve timely responses, "the
party making the demand may move for an order compelling response to the
demand.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (b).) By failing to respond, the
offending party waives any objection to the demand. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2030.290, subd. (a).)
 
For a motion to compel, all a propounding
party must show is that it properly served its discovery requests, that the
time to respond has expired, and that the party to whom the requests were
directed failed to provide a timely response. (See Leach v. Super. Ct.
(1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902, 905, 906.) Indeed, "[o]nce [a party] 'fail[ed]
to serve a timely response,' the trial court had authority to grant [opposing
party's] motion to compel responses." (Sinaiko Healthcare Counseling,
Inc. v. Pac. Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 405.)
 
The court shall impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or
attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel motions for
interrogatories or requests for production, unless the Court finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. If a party then fails
to obey an order compelling answers, the court may make those orders that are
just, including the imposition of an issue sanction, an evidence sanction, or a
terminating sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010). In
lieu of or in addition to that sanction, the court may impose a monetary
sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010). (Code Civ. Proc.,
§§ 2030.290, subd. (c), 2031.300, subd. (c).)
 
II.      
Discussion
 
A. 
    The
Discovery Requests
 
Plaintiff moves the Court to: (1) compel Defendant to serve responses
to Plaintiff’s form interrogatories (“FROGs”); and (2) compel Defendant to
produce all documents responsive to Plaintiff’s four requests for production of
documents (“RPDs”). (Plaintiff’s FROGs Motion, p. 8:2–6; Plaintiff’s RPDs
Motion, p. 8:2–6.)
 
        Defendant opposes Plaintiff’s FROGs
Motion, providing the Court with evidence that the responses to the FROGs were
served on January 29, 2024. Thus, the substance Plaintiff’s FROGs Motion is now
moot. The Court will separately consider monetary sanctions. 
 
        Defendant does not oppose Plaintiff’s
RPDs Motion. There is no evidence before the Court that would indicate
Defendant provided any documents in response to the RPDs. Rather, Plaintiff’s
Counsel declares that Defendant has not responded to the RPDs, despite repeated
efforts over months by Plaintiff’s Counsel. (Decl. Eballar Re: Plaintiff’s
RPD’s Motion, ¶¶ 3–12.)
 
        The Court DENIES as moot Plaintiff’s
FROGs Motion. 
 
        The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s RPDs
Motion. 
 
        Plaintiff shall provide initial
responses to the RPDs within seven (7) days of the issuance of this Order.  
 
B. 
    Sanctions
 
Plaintiff requests monetary sanctions against Defendant and Defense
Counsel. (Plaintiff’s FROGs Motion, p. 3:18–21; Plaintiff’s RPDs Motion, p.
3:19–24.)
 
The Court does not have evidence before it that would indicate
Defendant served timely responses to the discovery motions. Nor does the Court
have evidence before it that would indicate there is substantial justification
or other circumstances that would make the imposition of a sanction unjust.
Thus, the Court would ordinarily impose a monetary sanction on Defendant and
Defense Counsel. 
 
Notably, Defendant argues that “[t]here is no factual basis for the
imposition of sanctions” against Defendant and Defense Counsel regarding the
FROGs. (Opposition, p. 2:11–12.) The Court disagrees. Not only does the
evidence clearly demonstrate that the responses to the FROGs were late, but
this is a very different situation from when Plaintiff responded within a few
hours with responses to Defendant’s FROGs. Here, Defendant waited until after
the time for an opposition was due on the motion to submit the responses. This
late filing, coupled with the apparent failure to submit any response to the
RPDs, is a sanctionable misuse of the discovery process. Furthermore, Defense
Counsel’s one-line apology rings hollow: 
no reason was given for the late filing, and there does not yet appear
to be any response to Plaintiff’s RPDs. (Opposition, p. 2:14–15.)
 
Plaintiff’s Counsel requests $1,861.50 in monetary sanctions for
Plaintiff’s FROGs Motion and $1,661.50 in monetary sanctions for Plaintiff’s
RPDs Motion. Plaintiff’s Counsel declares that this is based on a total of 8.5
hours of work at $400.00 per hour, plus two filing fees of $61.50 each. (Decls.
Eballar, ¶¶ 13–17.)
 
The Court finds that the hourly rate and costs incurred are reasonable.
However, the hours incurred for the hearings are duplicative and no replies
were filed (because only opposition was filed and it was late). The Court will
allow monetary sanctions for a total of four hours of work at $400.00 per hour,
plus the costs for the motions.
 
The Court AWARDS monetary sanctions in favor of Plaintiff and against
Defendant and Defense Counsel, jointly and severally, in the total amount of $1,723.00
        
 
 
III.     Conclusion
 
Plaintiff’s FROGs Motion is DENIED as moot. 
 
        Plaintiff’s RPDs Motion is GRANTED.  Plaintiff shall provide initial responses to
the RPDs within seven (7) days of the issuance of this Order.  
 
The Court AWARDS monetary sanctions in favor of Plaintiff and against
Defendant and Defense Counsel, jointly and severally, in the total amount of $1,723.00.
 
 
 