 Case Number:  23STCV12783    Hearing Date:   February 2, 2024    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Motion for an
Order Compelling Defendant’s Deposition and Production of Documents Identified
in Deposition Notice and an Order Awarding Monetary Sanctions
 
Moving Party: Plaintiffs
Kostiantyn Kavelashvili, Natalia Veroshynska, and Kavelashvili Veroshynska, LP 
Resp. Party:    Defendant Tabrizyan, LLC
 
 
The Motion to Compel Deposition is GRANTED. Defendant Tabrizyan, LLC
shall make its person most qualified available for deposition within 20 days of
the issuance of this Order. 
 
        Monetary
sanctions are AWARDED in favor of Plaintiffs and against Defendant in the total
amount of $2,500.00.
 
BACKGROUND:
 
        On
June 5, 2023, Plaintiffs Kostiantyn Kavelashvili, Natalia Veroshynska, and
Kavelashvili Veroshynska, LP filed their Complaint against Defendants
Tabrizyan, LLC and Afsaneh Karimi on causes of action for breach of contract
and declaratory relief. 
 
        On
January 5, 2023, Plaintiffs filed Motion for an Order Compelling Defendant’s
Deposition and Production of Documents Identified in Deposition Notice and an
Order Awarding Monetary Sanctions (“Motion to Compel Deposition”). 
 
        On
January 24, 2024, Plaintiffs filed their First Amended Complaint (FAC). 
 
        On
January 24, 2024, Defendant Tabrizyan, LLC (“Defendant”) filed its Opposition
to the Motion to Compel Deposition. 
 
        On
January 26, 2024, Plaintiffs filed their Objections to Defendant’s Late-Filed
Opposition and Reply in support of the Motion to Compel Deposition. Plaintiffs
concurrently filed their Proposed Order. 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.         
Objection
to the Opposition
 
Plaintiffs object to the Opposition, arguing that it was filed late. 
 
        Plaintiffs are correct that the
Opposition was filed late. The hearing on the Motion to Compel Deposition is
scheduled for February 2, 2024. Nine court days before the hearing was January
22, 2024. As the Opposition was filed on January 24, 2024, there is no doubt
that it was filed late. Indeed, Defendant acknowledges as much in the
Opposition. (Opposition, p. 1, fn. 1.)
 
        However, the Court overrules the
objection and considers the Opposition on its merits.
 
II.      
Legal
Standard
 
“If, after service of a deposition
notice, a party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or
employee of a party, or a person designated by an organization that is a party
under Section 2025.230, without having served a valid objection under Section
2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce
for inspection any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move
for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the
production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information,
or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.450, subd. (a).)
 
“If a motion under subdivision (a)
is granted, the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) in favor of the party who noticed the
deposition and against the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is
affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (g).)
 
III.     Discussion
 
A. 
    The
Deposition and Documents Request
 
Plaintiffs move the Court compel Defendant’s person most qualified to
attend their deposition, testify, and produce the documents in Defendants’
possession, all without objections. (Motion to Compel Deposition, p. 10:1–4.) 
 
Plaintiffs’ Counsel declares that, as it relates to this case, the
first deposition notice for this person most qualified was issued on August 28,
2023 for a deposition on September 11, 2023. (Motion to Compel Deposition,
Decl. Kosten, ¶ 13.) After further efforts to resolve this issue, a further
notice filed on December 1, 2023 for a deposition on December 12, 2023. Despite
more back and forth, Defendant has not made its person most qualified
available, nor has it produced any documents. (Id. at ¶¶ 14–35.)
 
Defendant opposes the Motion to Compel Deposition, arguing: (1) that
there was not a sufficient good faith meet-and-confer before filing; (2) that
the Motion to Compel Deposition does not show good cause for the production;
(3) that the Motion to Compel Deposition is moot; and (4) that some of the
materials sought in the requests are not relevant. (Opposition, pp. 9:12–13,
11:1, 12:5, 12:21.)
 
In their Reply, Plaintiffs argue: (1) that Defendants’ misconduct has
continued, as exemplified by their late Opposition; (2) that the Opposition is
intentionally broad and has an ulterior motive; (3) that the Opposition does
not justify Defendant’s failure and refusal to be deposed; (4) that there was
adequate meet-and-confer preceding the Motion to Compel Deposition; and (5)
that the complaints about overbreadth of discovery are groundless. (Reply, pp.
2:21, 3:6, 3:22–23, 4:6, 4:16.)
 
The issue is simple. Plaintiffs have on multiple occasions noticed the deposition
of Defendant’s person most qualified. Yet Defendant has not made this person
available, despite more than adequate meeting and conferring by the Parties’
respective counsel. The issue is not moot, and the Court has not been presented
with a sufficient reason why Defendant has not yet made its person most qualified
available. 
 
The Court GRANTS the Motion to Compel Deposition. Defendant Tabrizyan,
LLC shall make its person most qualified available for deposition within 20
days of the issuance of this Order. 
 
B. 
    Sanctions
 
Defendant’s person most qualified has failed to appear for deposition,
despite multiple notices. Further, Defendant has not since made its person most
qualified available for deposition. The Court does
not have any evidence before it that would indicate there is substantial
justification or other circumstances that would make the imposition of a
sanction unjust. Thus, the Court must impose a monetary sanction. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (g).) 
 
        Plaintiffs request
monetary sanctions against Defendant and/or Defense Counsel in the amount of
$8,000.00. (Motion to Compel Deposition, p. 10:4–6.) According to Plaintiffs’
Counsel, this accounts for 16 hours of work at $500.00 per hour. (Motion to
Compel Deposition, Decl. Kosten, ¶ 37.)
 
        The hourly rate is
reasonable, but the number of hours is not. The Court awards five hours of work
at the requested hourly rate. 
 
IV.      Conclusion
 
The Motion to Compel Deposition is GRANTED. Defendant Tabrizyan, LLC
shall make its person most qualified available for deposition within 20 days of
the issuance of this Order. 
 
        Monetary
sanctions are AWARDED in favor of Plaintiffs and against Defendant in the total
amount of $2,500.00.
 