 Case Number:  22VECV01754    Hearing Date:   January 30, 2024    Dept:  W TAYLOR
COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES, INC., V. SHARI’S MANAGEMENT CORPORATION, ET AL.
 
MOTION TO VACATE DEFAULT
JUDGMENT  AGAINST DEFENDANTS; MOTION TO QUASH
THE WRITS OF EXECUTION ENTERED ON MARCH 15, 2023 IN SACRAMENTO COUNTY AND JULY
27, 2023 IN LOS ANGELES COUNTY, AND VACATE ANY RELATED EXECUTION LEVY
 
Date of Hearing:        January 30, 2024                               Trial
Date:       N/A

Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        22VECV01754
 
Moving Party:            Defendants
Shari’s Management Corporation and Coco’s Restaurants, LLC
Responding Party:     Plaintiff
Taylor Commercial Properties, Inc. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiff Taylor Commercial Properties, Inc. alleges on
December 6, 2010, Plaintiff and Defendant CoCo’s Restaurants, Inc., entered
into a written lease to certain commercial property. On March 28, 2021,
Defendant Shari’s Management Corporation entered into an agreement with
Plaintiff amending the lease and confirming that Shari’s would pay certain
revised based rent and deferred amounts owed to Plaintiff beginning July 1,
2021. Plaintiff alleges Defendants breached the lease agreement by failing to
pay the full amount of monthly rent and charges as well as deferred rent and
charges due under the lease. Plaintiff served Defendants with a Five Day
Notice. After Defendants failed to cure the default, Plaintiff filed a
complaint for unlawful detainer on July 25, 2022. Defendants surrendered
possession of the Property on August 30, 2022. Defendants have still not paid
the rent and charges due under the lease. 
 
Request for entry of default was entered December 2,
2022.  The court entered default judgment
against Defendants on February 24, 2023. 
 
TENTATIVE RULLING
 
Defendants’
Motion to Vacate Default Judgment Against Defendants is DENIED.
 
Defendants’ Motion to Quash the Writs of Execution Entered on
March 15, 2023 in Sacramento County and July 27, 2023 in Los Angeles County, and
Vacate any Related Execution Levy is DENIED.
 
DISCUSSION
 
I.                   
MOTION TO VACATE DEFAULT JUDGMENT
AGAINST DEFENDANTS
 
Defendants Shari’s Management
Corporation and Coco’s Restaurants, LLC move this court to vacate the default
judgment granted against Defendants on February 24, 2023 based on mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.   
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure, section
473(b), an application for relief must be made no more than six months after
entry of the order from which relief is sought and must be accompanied by an
affidavit of fault attesting to the moving party’s mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect. (CCP § 473(b); English v. IKON Business Solutions (2001)
94 Cal.App.4th 130, 143.) Application for this relief shall be accompanied by a
copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed therein, otherwise
the application shall not be granted, and shall be made within a reasonable
time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment, dismissal, order, or
proceeding was taken.” (CCP § 473(b).)¿ 
¿ 
“It is the policy of the law to favor,
wherever possible, a hearing on the merits, and appellate courts are much more
disposed to affirm an order where the result is to compel a trial upon the
merits than they are when the judgment by default is allowed to stand and it
appears that a substantial defense could be made. Stated another way, the
policy of the law is to have every litigated case tried upon its merits, and it
looks with disfavor upon a party, who, regardless of the merits of the case,
attempts to take advantage of the mistake, surprise, inadvertence, or neglect
of his adversary.” (Weitz v. Yankosky (1966) 63 Cal.2d 849, 854–855.)¿
 
Defendants move to set aside the
default and default judgment entered against them on the grounds inadvertence
and excusable neglect can clearly be found due to James S. Bell, PC (Defendants’
prior counsel) not being properly notified of the instant action. Defendants further
contend Defendants’ Manager of Legal Service, Tina Sohne, was unavailable due
to a medical procedure from November to December 22 and Defendants
inadvertently failed to request that a further answer be filed beyond the answer
they had already served in the underlying unlawful detainer action (LASC No. 22VECV01044).

 
Plaintiff opposes the motion on several
grounds. Plaintiff first opposes the motion on the grounds that if the motion
seeks to set aside the default, it is time barred. Plaintiff contends the relief
sought here is discretionary and the application for discretionary relief under
Code of Civil Procedure Section 473(b) must be made "within a reasonable
time" and "in no case exceeding six months" after the entry of
the default. In the instant matter, the court entered the Defendants' default
on December 2, 2022 yet Defendants waited nearly nine months (until August 22,
2022) to file the instant motion. 
 
The court finds that the relief sought
is mandatory, not discretionary. Because the relief sought is mandatory,
the wording of the statute makes clear that the six-month
time period runs from entry of the default judgment, not the original entry of
default. (Sugasawara v. Newland (1994) 27 Cal.App.4th 294, 297.) Here,
Defendants submit the declaration of their former counsel that the failure to
timely file an answer was one of mistake or inadvertence as they were unaware
an answer was due. (Nash Decl. ¶6.) The court will discuss further below,
however, why the attorney declaration is insufficient to show mandatory relief
is required.
 
Plaintiff argues Defendants do not
dispute that they were properly served with the Summons and Complaint. However,
Defendants’ claim Mr. Nash did not receive the Summons and Complaint fails
because he is not their attorney in this action and nothing in his
declaration is relevant. Further, the declaration of Tina Sohne does not excuse
Defendants' belated Motion. Plaintiff contends there is no explanation of why
Ms. Sohne's absence resulted in Defendants' failure to respond to the
complaint. Additionally, the declaration does not explain the eight months that
lapsed between Ms. Sohne's return from medical leave in December 2022 and
Defendants' Motion filed in August 2023. 
 
Although not expressly stated, it
appears Defendants are arguing that Mr. Nash should have been served the
Summons and Complaint in this action. However, all Defendants have shown is that
Mr. Nash was retained to represent Defendants in a separate matter. Mr. Nash
never stated that he was authorized to accept service in this case or would
have done so. (See CRC Rule, 1.21(a).) As for Ms. Sohne’s declaration, generally,
excusable neglect and a basis for relief has been found where an attorney
relies on an employee or calendaring system to calendar deadlines, and the
employee or system fails. (Renteria v. Juvenile Justice, Dept. of
Corrections & Rehabilitation (2006) 135 Cal. App. 4th 903, 911.)
However, it is not clear by Ms. Sohne’s declaration that current counsel relied
on her mistake or inadvertence. 
 
Accordingly, Defendants’ Motion to
Vacate Default Judgment Against Defendants is DENIED. 
 
II.                 
MOTION TO QUASH THE WRITS OF EXECUTION ENTERED
ON MARCH 15, 2023 IN SACRAMENTO COUNTY AND JULY 27, 2023 IN LOS ANGELES COUNTY,
AND VACATE ANY RELATED EXECUTION LEVY
 
Defendants Shari’s Management
Corporation and Coco’s Restaurants, LLC move this Court to recall and quash the
writs of execution entered on March 15, 2023 in Sacramento County and July 27,
2023 in Los Angeles County, and vacate any execution levy related to the
aforementioned writs of execution based on their motion to vacate the default
judgment entered against them.   Because
the court denies the request to vacate the judgment, the motion to quash is
denied.  
 
 