  Case Number:  22STCV04006    Hearing Date:   January 30, 2024    Dept:  W ACEVEDO, et
al. v. JOE POTCHANARD CHAUVAPUN, M.D., et al.
 
DEFENDANTS' JOE POTCHANARD CHAUVAPUN,
M.D., URGENTPOINT, INC. AND URGENTPOINT HEALTH, P.C. MOTION TO COMPEL KARINA CARVAJAL-FRAKT,
AMFT TO COMPLY WITH SUBPOENA FOR BUSINESS RECORDS PURSUANT TO CODE OF CIVIL
PROCEDURE SECTION 1987.1
 
Date of Hearing:        January
30, 2024                               Trial
Date:       None
set.   
Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        22STCV04006
 
Moving Party:            Defendants
Joe Potchanard Chauvapun, M.D., Urgentpoint, Inc., and Urgentpoint Health, P.C.
Responding Party:     Plaintiff Alejandra Acevedo 
Meet and Confer:      Yes.
(DeFalco Decl. ¶8.) 
 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiff alleges she and the decedent,
John Francis McLaughlin, spoke about the decedent’s desire to rid himself of
his dependency on alcohol and decided for the decedent to enter a 24-hour
custodial care facility where he would undergo detoxification in a safe
environment. Decedent went to West Health, Inc. for care. Upon being admitted,
Defendants conducted a “telehealth” assessment of decedent. Plaintiff alleges,
however, Defendants failed to perform an adequate assessment and the decedent
passed away the next morning. 
 
On February 1, 2022, Plaintiff filed a
complaint against Defendants asserting causes of action for: (1) Professional
Negligence; (2) Abuse/Neglect of Dependent Adult; (3) Concealment/Intentional
Misrepresentation; (4) Negligence Per Se; and (5) Wrongful Death. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendants'
Joe Potchanard Chauvapun, M.D., Urgentpoint, Inc. and Urgentpoint Health, P.C.
Motion to Compel Karina Carvajal-Frakt, AMFT to Comply with Subpoena for
Business Records Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.1 is GRANTED.

 
discussion
 
Defendants Joe Potchanard Chauvapun,
M.D., Urgentpoint, Inc., and Urgentpoint Health, P.C. moves this court for an
order compelling the custodian of records for Karina Carvajal-Frakt, AMFT at
Bay Area Mental Health to comply with the Deposition Subpoena for Production of
Business Records. Defendants make the motion on the basis he documents sought
are discoverable because (1) they are relevant to the subject matter of this
litigation; (2) they are admissible or reasonably calculated to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence; and (3) they are vital to Defendants development
of defenses to Plaintiff Alejandra Acevedo’s claims.
 
The service of a deposition notice,
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.240, is effective to require
any party deponent to attend, testify, and produce materials for inspection at
a deposition. (CCP §2025.280(a).) To require the attendance and testimony of a
non-party deponent, as well as his or her production of any document or
tangible thing for inspection and copying, the party seeking discovery must
serve on that deponent a deposition subpoena, pursuant CCP § 2020.010, et seq.
(CCP §§ 2020.010(b), 2025.280(b); See also Sears, Roebuck & Co. v.
National Union Fire Insurance Company of Pittsburgh (2005) 131 Cal.App.4th
1342, 1350 [discovery from nonparties is governed by CCP §§ 2020.010, et seq.,
and is primarily carried out by way of subpoena].)
 
If a deponent fails to answer any
question or to produce any document, the party seeking discovery may move the
court for an order compelling that answer or production. (CCP § 2025.480(a).)
If the court determines that the answer or production sought is subject to
discovery, it shall order that the answer be given or the production be made on
the resumption of the deposition. (CCP § 2025.480(i).)
 
Defendant argues Mrs. Acevedo has put
her mental health records at issue in this litigation and has represented she will
testify that she sought therapy as a result of her husband's death. As a
result, Defendant is to the records to determine veracity of Plaintiff's claim
and whether the therapy sought was related to her husband's death or for some
other reason. 
 
Plaintiff opposes the subpoena on the
grounds it is overbroad. Plaintiff does not deny that Defendants are entitled
to obtain the therapy records that are directly relevant to her treatment
involving the grief of losing her husband. Plaintiff contends she simply
requests that the scope of the subpoena be limited to the therapy received
relating such treatment, and to ensure that additional, irrelevant and
privileged information is not inadvertently disclosed. As a result, Plaintiff
requests the court limit its scope to records that are directly relevant the
treatment she received related to the grief of losing her husband.
Additionally, Plaintiff requests the court order that she be allowed to first
review the records and redact irrelevant information while keeping a privilege
log. 
 
Both parties cite In re Lifschutz
(1970) 2 Cal.3d 415. Defendant argues the California Supreme Court held that
"the compelled disclosure of relevant information obtained in a
confidential communication does not violate any constitutional privacy rights
of the psychotherapist." (In re Lifschutz (1970) 2 Cal.3d 415, 423.)
As such, because Mrs. Acevedo has put her mental health records at issue in
this litigation, then those records are discoverable as Plaintiff has tendered
them in this litigation. 
 
Plaintiff claims the California Supreme
Court emphatically rejected the notion that the patient-litigant exception to
the psychotherapist-patient privilege in Evidence Code section 1016 required a
plaintiff to waive her right to privacy as to her entire medical history. (In
re Lifschutz, supra, 2 Cal.3d at p. 435.) Specifically, the court in
Lifschutz stated “communications which are not directly relevant to
those specific conditions do not fall within the terms of section 1016's
exception and therefore remain privileged.” (Id.) Accordingly, Plaintiff
contends therapy provided relating to Plaintiff’s relationships with her
co-workers, family members and friends have no connection
to the therapy provided for Plaintiff’s grief and are thus protected from
disclosure. Plaintiff further contends the records relating to the status and
event of the current lawsuit are also unrelated to the therapy Plaintiff has
received for the grief relating to her husband’s death.  Plaintiff also cites Tylo v. Superior Court
(1997) 55 Cal.App.4th 1379, for the proposition that she is
entitled to withhold all discussions with her grief therapist about any subject
other than her husband’s death.  
 
The court agrees that the records here
should be produced. The court has now read all of the records as part of an in
camera review it has conducted.  The
court has determined that all of the records relate to treatment plaintiff
received after her husband’s death, as part of counseling relating to her
grief.  In the records, the plaintiff
talks freely about her feelings about her husband’s death, how it has affected
her in many aspects of her life and how she is dealing with it.  Her discussion of her feelings about the
litigation is relevant as an alternate stressor and discoverable.  Her few discussions about other matters, e.g.,
work, friends, moving to a new apartment and her relationship with her mother,
are all discoverable and do not unreasonably intrude on the privacy rights of
third parties.   Because plaintiff
discussed all of these issues with the therapist she sought out for grief
therapy, these other matters are relevant to the efficacy of that treatment,
whether plaintiff had other stressors in her life during the grieving period, the
weight plaintiff placed on the loss of her husband as compared to other
stressors in her life, and whether plaintiff’s emotional state has
improved.   
 
Accordingly, Defendants' Joe Potchanard Chauvapun, M.D., Urgentpoint, Inc. and
Urgentpoint Health, P.C. Motion to Compel Karina Carvajal-Frakt, AMFT to Comply
with Subpoena for Business Records Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
1987.1 is GRANTED.  The records are to be
produced in unredacted format. 
 