 Case Number:  23VECV03504    Hearing Date:   January 30, 2024    Dept:  W MICHAEL CASTILLO v. ASTGHIK
HAMBARDZUMYAN, et al.
 
Motion TO STRIKE PORTIONS OF plaintiff’s
COMPLAINT 
 
Date
of Hearing:        January 30, 2024                               Trial Date:       None
set.  
Department:              W                                                         Case No.:        23VECV03504
 
Moving Party:            Defendants
Astghik Hambardzumyan and Arthur Hambardzumyan 
Responding Party:     No
opposition.  
 
BACKGROUND
 
This action arises out of a dog bite that occurred on
February 8, 2023. Plaintiff Michael Castillo alleges while working, Plaintiff encountered
Defendants’ dog who was present without a leash. Plaintiff alleges the dog had
escaped from the premises because of the Defendants’ negligence. As a result,
of Defendants’ dog attacking Plaintiff, Plaintiff alleges he suffered injuries
and bites to his left arm. On August 9, 2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint
against Defendants for negligence. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendants Astghik Hambardzumyan and Arthur Hambardzumyan’s Motion
to Strike Portions of Plaintiff’s Complaint is GRANTED. 
 
ANALYSIS 
 
Defendants Astghik Hambardzumyan and Arthur Hambardzumyan move
this court for an order striking Plaintiff’s allegations of punitive damages on
the ground the allegations are irrelevant, improper and not drawn in conformity
with California law.
 
The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion,
and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper
matter inserted in any pleading. (CCP § 436(a).) The court may also strike all
or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of
this state, a court rule, or an order of the court. (CCP § 436(b).) The grounds
for a motion to strike are that the pleading has irrelevant, false or improper
matter, or has not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws. (CCP § 436.)
The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by
way of judicial notice. (CCP § 437.) 
 
To sufficiently plead a claim for punitive damages pursuant to
Civil Code §3294, a plaintiff must satisfy circumstances of “malice,
oppression, or fraud,” supported by facts alleged with sufficient
particularity. (G.D. Searle & Co. v. Superior Court (1975) 49
Cal.App.3d 22, 29.) These allegations are held to a heightened pleading
standard: a plaintiff may not state a mere conclusion of law to support a cause
of action. (Perkins v. Sup. Ct. (1981) 117 Cal.App.3d 1, 6.) More
importantly, the plaintiff may not simply "plead . . . a claim for damages
in the language authorizing such damages." (Id.) While some
conclusory statements may be permitted, they must make sense in the context of
the Complaint taken as a whole. (Id.)
 
Defendants argue Plaintiff has prayed for punitive damages but has
failed to plead specific facts that support such allegations. Specifically,
Plaintiff makes conclusory allegations by simply stating Defendants’ conduct
was willful and malicious by knowingly permitting the dog on the premises
despite its dangerous and aggressive tendencies. 
 
The court agrees the complaint fails to allege facts sufficient to
support a claim for punitive damages. Punitive damages are “typically awarded
for intentional torts” while “cases involving unintentional torts are far
fewer.” (Lackner v. North (2006) 135 Cal. App. 4th 1188, 1212.) Code of
Civil Procedure section 3294(c)(1) defines “malice” as “conduct which is
intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable
conduct which is carried on by defendant with a willful and conscious disregard
of the rights or safety of others.” While the complaint alleges Defendants were
negligent, or even grossly negligent, in letting the dog escape without a
leash, the complaint lacks specific facts which establish that Defendants’
conduct was so despicable that it warrants the imposition of punitive damages.
 
Plaintiff has not opposed the motion. The motion is therefore
GRANTED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND as to Plaintiff’s allegations regarding punitive
damages.  