 Case Number:  23VECV03895    Hearing Date:   January 30, 2024    Dept:  W JAMES
GRIFFITHS v. VOLKSWAGEN GROUP OF AMERICA, INC.
 
DEFENDANT’s demurrer
with motion to strike 
 
Date of Hearing:        January
30, 2024                               Trial
Date:       None Set
Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        23VECV03895
 
Moving Party:            Defendant
Volkswagen Group of America, Inc.
Responding Party:     Plaintiff James Griffiths
Meet and Confer:      Yes. (Kumar Decl. ¶¶5-6.) 
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a lemon law action. On
September 6, 2023, Plaintiff James Griffiths filed a complaint against
Defendant Volkswagen Group of America, Inc., asserting causes of action for 1.
Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act and 2. Magnusson-Moss Warranty Act.
Plaintiff alleges Plaintiff leased a new 2021 Audi e-tron and express
warranties accompanied the lease of the vehicle. Plaintiff alleges the vehicle
was delivered to Plaintiff with serious defects and nonconformities to warranty
and developed other serious defects and nonconformities to warranty including,
but not limited to, a malfunctioning door lock system.
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendant Volkswagen Group of America,
Inc.’s Demurrer to the Complaint is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. Defendant’s
Motion to Strike is MOOT. 
 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
Defendant
requests this court take judicial notice of Status Certificates issued by California’s
Department of Consumer Affairs to Volkswagen Group of America, Inc. certifying
Volkswagen Group of America, Inc.’s compliance and ability to operate a
state-certified arbitration program in California (RJN, Exh. 1). The court
GRANTS Defendant’s request for judicial notice. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Defendant demurs to the second cause of
action for Violation of the Magnuson-Moss Warranty Act on the grounds that the
cause of action fails to allege facts sufficient to constitute causes of
action, as well as California Code of Civil Procedure section 431.10(f) on the
grounds that the cause of action is fatally uncertain against Defendant.
 
“Magnuson-Moss¿governs warranties for
consumer products distributed in interstate commerce. It requires disclosures
in connection with written warranties, regulates the substantive content of
warranties, and establishes a federal cause of action for breach of a written
or an implied warranty (15 U.S.C. § 2310(d)), among other
provisions.¿Magnuson-Moss¿does not substitute federal law for state law of
consumer product warranties, but instead supplements state law.”¿(Orichian¿v.
BMW of N. Am., LLC¿(2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 1322, 1330.)
“Magnuson–Moss¿‘calls for the application of state written and implied warranty
law, not the creation of additional federal law,’¿except in specific instances
in which it expressly prescribes a regulating rule.” (Daugherty v. Am. Honda
Motor Co.¿(2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 824, 833.)¿ Accordingly, the Daugherty
court held that the “failure to state a warranty claim under state law
necessarily constitute[s] a failure to state a claim under¿Magnuson-Moss.” (Id.) 
 
Defendant argues the complaint fails to
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action for violation of the
Magnuson-Moss Act because Plaintiff failed to allege exhaustion of the Act’s
informal dispute resolution requirement. Defendant contends VWGoA has made
available a valid informal dispute resolution process through the Better
Business Bureau Auto Line, which is recognized as an appropriate form of
informal dispute resolution under the [Magnuson-Moss] Act’s requirements.  (Zingerman, D.D.S., P.C. v. Nissan North
America, Inc. (N.D. Ill., Apr. 20, 2015, No. 14 C 7835) 2015 WL 1840952, at
*3; RJN, Exh. 1.) Because Plaintiff’s complaint does not allege that he
utilized the BBB Auto Line to attempt to resolve their claim before filing this
lawsuit, Plaintiff has not stated facts sufficient to assert a cause of action
under the Magnuson-Moss Act.
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues VWGoA has
not shown that its written disclosures relating to the “informal dispute
resolution process” comply with the MMWA and other federal disclosure rules
intended to protect consumers and as a result, VWGoA has not, and cannot, show
that Plaintiff was required to participate in VWGoA’s alternate dispute
resolution (“ADR”) program before filing suit. (See Carrillo v. BMW of North
America, LLC (C.D. CA 2021) 543 F.Supp.3d 856, 861, holding the plaintiff
was not “bound by BMW's informal dispute resolution procedure because the
information about BBB Auto Line is not contained on the page on which the
warranty text begins, and therefore is not “on the face of the warranty.” 16
C.F.R. § 703.1(h)(2).”) Moreover, Plaintiff reached out directly to VW prior to
retaining counsel and initiating the instant litigation. However, Defendant wrongfully
rejected Plaintiff's prelitigation repurchase request, and offers no evidence
that it directed Plaintiff to its ADR program at that time when Plaintiff had
no alternative recourse for redress.
 
Here, the court finds that Plaintiff
has failed to plead facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action under the
Magnuson-Moss Warranty Act. The complaint is currently silent as to any facts
confirming Plaintiff either adhered to informal dispute resolution prior to
filing the complaint (which Plaintiff does not seem to contend) or facts
excusing Plaintiff from such a requirement. Plaintiff must plead facts
demonstrating that they either attempted to informally resolve the subject
dispute prior to filing the complaint, that Plaintiff was not required to
pursue informal dispute resolution due to Defendants’ failure to comply with
the Federal Trade Commission rules (see see Carrillo v. BMW of North
America, LLC (C.D. CA 2021) 543 F.Supp.3d 856), and/or doing so would have
been futile. (See Carrillo v. BMW of North America, LLC (C.D. CA 2021)
543 F.Supp.3d 856) In re Toyota Motor Corp. Unintended Acceleration
Marketing, Sales Practices, and Products Liability Litigation (C.D. Cal.
2010) 754 F.Supp.2d 1145, 1189.) The court notes, however, whether or not
Plaintiff was, indeed, required to adhere to informal dispute resolution under
the Magnuson-Moss Warranty Act prior to filing the complaint is an evidentiary
determination which may not be determined on Demurrer.  (SKF Farms v.
Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal. App. 3d 902, 905 [holding a demurrer tests
the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic
matters].)   
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer to
the second cause of action is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
Motion to Strike 
 
Defendant Volkswagen Group of America,
Inc. moves to strike Plaintiff’s second cause of action under Mag-Moss fails as
a matter of law. Plaintiff has not, and cannot allege, that he exhausted the
informal dispute remedies available to her as required under 15 U.S.C. section
2310(a)(3) before bringing suit. 
 
The motion to strike is DENIED AS MOOT.
The court has sustained the demurrer with leave to amend. 
 
 