  Case Number:  23VECV04438    Hearing Date:   June 18, 2024    Dept:  W PAUL PINCKARD
vs LYFT, INC. demurrer with
motion to strike the complaint  Date of Hearing:        June 18, 2024                                    Trial
Date:       None
set. Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        23VECV04438 Moving Party:            Defendant
Lyft, Inc.   Responding Party:     Plaintiff
Paul Pinckard   Meet and Confer:      Yes
(Hughes Decl. ¶¶10-14.)  BACKGROUND On October 5, 2023, Plaintiff Paul
Pinckard filed a complaint against Defendant Lyft, Inc. for 1) General
Negligence; 2) Negligent Hiring, Supervision and Retention; 3) Common Carrier
Negligence; 4) Vicarious liability for Torts; 5) Vicarious liability for Assault
and Battery; and 6) NIED. Plaintiff alleges on October 12, 2021, Plaintiff was
battered by a Lyft driver while the driver was driving for Lyft. Moreover,
Plaintiff alleges the driver was impaired while driving.  [Tentative] Ruling Defendant Lyft Inc.’s Demurrer to the
Complaint is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND, IN PART; OVERRULED, IN PART.
Defendant Lyft Inc.’s Motion to Strike is GRANTED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.  REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE Defendant
requests this court take judicial notice of Plaintiff Paul Pinckard’s Complaint
titled Paul Pinckard v. Lyft, Inc.¸ Los Angeles County Superior Court Case No.
23VECV04438, filed on October 5, 2023 (RJN Exh. A.) The court GRANTS
Defendant’s request for judicial notice.  DISCUSSION Defendant Lyft demurs to the first, second, third and sixth causes
of action of the complaint on the grounds the complaint fails to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action against Lyft. First Cause of Action  Defendant demurs to the first cause of action for negligence on
the grounds Plaintiff does not identify a legally cognizable duty that Lyft
allegedly owed to Plaintiff who did not have any relationship with Lyft at all,
let alone what specific actions Lyft took to breach this unidentified duty. The elements for negligence are: (1) a legal duty owed to the
plaintiff to use due care; (2) breach of duty; (3) causation; and (4) damage to
the plaintiff. (County of Santa Clara v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2006)
137 Cal.App.4th 292, 318.)  Defendant asserts Plaintiff’s complaint alleges no facts
indicating Lyft owed Plaintiff any duty. According to Defendant, Plaintiff’s complaint
makes it clear that: (1) Plaintiff did not use the Lyft platform or application
to secure a ride; (2) Plaintiff was not approved by Lyft as a passenger; and
(3) Plaintiff did not have any relationship with Lyft at all. In addition to
failing to identify any specific duty owed to Plaintiff, Plaintiff does not identify
any actions Lyft took or failed to take to breach its alleged duty to Plaintiff
nor does Plaintiff sufficiently allege causation.  The complaint alleges Defendant owed Plaintiff and its users a
duty to act with reasonable care as a transportation company including
providing a safe ride to their destinations. (Compl. ¶¶48, 50.) The complaint
further alleges Plaintiff’s mother submitted a request for a lift ride through
the Lyft app for Plaintiff to use to reach his destination. (Compl. ¶38.) The
complaint also alleges Defendant had been put on notice that its drivers have
committed assault and batteries due to criminal investigations by law
enforcement. (Compl. ¶¶7, 24.)   The court finds the allegations sufficient for the purposes of a
demurrer. As noted, the complaint alleges Defendant owes a duty to provide safe
rides to passengers and Plaintiff was a passenger in the vehicle. Regardless of
whether it was Plaintiff or Plaintiff’s mother who ordered the ride, Plaintiff
has alleged Defendant owed Plaintiff a duty and Defendant breached that duty by
failing to properly perform background checks and thereby allowing dangerous
predators to drive and earn money for Lyft. Lastly, the court notes Plaintiff
has sufficiently alleged Defendant’s breach in not properly conducting
background checks caused Plaintiff’s assault and battery, which caused
Plaintiff to suffer bodily injury.  Accordingly, the demurrer to the first cause of action is
OVERRULED.  Second Cause of Action  Defendant demurs to the second cause of action for negligent
hiring, supervision and retention on the grounds Plaintiff fails to identify
anything in the driver’s past that indicated he was violent or had a history of
misconduct that Lyft knew, should have known, or failed to discover, that might
have put Lyft on notice that he would commit an assault. An employer may be liable to a third person for the employer's
negligence in hiring or retaining an employee if the third person can show that
(1) the employee is incompetent or unfit, (2) the employer had reason to
believe the undue risk of harm would exist because of the employment, and (3)
the harm occurs. (Federico v. Superior Court (1997) 59 Cal. App. 4th
1207, 1213-14.) Defendant argues Plaintiff does not allege that there was anything
about the driver that Lyft knew or should have known to suggest he would commit
an assault. Defendant claims in order to establish a cause of action against
Lyft, Plaintiff is required to plead facts to support that the driver had a
propensity for violence prior to the alleged incident and Lyft had “actual
notice” that the driver was likely to commit an assault or that there was
anything specific Lyft failed to discover about this driver. The court agrees. The complaint alleges as early as 2015, Lyft has
been aware of crimes committed against its passengers by Lyft drivers. (Compl.
7.) However, this alleged knowledge is not knowledge about the driver in
question, Karen. To establish negligent supervision, a plaintiff must show that
a person in a supervisory position over the actor had knowledge of the actor's
propensity to do the bad act.” (Z.V. County of Riverside (2015) 238
Cal.App.4th 889, 903.)  Accordingly, the demurrer to the second cause of action is
SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.  Third Cause of Action  Defendant demurs to the third cause of action for common carrier
negligence on the grounds Plaintiff does not alleged he was in transit at the
time of the alleged incident. “A carrier of persons for reward must use the utmost care and
diligence for their safe carriage, must provide everything necessary for that
purpose, and must exercise to that end a reasonable degree of skill.”  (Civ. Code, § 2100.)  A common carrier “is responsible for any,
even the slightest, negligence and is required to do all that human care,
vigilance and foresight reasonably can do under given circumstances.”  (Irwin v. Pacific Southwest Airlines (1982)
133 Cal.App.3d 709, 715.)  “It was said
in Falls v. San Francisco etc. R.R. Co., 97 Cal. 114, 119, that: ‘The
passenger while in actual progress upon his journey is exposed to countless
hazards [and] gives himself wholly in charge of the carrier.... But a rule
properly ceases with the reason for it; therefore, as a passenger's entrance to
the carrier's station is characterized by none of the hazards incident to the
journey itself, the rigor of the rule above announced [the rule of highest
degree of care] is justly relaxed, in that at such a time and place the carrier
is bound to exercise only a reasonable degree of care for the protection of
[its] passengers.’”' (Marshall v. United Airlines (1973) 35 Cal.App.3d
84, 86-87.) This heightened degree of care is owed only while “passengers are
in transitu, and until they have safely departed the carrier's vehicle.” (Id.
at p 86.)  Defendant contends Plaintiff’s cause of action for common carrier
negligence fails because the common carrier’s special duty of care does not
apply to an individual not in transit. As alleged, Defendant claims Defendant’s
heightened duty ended once Plaintiff exited the vehicle at his requested
destination. Plaintiff unequivocally confirms he was dropped off at his home
and exited the vehicle. In opposition, Plaintiff argues the misconduct began during
Plaintiff’s transportation when Defendant nearly caused two accidents, which
caused Plaintiff to contact the authorities and when exiting the vehicle,
attempt to take a picture of the driver’s license plate.   The court finds the allegations insufficient. While the opposition
contends Plaintiff was exposed to countless hazards including the driver almost
causing two motor vehicle accidents and driving under the influence, it is not
clearly alleged in the cause of action. The court takes note that in some
instances, when a passenger has exited a vehicle, a common carrier may still be
found negligent when a common carrier ejects a passenger at a place other than
the designated destination and in doing so, subjects the passenger to
reasonably foreseeable injury, which violates a common carrier's affirmative
duty to prevent harm to its passengers. (See Ingham v. Luxor Cab Co.
(2001) 93 Cal.App.4th 1045, 1051.) However, if ejectment did not create “a
situation of peril that increased the risk of harm,” the carrier-passenger
relationship terminated. (See McGettigan v. Bay Area Rapid Transit Dist. (1997)
57 Cal.App.4th 1011, holding district did not owe a heightened duty when the
plaintiff, who was drunk and sleeping on the train, was ordered off the car at
the end of the line and onto the platform, where he was eventually found lying
on the platform injured.)  Accordingly, the demurrer to the third cause of action is
SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.  Sixth Cause of Action  Defendant demurs to the sixth cause of action for negligent
infliction of emotional distress on the grounds the doctrine of “negligent
infliction of emotional distress” is not a separate tort or cause of action, it
simply allows certain persons to recover damages for emotional distress on a
negligence cause of action. As Plaintiff’s negligence causes of action all fail
as a matter of law, so does Plaintiff’s NIED claim.   As the court has overruled the demurrer to the negligence cause of
action, the court overrules the demurrer to the sixth cause of action for
negligent infliction of emotional distress.  Motion to Strike  Defendant moves to strike portions from Plaintiff Paul Pinckard’s complaint
seeking “punitive damages” because Plaintiff’s complaint fails to set forth any
facts showing (1) that any corporate director, officer, or managing agent of
Lyft took any action with respect to Plaintiff; (2) what these alleged actions
were; (3) that any corporate director, officer, or managing agent of Lyft knew
that the driver of the ride at issue was going to physically assault Plaintiff;
or (4) that any corporate director, officer, or managing agent of Lyft ratified
or authorized the alleged conduct of the driver, which are required to support
a claim for punitive damages. Punitive Damages are recoverable where the defendant has been
guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice, express or implied. (Cal. Civ. Code
§3294.) “Something more than the mere commission of a tort is always required
for punitive damages. There must be circumstances of aggravation our outrage,
such as spite or malice, or a fraudulent or evil motive on the part of the
defendant, or such a conscious and deliberate disregard of the interests of
others that his conduct may be called willful or wanton.” (Taylor v.
Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 894.)  The court finds the allegations insufficient. Although the
complaint alleges Defendant acted with conscious disregard for the safety of
its passengers by failing to take reasonable steps to confront the problem of
assaults, it is not clearly alleged that it was ratified.  

































































































































































Accordingly, Defendant’s Motion to Strike is GRANTED WITH LEAVE TO
AMEND. 