On February 26, 2024, a default was entered for Defendant Shah Mukesh Chhotalal.  On June 26, 2024, a default judgment was entered against Defendant.Defendant Shah Mukesh Chhotalal now seeks to set aside the default/default judgment.  An attorney affidavit of fault has been provided.  The mandatory provision of Code Civ. Proc. § 473(b) provides in relevant part, “Notwithstanding any other requirements of this section, the court shall, whenever an application for relief is made no more than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper form, and is accompanied by an attorney's sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1) resulting default entered by the clerk against his or her client, and which will result in entry of a default judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment or dismissal entered against his or her client, unless the court finds that the default or dismissal was not in fact caused by the attorney's mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect. The court shall, whenever relief is granted based on an attorney's affidavit of fault, direct the attorney to pay reasonable compensatory legal fees and costs to opposing counsel or parties.”“[A]n attorney affidavit of fault under the mandatory relief provisions of section 473, subdivision (b) need not include an explanation of the reasons for the attorney's mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.”  (Martin Potts & Assocs., Inc. v. Corsair, LLC (2016) 244 Cal. App. 4th 432, 443.)  Moreover, under this mandatory provision “it does not matter whether [counsel’s] neglect was excusable or inexcusable.”  (Ibid.) Here, defense counsel has sufficiently provided a declaration indicating that it was his calendaring error that caused him not to file a timely answer.  Plaintiff makes a number of arguments tantamount to the idea that counsel’s mistake was not excusable or was instead intentional.  Counsel’s negligence need not be excusable, and counsel need not show diligence.  Further, sufficient evidence has not been shown that counsel acted in an intentional and calculated manner.  Thus, the Motion is granted.  The Court awards Plaintiff $1,000 in compensation and/or sanctions.  (CCP § 473(b)-(c).)  The objections are overruled.  Moving party to give notice. If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic.