  Case Number:  22BBCV00853    Hearing Date:   May 23, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
mario
  munoz,
  et al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
rebecca
  nicole lennox, et
  al.,
  
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.: 
  22BBCV00853
 
  Hearing Date:  May 23, 2024  
 
[TENTATIVE] order RE:
application for leave to file first
  amended complaint   



            
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations
Plaintiffs Mario Munoz, minor Adrian
Munoz, minor Michael Munoz, and Josue Herrera (“Plaintiffs”) filed this motor
vehicle complaint on October 27, 2022 against Defendants Rebecca Nicole Lennox
and Brian Lennox (“Defendants”).  The
complaint alleges causes of action for: (1) motor vehicle and (2) general
negligence.  
Plaintiffs allege that on February 19,
2022, they were stopped on the I-5 Burbank Boulevard offramp at the stoplight
heading northbound when Defendants rear-ended Plaintiffs’ vehicle. 
On April 24, 2024, Plaintiffs dismissed
with prejudice the complaint as to Plaintiffs Adrian Munoz, Michael Munoz, and
Josue Herrera only.  
B.    
Relevant Background and Motion on Calendar   
            On
April 30, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an ex parte application for leave to file the
first amended complaint (“FAC”) or, in the alternative, to advance the hearing
date.  
            On April 30, 2024, Defendants filed
an opposition to the ex parte application. 

            On May 2, 2024, the Court held a
hearing on the ex parte application. The Court granted the ex parte application
such that the hearing was scheduled for May 23, 2024.  The Court ordered the opposition and reply to
be filed and served pursuant to code. 
            On May 9, 2024, Defendants filed an
opposition brief.   
            The Final Status Conference is set
for May 23, 2024.  The Jury Trial is set
for June 3, 2024.  
LEGAL
STANDARD
CCP § 473(a)(1) states: “The court may, in
furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to
amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any
party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any
other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or
demurrer. The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the
adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any
pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an
answer to be made after the time limited by this code.”  
            CRC
rule 3.1324 requires a motion seeking leave to amend to include a copy of the
proposed pleadings, to identify the amendments, and to be accompanied by a
declaration including the following facts:
            1) The effect of the amendment;
            2) Why the amendment is necessary and proper; 
            3) When the facts giving rise to the amended allegations
were discovered; and 
            4) The reasons why the request for amendment was not made
earlier.
The Court’s discretion regarding granting
leave to amend is usually exercised liberally to permit amendment of
pleadings.  (Nestle v. Santa Monica (1972) 6 Cal.3d 920, 939.)  If a motion to amend is timely made and the
granting of the motion will not prejudice the opposing party, it is error to
refuse permission to amend.  (Morgan v. Superior Court of Los Angeles
County (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530.)
DISCUSSION 
Plaintiffs
move for leave to file the proposed First Amended Complaint (“FAC”).  Plaintiffs provide Exhibit 1, which includes
the Exemplary Damages Attachment (Form PLD-PI-001(6)).  In the Exemplary Damages Attachment,
Plaintiff seeks to add the following language to the complaint:
Defendant
Rebecca Nicole Lennox voluntarily consumed alcohol and had a Blood Alcohol
Content of .18, an amount that would lead to intoxication, knowing that the
combined effects of a high Blood Alcohol Level would sharply impair her ability
and mental faculties, including her ability to operate a motor vehicle, but
also knowing and intentionally operated the vehicle while intoxicated and under
the influence of alcohol. Defendant was aware or should have been aware of the
probable dangerous consequences of operating a motor vehicle while under the
influence of alcohol. Defendant consumed alcohol knowingly that she would
operate a vehicle thereafter. Defendant did so with full knowledge and
conscious disregard that doing so posed a danger to others on the road,
including Plaintiffs, and that doing so posed a great risk of danger to the
rights and safety of others. Despite the risks and the illegality of driving
under the influence of alcohol, Defendant still got behind the wheel of her
vehicle and operated the vehicle negligently, carelessly, and recklessly.
(Application, Ex. 1.)  
In support of the
motion, Plaintiffs provide the declaration of counsel Itamar B. Tehrani.  Counsel Tehrani states that on April 12,
2024, Plaintiffs attended a good faith mediation with Defendants with the
expectation that the case would settle; while Plaintiff accepted the mediator’s
proposal, Defendants did not.  (Tehrani
Decl., ¶7.)  Counsel states that there
were outstanding discovery issues, which based on Defendants’ representation of
settling the case at the deposition, Plaintiffs waited on pursuing the
deficiencies.  (Id., ¶8.)  Counsel states that Plaintiffs had to take
Defendants’ deposition and are waiting on outstanding discovery regarding her
DUI, but Defendants have refused to provide the additional information in
outstanding discovery and have forced Plaintiffs to continue trial as a
result.  (Id., ¶9.)  Counsel provides the Police Report for the
incident and a copy of Rebecca Lennox’s deposition, where she admits that she
had a blood alcohol content level of .18, that her driver’s license was
suspended as a result of this loss, and she was combative with the police at
the time of the incident and prior to her arrest.  (Id. ¶¶ 4-5, Ex. 2 [Police Report],
Ex. 3 [R. Lennox Depo. at pp. 10-11, 38, 48-49].)  
In opposition,
Defendants argue that Plaintiffs have not shown by “clear and convincing
evidence” that a request for punitive damages is proper.  Defendants argue that merely driving while
intoxicated is not sufficient for an award of punitive damages and that there
has to be both allegations of severe intoxication and independent despicable
conduct.  
Civil Code § 3294
authorizes a plaintiff to obtain an award of punitive damages when there is
clear and convincing evidence that the defendant engaged in malice, oppression,
or fraud.  Section 3294(c) defines the terms in the following manner:
(1)  
"Malice" means conduct which is
intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others.
(2)  
"Oppression" means despicable
conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious
disregard of that person's rights.
(3)  
"Fraud" means an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury. 
Taylor v. Superior
Court
(1979) 24 Cal.3d 890 is instructive with respect to this set of facts.  In Taylor,
the Supreme Court fell short of holding that punitive damages are always
appropriate in cases involving driving while intoxicated, finding that “the act
of operating a motor vehicle while intoxicated may constitute an act of
‘malice’ under section 3294 if performed under
circumstances which disclose a conscious disregard of the probable dangerous
consequences.”  (Id. at p. 892.)  In the
subsequent decision of Dawes v. Superior
Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 82, the Supreme Court held that driving while
intoxicated does not always give rise to a claim for punitive damages.  Specifically, the Court stated that “the risk
created generally by one who becomes intoxicated and decides nevertheless to
drive a vehicle on the public streets is the same as the risk created by an
intoxicated driver’s decision to zigzag in and out of traffic at 65 miles per
hour in a crowded beach recreation area at 1:30 in the afternoon on a Sunday in
June.  The risk of injury to others from
ordinary driving while intoxicated is certainly foreseeable, but it is not
necessarily probable.”  (Id. at p. 89.)  In Peterson v. Superior
Court (1982) 31 Cal.3d 147, the proposed complaint at issue
in that action alleged “after consuming alcohol, the defendant drove with plaintiff
in the vehicle at speeds in excess of 100 miles per hour, and that the
plaintiff objected to the high speed and demanded that defendant properly
control the vehicle. The parties stopped at a restaurant, and defendant
consumed additional alcoholic beverages, then returned to the car and
defendant drove at a speed well in excess of 75 miles per hour, losing control of the
vehicle and injuring plaintiff. The complaint alleges that defendant drove the
vehicle with knowledge that probable serious injury to other persons would
result and in conscious disregard of the safety of plaintiff.”  (Peterson, supra, 31 Cal.3d at 162.)  The Peterson court concluded that the allegations of
the proposed complaint stated sufficient facts to support an award for punitive
damages because the defendant became intoxicated and thereafter drove a car
while in that condition, despite his knowledge of the safety hazard he created
thereby.  (Id. at 163.)  
Based on the rules set forth in both Taylor and Dawes, the Court finds that the allegations in the proposed FAC
regarding Defendant Rebecca Lennox’s intoxication are insufficient to support
the imposition of punitive damages.  The
description of Defendant’s conduct can be applicable to almost any situation
wherein a person consumes alcohol and then decides to drive.  The fact that the FAC alleges that Defendant
consumed excessive amount of alcohol prior to driving and her BAC at .18 do not
necessarily show that she acted maliciously or oppressively.  As discussed in Taylor, Dawes, and Peterson, specific factual
circumstances must be alleged which show that the risk of injury was probable,
such as weaving through lanes of traffic, a previous conviction for driving under the influence of alcohol,
driving while simultaneously drinking alcohol, or consuming more alcohol after
already being intoxicated and continuing to drive.  The fact that an accident occurred, and
Defendant was found to be intoxicated, without more, has the character of
ordinary negligent driving and does not show aggravating circumstances
warranting punitive damages.  
Finally, Plaintiffs have not addressed
each factor provided in CRC rule 3.1324. 
While Plaintiffs’ counsel states that discovery is still ongoing and
they are waiting for outstanding discovery responses, Plaintiffs appear to have
been aware of the fact that Defendant Rebecca Lennox was intoxicated as this
was recorded in the Police Report.  (See
Police Report at p.8.)  The Police Report
appears to have been completed on March 4, 2022.  Further, Rebecca Lennox was deposed on August
4, 2023 where she testified regarding the DIU and her license suspension at
that time.  Based on the evidence
submitted, Plaintiffs do not have sufficient evidence to submit to the issue of
punitive damages to the jury. 
While Plaintiffs’ counsel states that they
anticipated settlement at mediation on April 12, 2024, Plaintiffs have not
explained why the amendment was not made earlier as a complete timeline of
events is not provided regarding when they obtained the Police Report, when
they agreed to mediate the case with Defendants, etc. such that they delayed in
filing this motion sooner.  
The application for leave to file the
proposed FAC is denied.  
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
Plaintiffs’
application for leave to file the proposed First Amended Complaint to add
allegations for punitive damages is denied. 

Plaintiffs shall
provide notice of this order. 
 
 
DATED:  May 23, 2024                                                         ___________________________
                                                                                          John
J. Kralik
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court 