 Case Number:  24VECV02061    Hearing Date:   August 13, 2024    Dept:  W ANDRANIK
AYKAZYAN v. VOLKSWAGEN GROUP OF 
AMERICA, INC.,
et al.
 
defendant
galpin volkswagen’s demurrer to complaint 
 
Date of Hearing:        August
13, 2024                                Trial
Date:       None Set.
Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        24VECV02061
 
Moving Party:            Defendant Galpin Volkswagen 
Responding Party:     Plaintiff
Andranik Aykazyan 
Meet and Confer:      Yes. (Koopersmith Decl. ¶3.)   
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a lemon law action. On May 2,
2024, Plaintiff Andranik Aykazyan filed a complaint against Defendants
Volkswagen Group of America, Inc. (“VWGOA”) and Galpin Volkswagen (“Galpin”)
for (1) Violation of Subdivision (d) of Civil Code Section 1793.2; (2)
Violation of Subdivision (b) of Civil Code Section 1793.2; (3) Violation of Subdivision
(a)(3) of Civil Code Section 1793.2; (4) Breach of the Implied Warranty of
Merchantability; and (5) Negligent Repair. Plaintiff alleges he purchased a
2022 Volkswagen Atlas in November 2021 from Defendant VWGOA. However, defects
and nonconformities manifested including engine defects and electrical defects.
Plaintiff took the vehicle to Defendant Galpin for substantial repairs on at
least one occasion, which Galpin failed to properly repair. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendant Galpin Volkswagen’s Demurrer
to the Complaint is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendant
Galpin demurs to Plaintiff’s Fifth Cause of Action for Negligent Repair on the
grounds the negligent repair cause of action is barred by the economic loss
rule and fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action
against Defendant. 
 
The economic
loss rule provides that “where a purchaser's expectations in a sale are
frustrated because the product he bought is not working properly, his [or her]
remedy is said to be in contract alone, for he [or she) has suffered only
economic losses.” (Robinson Helicopter Company v. Dana Corporation
(2004) 34 Cal.4th 979, 988.) “Tort damages have been permitted in contract
cases where a breach of duty directly causes physical injury; for breach of the
covenant of good faith and fair dealing in insurance contracts; for wrongful
discharge in violation of fundamental public policy; or where the contract was
fraudulently induced.... in each of these cases, the duty that gives rise to tort
liability is either completely independent of the contract or arises from
conduct which is both intentional and intended to harm.” (Robinson, supra,
34 Cal.4th at 989-990.)
 
Defendant
Galpin argues Plaintiff’s negligent repair claim fails because Plaintiff does
not allege that they sustained any personal injuries as a result of Galpin’s
negligence. Rather, Plaintiff’s non-economic damages stem from the alleged
breach of warranty cause of action, for which there are adequate remedies
available. As a result, Galpin contends the economic loss doctrine precludes
recovery in tort for products liability. 
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff argues it is a broad overstatement for Defendant to claim
that the economic loss rule bars negligence claims for repair work. That is
true. However, the complaint fails to allege any of the exceptions that lie to
the rule. Plaintiff must allege more than just Galpin owed a duty to Plaintiff
and Galpin breached that duty by failing to properly store, prepare and repair
the subject vehicle in accordance with industry standards to fall within the
exception to the economic loss rule. 
 
Defendant
Galpin also argues Plaintiff’s negligent repair claim merely states legal
conclusions without providing any supporting facts. The court agrees. It is not
clear from the complaint how Galpin’s breach was the proximate cause or what
Plaintiff’s damages are. 
 
Accordingly,
the demurrer to the fifth cause of action is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. 