 Case Number:  22VECV01536    Hearing Date:   August 13, 2024    Dept:  W ALEN COHEN, et
al. v. MOSHE ZEMACH, et al.
 
PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL THE FURTHER
DEPOSITION OF DEFENDANT expert decking & waterproofing, inc.’s person(s)
most qualified and production of documents
 
Date
of Hearing:        August 13, 2024                                 Trial Date:       September
23, 2024 
Department:              W                                                         Case No.:        22VECV01536
 
Moving
Party:            Plaintiff Alen Cohen 
Responding
Party:     Defendant Expert Decking &
Waterproofing, inc. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On October
11, 2022, Plaintiffs Alen Cohen and Nastran Cohen filed a complaint against
Defendants Moshe Zemach, David Zemach, Maya Librush, Oded Zemach, Livinit Up,
LLC, UrbinoConstruction Services LLC, IO Lifetime Builders, Inc., Chai Group,
LLC, Serrano Demolition, Inc., Expert Decking and Waterproofing Experts, Inc.
and The Ohio Casualty Insurance Company asserting causes of action for (1)
Breach of Contract; (2) Breach of Contract; (3) Negligence; (4) Negligence; (5)
Negligence; (6) Breach of Express Warranty; (7) Breach of Implied Warranty; (8)
Violations of Civil Code Sections 895, et seq.; (9) Intentional Misrepresentation;
(10) Negligent Misrepresentation; (11) Promissory Fraud; (12) Breach of
Contract; (13) Breach of Contract; (14) Recovery on Contractor’s Bond; (15)
Declaratory Relief; and (16) Rescission. Plaintiffs filed a first amended
complaint on March 21, 2023. On June 20, 2023, Plaintiffs dismissed their ninth
and tenth causes of action against Oded Zemach, UrbinoConstruction Services,
LLC, IO Lifetime Builders, Inc., and Chai Group LLC. 
 
Plaintiffs
allege Defendants LivinIt Up, LLC, Moshe Zemach, David Zemach, Maya Librush,
Oded Zemach, UrbinoConstruction Services, LLC, IO Lifetime Builders, Inc., and
Chai Group, LLC (“Zemach Defendants”) misrepresented the condition of certain
real property sold to Plaintiff. The Zemach Defendants purchased the real
property in 2015 and had substantially remodeled the property. Plaintiffs
further allege Serrano Demolition was not a licensed contractor nor otherwise
qualified to perform the required work and caused damaged to the property.
Plaintiffs further allege Defendant Expert Decking and Waterproofing not only
delayed substantial completion of its scope of work, Defendant Expert Decking
also defectively and negligently performed its work causing Plaintiffs to
sustain even further damages.
 
On January 3,
2023, Expert Decking and Watering Proofing, Inc. filed a cross-complaint
against Roes 1 -100 for (1) equitable indemnity; (2) contribution; (3) comparative
fault; and (4) declaratory relief. 
 
The Ohio Casualty Insurance Company filed a cross-complaint on February
24, 2023 against Expert Decking, Alen Cohen, and Nastran Cohen for
interpleader. 
 
Moshe Zemach, David Zemach, and Livinit Up filed a cross-complaint
against Serrano Demolition, Inc., Expert Decking and Water Proofing, Inc. and
James West on April 21, 2023 for equitable indemnity, contribution, declaratory
relief. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Plaintiff Alen Cohen’s Motion to Compel
the Further Deposition of Defendant Expert Decking & Waterproofing, Inc.’s
Person(s) Most Qualified and Production of Documents is GRANTED, in part. 
 
discussion
 
Plaintiff Alen Cohen requests
the Court make the following Order: Defendant Expert Decking &
Waterproofing, Inc. (“Expert Decking”) to (1) Produce for oral examination its
PMQ, who is adequately prepared to testify on all 54 Topics set forth in
Plaintiff’s Amended Notice of Taking the Deposition of Defendant’s PMQ and Request
for Production of Documents (“Notice”); (2) Conduct a diligent search and
reasonable inquiry for all documents responsive to the Notice’s Requests for
Production of Documents No’s. 1-23 (“Requests”); (3) Produce all documents that
are responsive to the Requests by August 15, 2024; (4) Produce Jesus Vargas for
his continued oral examination on either August 19, 2024 or August 21, 2024;
(5) Serve complete, verified code-compliant responses to the Notice, including
each of the Requests, without any objections, concurrently with producing all documents
responsive to the Requests on August 15, 2024; and (6) Require defense counsel
to affirm, under oath and on August 15, 2024, that no documents have been
withheld from production and attesting to his and his client’s efforts to
locate and produce all documents responsive to the Requests. Plaintiff also
seeks an order imposing monetary sanctions in the amount of $7,350.00 against
Defendant. 
 
In opposition, Expert
Decking’s Counsel submits a limited opposition asserting: (1) It has been
working with Expert Decking to comply with the Production of Documents and
production of further PMQ’s to satisfy the Notice; (2) Mr. Vargas was produced
on behalf of Expert Decking for Deposition on May 15, 2024 as he is the PMQ for
the majority of the topics; (3) on July 23, 2024, Expert Decking served a
complete response to the Document Requests in the Deposition Notice along with
over 200 pages of responsive documents; (4) upon resignation of Expert
Decking’s former counsel, current counsel for Expert Decking discovered emails
which contained additional documents necessary to respond to the production
requests in the PMQ deposition notice, but unfortunately, they were never sent;
and (5) the newly discovered documents were sent on July 23, 2024. 
 
Expert Decking
submitted a supplemental declaration on August 8, 2024 asserting they have now
provided Plaintiff’s counsel with the identification of the PMQ's from Expert
Decking in response to each of their 54 with available dates for those
individual's depositions.
 
Based on the record
before the Court, it appears Expert Decking must still produce responsive
documents to the Requests, namely individual photos and videos of the Project
and Property. Expert Decking is ordered to produce such documents within 20
days. Expert Decking must also confirm whether a diligent search and reasonable
inquiry has been done for all responsive documents. Expert Decking has now
provided who will be the PMQ for what topic and what dates are available. At
the time of the hearing, the parties are to inform the Court whether they have
now agreed upon date and time for Mr. Vargas and Mr. Hadad to sit for their
depositions. 
 
As for Plaintiff’s
request for sanctions, the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s request for monetary
sanctions in the reduced amount of $3,900.00 (5 hours preparing the motion and
supporting documents at Mr. Geylikman’s rate and 1 hour for Mr. Foster’s work
on the motion at his hourly rate of $900.00). 