 Case Number:  22VECV01431    Hearing Date:   August 13, 2024    Dept:  W JANE DOE V. LOS ANGELES UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT, ET AL.
 
plaintiff’s motion to quash or modify subpoena issued
to netflix, inc. by defendant los angeles unified school district 
 
Date of Hearing:        August
13, 2024                    Trial Date:       February
3, 2025
Department:              W                                            Case
No.:        22VECV01431
 
Moving Party:            Plaintiff
Jane Doe 
Responding
Party:     Defendant
Los Angeles Unified School District   
 
BACKGROUND
 
This action arises out of allegations by Plaintiff Jane Doe that
she was sexually abused by a former employee of Defendant Los Angeles Unified
School District (“LAUSD”), Defendant William Paden, while he was employed by LAUSD.
On September 28, 2022, Plaintiff filed a complaint against LAUSD and Paden for
(1) sexual abuse of a minor, (2) intentional infliction of emotional distress,
(3) sexual harassment, (4) negligent hiring, supervision, and retention of an
unfit employee, (5) breach of mandatory duty: failure to report suspected child
abuse (Government Code section 815.6), (6) negligent failure to warn, train, or
educate, (7) negligent supervision of a minor, and (8) negligence. 
 
On March 22, 2024, Los Angeles Unified School District filed a
cross-complaint against William Paden and Richard Coleman for indemnity,
contribution, and declaratory relief. LAUSD dismissed Richard Coleman from the
cross-complaint on June 6, 2024. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Plaintiff’s Motion to Quash or Modify
Subpoena Issued to Netflix, Inc. by Defendant Los Angeles Unified School
District is DENIED. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff Jane Doe moves this court for an order quashing or
modifying the subpoena for production of business records served upon Netflix,
Inc. by Defendant Los Angeles Unified School District on the grounds there is no
good cause for the discovery sought, the subpoena is overly broad, irrelevant,
and not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence,
the subpoena seeks documents protected by Plaintiff’s constitutional right of
privacy, the subpoena is unreasonable and oppressive in its requests, and the
subpoena was issued for the purpose of harassing Plaintiff.
 
Code of Civil Procedure section¿1987.1(a)¿states, “[i]f a subpoena
requires the attendance of a witness or the production of books, documents, or
other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the
taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably made by any person
described in subdivision (b), or upon the court’s own motion after giving
counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order quashing the
subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those
terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective orders.¿
In addition, the court may make any other order as may be appropriate to
protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including
unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the person.”¿
 
Plaintiff argues despite Plaintiff only seeking damages for her
past and future emotional distress and special damages for future psychotherapy
treatment, LAUSD issued a subpoena to Plaintiff’s current employer, Netflix,
requesting the following: “Any and all documents and records, and writings,
including, but no limited to, employment, payroll and applications for
employment, work absence and incident reports, personnel records,
pre-employment exam records and progress records, pertaining to the employment
of [Plaintiff] ... “ (Gilbert Decl., Exh. 1.) Plaintiff argues this subpoena is
overly broad as it seeks payroll information when Plaintiff is not claiming a
loss of earnings. Moreover, Plaintiffs contends LAUSD cannot show that the need
for discovery clearly outweighs her constitutional right to privacy. 
 
In opposition, LAUSD agrees to remove the request for payroll
records but believes the remainder of Plaintiff’s personnel file is reasonably
likely to contain relevant and discoverable information. LAUSD states for
example, “written reviews of her performance, any promotions, demotions,
complaints, accolades, awards, etc. (or lack thereof), may either support or
contradict Plaintiff’s claims that her mental state today is still severely impacted
by the alleged abuse.” 
 
The court agrees. Balancing LAUSD’s needs for production against
Plaintiff’s fundamental right to privacy, the court finds Plaintiff has placed
her emotional and mental health at issue and her work performance may or may
not lead to admissible evidence that may support LAUSD’s defense. Moreover, the
parties can address concerns over privacy by way of the Protective Order. 
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion to Quash or Modify Subpoena Issued
to Netflix, Inc. by Defendant Los Angeles Unified School District is DENIED, but
the subpoena should be limited to performance reviews and evaluations; records
of promotions, demotions, complaints, accolades, and awards; and records of
attendance and absences (if any).”  
 