  Case Number:  23STCV11727    Hearing Date:   June 6, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     June 6, 2024               TRIAL DATE: NOT
SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Arturo Montoya-Bautista et al. v.
Architectural Surfaces, Inc., et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV11727            
 
MOTION
TO STRIKE PORTIONS OF COMPLAINT

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant Caesarstone LTD.
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiffs Arturo
Montoya-Bautista and Magdalena Balderas-Molina
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
05/24/23: Complaint filed.
·        
12/28/23: Cross-Complaint filed by Lowe’s Home
Centers, LLC
·        
12/29/23: Cross-Complaint filed by Jacobe
Enterprises, Inc.
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is a toxic tort action alleging that Plaintiff Montoya-Bautista
developed silicosis and consequential injuries by breathing in dust from
Defendants’ stone products generated by his work as a fabricator and polisher
of stone countertops.
 
Defendant Caesarstone LTD. moves to
strike portions of the Complaint. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
            Defendant’s
Motion to Strike is GRANTED without leave to amend as to “other
stone products to be identified during the course of discovery” and otherwise
DENIED. Leave to amend to identify new products may be granted in the future if
discovery reveals that an amendment to list another product or products is
justified.
 
//
 
//
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Defendant Caesarstone LTD moves to strike portions of the Complaint
pertaining to punitive damages. Defendant also moves to strike an allegation
pertaining to “other stone products to be identified during the course of
discovery.” 
 
Legal Standard
 
The court may, upon a motion, or at
any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. Code Civ.
Proc., § 436(a). The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an
order of the court. Id., § 436(b). The grounds for a motion to strike
are that the pleading has irrelevant, false or improper matter, or has not been
drawn or filed in conformity with laws. Id.§ 436. The grounds for moving to
strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. Id.§
437. “When the defect which justifies striking a complaint is capable of cure,
the court should allow leave to amend.” Vaccaro v. Kaiman (1998)
63 Cal.App.4th 761, 768. A motion to
strike can be used where the complaint or other pleading has not been drawn or
filed in conformity with applicable rules or court orders.  Code Civ.
Proc., § 436(b). This provision is for "the striking of a pleading due to
improprieties in its form or in the procedures pursuant to which it
was filed."  Ferraro v. Camarlinghi (2008) 161
Cal.App.4th 509, 528 (emphasis in original).
 
Meet and Confer
 
 Before filing a motion to strike, the moving
party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who has
filed the pleading subject to the motion to strike and file a declaration
detailing their meet-and-confer efforts. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5(a).) However, an insufficient meet-and-confer process
is not grounds to grant or deny a motion to strike.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
435.5(a)(4).)
 
The Declaration of Attorney Christine
Brice states that the parties met and conferred electronically on April 17, 2024,
but were unable to reach a resolution of this dispute. (Declaration of Christine
Brice ISO Mot. ¶ 3; Exh. A.) Defendant has thus satisfied its statutory
meet-and-confer obligation.
 
Punitive Damages
 
Defendant moves to strike
paragraphs 380, 396, 481, and prayer for relief number 4, all of which pertain
to punitive damages, as improper on the basis that the Complaint does not
allege an adequate basis for punitive damages. 
Civil Code section 3294
subdivision (a) provides:
 
In an action for the breach
of an obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and
convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages
for the sake of example and by way of punishing the defendant.”
(Civ. Code § 3294(a).) Subdivision
(b) defines liability for an employer for the malicious, fraudulent, or
oppressive conduct of its employees:
An employer shall not be
liable for damages pursuant to subdivision (a), based upon acts of an employee
of the employer, unless the employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness of
the employee and employed him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights
or safety of others or authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct for which
the damages are awarded or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice. With respect to a corporate employer, the advance knowledge and
conscious disregard, authorization, ratification or act of oppression, fraud,
or malice must be on the part of an officer, director, or managing agent of the
corporation.
(Civ. Code § 3294(b).) Defendant contends
that the Complaint does not adequately allege a basis for punitive damages
because it does not allege malice, oppression, or fraud in sufficient detail as
to this Defendant, nor does it allege ratification. 
 
“The elements of a cause of action for
fraud based on concealment are: ‘(1) the defendant must have concealed or
suppressed a material fact, (2) the defendant must have been under a duty to
disclose the fact to the plaintiff, (3) the defendant must have intentionally
concealed or suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the plaintiff, (4)
the plaintiff must have been unaware of the fact and would not have acted as he
did if he had known of the concealed or suppressed fact, and (5) as a result of
the concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff must have sustained
damage.’” 
 
(Jones v. ConocoPhillips Co. (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th
1187, 1198.) Here, Plaintiffs allege that:
 
(1)  
Defendant concealed the toxic properties of its
products (¶¶ 460-466, 576), several of which was identified in the Complaint.
(¶ 35 p. 10.)
 
(2)  
 Defendants had a
duty to disclose the toxic properties of their products because of the Hazard
Communication Standard, California common law, their “knowledge of material
facts, to wit the toxic properties of their products, which were not accessible
to Plaintiff,” because they “made representations regarding their stone
products, but failed to disclose additional facts which materially qualify the
facts disclosed, and/or which rendered the disclosures made likely to mislead
Plaintiff,” and because they had a transactional relationship with Defendant,
based on their sale of toxic products to Plaintiff’s employers, with whom
Plaintiff was in privity (¶¶ 402-406), 
 
(3)  
Defendant “concealed said toxic hazards from Plaintiff
. . . so that Plaintiff . . . would use Defendants’ stone products” (¶ 407), 
 
(4)  
 Plaintiff “was
unaware of the toxic and fibrogenic [hazards] of Defendants’ stone products and
would not have acted as he did had he known of said concealed hazards (¶467),
and 
 
(5)  
As a result of Defendant’s concealment of the toxic
hazards of its stone products, Plaintiff was exposed to Defendant’s toxic
hazards and has suffered “serious injuries and disease” as a result, including
“silicosis, progressive massive fibrosis and other related and consequential
medical conditions (¶ 469), and
 
(6)  
The concealment of these hazards was ratified by
Defendant’s corporate officers and managers. (¶¶ 479-80.) 
 
These allegations are sufficient to allege a
fraudulent concealment claim against Defendant. (Jones, supra, 198
Cal.App.4th at 1195 [plaintiff’s complaint is not “unacceptably speculative if
a plaintiff has not specifically identified which toxin contained in a
particular product caused the alleged injury or has sued the manufacturers of
multiple products, alleging all of them contained toxins that were substantial
factors in causing his injury.”) Moreover, as the California Supreme Court
noted in Bockrath v. Aldrich Chemical Co., Inc. (1999) 21 Cal.4th 71,
the remedy for an improperly speculative pleading is provided by Code of Civil
Procedure section 128.7(b), which permits the imposition of sanctions on an
attorney who is found to have deliberately filed a products liability suit
without a well-founded belief in the truth of a particular allegation. (Bockrath,
supra, 21 Cal. 4th at p. 82; see also Jones, supra, 198 Cal.App.4th
at 1196.) Thus, as Plaintiffs have adequately alleged a claim for fraud, they
are entitled to seek punitive damages. The Court therefore declines to strike
these allegations. 
 
“Other
Stone Products”
 
Defendant also moves to strike an allegation relating to “[o]ther stone products to be
identified during the course of discovery.” (See Complaint p. 10:17.) 
 
Defendant is correct that this allegation is inconsistent
with the requirements of Bockrath, the leading case on pleading
requirements in toxic tort cases. That case requires Plaintiffs to “identify
each product that allegedly caused the injury.” (Id., at p. 80.) If
Plaintiff had alleged only that Defendant had manufactured something that
caused the injury and that they would identify that “something” during
discovery, that would be inadequate. It is only the naming of a specific
product that saves Plaintiff’s allegations against this Defendant and referring
to other products “to be identified during discovery” is improper. 
 
By analogy, when seeking to amend
a complaint, “a vague suggestion that additional facts might be uncovered
through discovery is insufficient to justify allowing plaintiffs further leave
to amend their complaint.” (AREI II Cases (2013) 216 Cal.App.4th 1004,
1020.) If that type of suggestion is inadequate to justify leave to amend, it
must be inadequate at the outset.  
 
In so ruling, the Court
emphasizes this does not mean that Plaintiff shall be forever barred from
identifying additional injury-causing products during the course of further
discovery which were not listed in his Complaint. “If discovery and
investigation develop factual grounds justifying a timely amendment to a
pleading, leave to amend must be liberally granted.” (Mabie v. Hyatt
(1998) 61 Cal.App.4th 581, 596.) Plaintiff is also not categorically precluded
from pursuing evidence of other injury-causing products. The Discovery Act
specifically permits discovery “reasonably calculated to lead to discovery of
admissible evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.010.)  Moreover, any “doubts
as to relevance should generally be resolved in favor of permitting discovery.”
(Colonial Life & Accident Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1982) 31
Cal.3d 785, 790.) 
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            Accordingly,
Defendant’s Motion to Strike is GRANTED without leave to amend as
to “other stone products to be identified during the course of discovery” and
otherwise DENIED. Leave to amend to identify new products may be granted in the
future if discovery reveals that an amendment to list another product or products
is justified.  
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  June 6, 2024                           ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 