  Case Number:  23STCP03499    Hearing Date:   December 10, 2024    Dept:  85 
Janet Jha v. City of Los Angeles
and City Council, 23STCP03499
 

Tentative decision on motion for
attorney’s fees:  granted without
multiplier




 



Petitioner Janet Jha (“Jha”)
move for an
award a total of $318,947.50 in attorney fees from
Respondents City of Los Angeles and Los
Angeles City Council (“City Council”) (collectively, “City”). 
 The court has read and considered the moving
papers, opposition, and reply, and renders the following tentative
decision.  
 
A. Statement of
the Case
1. Petition 
Petitioner Jha filed the Petition against the City on
September 21, 2023, alleging (1) mandamus based on a violation of the Permit
Streamlining Act (“PSA”); (2) mandamus based on a violation of the Housing
Accountability Act (“HAA”); (3) mandamus based on a violation of the Density
Bonus Law; and (4) declaratory relief.  The Petition alleges in pertinent
part as follows. 
 
a. Governing Law 
When the Legislature enacted
the Housing Element Law, it declared that local governments need to designate
and maintain a supply of land and adequate sites for the development of housing
sufficient to meet the locality’s housing need for all income levels. 
Pet., ¶21.   
The HAA provides an avenue
for developers to provide housing for very low, low-, or moderate-income
households (sometimes referred to as “low-cost housing”) when a local
government fails to adopt a housing element in substantial compliance with the
Housing Element Law.  Pet., ¶22.  The local government shall approve
housing, and not condition that approval in a matter rendering that housing
project infeasible, unless the local government can make certain written findings
based upon a preponderance of the evidence.  Pet., ¶23.   
A local jurisdiction cannot
determine whether its adopted element is in substantial compliance with the
Housing Element Law.  Pet., ¶25.  It must submit a draft housing
element to the State Department of Housing and Community Development (“HCD”),
which must issue findings before the local jurisdiction adopts the housing
element.  Pet., ¶25.  If HCD finds the draft element is not
substantially compliant, the local jurisdiction must either revise the draft to
address any issues or adopt the draft housing element with written findings
explaining why it substantially complies with the Housing Element Law. 
Pet., ¶25.  It must then submit the adopted housing element to HCD for it
to find whether it substantially complies with the Housing Element Law. 
Pet., ¶25.  In a March 16, 2023 memorandum, HCD advised that a local
jurisdiction’s housing element is only in substantial compliance with the
Housing Element Law on the date HCD issues a letter finding to that
effect.  Pet., ¶26. 
The Housing Element Law
requires local governments to update their housing element in eight-year
cycles.  Pet., ¶27.  The City had not adopted a substantially
compliant housing element by the time the current cycle began on October 15,
2021.  Pet., ¶27.  Although it drafted a housing element on November
24, 2021, HCD found on February 22, 2022 that it was not substantially
compliant.  Pet., ¶28.  The City revised and resubmitted the draft
housing element on April 28, 2022, and HCD found it substantially compliant on
May 11, 2022.  Pet., ¶28.  The City adopted the housing element on
June 14, 2022, and HCD certified its compliance with the Housing Element Law on
June 29, 2022.  Pet., ¶28.   
Under Government Code1 sections 65589.5(o)(1) and 65941.1(a), a housing
development applicant who submits a complete preliminary application is vested
with the zoning and general plan standards in effect at the time of
submission.  Pet., ¶30.  This includes entitlement to the Builder’s
Remedy if submitted when the jurisdiction does not have a compliant housing
element, even if it adopts one during the entitlement process.  Pet.,
¶31.  HCD confirmed as much in a June 2023 Notice of Violation issued to
La Cañada Flintridge and in an October 2023 Letter of Technical Assistance to
Santa Monica.  Pet., ¶32, Ex. A. 
 
b. The Project 
On June 23, 2022, Jha submitted a preliminary application for a
40-unit project with 20% set aside as affordable to lower-income households
(“Project”) at 13916 W. Polk Street.  Pet., ¶53.  Because the City
found the Project was complete on June 24, 2022, development rights in effect
on that date vested for the Project.  Pet., ¶54.   
Jha proposed a housing project that reserved 20% of the units
for low-cost housing while the City was out of compliance with the Housing
Element Law.  Pet., ¶55.  Under the Builder’s Remedy, the City was
barred from disapproving the Project unless it made one of the written findings
required under section 65589.5(d).  Pet., ¶55. 
On August 11, 2022, Jha filed an Affordable Housing Referral
Form with the City’s Affordable Housing Services Section.  Pet.,
¶57.  The City signed this form on December 12, 2023.  Pet.,
¶64.  After a meeting with City staff on December 9, 2022, Jha was allowed
to submit a PSA development application.  Pet., ¶66.  Jha submitted
the application and paid the fees on December 21, 2022.  Pet.,
¶66.   
On January 26, 2023, the City sent Jha a 39-page Project
Review letter.  Pet., ¶67.  The Project Review asserted the
application was incomplete and did not comply with objective zoning
standards.  Pet., ¶67.   The Project Review further said that, although the Project
was eligible for the Builder’s Remedy, HAA does not specify the entitlement
process that a local government can require.  Pet., ¶68.  The City
Planning Department’s (“Planning”) position was that a general plan amendment
(“GPA”) and rezoning amendment were the proper entitlement path.  Pet.,
¶68.  This is not an entitlement at all, but rather a legislative
action.  Pet., ¶68.   
Section 65589.5(d) does
provide an entitlement path.  Pet., ¶71.  If HCD does not find a
local jurisdiction’s housing element substantially compliant by the
jurisdiction’s statutory deadline, the local jurisdiction may not use section 65589.5(d)(5)
to deny a qualifying affordable housing project.  Pet., ¶72.  HCD’s
Notice of Violation to La Cañada Flintridge explained that a jurisdiction shall
not disapprove a housing development project for low-cost housing, or condition
approval in a manner that renders the housing development project infeasible
for development for such households, without one of five written
findings.  Pet., ¶71, Ex. A. 
On April 5, 2023, Jha
resubmitted revised application materials in response to the Project
Review.  Pet., ¶81.  The City sent a second Project Review asserting
the application was incomplete for failure to comply with City code
standards.  Pet., ¶¶ 82-83.  The letter emphasized that the City
would not process the development application unless Jha sought legislative
rezoning that she did not want.  Pet., ¶85. 
Jha appealed the City’s
incompleteness determination of her application.  Pet., ¶86.  The
City Council’s Planning and Land Use Management Committee (“PLUM”) recommended
denial of the appeal, and the City Council denied it on June 27, 2023. 
Pet., ¶¶ 92-93. 
On May 16, 2023, the City
wrote Jha a letter asserting that the preliminary application’s submittal had
expired and that Jha’s vested rights therefore had terminated.  Pet.,
¶95.  Section 65941.1(d)(2) states that if a public agency determines that
the application for the development project is incomplete, the development
proponent shall submit the specific information necessary to complete the
application within 90 days of receiving the agency’s written identification of
the necessary information.  Pet., ¶99.  This means that the 90-day
period resets with every new completeness determination.  Pet., ¶99. 
The City wrongly interpreted the statute to mean that an applicant has only a
single 90-day clock after the first written incompleteness determination. 
Pet., ¶100.  Planning argued that even if Jha were entitled to approval
pursuant to the Builder’s Remedy, it no longer applied because Jha’s vesting
rights had expired and the City’s Housing Element was now in substantial compliance
with the Housing Element Law.  Pet., ¶104. 
After Jha received the
City’s May 16 letter, she asked HCD to clarify the preliminary application
expiration provision.  Pet., ¶103.  HCD confirmed that the
application remains valid after a second incompleteness determination so long
as the applicant resubmits within 90 days of that determination.  Pet.,
¶103. 
 
c. Causes of Action 
The first cause of action
seeks mandamus for violation of the PSA.  The PSA requires public agencies
to compile lists of the information required from an applicant for a
development project.  Pet., ¶109.  It also has strict timelines when an
agency must determine whether an application is complete.  Pet.,
¶109.  Agencies can only judge whether an application is complete based on
the items in the checklist.  Pet., ¶109. 
The City’s Project Reviews
violated the PSA because they treated project consistency with a zoning
ordinance or general plan as an item necessary for an application to be
complete.  Pet., ¶110.  The City refused to process an application
based on a substantive decision regarding project consistency.  Pet.,
¶110.  Section 65931 defines development projects as activities involving
the issuance to a person of a lease, permit, license, certificate, or other
entitlement for use by one or more public agencies.  Pet., ¶111. 
This does not include rezonings or GPAs.  Pet., ¶111.  Courts have
held that applicants cannot use the PSA to compel legislative changes to a
zoning ordinance or a general plan.  Pet., ¶111.  Conversely, the
City cannot demand an applicant to seek such changes through a PSA completeness
determination.  Pet., ¶111.  The City refused to accept Jha’s
development application based on purported non-compliance with substantive
zoning standards and criteria, not because of incomplete information. 
Pet., ¶114.   
The second cause of action
seeks mandamus for violation of the HAA.  The City unlawfully disapproved
the Project and failed to proceed in the manner required by law.  Pet.,
¶117.  The City disapproved the low-cost housing Project without making
one of the findings under Section 65589.5(d)(1)-(5) and also did not support
such findings by a preponderance of evidence in the record.  Pet.,
¶121.  Although Jha submitted the preliminary application before the
City’s Housing Element was deemed substantially compliant with the Housing
Element Law, the City attempted to deny her the Builder’s Remedy.  Pet.,
¶122.   
The third cause of action
seeks mandamus for violation of the Density Bonus Law.  The Project
reserved 20% of the units for low-cost housing.  Pet., ¶128.  This
entitled the Project to two incentives or concessions and a waiver or reduction
of any development standards that will physically preclude the Project at the
proposed density.  Pet., ¶128.  The City denied Jha those incentives
without making the public health and safety findings required under the
HAA.  Pet., ¶129. 
The fourth cause of action
seeks declaratory relief.  The City has avoided obligations under state
law through its refusal to process housing development projects that qualify
under the Builder’s Remedy.  Pet., ¶132. 
 
d. Prayer for Relief 
Jha seeks a writ of mandate
compelling the City to review and process development applications pursuant to
the PSA and SB 330.  Pet. Prayer, ¶¶ 1-2.           Jha also seeks a writ of mandate (1) voiding the June 27,
2023 denial of the PSA appeal based on violation of section 655589.5(d), (2)
compelling Planning to accept and process the Project application, and (3)
compelling the City and Planning to take all steps necessary to process the
application, approve the Project, and issue all related approvals within 60
days.  Pet. Prayer, ¶3.  Jha also seeks a declaration concerning the
City’s violations.  Pet. Prayer, ¶7. 
Jha also seeks attorney
fees, costs, and fines under section 65589.5.  Pet. Prayer, ¶¶ 8-10. 
 
2. Course of
Proceedings 
On September 25, 2023, Jha
served the City with the Petition and Summons. 
On November 6, 2023, the
parties stipulated to extend the City’s deadline for a responsive pleading to
February 1, 2024. 
On February 2, 2024, the
City demurred and moved to strike Jha’s Petition. 
On March 5, 2024, the court
overruled the city’s demurrer and denied the City’s motion to strike. 
On March 22, 2024, the City
filed its Answer. 
On May 17, 2024, Jha filed
her opening brief. 
On June 17, 2024, the City
filed its opposition. 
On July 3, 2024, Jha filed
her reply.
On July 24, 2024, the court
granted Jha’s Petition in large
part.  Jha received judgment on her
mandamus claims that (1) the City’s determination that Jha’s application is
incomplete violated the PSA because the City wrongly required a GPA,
zone change, and determined density bonus ineligibility, (2) the City violated the HAA by imposing a GPA and zone
change on Jha’s Project protected by the builder’s remedy, (3) Jha’s vesting rights did not expire, and the City’s refusal to
recognize them was inconsistent with the PSA and violated the HAA, and (4) the
City’s refusal to grant regulatory incentives, concessions, and waivers
violated the DBL.  Jha’s claim for declaratory relief is denied.  A writ issued directing the City to set aside
the City Council’s denial of the June 27, 2023 PSA appeal and to review and
process Jha’s Project application pursuant to the PSA, HAA and DBL as
interpreted by the court.  
 
B. Applicable Law
“[A]s a general rule,
attorney fees are not recoverable as costs unless they are authorized by
statute or agreement.”  People ex rel. Dept. of Corporations v. Speedee
Oil Change Systems, Inc., (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 424, 429.  
 
1. HAA Attorney’s Fees

            Government Code section 65589.5(k) sets
forth that an applicant, including a housing organization, may bring an action
to enforce the HAA.  Govt. Code
§65589.5(k)(1)(A)(i).  
The HAA requires that when a court finds that a local agency
unlawfully disapproves a housing development project, the court “shall award
reasonable attorney’s fees and costs of suit to the plaintiff or petitioner,
provided however, that the court shall not award attorney's fees in either of
the following instances:” (1) the court find under extraordinary circumstances,
that awarding fees would not further the purposes of this section; or (2) the
court finds that the local agency acted in good faith and had reasonable cause
to disapprove the housing development project due to the existence of a
controlling question of law about the application of the California
Environmental Quality Act or implementing guidelines.  Gov. Code § 65589.5(k)(1)(A)(ii)(I)-(II).
 
            2. Private Attorney General Fees
CCP
section 1021.5 (“section 1021.5”) codifies the “private attorney general”
exception to the general rule that each side bears its own fees unless the
parties contracted otherwise.  See CCP §1021.  Section 1021.5 permits
a trial court to award fees to a successful party in any action that: “has
resulted in the enforcement of an important right affecting the public interest
if (a) a significant benefit has been conferred on the general public or a
large class of persons, (b) the necessity and financial burden of private
enforcement are such as to make the award appropriate, and (c) such fees should
not in the interest of justice be paid out of the recovery.  The issue is
committed to the trial court’s discretion.  Flannery v. California
Highway Patrol, (1998) 61 Cal.App.4th 629, 634. 
 
C. Statement of Facts
1. Background 
Brian O’Neill, Esq.
(“O’Neill”) is a partner at Patterson & O’Neill, PC (“Law Firm”) and an
attorney for Petitioner Jha.  O’Neill Decl.,
¶1.  O’Neill was the primary attorney
handling litigation of the Jha matter.  O’Neill Decl., ¶3.  His hourly rate in the case was $425-$450 per
hour.  O’Neill Decl., ¶3.  O’Neill
believes that his rate is consistent with or below market rate, compared with
the rates charged by other attorneys of similar experience in San
Francisco.  O’Neill Decl., ¶3.  
Ryan Patterson, Esq. (“Patterson”) was the supervising
attorney overseeing O’Neill’s work on the matter.  O’Neill
Decl., ¶4.  Patterson is a
shareholder at the Law Firm.  O’Neill Decl., ¶4.  Patterson’s hourly rate in the case was
$575-$595 per hour.  O’Neill Decl., ¶4. 
 
2. The Legal Work 
In September 2023, O’Neill drafted the Petition.  O’Neill
Decl., ¶5.  O’Neill conducted
extensive research into the legislative history of the Permit Streamlining Act
and HAA, including researching prior drafts of the laws, reviewing committee
reports, researching opposition and support statements, viewing recorded
committee hearings, researching independent analysis, and researching related
statutory texts as he prepared the Petition. 
O’Neill Decl., ¶5.  
On September 21, 2023, Petitioner Jha filed Petition
alleging causes of action under the PSA, DBL, Housing Element Law, and HAA
arising out of the disapproval by Respondents of Petitioner Jha’s proposed
40-unit housing Project at 13916 W. Polk Street.  O’Neill
Decl., ¶6.  
Over the course of this matter, O’Neill spent several hours
reviewing and annotating the administrative record, ensuring the record was
complete, and confirming that all documents were appropriate for inclusion in
the record.  O’Neill Decl., ¶7.  Over the
next several months, he continued to do additional legal research as necessary
as he drafted Petitioner’s opening brief. 
O’Neill Decl., ¶7.  
After the City’s request for judicial notice, demurrer, and
motion to strike the Petition were filed on February 1, 2024, O’Neill conducted
additional research.  O’Neill Decl., ¶8.  Thereafter, he outlined potential responses
and drafted a reply brief, which was filed with the court on February 20, 2024.  O’Neill
Decl., ¶8.  
On February 27, 2024, the City filed replies in support of
its demurrer and motion to strike.  O’Neill Decl., ¶9.  The court issued a tentative ruling on March
5, 2024.  O’Neill Decl., ¶9.  
On March 22, 2024 the City filed its Answer.  O’Neill
Decl., ¶10.  O’Neill spent time
reviewing the City’s motions and Answer, and the court’s ruling.  On May 17, 2024, he submitted an opening
brief to the court.  O’Neill Decl., ¶10.  
On April 4, 2024, O’Neill emailed Deputy City Attorney Donna
Wong, stating: “Now that the court has ruled that the builder’s remedy applies
to the project, we wanted to see if there is any way to move forward with the
application without further litigation. If the City is open to discussing, can
you provide some times that you and Kaiulani are available for a call early
next week?”  O’Neill Decl., ¶11, Ex. A.  O’Neill
never received a response to his question. 
O’Neill Decl., ¶11.
On June 17, 2024, the City filed its opposition to the
Petition.  O’Neill Decl., ¶12.  O’Neill
spent time reviewing the City’s opposition. 
On July 3, 2024, he drafted an opening brief (sic.) in support of
the Petition.  O’Neill Decl., ¶12.  
The Petition came for trial on July 18, 2024 in Department
85.  O’Neill Decl., ¶13.  O’Neill
spent several hours preparing for the trial. 
O’Neill Decl., ¶13.  He prepared for the hearing on the petitions
by drafting an oral argument outline, reviewing and annotating the
administrative record, reviewing and annotating the case filings, preparing and
organizing materials for use in the hearing, and performing additional legal
research as necessary.  O’Neill Decl., ¶13.  Patterson and O’Neill met to discuss the
issues and prepare for the hearing.  O’Neill Decl., ¶13.  
The court issued a ruling on July 24, 2024 and O’Neill spent
time reviewing it and filing an ex parte application to set a bond.  O’Neill
Decl., ¶14.  He also spent time
drafting a proposed judgment, which was filed with the court on September 16,
2024.  O’Neill Decl., ¶14.  
On August 19, 2024 the City appealed the court’s decision
and O’Neill spent time advising the client on legal strategy and filing a motion
for an appeal bond.  O’Neill Decl., ¶15.  
The Law Firm invoiced Petitioner Jha for the work associated
with the litigation.  O’Neill Decl., ¶16, Ex. B.  The time entries on the invoices are itemized
by the professionals who performed the work. 
O’Neill Decl., ¶16, Ex.
B.  
Based upon his review of the Law Firm’s invoices, as of
October 30, 2024 Petitioner has incurred $104,700.5 in attorney fees.  O’Neill
Decl., ¶17.  In addition to these
hours, Petitioners have incurred approximately $4,846 in attorney fee in
connection with preparing the instant fee motion.  O’Neill
Decl., ¶17.  Petitioners will
update this amount with those hours spent on the fee motion after filing the
reply brief and arguing the fee motion.  O’Neill Decl., ¶17.  
 
3. Reasonableness
of the Law Firm’s Fees
Geoffrey T. Stover,
Esq. ("Stover") is a partner at the law firm of AXS Law Group
LA (“AXS Law”).  Stover Decl., ¶1.  As an attorney that regularly appears in real
estate and land use matters in Los Angeles, Stover is familiar with the billing
rates and market value of attorneys with experience litigating cases that
involve land use and housing matters. 
Stover Decl., ¶5.  
The lodestar sought by the Law Firm is reasonable both in
hours billed and rates charged.  Stover
Decl., ¶8.  
Based on the narrative time entries, and Stover’s personal
experience in having performed similar work in other writ cases, the hours
spent on the case were reasonable. 
Stover Decl., ¶9.  The case
challenged a local administrative decision and its interaction with the HAA and
DBL.  Stover Decl., ¶9.  This type of work involves a great deal of
legal judgment, legal analysis, and comprehensive review of the administrative
record.  Stover Decl., ¶9.  
All of counsel’s time entries are related to major tasks
that were necessary to successfully litigating a case of this type, and the
hours billed were reasonable.  Stover
Decl., ¶10.  In total, the attorneys at the
Law Firm spent less than 250 hours to litigate the entire case.  Stover Decl., ¶10.  
Based on his experience, Stover believes that the lodestar
sought in this case is reasonable in the hours billed and the rates charged,
and that the total amount is substantially below the amount he would expect a
paying client to expect to pay to achieve a similar result in a similar case.  Stover Decl., ¶11.  In addition, the hours spent on the fee
motion represent a reasonable “fees on fees” request.  Stover Decl., ¶11.  
A lodestar enhancement is appropriate here as the case
raised novel and difficult issues of first impression.  Stover Decl., ¶12.  The results obtained support a lodestar
multiplier as counsel’s hourly rate in this case does not reflect the quality
of representation.  Stover Decl.,
¶12.  
 
D. Analysis
Petitioner Jha moves
for an award of attorney fees for (1) the Law Firm’s $104,700.5 initial lodestar
plus $18,076 for fees incurred since the fee motion was filed, a total lodestar
of $122,776.50 (2) a 3.0 multiplier for a total of $368,329.50, and (2) $4,846 in
additional fees for the fee motion.[1]  
 
1. Entitlement 
The HAA requires that when a court finds that a local agency
unlawfully disapproves a housing development project, the court “shall award
reasonable attorney’s fees and costs of suit to the plaintiff or petitioner,
provided however, that the court shall not award attorney's fees in either of
the following instances:” (1) the court find under extraordinary circumstances,
that awarding fees would not further the purposes of this section; or (2) the
court finds that the local agency acted in good faith and had reasonable cause
to disapprove the housing development project due to the existence of a
controlling question of law about the application of the California
Environmental Quality Act or implementing guidelines.  Govt. Code § 65589.5(k)(1)(A)(ii)(I)-(II).
Petitioner argues that she is the prevailing party and is entitled
to attorney fees pursuant to the HAA unless one of the two exceptions listed
above applies.  As for the first
exception, Petitioner argues that there were no extraordinary circumstances
that would cause an attorney fee award not to further the purpose of HAA.  Similarly, this case did not involve a
disapproval related to CEQA or implementing guidelines.  Mot. at 4.
Petitioner argues that she also is entitled to attorney’s
fees pursuant to section 1021.5, which states that, as a successful party, she may
be awarded fees if she can show that the litigation “(1) served to vindicate an
important public right; (2) conferred a significant benefit on the general
public or a large class of persons; and (3) imposed a financial burden on
plaintiffs which was out of proportion to their individual stake in the
matter.”  Baggett v. Gates (1982)
32 Cal.3d 128, 142.[2] 
Although the City disputes some of the section 1021.5
factors, it does not dispute Petitioner’s entitlement to attorney fees or the
reasonableness of the Law Firm’s lodestar.
Petitioner is entitled to the amended lodestar of attorney
fees of $122,776.50.
 
2. Multiplier 

  “[T]he unadorned
lodestar figure reflects the general local hourly rate for a fee-bearing case;
it does not include any compensation for contingent risk, extraordinary skill,
or any other factors a trial court may consider…”  Ketchum v. Moses, (2001) 24 Cal.4th
1122, 1138.  “The adjustment to the
lodestar figure, e.g., to provide a fee enhancement reflecting the risk that
the attorney will not succeed, constitutes earned compensation; unlike a
windfall, it is neither unexpected nor fortuitous.”  Id. 
“Rather, it is unintended to approximate market level compensation for
such services, which typically includes a premium for the risk of non-payment
or delay in payment of attorney fees.”  Id.
The factors to consider include the novelty and difficulty
of the litigation, the extent to which the litigation precluded other
employment by the attorneys, the contingent nature of the fee award, the fact
that an award against the state would ultimately fall on the taxpayers, the
fact that the attorneys received public and charitable funding for the purpose
of bringing lawsuits of the character involved, and the fact that the moneys
awarded would inure not to the benefit of the individual lawyers but the organizations
employing them.  Ramos v. Countrywide
Home Loans, Inc., (2000) 82 Cal.App.4th 615, 622-23.
Petitioner relies on (a) the novelty and difficulty of the
case, (b) the skill that the Law Firm displayed, and (c) the extent to which
her counsel was prevented from taking on additional casework to seek a 3.0
multiplier.  Mot. at 10-11.  
The City argues that the lodestar is proportional to Jha’s
stake of millions of dollars of private investment in the Project and
anticipated 10% investment return and projected rental income of $165,000 per
month.  There also is no evidence that
Petitioner’s counsel was prevented form other gainful employment.  Finally, a multiplier would cause taxpayers
to bear the burden of a windfall to Petitioner’s attorneys.  Opp. at 4-5.
 
a. Contingent
Fee
            Petitioner’s counsel did not have a
contingent fee.  Petitioner has
apparently paid all invoices submitted by the Law Firm.  
            The Law Firm charged very reasonable
rates, which Petitioner’s reply explains was a discounted rate “as a courtesy
to a long-standing client.”  Reply at 3,
n.2.  If Petitioner’s counsel charged their
client below market rates, they did so for business reasons that should not be
charged to the City.  In that
circumstance, the below market fee for business purposes effectively is “the
fair market value for the particular action.” 
Ketchum v. Moses, (2001) 24 Cal.4th 1122, 1132.
 
            b. Novelty, Difficulty, and
Complexity
            Petitioner relies on the novelty and
difficulty of the case, arguing that it involved difficult issues of interpretation
of the HAA, the PSA, the Housing Element Law, the DBL, and the Builder’s
Remedy.   Mot. at 10.
            There is no doubt that the issues in
this case were difficult and complex, and perhaps novel as well.  This factor is mitigated somewhat by the
expertise of Petitioner’s counsel in housing litigation.  Stover Decl., ¶4.  Petitioner’s counsel has litigated numerous
cases involving novel and complex housing statutes (O’Neill Decl., ¶¶ 2-4), and
the case should have been less difficult for them than for another law
firm.  Nonetheless, this factor works in
favor of a multiplier.  
 
            c. Extraordinary Skill
            Petitioner also relies on the
exceptional skill demonstrated by her counsel, working with no caselaw as
guidance and in the face of deference to governments.  Mot. at 10. 
The court agrees that Petitioner’s counsel demonstrated skill that
exceeded their representation at their lodestar rates.  This factor works in favor of a multiplier.
 
            d. Preclusion from Other
Employment
            Despite Petitioner’s reliance on this
factor, the City is correct that there is no evidence the litigation precluded
her attorneys’ employment on other matters. 
Petitioner argues that her attorneys are a small law firm of four
attorneys, and it is common sense that they have a finite amount of time to
devote to any lawsuit.  Reply at 6,
n.3.  This argument is insufficient for
this to be a factor in favor of a multiplier.
 
            e. Burden on Taxpayers
            The burden of a multiplier would
fall on taxpayers.  Petitioner argues
that the City should not be permitted to rely on this factor because it
declined to settle after the court’s demurrer ruling, relying on Yes in My
Back Yard v. City of Culver City, (“YIMBY”) (2023) 96 Cal.App.5th
1123-24.  See Mot. at 11.
            While YIMBY upheld a modest multiplier
even though the burden would fall on taxpayers -- particularly because the city
refused an attempt to settle – that does not make this factor is
irrelevant.  However, the City’s
disinterest in settlement does mitigate this factor somewhat.
 
            f. Public and Charitable Funding and
Benefit to Organizations
            Neither of these factors works in
favor of a multiplier. 
            
            g. Multiplier Conclusion
            Only two factors favor a multiplier.
 The overriding point is that Petitioner
is a developer who stands to make millions if her Project is completed.  It is true that she is only part way towards
achieving that goal – and thereby still has a risk – but it would be
inappropriate to award her a multiplier under these circumstances at taxpayer
expense.  She has received the benefit of
reduced rates from her long-standing attorneys who, in turn, have received the
benefit of a continued relationship with a valuable client.  No multiplier is awarded.
 
E. Conclusion
Petitioner is
awarded attorney fees in the amended lodestar amount of $122,776.50,
plus any additional amount proved at hearing for opposing the City’s ex parte
application heard on December 10, 2024.


