 Case Number:  23AHCV00182    Hearing Date:   December 3, 2024    Dept:  X PLAINTIFF’S COUNSEL’S MOTION TO BE RELIEVED AS COUNSEL This case involves employment claims against Plaintiff’s former employer.  Attorney Baruch Kreiman moves to be relieved as counsel for Plaintiff, asserting “[t]here has been a breakdown in communication with Plaintiff.”  Tentative RulingThe Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel for Plaintiff filed by Baruch Kreiman is GRANTED. Legal Authority and Analysis“The question of granting or denying an application of an attorney to withdraw as counsel (Code Civ. Proc., § 284, subd. (2)) is one which lies within the sound discretion of the trial court ‘having in mind whether such withdrawal might work an injustice in the handling of the case.’  [Citation.]”  (People v. Prince (1968) 268 Cal.App.2d 398, 406 [internal quotations omitted].)  The Court should also consider whether the attorney’s “withdrawal can be accomplished without undue prejudice to the client’s interests.”  (Ramirez v. Sturdivant (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th 904, 915.)California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362 requires that the following be submitted in support of an attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel pursuant Code of Civil Procedure section 284(2): (1) a notice of motion and motion directed to the client (made on Notice of Motion and Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil (Judicial Council Form, MC-051)); (2) a declaration stating in general terms and without compromising the confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship why a motion under Code of Civil Procedure section 284, subdivision (2) is brought instead of filing a consent under Code of Civil Procedure section 284, subdivision (1) (made on Declaration in Support of Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil (Judicial Council Form, MC-052)); (3) a proof of service evidencing service of the notice of motion and motion, declaration, and proposed order on the client and on all other parties who have appeared in the case; and (4) a proposed order relieving counsel (prepared on Order Granting Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil (Judicial Council Form, MC-053)).  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, subd. (a), (c), (d), (e).)Counsel for Plaintiff, Baruch Kreiman filed a motion to be relieved as counsel pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 284(2) and California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1362.  A declaration on Judicial Council Form MC-052 accompanies the motion, as required by California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, stating: “There has been a breakdown in communication with Plaintiff.  Our office has made diligent efforts to re-establish communications with Plaintiff using multiple mediums including telephone, text message, e-mail, and U.S. mail, but was unsuccessful.”  Proof of service of the motion was served on Plaintiff and on the registered agent for services of process of Defendant on November 5, 2024. No oppositions have been filed.The Court finds good cause to grant the request to be relieved as counsel.  Plaintiff will not be prejudiced if counsel’s motion is granted.  No answer has been filed in this case.  A default was entered on September 16, 2024 and entry of judgment is currently pending.  ConclusionThe Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel for Plaintiff filed by Baruch Kreiman is granted.  Counsel is ordered to file proof of service of the signed MC-053 on Plaintiff and all other parties within five court days after the date of this order.