 Case Number:  23VECV04833    Hearing Date:   December 20, 2024    Dept:  W J. A. vs BLUE
CROSS OF CALIFORNIA DBA ANTHEM BLUE CROSS
MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER DISCOVERY RESPONSES
TO AMENDED PMK DEPOSITION AND REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION
Date
of Hearing:         December 20, 2024                            Trial
Date:       May 27, 2025  
Department:
              W                                                         Case No.:         23VECV04833
Complaint
Filed:          October 30, 2023
 
Moving
Party:             Plaintiff J.A., a minor

Responding
Party:       Defendant Blue Cross of
California dba Anthem Blue Cross 
Notice:                         Proper
 
BACKGROUND
 
On
October 30, 2023, Plaintiff J.A., a minor by and through his Guardian ad Litem,
and Michael Allen (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendant Blue Cross
of California dba Anthem Blue Cross (“Defendant”) for 1. Breach of the Implied
Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; 2. Breach of Contract; and 3.
Violations of Business & Professions Code Section 17200. Plaintiff alleges
this action arises out of Anthem’s repeated wrongful and bad faith denials of
inpatient hospital admission so that J.A. can have medically necessary brachial
plexus (nerve repair) surgery. Plaintiff alleges J.A.’s surgery was cancelled
because Anthem denied the required inpatient hospital admission in the
intensive care unit (ICU) required for his surgery. As of the date of this
complaint, J.A. is still waiting to have surgery.
 
On
May 23, 2024, the Court granted in part Plaintiff’s motion to compel further
Requests for Production which includes “all screenshots reflecting actions done
and entries made or viewed during the investigation resulting in said denial
letters.” (Min. Order, 5/23/24.) 
 
On
July 18, 2024, Plaintiff served an Amended Notice of PMK deposition on
Defendant, seeking testimony on various topics and a request for production of
documents. (Glovsky Decl. ¶ 3, Exh. 1.) On July 31, 2024, Defendant served
objections. (Id., Exh. 2.) The deposition of the PMK, Dr. Rambod
Amirnovin, took place on October 7, 2024. (Id., ¶ 4, Exh. 4.) However,
no PMK was produced for topic 12 and request for production 9; Defendant
asserts its objections are meritorious. 
 
Plaintiff
now moves to compel Defendant to produce for deposition its person most
knowledgeable (“PMK”) on PMK topic number 12 and produce information responsive
to the Request for Production number 9 in the Amended Notice of PMK Deposition,
dated July 18, 2024. This motion is brought pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 2025.450 et seq. 
 
Defendant
opposes and Plaintiff replies. 
 
[TENTATIVE]
RULING:
1.     
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Production
of Defendant’s Responses to Plaintiff’s Request for Production is GRANTED. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
¿ 
Any
party may obtain discovery, subject to restrictions, by taking the oral
deposition of any person, including any party to the action. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2025.010.) A properly served deposition notice is effective to require a
party or party-affiliated deponent to attend and to testify, as well as to
produce documents for inspection and copying. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.280,
subd. (a).)  
 
“If
the deponent named is not a natural person, the deposition notice shall
describe with reasonable particularity the matters on which examination is
requested. In that event, the deponent shall designate and produce at the
deposition those of its officers, directors, managing agents, employees, or
agents who are most qualified to testify on its behalf as to those matters to
the extent of any information known or reasonably available to the deponent.”
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.230.)  
 
The
party served with a deposition notice waives any error or irregularity unless
that party promptly serves a written objection at least three calendar days
prior to the date for which the deposition is scheduled. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.410, subd. (a).) In addition to serving this written objection, a party
may also move for an order staying the taking of the deposition and quashing
the deposition notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.410, subd. (c).)  
 
“If,
after service of a deposition notice, a party . . . without having served a
valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to
proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document . . . described in
the deposition notice, the party giving notice may move for an order compelling
deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production . . . of any document .
. . described in the deposition notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd.
(a).)
 
The
motion must set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the
production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information,
or tangible thing described in the deposition notice. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.450, subd. (b)(1).) The motion must also contain a meet and confer
declaration. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (b)(2).)
 
 If a motion is
granted, the court shall impose a monetary sanction in favor of that party
unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the sanction unjust.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.450 (g).)
 
DISCUSSION
 
Meet and Confer; Separate Statement
Any motion compelling the production of documents at a
deposition must be accompanied by a separate statement providing all
information necessary to understand each discovery request and all the
responses at issue. (CRC Rule 3.1345.) 

Plaintiff’s
counsel does not describe a meet and confer regarding this motion. However, Plaintiff
has filed a separate statement identifying the requests at issue.   
Compel Deposition of PMK as to Topic 12
and Request for Production 9
Topic 12 seeks the following information: “All
screens on Anthem’s computer system that the medical reviewing nurse(s) and
medical reviewing doctor(s) that were involved in reviewing the request for in
hospital admission to the ICU following brachial plexus repair surgery for
plaintiff read, reviewed, or input any information into.” 
Request for Production 9 seeks: “An Anthem computer
that can show all screens on Anthem’s computer system that the medical
reviewing nurse(s) and medical reviewing doctor(s) that were in reviewing the
request for in hospital admission to the ICU following brachial plexus repair
surgery for plaintiff read, reviewed, or input any information into. [This will
be a remote deposition and the witness will be asked to share their screen and
show these computer screens.]” 
Plaintiff argues this information is necessary to
determine why Defendant failed to authorize the ICU admission, and that
Defendant’s objections are boilerplate. Plaintiff also asserts that Defendant
has not produced the screenshots ordered in the Court’s May
23, 2024 order.
Defendant objected to topic 12 as follows: 
“Anthem refers to and incorporates by reference its General Objections
as though set forth in full herein. Anthem objects to the fact that Plaintiffs
unilaterally noticed this deposition for August 5, 2024, without consulting
Anthem’s counsel. Anthem further objects to this matter to the extent it seeks
testimony regarding confidential or sensitive financial and/or business
information, proprietary information and/or trade secrets. Finally, Anthem
objects to this matter to the extent it seeks to elicit testimony protected
from disclosure by any privilege, including but not limited to, the
attorney-client privilege and the attorney work-product doctrine.”
Defendant objected to Request 9 as follows: 
“Anthem refers to and incorporates by reference its
General Objections as though set forth in full herein. Anthem further objects
to this request as contrary to California Code of Civil Procedure section
2031.280, which states that “[a] party need not produce the same electronically
stored information in more than one form.” Anthem has already produced all
documents in its possession related to the handling of Plaintiff’s
claim–including information stored on Anthem computers–and therefore this
request impermissibly seeks to have Anthem produce the same information in
another form. Anthem further objects to this request because it seeks
information that is neither relevant to this action nor reasonably calculated
to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. Anthem further objects to this
request on the ground that it is overly broad, unduly burdensome and oppressive
as to time frame and scope as well as because the burden or expense of the
request outweighs its likely benefit, taking into account all pertinent
factors. Anthem further objects to this request to the extent it seeks
confidential and/or sensitive business or financial information, proprietary
business information and/or trade secret information protected by applicable
law. Anthem further objects to this request to the extent it seeks information
that is protected by any privilege, including but not limited to, the
attorney-client privilege and the attorney work product doctrine.”
In opposition, Defendant first
argues that section 2025.450 does not apply since it served valid objections. Defendant
also contends it has designated three deponents on topic 12, Plaintiff did not
set forth good cause for the document production, and Plaintiff failed to meet
and confer. 
Regarding the objections, a
motion to compel under section 2025.450 requires that there was no “valid objection under Section 2025.410.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).) Here, the objections asserted by Defendant
do not pertain to an error or irregularity with the deposition notice.
Therefore, because there are no objections with the form and service of the
notice, a motion to compel under section 2025.450 appears proper, assuming the
objections have no merit. 
First, Defendant asserts it has already
produced PMKs for topic 12. Therefore, given that Defendant has produced a
deponent for topic 12, the main dispute appears to be whether that deponent
should be compelled to also share all screens on Anthem’s computer system that the
medical reviewing nurse(s) and medical reviewing doctor(s) reviewed for the
hospital admission request.  
Regarding the production,
Defendant argues it has already produced the information in the form of
screenshots. In reply, Plaintiff contends having the deponent screen share the
images is the “best evidence”. (Reply. 1.) Furthermore, Plaintiff asserts that
Defendant has failed to produce the screen shots required in the Court’s May
23, 2024 order, thereby necessitating the screen share during the deposition. 
To the extent Defendant has
not produced all “screenshots reflecting actions done and entries made or
viewed during the investigation resulting in [the] denial letters”, the motion
to compel is granted. (Min. Order, 5/23/24.) As argued by Plaintiff, the Court
has already ruled that this information be produced. Plaintiff has established
good cause for the discovery in light of testimony by Dr. Amirnovin (redacted).
Defendant fails to show that it has already produced documents with the same
information, and therefore fails to show that Code of Civil Procedure section
2031.280 applies. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.280, subd. (d)(2) [“A party need
not produce the same electronically stored information in more than one form.”].)

In light of the foregoing,
the motion to compel the PMK deposition and Request for Production, as to topic
12 and Request 9, is granted. 
Sanctions
Monetary
sanctions are mandatory pursuant to CCP § 2025.450(g) absent substantial
justification to the contrary. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.450 (g).)
The
court finds that Defendant acted with substantial justification and denies the
request for sanctions. 
 
MOTION TO COMPEL COMPLIANCE WITH COURT’S MAY 23, 2024 MINUTE ORDER AND
ANTHEM’S AGREEMENT TO PRODUCE DOCUMENTS
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff
also moves to compel Defendant’s compliance with the Court’s May 23, 2024
minute order where it ordered further responses to Plaintiff’s Request for
Production numbers 10-11, 21, 38, 54-55, and 70-73. Plaintiff also seeks $1,000
in monetary sanctions against Defendant. 
[TENTATIVE]
RULING:
 
1.     
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel
Compliance with the Court’s May 23, 2024 Order is GRANTED.
LEGAL STANDARD
If
a party filing a response to a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or
sampling under Sections 2031.210, 2031.220, 2031.230, 2031.240, and 2031.280
thereafter fails to permit the inspection, copying, testing, or sampling in
accordance with that party's statement of compliance, the demanding party may
move for an order compelling compliance. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.320, subd.
(a).) 
Except
as provided in subdivision (d), the court shall impose a monetary sanction
under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person,
or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel compliance
with a demand, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.320, subd. (b).)
DISCUSSION
On
July 8, 2024, Defendant served supplemental responses to the Request for
Production, stating it would comply with the Court’s May 23, 2024 order. Since
then, Plaintiff asserts no further responses have been served. 
Plaintiff
seeks training materials used to train individuals and medical reviewers
involved in reviewing the requests for coverage for Plaintiff’s inpatient ICU
admission, training materials for peer-to-peer requests, including how to
perform a peer-to-peer request and how to initiate a peer-to-peer request, and
training materials on how to review or evaluate CPT codes in connection with a
preauthorization request for coverage or medical necessity review and how to
conduct or participate in communications with third parties referencing or
concerning CPT codes. Instead, Defendant has produced a list of the training
materials, but not the materials themselves. 
Defendant
argues the Order was narrowed to only policies and procedures in effect at the
time of the requested procedure in this case, and that no training materials
were compelled. 
However,
the Order pertaining to the protective order states in relevant part: “The
court finds that Requests No. 8, 10, 11, 12, 21, 38, 39, 40, 43, 44, 54-55, 56,
and 69-78 are narrowly enough drawn and relate to the procedure at issue in
this case, such that defendant can answer this request without undue effort or
expense, provided that they are narrowed to only require production of policies
and procedures in effect at the time of the requested procedure in this case.”
(Min. Order, 5/23/24.) The Court then granted Plaintiff’s motion to compel
further responses to those demands, “but with the limitations set forth above.”
(Ibid.) 
Therefore,
because the Order does not specifically find that the training materials are overbroad,
the Order does not prevent training materials from being produced so long as
they are limited to those documents in effect at the time of the requested
procedure in this case. 
As
a result, since Defendant has not produced the training materials identified in
Request for Production numbers 10-11, 21, 38, 54-55, and 70-73, the motion to
compel compliance is GRANTED. The Court finds that Defendant acted with
substantial justification and denies the request for sanctions. 
 
 