  Case Number:  23CHCV02773    Hearing Date:   May 13, 2024    Dept:  F47 Dept. F47
Date: 5/13/24
Case #23CHCV02773
 
DEMURRER TO THE
FIRST AMENDED CROSS-COMPLAINT
 
Demurrer filed on 3/14/24.
 
MOVING PARTY: Cross-Defendant Alal, LLC dba Kei-Ai Los Angeles Healthcare Center 
RESPONDING PARTY: Cross-Complainants Jim Rey and Blenda
Rey
NOTICE: ok
 
Demurrer is to the 4th and 5th
causes of action:
            1.  Retaliation in Violation of Labor Code 1102.5
            2.  Wrongful Discharge in Violation of Public
Policy
            3.  Racial Retaliation in Violation of FEHA
12940(h)
            4.  Failure to Prevent Harassment,
Discrimination, Retaliation
            5.  Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress
 
RULING: The demurrer is sustained without leave to
amend.    
 
SUMMARY OF FACTS & PROCEDURAL HISTORY 
 
On 9/14/23, Alal, LLC dba Kei-Ai Los Angeles Healthcare
Center (Kei-Ai) filed its complaint against Jim Rey and Blenda Rey
(collectively, the Reys), two of Kei-Ai’s former management employees, for: (1)
Breach of Duty of Loyalty, (2) Fraud, (3) Constructive Fraud, (4) Interference
With Contract, (5) Conversion, (6) Unfair Competition and (7) Receipt of Stolen
Property.  
 
On 10/27/23, the Reys filed a cross-complaint and an
answer which was attached to the cross-complaint and re-filed on 2/16/24.  The cross-complaint alleged causes of action
against Kei-Ai for: (1) Retaliation in Violation of Labor Code 1102.5, (2)
Wrongful Discharge in Violation of Public Policy, (3) Racial Retaliation in
Violation of FEHA 12940(h), (4) Failure to Prevent Harassment, Discrimination,
Retaliation and (5) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress.  After meet and confer efforts failed to resolve
the issues Kei-Ai had with the cross-complaint, on 11/27/23, Kei-Ai filed and
served a demurrer to the 4th and 5th causes of action in
the Reys’ cross-complaint.  The Reys
opposed the demurrer and Kei-Ai filed a reply to the opposition.  
On 1/18/24, the Court sustained Kei-Ai’s demurrer with 30
days leave to amend.  (See 1/18/24
Minute Order).
 
On 2/16/24, the Reys filed and served the subject First
Amended Cross-Complaint.  After the Reys’
counsel failed to respond to Kei-Ai’s counsel’s meet and confer efforts
regarding the First Amended Cross-Complaint, on 3/14/24, Kei-Ai filed and
served the instant demurrer to the 4th and 5th causes of
action in the First Amended Cross-Complaint. 
(See Silva Decl.).  The
Reys have opposed the demurrer and Kei-Ai has filed a reply to the opposition.
 
ANALYSIS
 
4th cause of action – Failure to Prevent
Harassment/Discrimination/Retaliation
 
The Fair Employment and Housing Act (FEHA) protects
certain classes of individuals against discrimination, harassment and/or
retaliation.  Specifically, Government
Code 12940 provides, in relevant part: 
 
“It is an unlawful employment
practice, unless based upon a bona fide occupational qualification, or, except
where based upon applicable security regulations established by the United
States or the State of California:
 
(a) For an employer, because of the
race, religious creed, color, national origin, ancestry, physical disability,
mental disability, reproductive health
decisionmaking, medical condition, genetic information,
marital status, sex, gender, gender identity, gender expression, age, sexual
orientation, or veteran or military status of any person, to refuse to hire or
employ the person or to refuse to select the person for a training program
leading to employment, or to bar or to discharge the person from employment or
from a training program leading to employment, or to discriminate against the
person in compensation or in terms, conditions, or privileges of employment.
 
. .
. 
 
(k) For an employer, labor
organization, employment agency, apprenticeship training program, or any
training program leading to employment, to fail to take all reasonable steps
necessary to prevent discrimination and harassment from occurring.
 
. .
.”
 
 
To state a claim for failure to prevent harassment,
discrimination or retaliation under Government Code 12940(k), a plaintiff must
allege that the defendant failed to take all reasonable steps to prevent the
harassment, discrimination and retaliation based on a protected status (i.e.,
race, gender, age).  CACI 2527.  The elements of such a claim are: (1)
plaintiff was an employee of defendant, (2) plaintiff was subjected to
harassment, discrimination and/or retaliation in the course of employment, (3)
defendant failed to take all reasonable steps to prevent the harassment,
discrimination and/or retaliation, (4) plaintiff was harmed and (5) defendant’s
failure to take all reasonable steps to prevent harassment, discrimination
and/or retaliation was a substantial factor in causing plaintiff’s harm.  Id.; See also Caldera
(2018) 25 CA5th 31, 43.
 
The 4th cause of action includes no specific
allegations with regard to Mr. Rey.  The
specific allegations in the 4th cause of action concern Kei-Ai’s alleged
failure prevent alleged harassment experienced by Mrs. Rey as a result of other
employees disrespecting her because she held the title of Vocational Nurse
rather than Registered Nurse, claiming she was lazy, claiming she did not do
anything and did not know anything.  (See
FAXC ¶¶42-54).  However, the FEHA does
not provide protection against such “harassment.”  
 
In the opposition, the Reys rely on allegations in their
5th cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress
regarding Mrs. Rey allegedly not being promoted based on her race or
nationality.  (See Opposition,
p.3:27-p.4:12).  Such allegations appear
after the 4th cause of action and, therefore, are not incorporated
therein.  (See FAXC ¶¶40, 57-65).  Even if such allegations were included in the
4th cause of action, it is not clear how such facts amount to
failure to prevent discrimination rather than discrimination by Kei-Ai as it is
Kei-Ai who allegedly discriminated against Mrs. Rey based on her race or
nationality.  (See FAXC
¶¶57-65).  Nor is it clear why such
allegations would not be covered under the Reys 2nd cause of action
for wrongful discharge in violation of public policy.  
 
5th cause of action – Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress
 
The elements of an intentional infliction of emotional
distress causes of action are: (1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the
defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the
probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff’s suffering
severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate causation of
the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous conduct.  Wilson (2012) 207 CA4th 999, 1009.  Outrageous conduct is conduct that is
intentional or reckless and so extreme as to exceed all bounds of decency in a
civilized community.  Id.  
 
The 5th cause of action is based, in part, on
allegations that during the Covid pandemic, Mrs. Rey, the only infection
prevention nurse in the facility, was required to Covid test residents daily,
that she complained about same her administrator because it caused her hands to
swell and she was only given lotion as a solution.  (FAXC ¶56). 
Additionally, the cause of action is based on the allegation that Mrs.
Rey was not given a promotion based on race or nationality.  (FAXC ¶¶57-63).  There are no specific allegations regarding
conduct directed toward Mr. Rey within the 5th cause of action.  
 
In the opposition, the Reys also rely on allegations
outside the 5th cause of action, which were included by
incorporation.  (See 1/18/24
Minute Order, p.3).  However, most of
this alleged conduct was directed at residents of the facility and or nurses,
not the Reys.  (See Opposition,
p.5:3-9).  In the opposition and in the
First Amended Cross-Complaint, the Reys merely conclude that they were both
“treated as inferior employees because of their Filipino American Heritage.”  (See Opposition, p.5:9-11; FAXC ¶11.G.).
 As noted above, the only specific
allegation is that Mrs. Rey did not receive a promotion based on her race or
nationality.  However, it has been held
that the pleading of personnel management activity is insufficient to support a
claim for intentional infliction of emotional distress, even if improper
motivation (i.e., discrimination) is alleged. 
See Janken (1996) 46 CA4th 55, 64; McCoy (2013) 216
CA4th 283, 295; Trerice (1989) 209 CA3d 878, 883.  If personnel management decisions are based
on improper motivation, the remedy is a claim against the employer for discrimination.  See Janken, supra.  
 
The conduct alleged does not constitute the type of
extreme and outrageous conduct necessary to support a claim for intentional
infliction of emotional distress.  
 
CONCLUSION
 
The demurrer is sustained without leave to amend.  Plaintiffs have now had two opportunities to
state their 4th cause of action for Failure to Prevent Harassment,
Discrimination, Retaliation and 5th cause of action for Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress and have failed to adequately do so.  Additionally, while Plaintiffs request leave
to amend, if the demurrer is sustained, they fail to indicate how they can cure
the defects in their pleading as is their burden.  See Goodman (1976) 18 C3d 335,
349.  