  Case Number:  19STCV01820    Hearing Date:   May 15, 2024    Dept:  200 LOS ANGELES
SUPERIOR COURT WEST
DISTRICT - BEVERLY HILLS COURTHOUSE DEPT. 200 TENTATIVE RULING ON MOTION
OF CROSS-COMPLAINANT WBCMT FOR ENTRY OF JUDGMENT     Beteta v.
LNR Partners, et al., Case No. 19STCV01820 Hearing
Date: May 15, 2024, Time: 8:30 a.m.  INTRODUCTION            The issue of
apportionment of responsibility by and among the parties will have to be
decided at a trial.  STATEMENT OF FACTS AND CONTENTIONS           On September 24,
2019, WBCMT 2007-C31 Nordhoff Street Limited Partnership (“Owner”) filed a
cross-complaint against Gabriel Hernandez, dba Prime Construction Services
(“Prime”), (“General Contractor,)” for declaratory relief, equitable indemnity,
contribution and for express indemnity.            On December 18,
2023, the Court entered a final order on the motion of Owner for summary
adjudication of the cause of action for contractual indemnity. The Court held
only that if a jury found Prime negligent then it would have a contractual duty
to indemnify Owner. The Court did not address what the consequence would be if
the jury did not reach a verdict at all – as proved to be true here. The other
causes of action in the cross-complaint were not the subject of the summary
adjudication motion and remain pending.           On January 24,
2024, during trial, the Court was advised Plaintiff, on the one hand, and Owner
and G & E Real Estate Management (“Property Manager”), on the other hand,
had reached a settlement agreement whereby Plaintiff was to be paid $150,000.           On February
1, 2024, still during trial, Plaintiff filed a Notice of Settlement with both Prime
and U.S. Fire Protection (“Sub-Contractor”), the remaining defendants. Plaintiff
accepted $1 million from Sub-Contractor. Prime did not contribute any amount.
The Court discharged the jury.           On March 5, 2024,
Owner paid the $150,000 to Plaintiff.             On March 19, 2024,
the Court dismissed Plaintiff’s complaint against Owner and Property Manager, consistent
with her request for dismissal.            On April 2, 2024,
the Court held an OSC re: dismissal of the action following the settlements of
the case during trial. Plaintiff dismissed her complaint against Prime and Sub-Contractor.
It appeared the parties were in dispute concerning Prime and Owner’s
obligations to one another and the court ordered the parties file a motion to
address.           On April 19, 2024,
Owner filed this motion for entry of judgment against Prime for reimbursement by
Prime of the $150,000 pursuant to the order granting summary adjudication in
favor of Owner and against Prime concerning its contractual right of indemnity.
          Owner contends
Prime cannot argue that the payment was “voluntary” where the law does not
require an indemnitee to suffer an adverse judgment and may properly settle a
claim and seek reimbursement. Owner notes that it was facing a claim by Plaintiff
to pay $16 million at trial for the traumatic brain injuries she allegedly
suffered arising from an object falling on her during construction work at
property of Owner on which Prime was General Contractor. Owner notes Prime essentially
admitted responsibility for the accident, which thereby may have made Owner responsible
where Owner may have had a non-delegable duty as property owner for that claim
in the event of a finding of negligence. (Srithong v. Total Inv. Co.
(1994) 23 Cal.App.4th 721, 726)           Relatedly, Owner notes that Prime’s
insurer had declined coverage based on Prime’s failure to obtain a hold
harmless agreement from Sub-Contractor (that may have been primarily
responsible for Plaintiff’s injury),[1] as well
as Sub-Contractor having coverage for only $1 million, and therefore it had no
choice but to settle. Owner contends this settlement is presumptive
evidence of Prime’s liability (Peter Culley & Assoc. v. Superior Court
(1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1484, 1488) and was reasonable under
these circumstances. (Mullin Lumber Co. v. Chandler (1986) 185
Cal.App.3d 49, 55)             On May 1, 2024, Prime filed
Opposition to the motion, including Declarations of Nathan B. Lee and
Christopher E. Faenza.           Prime contends that
this Court’s order granting summary adjudication of the cause of action for
contractual indemnification was only where Prime was found negligent by a jury
and here the jury did not ultimately reach a verdict and hence that order does
not require Prime to have to reimburse Owner what it paid in settlement.           Further, Prime
argues that Owner did not give Prime or its insurer notice of its intention to
settle with Plaintiff, nor obtain Prime or its insurer’s consent (as Prime
argues was required pursuant to the terms of its insurance policy prior to any
payment) and hence it is unreasonable for Owner to now expect payment from
Prime. (Mullin Lumber, supra)          In addition, Prime
argues the payment was not necessary and hence was “voluntary” on its part. Specifically,
Prime contends for numerous reasons why it was unlikely that the jury would
render a verdict in favor of Plaintiff. Prime therefore contends it has no obligation
to indemnify Owner.           Finally, where
there is a settlement of the underlying claim, in lieu of a judgment, a court
needs to assess whether the payment was in good faith. (Culley, supra) Prime
argues that under these circumstances the payment was not in good faith and any
liability needs to be decided in a separate action. (Lamb v. Belt Casualty
Co. (1935) 3 Cal.App.2d 624, 631) Any liability of Prime will have to be
decided at trial. (Aetna Life & Cas. Co. v. Ford Motor Co. (1975) 50
Cal.App.3d 49)           On May 8, 2024, Owner
filed its Reply. In summary, it argues the circumstances here – including Sub-Contractor
agreeing to pay substantially more to settle - justified the decision to settle
and therefore warrant a judgment in its favor without need for trial: Initially,
Owner argues the weaknesses in Plaintiff’s case are speculative and, in any
event, did not guarantee that she would not still recover a significant amount even
if not what she requested. Owner argues further that where it might be liable
for any wrongdoing of Prime, and Prime did not have the ability to satisfy a
judgment where its insurer was denying coverage, Owner’s decision to avoid a
potentially far greater loss was reasonable. Relatedly, Owner argues that
Prime’s claim that it should have obtained the consent of Prime’s insurer was
unrealistic here where the insurer was denying coverage. Moreover, this is to
confuse whether Prime had insurance with Prime’s contractual duty to indemnify.
In turn, Prime has not provided any authority for any requirement that Owner
have obtained Prime’s consent. Finally, Owner argues Prime waived the contract
provision for mediation that it now seeks where the litigation between these
parties has been pending for more than five years.     DISCUSSION           The Court has ruled
on Owner’s Evidentiary Objections in the form provided and filed herewith.            Both sides rely on
Culley. The issue is whether Prime can rebut the presumption of
liability of Owner - for purposes of indemnity - arising from its settlement
with Plaintiff and in that regard if the amount of that settlement was reasonable
under the circumstances. As noted in Culley, whether a presumption of
liability arising from a settlement is rebutted is a factual determination as
to “reasonableness” that cannot be decided by motion and will need to be tried.
(Id., 10 Cal.App.4th at 1497-1499) Owner does not provide any
authority for its argument in reply that a trial here is not needed because it
contends Prime’s arguments are without merit. The merit of the arguments will
be decided at trial. (Id.) Owner also cannot rely on the order granting
summary adjudication as it does not address the situation that ultimately arose
here where there was a settlement as opposed to a jury verdict. The order
cannot serve as a predicate for avoiding trial – even if it does confirm
Prime’s obligation as indemnitor. Where no judgment has been entered on that
cause of action, however, and the order does not dispose of the issue of what
effect the settlement should have, that subsequently occurred, Owner may still
seek a judgment for the settlement amount based on contractual indemnity at
trial.            Moreover, neither
side addresses what continuing significance the other causes of action in the
cross-complaint may have. This was the reason for the OSC. Even if Prime does
not have a contractual duty to reimburse Owner for its settlement, for sake of
argument, Owner may still pursue its claims for equitable indemnity and
contribution from Prime.             The Court declines
Prime’s request that the Court order this matter into mediation. There is no
applicable motion to enforce that provision. Owner would oppose any such motion
given its position concerning waiver. In turn, no separate action is required –
as Prime contends – where there is already the pending cross-complaint.        CONCLUSION            For these reasons,
the Court denies the motion, without prejudice. At the hearing, counsel should
be prepared to discuss whether this case and the coverage case should be
related and whether the trial of the cross-complaint in this case can be
decided without a jury.  DATED:                                                                                    
_________________________________                                                                                                      
DAVID J. COWAN                                                                                                      
Judge of the Superior Court    


