 Case Number:  23STCV21843    Hearing Date:   February 23, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



EVA MEJIA 
 
        
  vs.
 
TOP SHELF
  CONCIERGE SERVICES, LLC
 


 Case
  No.:  23STCV21843
 
 
 
 Hearing Date: February 23, 2023



 
            Defendant’s
demurrer is OVERRULED. 
 
            On
9/11/2023, Plaintiff Eva Mejia (Plaintiff) filed suit against Top Shelf
Concierge Services, LLC, alleging: (1) discrimination; (2) failure to prevent;
and (3) wrongful failure to hire. 
 
            On
1/5/2023, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint (FAC), alleging the same
causes of action. 
 
            Now,
Defendant demurs to Plaintiff’s FAC. 
 
Discussion 
 
Defendant
argues that Plaintiff has not alleged sufficient facts to support her claims. 
 
As a
preliminary matter, Plaintiff filed an amended complaint. However, California
law is clear that a party may only amend its pleading once without leave of
Court. (CCP § 472.) Given that Plaintiff already filed a FAC without leave of
Court, Plaintiff was not entitled to file a SAC without leave of Court. As
such, the SAC must be struck, and cannot be considered as a response to
Defendant’s demur. The Court considers the FAC the operative Complaint, and
considers the opposition and reply filed that regards the FAC alone. 
            
            Defendant
argues that Plaintiff cannot state a claim against Defendant because the
alleged conduct by Defendant is not covered by the FEHA statute, and thus
cannot constitute a FEHA violation. Similarly, Defendant argues that its
conduct is not in violation of public policy.
 
            After
review, the Court disagrees. 
 
            Plaintiff
alleges she applied for work with Defendant as an office assistant. Plaintiff
alleges she participated in a telephone interview with Defendant's male owner
and was invited for an in-person interview at Defendant's physical office.
(Comp. ¶ 10) During the in-person interview with defendant's male owner,
Plaintiff was allegedly offered, and did accept, the position of Office
Assistant. (Comp. ¶ 11.) Plaintiff alleges that immediately thereafter the male
owner's female business partner and/or wife entered the office and interrupted
the interview. (Comp. ¶ 11.) Plaintiff alleges that she was then told that
Defendant was no longer interested in employing her. (Ibid.) Plaintiff
alleges that on that same date she received a text message from the Defendant's
male owner who notified Plaintiff that the reason Plaintiff was not hired was
because of her "attractiveness and big boobs" and because defendant's
female business partner and/or wife was "intimidated by [Plaintiffs]
looks." (Comp. ¶ 12.) In her opposition, Plaintiff submitted copies of
these text messages. Based on these facts, Plaintiff alleges sex and gender
discrimination. 
 
            Defendant
argues that this conduct does not constitute a FEHA violation because her
attractiveness and body type are not a protected category under FEHA. However,
FEHA prohibits discrimination based on the way an employee/applicant expresses
their gender. (Govt. Code § 12926(r)(2).) While this can be applied to
transgender and gender nonconforming employees who do not dress or appear in a
manner stereotypically associated with the person’s assigned sex, this can of
course, also be applied to the facts at hand. Plaintiff alleges that a job
offer she received was revoked based only, and expressly, on her gender-related
appearance and anatomical characteristics assigned to her at birth. As such,
Plaintiff has alleged that Defendant treated her less favorably than a
candidate and/or employee without these same characteristics (i.e., Plaintiff’s
male counterparts), and that the decision not to hire her was based solely on
her sex-based characteristics. (Abed v. Western Dental Services, Inc.
(2018) 23 Cal.App.5th 726.) This is sufficient at the pleading stage to support
all three of her causes of action. 
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Defendant’s demurrer is overruled.
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  February   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
  
