  Case Number:  21STCV41627    Hearing Date:   January 31, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



WALTER CUEVAS,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
CENTURION
  PROTECTION SERVICES, et al., 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


      CASE NO.: 21STCV41627
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO BIFURCATE
 
Date:  January 31, 2023
Time:
  8:30 a.m. 
Dept.
  56
 



AND RELATED CROSS-ACTION
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
Walter Cuevas (“Plainitff”) 
 
RESPONDING PARTIES: Defendants/Cross-Complainants
Centurion Protection Services (“Centurion”) and Richard Ray Dudgeon (“Dudgeon”)
(collectively, “Defendants”)
 
The Court has considered the moving and
opposition papers.  No reply papers were
filed.  Any reply papers were required to
have been filed and served at least five court days before the hearing under
California Code of Civil Procedure (“CCP”) section 1005, subdivision
(b). 
 
BACKGROUND
This
action arises out of an employment relationship.  Plaintiff’s first amended complaint (the
“FAC”) alleges: (1) Private Attorneys General Act; (2) failure to pay overtime
wages in violation of Labor Code section 510; (3) failure to reimburse and
indemnify for expenditures; (4) failure to provide meal and rest periods or
compensation in lieu thereof in violation of Labor Code section 226.7; (5)
Labor Code section 203 waiting time penalties; (6) Labor Code section 1198.5,
subdivision (k) penalty; (7) Labor Code section 226, subdivision (f) penalty;
(8) intentional infliction of emotional distress; (9) violation of Penal Code
section 637.7; and (10) negligent infliction of emotional distress.
 
Defendants’
second amended cross-complaint (the “SAXC”) alleges: (1) breach of contract;
(2) intentional interference with contractual relations; (3) intentional
interference with prospective economic relations; (4) intentional
misrepresentation; (5) defamation; and (6) libel.
 
On
September 12, 2023, the Court granted Plaintiff’s anti-SLAPP Motion (the
“anti-SLAPP Motion”).  Defendants have
appealed the Court’s September 12, 2023 ruling on the anti-SLAPP Motion and on
January 5, 2024, the Court issued an order staying this action pending the
resolution of Defendants’ appeal. 
 
On
January 12, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion to bifurcate (the “Motion”).  The Motion requests that the Court bifurcate
the stay of discovery of issues related to the FAC from the stay of issues
related to the SAXC.  
 
DISCUSSION
The court, in furtherance of convenience or
to avoid prejudice, or when separate trials will be conducive to expedition and
economy, may order a separate trial of any cause of action, including a cause
of action asserted in a cross-complaint, or of any separate issue or of any
number of causes of action or issues, preserving the right of trial by jury
required by the Constitution or a statute of this state or of the United
States.  (CCP § 1048, subd. (b).)  CCP section 598 provides, in part, that the
court may, when the convenience of witnesses, the ends of justice, or the
economy and efficiency of handling the litigation would be promoted thereby, on
motion of a party, after notice and hearing, make an order, no later than the
close of pretrial conference in cases in which such pretrial conference in
cases in which such pretrial conference is to be held, or, in other cases, no
later than 30 days before the trial date, that the trial of any issue or any
part thereof shall precede the trial of any other issue or any party thereof in
the case.  (CCP § 598.)  Where trial of the issue of liability as to
all causes of action precedes the trial of other issues or parts thereof and
the decision of the court or jury is in favor of the allegedly liable party,
judgment in favor of that party shall be entered and no trial of other issues
in the action against that party will be had. 
(Id.)  If the decision of
the court or jury on the issue of liability is against the party allegedly
liable, the trial of the other issues shall be had before the same or another
jury as ordered by the court.  (Id.) 

 
Bifurcation frequently occurs when the
determination of one issue, such as an affirmative defense, renders other
issues moot.  (See, e.g., Buran Equipment v. H&C Investment Co. (1983)
142 Cal.App.3d 338, 343-44.)  Trial courts also often bifurcate equitable
and legal issues, resolving the issues of equity first in order to promote
judicial economy. (Darbun Enters, Inc. v.
San Fernando Community Hosp. (2015) 239 Cal.App.4th 399, 408-09.)  While a litigant in a civil action
generally has a constitutional right to jury trial on “legal” causes of action,
there is no such right with respect to equitable causes of action.  (Rincon EV Realty LLC v. CP III Rincon
Towers, Inc. (2017) 8 Cal.App.5th 1, 19.) 
 
            As
an initial matter, the Motion does not request the relief available under CCP
section 1048—a bifurcation of the trials on the FAC and SAXC.  Furthermore, while the Motion states that the
discovery connected to the FAC and SAXC do not raise the same issues and
therefore would not negatively impact the economy of the litigation, Plaintiff
provides no evidence to this effect.[1]
 
            Based
on the foregoing, the Court DENIES the Motion. 
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice of
this ruling.
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
 
        Dated
this 31st day of January 2024
 



 


 




 


Hon. Holly J. Fujie
Judge of the Superior Court
 



 


