 Case Number:  23STCV26314    Hearing Date:   January 31, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



SSR MIRACLE MILE, LLC,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
DANIEL BEDOYA,
 
                        Defendant.





     
  CASE NO.:  23STCV26314
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: DEMURRER
 
Date: 
  January 31, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
Judge: Holly J. Fujie
 



 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendant Daniel Bedoya (“Moving Defendant”)
 
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiff
 
The
Court has considered the moving and opposition papers.  No reply papers were filed.  Any reply papers were required to have been
filed and served at least five court days before the hearing under California Code
of Civil Procedure (“CCP”) section 1005, subdivision (b).
 
BACKGROUND
            On October 26, 2023, Plaintiff filed
a complaint (the “Complaint”) alleging unlawful detainer. 
 
 
On
December 27, 2023, Moving Defendant filed a demurrer (the “Demurrer”) on the
ground that the Complaint fails to state sufficient facts to constitute a cause
of action. 
 
DISCUSSION
Meet
and Confer
            The Demurrer does
not include evidence that the meet and confer requirement has been
satisfied.  Nonetheless, since the
failure to meet and confer is not a basis for overruling a demurrer, the Court
will consider the arguments raised in the Demurrer.  (See CCP § 430.41, subd. (a)(4).)
 
Legal Standard
A
demurrer tests the sufficiency of a complaint as a matter of law.  (Durell
v. Sharp Healthcare (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 1350, 1358.)  The court accepts as true all material
factual allegations and affords them a liberal construction, but it does not
consider conclusions of fact or law, opinions, speculation, or allegations
contrary to law or judicially noticed facts. 
(Shea Homes Limited Partnership v.
County of Alameda (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 1246, 1254.)  With respect to a demurrer, the complaint
must be construed liberally by drawing reasonable inferences from the facts
pleaded.  (Rodas v. Spiegel (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 513, 517.)  A demurrer will be sustained without leave to
amend if there exists no reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by
amendment.  (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)  
 
 
 
Unlawful Detainer
Under CCP section 1161, subdivision (2), a tenant is
guilty of unlawful detainer when the tenant continues in
possession, in person or by subtenant, without the permission of the landlord, or
the successor in estate of the landlord, if applicable, after default in the payment of rent,
pursuant to the lease or agreement under which the property is held, and three
days' notice, excluding Saturdays and Sundays and other judicial holidays, in
writing, requiring its payment, stating the amount that is due, the
name, telephone number, and address of the person to whom the rent payment
shall be made, and, if payment may be made personally, the usual days and hours
that person will be available to receive the payment (provided that, if the
address does not allow for personal delivery, then it shall be conclusively
presumed that upon the mailing of any rent or notice to the owner by the tenant
to the name and address provided, the notice or rent is deemed received by the
owner on the date posted, if the tenant can show proof of mailing to the name
and address provided by the owner), or the number of an account in a financial
institution into which the rental payment may be made, and the name and street
address of the institution (provided that the institution is located within
five miles of the rental property), or if an electronic funds transfer
procedure has been previously established, that payment may be made pursuant to
that procedure, or possession of the property, shall have been served upon the tenant and if there
is a subtenant in actual occupation of the premises, also upon the
subtenant.  (CCP § 1161, subd. (2).) 
 
 
 
 
The
Demurrer argues that the Complaint fails to sufficiently allege the existence
of a valid lease agreement.  The Court is
not persuaded by this argument—the Complaint, which was filed on an unlawful
detailer form pleading, alleges the existence of a lease agreement.  A factual dispute over the validity of the
lease agreement is a factual issue beyond the scope of the court’s review of
the Demurrer.  The Court therefore
OVERRULES the Demurrer.  Moving Defendant
is ordered to file and serve a responsive pleading within 20 days of the date
of this order. 
 
Moving party
is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar. 
 
  Dated
this 31st day of January 2024
 








Hon. Holly J. Fujie 
Judge of the Superior Court 
 



 
 