 Case Number:  22STCV19263    Hearing Date:   June 5, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to Compel Defendant Akop Daniyelyan to Provide Further
Responses to Requests for Production (Set One)
Motion to Compel Defendant Akop Daniyelyan to Provide Further Responses to
Requests for Admission (Set One)
Tentative
The motions to compel further responses are continued.
Background
This
case arises out of an automobile accident on September 17, 2020, on Brand
Boulevard near the intersection of Maple Street in
Glendale.  According to the Complaint, Sarkees Nigoghos Sarkeesian
(“Decedent”) was walking along the sidewalk on Brand Boulevard when two moving
vehicles collided, then made impact with a parked vehicle, and then hit and
killed him.
On June 13, 2022, Plaintiffs Fyona Mudsyan, Nigoghos Nigoghos,
Anita Sarkeesian-Asadorian, and the Estate of Sarkees Nigoghos Sarkeesian by
and through its Successor-In-Interest Fyona Mudsyan (collectively “Plaintiffs”)
filed the Complaint against Defendants Akop
Daniyelyan, Ovsep Daniyelyan, Alejandro Garcia, Mariana Garcia, Glendale
Dodge, LLC (collectively, “Defendants”), and Does 1 through
100.  Plaintiffs assert causes of action for (1) Negligence,
(2) Negligence Per Se, (3) Negligent Hiring, Supervision and/or Retention,
and (4) Negligent Entrustment. 
On August 15 and September 1, 2022, Defendants Alejandro and
Mariana Garcia filed Answers to the Complaint.
On November 17, 2022, Plaintiffs filed a First Amended Complaint
(“FAC”).  Plaintiffs assert the same four causes of action against
the same Defendants.
On December 19, 2022, Akop and Ovsep Daniyelyan filed an Answer to
the FAC.
On December 20, 2022, Glendale Dodge, LLC filed an Answer to the
FAC.
The Defendants have also filed a number of cross-complaints
against each other and against fictitiously named defendants.
On May 6, 2024, Plaintiff Fyona Mudsyan (“Mudsyan”) filed these
motions for orders compelling further responses
from Defendant Akop Daniyelyan (“Daniyelyan”) to her Requests
for Production (Set One) and her Requests
for Admission (Set One).  Mudsyan also seeks
sanctions.  Daniyelyan filed oppositions to both motions, along with
his own requests for sanctions, on May 22.  Mudsyan filed replies on
May 28.
 
Legal Standard
“On receipt of a response to a demand for inspection, copying,
testing, or sampling, the demanding party may move for an order compelling
further response to the demand if the demanding party deems that any of the
following apply: (1) A statement of compliance with the demand is
incomplete.  (2) A representation of
inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive.  (3) An objection in the response is without
merit or too general.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2031.310, subd. (a).)
Notice of a motion to compel further responses must be given
“within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental
verified response, or on or before any specific later date to which the
propounding party and the responding party have agreed in writing.” (Id.,
subd. (c).)
A motion to compel further responses must set forth specific
facts showing good cause for the discovery and must be accompanied by a meet-and-confer
declaration and a separate statement or, in the discretion of the Court, a
“concise outline of the discovery request and each response in dispute.” (Id.,
subd. (b)(1)-(3); Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345.)
“[T]he court shall
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010)
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel further response to a demand, unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (h).)
“[I]f a party then
fails to obey an order compelling further response, the court may make those
orders that are just, including the imposition of an issue sanction, an
evidence sanction, or a terminating sanction under Chapter 7 ….  In lieu of, or in addition to, that sanction,
the court may impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 ….”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd.
(i).)
“On receipt of a response to requests for admissions, the
party requesting admissions may move for an order compelling a further response
if that party deems that either or both of the following apply: (1) An answer
to a particular request is evasive or incomplete. (2) An objection to a
particular request is without merit or too general.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.290, subd.
(a).)
Notice of a motion to compel further responses must be given
“within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental
verified response, or any specific later date to which the requesting party and
the responding party have agreed in writing.” (Id., subd. (c).)
A motion to compel further responses must be accompanied by a meet-and-confer
declaration and a separate statement or, in the discretion of the Court, a
“concise outline of the discovery request and each response in dispute.” (Id.,
subd. (b)(1) & (b)(2); Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345.)
“The court shall
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010)
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel further response, unless it finds that the one subject to the
sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make
the imposition of the sanction unjust.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.290, subd. (d).)
“If a party then
fails to obey an order compelling further response to requests for admission,
the court may order that the matters involved in the requests be deemed
admittied.  In lieu of, or in addition
to, that sanction, the court may impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
….”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.290, subd.
(e).)
In Chapter 7 of the
Civil Discovery Act, Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030, subdivision (a)
provides, in pertinent part, that the court may impose a monetary sanction ordering
that any person “engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any
attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including
attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct.” A “misuse of
the discovery process” includes (among other things) failing to respond or to
submit to an authorized method of discovery; making, without substantial
justification, an unmeritorious objection to discovery; making an evasive
response to a discovery request; disobeying a court order to provide discovery;
and making or opposing, unsuccessfully, a motion to compel without substantial
justification. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010, subds. (d)-(h).)
Discussion
There has been no Informal
Discovery Conference on these motions.  As set forth in the Eighth
Amended Standing order for Procedures in the Personal Injury Hub Courts (at
page 7), “PI Hub Courts will not hear Motions to Compel Further Discovery
Responses to Discovery until the parties have engaged in an Informal Discovery
Conference (IDC).
Accordingly, the hearing
on these motions is continued for approximately 60 days so that an IDC may be
scheduled and completed.
Conclusion
The Court CONTINUES
Moving party is ordered to give notice.