 Case Number:  21STCV28720    Hearing Date:   March 12, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposing and reply papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
August 4, 2021, Plaintiff Oliver Pozo (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants Stater Bros. Markets (“Stater”), John Doe,
and Does 1-10 for assault, battery, negligence, negligent hiring, training and
supervision, intentional infliction of emotional distress, and negligent
infliction of emotional distress. 
On
January 4, 2022, Stater filed an answer and a cross-complaint against
Cross-Defendant Maplebear Inc. dba Instacart (“Instacart”) and Roes 1-10 for
breach of contract, breach of covenant of implied good faith and fair dealing,
equitable indemnity, contribution, and declaratory relief. 
On
August 12, 2022, the Court sustained Instacart’s demurrer to Stater’s
cross-complaint with leave to amend. 
On
September 9, 2022, Stater filed a first amended cross-complaint. On October 24,
2022, Instacart filed an answer. 
On
March 2, 2023, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint. 
On
November 22, 2023, the Court dismissed Stater’s cross-complaint without
prejudice at Stater’s request. 
On
January 12, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion to compel Stater’s witness Liyen
Alvarez to answer questions at a future deposition and for sanctions, to be
heard on March 12, 2024.  On February 28,
2024, Stater filed an opposition and request for sanctions.  On March 5, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply. 
On
January 22, 2024, the Court granted Plaintiff’s motion to reopen
discovery.  The Court ruled that
discovery and related dates would be based on the April 9, 2024 trial date. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for April 9, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Plaintiff
asks the Court for an order compelling the deposition of Stater’s witness Liyen
Alvarez (“Alvarez”) or striking Alverez’s declaration from Stater’s
summary judgment motion.  Plaintiff also
asks the Court to impose sanctions on Stater. 
Stater
asks the Court to deny the motion and impose sanctions on Plaintiff. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
          Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.480 provides in part: 
“(a) If a deponent fails to answer any question or to
produce any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing
under the deponent’s control that is specified in the deposition notice or a
deposition subpoena, the party seeking discovery may move the court for an
order compelling that answer or production. 
“(b) This motion shall be made no later than 60 days
after the completion of the record of the deposition, and shall be accompanied
by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040. 
“(c) Notice of this motion shall be given to all
parties and to the deponent either orally at the examination, or by subsequent
service in writing. If the notice of the motion is given orally, the deposition
officer shall direct the deponent to attend a session of the court at the time
specified in the notice. 
* * *
 (h) Not less than five days prior to the hearing on
this motion, the moving party shall lodge with the court a certified copy of
any parts of the stenographic transcript of the deposition that are relevant to
the motion. If a deposition is recorded by audio or video technology, the
moving party is required to lodge a certified copy of a transcript of any parts
of the deposition that are relevant to the motion. 
(i) If the court determines that the answer or
production sought is subject to discovery, it shall order that the answer be
given or the production be made on the resumption of the deposition. 
(j) The court shall impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or
attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel an answer or
production, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust. . . .” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480,
subds. (a), (b), (c), (h), (i), (j).)               
DISCUSSION 
On November
2, 2023, Alvarez appeared for her deposition.  Stater’s counsel instructed Alvarez not to answer
several of Plaintiff’s counsel’s questions based on assertions of privilege.  Plaintiff now moves to compel Alvarez’s answers to
these questions, arguing they do not call for privileged information.  In the alternative, Plaintiff asks the Court
to strike Alvarez’s declaration from Stater’s motion for summary judgment. 
Plaintiff
argues that Alvarez, on counsel's instruction, refused to answer questions at her deposition about Stater's policies and procedures even though she discussed Stater’s
policies and procedures in her declaration supporting Stater's summary judgment motion. 
Plaintiff
has provided excerpts from Alvarez’s deposition showing that Alvarez, in
response to Stater’s counsel’s instruction, refused to answer questions about the
following issues: 
·       Stater’s policy regarding repairs
·       Stater’s policy regarding security
·       Stater’s policy, if any, to “to stop people not
intending to buy groceries from using the restroom at the Stater Bros. Market”
·       whether Alvarez allows homeless people to use Stater’s
restrooms
·       whether Alvarez has a policy and procedure to make
incident reports at the store 
In
her declaration submitted in support of Stater’s summary judgment motion,
however, Alvarez stated: 
·       “I have been a Store Manager since approximately 2019
and am familiar with [Stater’s] policies and procedures for safety and security
in the store.”  (Alvarez
Dec. ¶ 2.)

·       “I reported the incident to [Stater] security personnel
as per [Stater] protocol.” (Alvarez Dec. ¶
9.)
·       “[Stater] has policies and procedures in place for
dealing with safety and security issues. 
I am familiar with, and have received training in, those policies and
procedures.  Furthermore as Store
Manager, I have had the obligation to see to it that all store employees
receive training in the safety and security protocols in place at [Stater].  I have done my best to ensure that all employees
are properly trained, and familiar with all [Stater] policies and procedures.  I do my very best to ensure that all [Stater]
policies and procedures are adhered to at all times.” (Alvarez Dec. ¶ 12.)
·       “On the day that [Plaintiff] was injured, appropriate
safety and security measure[s] were not only in place, but were followed by me,
and by all of the [Stater] employees who were working.” (Alvarez Dec. ¶ 10.) 
Stater
opposes Plaintiff’s motion, arguing Alvarez was not being deposed as a person
most knowledgeable and therefore Plaintiff’s questions about Stater’s policies
and procedures were not appropriate.  Stater
“made it clear that [Alvarez] was being deposed as a percipient witness and
could only testify regarding her knowledge of facts of the incident.”  (Opposition p. 4.)  According to Slater, Plaintiff was “attempting
to conduct a PMK deposition of a store manager without noticing the deposition
as a PMK deposition because he knew he failed to appear and proceed with [a
previously scheduled] PMK deposition.” 
(Opposition p. 6.) 
Stater
has provided no authority to support its contention that a party may not examine
an opposing party’s employee at a deposition about the opposing party’s
policies and procedures unless the employee has been designated as the opposing
party’s person most qualified.  Here, Alvarez’s
declaration supporting Stater’s motion for summary judgment asserts that
Alvarez is familiar with and has received training on Stater’s policies and
procedures for dealing with safety and security in the store.  (Alvarez Dec. ¶¶ 2, 12.)  As a
result, Stater waived any objection to questions about these issues and its
counsel improperly instructed Alvarez not to answer at her deposition.
Stater
also argues that Plaintiff’s meet and confer efforts were inadequate.  Plaintiff’s counsel sent Stater’s counsel a
detailed meet-and-confer letter explaining why Plaintiff’s counsel believed that
Stater’s counsel improperly instructed Alvarez not to answer questions at her
deposition.  Plaintiff satisfied his meet
and confer obligation.  The Court grants
the motion. 
Sanctions
are mandatory because Stater unsuccessfully opposed Plaintiff’s motion to compel
under Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.480 and the Court does not find
Stater acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make
the imposition of the sanction unjust. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480, subd. (j).)  
Plaintiff
requests $3,060.00 in sanctions based on ten hours of attorney’s time at a rate
of $300.00 per hour and one $60.00 filing fee. 
Counsel spent five hours meeting, conferring, and drafting the motion, two
hours drafting a reply, and anticipated spending three hours to appear at the
hearing.  
The
Court grants sanctions of $1,060.00 based on four hours of attorney’s time at a
reasonable rate of $250.00 per hour and one filing fee. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS Plaintiff Oliver Pozo’s motion to
compel Defendant Stater Bros. Markets’s witness Liyen
Alvarez to answer questions at a future deposition.  The Court orders Defendant Stater Bros.
Markets to produce Liyen Alvarez for a deposition within 15 days of the hearing
on the motion.  At the deposition, Liyen
Alvarez will answer the questions to which counsel previously objected. 
The
Court orders Defendant Stater Bros. Markets and its counsel to pay Plaintiff
Oliver Pozo $1,060.00 in sanctions by April 12, 2024. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.