 Case Number:  23STCV03637    Hearing Date:   March 12, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On February
21, 2023, Plaintiffs Danelle Meeks and Preecha Meeks filed this action against
Defendants Marcos Eduardo Lopez (“Defendant”) and Does 1-20 for negligence. 
On April
3, 2023, Defendant filed an answer. 
On December 20, 2023, Defendant filed (1) motions to
compel each Plaintiff’s responses to demand for inspection of documents, set
one, (2) motions to compel each Plaintiff’s responses to special
interrogatories, set one, and (3) motions to compel each Plaintiff’s responses
to form interrogatories, set one. 
Plaintiffs have not filed oppositions. 

Trial
is currently scheduled for August 20, 2024. 
PARTY’S REQUESTS 
Defendant
asks the Court to compel each Plaintiff to serve verified code compliant responses,
without objections, to demand for production of documents, set one, special
interrogatories, set one, and form interrogatories, set one. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.   Inspection demand 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2031.300 provides: 
“If a party to whom a demand for inspection, copying,
testing, or sampling is directed fails to serve a timely response to it, the
following rules shall apply: 
“(a) The party to whom the demand for inspection,
copying, testing, or sampling is directed waives any objection to the demand,
including one based on privilege or on the protection for work product under
Chapter 4 (commencing with Section 2018.010). The court, on motion, may relieve
that party from this waiver on its determination that both of the following
conditions are satisfied: 
“(1) The party has subsequently served a response that
is in substantial compliance with Sections 2031.210, 2031.220, 2031.230,
2031.240, and 2031.280. 
“(2) The party’s failure to serve a timely response
was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect. 
“(b) The party making the demand may move for an order
compelling response to the demand. 
“(c) Except as provided in subdivision (d), the court
shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section
2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to compel a response to a demand for inspection, copying,
testing, or sampling, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction
acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the
imposition of the sanction unjust. If a party then fails to obey the order
compelling a response, the court may make those orders that are just, including
the imposition of an issue sanction, an evidence sanction, or a terminating
sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010). In lieu of or in
addition to this sanction, the court may impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010). 
“(d) (1) Notwithstanding subdivision (c), absent exceptional
circumstances, the court shall not impose sanctions on a party or any attorney
of a party for failure to provide electronically stored information that has
been lost, damaged, altered, or overwritten as a result of the routine, good
faith operation of an electronic information system. 
“(2) This subdivision shall not be construed to alter
any obligation to preserve discoverable information.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.300.) 
B.   Interrogatories 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2030.290 provides: 
“If a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails
to serve a timely response, the following rules apply: 
“(a) The party to whom the interrogatories are
directed waives any right to exercise the option to produce writings under
Section 2030.230, as well as any objection to the interrogatories, including
one based on privilege or on the protection for work product under Chapter 4
(commencing with Section 2018.010). The court, on motion, may relieve that
party from this waiver on its determination that both of the following
conditions are satisfied: 
“(1) The party has subsequently served a response that
is in substantial compliance with Sections 2030.210, 2030.220, 2030.230, and
2030.240. 
“(2) The party’s failure to serve a timely response
was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect. 
“(b) The party propounding the interrogatories may
move for an order compelling response to the interrogatories. 
“(c) The court shall impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or
attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to interrogatories,
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust. If a party then fails to obey an order compelling answers, the court
may make those orders that are just, including the imposition of an issue
sanction, an evidence sanction, or a terminating sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010). In lieu of or in addition to that sanction,
the court may impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with
Section 2023.010).” 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 2030.290.) 
DISCUSSION 
On
April 3, 2023, Defendant served demands for production of documents, set one, special
interrogatories, set one, and form interrogatories, set one, on each Plaintiff. 
Plaintiffs
did not serve timely responses and had not served responses by the time
Defendant filed these motions.  The Court
grants the motions as set forth below. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court GRANTS the motion of Defendant Marcos
Eduardo Lopez to compel Plaintiff Danelle Meeks’s responses to demand for production of
documents, set one.  The Court orders
Plaintiff Danelle Meeks to provide verified code-compliant responses without
objections and to produce the documents, electronically stored information,
and/or other things requested without objections by April 12, 2024. 
The Court GRANTS the motion of Defendant Marcos
Eduardo Lopez to compel Plaintiff Preecha Meeks’s responses to demand for
production of documents, set one.  The
Court orders Plaintiff Preecha Meeks to provide verified code-compliant
responses without objections and to produce the documents, electronically
stored information, and/or other things requested without objections by April
12, 2024. 
The Court GRANTS the motion of Defendant Marcos
Eduardo Lopez to compel Plaintiff Danelle Meeks’s responses to special
interrogatories, set one, and orders Plaintiff Danelle Meeks to provide
verified code-compliant responses to the special interrogatories without
objections by April 12, 2024. 
The Court GRANTS the motion of Defendant Marcos
Eduardo Lopez to compel Plaintiff Preecha Meeks’s responses to special
interrogatories, set one, and orders Plaintiff Preecha Meeks to provide
verified code-compliant responses to the special interrogatories without
objections by April 12, 2024. 
The Court GRANTS the motion of Defendant Marcos
Eduardo Lopez to compel Plaintiff Danelle Meeks’s responses to form
interrogatories, set one, and orders Plaintiff Danelle Meeks to provide
verified code-compliant responses to the form interrogatories without
objections by April 12, 2024. 
The Court GRANTS the motion of Defendant Marcos
Eduardo Lopez to compel Plaintiff Preecha Meeks’s responses to form
interrogatories, set one, and orders Plaintiff Preecha Meeks to provide
verified code-compliant responses to the form interrogatories without
objections by April 12, 2024. 

Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file proof of service of this ruling with the Court within
five days. 