 Case Number:  23STCV29400    Hearing Date:   March 12, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposing and reply papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
December 1, 2023, Plaintiffs Gagik Petrosyan (“Gagik Petrosyan”) and Vahagn
Petrosyan (“Vahagn Petrosyan”) filed this action against Defendants Arnulfo
Padilla (“Padilla”), EAN Holdings, LLC, and Does 1-50 for motor vehicle tort
and general negligence. 
On
February 13, 2024, Padilla filed a motion to strike to be heard on March 12,
2024. On February 28, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an opposition. On March 5, 2024,
Padilla filed a reply. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for May 30, 2025. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Padilla
asks the Court to strike Plaintiffs’ punitive damage claim and the allegation
that his conduct “exhibited a conscious disregard for the safety and wellbeing
of other motorists on the streets.” 
Plaintiffs
ask the Court to deny the motion. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.      Motion
to strike 
“Any
party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading may serve and file a
notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof . . . .”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1).)  The Court may “[s]trike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 436,
subd. (a).)  “The grounds for a motion to
strike shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading of from any matter
of which the court is required to take judicial notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
437, subd. (a).)  “Where the motion to
strike is based on matter of which the court may take judicial notice pursuant
to Section 452 or 453 of the Evidence Code, such matter shall be specified in
the notice of motion, or in the supporting points and authorities, except as the
court may otherwise permit.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437, subd. (b).) 
B.       Punitive
damages 
          Civil Code section 3294 provides in part: 
“(a) In an action for the breach of an obligation not
arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that
the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff,
in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages for the sake of example
and by way of punishing the defendant. 
“(b) An employer shall not be liable for damages
pursuant to subdivision (a), based upon acts of an employee of the employer,
unless the employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness of the employee and
employed him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights or safety of
others or authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct for which the damages are
awarded or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. With respect
to a corporate employer, the advance knowledge and conscious disregard, authorization,
ratification or act of oppression, fraud, or malice must be on the part of an
officer, director, or managing agent of the corporation.  “(c) As used in this section, the following
definitions shall apply: 
“(1) “Malice” means conduct which is intended by the
defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is
carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others. 
“(2) “Oppression” means despicable conduct that
subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that
person’s rights. 
“(3) “Fraud” means an intentional misrepresentation,
deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the
intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of
property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury. . . .” 
(Civ. Code, § 3294, subds.
(a), (b), (c).) 
DISCUSSION 
A.      The complaint 
The complaint
alleges the following: 
On July 2, 2022, Gagik Petrosyan was operating Plaintiffs’
vehicle on Wilcox Avenue and was getting ready to make a left turn on a green
light onto Santa Monica Boulevard in Los Angeles.  Vahagn Petrosyan was a passenger in the
vehicle.  
Padilla drove his vehicle negligently, recklessly,
carelessly and with an excessive rate of speed into the intersection of Wilcox
Avenue and Santa Monica Boulevard on a red light and caused a collision with
Plaintiffs’ vehicle, injuring Plaintiffs. 
Padilla immediately fled the scene. Padilla’s conduct amounted to gross negligence
because he was traveling at an excessively unreasonable rate of speed while
running a red light and fleeing a scene after causing the collision. Padilla’s conduct
exhibited a conscious disregard for the safety and well-being of other
motorists on the streets. 
EAN owned Padilla’s vehicle.  EAN negligently entrusted the vehicle to
Padilla because it should have known Padilla was unfit to operate a motor vehicle. 
B.       Padilla’s
motion to strike 
Padilla
argues that Plaintiffs have not pleaded facts that support the allegation that
he showed a conscious disregard for the safety of others. 
“In
order to survive a motion to strike an allegation of punitive damages, the
ultimate facts showing an entitlement to such relief must be pled by a
plaintiff.” (Clauson v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255
(Clauson).)  “In passing on the
correctness of a ruling on a motion to strike, judges read allegations of a
pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts in their context,
and assume their truth.”  (Ibid.)  “In ruling on a motion to strike, courts do
not read allegations in isolation.”  (Ibid.) 
“In
addition to the requirement that the complaint set forth the elements as stated
in [Civil Code] section 3294, it must include specific factual allegations
showing that defendant's conduct was oppressive, fraudulent, or malicious to
support a claim for punitive damages.” (Today's IV, Inc. v. Los Angeles
County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (2022) 83 Cal.App.5th 1137,
1193, citing Brousseau v. Jarrett (1977) 73 Cal.App.3d 864, 872 (Brousseau).)
“Punitive damages may not be pleaded generally.”  (Ibid., citing Brousseau, supra,
73 Cal.App.3d at p. 872.) 
In Taylor
v. Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, our Supreme Court observed that, “ordinarily,
routine negligent or even reckless disobedience of traffic laws would not
justify an award of punitive damages.” 
(Id. at pp. 890-900.)  The
facts alleged here show that Padilla’s reckless disobedience of traffic laws caused
Plaintiffs’ injuries.  The complaint does
not allege any additional facts that would support a finding of “despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others.” 
(Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1).) 
The complaint does not allege facts showing that Padilla’s flight from
the scene after the accident caused or contributed to Plaintiffs’ injuries. 
Plaintiffs speculate in their opposition that Padilla fled the scene because he
was under the influence.  The complaint
does not plead facts supporting this theory and the Court will not consider it. 
The
Court grants the motion to strike.
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS Defendant Arnulfo Padilla’s motion to strike from the complaint (1)
the punitive damage claim and (2) the allegation that Padilla’s conduct
exhibited a conscious disregard for the safety and well-being of other
motorists on the streets.  The Court
grants Plaintiffs Gagik Petrosyan and
Vahagn Petrosyan 30 days leave to amend. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.