  Case Number:  22AHCV00548    Hearing Date:   May 30, 2024    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:      May 30, 2024                                      TRIAL DATE: No date set. 
                                                           
CASE:                         PREF PASADENA
COLLECTION, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, v. PASADENA COLLECTION
WEST PROPERTY OWNERS’ ASSOCIATION, a California mutual benefit corporation; and
DOES 1 through 20, inclusive.  
 
CASE NO.:                 22AHCV00548
 
 
 
MOTION
TO COMPEL FURTHER REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS, SET TWO

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff Pref Pasadena Collection,
LLC 
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      Defendant
Pasadena Collection West Property Owners’ Association
 
SERVICE:                              Filed February 27, 2024
 
OPPOSITION:                       Filed May 16, 2024
 
REPLY:                                   Filed May 23, 2024
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
            Plaintiff moves for an order compelling Defendant to provide, without
objection, further responses to Plaintiff’s Requests for Production, Set Two.
 
BACKGROUND
 
            This case arises out of Plaintiff
Pref Pasadena Collection, LLC’s (“Plaintiff”) claim that Defendant Pasadena
Collection West Property Owner’s Association (“Defendant”) failed to abide by
the Declaration of Establishment of Conditions, Covenants, and Restrictions
(“CC&R”) for the Pasadena Collection West. Plaintiff filed this complaint
on August 5, 2022, alleging three causes of action for (1) declaratory relief,
(2) breach of fiduciary duty, and (3) breach of the covenant of good faith and
fair dealings. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Plaintiff’s
motion to compel further discovery responses to Request for Production of
Documents, Set Two is GRANTED. Plaintiff is awarded
sanctions in the amount of $1,460.
 
 
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
On receipt of a response to a
Request for Production of Documents, the demanding party may move for an order
compelling further responses to the demand if the demanding party deems that
(1) a statement of compliance with the demand is incomplete, (2) a representation
of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive, or (3) an
objection in the response is without merit or too general.  (CCP §
2031.310(a).)   
 
Motions to compel further
responses to RPDs must set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying
the discovery sought by the request. (CCP § 2031.310(b).) To establish
good cause, a discovery proponent must identify a disputed fact that is of
consequence in the action and explain how the discovery sought will tend in
reason to prove or disprove that fact or lead to other evidence that will tend
to prove or disprove the fact. (Digital Music News LLC v. Superior Court
(2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 216, 224, disapproved on other grounds by Williams v.
Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531; see also Kirkland v.
Superior Court (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 92, 98 [characterizing good cause as
“a fact-specific showing of relevance”].) If good cause is shown by the moving
party, the burden shifts to the responding party to justify any objections made
to disclosure of the documents. (Kirkland, supra, 95 Cal.App.4th at
98.) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Meet and Confer
 
A motion to compel further
responses to requests for production of documents must be accompanied by a meet
and confer declaration. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (b)(2).)  
 
Here, on February 7, 2024, Plaintiff sent its meet and
confer letter regarding Defendant’s deficient discovery responses. (Nevin Decl.
¶ 10.) As of the date the motion was filed, Plaintiff claims that Defendant
failed to respond to the meet and confer letter and did not provide
supplemental responses. In opposition, Defendant highlights that Plaintiff’s meet and confer
efforts were insincere, and that Plaintiff was informed multiple times that any
discovery related to construction defects would be met with objections. Despite
this, Plaintiff persisted with the discovery requests. Additionally, Defendant
asserts that Plaintiff’s meet and confer letter, sent on February 7, 2024,
allowed only three business days for a response, which Defendant argues was
unreasonable. (Sandoval Decl. ¶ 5, Exhib. 4.) In reply, Plaintiff
asserts that Defendant’s claim that Plaintiff
should have engaged in a more extensive meet and confer process is
unreasonable. The Court finds that Plaintiff’s meet and confer efforts were
sufficient and this requirement is satisfied.
 
Separate Statement

 
Under California Rules of Court,
rule 3.1345(a)(3), a motion to compel further responses to a request for
production of documents must be accompanied by a separate statement. “A
separate statement is a separate document filed and served with the discovery
motion that provides all the information necessary to understand each discovery
request and all the responses to it that are at issue.” (Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 3.1345(c).) 
 
Here, the Court notes that the separate statement was filed
with the motion on February 27, 2024, but Defendant failed to provide a
separate statement. Although Defendant has not complied with the separate
statement requirement, the Court analyzes the motion on its merits.  
 
RPDs
 
RPDs nos. 2-22
request documents regarding the repair and inspection of faulty water supply
plumbing lines. These requests include all HOA documents related to these
repairs and inspections, both pre- and post-permit communications with various
parties such as consultants, contractors, subcontractors, equipment suppliers,
and material suppliers. Plaintiff also seeks contracts and payment records
associated with these repairs, including backup documentation like receipts,
daily logs, invoices, and material orders. Additionally, Plaintiff requests
similar documentation for repairs of any other common area elements not related
to the faulty water supply lines, covering both pre- and post-permit
communications with consultants, contractors, and subcontractors. 
Plaintiff’s claims arise from the Board of
Directors’ denial of Plaintiff’s request for modifications to its unit and the
denial of the request to lease the unit for use as a Pilates studio. (Nevin
Dec., ¶ 3.) Plaintiff’s unit is the only commercial unit in the condominium
building, with all other units being residential. (Nevin Dec., ¶ 4.) The Board
of Directors consists solely of residential unit owners. (Nevin Dec., ¶ 5.) Prior
to this lawsuit, Defendant initiated a construction defect lawsuit against the
developer and contractors due to faulty water supply plumbing. This case was
settled, and the settlement included refitting pipes throughout the building.
However, Plaintiff suspects that the pipes in the commercial unit were not
refitted. (Nevin Dec., ¶ 6.) The Board of Directors’ leadership, under
President Don Wetzel, remained largely unchanged during the refitting and the
denials of Plaintiff’s requests. (Nevin Dec., ¶ 7.)
On December 7, 2023, Plaintiff served a
supplemental set of discovery on Defendant to determine if the commercial
unit's pipes were refitted. This included Plaintiff’s Request for Production of
Documents (Set Two), with responses due on January 8, 2024. (Nevin Dec., ¶ 8, Exhib.
1.). On January 11, 2024, Plaintiff asserts that Defendant sent responses
consisting entirely of improper and evasive objections. (Nevin Dec., ¶ 9,
Exhib. 2.) On February 7, 2024, Plaintiff reviewed these responses and sent a
meet and confer letter to Defendant’s Counsel, requesting supplemental
responses by February 12, 2024. (Nevin Dec., ¶ 10, Exhib. 3). As of this motion’s
date, Defendant has not responded to the meet and confer letter nor provided
the requested supplemental responses. (Nevin Dec., ¶ 11).
Plaintiff requests a Court order compelling
Defendant to provide further responses to Plaintiff’s Request for Production of
Documents (Set Two). Plaintiff
argues that its aim in discovery is to investigate whether Defendant treated
the commercial unit’s plumbing repairs differently compared to the residential
units, which is relevant to Plaintiff’s claims of breach of fiduciary duty and
bad faith by Defendant. Plaintiff asserts that
documents indicating that Defendant refitted the pipes in all other units but
not in the Commercial Unit are pertinent to this case. Plaintiff states that if
Defendant neglected the Commercial Unit during the refitting, it suggests the Board
of Directors, consisting of residential owners, may have disregarded the
Commercial Unit, which could imply that the Board’s denial of Plaintiff’s
modification requests was in bad faith, prioritizing residential quiet over
commercial needs. Additionally, Plaintiff asserts that evidence of unequal
treatment in the refitting process undermines Defendant’s affirmative defense
of acting in good faith. Plaintiff states that if it is shown that Defendant
did not treat the Commercial Unit with the same consideration as other units,
it weakens their claim of balancing the Commercial Unit’s rights with
residential obligations. Therefore, Plaintiff argues the requested information
is relevant as it is likely to lead to admissible evidence for Plaintiff’s case
and as impeachment and rebuttal evidence. 
In opposition, Defendant
argues that Plaintiff’s requests are irrelevant and not reasonably calculated
to lead to admissible evidence. Plaintiff’s complaint, filed on August 5, 2022,
involves declaratory relief, breach of fiduciary duty, and breach of the
covenant of good faith and fair dealing, centered on the Association’s refusal
to allow Plaintiff to use its commercial unit as a Pilates studio. (Complaint,
¶¶ 29-33.) Defendant’s cross-complaint, filed on September 19, 2022, involves
breach of the CC&Rs and declaratory relief, focusing on Plaintiff’s
violation of the CC&Rs by leasing the unit as a gymnasium.
(Cross-Complaint, ¶ 9.) Defendant asserts that the issues, as defined by the
pleadings, do not concern construction defects or faulty water supply plumbing
lines as Plaintiff’s complaint lacks any allegations of defects in the
commercial unit. Defendant points out that the construction defect issues were
litigated thirteen years ago in a separate case before Plaintiff owned the unit.
(Sandoval Decl. ¶ 2, Exhib. 1.) Defendant also argues that the CC&Rs
explicitly prohibit the use of the commercial unit as a gymnasium or for loud
activities, among other restrictions. (Sandoval Decl. ¶ 3, Exhib. 2.) Thus, Defendant
claims the comparison of the Association’s treatment of the commercial unit
versus residential units is not valid since the CC&Rs treat them
differently by design (CC&Rs, § 1.1.32; § 12.1.2). Finally, Defendant asserts
that Plaintiff could have obtained the information by alternative means such as
by deposing the Board President or hiring a plumber to inspect the unit,
instead of propounding broad and burdensome document requests. Defendant argues
that Plaintiff’s failure to demand a site inspection or request testing of the
water supply lines indicates a misuse of the discovery process.
 
In reply, Plaintiff argues
that their discovery requests are neither vague nor ambiguous. Plaintiff also maintains
that the discovery requests relate directly to investigating its complaint and
Defendant’s affirmative defenses. Plaintiff’s complaint includes claims of
breach of fiduciary duties and declaratory relief. Plaintiff states that evidence
showing that Plaintiff’s commercial unit was treated differently, such as not
having plumbing defects repaired, is relevant to determining if the denial of
their application was in bad faith. Further, Plaintiff states the issues
surrounding the denial of using the commercial space as a Pilates studio are
also open to interpretation, making the discovery relevant. Additionally, Plaintiff
claims that Defendant omitted that Plaintiff attempted for over three years to
get approval for a nail salon before requesting approval for a Pilates studio.
If residential units had their plumbing repaired and the commercial unit did
not, this indicates differential treatment, which is central to Plaintiff’s
claims. Finally, Plaintiff argues that requesting documents is less invasive
and more cost-effective than Defendant’s suggestions of hiring a plumber or
taking depositions. Discovery procedures, such as demands for document
production, are available as a matter of right. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.010.)
Plaintiff asserts that Defendant has not shown that providing the documents
would be burdensome, and Plaintiff’s requests are justified given Defendant’s
refusal to produce any documents.
 
The Court finds that the
discovery requests are relevant to the issues at hand, particularly in
investigating the potential differential treatment of the commercial unit
compared to residential units. Plaintiff’s claims of breach of fiduciary duty
and bad faith may require an examination of whether the commercial unit’s
plumbing was refitted in the same manner as the residential units. The
requested documents are crucial in determining if there was unequal treatment,
which go to the issues in this case. The Court finds Defendant’s objections
regarding relevance and burden to be meritless. The discovery requests are
reasonably calculated to lead to admissible evidence, particularly in the
context of Plaintiff’s claims. While there may be other avenues to obtain the
information, Plaintiff’s efforts to obtain the requested information through
less invasive and cost-effective means are valid, and Defendant has not
demonstrated that producing the documents would be unduly burdensome.
Therefore, the Court grants Plaintiff's motion to
compel Defendant to provide further responses to Plaintiff’s Request for
Production of Documents (Set Two). 
Monetary Sanctions
 
As the prevailing party, Plaintiff is entitled to
sanctions. Plaintiff requests sanctions in the amount of $2,160.00, consisting
of work by attorney Nevin who claims an hourly rate of $475 with 1.5 hours on
the motion, 1.1 hours reviewing the opposition and preparing the reply, and 1
hour to attend the hearing; work by attorney McPherson who claims an hourly
rate of $375 hourly with 2.4 hours on the motion; and work by paralegal
Desilets, who claims an hourly rate of $150 with 3.5 hours preparing the
motion. The Court adopts an hourly rate of $350 and reduces the total hours for
the motion, opposition, reply, and attending the hearing to 4 hours. The Court
also awards the filing fee. Thus, Plaintiff is awarded sanctions in the amount
of $1,460.
 
CONCLUSION 
 
            Plaintiff’s
motion to compel further discovery responses to Request for Production of
Documents, Set Two is GRANTED. Plaintiff is awarded
sanctions in the amount of $1,460.
 
            Moving
party to give notice. 
 
 
            
Dated:   May 30, 2024                                                ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court


Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the court
indicating their 
intention to submit.  alhdeptx@lacourt.org
