 Case Number:  23AHCV00380    Hearing Date:   May 30, 2024    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:     May 30, 2024                                      TRIAL DATE: October 15, 2024 
                                                           
CASE:                         Tony S. Sadri v.
Yue Xing Li 
 
CASE NO.:                 23AHCV00380
 
 
 
MOTION
FOR ORDER TO AUTHORIZE CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS TO DISCLOSE CERTAIN PERSONALLY
IDENTIFIABLE INFORMATION OF A SUBSCRIBER, PURSUANT TO 47 U.S.C. 551(C)(2)(B)
(1616)

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff Tony S. Sadri 
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      Defendant Yuan Fang Li
 
SERVICE:                              Filed on May 3, 2024
 
OPPOSITION:                       Filed May 23, 2024
 
REPLY:                                   Filed May 17, 2024
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
            Plaintiff Tony S. Sadri’s
(“Sadri”) motion seeks an order allowing Charter Communications (“Charter”) to
produce the IP addresses that Charter assigned to Defendant’s Yuan Fang Li
a.k.a. Katie Li (“Li”) home address during a defined time period, as well as
the name, email address, and phone number of the account holder. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
             This is a defamation action
brought by Plaintiff Tony Sadri (“Sadri”) against Defendant Li Yuan Fang Li aka
Katie Li (“Li”). On February 21, 2023, Sadri filed the complaint alleging libel
per se. The complaint alleges the following: After Sadri told Li that he no
longer wanted to date her, Li began a campaign of defamation, harassment, and
retribution against Sadri who is a practicing personal injury attorney. Li
tried to destroy Sadri’s reputation and law practice by (among other things)
posting false and defamatory reviews about Sadri and, even more outrageous,
sending an email with false and defamatory statements to a chiropractor who
served as an important referral source for Sadri. Li used fake email addresses
and names to engage in this bizarre and unlawful behavior. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            The Court
GRANTS the Motion for a Court Order authorizing Charter Communications to
Disclose Defendant’s Personally Identifiable Information. 
 
OBJECTIONS TO EVIDENCE 
 
            Defendant
objects and moves to strike Plaintiff’s evidence submitted in support of
Plaintiff’s Motion for a Court Order authorizing Charter Communications to
Disclose Defendant’s Personally Identifiable Information:
 
1.    
Exhibit
“1” is hearsay (see Evidence Code Section 1200), is an unsubstantiated expert
opinion (see Evidence Code Sections 720 and 802), and on Plaintiff’s failure to
authenticate and lay a proper foundation for this document
 
            SUSTAINED: None
            OVERRULED: 1
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
The Cable Communication Act 47 U.S.C. § 551, provides in pertinent part: 
 
(c) DISCLOSURE OF PERSONALLY IDENTIFIABLE INFORMATION 
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), a cable operator shall not
disclose personally identifiable information concerning any subscriber without
the prior written or electronic consent of the subscriber concerned and shall
take such actions as are necessary to prevent unauthorized access to such
information by a person other than the subscriber or cable operator. 
(2) A cable operator may disclose such information if the disclosure is—
(B) subject to subsection (h), made pursuant to a court order authorizing such
disclosure, if the subscriber is notified of such order by the person to whom
the order is directed. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Plaintiff
Sadri seeks an order allowing Charter Communications to produce the IP
addresses that Charter assigned to Defendant’s Yuan Fang Li a.k.a. Katie Li’s
home address during a defined time period, as well as the name, email address,
and phone number of the account holder because Sadri has already obtained the
various phone numbers, email addresses, and IP addresses that Li used to target
him and his business. (Not. of Mot. at p. 2.) Sadri now seeks to match this
information with the information requested from Charter. (Id.) Plaintiff
Sadri also argues that the information sought will help establish liability in
this case. (Id.) 
            
            In
Opposition, Defendant Li argues that Plaintiff failed to support his Motion
with any admissible facts or evidence. (Opp’n at p.2.) Defendant Li also argues
that Plaintiff’s own evidence concedes the unreliability and impropriety of its
method - presented to justify the intrusive request that Charter Communications
be ordered to disclose Defendant’s personal information and IP addresses
without her consent. (Id. at p.5.) 
            
            In
Reply, Plaintiff argues that there is no basis to preclude Sadri from engaging
in discovery to obtain the information requested by the Subpoena so that he can
obtain information that would support his claims against Li. (Reply at p. 2.)
Plaintiff also argues that Li’s attempt to exclude the consultant’s report is
misplaced because this is not a Daubert motion. (Id.) 
 
            As
an initial matter, the Court reminds both parties that District Court opinions are
not binding on state courts.   Additionally, Defendant’s arguments regarding
the admissibility of the report, expert qualifications, and authentication are
also misguided because this is not a Daubert motion.  That may come if the Plaintiff intends to present
expert testimony before a jury.  Therefore,
the Court finds Plaintiff’s request proper because it is for discovery purposes.  
 
            Therefore,
the Court GRANTS the Motion for a Court Order authorizing Charter
Communications to Disclose Defendant’s Personally Identifiable Information.  
 
CONCLUSION
 
            Therefore,
the Court GRANTS the Motion for a Court Order authorizing Charter
Communications to Disclose Defendant’s Personally Identifiable Information. The
Court will sign Plaintiff’s Proposed Order filed on May 3, 2024. 
 
            
 
 
            
Dated: May 30  , 2024                                                ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court


Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the court
indicating their 
intention to submit.  alhdeptx@lacourt.org
