 Case Number:  23AHCV02996    Hearing Date:   May 30, 2024    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:     May 30,
2024  
                       TRIAL DATE:  not
set
                                                           
CASE:                         SACHIKO SAIJO v. WELLS
FARGO BANK, N.A.   
 
CASE NO.:                 23AHCV02996
 
 
 
DEMURRER

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant
Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (“Defendant”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff Sachiko Saijo (“Plaintiff”)
 
SERVICE:                             OK;
Filed February 15, 2024
 
OPPOSITION:                      Filed May 15, 2024
                                                Notice
of Errata filed May 23, 2024 [correcting hearing date]
 
REPLY:                                 Filed
May 22, 2024
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
            Defendant demurs to
Plaintiff’s two causes of action for financial elder abuse and breach of
contract.
 
BACKGROUND
 
            This is an action for contractual
fraud. On December 28, 2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint against Defendant
alleging two causes of action for (1) financial elder abuse under Welfare &
Institutions Code § 15610.30, and (2) breach of contract.
 
            The complaint alleges the following.
Plaintiff was born in 1952 and is an elder under Welfare & Institutions
Code § 15610.07. (Compl., ¶ 39.) On January 2, 2019, Plaintiff opened a
personal checking account with Defendant Wells Fargo. (Id., ¶ 4.) The contract
governing the parties is a Deposit Account Agreement (the “Agreement”),
attached to the complaint as Exhibit A. (Id., ¶ 11; Exh. A.) On November
30, 2022, Plaintiff attempted to make property tax payment by check in the
amount of $30,366.02. (Id., ¶¶ 4-5.) The check was intercepted by a
wrongdoer, the payee on the check was altered to “Kierra Anderson”, and, on
December 13, 2022, the check was deposited into Kierra Anderson’s account. (Id.,
¶¶7, 9.) On March 4, 2023, Plaintiff was contacted by the Los Angeles County
Assessor about her delinquent property tax payments. (Id., ¶ 22.) On March
6, 2023, Plaintiff filed a fraud claim with Wells Fargo. (Id., ¶ 24.)
The claim was denied. (Id., ¶ 25.) Plaintiff initiated an internal
appeal, which was also denied on the ground that Plaintiff only had thirty days
to inform Wells Fargo of the altered check under the Agreement, and the 30-day
period has lapsed. (Id., ¶ 27.) 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s first and second causes
of action for financial elder abuse and breach of contract is OVERRULED. 
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
A general
demurrer may be taken to a complaint where “[t]he pleading does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action.” (Code of Civ. Proc. § 430.10(e).) A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the
complaint states a cause of action.  (Hahn
v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.) In a demurrer proceeding, the
defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or by proper judicial
notice.  (Code Civ. Proc. section
430.30(a).)  A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or
other extrinsic matters.  (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153
Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.)  The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is
whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,
states a cause of action.  (Hahn v.
Mirda, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)
 
Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading
may serve and file a notice of motion to strike a pleading or any part
thereof.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1).)  The
court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms
it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in
any pleading.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a).)  The court may
also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with
California law, a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 436, subd. (b).)  An immaterial or irrelevant allegation is one that is
not essential to the statement of a claim or defense; is neither pertinent to
nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense; or a demand for
judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the
complaint.  (Code Civ. Proc., 431.10, subd. (b).)  The grounds for
moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial
notice.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)   
 
DISCUSSION
 
Demurrer
 
Financial Elder Abuse
 
Financial abuse of an elder adult “occurs
when a person or entity takes, secretes, appropriates, obtains, or retains real
or personal property of an elder for a wrongful use or with intent to defraud,
or both, or assists in such conduct. (Welf. & Inst. Code, § 15610.30, subd.
(a).) 
“The Legislature enacted the [Elder Abuse and Dependent Adult
Civil Protection] Act to protect elders by providing enhanced remedies to
encourage private, civil enforcement of laws against elder abuse and neglect.
An elder is defined as ‘any person residing in this state, 65 years of age or
older.’ The proscribed conduct includes financial abuse. The financial abuse provisions
are, in part, premised on the Legislature’s belief that in addition to being
subject to the general rules of contract, financial agreements entered into by
elders should be subject to special scrutiny.” (Bounds v. Superior Court
(2014) 229 Cal.App.4th 468, 478, internal citations omitted.) 
 
“[A] party may engage in elder abuse by misappropriating
funds to which an elder is entitled under a contract.” (Paslay v. State Farm
General Ins. Co. (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 639, 656; CACI no. 3100.)
 
Plaintiff’s allegations are sufficient at
the pleading stage. Wells Fargo had a contractual duty to reimburse Plaintiff
for “any unauthorized, missing or altered endorsements”. (Compl., ¶ 11.)
Plaintiff timely notified Wells Fargo of the unauthorized endorsement. (Id.,
¶ 34.) Wells Fargo failed to indemnify Plaintiff for the funds that were
transferred out of Plaintiff’s personal account due to the unauthorized
endorsement. (Id., ¶¶ 27, 36.) Wells Fargo manifested an intent to fraudulently retain the
funds that were due to Plaintiff under the Agreement by insisting on sending
Plaintiff her notices electronically rather than by mail as she requested, and
by claiming that Plaintiff failed to timely inform Wells Fargo of the
unauthorized endorsements. (Id., ¶ 37.)
 
Plaintiff’s financial elder abuse claim is
properly pled. 
 
Breach of Contract
 
To state a cause of action for breach of
contract, Plaintiff must be able to establish “(1) the existence of the
contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3)
defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damages to the plaintiff.” (Oasis
West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811, 821.)
 
The parties disagree as to the terms of
the Agreement. The section of the Agreement entitled “Your responsibility to
review account statements and notices and notify us of errors” provides that
the account holder is obligated to “[n]otify us within 30 days after we have
made your account statement available to you of any unauthorized transaction on
your account” and to “[n]otify us within six months after we have made your
account statement available to you if you identify any unauthorized, missing,
or altered endorsements on your items.” (Compl., Exh. A, page 29.) The
Agreement defines endorsement as “a signature, stamp, or other mark on the back
of a check to transfer, restrict payment, or make the signer responsible for
the check.” (Id., page 40.)
 
Wells Fargo contends that the 30-day
deadline rather than the 6-month deadline applies in this situation, therefore
Plaintiff’s claim cannot meet the elements of Plaintiff’s performance and Wells
Fargo’s breach. However, Plaintiff explicitly alleged that Anderson, the third-party
wrongdoer, “endorsed” the check without Plaintiff’s authorization (Compl., ¶ 9),
thereby triggering the 6-month deadline. Plaintiff sufficiently alleged
compliance with the 6-month deadline to notify. (See Compl., ¶¶ 33-34.)
 
Plaintiff’s breach of contract claim is
properly pled. 
 
CONCLUSION
 
Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s first and second causes
of action for financial elder abuse and breach of contract is OVERRULED.   Defendant is ordered to
file their ANSWER within 10 days’ notice of this ruling.
 
 
 
 
MOTION
FOR SANCTIONS

 
 
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
            Plaintiff moves for an
order imposing monetary and terminating sanctions against Defendant under CCP §§
1281.97 and 1281.99.
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Plaintiff’s motion for monetary sanctions is DENIED. Plaintiff’s motion for
terminating sanctions is DENIED. Plaintiff should be prepared to provide a specific amount
in monetary damages at the hearing and explain why the requested amount is
reasonable.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
CCP § 1281.97 provides:
 
(a) (1) In
an employment or consumer arbitration that requires, either expressly or
through application of state or federal law or the rules of the arbitration
provider, the drafting party to pay certain fees and costs before the
arbitration can proceed, if the fees or costs to initiate an arbitration
proceeding are not paid within 30 days after the due date the drafting party is
in material breach of the arbitration agreement, is in default of the
arbitration, and waives its right to compel arbitration under Section 1281.2. .
. .
(b) If
the drafting party materially breaches the arbitration agreement and is in
default under subdivision (a), the employee or consumer may . . . [w]ithdraw
the claim from arbitration and proceed in a court of appropriate jurisdiction.
. . .
(d) If the employee or consumer proceeds with an
action in a court of appropriate jurisdiction, the court shall impose sanctions
on the drafting party in accordance with Section 1281.99.
 
            CCP §
1281.99 provides: 

(a) The court shall impose a monetary
sanction against a drafting party that materially breaches an arbitration
agreement pursuant to subdivision (a) of Section 1281.97 . . . by ordering the
drafting party to pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees and
costs, incurred by the employee or consumer as a result of the material breach.
(b) In
addition to the monetary sanction described in subdivision (a), the court may
order any of the following sanctions . . . unless the court finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.
(1) An
evidence sanction by an order prohibiting the drafting party from conducting
discovery in the civil action.
(2) A
terminating sanction . . .
DISCUSSION
 
            Defendant admits that it failed to
timely pay arbitration fees. The parties do not dispute that Defendant paid the
fees on December 7, 2023. (See Opp’n, 1:5-6.) Defendant urges the Court to deny
Plaintiff’s motion on several grounds.
            First, Defendant argues that the
Federal Arbitration Act (“FAA”) preempts any state rule that singles out
arbitration agreements for disfavored treatment, such as the CCP sections that
Plaintiff relies on. The Court will not address this argument and reaches its
decision on separate grounds. 
            Second, Defendant argues that entering
terminating sanctions over a 10-day late arbitration payment would be severe
and unjust. The Court agrees with Defendant. The facts here are different from
the egregious situation that prompted the Legislature to enact the bill that
became CCP § 1281.99 making terminating sanctions available. In her motion,
Plaintiff cites to the Senate Judiciary Committee’s observation of “a concerning
and troubling trend . . . : employers are refusing to pay required fees to
initiate arbitration, effectively stymieing the ability of employees to assert
their legal rights.” (Sen. Com. On Judiciary, Analysis of Sen. Bill No. 707
(2019-2020 Reg. Sess.) p. 6.) The Committee cited the example from Uber: “Of
the 12,500 arbitration demands filed by Uber drivers, the company has paid the
requisite JAMS initial filing fee in just 296 cases… So far, arbitrators have
been appointed in only 47 of the cases drivers have brought against Uber – and Uber
has paid the arbitrator’s nonrefundable $1,500 retainer fee in a mere six
cases.” (Id. at 7.) Unlike Uber, Defendant promptly resolved the issue
by paying the arbitration fee, almost immediately after it was notified by the
American Arbitration Association of its failure to pay. (See Motion, Exhs. D
and E.) Thus, imposition of terminating sanctions would be unjust.
            Monetary
sanctions normally would have been warranted and mandatory under CCP §
1281.99(a). However, in this case the plaintiff failed to request a specific amount.  For this reason the court declines to award
monetary sanctions .
 
CONCLUSION
 
Plaintiff’s motion for monetary sanctions is DENIED. Plaintiff’s motion for terminating
sanctions is DENIED. 
 
 
            Moving party
to give notice. 
 
 
            
Dated:   May 30, 2024                                                ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
            
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the court indicating their 
intention to submit.  alhdeptx@lacourt.org
