  Case Number:  23STCV07706    Hearing Date:   September 21, 2023    Dept:  49 Arman Tadevosyan v. LA Fine Motors, LLC, et al.MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION MOVING PARTY: Defendants LA Fine Motors, LLC and Capital One Auto FinanceRESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Arman TadevosyanSTATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: On March 3, 2023, Plaintiff Arman Tadevosyan purchased a 2011 BMW from Defendant LA Fine Motors. After the purchase, LA Fine Motors assigned the purchase contract to Defendant Capital One. Plaintiff alleges that Defendant LA Fine Motors misrepresented the mechanical condition of the vehicle; sold the vehicle with defective headlights, blinkers, and emergency flashers; sold the vehicle for more than the advertised price; and failed to repair the vehicle’s headlights as promised upon sale. Plaintiff brings causes of action for (1) Violation of the Consumers Legal Remedies Act, Civil Code § 1750, et seq, (2) Fraud & Deceit, (3) Negligent Misrepresentation, (4) Breach of Express Warranty, (5) Breach of the Implied Warranty of Fitness, (6) Breach of the Implied Warranty of Merchantability, (7) Violation of the Rosenthal Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, Civil Code § 1788, et seq., (8) Violation of the Unfair Competition Law, Business & Professions Code § 17200, et seq., and (9) Violation of Vehicle Code § 11711.Defendants now move for an order compelling Plaintiff to arbitrate the dispute pursuant to CCP § 1281 et seq. The matter first came for hearing on September 7, 2023. The court was not in receipt of any opposition, although Plaintiff’s counsel represented at the hearing that an opposition had been filed. Accordingly, the court continued the hearing to this date and allowed Plaintiff to file or refile an opposition. The court has read and considered Plaintiff’s opposition filed on 09/07/2023, and now rules as follows.TENTATIVE RULING:Defendants’ Motion to Compel Arbitration is GRANTED. The action remains stayed pending the results of the arbitration, or until as may be further ordered.A Status Review/OSC re: Dismissal is set for September 23, 2024 at 8:30 a.m. If there are no appearances at that time, this case may be dismissed without prejudice.Defendants are ordered to give notice.DISCUSSION:Motion to Compel Arbitration1. Legal StandardCalifornia has a strong public policy in favor of arbitration as an expeditious and cost-effective way of resolving disputes.  The Federal Arbitration Act (“FAA”) also manifests a policy favoring arbitration. (Morgan v. Sundance, Inc. (2022) 142 S.Ct. 1708, 1713.) “Even so, parties can only be compelled to arbitrate when they have agreed to do so.” (Avila v. S. California Specialty Care, Inc. (2018) 20 Cal. App. 5th 835, 843.)  “The party seeking to compel arbitration bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement.”  (Id.) An arbitration agreement is a contractual agreement. “General contract law principles include that ‘[t]he basic goal of contract interpretation is to give effect to the parties’ mutual intent at the time of contracting. [Citations.] ... The words of a contract are to be understood in their ordinary and popular sense.” [Citations.]  (Garcia v. Expert Staffing W., 73 Cal. App. 5th 408, 412–13.)  “[T]he petitioner bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by the preponderance of the evidence . . . .”  (Giuliano v. Inland Empire Personnel, Inc. (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1276, 1284).  “In determining whether an arbitration agreement applies to a specific dispute, the court may examine only the agreement itself and the complaint filed by the party refusing arbitration [citation]. The court should attempt to give effect to the parties' intentions, in light of the usual and ordinary meaning of the contractual language and the circumstances under which the agreement was made.”  (Weeks v. Crow (1980) 113 Cal.App.3d 350, 353).  “Doubts as to whether an arbitration clause applies to a particular dispute are to be resolved in favor of sending the parties to arbitration. The court should order them to arbitrate unless it is clear that the arbitration clause cannot be interpreted to cover the dispute.”  (California Correctional Peace Officers Ass'n v. State (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 198, 205).  “[A] party opposing the petition bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence any fact necessary to its defense. [Citation.] In these summary proceedings, the trial court sits as a trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other documentary evidence, as well as oral testimony received at the court's discretion, to reach a final determination.”  (Giuliano v. Inland Empire Personnel, Inc. (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1276, 1284).“If a court of competent jurisdiction, whether in this State or not, has ordered arbitration of a controversy which is an issue involved in an action or proceeding pending before a court of this State, the court in which such action or proceeding is pending shall, upon motion of a party to such action or proceeding, stay the action or proceeding until an arbitration is had in accordance with the order to arbitrate or until such earlier time as the court specifies. . . .”  (CCP § 1281.4.)2. Existence of Arbitration AgreementOn or about March 3, 2023, Plaintiff Arman Tadevosyan entered into a Retail Installment Sale Contract for the purchase of a 2011 BMW. (Kopers Decl. ¶ 2, Exh. 1.) After purchase, LA Fine Motors, LLC assigned the Retail Installment Sale Contract to Capital One Auto Finance. (See Kopers Decl. ¶ 2; see also FAC ¶ 3 [alleging “Capital One accepted assignment of Plaintiff’s purchase contract from LA Fine Motors”].)The RISC contains an arbitration agreement. (Kopers Decl., Exh. B.)  In pertinent part, it provides:EITHER YOU OR WE MAY CHOOSE TO HAVE ANY DISPUTE BETWEEN US DECIDED BY ARBITRATION AND NOT IN COURT. (Id.)The Arbitration Agreement defines “we,” “us,” and “our” to mean the Seller or its “employees, agents, successors, or assigns.” (Id.) Dispute means “any disagreement in contract, tort, statutory or other claim or dispute between [buyer] and us arising out of or relating to [buyer’s] credit application, any retail installment sales contract or any resulting transaction or relationship. (Id.) The Agreement provides that it is “governed by the Federal Arbitration Act, 9 U.S.C. §§ 1 et. seq. (Id.)Accordingly, the Agreement here, which covers “any dispute” between Plaintiff and the seller, covers the dispute here between Plaintiff and selling dealer. (See Vianna v. Doctors’ Management Co. (1994) 27 Cal.App.4th 1186, 1189 [noting that “arbitration agreements should be liberally interpreted, and arbitration should be ordered unless the agreement clearly does not apply to the dispute in question”].) Moreover, because the agreement applies to the seller’s assigns, Defendant Capital One can also invoke the agreement. Plaintiff does not dispute the existence of the agreement, and does not dispute that each Defendant can invoke it. Defendants have therefore established the existence of an agreement to arbitrate by a preponderance of the evidence. (Giuliano, supra, 149 Cal.App.4th at 1284).  3. Plaintiff’s Defenses to EnforcementThis shifts the burden to Plaintiff to demonstrate a defense to enforcement. (Crippen v. Central Valley RV Outlet (2004) 124 Cal.App.4th 1159, 1164 [once a defendant proves an agreement to arbitrate exists, “[t]he opposing party then must prove any defense to enforcement of the arbitration agreement. [Citation.]”) First, Plaintiff contends the motion must be denied because he never “refused” to arbitrate. Under CCP section 1281.2, “[o]n petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party to the agreement refuses to arbitrate that controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists…” (Emphasis added). Plaintiff contends, instead, that he actively agreed to arbitrate and was willing to stipulate to that effect. However, Defendants would not sign the stipulation “because Defendants did not want to abide by their prior, and post July 26, 2023, agreements to respond to discovery.” (Opp. 2: 8-9.) This argument fails. Of course, had Plaintiff truly agreed to arbitrate, this motion would not have been necessary. Instead, Plaintiff conditioned arbitration on Defendants agreeing to engage in certain discovery. This term is not reflected in the agreement to arbitrate. Therefore, Plaintiff is actively refusing to arbitrate under the terms of the arbitration agreement he signed.Second, and relatedly, Plaintiff argues Defendants have “unclean hands” based on their failure to respond to Plaintiffs’ outstanding discovery—despite representations they would do so. Plaintiff contends Defendants requested and obtained “multiple extensions on discovery based on the promise Defendants would actually provide the discovery response,” with full knowledge that an agreement to arbitrate existed. (Opp. 3: 21-22.) Plaintiff also takes issue with Defendant seeking a stay of discovery after filing its motion to compel arbitration.Despite what the parties might have agreed to, Defendants had the unilateral right to move the court for a stay of this action pending a ruling on their motion to compel arbitration. (See CCP § 1281.4.) This court has no discretion to refuse the stay. (Id. [“the court in which such action or proceeding is pending shall…stay the action or proceeding until the application for an order to arbitrate is determined”].) Thus, this has no impact on the analysis.Further, what Plaintiff calls unclean hands it really a question of waiver. When considering if waiver occurred in the context of arbitration, both state and federal courts consider “(1) whether the party's actions are inconsistent with the right to arbitrate; (2) whether ‘the litigation machinery has been substantially invoked’ and the parties ‘were well into preparation of a lawsuit’ before the party notified the opposing party of an intent to arbitrate; (3) whether a party either requested arbitration enforcement close to the trial date or delayed for a long period before seeking a stay; (4) whether a defendant seeking arbitration filed a counterclaim without asking for a stay of the proceedings; [and] (5) ‘whether important intervening steps [e.g., taking advantage of judicial discovery procedures not available in arbitration] had taken place…”  [Citations]. (Iskanian, 59 Cal. 4th at 375). Notably, under recent authority from the Supreme Court of the United States, the element of prejudice is “no longer required to demonstrate a waiver of one's right to arbitration, and the waiver inquiry should instead focus on the actions of the holder of that right.” (Davis v. Shiekh Shoes, LLC (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 956, 795 [citing Morgan v. Sundance, 142 S.Ct. 1708 (2022)].)Here, there is no waiver under these facts. To the extent Defendants may have delayed filing this motion while indicating they would respond to discovery, the delay is insignificant. Plaintiff filed this action on April 07, 2023, and Defendants filed the motion to compel arbitration only four months later on August 07, 2023. Courts have found significantly longer delays that did not amount to waiver.  In Davis, the defendant waited 17-months to compel arbitration after being served with the complaint. (Davis, supra, 84 Cal. App. 5th at 967–68; see also Khalatian v. Prime Time Shuttle, Inc. (2015) 237 Cal. App. 4th 651, 663 [a 14-month period from the filing of the original complaint to the filing of the motion to compel was insufficient to support the waiver].)Moreover, although Defendants may have represented they would respond to Plaintiff’s discovery, there is no evidence that Defendants have “invoked the litigation machinery” in this case.  (Iskanian, 59 Cal. 4th at 375). As a comparison, Courts have found a waiver when the party seeking to compel arbitration did so only after “sen[ding] two sets of lawyers to the third-party depositions and t[aking] full advantage of every opportunity to cross-examine the deponents.”  (Guess?, Inc. v. Superior Ct. (2000) 79 Cal. App. 4th 553, 558.  They also “t[ook] full advantage of the opportunity to test the validity of Guess's claims, both legally and factually, primarily at [the plaintiff’s] expense.”  (Id.)  Defendants have not propounded their own discovery.  This court also notes the complete absence of any law and motion practice in the case thus far.  For these reasons, there is no evidence that Defendants have used litigation to uncover information or utilize alternate means of discovery or relief that would not be available in arbitration.Finally, to the extent Plaintiff might be suggesting that the agreement to arbitrate is substantively unconscionable because it limits the parties’ discovery, such an argument fails. Under California law, an arbitration agreement must be in some measure both procedurally and substantively unconscionable in order for the agreement to be unenforceable. (Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 114; De La Torre v. CashCall, Inc. (2018) 5 Cal.5th 966, 982.) Under Armendariz, an agreement to arbitrate need only “provide for more than minimal discovery.” (Armendariz, supra, 24 Cal.4th at 102.) Plaintiff has not demonstrated or even discussed how the arbitration agreement or forum unconscionably limits his discovery.Accordingly, Defendants’ Motion to Compel Arbitration is GRANTED. The action remains stayed pending the results of the arbitration, or until as may be further ordered.A Status Review/OSC re: Dismissal is set for September 23, 2024 at 8:30 a.m. If there are no appearances at that time, this case may be dismissed without prejudice.Defendants are ordered to give notice.IT IS SO ORDERED.Dated:   September 21, 2023 ___________________________________ Randolph M. Hammock Judge of the Superior Court Any party may submit on the tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept49@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day before the hearing.  All interested parties must be copied on the email.  It should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.