 Case Number:  22STCV37039    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION TO DEEM RFA ADMITTED AND REQUESTS FOR
SANCTIONS
Hearing Date: 9/26/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV37039 MARICELA MUNOZ,
et al. vs RODNEY DEWAYNE MARSHALL
Moving Party: Defendant Rodney Marshall
Responding Party: Unopposed
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
Ruling: MOTION TO DEEM RFA ADMITTED AND
REQUESTS FOR SANCTIONS ARE GRANTED. 
Legal Standard   
“Any party may obtain discovery . . . by a
written request that any other party to the action admit the genuineness of
specified documents, or the truth of specified matters of fact, opinion
relating to fact, or application of law to fact. A request for admission may
relate to a matter that is in controversy between the parties.”  CCP § 2033.010.  “Within 30 days
after service of requests for admission, the party to whom the requests are
directed shall serve the original of the response to them on the requesting
party, and a copy of the response on all other parties who have appeared ....”  CCP § 2033.250(a).   
            If a party to whom a request for admissions is
served fails to provide a timely response, the party to whom the request was
directed waives any objections, including based on privilege or the work
product doctrine. CCP § 2033.280(a). The requesting party can move for an order
that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in
the request be deemed admitted, as well as for monetary sanctions. CCP §
2033.280(b). The court shall issue this order unless the party to whom the
request was made serves a response in substantial compliance prior to the
hearing on the motion. CCP § 2033.280(c). Unlike a motion to compel further
discovery responses, a motion to deem RFA admitted does not have any meet and
confer requirements. 
 
Discussion
On May 7, 2024,
Defendant Rodney Dewayne Marshall served Plaintiffs Alejandro Chavez and
Marcela Munoz with his Requests for Admission, Set One. The responses from
Plaintiffs were originally due on June 11, 2024. As of August 27, 2024, when
the present motion was filed, Plaintiffs have not provided any responses, nor
have they contacted Defendant’s counsel to request an extension.
It is undisputed that
Plaintiffs did not serve discovery responses by the statutory deadline. No
oppositions were filed, nor were any documents submitted to the court
indicating that Plaintiffs have served the responses prior to the hearing date.
The court grants the present motions; therefore, the contents of Defendant
Rodney Marshall’s Requests for Admission Set One are deemed admitted against
Plaintiffs Alejandro Chavez and Marcela Munoz.
Defendant seeks
sanctions in the amount of $869 for each motion. Since sanctions are mandatory
and the court finds that Plaintiffs did not act with substantial justification,
sanctions are granted. However, due to the simplicity of the issues and the absence
of any opposition, the court reduces sanctions to $1000 for both motions.
Plaintiffs and their attorney are jointly and severally liable for this amount,
payable to Defendant within 20 days of today.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party
must send an email to the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the
Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties
submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear
remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the
Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of
the subject motion without leave.
 