 Case Number:  BS170239    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION TO COMPEL CLAIMANT’S IME 
Hearing Date: 9/26/24 
CASE NO./NAME: BS170239 DANIEL GEOULLA VS
CALIFORNIA AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE COMPANY 
Moving Party: Respondent California Automobile
Insurance Company 
Responding Party: Claimant
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
Ruling: Respondent’s proposed changes to
the parameters of the IME is DENIED
The present motion
concerns Claimant Daniel Geoulla’s second independent medical examination (IME)
with Dr. Weinstein. On July 11, 2024, the court ordered the parties to meet and
confer regarding the scope of the examination. By July 22, 2024, the parties
entered into a stipulated order, outlining the following terms:

Dr.
     Michael Weinstein is permitted to re-examine the claimant.
The
     examination will take place in person at Dr. Weinstein's office located at
     360 San Miguel Suite 701, Newport Beach, CA 92660.
The
     examination will adhere to the scope described in Dr. Weinstein’s letter
     dated July 11, 2024, attached as Exhibit A.
The
     examination will not exceed 30 minutes, including both the clinical
     examination and history taking.
Dr.
     Weinstein will prepare a report of his findings and conclusions within 20
     days of the examination, which will be forwarded by CAIC's counsel to B
     &D Law Group immediately upon receipt.

On August 7, 2024,
Respondent served its DME notice to Claimant. On August 27, 2024, Claimant
responded to the DME notice, outlining certain statutory parameters of the
examination. On the same day, Respondent's attorney proposed a few changes to
these parameters, with two changes now in dispute:
1.  Respondent
requests that if there is an observer or attorney recording the examination on
behalf of the Claimant, then the doctor or someone on his staff should also be
entitled to record.
2.  If
an observer or attorney records the exam on behalf of the Claimant, the
Claimant should provide a copy of the audio recording to the Respondent within
20 days.
Claimant’s second IME
is scheduled for October 23, 2024, and the parties now wait for the court’s
decision on the scope of the IME before it is taken.
Under CCP 2032.510, the
attorney for the examinee, or that attorney's representative, is permitted to
attend and observe any physical examination conducted for discovery purposes
and to record stenographically or by audio technology any spoken words during
the examination. The statute does not grant Respondent the right to record the
IME or obtain Claimant’s recording of the IME. Respondent has provided no legal
authority for these two requests. Instead, Respondent appeals to equity,
arguing that if Claimant is allowed to record, so should the Respondent. 
This overlooks the
power imbalance between the examinee and examiner. The examiner holds control
over how the examination is to be conducted and also the final output of the
process, the medical report. This control can potentially lead to discrepancies
between what occurs during the examination and what is reported. Therefore, the
examinee is given the opportunity to record the independent medical examination
(IME) to safeguard their interests. It effectively serves as a check on the
power held by the examiner. The Court does not find good cause to grant Respondent’s
proposed changes to the parameters of the IME and accordingly denies the
motion.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party
must send an email to the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the
Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties
submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear
remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the
Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of
the subject motion without leave.
 
 