 Case Number:  22STCV22425    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
Hearing Date: 9/26/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV24225 PATRICK RAYFIELD
vs SAFEWAY INC.
Moving Party: Defendants KEHE DISTRIBUTORS, LLC and THE VONS COMPANIES, INC.
Responding Party: Plaintiff¿ 
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
Ruling: MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT IS DENIED
 
This is a personal
injury case wherein Plaintiff, Patrick Rayfield, claims he was injured on
August 2, 2020, while shopping at the Pavilions Store located at 727 9 N. Vine
Street in Los Angeles, California.
On February 1, 2022,
Plaintiff filed for Chapter 7 bankruptcy. Under 11 U.S.C. § 541, when a debtor
files for bankruptcy, all assets, including legal claims such as personal
injury lawsuits, become part of the bankruptcy estate. The bankruptcy trustee
becomes the real party in interest for any legal claims. Although the
bankruptcy was discharged on May 16, 2022, Plaintiff’s failure to list the
personal injury lawsuit in the bankruptcy schedules meant the claim remained
part of the bankruptcy estate, under the trustee’s control, despite the
discharge. On July 27, 2022, Plaintiff filed the personal injury case in his
individual capacity, though the trustee retains control over the claim.
Defendants now
move the court for summary judgment on the grounds that Plaintiff lacks
standing to pursue this case and that this case should be barred due to
judicial estoppel.
In Plaintiff's
opposition, he acknowledges that he potentially lacks standing in the present
personal injury case due to his inadvertence in not including the case in his
original bankruptcy schedule. However, he highlights his efforts to obtain
standing by reopening his bankruptcy case. On May 20, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
motion to reopen his bankruptcy case. The motion was granted by the Bankruptcy
Court on May 22, 2024. The court's order allowed Plaintiff to amend the
bankruptcy schedules A/B and C and instructed the US Trustee to appoint a new
Chapter 7 trustee, Brad Krasnoff, for the case. (Exhibit 1, Bral Decl. ¶ 5.)
On June 22, 2024, the
newly appointed trustee, Brad Krasnoff, filed the amended schedules with the
Bankruptcy Court. These amendments included the personal injury claim that had
been previously omitted.  (Exhibit 2, Bal
Decl. ¶ 6.) As of June 27, 2024, when the declaration was filed, the bankruptcy
petition is still open and pending. 
In Defendants’ reply,
Defendants decided not to pursue the judicial estoppel argument, stating,
"Although unnecessarily delayed, it appears that Plaintiff has remedied
the judicial estoppel issue. However, Plaintiff still lacks standing to bring
the suit." (Reply at pg. 5.) As of July 3, 2024, when the reply was filed,
Plaintiff had not requested leave to amend the complaint to substitute the real
party in interest, the bankruptcy trustee, in the present case. Defendant
argues that Plaintiff still lacks standing to pursue the present case.
On September 24,
2024, Plaintiff's counsel filed a declaration indicating that after reopening
the bankruptcy case to amend the schedules, the trustee, Brad Krasnoff,
investigated and ultimately decided not to pursue any claims related to the
personal injury action. The trustee's decision not to pursue the claim suggests
that the personal injury claim was abandoned pursuant to 11 U.S. Code § 554,
thereby granting Plaintiff standing in the present case.
Furthermore, an
email from the bankruptcy court providing an update on the case states
"Since it appears that no further matters are required that this case
remain open, or that the jurisdiction of this Court continue, it is ordered
that the Trustee is discharged, bond is exonerated, and the case is closed."
This indicates that the case has been discharged without the need for the
bankruptcy court to retain limited jurisdiction to oversee the administration
of the personal injury case. The court finds that Plaintiff has provided
sufficient evidence to raise a triable issue of fact regarding standing. Because
Defendant concedes that Plaintiff has remedied the judicial estoppel issue, and
that is the only other issue raised in the motion, the motion for summary
judgment is denied.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party
must send an email to the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the
Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties
submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear
remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the
Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of
the subject motion without leave.
 