 Case Number:  24STCV04025    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27¿¿ ¿¿ MOTION TO CONSOLIDATE¿¿ Hearing Date: 9/26/24¿¿¿ CASE NO./NAME: 23STCV15401 YAFA HAKIM, AN INDIVIDUAL vs BEVERLY HILLS REHABILITATION CENTRE et al.¿ Moving Party: Plaintiff¿¿ Responding Party: Unopposed¿ Notice: Insufficient¿¿¿ Ruling: MOTION TO CONSOLIDATE¿IS DENIED.¿ ¿ ¿ Legal Standard¿ ¿¿ California Rules of Court, rule 3.350, subdivision (a) states in relevant part:¿ ¿ (1) A notice of motion to consolidate must:¿ ¿ (A) List all named parties in each case, the names of those who have appeared, and the names of their respective attorneys of record;¿ (B) Contain the captions of all the cases sought to be consolidated, with the lowest-numbered case shown first; and¿ (C) Be filed in each case sought to be consolidated.¿ ¿ (2) The motion to consolidate:¿ ¿ (A) Is deemed a single motion for the purpose of determining the appropriate filing fee, but memorandums, declarations, and other supporting papers must be filed only in the lowest-numbered case;¿¿¿¿ (B) Must be served on all attorneys of record and all non-represented parties in all of the cases sought to be consolidated; and¿ (C) Must have a proof of service filed as part of the motion.¿ ¿ (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.350, subd. (a)). Also, the consolidation statute, Code of Civil Procedure section 1048, states in relevant part:¿ ¿ (a)¿ When actions involving a common question of law or fact are pending before the court, it may order a joint hearing or trial of any or all the matters in issue in the actions; it may order all the actions consolidated and it may make such orders concerning proceedings therein as may tend to avoid unnecessary costs or delay.¿ ¿ (b)¿ The court, in furtherance of convenience or to avoid prejudice, or when separate trials will be conducive to expedition and economy, may order a separate trial of any cause of action, including a cause of action asserted in a cross-complaint, or of any separate issue or of any number of causes of action or issues, preserving the right of trial by jury required by the Constitution or a statute of this state or of the United States.¿ ¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 1048, subd. (a).)¿ ¿ The granting or denial of the motion to consolidate rests in the sound discretion of the trial court and will not be reversed except upon a clear showing of abuse of discretion. (See Fellner v. Steinbaum (1955) 132 Cal.App.2d 509, 511.)¿ ¿ Los Angeles County Court Rules, Rule 3.3(g) states, “Cases may not be consolidated unless they are in the same department. A motion to consolidate two or more cases may be noticed and heard after the cases, initially filed in different departments, have been related into a single department, or if the cases were already assigned to that department.”¿¿¿ ¿¿ Discussion¿ ¿ Plaintiff seeks to consolidate Case No. 23STCV15401 YAFA HAKIM vs BEVERLY HILLS REHABILITATION CENTRE, LLC, et al. with Case No. 24STCV04025 SAID HAKIM vs BEVERLY HILLS REHABILITATION CENTRE, LLC, et al. On August 22, 2024, the court denied Plaintiff's motion to consolidate filed in 23STCV15401 for failing to comply with California Rules of Court, rule 3.350. Subsequently, Plaintiff filed the present motion to consolidate in 24STCV04025; however, it still does not comply with California Rules of Court, rule 3.350 as previously outlined by the court in its August 22, 2024 ruling.   First, a notice of motion to consolidate must be filed in each case sought to be consolidated. The notice of the present motion was not filed in 23STCV15401. Second, memorandums, declarations, and other supporting papers must be filed only in the lowest-numbered case; however, they were filed in the higher-numbered case, 24STCV04025. Furthermore, the motion to consolidate must be served on all attorneys of record and all non-represented parties in all of the cases sought to be consolidated.  Numerous parties who were previously served with the summons and complaint were not served with the present motion. Thus, the motion is denied. ¿ PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:¿ ¿ If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿ ¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿ ¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿ ¿  