 Case Number:  23STCV15482    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSTION AND REQUESTS FOR
SANCTIONS 
Hearing Date: 9/26/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 23STCV15482 SANTA ROMERO
SANTILLIAN vs EXTERIOR DESIGNS & LANDSCAPE CONSTRUCTION INC.
Moving Party: Plaintiff Santa Romero
Santillian
Responding Party: Unopposed
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
Ruling: MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSTION AND
REQUESTS FOR SANCTIONS ARE DENIED
 
Legal Standard 
Any party may obtain
any discovery of information, documents, land, property, or electronically
stored information so long as the discoverable matter is not privileged, is
relevant to the subject matter and can lead one to admissible evidence.¿(Code
Civ. Proc. §
2017.010.)
Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.450¿provides
in pertinent part the following:¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
“(a) If, after service
of a deposition notice, a party to the action or an officer, director, managing
agent, or employee of a party, or a person designated by an organization that
is a party under Section 2025.230, without having served a valid objection
under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it,
or to produce for inspection any document, electronically stored information,
or tangible thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the
notice may move for an order compelling the deponent's attendance and
testimony, and the production for inspection of any document, electronically
stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.¿¿¿¿
Discussion
On June 22, 2024,
Plaintiff Santa Romero Santillian served Defendants Ronald Boren and Exterior
Designs & Landscape Construction Inc. with a First Amended Notice of
Deposition, setting depositions for August 1 and August 2, 2024, respectively.
Defendants served their objections to Plaintiff’s First Amended Notices of Deposition
on July 25, 2024. On July 26, 2024, Plaintiff attempted to meet and confer with
Defendants, requesting deposition dates by August 2, 2024, and indicated that a
motion to compel would be filed otherwise.
The Court finds
Plaintiff’s meet and confer attempt insufficient. The objections raised by
Defendants were not limited to the deposition dates but also included each
request for production and deposition topics for Exterior Design’s PMK, none of
which were addressed in the meet and confer email. Typically, an email or a
letter alone is considered inadequate for the purposes of meeting and
conferring; the court usually requires the parties to either meet or have a
phone call to thoroughly discuss the discovery issues.  Plaintiff sent only an email after the
objections were served and failed to discuss the contents of the objections.
Thus, the motion is denied without prejudice. The Parties are ordered to meet
and confer on the objections. Sanctions are denied as the motions are denied.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party
must send an email to the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the
Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties
submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear
remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the
Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of
the subject motion without leave.
 
Bottom of Form
 