 Case Number:  21STCV45612    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION TO AUGMENT EXPERT WITNESS DESIGNATION
Hearing Date: 9/26/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 21STCV45612 AMI LANELLE
DORIAN MAAMAR M. SUSINI et al.
Moving Party: Plaintiff
Responding Party: Defendant Maamar Susini
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: MOTION TO AUGMENT EXPERT WITNESS
DESIGNATION IS DENIED
 
Legal
Standard
 
The
court shall grant leave to augment or amend an expert witness list only if all
of the following conditions are satisfied:
 
(a)   The court has taken into
account the extent to      which the opposing party has relied on the
list of expert witnesses.
(b)
 The court has determined that any party
opposing the motion will not be prejudiced in maintaining that party’s action
or defense on the merits.
(c)
  The court has determined either of the
following: 
 
(1)   The moving party would
not in the exercise of reasonable diligence have determined to call that expert
witness or have decided to offer the different or additional testimony of that
expert witness. 
 
(2)
 The moving party failed to determine to
call that expert witness, or to offer the different or additional testimony of
that expert witness as a result of mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect, and the moving party has done both of the following: 
 
(A)
 Sought leave to augment or amend promptly
after deciding to call the expert witness or to offer the different or
additional testimony. 
 
(B)
 Promptly thereafter served a copy of the
proposed expert witness information concerning the expert or the testimony
described in Section 2034.260 on all other parties who have appeared in the
action. 
 
(d)
  Leave to augment or
amend is conditioned on the moving party making the expert available
immediately for a deposition under Article 3 (commencing with Section
2034.410), and on any other terms as may be just, including, but not limited
to, leave to any party opposing the motion to designate additional expert
witnesses or to elicit additional opinions from those previously designated, a
continuance of the trial for a reasonable period of time, and the awarding of
costs and litigation expenses to any party opposing the motion.
 
(Code
of Civ. Proc. § 2034.620.)
 
Discussion
This case arises from
an incident on May 27, 2021, in which a motor vehicle collided with Ami Dorian
(Plaintiff), who was bicycling across a crosswalk. The trial is set for October
16, 2024, and the deadline for expert discovery is October 1, 2024. Plaintiff
alleges injuries to various body parts, including her lower back, which has an
alleged 13-millimeter disc extrusion. On September 6, 2024, during the
deposition of Dr. Bahman Shamloo, MD, Plaintiff's pain management physician,
Plaintiff's counsel contends he learned for the first time that a health care
provider recommended that Plaintiff consult a spine surgeon regarding future
treatment options for her lower back.
On the same day,
Defendant's expert witness, Dr. Arya Shamie, asserted during his expert
deposition that Plaintiff's lower back injuries are unrelated to the crash and
that surgical options are not reasonable. On September 12, 2024, Plaintiff
consulted with Anthony Virella, MD, a certified neurosurgeon, to explore her
spine surgical options. Dr. Virella, who is not a retained expert but a
treating physician, was not included in Plaintiff's initial expert disclosure.
Plaintiff now moves the court to augment its expert disclosure to include Dr.
Virella as a non-retained expert.
Plaintiff argues that subsection (a),
concerning the extent to which the opposing party has relied on the list of
expert witnesses, is satisfied based on the assertion that Defendant’s expert
medical doctors concluded that Plaintiff’s lower back injuries are unrelated to
the crash only as of September 6, 2024. Additionally, the need for potential
lower back surgical recommendations was discovered concurrently by both
Defendant’s and Plaintiff’s counsel during the deposition of Dr. Shamloo on
that same date. The Court is unclear how this demonstrates Defendant’s alleged
non-reliance on Plaintiff’s expert witness list remains unclear.
 
Subsection (b) addresses whether there will be prejudice to
a party in maintaining their action or defense on the merits. Plaintiff argues
that this subsection is satisfied because there are no new injuries unknown to
Defendants. The testimony of Dr. Virella, which concerns surgical options for
existing injuries, is consistent with issues already presented in the case. 
However, expert discovery is scheduled to close on October
1, 2024, leaving only three calendar days to complete Dr. Virella’s deposition.
There are logistical challenges to consider. It is uncertain if Dr. Virella can
be available on such short notice, defense counsel only has a limited amount of
time to prepare for the deposition, and additional time is required to prepare
the transcript for Defendant’s experts to review before the trial on October
16, 2024. Given these constraints, the Court finds that amending the expert
witness list just a few days prior to the close of expert discovery does indeed
pose a risk of prejudice to Defendant.
Subsection (c) concerns whether Plaintiff, in the exercise
of reasonable diligence, would not have determined to call an expert witness
sooner. Plaintiff argues that this subsection is satisfied because the
necessity for surgical treatment options became apparent only after the
deposition of Dr. Shamloo on September 6, 2024. 
However, an April 25, 2024, referral form for Plaintiff
with the insurance company listed as the Law Office of Ray Kermani,
recommending a spine surgeon for an evaluation of Plaintiff's lower back for
potential surgery dated (Defendant’s Exhibit C, Bates Stamp 91), along with
similar medical documents of diagnostic, treatment, and management plan showing
the same referral (Defendant’s Exhibit C, Bates Stamp 95) exist. This referral
form reflects documented consideration for surgery several months before Dr.
Shamloo’s September 6, 2024, deposition. The Court finds that Plaintiff did not
act with reasonable diligence.
Thus, the motion is DENIED.
 PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing
to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.
 