 Case Number:  22STCV15937    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION FOR RELIEF FROM WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL
Hearing Date: 9/26/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV15937 MIREYA B. DE LA
ROSA GALLEG.OS vs TRUKMAN ENTERPRISES, INC. et al.
Moving Party: Plaintiff 
Responding Party: Unopposed
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
Ruling: MOTION FOR RELIEF FROM WAIVER OF JURY
TRIAL IS GRANTED. 
 
Legal Standard 
 
“The right to a trial by jury as declared by
Section 16 of Article I of the California Constitution shall be preserved to
the parties inviolate.”¿ (Code
Civ. Proc., § 631(a).)¿ “In
civil cases, a jury may only be waived pursuant to subdivision (f).”¿ (Id.)¿ CCP
section 631(f) provides that a party waives trial by jury by (1) failing to
appear at the trial; (2) written consent filed with the clerk or judge; (3)
oral consent, in open court, entered in the minutes; (4) failing to announce
that a jury is required, at the time the cause is first set for trial, if it is
set upon notice of stipulation, or within five days after notice of setting if
it is set without notice or stipulation; (5) failing to timely pay the fee
described in subdivision (b), unless another party on the same side of the case
has paid that fee; or (6) failing to deposit with the clerk or judge, at the
beginning of the second and each succeeding day’s session, the sum provided in
subdivision (e).¿(Id., § 631(f).) 
 
“The court may, in its discretion upon just
terms, allow a trial by jury although there may have been a waiver of a trial
by jury.”¿ (Id., § 631(g).)¿ “The trial court should grant a motion for relief of a jury waiver
‘unless, and except, where granting such a motion would work serious hardship
to the objecting party.’” (Mackovska v. Viewcrest Road Properties LLC
(2019) 40 Cal.App.5th 1, 10 (quoting Boal v. Price Waterhouse & Co.
(1985) 165 Cal.App.3d 806, 809).)¿ “When
there is doubt about whether to grant relief from a jury trial waiver, the
court must resolve that doubt in favor of the party seeking a jury trial.”¿(Id.) 
 
“In a motion for relief from waiver of a jury
trial, the crucial question is whether the party opposing relief will suffer
any prejudice if the court grants relief.”¿ (Mackovska, supra, 40 Cal.App.5th at 10.)¿ “‘‘The prejudice which must be shown from granting relief from the
waiver is prejudice from the granting of relief and not prejudice from the jury
trial.’’”¿ (Id. (quoting Massie v. AAR Western
Skyways, Inc. (1992) 4 Cal.App.4th 405, 411).)¿ “‘The mere fact that trial will be by jury is not prejudice per
se.’”¿ (Id. (quoting Johnson-Stovall v.
Superior Court (1993) 17 Cal.App.4th 808, 811).)¿ “Denying relief where the party opposing the motion for relief has
not shown prejudice is an abuse of discretion.”¿ (Id.)
 
Discussion
On May 13, 2022,
Plaintiff filed the present case. According to Code of Civil Procedure section
631(c)(2), jury fees must be paid no later than 365 calendar days after the
complaint is filed, which set the deadline for paying the jury fee by May 13,
2023. However, the jury fee was not paid until May 10, 2024. Plaintiff’s
counsel submitted a declaration stating that he believed the jury fees had been
paid on time. It was only upon a recent review of the register of actions for
this case that counsel realized the fees had not been paid as presumed, which
was an inadvertent oversight. Plaintiff paid the jury fees upon learning of the
oversight and now seeks relief from the waiver of the right to a jury trial. A
jury trial was initially demanded by Plaintiff, and both parties have proceeded
under the assumption that a jury trial would be held. Defendant did not file an
opposition alleging prejudice. Given that Defendant has not claimed any
prejudice from this delay and considering the unintentional nature of the oversight,
the present motion is granted.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party
must send an email to the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the
Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties
submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear
remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the
Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of
the subject motion without leave.
 