 Case Number:  22STCV39144    Hearing Date:   February 8, 2024    Dept:  48 SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



JOSEFINA DIAZ, et al., 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
GENERAL MOTORS LLC,
 
                        Defendant.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 22STCV39144
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION
  TO COMPEL DEPOSITION OF DEFENDANT’S PMK
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
February 8, 2024



 
On November 17, 2023, Plaintiffs Josefina Diaz and Jose
Aguilera filed a motion to compel the deposition of Defendant General Motors LLC’s
PMK.
At the December 21, 2023 hearing, the
Court determined that Plaintiffs did not engage in a good faith meet-and-confer
effort with Defendant before filing the motion because the issues presented in the
Separate Statement were Defendant’s objections, but Plaintiffs had only conferred
with Defendant about alternative deposition dates.  The Court therefore ordered the parties to substantively
meet and confer before filing a Joint Statement, and it continued the hearing.
On January 18, 2024, Plaintiffs’ counsel
filed a supplemental declaration, and on January 29, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a supplemental
memorandum.  Defendant did not file anything
else.
Plaintiffs’ counsel declares that Defendant
did not serve objections to the deposition notice and did not appear at the deposition.  (Thomas Suppl. Decl. ¶ 2.)  The November 17, 2023 Separate Statement incorrectly
set forth objections from 59 other Separate Statements filed in 59 other cases between
August 31, 2023 and November 17, 2023.  (Thomas
Suppl. Decl. ¶¶ 4-5.)  “Due to inadvertence,
excusable neglect or mistake,” Plaintiffs’ counsel filed the Separate Statement
in this case.  (Thomas Suppl. Decl. ¶ 6.)  According to Plaintiffs, many of the facts set
forth in the Declaration of Alexandria Pappas filed with Defendant’s Opposition
are not true, and no objections were served. 
(Thomas Suppl. Decl. ¶ 8.)  The
only issue to resolve is the PMK’s attendance at deposition, not the substance
of any deposition topics or document requests. 
(See Thomas Suppl. Decl. ¶¶ 8, 12-13.)

Apparently,
counsel for neither side actually reviewed the particular status of this case before
filing their motion and opposition.  This
motion exemplifies common problems with boilerplate discovery motions, particularly
in lemon law cases.  It is clear that, for
this motion, all counsel were inexcusably neglectful.
Plaintiffs
complain that Defendant has not yet offered alternative deposition dates.  (Thomas Suppl. Decl. ¶ 12.)  The Court is guessing that Plaintiffs subscribe
to the common belief that depositions cannot be noticed until after a date is agreed
on by the parties and that to do otherwise is to “unilaterally” set the deposition
which is improper.  It is not improper to
“unilaterally” pick a date.
The
motion is GRANTED.  Defendant is ordered to
produce its PMK for deposition within 14 days. 
The Court makes no further findings or orders about the scope of the deposition.  It appears there were no objections to the
categories for the deposition or to the accompanying document production
requests.
The
request for sanctions is denied.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 8th day of February 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 