 Case Number:  24STCP01671    Hearing Date:   August 6, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



WELLS FARGO CLEARING SERVICES, LLC,
  
 
                                  Petitioner,
  
         v.
 
 
SANTA ROSA RANCHERIA TACHI YOKUT
  TRIBE,
 
                                  Respondent.
 


 Case No: 
  24STCP01671
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  August 6, 2024
 Calendar Number:  5



 
 
 
Petitioner Wells Fargo Clearing Services, LLC (“Wells Fargo”)
petitions the Court to confirm the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority
Office of Dispute Resolution (“FINRA”) arbitration award (the “Award”) granting
expungement of all references to Occurrence Number 2175401 (the “Occurrence”)
from the Central Registration Depository (“CRD”) records for Daniel Arthur
Evans (“Evans”) (CRD Number 1573625).
 
The Court GRANTS the petition.
 
Background
 
This action relates to arbitration proceedings which
Respondent Santa Rosa Rancheria Tachi Yokut Tribe (the “Tachi Yokut Tribe”)
initiated with FINRA against Wells Fargo, entitled Santa Rosa Rancheria Tachi
Yokut Tribe vs. Wells Fargo Clearing Services, LLC (FINRA Case No. 21-03053)
(the “Arbitration”). (Lee-Sanchez Decl. ¶ 2, Ex. A.) The parties have settled
the underlying dispute, which related to Wells Fargo’s management of the Tachi
Yokut Tribe’s assets. (Lee-Sanchez Decl., Ex. G at p. 4.) The Award here relates
to an ancillary issue in the Arbitration – a complaint that was entered into
Evans’ professional records, which are maintained by FINRA, as a result of the
arbitration complaint.
 
Evans, who was not a named party in the Arbitration, is
employed as a financial advisor by Wells Fargo and was the financial advisor
associated with the Tachi Yokut Tribe’s account with Wells Fargo. (Lee-Sanchez
Decl., Ex. G at p. 4.) As a financial advisor, Evans has a profile in FINRA’s
CRD, which is a system that FINRA maintains to track information about the
licenses and registrations held by firms and brokers in the securities
industry. Much of the information in the CRD is available to the public.
 
The Tachi Yokut Tribe’s arbitration complaint alleged that
Evans breached his fiduciary duties to the Tachi Yokut Tribe. This resulted in
a complaint for the Occurrence appearing in Evans’ CRD records – Occurrence
Number 2175401. Wells Fargo obtained an arbitration award approving the
expungement of the Occurrence from Evans’ CRD records, and now seeks
confirmation of that award.
 
The Tachi Yokut Tribe initiated the Arbitration on December
16, 2021. (Lee-Sanchez Decl. ¶ 2, Ex. A.) On February 24, 2022, Wells Fargo
submitted an agreement consenting to arbitrate before FINRA. (Lee-Sanches
Decl., ¶ 5, Ex. D.) FINRA arbitrators Robert B. Hansolin, Joseph Alfred Davis,
and Robert Rosen (collectively, the “Panel”) were appointed by FINRA and
accepted by the parties. (Lee-Sanchez Decl., ¶ 6.)
 
On November 9, 2023, Wells Fargo filed a motion for
expungement on behalf of Evans. (Lee-Sanchez Decl., ¶ 7, Ex. E.)
 
On January 22, 2024, the Tachi Yokut Trial submitted a
notice of non-participation in the hearing. (Lee-Sanchez Decl., ¶ 8, Ex. F.)
 
On April 2, 2024, the Panel conducted a hearing on the
motion for expungement. (Lee-Sanchez Decl., ¶ 9.) The Tachi Yokut Tribe did not
participate in the hearing. (Lee-Sanchez Decl., ¶ 9.) The hearing was held in
Los Angeles, California. (Lee-Sanchez Decl., ¶ 10, Ex. G at p. 1.)
 
On April 16, 2024, FINRA issued the Award, granting the
expungement of the Occurrence from Evans’ CRD records. (Lee-Sanchez Decl., ¶
10, Ex. G at p. 3.)
 
On April 18, 2024, Wells Fargo submitted a waiver request to
FINRA requesting that FINRA waive its requirement that it be named in
proceedings to confirm the Award pursuant to FINRA Rule 2080. (Lee-Sanchez
Decl., ¶ 11, Ex. I.) On May 23, 2024, FINRA notified counsel for Wells Fargo
that FINRA had reviewed and approved Wells Fargo’s request to waive the
obligation under FINRA Rule 2080 to name FINRA as a party in these confirmation
proceedings. (Lee-Sanchez Decl., ¶ 12, Exh. J.)
 
Wells Fargo filed this petition on May 23, 2024. No party
opposes the petition.
 
Legal Standard
 
“Any party to an arbitration in which an award has been made
may petition the court to confirm, correct or vacate the award. The petition
shall name as respondents all parties to the arbitration and may name as
respondents any other persons bound by the arbitration award.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1285.) Venue is proper in any court having jurisdiction in the county
where the arbitration was held. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1292.2.)
 
If a petition to confirm an arbitration award is duly served
and filed, the court must confirm the award as made, unless the court corrects
or vacates the award pursuant to a response to the petition or a petition to
correct or vacate the award. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1286; Valsan Partners
Limited Partnership v. Calcor Space Facility, Inc. (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th
809, 818 [no authority to alter terms of award absent petition to
correct].) “If an award is confirmed, judgment shall be entered in
conformity therewith.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1287.4.) 
 
“A petition under this chapter shall:
 
(a) Set forth the
substance of or have attached a copy of the agreement to arbitrate unless the
petitioner denies the existence of such an agreement.
 
(b) Set forth the names of the
arbitrators.
 
(c) Set forth or have
attached a copy of the award and the written opinion of the arbitrators, if
any.”
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1285.4.)
 
The petition must be served no earlier than 10 days, but no
later than 4 years, after service of the award on the petitioner. (Code Civ.
Proc., §§ 1288, 1288.4.) The petition, written notice of the time and
place of the hearing on the petition, and any other papers upon which the
petition is based must be served in the manner provided in the arbitration
agreement for service of such petition and notice. (Code Civ. Proc., §
1290.4(a).)
 
“[A]n arbitrator's decision is not ordinarily reviewable for
error by either the trial or appellate courts[.]” (Moncharsh v. Heily &
Blase (1992) 3 Cal.4th 1, 13.) “[J]udicial review of private arbitration
awards [is limited] to those cases in which there exists a statutory ground to
vacate or correct the award.” (Id. at pp. 27-28.) These grounds are set
forth in Code of Civil Procedure, sections 1286.2 and 1286.6. (Id. at p.
13.) A court may not
vacate or correct an award unless a petition or response requesting that the
award be vacated or corrected has been duly served and filed. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§§ 1286.4, 1286.8.)
 
Discussion
 
Statutory Requirements
 
Wells Fargo has provided the agreement to arbitrate, the
names of the arbitrators, and a copy of the Award. It has thus complied with
Code of Civil Procedure, section 1285.4.
 
Wells Fargo filed this petition on May 23, 2024, which is
more than 10 days, but less than 4 years, after April 16, 2024, when the Award
was issued.
 
No party seeks an order vacating or correcting the Award.
 
The Court therefore finds that the statutory requirements
for confirmation of an arbitration award are satisfied.
 
FINRA Requirements
 
            FINRA
arbitrators have the power to expunge CRD records. (Lee-Sanchez Decl., Ex. H.) FINRA
policy permits expungement of CRD records based on arbitration awards if
certain standards are met, FINRA is named as a party to the court action
whereby confirmation of an award containing an expungement recommendation is
sought, and the award is confirmed by a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Lee-Sanchez Decl., Ex. H.)
 
However, FINRA policy also provides that FINRA will waive
the obligation to be named as a party if it determines that the arbitrator’s
expungement recommendation is based on an affirmative finding that: (1) the
claim, allegation, or information is factually impossible or clearly erroneous;
(2) the registered person was not involved in the alleged investment-related
sales practice violation, forgery, theft, misappropriation, or conversion of
funds; or (3) the claim, allegation, or information is false. (Lee-Sanchez
Decl., Ex. H.)
 
The FINRA Panel determined that the claims allegations to
the entry of the Occurrence in Evans’ CRD records were false. (Lee-Sanchez
Decl., Ex. G at p. 4.) The Panel recommended expungement of all references to
the Occurrence from the CRD. (Lee-Sanchez Decl., Ex. G at p. 3-4.)
 
On May 23, 2024, FINRA waived the obligation under FINRA
Rule 2080 to name FINRA as a party in these confirmation proceedings.
(Lee-Sanchez Decl., ¶ 12, Exh. J.)
 
The Court therefore finds that FINRA’s separate requirements
for approval of a CRD expungement have been satisfied.
 
The Court therefore grants the petition.