 Case Number:  24STCV08323    Hearing Date:   August 6, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



HANA BAGOMAAN, et al., 
 
                                  Plaintiffs,
  
         v.
 
 
MERCEDES-BENZ USA, LLC,
 
                                  Defendant.
 


 Case No: 
  24STCV08323
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  August 6, 2024
 Calendar Number:  6



 
 
 
Defendant Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC (“MBUSA”) moves for an
order transferring this case to Orange county for purposes of pre-trial
discovery and trial.
 
The Court GRANTS MBUSA’s motion and ORDERS this action
TRANSFERRED to the Orange County Superior Court.  Plaintiff shall pay the costs of the
transfer.
 
Background
 
This is a Song-Beverley action.
 
On September 3, 2021, Plaintiffs Hana Bagomaan and Mohammed
Bagomaan (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) purchased the vehicle that is the subject
of this action (the “Vehicle”) as a certified pre-owned vehicle from Fletcher
Jones Motor Cars, Inc., (“Fletcher Jones”). (Remillard Decl., Ex. B.) Fletcher
Jones is located in Newport Beach, California, which is in Orange County.
 
As part of the purchase contract, Plaintiffs completed an
application for registration of the Vehicle, which listed Plaintiffs’ address
as “40 Ebb Tide Circle, Newport Beach, CA.” (Remillard Decl., Ex. C.)
 
Between the time Plaintiffs purchased the Vehicle and April
8, 2023 (the last time it was presented to an MBUSA-authorized repair
facility), the Vehicle was brought in for service or repairs a total of 5
times, all of which were at Fletcher Jones in Newport Beach. (Remillard Decl.,
Ex. D.)
 
Plaintiff filed this action on April 2, 2024, raising claims
under the Song-Beverley Act for defects in the Vehicle.
 
MBUSA moved for venue transfer on July 5, 2024. Plaintiff
did not file an opposition.
 
Legal Standard
 
The proper place for trial is fixed by statute and “venue
may be proper in more than one county, depending on the particular facts of a
case.” (Battaglia Enterprises, Inc. v. Superior Court (2013) 215
Cal.App.4th 309, 313.) “Generally, when venue is proper in more than one
county, a plaintiff has the choice of where to file the action from among the
available options.” (Ibid.) 
 
“There is a presumption that the county in which the
plaintiff chose to file the action is the proper county. [Citation.] The burden
rests on the party seeking a change of venue to defeat the plaintiff’s
presumptively correct choice of court. [Citation.]” (Id. at pp.
313-314.) (See also Lieberman v. Superior Court (1987) 194 Cal.App.3d
396, 401 (Lieberman) [same burden for motion based on convenience of
witness grounds].) 
 
“If it appears from the complaint or affidavit, or
otherwise, that the superior court or court location where the action or
proceeding is commenced is not the proper court or court location for the
trial, the court where the action or proceeding is commenced … shall … transfer
it to the proper court or court location, on its own motion, or on motion of
the defendant, unless the defendant consents in writing, or in open court
(consent in open court being entered in the minutes of the court), to the
keeping of the action or proceeding in the court or court location where
commenced.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 369a, subd. (b).)
 
“The court may, on motion, change the place of trial in the
following cases:
 
(a) When the court designated in the complaint is not the
proper court.
 
(b) When there is reason to believe that an impartial trial
cannot be had therein.
 
(c) When the
convenience of witnesses and the ends of justice would be promoted by the
change.
 
(d) When from any cause there is no judge of the court
qualified to act.”
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 397.)
 
“Except as otherwise provided by law and subject to the
power of the court to transfer actions or proceedings as provided in this title,
the superior court in the county where the defendants or some of them reside at
the commencement of the action is the proper court for the trial of the action…
Subject to [Code of Civil Procedure, Section 395, subd. (b)], if a defendant
has contracted to perform an obligation in a particular county, the superior
court in the county where the obligation is to be performed, where the contract
in fact was entered into, or where the defendant or any defendant resides at
the commencement of the action is a proper court for the trial of an action
founded on that obligation, and the county where the obligation is incurred is
the county where it is to be performed, unless there is a special contract in
writing to the contrary…” (Code Civ. Proc., § 395, subd. (a).)
 
“Subject to the power of the court to transfer actions or
proceedings as provided in this title, in an action arising from an offer or
provision of goods, services, loans or extensions of credit intended primarily
for personal, family or household use … the superior court in the county where
the buyer or lessee in fact signed the contract, where the buyer or lessee
resided at the time the contract was entered into, or where the buyer or lessee
resides at the commencement of the action is the proper court for the trial of
the action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 395, subd. (b).)
 
“A corporation or association may be sued in the county
where the contract is made or is to be performed, or where the obligation or
liability arises, or the breach occurs; or in the county where the principal
place of business of such corporation is situated, subject to the power of the
court to change the place of trial as in other cases.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
395.5.)
 
Discussion
 
This case involves a vehicle which was purchased in Orange
County. The contract governing the sale and applicable warranties was signed in
Orange county. At the time of the contract, Plaintiffs lived in Orange County.
To the best of MBUSA’s current knowledge, Plaintiffs still reside in Orange
County. 
 
MBUSA’s headquarters is not located in Los Angeles county.
(Remillard Decl., ¶ 3.)
 
At trial MBUSA intends to call Plaintiffs, all advisors
involved in the sale of the Vehicle, and all service technicians who performed
repairs on the Vehicle during Plaintiffs’ ownership. All of the advisors and
service technicians are affiliated with Fletcher Jones, which is located in
Orange County. Plaintiffs live in Orange County. These witnesses will likely
also be the key witnesses in Plaintiffs’ case because they are the ones who
will have firsthand knowledge about the Vehicle’s alleged defects.
 
The evidence shows that the Los Angeles County Superior
Court is not the proper court for this action. Transfer is thus mandated by
Code of Civil Procedure, section 396a, subd. (b). Furthermore, the convenience
of witnesses would be promoted by the transfer to Orange County, warranting
transfer under Code of Civil Procedure, section 397, subd. (c).
 
The Court therefore grants MBUSA’s motion and orders this
action transferred to the Orange County Superior Court.