 Case Number:  24STCV09841    Hearing Date:   April 26, 2024    Dept:  39 L and R Auto
Parks, Inc. v. Ocean Blue Investments, LLC, et al.
Case No.
24STCV09841
Ex Part
Application for Temporary Restraining Order and OSC re: Preliminary Injunction
 
 
INTRODUCTION 
 
            Plaintiff L
and R Auto Parks, Inc. (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Ocean Blue
Investments, LLC (“Ocean Blue”) and Illusion Holdings, LLC (“Illusion
Holdings”).  Plaintiff, which manages
parking facilities, alleges that Defendants unlawfully terminated their
agreement.  Plaintiff seeks a temporary
restraining order requiring Defendants to terminate their current parking
manager and re-install Plaintiff as the parking manager pending trial.  Plaintiff’s ex parte application is denied
because Plaintiff does not establish a reasonable likelihood of success on the
merits or irreparable harm.  
 
BACKGROUND 
 
Plaintiff alleges as follows: For
the last 60 years, Plaintiff and its affiliate entities have owned and operated
parking garages and surface lots across downtown Los Angeles.  (Complaint ¶ 1.)  In 2003, Plaintiff sold one property to
Defendants, and the terms of the sale required Defendants to lease back to
Plaintiff a surface parking lot.  (Id., ¶
3.)  In 2010, Plaintiff sued Defendants
for a breach of the lease and purchase and sale agreement.  (Id., ¶ 5.) 
The case settled.  (Ibid.)  Per the settlement agreement, the parties
would enter into a 15-year management agreement, a copy of which is attached to
Plaintiff’s contract.  (Id., ¶ 6.)  Plaintiff alleges that this agreement affords
a “possessory interest” in the property. 
(Ibid.)  Even if so, the
management agreement contains a termination clause.  (Id., Exh. #3, ¶ 10.1.)  
 
Plaintiff concedes the following
facts: For approximately 11 years, Plaintiff failed to charge Defendants for
certain expenses, viz., those relating to increases in minimum wage.  (Declaration of Kevin Litwin, ¶ 2.)  Plaintiff sought reimbursement for four years
of these expenses, totaling $167,657.88. 
(Ibid.)  Defendant refused to pay
the invoice.  (Id., ¶ 3.)  Therefore, Plaintiff took matters into its
own hands and began making deductions from its monthly payments to
Defendants.  (Ibid.)  Plaintiff’s first deduction was
$13,954.52.  (Ibid.)
 
According to Plaintiff, Defendants
locked Plaintiff out of the property and barred it from carrying out its
management responsibilities.  According
to Defendants, they exercised their termination option based upon Plaintiff’s
breach of the agreement.  Plaintiff now
seeks a temporary restraining order prohibiting Defendants from “[i]nterfering
with Plaintiff’s possessory interest in and access to the parking garage,” and
“[i]nterfering with Plaintiff’s parking management responsibilities and other
related business activities on the property.” 
In other words, Plaintiff asks this court to require Defendants to
terminate Plaintiff’s replacement and re-install Plaintiff as the parking
management company until the matter is resolved.
 
LEGAL STANDARD 
 
The purpose of a provisional relief is to preserve the
status quo pending a decision on the merits. 
(Major v. Miraverde Homeowners
Ass’n. (1992) 7 Cal. App. 4th 618, 623.) 
The court considers two factors, including “(1) the likelihood that the
plaintiff will prevail on the merits, and (2) the relative balance of harms
that is likely to result from the granting or denial of interim injunctive
relief.”  (White v. Davis (2003) 30 Cal.4th 528, 553-54.)  The factors are interrelated, with a greater
showing on one permitting a lesser showing on the other.  (Dodge,
Warren & Peters Ins. Services, Inc. v. Riley (2003) 105 Cal.App.4th
1414, 1420.)  However, the party seeking
an injunction must demonstrate at least a reasonable probability of success on
the merits.  (IT Corp. v. County of Imperial (1983) 35 Cal.3d 63, 73-74.)  The party seeking injunctive relief  bears the burden of demonstrating both a
likelihood of success on the merits and the occurrence of irreparable
harm.  (Savage v. Trammell Crow Co. (1990) 223 Cal.App.3d 1562, 1571.)
Irreparable harm may exist if the plaintiff can show an inadequate remedy at
law.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 526(a).)
 
DISCUSSION

 
            As an initial matter, Plaintiff does
not seek to maintain the status quo. 
Instead, Plaintiff seeks a mandatory temporary restraining order (and
preliminary injunction) that would impose affirmative obligations upon
Defendants to terminate their current parking manager and restore Plaintiff to
that position.  The issuance of mandatory
injunctions is subject to the same analysis as prohibitory injunctions.  (See Ryland Mews Homeowners Assn.
v. Munoz (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 705, 711.) 
However, a mandatory injunction “is rarely granted and subject to
stricter review on appeal.”  (Board of
Supervisors v. McMahon (1990) 219 Cal.App.3d 286, 295.)  
 
            Plaintiff does not establish a
reasonable likelihood of success on the merits. 
Plaintiff concedes that it failed to account for approximately 11 years
of expenses due to its own negligence and not through any fault of
Defendants.  When Defendants failed to
reimburse these expenses, Plaintiff concedes that instead of filing a lawsuit
to recover these amounts under the contract, it took matters into its own hands
and simply withheld money owed under the contract.  Plaintiff identifies nothing in the contract
that permits them to withhold expenses years after they were incurred.  To the contrary, the contract permits
Plaintiff to deduct these expenses only “on the 25th day of the month in which
such fee is earned.”  (See id., Exh. #3,
¶¶ 5.1 & 5.2.)  Plaintiff does not
account for its own failures to keep accurate records and provide accurate
income and expense statements to Defendants, as required by the contract.  (See id., Exh. #3, ¶¶ 7.1 & 7.2.)  The contract permits Defendants to terminate
Plaintiff for not paying them and breaching other material terms.  (See Complaint, Exh. #3, ¶ 10.1.)  For these reasons, the court cannot conclude
that Plaintiff has established a reasonable likelihood of success on the
merits.
 
            Nor has Plaintiff established
irreparable harm.  Plaintiff has an
adequate remedy at law for monetary damages. 
Plaintiff argues that it will suffer irreparable harm to its business
operations: “In locking Plaintiff out of the Property and handling those
customers to a competitor, Defendants are destroying Plaintiff’s entire
business operation at the Property that goes back for decades.”  (Plaintiff’s Ex Parte Application, p.
14:9-10.)  Plaintiff does not establish
to the satisfaction of the court that customers select parking services based
upon the identity of the parking management company.  In other words, Plaintiff does not eliminate
the prospect that customers select parking services based upon the location and
physical layout of the parking lot, as well as the amount of the parking
fees.  
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
             Based upon the foregoing, Plaintiff’s ex parte
application is denied.  Plaintiff’s
counsel shall provide notice and file proof of service with the Court.  
 