 Case Number:  22TRCV01477    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2023    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:     September
26, 2023    
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:      22TRCV01477           
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:            David A. Ortiz v. General Motors
LLC 
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:     Defendant General Motors LLC        
¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff David
A. Ortiz    
¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:            Not Set                        
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                   (1) Demurrer and Motion to Strike
as to the 4th cause of action for fraudulent concelament
¿ 
Tentative Rulings:      (1) Demurrer OVERRULED
¿¿ 
¿ 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A.    Factual¿¿ 
 
On December 13, 2022, Plaintiff
David A. Ortiz (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendant General Motors
LLC (“Defendant”) and Does 1 to 10. This action arises out of Plaintiff’s
purchase of a 2018 Cadillac CTS-V with an express written warranty from
Defendant. 
 
B.     ¿ Procedural 
 
On March 8, 2023, Plaintiff filed
its first amended complaint, alleging causes of action for: (1) Violation of
Song Beverly Act—Breach of Express Warranty, (2) Violation of Song Beverly Act—breach
of implied warranty, (3) violation of Song-Beverly Act Section 1793.2(b) and
(4) Fraud—Fraudulent Inducement –Concealment. Defendant filed its first
demurrer to the fourth cause of action and motion to strike portions of the
first amended complaint. On May 9, 2023, the Court sustained the Demurrer with
30 days leave to amend as to the 4th cause of action and denied the
Motion to Strike as Moot. 
 
On June 7, 2023, Plaintiff filed
its Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”). On June 7, 2023, Defendant filed this
demurrer and motion to strike. On September 12, 2023, Plaintiff filed its
opposition to Defendant’s demurrer. 
¿ 
¿II. MEET AND CONFER 
 
A party is required to meet and confer in person or by
telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for
the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would
resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer. Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41,
subd. (a). The meet and confer effort must occur at least five days before the
date the responsive pleading is due. Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a)(2).
 
            Furthermore,
§ 435.5 requires that “[b]efore filing a motion to strike pursuant to this
chapter, the moving party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with
the party who filed the pleading that is subject to the motion to strike for
the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that resolves
the objections to be raised in the motion to strike.” Code Civ. Proc. §
435.5(a).
 
                On June 7, 2023,
Defendant’s counsel met and conferred with Plaintiff’s counsel by telephone to
discuss the issues with Plaintiff’s SAC. (Valenti Decl. ¶2.) The parties
remain at an impasse after attempting to meet and confer. (Id.) Accordingly,
Defendant’s counsel’s meet and confer efforts are sufficient and the motion to
strike is accompanied by a meet and confer declaration.
¿¿ 
¿III. ANALYSIS¿ 
¿ 
A.   
Demurrer
Defendant demurs on the basis that the fourth cause of action fails
to state facts relevant to the elements of the claim and fails to allege a
transactional relationship giving rise to a duty to disclose. 
“The party against whom a complaint or cross-complaint has been filed
may object, by demurrer or answer as provided in Section 430.30, to the
pleading on any one or more of the following grounds…The pleading does not
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.” Code Civ. Proc. §
430.10.
A demurrer tests the sufficiency of whether the complaint states a
cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in contest—any
defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)
A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic
matters. (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.)
Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or
are judicially noticed. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.30, 430.70.) The only issue a
demurrer is concerned with is whether the complaint, as it stands, states a
cause of action. (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.)
Fraudulent
Inducement—Concealment 
 
The elements of fraud are (a) a misrepresentation (false
representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of its falsity;
(c) intent to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting
damage. (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 638.)  
 
The elements of fraudulent concealment are (1) concealment
or suppression of a material fact; (2) by a defendant with a duty to disclose
the fact to the plaintiff; (3) intent to defraud the plaintiff by intentionally
concealing or suppressing the fact; (4) the plaintiff was unaware of the fact
and would not have acted as he or she did if he or she had known of the
concealed or suppressed fact; and (5) the plaintiff sustained damage as a
result of the concealment or suppression of fact. (Hambridge v. Healthcare
Partners Medical Group, Inc. (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 124, 162.)  
 
There are four circumstances in which nondisclosure or
concealment may constitute actionable fraud: (1) when the defendant is in a
fiduciary relationship with the plaintiff; (2) when the defendant had exclusive
knowledge of material facts not known to the plaintiff; (3) when the defendant
actively conceals a material fact from the plaintiff; or (4) when the defendant
makes partial representations but also suppresses some material fact.” (LiMandri v.
Judkins (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 326, 336.) A duty to disclose may also arise
when a defendant possesses or exerts control over material facts not readily
available to the plaintiff. (Jones v. Conoco Phillips Co. (2011) 198
Cal.App.4th 1198, 1199.)  The Court agrees
that there are insufficient allegations of the existence of a fiduciary
relationship, but that is only one of the four actionable circumstances where a
duty to disclose may arise.  
 
            Defendant argues that this cause of
action fails, among other reasons, because Plaintiff does not plead fraud with
specificity. (Demurrer, at p. 8.)  It is
true that Plaintiff does not specifically identify the individuals at GM who
concealed material facts about Plaintiff’s Cadillac. (Second Amended Complaint
(“SAC”) ¶127.) However, Plaintiff does allege that Defendant “had knowledge of
the Transmission defect because that knowledge came from internal reports such
as pre-release testing data, customer complaints made directly to Defendant and
technical service bulletins. (Id. at ¶132.) In September 2014, Defendant
issued numerous service bulletins to its dealers acknowledging problems of
“harsh shifting, shuddering, jerking, clunking, and delays in acceleration or
deceleration relating to the 8L90 and 8L45 transmissions.” (Id. at ¶4.)
Plaintiff contends that Defendant’s fraudulent concealment was ongoing as since
it continued to issue service bulletins to address and correct the transmission
defect. (Id. at ¶83.) 
 
In addition, Defendant “[k]nowingly and intentionally assured
Plaintiff and confirmed that no defects/nonconformities previously existed …
knowingly and intentionally concealed and omitted material information, as a
means of inducing Plaintiff’s purchase of the subject vehicle.” (SAC ¶8.) “Plaintiff’s
vehicle was sold after Defendant acknowledged these problems in transmission
defect” and “Plaintiff did not know about the transmission defect at the time
of sale.” (Id. at ¶138-139.)  Given
this information, Plaintiff provides sufficient facts to allege that Defendant
intended to defraud Plaintiff to purchase the defective Cadillac at one of its
authorized dealerships. As such, the Court finds that Plaintiff pled the
fraudulent concealment claim with specificity in this case.  
 
Defendant also argues that Plaintiff does not allege a “transactional
relationship” giving rise to a duty to disclose. (Demurrer, at p. 9.)  Here, Plaintiff alleges a transactional
relationship was formed when Plaintiff purchased a certified pre-owned 2018 Cadillac
on January 12, 2022, from PENSKE CADILLAC BUICK GMC SOUTH BAY. (“SAC ¶4.) Plaintiff
also asserts Penske is the authorized retail dealership, repair facility, and
representative of Defendant. (Id.) On the face of the pleading,
Defendant provides that “Plaintiff and Penske conducted and executed the
presale communications and ultimately the sale contract.” (Demurrer, at p.2.) Furthermore,
Penske’s manager represented to Plaintiff that they were knowledgeable and
authorized to address any pre-sale inquiries regarding the Cadillac. (SAC ¶5.) Hence,
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant “[had a duty to disclose the defective and
unrepairable Hydra-Matic 8L45/8L90.” (Id. at ¶12.)
Although Plaintiff did not purchase its vehicle directly from Defendant,
Defendant “developed the post-purchase owner’s manuals, warranty booklets and
other information related to the maintenance recommendations and/or schedules
for GM vehicles including the Subject Vehicle.” (Id. at ¶15.) 
 
The Court finds the Dhital case to be instructive under these
circumstances. In Dhital v. Nissan North America, Inc. (2022) 84
Cal.App.5th 828, 844), the defendant Nissan argued that Plaintiffs did
not plead the existence of a buyer-seller relationship because plaintiffs
purchased the car from a Nissan dealership instead of Nissan itself. The Court
declined to bar plaintiffs’ claims on the defendant’s’ argued basis that there
was no relationship requiring Nissan to disclose known defects. (Id.) Similarly,
Plaintiff alleges that he bought the Cadillac from the GM dealership, that
Plaintiff received an express warranty from Defendant and that Defendant’s authorized
dealerships are its agents. (SAC ¶ 14-22, 31-67, 68-84.) As discussed above,
the Court finds that Plaintiff’s allegations of a transactional relationship
giving rise to a duty to disclose are sufficient. 
 
GM’s
Reply brief argues, among other things, that the SAC fails to allege that GM
had knowledge that this specific plaintiff’s vehicle contained a defective
transmission.  While that argument is
accurate, it does not compel sustaining of the Demurrer.  The allegation is that GM had general
knowledge that a significant percentage of vehicle equipped with the same or substantially
identical transmission as in the Plaintiff’s vehicle might have a transmission
defect of the same nature as GM reported to the NHTSA.  That is a sufficient allegation to raise an
inference, at least at the pleading stage, that GM knew or should have known
that Plaintiff’s vehicle was at risk for containing the self-same transmission
problem as many other GM models had experienced.  
 
Based
on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s SAC has alleged sufficient facts to state a cause
of action for fraudulent inducement—concealment. Therefore, Defendant’s
demurrer on this cause of action is OVERRULED. 
¿
B.    
Motion to
Strike 
 
The Code of Civil Procedure authorizes the Court to
act on its own initiative to strike matters, empowering the Court to enter
orders striking matter “at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems
proper.”  Code Civ. Proc. § 436.  A motion to strike lies only where the
pleading has irrelevant, false or improper matter, or has not been drawn or
filed in conformity with laws.¿ Code Civ. Proc. § 436.  The grounds for moving to strike must appear
on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Id. §
437.)
 
 Punitive Damages
 
California Civil Code section 3294 authorizes the
recovery of punitive damages “[i]n an action for the breach of an obligation
not arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence
that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice . . . .”
(Civ. Code § 3294(a), emphasis added.) “[A]n award of punitive damages is not
recoverable for breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing
outside the insurance context.” (Monaco v. Bear Stearns Residential Mortg.
Corp. (C.D. Cal. 2008) 554 F.Supp.2d 1034, 1043 [citing Copesky v.
Superior Court (1991) 229 Cal.App.3d 678, 690].)
 
Defendant moves to strike on the basis that Plaintiff
may not recover punitive damages under the Song-Beverly Consumer Act, the SAC
fails to state facts sufficient to support punitive damages and the fourth cause
of action for fraudulent inducement-concealment does not support relief for punitive
damages. In opposition, Plaintiff responds that he is not seeking punitive
damages for the first three causes of action but only regarding the fourth
cause of action for fraudulent concealment.
 
Here, Plaintiff has pled sufficient facts to state
that Defendant engaged in fraud when its authorized dealer sold the Cadillac
while knowing of the claimed defects in the transmission and alleged safety
risks to Plaintiff. (SAC ¶ 4-22, 31-67, 68- 84, 126-146.) In light of the Court’s ruling that the SAC
sufficiently pleads a cause of action for fraudulent inducement—concealment,
the Motion to Strike punitive damages is denied. 