

 
BACKGROUND
 
            This action
arises out of an automobile accident that occurred on June 18, 2021. On March
8, 2023, Plaintiffs ROSA E. LOPEZ MARMOLEJO, RUTH E. VALENZUELA GIL and ISABELA
A. VALENZUELA (“Plaintiffs”) filed a lawsuit against HERTZ, ANDREW LITT and
FILBERTO MARTINEZ (collectively, “Defendants”). FILBERTO MARTINEZ filed a
Cross-Complaint against HERTZ and ANDREW LITT on May 9, 2024 (Bridwell Decl. ¶
3.) 
 
            On August
14, 2024, Cross- Defendants Andrew Litt and The Hertz Corporation (“Settling
Defendants”) filed the instant motion. 
             
            On August
28, 2024, the parties filed a notice of unconditional settlement. 
            
            On
September 11, 2024, Cross-Complainant Filberto Martinez dismissed
Cross-Defendants Andrew Litt and The Hertz Corporation.
 
            On
September 12, 2024, Plaintiffs dismissed Defendant Filberto Martinez. No
oppositions have been filed.  
 
            On
September 17, 2024, on the Court’s own Motion, the Hearing on Motion for
Determination of Good Faith Settlement was continued to October 24, 2024 at
10:00 a.m. in Department 25 at Spring Street Courthouse. Notice of Ruling was
served by moving party on September 17, 2024. 
 
 
 
 
MOVING PARTY
POSITION
 
            Settling
Defendants move the Court for an order determining that Settling Defendants
have entered into a good faith settlement with Plaintiffs ROSA E. LOPEZ
MARMOLEJO, RUTH E. VALENZUELA GIL and ISABELA A. VALENZUELA (“Plaintiffs”) and
Cross-Complainant FILBERTO MARTINEZ.
 
            In
addition, Settling Defendants ask the Court to enter an order barring recovery
for equitable indemnity, contribution and/or partial or comparative indemnity
against Settling Defendants by any tortfeasor who may not as yet have filed
and/or served a cross-complaint for the same against Settling Defendants.
 
                                                                OPPOSITION
 
            None. 
 
REPLY
 
            None. 
ANALYSIS
 
I.          Motion for Court Determination of Good
Faith Settlement
A.                                       
Legal Standard 
 
            Section 877 states in relevant part: Where a
release, dismissal with or without prejudice, or a covenant not to sue or not
to enforce judgment is given in good faith before verdict or judgment to one or
more of a number of tortfeasors claimed to be liable for the same tort, . . .
it shall have the following effect: (a) It shall discharge the party to whom it
is given from all liability for any contribution to any other parties. Section
877.6 provides in pertinent part, as follows: (a) Any party to an action in
which it is alleged that two or more parties are joint tortfeasors . . . shall
be entitled to a hearing on the issue of the good faith of a settlement entered
into by the plaintiff or other claimant and one or more alleged tortfeasors . .
. . (c) A determination by the court that the settlement was made in
good faith shall bar any other joint tortfeasor . . . from any further claims
against the settling tortfeasor . . . for equitable comparative contribution,
or partial or comparative indemnity, based on comparative negligence or
comparative fault. (d) The party asserting the lack of good faith shall have
the burden of proof on that issue . . . (Emphasis added.) 
 
            In Tech-Bilt, the Court set
forth various factors to be considered by the trial court in determining
whether a settlement has been entered into in good faith. (See, Tech-Bilt,
supra at 499-500.) These TechBilt factors include the following: (1) An
approximation of Plaintiff’ total recovery and the settlor’s proportionate
liability therefor; (2) The amount of consideration given to the Plaintiff by
the settling parties in settlement; (3) The allocation of settlement proceeds
among the various Plaintiff, (4) The financial condition of the Settling
Cross-Defendants and their ability to respond to a judgment against them; and (5)
The existence of collusive, fraudulent, or other tortious conduct by the
settling parties in connection with the negotiation for and construction of the
settlement documents which is injurious to the interests of the non-settling
parties.
 
 
1.                 
Merits
            
            Here, the Allocation of the Settlement is as
follows: (1) Rosa Marmolejo for $4,400; (2) Ruth Valenzuela for $4,400; (3)
Isabella Valenzuela for $500; (4) Filberto Martinez for $5,700; and (5) David
Sosa (passenger in Martinez vehicle) for $15,000. Hertz’s involvement in the
subject accident is limited to Hertz’s ownership of a rental vehicle and
Federal law bars claims of vicarious liability for harm arising during the
period of a rental contract or lease pursuant to the Graves Amendment, codified
in 49 U.S.C. Section 30106. Further, there is no evidence of any liability on
the part of the Settling Defendants for the subject incident as the Rental
company. (Bridewell Decl. ¶ 9.) Thus, the settlement properly reflects that a
settlor should pay less in settlement than they would if they were found liable
after trial.  Moreover, there is no
collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct has occurred between the settling parties
because the negotiations between Plaintiffs’ counsel, Cross-Complainants’
counsel and the Settling Defendants’ counsel were done at “arms length and
without intent to conspire, scam or deceive any other party in this matter.”
(Bridwell Decl. ¶ 10.) Additionally, “[t]he parties have executed Releases as
to all claims against the Settling Defendants. The settlement agreement between
the parties of all claims related to the subject incident against the Settling
Defendants was not memorialized into a written settlement agreement but for the
attached Releases of all claims against the Settling Defendants in exchange of
the payments is set forth in the Release.” (Bridwell Decl. ¶ 5; Ex. A.)
Notably, no oppositions were filed. 
 
III.       Conclusion 
 
             The Court GRANTS Cross-Defendant The Hertz
Corporation and Specially Appearing Defendant Andrew Litt’s Motion for
Determination of Good Faith Settlement with Plaintiffs Rosa E. Lopez Marmolejo,
Ruth E. Valenzuela Gil and Isabela A. Valenzuela, and Cross-Complainant
Filberto Martinez.

 
            Moving
Party to give notice. 