  Case Number:  24CHCV00967    Hearing Date:   December 10, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept.
F43
Date:
12-10-2024
Case
# 24CHCV00967, Wu v. Lowe’s Home Centers, LLC, et al.
Trial
Date: None set.
 
DEMURRER TO THE SECOND AMENDED COMPLAINT
 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendant Lowe’s Home Centers, LLC
RESPONDING
PARTY: No response has been filed.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Sustain
demurrer to the Second Amended Complaint’s third, fifth, and sixth causes of
action, without leave to amend.
 
RULING: Demurrer is sustained,
without leave to amend.
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
Plaintiff
Shi Pei Wu (Plaintiff) purchased a Kobalt 20 IN, 40 V Mower from an individual
named “Brandon” in 2023.  On June 26,
2023, the Mower’s arm handles snapped down and severed Plaintiff’s middle
finger off.  Plaintiff filed this action
against Defendants Lowe’s Home Centers, LLC (Defendant), Lowe’s Companies,
Inc., and Brandon (Defendants) alleging Defendants sold the Mower even though
the Mower was defectively designed and used defective materials.  
 
Plaintiff
filed a First Amended Complaint on July 2, 2024, alleging six causes of action:
(1) strict products liability; (2) failure to warn; (3) breach of express
warranties; (4) negligent products liability; (5) violation of Consumer Legal
Remedies Act; and (6) violation of Business and Professions Code.  Defendant demurred to the third, fifth, and
sixth causes of action on grounds of uncertainty and failure to plead
sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action.  The Court sustained the demurrer with leave
to amend. 
 
On
October 3, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Second Amended Complaint (SAC), alleging the
same six causes of action.  
 
Defendant
filed a demurrer to the third, fifth, and sixth causes of action.  No opposition has been filed.  
 
Meet and Confer
Before filing a demurrer, the parties must meet and
confer “in person, by telephone, or by video conference.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.41, subd. (a).)  The moving party must file and serve a meet
and confer declaration stating either: “(A) The means by which the demurring
party met and conferred with the party who filed the pleading subject to
demurrer, and that the parties did not reach an agreement resolving the
objections raised in the demurrer;” or “(B) That the party who filed the
pleading subject to demurrer failed to respond to the meet and confer request
of the demurring party or otherwise failed to meet and confer in good faith.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd.
(a)(3).) 
 
Defendant’s counsel of record, Roger W. Backlar, states
he sent a detailed meet and confer letter to opposing counsel about the
deficiencies in the SAC on October 10, 2024. 
(Declaration of Roger W. Backlar, ¶ 9.) 
On October 21, 2024, the parties met and conferred telephonically but
were unable to reach an agreement.  (Backlar
Dec., Exh. C.)  
 
ANALYSIS
A
demurrer is an objection to a pleading, the grounds for which are apparent from
either the face of the complaint or a matter of which the court may take
judicial notice.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.30, subd. (a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)  The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the
sufficiency of a pleading “by raising questions of law.”  (Postley v. Harvey (1984) 153
Cal.App.3d 280, 286.)  “In the
construction of a pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its
allegations must be liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice
between the parties.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 452.)  The court “‘treat[s] the
demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions,
deductions or conclusions of fact or law[.]’”  (Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152
Cal.App.4th 518, 525.)  In applying these
standards, the court liberally construes the complaint to determine whether a
cause of action has been stated.  (Picton
v. Anderson Union High School Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 726, 733.)  
 
            Third Cause of Action - Breach of
Express Warranties
Defendant
demurs to the Third Cause of Action on the basis that it fails to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action. 

 
“An
express warranty ‘is a contractual promise from the seller that the goods conform
to the promise. If [the seller breaches this promise], the buyer is entitled to
recover the difference between the value of the goods accepted by the buyer and
the value of the goods had they been as warranted.’”  (Dagher v. Ford Motor Co. (2015) 238
Cal.App.4th 905, 928 [190 Cal.Rptr.3d 261].)
 
To
plead a cause of action for breach of express warranty, the complaint must
allege “the exact terms of the warranty, plaintiff’s reasonable reliance
thereon, and a breach of that warranty which proximately causes plaintiff
injury.”  (Williams v. Beechnut
Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 142.)  
 
Although
claims of breach of express warranty do not require contractual privity between
purchaser and the party making the warranties, it does require that the claims
made become a part of the “basis of the bargain”. (Cal. U. Com. Code, § 2313; Weinstat
v. Dentsply Int’l, Inc. (2010) 180 Cal.App.4th 1213, 1227; Pisano v. Am.
Leasing (1983) 146 Cal.App.3d 194, 197-198 [“In the absence of any
affirmations of fact or promises made by defendants to plaintiff, . . . to
establish an express warranty, plaintiff must demonstrate that defendants’
statements of fact or opinion were the basis of the agreement to lease the
sander.  (Citation.)”].)  
 
Defendant
argues that the SAC fails to allege that Defendant made warranties and that the
warranties were false.  Plaintiff alleges
he purchased the Mower from Brandon, not Defendant.  Plaintiff also fails to identify which model
mower is at issue using serial or model numbers.  
 
Plaintiff
does not oppose. 
 
The
SAC alleges that Defendant expressly warranted to Plaintiff and the general
public that the Mower was safe, effective, fit and proper for its intended use.  (SAC, ¶ 54.) 
Specifically, Defendant advertised that “the Mower safely ‘stores
vertically for more space in your garage’, ‘reduce[s] your storage footprint by
70%’, ‘the handle may be folded away completely for storage’, and ‘storing the
mower vertically: rotate the handle knobs to the unlocked position.’” (SAC, ¶ 15.)  Plaintiff alleges he knew of these
representations and warranties when he purchased the Mower, believed they were
true, and relied on these representations when deciding to purchase the Mower.  (SAC, ¶¶ 16, 18, 55.)  Plaintiff also alleges the statements were
false because the Mower was not safe or fit for the stated uses.  (SAC, ¶ 55.) 
As a result of the breach, Plaintiff alleges he suffered injuries and
damages.  (SAC, ¶¶ 26, 56, 57.)  
 
However,
there are no allegations in Plaintiff’s SAC that indicate these “warranties”
were the “basis of the bargain.” Plaintiff has not alleged that there was any
bargain between him and Defendant.  (Weinstate,
supra, 180 Cal.App.4th at p. 1230 [“[T]he Uniform Commercial Code
contemplates that affirmations, promises and descriptions about the goods
contained in product manuals and other materials that are given to the buyer at
the time of delivery can become part of the basis of the bargain. (Citation.)”].)  
 
Based
on Plaintiff’s failure to allege sufficient facts, Defendant’s demurrer to
Plaintiff’s Third Cause of Action is sustained without leave to amend.
 
            Fifth Cause of Action - Violation
of the Consumer Legal Remedies Act
Defendant
also demurs to the Fifth Cause of Action on the basis that it fails to state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.
 
The
Consumer Legal Remedies Act (CLRA) protects consumers from being victimized by
“unfair and deceptive business practices.”  (Civ. Code, § 1760.)  The CLRA prohibits certain unfair or deceptive
acts “by any person in a transaction” that are intended to or that result in a
sale of goods and services, including “[r]epresenting that goods or services
have sponsorship, approval, characteristics, ingredients, uses, benefits, or
quantities which they do not[.]”  (Civ.
Code, § 1770, subd. (a)(5).)  A
transaction is “an agreement between a consumer and another person, whether or
not the agreement is a contract enforceable by action, and includes the making
of, and the performance pursuant to, that agreement.”  (Civ. Code, § 1761, subd. (e).)  A CLRA transaction does not exist where no
underlying agreement for goods and services exists between the consumer and
seller.  (See Nordberg v. Trilegient
Corp. (N.D. Cal. 2006) 445 F.Supp.2d 1082, 1096.)    
 
Defendant
argues that the SAC fails to allege facts showing Plaintiff and Defendant
interacted in a manner that meets the CLRA’s definition of “transaction.”  Plaintiff alleges he purchased the Mower from
“Brandon” and does not allege any agreement with Defendant.  
 
Plaintiff
does not oppose.
 
The
SAC fails to allege that Plaintiff bought the Mower from Defendant or that Plaintiff
interacted with Defendant according to the CLRA.  Plaintiff alleges that Defendant manufactured
and exclusively sold the Mower.  (SAC, ¶
14.)  Plaintiff further alleges he
purchased the Mower from Brandon in 2023. 
(SAC, ¶ 27.)  However, Plaintiff
does not allege that Defendant sold the Mower directly to Plaintiff or that there
was any kind of agreement or direct interaction between Plaintiff and
Defendant.  
 
Accordingly,
the Fifth Cause of Action fails to allege facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action.  Defendant’s demurrer to
the Fifth Cause of Action is sustained without leave to amend.
 
            Sixth Cause of Action - Violation
of the Unfair Competition Law
Defendant
also demurs to the Sixth Cause of Action on the basis that it fails to state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.  
 
California’s
Unfair Competition Law (UCL) prohibits unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business
practices.  (Bus. & Prof. Code, §
17200, et seq.)  The prohibition includes
deceptive, untrue or misleading advertising. 
The SAC alleges Defendants fraudulently deceived Plaintiff through
misrepresentations about the Mower and related warranties.  (SAC, ¶ 84.)  
 
To
plead fraud, the complaint must state specific facts showing (1) a misrepresentation,
(2) knowledge of falsity, (3) intent to induce reliance on the
misrepresentation, (4) justifiable reliance on the misrepresentation, and (5)
resulting damages.  (Lazar v. Superior
Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 638.) 
Fraud claims must be pled with specificity; general and conclusory
allegations do not suffice.  (Id.
at p. 645 [requiring facts showing “how, when, where, to whom, and by what
means” the misrepresentations were made].) 
The facts must be clear enough to inform the opposing party what he must
answer.  (See Scafidi v. Western Loan
& Building Co. (1946) 72 Cal.App.2d 550, 558.)
 
When
pleading fraud against a corporate entity, the plaintiff must “allege the names
of the persons who made the allegedly fraudulent representations, their
authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when it
was said or written.”  (Tarmann v.
State Farm Mutual Auto. Insurance Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157.)  
 
Defendant
argues that the SAC fails to sufficiently plead a UCL fraud claim because Plaintiff
fails to plead with the requisite specificity required under California’s
heightened pleading standard.  Because
Defendant is a corporation, Plaintiff must specifically state who made the
alleged misrepresentations in Defendant’s advertising.  Plaintiff does not allege any transactional
relationship between Plaintiff and Defendant, or describe specific interactions
between the two giving rise to a fraud claim, and Plaintiff does not state
which specific representations were false. 

 
Plaintiff
does not oppose.
 
The
SAC fails to allege facts meeting the requisite specificity requirement.  Plaintiff presents three specific statements,
referring to them as “warranties,” that were allegedly made in Defendant’s
advertisements for the Mower:  (1) “stores
vertically for more space in your garage”; (2) “reduce[s] your storage
footprint by 70%”; (3) “the handle may be folded away completely for storage”;
and (4) “storing the mower vertically: rotate the handle knobs to the unlocked
position.” (SAC, ¶ 15.)  
 
The
SAC does not allege facts stating who made these statements, when the
statements were made, or how the statements were advertised to Plaintiff.  Plaintiff does allege he knew about the
statements, relied on them in deciding to purchase the Mower, and suffered
injuries and damages as a result of purchasing the Mower.  (SAC, ¶¶ 16, 18, 28, 29, 36, 55, 73.)  Plaintiff alleges facts showing that when he
attempted to store the Mower by folding its handle, “the Mower’s arm handles
quickly snapped down when the handle knobs were unlocked and severed
Plaintiff’s middle finger off.”  (SAC, ¶
28.)  However, Plaintiff fails to allege
facts showing that the above statements are false, Defendant’s knowledge that
the statements are false, or Defendant’s intent to induce Plaintiff to rely on
the statements in purchasing the Mower from Brandon.  As mentioned above, Plaintiff’s do not allege
facts showing a transaction occurred between Plaintiff and Defendant.  
 
Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s Sixth Cause of Action fails to state facts sufficient to constitute
a cause of action.  Defendant’s demurrer
to Plaintiff’s Sixth Cause of Action is sustained without leave to amend.
 
CONCLUSION
Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s Third, Fifth, and
Sixth Causes of Action is sustained without leave to amend. 
 
Moving party to give notice. 