 Case Number:  23STCV22251    Hearing Date:   January 3, 2025    Dept:  73 01/03/24
Dept. 73 
Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge presiding 
 
BOND v. ANDERSON, et al. (23STCV22251)
 
Counsel for Plaintiff:
Tariq Hasan (Hasan & Associates)
Counsel for
Defendants/moving party: Tom Normandin (Prenovost, Normandin, Dawe & Rocha)
 
MOTION TO COMPEL COMPLIANCE WITH RULE
2.257 OF THE CALIFORNIA RULES OF COURT (filed by Defendant FCI Lender Services,
Inc. on 10/17/2024)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Defendant FCI
Lender Services, Inc.’s Motion to Compel Compliance with Rule 2.257 of the
California Rules of Court is GRANTED. 
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On September
14, 2024, Plaintiff Daniel A. Bond filed the instant action against Defendants Roger
Anderson, an individual and as Trustee of the RWA Trust Dated March 14, 2014;
Genesee Land, LLC, a Nevada limited liability corporation; Mark Qi Wong, an
individual; FCI Lender Services, Inc., a California corporation; First Faith
Mortgage, a mortgage company; Robert Miller, an individual; and Eric Tran, an
individual. 
 
 On May 30, 2024, Plaintiff filed a First
Amended Complaint (“FAC”) alleging the following causes of action:
1.      Wrongful
Foreclosure 
2.      Violation of
California Homeowner Bill of Rights
3.      Violation of
Foreclosure Consultancy Laws
4.      Violation of
Usury Law
5.      Unfair
Business Practices
6.      Breach of
Fiduciary Duty
7.      Fraud 
8.      Negligence
9.      Cancellation
of Instrument
10.  Declaratory
Relief
11.  Temporary
Restraining Order, Preliminary Injunction, and Permanent Injunction
12.  Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress
13.  Negligent
Infliction of Emotional Distress
The FAC alleges the following. Defendants consist of individuals
and entities in the mortgage and hard money lending business who conspired with
each other to make high-interest and high-fee loans to Plaintiff - loans that
they knew and intended that Plaintiff could not pay back so that they could
seize the Plaintiff’s property located at 1095 South Genesee Avenue, Los
Angeles, CA 90019 (“Property”) for a small fraction of its value. Also, even though Plaintiff intended to grant, and did grant, a
security interest in the Property, he did so under false pretenses perpetrated
by Defendants, and Defendants have engaged in fraudulent practices warranting
cancellation of the loan.
On October 17, 2024, Defendant FCI
Lender Services, Inc. filed a Motion to Compel Compliance with Rule 2.257 of
the California Rules of Court, arguing:
·       Plaintiff’s
Complaint filed September 14, 2023, his First Amended Complaint filed May 30,
2024, and his Objection to Declaration of Non-Monetary Status filed on October
15, 2024 fail to comply with Rule 2.257. 
·       Plaintiff’s “/s/”
signature is not compliant with Rule 2.257(b)(1) because it is not “unique to
the declarant, capable of verification, under the sole control of the
declarant, and linked to data in such a manner that if the data are changed,
the electronic signature is invalidated.”
 
On December 4, 2024, the Court continued
the hearing on Defendant
FCI Lender Services, Inc.’s Motion to allow Plaintiff to file an opposition.
 
On December
19, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition, arguing:
·       Prior to the filing of the Complaint
and First Amended Complaint, Plaintiff reviewed the Complaint and First Amended
Complaint. Plaintiff’s signature in the verification was inserted by
Plaintiff’s attorney, Tariq S. Hasan.
·       The Plaintiff has not signed a printed
form of the document (Complaint and First Amended Complaint) and, therefore,
does not have a physically signed verification of the Complaint or the First
Amended Complaint to provide to Defendant. (Decl. Hasan. ¶ 4.)
·      
Plaintiff
states he is willing to physically sign a new verification for the Complaint
and First Amended Complaint and file these new physically signed verifications
with the Court. (Decl. Hasan. ¶ 6.).
 
On
December 27, 2024, Defendant FCI Lender Services,
Inc. filed a reply, arguing:
·       Plaintiff’s opposition admits that
Plaintiff did not comply with Rule 2.257 with respect to the verifications
accompanying the Complaint and First Amended Complaint in this matter.
·       The Court may “at any time in its
discretion…[s]trike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the
court.” CCP § 436. An unverified quiet title complaint (and the instant
pleading seeks to quiet title) is not drawn in conformity with the laws of this
state of the rules of court and is therefore subject to being stricken. (CCP §
761.020.) 
·       Defendant submits that because
Plaintiff has failed to comply with (and cannot comply with) Rule 2.257, the
First Amended Complaint should therefore be stricken on the Court’s own motion.
 
II. DISCUSSION
Defendant FCI
Lender Services, Inc. (“FCI”) moves this Court for and order compelling
Plaintiff’s compliance with Rule 2.257 of the California Rules of Court. FCI
asserts that Plaintiff’s Complaint filed September 14, 2023, his First Amended
Complaint filed May 30, 2024, and his Objection to Declaration of Non-Monetary
Status filed on October 15, 2024 fail to comply with Rule 2.257. 
Rule 2.257(b)
provides in relevant part that: 
When a
document to be filed electronically provides for a signature under penalty of
perjury of any person, the document is deemed to have been signed by that
person if filed electronically provided that either of the following conditions
is satisfied: 
(1) The
declarant has signed the document using an electronic signature and declares
under penalty of perjury under the laws of the state of California that the
information submitted is true and correct. If the declarant is not the
electronic filer, the electronic signature must be unique to the declarant,
capable of verification, under the sole control of the declarant, and linked to
data in such a manner that if the data are changed, the electronic signature is
invalidated; or
(2) The
declarant, before filing, has physically signed a printed form of the document.
By electronically filing the document, the electronic filer certifies that the
original, signed document is available for inspection and copying at the
request of the court or any other party.
FCI asserts
that Plaintiff’s Complaint filed September 14, 2023, his First Amended
Complaint filed May 30, 2024, and his Objection to Declaration of Non-Monetary
Status were filed by Plaintiff’s attorney. Plaintiff’s signatures on these
documents consist of the symbols “/s/ Daniel A. Bond.” (Exs. 1-3.) However, Plaintiff’s
“/s/” signature is not compliant with Rule 2.257(b)(1) because it is not
“unique to the declarant, capable of verification, under the sole control of
the declarant, and linked to data in such a manner that if the data are
changed, the electronic signature is invalidated.” FCI contends that
Plaintiff’s counsel represented that Plaintiff had never signed a printed form
of the documents. (Cronin Decl., ¶ 6.) Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff has failed
to comply with Rule 2.257.
In Plaintiff’s opposition, he states that prior
to the filing of the Complaint and First Amended Complaint, Plaintiff reviewed
the Complaint and First Amended Complaint and Plaintiff’s signature in the
verification was inserted by Plaintiff’s attorney, Tariq S. Hasan. (Decl.
Hasan. ¶ 3.) Plaintiff also contends he has not signed a printed form of the
document (Complaint and First Amended Complaint) and, therefore, does not have
a physically signed verification of the Complaint or the First Amended
Complaint to provide to Defendant. (Decl. Hasan. ¶ 4.)
 
Therefore, Plaintiff failed to
comply with Rule 2.257 with respect to the verifications accompanying the
Complaint and First Amended Complaint in this matter.
 
Accordingly, Defendant FCI
Lender Services, Inc.’s Motion to Compel Compliance with Rule 2.257 of the
California Rules of Court is GRANTED. 
 
III. DISPOSITION
 

Defendant
FCI Lender Services, Inc.’s Motion to Compel Compliance with Rule 2.257 of the California
Rules of Court is GRANTED.
 