 Case Number:  24STCV24912    Hearing Date:   January 3, 2025    Dept:  73 01/03/2025
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge
presiding 
 
JUAN JOSE SANJUAN III v. FCA US LLC (24STCV24912)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff/opposing party:  Tionna
Carvalho (Strategic Legal Practices)
Counsel for
Defendant/moving party: Elizabeth McNulty (Evans Fears Schuttert McNulty Mickus)
 
Demurrer TO THE complaint (filed 11/27/2024)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Defendant’s Demurrer
to the Complaint’s third and fifth causes of action is SUSTAINED with 20 days
leave to amend. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On September
25, 2024, Plaintiff Juan Jose Sanjuan III filed this action against Defendant FCA
US, LLC. 
 
This consumer
warranty case arises in connection with a 2022 Jeep Compass (the “Subject
Vehicle”) that Plaintiff purchased on or about June 11, 2022. (Compl., ¶ 9.) The
Subject Vehicle was manufactured and/or distributed by Defendant. (Ibid.)
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant knew since prior
to Plaintiff purchasing the Subject Vehicle, that the 2022 Jeep Compass
vehicles equipped with a 9-speed transmission are defective, contained one or
more defect(s) to the transmission which may result in hesitation on
acceleration, loss of power, hard and/or harsh shifts, and/or jerking (the
"Transmission Defect"). (Compl., ¶ 18.) Plaintiff presented
the Subject Vehicle to Defendant for a reasonable number of repair attempts to
no avail. (Compl., ¶ 39.) Defendants have failed to either promptly replace the Subject Vehicle or to
promptly make restitution. (Compl., ¶ 45.)
 
The Complaint
alleges six causes of action for: (1) Violation of Civil Code Section 1793.2(D);
(2) Violation of Civil Code Section 1793.2(B); (3) Violation of Civil Code
Section 1793.2(A)(3); (4) Breach of the Implied Warranty of Merchantability; and
(5) Fraudulent Inducement Concealment.
 
On November
27, 2024, Defendant filed the instant demurrer, arguing:  
·      
Plaintiff’s Third Cause of Action for Violation of Civil Code
Section 1793.2(a)(3) fails to allege sufficient facts to constitute a valid
cause of action.
o  
Plaintiff alleges that FCA failed to provide sufficient service
literature and replacement parts during to its authorized repair facilities
during the express warranty period. However, Plaintiff’s Complaint does not
allege any facts to support his claim. Instead, Plaintiff’s Complaint is filled
with general statements of the law and abjectly fails to allege damages beyond
a single conclusory statement that damages were suffered.
·      
Plaintiff’s Fifth Cause of Action for Fraudulent Inducement -
Concealment fails to meet the heightened pleading standard for fraud and fails
to adequately state a cause of action
o  
Plaintiff alleges that FCA intentionally concealed and failed to
disclose allegedly material facts regarding the transmission equipped in
Plaintiff’s vehicle, a 2022 Dodge Jeep Compass (VIN: 3C4NJDBB6NT169927) (the
“Subject Vehicle”).
o  
Here, Plaintiff has not pled and cannot plead his fraud
allegations with particularity. 
o  
Plaintiff’s Complaint fails to identify a single individual who
allegedly enacted the fraudulent concealment and fails to establish a
contractual or transactional relationship between FCA and Plaintiff. Plaintiff
does not even allege the entity from whom he purchased
the Subject Vehicle. (Complaint, ¶¶ 9, 14.)
o  
Plaintiff’s
Complaint contains no facts to establish that FCA had any duty of disclosure to
Plaintiff. There are no allegations whatsoever concerning the “content of the
omitted facts.” (Rattagan v. Uber Techs., Inc. (2024) 17 Cal. 5th 1, 43
(“Rattagan”).) There are no specific factual allegations concerning justifiable
or actual reliance on the part of Plaintiff. Moreover, there are no facts
alleged regarding noneconomic damages.
 
Plaintiff
filed an opposition, arguing:
·      
Third Cause of Action for Violation of Civil Code Section 1793.2,
Subdivision (a)(3) – Failure to Effect Repairs Due to Insufficient Literature
and/or Replacement Parts
o  
FCA essentially wants more specificity in the pleadings in the
form of particular facts, when it necessarily has those facts in its possession
since they are facts regarding FCA’s provision of its own parts and literature
to its own repair facilities.
·      
Fifth Cause of Action for Fraudulent Inducement – Concealment
o  
Plaintiff argues the Complaint contains all the allegations
required to show a prima facie fraud case in accordance with Dhital v.
Nissan N. Am., Inc. (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 828, 843-44, “Dhital”, review
granted Feb. 1, 2023, 523 P.3d 392. On Dec. 18, 2024, the California Supreme
Court dismissed the pending appeal in Dhital v. Nissan N. Am., Inc.
(S277568).
o  
Plaintiff has alleged (1) misrepresentation/concealment
(Complaint, ¶¶ 22, 58), (2) knowledge of falsity (Id., ¶¶ 21, 60a), (3) intent
to induce reliance (Id., ¶¶ 61-62), (4) justifiable reliance (Id., ¶¶ 26,
62-63), and (5) damages (Id., ¶¶ 16, 36, 64-65).
o  
Here the alleged fraud was committed through intentional
concealment, as in Dhital, where the corporate entity had been aware of
the alleged defect yet continued to market and sell vehicles without disclosing
the defect to prospective purchasers. (Dhital, supra, 84 Cal.App.5th at
833.)
o  
A
“Transactional Relationship” Does Not Require Privity of Contract for the
Manufacturer to Have a Duty to Disclose
§ 
The
Transmission Defect Is a Material Fact
§ 
The Transmission Defect Poses Safety Risks
§ 
The Transmission Defect Arose During the Warranty Period
o  
Dhital
v. Nissan also affirmed that the economic loss
rule does not apply to claims for fraudulent inducement.
o  
The
Rattagan Test Is Inapplicable, but if This Court Were to Use It, the
Economic Loss Rule Still Does Not Apply to the Intentional Tort Alleged. The Rattagan
test is inappropriate here, as the alleged fraudulent inducement is inherently
an independent tort occurring prior to the sale. FCA Continued to Fraudulently
Conceal the Transmission Defect During the Warranty Period.
 
Defendant filed a reply, arguing:
·      
Third
Cause of Action
o   Plaintiff’s Opposition correctly
concedes that Plaintiff has failed to allege any “particular facts” giving rise
to his claim. (See Opposition at 4.) Plaintiff’s argument rests solely on the
cursory contention that FCA “necessarily has those facts in its possession.”
(Id.) This falls well short of the notice
pleading standard.
o   There are no
factual allegations in the Complaint that such “literature” was not provided to
FCA’s dealerships or the public at large.
·      
Fifth Cause of Action
o   Plaintiff’s
Fraud Claim Fails As A Matter of Law Because Plaintiff Have Not and Cannot Meet
the Heightened Requirements for Pleading Fraud
§  There is no
transactional or fiduciary relationship in this case.
·       The Court in Dhital
reasoned: “Plaintiff alleged that they bought the car from a Nissan dealership,
that Nissan backed the car with an express warranty, and that Nissan’s
authorized dealerships are its agents for purposes of the sale of Nissan
vehicles to consumers.” (Dhital, supra, 84 Cal.App.5th at 844.) 
·       Here,
however, Plaintiff has made no such allegation—he simply stated that he
“entered into a warranty contract with Defendant FCA,” for the Subject Vehicle,
which was manufactured by FCA. (See, Complaint ¶ 9.)
·       There are no
allegations, nor could there be, of an agency relationship between
FCA US LLC and its dealerships. It is undisputed that FCA did not sell the
Subject Vehicle to Plaintiff.
§  Plaintiff fails to address the
pleading requirements of factual specificity – what fraud was committed and by
whom.
§  Rattagan
Bars Plaintiff’s Fraudulent Inducement Claim
·       Rattagan held
that a plaintiff may not assert a claim for fraudulent concealment “unless two
conditions are satisfied. A plaintiff must first demonstrate the defendant’s
injury-causing conduct violated a duty that is independent of the duties and
rights assumed by the parties when they entered the contract. Second, the
defendant’s conduct must have caused injury to persons or property that was not
reasonably contemplated by the parties when the contract was formed.” (17
Cal.5th at 21–22.)
·       Plaintiff’s fraud claim arises
exclusively from an alleged breach of contract.
·       Plaintiff’s Reliance on Dhital
is Misplaced. There are no allegations of any legal agency (actual or
ostensible) between FCA US LLC and the unidentified selling dealership from
whom Plaintiff purchased the Subject Vehicle.
 
ANALYSIS
 
A.      Legal
Standard for Demurrer
 
A demurrer tests the sufficiency of whether the
complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context—any
defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,
994.) “A demurrer tests the pleading alone, and not the evidence or facts
alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153
Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes the truth of the
complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Id.) The
only issue a demurrer is concerned with is whether the complaint, as it stands,
states a cause of action. (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p.
747.) 
 
B.      Meet and
Confer Requirement 
 
“Before filing a demurrer pursuant to
this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by
telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for
the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would
resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41, subd. (a).)  
 
Here, counsel for Defendant sent an email to Plaintiff’s counsel on October 21,
2024, regarding the issues raised in the demurrer, requesting
a telephonic conference, and requesting an extension of time to file a
responsive pleading. (Brown Decl., ¶ 3.) Defendant’s counsel states Plaintiff’s counsel did not respond.
(Brown
Decl., ¶ 4.) While the parties did not meet and confer in
person or by telephone, failure to meet and confer is not a proper ground for
overruling a demurrer. (CCP § 430.41(a)(4).) Thus,
the Court continues on the merits of the motion. 
 
C.      Third Cause
of Action: Violation of Civil Code Section
1793.2(A)(3)
 
Defendant demurs to the third cause of action for failure to
allege sufficient facts to constitute a valid cause of action.
 
Cal. Civ.
Code § 1793.2 reads, in relevant part: 
 
Every
manufacturer of consumer goods sold in this state and for which the
manufacturer has made an express warranty shall: 
 
[. . .] 
 
Make
available to authorized service and repair facilities sufficient service
literature and replacement parts to effect repairs during the express warranty
period. 
 
(Cal. Civ.
Code § 1793.2(a)(3).) 
 
The Complaint states, in relevant part:
 
“In violation of Civil Code section 1793.2, subdivision (a)(3),
Defendant FCA failed to make available to its authorized service and repair
facilities sufficient service literature and replacement parts to effect
repairs during the express warranty period. Plaintiff has been damaged by
Defendant FCA's failure to comply with its obligations pursuant to Civil Code
section 1793.2(a)(3), and therefore brings this Cause of Action pursuant to
Civil Code section 1794.
 
Defendant FCA's failure to comply with its obligations under Civil
Code section 1793.2, subdivision (a)(3) was willful, in that Defendant FCA knew
of its obligation to provide literature and replacement parts sufficient to
allow its repair facilities to effect repairs during the warranty period, yet
Defendant FCA failed to take any action to correct its failure to comply with
the law. Accordingly, Plaintiff is entitled to a civil penalty of two times
Plaintiff's actual damages, pursuant to Civil Code section 1794(c).”
 
(Compl., ¶¶ 50-51.)
 
Here,
Plaintiff has not alleged facts related to the Subject Vehicle’s repair history
other than, “Although Plaintiff presented the Vehicle to Defendant FCA's
representative in this state, Defendant FCA and its representative failed to
commence the service or repairs within a reasonable time and failed to service
or repair the Vehicle so as to conform to the applicable warranties within 30
days, in violation of Civil Code section 1793.2, subdivision (b). Plaintiff did
not extend the time for completion of repairs beyond the 30-day requirement.”
(Compl., ¶ 45.) The Third Cause of Action contains only conclusory allegations
with virtually no facts at all to support the claims alleged. (See Gutierrez
v. Carmax Auto Superstores California (2018) 19 Cal.App.5th 1234,
1247-1248). As a result, there is no factual basis alleged for Plaintiff's
claim that he was "damaged by Defendant's failure to comply with its
obligations pursuant to Civil Code section 1793.2(a)(3)." (Compl., ¶ 50.) 
 
Accordingly,
the Demurrer to the Third Cause of Action is SUSTAINED with leave to amend. 
 
D.    
Fifth Cause
of Action: Fraudulent Inducement – Concealment
 
Defendant
demurs to the fifth cause of action for failure to meet the heightened pleading standard for fraud and
failure to adequately state a cause of action.
 
“[T]he
elements of an action for fraud and deceit based on a concealment are: (1) the
defendant must have concealed or suppressed a material fact; (2) the defendant
must have been under a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff; (3) the
defendant must have intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact with the
intent to defraud the plaintiff; (4) the plaintiff must have been unaware of
the fact and would not have acted as he did if he had known of the concealed or
suppressed fact; and (5) as a result of the concealment or suppression of the
fact, the plaintiff must have sustained damage.” (Boschma v. Home Loan
Center, Inc. (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 230, 248.)¿ 
 
Ordinarily,
”fraud must be pleaded specifically; general and conclusory allegations do not
suffice.” (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.). “This
particularity requirement necessitates pleading facts which show how, where, to
whom, and by what means” the alleged fraud occurred. (Id.) The purpose of the particularity
requirement is to “separate meritorious and nonmeritorious cases, if possible
in advance of trial.” (Small v. Fritz Companies, Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th
167, 184.)¿¿¿¿ 
 
Some cases, however, conclude that
this standard is less stringent when the defendant already has “ ‘full
information concerning the facts of the controversy.’ ” (Committee on
Children’s Television, Inc. v. General Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197,
217, superseded by statute on other grounds as stated in Californians for
Disability Rights v. Mervyn's, LLC (2006) 39 Cal.4th 223, 227.) Relaxation
of the specificity requirement is particularly appropriate in
a¿concealment¿case.¿ Unlike intentional misrepresentation, which requires some
affirmative representation or promise, a fraudulent¿concealment¿is the absence
of something, the suppression of a fact. (Civ. Code, section 1710.)¿¿ 
 
The
courts have ruled that less specificity as to fraud claims is required if it
appears from the nature of allegations that defendant must necessarily possess
full information, or if the facts lie more in the knowledge of opposing
parties. (Alfaro v. Community Housing Improvement System & Planning
Assn., Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1356, 1384-1385 [“it does not appear
necessary to require each of the 38 plaintiffs to allege each occasion on which
an agent of either defendant could have disclosed …. Surely defendants have
records of their dealings with the plaintiffs”] accord Bushell v. JPMorgan
Chase Bank, N.A. (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 915, 931 [“plaintiffs did not have
to specify the … personnel who prepared these documents because that
information is uniquely within … [defendant’s] knowledge”].) “‘[T]he courts
should not ... seek to absolve the defendant from liability on highly technical
requirements of form in pleading. Pleading facts in ordinary and concise
language is as permissible in fraud cases as in any others, and liberal
construction of the pleading is as much a duty of the court in these as in
other cases.’” (Appollo Capital Fund, LLC v. Roth Capital Partners, LLC
(2007) 158 Cal.App.4th 226, 242.)¿ 
 
Defendant
argues that the Fifth Cause of Action is not pled with the requisite
particularity as it contains no allegations concerning the content of the
omitted facts, Plaintiff’s justifiable or actual reliance, and noneconomic
damages. Defendant further argues that there is no transactional relationship
between the parties as Defendant did not sell the car to Plaintiff and, as
such, there is no duty to disclose. Defendant cites to Mel Clayton Ford v.
Ford Motor Co. (2002) 104 Cal.App.4th 46, 56 (“Mel Clayton Ford”)
and presents that Mel Clayton Ford holds that automakers are not vicariously
liable for the independent wrongs of a dealership. Defendant further presents
that Plaintiff has not alleged the required ratification by a corporate entity
as Plaintiff’s Complaint lacks any allegations regarding how, when, where, to
whom, and by what means the representations were made, and, in the case of a
corporate defendant, the plaintiff must allege the names of the persons who
made the representations, their authority to speak on behalf of the
corporation, to whom they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when the
representation was made. Defendant further presents that Plaintiff has failed
to allege what information was concealed, that the economic loss rule bars
Plaintiff’s fraudulent concealment claim, that there was no duty of the rights
and obligations assumed under the express limited warranty, the purported
injury was contemplated by the parties when the warranty was provided, and
Plaintiff’s claim seeks tort recovery for a breach of contract duty. 
 
Plaintiff
argues that in cases claiming fraud through non-disclosure, it is not practical
to allege facts showing how, when and by what means something did not happen;
the pleadings must set forth the substance of the statements at issue, that the
particularity requirement of fraud is relaxed when it is apparent from the
allegations that the defendant necessarily possesses knowledge of the facts.
Plaintiff contends that the Fifth Cause of Action is sufficiently pled under Dhital
v. Nissan N. Am., Inc. (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 828 (“Dhital”).
Plaintiff further argues that a transactional relationship is not required in
this action and directs the parties and the Court to Bader v. Johnson &
Johnson (2022) 86 Cal.App.5th 1094, 1132 (“Bader”). Plaintiff
presents that the engine defect is a material fact, that it poses safety risks,
and that the defect arose during the warranty period. Plaintiff argues that his
claim is not barred by the economic loss rule and the Rattagan v. Uber
Technologies, Inc., (2024) 17 Cal.5th 1 (“Rattagan”) test does not
apply.  
 
In reply, Defendant argues that
Plaintiff has conceded that each element in a fraud cause of action must be
pleaded with specificity and argues that Plaintiff’s Complaint fails in this
respect. Specifically, Defendant argues: (1) Plaintiff’s own citation to Dhital
is self-defeating as Plaintiff relies on the conclusory contention that the
facts are within Defendant’s knowledge; (2) there is no fiduciary or
transactional relationship between the parties; (3) Plaintiff’s Opposition
fails to address the pleading requirements of factual specificity, such as what
fraud was committed and by whom; (4) Rattagan bars Plaintiff’s fraud by
omission claim; (5) Plaintiff’s fraud claim arises exclusively from a breach of
the warranty contract; and (6) Plaintiff’s reliance on Dhital is
misplaced as Plaintiff does not allege any legal agency
between Defendant and the unidentified selling dealership. 
 
The Court emphasizes that Dhital
states: “Plaintiffs alleged that they bought the car from a Nissan
dealership, that Nissan backed the car with an express warranty, and that
Nissan’s authorized dealerships are its agents for purposes of the sale of
Nissan vehicles to consumers.” (Dhital, supra, 84 Cal.App.5th
at 844 [emphasis added].) Here, unlike Dhital, Plaintiff’s Complaint has
no discussion regarding an authorized dealership for the sale of the Subject
Vehicle. Regarding how Plaintiff attained the vehicle, Plaintiff alleges only
that he “entered into a warranty contract with Defendant FCA regarding a 2022 Jeep Compass, vehicle
identification number 3C4NJDBB6NT169927 (hereafter "Vehicle"), which
was manufactured and/or distributed by Defendant FCA.”
(Compl., ¶ 9.) Further, Plaintiff
only references Defendant’s agents in the capacity of repairs. (See Complaint
¶¶ 39, 41, 45, 48.) References are unclear as to “FCA’s sales representatives”
as FCA is a manufacturer and not a dealer and the Complaint includes discussion
of non-FCA sales representatives. (See Complaint ¶ 63 and compare with
Complaint ¶¶ 22-23.) Thus, as alleged, there is no transactional
relationship between the parties.  
 
Rattagan addresses exceptions to the economic
loss rule. Specifically, Rattagan goes provides a further analysis than Robinson
Helicopter Co., Inc. v. Dana Corp. (2004) 34 Cal.4th 979 (“Robinson”)
which held that only fraud claims based on affirmative misrepresentations and
only when the tortious conduct exposed a plaintiff to risk of liability for
personal damages independent of the plaintiff‘s economic losses creates an
exception to the economic loss rule. Rattagan provides, in relevant
part: 
 
Can a plaintiff assert an independent
claim of fraudulent concealment in the performance of a contract? The answer to
this question is also yes. A plaintiff may assert a tort claim for fraudulent
concealment based on conduct occurring in the course of a contractual
relationship, if the elements of the cause of action can be established
independently of the parties‘ contractual rights and obligations and the
tortious  conduct exposes the plaintiff to a risk of harm beyond the
reasonable contemplation of the parties when they entered into the agreement. 
 
Within the context of the broader
independent tort principles previously summarized (see discussion at pp. 26–27,
ante), our answer encapsulates steps one and three of the required
analysis: (1) a court must ascertain the full scope of the parties' contractual
agreement; and (3) the court must determine whether the plaintiff can establish
all elements of the tort independent of the rights and duties assumed by the
parties under the contract. Step two is satisfied here because, as discussed
post, the independent tort duty to refrain from engaging in fraudulent conduct
is well established by statute and common law. 
 
(Rattagan, supra, 17
Cal.5th 1, 38.)  
 
Plaintiff concedes that the warranty
at issue is a contract. (See Complaint ¶ 9.) As such, Rattagan is
applicable to the instant action.  
 
Plaintiff has included the warranty at
issue which reads, in relevant part:  
 
The Basic Limited Warranty covers the
cost of all parts and labor needed to repair any item on your vehicle when it
left the manufacturing plant that is defective in material, workmanship or
factory preparation. There is no list of covered parts since the only
exceptions are the items listed in “section 2.1 C”. These warranty repairs or
adjustments, including all parts and labor connected with them, will be made by
an authorized dealer at no charge, using new or remanufactured parts. 
 
(Complaint, Exh. A, p. 6.)  
 
This Court’s analysis needs only
discuss the first element. The warranty contract does not arise independently
of the parties’ contractual rights and obligations and, as such, Plaintiff’s
claim is barred by the economic loss rule.  
 
Accordingly, the Demurrer to the Fifth
Cause of Action is SUSTAINED with leave to amend. 
 
DISPOSITION
 

Defendant’s
Demurrer to the Complaint’s third and fifth causes of action is SUSTAINED with
20 days leave to amend. 