 Case Number:  23SMCV02311    Hearing Date:   January 26, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative
Ruling
Fuller,
et al. v. Herman Properties, et al., Case No. 23SMCV02311
Hearing
date January 26, 2024
Defendants’
Herman Investments, Herman and Holmes’ Demurrer & Motion to Strike the
First Amended Complaint 
Plaintiff
tenants Fuller and Angela and Matthew Eldredge sued defendants Herman
Investments, Vanessa Herman and Holmes for (1) violation of Los Angeles
Municipal Code § 49.98.2; (2) wrongful eviction; (3) breach of the implied
covenant of quiet enjoyment; (4) bad faith retention of security deposit; (5)
violation of LAMC § 45.33; and (6) violation of Los Angeles County Code §
8.52.130. The FAC alleges termination of the tenancy without just cause. Defendants
demur to the first, second, third, fourth and fifth causes of action in the FAC
and move to strike requested punitive damages and attorneys’ fees. 
“The primary
function of a pleading is to give the other party notice so that it may prepare
its case [citation], and a defect in a pleading that otherwise properly
notifies a party cannot be said to affect substantial rights.” Harris v.
City of Santa Monica (2013) 56 Cal.4th 203, 240.  
The demurrer
and motion to strike is accompanied by the meet and confer declaration of Domineh
Fazel as required.  Code Civ. Proc., §§
430.41, 435.5(a).
First
Cause of Action for Violation of Los Angeles Municipal Code §49.98.2
“Through
December 31, 2019, the owner of residential rental property shall not terminate
a lawful tenancy without at-fault just cause.” Los Angeles Municipal Code
§49.98.2.
The parties
argue as to whether section 49.98.2 was in effect at the time of the eviction. The
FAC alleges on 11/25/19, defendants terminated plaintiffs’ lawful tenancy
without at-fault just cause in violation of section 49.98.2. FAC ¶ 19. The
statute applies “Through December 31, 2019,” which means it was effective when defendants
purported terminated the tenancy. The allegation is sufficiently pled under §
49.98.2.
Defendants
argue plaintiffs took possession of the property on three different dates.
Defendants contend it is unclear whether plaintiffs claim all three entered
into a lease. In addition, defendants contend it is unclear whether plaintiffs
allege each paid a security deposit of $1,475.00. 
Plaintiffs
argue the FAC alleges Matthew Eldredge took possession pursuant to a written
lease on October 2010; Angela Eldredge took possession on April 1, 2012, and on
May 2018, Fuller took possession. Plaintiffs argue a roommate who is not a
party to the original lease has the same rights as a tenant under the original
lease and applicable ordinances, where the landlord approved the roommate’s
occupancy.
Defendants
argue the FAC does not allege plaintiffs were roommates and makes no
allegations defendants consented to plaintiffs becoming tenants under the
lease. Defendants contend the opposition fails to address the allegation
regarding the security deposit because not all plaintiffs paid the security
deposit, just Matthew Eldredge. 
The FAC
alleges Plaintiff Matthew Eldredge took possession pursuant a written lease in
October 2011. FAC ¶ 12. Plaintiff Angela Eldredge took possession pursuant on
April 1, 2012. FAC ¶ 13. Plaintiff Fuller took possession in May 2018. FAC ¶
14. Plaintiffs deposited $1,475.00 in security, and defendants failed to return
their security deposit. FAC ¶¶ 45, 47. The FAC alleges each plaintiff took
possession pursuant a lease. To the extent defendants argue only Matthew
Eldredge paid the security deposit, that is not sufficient for the court to
sustain a demurrer. OVERRULED. 
Defendants
argue the FAC does not allege facts sufficient to establish a landlord-tenant
relationship. Defendants contend there is no actual lease, no lease attached to
the FAC and the FAC does not set out allegations of the terms of the lease.
Defendants argue there are no allegations plaintiffs performed all obligations
under the lease. 
It is not
required that a lease be attached to the FAC. The FAC alleges each plaintiff
took possession pursuant to the lease, see above and FAC ¶ 12-14. The FAC
alleges plaintiffs lawfully resided at the premises. FAC ¶ 15. In or around
November 2019, defendants, in an attempt to influence and coerce plaintiffs to
vacate, began repeatedly requesting plaintiffs’ signatures on documents
purporting to acknowledge that they have no legal rights to occupy the premises.
FAC ¶ 18. On or about November 25, 2019 defendants terminated the lawful
tenancy without at-fault just cause. FAC ¶ 19. The FAC sufficiently alleges a
lease and lawful tenancies as to all plaintiffs. OVERRULED.  
Second
Cause of Action for Wrongful Eviction
“An
essential element of a wrongful eviction claim is that the tenant has vacated.
[Citations.]” Nativi v. Deutsche Bank National Trust Co. (2014) 223
Cal.App.4th 261, 293.
Defendants
argue it is unclear what alleged acts or omissions caused a substantial
disturbance and interference with plaintiffs’ possession or that plaintiffs
were evicted or the reasons for that eviction. Defendants contend there is no
allegations plaintiffs were in lawful possession and how they came into
possession of the premises. See the court’s reasoning above as to these
arguments, which are without merit.
Plaintiffs allege
defendants’ conduct including terminating plaintiffs’ lawful tenancy without
at-fault just cause was in violation of LAMC § 49.98.2 and constituted an
unlawful eviction. FAC ¶ 27. The FAC alleges defendants’ acts and omissions
were intentional (not accidental), deliberate, willful and done knowing they
would force plaintiffs to involuntarily vacate. FAC ¶ 33. The allegations are
sufficiently pled. OVERRULED. 
Third
Cause of Action for Breach of the Implied Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment
The breach
of implied covenant of quiet enjoyment occurs “upon actual or constructive
eviction of the tenant.” Erlach v. Sierra Asset Servicing, LLC (2014)
226 Cal.App.4th 1281, 1299. “If the landlord ousts the tenant, there is an
actual eviction.” Ginsberg v. Gamson (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 873, 897. “If
the landlord's acts or omissions affect the tenant's use of the property and
compel the tenant to vacate, there is a constructive eviction.” Id.
Defendants
argue plaintiffs allege no facts regarding how defendants allegedly breached
the covenant of quiet enjoyment. Plaintiffs allege defendants breached by
repeatedly requesting signatures on documents purporting to acknowledge plaintiffs
have no legal rights to occupancy, termination of the lawful tenancy without
at-fault just cause and forced relinquishment of possession of the unit.
The FAC realleges
allegations in prior paragraphs. FAC ¶ 35 alleges in each rental agreement in
California, oral or written, is a covenant that the landlord will not interfere
with a tenant’s quiet enjoyment during the term of the tenancy. FAC ¶ 37. The
allegations are sufficiently pled; it is alleged defendants attempted to coerce
plaintiffs into signing documents acknowledging they had no legal rights to the
premises and terminated plaintiffs’ tenancy. OVERRULED. 
Fourth
Cause of Action for Bad Faith Retention of Security Deposit (CC § 1950.5)
“The bad
faith claim or retention by a landlord or the landlord’s successors in interest
of the security or any portion thereof in violation of this section, or the bad
faith demand of replacement security in violation of subdivision (j), may
subject the landlord or the landlord’s successors in interest to statutory
damages of up to twice the amount of the security, in addition to actual
damages. ” Civ. Code §1950.5(l).
Defendants
argue the allegation regarding alleged bad faith lacks the necessary legal and
factual specificity, and statutory damages under Civil Code § 1950.5 is akin to
punitive damages, so constitutes a double recovery, as plaintiffs seek punitive
damages.
FAC ¶ 43 alleges
the lease provides for a security deposit, which defendants were required to
return per Civil Code §1950.5. FAC ¶ 44. Plaintiffs deposited $1,475.00 in
security. FAC ¶ 45. Plaintiffs allege they performed all conditions of the
lease are entitled to return of the security deposit. FAC ¶ 46. Plaintiffs
allege defendants failed to return $1,340.00 in bad faith and without cause per
Civil Code §§1950.5(h), 1950.5(l). FAC ¶¶ 47-49. The allegations are
sufficiently pled. To the extent defendants argue the request for statutory
damages and punitive damages are double recovery, that issue will be addressed
in the motion to strike. OVERRULED. 
Fifth
Cause of Action for Violation of Los Angeles Municipal Code § 45.33
“Tenant
Harassment shall be defined as a landlord's knowing and willful course of
conduct directed at a specific tenant or tenants that causes detriment and
harm, and that serves no lawful purpose, including, but not limited to… Threatening or taking action to terminate any tenancy
including service of any notice to quit or other eviction notice or bringing
action to recover possession of a rental unit based on facts which the landlord
has no reasonable cause to believe to be true.” LAMC §45.33. 
Defendants
argue LAMC §45.33 was not enacted, so not applicable. Defendants contend plaintiffs
have not sufficiently pled defendants intended to induce plaintiffs’ reliance
on the alleged misrepresented facts or justifiable reliance on the alleged
misrepresentations. 
Plaintiffs
argue LAMC §45.33 is presumptively retroactive because it is remedial in
nature. Plaintiffs contend the relevant provisions of §45.33 are not
substantively different from corresponding sections in effect at the time of the
eviction. Plaintiffs argue the conduct that violates the statute is outlined in
the FAC.
The FAC alleges
defendants violated §45.33 by threatening or taking action to terminate the
tenancy; terminating the tenancy; and engaging in acts or omissions which
interfered with the right to use and enjoy when defendants repeatedly requested
plaintiffs sign documents purporting to acknowledge they have no legal rights
to occupancy. FAC ¶ 50-51. The FAC alleges sufficient facts to state a claim. To
the extent retroactivity is an issue, such is not properly decided on demurrer.
OVERRULED.
Motion
to Strike Punitive Damages & Attorney’s Fees 
“Any party,
within the time allowed to respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of
motion to strike the whole or any part thereof, but this time limitation shall
not apply to motions specified in subdivision (e).” Code Civ. Proc. §435(b)(1).
“The court may, upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435 …. (a) Strike out
any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.” Code Civ.
Proc. § 436(a).
Defendants seek
to strike paras. 26, 32-34, 42, 54-55 and the prayer for punitive damages,
arguing the alleged conduct does not constitute despicable conduct and is not
alleged with the requisite specificity. Defendants argue plaintiffs do not
allege a basis for attorney fees because only one plaintiff signed the lease,
which does allow for attorney fees. 
To state a
claim for punitive damages under Civil Code sec. 3294, a plaintiff must allege
specific facts showing malice, oppression or fraud. Smith v. Superior Court
(1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1033, 1042. The basis for punitive damages must be pled
with specificity; conclusory allegations devoid of factual assertions are
insufficient. Id. A motion to strike may lie where the facts alleged, if
proven, would not support a finding that the defendant acted with malice, fraud
or oppression. Turman v. Turning Point of Central California (2010) 191
Cal.App.4th 53, 63.¿ 
Plaintiffs
argue the FAC contains ample facts to support punitive damages. Plaintiffs
contend punitive damages are expressly authorized by statute and based on
intentional, malicious and fraudulent conduct by defendants. Plaintiffs argue the
FAC adequately alleges attorneys’ fees pursuant the lease, LAMC §45.33(B) and
49.99.7. 
Defendants
argue the FAC does not allege which defendants evicted plaintiffs; which defendants
allegedly attempted to trick plaintiffs into signing documents or which plaintiffs
were asked to sign documents. In Castillo v. Friedman (1987) 197
Cal.App.3d Supp. 6, the court held punitive damages may be recovered on a
wrongful eviction claim is malice is proved. Castillo v. Friedman (1987)
197 Cal.App.3d Supp. 6, 19. 
The FAC alleges
facts to support claim for punitive damages and attorneys’ fees. The FAC
alleges defendants attempted to influence or coerce plaintiffs to vacate by
requesting they sign documents purporting to acknowledge they have no legal
rights to occupy the premises, which a reasonable jury could find to be
contemptible. Defendants terminated the tenancy despite notice pursuant to LAMC
§ 49.98.2, which prohibited such, which a reasonable jury could also find to be
outrageous conduct intentionally done with conscious disregard to plaintiffs’
rights. 
The FAC
alleges all plaintiffs were parties to the lease, and the prayer for relief
seeks attorneys’ fees according to that lease. Further, the FAC alleges plaintiffs
are entitled to attorneys’ fees under LAMC §§ 45.33(B) and 49.99.7. DENIED.