 Case Number:  22SMCV02169    Hearing Date:   January 26, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative
Ruling
Rader.
v. Demarest, Case No. 22SMCV02169 (related case: 22SMCV02409)
Hearing
date January 26, 2024
Mercury
Insurance Company’s Motion for Leave to Intervene
Plaintiff
Rader in lead case 22SMCV02169 sued defendant Demarest for injuries sustained
in a motor vehicle accident. Plaintiff Bauer filed case 22SMCV02409 for
injuries sustained in the same incident. The cases were related. Defendant
Demarest’s carrier, Mercury Insurance Company filed this Motion for Leave to
Intervene. Plaintiffs did not oppose (see Joint Status Conf. Report 1/18/24.)
“An
intervention takes place when a nonparty, deemed an intervenor, becomes a party
to an action or proceeding between other persons by…(2) uniting with a
defendant in resisting the claims by a plaintiff.” Code Civ. Proc., § 387(b)(2).
“A nonparty shall petition the court for leave to intervene by noticed motion
or ex parte application. The petition shall include a copy of the proposed
complaint in intervention or answer in intervention and set forth the grounds
upon which intervention rests.” Code Civ. Proc. § 387(c). “The court may, upon
timely application, permit a nonparty to intervene in the action or proceeding
if the person has an interest in the matter in litigation, or in the success of
either of the parties, or an interest against both.” Code Civ. Proc., §
387(d)(2). 
Mercury alleges
it has an interest in this litigation because its insured Demarest has not
responded to attempts to contact him based on mental health issues. Mercury
argues it will ultimately pay the judgment and, without defendant’s cooperation,
it will be difficult to defend the case. Mercury argues there could be
sanctions imposed for failure to engage in the litigation process. Mercury
contends there are no others means other than intervening to litigate plaintiffs’
damages claims. 
Mercury attached a copy of the proposed complaint in
intervention. Plaintiffs are not opposed to Mercury’s intervention. GRANTED. The
complaint in intervention to be filed within 10 court days. 
 
Based on the parties’ request and information contained in
the joint status conference statement, the court is inclined to grant the
parties’ request for a brief continuance of the trial date.