 Case Number:  24TRCV00737    Hearing Date:   December 11, 2024    Dept:  E 


Superior Court
  of California
County of Los
  Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance Dept. E




 
HIJAZ
  HIJAZ, SAMIRA HIJAZ, and MALAK HIJAZ, individuals


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:


 
24TRCV00737




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  Denied
 




 
LAST
  CHANCE STORE, LLC.; AHM LIQUIDATION, INC.; BEYOND GALLERIA, INC.; BEAUTY
  BARGAIN, LLC.; BEAUTY BARGAINS, INC.; BEAUTY BARGAINS, INC.; BEAUTY VILLAGE,
  INC.; CALI'S BEAUTY SUPPLY, INC.; BAHA SHEHAB; HUSSEIN HIJAZ; ASHRAF FAHAD
  HIJAZ; and DOES 1 to 100,


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:              December
11, 2024
 
Moving Parties:          Defendants Ashraf Fahad Hijaz and
Hussein Hijaz
 
Responding Party:      Plaintiffs Hijaz Hijaz, Samira Hijaz, and
Malak Hijaz.
 
HEARING: Motion to Quash Service of
Summons
 
            The Court considered the moving and
opposition papers.
 
RULING
 
The Court denies
the Motion to Quash Service of Summons. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            On March
1, 2024, Plaintiffs
Hijaz Hijaz, Samira Hijaz, and Malak Hijaz filed a complaint against Defendants Last Chance Store, LLC., Ahm
Liquidation, Inc., Beyond Galleria, Inc., Beauty Bargain, LLC., Beauty
Bargains, Inc., Beauty Bargains, Inc., Beauty Village, Inc., Cali's Beauty
Supply, Inc., Baha Shehab, Hussein Hijaz, Ashraf Fahad Hijaz, And Does 1 To 100.  The complaint alleges failure to pay
minimum wages, failure to pay overtime wages, failure to provide meal periods,
failure to provide rest periods, failure to provide accurate itemized
statements, failure to reimburse employees for required expenses, failure to
provide wages when due, failure to split shift premium, unfair competition,
failure to produce personal and payroll records, misclassification of
employees, and violation of whistleblowing law. The complaint arises from
Plaintiffs’ employment with Defendants as salespeople.
            
            On July 16, 2024,
Defendants Hussein Hijaz and Ashraf Fahad Hijaz filed the instant Motion to
Quash Service of Summons. 
 
            On August 2, 2024,
Plaintiffs filed the Opposition to the Motion to Quash Service of Summons.
 
            No reply has been filed.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
            “A defendant, on or
before the last day of his or her time to plead or within any further time that
the court may for good cause allow, may serve and file a notice of motion for
one or more of the following purposes: (1) To quash service of summons on the
ground of lack of jurisdiction of the court over him or her.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 418.10, subd. (a).)  
 
In California, courts are authorized to
“exercise jurisdiction over parties on any basis not inconsistent with the
Constitution of [California] or the United States.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
410.10.) “Personal jurisdiction may be either general or specific.” (Vons
Companies, Inc. v. Seabest Foods, Inc. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 434, 445.) The
extent to which a California court may exercise jurisdiction over a defendant
depends on the nature and quality of that defendant’s contacts with the state.
(Ibid.)
 
Personal jurisdiction may be either general or
specific. (Vons Companies, Inc., supra, 14 Cal.4th at 445.)
“The nature and the quality of the defendant’s contacts determine whether
jurisdiction, if exercised, is general or specific. General jurisdiction exists
when a defendant is domiciled in the forum state or his activities there are
substantial, continuous, and systematic.” (F. Hoffman-La Roche, Ltd. v.
Superior Court (2005) 130 Cal.App.4th 782, 796.) Where the contacts
are sufficiently substantial, continuous, and systematic, it is not necessary
that the cause of action alleged be connected with the defendant’s business
relationship to the forum. (Vons, supra, 14 Cal.4th at 445.)
However, “contacts that are random, fortuitous, or attenuated do not rise to
the minimum level, and general jurisdiction cannot be exercised under these
circumstances.” (F. Hoffman-La Roche, Ltd., supra, 130
Cal.App.4th at 795.) 
 
If a defendant’s contacts with the forum state
are not substantial, continuous, and systematic, the defendant may be subject
to specific jurisdiction. “A court may exercise specific jurisdiction over a
nonresident defendant only if: (1) ‘the defendant has purposefully availed
himself or herself of forum benefits’ [citation]; (2) ‘the “controversy is
related to or ‘arises out of’ [the] defendant's contacts with the forum”’
[citations]; and (3) ‘“the assertion of personal jurisdiction would comport
with ‘fair play and substantial justice.’” ‘[Citations.]” (Pavlovich (2002)
29 Cal.4th 262, 269.) 
 
When a defendant challenges personal
jurisdiction, the plaintiff has the burden to prove, by a preponderance of the
evidence, the factual basis for the exercise of jurisdiction. (Vons,
supra, 14 Cal.4th at 449.) 
 
“[W]hen the facts giving rise to jurisdiction
are conflicting, the trial court’s factual determinations are reviewed for
substantial evidence . . . . Even then, we review independently the trial
court's conclusions as to the legal significance of the facts . . . . When the
jurisdictional facts are not in dispute, whether the defendant is subject to
personal jurisdiction is purely a legal question that we review de novo.” (F.
Hoffman-La Roche, Inc., supra, 130 Cal.App.4th at 794; accord
Muckle v. Superior Court (2002) 102 Cal.App.4th 218, 228.)
 
Evidence consisting of “vague assertions of
ultimate fact rather than specific evidentiary facts” is insufficient to meet
the burden to show minimum contacts. (Paneno v. Centres for Academic
Programmes Abroad Ltd. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 1447, 1454.)
 
DISCUSSION 
 
General
Jurisdiction
 
General
jurisdiction over an individual is established by the individual’s domicile. (Daimler
AG v. Bauman (2014) 571 U.S. 117, 118.) “A nonresident defendant may be
subject to the general jurisdiction of the forum if his or her contacts in the
forum state are ‘substantial . . . continuous and systematic.’” (Vons
Companies, supra, 14 Cal.4th at 445, quoting Perkins v. Benguet
Mining Co. (1952) 342 U.S. 437, 445-446.) In such instances, “it is not
necessary that the specific cause of action alleged be connected with the
defendant’s business relationship to the forum.” (Cornelison v. Chaney
(1976) 16 Cal.3d 143, 147.)
A
court will look at a variety of factors to determine if a defendant is “at home”
in the forum, such as: “maintenance of offices, the presence of employees, use
of bank accounts and marketing or selling products in the forum state, to
analyze whether a corporation's contacts render it effectively at home in that
state.” (Brue v. Shabaab (2020) 54 Cal.App.5th 578, 590-591.)
            
Plaintiffs argue
that Defendants are subject to general jurisdiction based on the five stores
they own in California from which they receive substantial income. (Opposition
p. 8.) Furthermore, Plaintiffs allege that Defendant Hussein Hijaz negotiated
with Plaintiffs in California, controlled the daily operations of his store in
California, and fired Plaintiffs who lived in California. (Opposition p. 8; Hijaz
Hijaz Decl. ¶ 2-9; Samira Hijaz Decl. ¶ 2-9.)
 
Defendants argue
that no facts support a finding that Defendants are at home in California.
Neither are residents of California, have a bank account in California, nor own
property in California. (Motion to Quash “MTQ” p. 9; Ashraf Hijza Decl. ¶12;
Hussein Hijaz Decl. ¶ 12.) Instead, they are merely silent investors in Last
Chance LLC. (Ibid.)
 
In Daimler, the
Supreme Court found that Daimler was “at home” in California because its
contacts were not “continuous and systematic” despite the fact that Daimler had
substantial sales throughout the state. (Daimler AG, supra, 571 U.S. 117
at 138-139.) 
 
 The Court
finds that Plaintiffs have not met their burden of proof to show that
California has general jurisdiction over Defendants. Despite Plaintiffs’
assertions, Defendants’ contacts with California are neither substantial nor
systematic enough to render them “at home” in the state, as required by Vons.
(Vons, supra, 14 Cal.4th at 445.; Daimler AG., supra, 571
U.S. 117 at 138-139) Both Ashraf and Hussein Hijaz are long-time residents of
Alabama and have no property or bank accounts in California. (Ashraf Hijaz Decl. ¶¶ 6, 8, 12;
Hussein Hijaz Decl. ¶¶ 6, 8, 11.) Furthermore, while Defendants are investors
in a corporation with stores located in California and are involved in some
management of said corporation, these contacts are not systematic enough to
render Defendants at home in the state because the mere presence of a
corporation and significant sales in a state are not sufficient to create
general jurisdiction. (See, Daimler AG., supra, 571 U.S. 117 at 138-139)
 
Therefore,
Plaintiffs have failed to establish that the Defendants’ contacts with
California meet the necessary threshold for general jurisdiction.
 
Specific
Jurisdiction
            
            “The test for whether a court may exercise ‘specific’
personal jurisdiction requires that the nonresident purposefully directed his
acts to the forum state or otherwise purposefully established contacts with the
forum state, that the cause of action be related to or arise or result from the
acts or contacts in the forum, and that the exercise of personal jurisdiction
by the forum would be reasonable.” (Muckle v. Superior Court (2002) 102
Cal.App.4th 218, 227-228.)
 
Purposeful
Availment
 
This prong “is
satisfied if the defendant purposefully and voluntarily directs its acts toward
the forum so that it should expect, because of the benefit it receives, to be
subject to the court's jurisdiction based on its forum contacts.” (In re
Automobile Antitrust Cases I & II (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 100, 108.)
 
Defendants argue
that Ashraf and Hussein Hijaz have not purposefully availed themselves of
California, and therefore, the Court lacks specific jurisdiction over them.
They argue that neither Defendant was involved in any wage decision regarding
Plaintiffs, and therefore, there were no intentional actions that would lead to
a finding of purposeful availment. (MTQ p. 10; Jewish Def. Org., Inc. v.
Superior Ct. (1999) 72 Cal.App.4th 1045, 1057.)
 
 
Plaintiffs argue
that Defendants derived financial benefits from their California business
activities and are therefore subject to California’s jurisdiction. Defendants
engaged in affirmative conduct by transacting business through Plaintiffs, who
worked in California, and this resulted in harms, such as the alleged wrongful
termination and violations of wage and hour laws. (Hijaz Hijaz Decl. ¶ 2-9; Samira
Hijaz Decl. ¶ 2-9; See Vons, supra,14 Cal.4th at 450.)
 
In Automobile
Antitrust Cases I & II, the court found that placing products into the
stream of commerce by large car manufacturers is sufficient for a finding of
purposeful avaliment. (Automobile Antitrust Cases I & II, supra,
135 Cal.App.4th 100 at 115.)
 
Here, Plaintiffs
have a much stronger connection to California than seen in Automobile
Antitrust Cases I & II. (Automobile Antitrust Cases I & II,
supra, 135 Cal.App.4th 100 at 115.). Like in Automobile Antitrust
Cases I & II, Defendants placed products in the stream of commerce and engaged
in even more significant activities within the state, including operating
multiple business locations and managing employees. (Hijaz Hijaz Decl. ¶ 2-9; Samira
Hijaz Decl. ¶ 2-9; Automobile Antitrust Cases I & II, supra,
135 Cal.App.4th 100 at 108.) While Defendants contend that they were not
involved in any wage decisions regarding Plaintiffs, Defendants owned and
operated a business in California from which they received profits and,
therefore, have availed themselves of California’s laws. (Automobile
Antitrust Cases I & II, supra, 135 Cal.App.4th 100 at 108.)
Therefore, the Court finds that Plaintiffs have met their burden of proof showing
that Defendants purposefully availed themselves to California.
 
Arises from
Defendant’s Contacts
 
“Specific
jurisdiction depends on the quality and nature of the defendant’s forum
contacts in relation to the particular cause of action alleged. [Citation.]” (Anglo
Irish Bank Corp., PLC v. Superior Court (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 969,
978.)  
 
“A controversy is
related to or arises out of the defendant’s forum contacts, so as to satisfy
the second requirement for the exercise of specific personal jurisdiction, if
there is ‘a substantial connection between the forum contacts and the
plaintiff's claim.’ [Citation.] The forum contacts need not be the proximate
cause or ‘but for’ cause of the alleged injuries. [Citation.] The forum
contacts also need not be ‘substantively relevant’ to the cause of action,
meaning those contacts need not establish or support an element of the cause of
action. [Citation.] ‘A claim need not arise directly from the defendant’s forum
contacts in order to be sufficiently related to the contact to warrant the
exercise of specific jurisdiction. Rather, as long as the claim bears a
substantial connection to the nonresident’s forum contacts, the exercise of specific
jurisdiction is appropriate.’ [Citation.] Accordingly, in evaluating the
quality and nature of the defendant’s forum contacts, we consider not only the
conduct directly affecting the plaintiff, but also the broader course of
conduct of which it is a part. [Citation.]” (Anglo Irish Bank Corp,
supra, 165 Cal.App.4th 969 at 979.) 
 
Defendants argue
that there is no substantial connection or nexus between their alleged
involvement and any contacts with California, which is required for the
exercise of specific jurisdiction. Additionally, Defendants argue that the
claim that they were involved in wage determinations at Last Chance is false,
as it was Plaintiff Hijaz Hijaz who oversaw wage-related decisions. (Ashraf
Hijaz Decl. ¶ 4; Hussein Hijaz Decl. ¶ 4.) Since they had no involvement in the
wage decisions, Defendants assert that there is no substantial relationship
between their actions and the claims in the litigation, thus failing the
specific jurisdiction test.
 
Plaintiffs argue
that the controversy in this case is related to Defendants’ contacts with
California. Plaintiffs emphasize that Defendants’ forum contacts do not need to
be directly aimed at the plaintiff to warrant specific jurisdiction, as long as
the operative facts of the controversy are related to Defendants’ activities in
the state. (Snowney v. Harrah’s Entertainment, Inc. (2005) 35 Cal.4th
1054, 1068.) Furthermore, the employment and wage disputes are tied to
Defendants’ business operations in California, making specific jurisdiction
appropriate.
 
In Snowney, the
court found that injuries suffered by a hotel patron arose out of the hotel’s
advertisements in California. (Snowney, Supra, 35 Cal.4th 1054 at 1069.)
 
Plaintiffs’ claims
arise out of their employment with Last
Chance Store, LLC, which Defendants are owner-operators of. (Kordab Decl. ¶ 4.)
While Defendants contend that the claims arise out of wage decisions they have
no part in, “[t]he forum contacts need not be the proximate cause or “but for” cause
of the alleged injuries.” (Anglo Irish Bank Corp, supra, 165
Cal.App.4th 969 at 979.) The claim must only “bear a substantial
connection to the nonresident's forum contacts,” which it does. (Ibid.)
Furthermore, Plaintiffs’ claims are more closely tied to Defendants activity
than in Snowney. (See, Snowney, Supra, 35 Cal.4th 1054 at 1069.)
While in Snowney, the only connection between the defendant's and the
plaintiff’s claim was advertisements that were run in California, here,
Plaintiffs’ claims arise out of Defendants owning and operating multiple stores
in California. (Snowney, Supra, 35 Cal.4th 1054 at 1069.) Therefore, the
Court finds that the Plaintiffs have met their burden of showing a substantial
connection between forum contacts and the Plaintiffs’ claim.
 
Fair Play and
Substantial Justice
 
In determining
fairness, California courts consider five factors: (1) the burden on the
defendant; (2) the interests of the forum state; (3) the plaintiff's interest
in obtaining relief; (4) the interstate judicial system's interest in
efficiently resolving disputes; and (5) the shared interest of different states
in promoting important social policies (Vons, supra, 14 Cal.4th
at 476.)
 
Plaintiffs argue
that exercising personal jurisdiction over Defendants is fair, reasonable, and
aligns with the principles of substantial justice, and since they have
established that Defendants have minimum contacts with California, the burden
shifts to Defendants to demonstrate why jurisdiction would be unreasonable.
Plaintiffs also argue that California has a significant interest in enforcing
its wage and hour laws, and since the violations occurred there, California has
a strong interest in resolving this dispute. 
 
On the other hand, Defendants
argue that asserting jurisdiction over them would be unfair and unreasonable.
Defendants claim that they are neither domiciled in California nor involved in
the wage decisions at issue, so it would be unfair to force them to litigate in
California. (Ashraf Hijaz Decl. ¶ 14; Hussein Hijaz Decl. ¶ 14.) They argue
that participation in the lawsuit would impose significant financial,
emotional, and physical burdens, as they have no relevant ties to the state.
Additionally, Defendants contend that California has no significant interest in
resolving claims against them since they were not involved in the alleged
violations. 
 
In Vons, the
Court found that California’s strong interest in protecting a California
corporation outweighed the defendant's burden in litigating a complex case far
from home. (Vons, supra, 14 Cal.4th at 477-478.)
 
Plaintiffs have
demonstrated that Defendants have sufficient minimum contacts with California
through their business operations, including hiring and managing employees in
the state. By deriving benefits from Plaintiffs’ work in California, Defendants
have purposefully availed themselves of the state’s jurisdiction. While
Defendants argue that litigating in California would impose financial,
emotional, and physical burdens, Defendants own and manage five separate stores
in California. (Kor Decl. ¶ 5)
Furthermore, like in Vons, California has a strong interest in
protecting its workers and enforcing California’s laws, which outweighs any
travel burdens Defendant may face. (See, Vons, supra, 14 Cal.4th
at 477-478.) Therefore, The Court finds that exercising personal jurisdiction
over Defendants comports with fair play and substantial justice.
 
            Thus, the Court denies Defendants’ Motion to Quash
Service of Summons for Lack of Personal Jurisdiction. 