  Case Number:  24TRCV00434    Hearing Date:   December 11, 2024    Dept:  E 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Southwest District
Torrance Dept. E




 
HEATHCLIFF
  REYES JR, an individual,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
24TRCV00434




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  Granted




 
TESLA,
  INC.; ONE STOP CAR AND DETAIL, INC.; HECTOR MIGUEL SARMIENTO ANTUNEZ; AND
  DOES 1 THROUGH 50, INCLUSIVE,


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:              December
11, 2024     
 
Moving Parties:          Cross Defendants Hector Miguel
Sarmiento Antunez and One Stop Car and Detail Inc.
Responding
Party:      Cross Complainant Tesla Inc.
 
HEARING: Motion to Strike
 
            The Court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.  
 
RULING
 
            The Court
grants the Motion to Strike with leave to amend. 
 
BACKGROUND
            
            On February 6, 2024,
Plaintiff Heathcliff Reyes Jr. filed the Complaint against Defendants Tesla,
Inc., One Stop Car and Detail, Inc., and Hector Miguel Sarmiento Antunez,
alleging a single cause of action for negligence arising from a motor vehicle
collision.
 
            On February 25, 2024,
Cross Complainant Tesla Inc. filed the Cross Complaint against Cross Defendants
One Stop Car and Detail, Inc. and Hector Miguel Sarmiento Antunez, alleging
causes of action for equitable indemnity, contribution, and declaratory relief.
 
            On September 30,
2024, Cross Defendants filed the instant Motion to Strike.
 
            On November 22, 2024,
Cross Complainant filed the Opposition.
 
            On December 4, 2024,
Cross Defendants filed the Reply.
            
JUDICIAL
NOTICE
            
The Court may take judicial notice of facts
and propositions that are not reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of
immediate and accurate determination by resorting to sources of reasonably
indisputable accuracy. (Evid. Code § 452 subd. (h).) 
 
            Cross Complainant
requests that the Court take judicial notice of Cross Defendant One Stop Car
and Detail, Inc.'s Verified Response to Plaintiff's Request for Admissions and
Cross Defendant Hector Miguel Sarmiento's Verified Response to Plaintiff's
Request for Admissions. (Evid. Code § 452 subd. (h); Valerjo v. Andrew
Younguist Const. (2002) 103 CA4th 1264, 1273.)
 
 Cross-Defendants argue that the
Cross-Complainant's reliance on judicial notice of discovery responses is
improper, particularly in the context of a pleadings challenge. (Bounds v.
Superior Court (2014) 229 Cal.App.4th 468, 477.)  Cross-Defendants argue that judicial notice
can only establish the existence of certain documents, not the truth of
disputed factual assertions contained within those documents. (C.R. v.
Tenant Healthcare Corp. (2009) 169 Cal.App.4th 1094, 1103–04.) They
highlight that Valerio is irrelevant to judicial notice and
emphasize that admissions in discovery responses, while binding on the
responding party, do not resolve broader factual disputes or bind other
parties, such as plaintiff Reyes. (Valerjo, supra, 103 CA4th 1264, 1273.)
 
A Court may take judicial notice of the
pleading party's discovery responses to the extent they contain statements of
the party that are inconsistent with the allegations of the pleading before the
court. (Bounds, supra, 229 Cal.App.4th 468 477.) However, in doing so,
the Court cannot turn the hearing into a contested evidentiary dispute. (Id.)
 
            Cross Complainant
seeks judicial notice of Cross Defendants’ responses to Plaintiff’s requests
for admissions (RFA). Cross Defendants argue that these responses have no
effect as a denial of an RFA does not conclusively establish anything.
 
 These
evidentiary arguments are exactly what the Court in Bounds warns of. (Bounds,
supra, 229 Cal.App.4th 468 477.) Therefore, given the disputed nature over
the evidentiary value of these documents, the Court takes judicial notice of
the existence of Cross Defendant One Stop Car and Detail, Inc.'s Verified
Response to Plaintiff's Request for Admissions and Cross Defendant Hector
Miguel Sarmiento's Verified Response to Plaintiff's Request for Admissions but
refuses to take judicial notice of their contents. (C.R, supra, 169 Cal.App.4th
1094, 1103–04.)
 
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
The court may, upon a motion, or at any time
in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436
subd. (a).) The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn
or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order
of the court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436 subd. (b).) The grounds for a motion to
strike are that the pleading has irrelevant, false, or improper matter or has
not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436) The
grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way
of judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.) 
                        
DISCUSSION 
 
Cross Defendants
request the Court strike paragraph 10, lines 17-22, paragraph 17 of the Cross
Complaint, and paragraph 5 of Cross Complainant’s prayer for relief.
 
Cross Defendants
argue that Cross Complainant cannot claim attorney fees under the "tort of
another" doctrine or California Code of Civil Procedure section 1021.6
because Cross Complainant does not allege that it is free from fault in the
plaintiff's injuries. (David S. Karton, a Law Corp. v. Musick, Peeler &
Garrett LLP (2022) 83 Cal.App.5th 1027, 1035.) The doctrine allows recovery
of attorney fees when a party, through no fault of their own, is forced to
bring or defend against an action caused by another's tortious conduct. (Id.)
However, to invoke this doctrine, the party must demonstrate they are entirely
blameless. (See Heckert v. MacDonald (1989) 208 Cal.App.3d 832, 838.)
 
The Cross Complaint
does not assert its lack of fault. Instead, Cross Complainant’s claims for equitable indemnity, contribution, and
declaratory relief explicitly acknowledge the possibility of shared
responsibility and seek apportionment of fault among the parties.
(Cross-Complaint, ¶¶ 9-10, 12-13, 18.) Cross Complainant alleges that any damages awarded to Plaintiff
should be divided based on proportional fault, implying Cross
Complainant may bear partial liability.
 
Furthermore, Cross Defendants
argue that the "tort of another" doctrine is inapplicable in this
case because Cross Complainant has not alleged that Cross Defendants wrongfully
made it necessary for Cross Complainant to defend against the Complaint. For the doctrine
to apply, the attorneys' fees and costs must arise from a tortious act by Cross
Defendants that directly caused Cross Complainant to incur those expenses. (Mega
RV Corp. v. HWH Corp. (2014) 225 Cal.App.4th 1318, 1339.) 
 
Cross Defendants
emphasize that nearly all cases applying this doctrine involve a clear breach
of a tort duty owed by the party seeking fees to the party alleged to have
caused the harm. In this car accident case, Plaintiff alleges that Mr. Antunez
negligently caused the collision while acting within the scope of his
employment with Tesla and/or One Stop. (Complaint, ¶¶ 1-10, 13.) However, Cross
Complainant does not allege Cross Defendants owed or breached a duty
specifically to Cross Complainant that led to the need for Cross Complainant to
defend against Plaintiff’s complaint. Without such an allegation,
Cross-Defendants contend that the "tort of another" doctrine cannot
apply.
 
In opposition,
Cross Complainant argues that it is entitled to recover attorneys' fees and
costs from Cross Defendants under the "tort of another" doctrine,
which allows for such recovery when a party is forced to bring or defend an action
due to the tortious conduct of another. Mega RV Corp. v. IIIWH Corp.
(2014) 225 Cal. App. 4th 1318.) Cross Complainant asserts that it has
sufficiently alleged Cross Defendants' negligence and breach of duty caused
Cross Complainant to incur legal expenses in defending against the claims
brought by Plaintiff.
 
Cross Complainant
contends that Cross Defendants' arguments to strike its prayer for attorneys'
fees are incorrect. Cross Complainant denies fault for Plaintiff Reyes'
injuries and alleges that Cross Defendants were negligent or reckless in
causing the events leading to the claims. (Cross Complaint, ¶¶ 4, 7, 11, 14.)
Cross-Complainant also asserts that it is entitled to equitable indemnity and
apportionment of liability proportionate to fault. (Cross-Complaint, ¶ 18.)
 
Cross-Complainant
concludes that it has properly pleaded sufficient allegations to support its
claims and the recovery of attorneys' fees and costs from Cross-Defendants.
Cross-Complainant requests that the court deny Cross-Defendants' motion to
strike the prayer for attorneys' fees and costs with prejudice.
 
            In Prentice v. North Am. Title Guaranty Corp., Alameda
Division, the Court stated that “A person who through the tort of another
has been required to act in the protection of his interests by bringing or
defending an action against a third person is entitled to recover compensation
for the reasonably necessary loss of time, attorney's fees, and other
expenditures thereby suffered or incurred.”(Prentice v. North Am. Title
Guaranty Corp., Alameda Division (1963) 59 Cal.2d 618, 620.) However, the
Tort of Another doctrine applies only when the party seeking fees bears no
fault. (See Heckert v. MacDonald (1989) 208 Cal.App.3d 832, 838; Watson
v. Department of Transportation (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 885, 891.)
 
            Cross Complainant argues that it denies all allegations
against it in the Compliant and, therefore, bears no fault. (Cross-Complaint, ¶¶
5, 8.) However, Cross Complainant also alleges joint liability throughout the
Complaint. (Cross-Complaint, ¶¶ 10-13, 18.) The Court finds that a party who is
making a claim for joint liability cannot also claim they bear no fault.
Consequently, the tort of another doctrine does not apply.
 
            Therefore, the Court grants the Motion to Strike Cross
Complainants request for attorney’s fees with leave to amend.
 