 Case Number:  21STCV13383    Hearing Date:   February 9, 2024    Dept:  30 NICHOLAS HENRY vs OSCAR CALDERON, et al.TENTATIVEPlaintiff’s motion to consolidate with related case is CONTINUED. Judicial Assistant to calendar.  Moving party to give notice.Legal Standard“When actions involving a common question of law or fact are pending before the court, it may order a joint hearing or trial of any or all the matters in issue in the actions; it may order all the actions consolidated and it may make such orders concerning proceedings therein as may tend to avoid unnecessary costs or delay.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 1048, subd. (a).) The purpose of consolidation is to enhance trial court efficiency by avoiding unnecessary duplication of evidence and the danger of inconsistent adjudications. (See Todd-Stenberg v. Dalkon Shield Claimants Trust (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 976, 978-979.)A Notice of Motion to consolidate cases must (1) include a list of all named parties in each case, the names of those who have appeared, and the names of their respective attorneys of record; (2) include the captions of all the cases sought to be consolidated; and (3) be filed in each case sought to be consolidated. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.350(a)(1).)“Cases may not be consolidated unless they are in the same department. A motion to consolidate two or more cases may be noticed and heard after the cases, initially filed in different departments, have been related into a single department, or if the cases were already assigned to that department.” (Super. Ct. L.A. County, Local Rules, rule 3.3(g)(1).)DiscussionDefendants moves for consolidation of this case with 21STCV26619, arguing that both cases involve the same collision and the same parties. Plaintiff in this case was a passenger in Plaintiff Dunn’s car, which was involved in a collision with Defendant Calderon’s vehicle.This action and 21STCV26619 were deemed related on October 7, 2021, however, 21STCV26619 has not been assigned to this Department, after this case was transferred to this department on October 12, 2021 in an inventory transfer.The Court finds that both cases arise from the same collision, and involve the same cause of action for negligence. Further, Defendants are the defendants in both cases. Thus, all these actions involve common issues of law and fact.Plaintiff has listed all named parties in each case, the parties who have appeared in the actions, and the names of their respective attorneys of record in the notice of motion to consolidate. Plaintiff has also included the captions of all the cases sought to be consolidated. However, Plaintiff has not filed the notice of motion to consolidate in related case 21STCV26619. Plaintiff has thus not complied with CRC Rule 3.350(a)(1).Further, Plaintiff Dunn’s counsel has not been served with notice of this motion.Therefore, the Court will continue the matter to allow Plaintiff to file the notice of motion to consolidate in related case 21STCV26619, and serve Plaintiff Dunn with this motion.