[1] Plaintiff also alleges that Defendant did not “amicably” try to resolve his dispute. [2] Notably, Plaintiff failed to file a code compliant response to Defendant’s separate statement  or include a separate statement of his own in violation of CCP § 437c(b)(3).). Nonetheless, consistent with the law, the court used its discretion to take reasonable steps to enable Plaintiff as a pro se litigant to be heard. (Cal. Code Jud. Ethics, canon 3B(8).))[3] Defendant also argues that there are no triable facts at issue concerning its obligation to conduct a brake test or terminating Plaintiff instead of progressively disciplining him. The court need not delve deeply into these two points because Defendant’s following the CBA grievance procedure disposes of Plaintiff’s claim. First, Defendant’s evidence, namely, the CBA and Declaration of Robert Chavez establish that the brake test was not necessary. Aside from argument in his opposition, Plaintiff did not offer any evidence to dispute this. (College Hosp., Inc. v. Sup. Ct. (Crowell) (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 720, fn. 7. [noting that an opposing party’s pleadings are not evidence even when they are verified.]) (internal citations omitted.) As to progressive discipline, Defendant’s evidence, namely, the Accident Review Board Decisions, establish that Defendant found Plaintiff’s conduct to be egregious and warranted termination. Plaintiff disputes that he met the requirement for “egregious” conduct but did not offer any evidence to support his position. In fact, Plaintiff made the same arguments at during his grievance procedure. (Defendant’s Ex. 5.) In this way, Plaintiff tries to have the court overturn the Accident Review Board’s decision. As discussed above, this is something the court may not do. (See Terrell, supra, at p. 21.) [4] The court notes that, generally, Plaintiff’s arguments seek to persuade the court to disagree with the Accident Review Board’s termination decision. The court reiterates that it only looks for genuine material factual disputes and will not weigh evidence credibility or make determinations on the Accident Review Board hearings.[5]Plaintiff does not dispute this factual history and has attached similar documents as exhibits to his supplemental opposition. (See Exhibits 8, 9, and 10.)[6] Notably, Plaintiff failed to file a code compliant response to Defendant’s separate statement  or include a separate statement of his own in violation of CCP § 437c(b)(3).). Nonetheless, consistent with the law, the court used its discretion to take reasonable steps to enable Plaintiff as a pro se litigant to be heard. (Cal. Code Jud. Ethics, canon 3B(8).) Also, the court disregards Plaintiff’s spoliation argument because he provided no evidence supporting his claim. Even if the court entertained the argument, it is unclear what evidence Plaintiff intends to use from this allegedly destroyed evidence to show a material factual dispute. [7] Plaintiff cites to United Parcel Service, Inc. v. Mitchell (1981) 451 U.S. 56, but reliance on this case is misplaced. There, the plaintiff’s claim stemmed from the Labor Management Relations Act. Here, the case stems from a specific CBA. The SAC does not have claims for the Labor Management Relations Act. [8] Plaintiff references a four-month delay in receiving the letter and contends that the time to appeal had passed without citing any authority for this proposition. Without such authority, it is unclear how this is evidence of bad faith by the union. Moreover, his argument that LAC Metro was required to conduct a brake test is belied by the record. As cited by Defendant, Article 27, section of CBA only sets forth the procedure if a brake test is conducted. A plain reading of the text does not reveal a mandatory duty to conduct a brake test as Plaintiff argues. (Exhibit 4, page 106.) Plaintiff’s assertion that there was a violation of the progressive discipline police also ignores the “egregious avoidable accident” exception that subjects an employee to a formal discharge hearing. (Exhibit 4, pages 95,105-105.) Plaintiff was notified prior to a hearing that Defendant was proceeding under the “egregious avoidable accident” provision. (Exhibit 6, page 1.)   [9] The party opposing summary judgment “may not rely upon the mere allegations or denials of its pleadings,” but rather “shall set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue of material fact exists . . . .” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) The opposing party must show that some “material fact” is in controversy, which requires more than raising credibility issue(s) about moving party’s declarations. (CCP § 437(c).) [10]In his supplemental opposition, Plaintiff raises a variety of other claims, including retaliation and wage issues, that are not clearly part of his operative pleading. The Court had sustained Demurrers previously and had indicated that while the original pleading was unclear, as far as the Court could interpret, Plaintiff was alleging a single cause of action for a violation of the collective bargaining agreement. (SEE Minute Order 12/30/21.) The Court granted Plaintiff two opportunities to amend this single cause of action. Ultimately, in  the SAC, Plaintiff successfully  alleged single cause of action for  wrongful termination based upon a violation of the CBA. The complaint also postulated Plaintiff’s belief that Defendant was motivated to violate the collective bargaining agreement to retaliate against Plaintiff from filing complaints with the EEOC and the California Fair Employment and Housing without explaining in any detail the basis for these beliefs. Without more, this does not create a separate and independent cause of action.