 Case Number:  23SMCV01580    Hearing Date:   October 13, 2023    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Khanian v. General
Motors LLC, et al.
CASE NO.:                23SMCV01580
MOTION:                  Motion
to Compel Deposition of Defendant GM’s PMK
HEARING DATE:   10/13/2023

 
Legal
Standard
 
Service of a proper deposition
notice obligates a party or “party-affiliated” witness (officer, director,
managing agent or employee of party) to attend and testify, as well as produce
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing for
inspection and copying. (CCP § 2025.280(a).) If, after service of a deposition
notice, a party deponent fails to appear, testify, or produce documents or
tangible things for inspection without having served a valid objection under
CCP § 2025.410, the deposing party may move for an order compelling attendance,
testimony, and production. (CCP § 2025.450(a).) The motion must be accompanied
by a meet and confer declaration, or, when a party deponent fails to attend the
deposition, the motion must also be accompanied by a declaration stating that
the moving party has contacted the party deponent to inquire about the
nonappearance. (CCP § 2025.450(b)(2).) 
 
A motion to compel production
of documents described in a deposition notice must be accompanied by a showing
of good cause. (CCP § 2025.450(b)(1).) In other words, the moving party must
provide evidence (generally in the form of declarations) showing specific facts
justifying inspection of the documents described in the notice. Courts
liberally construe good cause in favor of discovery where facts show the
documents are necessary for trial preparation.
 
The motion to compel must be
“made no later than 60 days after the completion of the record of the
deposition.” (CCP § 2025.480(b).) This time limit also applies to motions based
on a deposition subpoena for production of documents or a business records subpoena.
The 60-day time limit runs from the date objections are served because the
deposition record is then complete. (Rutledge v. Hewlett-Packard Co.
(2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 1164, 1192.) 
 
Analysis
 
Plaintiff
moves to compel Defendant General Motors (GM) to produce its Person(s) Most
Knowledgeable (PMK).  GM
represents that it agrees to produce its PMK on all categories in the
deposition notices. GM contends that the only issue to determine is a mutually
agreeable date and time for the deposition. The Court therefore orders the
parties to meet and confer on a mutually agreeable date and time for the
deposition. 
 
Accordingly, the motion is
CONTINUED to _________________.  The
motion will be taken off calendar if the parties come to an agreement and the deposition
moves forward. Given that Plaintiff failed to meet and confer with GM on this
issue, the Court is not inclined to grant the requested sanctions.  The parties are ordered to inform the Court
three days before the next hearing whether the matter can be taken off
calendar.  