  Case Number:  21STCV02647    Hearing Date:   October 13, 2023    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Sanchez, v. Mizban,
et al.
CASE NO.:                21STCV02647
MOTION:                  Motion
to Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories
HEARING DATE:   10/13/2023

 
Legal
Standard
 
            In
the absence of contrary court order, a civil litigant’s right to discovery is
broad. “[A]ny party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged,
that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending action . . . if
the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (CCP § 2017.010;
see Davies v. Superior Court
(1984) 36 Cal.3d 291, 301.) “For discovery purposes, information is relevant if
it ‘might reasonably assist a party in evaluating the case, preparing for
trial, or facilitating settlement.’ [Citation] Admissibility is not the test
and information, unless privileged, is discoverable if it might reasonably lead
to admissible evidence. [Citation] These rules are applied liberally in favor
of discovery.” (Gonzales v. Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1539,
1546.) 
 
A motion to compel further responses to form or specially
prepared interrogatories (SROGs) may be brought if the responses contain: (1)
answers that are evasive or incomplete; (2) an unwarranted or insufficiently
specific exercise of an option to produce documents in lieu of a substantive
response; or (3) unmerited or overly generalized objections.  (CCP §
2030.300(a).)   
 
            A motion to compel further must be
noticed within 45 days of the
service of a response, or any supplemental response, or on or before any
specific later date to which the propounding party and the responding party
have agreed in writing. Otherwise, the propounding party waives any right
to compel further response to the inspection demand. (See, e.g., CCP §
2031.310(c).)
 
            Motions to compel further responses
must always be accompanied by a meet-and confer-declaration (per CCP §
2016.040) demonstrating a “reasonable and good faith attempt an informal
resolution of each issue presented by the motion.” (CCP §§ 2030.300(b),
2031.310(b)(2), 2033.290(b).) They must also be accompanied by a separate
statement containing the requests and the responses, verbatim, as well as
reasons why a further response is warranted. (CRC, rule 3.1345(a).) The
separate statement must also be complete in itself; no extrinsic materials may
be incorporated by reference. (CRC rule 3.1345(c).)
 
            If a timely motion to compel has
been filed, the¿burden is on the responding party¿to justify any objection or
failure fully to answer.¿(Coy v. Superior Court (1962) 58 Cal.2d 210,
220–221 [addressing a motion to compel further responses to interrogatories];
see also¿Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Superior Court¿(2000) 22 Cal.4th 245,
255.) 
 
 
Analysis
 
Late Filed Opposition
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 1005 states that all
papers opposing a motion shall be filed with the court and a copy served on
each party at least nine court days before the hearing. Plaintiff’s Opposition
to the instant motion was due on September 29, 2023. Plaintiff’s Opposition was
not filed until October 6, 2023. This belated service precluded Defendant from
filing a reply brief by October 5, 2023. “A trial court has broad discretion
under rule 3.1300(d) of the Rules of Court to refuse to consider papers served
and filed beyond the deadline without a prior court order finding good cause
for late submission.” (Bozzi v. Nordstrom, Inc. (2010) 186 Cal.App.4th
755, 765.) Here, there was no good cause for the late filing and the Court
disregards the late filed opposition.
 
Procedural Issues
 
The Court, however, will consider
the procedural issued raised by Plaintiff regarding notice of the hearing date
for this motion.  Plaintiff’s counsel
attests that there was no paperwork indicating the new hearing date of this
motion. (Hakin Decl., ¶ 5.) Plaintiff contends that there was a June 1, 2023,
hearing date for this motion, which was continued without notice to October 13,
2023. However, the proof of service on record indicates that the instant motion
was served on May 8, 2023, with the correct hearing date.  Counsel assertion otherwise is incorrect. 
 
Furthermore, Defendant notes that the
motion related to the June 1, 2023, hearing date was a Motion to Compel Responses
to Defendant’s Special Interrogatories, Set Three, as opposed to a Motion to
Compel Further responses to these interrogatories.  Plaintiff also leads the court to believe further
supplemental responses in January 2023 mooted this motion. (Hakin Decl., ¶ 4,
Ex. C.) Yet, the most recent responses were on May 5, 2023. (Kang Decl., Ex.
K.)
 
Merits
 
Defendant seeks to compel further
responses as to Special Interrogatories, Set Three, nos. 42-43, 45-46.
 
SPECIAL INTERROGATORY NO. 42:
IDENTIFY any PERSONS YOU have worked with in a professional capacity from the
date of the INCIDENT to present.
 
The final supplemental response is:
 
Objection. Vague and ambiguous as
to “any persons” and “professional capacity.” Objection. Information regarding
tax returns is privileged under federal and state law. Webb v. Standard Oil
Co., 49 Cal.2d 509 (1957); Brown v. Superior Court, 71 Cal.App.3d 144 (1977);
Aday v. Superior Court, 55 Cal.2d 789, 796 (1961); Schnabel v. Superior Court,
5 Cal.4th 704, 718-723 (1993). This privilege is to be broadly construed.
Sav-On Drugs, Inc. v. Superior Court, 15 Cal.3d 1, 6-7 (1975). The privilege
covers far more than the return itself. It includes “indirect” disclosure of
its contents by any procedure. Schnabel, op. cit., at 719. Thus, the
taxpayer-litigant may not be compelled to disclose amounts of income reported
or deductions claimed. Sav-On Drugs, op. cit. Objection. The information
requested is protected by Responding Party’s constitutional right to privacy in
financial information and is not subject to discovery in this action. The
request is burdensome and harassing and is not calculated to lead to the discovery
of admissible evidence. However, without waiving the foregoing objections,
Responding Party responds as follows: Since Responding Party was
self-employed at the time of incident, he did not work with any individuals, or
for any individuals in his professional capacity. Furthermore, Responding Party
is not asserting a claim for lost wages, and therefore may not be compelled to
disclose amounts of income reported or deductions claimed. Lastly,
if this Propounding party is seeking information regarding Responding
Party’s former clientele, said information would also be privileged for the
privacy for said clientele. Responding Party reserves the right to amend
and/or supplement this response, as discovery and investigation are ongoing and
continuing.
 
(Emphasis added.)
 
The Court notes that Plaintiff
asserts similar boilerplate objections to each SROG. As there is no opposition,
Plaintiff fails to justify their objections. Further, the substantive answer continues
to be factually evasive. The Court concludes that Plaintiff’s discovery
responses were factually insufficient, evasive and not-code compliant. The
request requests the identify of other people Plaintiff “worked with in a
professional capacity” from the date of the incident to present. This is not
asking about self-employment, lost wages, or taxes. Plaintiff fails to justify
the privacy objection as to the clientele. 
 
SPECIAL INTERROGATORY NO. 43:
IDENTIFY any PERSONS YOU that have knowledge of the reasons why YOUR driver’s
license was suspended at the time of the INCIDENT.
 
Plaintiff provided the following substantive response:
 
Responding Party is unaware of any
specific medical conditions that caused his seizure over fifteen years ago,
which led to the driver’s license suspension. Responding Party conducted a
diligent search into his personal records to locate medical documents
pertaining to the seizure but has been unsuccessful in locating nearly fifteen
year old documents because he has moved into multiple different residences
since the specified time period. 
 
The response is evasive. This fails
to identify any persons as required by the SROG.
 
SPECIAL INTERROGATORY NO. 45:
IDENTIFY any PERSONS that have knowledge of YOUR activities following the
INCIDENT on the night the INCIDENT occurred. 
 
Plaintiff provided the following substantive response:
 
Tod Ziman and Sarah Ziman each of
whom have been contacted and deposed by this Propounding Party.
 
Plaintiff does not provide the
address and telephone number for the persons identified in the response.
 
 
SPECIAL INTERROGATORY NO. 46:
IDENTIFY any PERSONS YOU that took any of the photographs depicted in YOUR
December 10, 2020 demand letter related to the INCIDENT.
 
Plaintiff provided the following substantive response:
 
After a diligent search and
reasonable inquiry, responding party has determined it cannot comply with this
request because to its knowledge the persons responsive to this request are
unknown. As previously indicated to this Propounding Party, Responding Party
and the individuals did not know who took the photograph. To the best of
Responding Party's knowledge and recollection, an unknown bystander was asked
to take the subject photograph. 
 
This response is evasive and
incomplete. Plaintiff states that he does not know any person who took photos
depicted in his December 10th demand letter, and that they were taken by an
“unknown bystander.” Defendant cites photos taken in Plaintiff’s bedroom and
other locations, such as a selfie in front of the Eiffel Tower. Thus, the
response is apparently incomplete.
 
The motion is GRANTED. Sanctions
are mandatory and imposed in the noticed amount of $2,790.00 against Peter
Hakim and/or Downtown LA Law Group, jointly and severally.
 
Further responses are due within 10
days.  Sanctions are payable within 30
days.