

Hearing Date:             August 13, 2024                      
Case Name:                 Playboy Enterprises
International, Inc. et al., vs. Advanced Vita Supplements Corporation, et al.
Case
No.:                    21STCV07609     
Motion:                       Leave
to file Second Amended Complaint      
Moving
Party:             Plaintiffs
Playboy Enterprise International, Inc. and Products Licensing, LLC

Responding Party:      Defendants Advanced Vita Supplements
Corporation, AVS Products LLC, and Sasha Matloob, and Sunrise Brands LLC,
Specially Appearing 


 

Tentative Ruling:      The Motion for Leave to File the Second
Amended Complaint is denied.
 

 
Background
 
On February 25, 2021, Plaintiffs Playboy
Enterprises International, Inc. and Products Licensing LLC (together “Plaintiffs”)
filed this action against Defendants Advanced Vita Supplements, AVS Products
LLC, and Sasha Matloob  (“AVS Defendants”)
for (1) breach of contract, (2) violation of Bus. & Prof. Code § 17200, (3)
violation of Bus. & Prof. Code § 17500, and (4) declaratory relief. Plaintiffs
allege that Defendants breached their licensing agreement to use Plaintiffs'
trademarks and then continued to market and sell Playboy-branded products after
the agreement was terminated. 
 
            On May 7,
2021, Plaintiffs filed their First Amended Complaint adding a fifth cause of
action for an accounting. 
            
            On
June 26, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a substitution of attorney. The following day,
Plaintiffs/Cross-defendants filed an ex parte application to continue
the trial date to no earlier than June 30, 2025, which the Court denied due to
a lack of good cause. (7/10/24 Minute Order) 
 
On July 31, 2024, Plaintiffs/Cross-defendants filed the
instant motion for leave to file a second amended complaint, seeking to add as
defendants Sunrise Brands LLC, Sunrise PB Investments LLC, Todd Kay, and Gerard
Guez (Sunrise Defendants), as well as nine additional causes of action.
 
On August 8, 2024, AVS Defendants and Sunrise Defendants separately
opposed Plaintiffs’ motion for leave to amend the complaint. 
 
 
Motion for leave to amend the complaint.
 
            The Court
grants Defendants’ request for judicial notice of a portion of Playboy’s
website, though not for its truth.  The
Court grants Sunrise Defendants’ request to take judicial notice of Playboy’s
preliminary injunction motion and supporting declaration. 
            
Plaintiffs move for an order granting
leave to file a Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) and deem the SAC filed and
served on all Defendants/Cross-complainants. 
 
In
lieu of DOES 1 through 5, Plaintiffs seek leave to add the following as
Defendants: 
1.    
Sunrise Brands, LLC, a California limited liability
company, 
2.    
Sunrise PB Investment, a California limited liability
company, 
3.    
Todd Kay, an individual, 
4.    
Gerard Guez, an individual
 
Plaintiffs seek to add nine new causes of action, including:
6.    
Fraudulent Concealment,
7.    
Tortious Interference,
8.    
Trademark Infringement, 15 U.S.C. § 1114,
9.    
False Designation of Origin, 15 U.S.C. § 1125(a),
10.  Trademark
Dilution, 15 U.S.C. § 1125(c),
11.  Cybersquatting,
15 U.S.C. § 1125(d),
12.  Trademark
Infringement, Common Law,
13.  Negligent
Misrepresentation,
14.  Common
Law Unfair Competition
 
 
Plaintiffs assert that they seek to
amend the First Amended Complaint due to evidence produced on March 21, 2024,
showing Sunrise was involved with Defendant AVS in marketing strategies, sales
distribution, and international shipping beyond the termination of the
governing agreement. 
 
Plaintiffs argue that there is no
undue prejudice to Sunrise Defendants because the new claims refer to the conduct
articulated in the original complaint and the trademark claims are timely
because they are not subject to a statute of limitations.
 
As to the newly added causes of
action for cybersquatting, fraudulent concealment, tortious interference,
negligent misrepresentation, and common law unfair competition, Plaintiff argues
that there is no surprise to Sunrise Defendants. Plaintiffs newly alleged,
eleventh cause of action for cybersquatting is related to Defendant’s unauthorized
use of unlawful domain names to market and sell Playboy-branded products. Plaintiff’s
cause of action for fraudulent concealment arises from Sunrise’s complication
of facts related to their involvement in marketing and strategy for Defendant
AVS’s actions. Because the tortious interference, negligent
misrepresentation, and common law unfair competition relate to the original
complaint and show the injury to Plaintiffs, leave should be granted to amend.
 
Plaintiffs further contend that Sunrise
Defendants are already participating in discovery through the third-party
subpoenaed depositions of Todd Kay and Gerard Guez, as principals of Sunrise. 
 
            Finally, Plaintiffs
argue that a denial of the motion would not be in the best interests of justice
because the claims in the proposed SAC are related to the original complaint.
If denied, Plaintiffs will file a separate action and seek to relate the cases,
resulting in a waste of judicial resources. 
 
 
            The
AVS Defendants contend that the motion is unreasonably delayed and prejudicial
because Plaintiffs have been familiar with the proposed Sunrise Defendants’
involvement as early as 2017. 
 
In support, Defendants cite the
operative agreement, the Fourth Amendment to the Product License Agreement,
dated September 20, 2017, and how it expressly refers to the proposed
defendants Todd Kay, Gerard Guez, and Sunrise PB Investment, LLC. Defendants
cite 2017 and 2018 correspondence between Playboy and Creative Artists Agency
(“CAA”) in which Sunrise, Guez and Kay are discussed, and where Plaintiffs
directed CAA to work with Sunrise agents even after Playboy delivered a March
2020 termination letter to AVS.
 
Particularly, Defendants allege
that Plaintiffs claim are unreasonably delayed because Plaintiffs knew of the sales
of Playboy-branded products abroad since as early as 2021, have been aware of the
Sunrise Defendants since 2017, and knew about the use of Plaintiffs’ domain
names since 2018. 
 
Defendants also allege that the addition
of four new defendants and nine new causes of action two months prior to trial would
cause delay and add to preparation costs in the instant case.
 
The specially appearing Sunrise Defendants urge the Court to
deny the motion to amend because service of process against them is late. The
complaint was filed on February 25, 2021, and Plaintiffs filed this Motion on
July 31, 2024, over three years after the original complaint was filed. Under
Code of Civil Procedure section 583.210, subdivision (a) and section 583.250, the
action against them “cannot be prosecuted.”
 
Apart from that, Sunrise Defendants maintain that nearly
all of the claims alleged against them are barred by the statute of
limitations.
 
Legal Standard
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
473, subdivision (a)(1), “[t]he court may, in furtherance of justice, and on
any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading.”  Amendment may be allowed at any time before
or after commencement of trial. (Code Civ. Proc., § 576.) “[T]he court’s
discretion will usually be exercised liberally to permit amendment of the
pleadings. The policy favoring amendment is so strong that it is a rare case in
which denial of leave to amend can be justified.” (Howard v. County of San Diego (2010) 184
Cal.App.4th 1422, 1428 (internal citations omitted).) “If the motion to amend
is timely made and the granting of the motion will not prejudice the opposing
party, it is error to refuse permission to amend….”  (Morgan v. Sup. Ct. (1959) 172
Cal.App.2d 527, 530.) Prejudice includes “delay in trial, loss of critical
evidence, or added costs of preparation.” (Solit v. Tokai Bank, Ltd. New
York Branch (1999) 68 Cal.App.4th 1435, 1448.) 
 
A motion to amend a pleading before trial must
include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must be
serially numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments.
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(a).) The motion must also state what
allegations are proposed to be deleted or added, by page, paragraph, and line
number.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1324(a).) Finally, a separate supporting declaration specifying the effect of
the amendment, why the amendment is necessary and proper, when the facts giving
rise to the amended allegations were discovered, and the reason the request for
amendment was not made earlier must also accompany the motion. (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.134(b).) 
 
Discussion
 
Plaintiffs seek leave to amend their First
Amended Complaint to add nine new causes of action against four new defendants.

 
The motion was filed on July 31,
2024, and trial was 61 days away, as it is scheduled to begin on September 30,
2024. According to Plaintiffs, the new evidence leading to the filing of this
motion was discovered on or about March 21, 2024, in response to a request for
Defendants’ production of documents, and communication related to Todd
Kay, Gerard Guez, and Hubert Guez and contain communications among and between
these individuals, and an additional document production after Gerard Guez’s
deposition. (Decl. of Frost, ¶ 5.) Plaintiffs argue that the documents were
deliberately produced late in the case and Defendants buried the voluminous
documents by labeling them “AVS” productions. (Decl., of Frost ¶ 6.) A
long-deferred presentation of the proposed amendment without a showing of
excuse for the delay is itself a significant factor to uphold the trial court's
denial of the amendment.'"]; Estate of Murphy (1978) 82 Cal.App.3d
304, 311, ["Where inexcusable delay and probable prejudice to the
opposing  party is indicated, the trial
court's exercise of discretion in denying a proposed amendment should not be
disturbed."] Leader v. Health Industries of America, Inc. (2001) 89
Cal.App.4th 603, 613.)  “Prejudice exists
where the proposed amendment would require delaying the trial, resulting in
added costs of preparation and increased discovery burdens.” (Miles v. City
of LA. (2020) 56 Cal.App.5th 728, 739.) 
 
Plaintiffs’ claim that they were
ignorant of Sunrise’s role in AVS’s operations is disingenuous.  The roles of Guez, Kay, and the Sunrise
entities in AVS’s ownership and operations were disclosed to Plaintiffs in 2021.
As early as 2017, Playboy’s internal communications recognized the role the
Sunrise Defendant played in execution of the parties’ agreements.  These communications expressly linked AVS and
Sunrise. Playboy was fully aware of that Guez and Kay, principals of the
Sunrise entities, were more than equal partners with AVS. Plaintiffs’ claim
that Sunrise’s role was hidden from them is unsupported by the evidence.  (Downes’ decl. Exhs. 2, 5, 9, 10, 18, 19.)
 
Accordingly, the Court finds no
justification for Plaintiffs’ delay in naming the Sunrise entities, Guez, and
Kay.  Moreover, by adding them as
formerly Doe defendants, Plaintiff is unable to serve them within the three
years of initiating the action. These Defendants would be dismissed under Code
of Civil Procedure section 583.210, subdivision (a). (Higgins v. Superior
Court (2017) 15 Cal.App.5th 973, 982 [“even where the filing of
an amended complaint on a Doe defendant relates back to the filing of an
original complaint, the plaintiff must nonetheless identify and serve a Doe
defendant with a summons and complaint within three years of the commencement
of the action”].)
 
            Plaintiffs’
motion for leave to amend is denied.  
 