

Hearing Date:             August
13, 2024
Case Name:                Julian
Pulido v. County of Los Angeles, et al.
Case No.:                    24STCV07029
Motion:                       Demurrer
/ Motion to Strike (FAC)
Moving Party:             Defendants,
County of Los Angeles; Ngozi Chukwuemek, NP; Trini Bui, NP; Monika
Villazon, NP; Taylor Docter, PGY3; Mina Masri, D.O.; Keith Carrillo,
NP; Beverly Welch; Tchuisse Hermione, NP; Manuel O. Natividad, M.D.;
Veronica Hernandez-Lara, NP; Rea Whitman, PA; Chase Luther, M.D.;
Robert Paquette, M.D.; Ziba Dayani, PA; Ekaterina Korol, NP;
Dina Villapudua, PA; Olivia Gomez, MD; Brittany Slaughter, PA;
Alexis M. Peters, M.D.; Aung Lin, D.O.; Christina R. Ghaly, M.D.; Timothy
Belavich, Ph.D.; and Sean Henderson, M.D.
Opposing Party:          Plaintiff,
Juan Pulido

 
Tentative Ruling:      The
demurrer to the first and third causes of action is overruled.
                                    The
demurrer to the second, fourth, fifth, and sixth causes of action is sustained
with leave to amend.
 

             
         Plaintiff Juan Pulido (“Plaintiff”) sued
defendants the County of Los Angeles (“the County”); Ngozi
Chukwuemek, NP; Trini Bui, NP; Monika Villazon, NP; Taylor Docter,
PGY3; Mina Masri, D.O.; Keith Carrillo, NP; Beverly Welch;
Tchuisse Hermione, NP; Manuel O. Natividad, M.D.; Veronica Hernandez-Lara,
NP; Rea Whitman, PA; Chase Luther, M.D.; Robert Paquette, M.D.; Ziba
Dayani, PA; Ekaterina Korol, NP; Dina Villapudua, PA; Olivia Gomez, MD;
Brittany Slaughter, PA; Alexis M. Peters, M.D.; Aung Lin, D.O.; Christina
R. Ghaly, M.D.; Timothy Belavich, Ph.D.; and Sean Henderson, M.D. (together
“Defendants”) on March 20, 2024 and filed his operative first amended complaint
(“FAC”) on May 23, 2024. The FAC asserts causes of action for (1) medical
negligence, (2) negligence, (3) Government Code § 845.6, (4) Bane Act
Violations, (5) Health & Safety Code § 123110, and (6) Evidence Code
§ 1168.
 
As
alleged in the complaint and accepted as true for purposes of demurrer (with
paragraph citations to the FAC):
 
Plaintiff
was arrested in West Covina in September 2022. (¶ 22.) He was bitten by a
police dog during the arrest. (¶¶ 21, 27.) Plaintiff was transferred to County
custody shortly afterward. (¶ 26.) The dog bite became infected. (¶ 27.) While
incarcerated over the course of the following several months, the various
individual Defendants provided Plaintiff medical care. (¶¶ 28-63.) But
they ignored his pleas for more intensive treatment, the condition of the wound
worsened, and he did not receive satisfactory treatment for his infection before
his discharge on July 11, 2023. (Ibid.; see also ¶ 74.)
 
Plaintiff
also asserts he began requesting his medical records from the County beginning
in March 2023, and the County has violated its own policies by refusing to
provide complete records. (¶¶ 72, 75-76.)
 
            On June 24, 2024, Defendants
demurred to and moved to strike portions of Plaintiff’s FAC. On July 30, 2024,
Plaintiff filed his opposition. On August 6, 2024, Defendants replied.
 
Request
for Judicial Notice
 
            Defendants’ request for judicial
notice is denied. “There is ... a precondition to the
taking of judicial notice in either its mandatory or permissive form—any matter
to be judicially noticed must be relevant to a material issue.”  (People ex rel. Lockyer v. Shamrock Foods
Co. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 415, 422 fn. 2.) The federal District Court’s order
has no bearing on this motion.
 
Demurrer
 
            A
demurrer is an objection to a pleading, the grounds for which are apparent from
either the face of the complaint or a matter of which the court may take
judicial notice.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.30, subd. (a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318.)  The purpose of a demurrer is to
challenge the sufficiency of a pleading “by raising questions of law.”  (Postley v. Harvey (1984) 153
Cal.App.3d 280, 286.)  “In the
construction of a pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its
allegations must be liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice
between the parties.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
452.)  The court “ ‘ “treat[s] the
demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions,
deductions or conclusions of fact or law . . ..” ’ ” (Berkley v. Dowds
(2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525.)
 
First Cause of Action for Medical Negligence
 
“[I]n ‘any medical
malpractice action, the plaintiff must establish: (1) the duty of the
professional to use such skill, prudence, and diligence as other members of his
profession commonly possess and exercise; (2) a breach of that duty; (3) a
proximate causal connection between the negligent conduct and the resulting
injury; and (4) actual loss or damage resulting from the professional’s
negligence.’” (Powell v. Kleinman (2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 112, 122,
quoting Hanson v. Grade (1999) 76 Cal.App.4th 601, 606.)
Plaintiff has sufficiently pleaded his claim for
negligence. He alleges he was a patient under the individual defendants’ care,
so they owed him a professional duty. He alleges he presented with severe
medical symptoms and they failed or refused to refer him for proper treatment. A
practitioner exercising ordinary skill, he pleads, would have referred him thus
Defendants breached their duty. And Plaintiff alleges his worsening medical
condition caused him considerable pain and suffering. Defendants are on notice
of the details of Plaintiff’s claims such that they can prepare a defense; they
know his identity, the period of his incarceration, and a fairly precise
timeline of events.
 
Defendants argue Plaintiff only pled
conclusions, because he repeatedly reiterates his allegation that Defendants’
conduct fell below the standard of care. (See Dem., 15:3-15.) If that were all
Plaintiff alleged, his FAC would indeed fail. But he also pled voluminous
supporting facts. 
 
Defendants also argue Plaintiff “fails to
allege what the [County’s relevant] policies are or how or in what way these
policies were violated” by the individual defendants. As to the first cause of
action, this ambiguity is irrelevant. The County policies do not govern the
common-law standard of care.
 
The demurrer to the first cause of action is
overruled.
 
Second Cause of Action for Negligent Hiring,
Etc.
 
Plaintiff’s asserts his second cause of action
only against defendants Ghaly, Belavich, and Henderson. He has assigned it the
heading “negligence”, though the body of the FAC clarifies he is relying on a
negligent hiring theory. (See FAC, ¶ 89 [“negligent and reckless with regarding
to the hiring, training, supervision ...”].)
 
An employer may be liable in negligence “if it
‘knew or should have known that hiring [a tortfeasor] employee created a
particular risk or hazard and that particular harm materializes.’ ” (Phillips
v. TLC Plumbing, Inc. (2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 1133, 1139.)
 
Plaintiff alleges Ghaly, Belavich, and
Henderson had supervisory roles in the prison medical system and their
subordinates caused him injury. But he does not plead facts showing that Ghaly,
Belavich, or Henderson knew or should have known that any of their
co-defendants might act in a way that would cause Plaintiff harm. “To establish
negligent supervision, a plaintiff must show that a person in a supervisorial
position over the actor had prior knowledge of the actor’s propensity to do the
bad act.” (Z.V. v. County of Riverside (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 889, 902.)
Without pleading facts showing as much, Plaintiff has not stated a claim.
 
The demurrer to the second cause of action is
sustained with leave to amend.
 
Third Cause of Action for Violation of Government
Code § 845.6
 
“ ... [E]xcept as otherwise provided by
Sections 855.8 and 856, a public employee, and the public entity where the
employee is acting within the scope of his employment, is liable if the
employee knows or has reason to know that the prisoner is in need of immediate
medical care and he fails to take reasonable action to summon such medical
care.” (Gov. Code, § 845.6.)
 
“To state a claim under section 845.6, ‘a
prisoner must establish three elements: (1) the public employee knew or had
reason to know of the need (2) for immediate medical care, and (3) failed to
reasonably summon such care.’ [Citation.] (Lawman v. City and County of San
Francisco (N.D. Cal. 2016) 159 F.Supp.3d 1130, 1150.)
 
Plaintiff has pled the three elements of a
section 845.6 claim. He alleges he presented to medical professionals in need
of immediate care for his severely infected injury, and they unreasonably
failed to summon emergency care. As with his medical negligence claim,
Defendants propose an excessively high pleading standard where they insist he
must “allege[] facts to support [his] ... allegations that each medical
Defendant failed to properly assess Plaintiff’s alleged injury and respond
accordingly.” (Dem., 18:15-18.) All Plaintiff needs to do is place Defendants
on notice of the particulars of his claims, and he has done so.
 
The demurrer to the third cause of action is
overruled.
 
Fourth Cause of Action for Violation of the
Bane Act
 
The
elements of a Bane Act claim are: (1) defendant interfered with or attempted to
interfere with plaintiffs’ constitutional or statutory right by threatening or
committing violent acts; (2) plaintiffs reasonably believed that if they
exercised their constitutional right the defendant would commit violence
against them or their property; (3) defendant injured plaintiffs or their
property to prevent them from exercising their constitutional right or
retaliated against plaintiffs for having exercised their constitutional right;
(4) plaintiffs were harmed; and (5) defendant’s conduct was a substantial
factor in causing plaintiffs' harm. (Austin B. v. Escondido Union School
Dist. (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 860, 882 (“Austin B.”).)
 
“The
essence of a Bane Act claim is that the defendant, by the specified improper
means (i.e.,¿‘threat[ ], intimidation or coercion’), tried to or did prevent
the plaintiff from doing something he or she had the right to do under the law
or to force the plaintiff to do something that he or she was not required to do
under the law.”¿ (King v. State of Cal.¿(2015) 242 Cal.App.4th 265, 294;
Austin B., supra, 149 Cal.App.4th at p. 883.)
 
Defendants
argue Plaintiff has not pled his claim in part because he must allege “acts of
violence or threats thereof [that are] physical in nature”. (Dem., 19:12-14.)
The Court does not endorse this narrow reading of the Bane Act. “Civil Code
section 52.1 requires ‘an attempted or completed act of interference with a
legal right, accompanied by a form of coercion.’ ” (Austin B., supra,
149 Cal.App.4th at p. 882, emphasis added.) Coercion is not confined to the
physical. (See e.g. Pen. Code, § 236.1 [“coercion” defined as “a scheme, plan,
or pattern” that causes a person to fear “serious harm to or physical
restraint” against oneself or another].) In fact, a violation of a civil right,
if sufficiently egregious, may satisfy the Bane Act by itself, without more.
(See Cornell v. City & County of San Francisco (2017) 17 Cal.App.5th
766, 801-802 [wrongful detention is “inherent[ly]” coercive and satisfies Bane
Act].)
 
Notwithstanding
Defendants’ reasonable confusion regarding the Bane Act (see id., at p. 801
[Bane Act has been “ ‘ “the source of much debate and confusion” ’ ” in federal
courts]), the FAC fails to state a claim for other reasons. The FAC does not
allege facts suggesting (1) that anyone threatened to commit, or did commit,
violent acts against Plaintiff; (2) that Plaintiff refrained from exercising a
constitutional right for fear of violence; or (3) that Defendants were
motivated by a desire to prevent Plaintiff from exercising his rights. And
because it alleges none of those, it also does not allege (5) that any such
action was a substantial factor in causing Plaintiff’s harm.
 
The demurrer to the fourth cause of action is
sustained with leave to amend.
 
Fifth Cause of Action for Violation of the
Health and Safety Code § 123110 and Sixth Cause of Action for Violation of
Evidence Code § 1168
 
Plaintiff asserts his fifth and sixth causes of
action against the County only, under two statutes related to disclosure of
medical records:
 
“[A]ny adult patient of a health care provider,
any minor patient authorized by law to consent to medical treatment, and any
patient's personal representative shall be entitled to inspect patient records
upon presenting to the health care provider a request for those records and
upon payment of reasonable costs[.]” (Health & Saf. Code, § 123110(a).) And
“[a]ny patient or representative aggrieved by a violation of Section 123110
may, in addition to any other remedy provided by law, bring an action against
the health care provider to enforce the obligations prescribed by Section
123110. Any judgment rendered in the action may, in the discretion of the
court, include an award of costs and reasonable attorney fees to the prevailing
party. (Id., § 123120.)
 
“Before the filing of any action or the
appearance of a defendant in an action, if an attorney at law or his or her
representative presents a written authorization therefor signed by an adult
patient, ... to a medical provider, the medical provider shall promptly make
all of the patient's records under the medical provider's custody or control
available for inspection and copying by the attorney at law or his or her
representative.” (Evid. Code, § 1158(b).)
 
The County demurs on the ground that it is
immunized from liability by Government Code section 844.6. Section 844.6 states
that “a public entity is not liable for ... [a]n injury to a prisoner”, with
limited exceptions. (Gov. Code, § 844.6(a)(2).) “[T]he plain language of
section 844.6 is clear and unambiguous”, and it provides a “broad grant of
immunity”. (Bitner v. Department of Corrections & Rehabilitation
(2023) 87 Cal.App.5th 1048, 1064.) The immunity precludes statutory liability
as well as common-law liability. (Id., at p. 1063 [“Because a public
entity’s liability is itself a creature of statute, interpreting section 844.6
to exempt liability created by statute would ... render[] section 844.6 all but
meaningless”].)
 
Plaintiff replies that because “[he] was
released from custody on July 11, 2023 ... and his medical records are still
being unlawfully withheld”, he states a claim that falls outside his time as
“prisoner” and therefore outside the ambit of section 844.6.
 
If Plaintiff’s claims arise from time that
elapsed since he was a prisoner, it is not apparent from the face of the FAC.
The causes of action as pled arguably arise from his time as a prisoner and are
not exempted from section 844.6 immunity, so they are deficient, either for
failure to state a claim or for ambiguity.
 
The demurrer to the fifth and sixth causes of
action are sustained with leave to amend.
 
Conclusion
 
         The demurrer is sustained with leave to
amend as to the first, fourth, fifth, and sixth causes of action.
 
         The demurrer is overruled as to the
first and third causes of action.
 
         The demurrer having been sustained with
leave, the motion to strike is denied as moot.
 
         Plaintiff may file and serve an amended
complaint on or before September 13, 2024.