 Case Number:  21STCV45695    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


September
  20, 2023




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV45695




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Summary Judgment or in the Alternative Summary Adjudication




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Target Corporation




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed
  



 
MOVING PAPERS
 
1.      Notice of Motion and Motion for Summary
Judgment or in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication; Memorandum of Points and
Authorities; Declaration of Eugene J. Egan and Attached Exhibits
2.      Declaration of Alex Martinez Jr in Support
3.      Separate Statement of Undisputed and Material
Facts
4.      Target Corporation’s Index of Exhibits
 
OPPOSITION PAPERS
1.      None filed.
 
REPLY PAPERS
1.      None filed.
 
BACKGROUND
 
On December 14, 2021,
Plaintiff Gladys Sepedjian filed a complaint against Defendant Target
Corporation, Mario Rodriguez, and Does 1-100 for injuries allegedly caused by a
ball that was in the aisle of Defendants’ premises. 
 
Defendant Target Corporation
(Target) now moves for summary judgment, or in the alternative, summary
adjudication arguing that no triable issue of material fact exists and that
there is no evidence that Target has actual or constructive notice of the
alleged dangerous condition. No opposition has been filed. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
“[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion
that there is no triable issue of material fact and that he is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law[.] There is a triable issue of material fact if,
and only if, the evidence would allow a reasonable trier of fact to find the
underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion in accordance with
the applicable standard of proof.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  “[T]he party moving for summary judgment
bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the
nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of
production, he causes a shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a prima facie
showing of the existence of a triable issue of material fact.” (Ibid.;
Smith v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 1463, 1474
[summary judgment standards held by Aguilar apply to summary
adjudication motions].)  Further, in line
with Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co., “[o]n a motion for summary
adjudication, the trial court has no discretion to exercise.  If a triable issue of material fact exists as
to the challenged causes of action, the motion must be denied. If there is no triable
issue of fact, the motion must be granted.” (Fisherman's Wharf Bay Cruise
Corp. v. Superior Court (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 309, 320.)
 
“On a summary judgment motion, the
court must therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a
factfinder could reasonably draw from the evidence. While viewing the evidence
in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its primary function is to
identify issues rather than to determine issues.  Only when the inferences are indisputable may
the court decide the issues as a matter of law. If the evidence is in conflict,
the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” (Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co.
(1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839 [cleaned up].) 
Further, “the trial court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a
factfinder to determine whose version is more likely true.  Nor may the trial court grant summary
judgment based on the court's evaluation of credibility.” (Id. at p. 840
[cleaned up]; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of Transportation
(2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or
summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the
light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences
in favor of that party”].)            
 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Negligence­–Premises
Liability
 
The
elements of a cause of action for negligence are: (1) a duty on the part of
defendant toward plaintiff; (2) defendant’s breach of that duty; and (3) harm
to the plaintiff caused by that breach. (Kesner v. Superior Court (2016)
1 Cal.5th 1132, 1142.) The elements of a cause of action for premises liability
are the same as those for negligence: duty, breach, causation, and damages. (McIntyre
v. The Colonies-Pacific, LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 664, 671.) 
 
“A store owner is not the insurer of its patrons' personal
safety, but does have a duty to exercise reasonable care to keep the premises
reasonably safe for patrons. [Citation.] This includes a duty to keep the
floors safe for patrons' use. [Citation.] To establish an owner's liability for
negligence, the plaintiff must prove duty, breach, causation, and damages.
[Citation.]” (Peralta v. Vons Companies, Inc. (2018) 24 Cal.App.5th
1030, 1035.)
 “The fact alone that a dangerous condition
existed at the time the accident occurred will not warrant an inference that
the defendant was negligent. There must be some evidence, direct or
circumstantial, to support the conclusion that the condition had existed long
enough for the proprietor, in the exercise of reasonable care, to have
discovered and remedied it.” (Girvetz v. Boys’ Market, Inc. (1949) 91
Cal.App.2d 827, 829.)
 
“A store owner exercises ordinary care by making reasonable
inspections of the portions of the premises open to customers, and the care
required is commensurate with the risks involved.” (Ortega v. Kmart Corp.
(2001) 26 Cal.4th 1200, 1205.)
 
If the
owner operates a self-service grocery store, where customers are invited to
inspect, remove, and replace goods on shelves, “the exercise of ordinary care
may require the owner to take greater precautions and make more frequent
inspections than would otherwise be needed to safeguard against the possibility
that such a customer may create a dangerous condition by disarranging the
merchandise” and creating potentially hazardous conditions. (Ibid.)
“However, the basic principle to be followed in all these situations is that
the owner must use the care required of a reasonably prudent [person] acting
under the same circumstances.” 
 
(Id.) 
 
Neither actual knowledge of the defect nor direct evidence of
the length of time a dangerous condition existed is necessary; rather, the
defendant’s constructive knowledge of the defect may be shown by circumstantial
evidence. (Id. at 1206-1207.) Where the evidence fails to show how long
the dangerous condition existed prior to the injury, “evidence of the owner’s
failure to inspect the premises within a reasonable period of time is
sufficient to allow an inference that the condition was on the floor long
enough to give the owner the opportunity to discover and remedy it.
[Citation.]” (Id., at 1203; Sapp v. W.T. Grant Co. (1959) 172
Cal.App.2d 89, 91-92 [whether 20 minute interval between inspections was
commensurate with the exercise of reasonable care was a question properly left
to the trier of fact]; Shaw v. Colonial Room (1959) 175 Cal.App.2d 845,
848–49 [failure to inspect tavern two and one-half hours prior to slip and fall
deemed sufficient evidence to establish negligence].) While failure to inspect
is not sufficient, alone, to satisfy the plaintiff’s burden, the owner’s
inspection practice is one of several factors that may be used to determine the
length of time a condition existed. (Ortega, 26 Cal.4th at 1208.)
Although constructive knowledge may be inferred from a failure to inspect the
premises within a reasonable time before the injury, speculation and conjecture
are not sufficient to carry the plaintiff’s burden. (Id. at 1205-1206.)
 
Typically, the question of whether a condition existed so
long as to be discoverable within a reasonable time is a question of fact to be
decided by the jury. (Hatfield v. Levy Bros. (1941) 18 Cal.2d 798, 807; Tuttle
v. Crawford (1936) 8 Cal.2d 126, 130; Rothschild v. Fourth & Market
St. Realty Co. (1934) 139 Cal.App. 625, 627.) If there is no substantial
evidence from which it can be reasonably inferred that the condition existed
for a sufficient period of time to charge the defendant with constructive notice
of its presence and to remedy the condition, a defendant may be entitled to
judgment as a matter of law. (Perez v. Ow (1962) 200 Cal.App.2d 559,
562.)
 
            Target argues no employee had actual
or constructive notice of the ball that Plaintiff tripped on. Here, Target sets
forth the following facts: 
 
-         
Plaintiff
slipped on a ball and fell around 6:45 pm in the R17 area of the Subject Store.
(UMF 2.)
-         
A
Target employee, Alex Martinez conducted an inspection of the area fifteen (15)
minutes before the fall and did not see any balls or hazards of any sort. Mr.
Martinez was trained to carefully observe if there are any hazards or spills
whenever he was inspecting or walking around the store. If there are hazards,
he immediately addresses them. (UMF 3.) 
-         
As
observed by Mr. Martinez, the R17 area was completely free of any objects on
the floor fifteen minutes before Plaintiff’s fall. (UMF 4.) 
-         
Plaintiff
has no evidence to support her allegations that Defendant had constructive
notice or actual notice, no evidence to show how long the ball was on the floor,
who put the ball on the floor, or any evidence if anyone had told any Target
employee about the ball before she fell. (UMF 5.)  
 
A review of relevant California
case law provides a helpful spectrum to determine whether there was sufficient
time for a defendant to conduct a reasonable inspection of the area.[4]  On one end of the spectrum is Girvetz,
supra, where the Court of Appeal found one and one-half minutes is, as a
matter of law, too short a period of time to establish constructive
notice.  (Girvetz, 91
Cal.App.2d at p. 832.)  Towards
the other end of the spectrum are cases holding that fifteen to twenty minutes
between the inspection and the fall requires a jury’s determination of the
reasonableness of the inspection.[5]  For example, in Louie v. Hagstrom’s Food
Stores, Inc., 81 Cal.App.2d 601, 607 (Louie), the plaintiff slipped
in a pool of syrup spilled on the floor of defendant’s grocery store. No
employee examined the relevant area for fifteen to twenty-five minutes before
the accident.  The court held that whether
the dangerous condition existed long enough so that a person exercising
ordinary care would have discovered it was a question for the jury.  Similarly, in Hale, supra,
plaintiff while shopping in defendant’s store slipped on a banana.  The banana may have been on the floor for 30
to 45 minutes.  Again it was held that
whether defendant should have discovered and removed the banana within this
time was a jury question.  In Sapp,
supra, 172 Cal.App.2d at p. 94, the court asked: “Was a twenty minute
interval between inspections of the aisles commensurate with the exercise of
ordinary care by defendant?”  The court
answered: “This is a question that was properly left with the jury to
decide.”  
 
However, in Louie, which
considered a time period of fifteen to twenty-five minutes, the court
considered the time period along with other factors including that the glass
jar which created the condition would have made an appreciable noise when it
fell and broke, a cashier was close enough to have heard it, and that the
puddle of syrup was big enough to support an inference that it was actually on
the floor for a substantial period of time. (Louie, supra, 81 Cal.App.2d
at 608-09.) The Court considers “[w]hether, under all the circumstances,
the defective condition had existed long enough so that a reasonable man
exercising reasonable care would have discovered it, is ordinarily a question
of fact to be decided by the jury.” (Girvetz, supra, 91 Cal.App.2d at
829 (emphasis added).)
 
Here, Target has set forth facts that show the ball was on
the floor for no more than fifteen minutes. Target produced evidence that the
employee responsible for the area where the incident took place has been
trained to always look for potential safety hazards. (Martinez Decl. ¶ 4.) He
further declared that all Target employees are trained to immediately address
hazards when they see them. While this case falls toward the end of the
spectrum where the time period creates a question of fact, in considering the
time period along with all other circumstances, the Court finds that Target has
met its burden to show there are no triable issues of fact. The burden now
shifts to Plaintiff.
 
Plaintiff has not produced any evidence to establish a
triable issue of material fact. Accordingly, the Court grants summary judgment
in favor of Target.
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
            Based on the foregoing, Defendant Target
Corporation’s Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED. 
 
            Defendant shall
provide notice of this ruling and file a proof of service of such.
 
 