 Case Number:  22STCV03243    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


September
  20, 2023




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV03243




MOTIONS:  


Compel
  Plaintiff’s Deposition




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Homegoods, Inc. 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed
  



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On January 26, 2022, Plaintiff Kristina Sanoyan (Plaintiff) filed a
complaint against Defendants Homegoods, Inc., The TJX Companies, Inc. and Does
1 to 100 for injuries sustained in a store aisle. 
 
Defendant Homegoods, Inc. (Defendant) now moves to compel Plaintiff’s
deposition and seeks monetary sanctions. No opposition has been filed. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Any party may obtain discovery,
subject to restrictions, by taking the oral deposition of any person, including
any party to the action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.010.) A party desiring to
take an oral deposition shall give a notice in writing which states the
specification of reasonably particularly of any materials to be produced by the
deponent. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.220, subd. (a)(4).) A properly served
deposition notice is effective to require a party to attend and to testify, as
well as to produce documents for inspection and copying. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.280, subd. (a).) The party served with a deposition notice waives any
error or irregularity unless that party promptly serves a written objection at
least three calendar days prior to the date for which the deposition is
scheduled. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.410, subd. (a).)  
 
“If, after service of a
deposition notice, a party to the action … without having served a valid
objection … fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to
produce for inspection any document, … described in the deposition notice, the
party giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent's
attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document …
described in the deposition notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd.
(a).)   
 
A motion brought to compel a
deposition “shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition … by a
declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire
about the nonappearance.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (b)(2).)  
 
On motion of any other party who,
in person or by attorney, attended at the time and place specified in the deposition
notice in the expectation that the deponent's testimony would be taken, the
court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section
2023.010) in favor of that party and against the deponent or the party with
whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to
the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances
make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450.) 
 
If a motion to compel deposition
is granted, sanctions are mandatory in favor of the party who noticed the
deposition and against the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is
affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (g)(1).) 
 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendant asserts that Plaintiff’s deposition has now been completed.
Accordingly, the motion to compel is denied as moot.
 
Defendant also seeks $1,835.45 in monetary sanctions against Plaintiff
and/or her counsel of record.  This is
calculated with an hourly rate of $170.00 per hour for 6.5 hours and $730.45 in
fees for a Court Reporter on July 19, 2023. The Court finds that Plaintiff has
not acted with substantial justification and therefore awards monetary
sanctions. However, the Court finds the amount requested to be excessive in
light of the nature of the motion and that no opposition was filed.
Accordingly, the Court orders sanctions in the amount of $1,070.45 (2 hours of
attorney time plus the court reporter’s fees.)
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s motion to compel Plaintiff’s deposition is denied
as moot.
 
Plaintiff
and Plaintiff’s attorney of record, jointly and severally, are ordered to pay
sanctions to Defendant, by and through their counsel of record, in the amount
of $1,070.45 within twenty days.  
 
Defendant
shall give notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of service of such.
 
 
 
 