 Case Number:  20STCV46227    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


September
  20, 2023




CASE NUMBER:


20STCV46227




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Leave to File First Amended Complaint




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Yi-Chuan Chang




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendants
  Marco Antonio Luevano and J.B. Hunt Transport, Inc. 



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On December 3, 2020, Plaintiffs Te-Hsi Chang, individually and as successor
in interest to the estate of Chen Hsueh Chang, Yi-Chuan Chang, and Chia-Yen
Chang filed a negligence, negligent hiring/supervision, and wrongful death
action against Defendants Marco Antonio Luevano and J.B. Hunt Transport, Inc., based
on an incident in which Defendants’ vehicle struck Decedent Chen Hsueh Chang at
an intersection, eventually resulting in Decedent’s death. 
 
On May 19, 2023, the Court granted in part Defendants’ motion for
summary adjudication as to the following: 
 
-         
First Cause of Action – Negligence as to Plaintiffs 
-         
Second Cause of Action – Negligent Hiring, Retention or
Supervision as to Plaintiffs
-         
Third Cause of Action – Wrongful Death - Plaintiffs
Yi-Chuan Chang and Chia-Yen Chang, as individuals only
 
The Court concluded that Te-Hsi Chang had standing to file the
wrongful death cause of action against Defendants for Decedent’s death, and his
wrongful death claim survived his own subsequent death via his successor in
interest, Plaintiff Yi-Chuan Chang.
 
In its order, the Court also declined to address the issue of whether
Plaintiffs could add a
survival
action to the Complaint. (Min. Order, May 19, 2023.) The only cause of action
that survived summary adjudication was the wrongful death cause of action
brought by Yi-Chuan Chang, as successor in interest to Plaintiff Te-Hsi Chang,
only.
 
Now, Plaintiff Yi-Chuan Chang, as successor-in-interest to the estate
of Te-Hsi Chang, (Plaintiff) moves for leave to file a first amended complaint
(FAC) for the following reasons:
 
1.     
to remove Plaintiffs against whom this action has been
summarily adjudicated;
2.     
to insert the name of the proper Plaintiff;
3.     
to correct the name of Defendant J.B. Hunt Transport
Services, Inc. to J.B. Hunt Transport, Inc.;
4.     
to add a survival cause of action; and
5.     
to strike allegations that are irrelevant and/or that
have been summarily adjudicated. 
 
Defendants oppose and Plaintiff replies.
 
Trial is set for December 22, 2023, with a Final Status Conference of
December 7, 2023.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Under California Rules of Court Rule, rule 3.1324, subdivision (a), a
motion to amend a pleading shall (1) include a copy of the proposed amendment
or amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from
previous pleadings or amendments; (2) state what allegations in the previous
pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph and
line number, the deleted allegations are located; and (3) state what
allegations are proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if any, and
where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations are
located.¿ 
 
Under California Rule of Court, rule 3.1324, subdivision (b), a
separate declaration must accompany the motion and must specify (1) the effect
of the amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the
facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4) the
reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier.¿ 
  
“This discretion should be exercised liberally in favor of amendments,
for judicial policy favors resolution of all disputed matters in the same
lawsuit.”¿(Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court¿(1989) 213 Cal.App.3d
1045, 1047.)¿Ordinarily, the court will not consider the validity of the
proposed amended pleading in ruling on a motion for leave since grounds for a
demurrer or motion to strike are premature.¿The court, however, does have
discretion to deny leave to amend where a proposed amendment fails to state a
valid cause of action as a matter of law and the defect cannot be cured by
further amendment. (See¿California Casualty General Ins. Co. v.
Superior Court¿(1985) 173 Cal.App.3d 274, 281¿[overruled on other grounds
by¿Kransco¿v. American Empire Surplus Lines Ins. Co.¿(2000) 23 Cal.4th
390].)¿ 
 ¿ 
“An amended complaint relates back to the original complaint, and thus
avoids the statute of limitations as a bar, if it (1) rests on the same general
set of facts as the original complaint and (2) refers to the same accident and
the same injuries as the original complaint.” (San Diego Gas & Electric
Co. v. Superior Court (2007) 146 Cal.App.4th 1545, 1549.) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff argues the proposed FAC contains the same operative facts as
the original complaint. Plaintiff asserts Defendants will not be prejudiced by
the amendment and that the written discovery that has been propounded will be
equally as relevant to the survival cause of action. (Mayo Decl. ¶ 5.) Also, Plaintiff
argues the survival action will relate back to the wrongful death claim and will
not be barred by the statute of limitations. 
 
Defendants argue Plaintiff’s motion does not comply with the
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, that the statute of limitations on the
survival action has run, and that they will be prejudiced by a delay. Defendants
also point out that the amended complaint adds a punitive damages claim that
was not mentioned in Plaintiff’s motion, and permitting such an amendment will
result in further delay and additional cost for Defendants having to now file a
motion to strike and a new motion for summary adjudication.
 
Plaintiff focuses their argument on why there will not be delay of the
current trial date or prejudice to Defendants if the Court allows the FAC to be
filed. However, the Court finds that Plaintiff has not met the requirements of California
Rule of Court, rule 3.1324 (b). The Declaration of David M. Mayo does not specify
why the amendment is necessary and proper, when the facts giving rise to the
amended allegations were discovered, and the reasons why the request for
amendment was not made earlier. Plaintiff has not explained the delay, when
Plaintiff has known since March 1, 2019 that Chen-Hsueh Chang succumbed to her
injuries. Also, Plaintiff has not followed California Rule of Court, rule
3.1324 (a) by not stating in the motion, what allegations are proposed to be
added to the previous pleading by page, paragraph, and line number. ¿This
requirement is particularly important here, where Plaintiff’s motion inexplicably
made no mention of a new punitive damages claim, which was only brought to the
Court’s attention by Defendants’ opposition. 
 
In Plaintiff’s Reply, Plaintiff argues the failure to abide by the
California Rules of Court is “form over substance,” and vaguely suggests – not
by way of declaration as required by the Rules of Court – that “discovery of
the facts giving rise to the amendment occurred as a result of this Court’s
ruling on Defendants’ Motion for Summary Judgment wherein this Court concluded
that Plaintiff had standing and could pursue a cause of action for wrongful death.”
(Reply at pg. 2.)[1] This
argument does not make sense. Presumably, throughout this litigation, Plaintiff
believed they had standing to pursue to wrongful death cause of action. Moreover,
this does not explain the failure to timely pursue a survival cause of action,
or specifically a claim for punitive damages. The punitive damages claim, in
particular, will result in a delay of trial, in light of the additional
discovery that is likely and in consideration of Defendants’ right to seek
summary adjudication.
 
Additionally, Plaintiff argues that a claim of delay is not enough to
deny a party leave to amend the pleadings where there is no possible way the
opposing party could be prejudiced. In doing so, Plaintiff ignores the
prejudice resulting from the late addition of a punitive damages claim,
responding merely that Plaintiff “suggests that any Demurrer, Motion to Strike
and/ or Motion for Summary Adjudication would be futile,” because there will be
dispute of fact. (Reply at pg. 5.) Regardless of Plaintiff’s belief of the
merits of the claim, Defendants are entitled to conduct discovery and to timely
move for summary adjudication. Moreover, and more fundamentally, Plaintiff
ignores that at this point, without a declaration setting forth the information
required by the California Rules of Court, the delay is unjustified.[2]
There is no information from which the Court could determine that the Plaintiff
“has a good cause of action, which by accident or mistake he has failed to set
out in his complaint.” (Higgins v. Del Faro (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 558, 565.) “Courts
must apply a policy of liberality in permitting amendments at any stage of the
proceeding, including during trial, when no prejudice to the opposing party is
shown. [Citation.] ‘However, ‘even if a good amendment is proposed in proper
form, unwarranted delay in presenting it may – of itself, be a valid reason for
denial.’” (P&D Consultants, Inc. v. City of Carlsbad (2010) 190
Cal.App.4th 1332, 1345 (citations omitted).) 
 
Accordingly, the Court
denies Plaintiff’s motion for leave to file a first amended complaint.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to File First Amended Complaint is
DENIED. 
 
Defendants shall give notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of service
of such. 


