 Case Number:  21STCV14547    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


September
  20, 2023




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV14547




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Reopen the Case




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Safeco Insurance Company of
  Illinois 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed
  



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            On April 16, 2021, Plaintiff Safeco
Insurance Company of Illinois (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint alleging that
Defendants All American Creations, LLC, D. Vida Construction & Painting,
Inc. were negligent causing damage to the property of Plaintiff’s insured,
Robina Peanh. 
 
On June 7, 2021, Plaintiff filed a proof of service of Defendant D.
Vida Construction & Painting. On November 22, 2022, Plaintiff filed an
amendment to the complaint substituting defendants for Does 1 through 4, and on
that same day dismissed Defendant D. Vida Construction & Painting, Inc.
 
            On December 1, 2022, counsel for
Plaintiff filed a declaration that counsel was diligently attempting to
complete personal service.
 
            On December 20, 2022, counsel for
Plaintiff filed a notice of change of handling attorney.
 
            On December 30, 2022, there was no
appearance by counsel for Plaintiff nor proof of service in the case.
Accordingly, the Court ordered the complaint to be dismissed without prejudice.
 
            On June 22, 2023, Plaintiff filed a
“Motion to Reopen the Case,” citing no legal authority. The motion argues that
Plaintiff filed a declaration on December 1, 2022 which purported to request
the OSC hearing be vacated to allow for further attempts to serve defendants,
and Plaintiff did not receive notice of the Court’s disposition of said
request. The motion further asserts that Plaintiff is unable to serve
defendants and is in a position to file an application for order to serve via
publication.
 
DISCUSSION
 
            The motion cites no legal
authority for Plaintiff’s request, nor provides any attorney declaration
regarding any mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect, as might
warrant relief pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure 473(b). Accordingly, the
“motion to reopen case” is denied.
 
            However, the Court notes that when
the case was dismissed, the complaint had been filed less than two years prior.
“[A] delay of less than two years in service of the summons and complaint is
not a ground for dismissal under [Code of Civil Procedure section 583.410.” (Hawks
v. Hawks (2006) 141 Cal.App.4th 1435, 1437.) 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
The Court sets aside the December 30, 2022 dismissal and reinstates
proceedings. The matter will be set for an Order to Show Cause Re: dismissal/
monetary sanctions for failure to serve/ alternatively Trial Setting Conference
for October 26, 2023 at 8:30 a.m.
 
Plaintiff shall give notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of
service of such.
 
 
 