  Case Number:  22STCV10105    Hearing Date:   November 21, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     November 21, 2024               TRIAL DATE: February
3, 2025
                                                           
CASE:                         JNM, Inc. v. United Valet Parking, Inc.
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV10105            
 
MOTION
FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT, OR, IN THE ALTERNATIVE, SUMMARY ADJUDICATION

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant JNM, Inc.
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Defendant/Cross-Complainant
United Valet Parking, Inc.
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
03/23/22: Complaint filed.
·        
10/25/22: Cross-Complaint filed.
·        
07/01/24: Request for Dismissal on all causes of
action in the Cross-Complaint as to Cross-Defendant IC Parking Systems.
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
This is an action for breach of a commercial rental lease to recover
rental arrears.
 
            Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant JNM, Inc.
moves for summary judgment, or, in the alternative, summary adjudication of the
Complaint and Cross-Complaint in this action. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant’s Motion
for Summary Judgment is DENIED.
 
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant’s Motion
for Summary Adjudication is DENIED. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
            Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant JNM, Inc. moves for
summary judgment of the Complaint and Cross-Complaint in this action. 
 
            As Plaintiff is not entitled to
summary adjudication of the sole cause of action in each pleading for the
reasons stated below, Plaintiff’s Motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED. 
 
Motion for Summary
Adjudication
 
            Plaintiff moves for summary
adjudication of the claims for breach of contract in both the Complaint and the
Cross-Complaint.
 
Legal Standard
 
The function of a motion for
summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an
opposing party can show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and, if
not, to enable an order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Code of Civil
Procedure Section 437c(c) “requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment
if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from
the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that
there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is
entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” 
(Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110,
1119.)  “The function of the pleadings in
a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the
function of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any
triable issue of fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.” (Juge
v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI
Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367, 381-82.)
 
As to each claim as framed by the
complaint, a plaintiff moving for summary judgment satisfies the initial burden
to show that there is no defense to a claim by proving each element of the
cause of action entitling the party to judgment. (Code Civ Proc. § 437c(p)(1).)
Similarly, the cross-defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the
initial burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or
to establish a defense. (Code Civ Proc. § 437c(p)(2); Scalf v. D. B. Log
Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) In both cases, Courts
“liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary
judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore
v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.) The lack of
opposition is not grounds to grant a motion for summary judgment if a movant
cannot meet their initial burden of proof. (See Thatcher v. Lucy Stores,
Inc. (2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 1081, 1087.)
 
            Once the
moving party has met their burden, the burden shifts to the opposing party to show
that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of
action or a defense thereto. (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(p)(1)-(2).) To establish a
triable issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion must produce
substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68
Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)
 
//
Complaint for Breach of Contract
 
            Plaintiff
moves for summary adjudication of its sole cause of action for breach of
contract on the grounds that Defendant has admitted the facts necessary to
establish each element of the cause of action.
 
To prevail on a claim for breach of
contract, a plaintiff must plead and prove (1) a contract; (2) plaintiff’s
performance or excuse for nonperformance; (3) the defendant’s breach; and (4)
resultant damage to the plaintiff. (Careau & Co. v. Security Pacific
Business Credit, Inc. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 1371, 1388.) 
 
            On January
1, 2018, Plaintiff, as owner, and Defendant, as tenant, entered into a multi-year
lease for the parking lot on the ground floor of the commercial real properties
located at 1241 and 1245 S. Hope Street, Los Angeles, CA, excluding the office
spaces at the property. (Separate Statement of Undisputed Material Fact No.1;
Separate Statement of Disputed Fact No. 1.) The base rent for the parking lot
lease was $18,000 per month, commencing on the first full month after the
tenant took possession, and increasing by 3% on January 1, 2019 and every
twelve months thereafter. (SSUMF No. 4; SSDF No. 4.) 
 
            On April
19, 2018, the parties executed a second lease agreement whereby Defendant
leased a two-story office space from Plaintiff at the 1245 S. Hope Street
address, commencing May 1, 2018. (SSUMF Nos. 5-6; SSDF Nos. 5-6.) The base rent
for the first office lease was $2,500 per month, with a 3% increase every
twelve months from commencement of the lease. (SSUMF No. 7; SSDF No. 7.) Both
the parking lot lease and the first office lease were scheduled to end on
December 31, 2020. (SSUMF Nos. 3, 6; SSDF Nos. 3, 6.) 
 
            On July 17,
2018, the parties executed a third lease agreement whereby Defendant leased
another two-story office space from Plaintiff at the 1241 S. Hope Street
address, commencing August 1, 2018 and ending December 31, 2021. (SSUMF Nos.
8-9; SSDF Nos. 8-9.) The base rent for the second office lease was $4,500 per
month, with a 3% increase every twelve months from commencement of the lease.
(SSUMF No. 10; SSDF No. 10.) The same day the parties executed the second
office lease, the parties also agreed to extend the parking lot lease and the
first office lease to December 31, 2021. (SSUMF Nos. 3, 6; SSDF Nos. 3, 6.)
Defendant took possession of all three premises, and remained in possession until
February 2022. (SSUMF Nos. 11-13; SSDF Nos. 11-13.) 
            
Plaintiff contends that it is
entitled to summary adjudication of this cause of action because the existence
of a binding contract is undisputed and because Defendant has admitted in
requests for admissions that $361,239.79 in rent has gone unpaid. However, to
prevail on a claim for breach of contract, a Plaintiff must also plead and
prove that it has performed all of its obligations under the contract, or that
it has been excused from doing so. (Careau & Co. v. Security Pacific
Business Credit, Inc. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 1371, 1388.) Although Plaintiff
asserts that it has established this element by providing the leased premises
to Defendant, Plaintiff fails to address whether it has any other obligations
under the lease which might bear on this dispute. As the moving party,
Plaintiff bears the burden to establish all the elements of its cause of
action, and by failing to sufficiently address this element, Plaintiff has not
demonstrated entitlement to summary adjudication of this claim.  To the contrary, one of the leases at issue,
the Standard Industrial/Commercial Multi-Tenant Lease – Modified Net, expressly
imposes on Plaintiff the obligation to “keep in good order, condition and
repair the foundations, exterior walls, structural condition of the interior
bearing walls, exterior roof,” etc. 
(Exhibit B, p. 3.)  Plaintiff has
offered no evidence to demonstrate its satisfactory performance of this key
duty, so it has failed to establish a right to summary adjudication that would
shift the burden to Defendant.  
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion for
Summary Adjudication of the Complaint is DENIED.
 
Cross-Complaint for Breach of Contract
 
            Plaintiff,
as Cross-Defendant, also moves for summary adjudication of
Defendant/Cross-Complainant’s counterclaim for breach of contract. 
 
To prevail on a claim for breach of
contract, a plaintiff must plead and prove (1) a contract; (2) plaintiff’s
performance or excuse for nonperformance; (3) the defendant’s breach; and (4)
resultant damage to the plaintiff. (Careau & Co. v. Security Pacific
Business Credit, Inc. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 1371, 1388.) 
 
            The sole
cause of action asserted against the moving Cross-Defendant alleges that Cross-Defendant
failed to keep the property in good condition, which resulted in flooding of
the office spaces in January 2021 which Cross-Defendant allegedly did not
repair. (Cross-Complaint ¶ BC-2.) 
 
            Cross-Defendant
first contends that Cross-Complainant cannot prevail on this claim because
Cross-Defendant “has no evidence” to support the contention that
Cross-Complainant breached the contracts by failing to maintain the roof. (Motion
p.12:18.) Cross-Defendant offers no evidence to support this contention and
does not set forth any material facts in its Separate Statement to that effect.
Bare assertions of the absence of evidence do not carry Cross-Defendant’s
burden on this motion. 
 
Second, although Cross-Defendant
contends that Cross-Complainant admitted to having never communicated with Cross-Defendant,
that assertion is belied by the evidence. (SSUMF No. 19.) Close reading of the
deposition of Cross-Complainant’s person most knowledgeable, Kenny Sabet,
reveals that the deponent only testified that he did not communicate directly
with the landlord, and instead communicated regularly with an individual named
“Shawn,” whom the deponent identified as the landlord’s agent. (Declaration of
Judy M. Lam ISO Mot. Exh. E. pp. 40:13; 42:9-13; 43:7-44:1.) Cross-Defendant
does not explain how this contention bears on the breach of contract claim,
but, even assuming its relevance, the evidence merely discloses a triable issue
of fact on this point. Cross-Defendant is therefore not entitled to summary
adjudication on this basis.
 
Finally, Cross-Defendant contends
that paragraph 8.6 of the operative office lease agreement constitutes a waiver
of Cross-Complainant’s damage claim. This provision states that “Lessee and
Lessor each hereby release and relieve the other, and their entire right to
recover damages (whether in contract or in tort) against the other, for loss or
damage to their property arising out of or incident to the perils required to
be insured against under paragraph 8.” (SSUMF No. 20; Declaration of Joe Song
ISO Mot. Exh. B. ¶ 8.6.) However, Cross-Defendant does not cite any provision
of the lease which describes the “perils required to be insured against.” In
fact, Paragraph 8.3 appears to expressly exclude flooding from the list of
perils which must be covered by the Lessor’s insurance, stating “[if] the
coverage is available and commercially appropriate, Lessor’s policy or policies
shall insure against all risks of direct physical loss or damage (except the
perils of flood and/or earthquake unless required by a Lender) [.]” (Id.
¶ 8.3 [emphasis added].) Because Cross-Defendant has failed to demonstrate the
applicability of paragraph 8.6 to the harm alleged by Cross-Complainant,
Cross-Defendant has failed to show that Cross-Complainant cannot prevail on
this basis. 
 
As none of Cross-Defendant’s
arguments against the Cross-Complaint carry its burden to show that
Cross-Complainant cannot prevail, the burden does not shift to
Cross-Complainant to demonstrate a triable issue of fact. Therefore,
Cross-Defendant is not entitled to summary adjudication of the Cross-Complaint.

 
Accordingly, Cross-Defendant’s
Motion for Summary Adjudication of the Cross-Complaint is DENIED. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
Accordingly, Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant’s
Motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED.
 
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant’s Motion
for Summary Adjudication is DENIED. 
 
Moving Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  November 21,
2024                            ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 