  Case Number:  20STCV35531    Hearing Date:   June 10, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




david tsao

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
sylvia ena

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


20STCV35531




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


June
   10, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
defendants’ motion to bifurcate punitive
  damages
 



 
MOVING PARTIES:              Defendants DTLA Real Estate, Inc.,
and Sylvia Ena 
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Unopposed
Motion to Bifurcate Punitive Damages
The court
considered the moving papers filed in connection with this motion.  No opposition papers were filed. 
DISCUSSION
Defendants DTLA Real Estate, Inc., and Sylvia Ena (“Defendants”) move
the court for an order bifurcating trial in this action, filed by plaintiff
David Tsao (“Plaintiff”), to separate the issue of punitive damages from the
issues of liability and damages.  Plaintiff did not file an opposition to this
motion. 
“The
court shall, on application of any defendant, preclude the admission of
evidence of that defendant’s profits or financial condition until after the
trier of fact returns a verdict for plaintiff awarding actual damages and finds
that a defendant is guilty of malice, oppression, or fraud in accordance with
Section 3294.¿ Evidence of profit and financial condition shall be admissible
only as to the defendant or defendants found to be liable to the plaintiff and
to be guilty of malice, oppression, or fraud.¿ Evidence of profit and financial
condition shall be presented to the same trier of fact that found for the
plaintiff and found one or more defendants guilty of malice, oppression, or
fraud.”¿¿(Civ. Code, §¿3295, subd. (d).)¿ “While the statute refers only to
evidence of the defendant’s financial condition, in practice bifurcation under
this section means that all evidence relating to the amount of punitive
damages is to be offered in the second phase, while the determination whether
plaintiff is entitled to punitive damages (i.e., whether the defendant
is guilty of malice, fraud or oppression) is decided in the first phase along
with compensatory damages.”¿ (Holdgrafer v. Unocal Corp. (2008) 160
Cal.App.4th 907, 919.)¿¿¿¿¿ 
The court finds that Defendants are entitled to an order bifurcating
trial pursuant to Civil Code section 3295, and therefore grants Defendants’
motion and makes the orders set forth below. 
(Civ. Code, § 3295, subd. (d).) 
ORDER
            The court grants defendants DTLA
Real Estate, Inc., and Sylvia Ena’s motion to bifurcate punitive damages. 
            The court orders that trial of this
action will be bifurcated as follows: (1) the jury will first decide the issues
of whether to impose liability for compensatory damages and, if so, the amount
of compensatory damages, and whether defendants DTLA Real Estate, Inc., and
Slyvia Ena are guilty of malice, oppression, or fraud, and (2) only after
making findings in plaintiff David Tsao’s favor on all those issues, the jury
will then decide the issue of whether to impose punitive damages against
defendants DTLA Real Estate, Inc., and Sylvia Ena. 
            The court orders defendants DTLA
Real Estate, Inc., and Sylvia Ena to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
DATED:  June 10, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court