 Case Number:  BC714990    Hearing Date:   June 10, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




briana wolf

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
popchest, inc.

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


BC714990




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


June
   10, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
(1)  
  motion
  to be relieved as counsel for popchest inc.
(2)  
  motion
  to be relieved as counsel for defendant valerian bennett
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Al Mohajerian
 
RESPONDING PARTY:        Unopposed
(1)  
Motion
to be Relieved as Counsel for Popchest Inc.
(2)  
Motion
to be Relieved as Counsel for Defendant Valerian Bennett
The court
considered the moving papers filed in connection with each motion.  No opposition papers were filed. 
DISCUSSION
Al Mohajerian (“Counsel”) separately moves to be relieved as counsel
of record for        (1) Popchest, Inc. (“Popchest”),[1]
and (2) defendant Valerian Bennett (“Defendant”).  In the interest of efficiency, the court
discusses Counsel’s motions together. 
“The
question of granting or denying an application of an attorney to withdraw as
counsel (Code Civ. Proc., § 284, subd. 2) is one which lies within the sound
discretion of the trial court ‘having in mind whether such withdrawal might
work an injustice in the handling of the case.’”¿ (People v. Prince
(1968) 268 Cal.App.2d 398, 406 [internal quotations omitted].)¿ The court
should also consider whether the attorney’s “withdrawal can be accomplished
without undue prejudice to the client’s interests.”¿ (Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994)
21 Cal.App.4th 904, 915.)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
For
a motion to be relieved as counsel under Code of Civil Procedure section 284,
subdivision (2), California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362 requires (1) a notice
of motion and motion directed to the client (made on the Notice of Motion and
Motion to be Relieved as Counsel -- Civil form (MC-051)); (2) a declaration
stating in general terms and without compromising the confidentiality of the
attorney-client relationship why a motion under Code of Civil Procedure section
284, subdivision (2) is brought instead of filing a consent under Code of Civil
Procedure section 284, subdivision (1) (made on the Declaration in Support of
Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel -- Civil form (MC-052)); (3)
service of the notice of motion and motion, declaration, and proposed order on
the client and on all other parties who have appeared in the case; and (4) the
proposed order relieving counsel (prepared on the Order Granting Attorney’s
Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel -- Civil form (MC-053)).¿ 
            The court finds that Counsel (1) has
served Popchest with the moving papers filed in connection with this motion by email
and by mail at Popchest’s last known address, and has shown that Counsel has
been unable to locate a more current address after making reasonable efforts to
do so, (2) has served Defendant with the moving papers filed in connection with
this motion by email and by mail at Defendant’s last known address, and has
shown that Counsel has been unable to locate a more current address after
making reasonable efforts to do so, and (3) has served plaintiff Briana Wolf
with the moving papers filed in connection with this motion by email.  (MC-052 Forms, ¶¶ 3, subds. (a)(2), (b)(2)(a),
(b)(2)(b), (b)(2)(d); Mots., Proofs of Service.)  The court also finds that Counsel has shown
sufficient reasons why the motions should be granted, and why Counsel has
brought the motions under
Code of Civil Procedure section 284, subdivision (2) instead of filing a
consent under section 284, subdivision (1). 
(MC-052 Forms, ¶ 2; MC-052 Forms, Attachment 2.) 
            The court therefore grants Counsel’s (1) motion to be
relieved as counsel for Popchest, and (2) motion to be relieved as counsel for
Defendant. 
            Al Mohajerian will be relieved as counsel of record for
Popchest, Inc., and defendant Valerian Bennett, effective
upon the filing of the proofs of service of the signed “Order[s] Granting
Attorney’s Motion to be Relieved as Counsel – Civil” on the clients.¿¿
            The
court orders Al Mohajerian to give notice of this ruling and the signed
“Order[s] Granting Attorney’s Motion to be Relieved as Counsel – Civil” to Popchest,
Inc., defendant Valerian Bennett, and to all other parties who have appeared in
this action.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  June 10, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


