  Case Number:  24VECV00361    Hearing Date:   June 27, 2024    Dept:  T TSEPENYUK V MICBRI 24VECV00361[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendants MICBRI Properties, LLC and Highpoint Real Estate, Inc.’s Demurrer to the Complaint is SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND. Defendants MICBRI Properties, LLC and Highpoint Real Estate, Inc.’s Motion to Strike is GRANTED in Part and DENIED in Part.  The motion to strike punitive damages is GRANTED WITH 20 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND.  The motion to strike attorneys’ fees is GRANTED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND as to Complaint, paragraphs 23, 29, 34, and 36 and DENIED as to Complaint, paragraph 40.IntroductionDefendants MICBRI Properties, LLC (MICBRI) and Highpoint Real Estate, Inc. (Highpoint) (collectively, Defendants) demurred and moved to strike portions of Plaintiffs Nataliia Tsepenyuk, Vadim Tsepenyuk, Nataliia Tsepenyuk as Guardian ad Litem for Svitlana Kolomiichuk, an incapacitated adult, and Nataliia Tsepenyuk as Guardian ad Litem for Avraam Tsepenyuk, a minor (collectively, Plaintiffs) Complaint.  Defendants’ demurrer placed into issue the second cause of action (COA) for nuisance, the third COA for negligent infliction of emotional distress (NIED) and the fourth COA for breach of the implied covenant of quiet enjoyment.  Defendants’ moved to strike the request for punitive damages and the request for attorneys’ fees within the first five COAs (i.e., Compl. pars. 23, 29, 34, 36, and 40).ProcedureDefendants objected to the untimely filing of the opposition.  The opposition was due June 13, 2024, inclusive of the new June 19, 2024, court holiday.  The opposition was filed one day late and the reply addressed the merits of the opposition.  Because the opposition was only one day late and the merits of the opposition were addressed, the Court does not find any prejudice to Defendants.  Because there is no showing of prejudice to Defendants, the Court considered the untimely opposition.DiscussionDefendants argued that the second COA for nuisance failed to allege sufficient facts and is duplicative of the first COA for breach of the implied warranty of habitability (BIWH) and the third COA for NIED.  (El Escorial Owners’ Association v. DLC Plastering Inc. (2007) 154 Cal.App.4th 1337, 1349.)  The Court finds that Plaintiffs’ claims for nuisance rely upon the same factual allegations of defects in the premise alleged in the first COA for BIWH and third COA for NIED.  Because the COAs share the same factual allegations, the nuisance COA is duplicitous. The demurrer to the second COA is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE.As to the third COA for NIED, Plaintiffs submit to the arguments in the demurrer and requested leave to amend.  The Court finds the arguments in demurrer persuasive.The demurrer to the third COA is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE.The fourth COA for breach of the implied covenant of quiet enjoyment is uncertain because the Complaint failed to allege whether the COA is based upon contract or tort.  The Court does not agree with Plaintiffs that the COA is sufficiently supported with fact pleading.  The Courts have only allowed tort damages in connection with a wrongful eviction.  (Ginsberg v. Gamson (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 873, 897.)  There are no facts in the Complaint alleging that Plaintiffs are either still in possession or evicted.  Plaintiffs’ opposition asserted that they were evicted.  With this additional fact allegation, Plaintiffs show that the pleading defect can be cured.The demurrer to the fourth COA is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE.Defendants moved to strike the request for punitive damages.  Defendants argued that the Complaint failed to allege specific facts as to malice, oppression, or fraud and failed to allege specific facts as to a corporate employer.  The allegations of the Complaint only plead that Plaintiffs resided at the premise since February 15, 2011, and that the premise had several defects since Plaintiffs began their residence, which Plaintiffs complained about. (Compl. pars. 6, 12-15.)  The allegations, however, are generalized and do not provide sufficient and specific facts to plead any despicable conduct and/or willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of Plaintiffs.  Failures to repair the defects at the property, without more specific fact pleading, is insufficient to support punitive damages.  (Ebaugh v. Rabkin (1972) 22 Cal.App.3d 891, 894-895.)  Although Plaintiffs alleged a pattern and practice of refusing the make repairs (Compl. pars. 48-49), the allegations is conclusory and lacks specific fact pleading.  Further, Plaintiffs failed to plead specific facts to plead punitive damages against an employer.  The Complaint does not allege any facts to plead “advance knowledge of the unfitness of the employee” or a corporate officer, director or managing agent of the corporation ratifying the wrongful conduct.   Plaintiffs’ reliance on the conclusory allegation made in Complaint, paragraph 4, is unpersuasive.  The Court is persuaded by Defendants’ arguments. The motion to strike punitive damages is GRANTED WITH LEAVE. Defendants moved to strike the request for attorneys’ fees in the first five COAs.  The first four COAs are common law tort claims and do not allege a statutory or contractual basis for attorneys’ fees.  The motion is persuasive as to the first four COAs (i.e., Compl. pars. 23, 29, 34, and 36.)  The fifth COA for violation of statutory duties sufficiently alleged a statutory basis for fees.  The motion is not persuasive as to the fifth COA (i.e., Compl. par. 40.)The motion to strike fees is GRANTED WITHOUT LEAVE as to Complaint, paragraphs 23, 29, 34, and 36 and DENIED as to Complaint, paragraph 40.IT IS SO ORDERED, MOVING PARTY TO GIVE VERBATIM NOTICE. 