 Case Number:  23TRCV01881    Hearing Date:   May 17, 2024    Dept:  8  Tentative RulingHEARING DATE: May 17, 2024CASE NUMBER: 23TRCV01881CASE NAME: Deandre Davon Fluckers, et al. v. Extended Stay America, Inc., et al.MOVING PARTY: (1) Defendant, Extended Stay America, Inc.RESPONDING PARTY: (1) Plaintiff, Deandre Davon Fluckers and Renzo RossTRIAL DATE: Not Set.MOTION: (1) Defendant, Extended Stay America, Inc.’s Demurrer to the 1st, 5th, 6th, 8th, and 9th causes of action(2) Defendant, Extended Stay America, Inc.’s Motion to StrikeTentative Rulings: (1) Defendant, Extended Stay America, Inc.’s Demurrer is OVERRULED in part and SUSTAINED in part.(2) Defendant, Extended Stay America, Inc.’s Motion to Strike is DENIED in part and MOOTED in part.I. BACKGROUNDA. FactualOn June 12, 2023, Plaintiffs, Deandre Davon Fluckers, Renzo Ross, and Lisa Y. Ross filed a Complaint against Defendants, Extended Stay America, Inc., Orkin, LLC, aka Orkin Pest Control, Housing Authority for the City of Los Angeles, Beach Front Property Management, Inc. aka Beach PPTY MGMT, Seth Neblett, Ati Pauta, Victor Ocampo, and DOES 1 through 100. On August 9, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”). On March 13, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) alleging causes of action for: (1) Negligence; (2) Breach of Implied Warranty of Habitability; (3) Breach of the Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment; (4) Nuisance; (5) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress; (6) Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress; (7) Collection of Rent for Substandard Dwelling; (8) Willful Interruption of Services; and (9) Violation of Los Angeles County Code § 8.52.130, et seq.On February 23, 2024, this Court sustained, with leave to amend, the previous demurrer to the FAC filed by Extended Stay America (“Extended Stay”).Now, Extended Stay and Seth Neblett (“Neblett”) file a Demurrer and Motion to Strike portions of the SAC.B. ProceduralOn April 15, 2024, Defendants Extended Stay and Neblett filed a Demurrer and Motion to Strike. On May 1, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an opposition brief to both motions. On May 10, 2024, Extended Stay and Neblett filed reply briefs.II. GROUNDS FOR MOTIONSExtended Stay and Neblett demur to Plaintiffs’ SAC on the grounds that they argue Plaintiffs’ first cause of action for negligence, fifth cause of action for Intentional infliction of emotional distress, sixth cause of action for negligent infliction of emotional distress, eighth cause of action for willful interruption of services and ninth cause of action for violation of Los Angeles County Code section 8.52.130, et seq., fail to state sufficient facts to constitute any cause of action against the demurring defendants. causes of action fail to state any cause of action for which relief may be granted against Extended Stay.Further, Extended Stay files a Motion to Strike portions of Plaintiffs’ SAC that discuss Plaintiffs’ allegations regarding attorneys’ fees and request for punitive damages.III. ANALYSISA. DemurrerA demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) “To survive a demurrer, the complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action; each evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.” (C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.) For the purpose of testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does not admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.)¿¿¿¿A pleading is uncertain if it is ambiguous or unintelligible. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f).) A demurrer for uncertainty may lie if the failure to label the parties and claims renders the complaint so confusing defendant cannot tell what he or she is supposed to respond to.¿ (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2.) However, “[a] demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)Meet and ConferAlthough Plaintiffs contend that their last communication with counsel for Defendants here warranted further meeting and conferring, there is nothing in the record to suggest theparties attempted to meet and confer further prior to the filing of this motion. This Court finds that Defendants’ meet and confer efforts were sufficient.NegligenceExtended Stay and Neblett demur to the first cause of action for Negligence fails because they argue Extended Stay cannot be vicariously liable for Orkin’s conduct. Extended Stay and Neblett maintain that Okin is an independent contractor, and that Extended Stay did not exercise any control over Orkin’s provision of pest control services at the subject property.In this Court’s previous minute order on Extended Stay’s demurrer to the FAC, this Court sustained the demurrer with leave to amend because this Court found the FAC to be misleading and contain typos that did not strengthen Plaintiffs’ argument that Extended Stay was responsible for Orkin’s actions. As such, this Court found that Plaintiffs’ FAC was unclear as to whether Plaintiff was alleging Orkin was an employer or independent contractor.In opposition, Plaintiffs note that if allowed to meet and confer further, Plaintiffs would have stipulated that the negligence cause of actions against Extended Stay is not based on vicarious liability from Orkin. Plaintiffs assert that they have done so by removing the typo identified by this Court in the previous tentative ruling, and also identifying a section of the cause of action to which only discusses Defendant Orkin and DOES 1 through 100. Plaintiffs contend that with respect to Extended Stay and the other non-Orkin Defendants, their liability is based on their own actions (and interactions) that caused the alleged conditions to permeate the property. The Court notes that other instances of negligent conduct, not including the pest control, have been alleged in prior pleadings as well as this one. With respect to this negligence cause of action, the Court does note that there is a delineation between the allegations against Extended Stay and Orkin.Specifically, Plaintiff argues that Extended Stay and/or their agents owed a duty to Plaintiffs under Civil Code §§ 1940 and 1941.1 to maintain the property in a condition fit for human occupation, and to repair (SAC, ¶ 123.) However, Plaintiffs nonetheless allege that Defendants breached their duty by violating Civil Code §§ 1940, 1940.2, 1941.1, and 1942.2 when they negligently maintained the property in a condition fit for human occupancy and by failing to repair all subsequent substandard and dilapidated conditions. (SAC, ¶ 124.) The dilapidated conditions do not per se speak to Orkin or pests generally. Instead, the SAC also identifies: sewer/drain defects resulting in sewage and waste water backing up into units,; exposure to toxic mol; defective and old pipes; unreliable water supply; recurrent leaks; water-damaged walls and flooring; filthy, unsafe common areas blighted with trash and debris, feces; lack of statutorily required smoke alarms and carbon monoxide monitors within the apartment units; trespassers loitering in common areas and breaking into adjacent apartments; and structural, plumbing, and electrical hazards including, but not limited to live exposed wires coming out of the walls of common areas were tenants and children traverse. (SAC, ¶ 2.) Plaintiffs also allege causation and damages. (SAC, ¶¶ 130-132.)When removing the portions attributed to Orkin, this Court notes that Plaintiffs have alleged a sufficient cause of action for negligence as to Extended Stay and Neblett. The Court is not persuaded by Demurring Defendants’ argument that this cause of action is duplicative with Plaintiff’s nuisance cause of action because of one similar paragraph.Moreover, this Court also notes that Demurring Defendants may not raise an argument for the first time in their reply brief. They attempt to argue, in their reply brief, that Plaintiffs’ SAC is now a sham pleading. However, as noted by this Court, the allegations of dilapidation, other than that relating to pests, has already been found in Plaintiffs’ prior pleadings. As such, the Court ignores this argument. However, the Court does note that it may be duplicative of the Breach of Implied Warranty of Habitability as this cause of action is based on Defendants’ alleged inability to provide habitable premises.The parties may argue the issue of duplication during oral argument.However, the Court’s tentative ruling is to OVERRULE the demurrer.Intentional Infliction of Emotional DistressPreliminarily, this Court notes that its February 23, 2024, minute order notes that it sustained Extended Stay’s entire demurrer, including the IIED claim, despite Plaintiffs’ contention that it overruled it. Previously, this Court noted in its last tentative ruling that Plaintiffs’ FAC failed to contain any allegations that Defendants intended to cause Plaintiffs with emotional distress. Plaintiffs have failed to amend their pleading in a way to cure the identified defects. Plaintiffs attempted to, with their FAC, to rely on reckless disregard standard versus the intention element. However, as it did not previously persuade the Court to overrule the previous demurrer, it does not do so here.The demurrer is SUSTAINED on this issue.Negligent Infliction of Emotional DistressThis Court notes, as does Demurring Defendants, that Plaintiffs were not granted leave to add new causes of action. For the reasons identified in the moving papers, Plaintiffs were granted leave to amend their FAC as pleaded. As such, the Court SUSTAINS the demurrer as to this issue.Willful Interruption of ServicesExtended Stay and Neblett demur to the eighth cause of action for willful interruption of services.Civil Code section 789.3 provides that “A landlord shall not with intent to terminate the occupancy under any lease … of property used by a tenant as his residence willfully cause, directly or indirectly, the interruption or termination of any utility service furnished the tenant, including, but not limited to, water, heat, light, electricity, gas, telephone, elevator, or refrigeration, whether or not the utility service is under the control of the landlord.” (CCP §789.3(a).) To allege constructive eviction, a plaintiff must allege a disturbance of their possession by the lessor, which “has the effect of “depriving the tenant of the beneficial enjoyment of the premises, provided the tenant vacates the premises within a reasonable time.” (Nativi v. Deutsche Bank Nat'l Tr. Co. (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 261, 292 [citations omitted].)Plaintiffs’ SAC alleges that during their tenancy, the elevators were rarely functioning. (SAC, ¶ 217.) The crux of the issue with Plaintiffs’ cause of action is that they are alleging the elevators were consistently shut down at Defendants’ request, and rarely serviced properly, however, nothing in the SAC suggests that this was with the intent to terminate Plaintiffs’ occupancy. As plead, it appears that all individuals on the subject premises had to endure the state of the elevators. Without this intention element, Plaintiffs may not maintain this cause of action and the demurrer is SUSTAINED.The parties will discuss the Court’s ability to grant leave to amend on certain causes of action since Plaintiffs have already had three bites at the apple.B. Extended Stay’s Motion to StrikeLegal StandardThe court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 436(a).) The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Id., § 436(b).)¿The grounds for a motion to strike are that the pleading has irrelevant, false improper matter, or has not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws.¿ (Id., § 436.)¿ The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.¿ (Id., § 437.)¿ “When the defect which justifies striking a complaint is capable of cure, the court should allow leave to amend.”¿ (Vaccaro v. Kaiman (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 761, 768.)DiscussionHere, Extended Stay seeks to strike all reference to Plaintiffs’ allegations of attorneys’ fees and requests for punitive damages.Civil Code section 3294, subdivision (a) authorizes punitive damages in non-contract cases “where the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.”“Malice [is defined as] conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard for the rights and safety of others.” (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1).) “Oppression” means “despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person's rights.” (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(2).) “Fraud” is “an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.” (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(3).)“In order to survive a motion to strike an allegation of punitive damages, the ultimate facts showing an entitlement to such relief must be pled by a plaintiff. In passing on the correctness of a ruling on a motion to strike, judges read allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts in their context, and assume their truth. In ruling on a motion to strike, courts do not read allegations in isolation.” (Clauson v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.) “The mere allegation an intentional tort was committed is not sufficient to warrant an award of punitive damages. Not only must there be circumstances of oppression, fraud or malice, but facts must be alleged in the pleading to support such a claim.” (Grieves v. Superior Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 166.) Something more than the mere commission of a tort is always required for punitive damages. There must be circumstances of aggravation or outrage, such as spite or ‘malice,’ or a fraudulent or evil motive on the part of the defendant, or such a conscious and deliberate disregard of the interests of others that his conduct may be called willful or wanton.” (Taylor v. Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 894.)To plead a “willful and conscious disregard of the rights of others,” a plaintiff need only allege, “that the defendant was aware of the probable dangerous consequences of his conduct, and that he willfully and deliberately failed to avoid those consequences.” (Lackner v. North (2006) 135 Cal.App.4th 1188, 1211.) However, the definition of malice also requires that the conduct be despicable. “'Despicable conduct' has been described as conduct which is so vile, base, contemptible, miserable, wretched or loathsome that it would be looked down upon and despised by ordinary decent people. Such conduct has been described as '[having] the character of outrage frequently associated with crime.”' (American Airlines, Inc. v. Sheppard, Mullin, Richter & Hampton (2002) 96 Cal.App.4th 1017, 1050.) In cases involving conduct performed without intent to harm, a finding of malice requires proof by clear and convincing evidence that defendant's tortious wrong amounted to despicable conduct and that such despicable conduct was carried on with a ‘willful and conscious disregard’ of the rights or safety of others.” (See College Hospital, Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 725.)“A breach of a fiduciary duty alone without malice, fraud or oppression does not permit an award of punitive damages. The wrongdoer must act with the intent to vex, injure, or annoy, or with a conscious disregard of the plaintiff's rights. Punitive damages are appropriate if the defendant's acts are reprehensible, fraudulent or in blatant violation of law or policy. The mere carelessness or ignorance of the defendant does not justify the imposition of punitive damages. Punitive damages are proper only when the tortious conduct rises to levels of extreme indifference to the plaintiff's rights, a level which decent citizens should not have to tolerate.” (Tomaselli v. Transamerica Ins. Co. (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 1269, 1287.)Here, Extended Stay argues Plaintiffs’ SAC is insufficient to support a claim for punitive damages. As noted above, this Court ruled on numerous causes of action above, predominantly sustaining the demurrer. As such, the Motion to Strike punitive damages as pertaining to the sustained causes of action on demurrer above are mooted. However, as to the mention of punitive damages for the causes of action that were overruled, or not part of this demurrer (fraudulent concealment), the Court DENIES the Motion to strike.Attorneys’ FeesParties cannot recover attorney’s fees unless expressly authorized by a statute or contract. (Hom v. Petrou (2021) 67 Cal.App.5th 459, 464.) As for the Motion to Strike as itrelates to attorneys’ fees, the Court analysis is the same. Attorneys’ fees as they pertain to the causes of action sustained on demurrer are mooted. However, reasonable attorneys’ fees awarded by statute, like in the seventh cause of action for collection of rent on untenable dwelling, etc., or for causes of action overruled on demurrer or not subject to this demurrer are DENIED.IV. CONCLUSIONFor the foregoing reasons, Extended Stay’s Demurrer is OVERRULED in part and SUSTAINED in part. Further, Extended Stay’s Motion to Strike is DENIED in part, and MOOTED in part.Extended Stay is ordered to give notice.