  Case Number:  19TRCV00871    Hearing Date:   May 17, 2024    Dept:  8   Tentative RulingHEARING DATE: March 17, 2024CASE NUMBER: 19TRCV00871CASE NAME: Donald Baxter v. Alvin Pittman, et al.MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff, Donald BaxterRESPONDING PARTY: Defendants, Alvin L. Pittman and Law Offices of Alvin L. PittmanDISPOSED OF DATE: April 12, 2023MOTION:¿ (1) Motion to Amend JudgmentTentative Rulings: (1) CONTINUE with supplemental briefing by the parties.I. BACKGROUNDA. FactualOn April 12, 2023, the jury awarded Plaintiff $10,000,000 with some express and potentially some implied adjustments. That same day, the Court entered judgment on the jury verdict, reducing the total verdict to $6,800,000, deducting the full amount of the past non-economic loss, and the full amount of the future non-economic loss that the jury awarded, and accounting for the comparative fault of Brian D. Witzer at 15%.Now, Plaintiff moves this Court to award costs and pre-judgment interest based on Plaintiff’s previously tendered and rejected 998 offers. Plaintiff further moves to correct/amend the judgment pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 473(d) on the basis that the judgment omits $250,000 worth of past pain/suffering/emotional distress that would have been obtainable against the physician in the underlying case, and therefore, should have also been assessed against Defendants, Alvin Pittman and Law Offices of Alvin Pittman in the present case and was allegedly improperly reduced.As such, Plaintiffs also seek to amend the Judgement to have this Court include the $250,000 MICRA-capped pain and suffering amount.B. ProceduralOn April 23, 2024, Plaintiff filed this Motion to Amend Judgment. On May 6, 2024, Defendants, Alvin L. Pittman and Law Offices of Alvin L. Pittman filed an opposition brief. On May 10, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply brief.II. ANALYSIS A. Legal Standard“The court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out they name of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect. . .The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as my be just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars. . .” (Code Civ. Proc., §473, subd. (a)(1).) The court, “regardless of the lapse of time, has inherent power to correct mistakes in its judgments or orders. [citation] This power, however, is limited to mistakes which are not the result of an exercise of judicial discretion.” (In re Sloan’s Estate (1963) 222 Cal.App.2d 283, 292.)Under Code of Civil Procedure §1033.5, subdivision (b)(1), ... parties may not recover expert witness fees as costs “except when expressly authorized by law.” Such an express authorization exists under section 998. (First Nationwide Bank v. Mountain Cascade, Inc. (2000) 77 Cal.App.4th 871, 875-876.) Whether a section 998 offer was reasonable and made in good faith is left to the sound discretion of the trial court. (Nelson v. Anderson (1999) 72 Cal.App.4th 111, 134.) “Similarly, the decision to award expert witness fees, and the determination of whether these fees were reasonably necessary, are issues left to the discretion of the trial court.” (Adams v. Ford Motor Co. (2011) 199 Cal.App.4th 1475, 1484.) On appeal, the reviewing court “may reverse the denial of statutorily authorized [expert] fees where the trial court failed to exercise its discretion to determine whether the requested fees were reasonable.” (LAOSD Asbestos Cases (2018) 25 Cal.App.5th 1116, 1126.)Code of Civil Procedure Section 998 establishes a procedure for shifting costs upon a party's refusal to settle by “expand[ing] the number and type of recoverable costs and fees” beyond those otherwise available to a prevailing party under Code of Civil Procedure section 1032, subdivision (b). (Murillo v. Fleetwood Enterprises, Inc. (1998) 17 Cal.4th 985, 1000.) In addition to expert witness fees, a prevailing plaintiff in a personal injury case may obtain post offer interest on the judgment. (Civ. Code, § 3291.) Prejudgment interest may be awarded on personal injury damages whether they are economic and thus readily determinable in amount at the time the Section 998 offer was made, as well as non-economic damages that are not computable or subject to precise calculation until the jury makes its determination at trial. (Steinfeld v. Foote-Goldman Proctologic Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 60 Cal.App.4th 13, 21.) The proper method of calculating Section 3291 prejudgment interest amount is to base the interest upon the entire judgment, except that future damages must be reduced to present value. (Deocampo v. Ahn (2002) 101 Cal.App.4th 758, 775.)B. DiscussionHere, Plaintiff have requested this Court, under Code of Civil Procedure section 116.725 to correct a computational/clerical error, whereby, when the Court reduced the non-economic damages awarded by the jury of $2 million ($1 million past, and $1 million future as to Defendant, Alvin Pittman), it also omitted the $250,000 in non-economic MICRA damages that would have otherwise been recoverable. Thus, Plaintiff asserts that judgment of $6,800,000 should therefore be amended to $7,050,000, to include the non-economic damages awarded by the jury as against South Bay Cancer Center and Dr. Rickles, and against Defendant, Alvin Pittman.Plaintiff further contends that he served separate 998 offers to each defendant on August 15, 2023 for $500,000 each in this matter, and that both of which were deemed rejected by Defendants when the offers expired 30 days later. Thus, Plaintiff argues that pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 3291, applying the 998 statutory scheme to personal injury matters, pre-judgment interest began accruing from the date of each offer on August 15, 2023 up to the time of judgment on April 12, 2024. Moreover, Plaintiff notes that the total interest accrued during that 241-day period totals $465,493.15.Based on this, Plaintiff argues this Court should amend the judgment entered on April 12, 2024 to award the $250,000 in non-economic damages that Plaintiff was entitled to, and award Plaintiff his pre-judgment interest based on his 998 offers, as well as the costs he incurred prosecuting this matter, as outlined in the memorandum of costs.In opposition, Defendants, Alvin L. Pittman and the Law Offices of Alvin L. Pittman submit a declaration from Alvin L. Pittman which notes that: (1) Plaintiff’s memorandum of costs contain purportedly unreasonable witness fees in the amount of $113,636.76; (2) Plaintiff’s memorandum of costs contains extraordinarily high prejudgment interest in the amount of $465,493.15 and does not make clear how interest was calculated; (3) Plaintiff’s argument that the judgment should be increased to include the $250,000 in non-economic MICRA damages has no legal basis. Defendants note that the jury awarded Plaintiff “Past and/or future noneconomic loss, including physical pain/mental suffering/quality of life, impairment, inconvenience, disability, humiliation, embarrassment, disfigurement in the amount of $1 million, which is four times the $250,000; (4) the jury made an award of $3.6 million to Plaintiff for “past medical expenses,” and the Court should deduct from the verdict the “negotiated rate differential” to ensure Plaintiff only recovers medical sums actually incurred; and (5) there is insufficient evidence to justify the verdict of 85% responsibility to Alvin Pittman and only 15% to Brian Witzer. Alvin Pittman notes that he requested a special verdict which requested that the jury cut-off any responsibility by Attorney Pittman after the date of the substitution of attorney, April 20, 2018, but the Court rejected the request. Nonetheless, Pittman asserts that the evidence showed that Attorney Witzer had the case for almost a year, and he had complete control of the case and admitted he did not believe that Attorney Pittman was negligent. Moreover, Pittman contends the evidence also showed that Witzer was negligent in failing to file the motion to amend in a timely manner and that he did little or nothing to get a better settlement.Based on the above points in Pittman’s declaration, he has requested this Court: (1) reduce the memorandum of costs for witness fees of $113,646.76 by an amount according to proof od reasonable witness fees; (2) reduce the memorandum of costs for prejudgment interest of $465,493.15 so as to prevent Plaintiff from obtaining “compound interest;” (3) deduct from the Jury’s verdict of $3.6 million in “past medical expenses” the incurred for medical expenses, to which there was almost no testimony to support; (4) deny Plaintiff’s request for an additional $250,000 in non-economic MICRA damages has no legal basis; and (5) increase the responsibility of Attorney Witzer to at least 50% given his admission that Attorney Pittman was not negligent.This Court notes, as does Plaintiff in his reply brief, that Defendant Pittman’s declaration appears to be akin to that of a Motion to Tax Costs. However, pursuant to California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1700(b)(1), a motion to strike or tax costs must be served and filed fifteen (15) days after service of the cost memorandum. Here, Plaintiff’s memorandum of cost was filed on April 23, 2024. As such, the last day to bring a motion to tax costs would have been May 8, 2024, or May 10, 2024 if electronically filed. Here the opposition was filed on May 6, 2024, so technically, if interpreted as a memorandum to tax costs, Defendant’s opposition brief would be timely pursuant to California Rules of Court Rule 3.1700(b)(1).POINTS FOR ORAL ARGUMENT AND SUPPLEMENTAL DECLARATIONS OR BRIEFINGThe parties need to provide the Court with oral argument and likely supplemental briefing and supplemental declarations to address a number of issues that are only superficially addressed in the briefs currently before the Court. The issues the Court invites the parties to address more fully are listed below.1. The Interest CalculationOn its face, and regardless of whether Defendants did or did not fail to timely file a motion to tax costs, the Court cannot accept at face value the single sentence in Mr. Melrose’s declaration and threadbare discussion in the motion to amend judgment as to how the claimed interest amount was calculated. Given that the dollar amount of the judgment is the subject of the motion to amend, it is unclear whether the Plaintiff’s proposed Cost Bill interest amount is predicated on the judgment entered by the Court or the proposed judgment after the requested amendments. It is also unclear whether the claimed interest amount is duplicated based on the two separate 998 Offers or not.2. The Reasonableness and Good Faith of the Section 998 OffersThe Second District recently made it clear that the issues of the reasonableness and good faith of a Section 998 Offer is within the trial court’s discretion, but the record must reflect the basis for the trial court’s exercise of that discretion. (LAOSD Asbestos Cases, supra, 25 Cal.App.5th at p. 1126.) The moving papers on the motion to amend judgment only scratch the surface of this issue, which is one reason the Court believes it may need a supplemental declaration and briefing on this point.3. The Reasonableness of the Expert Fees and Whether They Were Incurred Pre-Offer or Post-OfferSimilar to the issue of the reasonableness of the statutory settlement offers, the Court believes it needs a fuller record to exercise its discretion of the hourly rates and associated charges of the expert witnesses whose witness fees are included in the Cost Bill. The moving papers on the motion to amend judgment again only briefly touch this issue, which is challenged in the opposition declaration from Mr. Pittman. While the Court is prepared to take oral argument on this issue, it may need a supplemental declaration and briefing on this point as well. Precedents on this point indicate that the trial court must make findings as to whether that offer was reasonable, or whether the requested expert witness fees were reasonably necessary to the litigation. (LAOSD Asbestos Cases, supra, 25 Cal.App.5th at p. 1127.)4. Handling the MICRA IssueThe Motion to Amend argues that the MICRA $250,000 amount should be added to the jury’s already considerable awards for non-economic damages. The relevant portion of MICRA, in Civil Code section 3333.2, provides: “(a) In any action for injury against a health care provider based on professional negligence, the injured plaintiff shall be entitled to recover noneconomic losses to compensate for pain, suffering, inconvenience, physical impairment, disfigurement and other nonpecuniary damage. [¶] (b) In no action shall the amount of damages for noneconomic losses exceed two hundred fifty thousand dollars ($250,000).” The jury awarded well over $250,000 for non-economic damages for each of past and future non-economic components. Expert testimony from both sides provided notice to the jury that MICRA existed and that MICRA imposed a cap, although there were no jury instructions to help the jury decide whether they should award a gross amount that the Court would then reduce on post-judgment motion, or whether they should ignore the testimony on the point and simply award the amount they collectively determined was appropriate for each of past and future components on non-economic damages. The Court invites argument and potentially supplemental briefing as to whether MICRA applies to both past and future non-economic damages, whether the $1 Million awards by the jury in the legal malpractice verdict questions for each component should be reduced to $250,000 total or $250,000 for each on past and future non-economic damages, and what authority Plaintiff relies on for the assertion that the Court should add another $250,000 to the $2 Million the jury awarded for such damages. Once again the parties’ briefs are minimalist, and not particularly helpful to the Court. The Court notes that the jury awarded the exact same $2 Million total for non-economic damages both in the underlying case special verdict question 3.b (which combined past and future) and in the malpractice verdict question 6.b and 6.c (which separated them). Do the parties agree that the question 3.b $2Million amount should have been reduced by the Court to $250,000, and if so what effect would that have on the jury’s award of the exact same total amount in the legal malpractice section of the verdict form?5. Handling the Howell IssueDefendants raise an argument in their Opposition Brief (rather than in a motion for new trial or JNOV) that the Court should reduce the jury’s award of past medical expenses by the negotiated rate differential reflecting a much smaller amount than the face amount of the medical bills based on in-network rates Plaintiff’s medical insurance contracted to pay to Plaintiff’s health care providers and hospital, pursuant to Howell v. Hamilton Meats & Provisions, Inc. (2011) 52 Cal.4th 541, 563. Howell held that an award of past medical expenses is limited to the lesser of (1) the amount paid or incurred and (2) the reasonable value of the services rendered. (Id. at p. 556.) In Pebley v. Santa Clara Organics, LLC (2018) 22 Cal.App.5th 1266, 1269, the court held that when an insured plaintiff chooses to seek medical care outside of his or her insurance plan, such a plaintiff may be considered “uninsured,” making the incurred but unpaid medical bills potentially relevant to prove past and future medical damages—so long as additional evidence, usually in the form of expert opinion testimony, is also presented on the reasonable value of the services rendered. The Opposition make no reference to any such expert testimony provided in the trial. Moreover, evidence of unpaid medical bills is relevant to prove or disprove the “reasonable value” prong of past medical damages if it can be shown the bill is actually incurred. (Qaadir v. Figueroa (2021) 67 Cal.App.5th 790, 798.) The Opposition quotes to no such evidence bearing on how the Court is being requested to make the requested adjustment in the economic damages awarded.But the Court and the jury were not provided any evidence of the negotiated rate differential, or whether the health care providers were or were not within the Plaintiff’s public or private insurance coverage as approved providers, or whether any of the bills were paid or discounted by the health care providers, or other evidence bearing on the reasonable value of the medical expenses claimed. The Court invites oral argument as to how the parties contend the Court should address this Howell issue given the record before the Court.6. Addressing the 15% Reduction the Jury Attributed to Mr. WitzerThe jury in its answer to Special Verdict Question 9 attributed 15% responsibility to Mr. Witzer and 85% of Mr. Pittman. The parties in tehri briefing have very different takes on this, Defendant arguing that the Court should substitute its own judgment for the jury’s and reallocate the apportionment of liability differently. The Court will decline to do so for numerous reasons, not the least of which is that such a request for essentially a remittitur or JNOV should have been brought in Defendant’s own post-trial motion, not in an opposition to Plaintiff’s motion. Plaintiff’s Motion to Amend argues that the Court should also ignore the jury’s assessment of apportioned responsibility, which is essentially a comparative fault determination by the trier of fact after being instructed pursuant to CACI 3702 that the Court would calculate the actual reduction of Plaintiff’s claim by its determination of Mr. Witzer’s percentage of responsibility. The Court will take oral argument as to whether the Clerk made a clerical miscalculation of the percentage reduction found by the jury, or whether there was an error of law in applying the 15% reduction to improper elements of damages.7. Addressing the Absence of a Motion to Tax Costs When the Opposition to This Motion to Amend Was Filed within the Time Limits for a Motion to TaxDefendants did not file a motion to tax costs. Plaintiff’s Reply contends that the Court should exercise no discretion, simply award every penny sought in the Cost Bill without any analysis, and essentially find that Defendants have waived their right to challenge any of the claimed costs. However, the Opposition to the Motion to Amend was field within the time limits for a motion to tax costs, and the substance of the opposition brief and declaration are to question the reasonableness of several items of claimed costs. Accordingly, the Court could consider or deem the Opposition papers to be deemed a motion to tax costs. The Court requests oral argument as to whether there is any authority supporting the Court’s treatment of an opposition and declaration to a different post-judgment motion as if it were a motion to tax.