 Case Number:  24STCV08540    Hearing Date:   June 7, 2024    Dept:  82 Rafael Raz, et al.
v. Beith David Education Center, et al.
Case No.
24STCV08540
 
[Tentative] Order
 
On April 4, 2024, Plaintiffs filed
a verified petition for an order voiding the election of the directors of the
Beith David Education Center (“Beith David”), a non-profit religious
corporation which operates as an Orthodox Jewish synagogue.  Plaintiffs named Beith David and Fahim
Farivar, who was elected Chairman, as defendants.  Previously, Plaintiffs filed an ex parte
application for a temporary restraining order and an order to show cause why a
preliminary injunction shall not issue. 
Plaintiffs sought an order enjoining Defendant Fahim Farivar from: (1)
Interfering with a new membership meeting and election, (2) Attempting to
intimidate or threaten any member of the congregation from requesting a new
membership meeting and election, (3) Attempting to intimidate or threaten
anyone in connection with voting in the election, and (4) “Holding a Board of
Directors meeting and attempting to exercise any of the powers normally
exercised by a Board of Directors, including collecting money in the name of
Beith David.”  The court cannot intervene
in religious matters relating to the management and operation of a religious
institution.  (See New v. Kroeger
(2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 800, 815-816, citations omitted.)  “The prohibition against civil court
participation in sectarian disputes extends to issues involving membership,
clergy credentials and discipline, as well as religious entity governance and
administration.”  (Id., p. 815, citing Jones
v. Wolf, 443 U.S. 595, 602 (1975).)  The
court previously denied Plaintiff’s ex parte application for a temporary
restraining order as it relates to the employment and qualifications of Beith
David’s caterer on this basis.
 
On April 22, 2024, Beith David and
Fahim Farivar filed a cross-complaint against Rafi Raz (President), Shlomo
Sherif (Inspector #1), Hooman Moshe Gideon (the former caterer) and Ken
Pezeshki (Vice Chairman #1).  The
cross-complaint asserts 21 causes of action. 
Then, the cross-complainants sought a writ of possession and temporary
restraining order.  Essentially, the
cross-complainants sought: (1) A writ of possession to return access to Beith
David’s bank account to Beith David and Farim Farivar; (2) A writ of possession
to return “donations/funds collected on behalf of BDEC” to Beith David; and (3)
A temporary restraining order return control of Beith David’s facilities, books
and records, security and surveillance equipment, and utility and service
accounts to Beith David.  
 
The court heard the ex parte
application on May 20, 2024.  This
application implicated a different issue than Plaintiffs’ ex parte application because
it effectively sought to return control of Beith David’s facilities and
accounts to the temple’s own leadership. 
In that sense, the court would not be intervening in the substance of
religious matters.  To the contrary, the
court would be placing control of the temple in the hands of the religious
leader, Rabbi Darzan Levihim.  Rabbi
Levihim supported this application and requested that the court issue the
proposed order.  (See Court’s Minute
Order, dated May 20, 2024, citing Declaration of Rabbi Darzan Levihim, ¶¶ 3-4.)  The court did so, but placed control of Beith
David back in the hands of Rabbi Levihim. 
Rabbi Levihim attended the hearing and indicated that his designee on
financial matters is the current Chief Financial Officer, Behroouz Natanzi.  Neither the Rabbi nor Mr. Natanzi is a party
to this case.  
 
Based upon the foregoing, the court
granted the cross-defendants’ ex parte application in part and denies the ex
parte application in part.  The court
issued a minute order issuing an order to show cause why a preliminary
injunction shall not issue and setting a briefing schedule and hearing
date.  The court also issued a signed
temporary restraining order.  The court
ordered counsel for Beith David to provide notice and file proof of service
with the court.  
 
Several issues have arisen since
the court granted Beith David’s ex parte application for a temporary
restraining order and OSC re: preliminary injunction.  First, the cross-defendants allege that Beith
David violated the court’s temporary restraining order by changing the locks on
May 20, 2024, in advance of the court’s deadline of May 24, 2024.  Second, the cross-defendants allege that the
order to show cause re: preliminary injunction was not served on them.  Third, Beith David alleges that the cross-defendants
have not complied with the court’s temporary restraining in various
respects.  The court will address each
issue separately.  
 
A.        Beith
David’s Alleged Violation of the Temporary Restraining Order 
 
The court ordered all parties “to
grant full access, possession, and control over all kitchen areas, storage
facilities, refrigerators, offices, phone number(s), donation boxes, and
related keys and locks to Rabbi Darzan Levihim and/or his designee(s) on or
before Friday, May 24, 2024, at 12 Noon.” 
(See Court’s Temporary Restraining Order, dated May 20, 2024, at ¶
1.)  The order further states: “This
shall afford Cross-Defendant Hooman Moshe Gideon a reasonable opportunity to
retrieve his inventory and kitchen equipment from the kitchen.”  (Ibid.)  The cross-defendants allege that Fahim
Farivar, the chairman of Beith David, changed the locks to the kitchen on May
20, 2024, and there was disruption with respect to Gideon removing his possessions.  Although Beith David violated the intention
and spirit, if not the letter, of the court’s order, the issue now is
moot.  The deadline has passed; the
kitchen has been returned to Beith David; and Gideon appears to have retrieved
his possessions.  Therefore, the issue is
moot.
 
B.        No
Service of the Order to Show Cause re: Preliminary Injunction
 
When the court grants Beith David’s
ex parte application for a temporary restraining order and order to show cause
re: preliminary injunction, the court issued two orders.  The court issued a minute order that included
the OSC re: preliminary injunction, as well as the relevant dates.  The court also issued a signed temporary
restraining order that did not include reference to the OSC re: preliminary
injunction (because it was contained within the minute order).  The court ordered counsel for Beith David to provide
notice and file proof of service with the court.  According to the proofs of service, counsel
only served the signed order, not the minute order, based upon which counsel
for the cross-defendants argue that his client received no notice of the OSC
re: preliminary injunction (notwithstanding that he was present during the
hearing at which the court announced it was issuing the OSC).
 
To remedy this issue of notice, on
June 3, 2024, the court issued a minute order re-setting the hearing on Beith
David’s ex parte application for a temporary restraining order and order to
show cause why a preliminary injunction should not issue.  (See Court’s Minute Order, dated June 3,
2024.)  The court noticed the hearing for
June 7, 2024, which provided sufficient notice. 
 
Option #1
 
The court held a new hearing on
Beith David’s ex parte application for a temporary restraining order.  Following the hearing, the court re-issued
the temporary restraining order with new dates. 
The court also issued an order to show cause why a preliminary
injunction shall not issue.  The court
set the following dates: (1) The cross-defendants may file an opposition to the
temporary restraining order on or before June 21, 2024; (2) Beith David may
file a reply brief on or before June 25, 2024; and (3) The court shall hold a
hearing on the OSC re: preliminary injunction on June 28, 2024, at 9:30 a.m. 
 
Option #2
 
The cross-defendants waived
notice of the order to show cause why a preliminary injunction should not be
issued and waived an opportunity to file a written opposition.  Following oral argument, the court [issued
the preliminary injunction on the same operative terms as the temporary
restraining order, as reflected in the separate signed order] [denied issuance
of the preliminary injunction and discharged the temporary restraining order].
 
            C.        The Cross-Defendants’ Alleged Violations
of the Temporary Restraining Order  
 
            1.         Rafael Raz’s Alleged Misappropriation –
According to Bruce Natanzi, Beith David was able to repatriate $260,000, which
has been deposited into a new account at Wells Fargo Bank.  (See Declaration of Bruce Natanzi, ¶ 6.)  However, Beith David alleges that Rafael Raz
has not returned $14,500 to Beith David. 
The evidence before this court does not establish a violation of the
temporary restraining order.  Beith David
alleges that on or about April 15, 2024, Raz transferred or withdrew $14,500.  (See id., ¶ 7.)  This pre-dated the temporary restraining
order, which ordered the return of accounts “containing funds held in trust for
Beith David.”  (See Court’s Temporary
Restraining Order, dated May 20, 2024, ¶ 3.) 
There is insufficient evidence for the court to determine whether these
funds were “misappropriated.”  Natanzi’s
declaration contains only a conclusory allegation, and Raz’s declaration
states: “Since [May 23, 2024] I have turned over the balance of Beith David
money in my control along with an accounting showing that the amounts spent
were for absolutely proper Beith David purposes.”  (Declaration of Rafael Raz, ¶ 8.)  Raz also states: “I do not have any checks
payable to Beith David in my possession. 
As a practical matter almost no donations are made in cash as the
members want the tax deduction.”  (Ibid.)  
 
            2.         Rafael Raz’s Accounting Records and
Donations – The evidence before this court does not establish a violation of
the temporary restraining order for the reasons discussed above.
 
            3.         Shlomo Sherf’s Alleged Misappropriation
– Beith David alleges that Shlomo Sherf “has at least $1,000 in BDEC’s
donation, which he has refused to return to BDEC.”  Mr. Natanzi states: “[I]n a board meeting
that was held on May 21, 2024, Mr. Sherf specifically acknowledged that he was
holding at least $1,000 on behalf of BDEC in conations, but that he would
refuse to turn over that amount until Mr. Raz would authorize him to do
so.”  (Declaration of Bruce Natanzi, ¶
13.)  Farivar’s declaration contains the
same information.  (See Declaration of
Fahim Farviar, ¶ 16.)  The
cross-defendants’ opposition does not address this issue, and there is no
declaration from Shlomo Sherf denying the allegation.  Because Sherif is a plaintiff and
cross-defendant and is represented by Edwin C. Shreiber, Esq., he received
notice of the temporary restraining order requiring him to return all uncashed
checks and all funds held in trust.  (See
Court’s Temporary Restraining Order, ¶¶ 2-3.)
 
Option #1
 
            At the
hearing, counsel for Schlomo Sherf stipulated that his client would return the
funds within on or before Tuesday, June 11, 2024.  The court grants the stipulation and orders
him to do so.
 
            Option
#2
 
            The
parties should be prepared to discuss whether the court should issue an order
to show cause why Schlomo Sherf should not be held in contempt of court.  
            
            4.         Funds Paid to Mr. Edwin Schreiber, Esq.
– Beith David alleges that Rafael Raz paid Mr. Schreiber $1,000 in or around October
2021, which predates the temporary restraining order.  There is no basis to conclude that these
funds are being held in trust for Beith David and, thus, there is no basis to order
him to return them.  
 
            5.         Access to the Security Cameras – Beith David
alleges that Rafael Raz has failed to provide access to the main computer, to
which the surveillance cameras are connected. 
Raz states: “In regard to the security system, Mr. Schreiber relayed to
Mr. Farviar what I believe is the password to the security system, but given
Mr. Farivar’s response, apparently what I believe is the password is incorrect.”  (Declaration of Rafael Raz, ¶ 11.)  Beith David does not demonstrate that there
has been a willful violation of the temporary restraining order.  
 
            6.         Schlomo Sherf Acting as an Agent of
Beith David – Beith David alleges that Schlomo Sherf has been “holding himself
as the agent of BDEC” by “contacting members of BDEC to organize a coup,
spreading false and defamatory information, discouraging members from, among
other things, attending the Shabbat services, thereby undermining the Court
Order and BDEC’s operations.”  None of
this demonstrates a violation of the court’s temporary restraining order
because it does not evidence “agency” on behalf of Beith David.  The court cannot restrain a cross-defendant
from engaging in these types of activities on his own behalf.  Moreover, as the court has repeatedly
explained, the court cannot intervene in religious matters relating to the
management and operation of a religious institution.  (See New v. Kroeger (2008) 167
Cal.App.4th 800, 815-816, citations omitted.) 
This issue implicates that body of law. 
  
 
            7.         Moshe Hooman Gideon’s Misappropriation
of Temple Property – Finally, Beith David alleges that Gideon “has taken
personal property, including an oven belonging to BDEC, without providing a
detailed inventory of the items taken or proof that the personal properties
were purchased by his own personal funds.” 
While the temporary restraining order states that “[n]o one shall remove
or destroy any of Beith David’s property without permission of Rabbi Darzan
Levihim or his designee(s),” the court has an insufficient record to conclude
that Gideon violated this provision.  Nor
is this the type of irreparable harm that necessitates immediate action by the
court.   
 