 Case Number:  23TRCV00607    Hearing Date:   April 9, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
ANDY
  GUY, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV00607




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
TIMOTHY
  ROTH, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          April 9,
2024
Moving
Parties:                      Plaintiff Andy Guy
Responding Party:                  Defendant Timothy Roth
Motion
to Vacate Dismissal
            The court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
            The motion is GRANTED.  The dismissal entered on August 21, 2023 is
set aside and vacated.  
BACKGROUND
On March 1, 2023, Andy Guy filed a
complaint against Timothy Roth and Roth Management Group for (1) breach of
contract, (2) fraud – concealment, (3) intentional misrepresentation, and (4)
conversion.
On August 21, 2023, a Request for Dismissal
was filed and the case was dismissed with prejudice.  It is that Dismissal that Plaintiff now seeks
to have vacated on the basis that he did not authorize Defendants’ counsel to
file it after Plaintiff’s counsel provided it to Defendants’ counsel.
LEGAL
AUTHORITY
CCP §473(b) states, in relevant
part:  “The court may, upon any terms as
may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a . . .
dismissal . . . taken against him or her through his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. 
Application for this relief . . . shall be made within a reasonable
time, in no case exceeding six months, after the . . . dismissal . . . . was
taken. . . .” 
“[T]he policy of the law is to have
every litigated case tried upon its merits, and it looks with disfavor upon a
party, who, regardless of the merits of the case, attempts to take advantage of
the mistake, surprise, inadvertence, or neglect of his adversary.”  Fasuyi v. Permatex, Inc. (2008) 167
Cal. App. 4th 681, 697 (citations and internal quotations omitted).
DISCUSSION

            The Court begins by emphasizing what
it is ruling upon, and what it is not ruling upon.  This Plaintiff’s motion seeks to set aside a dismissal
that Plaintiff claims was filed without his permission.  This ruling only addresses that issue.  It does not reach the issue claimed by Defendant
that the parties had entered into an enforceable settlement agreement which Defendant
contends obligated Plaintiff to dismiss this case with prejudice.
            Pursuant to CCP §473(b), plaintiff
Andy Guy requests that the court set aside and vacate the dismissal with prejudice
entered on August 21, 2023.
            Plaintiff contends that he did not
authorize the filing of the request for dismissal.  Plaintiff’s former counsel Erik Woodbury
states in his declaration that he did not file the request for dismissal.  Rather it was defense counsel Einar Johnson
that filed it.  Woodbury explains that in
July 2023, defense counsel sent Woodbury a “draft settlement agreement,” which
he sent to plaintiff to review.  Woodbury
prepared and executed a form CIV-110 request for dismissal and sent it to
Johnson “to hold in trust and not file . . . unless and until Mr. Guy executed
the draft settlement agreement or a revised version thereof.”  Plaintiff did not sign the “draft settlement
agreement.”  Woodbury states that he
never received a service copy of the request for dismissal and did not know
that defense counsel had filed it until Woodbury received a letter from
plaintiff’s current counsel.  He states
further that plaintiff never authorized him or defense counsel to file a
request for dismissal.  According to
plaintiff’s declaration, he states that in July 2023, he reviewed the “draft
settlement agreement” and declined to settle and did not execute the
agreement.  He states that he never
authorized defense counsel to file a request for dismissal or for his counsel
to prepare it.  Andy Guy decl.
            In opposition, defendants argue that
the case had settled, and that one of the terms of the settlement was that
plaintiff dismiss the case with prejudice. 
Defendants assert that on July 9, 2023, plaintiff’s former attorney
Woodbury sent an email to defense counsel Johnson stating that plaintiff had
accepted defendants’ offer, which, defendants argue, resulted in a binding
written settlement agreement.  Counsel
sent emails back and forth, and on July 22, 2023, defense counsel sent to
plaintiff’s counsel a settlement agreement signed by defense counsel and
defendants.  Amongst further email
correspondence, on August 17, defense counsel stated to plaintiff’s counsel
that plaintiff was in breach of the agreement. 
In another email, defense counsel “formally declared” plaintiff to be in
breach of the agreement and filed the request for dismissal that had been
signed by plaintiff’s counsel.
            In reply, plaintiff disputes that an
enforceable settlement agreement exists because he did not sign one.  Plaintiff reiterates that he did not
authorize defense counsel to file a request for dismissal.
            The issue of whether or not the
parties entered into an enforceable settlement agreement shall not be addressed
in this motion.  That issue may be raised
in a proper motion seeking a determination on that issue.
The court finds that plaintiff has met
his burden of showing that the filing of the Request for Dismissal by Defendants’
attorney was the result of mistake, inadvertence, surprise, and/or
neglect.  The evidence indicates that the
Request for Dismissal was filed without plaintiff’s or plaintiff’s counsel’s
knowledge.  Whether the purported
settlement agreement is enforceable, which defense counsel contends he acted
under, is not at issue as to this motion and the Court declines to consider any
terms of such an agreement at this time as part of this motion.
The motion is GRANTED.
ORDER
            The motion is GRANTED.  The Court orders that the dismissal with
prejudice entered on August 21, 2023 is set aside and vacated.
            The Court shall discuss with the
parties the possibility of referring this matter for immediate mediation.
            A Case Management Conference and
Trial Setting conference is set for  May
17, 2024 at 8:30 a.m.  All parties mut
file a timely Case management Conference Statement.
            Unless notice is waived at the
hearing by all parties, Plaintiff is ordered to give notice of ruling.