 Case Number:  23TRCV02413    Hearing Date:   April 9, 2024    Dept:  B Moving Parties:                      Defendant Sandi Flores
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiff Artemio Salas
Motion
to Compel Responses to Request for Production of Documents, Set One
            The court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
 RULING
The motion is GRANTED.   Plaintiff
Artemio Salas is ordered (1) to serve on defendant a verified response without
objections to plaintiff’s Request for Production of Documents, Set One, and (2)
to produce all documents and things in plaintiff’s possession, custody, or
control, which are responsive to defendant’s request, within 15 days.
The court orders that plaintiff pay
defendant a monetary sanction in the amount of $1,190 within 30 days. 
BACKGROUND
On July 25, 2023, plaintiff Artemio
Salas filed a complaint against Sandi Flores for (1) quiet title, (2) breach of
contract, (3) recovery by one under the doctrine of estoppel, (4) declaratory
relief, and (5) clerk of the court sign all necessary documentation.
On March 18, 2024, plaintiff filed
a substitution of attorney.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
            Where there has been no timely
response to a CCP §2031.010 demand, the demanding party must seek an order
compelling a response.  CCP
§2031.300.  Failure to timely respond
waives all objections, including privilege and work product.  So, unless the party to whom the demand was
directed obtains relief from waiver, he or she cannot raise objections to the
documents demanded.  There is no deadline
for a motion to compel responses. 
Likewise, for failure to respond, the moving party need not attempt to
resolve the matter outside court before filing the motion.  Where the motion seeks only a response to the
inspection demand, no showing of "good cause" is required.  Weil & Brown, Civil Procedure Before
Trial, 8:1487.  
DISCUSSION
            Defendant
Sandi Flores requests that the court compel plaintiff Artemio Salas to respond
to Request for Production of Documents, Set One.
            The complaint alleges that plaintiff
seeks to quiet title to two separate pieces of property that are owned by the
parties.  One property is located at 1137
W. El Segundo Blvd., Gardena and the other property is located at 1717 Agate
Circle, Bullhead City, Arizona.  The
parties were in an unmarried relationship and were co-habitants for
approximately eighteen years.  The
parties purchased the property in El Segundo in 2017 using plaintiff’s personal
funds and was used solely as a rental income property.  The Arizona property was primarily used as a
vacation property.  Plaintiff used
approximately $150,000 to remodel both properties.  The parties’ relationship ended in May 2023.  The complaint alleges that defendant has
wrongfully collected all the rental payments from the El Segundo property and
defendant is wrongfully attempting to sell 50% of the El Segundo property.
            Defendant asserts that on November
10, 2023, defendant served plaintiff with written discovery.  Responses were due by December 15, 2023.  When no response was received, on January 9,
2024, defense counsel sent an email to plaintiff’s counsel, requesting
responses and production of documents by January 16.  As of the filing date (February 2), defense
counsel had not received responses or documents.
            In opposition, plaintiff contends
that he has served responses beginning March 29 and continuing to April 2, and
is diligently working to gather documentary evidence to produce.  Plaintiff also asserts that his failure to
timely respond “lies at the fee of prior counsel.”  Plaintiff states in his declaration that he
sought input and assistance from his prior counsel to timely and properly
respond to the discovery requests, but that his prior counsel did not assist
him to respond or prepare his responses to the requests.
            The court finds that defendant
properly served written discovery and plaintiff failed to timely serve
responses, and thus has waived objections. 
Although it appears that plaintiff has served at least some responses,
it is unclear to what extent plaintiff has produced responsive documents.
            Accordingly, the motion is GRANTED.
            Sanctions
Under CCP
§ 2023.030(a), “[t]he court may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one
engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that
conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees,
incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct. . . . If a monetary sanction is
authorized by any provision of this title, the court shall impose that sanction
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.”  Under CCP § 2023.010, an
example of the misuse of the discovery process is “(d) Failing to respond or to
submit to an authorized method of discovery.” 
Sanctions are mandatory in
connection with motions to compel responses to interrogatories and requests for
production of documents against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel unless the court “finds that
the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that
other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  CCP §§ 2030.290(c), 2031.300(c).
Cal.
Rules of Court, Rule 3.1348(a) states: 
“The court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a
party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no opposition to the
motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or the requested
discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion was filed.”
            Defendant
requests $1456.65 ($650/hr.) in sanctions against plaintiff.  The court finds that $1190 ($450 x 2.5 hrs.,
filing fee) is a reasonable amount to be imposed against plaintiff.
ORDER
The motion is GRANTED.  Plaintiff Artemio Salas is ordered (1) to
serve on defendant a verified response without objections to defendant’s Request
for Production of Documents, Set One, and (2) to produce all documents and
things in plaintiff’s possession, custody, or control, which are responsive to defendant’s
request, within 15 days.
The court orders that plaintiff pay
to defendant a monetary sanction in the amount of $1,190 within 30 days.
Defendant
is ordered to give notice of this ruling.