 Case Number:  23CHCV01803    Hearing Date:   August 13, 2024    Dept:  F51 MOTIONS TO COMPEL FURTHER
DISCOVERY RESPONSES

(Requests for
Production of Documents, Set Two; and Form Interrogatories, Set One)
Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23CHCV01803

 
Motions
filed: 4/19/24
 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendant
City of Los Angeles, acting by and through the Los Angeles Department of Water
and Power (“Defendant”)
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiff
Jullion Jason Hernandez, in pro per (“Plaintiff”)
NOTICE: OK
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED: Orders
compelling Plaintiff’s further responses to Defendant’s Requests for
Production of Documents, Set Two, and Form Interrogatories, Set One. Defendant also seeks $400.00
to be imposed against Plaintiff.
 
TENTATIVE
RULING: The unopposed motions are granted. Plaintiff is ordered to
provide further responses to Defendant’s
Requests for Production of Documents, Set Two, and Form Interrogatories,
Set One within 30 days. The Court declines to impose
monetary sanctions against Plaintiff.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a personal injury action in which Plaintiff alleges
that on 10/14/22, he was injured when an unnamed defendant driver reversed his
vehicle out of Defendant’s driveway and collided with Plaintiff’s motorcycle.
(Compl. ¶¶ 19–20.)
 
On 6/21/23, Plaintiff filed his complaint, alleging against
four named government entities the following causes of action: (1) Statutory
Liability Based on Negligence of John Doe; and (2) Negligence. On 8/17/23,
Defendant filed its answer.
 
On 1/11/24,
Defendant propounded the subject discovery requests on Plaintiff. (Ex. A to
Decl of Judith S. Lindner.) On 3/6/24, Plaintiff served his responses thereto.
(Ex. B to Lindner Decl.) 
 
On 3/7/24, Defendant filed the
instant motions to compel Plaintiff’s further responses to the subject
discovery requests. No oppositions have been filed to date.
ANALYSIS
 
A.   
Meet and Confer 
 
A motion to compel further
discovery responses must be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration stating “facts showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an
informal resolution of each issue presented by the motion.” (Code Civ. Proc. §§
2030.300, subd. (b)(1); 2031.310, subd. (b)(2); 2016.040.) 
 
Here, Defendant’s counsel declares
that beginning on 3/28/24, she attempted to meet and confer with Plaintiff both
by telephone and by letter, but was unable to reach Plaintiff. (Lindner Decl.
¶¶ 5–6.) Therefore, the Court finds that counsel has satisfied the preliminary
meet and confer requirement under Code of Civil Procedure sections 2030.300,
subdivision (b)(1) and 2031.310, subdivision (b)(2).
 
B.    
Defendant’s
Discovery Responses
 
California law requires a responding party to respond to
each request for production of documents with either a statement of compliance,
a representation that the party lacks the ability to comply, or an objection to
the demand. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.210, subd. (a).) If the response includes
an objection to the demand in part, it must (1) identify the particular
document that falls within the category of the request to which the objection
is being made, and (2) expressly set forth the extent of, and specific ground
for, the objection. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.240, subd. (b).)¿
 
“If a party to whom a demand for inspection, copying,
testing, or sampling is directed fails to serve a timely response to it, … the
party to whom the demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling is
directed waives any objection to the demand, including one based on privilege
or on the protection for work product.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300, subd. (a).)¿
A propounding party may move for an order compelling further response to a
request for production if it decides that “an objection in the response is
without merit or too general.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.310, subd. (a).) The
demanding party must take the initiative to obtain a judicial determination of
the validity of any objection by moving to compel a further response, but the
objecting party has the burden of justifying the objection. (See, e.g., Coy
v. Superior Court of Contra Costa County (1962) 58 Cal.2d 210, 220.)
 
“The party to whom interrogatories have been propounded
shall respond in writing under oath separately to each interrogatory by any of
the following: (1) An answer containing the information sought to be
discovered; (2) An exercise of the party’s option to produce writings; or (3)
An objection to the particular interrogatory.” (Code Civ Proc. § 2030.210,
subd. (a).) “Each answer in a response to interrogatories shall be as complete
and straightforward as the information reasonably available to the responding
party permits.” (Code Civ Proc. § 2030.220.) “If an objection is made to an
interrogatory or to a part of an interrogatory, the specific ground for the
objection shall be set forth clearly in the response. If an objection is based
on a claim of privilege, the particular privilege invoked shall be clearly
stated.” (Code Civ Proc. § 2030.240, subd. (b).)
 
“If
a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response,
the … party to whom the interrogatories are directed … any objection to the
interrogatories, including one based on privilege or on the protection for work
product.” (Code Civ Proc. § 2030.090, subd. (a).) A
propounding party may move for an order compelling further responses to
interrogatories if any of the following apply: “(1) An answer to a particular
interrogatory is evasive or incomplete; (2) An exercise of the option to
produce documents under Section 2030.230 is unwarranted or the required
specification of those documents is inadequate; or (3) An objection to an
interrogatory is without merit or too general.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.300,
subd. (a).)
 
Here, Defendant seeks to compel Plaintiff’s additional
responses to its second set of RFPs, and first set of Form Interrogatories,
arguing that Defendant’s objection-only responses are without merit. (Def.’s
RFP2 Mot. 4:15–18; Def.’s FROG1 Mot. 4:24–27.) The Court notes that Defendant
has failed to attach separate statements to the instant motions, as required by
the California Rules of Court. (Cal. Rules of Ct., rule 3.1345.)
However, the Court also notes that Plaintiff has
failed to oppose the instant motions and has therefore failed to meet his
burden to justify the objections asserted in his discovery responses. Accordingly,
the Court grants Defendant’s motions to compel Plaintiff’s further responses to
the subject discovery requests.
 
C.   
Sanctions 
 
“The court shall impose a
monetary sanction … against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully
makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to interrogatories [or RFPs],
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.290, subd. (c); Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.310,
subd. (h).) Additionally, “the court may impose a monetary sanction ordering
that one engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney
advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including
attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct.” (Code Civ.
Proc. § 2023.030, subd. (a).)
 
Here, Defendant
requests a total sum of $4,000.00
in monetary sanctions against Defendant, accounting
for a total of 4 hours of Defendant’s attorney’s time spent preparing the
instant motions. (Lindner Decl. ¶¶ 9–10.) While the Court
grants the instant motions, it finds that the imposition of sanctions would be
unjust where Plaintiff is now self-represented. (3/22/24 Min. Order.)
Accordingly, the Court declines to impose monetary sanctions against Plaintiff.
 
CONCLUSION
 
The
unopposed motions are granted. Plaintiff is ordered to provide further responses
to Defendant’s Requests
for Production of Documents, Set Two, and Form Interrogatories, Set One within 30 days. The Court declines to impose monetary sanctions against
Plaintiff.