 Case Number:  22STCV06848    Hearing Date:   May 1, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian Department 27 Tentative Ruling  Hearing Date:  5/1/2024 at 1:30 p.m. Case No./Name.: 22STCV06848 JUAN GABRIEL HERRERA VENEGAS vs TGN CONSTRUCTION, INC Motion Name: Motion for Leave to Intervene Moving Party: State National Insurance Company Responding Party: Unopposed Notice: Sufficient  Ruling: MOTION FOR LEAVE TO INTERVENE IS GRANTED.   I. INTRODUCTION  On February 24, 2022, Plaintiff filed this action against Defendants, TGN Construction, Inc. (“TGN”) and Juliette Dolores Herbert, individually and as Trustee under the Juliette Dolores Herbert Revocable Living Trust (sued as “Juliette D. Herbert Trust”), for general negligence and premises liability. Defendant TGN is a suspended corporation and on January 5, 2023, TGN’s insurance company, State National Insurance Company (“SNIC”), filed a prior motion to intervene on behalf of TGN against Plaintiff’s Complaint. On May 31, 2023, the Court granted the motion. On February 13, 2024, Defendant Juliette D. Herbert Trust served TGN and SNIC a cross complaint for indemnity. SNIC now moves the Court to intervene on behalf of TGN against Defendant Herbert Trust’s cross complaint. No opposition was filed. ¿ II. LEGAL STANDARD  “A¿nonparty shall petition the court for leave to intervene by noticed motion or ex parte application. The petition shall include a copy of the proposed complaint in intervention or answer in intervention and set forth the grounds upon which intervention rests.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 387, subd. (c).) ¿ “(1)¿The court shall, upon timely application, permit a nonparty to intervene in the action or proceeding if either of the following conditions is satisfied:  (A)¿A provision of law confers an unconditional right to  intervene.  (B)¿The person seeking intervention claims an interest relating to the property or transaction that is the subject of the action and that person is so situated that the disposition of the action may impair or impede that person’s ability to protect that interest, unless that person’s interest is adequately represented by one or more of the existing parties.  (2)¿The court may, upon timely application, permit a nonparty to intervene in the action or proceeding if the person has an interest in the matter in litigation, or in the success of either of the parties, or an interest against both.”¿(Code Civ. Proc. § 387, subd. (d).)  “Pursuant to section 387 the trial court has discretion to permit a nonparty to intervene where the following factors are met: (1) the proper procedures have been followed; (2) the nonparty has a direct and immediate interest in the action; (3) the intervention will not enlarge the issues in the litigation; and (4) the reasons for the intervention outweigh any opposition by the parties presently in the action.”¿(Reliance Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (2000) 84 Cal.App.4th 383, 386.) ¿ III. DISCUSSION  SNIC seeks leave to intervene because TGN has been suspended as a corporation and cannot defend or otherwise participate in this action.¿(See Timberline, Inc. v. Jaisinghani (1997) 54 Cal.App.4th 1361, 1365-66 [a suspended corporation is disqualified from exercising any right, power, or privilege, including prosecuting or defending an action, or appealing a judgment].) ¿ Here, SNIC meets all the Reliance Ins. Co. factors.¿First, the proper procedures have been followed.¿SNIC has petitioned the Court by noticed motion and included a copy of the proposed answer-in-intervention.  Second, SNIC has a direct and immediate interest in this action.¿SNIC insured TGN when the alleged accident occurred.¿Should Cross Complainant enter a default judgment against TGN, Cross Complainant could then proceed against SNIC under Insurance Code section 11580, which permits a judgment creditor to proceed directly against any liability insurance covering the defendant. Thus, intervention is appropriate because SNIC may be required to satisfy any default judgment entered against TGN.  Case law also supports SNIC’s right to intervene.¿“An insurer’s right to intervene in an action against the insured, for personal injury or property damage, arises as a result of Insurance Code section 11580.¿Section 11580 provides that a judgment creditor may proceed directly against any liability insurance covering the defendant, and obtain satisfaction of the judgment up to the amount of the policy limits.¿ Thus, where the insurer may be subject to a direct action under Insurance Code section 11580 by a judgment creditor who has or will obtain a default judgment in a third party action against the insured, intervention is appropriate.”¿ (Reliance Ins. Co., supra, 84 Cal.App.4th at pp. 386-387.)¿¿¿ ¿ Third, intervention will not enlarge the scope of issues in this litigation.¿As reflected in its proposed answer-in-intervention, SNIC seeks only to litigate liability and damage issues as they relate to Defendant TGN.¿Intervention is appropriate because SNIC’s proposed answer is limited to issues raised by the pleadings.¿¿ ¿ Fourth, the benefits of allowing SNIC to intervene outweigh any opposition by the parties presently in the action. Intervention will conserve judicial resources and expediency by eliminating the need for a separate action between Cross Complainant and SNIC. For the reasons stated above, denial of intervention would prejudice SNIC.¿There is no opposition to this motion.¿¿¿ ¿ Additionally, SNIC requests leave to appear at trial as “TGN Construction, Inc.” rather than “State National Insurance Company, Inc.” As stated in the Court’s May 31, 2023 order, this decision is better suited for resolution by the trial court to be raised by a motion in limine.  IV. CONCLUSION  State National Insurance Company’s motion for leave to intervene is GRANTED.  The request to appear at trial in the name of its insured, Defendant TGN Construction, Inc. is deferred for ruling by the trial court.¿ The issue may be raised pursuant to a motion in limine.  Moving party to give notice.  PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:¿ ¿ If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿ ¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿ ¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.¿  