 Case Number:  21STCV45806    Hearing Date:   May 1, 2024    Dept:  27 HON. LEE S. ARIAN DEPARTMENT 27 TENTATIVE RULING  Hearing Date:  5/1/2024 at 1:30 p.m. Case No./Name: 21STCV45806 DELIA RAMIREZ vs MOKHTAR ZHOOBIN Motion: MOTION TO COMPEL PALINTIFF’S DEPOSITION AND FOR SANCTIONS Moving Party: DEFENDANT TARZANA TREATMENT CENTERS Responding Party:  PLAINTIFF Notice:    Sufficient  Ruling: MOTION TO COMPEL PLAINTIFF’S DEPOSITION AND FOR SANCTIONS IS GRANTED. Background On December 15, 2021, Plaintiff filed the present premises liability case. On June 22, 2023, Defendant Tarzana Treatment Centers served the initial deposition notice for Plaintiff to appear for a deposition on August 16, 2023. Defendant then re-noticed Plaintiff's deposition numerous times thereafter, with the final deposition notice served on February 12, 2024, for a deposition on February 23, 2024. No objection was filed. Plaintiff did not show up to the deposition and a certificate of non-appearance was obtained. Defendant now moves the Court to compel Plaintiff to sit for her deposition. Legal Standard¿and Analysis  Any party may obtain any discovery of information, documents, land, property, or electronically stored information so long as the discoverable matter is not privileged, is relevant to the subject matter and can lead one to admissible evidence.¿(Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.010.)  Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450¿provides in pertinent part the following:  “(a) If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party, or a person designated by an organization that is a party under Section 2025.230, without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent's attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.  (b) A motion under subdivision (a) shall comply with both of the following:  (1) The motion shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.  (2) The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040¿or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the documents, electronically stored information, or things described in the deposition notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.  Analysis  The initial deposition notice was served almost a year ago. The deposition was rescheduled numerous times, with the latest notice served on February 12, 2024, for a deposition scheduled for February 23, 2024. No objection was served, and Plaintiff did not attend the deposition. After Plaintiff failed to attend her deposition, Defendant inquired and met and conferred with Plaintiff’s counsel. Defendant has met its meet and confer requirement. Good cause has been shown as the document requests in the subpoena are all related to Plaintiff’s causes of action. Defendant has met all the requirements for a motion to compel deposition. The contention that Plaintiff’s counsel could not contact Plaintiff and have her appear for her deposition is no excuse to deprive Defendant of vital evidence to form a defense. If Plaintiff does not wish to litigate the case, the proper way is to dismiss the action instead of evading the deposition. Accordingly, Defendant’s motion to compel deposition is GRANTED. Plaintiff is hereby ORDERED to sit for his deposition within 20 days of today.  Defendant requests sanctions in the amount of $3,860. The Court exercises discretion and lowers the amount to $2,000. Since Plaintiff’s counsel has shown attempts to communicate and work with Defendant’s counsel to have Plaintiff’s deposition take place but was unable to secure Plaintiff's attendance, the sanction is to be imposed against Plaintiff only. Plaintiff is ORDERED to pay sanctions of $2,000 to Defendant in 4 equal payments of $500, with the first payment due within 20 days of today’s date and each other payment due within 30 days thereafter until paid in full.  PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:  If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.  Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.  If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.  