 Case Number:  24STCV10171    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



ANATOLY KRICHEVSKY and IGOR
  FINKELSHTEYN,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
ROBERT OBERLANDER, an individual; NATALIE MARTIN, an individual;
  SILVI KOPYTOV, an individual; GENNADIY KOPYTOV, an individual; WOODLAND HILLS
  RECOVERY CENTER, LLC, a California limited liability company; WARNER PARK
  RECOVERY CENTER, a California limited liability company; and DOES 1-10.,
                        Defendants.
 


 Case No.:          24STCV10171
 Hearing Date:   October
  23, 2024
 Trial Date:        None
  Set 
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Motion to Stay
  Proceedings Pending Arbitration [RES ID # 4009]



 
I. Background
A. Pleadings
Plaintiffs Anatoly Krichevsky (Krichevsky)
and Igor Finkelshteyn (Krichevsky ) (collectively Plaintiffs) sue Defendants Robert
Oberlander; Natalie Martin; Silvi Kopytov; Gennadiy Kopytov; Woodland Hills Recovery
Center, LLC; Warner Park Recovery Center; and Does 1-10 pursuant to an April
22, 2024 Complaint alleging causes of action for (1) Breach of Fiduciary Duty
and Duty of Loyalty; (2) Misappropriation of Trade Secrets; (3) Conversion; (4)
Penal Code § 496 subdivision (c); and (5) Breach of Contract. 
The claims arise from the
following. Plaintiffs Krichevsky and Finkelshteyn each own 25% of Defendant
Warner Park Recovery Center, LLC (Warner Park), an addiction treatment center
in Woodland Hills, California. Defendant Gennadiy Kopytov (Kopytov) owns the remaining
50% of Warner Park. The Plaintiffs allege that Kopytov and the other individual
Defendants including Robert Oberlander, the COO of Warner Park, and Natalie
Martin, the Director of Admissions at Warner Park, have formed a competing
addiction treatment center, Defendant Woodland Hills Recovery Center (Woodland
Hills Recovery), using Warner Park’s assets and confidential and proprietary
information. The Plaintiffs further allege that Kopytov, Oberlander, and Martin
all continue to be employed and paid by Warner Park. 
B. Motion Before the Court 
On July 11, 2024, the Court ordered
the claims against Defendant Kopytov stayed pending their resolution through
JAMS arbitration, reference no. 5210000424. 
On September 23, 2024, Defendants
Oberlander, Martin, Silvi Kopytov, and Woodland Hills Recovery filed the instant
motion to stay the proceedings against them pending the outcome of the
Plaintiff’s arbitration against Defendant Gennadiy Kopytov. 
On October 10, 2024, Plaintiffs
opposed the motion.
On October 16, 2024, Defendants Oberlander,
Martin, Silvi Kopytov, and Woodland Hills Recovery, replied. 
 
II. Motion
A. Legal Standard
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 1281.4, “If an application has been made to a court of competent
jurisdiction, whether in this State or not, for an order to arbitrate a
controversy which is an issue involved in an action or proceeding pending
before a court of this State and such application is undetermined, the court in
which such action or proceeding is pending shall, upon motion of a party to
such action or proceeding, stay the action or proceeding until the application
for an order to arbitrate is determined and, if arbitration of such controversy
is ordered, until an arbitration is had in accordance with the order to
arbitrate or until such earlier time as the court specifies.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 1281.4.)  
“[A] court ordinarily has inherent
power, in its discretion, to stay proceedings when such a stay will accommodate
the ends of justice.” (OTO, L.L.C. v. Kho (2019) 8 Cal.5th 111, 141
[citing People v. Bell (1984) 159 Cal.App.3d 323, 329.]) “[T]he power to
stay proceedings is incidental to the power inherent in every court to control
the disposition of the causes on its docket with economy of time and effort for
itself, for counsel, and for litigants.” (Landis v. North American Co.
(1936) 299 U.S. 248, 254; OTO, L.L.C., supra, at p. 141.)  
B. Analysis
Defendants assert that the
Plaintiffs’ allegations against Kopytov in this action are identical to their
allegations against Oberlander, Martin, Silvi Kopytov, and Woodland Hills
Recovery and that allowing the JAMS arbitration and this action to proceed
simultaneously would be inefficient and duplicative. (Mot. pp. 2-3.) They argue
that the parties, causes of action, and issues to be determined in this action
directly overlap with those being determined in the JAMS arbitration. (Mot. pp.
4-5.) The Defendants further argue a series of due process concerns and risk of
inconsistent rulings. (Mot. pp. 8-9.) 
In opposition, the Plaintiffs argue
that the arbitration turns largely on Warner Park’s Operating Agreement, which
Oberlander, Martin, Silvi Kopytov and Woodland Hills Recovery are not parties
to. (Opp. p. 2.) The Plaintiffs argue that the non-overlapping claims and
issues should be severed. (Opp. pp. 3-5.) 
Here, the issues involved in the
JAMS arbitration are related to the issues in front of this Court. The
Plaintiffs assert that Kopytov and his wife, Silvi Kopytov, and Warner Park COO
Oberlander and Warner Park Director of Admissions Martin have acted together to
appropriate Warner Park assets to start Woodland Hills Recovery. Resolution of
the issues as they pertain to Kopytov, who is alleged to have recruited the
other individual defendants, will certainly influence the outcome of those same
issues for Kopytov's co-defendants as the Complaint alleges that they acted in
conjunction with each other. Whether the Woodland Hills Recovery Center is a
competing business will be determined in arbitration. Thus, proceeding with the
allegations against Silvi Kopytov, Oberlander, and Martin while the action
against Kopytov proceeds in arbitration presents a significant risk of
unfairness and result in duplication of effort. Finally, the claims are
inextricably intertwined such that severance would only confuse the issues and
increase the risk of inconsistent rulings. Thus, a stay is the fairest and most
efficient solution to the issues before the Court. 
III. Conclusion
The Motion by Defendants Robert
Oberlander, Natalie Martin, Silvi Kopytov and Woodland Hills Recovery Center to
Stay Proceedings Pending Arbitration is GRANTED.