  Case Number:  22STCV19126    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



FIREFLY TRANSPORTATION, LLC,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
CARDINOL TRANSPORTATION, INC.,
                        Defendants.
 


 Case No.:          22STCV19126
 Hearing Date:   October
  23, 2024
 Trial Date:        N/A
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Motion to Enforce
  Settlement Agreement



 
I. Background
On August 6, 2024, Plaintiff
Firefly Transportation, LLC (Firefly) and Defendant Cardinol Transportation,
Inc. (Cardinol), entered into a Settlement Agreement in which Firefly agreed to
pay Cardinol $50,000.00 consisting of a $17,500.00 deposit and subsequent
monthly payments of $4,648.86. (Settlement Agreement)
On September 30, 2024, Cardinol
filed the instant motion to enforce the Settlement Agreement. 
On October 9, 2024, Firefly filed
an opposition. No reply was filed.
 
II. Motion
A.   
Legal Standard
“If parties to pending litigation
stipulate, in a writing signed by the parties outside of the presence of the
court or orally before the court, for settlement of the case, or part thereof,
the court, upon motion, may enter judgment pursuant to the terms of the
settlement. If requested by the parties, the court may retain jurisdiction over
the parties to enforce the settlement until performance in full of the terms of
the settlement.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 664.6, subd. (a).) 
B.   
Analysis
Cardinol asserts that Firefly has
made three installment payments to date, each of which has been less than the
agreed-upon amount, resulting in a total shortfall of $842.00. (Mot., p. 4.,
Ex. 102) Cardinol also requests $1,600.00 in attorney fees and costs for bringing
this motion. (Mot. p. 6.) 
In Opposition, Firefly asserts that
it pays the total amount billed on each invoice, and the ‘shortfalls’ in
payment are the result of credit card fees. (Opp. ¶ 2.) 
Here, the Settlement Agreement
allows for “payment by cash, check or credit card.” (Settlement Agreement, ¶ 2.)
The Settlement Agreement does not specify which party is responsible for
covering credit card fees if payment is made by credit card. The Settlement
Agreement further states: “The parties agree to be responsible for their own
attorney’s fees and costs. Neither party shall receive any other damages, fees,
costs, or recovery other than as stated above.” (Settlement Agreement, ¶ 5.) Therefore,
the Settlement Agreement does not appear to authorize Cardinol to impose an
additional 3.8% fee on Firefly on top of the agreed-upon monthly payment
amount. Cardinol does not cite any legal authority that suggests otherwise. 
Thus, the motion to enforce the
settlement agreement is DENIED.   
III. Conclusion
Cardinol Transportation, Inc.’s
Motion to Enforce Settlement Agreement is DENIED. 