 Case Number:  22SMCV02074    Hearing Date:   May 16, 2024    Dept:  205    Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles – West District  Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205   ALFREDO ESPINOZA GOMEZ,    Plaintiff, v.  GENERAL MOTORS, LLC, et al.,   Defendants.    Case No.:  22SMCV02074     Hearing Date:  May 16, 2024   [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:   PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL    THE DEPOSITION OF DEFENDANT’S    PERSON MOST QUALIFIED    BACKGROUND  This is a lemon law case.  Plaintiff Alfredo Gomez bought a 2020 GMC Sierra (the “Car”).  During the warranty period, Plaintiff alleges that he presented the Car for repairs relating to engine defect on at least three occasions.  None of the repair attempts worked.   Plaintiff further alleges that Defendant General Motors LLC has long been aware of widespread engine defects in the 2020 GMC Sierra.  Plaintiff claims Defendant has conducted internal investigations, testing, analyses regarding the engine defect – all in an effort to curb failure rates.  Based on these investigations, Defendant has issued numerous “TSBs” and recalls, which acknowledge the existence of the defect (to only its dealers) and prescribe various repairs.  Once a TSB is implemented, Defendant then receives feedback as to the sufficiency of the repair procedures.  If the procedures fail to repair the underlying defect, Defendant revises the TSB, updating the procedures.  Thus, the TSBs demonstrate Defendant’s awareness of the engine defect and of the failure of repair procedures to address the defect.    On December 21, 2022, Plaintiff served a notice of deposition of the person most qualified (“PMQ”) for General Motors, LLC and demand to produce documents.  (Ex. 2 to Oliva Decl.)  On January 3, 2023, Defendant served objections to Plaintiff’s Notice of Deposition of the PMQ, which stated that no witness would be produced on the date unilaterally noticed by Plaintiff but that a witness would be produced on Categories 1-4, 7 and 10 on a “mutually agreeable time and place.”  (Ex. 3 to Oliva Decl.)  The disputed categories include the following: 5. Questions relating to the process that is in place and has been in place for the last three years relating to YOUR evaluation of requests by YOUR customers to have vehicles repurchased pursuant to California Civil Code Section 1793.2, including but not limited to any policies and procedures regarding the repurchasing of SUBJECT VEHICLE due to the ENGINE DEFECT;  6. Questions regarding the nature, extent and substance of correspondence between YOU and other persons or entities regarding the ENGINE DEFECT;  * * *  8. Questions regarding the nature of the ENGINE DEFECT, including the cause of the ENGINE DEFECT, all available fixes that have been made available to your authorized dealers to date, and the subsequent results of such fixes;  9. Questions regarding YOUR ongoing efforts to repair or remedy the ENGINE DEFECT, including all internal tests, investigations and the number of modification made to YOUR vehicles with the engine used in the SUBJECT VEHICLE, including the number of such modifications made to YOUR vehicles which are the same year, make and model as the SUBJECT VEHICLE;  * * *  11. Questions regarding all REPAIR DOCUMENTS that YOU have issued to YOUR dealers and/or customers regarding the ENGINE DEFECT or other non-conformities experienced by Plaintiff with respect to the SUBJECT VEHICLE;  12. Questions regarding all available repairs for the ENGINE DEFECT and approximate dates on which those repairs were made available to your dealers;  13. Questions regarding YOUR third party dispute resolution program;  14. Questions regarding any communications concerning the ENGINE DEFECT, including the cause of the ENGINE DEFECT, all available remedies, and discussions of any and all modifications of YOUR vehicle engine and related parts provided to date and the efficacy of those modifications;  15. Questions regarding any available fix for the ENGINE DEFECT;  16. Questions regarding YOUR policies and procedures to ensure you are in compliance with the requirements of the Song Beverly Consumer Warranty Act;  17. Questions regarding your procedures to implement YOUR compliance with the requirements of the Song Beverly Consumer Warranty Act;  18. Questions concerning how YOU calculate restitution offered to consumers pursuant to the Song Beverly Consumer Warranty Act;  19. Questions regarding YOUR preservation of, search for, and production of documents and data both hard copy and electronically stored information, relevant to claims and defenses in this litigation, including all steps taken to prevent or stop deletion, overwriting or modification of electronically stored information that may be relevant to this action.    (Exs. 2-3 to Oliva Decl.)  Throughout February and March 2023, Plaintiff sought dates for the deposition of the PMQ on the categories to which Defendant did not object.  (Ex. 4 to Oliva Decl.)  When Defendant failed to provide dates, Plaintiff served an amended notice of deposition, again unilaterally setting a date for the deposition of the PMQ.  (Ex. 5 to Oliva Decl.)  On April 10, 2023, Defendant email served identical objections to those previously served on January 3, 2023.  (Ex. 6 to Oliva Decl.) On June 13, 2023, the parties held an informal discovery conference (“IDC”) with the Court during which Defendant represented to the Court that it would produce its PMQ for deposition on Categories 1-4, 7 and 10, no later than November 20, 2023.  (Ex. 7 to Oliva Decl.)  On October 26, 2023, Defendant offered a PMQ for deposition on November 7, 2023, but that same date was offered in eight other cases which had priority over this case because they had earlier trial dates and there was already an order to compel the deposition of the PMQ.  (Ex. 9 to Oliva Decl.) On January 24, 2024, Defendant offered a PMQ for deposition on either January 30 or February 1, 2024, in this matter and 12 others.  Again, the 12 other cases included matters that had earlier trial dates and where a PMQ deposition had already been compelled.  (Ex. 10 to Oliva Decl.)   On March 7, 2024, the parties engaged in another IDC with the Court regarding the PMQ deposition.  During the IDC, Defendant represented to the Court that no later than March 17, 2024, Defendant would provide PMQ dates on this individual matter for deposition to be completed within 45 days.  (Oliva Decl, ¶21.)  Defendant has failed to provide dates by March 17, 2024.  (Id. ¶¶ 22-23.) This hearing is on Plaintiff’s motion to compel the deposition of Defendant’s PMQ.  Plaintiff argues Defendant has represented it agrees to produce a witness on certain categories on a “mutually agreeable time and place,” but Defendant has consistently refused to provide the witness’ availability for deposition on those agreed categories despite multiple requests from Plaintiff and representations to the Court that a date would be confirmed no later than March 17, 2024.  Further, as to categories to which Defendant has objected, Plaintiff argues the objections are improper and baseless because the categories seek relevant information relating to (1) Defendant’s investigation and analysis of the engine defect which will establish Defendant previously knew of the engine defect but nevertheless improperly refused to repurchase the Car and (2) Defendant’s general warranty and vehicle repurchase policies, procedures and practices.         LEGAL STANDARD  The service of a deposition notice is effective to require any deponent who is a party to the action to attend and to testify, as well as to produce any documents, electronically stored information or tangible thing for inspection and copying.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.280(a).)  The deposition of a corporation may be noticed by describing “with reasonable particularity the matters on which examination is requested,” the deponent “shall designate and produce at the deposition those of its officers, directors, managing agents, employees or agents who are most qualified to testify on its behalf.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.230.)    If, after service of a deposition notice, a party or a person designated by a corporate party, “without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).)¿¿¿ “If a motion under subdivision (a) is granted, the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) in favor of the party who noticed the deposition and against the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (g).)¿¿¿    SEPARATE STATEMENT  Defendant served a response to Plaintiff’s notice of deposition.  As such, Plaintiff was required to file a separate statement accompanying his motion.  CRC Rule 3.1345(a)¿requires that, “Any¿motion involving the content of a discovery request or the responses to such a request must be accompanied by a¿separate statement.”  Plaintiff failed to file a separate statement.  Notwithstanding, the Court will consider Plaintiff’s motion on its merits but cautions Plaintiff to comply with the rules.    MEET AND CONFER  Defendant contends that Plaintiff failed to meet and confer in good faith.  Based on the procedural history outlined above, the Court disagrees.  The Court held two IDCs to resolve the parties’ disputes over the PMQ deposition, which alone satisfies the meet and confer requirements.     ANALYSIS  There is no dispute that Defendant is required to produce a PMQ on categories 1-4, 7 and 10.  Notwithstanding, Defendant has dragged its feet in providing a date for the deposition, despite representing to the Court that it would produce a PMQ by November 20, 2023 and when that time passed, that it would provide dates for the deposition by March 17, 2024.  Defendant makes much of the fact that it had offered dates for a PMQ deposition on two occasions.  But on each occasion, Defendant offered two dates for the PMQ to be deposed in nine matters, which were older cases with earlier trial dates and existing orders to compel the deposition of a PMQ, all of which took priority over this case.  Thus, the offered dates were not viable.  Defendant is ordered to produce the PMQ within 10 calendar days. As to the disputed categories, the Court concludes Topics 6, 8, 9, 11, 12, 14, 15 are relevant to show Defendant’s knowledge of the defect and the effectiveness of its repair efforts which in turn is relevant to whether Defendant “willfully” failed to fulfill its obligations under the Song Beverly Act.  To the extent a manufacturer is aware of a defect but nevertheless refuses to repurchase a buyer’s car, the manufacturer has willfully violated the Song Beverly Act.  (Kwan v. Mercedes Benz of N. Am. Inc. (1994) 23 Cal.App.4th 174, 185.)  A willful violation of the act means the manufacturer is subject to civil penalty damages of up to two times the buyer’s damages.  (Civ. Code § 1794(c).)     Defendant argues that evidence relating to other vehicles is irrelevant.  Not so.  Our appellate courts have held that evidence concerning similar defects in other vehicles are admissible, and therefore, relevant.  In Donlen v. Ford Motor Co. (2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 138, 154, the Third Circuit reversed the granting of a motion for new trial after the jury returned a verdict in the pickup truck owner’s favor.  Donlen held that the trial court did not err in denying Ford’s motion in limine to exclude evidence of other customers’ complaints about the same transmission model Ford installed in plaintiff’s truck.  While the question in Donlen was one of admissibility, the case is instructive with regard to the relevance of information concerning other vehicles.¿ In Doppes v. Bentley Motors, Inc. (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 967, 971, the defendant was ordered during discovery to produce documents regarding other similar complaints. ¿Although Doppes was¿not a discovery decision, it does indicate that information regarding prior complaints is relevant to the litigation.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.010¿(a party is entitled to anything that “either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.”).)   At least one federal court has also concluded that evidence of other customer complaints is relevant.  In Jensen v. BMW of North America, LLC (S.D. Cal. 2019) 328 F.R.D. 557, 564, the federal court ordered a defendant to search specific databases for other customers’ complaints, but limited the scope to “vehicles of the same year, make, model as Plaintiff’s subject vehicle and limited to only those records reporting problems with the same defect codes listed in any repair records pertaining to Plaintiff’s vehicle and part numbers under warranty in Plaintiff’s vehicle, and to produce those documents.”  The Court concluded that other customer complaints “could conceivably be relevant to whether BMW acted reasonably in denying Plaintiff’s warranty claim.  A fact finder may find BMW’s knowledge or lack of knowledge about the same defects to be a consideration in deciding whether BMW acted in good faith as to Plaintiff’s specific case.”   The Court also finds analogous product liability and insurance bad faith cases where courts have found evidence of similar incidents to be admissible.  (Elsworth v. Beech Aircraft Corp. (1984) 37 Cal.3d 540, 555 (“Evidence of prior accidents is admissible to prove a defective condition, knowledge or the cause of an accidence, provided that the circumstances of the other accidents are similar and not too remote.”); Moore v. American United Life Ins. Co. (1984) 150 Cal.App.3d 610, 625-628 (evidence of a disability insurer’s handling of claims against other insureds is admissible in a bad faith suit against the insurer).)   The Court now turns to the other disputed topics.  The Court concludes Topics 16, 17, 18 (relating to Defendant’s policies and procedures for complying with the Song Beverly Act) are relevant to show compliance with, or willful avoidance, of the Song Beverly Act’s repurchase requirements.  A customer response program structured to short-circuit lemon law claims whenever possible may show willful non-compliance with the statute.  (Oregel v. American Isuzu Motors, Inc. (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 1094, 1101, 1104-05¿(evidence of willfulness in refusing to repair or repurchase existed because “there was evidence that Isuzu adopted internal policies that erected hidden obstacles to the ability of an unwary consumer to obtain redress under the Act”); Johnson v. Ford Motor Co. (2005) 35 Cal.4th 1191, 1198-99¿(court in Song-Beverly Act litigation admitted evidence of Ford’s corporate policies and practices regarding reacquisition of vehicles and issuance of credits for trade-ins).)¿ As to Topic 19 (relating to document preservation and production), it is not clear to the Court how this topic is relevant.  Plaintiff has not alleged any failure to preserve documents or any problems with document production in this case.  Accordingly, the Court will not compel production of a PMQ on this topic.   As to Topic 13, questions relating to Defendant’s third party dispute resolution program, this topic is overbroad.  While the request is relevant to determining a Section 1794(e) penalty (for the manufacturer’s failing to establish a third party dispute resolution process which could have resolved the matter without litigation), as worded, this topic seeks more than is necessary to establish that Defendant’s dispute resolution program was ineffective.  Accordingly, the Court will not compel production of a PMQ on this topic.       CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS IN PART and DENIES IN PART Plaintiff’s motion to compel deposition of Defendant’s PMQ.  Defendant will produce its PMQ on each of the topics indicated in this Order within ten days of the Order.    DATED:  May 16, 2024    ___________________________ Edward B. Moreton, Jr. Judge of the Superior Court 