  Case Number:  22STCV20393    Hearing Date:   May 23, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative
Ruling
Veach,
et al. v. Los Angeles Unified School District, et al., Case No. 22STCV20393
Hearing
date: May 23, 2024
Defendants
Parmer and First Student’s Demurrer to SAC/Motion to Strike Punitive Damages
Defendant
Cage’s Motion to Strike Punitive Damages
Plaintiff,
who is non-verbal and unable to walk, sustained a tibial fracture after she was
allegedly dropped and/or mishandled by defendant Parmer, an employee of
transportation company defendant First Student, and LAUSD special education
aide defendant Cage while being transported to school. After a demurrer to the FAC
was sustained with leave to amend on October 20, 2023, the matter was transferred
to this department. Defendants Parmer and First Student demur to all causes of
action in the SAC, except negligence, and move to strike punitive damages.
Defendant Cage moves to strike punitive damages.
Defendants’
request for judicial notice of the minute order of October 20, 2023
by the Hon. Hobbs is granted.
Defendant Parmer/First Student’s Demurrer
A demurrer tests the sufficiency of a complaint as a
matter of law. Durell v. Sharp Healthcare (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 1350,
1358. The court must accept as true all material factual allegations and
affords them a liberal construction, but does not consider conclusions of fact
or law, opinions, speculation or allegations contrary to law or judicially
noticed facts. Shea Homes Limited Partnership v. County of Alameda
(2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 1246, 1254. A demurrer will be sustained without leave
to amend if there exists no reasonable possibility the defect can be cured by
amendment. Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.
First Cause of Action/Assault (asserted
against PARMER ONLY)
“The essential elements of a cause of action for assault
are: (1) defendant acted with intent to cause harmful or offensive contact, or
threatened to touch plaintiff in a harmful or offensive manner; (2) plaintiff
reasonably believed [he or] she was about to be touched in a harmful or
offensive manner or it reasonably appeared to plaintiff that defendant was
about to carry out the threat; (3) plaintiff did not consent to defendant’s
conduct; (4) plaintiff was harmed; and (5) defendant’s conduct was a substantial
factor in causing plaintiff’s harm.” So v. Shin (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th
652, 668-669; CACI 1301.
Plaintiff
alleged: Parmer acted with intent to cause harmful and offensive contact to
plaintiff. SAC ¶¶41, 43. Plaintiff was placed in great apprehension of imminent
harmful and offensive contact with her person. SAC ¶ 42. At no time did
plaintiff consent to any of Parmer’s acts. SAC ¶ 44. Plaintiff suffered
physical injury, severe emotional distress, humiliation, embarrassment, mental
distress, anxiety, loss in her right to education, and other consequential
damages. SAC ¶ 47. Parmer’s conduct caused plaintiff’s injuries. SAC ¶¶ 47.
The SAC alleges all the
requisite elements of a claim for assault. Notice pleading is sufficient at the
demurrer stage. OVERRULED. 
Second Cause of Action/Battery (asserted against PARMER
ONLY)
“The essential elements of a cause of action for battery
are: (1) defendant touched plaintiff, or caused plaintiff to be touched, with
the intent to harm or offend plaintiff; (2) plaintiff did not consent to the
touching; (3) plaintiff was harmed or offended by defendant’s conduct; and (4)
a reasonable person in plaintiff’s position would have been offended by the
touching.” So v. Shin (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 652, 668-669; CACI 1300.
Plaintiff
alleged: Parmer touched plaintiff. SAC ¶ 50. Parmer intended to harm and offend
plaintiff. SAC ¶ 51. Plaintiff did not consent to Parmer touching her. SAC ¶
52. Plaintiff was harmed. SAC ¶¶53, 57. A reasonable person would have been
offended by Parmer’s touching of plaintiff. SAC ¶ 55.
The SAC alleges all the
requisite elements of a claim for battery. Notice pleading is sufficient at the
demurrer stage. OVERRULED.
Fourth
Cause of Action/Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress 
“A cause of action for intentional
infliction of emotional distress exists when there is ‘(1) extreme and
outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless
disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress;(2) the plaintiff’s
suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate
causation of the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous conduct.’ A
defendant’s conduct is ‘outrageous’ when it is so ‘extreme as to exceed all
bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community.’ And the defendant’s
conduct must be ‘intended to inflict injury or engaged in with the realization
that injury will result.’” Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th
1035,1050-1051; CACI 1600.
Plaintiff
alleged: Defendants’ conduct constituted outrageous, unprivileged conduct,
going beyond bounds of decency so as to be regarded as atrocious and utterly
intolerable in a civilized community such as Los Angeles. SAC ¶ 78. Defendants
acted with reckless disregard for the probability that the actions would cause
plaintiff to suffer emotional distress. SAC ¶ 79. Plaintiff suffered
severe emotional distress as the result of defendants’ actions. SAC ¶ 80.
The SAC alleges all the
requisite elements of a claim for IIED. Notice pleading is sufficient at the
demurrer stage. OVERRULED.
Fifth
Cause of Action/Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress 
“The negligent causing of emotional distress is not an
independent tort, but the tort of negligence. The traditional elements of duty,
breach of duty, causation, and damages apply. Whether a defendant owes a duty
of care is a question of law.” Spates v. Dameron Hosp. Ass’n. (2003) 114
Cal.App.4th 208, 213. 
Plaintiff
alleged: Defendants are agents of LAUSD acting within the scope of their
employment and agency with LAUSD. SAC ¶ 83. Defendants owed plaintiff a duty of
care arising from LAUSD’s special relationship with plaintiff, who was a
student at LAUSD. SAC ¶ 84. Defendants breached their duty of care by failing
to report plaintiff’s injuries. SAC ¶ 86. Plaintiff suffered severe
emotional distress due to defendants’ failure to report her injuries. SAC ¶ 90.
The SAC alleges all the
requisite elements of a claim for NIED and alleges the failure to report the
injuries. OVERRULED.
Sixth Cause of Action/Negligent Supervision of Student (Gov.
Code § 815.6) (asserted against FIRST STUDENT ONLY)
“Where a public entity is under a
mandatory duty imposed by an enactment that is designed to protect against the
risk of a particular kind of injury, the public entity is liable for an injury
of that kind proximately caused by its failure to discharge the duty unless the
public entity establishes that it exercised reasonable diligence to discharge
the duty.” Gov. Code § 815.6. 
Education Code § 44807 provides that
“[e]very teacher in the public schools shall hold pupils to a strict account
for their conduct on the way to and from school, on the playgrounds, or during
recess.” 
 
First Student is not a public
entity. Plaintiff does not allege such, and the Education Code is not alleged
to apply to First Student. SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
Seventh Cause of Action/Negligent
Hiring, Retention, or Supervision (asserted against FIRST STUDENT ONLY)
The elements of a cause of action for negligent
hiring, retention, or supervision
are: (1) the employer’s hiring, retaining, or supervising an employee; (2) the
employee was incompetent or unfit; (3) the employer had reason to believe undue
risk of harm would exist because of the employment; and (4) harm occurs. Evan
F. v. Hughson United Methodist Church (1992) 8 Cal.App.4th 828, 836-837;
CACI 426.
Plaintiff
alleged: Parmer was an employee of First Student performing the duties
of bus driver. SAC ¶ 20. Parmer was unfit or incompetent to be employed by
First Student. SAC ¶ 115. First Student knew or should have known that the
child abuse of plaintiff by Parmer was likely to occur absent reasonable and
appropriate safeguards. SAC ¶ 116. Harm occurred. See, e.g., ¶ 123.
The SAC fails to allege any
specific facts showing Parmer was incompetent or unfit. The allegations are
conclusory, unsupported by any factual allegations. SUSTAINED.
Eighth Cause of Action/Violation of the Ralph Civil Rights
Act (Civ. Code § 51.7) 
“Under
the Ralph Act, a plaintiff must establish the defendant threatened or committed
violent acts against the plaintiff or their property, and a motivating reason
for doing so was a prohibited discriminatory motive, or that [defendant] aided,
incited, or conspired in the denial of a protected right.” Gabrielle A. v.
County of Orange (2017) 10 Cal.App.5th 1268, 1291; CACI 3063.
Plaintiff
alleged Parmer subjected plaintiff to violence and/or intimidation by
threats of violence against her person on account of her disability, medical
condition, genetic abnormalities and inability to communicate. SAC ¶ 131.
Parmer acted to aid, incite, and/or conspire with the other defendants to deny
plaintiff her right to be free from any violence or intimidation. Id.
The SAC fails to allege facts
showing plaintiff was subject to violence on account of her disability. Nor are
factual allegations made as to how Parmer is alleged to have acted to conspire
with other defendants to deny plaintiff’s right to be free from violence. The
allegations are simply conclusory. SUSTAINED.
Ninth Cause of Action/Violation of the Unruh Civil Rights Act
(Civ. Code §§ 51-52)
(asserted
against FIRST STUDENT ONLY)
“All
persons within the jurisdiction of this state are free and equal, and no matter
what their . . . disability, medical condition, genetic information, . . . are
entitled to the full and equal accommodations, advantages, facilities,
privileges, or services in all business establishments of every kind
whatsoever.” Civ. Code § 51(a); see also CACI 3060. 
Plaintiff
alleged: First Student denied plaintiff her full and equal
accommodations, advantages, facilities, privileges, and services when they did
not protect her from the threat and ultimately acts of physical violence that
she was the victim of. SAC ¶ 140. A substantial motivating reason was that plaintiff
was disabled, had a medical condition, had genetic abnormalities, and had an
inability to communicate of the dangers around her. SAC ¶ 141. Plaintiff was
harmed as a result. 
The SAC fails to allege any facts
to establish that the incident was motivated by plaintiff’s disability, nor
that plaintiff was denied accommodation, facilities or services. SUSTAINED.
Tenth Cause of Action/Violation of the Bane Act (Civ. Code
§52.1) 
“Any
individual whose exercise or enjoyment of rights secured by the Constitution or
laws of the United States, or of rights secured by the Constitution or laws of
this state, has been interfered with, or attempted to be interfered with, as
described in subdivision (b), may institute and prosecute in their own name and
on their own behalf a civil action for damages . . . to protect the peaceable
exercise or enjoyment of the right or rights secured.” Civ. Code §52.1(c); see
also CACI 3066.
 
Under
Civ. Code §52.1(b), conduct is sanctionable “[i]f a person or persons . . . interferes
by threat, intimidation, or coercion, or attempts to interfere by threat,
intimidation, or coercion, with the exercise or enjoyment by any individual or
individuals of rights secured by the Constitution or laws of the United States,
or of the rights secured by the Constitution or laws of this state.”
Plaintiff
alleged: School children have the right to be free from physical violence,
threats of violence, and/or injury to either person or property. SAC ¶ 147. Defendants
acted violently against plaintiff and interfered with her rights with threats
of violent acts, intimidation, and coercion. SAC ¶ 149. Defendants intended to interfere
with plaintiff’s rights and cause physical and emotional distress to plaintiff.
SAC ¶ 151. First Student ratified Parmer’s conduct. SAC ¶ 152.
The SAC fails to allege any
facts that defendants intended to interfere with plaintiff’s rights and/or
cause harm. SUSTAINED without leave to amend.
The factual basis for all
causes of action may be tested at a later time, such as via a motion for
summary judgment or summary adjudication. For purposes of pleading, the allegations
of the SAC are sufficient as to the first, second, fourth and fifth causes of
action. The allegations made must be taken as true for purposes of demurrer. The
demurrer is overruled as to these causes of action.
As to the sixth through
tenth causes of action, the demurrer is sustained. The SAC fails to allege any
facts, only bare assertions that mirror the required elements. Though pleading
requirements are liberal, this is not enough to apprise defendant of the
specific allegations made. 
Parmer/First
Student’s Motion to Strike Punitive Damages
 
Defendants
move to strike punitive damages, as well as the fifth cause of action for NIED
and the seventh cause of action for negligent hiring, retention and supervision
in their entirety. 
 
As
discussed above, plaintiff alleged conduct, including mishandling of plaintiff
and failure to report, that warrants punitive damages. DENIED. 
 
Cage’s
Motion to Strike Punitive Damages
 
Punitive damages are recoverable against a defendant
who acts with fraud, malice, or oppression. Cal. Civ. Code §3294. Malice is
defined as “conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the
plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a
willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.” Civ. Code §3294(c)(1).

Defendant Cage was an employee of LAUSD, performing
the duties of a Special Education Aide and responsible for, among other things,
escorting and supervising students participating in the School’s special
education program, including during their transportation to and from school.
SAC ¶ 21. Cage was responsible for loading and unloading special education
students, such as plaintiff, onto and off of the school bus and ensuring their
safety while being transported by the Bus Service. SAC ¶ 22. On September 10,
2021, Cage loaded and unloaded plaintiff, and her wheelchair, onto and off of the
school bus and did so with willful disregard, causing plaintiff to be
physically abused, mishandled, dropped and/or forcibly pushed her in and out of
the wheelchair, causing injury to plaintiff, including a tibia fracture. SAC ¶
24. Cage had a duty to report this incident, but failed to do so. Id.
The allegations of mishandling and failure to report
the incident are sufficient, at the pleading stage, to allege willful and
conscious disregard of plaintiff’s safety, justifying the request for punitive
damages. DENIED.