 Case Number:  21STCV43201    Hearing Date:   August 6, 2024    Dept:  61 JILL GREENBERG 2019 TRUST vs ERNEST FINANCIAL, LLC, et al. (Commercial)TENTATIVECross-Defendant Aaron Serruya’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production, Requests for Admission, Special Interrogatories, and Form Interrogatories, from Cross-Complainant David Bogner is GRANTED. Sanctions are awarded against Bogner in the amount of $8,650.00.Brandon C. Murphy’s Motion to be Relieved as Counsel for Defendant and Cross-Complainant David Bogner is DENIED.Plaintiff to give notice.DISCUSSIONI. MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER – PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS“A party may demand that any other party produce . . . a document that is in the possession, custody, or control of the party on whom the demand is made.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.010(b).) The demanding party may move for an order compelling further response to the demand if the demanding party deems that (1) a statement of compliance with the demand is incomplete, (2) a representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive, or (3) an objection in the response is without merit or too general. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310(a).) “The motion shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the discovery sought by the demand,” and “[t]he motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310(b).)A motion to compel a further response to an inspection demand must set forth specific facts showing “good cause” justifying the discovery sought by the inspection demand. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310(b)(1); Kirkland v. Superior Court (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 92, 98.) Unless there is a legitimate privilege issue or claim of attorney work product, that burden is met simply by a fact-specific showing of relevance. (TBG Ins. Services Corp. v. Superior Court (2002) 96 Cal.App.4th 443, 444.) Once the moving party demonstrates good cause for the discovery, the burden is on the responding party to justify any objection or failure to fully respond to the inspection demand. (Coy v Superior Court (1962) 58 Cal.2d 210, 220.)“Any party may obtain discovery . . . by propounding to any other party to the action written interrogatories to be answered under oath.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.010, subd. (a).) A propounding party may move for an order compelling further responses if the party believes the answers are incomplete, evasive, or the objections are without merit. (See Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.300, subd. (d).)  A motion to compel further responses to requests for admissions may be made on the grounds that an answer is incomplete or evasive, or an objection is without merit. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.290, subd. (a)(1)–(2).)Cross-Defendant Aaron Serruya seeks to compel further responses to Form Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, Requests for Production, and Requests for Admission, from Cross-Complainant David Bogner, on the grounds that Bogner’s responses to these sets of discovery consist of identical boilerplate objections, stating:Objection. Not relevant to the subject matter of the litigation, not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence, attorney-client and attorney work product privileges, vague, ambiguous, overbroad, unduly burdensome, invasion of privacy.Bogner’s response to Form Interrogatory No. 15.1, which asked for facts and evidence supporting his affirmative defenses, also included this objection, but followed up with a general statement that the defenses were asserted as a protective measure and that discovery was ongoing. (Separate Statement at pp. 96–97.) Serruya also argues that Bogner’s objections were waived, because they were served by regular mail, rather than by e-service as required by California Rules of Court (CRC) Rule 2.251, subd. (c)(3). (Motion at pp. 3–4.)Bogner in opposition argues that the responses were timely served, that Serruya failed to adequately meet and confer before filing this motion, and that the motion is an improperly consolidated four-in-one motion addressed to four separate sets of discovery. (Opposition at pp. 2–4.)The motion was preceded by adequate meet and confer efforts. Serruya’s counsel conferred with Bogner’s counsel, and were informed that no supplemental responses were possible because Bogner was unreachable. (Page Decl. ¶¶ 3–4.) It is unclear what further conference could have accomplished.The motion is also not improper merely for its conjunction of multiple sets of discovery. It is true that attempts to compel further responses to separate discovery requests generally require separate motions for separate requests. Although there is no rule independently stating that a party cannot combine in a single filing what is in effect an effort to compel further responses to four separate discovery requests, there is no universal statutory authority to compel further responses to discovery in general, but rather several independent statutes authorizing and regulating — separately — motions to compel further responses to interrogatories, motions to compel further responses to requests for production, and motions to compel further responses to requests for admission. (See Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2030.300, 2031.310, 2033.290.) This pattern repeats in CRC rule 3.1345, which requires separate statements for motions to compel further responses to requests for admission, interrogatories, and inspection demands, each motion listed separately. (See CRC Rule 3.1345, subd. (a).) This separate regulation is sensible, as the alternative would provide no effective limits to what a party could demand a court consider in a single discovery motion and thereby compromise the court’s ability to control its calendar. . . . [This] statutory authority [is] supported by a leading treatise:Motions to compel compliance with separate discovery requests ordinarily should be filed separately. But they may be joined where the requests are so interrelated as to make separate motions wholly inefficient (e.g., where several defendants have all failed to answer the same set of interrogatories).(Weil & Brown, et al., Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2019) Chapter 8F, ¶ 8:1140.1.)Here however, Bogner’s responses simplify matters by supplying the same, identical objection to each discovery request. There are no separate issues to be resolved in the separate sets of discovery — only the validity of Bogner’s single objection. There is thus no need to require separate filings.Ultimately, there is little reason to conclude that Bogner has waived all objections, as responses with objections were served within the time allowed. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300, subd. (a).) Although not served by electronic means as required under CRC Rule 2.251, they were served by a means ordinarily permitted by the Code of Civil Procedure, and there is little authority to conclude that use of an improper means of service effects a waiver of objections when the service itself is timely.However, Bogner makes no effort to defend his objections, and the motions to compel are properly granted. The request for production are supported by good cause, as they relate to the subject matter of this litigation and are directed to particular allegations in Bogner’s cross-complaint. Bogner offers no reason for the failure to serve substantive responses, save the lack of communication with his attorney.The motion is therefore GRANTED.II. SANCTIONSStatute provides that the court shall impose sanctions upon a party who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further response to interrogatories, requests for production of documents, or requests for admission, absent substantial justification otherwise. (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2030.300, subd. (d); 2031.310, subd. (h); 2033.290, subd. (d).)Serruya seeks $8,650 in sanctions against Bogner and his counsel, representing 15 hours of attorney work at $450 per hour ($6,750.00) and 3.8 hours of work at $500 per hour ($1,900.00). (Page Decl. ¶ 14; Blatte Decl. ¶¶ 3–4.) Given the rationale for allowing the different discovery requests be heard as one motion, the same rationale applies to what the Court finds reasonable attorney fees given the repetitive nature of the objections. Sanctions are awarded in the reduced amount of $1850.00 against Defendant / CrossComplainant Bogner.III. MOTION TO BE RELIEVED AS COUNSELCal. Code of Civ. Proc. (“CCP”) section 284 states that “[t]he attorney in an action or special proceeding may be changed at any time before or after judgment or final determination” upon either consent of both client and attorney, or upon the order of the court under application of either the client of the attorney, after notice from one to the other. Cal. Rule of Court 3.1362 states the requirements for a motion to be relieved as counsel under CCP section 284. No memorandum is required, but the motion must be accompanied by (1) a declaration stating why a motion has been brought instead of filing a consent (without compromising attorney-client confidentiality), (2) proof of service of the motion, and (3) all hearing dates scheduled in the action or proceeding, including the date of trial, if know. Additionally, “[t]he proposed order relieving counsel must be prepared on the Order Granting Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel--Civil (form MC-053) and must be lodged with the court with the moving papers.”The present motions pertain to attorney Brandon C. Murphy of the firm Bice Murphy Law, counsel for Defendant and Cross-Complainant David Bogner. The motion states there has been a breakdown of the attorney-client relationship such that it would be impossible to continue representing David Bogner, and that the client has refused to participate in this litigation. Trial has been set for April 2026.This is the third hearing on Murphy’s motion to be relieved as counsel for Bogner. The court denied the first motion on June 3, 2024, because the motion did not include the proof of service required by CRC Rule 3.1362, subd. (d). On June 10, 2024, this court denied the motion again, reasoning that the motion and proposed order did not provide notice to Bogner of all upcoming hearings, and further that the proof of service indicated it was to be served upon a PO Box, rather than Bogner’s current or last known business or residence address, as required under CRC Rule 3.1362, subd. (d)(1)(A), (B).)In the present motion, Murphy has included a list of upcoming hearings with the proposed order form, in compliance with this court’s prior order. However, Plaintiff Jill Greenberg 2019 Trust has once again filed objections, principally arguing that the new address that Murphy offers for service (and which was the destination of service for the present motion) is a “Spring Place” social club on 9800 Wilshire Boulevard, whose website purports to offer mail service to “office members” and “community members” who sign up. (Objection Exh. E.) Once more Plaintiff’s objection casts substantial doubt on whether Bogner has been served at his residence or business address, current or not.The motion is therefore defective, as it was served by mail upon the client, without assurance that the service was upon the current or last known “residence or business address.” (CRC Rule 3.1362, subd. (d)(1)(A), (B).) In any future motion to be relieved, if service upon Bogner is made by mail, Murphy shall declare that the address is Bogner’s current or last known business or residence address, in keeping with CRC Rule 3.1362. Alternatively, Murphy may serve Bogner by personal service or email, in the latter case providing the court with a proof of service “accompanied by a declaration stating that the electronic service address is the client's current electronic service address.” (CRC Rule 3.1362, subd. (d)(2).)Brandon C. Murphy’s Motion to be Relieved as Counsel for Defendant and Cross-Complainant David Bogner is therefore DENIED.