 Case Number:  22VECV01019    Hearing Date:   February 22, 2024    Dept:  T  
22VECV01019 SVETLANA
STRASHKO vs AUREL BUNDUCHI 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Cross-Complainant Aurel Bunduchi’s Motion for
Leave to File a First Amended Cross-Complaint is GRANTED.  Cross-Complainant Aurel Bunduchi is ORDERED
to file the Proposed First Amended Cross-Complaint.  
Cross-Defendant Svetlana
Strashko’s request for a condition requiring the current trial date to proceed
as scheduled is DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE.
Introduction 
Cross-Complainant Aurel Bunduchi
(Cross-Complainant or Bunduchi) moved for leave to amend the Cross-Complaint
filed against Cross-Defendant Svetlana Strashko (Cross-Defendant or
Strashko).  
Discussion  
The motion itself must state what
allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted and what
allegations are proposed to be added to the previous pleading, and where, by
page, paragraph, and line number, the deleted or additional allegations are
located. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324.) 
Cross-Complaint sufficiently provided that the motion seeks to add three
new causes of action (COA) for partition, accounting, and fraud; add factual
allegations in support of the new claims; and a request for punitive
damages.  Cross-Complainant further cited
the new allegations/COAs by paragraph number. 
Cross-Complainant sufficiently complied with this procedural
requirement.  
A party requesting leave to amend
must include a copy of the proposed amended pleading and attach a declaration
by counsel to show: (1) the effect of the amendment; (2) why the amendment is
necessary and proper; (3) when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations
were discovered; and (4) why the request was not made earlier. (Id.)  Cross-Complainant further attached the
Proposed First Amended Cross-Complaint (PFAXC). 
(Slater Decl. par. 10, Exh. A.) 
The declaration of Attorney Balke Slater attested to the amendments’
effect, necessity, propriety and when the facts giving rise to the amendments
were discovered.  (Slater Decl. pars.
2-7.)  However, Mr. Slater failed to
present facts/reasons as to why the request was not made earlier and/or why
there was a delay in filing the motion. 
The amendments are grounded upon facts discovered through document
production which occurred in June 2023 and Cross-Complainant did not file the
instant motion until January 2024 – an approximate seven-month delay.  The delay is seen to be unreasonable.  There are grounds to find that the motion was
untimely filed.  However, untimeliness in
and of itself is not grounds to deny the motion.  
A court can deny leave to amend
after long, inexcusable delay, where there is cognizable prejudice, such as
discovery needed, trial delay, critical evidence lost, or added preparation
expense.  (Atkinson v. Elk Corp. (2003)
109 Cal.App.4th 739, 761; Hirsa v. Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486,
490; P & D Consultants, Inc. v. City of Carlsbad (2010) 190 Cal.App.4th
1332, 1345.)  Cross-Defendant argued that
the granting of the instant motion will lead to a delay in trial.  However, no motion to continue trial is
pending and speculation as to what procedural relief may be requested in the
future is insufficient grounds to deny the motion.  Further, the trial date is currently set for
April 2, 2024.  The instant motion is not
being made on the eve of trial. Cross-Defendant failed to present facts to show
prejudice.  Without a showing of
prejudice, good cause has been shown to allow the amendment.
Cross-Defendant then argued that
the new COAs are duplicative and/or failed to allege sufficient facts to
support the claims.  However, a review of
the substance of the PFAXC is not properly before the Court on a motion for
leave to amend.  The argument is not
persuasive and the substance of the PFAXC is not considered.
Finally, it is not in the interests
of judicial economy to have two trials.
The motion for leave to file the
PFAXC is GRANTED.
Cross-Defendant requested that
leave to file the PFAXC be conditioned on the current trial date remaining as
scheduled.  Although the Court has
authority to condition the granting of the motion, the Court is not inclined to
rule upon whether the trial date should or should not be continued at this
time.  
The request for an order a
condition to “not continue” the current trial date is DENIED.
It is so ordered.  Clerk to give notice.