 Case Number:  23STCV00006    Hearing Date:   May 13, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



STEPHEN NEWLAND, an individual,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
TYLER GARY GALLAGHER, an individual; LEAH ANN DONOSO, an
  individual; CHRISTIAN HOWARD, an individual; REGAL ASSETS, LLC, a California
  Limited Liability Company; and, DOES 1-10, inclusive,
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          23STCV00006
 Hearing Date:   5/13/24
 Trial Date:        N/A
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Defendant Brinks
  Incorporated’s Demurrer to Plaintiff, Stephen Newland’s Second Amended
  Complaint
Plaintiff Stephen
  Newland’s Motion to Compel Defendant Brink’s Incorporated to Serve Further
  Responses to Plaintiff’s Request for Production (Set No. 1) Without
  Boilerplate Objections, to Serve a Privilege Log, and to Produce All
  Responsive Writings and ESI
 



 
I. Background
A. Pleadings
Plaintiff Stephen Newland sues Defendants Tyler Gary Gallagher, Leah Ann
Donoso, Christian Howard (collectively, Individual Defendants), Regal Assets,
LLC (Regal Assets; with Individual Defendants, Regal Assets Defendants), Doe 1
Brink’s Incorporated (Brink’s) and Does 2-10 pursuant to a January 8, 2024
Second Amended Complaint (SAC) alleging claims of: (1) Fraud (False Promise),
(2) Fraud (Intentional Misrepresentation), (3) Fraud (Concealment), and (6)
Breach of Contract against Defendants Regal Assets, Gallagher, Donoso, Howard,
and Does 2-10; and (4) Breach of Fiduciary Duty, (5) Conversion, and (7) Breach
of Contract (Third-Party Beneficiary) against all Defendants.
The claims arise from allegations that between August 24 and 25, 2018,
Plaintiff Newland was enticed to and did purchase silver and gold coins from
Regal Assets—a suspended California LLC that operated as the alter ego of
Defendants Gallagher, Donoso, and Howard, alleged as co-conspirators, as well
as agents of Regal Assets. Through Defendant Donoso, Regal Assets represented
that it would secure Newland’s coins with Brink’s pursuant to an agreement
through which Brink’s would store precious metals purchased from Regal Assets
(the Precious Metal Storage Agreement or PMSA). Plaintiff Newland alleges
having purchased the coins based on Howard’s representations as to the coins’
characteristics and based on the alleged agreement with Brink’s. Plaintiff
Newland paid $15,007.67 for the coins, which were allegedly stored with
Brink’s, but for which Regal Assets persistently failed to turn over account
verification reports, which Plaintiff Newland requested on various occasions.
Later, Plaintiff Newland requested that the coins be transferred from the
possession of Brink’s to Newland, making his requests directly to Brink’s, and
to Regal Assets’ agents Donoso and Howard. In October 2022, Brink’s finally
responded to Plaintiff Newland, asserting that it had transferred the silver
and gold coins to “Defendants ‘several months ago.’” The SAC implies but does
not appear to directly state that Plaintiff Newland has not received his silver
and gold coins from the Regal Assets Defendants.
The SAC attached copies of (1) an email from Brink’s showing it had
possession of Newland’s coins on October 22, 2018, (2) an October 22, 2018
report by Brink’s, (3) an October 26, 2018 email from Defendant Donoso, (4) a
copy of the PMSA, and (5) a written statement from Brink’s regarding Regal
Assets’ relationship with Brink’s, the secure vault services provided by
Brink’s, and the benefits of Regal Assets’ relationship with Brink’s.
B. Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Further Production
On November 14, 2023, Plaintiff
Newland filed a motion to compel further responses from Brink’s related to
Plaintiff’s Set One requests for production (RDPs, Set One).
On January 31, 2024,
Brink’s filed an opposition to Plaintiff’s motion.
On February 9, 2024,
Plaintiff Newland noticed a new hearing date of May 13, 2024.
On May 6, 2024,
Plaintiff Newland filed a reply to Brink’s opposition.
Plaintiff Newland’s
motion is now before the Court.
C. Brink’s Demurrer
to Second Amended Complaint
On February 7, 2024,
Brink’s filed a demurrer to the SAC’s seventh and eighth causes of action.
On May 1, 2024,
Plaintiff Newland filed an opposition to Brink’s demurrer.
On May 6, 2024, Brink’s
filed a reply to Plaintiff’s opposition.
Brink’s demurrer is now
before the Court.
 
II. Motion to Compel Further Production: GRANTED.
A. Request for Judicial Notice
Per Plaintiff’s request, the Court
takes judicial notice of the existence of a federal civil action, No.
2:23-cv-8078, filed against various of the Regal Assets Defendants in this
action, though the Court does not take judicial notice of the truth of the
matters asserted in the federal complaint. (Mot., RJN, Ex. A; Evid. Code, §§
452, subd. (d), 453, subds. (a)-(b); see Lockley v. Law Office of Cantrell,
Green, Pekich, Cruz & McCort (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 875, 885 [documents
are only judicially noticeable to show their existence and what orders were
made such that the truth of the facts and findings within the documents are not
judicially noticeable].)
B. Legal Standard, Further
Production
A motion to compel a further
response is used when a party gives unsatisfactory answers or makes untenable
objections to interrogatories, demands to produce, or requests for admission.
(See Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (a); Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting,
Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 403.)
To request further production, a
movant must establish: (1) good cause for the production (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.310, subd. (b)(1); Sinaiko, supra, at p. 403); and (2) that
a further response is needed because (a) the responding party’s statement of
compliance with the demand to produce is incomplete Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.310, subd. (a)(1)), (b) the responding party’s representation that it is unable
to comply is inadequate, complete, or evasive (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310,
subd. (a)(2)), (c) the responding party’s objection in the response is without
merit or is too general (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (a)(3); Catalina
Island Yacht Club v. Superior Court (2015) 242 Cal.App.4th 1116, 1127), or
(d) if the responding party objected to the production of ESI on the ground
that it is not reasonably accessible the movant can show that the (i) ESI is
reasonably accessible or (ii) there is good cause for production of the ESI
regardless of its accessibility (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (e)).
C. Court’s Determination
Around August 24, 2023, Plaintiff
Newland served RPDs, Set One, on Defendant Brink’s. RPDs, Set One, contain
thirteen requests for production. RPDs, Set One, Nos. 9-10 request production
of all insurance policies with Regal as named or an additional insured entity,
while RPDs, Set One, Nos. 11-12 request production of all insurance policies
with Brink’s as a named or additional insured relative to the allegations in
the First Amended Complaint. (Mot., Exhibits, Ex. A.)
On September 26, 2023, Brink’s
served objections and verified responses to RPDs, Set One. The responses to
RPDs, Set One, Nos. 9-12 contain long objections followed by a substantive
response indicating that “[a]fter making a diligent search and a reasonable
inquiry, [Brink’s] is not in possession, custody, or control of non-privileged
responsive documents.” This substantive response is followed by a statement of
compliance on all four responses. (Mot., Exhibits, Ex. B.)
Plaintiff argues that these
responses are not proper because the discovery here is relevant and the
responses provided by Brink’s are defective, e.g., “Brink’s is refusing to
state whether it does or does not have any of these policies.”
The Court agrees with Plaintiff
Newland.
First, the Court determines that
the requests are relevant because they may lead to admissible evidence
regarding whether Plaintiff Newland is a contemplated third-party beneficiary
of the PMSA.
Second, the Court determines that
to the extent that privileged information or trade secret information is
contained in the insurance policies at issue, that information may be produced
pursuant to a protective order between the parties, where such an order exists
in this action. The same analysis applies to the objections based on privacy
and confidentiality rights.
Third, the Court determines that
the remaining objections to these requests are unavailing. The requests do not
call for speculation or require an expert opinion on, for example, what
agreements may be affected by the allegations in this action. And the
objections based on inaccessibility and corresponding burden, equal
availability, calls for legal conclusion, and violation of the Insurance Code
are not sufficiently elaborated for this Court to rule in Brink’s favor.
Fourth, the Court determines that
the substantive responses offered by Brink’s are defective for the same reasons.
The statement that “[a]fter making a diligent search and a reasonable inquiry,
[Brink’s] is not in possession, custody, or control of non-privileged
responsive documents” is not sufficient in relation to RPDs, Set One, Nos. 9-12.
(Mot., Exhibits, Ex. B, pp. 14-15, 16, 18, 19-20 [substantive responses at
issue].) “[1] A representation of inability to comply with the particular
demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling shall affirm that a
diligent search and a reasonable inquiry has been made in an effort to comply
with that demand. [2] This statement shall also specify whether the inability
to comply is because the particular item or category has never existed, has
been destroyed, has been lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has never been, or is
no longer, in the possession, custody, or control of the responding party. [3] The
statement shall set forth the name and address of any natural person or
organization known or believed by that party to have possession, custody, or
control of that item or category of item.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.230,
brackets added for emphasis.) Here, the above quoted response by Brink’s
satisfies bracket [1], but it does not satisfy brackets [2] and [3].
Accordingly, the substantive responses offered by Brink’s are defective.
Based on the above, Plaintiff
Newland’s motion is GRANTED.
 
III. Demurrer
A.
Legal Standard
A
demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.
(Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747; see Code Civ. Proc., §
430.10, subd. (e).)
To
sufficiently allege a cause of action, a complaint must allege all the ultimate
facts—that is, the facts needed to establish each element of the cause of
action pleaded. (Committee on Children’s Television, Inc. v. General Foods
Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197, 212, superseded by statute as stated in Branick
v. Downey Savings & Loan Assn. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 235, 242.) “[E]ach
evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need
not be alleged.” (C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012)
53 Cal.4th 861, 872.)
In
testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth
of all material facts properly pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist.
(1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-67.) Courts read the allegations liberally and in
context. (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006)
144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228, disapproved on other grounds, Jones v. Lodge at
Torrey Pines Partnership (2008) 42 Cal.4th 1158, 1162.) A demurrer,
however, “does not admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or
law.” (Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.) 
A
demurrer may only be used to challenge defects that appear on the face of the
pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially
noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) The face of the
complaint includes exhibits attached to the complaint. (Frantz v. Blackwell
(1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 91, 94.) If facts appearing in the exhibits contradict
those alleged, the facts in the exhibits take precedence. (Holland v. Morse
Diesel Intern., Inc. (2001) 86 Cal.App.4th 1443, 1447 (Holland),
superseded by statute on other grounds as stated in White v. Cridlebaugh
(2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 506, 521.)
B.
Analysis

1. Demurrer,
SAC, Seventh Cause of Action, Breach of Contract (Third Party Beneficiary):
SUSTAINED.
a. Relevant
Law
“A contract is a voluntary and
lawful agreement, by competent parties, for a good consideration, to do or not
to do a specified thing.” (Robinson v. Magee (1858) 9 Cal. 81, 83.) “To
prevail on a cause of action for breach of contract, the plaintiff must prove
(1) the contract, (2) the plaintiff’s performance of the contract or excuse for
nonperformance, (3) the defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damage to the
plaintiff.” (Richman v. Hartley (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186.) Implicit in the element of damage is that the defendant’s
breach caused the plaintiff’s damage.” (Troyk v. Farmers Group, Inc.
(2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1305, 1352, italics omitted.)
b. Court’s
Determination
The Court finds in favor of
Brink’s.
In its demurrer, Brink’s argues
that this claim fails because the SAC does not sufficiently allege third-party
beneficiary status or a breach of contract.
The opposition’s points and
authorities focus on third-party beneficiary status without explicitly arguing
which of the PMSA’s provisions were breached and how the facts alleged in the
SAC, juxtaposed against the SAC’s exhibits (including the PMSA), show a breach
of contract.
The only breach of contract
allegation specifically alleged in the seventh cause of action is breach of the
PMSA by removing or permitting the removal of Plaintiff Newland’s coins from
Brink’s secure vault facility without authorization from Plaintiff Newland.
(SAC, ¶ 94; cf. SAC, ¶¶ 86-93, 95-96 [remainder of cause of action not
explicitly stating grounds for breach].)
As argued by Brink’s, this
allegation is belied by the terms of the PMSA, which is attached to the SAC. (SAC,
Ex. D, Preamble [naming Regal Assets as “Customer”] & § 3 [setting out the
process by which the Customer may withdraw metals from the account with
Brink’s] & § 4 [establishing that the Customer (Regal Assets) retained
property of the stored metals such that the metals would be segregated from
metals belonging to others, with Regal Assets accepting the PMSA’s terms as to
itself and persons who have an interest in the stored metals].) Nowhere in
these contractual terms does the PMSA impose an obligation on Brink’s to
consult with third parties who have an interest in the stored metals prior to
allowing Regal Assets to withdraw those metals pursuant to section 3 of the
PMSA. The PMSA only provides that the metals would be released to the
Customer—Regal Assets—upon following the proper procedure, and here, the SAC
alleges that Brink’s released the coins to Regal Assets and no one else. (SAC,
¶ 34.) Thus, this factual ground for the breach of contract liability—releasing
Newland’s coins without Newland’s authorization—is belied by the attachments to
the SAC, with the exhibits superseding the allegations in the body of the
pleadings. (Holland, supra, 86 Cal.App.4th at p. 1447.)
To the extent that the seventh
cause of action relies on incorporated allegations for support (SAC, ¶ 86),
those bases for breach of contract are not clear to the Court based on the
incorporation alone, making the seventh cause of action uncertain insofar as it
is supported by incorporated allegations rather than explicit allegations as
with paragraph 94 of the SAC. While it is common practice to incorporate by
reference allegations from causes of action or counts previously pleaded (Kajima
Eng’g & Constr., Inc. v. City of L.A. (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 921, 931-932),
incorporated facts should be germane to the alleged count to avoid problems
such as ambiguity and redundancy. (See Kelly v. General Tel. Co. (1982)
136 Cal.App.3d 278, 285 [“chain letter” pleading, or wholesale incorporation of
allegations by reference, should be avoided]; see, e.g., Philipson &
Simon v. Gulsvig (2007) 154 Cal.App.4th 347, 362 [for each count, P
incorporated by reference all preceding allegations, which required court to
sort through complaint to find allegations supporting each count].)
Brink’s demurrer is thus SUSTAINED.
The Court invites Plaintiff’s
counsel at oral argument to point the Court to any other specific allegations
of breach of contract in the SAC or, if there are none, to proffer specific
facts that could be newly alleged to sufficiently state this claim in an
amended pleading. If there are no such facts identified, the Court is inclined
to sustain without leave to amend.
 
2. Demurrer,
SAC, Eighth Cause of Action, Breach of Bailment: SUSTAINED.
a. Relevant
Law
A bailment is called a deposit
within the Civil Code. It is defined as “[a] voluntary deposit […] made by one
giving to another, with his consent, the possession of personal property to
keep for the benefit of the former, or of a third party.” (Civ. Code, § 1814.) Under
California law, “a bailment for the benefit of both parties … is a bailment for
hire, and imposes on the bailee the duty to use ordinary care with respect to
the bailed property.” (Gerbert v. Yank (1985) 172 Cal.App.3d 544, 551.) “A
bailment ‘is made by one giving to another, with his consent, the possession of
personal property to keep for the benefit of the former, or of a third party.’”
(McKell v. Washington (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 1457, 1491, citing Civ.
Code, § 1814; see Gebert v. Yank, supra, at p. 551; see, e.g., McKell
v. Washington, supra, at p. 1491 [“Plaintiffs allege[d] … [a] breach
of bailment cause of action [when they alleged] that they ‘delivered to
Washington Mutual, and Washington Mutual agreed to hold for the benefit of
plaintiffs, money to pay the cost of underwriting, tax services and wire
transfer services,” which Washington Mutual breached when it “paid only a
portion of the money to the third party vendors and kept a portion for itself”].)
b. Court’s
Determination
The eighth cause of action for
breach of bailment relies on the same factual ground for liability as the
seventh cause of action: harm to Plaintiff as a result of Brink’s permitting
Newland’s coins to be removed from Brink’s secure vault facility. (Compare SAC,
¶ 100, with SAC, ¶ 94.)
The Court thus adopts its
discussion as to the seventh cause of action to determine that because the
allegations in the SAC and the PMSA attached to the SAC show that any release
of the coins to Defendants was authorized by the PMSA, the Complaint fails to sufficiently
allege Brink’s failure to act within the appropriate standard of care for a
bailee.
Brink’s demurrer is thus SUSTAINED.
As above, the Court invites counsel
to identify further allegations that have already been made, or could be made,
before reaching a final decision on whether to sustain without leave to amend. 
IV. Conclusion
A. Compel Further Production
Plaintiff Stephen Newland’s Motion to Compel Defendant Brink’s
Incorporated to Serve Further Responses to Plaintiff’s Request for Production
(Set No. 1) Without Boilerplate Objections, to Serve a Privilege Log, and to
Produce All Responsive Writings and ESI is GRANTED.
Plaintiff shall file a proposed order.
B. Demurrer
Defendant Brinks Incorporated’s Demurrer to Plaintiff, Stephen Newland’s
Second Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED.