 Case Number:  23STCV14229    Hearing Date:   June 25, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles




 
Flag & Symbol, LLC, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case 
No.:
 


 
23STCV14229




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling 
 




 
Value Price, LLC, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: June 25, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion to Quash Service of Summons
Moving Party: Specially Appearing Cross-Defendant
Shragay Flags & Symbols Ltd.
Responding Party: Defendants/Cross-Complainants Value
Price, LLC, Maxwell Lapin and Paul Goldman
 
T/R:     SHRAGAY’S MOTION
TO QUASH IS GRANTED.
SHRAGAY TO NOTICE.  
 
If the parties wish to submit on the
tentative, please email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with notice to opposing counsel
(or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On June 20, 2023, Plaintiff Flag &
Symbol, LLC sued Defendants Value Price, LLC, Maxwell Lapin, and Paul Goldman,
asserting causes of action for (1) breach of contract; (2) breach of the
covenant of good faith and fair dealing; (3) fraud; and (4) negligent
misrepresentations. This action arises from the parties’ business relationship.
Plaintiff supplied Defendant with hoodie sweatshirts and souvenirs for
Plaintiff’s store. Plaintiff alleges Defendant breached their agreement by,
among other things, failing to timely comply with the agreement, and falsely
claiming products were defective.
 
On December 6, 2023, Value Price, LLC,
Maxwell Lapin, and Paul Goldman filed a cross-complaint against Flag &
Symbol, LLC, Shragay Flags & Symbols Ltd. and James Taratin.
 
ANALYSIS
 
“A defendant, on or before the last day of
his or her time to plead or within any further time that the court may for good
cause allow, may serve and file a notice of motion for one or more of the
following purposes: (1) To quash service of summons on the ground of lack of
jurisdiction of the court over him or her.”  (CCP §
418.10(a)(1).)  “When a motion to quash is properly brought, the
burden of proof is placed upon the plaintiff to establish the facts of jurisdiction
by a preponderance of the evidence.” (Aquila, Inc. v. Sup. Ct. (2007)
148 Cal.App.4th 556, 568.)
A non-resident
defendant may be subject to either general or specific jurisdiction. (See Elkman
v. National States Insurance Co. (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 1305, 1314.)  General jurisdiction exists when a defendant
is domiciled in the forum state or his activities there are substantial,
continuous, and systematic. (F. Hoffman-La Roche, Inc. v. Sup. Ct. (2005)
130 Cal.App.4th 782, 796.) 
 
Specific jurisdiction involves a three-part
test in California. California courts adopt the same test as used by the court
in Boschetto v. Hansing (9th Cir. Cal. 2008) 539 F.3d 1011,1016: “ ‘(1)
The nonresident defendant must do some act or consummate some transaction with
the forum or perform some act by which he purposefully avails himself of the
privilege of conducting activities in the forum, thereby invoking the benefits
and protections of its laws; (2) the claim must be one which arises out of or
results from the defendant's forum-related activities; and (3) exercise of
jurisdiction must be reasonable.’ Panavision International, L.P. v. Toeppen
(9th Cir. 1998) 141 F.3d 1316, 1320 [applying California law].).” (Jewish
Defense Organization, Inc. v. Sup. Ct. of Los Angeles County (Rambam)
(1999) 72 Cal.App.4th 1045, 1054.)
Specially Appearing Cross-Defendant
Shragay Flags & Symbols Ltd. moves to quash service of summons on the
ground that the Court does not have personal jurisdiction over Shragay. Shragay
is incorporated in and operates out of Israel. The Court does not have general
personal jurisdiction over Shragay.
 
Shragay asserts that there is no
specific jurisdiction because Value Price has failed to allege any facts
showing Shragay’s involvement in this dispute, and because Shragay has not
purposefully availed itself of the benefits of California. 
 
This action arises from purchase
agreements for souvenirs imported by Plaintiff Flag & Symbol for Defendant/Cross-Complainant
Value Price to sell in California. In opposition, Value Price presents evidence
purporting to show that Shragay used Flag & Symbol as it’s US subsidiary
and Shragay manufactured the products Flag & Symbol imported. But none of
this information is alleged in the cross-complaint. Indeed, there are no
substantive allegations relating to Shragay in the cross-complaint. The Court
cannot exercise personal jurisdiction over Shragay in the absence of any
allegations of personal jurisdiction. 
 
Shragay’s motion to quash is GRANTED.


 