 Case Number:  21STCV32131    Hearing Date:   June 25, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Derrick Upchurch, et al.,


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
21STCV32131




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
BC Design Development, Inc.,


 
 
 
Defendants.


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: June 25, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion to Approve Good Faith Settlement
Moving Party: Defendants F.C. Steel, Inc. Dba FC
Pool Construction and Francisco Cazares Barragan
Responding Party: None
 
T/R:     THE MOTION TO
APPROVE GOOD FAITH SETTLEMENT IS GRANTED.
DEFENDANTS TO NOTICE.
If the parties wish to submit on the
tentative, please email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with notice to opposing counsel
(or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers.
No opposition has been recieved.
 
Any party to an action in which it is
alleged that two or more parties are joint tortfeasors or co-obligors on a
contract debt shall be entitled to a hearing on the issue of the good faith of
a settlement entered into by the plaintiff or other claimant and one or more
alleged tortfeasors or co-obligors upon giving notice in the manner provided in
CCP §1005(b).  (CCP § 877.6(a)(1).)  A determination by the court that the
settlement was made in good faith shall bar any other joint tortfeasor or
co-obligor from any further claims against the settling tortfeasor or
co-obligor for equitable comparative contribution, or partial or comparative
indemnity, based on comparative negligence or comparative fault.  (CCP § 877.6 (c).)  The party contesting the settlement bears the
burden of proving that the settlement is in bad faith.  (CCP § 877.6 (d).)  
 
Defendants F.C. Steel, Inc. dba FC Pool
Construction, and Francisco Cazares Barragan apply for approval of good faith
settlement with Plaintiffs in the amount of $64,000.00. This action arises from
construction defects on a single-family home owned by Plaintiffs. Plaintiffs
claim over $3.6 million in damages. The parties reached a settlement after arms-length
negotiations. Defendants do not admit fault. There is no opposition to the
application. The Court finds the settlement in good faith.
 
The motion for approval of good faith
settlement is GRANTED.


 