  Case Number:  19STCV32486    Hearing Date:   June 25, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles




 
Edward M. Lyman III,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
19STCV32486




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Walzer Melcher LLM, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: June 25, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion to Strike Portions of the First
Amended Complaint
Moving Party: Defendants Walzer Melcher LLP, Christopher C. Melcher, and Peter M. Walzer
Responding Party: Plaintiff Edward M. Lyman III
 
T/R:     DEFENDANTS’ MOTION TO STRIKE IS DENIED.
 
DEFENDANT TO NOTICE. 
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please email the
courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with notice to opposing
counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the hearing.
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On March 2, 2020, Plaintiff Edward
Lyman III filed the operative first amended complaint
against Defendants Walzer Melcher LLP, Peter Walzer, and Christopher
Melcher, asserting thirteen causes of action including wrongful termination,
retaliation, breach of contract, and PAGA claims.
 
ANALYSIS
 
“Any party, within the time allowed to response to a pleading, may serve
and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part" of that
pleading. (CCP § 435(b)(1).) “The Court may, upon a motion made pursuant to
Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper:
(a) Strike out any irrelevant, false or improper matter asserted in any
pleading; (b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the
Court." (CCP § 436.)
 
Defendants move to strike various allegations in the FAC that Defendants
assert are irrelevant and violate the attorney-client privilege. Defendants
argue that answering the FAC as drafted would require them to disclose
confidential attorney-client communications. Defendants cite no authority
showing that allegations of attorney-client communications must be stricken at
the pleading stage. The attorney-client privilege is a rule of evidence;
whether a communication is privileged, and therefore inadmissible, is a matter
reserved for evidentiary motions or trial. 
 
The Court declines to strike the allegations Defendants believe are
irrelevant, such as Plaintiff’s use of the phrase “Private Attorney General.”
 
Defendants’ motion to strike is DENIED.


 