 Case Number:  23STCV04969    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2024    Dept:  29 Harris v. Hubbard
23STCV04969 
Motions to be Relieved as Counsel, filed by Plaintiffs’ Counsel Daniel Azizi,
Esq. of Downtown LA Law Group


Tentative
The motions are GRANTED.
Background
On March 7,
2023, Brandon Harris and Mackey A Childress (collectively “Plaintiffs”) filed a
complaint against Lillis Hubbard, SA Recycling, Irma Ortega, Albert Garcia, John
Doe, and Does 1 through 50, asserting causes of action for motor vehicle
negligence and general negligence arising out of an alleged automobile accident
on March 14, 2021.
 
No defendant has
appeared in this matter.
 
On October 11,
2024, Daniel Azizi, Esq. of Downtown LA Law Group (“Counsel”)
filed these motions to be relieved as counsel for Plaintiffs. No opposition has
been filed. 
 
Legal
Standard
The court may order that an attorney be changed or
substituted at any time before or after judgment or final determination upon
request by either client or attorney and after notice from one to the other.
(Code of Civ. Proc., § 284, subd. (b).) An attorney is permitted to
withdraw where conflicts between the attorney and client make it unreasonable
to continue the representation. (See Cal. Rules of Prof. Conduct
3-700(C)(1).) “The determination whether to grant or deny a motion to
withdraw as counsel lies within the sound discretion of the trial court.” (Manfredi
& Levine v. Superior Court (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 1128,
1133.)   
 
An application to be relieved as counsel must be made on
Judicial Counsel Form MC-051 (Notice of Motion and Motion) (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1362(a)), MC-052 (Declaration) (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.136(c)), and MC-053 (Proposed Order) (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1362(e)).   
 
Further, the requisite forms must be served on the client
and all other parties who have appeared in the case. (Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 3.1362(d).) The court may delay effective date of the order relieving
counsel until proof of service of a copy of the signed order on the client has
been filed with the court. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362(e).) 
 
Discussion
 
Counsel seeks to
be relieved as Plaintiffs’ attorney of record. Counsel contends there has been
a breakdown of the attorney-client relationship. While Counsel did not obtain
Plaintiffs’ current address, Counsel took a number of steps to verify the
address on file by sending the motion with return receipt requested, calling
Plaintiffs at their last known phone number, and conducting a TLO search.
The Court finds
Counsel has established good cause to be relieved as attorney record from the
breakdown in the attorney-client relationship. The Court notes the proposed
orders filed have dates for upcoming hearings that were changed after Counsel
filed the motion.
Accordingly, the
motions are GRANTED.
Conclusion
 
The Court GRANTS
the motions to be relieved as counsel.
 
The Court
directs the Judicial Assistant to correct the dates in each of the proposed
orders.
 
The orders are effective
upon filing with the Court a proof of service showing service of the signed
order (not just the minute order) on the clients.
 
Moving counsel
to give notice.