 Case Number:  22STCV16157    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2024    Dept:  29 Beamon v. Albertsons Safeway LLC
22STCV16157
Motion to Compel Cross-Complainant Albertsons LLC to Provide a Further Response
to Special Interrogatories (Set One)
Motion to Compel Cross-Complainant Albertsons LLC to Provide a Further Response
to Requests for Production (Set One)
 
Tentative
The hearing on the motions is continued for
approximately 45 days so that the parties may participate in an Informal
Discovery Conference.
Background
On May 16, 2022, Anthony Renee Beamon (“Plaintiff”) filed
a complaint against Defendants Albertsons Safeway, LLC, Albertson’s LLC,
Manager Precious, and Does 1 through 50, asserting causes of action for general
negligence and premises liability arising out of an alleged slip and fall on
May 18, 2020, in a store on Crenshaw Boulevard in Los Angeles.
 
On August 10, 2022, Albertsons LLC (erroneously sued as Albertsons
Safeway, LLC, and Albertson’s LLC) (“Albertsons”) filed an answer. 
 
On February 21, 2024, Albertsons filed a cross-complaint
against Source Refrigeration and HVAC, Inc.; Coolsys, Inc. (“Coolsys”); and
Roes 1 through 10. 
 
On April 2, 2024, Coolsys filed an answer to Albertsons’s
cross-complaint.
 
On October 21, 2024, Coolsys filed three
discovery motions.
Coolsys filed a motion to compel Albertsons
to provide further responses to Form Interrogatories (Set One). The hearing was
set for November 14.  Albertsons filed an
opposition on October 31, and Coolsys filed a reply on November 6.
Coolsys also filed these motions to compel
Albertsons to provide further responses to Special Interrogatories (Set One)
and to provide further responses to Requests for Production (Set One).  The hearing on these motions is set for
November 15.  Albertsons filed oppositions
on October 31, and Coolsys filed replies on November 7. 
Discussion
On October 21, 2024, Coolsys filed these
motions to compel Albertsons to provide further responses to discovery.  
 
The Eighth Amended Standing Order For
Procedures In The Personal Injury Hub Courts provides that the Personal Injury
Hub courts will not hear motions to compel further discovery responses until
after the parties have participated in an Informal Discovery Conference
(IDC).  
 
Here, the parties have not
participated in an IDC.  Accordingly, the
hearing on the motions is continued for approximately 45 days, so that the moving
party may schedule, and the parties may participate in, an IDC.
 
Conclusion
The Court
CONTINUES the hearing on these motions to ________________, at 1:30 pm, in
Department 29 of the Spring Street Courthouse.
Moving party is ORDERED to give notice.