  Case Number:  21STCV30656    Hearing Date:   October 6, 2023    Dept:  86 CAIOZZO v. BEACHWOOD MASTER COMMERCIAL, LLC
Case Number: 21STCV30656
Hearing Date: October 6, 2023 
 
[Tentative]
      ORDER DENYING MOTION TO APPOINT
RECEIVER AND RELATED PRELIMINARY INJUNCTION 
 
 
Plaintiff, Cally Williams Caiozzo,[1]
again moves for appointment of a receiver over mixed-used real property (the
Property) located in the Beachwood Canyon area of the City of Los Angeles. Plaintiff
also requests a preliminary injunction in aid of the receivership. Defendants, Beachwood
Master Commercial, LLC (LLC), Gregory Paul Williams, and James Linardos, jointly
oppose the motion.
 
Plaintiff’s request for judicial notice (RJN) (filed
August 28, 2023) of certain documents (Exhibit C) is granted. (Evid. Code, §
452, subd. (d).) While the court may judicially notice the documents, it may
not take judicial notice of any hearsay statements within the documents.
Defendants’ objection to Plaintiffs’ RJN is overruled.
 
The court judicially notices the existence of
Exhibit C, not the truth of any hearsay statements therein.  Defendants’ objection is overruled.  
 
Defendants’ RJN (filed October 2, 2023) of
allegations made in Plaintiff’s complaint (Exhibit A) is granted.  (Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d).)
 
Evidentiary Objections:
 
The court reminds counsel witness declarations should
consist of facts, not argument. Including argument in declarations not only circumvents
the page limits set forth in California Rules of Court [CRC], Rule 3.1113, subd.
(d), but it “forces the trial and appellate courts, and opposing counsel, to
sort out the facts that are actually supported by oath from material that is
nothing more the statement of an opinion ostensibly under oath. . . . The
proper place for argument is in points and authorities, not declarations.” (In
re Marriage of Heggie (2002) 99 Cal.App.4th 28, 30 n. 3.) The parties’
witness declarations are replete with inappropriate argument unnecessarily resulting
in hundreds of well taken evidentiary objections.
 
///
 
///
 
Defendants’ Evidentiary Objections[2]
 
Declaration of Cally Williams Caiozzo: 
 
Objections 3, 6, 9, 11, 15, 16, 17, 18, 20, 23, 25,
26, 34, 37, 39, 42, 43, 45 (a)-(f), 47, 49, 50, 51, 51 (b) a., 51 (b) b., 51
(j), 52, 54, 55, 63, 74, 79, 102 and 104. The remaining objections are
sustained except the following objections which are sustained in part: 22 (as
to “due to . . . occurred”),[3]
30  (c) ( as to all except “I made a
complaint . . . Wade’s” and “work”), 44 (as to Exhibit BB) and 45 (as the third
and fourth sentence).
 
Both objections to the Declaration of Stephen J.
Donnell are overruled.
 
Declaration of Gregory C. Taylor:
 
Objections 40, 41, 47, 49, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57,
58, 59, 60, 61, 62, 63, 65, 66, 68, 69, 70, 71, 72, 73, 74, 75, 78, 84 and 86
are sustained. The remaining objections are overruled except the following
objections which are sustained in part: 5 (as to the last sentence) and 6 (as
to “and communicated . . . applicants”).
 
All of the evidentiary objections to the Declaration
of Jason Rubin are overruled.
 
Defendants’ objection to the entirety of Plaintiff’s
response to Defendants’ evidentiary objections is overruled.[4]
 
Supplemental Declaration of Cally Williams Caiozzo:
 
Objections 35, 36, 44, 56, 57 and 59 are
overruled. The remaining objections are sustained (See footnote 4 supra)
except the following objections which are sustained in part: 10 (as to “improperly”)
and 50 (as to “He gave . . . phone number”).
 
Supplemental Declaration of Gregory C. Taylor:
 
Objections 1, 2, 3, 4, 8, 16, 17, 22, 39, 43, 47
and 51 are sustained. The remaining objections are overruled. 
 
Declaration of Alexander Caiozzo:
 
Objections 3, 4, 5, 9, 10, 13, 14, 15, 16, 19,
24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 36 and 37 are sustained. The remaining
objections are overruled.
 
Plaintiff’s Evidentiary Objections
 
The objections to the Declaration of Stephen Lockard
are sustained in their entirety.
 
The objections to the Declaration of Gregroy
Williams are all sustained except objection 7. Objection 2 is sustained in part
(as to “The best . . . to date,”).
 
Both objections to the Declaration of James
Linardos are sustained.
 
All objections to the Declaration of Llandys
Williams are sustained except objection 5 which is overruled.
 
All objections to the Declaration of Alexa
Williams are sustained except objection 4 which is overruled.
 
All objections to the Declaration of John
Gebhardt except objection 1 which is sustained.
 
All objections to the Declaration of John Merrill
are overruled except objections 9 and 11 which are sustained. The court notes
it overruled the hearsay objection to City employee statements as the statements
are not received for the truth of the matter asserted but instead to explain
any delay with the permitting process.
 
All objections to the Declaration of Al Wade are
sustained except objection 5 which is overruled as there are no grounds stated
for the objection.
The objections to the Declaration of Med Gorgy are
all sustained except objection 4 which is overruled.
 
The objections to the Declaration of Mike Fahim
are all sustained except objection 10 which is overruled.
 
The objections to the Declaration of Gerry
Milford are all sustained.
 
The objections to the Declaration of Vance Lorenzini
are all sustained except objection 2 which is overruled.
 
RELEVANT BACKGROUND AND PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
Plaintiff is a minority member of the LLC.  Defendants Williams and Linardos are Plaintiff’s
cousins, members of the LLC, and co-managers of the LLC.  (Caiozzo Decl. ¶¶ 2-11.) The LLC manages the
Property.
 
On August 18, 2021, Plaintiff filed a complaint
against Defendants for: (1) breach of fiduciary duty; (2) conversion; (3)
failure to provide LLC’s books and records (Corporatons Code section 17704.10);
(4) financial elder abuse; (5) involuntary dissolution of LLC; (6) accounting;
and 
(7) an order of involuntary dissociation of
members.  
 
On November 9, 2021, Plaintiff filed her first
motion for appointment of a receiver over the Property. Defendants opposed the
motion.  
 
On December 17, 2021, after a hearing, this court
denied Plaintiff’s the motion. The court issued a written order explaining its
decision; the decision is incorporated herein by reference.  At the hearing on the motion, the court indicated
Plaintiff could seek additional and/or different relief based on new or
different facts.  
 
On June 1, 2022, the court (Judge Maureen
Duffy-Lewis) granted Defendants’ motion to compel arbitration as to all causes
of action. Plaintiff had opposed the motion. On November 28, 2022, after a
hearing regarding compliance with an alternative writ of mandate issued by the
Court of Appeal, the court vacated its June 1, 2022 order compelling
arbitration as to the fifth cause of action seeking involuntary dissolution
pursuant to Corporations Code section 17707.03. 

 
On February 23, 2023, Defendants filed a motion
to stay the civil action pending arbitration. 
Plaintiff opposed the motion. The court (Judge Duffy-Lewis) denied the
motion.  On June 27, 2023, after a
hearing regarding compliance with an alternative writ of mandate issued by the
Court of Appeal, the court vacated its order and granted Defendants’ motion to
stay the proceedings.  
 
On August 11, 2023, Plaintiff filed this motion. 
 
LEGAL STANDARD  
 
“In this state a receiver may be
appointed only as permitted by Code of Civil Procedure section 564.” (Barclays Bank of California v.
Superior Court (1977) 69 Cal.App.3d 593, 597.)  
 
Appointment
of a receiver is a drastic provisional remedy that the court should only grant
when facts are presented by admissible evidence that clearly establish a
receiver is necessary to protect the property and maintain the status quo. (Id. at 597; City and County of San Francisco v. Daley (1993) 16 Cal.App.4th
734, 744). The appointment of a receiver is an equitable remedy and should be
used only when necessary and where other legal remedies are unavailable.  (Rogers
v. Smith (1946) 76 Cal.App.2d 16, 21.)
  
ANALYSIS 
 
Provisional Remedy Pending
Arbitration 
 
Plaintiff does not
address the court’s authority to grant a provisional remedy of a receivership
while all but one of her claims are being arbitrated and while this litigation
is stayed.  
 
The LLC’s operating agreement includes an
arbitration provision and six of Plaintiff’s seven causes of action have been
referred to arbitration. (See Memo 16:14-20; Caiozzo Decl. Exh. D.) Given the pending
arbitration, Plaintiff is required to comply with Code of Civil Procedure
section 1281.8, subdivision (b), which provides in relevant part:
 
A party to an arbitration agreement may file in the court in the
county in which an arbitration proceeding is pending, or if an arbitration
proceeding has not commenced, in any proper court, an application for a
provisional remedy in connection with an arbitrable controversy, but only upon the ground that the award to
which the applicant may be entitled may be rendered ineffectual without
provisional relief. (Emphasis
added.)[5]
 
The court cannot grant a request for a provisional
remedy if the moving party has not made the required showing. (See California Retail Portfolio Fund GMBH &
Co. KG v. Hopkins Real Estate Group (2011) 193 Cal.App.4th 849, 856-857.) “
‘The logical reason for the requirement that an applicant be required to show
that an arbitration award may be rendered ineffectual is to ensure that the
court does not invade the province of the arbitrator—i.e., the court should be
empowered to grant provisional relief in an arbitrable controversy only where
the arbitrator’s award may not be adequate to make the aggrieved party whole.’ ”
(Id. at 856 [citation omitted].)
 
In this action, all of Plaintiff’s causes
of action, except for the fifth cause of action for involuntary dissolution of
the LLC, have been compelled to arbitration.[6] In her motion and reply
papers, Plaintiff does not address Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.8 or
explain how any arbitration award related to her arbitrable causes of action, specifically
breach of fiduciary duty, conversion, failure to provide LLC records, elder
abuse, accounting, and involuntary dissociation of members, would be rendered
ineffectual without the requested provisional relief.  
 
Accordingly, on this briefing, Plaintiff
does not meet her initial burden of proof to establish a provisional remedy may
issue pending arbitration of her first, second, third, fourth, sixth, and
seventh causes of action. (See CRC, Rule 3.1113, subd. (a). [“The court may construe the absence
of a memorandum as an admission that the motion . . . is not meritorious”]; Quantum
Cooking Concepts, Inc. v. LV Associates, Inc. (2011)
197 Cal.App.4th 927, 934 [same]; Nelson v. Avondale Homeowners Assn. (2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 857, 862-863 [argument waived if not raised or
adequately briefed].)
 
As noted, the court did not compel the fifth cause of
action for involuntary dissolution to arbitration; Code of Civil Procedure section
1281.8 is therefore not relevant to that cause of action. Accordingly, the court
considers Plaintiff’s request to appoint a receiver under Code of Civil
Procedure section 564 in the context of Plaintiff’s fifth cause of action.[7]
 
Grounds for Receivership 
 
Plaintiff moves for appointment of a
receiver pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 564, subdivisions (b)(1)
and (9). Code of Civil Procedure section 564,
subdivisions (b)(1) and (9) authorize the appointment of a receiver in a
pending action, as follows:
 
(1) In an action
. . . between
partners or others jointly owning or interested in any property or fund, on the
application of the plaintiff, or of any party whose right to or interest in the
property or fund, or the proceeds of the property or fund, is probable, and
where it is shown that the property or fund is in danger of being lost,
removed, or materially injured.
.
. . .
 
(9) In all
other cases where necessary to preserve the property or rights of any  party.
 
Plaintiff submits
evidence she is a member of the LLC and the sole asset of the LLC is the
Property. (Caiozzo Decl. ¶¶ 2-10 and Exh. D, F.) For purposes of this motion,
Plaintiff has shown a “probable” interest in the Property by virtue of her
membership interest in the LLC. 
Defendants develop no argument to the contrary. Accordingly, the issue
is whether Plaintiff has shown the Property is “in danger of being lost, removed, or
materially injured” or that a receivership is necessary to preserve Plaintiff’s
rights in the Property.  
 
In summary, Plaintiff contends Defendants
Williams and Linardos (collectively, Managers) “have mismanaged, performed
unpermitted construction work at, and failed to properly and competently
maintain the Property, as a result of which several of the Property addresses
have been cited by the City of Los Angeles for hazardous, substandard conditions
in violation of applicable building codes and local laws, and portions of the
Property have fallen into a visible state of disrepair, leading to the filing
of a criminal complaint against the Commercial LLC and its Managers.” (Memo 8:10-15.)
Plaintiff contends “the Managers are manifestly unqualified and incapable of
competently and responsibly managing the Property . . . .” (Memo 9:7-8.) As
support, Plaintiff summarizes two misdemeanor criminal complaints and seven
administrative proceedings related to the Property. (Memo at Attach. 1.)[8]  
 
              Case
No. 1 – United Mailbox 
 
Plaintiff alleges Case No. 1
concerns unpermitted plumbing, mechanical, electrical, and HVAC issues at 2699
½ N. Belden Drive, a unit occupied by a commercial tenant, United Mailbox. (Attach.
1 at A-1.) Plaintiff acknowledges the underlying Notice of Code Violation for
Case No. 1 and Order to Comply were served by the City’s Department of Building
and Safety (LADBS) on May 5 and November 12, 2021, respectively, before the
court ruled on Plaintiff’s first receiver motion on December 17, 2021. (Caiozzo
Decl. ¶¶ 19, 22.) Plaintiff addressed this LADBS case in her first receivership
motion.  Accordingly, consistent with the
court’s December 17 order and Code of Civil Procedure section 1008, Plaintiff
must show new or different facts related to Case No. 1 to justify an order
granting a receivership.  (See Code Civ.
Proc., § 1008, subds. (b), (e).)
 
Plaintiff reports a misdemeanor
criminal case has been filed against the LLC and Managers related to
unpermitted work at 2699 ½ N. Belden Drive. (Attach. 1 at A-1.)[9]
Plaintiff declares the court arraigned the LLC and Managers on June 21, 2023
with a “follow up hearing date” set for December 11, 2023. (Caiozzo Decl. ¶
45.) Plaintiff does not demonstrate the LLC and/or Managers entered a plea at
the arraignment. 
 
Evidence of the misdemeanor criminal
complaint standing alone merely demonstrates a deputy city attorney elected to
file a criminal case. The filing evidences a deputy city attorney’s belief there
is probable cause to believe a crime has been committed, and the deputy city
attorney can prove the allegations beyond a reasonable doubt. There is no foundation
for Plaintiff’s assertion of LADBS’s rationale for referring the matter to the
City Attorney’s office. (Caiozzo Decl. ¶ 20 (g); Taylor Decl. ¶ 20 (g).) Should
the LLC or Managers later be convicted after a trial or plea, the conviction
would likely be relevant to the court’s assessment of the need for a receiver.
 
Given the presumption of innocence
and the due process to which the LLC and Managers are entitled, the criminal
misdemeanor complaint does not establish criminal behavior by the LLC and/or
Managers. Accordingly, the established facts today about Complaint No. 1—other than
a claim of delay—are consistent with those that existed on December 17, 2021.[10]  
 
Further, the court notes the City agreed
to continue the criminal arraignment “so long as Defendants were taking affirmative
steps to remediate the Property.” (Lockard Decl. ¶ 13.) The City’s willingness
to continue the criminal proceedings bolsters Managers’ claim they are working
with the City to resolve and close the outstanding issues. (Williams Decl. ¶ 10.)
 
Plaintiff concedes Managers have
obtained an HVAC permit and filed applications for building and non-building
repair; Managers submitted plans to the City after the December 17, 2021
hearing on the first receiver motion; and these acts by the Managers relate to
the municipal code violations alleged in Case No. 1. (Caiozzo Decl. ¶ 22;
Taylor Decl. ¶¶ 17-21.) Plaintiff’s expert concerning city planning, Gregory C.
Taylor, attests “[t]here is nothing in the records available for public review
that indicates a reason or justification for failure to complete the permit”
process for Case No. 1.  (Taylor Decl. ¶
20 (e).) Taylor admits, however, he lacks percipient knowledge and is “in the
dark” as to the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) requirements at issue for
Case No. 1. (Reply Taylor Decl. ¶ 8.)  
 
Planning expert
Taylor suggests Defendants are at fault for the delays in obtaining required permits
related to Case No. 1. As noted, he lacks foundation for his assertion. Plaintiff does not
submit competent evidence establishing Defendants are necessarily at fault for
delays in the permitting process related to Case No. 1. In fact, Managers’ expert
attests the City “has been extremely slow to process property improvement and
permit applications.” (Gebhardt Decl. 
¶ 15.) Managers’ general contractor substantiates
the general delays with the City. (Merrill Decl. ¶ 10. [“Getting progress has
taken a very long time because inquiries were relegated to email and sometimes I
would not hear back for 3-7 days at a time.”]) Finally, the court finds credible
the evidence indicating delays have occurred based on ADA compliance and
potential changes in the law. (Merrill Decl. ¶¶ 14, 16.)
 
More
importantly, a substantial amount of Plaintiff’s evidence related to Case
No. 1 is inadmissible, as reflected in the court’s rulings on evidentiary
objections.  As an example, Plaintiff’s
declarants do not provide sufficient foundation or demonstrate percipient knowledge
to explain the photographs. That is, how the photographs depict violations in
Case No. 1. (See Taylor Decl. ¶ 27, Exh. R and Reply Taylor Decl. ¶ 18.) While
the court has reviewed the photographs, there is no expert declaration or other
evidence explaining the evidence—how the photographs demonstrate a violation of
the City’s municipal code or other law. Significantly, Plaintiff has not submitted expert testimony from Taylor or
any other expert establishing the magnitude of potential harm to a tenant or
the Property based on the alleged building code violations for Case No. 1.  Absent such corroborating and explanatory
evidence, as discussed in December 2021, the notices of violation themselves do
not establish a need for court to step in with the drastic remedy of a
receivership. Moreover, nothing precludes the City (and its LADBS) from pursuing
appropriate relief based on the magnitude of the risk of harm to tenants and
the Property. In fact, based on the evidence, it appears the City is satisfied with
Managers’ efforts to remediate the violations.
 
Plaintiff
alleges Managers “have used certain vendors to perform repairs, construction,
upgrades, restoration, and work on the Commercial Properties, who have
performed work outside of their licenses, and performed work without
inspections prior, during and after completion.” (Caiozzo Decl. ¶ 30.)  Much of Plaintiff’s testimony and other
evidence in support of the allegation is inadmissible. While Plaintiff made a
complaint to the Contractor’s State License Board (CSLB) about plumber Al Wade’s
work, Plaintiff does not show the CSLB made any finding Wade performed work beyond
that permitted by his plumbing license. (Caiozzo Decl. ¶¶ 30 (c)-(d) and 33,
Exh. Y.) Managers provide evidence disputing Plaintiff’s assertion. (Merrill
Decl. ¶  8. [“In all of my engagements
with Al, the work he performed at the Property was either (a) permitted work
under his license, or (b) Al assisted me under my direct guidance, for example
helping me rearrange materials and do loading.”]) Therefore, the court finds
insufficient evidence to conclude Defendants’ contractors have performed work
at the Property outside of that permitted by their licenses. (See also Wade Decl.
¶¶ 3-6; Merrill Decl. ¶¶ 3-8.)
 
Managers submit evidence they “applied
for a finalized permit but have the temporary permit of # 21042-30000-09539,
which was issued on June 29, 2021 for 2699 ½ Belden [Drive] (also known as
Beachwood Drive). This permit is to install a water heater, toilet and sink. In
addition, [Managers] are currently in plan check for 2699 1/2 Beachwood Drive.”
(Merrill Decl. ¶ 12.) Managers’ contractor also submitted remodel plans to the
City to reach ADA compliance for the unit’s bathroom. (Merrill Decl. ¶ 13.) Managers’
plumber attests Managers are still waiting for the City for plan approval to
complete certain plumbing work. (Wade Decl. ¶ 20 [“cannot proceed unit the City
issues a decision on such parking lot plans”].) Although not all of Managers’
evidence is admissible, there is sufficient competent evidence Managers have
taken actions to address building permit issues related to Case No. 1. The
court also finds credible the evidence supporting Managers’ position they are
unable to move forward based on the City’s delays of approval of plans and
permits.
 
Significantly, Managers’ general
contractor, John Merrill, attests: “In my
experience, none of the pending alleged violations for Case Number 908586
reflect any dangerous conditions. I have not observed any aspect of United
Mailbox to be unsafe, whether that be for its owners or their customers.” (Merrill
Decl. ¶ 17.) Managers have also submitted declarations from several
tenants expressing support for Managers and disputing Plaintiff’s assertion of
potential harm to tenants from the allegations in Case No. 1. (See generally
Gorgy, Fahim, Milford, and Lorenzini Decls.) Plaintiff has not submitted evidence
to rebut the testimony of Managers’ contracts or the LLC’s tenants.
 
Based on the admissible evidence before the court, the court
finds Plaintiff has failed to demonstrate Defendants or their attorneys made intentionally
false statements at the hearing before this court on December 17, 2021. (See
e.g. Caiozzo Decl. ¶ 22 (b)-(c).)[11] Further,
to the extent certain statements may have been exaggerated and/or inaccurate, such
inaccuracies and exaggerations are insufficient to establish grounds for the appointment
of a receiver. The court also believes Managers’ evidence resolution of Case
No. 1 has been delayed by the City, and Managers’ position they are actively
working with the City to resolve Case No. 1.
              
Case No. 2 – Beachwood
Café 
 
Plaintiff alleges
Case No. 2 concerns an unpermitted electrical panel, kitchen exhaust venting
into an upstairs apartment, and a water heater issue. (Attach. 1 at A-1.) The
court’s analysis here is similar to that stated above for Case No. 1. The court
does not repeat the analysis but merely highlights the main points. To be
clear, the court’s reasoning with Case No. 1 is equally applicable here.
 
That a criminal
misdemeanor complaint has been filed does not alone establish grounds to
appoint a receiver. Moreover, the evidence supports Managers’ position the criminal
proceedings have been delayed and continued because they are working with the
City to remedy the violations. The evidence supports a reasonable inference
that if the City were dissatisfied with Mangers’ performance and response to
the violations, the City would be pressing to move forward with the misdemeanor
prosecutions for the protection of the public.
 
Again, much of
Plaintiff’s testimony and other evidence concerning Case No. 2 is inadmissible,
as reflected in the court’s rulings on evidentiary objections. For example,
Plaintiff fails to show percipient knowledge or expert qualification to provide
her opinion that “[w]hen the above apartment windows are open, the kitchen
exhaust vents noxious/toxic fumes and smoke into apartment units, endangering
the lives of tenants.” (Caiozzo Decl. ¶ 38.) 
Again, Plaintiff’s declarants do not provide sufficient foundation or percipient
knowledge to explain the meaning of the photographs of the alleged violations
in Case No. 2. (See Taylor Decl. ¶ 39, Exh. BB; Reply Taylor Decl. ¶ 18.) While
the court has reviewed the photographs, there is no expert declaration or other
evidence explaining the evidence—that is, how the photographs demonstrate a
violation of the City’s municipal code or other law. Significantly, Plaintiff has not submitted expert testimony from Taylor or
any other expert establishing the magnitude of potential harm to a tenant or
the Property based on the alleged building code violations for Case No. 2. Absent
such corroborating and explanatory evidence, the notices of violation themselves
do not establish a need for court to step in with the drastic remedy of a
receivership. Again, nothing precludes the City (and its LADBS) from pursuing
appropriate relief based on the magnitude of the risk of harm to tenants and
the Property. Certainly, the misdemeanor criminal complaints demonstrate the
Property, issues with it, and the potential for harm is actively before the
City.
 
Again, planning
expert Taylor suggests Defendants are at fault for the delays in obtaining required
permits related to Case No. 2. As noted, he lacks foundation for his assertion.
Plaintiff
does not submit competent evidence establishing Defendants are necessarily at
fault for delays in the permitting process related to Case No. 2. The evidence
of the City’s delays discussed earlier is equally applicable here.
 
Further, Managers submit evidence the
water heater issues related to Case No. 2 have been resolved. (Fahim Decl. ¶ 8;
Williams Decl. ¶ 11.) Plaintiff has not rebutted that evidence. (See Reply
Caiozzo Decl. generally and Reply Taylor Decl. ¶¶ 11-12 [discussing only
unapproved vent issues].)[12]  
 
Defendants also submit evidence the
“electrical subpanel has remained unchanged for years” and “[t]he vents have
been positioned there for decades.” (Williams Decl. ¶¶ 11-12.)  The Department of Public Health Inspection
Report dated May 18, 2022, submitted by Plaintiff, states “the exhaust fan from
kitchen venting to apartments above” is “not enforceable.” (Memo Exh. PP.)[13]
Defendants submit a declaration from Gerry Milford, a residential tenant who
has resided in Apartment 2 on the second floor for eight or nine years. Milford
attests he does not have any issue with the exhaust vent from the Beachwood Café.
(Milford Decl. ¶¶ 2-4.)  Plaintiff does
not rebut the evidence from Milford. (Reply 11:10-12:1.) Since it appears the
alleged conditions have existed for many years at the Property, and since
Plaintiff lacks relevant expert testimony regarding such conditions, the
evidence does not support a conclusion that they establish a material risk of
harm to the Property. 
 
To be sure, the court agrees with
Plaintiff—the allegations in the Order to Comply and criminal misdemeanor
complaint are “serious.” (Reply 11:23.) Nonetheless, under the circumstances
here, ongoing administrative and criminal proceedings do not alone establish
grounds for a receivership. Plaintiff fails to demonstrate a receivership is
necessary to protect the Property during the pendency of the administrative, criminal
and civil proceedings. Moreover, the evidence supports a finding Managers are
actively working with the City to remedy the violations.
 
Case
No. 3 – Apartment Unit 5
 
Plaintiff alleges
Case No. 3 concerns an Order to Comply issued by the City’s Housing and
Community Investment Department (HCIDLA) for an unpermitted awning[14]
for Apartment Unit 5.  (Attach. 1 at A-1.)  While Plaintiff also alleges Case No. 3 concerns
“rooftop patio structures,” it appears the Order to Comply is based primarily
on the unpermitted awning and members apparently supporting it. The undisputed
evidence shows the tenant, not the Managers, constructed the awning at issue. (See
Williams Decl. ¶¶ 14-15 and Lorenzini Decl. ¶ 3.) The tenant also installed the
awning without Managers’ permission. (Williams Decl. ¶ 14.)
 
Plaintiff does
not submit expert testimony establishing a magnitude of harm to the Property,
the tenant or the public from the awning and its support. (See Taylor Decl. ¶¶
42-54.)  Absent expert testimony, the
photographs submitted by Plaintiff do not establish the magnitude of the risk
of harm to the Property or others. (Memo Exh. DD.)
 
Additionally,
Managers provide evidence they are actively working with the City to remedy the
issue. (Williams Decl. ¶ 15.) Managers have requested from the City clarity on the
need for a permit and a physical inspection of the awning. (Lockard Decl. ¶ 18,
Exh. 11.) The City’s inspector assigned to the case made contact with Managers’
counsel. (Lockard Decl. ¶ 18, Exh. 11.)
 
The allegations
raised in the Order to Comply are serious and must be addressed by Defendants. 
 
The court requests Defendants address their delay in
addressing the issue. HCIDLA issued the Order to Comply on September 6, 2022.
The court has been unable to locate in any of the evidence before it any facts
to support a nearly one-year delay in addressing the problem. It does not appear
Defendants took any action until their counsel contacted the City in August
2023. 
 
Cases
Nos. 4 through 9
 
Case Nos. 4 through
9 are administrative orders issued by HCIDLA or the Los Angeles County Department
of Health related to an unpermitted awning, a tripping hazard at a fire exit
door, unpermitted electrical and plumbing work, and hallway lights not working,
among other matters.  (See Attach. 1 at
A-2-A-3; Caiozzo Decl. ¶¶ 57-100.)  
 
Significantly to
the court, Plaintiff concedes all of these administrative cases have been
closed and the alleged violations have been addressed to the satisfaction of
local authorities. (Ibid.) 
Plaintiff suggests that Defendants inexcusably delayed in addressing the
alleged violations.  (Ibid.) Defendants
dispute Plaintiff’s assertion. The court finds it unnecessary to resolve the
dispute given their closed status in the context of this motion. Having
considered all of Plaintiff’s and Defendants’ evidence, the court finds any
alleged past delays in addressing the notices of violations in Case Nos. 4
through 9, in themselves or cumulatively with Case Nos. 1 through 3, are not
a sufficient basis to appoint a receiver over the Property.    
 
Requests
for LLC Records 
 
Plaintiff submits a declaration of Certified
Public Accountant Jason Rubin regarding Defendants’ alleged failure to produce
LLC records on a timely basis. (See Rubin Decl. generally; see also Caiozzo
Decl. ¶ 101.)  As noted above,
Plaintiff’s third cause of action for failure to provide LLC records pursuant
to Corporations Code section 17704.10 has been referred to arbitration.  Plaintiff has not complied with Code of Civil
Procedure section 1281.8 to obtain a provisional remedy of receivership related
to such cause of action. Furthermore, Plaintiff has an adequate remedy in the
third cause of action to obtain LLC records. 
A receivership is an excessive and inappropriate remedy for Plaintiff to
obtain LLC records.  
 
              Summary
 
Based
on the foregoing, Plaintiff has not met her burden of proof under Code of Civil
Procedure section 564, subdivisions (b)(1) and (9) and has not established that
a receivership is necessary to protect the Property. The court acknowledges the
administrative and criminal allegations in Case Nos. 1 through 3 are serious
and will be addressed by Defendants in the ongoing administrative and criminal
proceedings. 
 
Nonetheless, on this evidentiary
record, Plaintiff does not demonstrate the underlying violations establish a
material and significant risk of harm to the Property, the LLC’s tenants or the
public generally. The City is actively involved and monitoring the Property and
Managers’ efforts at resolving the violations.
 
To that end, Defendants have
submitted credible evidence they are actively addressing the violations (or
alleged violations) in Case Nos. 1 through 3. Plaintiff has not demonstrated
Defendants lack the ability and qualifications to respond to and correct any
permitting or related issues for Case Nos. 1 through 3 in the administrative
process. Moreover, it is not clear from the evidence—including the credible
evidence of delays by the City—a receiver would result in a more speedy
resolution of the violations. In fact, it is unclear to the court what benefit the
Property would obtain from a receiver under the circumstances.
 
Plaintiff lacks evidence the delays
in the permitting process are necessarily, or completely, attributable to
Defendants—in fact, the court finds otherwise. Absent additional evidence of
potential harm to the Property, the filing of two misdemeanor criminal
complaints (where the City has intentionally and knowingly delayed prosecution)
alone does not justify a receivership. Given Managers’ active efforts to
resolve Case Nos. 1 through 3, the drastic remedy of a receiver is unwarranted
here.
 
CONCLUSION 
 
Based on the foregoing,
the motion
to appoint a receivership as well as a preliminary injunction to aid the
receiver is DENIED.[15]  
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
October 6, 2023                                                                     ________________________________ 
Hon. Mitchell Beckloff  
Judge of the Superior Court 
 
 


