


[1] Plaintiff’s last name is sometimes spelled “Caoizzo”
in her papers. The court uses “Caiozzo,” the spelling used in the petition and her
declaration.


[2] Unfortunately, Defendants’ objections are not consecutively
numbered.  For example, Defendants’
objections for some reason start with objection 2. There are also multiple
subparts to objection 22 based on paragraph 22 of Plaintiff’s declaration. While
Defendants lodged two objections to the Declaration of Stephen Donell, Defendants
labeled them objection 1 and objection 6. For clarity, the court uses the
numbering system adopted by Defendants in the objections. To simplify the
process, the court requests counsel use sequential numbering with evidentiary
objections in the future. (See, e.g., CRC, Rule 3.1354, subd. (b).)


[3] To be clear, objection 22 (a) is sustained.


[4] All evidence and arguments (including foundation and/or
authentication for admission of documentary evidence) necessary for Plaintiff
to meet her burden of proof should have been developed and included in her
moving papers. New evidence is not permitted on reply and for that reason has
been excluded. (See Defendants’ objection [actual page 5 at lines 8-17].)
Submitting evidence in reply to demonstrate foundation or authenticity for
exhibits to which Defendants lodged an objection at the time they filed their
opposition papers unfairly deprives Defendants of a right to be heard on that
new evidence and deprives them of their right to fully appreciate the extent of
Plaintiff’s showing. While the court found Plaintiff’s initial declaration
failed to provide foundation or authenticate certain exhibits, the general facts—not
opinions—related to this motion are largely undisputed. That is, there is no
dispute concerning the City’s involvement with the Property based on building
code violations. There is also no dispute about the issues with the Property that
require resolution. In the court’s view, much of the “evidence” the parties
elected to present to the court merely demonstrates their long-standing feud,
is unhelpful to resolution of the dispute and detracts from the issues relevant
to the motion.


[5] A provisional remedy is defined to
include “Receivers
appointed pursuant to Section 564.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.8, subd. (a)(4).)  


[6] In her motion, Plaintiff vaguely asserts Defendants
have caused the arbitration to be delayed and that she “may” file a motion “that
arbitration is waived by delay in commencing it.” (Memo 16:14-20.) Plaintiff
has not, however, filed such a motion. Therefore, the court proceeds with this
matter in its current procedural posture.


[7] Even assuming Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.8
was completely inapplicable here, the court would reach the same result herein.


[8] While
Plaintiff sets forth nine proceedings, it is undisputed only three remain
unresolved.


[9]
The criminal complaint does not specifically refer to 2699 ½ N. Belden Drive. (Caiozzo
Decl. Exh. C.) Nonetheless, the LLC and Managers have not disputed the criminal
complaint applies to work performed at this location. (See Opposition 5-7.)
 


[10] The court sustained evidentiary objections to Defendants’
evidence purporting to reveal representations made by Deputy City Attorney
Dennis Kong and the pending criminal case. 
(Lockard Decl. ¶¶ 4-15.) Plaintiff did not objection to email
communications to Defendants’ counsel from the deputy city attorney reflecting
the City’s willingness to continue the arraignment “[s]o long as we are updated
on progress . . . .” (Lockard Decl. Exh. 9.) The deputy city attorney indicated
the City wished to see “affirmative steps to remediate the property.” (Lockard
Decl. Exh. 9.) Finally, the deputy city attorney reported: “We understand fully
that sometimes the permitting process can be lengthy and delayed in most
instances as well as scheduling work.” (Lockard Decl. Exh. 9.)


[11] While the court sustained Defendants’ evidentiary
objections to these statements, the court nonetheless considers the claim
Defendants’ counsel lied to the court on December 17, 2021.


[12] It is troubling to the court that both Plaintiff’s expert,
Taylor, and Plaintiff’s son each attest they took the photographs that comprise
Exhibit BB. (Compare Taylor Decl. ¶  39 with A.
Caoizzo Decl. 25:11-14.) Based on the evidence, the court finds the evidence
untrustworthy.


[13] Again, even though the court sustained Defendants’
evidentiary objection to Exhibit PP, the court nonetheless considers Plaintiff’s
claim based on it.


[14] The awning does not appear to be fabric; it is
constructed of stiff, solid material.


[15] In light of this conclusion, the court need not
analyze the remaining arguments raised by Defendants against appointment of a
receiver.

