 Case Number:  21STCV20203    Hearing Date:   February 23, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  YVETTE ORTIZ, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  WESTFIELD, LLC, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 21STCV20203  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION TO COMPEL SECOND DEPOSITION   Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  February 23, 2024  I. Background Plaintiff Yvette Ortiz (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendants Westfield, LLC and Alicia Williams for injuries Plaintiff allegedly sustained when she slipped and fell on water near the door of the restroom on June 9, 2019. On July 5, 2022, Plaintiff filed an amendment to complaint naming Nationwide Janitorial Services, Inc. as Doe 1.    Defendants Culver City Mall, LLC, erroneously sued as Westfield, LLC, and Nationwide Janitorial Services, Inc. (“Defendants”) now move to compel Plaintiff to submit to an additional deposition.  Any opposition was due on or before February 8, 2024. The motion is unopposed.    II. Motion to Compel  CCP § 2025.610 states: Once any party has taken the deposition of any natural person, including that of a party to the action, neither the party who gave, nor any other party who has been served with a deposition notice pursuant to Section 2025.240 may take a subsequent deposition of that deponent.  Notwithstanding subdivision (a), for good cause shown, the court may grant leave to take a subsequent deposition, and the parties, with the consent of any deponent who is not a party, may stipulate that a subsequent deposition be taken.  In this case, Plaintiff appeared for her deposition on September 20, 2022. Defendants assert that since then, two new factual issues have arisen. The first is Plaintiff being forced into retirement and the second is Plaintiff undergoing a hip replacement surgery, both of which she attributes to the incident. Defendants aver that Plaintiff asserts the severity of her injuries had forced her to stop working and to move out of state. Therefore, Defendants request leave to depose Plaintiff a second time to cover the issues of her medical retirement and hip replacement surgery. Defendants contend Plaintiff will not be prejudiced, because Plaintiff may appear remotely. Further, Defendants assert the first deposition ran for 3.5 hours, and there remains ample time before reaching the seven-hour limit of CCP § 2025.290.  Defendants have sufficiently demonstrated good cause for second deposition for Defendants to obtain further information regarding Plaintiff’s subsequent claims. Plaintiff does not oppose the motion. Accordingly, Defendants’ motion to compel the second deposition of Plaintiff is GRANTED.  The trial date is currently set for June 11, 2024. The parties must meet and confer to schedule the remote deposition to be taken within 30 days. If Plaintiff does not meaningfully participate in the meet and confer process, Defendants may unilaterally set the date and time for the deposition with at least ten days’ notice to Plaintiff (extended per Code if by other than personal service).    Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 22nd day of February 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   