 Case Number:  21STCV02151    Hearing Date:   February 23, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  ELIS ISMAEL CASTRO, Plaintiff(s), vs.  ROBERT M. MAGID LIMITED PARTNERSHIP, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 21STCV02151  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: DEFENDANT’S MOTION FOR TERMINATING SANCTIONS  Dept. 31 1:30 p.m. February 23, 2024  I. Background  Plaintiff Elis Ismael Castro (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendants Robert M. Magid Limited Partnership, Robert M. Magid, Roberta Magid aka Roberta A. Magid, and Gregory Philip Segal for damages related to an alleged dangerous condition of a common area on defendants’ property. Plaintiff is in pro per. Defendants Roberta Magid aka Roberta A. Magid (“Roberta”) and Gregory Philip Segal (“Segal”) filed their Answer to Plaintiff’s complaint on May 12, 2021. To date, there is no proof of service filed for the remaining defendants. Preliminary, Roberta and Segal’s motion for terminating sanctions provides that the motion is brought on behalf of all defendants, which includes Robert M. Magid Limited Partnership and Robert M. Magid. Markus Aloyan declares he is the attorney of record for all defendants in the action. (Aloyan Decl. ¶ 1.) However, there is no attorney of record on file for Robert M. Magid Limited Partnership and Robert M. Magid, nor does it appear that these defendants ever voluntarily subjected themselves to the Court’s jurisdiction by filing an Answer. Thus, the Court will only consider the motion as it pertains to Roberta and Segal only.  Defendants Roberta and Segal move for terminating sanctions, or evidentiary and issue sanctions in the alternative, on the grounds that Plaintiff has twice failed to appear for his deposition in violation of the Court’s October 27, 2023 Order.  The motion is unopposed.  II. Motion for Terminating Sanctions Code of Civil Procedure § 2023.030 gives the court the discretion to impose sanctions against anyone engaging in a misuse of the discovery process.  A court may impose terminating sanctions by striking pleadings of the party engaged in misuse of discovery or entering default judgment.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030(d).)  “[T]the trial court has broad discretion in selecting the appropriate sanction, and we must uphold the trial court's determination absent an abuse of discretion.”  (Dept. of Forestry & Fire Protection v. Howell (2017) 18 Cal.App.5th 154, 191, overturned on other grounds in Presbyterian Camp & Conference Centers, Inc. v. Superior Court (2021) 12 Cal.5th 493, 516 n. 17.)   A violation of a discovery order is sufficient for the imposition of terminating sanctions.  (Collison & Kaplan v. Hartunian (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th 1611, 1620.)  Terminating sanctions are appropriate when a party persists in disobeying the court's orders.  (Deyo v. Kilbourne (1978) 84 Cal.App.3d 771, 795-796.)   A terminating sanction is a "drastic measure which should be employed with caution."  (Deyo, 84 Cal.App.3d at 793.)  "A decision to order terminating sanctions should not be made lightly. But where a violation is willful, preceded by a history of abuse, and the evidence shows that less severe sanctions would not produce compliance with the discovery rules, the trial court is justified in imposing the ultimate sanction."  (Mileikowsky v. Tenet Healthsystem (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 262, 279-280.)  While the court has discretion to impose terminating sanctions, these sanctions "should be appropriate to the dereliction and should not exceed that which is required to protect the interests of the party entitled to but denied discovery."  (Deyo, 84 Cal.App.3d at 793.)  "[A] court is empowered to apply the ultimate sanction against a litigant who persists in the outright refusal to comply with his discovery obligations."  (Ibid.)  Discovery sanctions are not to be imposed for punishment, but instead are used to encourage fair disclosure of discovery to prevent unfairness resulting for the lack of information.  (See Midwife v. Bernal (1988) 203 Cal.App.3d 57, 64 [superseded on other grounds as stated in Kohan v. Cohan (1991) 229 Cal.App.3d 967, 971].) Here, Roberta and Segal assert that on October 27, 2023, the Court granted their motion to compel Plaintiff’s deposition. The Court ordered Plaintiff to appear for his deposition at a date, time, and location to be noticed by the moving parties, and ordered Plaintiff to pay sanctions. (Min. Order, Oct. 27, 2023.) On November 3, 2023, defense counsel served a deposition notice to Plaintiff via mail, setting the deposition for November 17, 2023 at 10:00 a.m. with a remote link. However, Plaintiff did not appear for his deposition. Roberta and Segal contend that Plaintiff has ceased all litigation efforts, and has failed to respond to any of their correspondences or letters regarding discovery or deposition notices.   Thus, there is no evidence that Plaintiff objected to or appeared for his deposition, nor is there any evidence that Plaintiff is actively participating in this action he brought. Plaintiff has not appeared at any of the hearings in this matter, and neither opposes this motion, nor has opposed any of the previous motions brought by the moving parties. Plaintiff appears to have abandoned the case. Therefore, the Court concludes Plaintiff knew of his discovery obligations, knew of the Court Order compelling his compliance, and failed to demonstrate his non-compliance was not willful. Given Plaintiff’s failure to comply with discovery obligations, failure to meet and confer with defense counsel, and apparent disinterest in prosecuting this action, the Court finds lesser sanctions would not curb the abuse.     The motion for terminating sanctions is GRANTED as to defendants Roberta and Segal. Plaintiff’s action is hereby dismissed as to Roberta and Segal only.    Moving party is ordered to give notice.   PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 22nd day of February 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court  