 Case Number:  24VECV03177    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT
  OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS
  ANGELES
NORTHWEST
  DISTRICT
 




Cynthia Aguilar,
 
Plaintiff.
 
   v.
 
Weiss Family Properties, LLC, et al.
 
Defendants.
 


 
 
   Case Number             Department
  24VECV03177              107




COURT’S[TENTATIVE]
  DECISION RE:     
 
Confirm Arbitration Award 



 
Granted.
 
I.               
BACKGROUND
This is an employment
dispute. On July 3, 2024, Plaintiff Cynthia Aguilar (“Plaintiff”) filed a
complaint against her former employers, Defendants Weiss Family Properties,
LLC, Rochelle Handy, and Does 1 through 100, alleging eight causes of action
for failure to pay minimum wage, failure to pay overtime wage, failure to
provide meal periods, failure to provide rest periods, failure to timely pay
wages during employment, failure to timely pay wages upon termination, failure
to provide accurate wage statements, and unfair competition. (Complaint ¶¶ 7,
12.) 
 
On October 3, 2024,
Defendants Weiss Family Properties, LLC and Rochelle Handy (“Defendants”) filed
a motion to compel arbitration (the “Motion”). On October 28, 2024, Plaintiff
filed a conditional non-opposition to the Motion. Defendants filed no reply.
II.            
DISCUSSION
 
Under
both the Federal Arbitration Act and California law, arbitration agreements are
valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, except on such grounds that exist at law
or equity for voiding a contract. (Winter v. Window Fashions Professions,
Inc. (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 943, 947.) “[T]he right to arbitration depends
upon contract; a petition to compel arbitration is simply a suit in equity
seeking specific performance of that contract.” (Marcus & Millichap Real
Estate Inv. Brokerage Co. v. Hock Inv. Co. (1998) 68 Cal. App.4th 83, 88.) 
 
The
petitioner bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration
agreement by the preponderance of the evidence, the party opposing the petition
then bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence any fact
necessary to demonstrate that there should be no enforcement of the agreement,
and the trial court sits as a trier of fact to reach a final determination on
the issue. (Rosenthal v. Great Western Financial Securities Corp. (1996)
14 Cal.4th 394, 413; Provencio v. WMA Securities, Inc., 125 Cal.App.4th
1028, 1031.) The court is empowered by California Code of Civil Procedure
section 1281.2 to compel parties to arbitrate disputes pursuant to an agreement
to do so. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.)
   
“California
law incorporates many of the basic policy objectives contained in the Federal
Arbitration Act, including a presumption in favor of arbitrability.” (Engalla
v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 971–72.) “This
strong policy has resulted in the general rule that arbitration should be
upheld ‘unless it can be said with assurance that an arbitration clause is not
susceptible to an interpretation covering the asserted dispute.’” (Coast
Plaza Doctors Hospital v. Blue Cross of California (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th
677, 686.) Notwithstanding that strong policy, the United States Supreme Court
has held, “[A]rbitration is a matter of contract and a party cannot be required
to submit to arbitration any dispute which he has not agreed so to submit.” (AT
& T Technologies, Inc. v. Communications Workers of America (1986)
475 U.S. 643, 648.)
 
The
hearing and determination of a petition to compel arbitration “in the manner
and upon the notice provided by law for the making and hearing of motions”
generally means that “the facts are to be proven by affidavit or declaration
and documentary evidence with oral testimony taken only in the court's
discretion.” (Sonic-Calabasas A, Inc. v. Moreno (2013) 57 Cal.4th 1109,
1157.)
 

Existence of an Arbitration
     Agreement

 
The
petitioner bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration
agreement by a preponderance of the evidence. (Rosenthal v. Great Western
Financial Securities Corp., supra, 14 Cal.4th at p. 413.)
Defendants
argue Plaintiff must arbitrate her claims because she received and executed an
arbitration agreement (the “Agreement”) on September 13, 2023. (Motion pp. 1-2;
Lam Declaration ¶ 3.) Defendant submits the Agreement as an exhibit. (Ex. 1.)
The Agreement provides,
The Company and
Employee-Manager both understand and voluntarily agree that any claim or
dispute that relates in any way to the employment relationship, including the
terms of the Employee-Manager Agreement, shall be submitted to binding
arbitration before a mutually agreed upon arbitrator, but only after the
parties have first participated in a mediation with a mutually agreed upon
mediator. The claims covered by this agreement include, but are not limited to,
claims for breach of contract, torts, discrimination/harassment, wage claims,
and claims for violation of any federal, state, or local law.
(Ex.
1.)
Accordingly,
Defendants have met their burden of proving a valid arbitration agreement
exists.

Plaintiff’s
     Arguments

 
Once
the party who filed the Motion proves by a preponderance of the evidence a
valid arbitration agreement exists, the party opposing the petition then bears
the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence any fact necessary to
demonstrate that there should be no enforcement of the agreement. ((Rosenthal
v. Great Western Financial Securities Corp., supra, 14 Cal.4th at p. 413.)
Plaintiff
submits a conditional non-opposition to Defendants’ Motion. Plaintiff agrees to
arbitrate the dispute under the stipulation that the parties adhere to the
arbitration agreement, including its requirements that the parties first
participate in mediation and that the costs of mediation are borne by
Defendants. (Conditional Non-Opposition at p. 2.) Plaintiff states she
“reserves the right to petition to reopen the court case and seek additional
remedies should Defendants fail to comply with these specific terms,
particularly the requirement of pre-arbitration mediation at Defendants’
expense or the requirement that Defendant timely pay arbitration fees pursuant
to CCP § 1281.98, or if any other terms of the Arbitration Agreement are not
honored.” (Conditional Non-Opposition p. 2.)
Plaintiff
does not dispute that a valid arbitration agreement exists. Nor does Plaintiff
submit evidence showing this court should not enforce the Agreement.
III.          
CONCLUSION
 
For
the foregoing reasons, this court grants Defendants’ motion to compel
arbitration.
 
Dated:  November 8, 2024                                                                _______­­­­­­­­­­___________________________                                                                                                                  Hon. Eric Harmon
                                                                                                            Judge of the Superior Court