  Case Number:  24VECV01544    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
  CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
NORTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Walter Morales,
 
Plaintiff,
 
       
   v.
 
American Honda Motor
  Co., Inc. et al.
 
Defendants.
 


 
 
   Case Number             Department
         24VECV01544     107




 
 
COURT’S [TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: 
    Motion to Compel Deposition



 
[THE
FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE CASE]: 
(1) Grant Motion to compel deposition but limit
the matters and document production categories; 
(2) Grant monetary sanctions against Defendant
in the reduced amount of $2,310.00.
I.               
BACKGROUND
 
On June 27, 2012, Plaintiff Walter Morales
(“Plaintiff”) purchased a new 2022 Honda Accord (the “Vehicle”). (Complaint ¶
8.) The Vehicle was defective. (Complaint ¶¶ 11-26.) On April 5, 2024,
Plaintiff filed a complaint against American Honda Motor Co., Inc. and Does 1
thorough 10, alleging causes of action for violation of Song-Beverly Act –
breach of express warranty and fraudulent inducement – concealment. 
 
On September 18, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion to
compel the deposition of Defendant American Honda Motor Co., Inc.’s
(“Defendant”) person most qualified (the “Motion”). On October 28, 2024,
Defendant filed an opposition. On November 1, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply.
 
II.            
MEET
AND CONFER
 
A motion to compel a deposition must be accompanied by a good
faith meet and confer declaration under section 2016.040 or, “when the deponent
fails to attend the deposition and produce the documents, electronically stored
information, or things described in the deposition notice, by a declaration
stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.”¿
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450(b)(2).)¿
 
Plaintiff’s counsel submits a declaration stating that Plaintiff
sent Defendant a meet and confer letter on August 6, 2024. (Nandivada Declaration
¶ 9.) Plaintiff’s
counsel also contacted Defendant’s counsel by email. (Nandivada Declaration ¶ 10.)
After Defendant did not appear at the noticed deposition, Plaintiff sent
Defendant “several emails following up on alternative dates for the
deposition.” (Nandivada Declaration ¶ 12.) Defendant did not respond. (Nandivada Declaration
¶ 13.) 
 
This court finds that Plaintiff satisfied the meet and
confer requirement.
 
III.          
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
“Any
party may obtain discovery within the scope delimited by Chapter 2 (commencing
with Section 2017.010), and subject to the restrictions set
forth in Chapter 5 (commencing with Section 2019.010), by
taking in California the oral deposition of any person, including any party to
the action. The person deposed may be a natural person, an organization such as
a public or private corporation, a partnership, an association, or a
governmental agency.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.010.) 
 
“If
the deponent named is not a natural person, the deposition notice shall
describe with reasonable particularity the matters on which examination is
requested. In that event, the deponent shall designate and produce at the
deposition those of its officers, directors, managing agents, employees, or
agents who are most qualified to testify on its behalf as to those matters to
the extent of any information known or reasonably available to the deponent.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.230.)
“The service of a
deposition notice under Section 2025.240 is
effective to require any deponent who is a party to the action or an officer,
director, managing agent, or employee of a party to attend and to testify, as
well as to produce any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing for inspection and copying.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.280(a).)¿¿ 
 
“If, after service
of a deposition notice, a party to the action or an officer, director, managing
agent, or employee of a party, or a person designated by an organization that
is a party under Section 2025.230, without having served
a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails
to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing
described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an
order compelling the deponent's attendance and testimony, and the production
for inspection of any document, electronically stored
information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450(a).)¿¿
 
“Any party served
with a deposition notice that does not comply with Article 2 (commencing
with Section 2025.210) waives any error or irregularity unless
that party promptly serves a written objection specifying that error or
irregularity at least three calendar days prior to the date for which the
deposition is scheduled, on the party seeking to take the deposition and any
other attorney or party on whom the deposition notice was served.”(Code
Civ. Proc., § 2025.410(a).)
“Unless otherwise limited by order
of the court in accordance with this title, any party may obtain discovery regarding
any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in
the pending action or to the determination of any motion made in that action,
if the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
2017.010.) “Discovery may relate to the claim or defense of the party seeking
discovery or of any other party to the action.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
2017.010.)  “[I]nformation is
relevant if it ‘might reasonably assist a party in evaluating the case, preparing
for trial, or facilitating settlement.’” (Gonzalez v. Superior
Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1539, 1546.)
IV.          
DISCUSSION

 
Plaintiff argues he is entitled to
an order compelling Defendant to produce its person most qualified for a
deposition because Plaintiff satisfied the statutory requirements to bring the
Motion and the subject matters identified are relevant. (Motion pp. 7-10.) 
 
In its opposition, Defendant argues
that “Plaintiff, Knight Law Group (“KLG”) has aggressively rushed to file the
instant motion to compel the deposition of [Defendant’s] person most qualified
. . . in order to incur fees and put pressure on [Defendant] to produce a
[person most qualified] across hundreds of cases in short periods of time.”
(Opposition p. 2.) Defendant states that Plaintiff’s counsel has “filed over
120 individual suits against [Defendant] in 2023 and over 170 individual suits
against [Defendant] in 2022.” (Opposition p. 2.) Defendant states it offered
Plaintiff a deposition date of May 23, 2025. (Opposition p. 3.) Defendant
argues Plaintiff’s counsel is abusing the discovery process because they are
aware of Defendant’s impacted schedule and failed to substantively meet and
confer. (Opposition p. 4.) Finally, Defendant argues “Although plaintiff may be
entitled to interrogate a defense witness in this matter, plaintiff’s counsel
is also aware of [Defendant’s] overall processes and procedures where this
testimony can be grouped in a singular deposition and attempt to streamline
testimony so both parties can be prepared for trial.” (Opposition p. 4.)
 

Deposing Defendant’s Person
     Most Qualified

 
Under
Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.010, “[a]ny party may obtain discovery
within the scope delimited by Chapter 2 (commencing with Section 2017.010), and subject to the restrictions set
forth in Chapter 5 (commencing with Section 2019.010), by
taking in California the oral deposition of any person, including . . . an
organization such as a public or private corporation, a partnership, [or] an
association[.]” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.010.) 
Thus, Plaintiff is entitled to depose Defendant’s person most qualified.
 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2025.210 provides that “[t]he plaintiff may serve a
deposition notice without leave of court on any date that is 20
days after the service of the summons on, or appearance by, any defendant.” The
deposition must be scheduled “for a date at least 10 days after service of the
deposition notice,” plus an additional two court days when the notice was
served by electronic means. (Code Civ. Proc., §§
2025.270; 1010.6(a)(2)(B).)  
 
Defendant was served
with the summons on April 11, 2024. (Proof of Service.) Plaintiff served
Defendant with the Notice of Deposition electronically on June 11, 2024. (Ex.
A, Proof of Service.) June 11, 2024, is more than twenty days after Defendant
was served with the summons. The Notice of Deposition set the deposition for
August 8, 2024. (Ex. A p. 1.) August 8, 2024, is more than ten days plus two
court days after the Notice of Deposition was served to Defendant.  Accordingly, Plaintiff served Defendant with
a proper Notice of Deposition, but Defendant did not appear. (Nandivada
Declaration ¶ 12.) 
 
Defendant
argues this court should deny Plaintiff’s Motion because Defendant has
suggested a deposition date of May 23, 2025. (Opposition pp. 4-5.) Defendant
cites its impacted schedule and volume of cases. (Opposition p. 4.)
 
Section
2025.210 provides that a plaintiff may serve a deposition notice on “any
date that is 20 days after the service of the summons on, or
appearance by, any defendant.” (Emphasis added.) Defendant’s proposed
deposition date is more than nine months after Plaintiff’s noticed deposition
date. Defendant cites no authority supporting its contention that its proposed
deposition date defeats Plaintiff’s Motion. 
Accordingly, this court
orders Defendant to produce its person most qualified for a deposition within
sixty (60) days’ notice of this order.
 

Matters for Examination

 
On
June 11, 2024, Plaintiff served Defendant with the Notice of Deposition that
included fifty-four matters for examination. (Nandivada Declaration ¶ 4; Ex. B pp. 1-41.) The Notice of
Deposition set the deposition for August 8, 2024. (Nandivada Declaration ¶ 4.)
On August 1, 2024, Defendant served its objections to Plaintiff’s Notice of
Deposition. (Nandivada Declaration ¶ 8.) 
 
Defendant objected because Plaintiff’s counsel failed
to meet and confer before unilaterally noticing the deposition. (Ex. B., p. 2.)
However, Plaintiff asked Defendant’s counsel to provide alternative dates if
August 1, 2024, did not work for Defendant or Defendant’s counsel. (Nandivada
Declaration ¶ 6.) Thus, Defendant’s objection based on unilateral notice is
meritless.
 
Defendant’s other objections include that the
information sought is confidential, comprised of trade secrets, or protected by
the attorney-client privilege, the work product doctrine, or other privileges
or immunities. (Ex. B., p. 2.) Defendant also objected on the grounds that the
deposition matters are not reasonably calculated to the discovery of admissible
evidence, unduly burdensome, oppressive, noticed for the purpose of harassment,
vague, ambiguous, overly broad, argumentative, and irrelevant. (E. B., pp.
1-2.) 
 
This court finds that Defendant’s boilerplate
objections that the matters are not reasonably calculated to the discovery of
admissible evidence, unduly burdensome, oppressive, noticed for the purpose of
harassment, vague, ambiguous, argumentative, and irrelevant, are meritless. 
 
To the extent Defendant objects based on the
attorney-client privilege, Defendant may raise specific objections during the
deposition. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.460 ([stating an objection on the ground information
is “privileged or that it
is a protected work product under Chapter 4 (commencing with Section
2018.010) is waived unless
a specific objection to its disclosure is timely made during the deposition.”])
 
Matters No. 1, and 4-8, 10, 12-15, 17-22, 25 seek
information relating to the Honda Sensing System. (Ex B., pp.1-22.) The
complaint alleges Defendant knew about the Vehicle’s Honda Sensing defect since
2016 and knowingly sold a dangerously defective vehicle to Plaintiff.
(Complaint p. 5.) Thus, these matters are relevant to the issues in Plaintiff’s
complaint. However, they are overbroad because they are not narrowed by time.
Accordingly, Plaintiff may seek information about this Matter, but it shall be
narrowed to the time from 2016 to present.
 
Matters No. 2-3 pertain to the Honda Sensing System in
Vehicles from 2016 to 2020. (Ex. B, pp. 
3-4.) These matters are relevant and not overbroad.
 
Matter No. 9 pertains to marketing, promotions, and
advertisements for the 2022 Honda Accord. (Ex. B p. 9.) Matter No. 11 pertains
to when Defendant was put on notice of the specific defect alleged in the
complaint. (Ex. B, pp. 10-11.) Matter No. 16 relates to how Defendant handles
consumer complaint about Defendant’s vehicles to the National Highway Traffic
Safety Administration. (Ex. B p. 15.) Matters Nos. 23-24. relate to warranty
repair costs for the Honda Sensing System-equipped vehicles since 2016 and
estimated costs to remove defective Honda Sensing Systems from the United
States market since 2016. (Ex. B pp. 20-21.) Matter No. 26 seeks information
relating to Defendant’s public relations strategy from 2016 to present
regarding problems with the Honda Sensing System. (Ex. B. p. 23.) Matter No. 27
seeks Defendant’s efforts “to preserve relevant and discoverable information in
this matter, including, but not limited to, any preservation letters, the
custodians upon to whom such preservation letters were sent, the efforts
undertaken to prevent against the deletion or destruction of information.” (Ex.
B p. 24.) Matter No. 28 seeks Defendant’s “efforts to search for documents and
information responsive to Plaintiff's discovery requests in this matter, including
the sources of information (both hard copy and electronic DATABASES) searched,
the search methods employed, the search terms employed, the identification of
custodians for such sources of information.” (Ex. B pp. 23-24.) Matter No. 29
seeks all of Defendant’s records regarding the Vehicle. (Ex. B p. 25.) Matters
Nos. 30-37 seek information pertaining to the Vehicle. (Ex. B pp. 26- 30.)
These matters are relevant and not overbroad. 
 
Matter No. 38 seeks “All documents (including all
recordings) produced by [Defendant] in this litigation thus far.” (Ex. B p.
31.) This court agrees with Defendant that this matter is overbroad.
 
Matters Nos. 39-40. 42-45, and 47-50 seek information
about Defendant’s policies, procedures, and training from 2022 to present. (Ex.
B pp. 31-38.) Matter No. 41 seeks “information that [Defendant] made available
to the individuals that [Defendant] task[s] with responding to requests for a
vehicle repurchase or replacement under the Song-Beverly Act from 2022 to
present.” (Ex. B p. 33.) Matter No. 51 seeks information about Defendant’s
“databases and software used to store, query, or analyze vehicle warranty data
in the United States from 2022 to present.” (Ex. B p. 39.) Matter No. 52 seeks
information about Defendant’s “methodology for categorizing, binning, or
tracking warranty repair presentations in [Defendant’s] warranty databases from
2022 to present.” (Ex. B. p. 40.) Matter No. 53 seeks information about “[t]he
searchability of [Defendant’s] warranty databases from 2022 to present.” (Ex.
B, p. 40.) These matters are relevant and not overbroad.
 
Matter No. 46 seeks Defendant’s “warranty claim
submission policies and procedures for [Defendant’s] authorized dealerships,
including timing.” (Ex B. p. 36.) That matter is relevant but overbroad because
it is not limited by time. Plaintiff may inquire about this matter at the
deposition, but only as it relates to Defendant’s policies and procedures from
2022 to present. 
 
Matter No. 54 seeks information about Defendant’s
discovery responses in this case. (Ex. B p. 68.) This court agrees with
Defendant that this matter is overbroad.
 
Defendant further requests that this court “only
include vehicle specific categories that were not already covered in prior
[Plaintiff’s law firm/Defendant’s person most qualified] depositions.”
(Opposition pp 4-5.) This Motion only concerns the issues raised in this case.
Defendant cites no authority showing this court may limit the matters in this
deposition based on depositions taken in cases not before this court.
 

Request for Production of
     Documents 

 
A deposition notice may request that the deponent
produce documents at the deposition. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.280.) 
 
Plaintiff’s Notice of Deposition included fifty-three
categories of documents to be produced. (Ex. B pp. 41-72.) Defendant raised a
variety of objections to Plaintiff’s requests, including that they are vague,
ambiguous, overly broad, unduly burdensome, harassing, argumentative as
phrased, irrelevant, not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence, protected by the attorney-client privilege, attorney
work-product doctrine, confidential, commercially sensitive, or proprietary in
nature, and may call for the premature discovery of information and materials
to be provided by an expert witness. (Ex. B pp. 41-72.)
 
This court finds that Defendant’s boilerplate
objections that the categories are not reasonably calculated to the discovery
of admissible evidence, unduly burdensome, oppressive, noticed for the purpose
of harassment, vague, ambiguous, argumentative, and irrelevant, are meritless. 
 
To the extent Defendant has raised objections
regarding the attorney-client privilege or work product doctrine, Defendant has
produced no privilege log or other factual information allowing Plaintiff to
evaluate the merits of Defendant’s objections. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.240(c)(1)
[“If an objection is based
on a claim of privilege or a claim that the information sought is protected
work product, the response shall provide sufficient factual information for
other parties to evaluate the merits of that claim, including, if necessary, a
privilege log.”])
 
Categories Nos. 1-2 relate to the deponent and the
deponent’s preparation for the deposition. (Ex. B pp. 41-42.) Categories Nos.
3-30 and 32-34 relate to the 2022 Honda Accord and Honda Sensing defect issue.
(Ex B. pp. 42-60.)  These categories are
relevant and not overbroad. 
 
Category No. 31 seeks “All DOCUMENTS reflecting
[Defendant’s] knowledge of, use of, responses to, and/or handling of consumer
complaints made to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration.” (Ex. B.
p 59.) This matter is relevant but overbroad because it is not limited by time.
Plaintiff may seek these documents but only as they relate to documents
reflecting Defendant’s knowledge of, use of, response to, or handling of
consumer complaints made to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
from 2022 to present. 
 
Category No. 35 seeks “All DOCUMENTS reflecting
HONDA's efforts to preserve relevant and discoverable information in this
matter, including any preservation letters, the custodians to whom such
preservation letters were sent, the efforts undertaken to prevent against the
deletion or destruction of information.” (Ex. B, p. 61.) Category No. 36 seeks
“All DOCUMENTS reflecting HONDA's efforts to search for documents and
information responsive to Plaintiff's discovery requests in this matter,
including the sources of information (both hard copy and electronic databases)
searched, the search methods employed, the search terms employed, the
identification of custodians for such sources of information.” (Ex. B, p. 62.)
These categories are relevant but may include information protected by the
attorney-client privilege. But, as noted above, Defendant produced no privilege
log or other factual information allowing Plaintiff to evaluate Defendant’s
privilege objections.
 
Categories Nos. 37-40 and 42-45 seek information
pertaining to the Vehicle. (Ex. B, p. 63-67.) These categories are relevant and
not overbroad.
 
Category No. 41 seeks “All DOCUMENTS that [Defendant]
made available to the individuals that [Defendant] tasked with analyzing a
repurchase request pursuant to the Song Beverly Consumer Warranty Act.” (Ex. B
p. 65.) This matter is relevant but overbroad. Plaintiff may seek these
documents but only as they relate to documents Defendant made available to
individuals from 2022 to present.
 
Categories Nos. 46-50 seek documents relating to
Defendant’s policies, procedures, and training from 2022 to present. (Ex. B pp.
67-70.) Categories Nos. 51-53 seek documents relating to the Vehicle. (Ex. B
pp. 70-71.) These matters are relevant and not overbroad.
 
To the extent there
remains a dispute about the scope of the deposition relating to specific
documents or questions asked at the deposition, Defendant may move for a
protective order and Plaintiff may file a motion to compel answers or produce
documents. (See Code Civ. Proc., §§
2025.480(a), 2025.420(a).) 
 
V.             
SANCTIONS
 
If a
motion to compel a deposition is granted, “the court shall impose a
monetary sanction . . . in favor of the party who noticed the deposition and against
the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the
court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450(g)(1).)
 
Plaintiff
seeks $2,675.00 in monetary sanctions. (Nandivada Declaration ¶ 14.) (This is
the amount stated in Plaintiff’s counsel’s declaration, but Plaintiff’s
submitted documents request three different amounts of sanctions. The Motion
requests $2,479.50 and $2,735 on p. 20, $2.735 in the Notice of Motion, and
$2,675 in the Reply. (Reply p. 4.))  This
includes the $60.00 filing fee, five in attorneys’ fees for preparing and
editing the Motion and supporting documents, two hours reviewing the
opposition, and two hours preparing for and attending the hearing. (Nandivada
Declaration ¶¶ 14-15.) 
 
Plaintiff
has successfully moved for an order compelling the deposition of Defendant’s’
person most qualified. This court finds that Defendant did not act with
substantial justification and no other circumstances make awarding sanctions
unjust. Thus, sanctions are mandatory. This court further finds that the
attorneys’ fees request is excessive given the Motion’s simplicity.
 
Accordingly,
this court grants Plaintiff’s request for sanctions in the reduced amount of
$2,310.00, reflecting the $60.00 motion filing fee, four hours for preparing
the motion and supporting documents, one hour for reviewing the deposition and
preparing a reply, and one hour for appearing at the hearing, at $375.00 per
hour.
 
VI.          
CONCLUSION
 
For the foregoing reasons, this
court grants Plaintiff’s motion to compel the deposition of Defendant’s person
most qualified. Defendant shall produce its person most qualified for a
deposition within sixty (60) days’ notice of this court’s ruling. The matters
and document production categories shall be limited in scope to the topics
identified by this court’s ruling.
 
This court also grants Plaintiff’s
request for monetary sanctions against Defendant in the reduced amount of
$2,310.00 to be paid by Defendant and Defendant’s counsel within thirty (30)
days’ notice of this court’s ruling.
 
 
Dated:             November 8, 2024                                                      _______­­­­­­­­­­___________________________                                                                                                                  Hon.
Eric Harmon
                                                                                                            Judge of the Superior Court