 Case Number:  23STCV23099    Hearing Date:   May 15, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



FRED C. STALLEY, individually and as trustee of the Stalley
  Living Trust,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
LALEH H. AZAD, PETER GEOFFREY BULLEN, SEAN RAMANN, STATE FARM
  GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY, and DOES 1 through 10, inclusive,
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          23STCV23099
 Hearing Date:   5/15/24
 Trial Date:        N/A
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Defendant State
  Farm General Insurance Company’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint;
Defendant State
  Farm General Insurance Company’s Motion to Strike Portions of Plaintiff’s
  Complaint; and
Defendant Peter
  Geoffrey Bullen’s Demurrer to Verified Complaint.



 
I. Background
A. Pleadings
Plaintiff Fred C.
Stalley sues Defendants Laleh H. Azad, Peter Geoffrey Bullen, Sean Ramann,
State Farm General Insurance Company (State Farm), and Does 1 through 10
pursuant to a September 25, 2023, Complaint alleging claims of: (1) Breach of
Contract, (2) Conversion, (3) Trespass to Chattels, and (4) Negligence against
Defendants Azad, Bullen, and Does 1-5; and (5) Breach of Contractual Duty to
Pay a Covered Claim, (6) Breach of Implied Duty of Good Faith and Fair Dealing,
and (7) Bad Faith (First Party) against Defendant State Farm and Does 6-10.
The claims arise from
the following allegations. Plaintiff Stalley as an individual owns the real
property known as 1242 Piedra Morada Drive, Pacific Palisades, California 90272
(the subject property). Title to the property is held by the Stalley Living
Trust, for which Plaintiff Stalley acts as trustee. From April 2015 to July
2022, Plaintiff Stalley rented the subject property to Defendants Azad and
Bullen. After Defendants Azad and Bullen vacated the subject property,
Plaintiff Stalley discovered that items had been stolen from the property and
that the property had been damaged by Defendants Azad and Bullen. Plaintiff Stalley
calculated damages of $149,176.72 and made a claim for insurance benefits under
the policy issued by State Farm for the subject property. State Farm issued a
payment in the amount of $47,785.23, well under the claimed damages of $149,176.72.
The deficiency payment breached the policy issued to Plaintiff Stalley by
failing to completely cover Plaintiff’s damages. This suit followed.
B. Defendant State
Farm’s Demurrer and Motion to Strike
On November 1, 2023,
Defendant State Farm filed a demurrer challenging the sufficiency of the three
claims alleged against it in the Complaint.
That same day, State
Farm filed a motion to strike challenging the Complaint’s prayer for punitive
damages as against State Farm.
On February 14, 2024,
Plaintiff Stalley filed oppositions to the demurrer and motion to strike.
On May 7, 2024,
Defendant State Farm filed replies to Plaintiff Stalley’s opposition.
Defendant State Farm’s
demurrer and motion to strike are now before the Court.
C. Defendant
Bullen’s Demurrer
On December 30, 2023,
Defendant Bullen filed a demurrer to the Complaint’s first cause of action for
breach of contract.
On April 12, 2024,
Plaintiff Stalley filed an opposition to Defendant Bullen’s demurrer.
On May 7, 2024,
Defendant Bullen filed a reply to Plaintiff Stalley’s opposition.
Defendant Bullen’s
demurrer is now before the Court.
 
II. Defendant State Farm’s Demurrer
A. Legal Standard
A demurrer for sufficiency tests
whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007)
147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747; see Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).)
To sufficiently allege a cause of
action, a complaint must allege all the ultimate facts—that is, the facts
needed to establish each element of the cause of action pleaded. (Committee
on Children’s Television, Inc. v. General Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197,
212, superseded by statute as stated in Branick v. Downey Savings & Loan
Assn. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 235, 242.) “[E]ach evidentiary fact that might
eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.” (C.A. v.
William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.)
In testing the sufficiency of the
cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth of all material facts properly
pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962,
966-67.) Courts read the allegations liberally and in context. (Taylor v.
City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216,
1228, disapproved on other grounds, Jones v. Lodge at Torrey Pines
Partnership (2008) 42 Cal.4th 1158, 1162.) A demurrer, however, “does not
admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Daar v.
Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.) 
A demurrer may only be used to
challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from
matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank v.
Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) The face of the complaint includes
exhibits attached to the complaint. (Frantz v. Blackwell (1987) 189
Cal.App.3d 91, 94.) If facts appearing in the exhibits contradict those
alleged, the facts in the exhibits take precedence. (Holland v. Morse Diesel
Intern., Inc. (2001) 86 Cal.App.4th 1443, 1447, superseded by statute on
other grounds as stated in White v. Cridlebaugh (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th
506, 521.)
B. Analysis
1. Demurrer,
Complaint, Fifth Cause of Action, Breach of Contractual Duty to Pay a Covered
Claim: SUSTAINED, with leave to amend. 
a. Relevant
Law
“A contract is a voluntary and
lawful agreement, by competent parties, for a good consideration, to do or not
to do a specified thing.” (Robinson v. Magee (1858) 9 Cal. 81, 83.) “To
prevail on a cause of action for breach of contract, the plaintiff must prove
(1) the contract, (2) the plaintiff’s performance of the contract or excuse for
nonperformance, (3) the defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damage to the
plaintiff.” (Richman v. Hartley (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186 (Richman).)
Implicit in the element of damage is that the defendant’s
breach caused the plaintiff’s damage.” (Troyk v. Farmers Group, Inc.
(2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1305, 1352, italics omitted.)
““A written contract may be pleaded
either by its terms—set out verbatim in the complaint or a copy of the contract
attached to the complaint and incorporated therein by reference—or by its legal
effect. [Citation.] In order to plead a contract by its legal effect, plaintiff
must ‘allege the substance of its relevant terms. This is more difficult, for
it requires a careful analysis of the instrument, comprehensiveness in
statement, and avoidance of legal conclusions.’ [Citation.]” (Heritage
Pacific Financial, LLC v. Monroy (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 972, 993 [citation
omitted].)
b. Court’s
Determination
The Court finds in favor of
Defendant State Farm.
As argued by State Farm, the
Complaint’s fifth cause of action fails to allege that Plaintiff has performed
or has been excused from performing his obligations under the contract with
State Farm. All that the Complaint alleges in this regard is that “Defendants
STATE FARM and DOES 6-10 were notified of the loss as required by the policy.”
(Complaint, ¶ 65.) Such allegations fail to plead this necessary element of a
breach of contract claim. Moreover, Plaintiff failed to allege the terms of the
contract that are alleged to have been breached by State Farm. Both of these
failures are in marked distinction to the first cause of action for breach of
contract against Azad, Bullen, and Ramann, in which Plaintiff not only alleges
that he performed substantially under the contract but also quotes the relevant
portions of the lease (Complaint, ¶¶39-40.)
The Court finds no merit to the
opposition argument that “Plaintiff sufficiently pled the formation of a
contract and his performance by stating it was a policy he ‘purchase[d] from
STATE FARM.’ (Complaint, page 10, line 2.)” (Opp’n, p. 4.) This argument lacks
merit. Alleging that a person purchased an insurance policy does not amount to
the same thing as alleging that the person complied with their contractual
obligations under the policy or was excused from doing so, and what the
particular terms are that were breached.
Defendant State Farm’s demurrer is
thus SUSTAINED as to the Complaint’s fifth cause of action, with leave to
amend.
The Court does not reach Defendant
State Farm’s other arguments based on this result.
2. Demurrer,
Complaint, Sixth Cause of Action, Breach of Implied Duty of Good Faith and Fair
Dealing: SUSTAINED, with leave to amend.
a. Relevant
Law
To prevail on a cause of action for
breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, the plaintiff
must prove: (1) the existence of a contract between plaintiff and defendant;
(2) plaintiff performed his contractual obligations or was excused from
performing them; (3) the conditions requiring defendant’s performance had
occurred; (4) the defendant unfairly interfered with the plaintiff’s right to
receive the benefits of the contract; and (5) the plaintiff was harmed by the
defendant’s conduct. (Merced Irr. Dist. v. County of Mariposa (E.D. Cal.
2013) 941 F.Supp.2d 1237, 1280 (Merced Irr.) [discussing California
law].) Allegations must demonstrate defendant’s conduct for failure or refusal
to discharge contractual responsibilities was a conscious and deliberate act,
not an honest mistake, bad judgment or negligence. (Ibid.)
“‘[T]he implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing is limited to assuring
compliance with the express terms of the contract and cannot be extended to
create obligations not contemplated by the contract.’” (Ragland v. U.S. Bank
Nat. Assn. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 182, 206 [quoting Pasadena Live v.
City of Pasadena (2004) 114 Cal.App.4th 1089, 1094].)
b. Court’s
Determination
The Court finds in favor of
Defendant State Farm.
Performance or excusal of
contractual obligations is an element equally applicable to breach of contract
and breach of implied duty of good faith and fair dealing claims. (Richman,
supra, 224 Cal.App.4th at p. 1186 [breach of contract]; Merced Irr.,
supra, 921 F.Supp.2d at p. 1280 [good faith and fair dealing].)
The Court thus adopts its
discussion in Section II.B.1.b. to SUSTAIN Defendant State Farm’s demurrer to
the Complaint’s sixth cause of action, with leave to amend.
3. Demurrer,
Complaint, Seventh Cause of Action, Bad Faith (First Party): OVERRULED.
a. Relevant
Law
A general demurrer for sufficiency
may be sustained against duplicative claims. (Palm Springs Villas II
Homeowners Assn., Inc. v. Parth (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 268, 290 [“a cause
of action for breach of governing documents [that] appear[ed] to be duplicative
of [a] cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty” is “recognized … as a
basis for sustaining a demurrer”]; Rodrigues v. Campbell Industries
(1978) 87 Cal.App.3d 494, 501 [finding demurrer was properly sustained without
leave to amend as to cause of action that contained allegations of other causes
and “thus add[ed] nothing to the complaint by way of fact or theory of
recovery”]; see also Award Metals, Inc. v. Superior Court (1991) 228
Cal.App.3d 1128, 1135, opn. mod. Apr. 10, 1991 [demurrer should have been
sustained as to duplicative causes of action].)
b. Court’s
Determination
The Court finds in favor of
Defendant State Farm.
As argued by Defendant State Farm,
the Complaint’s seventh cause of action is duplicative of the Complaint’s sixth
cause of action because “[a]n improper denial of benefits resulting from a
failure to investigate is just one way to support a breach of the implied
covenant cause of action, but it is the same tortious conduct which allows for
the same remedies.” (Mot., p. 9.)
Plaintiff Stalley argues that the
seventh cause of action is not duplicative of the sixth because the seventh
cause of action sounds in tort and the sixth cause of action sounds in
contract. (Opp’n, p. 5.) While a claim for violation of the covenant of good
faith and fair dealing can sound in tort in an insurance case, here Plaintiff
contends that he is only bringing such claim (the sixth cause of action) for
contract damages; such a claim is different from a breach of contract claim. (Careau
& Co. v. Security Pacific Business Credit, Inc. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d
1371, 1393). Thus, he seeks to also state a tortious claim for bad faith in his
seventh cause of action. (Jordan v. Allstate Ins. Co. (2007) 148
Cal.App.4th 1062, 1072.) Obviously, there are additional remedies for such a tortious
bad faith claim, including punitive damages. Thus, while arguably the seventh cause
of action sets forth a tortious breach of the implied covenant claim, the Court
understands Plaintiff to be distinguishing this from the contractual breach of
the implied covenant claim. There is little to be gained by sustaining a
demurrer, where Plaintiff can state such a claim, whatever the label.
Defendant State Farm’s demurrer is
thus OVERRULED as to the Complaint’s seventh cause of action.
 
III. Defendant State Farm’s Motion to Strike
A. Legal Standard
The court may, upon a motion or at
any time in its discretion and upon terms it deems proper: (a) strike out any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (b) strike
out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the
laws of California, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Code Civ. Proc. §
436, subds. (a), (b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782
[“Matter in a pleading which is not essential to the claim is surplusage;
probative facts are surplusage and may be stricken out or disregarded”].)
For the purposes of a motion to
strike pursuant to Sections 435 to 437 of the Code of Civil Procedure, the term
“pleading” generally means a demurrer, answer, complaint, or cross-complaint,
(Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (a)), and an immaterial allegation or irrelevant
matter in a pleading entails (1) an allegation that is not essential to the
statement of a claim or defense, (2) an allegation that is neither pertinent to
nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense, or (3) a demand for
judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the complaint or
cross-complaint (Code Civ. Proc., § 431.10, subds. (b)(1)-(3), (c)).
B. Analysis
1. Motion
to Strike, Complaint, Punitive Damages: DENIED.
a. Relevant
Law
“In an action for the breach of an
obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and
convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages
for the sake of example and by way of punishing the defendant.” (Civ. Code, §
3294, subd. (a); College Hospital Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8
Cal.4th 704, 725 (College Hospital) [explaining amendments requiring
“despicable” conduct for malice and oppression].)
When the defendant is a
corporation, ‘[a]n award of punitive damages … must rest on the malice of the
corporation’s employees’” specifically, “the oppression, fraud, or malice
perpetrated, authorized, or knowingly ratified by an officer, director, or
managing agent of the corporation,” where a managing agent “include[s] only
those corporate employees who exercise substantial independent authority and
judgment in their corporate decisionmaking so that their decisions ultimately
determine corporate policy.’” (Wilson v. Southern California Edison Co.
(2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 123, 164, citations omitted.)
b. Court’s Determination
The
Court finds in favor of Defendant State Farm.
As
the Court has overruled State Farm’s demurrer to the seventh cause of action, a
claim for which punitive damages may be alleged, there is no basis to strike
punitive damages. Obviously, Plaintiff will only be entitled to obtain punitive
damages on tortious claims.
Defendant
State Farm’s motion to strike punitive damages alleged against it in the
Complaint is thus DENIED.
 
IV. Defendant
Bullen’s Demurrer
A.
Legal Standard
See
Section II.A. above.
B.
Analysis

1. Demurrer,
First Cause of Action, Breach of Contract: SUSTAINED, with leave to
amend.
a. Relevant
Law
See Section II.B.1.a. above.
b. Court’s
Determination
The Court finds in favor of Defendant
Bullen.
As argued by Defendant Bullen, the
lease agreement attached to the Complaint contradicts the allegations in the
body of the Complaint to the effect that Defendant Bullen was a party to the
lease agreement for the subject property. More specifically, the Complaint
alleges that “[o]n or about April 1, 2015, [Plaintiff] STALLEY contracted with
[Defendants] AZAD and BULLEN for the rental of a single-family residence” and
that “[t]he written contract was a residential lease for the subject property[]
… [and is] attached to th[e] [C]omplaint as Exhibit A.” (Complaint, ¶ 9.)
However, Exhibit A shows that only Defendant Azad initialed and signed the
lease agreement for the subject property. (Complaint, Ex. A, pp. 1-6.) And even
though the lease agreement contains a term stating that if there is more than
one “Tenant,” all tenants are jointly responsible for payment obligations
(Complaint, Ex. A, ¶ 22), only Defendant Azad is identified as a tenant in the
Complaint. (See, e.g., Complaint, Ex. A, ¶ 36.) Thus, no contractual
relationship is alleged between Plaintiff Stalley and Defendant Bullen.
The Court finds insufficient merit
to Plaintiff’s argument that because Defendant Bullen was a resident of the
subject property, Defendant Bullen was also a “Tenant” of the property. Bullen
does not appear to be specifically defined as “Tenant” in the lease agreement.
Moreover, the Court finds
insufficient merit to Plaintiff’s argument that because Defendant Bullen is
alleged to be Defendant Azad’s spouse, the community is liable for all debts
incurred for the necessities of life, making Defendant Bullen liable for community
debts. While there is merit in this argument, it is unclear whether the claim
should sound in breach of contract or some other legal theory that allows
Plaintiff Stalley to recover damages from Defendant Bullen.
Defendant Bullen’s demurrer is thus
SUSTAINED, with leave to amend. 
V. Conclusion
A. Defendant State Farm’s
Demurrer
Defendant State Farm General
Insurance Company’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint is SUSTAINED as to the
fifth and sixth causes of action, with leave to amend, and OVERRULED as to the
seventh cause of action.
B. Defendant State Farm’s Motion
to Strike
Defendant State Farm General
Insurance Company’s Motion to Strike Portions of Plaintiff’s Complaint is
DENIED.
C. Defendant Bullen’s Demurrer
Defendant Peter Geoffrey Bullen’s
Demurrer to Verified Complaint is SUSTAINED, with leave to amend.
Plaintiff is to file any amended pleading
within 14 calendar days.