

Hearing Date:             December
14, 2023
Case Name:                Doe
v. MB Salon Inc.
Case No.:                    23STCV13456
Motion:                       Demurrer
and Motion to Strike
Moving Party:             Defendants Miakel Bishay and MB Salon Inc.

Opposing Party:          Plaintiff
Jane Doe

Tentative Ruling:      The
Demurrer to the Complaint is sustained as to the first, sixth and
tenth causes of action
against Defendant MB Salon, Inc. The motion to strike is denied. 

             
            This case arises from a sexual
assault and discrimination in an employment context. Plaintiff Jane Doe
(Plaintiff) sued Defendants Miakel Bishay and MB Salon Inc. (dba Miakel Bishay
Salon) for (1.) sexual assault and battery, (2.) harassment in violation of
FEHA, (3.) discrimination in violation of FEHA, (4.) retaliation in violation
of FEHA, (5.) failure to prevent discrimination, harassment and retaliation in
violation of FEHA, (6.) intentional infliction of emotional distress, (7.) negligent
hiring, supervision, and retention, (8.) violation of Labor Code § 1102.5, (9.)
wrongful constructive termination in violation of public policy, (10.) false
imprisonment, (11.) failure to pay all overtime wages, and (12.) failure to
provide all lawful meal periods and rest breaks in violation of IWC Wage
Orders. 
 
            On August 15, 2023, Defendants Miakel Bishay and MB Salon Inc.
demurred
to the first, sixth and tenth causes of action in the Complaint. Defendants
also moved to strike portions of the Complaint. Plaintiff filed an opposition
to both the demurrer and the motion to strike. Defendants filed no
reply.  
 
            Although the individual Defendant Miakel
Bishay is identified as a demurring party, the arguments advanced do not apply
to him. The Court treats Miakel Bishay as not demurring to the Complaint,
and thus, only addresses the sufficiency of the challenged causes of action as
to Defendant MB Salon, Inc.  Miakel
Bishay’s Answer to the Complaint must be filed and served no later than January
15, 2024.
 
            The Court sustains the demurrer solely
of Defendant MB Salon, Inc. to the first, sixth and tenth causes of action. The
motion to strike is denied.  Plaintiff
shall have leave to amend.
 
Demurrer
 
            A demurrer is an
objection to a pleading, the grounds for which are apparent from either the
face of the complaint or a matter of which the court may take judicial notice.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985)
39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the sufficiency
of a pleading “by raising questions of law.” (Postley v. Harvey (1984)
153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a pleading, for the purpose
of determining its effect, its allegations must be liberally construed, with a
view to substantial justice between the parties.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) The
court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly
pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law . . ..” ’
” (Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525.)  
 
Analysis 
 
First, Sixth and Tenth Causes of Action:

 
Defendant MB Salon,
Inc. demurs to the first cause of action for sexual assault and battery, the
sixth cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress, and the
tenth cause of action for false imprisonment on the grounds that the doctrine
of respondeat superior liability does not attach to conduct that falls outside
the course and scope of employment. 
 
Under the doctrine of respondeat superior, “an employer may
be held vicariously liable for torts committed by an employee within the scope
of employment.” (Mary M. v. City of Los Angeles (1991) 54 Cal.3d 202,
208.) The doctrine is a departure from the general rule of tort liability based
on fault. (Ibid.) Under certain circumstances, the employer may be
subject to this form of vicarious liability even for an employee's willful,
malicious, and criminal conduct. (Lisa M. v. Henry Mayo Newhall Memorial
Hospital (1995) 12 Cal.4th 291, 296–299.)
 
“For the doctrine of
respondeat superior to apply, the plaintiff must prove that the employee’s
tortious conduct was committed within the scope of employment. [Citation.] ‘A
risk arises out of the employment when “in the context of the particular
enterprise an employee’s conduct is not so unusual or startling that it would
seem unfair to include the loss resulting from it among other costs of the
employer’s business. [Citations.] In other words, where the question is one of
vicarious liability, the inquiry should be whether the risk was one ‘that may
fairly be regarded as typical of or broadly incidental’ to the enterprise
undertaken by the employer.” ’ ” (Mary
M. v. City of Los Angeles, supra, 54
Cal.3d at 209; Montague
v. AMN Healthcare, Inc. (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 1515, 1521 [For the employer
to be liable for an intentional tort, the employee's act must have a “ ‘causal
nexus to the employee's work.’ ”].) 
 
The term “ ‘scope of
employment’ ” is interpreted broadly, and the employer's liability extends
beyond his or her actual or possible control of the employee to include risks
inherent in or created by the enterprise. (Purton v. Marriott Internat.,
Inc. (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 499, 505.) The fact an employee is not engaged
in the ultimate object of his or her employment at the time of the wrongful act
does not preclude attribution of liability to an employer. (Ibid.)
 
However, an employer
will not be held liable under the respondeat superior doctrine for conduct that
occurs when the employee “substantially deviates from the employment duties for
personal purposes” or acts out of personal malice unconnected with the
employment, or where the conduct is “ ‘so unusual or startling that it would
seem unfair to include the loss resulting from it among other costs of the
employer's business. [Citations.]’ ” (Farmers, supra, 11 Cal.4th at pp.
1003–1005.)


For example, in Farmers
Ins. Group v. County of Santa Clara (1995) 11 Cal.4th 992, the court
considered whether a deputy sheriff's tortious acts – “lewdly proposition[ing]
and offensively touch[ing] other deputy sheriffs working at the county jail” – were
within the scope of his employment. (Id. at p. 997.) Our Supreme Court
concluded they were not, explaining that if an employee’s tort is “ ‘personal
in nature, mere presence at the place of employment and attendance to
occupational duties prior or subsequent to the offense’ ” will not bring the
tort within the scope of employment. (Id. at p. 1007.) In that case, the
deputy’s requests for sexual favors and inappropriate touching “were motivated
for strictly personal reasons unrelated to the guarding of inmates or the
performance of any other duty of a deputy sheriff at a county jail,” and thus
were not within the scope of the employment. (Id. at p. 1007.)
 
Here, the allegations
show that Plaintiff began working as a hairdresser at Defendant MB Salon
starting in December 2021. (Compl., ¶ 14(c).) From January 2022 to June 2022, Plaintiff
worked with Defendant Bishay approximately five days per week. (Compl., ¶
14(d).) Then, on July 21, 2022, Defendant Bishay invited Plaintiff to his
parent’s house where he allegedly raped her. (Compl., ¶ 14(g)-(i).) The
Complaint alleges that Defendant Bishay continued to make sexual comments and
advances directed at Plaintiff until October 25, 2022, when Plaintiff resigned
her position. (Compl., ¶¶ 14(k)-(q), 15(b).) 
 
The issue of scope of
employment is generally a question of fact for the jury. (Kephart v.
Genuity, Inc. (2006) 136 Cal.App.4th 280, 289.) However, when the facts are
undisputed and no conflicting inferences are possible, the issue may be decided
by the court as a question of law. (Ibid.)
 
Based on the foregoing allegations,
the Complaint – as a matter of law – does not allege facts that demonstrate the
conduct arose out of the scope of Defendant Bishay’s employment. That is, the
allegations do not show that sexual assault, false imprisonment, and the
intentional infliction of emotion distress (as result of these torts) by a
hairdresser’s manager/supervisor are risks that are typical or broadly
incidental to the operation of a hair salon business. 
 
Accordingly, the
demurrer to the first, sixth and tenth causes of action against Defendants MB
Salon, Inc. are sustained. 
 
Legal Standard for Motions to
Strike
 
            “The court may, upon a motion made pursuant
to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems
proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in
any pleading. (b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed
in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the
court.”¿(Code Civ. Proc., § 436.) “Immaterial” or “irrelevant” matters include
allegations not essential to the claim, allegations neither pertinent to nor
supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or a demand for judgment requesting
relief not supported by the allegations of the complaint. (Code Civ. Proc., §
431.10, subds. (b)(1)-(3).)
 
Discussion
 
            Defendants also move to strike portions
of the Complaint that reference Defendant Miakel Bishay’s alleged drug and
alcohol use. Defendants move to strike these allegations, which are alleged on
information and belief, on the grounds that the references are irrelevant,
false, and improper.
 
            In opposition, Plaintiff argues that
these allegations are “crucial” because they inform on the “outrageousness” of Defendant
Bishay’s conduct: “Willingly and knowingly being at work while under the
influence of drugs and alcohol also show the reckless and callous nature of
Bishay’s conduct.” (Opp. 6:9-11.) 
 
            Although these allegations are
certainly not “crucial” to any specific claim, these allegations – if proven
true – may be relevant to the evaluating Defendant’s underlying conduct.
Alternatively, these allegations provide some context to the conduct arising
under the Complaint. Thus, at the pleading stage, the Court declines to find
that these allegations are irrelevant, false, or otherwise improper.
 
Accordingly,
the motion to strike is denied. 
 
Conclusion
 
            The demurrer to the Complaint is
sustained as to first, sixth and tenth causes of action against Defendant MB
Salon, Inc. The motion to strike is denied. Plaintiff shall have leave to
amend. An amended complaint shall be filed and served by January 15, 2024.
 