

Hearing Date:             December
14, 2023
Case
Name:                Minsal v. Advanced
Retina Associates Medical Group, Inc.
Case
No.:                    22STCV17656
Matter:                        Motion for Summary Judgment
Moving
Party:             Defendant Sanjay Logani, M.D. and Advanced Retina Associates
Medical Group, Inc.
Opposing Party:          Plaintiff Roland Minsal

Tentative
Ruling:      The motion for summary judgment is granted. 

This is a medical
malpractice action. Defendant Sanjay Logani, M.D. (Logani) performed surgery on
Plaintiff Roland Minsal’s left eye, resulting in a loss of vision in his eye.
The Complaint contains a single cause of action for professional negligence/medical
malpractice.  
 
Defendants Logani and
his employer, Advanced Retina Associates Medical Group, Inc., now move for
summary judgment. On December 4, 2023, Plaintiff filed an opposition to the
motion. For the reasons discussed more fully below, the Court disregards
Plaintiff’s opposition. 
 
The motion for
summary judgment is granted.
 
Legal Standard
 
A party may move
for summary judgment “if it is contended that the action has no merit or that
there is no defense to the action or proceeding.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
437c,¿subd. (a).)  “[I]f all the evidence
submitted, and all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence and
uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable
issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment
as a matter of law,” the moving party will be entitled to summary judgment. (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp.¿(1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) 
 
The moving party
has the initial burden of production to make¿a prima facie¿showing of the
nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact, and if he does so, the
burden shifts to the opposing party to make¿a prima facie¿showing of the
existence of a triable issue of material fact. (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co.¿(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850; accord Code Civ. Proc., §
437c,¿subd. (p)(2).) A Defendant moving for summary judgment may meet its
initial burden by proving that for each cause of action alleged, plaintiff
cannot establish at least one element of the cause of action. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c(p)(2).) 
 
Discussion
 
The Untimely
Opposition:
 
            In the reply, Defendants argues
Plaintiff’s opposition was untimely and should be disregarded. This argument is
well-taken.
 
            With a hearing date of December 14,
2023, Plaintiff’s opposition to the motion for summary judgment was due on
November 30, 2023. Plaintiff did not file an opposition until December 4, 2023.

 
            In an attempt to explain the late
opposition, Plaintiff submits the declaration of William Welden, an attorney
“associated with Gary R. Carlin’s firm.” (Welden Decl., ¶ 1.) He states that he
was experiencing heart palpitations on November 30 and December 1 that “had an
effect on [him]” such that he “was distracted and under the weather both days.”
(Welden Decl., ¶ 2.)  As result, he “did
not follow through on getting the Opposition filed and served timely.” (Welden
Decl., ¶ 2.) 
 
            An incapacitating illness of
counsel may constitute “excusable neglect.” (Transit Ads, Inc. v. Tanner
Motor Livery, Ltd. (1969) 270 Cal.App.2d 275, 280.) Here, however, the
explanation provided is inadequate. As the Reply notes, it is not clear who
this attorney is in the context of the this litigation as he is not a part of
firm for the attorney of record and has not appeared in this litigation. There
is no declaration from Attorney Carlin explaining Attorney Welden’s role in
this litigation. Moreover, Attorney Welden’s own declaration on his role in
preparing the Opposition is extremely vague. Further, Attorney Welden’s representation
that he was “under the weather” does not demonstrate a reasonable inability to
perform his professional responsibilities and, therefore, does not constitute
excusable neglect.[1]
 
            Given this inadequate excuse, the
Court exercises its discretion to disregard Plaintiff’s late-filed opposition.
(Rules of Court, rule 3.1300(d) [“If the court, in its discretion, refuses to
consider a late filed paper, the minutes or order must so indicate.”]; see also
Mackey v. Board of Trustees of California State University (2019) 31
Cal.App.5th 640, 657 [“Plaintiffs inadvertently filed the declarations of Smith
and Williams's parents on February 28, 2017, four days after the Board filed
its reply and three days before the hearing date. A paralegal declaration cited
upload error as the reason for the late filing. Nevertheless, plaintiffs did
not seek a continuance, and there was no abuse of discretion in excluding
declarations filed after the reply.”]; Bozzi v. Nordstrom, Inc. (2010)
186 Cal.App.4th 755, 765 [affirming trial court’s refusal to consider papers
filed beyond the deadline when the opposing party “did not invoke any of the
available procedures to obtain a court order permitting her to file late
papers”].)  
 
            Even if the Court considered the late
Opposition, the motion for summary judgment would still be granted.  The Court now turns to the substantive analysis
of the motion. 
 
Medical Negligence Cause of
Action:
 
Defendants move
for summary judgment on the grounds that Defendant Logani appropriately
performed the surgery on Plaintiff in compliance with the applicable standard
of care.
 
“The elements of a
cause of action for medical malpractice are: (1) a duty to use such skill,
prudence, and diligence as other members of the profession commonly possess and
exercise; (2) a breach of the duty; (3) a proximate causal connection between
the negligent conduct and the injury; and (4) resulting loss or damage.” (Johnson
v. Superior Court (2006) 143 Cal.App.4th 297, 305.)
 
Here, Defendants
submit the expert declaration of David Boyer, M.D. (Dr. Boyer) in support of their
motion. Dr. Boyer is a retinal specialist and board-certified Ophthalmologist
who – based upon his years of education, training, and experience – is familiar
with the applicable standard of care for ophthalmologists who perform
vitrectomy surgeries, including the removal of a dislocated cataractous. (Boyer
Decl., ¶¶ 1, 3.) Dr. Boyer notes that the medical records indicate that
Plaintiff had a mature cataractous lens in his left eye which had become
dislocated and the “only” treatment opinion under the circumstances was a
surgery to remove the dislocated cataractous lens. (Boyer Decl., ¶ 5.) As such,
the vitrectomy surgery performed by Defendant Logani was medically indicated.
(Boyer Decl., ¶ 5.) 
 
Further, Dr. Boyer
goes on to describe the proper method for performing a vitrectomy surgery and
opines – based on Defendant Logani’s operative report – that Dr. Logani
performed the vitrectomy surgery in compliance with the applicable standard of
care. (Boyer Decl., ¶ 6.) Relying on the declaration of Defendant Logani and
his medical records, Dr. Boyer opines that the care and treatment provided by
Defendant Logani at all times complied with the requisite standard of care.
(Boyer Decl., ¶¶ 4-6.)
 
Further, because
Defendant Logani is not liable for any medical negligence, Defendant Advanced
Retina – as his employer – cannot be liable under the theory of respondent
superior. (Lathrop v. HealthCare Partners Medical Group (2004) 114
Cal.App.4th 1412, 1423 [Under the doctrine of respondeat superior, “[t]he
employer cannot be held vicariously liable unless the employee is found
responsible.”].)
 
            Defendants
have shifted their initial burden on this medical negligence claim.
 
To prove a medical
malpractice claim, the plaintiff must first establish the applicable standard
of care and then demonstrate that the standard of care was breached. (Powell
v. Kleinman (2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 112, 122.) “Because the standard of care
in a medical malpractice case is a matter ‘peculiarly within the knowledge of
experts’ [citation], expert testimony is required to ‘prove or disprove that
the defendant performed in accordance with the standard prevailing of care’
unless the negligence is obvious to a layperson.” (Johnson, supra, 143
Cal.App.4th 297, 305.) Similarly, “ ‘[c]ausation must be proven within a
reasonable medical probability based upon competent expert testimony.’ ” (Dumas
v. Cooney (1991) 235 Cal.App.3d 1593, 1603; see also Bromme v. Pavitt
(1992) 5 Cal.App.4th 1487, 1498 [expert testimony required to establish medical
negligence caused patient's injury].)


            In
opposition, Plaintiff submits no evidence that the surgery performed by
Defendant Logani fell below the applicable standard of care. (Lefkowitz Decl.,
¶¶ 1-7.) Rather, in opposition, Plaintiff contends that Defendants failed to
provide Plaintiff with informed consent of the risks involved in the surgery. 
 
In making this
argument, Plaintiff relies on the declaration of Dr. Todd Lefkowitz. (Lefkowitz
Decl., ¶¶ 4-7.) Specifically, Dr. Lefkowitz opines that Defendants’ conduct
fell below the standard of care because the records do not show that Defendants
warned Plaintiff that there was a five percent chance he would lose his vision,
or that he would need multiple surgeries (as many as five) to correct the
problem. (Lefkowitz Decl., ¶¶ 4-7.)    
 
            The
Opposition’s arguments fail for several reasons. 
 
First, as
Defendants argue in reply, Plaintiff cannot rely on this new, unpled legal
theory to defeat summary judgment. 
 
The pleadings play
a key role in a summary judgment motion. “‘The function of the pleadings in a
motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues’” and to
frame “the outer measure of materiality in a summary judgment proceeding.” (FPI
Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 381.) As our
Supreme Court has explained it: “The materiality of a disputed fact is measured
by the pleadings [citations], which ‘set the boundaries of the issues to be
resolved at summary judgment.’ ” (Conroy v. Regents of University of
California (2009) 45 Cal.4th 1244, 1250.) “Accordingly, the burden of a
defendant moving for summary judgment only requires that he or she negate
plaintiff's theories of liability as alleged in the complaint; that is,
a moving party need not refute liability on some theoretical possibility not
included in the pleadings.” (Hutton v. Fidelity National Title Co.
(2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 486, 493; see Jacobs v. Coldwell Banker Residential
Brokerage Co. (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 438, 444 (Jacobs) [“ ‘[a] party
may not oppose a summary judgment motion based on a claim, theory, or defense
that is not alleged in the pleadings,’ and ‘[e]vidence offered on an unpleaded
claim, theory, or defense is irrelevant because it is outside the scope of the
pleadings’ ”]; see Melican v. Regents of University of California (2007)
151 Cal.App.4th 168, 182 [“We do not require [defendant] to negate elements of
causes of action plaintiffs never pleaded.”].)
 
Furthermore, “ ‘ “
‘[t]he [papers] filed in response to a defendant's motion for summary judgment
may not create issues outside the pleadings and are not a substitute for an
amendment to the pleadings.’ ” ’ ” (County of Santa Clara v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2006) 137 Cal.App.4th 292, 333.) An opposing party's
separate statement is not a substitute for amendment of the complaint. (Lackner
v. North (2006) 135 Cal.App.4th 1188, 1201, fn. 5.) Similarly, “ ‘
“[d]eclarations in opposition to a motion for summary judgment ‘are no
substitute for amended pleadings.’ ... If the motion for summary judgment
presents evidence sufficient to disprove the plaintiff's claims, ... the
plaintiff forfeits an opportunity to amend to state new claims by failing to
request it.” ’ ” (Conroy v. Regents of University of California, supra,
45 Cal.4th at p. 1254.)
 
            Here,
the Complaint is devoid of any allegations that Defendants’ negligence arose
from their failure to obtain informed consent from Plaintiff. Moreover, the
Reply also notes that Plaintiff’s discovery response also failed to raise
informed consent as a theory of liability. (Werre Reply Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. B
[Interrogatory Nos. 5-6].) Thus, Plaintiff cannot raise this argument now in
opposition to the motion for summary judgment.
 
            Second,
Plaintiff’s evidence does not raise a triable issues of material fact on this
ground. 
 
Liability for lack
of informed consent attaches if (1) the physician failed to disclose a known
material risk inherent in the treatment, (2) the risk materialized, (3) there
is a casual relationship between the physician's failure to inform and the
plaintiff's injury because a reasonable person would have declined the
treatment had she been informed of the risk. (Cobbs v. Grant (1972) 8
Cal.3d 229, 244–245.) “An action for failure to obtain informed consent lies
where ‘an undisclosed inherent complication ... occurs.’ ” (Warren v.
Schecter (1997) 57 Cal.App.4th 1189, 1202 [italics omitted].) The cause of
action for lack of informed consent does not exist unless “ ‘the plaintiff has
suffered some legally compensable injury.’ ” (Id. at p. 1204.) “
‘[S]peculative harm, or the threat of future harm—not yet realized—does not
suffice to create a cause of action for negligence.’ ” (Id. at pp.
1204–1205.)
 
            As
a preliminary matter, Defendants argue that the issue of informed consent “is a
basic factual dispute between the parties; not an issue requiring expert
testimony.” (Reply 2:19-20.) 
 
This is not
consistent with the law; rather, whether expert testimony is required turns on
the nature of the non-disclosure. “[W]hen a given procedure inherently involves
a known risk of death or serious bodily harm, a medical doctor has a duty to
disclose to his patient the potential of death or serious harm, and to explain
in lay terms the complications that might possibly occur. Beyond the foregoing
minimal disclosure, a doctor must also reveal to his patient such additional
information as a skilled practitioner of good standing would provide under
similar circumstances.” (Id. at pp. 244–245.) As the court subsequently
explained in Arato v. Avedon (1993) 5 Cal.4th 1172, expert testimony may
be necessary to explain the beyond-minimal-disclosure aspect of the duty,
because the scope of such duty depends on a professional standard. (Id.
at p. 1191.)
 
In any case, here,
Plaintiff’s expert declaration is insufficient to carry Plaintiff’s burden on
informed consent. To support the absence of the disclosure of a specific risk, Plaintiff
relies solely on Dr. Lefkowitz’s assertion that “there is nothing in the
records to indicate that [Plaintiff] was warned of the possibility of multiple
successive surgeries should complications arise.” (Lefkowitz Decl., ¶ 6.) Plaintiff’s
expert lacks the foundation to opine on the absence of a disclosure where the
underlying evidence is absent. That is, Plaintiff does not submit evidence that
any specific disclosure was not made, such as Plaintiff’s own declaration that
he was not told of a specific risk that then occurred.
 
            Accordingly,
even if considered, Plaintiff’s opposition has failed to raise a triable issue
of material fact in dispute. 
 
Conclusion
 
Defendants’ motion
for summary judgment is granted. Defendants are to prepare, serve and lodge a
proposed Judgment.  
 


