 Case Number:  23SMCV02911    Hearing Date:   May 2, 2024    Dept:  N TENTATIVE RULING-Subject to review and consideration of Defendants' Reply if any.Defendants Katherine Roshodesh and Solomon Roshodesh’s Motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED.Defendants Katherine Roshodesh and Solomon Roshodesh to give notice. REASONINGDefendants Katherine Roshodesh and Solomon Roshodesh (“Defendants”) move the Court for an order granting summary judgment in their favor on the grounds that Plaintiff Goldstar Investments, LLC (“Plaintiff”) was not the initial owner or landlord under the lease; at no time has Plaintiff given Defendants notice of a change in ownership; Plaintiff did not enter into a lease agreement with either Defendants; Plaintiff lacks standing to demand rent because a change of ownership was not provided under Civil Code 1962; and Plaintiff had previously declared that the lease was forfeited, such that Plaintiff is entitled only to holdover damages.The purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atl. Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) “On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material fact.” (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.) A defendant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) “Once the defendant . . . has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Ibid.) “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Med. Ctr. (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)“Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) “[T]he court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers (except evidence to which the court has sustained an objection) . . . in the light most favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.” (Avivi, supra, 159 Cal.App.4th at p. 467; see also Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)In the First Amended Complaint, Plaintiff alleges that it owns the premises at 811 N. Hillcrest Road in Beverly Hills, and Defendants entered into a written 30-month lease with monthly rent at $13,000, which became at least $15,500. (First Am. Compl. ¶¶ 1-6.) Defendants failed to comply with the 3-Day Notice to Pay Rent or Quit, which expired on June 14, 2023, and Plaintiff seeks past-due rent of $46,500, holdover damages of $516.66 per day, and forfeiture of the agreement. (First Am. Compl. ¶¶ 9-19.) “The basic elements of unlawful detainer for nonpayment of rent contained in Code of Civil Procedure section 1161, subdivision (2), are (1) the tenant is in possession of the premises; (2) that possession is without permission; (3) the tenant is in default for nonpayment of rent; (4) the tenant has been properly served with a written three-day notice; and (5) the default continues after the three-day notice period has elapsed.” (Kruger v. Reyes (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th Supp. 10, 16.)First, insofar as Defendants contend that Plaintiff failed to comply with Civil Code section 1962 when it converted from a corporation to a limited liability company, Corporations Code section 1158, subdivision (a), provides that “[a]n entity that converts into another entity pursuant to this chapter is for all purposes . . . the same entity that existed before the conversion.” Defendants provide evidence that the lease was between Katherine Roshodesh and Goldstar Investments, Inc. (Mot., Katherine Roshodesh Decl. ¶ 3), but Plaintiff provides a certificate of conversion from the Secretary of State showing that Goldstar Investments, Inc. converted into Goldstar Investments, LLC. (Opp’n, Smirnov Decl. ¶ 7, Ex. 1.) Plaintiff also provides evidence that Defendants were informed of this conversion pursuant to a written notice as required by Civil Code section 1962, subdivision (c). (Opp’n, Smirnov Decl. ¶ 10, Ex. 2.) Defendants contend that Plaintiff lacks standing in this action, but Corporations Code section 1158, subdivision (a), provides that Plaintiff is legally the same entity with which Defendants entered into the lease.Insofar as Defendants contend that forfeiture of the lease occurred when Plaintiff filed a prior unlawful detainer action, which was later dismissed, Defendants provide no legal authority to this effect, and there is no basis for the Court to conclude that the mere filing of an unlawful detainer action renders a tenancy terminated, as this would be problematic to both landlords and tenants. Termination of possession and termination of a contract like the lease are not the same. Defendants also provide no evidence that the prior unlawful detainer action was adjudicated in any manner that terminated the tenancy. Accordingly, Defendants Katherine Roshodesh and Solomon Roshodesh’s Motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED.