 Case Number:  23CHCV03544    Hearing Date:   June 26, 2024    Dept:  F47 Dept. F47
Date: 6/26/24
Case #23CHCV03544
 
DEMURRER TO THE
ORIGINAL COMPLAINT
 
Demurrer filed on 3/25/24.
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant Floreen Essa as Administrator of
the Estate of Leonard Rasho
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Anita Abraham Rasho
 
Demurrer is to the entire complaint on rejected claim.
 
RULING: 
 
SUMMARY OF FACTS & PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
This action arises out of business loan Plaintiff Anita
Abraham Rasho’s (Plaintiff) ex-husband, Leonard Rasho (now deceased/Decedent),
allegedly took out in Plaintiff’s name.   
 
On 11/17/23, Plaintiff filed the underlying “Complaint on
Rejected Claim” against Defendant Floreen Essa, as
Administrator for the Estate of Leonard Rasho (Defendant).  Plaintiff contends that Decedent took out a
Small Business Administration (SBA) loan in Plaintiff's name, without her
knowledge or permission, in order to pay amounts owed to Plaintiff as a result
of the dissolution proceedings between Plaintiff and Decedent.  (Complaint ¶¶6-7, 9).
 
Plaintiff alleges that she became aware of the loan on
12/24/20.  (Complaint ¶8).  Thereafter, Decedent died on 2/4/22.  (Complaint ¶2).  On 9/9/22, Defendant Floreen Essa was
appointed Administrator of Decedent’s estate (LASC Case No. 22STPB03665).  On 6/21/23, Plaintiff filed a Creditor’s Claim
in the amount of $44,500.00 against Decedent’s estate and served same on
Defendant.  (Complaint ¶4, Ex.A).  Defendant rejected the claim on 8/24/23.  (Complaint ¶5, Ex.B).
 
On 11/17/23, Plaintiff filed this action for “Complaint
on Rejected Claim.”  On 3/25/24,
Defendant filed the instant demurrer to the complaint which was originally
scheduled for hearing on 5/24/24.  Due to
issues with the service of the complaint and the demurrer and the late filing
of an opposition to the demurrer, the hearing on the demurrer was continued to
6/26/24 to allow for the filing of a reply to the opposition.  (See 5/24/24 Minute Order).  On 6/17/24, Defendant filed and served a
reply to the opposition to the demurrer. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
The Court rejects Plaintiff’s argument that the “demurrer
should be “dismissed for untimely filing.” 
Since Plaintiff has failed to file a proof of service for the summons
and complaint in this matter, the Court cannot determine whether Defendant
timely filed and served the demurrer under CCP 430.40(a).  Regardless, the Court finds that Plaintiff
suffered no prejudice if the demurrer was not filed within 30 days of the
service of the complaint.  Similarly, the
Court finds that Plaintiff was not prejudiced by the failure to serve the
demurrer as the hearing was continued to allow the Court to consider
Plaintiff’s opposition.  
 
However, the Court finds that both Plaintiff’s and
Defendant’s pleadings and papers fail for other reasons.  
 
CCP 430.10 provides:
 
“The party against whom a complaint
or cross-complaint has been filed may object, by demurrer or answer as provided
in Section
430.30, to the pleading on any one or more of the following grounds:
(a) The court has no jurisdiction
of the subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading.
(b) The person who filed the
pleading does not have the legal capacity to sue.
(c) There is another action pending
between the same parties on the same cause of action.
(d) There is a defect or misjoinder
of parties.
(e) The pleading does not state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.
(f) The pleading is uncertain. As
used in this subdivision, “uncertain” includes ambiguous and unintelligible.
(g) In an action founded upon a
contract, it cannot be ascertained from the pleading whether the contract is
written, is oral, or is implied by conduct.
(h) No certificate was filed as
required by Section
411.35.”
 
Defendant fails to set forth any of the foregoing ground(s)
as the basis for the demurrer.  See
CCP 430.10; CRC 3.1320(a); (Demurrer, generally).  Additionally, the demurrer does not include a
proper memorandum of points and authorities. 
CRC 3.1112(a)(3); CRC 3.1113(b).  
 
On the other hand, it is not clear what cause of action
Plaintiff is attempting to assert in the complaint as “Complaint on Rejected
Claim” does not appear to be a recognized civil cause of action.  If Plaintiff is seeking an order from this
Court directing the probate court to accept her claim, this Court has no
authority to make such an order. 
Similarly, if Plaintiff is seeking to enforce a judgment or agreement made
in the dissolution proceedings, it seems that such a request should be made in
the family law court.  If Plaintiff is
seeking to assert a civil cause of action against Decedent (i.e., contract,
tort, or otherwise) for which his estate would allegedly be liable, she must
clearly state such so that it can be determined whether such claim is timely.  See CCP 366.2.  
 
CONCLUSION
 
Based on Defendant’s failure to set forth a valid basis
for the demurrer, the demurrer is placed off calendar.  However, the Court will set an Order to Show
Cause Why the Complaint should not be stricken for failure to state a valid
civil cause of action.  See CCP 436(b).  At least 16 court days before the hearing,
Plaintiff is ordered to file and serve a memorandum, limited to 10 pages,
setting forth authority for a civil action on rejected claim in a probate
proceeding without asserting any underlying cause of action.     