  Case Number:  23STCV01333    Hearing Date:   May 6, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Cassandra Catapia, et al.,


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23STCV01333




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




2471 Whittier, LLC, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: May 6, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice Leiter
Demurrer to First Amended Complaint and
Motion to Strike
Moving Party: Defendants 2471 Whittier, LLC, Ron Cholo Enterprise, LLC, David Kiralla, Alen
Aivazian and Ryan Sweeney
Responding Party: Plaintiffs Cassandra Catapia and
Sergio Velasquez
 
T/R:     DEFENDANTS’ DEMURRER IS OVERRULED.
 
THE MOTION TO STRIKE IS DENIED.
 
DEFENDANTS TO FILE AND SERVE ANSWERS TO
THE FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT WITHIN 30 DAYS OF NOTICE OF RULING.
 
DEFENDANTS TO NOTICE
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
The Court considers the moving papers,
oppositions, and replies. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On January 22, 2024, Plaintiffs Cassandra
Catapia and Sergio Velasquez filed the operative first amended complaint
against Defendants 2471 Whittier, LLC, Ron Cholo Enterprise, LLC,
David Kiralla, Alen Aivazian, and Ryan Sweeney, asserting causes of action for (1) negligence; (2) premises
liability; and (3) negligent hiring, training, and supervision. Plaintiffs
allege they were shot by a fellow patron at a bar owned and operated by
Defendants.
 
ANALYSIS
 
A demurrer to a complaint may be taken to the whole complaint or to any
of the causes of action in it.  (CCP §
430.50(a).)  A demurrer challenges only
the legal sufficiency of the complaint, not the truth of its factual
allegations or the plaintiff's ability to prove those allegations.  (Picton v. Anderson Union High Sch. Dist. (1996)
50 Cal. App. 4th 726, 732.)  The court
must treat as true the complaint's material factual allegations, but not
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.  (Id. at 732-33.)  The complaint is to be construed liberally to
determine whether a cause of action has been stated.  (Id. at 733.)
 
A. Failure to
Join Necessary Party
 
Defendants demur to the entire complaint on the ground that Plaintiff
has failed to join the actual perpetrator of the shooting, David Roman. Defendants have filed a
cross-complaint against Roman, joining him to this action. Plaintiffs need not
sue every tortfeasor in the same action. This action seeks relief for
Defendants’ alleged negligence in allowing Roman, who was a regular, underage
patron of Defendants’ bar, onto the premises without checking his ID or
checking for weapons, despite the history of violent activity in and around the
bar. The demurrer cannot be sustained on this basis.
 
B. Hearsay
 
Defendants assert Plaintiffs
cannot rely on hearsay evidence to support their claims that Defendants knew or
should have known of the potential for violence by Roman. Plaintiffs cite
online reviews of patrons recounting violent incidents and/or stating that
Defendants’ bar was dangerous. As discussed, the Court must treat the
allegations in the complaint as true. The admissibility of Plaintiffs’ evidence
is not at issue in this motion. The demurrer cannot be sustained on this basis.
 
C. Negligence
 
“In order to state a cause of
action for negligence, the complaint must allege facts sufficient to show a
legal duty on the part of the defendant to use due care, a breach of such legal
duty, and the breach as the proximate or legal cause of the resulting injury.”
(Bellah v. Greenson (1978) 81 Cal.App.3d 614, 619.)  In California, negligence may be pleaded in
general terms. (Landeros v. Flood (1976) 17 Cal.3d 399, 407-408.)
 
Defendants demur to the
causes of action for negligence on the grounds that they did not owe Plaintiffs
a duty of care. Defendants assert that there are no allegations showing Roman’s
actions were foreseeable and there are no allegations showing Defendants knew
or should have known their security was insufficient. This is contrary to the
allegations in the complaint. Plaintiffs allege facts showing Defendants knew
of dangerous, violent incidents occurring in or near the bar for years before
the incident in this action. Plaintiffs allege Defendants knew Roman was
underage and allowed him to patronize the bar regularly. Plaintiffs allege
Defendants selectively patted down patrons based on their relationship with security
personnel. This is sufficient to show Defendants owed Plaintiffs a duty of care
and breached that duty.
 
Defendants’ demurrer is
OVERRULED.
 
D. Motion to Strike
 
“Any party, within the time allowed to response to a pleading, may serve
and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part" of that
pleading. (CCP § 435(b)(1).) “The Court may, upon a motion made pursuant to
Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper:
(a) Strike out any irrelevant, false or improper matter asserted in any
pleading; (b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the
Court." (CCP § 436.) 
 
Punitive damages are available in noncontract cases where the defendant
is guilty of “oppression, fraud, or malice.” 
(Civil Code § 3294(a).) 
Conclusory allegations are insufficient to support a claim for punitive
damages.  (See, e.g., Fisher v. San
Pedro Peninsula Hospital (1989) 214 Cal. App. 3d 590, 620.)  However, “the stricken language must be read
not in isolation, but in the context of the facts alleged in the rest of
petitioner's complaint.”  (Perkins v.
Superior Court (1981) 117 Cal. App. 3d 1, 6.)
 
Defendants move to strike the prayers for punitive damages and
references to online reviews of Defendants’ establishment. Defendants assert
Plaintiffs have failed to allege malice, oppression, or fraud. The Court
disagrees. Plaintiffs have alleged extensive facts showing Defendants knew of
violent activity in or around the premises, knew that Roman was underage, and
selectively allowed patrons into the premises without checking for ID or
weapons based on their friendships with the security staff. This is sufficient
to support punitive damages. 
 
The motion to strike is DENIED.


 