 Case Number:  23STCV29583    Hearing Date:   May 6, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Donyae Haley,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23STCV29583




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
CPE HR, Inc., et al., 


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: May 6, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion to Compel Arbitration 
Moving Party: Defendants CPE HR, Inc., Chestnut
Ridge Post Acute LLC, and Lorna Del Rosario
Responding Party: Plaintiff Donyae Haley
 
T/R:     DEFENDANTS.
MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION IS GRANTED. 
THE ACTION IS STAYED.
DEFENDANT TO NOTICE.
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On December 4, 2023, Plaintiff sued
Defendants, asserting 12 causes of action for Labor Code and FEHA violations,
retaliation, and wrongful termination.
 
ANALYSIS
 
“On petition of a party to an
arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to
arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses to arbitrate a
controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to
arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the
controversy exists….”  (CCP §
1281.2.)  The right to compel arbitration
exists unless the court finds that the right has been waived by a party’s
conduct, other grounds exist for revocation of the agreement, or where a
pending court action arising out of the same transaction creates the
possibility of conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or fact.   (CCP § 1281.2(a)-(c).)  “The party seeking arbitration bears the
burden of proving the existence of an arbitration agreement, and the party
opposing arbitration bears the burden of proving any defense, such as
unconscionability.”  (Pinnacle Museum
Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223,
236.) 
 
A.           Existence of
Arbitration Agreement and Applicable Law
 
Defendants move to compel arbitration
based on the arbitration agreement executed by Plaintiff on October 26, 2022.
(Decl. Cayabyab, Exh. 2.) The agreement provides, “Employee, the Company, and CPE HR agree that any claim, dispute, and/or
controversy that Employee may have against the Company, CPE HR, or Company
Entities (defined below), or that the Company or CPE HR may have against
Employee, shall be submitted to and determined exclusively by binding
arbitration.” (Id.) The
agreement states that it is governed by the FAA. 
 
Defendants have met their burden to
establish an agreement to arbitrate. The burden shifts to Plaintiff to
establish any defenses to enforcement.
 
B. Enforceability of Agreement
 
Plaintiff asserts that the arbitration
agreement is procedurally unconscionable as it is an adhesion contract.
Regarding procedural unconscionability, the California Supreme Court has found:
 
“[T]here are degrees of procedural unconscionability. At
one end of the spectrum are contracts that have been freely negotiated by
roughly equal parties, in which there is no procedural unconscionability . . .
. Contracts of adhesion that involve surprise or other sharp practices lie on
the other end of the spectrum. [Citation.] Ordinary contracts of adhesion,
although they are indispensable facts of modern life that are generally
enforced (see Graham v. Scissor–Tail, Inc. (1981) 28 Cal.3d 807,
817–818, 171 Cal.Rptr. 604, 623 P.2d 165), contain a degree of procedural
unconscionability even without any notable surprises, and ‘bear within them the
clear danger of oppression and overreaching.’ (Id. at p. 818 [171
Cal.Rptr. 604, 623 P.2d 165].)” (Gentry v. Superior Court (2007) 42
Cal.4th 443, 469, 64 Cal.Rptr.3d 773, 165 P.3d 556.)
 
(Baltazar v. Forever 21, Inc.
(2016) 62 Cal.4th 1237, 1244.) 
 
Generally, in the employer-employee
context, there is unequal bargaining power. (See Amendariz v. Foundation
Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 115 [“in the case of
preemployment arbitration contracts, the economic pressure exerted by employers
on all but the most sought-after employees may be particularly acute, for the
arbitration agreement stands between the employee and necessary employment, and
few employees are in a position to refuse a job because of an arbitration
requirement.”] 
 
A low degree of procedural
unconscionability exists here as the agreement is one of adhesion. This low
degree of procedural unconscionability does not render the arbitration
agreement unconscionable; to find the agreement unenforceable, the degree of
substantive unconscionability must be high. (See Dotson v. Amgen, Inc.
(2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 975, 981.) 
 
Plaintiff asserts that the agreement is
substantively unconscionable because it is infinite in time and scope, it
requires Plaintiff to arbitrate claims against company entities and agents without
requiring that the entities and agents arbitrate claims against Plaintiff, and
it contains a PAGA and class waiver. 
The agreement is not infinite in scope. Section
2 of the agreement, titled “Scope of Agreement” lays out the types of claims
that are subject to the agreement. The claims listed are employment related. And
the second to last paragraph of the agreement states in all capital letters and
in bold font “EMPLOYEE
UNDERSTANDS THAT THIS AGREEMENT REQUIRES THE EMPLOYEE AND THE COMPANY OR CPE HR
TO ARBITRATE ANY AND ALL DISPUTES THAT ARISE OUT OF EMPLOYEE’S EMPLOYMENT WITH
COMPANY, AND/OR RELATIONSHIP WITH CPE HR.”

If
any agents of Defendants filed suit against Plaintiff for employment related
claims, Plaintiff would be entitled to compel arbitration against them under
equitable estoppel or third-party beneficiary theories. The PAGA and class
waiver are capable of being severed from the agreement. Plaintiff has not
established that the agreement is highly substantively unconscionable.
Defendants’
motion to compel arbitration is GRANTED. The action is STAYED.
 
 