  Case Number:  22STCV06438    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     October
3, 2024                                 TRIAL
DATE:  January 27, 2025
                                                           
CASE:                                Sunset and Vine Apartments, LLC v. Guardian Advisors LLC, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                      22STCV06438
 





















 
MOTION
TO DEEM REQUEST FOR ADMISSIONS ADMITTED 
      


 
MOVING PARTIES:           Plaintiff Sunset and Vine Apartments, LLC
 
RESPONDING
PARTY:     No opposition 
 
 
I.          INTRODUCTION
 
            On August 23,
2022, plaintiff Sunset and Vine Apartments, LLC (Plaintiff) filed this motion
to deem request for admission admitted against Defendant A1 MC Engineering and
Shotcrete (Defendant).  Plaintiff
requests sanctions against Defendant.
 
The motion is unopposed.
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD

 
If a party to whom requests for admission are directed
fails to serve a timely response, the propounding party may move for an order
that the truth of the matters specified in the requests be deemed admitted.¿
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (b).)¿ Failure to timely serve responses
waives objections to the requests. ¿(Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd.
(a).)¿  
¿ 
¿           Monetary Sanctions¿¿ 
¿¿ 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030 is a general
statute authorizing the Court to impose discovery sanctions for “misuse of the
discovery process,” which includes (without limitation) a variety of conduct
such as: making, without substantial justification, an unmeritorious objection
to discovery; making an evasive response to discovery; and unsuccessfully and
without substantial justification making or opposing a motion to compel or
limit discovery.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010.)¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
If sanctions are sought, Code of Civil Procedure section
2023.040 requires that the notice specify the identity of the person against
whom sanctions are sought and the type of sanction requested, that the motion
be supported in the points and authorities, and the facts be set forth in a
declaration supporting the amount of any monetary sanction.¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
In the context of a motion to deem requests for admission
admitted, it is mandatory that the court impose monetary sanctions on the party
or attorney, or both, whose failure to serve a timely response to the request
necessitated the motion.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).)¿ 
 
III.       DISCUSSION
 
            It is
undisputed that Plaintiff properly served Defendant with Request for
Admissions, Set Two, on June 25, 2024.  To date, Plaintiff has not
responded.  (See Declaration of Mason Sayer, ¶ 2.) Defense counsel
requested an extension, which Plaintiff’s counsel granted.  (Id., ¶ 3.)  However, to do date, Defendant has not
provided responses.  (Id., ¶¶
4-6.)  Accordingly, Plaintiff is entitled
to an order deeming admitted the Request for Admissions.
 
Monetary Sanctions 
 
Plaintiff requests sanctions against Defendant.  Given
the court’s ruling, sanctions are mandatory.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280,
subd. (c).)¿ Accordingly, sanctions are imposed against Defendant in the sum of
$375, consisting of one hour at plaintiff’s counsel’s hourly rate. 
 
IV.       CONCLUSION 
 
The unopposed motion is GRANTED.  Plaintiff Sunset and
Vine Apartments, LLC’s Request for Admissions, Set Two, is deemed admitted
against Defendant A1 MC Engineering.¿¿¿ 
¿ 
The unopposed request for sanctions is granted.¿ Defendant
is ordered to pay sanctions in the amount of $375 to Plaintiff, by and through
its counsel, within 30 days of this order.
 
Plaintiff to give notice.
 
Dated:   October 3, 2024                                           




 


   




 


  Kerry
  Bensinger  
  Judge of
  the Superior Court 




 