This is an employment action.  Plaintiff Kathleen Sullivan seeks to quash or modify a subpoena issued by Defendant Los Angeles Community College District to her labor union, LA College Faculty Guild Local 1521. Code of Civil Procedure § 1987.1 authorizes courts to quash a subpoena entirely, modify it, or direct compliance with it upon the court’s own terms and conditions, including protective orders. In addition, the court may take other appropriate means to protect parties or nonparties “from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 1987.1(a).)  Discovery devices are meant to facilitate litigation, not wage it.  (Calcor Space Facility, Inc. v. Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216, 221.)The subpoena at issue seeks Plaintiff’s communications, complaints against Plaintiff by other employees, communications by others about Plaintiff’s employment, and communications about other employees from 2011 until the present.  There are 30 requests at issue.Plaintiff first argues that there were no notices to consumer served on Louis Sulka, Brian Walsh, Curt Duffy, and Joanne Waddell.  While the initial Motion listed the wrong individuals, the Reply clarifies their identities.A notice to employee is required for a subpoena seeking employment records that are maintained by a labor organization.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 1985.6.)Defendant states that it “do[es] not intend or desire to obtain information about or concerning events outside the pleadings. If the Subpoena calls for private records to be produced for employees other than Plaintiff that are not connected to the case, Defendant will stipulate to an appropriate modification.”  The Court believes that notices to employee are not required here for Brian Walsh, Curt Duffy, and Joanne Waddell to the extent the Court limits all of the requests to pertain specifically to Plaintiff’s employment and these non-parties are only involved in the record as representatives of Plaintiff’s union.  That is, no personal or employment issues specifically pertaining to Brian Walsh, Curt Duffy, and Joanne Waddell should be disclosed.  A notice, however, should have been provided to Louis Sulka, who is not apparently a union representative, but instead a regular witness.  That is, the records could be said to generally involve his employment.  Thus, the Court excludes request no. 5.  The Court will also temporally limit all remaining requests to January 2016 until the present.  Based on the allegations of the Complaint, it is not apparent how matters far before 2017 are relevant.  The Court will otherwise allow the remaining requests because, even if a privacy interest existed for these records, such records would be directly relevant to the Complaint’s allegations.  The requests at issue pertain to Plaintiff’s employment with Defendant and the allegations and communications made amongst the parties.  This is not a subpoena relating to evidence from past or future employers. In sum, the Motion is granted in part.  Request no. 5 is excluded.  All other requests are substantively limited to Plaintiff’s employment and temporally limited to January 2016 until the present.  Given the mixed results, the Court declines to award sanctions.Moving party to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 