 Case Number:  23STCV14890    Hearing Date:   June 6, 2024    Dept:  61 STEWART LUCAS MURREY vs KELLY GIBBONS, et al.TENTATIVE Defendant Liv Burger’s Special Motion to Strike (Anti-SLAPP) the First Amended Complaint is GRANTED.  Moving party to give notice.DISCUSSIONLEGAL STANDARD In 1992 the Legislature enacted Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16 as a remedy for the “disturbing increase in lawsuits brought primarily to chill the valid exercise of the constitutional rights of freedom of speech and petition for the redress of grievances.” (Code Civ. Proc., §425.16, subd. (a); Wilcox v. Superior Court (1994) 27 Cal.App.4th 809, 817.) The lawsuits are commonly referred to as “SLAPP” lawsuits, an acronym for “strategic lawsuit against public participation.” (Equilon Enterprises, LLC v. Consumer Cause, Inc. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 53, 57, fn. 1.) A defendant opposing a SLAPP claim may bring an “anti-SLAPP” special motion to strike any cause of action “arising from any act of that person in furtherance of the person's right of petition or free speech under the United States Constitution or the California Constitution in connection with a public issue . . . .” (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (b)(1).) An anti-SLAPP motion may be addressed to individual causes of action and need not be directed to the complaint as a whole. (Shekhter v. Financial Indemnity Co. (2001) 89 Cal.app.4th 141, 150.)In ruling on an anti-SLAPP motion, a trial court uses a “summary-judgment-like procedure at any early stage of the litigation.” (Varian Medical Systems, Inc. v. Delfino (2005) 35 Cal.4th 180, 192.) This is a two-step process. First, the defendants must show that the acts of which the plaintiff complains were taken “in furtherance of the [defendant]’s right of petition or free speech under the United States of California Constitution in connection with a public issue.” (Code Civ. Proc., §425.16 subd. (b)(1).) Next, if the defendant carries that burden, the burden shift to the plaintiff to demonstrate a probability of prevailing on the claim. (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16 subd. (b)(3).)In making both determinations the trial court considers “the pleadings, and supporting and opposing affidavits stating the facts upon which the liability or defense is based.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (b)(2); Equilon Enterprises, supra, 29 Cal.4th at p. 67.)PROTECTED ACTIVITYThe anti-SLAPP statute defines protected activities as:(1) any written or oral statement or writing made before a legislative, executive, or judicial proceeding, or any other official proceeding authorized by law, (2) any written or oral statement or writing made in connection with an issue under consideration or review by a legislative, executive, or judicial body, or any other official proceeding authorized by law, (3) any written or oral statement or writing made in a place open to the public or a public forum in connection with an issue of public interest, or (4) any other conduct in furtherance of the exercise of the constitutional right of petition or the constitutional right of free speech in connection with a public issue or an issue of public interest.(Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (e), emphasis added.)Defendant Liv Burger (Defendant) argues that the claims against her alleged in Plaintiff Stewart Lucas Murrey’s First Amended Complaint (FAC) arise from protected activity, namely “written or oral statement[s] or writing[s] made in a place open to the public or a public forum in connection with an issue of public interest,” as well as “any other conduct in furtherance of the exercise of the constitutional right of free speech in connection with a public issue or an issue of public interest.” (Motion at pp. 7–8.) Defendant bases this contention on the nature of the conduct alleged against her, which consists of posts made in a Facebook group called “Are We Dating the Same Guy – Los Angeles,” evidently a Facebook group in which users post or inquire with other users about men they have dated or are looking into dating. (Motion at p. 2; FAC ¶ 4.)Plaintiff alleges the following misconduct collectively against Burger and other defendants:Defendants wrote, published, and circulated defamatory statements about plaintiff to millions of users on Facebook . . . that include the following states: “Public records show” [that plaintiff has] involvement in [a] MURDER case of his ex-wife,” is “suspected of murder”; [h]as several domestic violence charges filed against him”; has “filed court cases against women trying to extort money from them”; “[h]as acted aggressively in court”; “has STDs”; has an “ex-wife who was killed”; deserves to be “ARRESTED”; “claim[s] he is an attorney”; and that plaintiff is listed on the California court’s public record as being a vexatious litigant.”(FAC ¶ 8.)It is unclear from the pleading which of the above statements Plaintiff attributes to which defendant. In opposition to the present motions, Plaintiff presents the following statements made by Defendant Burger on the Facebook group in question, in reference to Plaintiff:A comment in a thread by Defendant in which she states, in reference to Plaintiff: “There’s already a massive thread about him. I had the displeasure of meeting him in person and trust me you should run away and block immediately with no explanation.” (Murrey Decl. Exh. 6.) When another commenter asked for details, Defendant responded, “[I]f you search his name in the group you’ll see the thread with my whole story. One of his go to places was a boutique hotel in Beverly Hills which is also listed by name in the thread, I just can’t remember it now.” (Ibid.) Defendant then posted a link, presumably to the thread or her story. (Ibid.)In another comment, Defendant states: “[G]od how funny would it be if we gathered all of the women he has tried to bamboozle at the same place and time as your date. Just sitting, chatting, scattered around innocently. He would never go back again. [laughing emoji]” (Murrey Decl. Exh. 7.)Plaintiff also presents a partial excerpt of Defendant’s post explaining her date with Plaintiff, in which Plaintiff states, “[T]he first red flag to me was that he wanted to meet in an area close to him, I believe it was a hotel in Beverly Hills.” (Murrey Decl. Exh. 15.) Plaintiff contends that the hotel was not close to him because he does not live near Beverly Hills. (Murrey Decl. ¶18.) In the same post, Defendant also states, “The third red flag was, as we were walking into the boutique hotel, there was a sign on the door that said masks were required. So naturally, I go to reach for mine to put it on and he brushes it aside saying it’s not that big of a deal.” (Murrey Decl. Exh. 15.) Plaintiff claims, “It is clear that the only reason Burger was wearing a mask was her conspiracy to deceive me.” (Murrey Decl. ¶ 18.)Plaintiff shows other posts by Defendant, including one responding to another omitted comment, in which Defendant states: “[B]arf. He’s sooo lazy or maybe he has some kind of system worked out in that place with someone he knows there. Concerning.” (Murrey Decl. Exh. 16.) Burger also stated, “omg yes! Eww what a creep clearly that’s his go to spot.” (Ibid.) In another comment in the same exhibit, Defendant stated, “[Y]eah it’s clear that he goes after women in hopes that he can word vomit all over and talk in circles. I could see that would work on younger less experienced women. With that Yale education you’d think he’d be smarter at choosing his victims.” (Murrey Decl. Exh. 16.)The allegations of wrongdoing against Defendant Burger are similar in character to the allegations made against Defendant Vanessa Valdes, which were the subject of a prior anti-SLAPP motion granted by this court on April 8, 2024. The analysis of that ruling is applicable to Defendant here.From the above, there is ample basis to conclude that Plaintiff’s suit against Valdes arises from protected activity, both through statements made in a public forum concerning an issue of public interest and through conduct in furtherance of the exercise of the constitutional right of free speech in connection with a public issue or an issue of public interest. Valdes’s statements were made in an online Facebook group to what Plaintiff’s FAC characterizes as an audience of “millions.” (FAC ¶ 10.) Similar online postings have been held to involve a “classic public forum.” (Chaker v. Mateo (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 1138, 1146.)Plaintiff’s objection that he was not permitted to join the group in question does not obviate the character of public forum. (Opposition at pp. 10–11.) Smaller scale, closed publications have been held to amount to public fora. Statements made in a newsletter of limited circulation to a small neighborhood of homeowners and characterized as “a mouthpiece for a small group of homeowners who generally would not permit contrary viewpoints to be published in the newsletter” has likewise been held to be a public forum. (Damon v. Ocean Hills Journalism Club (2000) 85 Cal.App.4th 468, 476.) A federal court applying this precedent ruled that even a private Facebook group of 14,900 members could constitute a public forum under the anti-SLAPP statute. (Hicks v. Bradford (C.D. Cal., Dec. 13, 2022, No. CV217330DMGGJSX) 2022 WL 20689541, at *4.) Thus the statements at issue here were made in a public forum.The evidence and pleadings also establish that Valdes’s posts involved a matter of public interest: women’s security against male violence and harassment. Plaintiff’s allegations disclose as much. He states that these and other Facebook groups “allegedly exist to protect women.” (FAC ¶ 59.) In his original Complaint, he found fault with Defendants “postur[ing] about protecting women” in their posts. (Complaint ¶ 30.) He contended that the posters “aggressively promote themselves . . . as champions and protectors of women.” (Complaint ¶ 31.) . . . Although Plaintiff contends that these representations are insincere, this alleged insincerity would not remove the subject of discussion from the public interest. Courts have held comments made on a “Ripoff Report Web site” about a business owner’s “character and business practices,” concerned a public interest under the anti-SLAPP statute. (Chaker, supra, 209 Cal.App.4th at p. 1146.) Valdes’ comments about Plaintiff’s harassing conduct, on a forum directed to warning women against men who engage in such conduct, concerned at least as great a public interest.(4/9/2024 Ruling.)Thus the present case against Defendant arises from protected activity within the meaning of the anti-SLAPP statute.LIKELIHOOD OF PREVAILINGAfter a defendant meets their burden of showing that the gravamen of the complaint involves protected activity, the plaintiff must then “demonstrate that the complaint is both legally sufficient and supported by a sufficient prima facie showing of facts to sustain a favorable judgment if the evidence submitted by the plaintiff is credited.” (Matson v. Dvorak (1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 539, 548.) A defendant can meet its burden if it can establish that the plaintiff cannot overcome an affirmative defense. (Birkner v. Lam (2007) 156 Cal.App.4th 275 at 285.)“[A] plaintiff cannot simply rely on his or her pleadings, even if verified. Rather, the plaintiff must adduce competent, admissible evidence.” (Grenier v. Taylor (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 471, 480.)“Legally sufficient” means that the cause of action would satisfy a demurrer. (Dowling v. Zimmerman (2001) 85 Cal.App.4th 1400, 1421.) The evidentiary showing must be made by competent and admissible evidence. (Morrow v. Los Angeles Unified School District (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1424, 1444.) Proof, however, cannot be made by declaration based on information and belief. (Evans v. Unkow (1995) 38 Cal.App.4th 1490, 1497–1498.) The question is whether the plaintiff has presented evidence in opposition to the defendant’s motion that, if believed by the trier of fact, is sufficient to support a judgment in the plaintiff’s favor. (Zamos v. Stroud (2004) 32 Cal.4th 958, 965.)Defamation “involves (a) a publication that is (b) false, (c) defamatory, and (d) unprivileged, and that (e) has a natural tendency to injure or that causes special damage.” (Price v. Operating Engineers Local Union No. 3 (2011) 195 Cal.App.4th 962, 970.) A false light claim based upon the same facts as a defamation claim “must meet the same requirements.” (Hawran v. Hixson (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 256, 277.) “The sine qua non of recovery for defamation ... is the existence of falsehood.” [Citation.] Because the statement must contain a provable falsehood, courts distinguish between statements of fact and statements of opinion for purposes of defamation liability. Although statements of fact may be actionable as libel, statements of opinion are constitutionally protected.” (ZL Technologies, Inc. v. Does 1-7 (2017) 13 Cal.App.5th 603, 624.)Plaintiff here has identified no false and defamatory statements on the part of Defendant. Plaintiff authenticates only statements of opinion on the part of Defendant — stating she had the “displeasure” of meeting him, and advising other Facebook members not to date him — or statements jesting as to the number of women he has alienated, asking “how funny” it would be if they gathered in one place during one of his dates. But Defendant’s statements advising other women not to date him are expressions of opinion, and although Plaintiff characterizes the “how funny” comment as evidence of a conspiracy, Plaintiff does not contend that such an event has taken place.The only statement of fact that Plaintiff attributes to Defendant is her statement regarding her date that he chose the Mosaic hotel as a location “close” to him, when in fact he does not live near the hotel. (Motion at p. 4.) But this statement, in addition to not being alleged in the pleadings, is also not defamatory. Nor is it a “factual” statement that Plaintiff has proven false, as the question whether either of two parties are “close” to a given point is a relative one.As is the case with all of Plaintiff’s oppositions to these anti-SLAPP motions, Plaintiff attributes to Defendant statements accusing him of murdering his ex-partner and domestic violence charges. (Murrey Decl. ¶ 17.) But as with the other oppositions to such motions, Plaintiff provides no foundation for believing that the moving Defendant made such comments.Plaintiff’s claims resting on defamation are therefore factually deficient, and the motion is properly GRANTED as to them.Plaintiff’s remaining claims are uniformly based on Defendant’s Facebook comments, and they too fail. The cause of action for sex-based discrimination under Civil Code § 51, concerns Defendants’ alleged failure to permit Plaintiff to join their Facebook group to challenge their alleged defamatory statements. (FAC ¶¶ 57–68.) But even if a Facebook group is construed as a “business establishment” under Civil Code § 51, subd. (b), there is no evidence that Burger had any role in denying him access to the group. Nor has Burger engaged in “gender violence” against Plaintiff within the meaning of Civil Code § 52.4, as might support Plaintiff’s fourth cause of action. (See Civ. Code § 52.4, subd. (c) [defining “gender violence” to mean either a criminal offense that “has as an element the use, attempted use, or threatened use of physical force against the person or property of another” or “[a] physical intrusion or physical invasion of a sexual nature under coercive conditions”].)Nor is there any basis for a claim of invasion of privacy. Plaintiff presents no evidence that Defendant disclosed information other than his name and the location of their date, neither of which constitute a “private fact.” (Morrow v. Los Angeles Unified School Dist. (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1424; see also Moreno v. Hanford Sentinel, Inc. (2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 1125, 1130 [“Cynthia's last name was not a private fact.”].)Nor is there a factual basis for a claim of intentional infliction of emotional distress against Burger. “The elements of a prima facie case for the tort of intentional infliction of emotional distress are: (1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff's suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate causation of the emotional distress by the defendant's outrageous conduct.” (Miller v. Fortune Commercial Corporation (2017) 15 Cal.App.5th 214, 228–29.) Here, Plaintiff has not presented evidence supporting outrageous conduct on the part of Defendant. Although Plaintiff declares Burger and other defendants have harassed his family and friends, he presents only hearsay in support of this contention, without foundation as to how the perpetrators were identified. (Murrey Decl. ¶ 49.)Finally, Plaintiff presents no evidence that Defendant has intentionally or negligently interfered with Plaintiff’s economic relationships. “For intentional interference, the plaintiff must plead and prove: (1) an economic relationship between the plaintiff and some third party, with the probability of future economic benefit to the plaintiff; (2) the defendant's knowledge of the relationship; (3) intentional acts on the part of the defendant designed to disrupt the relationship.” (Golden Eagle Land Investment, L.P. v. Rancho Santa Fe Assn. (2018) 19 Cal.App.5th 399, 429.) A claim for negligent interference is similar, but relies on a “defendant’s failure to act with reasonable care” rather than intentional acts. (See Nelson v. Tucker Ellis, LLP (2020) 48 Cal.App.5th 827, 844 fn. 5.) Here, Plaintiff has produced no evidence that Defendant had any knowledge of any of Plaintiff’s economic relationships, that any such economic relationships were disrupted as a result of her conduct, or that any act on the part of Defendant was “independently wrongful.” (Edwards v. Arthur Andersen LLP (2008) 44 Cal.4th 937, 944.)The motion is therefore GRANTED in its entirety.