 Case Number:  23STCV06830    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2025    Dept:  29 Del Campo v. Chedraui USA Inc.
23STCV06830
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel the Deposition of Sonia Hernandez
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel the Deposition of Adrian Rios
 
Tentative
The motion is denied without prejudice.
Background
On March 29, 2023, Mayra Martin Del Campo (“Plaintiff”)
filed a complaint against Chedraui USA, Inc. dba El Super (“Defendant”) and
Does 1 through 50, asserting causes of action for negligence and premises
liability arising out of alleged slip and fall on May 14, 2021.
 
On July 14, 2023, Defendant filed an answer. 
 
Currently before the Court, and set
for hearing on January 22, are two discovery motions filed by Plaintiff on December
10, 2024: Plaintiff seeks an order compelling Defendant to produce its
employees Sonia Hernandez and Adrian Rios for deposition and to produce
documents. 
 
Defendant filed untimely oppositions
on January 14, 2025.  Plaintiff filed
replies on January 15.
 
Legal Standard
“Any
party may obtain discovery … by taking in California the oral deposition of any
person, including any party to the action.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.010.) 
Code of Civil Procedure sections 2025.210 through 2025.280 provide the
requirements for (among other things) what must be included in a deposition
notice, when and where depositions may be taken, and how and when the notice
must be served.  
“The
service of a deposition notice … is effective to require any deponent who is a
party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a
party to attend and to testify, as well as to produce any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing for inspection and
copying.”  (Id., § 2025.280, subd.
(a).)
Section
2025.410, subdivision (a), requires any party to serve a written objection at
least three days before the deposition if the party contends that a deposition
notice does not comply with the provisions of sections 2025.210 through
2025.280.
Section
2025.450, subdivision (a), provides:
“If,
after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action or an officer,
director, managing agent, or employee of a party, or a person designated by an organization
that is a party under Section 2025.230, without
having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for
examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for¿inspection any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling
the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in
the deposition notice.”  
Any
such motion to compel must show good cause for the production of documents and,
when a deponent has failed to appear, the motion must be accompanied “by a
declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire
about the nonappearance.”  (Id.,
subd. (b).)  
When
a motion to compel is granted, “the court shall impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) in favor of the party who noticed
the deposition and against the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is
affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust.”  (Id., § 2025.450, subd. (g)(1).) 
In Chapter 7 of
the Civil Discovery Act, section 2023.010, subdivision (d), defines “[m]isuses
of the discovery process” to include “[f]ailing to respond to or to submit to
an authorized method of discovery.” 
Where a party or attorney has engaged in misuse of the discovery
process, the court may impose a monetary sanction in the amount of “the
reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result
of that conduct.”  (Id., § 2023.030,
subd. (a).)
Discussion
As a threshold matter,
the Court, in its discretion, declines to consider Defendant’s late filed
oppositions to the motions.  No adequate
justification or explanation for the late filings has been provided.
 
Turning to the
merits, Plaintiff seeks an order compelling Defendant to produce its employees Adrian
Rios and Sonia Hernandez for deposition and to produce the documents set forth
in the deposition notices.
 
Plaintiff noticed
Sonia Hernandez’s deposition for November 19, 2024. (Petrosyan Decl., ¶ 4
& Exh. B.) Defendant served objections on November 14, 2024. (Id., ¶
5 & Exh. C.)  According to the
objections, “Defense counsel and/or the deponent are not available” on the date
on which the deposition was noticed. 
(Id., Exh. C.)  One day before the
deposition, Plaintiff’s counsel sent an email stating that Plaintiff agreed to
continue the deposition.  (Id., Exh.
D.)  Plaintiff’s counsel reached out for
alternative dates, but none were received before the motion was filed.  (Id., ¶¶ 6-7 & Exh. E.) 
 
Plaintiff noticed
Adrian Rios’s deposition for December 3, 2024. (Petrosyan Decl., ¶ 4 & Exh.
B.) Defendant served objections on November 26, 2024. (Id., ¶ 5 &
Exh. C.) According to the objections, “Defense counsel and/or the deponent are
not available” on the date on which the deposition was noticed.  (Id., Exh. C.)  There apparently was no more communication
until December 3, when Plaintiff’s counsel sent an email stating that he was “following
up” regarding deposition dates.  (Id., Exh.
D.)  Plaintiff’s counsel reached out for
alternative dates, but none were received before the motion was filed.  (Id., ¶¶ 6-8 & Exh. E.)  
 
On this record,
the motions to compel are denied. 
Plaintiff appears to be entitled to take these depositions under the
Civil Discovery Act, but to obtain a court order compelling the depositions,
the requirements of the statute must be followed: that means (among other
things) that a moving party must show that it properly noticed a deposition and
the deponent failed to appear.  Here, however,
the evidence shows that Plaintiff agreed to continue these depositions.  Although Defendant was less than diligent in
providing new deposition dates, the court cannot grant a motion to compel a
deposition that the moving party agreed to continue and then did not renotice.
 
Conclusion
The Court DENIES
Plaintiff’s motions to compel without prejudice.
Moving party is
ordered to give notice.