  Case Number:  22STCV13379    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2025    Dept:  29 Umale v. Mazhnyy22STCV13379Defendants’ Motion for Summary JudgmentTentativeThe motion is denied.BackgroundOn April 22, 2022, John Umale (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Mark Mazhnyy, CA Poly Pomona School, State of California, and Does 1 through 25, asserting causes of action for motor vehicle negligence and general negligence arising out of an accident on October 10, 2021.On January 5, 2023, Plaintiff amended the complaint to correct the name of Defendant CA Poly Pomona School to California State Polytechnic University, Pomona.On July 6, 2023, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against Mark Mazhnny; California State Polytechnic University, Pomona; and Does 1 through 25, again asserting causes of action for motor vehicle negligence and general negligence. In the FAC, Plaintiff alleges that while he was biking on Forest Route 5N27 in San Francisquito Canyon, he was hit by an SUV driven by Defendant Mazhnyy.On August 10, 2023, Marko Mazhnyy and Board of Trustees of the California State University, which is the State of California acting in its higher education capacity (erroneously sued as “California State Polytechnic University, Pomona”) (collectively “Defendants”) filed an answer to the FAC.On March 28, 2024, Defendants filed this motion for summary judgment or, in the alternative, summary adjudication of issues. Plaintiff filed his opposition on December 23. Defendants filed their reply, along with objections to some of Plaintiff’s evidence, on December 31.The motion was initially set for hearing on January 7, 2025. The Court, on its own motion, continued the hearing to January 10.Legal Standard“The purpose of the law of summary judgment is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), “requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) “The function of the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the function of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable issue of fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.” (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 381-382.)As to each cause of action as framed by the complaint, a defendant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication must satisfy the initial burden of proof by presenting facts to show “that one or more elements of the cause of action ... cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); see also Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at pp. 850-851; Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Once the defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a “triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); see also Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at pp. 850-851.)A plaintiff or cross-complainant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication must satisfy the initial burden of proof by presenting facts to show “that there is no defense to a cause of action if that party has proved each element of the cause of action entitling the party to judgment on the cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(1).) Once the plaintiff or cross-complainant has met that burden, the burden shift to the defendant or cross-defendant to show that a “triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Ibid.)The party opposing a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication may not simply “rely upon the allegations or denials of its pleadings” but must instead “set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue of material fact exists.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subds. (p)(1) & (p)(2). To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)Objections to EvidenceDefendants assert 19 objections to Plaintiff’s evidence.Evidence presented in support of, or in opposition to, a motion for summary judgment must be admissible. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (d); Perry v. Bakewell Hawthorne LLC (2017) 2 Cal.5th 536, 541-43.) The court must “consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers, except the evidence to which objections have been made and sustained.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)The Court SUSTAINS Defendants’ Objection No. 9.The Court OVERRULES the other objections.DiscussionOn October 10, 2021, Plaintiff was riding a bicycle uphill when he was struck a vehicle driven by Defendant Mazhnyy. (Defendants’ Statement of Undisputed Material Facts [“DSUMF”], No. 1; Plaintiff’s Statement of Additional Material Facts [“PSAMF”], Nos. 1, 11.) Plaintiff met up with three other people to go mountain biking on the day of the incident. (DSUMF, No. 3; PSAMF, No 2.)Plaintiff and the other riders approached a sharp left turn which has been characterized as a “blind curve” or “blind corner.” (PSAMF, No. 3.) As Plaintiff approached the blind curve, there was a collision between Plaintiff and a Chevrolet Suburban driven by Defendant Mazhnyy. (PSAMF, No. 4.)At the time of the accident, Plaintiff was engaging in recreational mountain biking for enjoyment and as a form of exercise. (DSUMF, Nos. 2, 14, 16.) Plaintiff was aware that mountain biking involves a variety of risks, including the risk of collision with other bikers or other trail users in vehicles like four-by-four Jeeps or ATVs. (DSUMF, Nos. 20-25.) Several years prior to the accident at issue, Plaintiff was involved in an accident in which he collided with another biker and was seriously injured. (DSUMF, No. 26.) Plaintiff had never been in involved in a vehicle vs. bike accident before the accident. (PSAMF, No. 25.) The location of the accident was not highly transited by vehicles. (PSAMF, No. 27.)Mr. Mazhnyy was driving the Chevrolet Suburban downhill at the time of the accident. (PSAMF, No. 12.) Mr. Mazhnyy reported that when the accident occurred he was driving at a speed of approximately 5-10 miles per hour. (PSAMF, No. 32.) Plaintiff and nonparty witness Francisco Vidal testified that he was driving at a speed in excess of 10 miles per hour. (PSAMF, Nos. 33-34.)Plaintiff was riding on Forest Route 5N27, a service road in the San Francisquito Canyone in the Angeles National Forest. (DSUMF, No. 5; PSAMF, No. 1.) The road or trail is behind a pole gate and is not open to public motorists. (DSUMF, No. 6.) At the location of the accident, the road or trail is a narrow, one-lane roadway. (PSAMF, Nos. 13, 17.) In his deposition, Plaintiff testified that the entire length of the road is “50 percent dirt and 50 percent pavement.” (Umale Depo., at 39:4-15.) He testified that at the location of the accident, the “ground beneath [his] tires” was “pavement.” (Id., at 57:3-8.) It was “Cement type with a mixture – with a mixture of a little dirt.” (Id., at 57:9-15; see also Defendants’ Exhibit A; Plaintiff’s Exhibit B.)   In the FAC, Plaintiff asserts causes of action against Defendants for motor vehicle negligence and general negligence. Defendants now bring this motion for summary judgment or, in the alternative, for summary adjudication on two grounds: (1) that Defendants are immune from liability under Government Code section 831.7 as Plaintiff was engaged in a hazardous recreational activity; and (2) that Plaintiff is barred from recovery under the doctrine of primary assumption of the risk.Immunity Under Government Code section 831.7Government Code section 831.7, subdivision (a), states:“Neither a public entity nor a public employee is liable to any person who participates in a hazardous recreational activity, including any person who assists the participant, or to any spectator who knew or reasonably should have known that the hazardous recreational activity created a substantial risk of injury to himself or herself and was voluntarily in the place of risk, or having the ability to do so failed to leave, for any damage or injury to property or persons arising out of that hazardous recreational activity.”(Gov’t Code, § 831.7, subd. (a).)The term “hazardous recreational activity” is defined to include “a recreational activity conducted on property of a public entity that creates a substantial, as distinguished from a minor, trivial, or insignificant, risk of injury to a participant or a spectator.” (Id., subd. (b).) The term includes “mountain bicycling” but specifically excluded from the term is “riding a bicycle on paved pathways, roadways, or sidewalks.” (Id., subd. (b)(3).) Where the facts are undisputed, the question of whether a plaintiff was engaged in a hazardous recreational activity within the meaning of Government Code section 831.7 is a question of law. (Acosta v. Los Angeles Unified School Dist. (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 471, 476.) Here, however, the facts are not undisputed. There is at least a question of fact as to whether the road or trail on which Plaintiff was riding at the time of the accident was a “paved pathway[] [or] roadway.” (Umale Depo., at 39:4-15, 57:3-8, 58:1-4, 57:9-15; Defendants’ Exhibit A; Plaintiff’s Exhibit B.)The Court cannot rule, on this record, that the immunity set forth in Government Code section 831.7 is a complete defense to Plaintiff’s causes of action as a matter of law. Defendant’s request for summary judgment or summary adjudication on this basis is denied.Primary Assumption of the RiskAlternatively, Defendants contend that because Plaintiff’s injury occurred while he was mountain biking, his causes of action are barred by the doctrine of primary assumption of the risk.The primary assumption of risk doctrine was developed in recognition that some activities are inherently dangerous such that the defendant has no duty to protect the plaintiff from those inherent dangers.¿ (Nalwa v. Cedar Fair, L.P. (2012) 55 Cal.4th 1148, 1154; Knight v. Jewett (1992) 3 Cal.4th 296, 308.)¿ “The primary assumption of risk doctrine rests on a straightforward policy foundation: the need to avoid chilling vigorous participation in or sponsorship of recreational activities by imposing a tort duty to eliminate or reduce the risks of harm inherent in those activities.”¿ (Nalwa, supra, 55 Cal.4th at p. 1156.)¿ “It operates on the premise that imposing such a legal duty ‘would work a basic alteration—or cause abandonment’ of the activity.”¿ (Ibid. (quoting Kahn v. East Side Union High School Dist. (2003) 31 Cal.4th 990, 1003).)¿“Where the doctrine applies to a recreational activity, operators, instructors and participants in the activity owe other participants only the duty not to act so as to increase the risk of injury over that inherent in the activity.”¿ (Nalwa, supra, 55 Cal.4th at p. 1154 (emphasis in original).)¿ “When the doctrine applies, the plaintiff’s assumption of the risk acts as a complete bar to liability.”¿ (Moser v. Ratinoff (2003) 105 Cal.App.4th 1211, 1219.)¿ “Determining whether the primary assumption of risk doctrine applies is a legal question to be decided by the court.”¿ (Id. at 1217.)¿“[T]he primary assumption of risk doctrine is not limited to activities classified as sports, but applies as well to other recreational activities ‘involving an inherent risk of injury to voluntary participants . . . where the risk cannot be eliminated without altering the fundamental nature of the activity.’”¿ (Nalwa, supra, 55 Cal.4th at p. 1156 (quoting Beninati v. Black Rock City, LLC (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 650, 658).)¿ “Judges deciding inherent risk questions under Knight may consider not only their own or common experience with the recreational activity involved but may also consult case law, other published materials, and documentary evidence introduced by the parties on a motion for summary judgment.”¿ (Nalwa, supra, 55 Cal.4th at p. 1158.)¿Defendants argue the primary assumption of the risk doctrine should apply to Plaintiff’s mountain biking as mountain biking is a sport done for enjoyment and exercise, and Plaintiff was aware of the risks, including collisions with others when mountain biking. Plaintiff testified that he has been mountain biking for 15 years and has collided with other mountain bikers before. (Umale Depo., 25:14-26:9, 31:12-15.) Further, Plaintiff had seen pickup trucks driving this specific trail prior to his accident. (Id., 40:15-41:1.)There is a critical distinction in the law between primary assumption of the risk and secondary assumption of the risk: “In cases involving ‘primary assumption of risk’—where, by virtue of the nature of the activity and the parties' relationship to the activity, the defendant owes no legal duty to protect the plaintiff from the particular risk of harm that caused the injury—the doctrine continues to operate as a complete bar to the plaintiff's recovery. In cases involving ’secondary assumption of risk’—where the defendant does owe a duty of care to the plaintiff, but the plaintiff proceeds to encounter a known risk imposed by the defendant's breach of duty—the doctrine is merged into the comparative fault scheme, and the trier of fact, in apportioning the loss resulting from the injury, may consider the relative responsibility of the parties.”(Knight v. Jewett (1992) 3 Cal.4th 296, 314–315.)In Knight, the California Supreme Court stated that the question when assumption of the risk doctrine is presented in summary judgment is not the reasonableness of Plaintiff’s choice to participate in the risky activity, but “whether, in light of the nature of the sporting activity in which defendant and plaintiff were engaged, defendant’s conduct breached a legal duty of care to plaintiff.” (Id. at p. 315.)On these facts, the Court concludes that the primary assumption of the risk doctrine is not a complete defense to Plaintiff’s causes of action as a matter of law. Primary assumption of the risk might well apply in many cases when an injury occurs as a result of a collision between two mountain bikers. But here, Defendant Mazhnyy was not riding a mountain bike; he was driving a large SUV on a mountain road or trail, and he owed a duty of care to other users of the trial, including Plaintiff. Plaintiff may have assumed the risk of negligence by other bikers or recreational trail users, but the primary assumption of the risk doctrine does not bar his cause of action as a matter of law based on the negligence of a driver of a Chevrolet Suburban on that trail.This is not to say that the Court concludes that Defendant Mazhnyy was necessarily driving negligently or that his negligence was a cause or the sole cause of the accident. Those are questions of fact to be decided at trial. All that the Court is ruling at this time is that the primary assumption of the risk doctrine does not apply, on these facts, to establish a complete defense to Plaintiff’s causes of action as a matter of law. At most, any assumption of risk by Plaintiff was secondary. Accordingly, Defendant’s request for summary judgment or summary adjudication on the basis of the primary assumption to the risk doctrine is denied.ConclusionThe Court DENIES Defendants’ motion for summary judgment or, in the alternative, summary adjudication of issues.Moving Party is to give notice.