 Case Number:  24STCV07063    Hearing Date:   August 5, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los
Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



DEBORAH KANTER 
  
        
  vs.
 
EMOTIONAL HEALTH ASSOCIATION, et al. 
  


 Case
  No.:  24STCV07063   
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  August 5, 2024




 
 
LAHSA’s
demurrer is SUSTAINED. LAHSA’s demurrer is SUSTAINED, WITH 15 DAYS LEAVE TO
AMEND, as to the first cause of action. LAHSA’s demurrer is SUSTAINED, WITHOUT
LEAVE TO AMEND, as to the second cause of action.
 
            On 3/21/2024, Plaintiff Deborah Kanter (Plaintiff) filed
suit against Emotional Health Association, Los Angeles County Dept. of Mental
Health, Los Angeles County Dept. Healthcare Services, Los Angeles Homeless
Services Authority (collectively, Defendants), alleging: (1) negligence; and
(2) premises liability.
 
            On 6/14/2024, Defendant Los Angeles Homeless Services
Authority (LAHSA) demurred to Plaintiff’s Complaint. 
 
            The motion is unopposed. 
 
Discussion 
 
            LAHSA argues that Plaintiff has failed to state a claim
because she does not plead compliance with the Government Claims Act.
 
            After review, the Court agrees. 
 
The
Government Claims Act (also referred to as the Tort Claims Act) requires that
any civil complaint for money or damages first be presented to and rejected by
the pertinent public entity. (Gov. Code §§ 910, 912.4, 912.8, 945.4.)
“Generally speaking, no suit for money or damages may be brought against a
public entity on a cause of action for which a claim is required to be
presented until a written claim has been presented to the public entity and has
been acted upon by the board, or has been deemed to have been rejected by the
board. [Citations.] A ‘public entity’ includes the state, the Regents of the
University of California, a county, city, district, public authority, public
agency, and any other political subdivision or public corporation in the state.
(Gov. Code, § 811.2.) [¶] Under Government Code section 945.4, presentation of
a timely claim is a condition precedent to the commencement of suit against the
public entity.” (Munoz v. State of California (1995) 33 Cal. App. 4th
1767, 1776-1777.) The California Supreme Court has held that claim presentation
is an element of a cause of action against a public entity. (State of
California v. Superior Court (2004) 32 Cal.4th 1234.)
 
Here,
while Plaintiff checked the box on the form Complaint that she has as complied
with applicable claims statutes (Id. at p. 2, ¶ 9), no facts are
provided in support. Plaintiff must allege facts which could demonstrate
timely presentation of a claim. (Willis v. City of Carlsbad (2020) 48
Cal. App. 5th 1104, 1119.)
 
LAHSA
also argues that Plaintiff’s cause of action for premises liability is
duplicative of the general negligence cause of action. The Court agrees. In
both causes of action, Plaintiff alleges she was assaulted and injured by her
roommate, “Jaime”, while a resident at the Share! Journey House, after she had
complained about Jaime’s threatening and aggressive conduct. (Complaint, p. 4,
¶¶ GN-7, 9 & 10; p.5, ¶ Prem.L -1.) Plaintiff similarly alleges Defendants
had a duty to ensure that they had adequate policies and procedures in place to
minimize or alleviate aggression between housemates and breached their duties
resulting in Plaintiff’s injuries. (Id. at p. 4, ¶¶ 3 & 10; p.5, ¶ Prem.L
-1.) Each cause of action seeks damages for her personal injuries. 
 
Accordingly,
while the Court grants leave to amend to allege facts which could show
compliance with the Government Claims Act, the Court sees no basis to afford
leave to amend for Plaintiff’s redundant premises liability claim. Duplicative
causes of action have been recognized as a basis for sustaining a demurrer. (See
Rodrigues v. Campbell Industries (1978) 87 Cal.App.3d 494, 501 [finding
demurrer was properly sustained without leave to amend as to cause of action
that contained allegations of other causes and “thus add[ed] nothing to the
complaint by way of fact or theory of recovery”]. 
 
Based
on the foregoing, LAHSA’s demurrer is sustained. LAHSA’s demurrer is sustained,
with 15 days leave to amend, as to the first cause of action. LAHSA’s demurrer
is sustained, without leave to amend, as to the second cause of action. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  August   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213) 633-0517.  
 