..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 23SMCV04465
Plaintiff's Name: Asha Daniels
Defendant's Name: Big Grrrl Big Touring (BGBT), Melissa Jefferson (aka Lizzo), Carline Gugliotta, Amenda Nomura (dismissed)
People-Names: Asha Daniels, Melissa Jefferson (Lizzo), Carline Gugliotta, Amenda Nomura
Company-Names: Big Grrrl Big Touring (BGBT), CAPS
Places: California, New York, Europe, Florida, Delaware
Dates: January 2023, March 27, 2024
Events: Employment, tour, alleged misconduct, injury, and violations of California Fair Employment and Housing Act (FEHA) and California Labor Code
Money: None mentioned
Intentions: The court sustains the demurrer, but grants leave to amend the complaint to include allegations that the misconduct took place in California or to allege violations of laws other than California law.
Facts: Asha Daniels was hired by Big Grrrl Big Touring to work on the wardrobe during a tour. She alleges discrimination, injury, and other inappropriate abuse. The tour allegedly took place in Europe, and Daniels is a New York citizen.
Disputes: The main dispute is whether California law applies to the alleged misconduct, which took place outside of California.
Acts: The court sustains the demurrer, but grants leave to amend the complaint.
Agreements: The parties agree that California law does not apply directly to the alleged misconduct, which took place outside of California.
Laws: California Fair Employment and Housing Act (FEHA), California Labor Code, California Code of Regulations, tit. 2, sec. 11008, subd. (d)(1)(C)
Case Citations: Campbell v. Arco Marine, Inc. (1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 1850
Statutes: None mentioned
Roles: Judge, Plaintiff, Defendant
Significant Statements:
- The court sustains the demurrer as to the theories that California law applies, but grants leave to amend the complaint.
- The court notes that California law does not apply directly to the alleged misconduct, which took place outside of California.
- The court grants leave to amend the complaint to include allegations that the misconduct took place in California or to allege violations of laws other than California law.
- The court notes that the demurrer is not based on a lack of personal jurisdiction or inconvenient forum, and that plaintiff may amend to allege that the law of another jurisdiction applies and that defendants violated that law.
```

And here is the English-text summary:

The court has issued a tentative ruling on the demurrer brought by the defendants against the plaintiff's complaint. The plaintiff, Asha Daniels, alleges violations of the California Fair Employment and Housing Act (FEHA) and California Labor Code, but the court sustains the demurrer, finding that California law does not apply directly to the alleged misconduct, which took place outside of California. The court grants leave to amend the complaint to include allegations that the misconduct took place in California or to allege violations of laws other than California law. The court notes that the demurrer is not based on a lack of personal jurisdiction or inconvenient forum, and that plaintiff may amend to allege that the law of another jurisdiction applies and that defendants violated that law.
