 Case Number:  23SMCV04614    Hearing Date:   March 27, 2024    Dept:  I This matter was first heard on March 4, 2024.  At that hearing, the court ordered further
papers be filed regarding what happened when service was attempted.  Specifically, plaintiff served defendant by
substituted service.  Plaintiff’s process
server served Lea Nahabedian, although the proof of service mis-spells the
name.  Defendant contends that although
the address was correct, that person worked for MASH Accounting and Consulting
Group, not VS Accounting.  Accordingly,
she did not have the authority to accept service of process on VS Accounting’s
behalf, and therefore there is no proper service.  The court’s view was that defendant’s
position was contrived and not forthright. 
But the court gave defendant three court days to submit a supplemental
declaration explaining the relationship between MASH and VS Accounting
sufficient to show that serving MASH would not be sufficient, whether there was
someone present other than Nahabedian to whom service could have and should have
been made, what was said by the parties at the time, and what Nahabedian did with
the documents once received.  Plaintiff
had three court days to respond.
 
The court has reviewed the receptionist’s declaration, filed
March 8, 2024.  She states that she is a
receptionist for MASH and has no idea who or what VS Accounting is.  She claims she was not served with anything
at the date and time in the POS.  She
says that had she been asked, she would have declined because she does not work
for VS, but she would have asked her employer Vigram Shalvardzhyan about it and
he is usually in the office adjacent or near the reception area.  The court notes that “Vigram Shalvardzhyan”
has the same initials as the “VS” in VS Accounting, which the court does not
find is a coincidence.  She then states
that “On 10/4/23 at or about 4:02 pm, I was not served with paperwork or asked
to accept service.”   Similarly,
Shalvardzhyan declared that “On 10/4/23 at about 4:02 pm, I was not served with
paperwork or asked to accept service.  If
anyone comes into my office or reception area asking for VS Services, I am
ready and authorized to accept service. 
I have a desk there and am generally there during normal business
hours.”  He says he was at the office at
the date and time mentioned and no one came in and he would remember it if
anyone did given that his office is 10-15 feet from the reception desk.  He ends, oddly, by stating that “If I do
accept service, I am very careful to get the served paperwork to the
appropriate party.”  
 
In response, plaintiff notes that the undisputed address for
VS Accounting is 500 N. Central Ave., Suite 600—which is where the process
server went.  Counsel also visited the
location and confirmed that there is but one desk in the reception area—there
is no separate signage or desk for VS Accounting.
 
It is difficult for the court to conclude that the process
server is just lying; that he never delivered the papers to anyone at the
approximate date and time set forth in the declaration.  The court just does not buy it.  It could well be that he did not announce
that he was serving VS Accounting (although one would assume he did), but
whether he announced it or not, the court believes as a matter of credibility
that he left the papers with the receptionist, even if she was employed by
MASH.  The court also notes that the
supplemental declaration is carefully worded. 
The receptionist states that she was not served at the specific date and
time in the proof of service, but she does not say that she was never served with
anything or that no one attempted to serve. 
Further, the court does not believe that VS Accounting can list an
address and then pretend not to be there. 
Under these circumstances, the court believes that the papers were
dropped off and that the receptionist did give them to Mr. Shalvardzhyan or at
least inform him that they had been served. 
Mr. Shalvardzhyan’s declaration is also quite peculiar.  It states that he was not given any papers at
the specific date and minute in the POS. 
But, again, he never says he never got them.  Given that, VS Accounting was aware of the
suit.
 
The concern that the court has is this.  Service was purportedly made on October 4,
2023.  Defendant had until October 11,
2023 to answer.  Plaintiff took a default
on October 19, 2023—about a week later. 
Defendant moved to set it aside the next day—October 20, 2023.  
 
The court will discuss the matter with counsel.  The court’s initial inclination was to deny
the motion because the court is having trouble believing that the process
server just made the whole thing up (and miraculously got the name of the
receptionist fundamentally right).  But
that said, if the matter proceeds by default, the court will allow defendant a
reasonable opportunity to test the court’s ruling on appeal (by way of a
request to the DCA for a stay).  And,
because possession is at issue, a stay will likely be granted.  Given that, the court is inclined to GRANT
the request but set a VERY early trial date. 
The court is also aware that there is a strong public policy favoring
trial on the merits.  Here, defendant
sought to vacate the default the day after the notice of entry was served.  Had plaintiff stipulated to set the default
aside, the matter (including trial) would have been over by now.  Lest plaintiff think that if the motion is
denied it will have gained nothing, it ought to think again.  Defendant put its credibility at issue in
this motion, and the court has already commented on that.
 