 Case Number:  23STCV11072    Hearing Date:   June 20, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



GENEVIEVE
  H. WONG, an individual,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
THE CITY
  OF LOS ANGELES, a municipal agency; and DOES 1 through 40, inclusive,
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          23STCV11072
 Hearing Date:   6/20/24
 Trial Date:        N/A
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Demurrer by
  Defendant City of Los Angeles to First Amended Complaint [Res ID # 2883].



 
I. Background
A. Pleadings
Plaintiff Genevieve H. Wong (Wong)
sues Defendant the City of Los Angeles
(the City) and Does 1 through 40 pursuant to a January 4, 2024, First Amended
Complaint (FAC) alleging claims of (1) Inverse Condemnation, (2) Dangerous
Condition of Public Property, and (3) Nuisance.
The claims arise from the following
allegations.
Plaintiff has owned, possessed, and
resided at 2057 N. Sunset Plaza Drive, Los Angeles, California 90069 (the property
or Wong property). The City owns, constructed, operates, or maintains Sunset
Plaza Drive generally.
The Property has been destabilized,
damaged, and taken by continuous water drainage, intrusion, landsliding,
subsidence, erosion, debris flow, and other earth movement caused by a public
project, namely the construction and maintenance of Sunset Plaza Drive.
Specifically, Sunset Plaza Drive collects and diverts drainage from a large
watershed area to the Wong property and the City’s street and curbs carry storm
water to the Wong property, which, during heavy rain, causes the drainage from
Sunset Plaza Drive to converge in a whirlpool that attacks the Wong property
with violent ferocity, putting Plaintiff Wong at risk of her safety every time
it rains.
Moreover, the water drainage has
destabilized and damaged the Wong property and is a substantial contributing
cause of water intrusion, landsliding, subsidence, erosion, debris flow, and
other earth movement at the Wong property, resulting in severe damage to the Wong
property, including but not limited to undermining the residence on the Wong
property, continuous flooding, and the cracking, settlement, and tilting of the
improvements on the Wong property, as well as creating a large erosion gully on
the Wong property and damaging the foundation of Plaintiff Wong’s residence.
These circumstances have resulted
in a taking of the Wong property, as well as damages, which include but are not
limited to: a substantially diminished value of the Wong property; reduced or
destroyed safety and marketability of the Wong property; the expense of
stabilizing the landsliding and erosion on the Wong property; out-of-pocket
costs to attempt to mitigate the damage and repair improvements on the Wong
property; costs of relocation, temporary housing, storage, and increased
insurance premiums; costs for engineers and geologists to analyze the earth
movement danger; and the expense of attorneys and expert consultants to bring
this lawsuit.
The Court notes that these factual
allegations are identical as between the initial May 16, 2023, Complaint, and
the January 4, 2024, FAC, with the FAC’s substantive differences from the
Complaint being the addition of references to Government Code section 835 to
the second cause of action, the removal of the Complaint’s third cause of
action and prayer for trespass, and the ‘moving up’ of the nuisance claim from third
to fourth cause of action. The pleadings are otherwise identical.
B. Motion Before the Court
On March 6, 2024, the City of Los
Angeles filed a demurrer challenging the Complaint’s second and third causes of
action based on sufficiency of pleading.
On June 6, 2024, Plaintiff filed an
opposition, and on June 12, 2024, the City of Los Angeles filed a reply.
The City of Los Angeles’s motion is
now before the Court.
 
II. Demurrer
A. Legal Standard
A demurrer for sufficiency tests
whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007)
147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747; see Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).)
To sufficiently allege a cause of
action, a complaint must allege all the ultimate facts—that is, the facts
needed to establish each element of the cause of action pleaded. (Committee
on Children’s Television, Inc. v. General Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197,
212, superseded by statute as stated in Branick v. Downey Savings & Loan
Assn. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 235, 242.) “[E]ach evidentiary fact that might
eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.” (C.A. v.
William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.)
In testing the sufficiency of the
cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth of all material facts properly
pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962,
966-67.) Courts read the allegations liberally and in context. (Taylor v.
City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216,
1228, disapproved on other grounds, Jones v. Lodge at Torrey Pines
Partnership (2008) 42 Cal.4th 1158, 1162.) A demurrer, however, “does not
admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Daar v.
Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.) 
B. Analysis
1. Demurrer,
Second Cause of Action, Dangerous Condition of Public Property: OVERRULED.
a. Relevant
Law
Except as provided by statute, a
public entity is liable for injury caused by a dangerous condition of its
property if the plaintiff establishes that the property was in a dangerous
condition at the time of the injury, that the injury was proximately caused by
the dangerous condition, that the dangerous condition created a reasonably
foreseeable risk of the kind of injury which was incurred, and that either:
(a) A negligent or wrongful
act or omission of an employee of the public entity within the scope of his
employment created the dangerous condition; or
(b) The public entity had
actual or constructive notice of the dangerous condition under Section 835.2 a
sufficient time prior to the injury to have taken measures to protect against
the dangerous condition.
b. Court’s
Determination
The Court finds in favor of
Plaintiff Wong.
The City of Los Angeles argues that
the FAC lacks factual particularity as to the elements of this claim,
specifically focusing on paragraphs 15 to 19 of the FAC. (Demurrer, p. 9.)
However, The City of Los Angeles
does not address paragraph 14 of the FAC, which incorporates the FAC’s common
allegations into the second cause of action. That incorporation includes
paragraphs 5 to 10 of the FAC, which are summarized in detail in the Background
above and allege:
(1) The City’s construction and
maintenance of Sunset Plaza Drive has caused continuous water drainage,
intrusion, landsliding, subsidence, erosion, debris flow, and other earth
movement on Plaintiff’s property (conditions);
(2) These conditions have caused
damages to the Wong property, including continuous flooding, and the cracking,
settlement, and tilting of the improvements on the Wong property, as well as
creating a large erosion gully on the Wong property and damaging the foundation
of Plaintiff Wong’s residence;
(3) These conditions are a result
of Sunset Plaza Drive collecting and diverting drainage from a large watershed
area to the Wong property and the City’s street and curbs carrying storm water
to the Wong property, which, during heavy rain, causes the drainage from Sunset
Plaza Drive to converge in a whirlpool that attacks the Wong property.
These allegations, with factual
particularity, allege how conditions created by the City’s maintenance of a
project have created conditions that have harmed the Wong property.
The Court need not rule on whether
the claims need to be alleged with particularity as a matter of law because the
Court has determined that the second cause of action is stated with
particularity.
The Court thus OVERRULES the City
of Los Angeles’s demurrer as relates to the FAC’s second cause of action.
2. Demurrer,
Third Cause of Action, Nuisance: OVERRULED.
a. Relevant
Law
“A nuisance
may be either a negligent or an intentional tort.” (Stoiber v. Honeychuck
(1980) 101 Cal.App.3d 903, 920.) In order to state a claim for private
nuisance, Plaintiff must allege (1) “an interference with his use and enjoyment
of his property,” (2) “the invasion of the plaintiff’s interest in the use and
enjoyment of the land must be substantial, i.e., that it causes the plaintiff
to suffer substantial actual damage,” and (3) “the interference with the
protected interest must not only be substantial, but it must also be unreasonable
…, i.e., it must be of such a nature, duration or amount as to constitute
unreasonable interference with the use and enjoyment of the land.” (Mendez
v. Rancho Valencia Resort Partners, LLC (2016) 3 Cal.App.5th 248, 262-263
[brackets, emphasis, and quotation marks omitted].) 
b. Court’s
Determination
The Court OVERRULES the City of Los
Angeles’s demurrer as relates to the FAC’s third cause of action because the
City’s sole argument in challenging this claim is that the FAC lacks factual
particularity as to the grounds for nuisance, which the Court rejected in
discussing the second cause of action.
III. Conclusion
Demurrer by Defendant City of Los Angeles to First Amended Complaint [Res
ID # 2883] is OVERRULED.