  Case Number:  22STCV19207    Hearing Date:   June 20, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



GRESHAM LOMBARD,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
ALBEMARLE CORPORATION, a Virginia corporation, previously sued
  as Doe No. 12; ASHLAND OIL, INC., a Kentucky corporation, previously sued as Doe
  No. 19; BRASKEM AMERICA, INC., a Delaware corporation, previously sued as Doe
  No. 17; CHEVRON U.S.A., INC., previously and perhaps erroneously sued as
  CHEVRON CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation; EXXON MOBIL CORPORATION, f/k/a MOBIL
  OIL REFINING CORPORATION a Delaware corporation; GOODYEAR TIRE & RUBBER
  COMPANY, an Ohio corporation, previously sued as Doe No. 15; KANEKA NORTH
  AMERICA LLC, a Texas limited liability company, previously sued as Doe No. 7;
  KERN OIL & REFINING COMPANY, a California corporation; KINDER MORGAN LIQUIDS
  TERMINALS, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, previously sued as Doe
  No. 2; LUBRIZOL CORPORATION, an Ohio corporation, previously sued as Doe No.
  8; MARATHON PETROLEUM COMPANY LP, a Delaware limited partnership; PBF ENERGY
  LIMITED, a, Delaware corporation, previously sued as Doe Defendant No. 1;
  PHILLIPS 66 COMPANY, a Delaware corporation; SAN JOAQUIN REFINING COMPANY,
  INC., a California corporation; SHELL OIL PRODUCTS COMPANY LLC, a Delaware
  limited liability company; TOTALENERGIES PETROCHEMICALS & REFINING USA,  Delaware corporation, previously sued as Doe
  No. 9; VALERO REFINING COMPANY - CALIFORNIA, a Delaware corporation; VOPAK
  NORTH MERICA, INC., f/k/a VOPAK AMERICAS, a Texas corporation, previously
  sued as Doe No. 22; ALLWASTE, INC., a Texas corporation, doing business as
  ALLWASTE ENVIRONMENTAL; ONYX INDUSTRIAL SERVICES, INC., a corporation; PHILIP
  SERVICES CORPORATION, doing business as PHILIPS TANK CLEANING; RUSH RESOURCES,
  LLC, a Texas limited liability company, successor in interest to RUSH
  RESOURCES, INC., a Texas corporation previously sued as Doe No. 81; TIMEC
  ACQUISITIONS, INC., a Delaware corporation; TIMEC COMPANY, INC., a California
  corporation, subsidiary of TIMEC ACQUISITIONS, INC.; TIMEC SERVICES COMPANY,
  INC., a Delaware corporation; ULTRAMAR, INC., a Texas corporation, previously
  sued as Doe No. 82; WASTE MANAGEMENT LLC, a California limited liability
  company; and Doe Defendants 23-80 and 83-100,
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          22STCV19207
 Hearing Date:   N/A
 Trial Date:        N/A
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Defendant Lubrizol
  Corporation’s Application for Determination of Good Faith Settlement [CRS#
  8590].



 
I. Background
A. Pleadings
Plaintiff Gresham Lombard sues a
number of Defendants pursuant to a December 20, 2023, Third Amended Complaint (TAC)
alleging claims of (1) Negligence, (2) Strict Liability – Failure to Warn, (3)
Strict Liability – Design Defect, and (4) Fraudulent Concealment.
The claims arise from the following
allegations. From about 1990 through the early 2000s, Plaintiff Lombard worked
at oil refineries and petrochemical plants in California, where Plaintiff performed
shutdowns and turnarounds, painting, maintenance, construction, and other work.
In doing this work, Plaintiff Lombard was exposed to crude oil, fuels, and
petroleum hydrocarbon solvents, all of which contain significant concentrations
of benzene. This exposure, in turn, caused serious injuries to Plaintiff Lombard’s
internal organs, including myelodysplastic syndrome, thus necessitating
hospitalization, surgeries, chemotherapy, and other treatments for Plaintiff Lombard,
with a bone marrow transplantation now being medically necessary as treatment.
B. Motion Before the
Court
On February 26, 2024, Defendant Lubrizol Corporation (Lubrizol) filed an
application for determination of good faith settlement in relation to a
settlement reached between itself and Plaintiff Lombard.
Lubrizol’s moving papers—comprised of a notice of application and
application with counsel’s declaration, four exhibits, and, in a separate
filing, a proposed order—attach proofs of service indicating that electronic
service was effected on April 10, 2024, through electronic transmission.
However, no service list accompanies the papers. Instead, the proofs of service
refer to a “File & ServeXPress Transaction Receipt” that will show service
on proper parties, and which “will be maintained with the original document(s)
in our office.”
No opposition, reply, or notice of non-opposition appear in the record.
Defendant Lubrizol’s application is now before the Court.
 
II. Application for Determination
of Good Faith Settlement: TENTATIVELY GRANTED on condition of
clarification of proof of service on all parties.
A.
Legal Standard
Any
party to an action in which it is alleged that two or more parties are joint
tortfeasors or co-obligors on a contract debt is entitled to a hearing on the
issue of the good faith of a settlement entered into by the plaintiff or other
claimant and one or more alleged tortfeasors or co-obligors. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 877.6, subd. (a)(1).)
In
the alternative, a settling party may give notice of settlement to all parties
and to the court, together with an application for determination of good faith
settlement and a proposed order. (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (a)(2).) The
application shall indicate the settling parties, and the basis, terms, and
amount of the settlement. (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (a)(2).) The notice,
application, and proposed order shall be given by certified mail, return
receipt requested, or by personal service, with proof of service to be filed
with the court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (a)(2).) Within 25 days of the
mailing of the notice, application, and proposed order, or within 20 days of
personal service, a nonsettling party may file a notice of motion to contest
the good faith of the settlement. (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (a)(2).) If
none of the nonsettling parties files a motion within 25 days of mailing of the
notice, application, and proposed order, or within 20 days of personal service,
the court may approve the settlement. (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (a)(2).)
However, this subsection does not apply to settlements in which a
confidentiality agreement has been entered into regarding the case or the terms
of the settlement. (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (a)(2).)
The
issue of the good faith of a settlement may be determined by the court on the
basis of affidavits served with the notice of hearing, and any
counteraffidavits filed in response, or the court may, in its discretion,
receive other evidence at the hearing. (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (b).)
A
party asserting lack of good faith in settlement has the burden of proving lack
of good faith. (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (d).) The objecting party may
carry its burden by demonstrating that the settlement is so far “out of the
ballpark” in relation to various factors, including:
(1)
A rough approximation of plaintiff’s total recovery and the settlor’s
proportionate liability; 
(2)
The amount paid in settlement; 
(3)
The allocation of settlement proceeds among plaintiffs; 
(4)
A recognition that a settlor should pay less in settlement than it would if it
were found liable after a trial; 
(5)
The financial conditions and insurance policy limits of settling defendants;
and 
(6)
The existence of collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to injure the
interests of the non-settling defendants. 
(Tech-Bilt,
Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Assocs. (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, 499-500.)
A
determination by the court that the settlement was made in good faith shall bar
any other joint tortfeasor or co-obligor from any further claims against the
settling tortfeasor or co-obligor for equitable comparative contribution, or
partial or comparative indemnity, based on comparative negligence or
comparative fault. (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (c); Britz, Inc. v. Dow
Chemical Co. (1999) 73 Cal.App.4th 177, 180 (Britz) [finding a good
faith settlement determination discharges indemnity claims by other
tortfeasors, whether or not named as parties to the action, provided they were
given notice and an opportunity to be heard].)

B. Analysis
1. Notice
of Settlement, Application for Good Faith Determination, Counsel’s Declaration,
Exhibits, Proposed Order, and Service
Here, the application contains the
sole proof of service, to which no service list is attached. (App., Proof of
Service.) This document does not meet the statutory requirement of service of
the notice, application, proposed order, and other documents by certified mail,
return receipt requested, or by personal service, with proof of service to be
filed with the court, on all parties. (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (a)(2).)
Even though electronic service is mandatory as to electronic filings for
persons with counsel, the statute does not provide for electronic service. The
statute’s service requirements must also be complied with.
Defendant Lubrizol Corporation
shall file documents confirming service per Code on all parties or a memorandum
and/or declaration as applicable (1) explaining why electronic service alone
satisfies the Code of Civil Procedure and (2) attaching a service list showing
the persons or entities on whom service was effected on April 10, 2024.
2. Required
Information in Application
Here, the terms of the settlement
are plainly stated in the points and authorities. (App., p. 4, § IV.)
This mandatory statutory
requirement is therefore satisfied. (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (a)(2).)
3. Challenges
by Non-Settling Defendants
Here, no challenges to this
application were filed by the non-settling Defendants as of the date of this order,
well beyond the maximum 25-calendar day maximum to file such a challenge.
The Court may thus approve the
settlement, provided that service is confirmed, as discussed above in Section
II.B.1. (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (a)(2).)
4. Confidentiality
Agreement
Here, the proposed settlement does
not involve a completely confidential settlement for which even the terms of
the settlement cannot be disclosed. (See Section II.B.2. discussion supra.)
This mandatory statutory
requirement is therefore satisfied. (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (a)(2).)
5. Tech-Bilt
Factors
Here, the Court adopts the
discussion of the Tech-Bilt factors in the moving papers to further
determine that no bad faith appears to arise from this settlement. (App., pp. 4-6;
see App., Meyer Decl., ¶¶ 3-9, Exs. 1-4 [procedural history supports
settlement].)
The Court notes that the Tech-Bilt
factors are the applicable standard for challenging the good faith of a
settlement—specifically, by showing bad faith—and, in making that showing, the
burden lies with the party challenging the determination of good faith. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (d).) Here, no challenge appears in the record from
any of the non-settling Defendants, thus eliminating the need for a Tech-Bilt
discussion under the statute’s challenge provisions. (See Section II.B.3.
discussion supra.) However, the Court notes that service must be confirmed
prior to this determination having any effect.
6. Disposition
While Defendant Lubrizol’s
application is facially meritorious, the Court must confirm service before
making a final determination on the good faith of the settlement reached
between Defendant Lubrizol and Plaintiff Lombard.
 
III. Conclusion
Defendant Lubrizol Corporation’s
Application for Determination of Good Faith Settlement [CRS# 8590] is TENTATIVELY
GRANTED.
Defendant Lubrizol Corporation
shall file documents confirming service per Code on all parties or a memorandum
and/or declaration as applicable (1) explaining why electronic service alone
satisfies the Code of Civil Procedure and (2) attaching a service list showing
the persons or entities on whom service was effected on April 10, 2024.
If Defendant Lubrizol Corporation
makes these showings, the Court is otherwise inclined to sign the lodged
proposed order, and all other joint tortfeasors or co-obligors of Defendant
Lubrizol Corporation shall be barred from any further claims against Defendant
Lubrizol Corporation for equitable comparative contribution, or partial or
comparative indemnity, based on comparative negligence or comparative fault.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (c); Britz, supra, 73
Cal.App.4th at p. 180.)