  Case Number:  20STCV47167    Hearing Date:   June 10, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept. 68
Date: 6-10-24 c/f 3-14-24
Case # 20STCV47167
Trial Date: 6-3-24
 
SUMMARY JUDGMENT/SUMMARY ADJUDICATION
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant, Krane & Smith, et al.
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff, Marcia Pellitteri
 
RELIEF REQUESTED
Motion for Summary Judgment/Summary Adjudication
·        
1st Cause of Action: Negligence
(Legal Malpractice) 
·        
2nd Cause of Action: Breach of Fiduciary
Duty
·        
3rd Cause of Action: Breach of
Contract 
 
SUMMARY OF ACTION
Plaintiffs Marcia Pellitteri and Progressive Consulting
Services, Inc. allege entry into a voidable contingency fee agreement with
defendants Krane & Smith and Jeremy Smith for representation in Pellitteri
v. Wellquest, BC490541, regarding an alleged breached royalty payment contract.
Plaintiffs maintain Defendants failed to provide a countersigned copy, and also
contained an improper provision regarding potentially incurred attorney fees by
Defendants. Plaintiffs also allege Defendants failed to disclose the potential
for prevailing party attorney fees by Wellquest.
 
In October 2017, the court granted the motion for summary
judgment of Wellquest, and subsequently prevailed on a motion for attorney fees
awarding over $1.3 million. A subsequent appeal affirmed the trial court
rulings. Following the appeal, Wellquest was awarded an additional $200,000 in
attorney fees. Plaintiff alleges Defendants negligently represented their
clients. On December 9, 2020, Plaintiff filed a complaint for Negligence (Legal
Malpractice), Breach of Fiduciary Duty, and Breach of Contract against Krane
& Smith and Jeremy Smith.
 
On October 13, 2022, the court ordered Progressive
Consulting Services, Inc., a Nevada corporation, to post an undertaking within
45 days of the order. On December 21, 2022, due the failure to comply with the
order to post a bond, the court dismissed Progressive Consulting Services, Inc.
 
RULING: Denied.
Defendants Krane & Smith and Jeremy Smith move for
summary judgment, or in the alternative summary adjudication on the entire
complaint for Negligence (Legal Malpractice), Breach of Fiduciary Duty, and
Breach of Contract. Defendants contend the entire complaint fails on grounds of
causation: Wellquest recovered against Pelliteri due to the lack of a valid
personal claim against Wellquest, rather than Defendants’ representation of
Pellitteri. Pellitteri was unable to establish the assignment of rights from
Progressive Consulting Services, Inc. (PCS) to Pellitteri, thereby rendering
the claim untenable. Defendants otherwise never charged Plaintiff with any fees
or costs. Prior to the March 14, 2024, hearing, Plaintiff, in pro per,
requested a continuance of the hearing in order to retain new counsel and
oppose the motion. Defendants in reply documented the lack of any substantive
opposition, and maintained the request for continuance was “defective.”
Defendants described the latest request as part of a series of “abhorrent”
conduct, including Plaintiff being a party in over 20 lawsuits with multiple
discovery monetary sanctions orders imposed.
 
The court considered the relevant history of the action
for purposes of considering the request. The complaint was filed on December 9,
2020. On September 21, 2022, the court entered the stipulation of the parties
to continue the trial from January 9, 2023, to August 4, 2023. On October 13,
2022, the court ordered Progressive Consulting Services, Inc., a Nevada
corporation, to post an undertaking within 45 days of the order. On December
21, 2022, due the failure to comply with the order to post a bond, the court
dismissed Progressive Consulting Services, Inc. On May 22, 2023, the court
entered a second stipulation to continue the trial from August 14, 2023, to
January 8, 2024. On September 19, 2023, Pelliteri executed a substitution of
attorney, thereby appearing in pro per in the action. On November 11, 2023, the
court entered the third stipulation of the parties to continue the trial from
January 8, 2024, to June 3, 2024. 
 
The substitution of attorney was in fact filed on March
13, 2024. The court considered the arguments in reply challenging any further
continuance, but found the request to continue the motion sufficiently
supported the basis for relief. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (h); Johnson v. Alameda County
Medical Center (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 521, 532; Granadino v. Wells Fargo Bank,
N.A.
(2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 411, 420.) 
 
Plaintiff timely submitted a new opposition to the motion. The
revised opposition maintains counsel improperly researched the assignment of
rights from Progressive Consulting Services, Inc. to Pellitteri under Nevada
law, the home of the corporate entity, lost the case on said lax error, then
failed to preserve the issue on appeal whereby further attorney fees were
imposed against Pellitteri by the appellate court. Defendants in revised reply
presents three points: Plaintiff provides no dispute to the facts presented in
support; the substantive argument under Nevada law in no way establishes
triable issues of material fact under the causation standard; and, the
equitable defenses further undermine any claim. 
 
The pleadings frame the issues for motions, “since it is
those allegations to which the motion must respond. (Citation.)”  (Scolinos v. Kolts (1995) 37 Cal. App.
4th 635, 640-641; FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367,
382-383; Jordan-Lyon Prods., LTD. v. Cineplex Odeon Corp. (1994) 29
Cal.App.4th 1459, 1472.) The purpose of a motion for summary judgment or
summary adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the
parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations,
trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atl.
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) 
“Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the
trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all
inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other
inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material
fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of
law.”  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare
Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) 

 
“On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is
always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no
triable issues of material fact.” (Scalf v. D.B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005)
128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.) A defendant moving for summary judgment “has met
his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party
has shown that one or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be
established.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) “Once the defendant . .
. has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a
triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or
a defense thereto.” (Ibid.)  
 
“When deciding whether to grant summary judgment, the court
must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers (except evidence to
which the court has sustained an objection), as well as all reasonable
inference that may be drawn form that evidence, in the light most favorable to
the party opposing summary judgment.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente
Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467; see also Code Civ.
Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).) “An issue of fact can only be created by a conflict
in the evidence.  It is not created by
speculation, conjecture, imagination or guesswork.” (Lyons v. Security
Pacific National Bank (1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 1001, 1041 (citation omitted).)
 
“The
elements of a legal malpractice cause of action are ‘(1) the duty of the
attorney to use such skill, prudence, and diligence as members of his or her
profession commonly possess and exercise; (2) a breach of that duty; (3) a
proximate causal connection between the breach and the resulting injury; and
(4) actual loss or damage resulting from the attorney's negligence. [Citation.]’”
(Ambriz v. Kelegian (2007) 146 Cal.App.4th 1519, 1531.) “In a litigation malpractice
action, the plaintiff must establish that but
for the alleged negligence of the
defendant attorney,
the plaintiff would have obtained a more favorable judgment or settlement in
the action in which the malpractice
allegedly occurred.” (Viner v. Sweet (2003) 30 Cal.4th 1232, 1241.) “In a legal malpractice
claim, the method for proving the element of causation has been likened to a ‘trial
within a trial” or a “case within a case.’ (Citations) ‘The case-within-a-case
or trial-within-a-trial approach applied in legal malpractice cases [is] an
objective approach to decide what should
have been the result in the underlying
proceeding or matter. [Citation.]’”  (Ambriz v. Kelegian, supra,
146 Cal.App.4th at p. 1531.) 
 
“[C]ausation
... is ordinarily a question of fact which cannot be resolved by summary
judgment. The issue of causation may be decided as a question of law only if,
under undisputed facts, there is no room for a reasonable difference of
opinion. The question about what would have happened had [the lawyer] acted
otherwise is one of fact unless reasonable minds could not differ as to the
legal effect of the evidence presented.” (Ambriz
v. Kelegian, supra, 146 Cal.App.4th
at pp. 1531–1532 (internal quotation marks omitted).)
 
Defendants squarely frame the issue for all pled claims as
an absence of any showing of causation as a matter of law, as well as unclean
hands and estoppel affirmative defenses. Defendant relies on a conclusion of
impossibility for Pelliteri to prevail on the claims due to the lack of any
evidence of the assignment of rights from PCS. Pelliteri was a necessary party
to the underlying action, due to the suspension of PCS, a corporate entity.
According to Defendants, Pelliteri consistently confirmed status as the holder
of the rights, and therefore apparently compelled counsel to continue
prosecuting the action, even without any valid assignment. The resulting
dismissal was therefore an “inevitable” result. 
 
Because of the “inevitable” adverse ruling, the subsequent
recovery of attorney fees also became part of the resolution of the flawed
action. Defendants maintain that because Pelliteri could have “mitigated” the
potential fees by presumably dismissing the case at an earlier time, the court
can also adjudicate this claim as a matter of law. The subject contention leads
into the next position regarding a lost potential settlement opportunity. When
Pelliteri refused anything other than full payment from Wellquest, without a
basis of support, any lost settlement opportunity was a fiction. Wellquest
offered a post attorney fee settlement offer for waiver of an appeal, which was
rejected as well. Defendants maintain Pelliteri never made a settlement offer
at any time. Finally, on the equitable defenses, Defendants suggest Pelliteri
provided “false” statements to counsel regarding the right to assignment,
thereby barring the claim under the doctrines of unclean hands and estoppel. 
 
The crux of the argument begins with the assignment of
rights by PCS to Pelliteri. Defendants depend on the factual findings from the
Second Appellate District in the unpublished opinion upholding the dismissal of
the action via summary judgment. [Declaration of Jeremy Smith, Ex. A.]
Pelliteri makes no objection to the reliance on the subject unpublished
opinion, even with the disclaimer at the beginning under California Rules of
Court, rule 8.1115. Given Plaintiff also relies on a portion of the opinion as
well regarding the preclusion from consideration of certain issues, the court
assumes Plaintiff also seeks to allow consideration of the content of the
opinion. Plaintiff also submits no objection to the declarations submitted in
the prior hearing in opposition to the successful motion for summary judgment.
 
In upholding the motion for summary judgment, the appellate
court found no valid assignment existed. 
 
“PCS registered as a Nevada corporation on August 14, 2002,
and appellant was not named in the articles of incorporation or identified as
an officer or director in any corporate filing. Generally, someone who is not a
party to a contract has no standing to enforce the contract. (Citation.) 
 
“However, appellant argues that there was a triable issue of
fact as to whether she has standing to claim breaches of the written
PCS/Wellquest agreement. ln support of this position, appellant points to her
own testimony that she was the sole owner and decision-maker for PCS, and that
she is the successor-in-interest to PCS as its assignee. Appellant advances two
arguments that a triable issue of fact exists as to whether she was the
assignee of PCS'S rights. First, she argues that no writing is required for an
assignment of contract rights. However, appellant cannot at this stage avoid
the fact that she alleged a written assignment of rights. Because appellant
never alleged an oral assignment, respondents were not required to negate this
theory on summary judgment. (Citation [‘the burden of a defendant moving for
summary judgment only requires that he or she negate plaintiffs theories of
liability as alleged in the complaint that is, a moving party need not refute
liability on some theoretical possibility not included in the pleadings].’)
Thus, we decline to address appellant's argument and authorities suggesting
that a written assignment was not necessary. 
...
“Here, however, the issue is not the content of an
assignment. The issue is whether an assignment existed at all. Appellant's
testimony as an alleged assignee is insufficient to show that a written
assignment, if lost, ever existed. ln order to prove the existence of an
assignment. there must be evidence that ‘the assignor has . . . manifested an
intention to make a present transfer of . . . rights to the assignee. ...
(Citation.) (internal quotation marks omitted).’ The assignor in the alleged
assignment here was PCS. Appellant has presented no evidence from any officer
or director of PCS regarding the existence of this assignment, or PCS's
intention to assign its rights to appellant. Under the circumstances,
appellant's testimony that such an assignment existed is insufficient. Without
evidence of the assignor's intent and agreement that such an assignment
existed, anyone could purport to be an assignee and thereby create a triable
issue of material fact. On this record, no reasonable trier of fact could find
that such a written assignment existed. ...”
 
The opinion definitively finds neither a basis in the
pleadings for claim of an oral assignment, nor evidence of a valid written assignment.
The findings remain factually unchallenged. Plaintiff instead counters that
Defendants negligently failed to take into account Nevada law regarding the
actual state of the corporate rights upon the suspension of PCS. 
 
“1. The
Secretary of State shall notify, by providing written notice to its registered
agent, each corporation deemed in default pursuant to NRS 78.170. ...
2. On the first day of the first anniversary of the month
following the month in which the filing was required, the charter of the
corporation is revoked and its right to transact business is forfeited. ...
5. If the
charter of a corporation is revoked and the right to transact business is
forfeited as provided in subsection 2, all the property and assets of the
defaulting domestic corporation must be held in trust by the directors of the
corporation as for insolvent corporations, and the same proceedings may be had
with respect thereto as are applicable to insolvent corporations. Any person
interested may institute proceedings at any time after a forfeiture has been
declared, but, if the Secretary of State reinstates the charter, the
proceedings must at once be dismissed and all property restored to the officers
of the corporation. ...”
 
(Nev.
Rev. Stat. Ann. § 78.175.)
 
Plaintiff maintains the oversight manifested in numerous
ways, including failure to join the defunct PCS entity as a plaintiff; failure
to advise Pelliteri to revive PCS in order to better establish a factual basis
for assignment; and, outright failure to assert Pelliteri’s rights to assert
ownership of assets under Nevada law in the operative complaint, thereby
waiving the issue in opposition to the motion for summary judgment and on
appeal. Defendants steadfastly maintain a lack of any evidence regarding the
assignment, without acknowledging Nevada law governing the corporate entity.
[Declaration of Kenny Brooks and Smith Decl.] 
 
It appears the appellate court considered other argument
regarding a second effort at a written assignment, and arguably found an
assignment to a third party, Direct 2 Marketing. 
 
“Appellant makes the argument that in August 2017, she
reinstated PCS as a Nevada corporation and granted herself a second written
assignment of PCS's breach of written contract claims. Appellant argues that
PCS's assignment was valid, and related back as if its rights had at all times
remained in full force and effect. [9] However, as the trial court
pointed out, appellant had alleged in the SAC that PCS's rights were assigned
to her in 2008. At the summary judgment motion, there was no evidence that PCS
undertook the corporate act of assigning its ‘major, if not only asset,’ to
appellant. The court noted that there were procedural and evidentiary problems
with the written assignment that appellant procured approximately a month
before the summary judgment hearing. However, even if the court were to accept
evidence of the recent assignment, there was other evidence that it was invalid
‘because there was a previous assignment to Direct 2 Market.’ Thus, it was
unclear whether PCS had any rights left to assign in 2017. [11]”
 
The court quotes the two cited footnotes in the section.
 
“[9] Appellant claims that under Nevada law any corporation
may be revived and the revival relates back as if the corporation's rights had
at all times remained in full force and effect. (Citing Nev. Rev. Stat. Ann. S
78.180 ...) 
 
“[11] While appellant argues that respondents improperly
raised the argument regarding the Direct 2 Market assignment in their reply
brief on summary judgment, the trial court found that the presentation of this
argument in the reply brief was appropriate, because ‘this subsequent
assignment only came up after the motion for summary judgment was filed.’”
 
The section and footnotes reflect consideration of the
potential revival argument under Nevada Revenue Statute section 78.180. Nothing
in the subject passage however alters the prior holding regarding the waiver of
the oral assignment argument due to failure to plead the issue. Thus, whether
the assignment to Direct 2 Market occurred or not is also not a factual issue
raised in the subject motion for purposes of determining causation. The motion
otherwise lacks argument on the inapplicability of Nevada law regarding the
potential for oral assignment claim, or support for a finding of California law
superseding any and all potential lingering rights for oral assignment of
shareholder rights held in trust under Nevada law.
 
Defendant instead addresses the subject claims in
reply. Defendants’ first argument in reply regarding the lack of dispute over
the facts fails to actually address the core argument—the omission of any claim
for oral argument thereby precluding consideration in summary judgment and on
appeal. [See Separate Statement item numbers 10-16, 21-22.] The issue appears
from the relied upon appellate decision itself and legal argument. The basis of
Plaintiff’s damages claim however flows from this unpresented and unadjudicated
claim. The court therefore finds no merit in the lack of factual dispute over
an unaddressed claim under the case within a case and objective causation
standard. In other words, the court cannot make a finding as a matter of law on
something never considered.
 
The argument in reply seeking to discredit the theory
of the case and opposition based on contradiction in and of itself reflexively
admits to the failure to plead to the claim for oral assignment. The appellate
court opinion relied upon by Defendants confirms this. The court declines to
definitively conclude that counsel’s reliance on the purported representation
of Pelliteri regarding a written assignment shields Defendants from any all
claims based on negligence for omission on this basis. [Smith Decl.] Again, the
court lacks an ability to adjudicate the issue as a matter of law.
 
The dismissal of the oral assignment argument under
Nevada law seeks to introduce new legal argument and extrinsic facts not
presented in the motion, which improperly deprives Plaintiff of the opportunity
to respond on the merits. (Reichardt v. Hoffman (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 754, 764.) The argument also cites
to non-existent statements, such as “Ex. B to Brooks Decl.” [Reply, 8:20;
Brooks Decl., 25:2-26:14.] 
 
Even considering the argument, the complaint in fact
specifically and categorically alleges the oral assignment claim in the
operative complaint, thereby properly presenting the claim at issue. [Comp., ¶
29.] Citation to the court of appeal ruling regarding the use of the oral claim
as a means of manufacturing a triable issues of fact takes the claim and ruling
of out of context. Nothing in the subject complaint or argument in the motion
or reply in any way precludes a claim based on the later realization of error
in the underlying adjudication of the complaint. 
 
The court finds insufficient legal and factual
support and therefore declines to find a matter of law that Plaintiff was
precluded as a matter of law from ever establishing a right to assert an oral
assignment agreement from the suspended corporate entity notwithstanding the
specific and precise language regarding rights held in trust as to a suspended
entity. Further, seeking to disprove Pelliteri as a director of PCS simply
disregards the underlying claim regarding the failure to address potential,
alternative solutions to assignment in the form of legal advice and
representation. Nothing in the complaint or opposition in any way seeks to task
Defendants with a requirement to invent “fact to help the client.” [Reply,
9:8-9.]  Reliance on a single claim of
written assignment will not make up for the lack of substantive argument on the
validity of the oral claim. Again, the court declines to find under the
objective standard required for a causation analysis as a matter of law that
the oral assignment argument lacked any and all validity, and Defendants’
omission in raising the issue exonerates them from liability.
 
The court also declines to allow Defendants to shift
the burden to Plaintiff in reply on the basis of forcing Pelliteri to prove the
ability to transfer assets under Nevada law as a corporate officer or
shareholder. Again, Defendants were responsible for presenting the basis of the
claims as framed in the operative complaint, and cannot win summary judgment or
summary adjudication by trying to undermine the validity of Plaintiff’s
argument through an assumption of an invalid, untested, unpled claim. Such conduct
improperly attempts to shift the burden back onto Plaintiff to prove the
validity of a potential oral assignment, which improperly shifts the burden
away from moving Defendants to establish an objective lack of causation as a
result of the unpled claim. 
 
The nature of the dispute as presented through the
lens of Nevada law prevents a finding as a matter of law that Wellquest would
have prevailed on the motion for summary judgment and the Court of Appeal would
have upheld the order granting summary judgment if counsel considered and
introduced the potential for an oral assignment under Nev. Rev. Stat. Ann. §
78.175. (Ambriz v. Kelegian, supra, 146 Cal.App.4th at pp. 1531–1532.) Repeated
challenges of Plaintiff’s insistence to prosecute the case also fails to excuse
the alleged omission, reinforce the unwillingness to settle argument, or
support either the estoppel or unclean hands affirmative defenses regardless of
“deplorable” conduct.
 
The court
therefore finds triable issues of material fact on the issue of causation as to
all causes of action, due to the failure to advise and raise the issue under
Nevada law. [Declaration of Marcia Pelliteri; Smith and Brooks Decl.] All
damages flow from this core issue. The court cannot accord complete relief on
any single cause of action, and therefore denies motions for summary judgment
and summary adjudication.
 
Trial
remains set for October 14, 2024.
 
Defendants to
give notice.
 