  Case Number:  21STCV15300    Hearing Date:   March 14, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior
  Court of California
County of
  Los Angeles




 
Maria Gatchalian, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case 
No.:
 


 
21STCV15300




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling 
 




 
Kaiser Foundation Hospitals, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: March 14, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion for Judgment Notwithstanding the Verdict and Motion for New
Trial 
Moving Party: Defendants Kaiser
Foundation Hospitals and Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc.
Responding Party: Plaintiff
Maria Gatchalian
 
T/R:    DEFENDANTS’ MOTION FOR JUDGMENT
NOTWITHSTANDING THE VERDICT IS DENIED. 
 
DEFENDANTS’ MOTION FOR NEW TRIAL IS CONDITIONALLY
DENIED, IF plaintiff accepts WITHIN 21 DAYS A reduced PUNITIVE DAMAGES AMOUNT
OF $10 MILLION TOTAL ($5 million as to each deFENDANT). if plaintiff DECLINES
to accept the reduced PUNITIVE DAMAGE AWARD, the motion for new trial is
granted in part, as to punitive damages only. 
 
            DEFENDANTS
to notice.  
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:30 am on the
day of the hearing.
 
            The Court
considers the moving papers, opposition, and reply.
 
BACKGROUND
 
On April 22, 2021, Plaintiff Maria Gatchalian sued Defendants Kaiser
Foundation Hospitals and Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc., et al., asserting
causes of action for (1) age discrimination; (2) age harassment; (3) disability
discrimination; (4) failure to accommodate; (5) failure to engage in the
interactive process; (6) retaliation in violation of FEHA; (7) failure to
prevent discrimination, harassment and retaliation; (8) wrongful termination in
violation of public policy; (9) whistleblower retaliation; and (10) intentional
infliction of emotional distress. Plaintiff alleges her employment was
terminated because of her age and disability and for reporting misconduct.
 
On December 11, 2023, the jury found for Plaintiff on her cause of
action for whistleblower retaliation (the only cause of action Plaintiff
submitted to the jury.) The jury awarded Plaintiff past economic damages of
$1,268,249, future economic damages of $1,231,716, past noneconomic damages of
$1,500,000, and future noneconomic damages of $7,500,000, for a total of
$11,499,965. The jury also found entitlement to punitive damages. After a Phase
2 trial concerning the amount of punitive damages the jury awarded $15,000,000
in punitive damages against each of Defendant Kaiser Foundation Hospitals and Defendant
Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc., for a total punitive damage award of
$30,000,000.  
 
Before the Court are Defendants’ Motion for Judgment Notwithstanding the
Verdict (JNOV) and Motion for New Trial. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
A.    Request for Judicial Notice
 
            The Court did not
consider the exhibits for which Plaintiff requested judicial notice. The Court
DENIES Plaintiff’s requests for judicial notice. 
 
B.    JNOV
 
The trial court has limited discretion to grant a motion for judgment
notwithstanding the verdict; it may grant it only when there is no substantial
evidence to support the verdict. (Teitel v. First Los Angeles Bank
(1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 1593, 1603. Campbell v. Cal-Gard Surety Services, Inc.
(1998) 62 Cal.App.4th 563, 570.) A judgment notwithstanding the verdict can be
sustained only when as a matter of law no other reasonable conclusion is
legally deducible from the evidence, and any other holding would be so lacking
in evidentiary support that the reviewing court would be compelled to reverse
it or the trial court would be compelled to set it aside as a matter of law. (Moore
v. City and County of San Francisco (1970) 5 Cal.App.3d 728, 733-734.) The
trial court renders judgment notwithstanding the verdict when a motion for
directed verdict should have been granted if made (CCP § 629). (Hansen v.
Sunnyside Products, Inc. (1997) 55 Cal.App.4th 1497, 1510 [Rev. Den.
9/17/97]; Walton v. Magno (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 1237, 1239–1240.) The
trial judge cannot reweigh the evidence or judge the credibility of witnesses;
if the evidence is conflicting or if several reasonable inferences may be
drawn, the motion for judgment notwithstanding the verdict should be
denied.  (Teitel, supra, 231 Cal.App.3d at 1603.) 
 
Defendants ask the Court to vacate the entire award of punitive damages
on the grounds that Plaintiff failed to prove “by clear and convincing evidence”
that Defendants acted with the requisite “oppression, fraud, or malice” to
support any award of punitive damages. (Code Civ. Proc., § 3294, subd. (a).) Defendants
assert that Plaintiff’s disagreements with Defendants does not constitute evidence
of oppression, fraud, or malice. Defendants argue that Plaintiff was terminated
for legitimate reasons, establishing a non-retaliatory reason to terminate her
employment; and Plaintiff violated Defendants’ longstanding policies regarding
infection prevention and principles of responsibility by putting her bare feet
on an isolette with a newborn inside. 
 
Viewing
the evidence in the light most favorable to Plaintiff, the Court finds that
there is substantial evidence to support an award of punitive damages.
Plaintiffs rely on Cloud v. Casey (1999) 76 Cal.App.4th 895 and Colucci
v. T-Mobile USA, Inc. (2020) 48 Cal.App.5th 442, to argue that the jury had
sufficient evidence to find a pretextual retaliatory or discriminatory
termination, which provides a basis for punitive damages. In Cloud, the
court affirmed a punitive damages verdict on the ground that evidence of
discriminatory intent and pretext supported a finding of malice or oppression. (Cloud,
supra, 76 Cal.App.4th at p. 911-912.) In that case an employer
discriminated by denying a promotion based on gender and attempted to cover up
this illegal action with a fabricated rationale. (Id.) In Colucci,
the appellate court affirmed a punitive damages verdict where the evidence
suggested the employer attempted to conceal its real motive for terminating the
employee after he complained about his supervisor. (Colucci, supra,
48 Cal.App.5th at p. 456.) The court found that the jury could infer that the
reason provided by the employer (a conflict of interest) was contrived,
allowing for a reasonable conclusion that the retaliatory conduct was malicious
or oppressive. (Id.) 
There
was sufficient evidence here for the jury to determine that Plaintiff’s termination
was pretextual and disproportionate, and that Defendants acted with fraud,
malice, or oppression. Plaintiff introduced evidence that Defendants had motive
to retaliate given that Plaintiff complained about the unit’s being
understaffed, Plaintiff was discouraged from filing formal UORs, there were
repeated failures or refusals to investigate reports of patient-safety issues, and
there was temporal proximity between Plaintiff’s disclosures and her
termination. (See Opp. p. 11-13.) 
The
evidence supporting the jury’s verdict also included:
·        
Helen Kersey
testified, “when mistakes are made or bad judgment is used, the culture at
Kaiser was to use it as a training opportunity to coach and say, don’t do it
again.” (RT, 1676:21-25.)
·        
Valerie McPherson
testified that she was unaware of any other employee’s ever being terminated
for a single violation of the infection control policy or violating the dress
code policy or. Exh. “D” (VMP Depo., 83:21-25 & 84:21-85:1).
·        
Muratza Sanwari
testified that she could not recall any other termination of a hospital-based
nurse at Kaiser besides Plaintiff. (RT, 2624:13-2625:14.)
·        
Several examples where
violations of similar policies or other conduct jeopardizing patient safety
resulted in no discipline or discipline shy of termination. (See Opp. p. 10.)
o  
Nurse’s failure
to feed a baby pursuant to doctor’s orders.
o  
Nurse’s failure
to detect or notify doctor of patterns on fetal heart monitor.
o  
Nurse’s failure
to convey critical lab values and properly chart in connection with a delivery.
o  
Violation of hand
wash policy.
o  
Failure to do a
bath demonstration.
o  
Nurses using
personal cell phones in the NICU.
Defendants
offered evidence and arguments to counter Plaintiff’s showing, including that
Plaintiff’s placing her feet on the isolette created a risk that the infant patient
could have been harmed if the isolette tipped over. But Plaintiff provided
evidence that the isolette is a large structure weighing approximately 150-200
pounds, built to withstand earthquakes without falling over. The jury, in
evaluating the evidence and making credibility determinations, properly could
discount Defendants’ claim and find that the termination was pretextual, and that
Defendants acted with fraud, malice, or oppression.
            Defendants’ motion for
judgment notwithstanding the verdict is DENIED.
 
C.    New Trial 
 
“The principal statutory authority for new trial motions is CCP § 657.
“The right to a new trial is purely statutory, and a motion for a new trial can
be granted only on one of the grounds enumerated in the statute.” (Fomco,
Inc. v. Joe Maggio, Inc. (1961) 55 Cal.2d 162, 166.) The grounds enumerated
in CCP § 657 include:
 
1. Irregularity in the
proceedings of the court, jury or adverse party, or any order of the court or
abuse of discretion by which either party was prevented from having a fair
trial.
 
2. Misconduct of the jury;
and whenever any one or more of the jurors have been induced to assent to any
general or special verdict, or to a finding on any question submitted to them
by the court, by a resort to the determination of chance, such misconduct may
be proved by the affidavit of any one of the jurors.
 
3. Accident or surprise,
which ordinary prudence could not have guarded against.
 
4. Newly discovered evidence,
material for the party making the application, which he could not, with
reasonable diligence, have discovered and produced at the trial.
 
5. Excessive or inadequate
damages.
 
6. Insufficiency of the
evidence to justify the verdict or other decision, or the verdict or other
decision is against law.
 
7. Error in law, occurring at
the trial and excepted to by the party making the application.
 
(CCP § 657.)
 
Defendants first seek a new trial because they claim Plaintiff was
terminated for legitimate, independent reasons. The Court rejects this argument. A court cannot grant a
new trial “unless after weighing the evidence the court is convinced from the
entire record, including reasonable inferences therefrom, that the … jury
clearly should have reached a different verdict…” Code of Civ. Proc. §657. “The
court cannot grant a new trial simply because it would have found differently
than the jury.” Huy Fong Foods, Inc. v Underwood Ranches, LP (2021) 66
Cal.App.5th 1112, 1126. As discussed above, there was
sufficient evidence here for the jury to determine that Plaintiff’s termination
was pretextual and disproportionate. The Court cannot find that the jury clearly
should have reached a different verdict.
 
Defendants next seek a new trial on the grounds that Plaintiff
improperly presented prejudicial evidence. Defendants assert that the evidence
presented at trial, particularly graphic details of a complicated delivery and
alleged harm to nonparties, was highly prejudicial and improperly influenced
the jury’s decision, swaying them through bias and emotion. Defendants state
that this evidence had little to no probative value and served only to inflame
the jury’s emotions, compromising the fairness of the trial.
 
The introduction of this evidence directly pertained to the
circumstances surrounding the case. It concerned potential violations of
statutes or regulations concerning medical practice and care standards,
potentially constituting “adverse events” that require reporting to regulatory
bodies. Plaintiff’s testimony about the delivery details, including a patient’s
being denied a request for a cesarean section, also suggested possible
violations of patients’ rights under health care laws. This evidence was relevant
to Plaintiff’s claim that she was terminated in part in anticipation of her
disclosing these issues. It also was necessary to establish a factual
understanding of the environment and practices that surrounded the decision to
terminate Plaintiff's employment. The Court weighed the factors in Evidence
Code § 352 in evaluating this evidence. The Court did not abuse its decision in
admitting it. 
 
The Court also finds that any possible error in admitting this testimony
was not prejudicial to the extent that it would necessitate a new trial. Given
the breadth of the evidence supporting the claims of retaliation, the specific
details of the delivery discussed by Plaintiff were a minor portion of the
overall testimony presented at trial and were unlikely to have swayed the
jury’s verdict.
 
Defendants contend next that the noneconomic damages awarded by the jury
are excessive. The Court finds that the award of noneconomic damages is reasonable
and supported by the evidence. “[T]here is no fixed or absolute standard by which to
compute the monetary value of emotional distress.” Hope v. California Youth
Authority (2005) 134 Cal.App.4th 577, 595. The jury was entitled to believe
Plaintiff’s testimony about the impact of her termination on her emotional
well-being, including her self-image, her financial concerns, and her concerns
about being able to speak up for patient safety in a new job. The jury also heard
the testimony of Plaintiff’s expert, Dr. Anthony Reading, about the impact of
her termination on her emotional state. The Court finds no basis to negate or
alter the jury’s evaluation of the evidence and its determination of
noneconomic damages.
 
Defendants also argue that the punitive damages awarded were grossly
excessive and unconstitutional, failing to adhere to the principles of due
process because the ratio of punitive to compensatory damages exceeded
constitutional limits and the amount awarded far surpasses any comparable civil
penalties. 
 
As discussed above, an award of punitive damages was appropriate. The punitive
damages award totaling $30 million, however, is excessive. The Supreme Court
has stated, in BMW of North America, Inc. v. Gore (1966) 517 U.S. 559, State
Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Co. v. Campbell (2003) 538 U.S. 408 and
their progeny, that to survive constitutional scrutiny ratios significantly
higher than 1:1 must be justified by exceptionally malicious conduct or
relatively insignificant compensatory damages. The 2.6:1 ratio in the jury’s
verdict is inconsistent with these guidelines as well as with the evidence in
the case, even seen in the light most favorable to Plaintiff. Plaintiff’s termination
caused no physical injuries to her. While the jury rejected Defendants’ claim
that they protected patient safety by terminating her, Plaintiff conceded that
she acted inappropriately by placing her feet on the isolette and that some
discipline or corrective action would be fair. Plaintiff declined to pursue an
appeal of her termination which may have led to a lesser discipline, and/or
given her an opportunity to air her concerns. While Plaintiff’s concerns about
patient safety were indeed serious, Defendants did not engage in repeated acts
of retaliation against her. And the $30 million award is significantly larger
than comparable civil penalties. The 2.6:1 ratio cannot be justified by either
exceptionally malicious conduct or insignificant compensatory damages.
 
The Court finds that a total punitive damage award of $10 million,
assessed as $5 million to each Defendant, aligns with constitutional guidelines
and is appropriate under the evidence in this case.[1]
This award would be proportionate to the actual harm and to Defendants’
conduct. This reduction also addresses due process concerns and ensures that
punitive damages serve their intended purpose of punishment and deterrence. If
Plaintiff accepts the reduced punitive damages amount within 21 days, the Court
will deny Defendants’ motion for new trial; otherwise, the motion will be
granted in part and a new trial ordered on punitive damages.
 
Defendants’ motion for new trial is CONDITIONALLY DENIED, if Plaintiff
accepts within 21 days a reduced punitive damages award of $10 million.
Otherwise, the motion for new trial will be GRANTED as to punitive damages only.
 
 



 


 




 


 



 
 
 


