

 
            This is an
action for breach of contract arising from a real estate sale. On January 6,
2021, Defendant Neta 38th LLC (Neta 38th), owned and operated by
Defendant David Saidi (Saidi), (jointly, Buyer Defendants) entered into a
Commercial Property Purchase Agreement and Joint Escrow Instructions (Purchase
Agreement) with Plaintiff K2005, LLC, a company owned and operated by Tamara
Marizadeh (Marizadeh), for the purchase of real property located at 2306 East
38th Street, Vernon, California 90058 (Property) for $600,000. In addition to
the Purchase Agreement, Buyer Defendants and Plaintiff executed a “Contingent
Furniture Purchase Sale Agreement” (Furniture Agreement). 
 
In 2021,
Plaintiff began communicating with Michael Davoodpour, Saidi’s
agent and owner of Trimax Realty & Loan, (Trimax Defendants). Plaintiff alleges
that Trimax Defendants falsely represented that they were funding Buyer
Defendants’ loan for both the Purchase Agreement and Furniture Agreement. 
 
Per the
Furniture Agreement, Buyer Defendants were to place $137,000.00 in escrow, and
the funds were to be released to Plaintiff immediately upon the closing of the
Subject Property. The remaining balance of $50,000 was
to be wired to Plaintiff after the close of escrow and after Buyer Defendants
confirmed the furniture was still at the Property. To date, Buyer
Defendants never made the required $50,000 payment. 
 
The Second Amended Complaint pleaded
causes of action for (1.) breach of contract, (2.) breach of implied covenant
of good faith and fair dealing, (3.) fraud, and (4.) negligence. 
 
            On December
27, 2023, Defendants Saidi and Neta 38th demurred to the first, second, third,
and fourth causes of action. Plaintiff opposed the demurrer. 
 
            On December
28, 2023, Defendants Davoodpour and Trimax Realty demurred to the third and
fourth causes of action. Plaintiff opposed the demurrer. 
 
            The Court overruled
the demurrer as to the first cause of action against Defendant Neta 38th only
and sustained in its entirety as to all the remaining claims as to all
Defendants.  
 
The Third Amended Complaint (TAC) added
Cadabra 711 LLC and Tamara Marizadeh as Plaintiffs. The TAC contains causes of
action for (1.) breach of contract, (2.) breach of implied covenant of good
faith and fair dealing, (3.) fraud, and (4.) negligence. 
 
            Defendants
Saidi and Neta 38th now demur to each cause of action in the Third
Amended Complaint.
 
            On June 11,
2024, Plaintiff K2005 LLC voluntarily filed a request for dismissal of its
negligence claim against Defendants Neta 38th and David Saidi. Additionally, on
June 12, 2024, Plaintiffs Cadabra 711 and Tamara Marizadeh voluntarily filed a
request for dismissal of all of their claims against Defendants Neta 38th and
David Saidi. 
 
As such, the
only claims at issue on this demurrer are Plaintiff K2005 LLC’s claims against
Defendants David Saidi and Neta 38th for (1) breach of contract, (2) breach of
covenant of good faith and fair dealing, and (3) fraud.
 
            The demurrer is sustained in part
without leave to amend and overruled in part. The Motion to strike is granted. 
 
Legal Standard for
Demurrers
 
A demurrer is an objection to a pleading, the grounds for
which are apparent from either the face of the complaint or a matter of which
the court may take judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a);
see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) The purpose of
a demurrer is to challenge the sufficiency of a pleading by raising questions
of law. (Postley v. Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280,
286.) “In the construction of a pleading, for the purpose of determining
its effect, its allegations must be liberally construed, with a view to
substantial justice between the parties.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) The
court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly
pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law . . . .”
’ ”  (Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) In
applying these standards, the court liberally construes the complaint to
determine whether a cause of action has been stated. (Picton v.
Anderson Union High School Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 726, 733.)
 
Analysis
 
Plaintiff K2005 LLC’s Capacity to Sue:
 
            Defendants first
argue that Plaintiff K2005, LLC lacks standing to bring and maintain this
action as a Nevada limited liability company.
 
            Defendants
assert that, on March 3, 2024, Plaintiff, K2005 LLC responded to discovery representing
that it was a Nevada limited liability company. (Zadeh Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. 1
[Responses to Form Interrogatories].) Defendants argue that the demurrer should
be sustained on this ground alone because Plaintiff K2005, LLC, as a Nevada
incorporated entity, was a limited liability company in default within the
state of Nevada at the time of filing of the original complaint. (Def.’s RJN
Ex. 4.)
 
            In
response, as a preliminary matter, Plaintiff argues that this evidence is
not properly before this Court on demurrer as the discovery responses are not judicially
noticeable and not contained within the “four corners” of the pleadings. 
 
While Plaintiff is generally correct,
a court may
take judicial notice of the pleading party’s discovery responses (or those of
the party's authorized agent) to the extent “they contain statements of the
[party] or his agent which are inconsistent with the allegations of the
pleading before the court.” (Bounds v. Superior Court (2014) 229
Cal.App.4th 468, 477; Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co.
(1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 605.) 
 
            In
this case, Plaintiff’s pleadings appear to be deliberately vague, only identifying
itself as limited liability company while, in contrast, specifying that Neta 38th LLC is a California
limited liability and Trimax Realty and Loan is a California
Corporation. (TAC, p. 1.) However, the Furniture Agreement identifies Plaintiff
K2005, LLC as a California Limited Liability Company, which is sufficient to
create an inconsistency for the Court to consider Plaintiff’s discovery
responses on this demurrer. 
 
            Thus, the
Court next turns to the question of whether Plaintiff’s suspended status as a
Nevada limited liability company affects its capacity to maintain its action
here. 
 
            Citing Cal-Western
Business Services, Inc. v. Corning Capital Group (2013) 221
Cal.App.4th 304, Defendants argue that it is well-settled that if a corporation has been
suspended, forfeited, defaulted, or revoked, it is not in good standing and
loses its rights, powers, and privileges to do business in California. The
court in Cal-Western Business Services, Inc. further explained
that “[d]uring the period that a corporation is suspended for failure to pay
taxes, it may not prosecute or defend an action [citation], appeal from an
adverse judgment [citation], seek a writ of mandate [citation], or renew a
judgment obtained prior to suspension [citation].” (Cal-Western Business
Services, Inc. v. Corning Capital Group, supra, 221 Cal.App.4th at 310
[quoting Grell v. Laci Le Beau Corp. (1999) 73 Cal.App.4th 1300, 1306].)

 
However, in Cal-Western
Business Services, Inc., the court applied Revenue and Taxation Code
section 23301, which provides that “the corporate powers, rights and privileges
of a domestic taxpayer may be suspended” if it fails to pay “any tax, penalty,
or interest ... that is due and payable” to the Franchise Tax Board. By Defendants’
own admission, Plaintiff K2005 LLC is not a domestic taxpayer, and
Defendants cite no legal authority regarding a suspended foreign
entity’s ability to maintain an action. 
 
More importantly, the suspension of
the corporate status constitutes a lack of capacity, not an issue of
standing. That is, the revival of corporate powers validates the
corporation's earlier acts and permits it to proceed with the prosecution of a
civil action. (Peacock Hill Assoc. v. Peacock Lagoon Constr. Co. (1972)
8 Cal.3d 369, 371–374.) In fact, a corporation is entitled to a reasonable
continuance to take necessary steps to obtain reinstatement to continue to
pursue its claims. (Schwartz v. Magyar House, Inc. (1959) 168 Cal.App.2d
182, 189; Cadle Co. v. World Wide Hospitality Furniture, Inc. (2006) 144
Cal.App.4th 504.) 
 
Here, the opposition submits a screenshot
of the Nevada Secretary of State Business Entity Information website indicating
that Plaintiff has corrected its defaulted status. (Pl.’s RJN Ex. 1.) Thus, Plaintiff correctly argues in
opposition that, “even if K2005 was not in good standing at some point in this
litigation, K2005 is currently in good standing, and can lawfully prosecute
this case.” (Opp., 6:19-21.)
 
            Based
on the foregoing legal authority and judicially noticeable documents, the
demurrer on this ground is overruled. 
 
            Next,
Defendants argue Plaintiff’s claims fail because Plaintiff K2005, LLC did not
comply with Corporations Code section 2105; that is, the California Secretary
of State website indicates that there are no records authorizing Plaintiff
K2005, LLC to
transact intrastate business in California.
(Def.’s RJN Ex. 5.)
Based on the foregoing, Defendants again argue that Plaintiff K2005 LLC lacks
standing to bring a suit against Defendants. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues Defendants
did not – because they cannot – provide case law or authority that suggests
Plaintiff cannot maintain its claim because it is not registered to conduct
business in California; Plaintiff further suggests that it is “exempt” from this
statute. 
 
In
reply, Defendants merely argue that “Plaintiff does not point to a specific
statute or even identifies exactly how Plaintiff K2005 LLC is exempt leaving
Defendants and the Court responsible for Plaintiff’s own legal research.”
 
            Neither party provides any substantive
analysis of this issue, leaving the task to this Court.
 
Pursuant
to Corporations Code section 2203, subdivision (c), foreign corporations that
transact intrastate business but have not “qualified” may not
“maintain any action or proceeding” upon such business that was
“commenced prior to compliance with Section 2105.” 
 
            “Once
a nonqualified foreign corporation commences an action regarding intrastate
business, the defendant may assert by demurrer or as an affirmative defense in
the answer the lack of capacity to maintain an action arising out of
intrastate business. [Citation.] This abatement procedure enables the foreign
corporation to obtain a judicial determination as to whether it is in fact
transacting intrastate business.” (United Medical Management Ltd. v. Gatto
(1996) 49 Cal.App.4th 1732, 1740.) 
 
            To establish this defense in abatement,
Defendants bears the burden that (1)
the action arises out of the transaction of intrastate business by a foreign
corporation; and (2) the action was commenced by the foreign corporation prior
to qualifying to transact intrastate business. 


            California corporations
law requires repeated and successive transactions of business in
California for Section 2105(a) to come into play. (See Corp. Code, §
191(a) [defining “transact intrastate business” for purposes of Section 2105(a)
as “entering into repeated and successive transactions of its business in this
state, other than interstate or foreign commerce”].)


            Here, the
TAC involves the sale of real commercial property in California and the ancillary
agreement for the sale of the furniture. (TAC ¶¶ 21-24.) With no other showing
other than these allegations in the TAC, Defendants have not met their burden of
demonstrating repeated and successive transactions of Plaintiff’s business in
California. As such, on demurrer, the Court is unable to find that Plaintiff
has failed to comply with Section 2105. Thus, the demurrer on this ground is
also overruled.[1]

 
First Cause of Action for Breach of Contract:
 
            Defendants Saidi and Neta 38th
demur to the first cause of action on the grounds that the TAC fails to state a
claim.
 
            To state a
claim for breach of contract, a plaintiff must allege sufficient facts to
establish: (1) a contract between the parties; (2) plaintiff’s performance or
excuse for nonperformance; (3) defendant’s breach; and (4) damages to plaintiff
from the breach. (Wall Street Network, Ltd. v. New York Times Co.
(2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 1171, 1178.) 
 
            First,
Defendants argue that Plaintiff – now identified as a Nevada limited liability
company – is not a party to the Furniture Agreement. Specifically, the
Furniture Agreement attached to the TAC refers to the party, K2002, LLC, as a California
limited liability company. (TAC, Ex. 1.) Thus, Defendants
argue Plaintiff K2005 LLC, the Nevada entity, is not a party to the Furniture
Agreement and lacks standing to bring this suit.
 
            In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that the reference in the Furniture Agreement was
merely an error.[2] 
 
            Given the
allegations in the TAC (TAC ¶¶ 1, 3, 11, 15, 18, 22.) and overlap of ownership
by Marizadeh (Def.’s RJN Ex. 1), the Court is not inclined to sustain the
demurrer on this ground where it does appear to be clerical error. Thus, on demurrer,
Defendants’ argument fails.[3]
  
 
Defendant Saidi also demurs to the
first cause of action on the grounds that he is not a named party to any of the
contracts or agreements alleged in the TAC. 
 
            The TAC
alleges that Defendants David Saidi and Neta 38th are collectively referred to
as “Buyer Defendants” (TAC ¶ 16.) 
 
            However, the
Contingent Furniture Purchase Agreement itself states that “THIS AGREEMENT is
entered into on March 29, 2021, by and between K2005 LLC, a California limited liability
company (hereinafter referred to as “Seller”) and David Saidi or Neta 38th
LLC, a California limited liability company (hereinafter referred to as
“Buyer”) for the purchase of furniture, accessories, appliances, fabric,
fixtures, and the like (hereinafter referred to as “Furniture,” see Attachment
A).” (TAC Ex. 1.)
 
            Plaintiff
argues that the furniture agreement identifies both Neta 38th and David Saidi
as the “Buyer” However, the sentence uses the disjunctive “or” – not a conjunctive
“and.” Further, as noted by the Court in its prior tentative, the Furniture Agreement
is only signed by David Saidi in his capacity as “managing member” of
Defendant Neta 38th LLC. 
 
Thus, this exhibit contradicts the
allegations in the pleadings. (Holland v. Morse Diesel Intern.,
Inc. (2001) 86
Cal.App.4th 1443, 1447 [“If facts appearing in the exhibits contradict those
alleged, the facts in the exhibits take precedence.”].) Therefore, relying on
the facts as they exist in the Furniture Agreement, Defendant David Saidi, in his
individual capacity, was not a signatory to the Furniture Agreement. That is,
“[d]irectors and officers are not personally liable on contracts signed by them
for and on behalf of the corporation unless they purport to bind themselves
individually.” (United States Liab. Ins. Co. v. Haidinger-Hayes, Inc.
(1970) 1 Cal.3d 586, 595.)
 
            Further,
only a signatory to a contract may be liable for breach. (Clemens v.
American Warranty Corp. (1987) 193 Cal.App.3d 444, 452.) Defendant Neta 38th
LLC’s demurrer to the first cause of action is overruled. Defendant Saidi’s
demurrer to the first cause of action is sustained. 
 
Second Cause of Action for Breach of Covenant of Good Faith
and Fair Dealing:
 
            Defendants
argue that this cause of action fails because it repeats the same facts alleged
in the breach of contract cause of action. 
 
            “The implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing rests upon the existence of some
specific contractual obligation.” (Racine & Laramie, Ltd. v. Department
of Parks & Recreation (1992) 11 Cal.App.4th 1026, 1031.) “The covenant
of good faith and fair dealing, implied by law in every contract, exists merely
to prevent one contracting party from unfairly frustrating the other party's
right to receive the benefits of the agreement actually made.
[Citation.]” (Guz v. Bechtel National, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 349.)
 
First, in
the absence of adequate allegations of the existence of a contract between Plaintiff
and Defendant Saidi, this claim cannot withstand the demurrer as to Defendant
Saidi. Thus, the demurrer is sustained on this ground. 
 
Second, if a
plaintiff's allegations of breach of the covenant of good faith “do[es] not go
beyond the statement of a mere contract breach and, relying on the same alleged
acts, simply seek[s] the same damages or other relief already claimed in a
companion contract cause of action, they may be disregarded as superfluous as
no additional claim is actually stated.” (Careau & Co. v. Security
Pacific Business Credit, Inc. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 1371, 1395.) Here, this
cause of action does nothing than restate the breach of contract cause of
action. (TAC ¶¶ 55-61, 62-71.)
 
In the
opposition, Plaintiff relies on its fraud allegations to suggest that there
exists a breach of implied covenant claim. (Opp., 10:27-11:4 [“It is not simply that Defendants
failed pay the $50,000 per the Furniture Agreement, but that Buyer Defendants
knew it never intended to pay the $50,000 per the Furniture Agreement upon the
signing of the agreement and Buyer Defendants were aware that Plaintiff would
not have sold the property at issue if it was not paid the $50,000.”].) 
 
Plaintiff cites no legal authority
that simply reiterating the allegations of a separate claim for fraud somehow
satisfies the pleading requirements for the the breach of implied covenant
claim. 
 
Thus, the
demurrer to the second cause of action is sustained on this additional ground
as to both Defendants as well.
 
Third Cause of Action for Fraud:
 
            Finally, Defendants
demur to the third cause of action for fraud on the grounds that Plaintiff has
failed to allege facts sufficient to state a claim.           Here, Defendants argue that the allegations of fraud are conclusory
and fail to demonstrate the requisite specificity. 
 
            Fraud
requires an express or implied false representation, concealment of a material
fact which the defendant had a duty to disclose, or a promise made without the intention
to perform. (Pearson v. Norton (1964) 230 Cal.App.2d 1, 7.)
 
            The
elements of a cause of action for intentional misrepresentation are: (1) a
misrepresentation; (2) knowledge of falsity; (3) intent to defraud or induce
reliance; (4) actual reliance by the plaintiff; and (5) resulting damage. (Conroy
v. Regents of University of California (2009) 45 Cal.4th 1244, 1255; Small
v. Fritz Companies, Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th 167, 173; Civ. Code, § 1709.)
Further, fraud, unlike most claims in tort, requires that each element must be
pled with specificity. (Stansfield v. Starkey (1990) 220 Cal.App.3d 59,
73.) That is,
generally, “[i]n California, fraud must be pled specifically; general and
conclusory allegations do not suffice.” (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996)
12 Cal.4th 631, 645.). “This particularity requirement necessitates pleading
facts which ‘show how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the
representations were tendered.’ [Citation.]” (Ibid.)
 
With respect
to promissory fraud, a promise to do something necessarily implies the
intention to perform; hence, where a promise is made without such intention,
there is an implied misrepresentation of fact that may be actionable fraud.
[Citations.]” (Lazar
v. Superior Court
(1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 638.) Thus, in a promissory fraud action, to
sufficiently alleges defendant made a misrepresentation, the complaint must
allege (1) the defendant made a representation of intent to perform some future
action, i.e., the defendant made a promise, and (2) the defendant did not
really have that intent at the time that the promise was made, i.e., the
promise was false. (Id. at 639.)
 
Importantly,
fraud requires that each element must be pled with specificity. (Stansfield
v. Starkey (1990) 220 Cal.App.3d 59, 73.) That is, generally, “[i]n
California, fraud must be pled specifically; general and conclusory allegations
do not suffice.” (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.) “This
particularity requirement necessitates pleading facts which ‘show how, when,
where, to whom, and by what means the representations were tendered.’
[Citation.]” (Ibid.)
 
The TAC alleges “Buyer Defendants
made repeated false promises and assurances that it would pay Plaintiffs the
$50,000 per the Furniture Agreement and had the funds to do so because it was
receiving lending from Trimax Defendants. Buyer Defendants made these false
promises and representations even though they knew they were not going to pay
Plaintiff the $50,000 outside of escrow and that they were not receiving those
funds from Trimax Defendant.” (TAC ¶ 77.) The TAC also alleges that “in 2021,
David Saidi lied to Marizadeh and made oral promises and representations to her
that Trimax Defendants were loaning Buyer Defendants sufficient funds for both
the Purchase Agreement and Furniture Agreement, including the $50,000 that was
to be paid after the close of escrow.” (TAC ¶ 34.) 
 
Again, these allegations do not contain
the level of specificity required for fraud – despite the Court’s repeated
instructions on what the law requires in terms of specificity. Thus, the demurrer
is well taken.  Defendants’ demurrer to
the third cause of action is sustained.
 
Legal Standard for
Motions to Strike
 
            “The court may, upon a
motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon
terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter
inserted in any pleading. (b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an
order of the court.”¿(Code Civ. Proc. § 436.) “Immaterial” or “irrelevant”
matters include allegations not essential to the claim, allegations neither
pertinent to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or a demand for
judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the complaint.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 431.10, subds. (b)(1)-(3).)
 
Attorney Fees
 
            Defendants seek to strike
the request for attorney fees on the grounds that Plaintiff has alleged no
basis for the recovery of attorney fees.
 
            Attorney fees are
recoverable in an action when authorized by contract, statute, or law. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 1033.5, subd. (a)(10).)
 
            Plaintiffs allege that
they are entitled to attorney’s fees pursuant to the “Contingent Furniture
Purchase Sale Agreement” but in their own Complaint states that the attorney’s
fees provision had been eliminated. (TAC ¶ 50.) Rather, Plaintiff takes the position
that the TAC “alleges – in great detail – the fraud committed by Defendants to
get her to sign a Furniture Agreement that did not include an attorneys fees
provision.” (Opp. 3: 20-21.) 
 
            Plaintiff cites no
legal authority that this fraud argument entitles Plaintiff to contractual
attorney fees. Moreover, the Court has sustained the demurrer to the fraud
claim.
 
            Thus, the motion to strike the
request for attorney fees is granted.
 
Punitive Damages Allegations 
 
Punitive
damages are recoverable where the defendant has been guilty of oppression,
fraud, or malice, express or implied. (Civ. Code, § 3294.) “ ‘Something more
than the mere commission of a tort is always required for punitive damages.
There must be circumstances of aggravation or outrage, such as spite or
“malice,” or a fraudulent or evil motive on the part of the defendant, or such
a conscious and deliberate disregard of the interests of others that his
conduct may be called willful or wanton.’” (Taylor v. Superior Court
(1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 894-895 [quoting Prosser, Law of Torts].) Specific intent
to injure is not necessary for a showing of malice—it is sufficient that the
defendant’s conduct was so “wanton or so reckless as to evince malice or
conscious disregard of others’ rights.” (McConnell v. Quinn (1925) 71
Cal. App. 671, 682.) 
 
A request
for punitive damages that is not supported with specific allegations of
oppression, fraud, or malice is subject to a motion to strike. Conclusory
allegations that defendants acted “willfully,” “maliciously,” or with
“oppression, fraud, or malice” are not, without more, sufficient to give rise
to a claim for punitive damages, but such language is permissible where the
complaint contains sufficient factual support for the conclusions. (Perkins v. Superior Court (1981) 117
Cal.App.3d 1, 6-7.) 
 
            As noted in
the Court’s ruling, only the breach of contract claim against Defendant Neta
remains. The breach of contract claim cannot, alone, support a request for
punitive damages. (Ginsberg v. Gamson (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 873, 896
[“Punitive damages may not be awarded as relief in a breach of contract
claim.”].)
 
            Thus, the
motion to strike the request for punitive damages is granted.           
 
Conclusion
 
The demurrer is overruled
as to the first cause of action against Defendant Neta 38th only and
the demurrer sustained in its entirety as to all the remaining claims as to
Defendants. The
motion to strike is granted. 
 
Plaintiff has
had several opportunities to plead, but has not shown a reasonable possibility
of amending to state a cause of action. (Rakestraw v. California Physicians'
Service (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 39, 43 [“The plaintiff bears the burden of
proving there is a reasonable possibility of amendment.”].)  To the extent the demurrer is sustained, it
is without leave to amend.
 


