 Case Number:  20STCV43681    Hearing Date:   January 23, 2024    Dept:  52 Defendant
Flintridge Riding Club’s Motion to Reopen Discovery
Defendant
Flintridge Riding Club moves to reopen discovery.  Code of Civil Procedure section
2024.050, subdivision (b) provides: 
In exercising its discretion to grant or deny [a motion to reopen
discovery], the court shall take into consideration any matter relevant to the
leave requested, including, but not limited to, the following:
(1) The necessity and the reasons for the discovery.
(2) The diligence or lack of diligence of the party seeking the
discovery or the hearing of a discovery motion, and the reasons that the
discovery was not completed or that the discovery motion was not heard earlier.
(3) Any likelihood that permitting the discovery or hearing the
discovery motion will prevent the case from going to trial on the date set, or
otherwise interfere with the trial calendar, or result in prejudice to any
other party.
(4) The length of time that has elapsed between any date previously
set, and the date presently set, for the trial of the action.
First, defendant provides a reasonable explanation
that this discovery is necessary. 
Defendant aims to discover evidence supporting its defense that
plaintiff David Johnston was an independent contractor.  To that end, it seeks to further depose
plaintiff and compel him to produce additional documents.  
Second, defendant shows little diligence in seeking
this discovery, in not completing discovery earlier, and in not having this
motion heard earlier.  Defendant first
appeared in this action in April 2021.  Defendant
served a second amended notice of deposition on plaintiff on June 3, 2021.  (Williams Decl., Ex. D-a.)  Defendant’s counsel states he “repeatedly
delayed setting Plaintiff’s deposition to (a) allow him to find new counsel,
and (b) produce the requested documents.” 
(Id., ¶ 4.)  Defendant ultimately
deposed plaintiff on January 28, 2022.  (Id.,
¶ 4.)  Defendant filed a motion to compel
plaintiff to produce further documents in response to the notice of his
deposition, but the hearing “was vacated without notice to either side.”  (Id., ¶ 7.)  Defendant re-filed the motion on July 18,
2023, and the court denied it.  (Id.,
¶ 8.)  Defendant filed this motion on
November 7, 2023.  Defendant seeks to
justify its lack of diligence based on its patience in attempting to informally
resolve this action and this discovery dispute. 
Third, reopening discovery is not likely to prevent
the case from going to trial or cause prejudice.  The jury trial is set for June 26, 2024.  That date is distant enough that there will
be ample time to conduct further discovery without prejudicing plaintiff. 
Fourth, the trial was initially set for May
2022.  Upon the parties’ stipulation, the
court continued the trial to April 2023. 
Finally, the court sua sponte vacated the trial date, then continued it
to June 26, 2024.  
After weighing all relevant matters, the court finds
good cause to reopen discovery.  The
first, third, and fourth factors support defendant’s motion to reopen
discovery.  The second factor weighs against
reopening discovery.  Overall, reopening
discovery serves the interests of justice.
Disposition
            Defendant
Flintridge
Riding Club’s motion to reopen discovery is granted.  The court hereby reopens all discovery.  Discovery must be completed as provided by
Code of Civil Procedure sections 2024.020 and 2024.030 based on the current
trial date of June 26, 2024.  