 Case Number:  23STCV22893    Hearing Date:   January 23, 2024    Dept:  52 Defendant
Dawn Suskin’s Motion to Strike Portions of First Amended Complaint
            Defendant
Dawn Suskin moves to strike 15 portions of plaintiff FirstService Residential California,
LLC’s first amended complaint.
Injunctive Relief
            Suskin
moves to strike several portions of the first amended complaint regarding
injunctive relief.  Courts may strike a “demand for judgment
requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the complaint.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 431.10, subd. (b)(3).)  “[T]o obtain injunctive relief the plaintiff
must ordinarily show that the defendant’s wrongful acts threaten to cause irreparable injuries,
ones that cannot be adequately compensated in damages.”  (Intel Corp. v. Hamidi (2003) 30
Cal.4th 1342, 1352.)  Courts may enjoin
disclosure of confidential information. 
(See, e.g., Angelica Textile Services, Inc. v. Park (2013) 220
Cal.App.4th 495, 505-507; Courtesy Temporary Service, Inc. v. Camacho
(1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 1278, 1289-1291.)
            The first amended complaint alleges
sufficient facts to obtain injunctive relief. 
It alleges, “Suskin is sharing FirstService’s proprietary documentation,
which is now being used against FirstService’s interests and with the intent to
harm FirstService.”  (¶ 38.)  It further alleges, “While still employed
with FirstService, Suskin obtained confidential information regarding
FirstService’s business plans and models, and FirstService is informed and
believes and thereon alleges that Suskin is sharing such information with the
intent to harm FirstService by drawing other employees away from FirstService
to join Seabreeze.”  (¶ 40.)  Plaintiff thus alleges Suskin continues to
use its confidential information to aid its competitor and harm plaintiff.  On demurrer, these allegations constitute
irreparable injuries that support injunctive relief.
            Suskin
contends plaintiff relies on improper allegations based on information and
belief.  “A ‘ “[p]laintiff may allege on information and
belief any matters that are not within his personal knowledge, if he has
information leading him to believe that the allegations are true” ’ [citation], and thus a pleading made on information and belief is insufficient if
it ‘merely assert[s] the
facts so alleged without alleging such information that “lead[s] [the
plaintiff] to believe that the allegations are true.” ’ ”   (Gomes v. Countrywide Home Loans, Inc. (2011) 192
Cal.App.4th 1149, 1158–1159.)  
            Plaintiff adequately alleges the information
that leads it to believe its allegations are true.  It alleges Suskin emailed plaintiff’s former
employees about transitioning plaintiff’s former staff and its former client,
Playa Vista, to a competing business. 
(FAC, ¶¶ 30-31.)  These
allegations suffice on demurrer.
Punitive Damages
Suskin moves to strike several portions of
the complaint regarding punitive damages. 
Courts may strike such allegations
where the facts alleged “do not rise to the level of malice, oppression or
fraud necessary” to recover punitive damages under Civil Code section
3294.  (Turman v. Turning Point of
Central California, Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 64.)  
Plaintiff alleges
sufficient facts to constitute malice.  “
‘Malice’ means conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to
the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a
willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.”  (Civ. Code, § 3294(c)(1).)  
The first amended
complaint alleges facts, which the court must accept as true, showing defendant
intended to cause injury to plaintiff. 
It alleges, “Suskin deliberately and covertly (without coordination with
FirstService or its Human Resources Department) orchestrated a series of
meetings between Seabreeze management and the on-site associates of
FirstService during regular working hours, which FirstService was paying for.  During these clandestine meetings, Suskin not
only facilitated the introduction of Seabreeze management to FirstService
employees but also went as far as to convey an implicit endorsement of the idea
of transitioning to Seabreeze.”  (FAC, ¶
31.)  It further alleges Suskin’s conduct
was “aimed at actively soliciting and enticing FirstService associates away
from their current employment, thereby causing harm to FirstService’s business interests.”  (Ibid.)  The
first amended complaint also alleges, “Suskin solicited FirstService’s client
and disparaged FirstService for the benefit of herself and/or the benefit of
others.”  (¶ 35.)  
These factual
allegations constitute malicious conduct intended to cause injury to the
plaintiff.
Disposition
Defendant Dawn Suskin’s motion to strike
portions of plaintiff’s first amended complaint is denied.  Defendant is ordered to answer the
first amended complaint within 20 days.