  Case Number:  20STCV18798    Hearing Date:   January 23, 2024    Dept:  52 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 



  Lauren Drablier,
                                   Plaintiff,
  v.
  John
  Thomas McGuire et al,
                                  Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


Case
  No.  20STCV18798
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER REGARDING
  APPOINTMENT OF REFEREE
 
 



 
The
court hereby appoints Matthew L. Taylor as a referee in this action (the
Referee) pursuant to the following terms and conditions:
1.         The Referee shall have authority to
make all decisions necessary for the listing, marketing, and sale of the real
property located at 8203 Zitola Terrace, Los Angeles, California 90293, APN 4115-005-017
(the Property).  If time permits, the
Referee shall make a good faith effort to consult with plaintiff Lauren
Drablier and defendant John Thomas McGuire on all major decisions concerning
the listing, marketing, and sale of the Property.
2.         If either or both parties fail or refuse
to sign any documents necessary for the listing, marketing, or sale of the
Property, the Referee shall have the power to sign all necessary documents on
behalf of the parties.  The Referee’s
authority includes, but is not limited to, the power to do the following: 
·       
Set
the price for sale of the Property
·       
Accept
offers and make counter offers for the sale of the Property
·       
Sign
real estate listing agreements and other documents necessary for the sale of
the Property
·       
Sign
all necessary escrow documents.
3.         The Referee shall use
_________________________ as the escrow company for the sale of the Property
(the Escrow Company).  All proceeds from
the sale of the Property shall be placed in escrow.  The Escrow Company shall not release any
funds to the Referee or either party without court approval.  The Referee may direct the Escrow Company to
release funds to third parties in furtherance of the sale of the Property
without court approval.     
4.         The Referee may retain the services of
a real estate sales broker to sell the Property.  Before doing so, the Referee shall consult
with the parties, through their respective lawyers.  If the parties agree upon the retention of a certain
real estate broker, the Referee shall use that broker.  
5.         The Referee shall be paid $300 per hour
for his services.  The Referee shall submit
invoices for services to the parties on a monthly basis.  The Referee shall be paid for his services
directly by the Escrow Company.  Upon the
opening of escrow for the sale of the Property, the Referee may file a motion for
approval of past fees and anticipated fees through the hearing date on the
motion.  If the Referee provides
additional services after the court adjudicates his motion for fees, upon
competition of services, the Referee may file another motion for an additional
payment.
6.         The Referee shall be compensated for
the time he spends making a motion for approval of fees.  In lieu of a motion, the parties may submit a
stipulation and proposed order approving the Referee’s request for fees.
            7.         The parties shall cooperate with one
another and the Referee in connection with the listing, marketing, and sale of
the Property.  The parties shall also
cooperate with the Escrow Company in the payment of the Referee’s fees.  
            8.         Plaintiff Lauren Drablier and defendant
John Thomas McGuire, and their agents and all others acting in concert with
them, are restrained from, and shall refrain from, obstructing or interfering
in any manner with the Referee’s sale of the Property and the Referee’s
discharge of his duties under this order. 

 
                                                            IT
IS SO ORDERED
 
Dated: January 23, 2024