  Case Number:  23NWCV01249    Hearing Date:   January 4, 2024    Dept:  F Landon Asmad Strattan vs Cedar Corporation dba McDonald’s,
et al.
Case No. 23NWCV01249
Hearing Date: January 4, 2023
 
 
Tentative Ruling 
Plaintiff Landon Stratten’s motion for trial preference
under Code of Civil Procedure section 36 (a) is GRANTED. 
 
Plaintiff Stratten is ORDERED to give notice. 
 
Background
This is a premises liability action filed on April 25, 2023.
Plaintiff Landon Strattan alleges that Defendants Cedar Corporation dba
McDonald’s, Richard Ruby, and Vladimir Lopez (collectively “Defendants”)
negligently allowed an excessive amount of water to accumulate on the floor of
their restaurant, causing Plaintiff to slip and fall on February 15, 2022.  Plaintiff alleges he fell on the wet floor
and sustained serious and debilitating injuries to his head, right shoulder,
neck and back. Plaintiff argues that since the date of the incident, he has
undergone a left knee PRP injection, a right shoulder PRP injection, along with
physical therapy, all of which have failed to resolve any of his symptoms. He
now requires right shoulder surgery.
Evidentiary Objections 
Defendants object to Exhibits D and E filed in reply to the
opposition citing “The general rule of motion practice…is that new evidence is
not permitted with reply papers…‘[T]he inclusion of additional evidentiary
matter with the reply should only be allowed in the exceptional case ...’ and
if permitted, the other party should be given the opportunity to respond.” (Jay
v. Mahaffey (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 1522, 1537–1538.) 
Defendants’ objections are SUSTAINED.
Legal Standard 
“A party to a civil action who is over 70 years of age may
petition the court for a preference, which the court shall grant if the court
makes both of the following findings: (1) The party has a substantial interest
in the action as a whole[; and] (2) The health of the party is such that a
preference is necessary to prevent prejudicing the party’s interest in the
litigation.”  Code Civ. Proc., § 36 (a). 
Discussion 
 
Plaintiff moves for trial preference under Code of Civil
Procedure section 36 (a).  The Court shall grant the motion upon finding
that Plaintiff is over 70 years of age, that he has a substantial interest in
this action, and that his health is such that trial preference is necessary to
prevent prejudicing her interest in the litigation.  Code Civ. Proc., § 36
(a). 
 
Plaintiff is 87 years old.  (Valles Decl., ¶ 4.) 

 
Plaintiff argues
he was a fairly independent man prior to this incident. He was living on his
own, renting a room in a small home and was able to provide the basic needs for
himself. (Valles Decl., ¶ 9.) Since his fall,
Plaintiff now requires around the clock care and was transitioned to living at
Cielo Vista Senior Living Center. Given these grounds
stated for Plaintiff’s causes of action in the complaint, the Court finds that
Dale has a substantial interest in this action.  (See Code Civ. Proc., §
36 (a).)
 
Plaintiff pleads
that his past medical history includes: atrial fibrillation on anticoagulation,
benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH), congestive heart failure, diverticulitis,
gout and hiperlipidemia. (Valles Decl., ¶ 8; Ex.
C.)  On September 14, 2022, Plaintiff was admitted for
resuscitation at Huntington Beach Hospital for five (5) days due to intractable
abdominal pain and rectal bleeding. (Valles Decl., ¶
7; Ex. C.)  Thus, the Court finds that Plaintiff’s
health is such that trial preference is necessary to prevent prejudicing her
interest in this litigation.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 36 (a).)
 
Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s motion for trial preference will be granted.