 Case Number:  23STCV18472    Hearing Date:   June 3, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     June 3, 2024               TRIAL DATE: NOT
SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Robert Golightly v. Pacific Coast
Sustainable Assets, LLC, et al. 
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV28108            
 
DEMURRER
TO ANSWER

 
MOVING PARTY:               Cross-Complainants Pacific Coast Sustainable Assets,
LLC, and Yajac Agriculture, LLC
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Cross-Defendant Robert
Golightly
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
10/24/22: Complaint filed. 
·        
08/04/23: First Amended Complaint filed. 
·        
03/25/24: Cross-Complaint filed by Pacific Coast
Sustainable Assets, LLC and Yajac Agriculture, LLC as to Robert Golightly
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for breach of contract. Plaintiff contracted with
Defendants to manage and operate a farm owned by Defendants. Plaintiff alleges
that he was terminated in violation of the terms of his contract. 
 
Cross-Complainants demur to the
Answer to the Cross-Complaint filed by Robert Golightly. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
            Cross-Complainants’
Demurrer to the Answer to the Cross-Complaint is SUSTAINED with leave to amend
as to all affirmative defenses, except for the legal defense of failure to
state a cause of action. 
 
            Cross-Defendant
shall have 20 days from the date of this order to file a First Amended Answer. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Cross-Complainants demur to the
Answer to the Cross-Complaint filed by Robert Golightly. 
 
Legal Standard
 
            Code of
Civil Procedure section 430.20 provides:
 
A party against whom an
answer has been filed may object, by demurrer as provided in Section 430.30, to
the answer upon any one or more of the following grounds:
 
(a)  The answer does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a defense.
 
(b)  The
answer is uncertain. As used in this subdivision, “uncertain” includes
ambiguous and unintelligible.
 
(Code
Civ. Proc. § 430.20.) 
 
            Regarding the standards for pleading
an affirmative defense:
 
 (1) In General. An affirmative defense must
be pleaded in the same manner as if the facts were set forth in a complaint. In
other words, the general requirement of stating the ultimate facts applies and,
where particularity in pleading is necessary in a complaint, it is equally
necessary in an affirmative defense involving the issue. (Bruck v. Tucker (1871) 42 C. 346, 352; Greiss v. State Inv. & Ins. Co. (1893) 98 C. 241, 244, 33 P.
195; Bradbury v. Higginson (1914) 167
C. 553, 557, 140 P. 254 [if matter set up is equitable cause of action, answer
must contain all averments essential to statement of cause of action as such]; see 19B Am.Jur. P.P. Forms (2007 ed.),
Pleading, §85 et seq.)
 
(2) Argumentative Denials. The affirmative
form in which the defendant phrases his or her answering averments does not
make them new matter. If they merely contradict essential allegations of the
complaint, they are simply denials in affirmative form (“argumentative
denials”). (Frisch v. Caler (1862) 21
C. 71, 74; Goddard v. Fulton (1863) 21 C. 430, 436; Rancho Santa Margarita v. Vail (1938) 11 C.2d 501, 543, 81 P.2d
533; Jolley v. Clemens (1938) 28
C.A.2d 55, 65, 82 P.2d 51, supra,
§1077.)
 
(6 Witkin Cal. Proc. Plead § 1122.)
 
            Affirmative defenses that are mere
legal conclusions are insufficient:
 
The
. . . answer alleged merely: “Plaintiff’s claims are barred in whole or in
part by the doctrine of waiver,” and “Plaintiff's causes of action, or some of
them, are barred by the doctrine of laches because plaintiff unreasonably
delayed bringing suit, causing defendants to reasonably rely on the status
quo.”
 
These
affirmative defenses consist of legal conclusions that could survive neither a
demurrer nor a motion for judgment on the pleadings. (Citations omitted.) 
 
(Westly v. Board of Administration
(2003) 105 Cal. App. 4th 1095, 1117.) Rather than being “proffered in the form of terse legal
conclusions,” affirmative defenses must plead facts “averred as carefully and
with as much detail as the facts which constitute the cause of action and are
alleged in the complaint.” (FPI
Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 384.)
 
A demurrer for uncertainty is
strictly construed, even where a pleading is in some respects uncertain,
because ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures. (See Khoury
v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)  A
demurrer for uncertainty will be sustained only where the pleading is so bad
that defendant cannot reasonably respond--i.e., he or she cannot
reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what counts or
claims are directed against him or her.  (See Weil & Brown, Civil
Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group) § 7:85 (emphasis in original).)
"The objection of uncertainty does not go to the failure to allege
sufficient facts."  (Brea v. McGlashan (1934) 3
Cal.App.2d 454, 459.) 
 
Meet and Confer
 
Before filing a demurrer, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who has filed the pleading subject to the demurrer and file a declaration
detailing their meet-and-confer efforts.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41(a).)
However, an insufficient meet-and-confer process is not grounds
to overrule or sustain a demurrer.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41(a)(4).)
 
The Declaration of Faryan Afifi
states that he sent a meet-and-confer letter to Cross-Defendant’s counsel on
April 25, 2024 via email, requesting a substantive response to the objections
raised by April 29, 2024. (Declaration of Faryan A. Afifi ISO Demurrer ¶2; Exh.
1.) Cross-Defendant’s counsel responded that he would get back to
Cross-Complainants’ counsel by “the latter part of next week” on April 26,
2024, ignoring the given deadline. (Id. ¶ 3 Exh. 2.) As of May 3, 2024,
the date the demurer was filed, Cross-Defendant’s counsel had not followed up.
(Id.) The Court therefore finds that Cross-Complainants have satisfied
their statutory meet-and-confer obligations. 
 
//
 
//
Analysis
 
            Cross-Complainants
demur to the Answer to the Cross-Complaint with respect to each of the eight
affirmative defenses asserted based on a failure to state facts sufficient to
support a defense and for uncertainty.
 
1.     
First Affirmative Defense: Failure to State
Facts Sufficient to Support a Cause of Action
This defense, mislabeled as an
affirmative defense, alleges that Cross-Complainants’ causes of action fail
because they have failed to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action for each of the causes of action asserted. (Answer ¶ 2.) “The defense of
failure to state a claim is, in essence, an argument that the plaintiff has not
met its burden of alleging the elements of its claims.” (LL B Sheet 1, LLC
v. Loskutoff (2019) 362 F.Supp. 3d 804, 818.) It is not an affirmative
defense that relies on the pleading of new factual allegations, so it is not
subject to a demurrer that challenges the sufficiency of the underlying
allegations.  Accordingly, the demurrer
to this defense is not well-taken and is overruled.    
 
2.     
Second Affirmative Defense: Unclean Hands
 
This affirmative defense alleges
that Cross-Complainants are barred from recovering against Cross-Defendant by
reason of their own conduct under the doctrine of unclean hands. (Answer ¶ 3.) Cross-Complainants
demur to this defense for failure to state facts sufficient to constitute a
defense. The Court concurs with Cross-Complainants. This defense is merely a
conclusory legal assertion without supporting facts. Cross-Defendant has failed
to state facts sufficient to constitute a defense. 
 
3.     
Third Affirmative Defense: Laches
 
This affirmative defense alleges
that Cross-Complainants are barred from recovering against Cross-Defendant
under the doctrine of laches. (Answer ¶ 4.) Cross-Complainants demur to this
defense for failure to state facts sufficient to constitute a defense. The
Court concurs with Cross-Complainants. This defense is merely a conclusory
legal assertion without supporting facts. Cross-Defendant has failed to state
facts sufficient to constitute a defense. 
 
4.     
Fourth Affirmative Defense: Waiver
 
This affirmative defense alleges
that Cross-Complainants are barred from recovering against Cross-Defendant
under the doctrine of waiver. (Answer ¶ 5.) Cross-Complainants demur to this
defense for failure to state facts sufficient to constitute a defense. The
Court concurs with Cross-Complainants. This defense is merely a conclusory
legal assertion without supporting facts. Cross-Defendant has failed to state
facts sufficient to constitute a defense. 
 
//
5.     
Fifth Affirmative Defense: Statute of
Limitations
 
            This affirmative defense alleges
that Cross-Complainants’ action is barred by unspecified statutes of
limitations. (Answer ¶ 6.) Cross-Complainants demur to this defense for failure
to state facts sufficient to constitute a defense. 
 
In pleading a statute of limitations, “it is not necessary
to state the facts showing the defense, but it may be stated generally that the
cause of action is barred by the provisions of Section ____ (giving the number
of the section and subdivision thereof, if it is so divided, relied upon) of
the Code of Civil Procedure.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 458.) In other words, there
are two ways to plead the statute of limitations. (Brown v. World Church
(1969) 272 Cal.App.2d 684, 691.) “[F]irst by alleging all of the facts showing that the action is
barred . . . and indicating that the lateness of the commencement of the action
is being urged as a defense.” (Ibid.) Second, “to specify the applicable
section, and, if such section is divided into subdivisions, to specify the
particular subdivision or subdivisions thereof.” (Ibid. [holding that
the defendants had failed to properly plead the statute of limitations because
“Section 337 of the Code of Civil Procedure has two subdivisions and defendants
failed to specify under which subdivision of the section they allegedly come”]) 
 
Here, Cross-Defendant has neither alleged the specific
statutory section applicable, along with any necessary subsections, nor
any facts showing the action is barred by any statute of limitations. As a
result, Cross-Defendant’s affirmative defense does not qualify as a sufficient
pleading of a statute of limitations defense. 
The demurrer to this affirmative defense must be sustained.
 
6.     
Sixth Affirmative Defense: Judicial Admissions
 
This affirmative defense alleges
that the claims asserted by Cross-Complainants are barred by the judicial
admissions made by Yajac Agriculture and Yael and Uzzi Reiss in Yajac
Agriculture, LLC v. Epstein (LASC Case No. BC582745.) (Answer ¶ 7.) Cross-Complainants
demur to this defense for failure to state facts sufficient to constitute a
defense. The Court concurs with Cross-Complainants. This defense is merely a
conclusory legal assertion without supporting facts. Cross-Defendant has failed
to state facts sufficient to constitute a defense. 
 
7.     
Seventh Affirmative Defense: Estoppel
 
This affirmative defense alleges
that Cross-Complainants are barred from recovering against Cross-Defendant
under the doctrine of estoppel. (Answer ¶ 8.) Cross-Complainants demur to this
defense for failure to state facts sufficient to constitute a defense. The
Court concurs with Cross-Complainants. This defense is merely a conclusory
legal assertion without supporting facts. Cross-Defendant has failed to state
facts sufficient to constitute a defense. 
 
//
8.     
Eighth Affirmative Defense: Irreconcilable
Conflict
 
This affirmative defense alleges
that Cross-Complainants are barred from recovering against Cross-Defendant because
there is an irreconcilable conflict between Yajac Agriculture and Yael Reiss on
the one side and Pacific Coast Assets, LLC on the other side. (Answer ¶ 9.) As
Cross-Complainants argue, “Irreconcilable conflict” is not an affirmative
defense. Further, although the answer makes several assertions regarding “Yael
Reiss’ intentional creation of a false February 3 2012 Operating Agreement,”
and the resulting consequences, Cross-Defendant’s answer does not set forth any
factual support for those assertions and sets forth no colorable legal theory
under which they might serve as a defense, affirmative or otherwise. The Court
therefore concurs with Cross-Complainants that this cause of action is not
adequately pled. 
 
Leave to Amend
 
            When a
demurrer is sustained, the Court determines whether there is a reasonable
possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment. (Blank v. Kirwan
(1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) California law imposes the burden on the party
who filed the pleading to demonstrate the manner in which they can amend their
pleadings to state their claims.  (See Goodman v. Kennedy
(1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.) “Denial of leave to amend constitutes an abuse of
discretion unless the [pleading] shows on its face it is incapable of
amendment.  [Citation.]  Liberality in permitting amendment is the
rule, if a fair opportunity to correct any defect has not been given."
(Angie M. v. Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1217, 1227.)
 
            Here,
Cross-Defendant has not demonstrated the manner by which the Answer might be
amended to properly state his defenses against the claims in the
Cross-Complaint. However, in light of the liberal standard for permitting
amendment of the pleadings, and the defects in the answer arising merely from a
paucity of alleged facts, the Court will exercise its discretion to permit
leave to amend the answer.
 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Cross-Complainants’ Demurrer to the Answer to the Cross-Complaint is SUSTAINED
with leave to amend as to all affirmative defenses, except for the legal
defense of failure to state a cause of action. 
 
            Cross-Defendant
shall have 20 days from the date of this order to file a First Amended Answer. 
 
            Moving
Parties to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  June 3, 2024                           ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 