  Case Number:  23STCV09430    Hearing Date:   June 3, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     June 3, 2024               TRIAL DATE: NOT
SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Sung Sik Lim v. Peter Eunsang Kim
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV09430            
 
(1)
MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES; REQUEST FOR
SANCTIONS
(2)
MOTINO TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION; REQUEST FOR
SANCTIONS

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff Sung Sik Lim
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): No response on
eCourt as of 5/29/24
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
04/27/23: Complaint filed.
·        
12/29/23: First Amended Complaint filed. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for fraud and breach of contract. The parties were equal
owners of a corporation, Papilion, Inc., whose sole asset was a restaurant
named Concerto. On January 31, 2020, the Restaurant’s original lease expired,
and the landlord commenced an unlawful detainer action. Defendant wished to
contest the unlawful detainer, and contracted with Plaintiff to purchase
Plaintiff’s interest in the business and defend the unlawful detainer action.
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant never made the agreed-upon payments for Plaintiff’s
interest in the business. 
 
Plaintiff moves to compel further
responses to Special Interrogatories and Requests for Production propounded to
Defendant. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
            Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories is GRANTED.
            
            Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production is GRANTED IN
PART with respect to Requests Nos. 1 and 11 and otherwise DENIED. 
 
            Plaintiff’s
request for sanctions is DENIED.
 
            Defendant
is ordered to provide verified, code compliant responses without objections
within 30 days of this order. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Special
Interrogatories
 
            Plaintiff
moves to compel further responses to Special Interrogatories propounded to
Defendant.
 
Legal Standards
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.300, subdivision (a), a court
may order a party to serve a further response to an interrogatory when the
court finds that: “(1) An answer to a particular interrogatory is evasive or
incomplete[;] (2) An exercise of the option to produce documents under Section
2030.230 is unwarranted or the required specification of those documents is
inadequate[; or] (3) An objection to an interrogatory is without merit or too
general.”
 
The burden is on the responding party to justify any objection or failure
to fully answer the interrogatories. (Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Superior Court
(2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255.)
 
Meet and
Confer
 
A party making a
motion to compel further responses must include a declaration stating facts
showing a “reasonable and good faith attempt” to resolve informally the issues
presented by the motion before filing the motion. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2016.040,
2030.310(b).) 
 
            The
Declaration of Dennis McPhillips attached to the Motion states that the parties
met and conferred electronically between January 10 and February 20, 2024
regarding this dispute and agreed to schedule an Informal Discovery Conference
before the Court on April 15, 2024. (Declaration of Dennis McPhillips ISO Mot.
¶ 16 Exhs. C-G.) However, Defendant never prepared an IDC statement and did not
appear at the IDC. (Id. ¶ 17.) Plaintiff has therefore satisfied the
statutory meet-and-confer requirements.
 
Timeliness
 
A
motion to compel a further response must be noticed within 45 days of the
service of the verified response, or any supplemental response, or on or before
any specific later date to which the propounding party and the responding party
have agreed in writing.  (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2030.300(c), see
also Sexton v. Superior Court (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 1403,
1409; Vidal Sassoon, Inc. v. Superior Court (1983) 147 Cal.App.3d
681, 685.) Otherwise, the propounding party waives any right to compel further
responses. (Id.) The 45-day time limit is mandatory and
jurisdictional.  (Sexton v. Superior Court (1997) 58 Cal.
App. 4th 1403, 1410.)
 
            The
meet-and-confer correspondence provided by Plaintiff’s counsel includes an
express agreement by Defendant’s counsel to an extension of the time to file
this motion to 25 days after the Informal Discovery Conference. (McPhillips
Decl. Exh. D.) As the Informal Discovery Conference took place on April 15,
2024, the deadline to file this motion was May 10, 2024, by operation of this
agreement. The motion was filed and served on May 2, 2024, well ahead of that
deadline. The Motion is therefore timely.
 
Analysis
 
            Plaintiff
propounded special interrogatories to Defendant via email on November 8, 2023. (McPhillips
Decl. Exh. A.) Defendant responded on December 7, 2023 with only objections and
a refusal to answer the interrogatories while Defendant’s demurrer to the
Complaint was still pending. (Id. Exh. B.) As Defendant has not
responded to this motion, Defendant has failed to justify these objections.
Plaintiff is therefore entitled to an order compelling further responses. 
 
Sanctions
 
            Plaintiff requests
sanctions only against Defendant in the amount of $3,435. 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030 authorizes the Court to impose
monetary sanctions on any attorney engaging in the misuse of the discovery
process by requiring that attorney to pay the reasonable expenses incurred by
anyone as a result of that conduct. Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.300(d)
requires the Court to impose sanctions against any party who unsuccessfully
makes or opposes a motion to compel further response, unless it finds that the
one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.
 
            In the
Court’s view, invalid or unsupported objections are more properly imputed to
legal counsel, who is expected to understand the procedural and substantive
requirements for an objection, and not the client on whose behalf those
objections are asserted. An award of sanctions that has not been properly
requested in a notice of motion does not comply with the statutory requirements
and is a violation of the opposing party’s right to due process. (Code Civ.
Proc. § 2023.040.) As counsel has not been named in the Notice of Motion as a
target of sanctions, the Court is without authority to impose sanctions upon
Defendant’s counsel, and the Court finds that the imposition of sanctions on
Defendant would be unjust in this instance. 
 
//
Conclusion
 
            Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories is
GRANTED.
 
            Plaintiff’s
request for sanctions is DENIED.
 
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for
Production
 
            Plaintiff
moves to compel further responses to Requests for Production sent to Defendant.

 
Legal Standards
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310, subdivision (a), a court
may order a party to serve a further response to a demand for inspection when
the court finds that: “(1) A statement of compliance with the demand is
incomplete[;] (2) A representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete,
or evasive[; or] (3) An objection in the response is without merit or too
general.”
 
The burden is on the moving party to “set forth specific facts showing
good cause justifying the discovery sought by the demand.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.310, subd. (b)(1).) These facts must also be set forth in a separate
statement filed by the moving party. (Cal. Rules of Court Rule 3.1345(c).) This
burden “is met simply by a fact-specific showing of relevance.” (TBG Ins.
Servs. Corp. v. Superior Court (2002) 96 Cal.App.4th 443, 448.)
 
Meet and Confer
 
A party making a motion to compel further responses must also include a
declaration stating facts showing a “reasonable and good faith attempt” to
resolve informally the issues presented by the motion before filing the motion.
(Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2016.040, 2031.310, subd. (b)(2).)
 
            The
Declaration of Dennis McPhillips attached to the Motion states that the parties
met and conferred electronically between January 10 and February 20, 2024
regarding this dispute and agreed to schedule an Informal Discovery Conference
before the Court on April 15, 2024. (Declaration of Dennis McPhillips ISO Mot.
¶ 16 Exhs. C-G.) However, Defendant never prepared an IDC statement and did not
appear at the IDC. (Id. ¶ 17.) Plaintiff has therefore satisfied the
statutory meet-and-confer requirements.
 
Timeliness
 
A motion to compel further
responses to requests for production must be served “within 45 days of the
service of the verified response, or any supplemental verified response, or on
or before any specific later date to which the propounding party and the responding
party have agreed in writing.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.310(c).) The 45-day
requirement is mandatory and jurisdictional. (Sexton v. Superior Court¿(1997)
58 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410.)
 
The meet-and-confer correspondence
provided by Plaintiff’s counsel includes an express agreement by Defendant’s
counsel to an extension of the time to file this motion to 25 days after the
Informal Discovery Conference. (McPhillips Decl. Exh. D.) As the Informal
Discovery Conference took place on April 15, 2024, the deadline to file this
motion was therefore May 10, 2024, by operation of this agreement. The motion
was filed and served on May 2, 2024, well ahead of that deadline. The Motion is
therefore timely.
 
Good Cause
 
            Plaintiff
propounded requests for production to Defendant via email on November 8, 2023.
(McPhillips Decl. Exh. A.) Request No. 1, which seeks any communications
between Defendant and Plaintiff since December 2, 2015, (Exh. A. No. 1), and
Request No. 12, which seeks any correspondence regarding acquisition of the
Concerto Restaurant (Id. No. 12) are facially relevant to the
allegations in the pleadings. However, nothing in either the original Complaint
nor the First Amended Complaint justifies the remaining overarching requests,
which seek, in essence, all Papilion and Concerto financial records and other
business documents in Defendant’s possession. Plaintiff’s conclusory assertion
that they are relevant to Plaintiff’s claim that Defendant operated the
business without paying Plaintiff the money owed does not suffice to establish
good cause for such wide-ranging requests. The Court will therefore only
address the sufficiency of Defendant’s responses to Requests Nos. 1 and 12.
 
Defendant’s Responses
 
            Defendant
responded to the requests at issue by asserting boilerplate objections and
refusing to respond to the request while Defendant’s Demurrer to the Complaint
remained pending. As Defendant has not responded to this motion, Defendant has
failed to justify these objections. Plaintiff is therefore entitled to an order
compelling further responses. 
 
Sanctions
 
            Plaintiff
also requests sanctions against Defendant for asserting invalid objections to
the requests for production. However, as Plaintiff did not fully prevail on
this motion, Plaintiff is not entitled to sanctions. 
 
Conclusion
 
            Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production is
GRANTED IN PART with respect to Requests Nos. 1 and 12 and otherwise DENIED. 
 
            Plaintiff’s
request for sanctions is DENIED. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly, Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories is GRANTED.
            
            Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production is GRANTED IN
PART with respect to Requests Nos. 1 and 12 and otherwise DENIED. 
 
            Plaintiff’s
request for sanctions is DENIED.
 
            Defendant
is ordered to provide verified, code compliant responses without objections
within 30 days of this order. 
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  June 3, 2024                           ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 