 Case Number:  23STCV30527    Hearing Date:   June 3, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     June 3, 2024                           TRIAL DATE: NOT SET
                                                           
CASE:                         John & Sheryl Associates d/b/a
Discovery World Early Education Center v. CYP LLC
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV30527            
 
MOTION
FOR RECONSIDERATION

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant CYP LLC
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff John
& Sheryl Associates d/b/a Discovery World Early Education Center. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for breach of contract that was filed on December 14,
2023. Plaintiff alleges that Defendant, as the landlord of property leased by
Plaintiff, refused to approve Plaintiff’s request to install new playground
equipment without adequate justification. 
 
Defendant moves for reconsideration
of the Court’s March 29, 2024 ruling denying Defendant’s special motion to
strike. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
            Defendant’s
Motion for Reconsideration is DENIED.
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Defendant moves for reconsideration
of the Court’s March 29, 2024 ruling denying Defendant’s special motion to
strike. 
 
Legal
Standard
 
            Code of Civil Procedure § 1008
provides, in relevant part:
 
a) When an
application for an order has been made to a judge, or to a court, and refused
in whole or in part, or granted, or granted conditionally, or on terms, any
party affected by the order may, within 10 days after service upon the party of
written notice of entry of the order and based upon new or different facts,
circumstances, or law, make application to the same judge or court that
made the order, to reconsider the matter and modify, amend, or revoke the prior
order. The party making the application shall state by affidavit what
application was made before, when and to what judge, what order or decisions
were made, and what new or different facts, circumstances, or law are claimed
to be shown.
 
* * *
 
(c) If a court at
any time determines that there has been a change of law that warrants it to
reconsider a prior order it entered, it may do so on its own motion and enter a
different order.
 
(d) A violation
of this section may be punished as a contempt and with sanctions as allowed by
Section 128.7. In addition, an order made contrary to this section may be
revoked by the judge or commissioner who made it, or vacated by a judge of the
court in which the action or proceeding is pending.
 
(e) This section
specifies the court’s jurisdiction with regard to applications for
reconsideration of its orders and renewals of previous motions, and applies to
all applications to reconsider any order of a judge or court, or for the
renewal of a previous motion, whether the order deciding the previous matter or
motion is interim or final. No application to reconsider any order or for the
renewal of a previous motion may be considered by any judge or court unless
made according to this section.
 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 1008(a), (c)-(e) (bold
emphasis added).)
 
Jurisdiction
 
            Defendant does
not bring this motion as a formal motion for reconsideration under section 1008
but rather styles it as a request for the Court to reconsider the March 29,
2024 ruling on its own motion pursuant to subdivision (c). Plaintiff argues
that such a request is improper because subdivision (c) does not permit
Defendant to petition the Court for reconsideration, and because Defendant has
not complied with the procedural requirements of subdivisions (a) and (b). Even
so, the Court has discretion to reconsider an order on its own motion under
both section 1008(c) and its “constitutionally derived authority.” (Le
Francois v. Goel¿(2005) 35 Cal.4th 1094, 1096.)  Section 1008 limits the parties’ ability to
file repetitive motions to reconsider a matter already decided; it does not
limit the court’s ability to reconsider its prior interim orders to correct its
own errors. (Id. at pg. 1109.) The Court therefore has jurisdiction to
consider the request on its merits. 
 
Analysis
 
            Defendant
contends that the Court should reconsider its March 29, 2024 ruling denying
Defendant’s special motion to strike the Complaint. In that motion, Defendant
argued that this action, asserting claims for breach of contract and breach of
the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, arose from statements made
by Defendant in connection with an issue under consideration by a judicial
body. The Complaint alleges that Defendant cited health and safety claims
asserted by Plaintiff in a separate action concerning the interior of the
subject property as justification to deny Plaintiff’s request to approve
installation of outdoor playground equipment. (Complaint ¶¶ 9, 13, 15, 23.) Defendant
argued that these justifications grounded Plaintiff’s claims in protected
activity under Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16. The Court rejected that
contention, finding that the gravamen of Plaintiff’s claims in this action arose
from Defendant’s refusal to approve Plaintiff’s planned construction of an
outdoor playground. (March 29, 2024 Minute Order p.5.) With respect to the
breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, the Court
specifically found that the issue in this case vis a vis Defendant’s good faith
or lack thereof is whether the structural integrity claims asserted in the
first lawsuit have any relation to Plaintiff’s request to build a playground,
and that this relationship is not a matter that was under consideration or
review in the first lawsuit. (Id. p. 6.) 
 
            Defendant
argues that the Court accepted oral representations by Plaintiff’s counsel that
Plaintiff withdrew a request to make interior renovations that had been
simultaneously pending. (See Declaration of Mark K. Worthge ISO Mot. Exh. 1.
p.8:1-11.)  According to Defendant, that
representation is not supported by evidence and, at the time Defendant denied
the renovation request, those interior improvements were part of the request
and had not been withdrawn. Defendant’s argument entirely misconstrues the
Court’s ruling and misapplies the standard for a special motion to strike under
section 425.16. In the first instance, it is Defendant’s burden, not
Plaintiff’s, to demonstrate that the action is based on protected activity. (Kajima
Engineering & Construction, Inc. v. City of Los Angeles (2002) 95
Cal.App.4th 921, 928; Rivero v. American Federation of State, County and
Municipal Employees, AFL-CIO (2003) 105 Cal.App.4th 913, 919.)  Further, in evaluating whether any cause of
action arises from protected conduct, it is proper for a court to consider, in
addition to any declarations submitted, the relevant allegations of the
complaint.  (Bel Air Internet, LLC v.
Morales (2018) 20 Cal. App. 5th 924, 936.) 
Here, the complaint plainly attacks Defendant’s allegedly unjustified
interference with Plaintiff’s efforts to install new outdoor playground
equipment, not to do interior renovations, and thus provides an adequate basis
for the Court’s first-prong determination. 
(Complaint, ¶¶ 9, 12-14, 16, 20, 22.) Second, as the Court stated in its
ruling on March 29, Defendant’s justifications for denying the renovation
request are not the injury-producing conduct on which the action is based; it
is the denial itself that is the alleged cause of the injury on both
causes of action. With respect to the breach of contract claim, Defendant’s
justifications are entirely collateral, as the denial itself is an action, not
a statement. 
 
            With
respect to the alleged breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair
dealing, the Court found that the dispute—i.e., whether Defendant’s denial of
the request was done in good faith—centers on whether the renovations at issue
here bear any connection to the first lawsuit concerning the interior of the
building. Defendant contended, as it does here, that the matters are related
and thus that it had a good-faith basis to deny the request. Plaintiff contends
that there is no relation and that Defendant’s justification was a mere excuse
for a bad-faith denial. This question is not “under consideration or review” in
the first action. 
 
            The Court
did not err in its March 29, 2024 ruling and declines Defendant’s invitation to
reconsider that decision. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Defendant’s Motion for Reconsideration is DENIED. 
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated: June 3, 2024                               ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 