  Case Number:  23PSCV00304    Hearing Date:   November 2, 2023    Dept:  K Defendant Upper
Westwood Homeowner’s Association’s Demurrer to Complaint is SUSTAINED. The court
will hear from counsel for Plaintiff as to whether leave to amend is requested,
and as to which cause(s) of action, and will require an offer of proof if so.
Background   
Plaintiff Hector Mercado
(“Plaintiff”) alleges as follows: On May 23, 2022, Plaintiff purchased a
condominium unit (“Unit”) from David Lucano (“Lucano”) “and the other
Defendants.” Plaintiff was not told of certain defects to the Unit, the roof,
AC unit, windows and doors. The Unit has sustained water damage.
On January 31, 2023, Plaintiff
filed a complaint, asserting causes of action against Lucano, Condominium
Management Services ("CMS”), Home Warranty of America (“HWA”), Quality Real
Estate (“QRE”), Maricela Abundis (“Abundis”) and Does 1-10 for:
1.                 
Breach of Contract
2.                 
Breach of Contract
On April 28, 2023, Plaintiff filed
an “Amendment to Complaint,” wherein South Coast Shingle Company, Inc. (“South
Coast”) was named in lieu of Doe 1.
On June 6, 2023, Plaintiff dismissed CMS and QRE, without prejudice;
that day, Plaintiff filed two “Amendment[s] to Complaint,” wherein Christina
Mercado was named in lieu of Doe 2 and Upper Westwood Homeowners Association
(“HOA”) was named in lieu of Doe 3.
On August 23, 2023, Plaintiff dismissed South Coast, without
prejudice.
A Case Management Conference is set for January 9, 2024.
Legal Standard
A demurrer may be made on the grounds that
the pleading, inter alia, does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause
of action and/or that, in an action founded upon a contract, it cannot be ascertained
from the pleading whether the contract is written, is oral, or is implied by
conduct. (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.10, subds. (e) and (g).)
When considering
demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context. In a demurrer
proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via
proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v.
Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the
pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it
lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are
judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d
902, 905 [citations omitted].) At the pleading stage, a plaintiff need only
allege ultimate facts sufficient to apprise the defendant of the factual basis
for the claim against him. (Semole v.
Sansoucie (1972) 28 Cal. App. 3d 714, 721.) “[A] demurrer does not,
however, admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law alleged in
the pleading, or the construction placed on an instrument pleaded therein, or
facts impossible in law, or allegations contrary to facts of which a court may
take judicial knowledge.” (S. Shore Land
Co. v. Petersen (1964) 226 Cal.App.2d 725, 732 [citations omitted].)

Discussion
HOA demurs, pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure § 430.10, subdivisions (e) and (g), to the first and second cause of
action in Plaintiff’s complaint, on the basis that they both fail to state
facts sufficient to constitute causes of action and that it cannot be
ascertained whether the contract is written, oral or implied by conduct.

Plaintiff’s
complaint is comprised of two causes of action, each for Breach of Contract. “To prevail on a
cause of action for breach of contract, the plaintiff must prove (1) the
contract, (2) the plaintiff's performance of the contract or excuse for
nonperformance, (3) the defendant's breach, and (4) the resulting damage to the
plaintiff.” (Richman v. Hartley (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186.)
As to the first
cause of action, Plaintiff has alleged that a written agreement was made on or
about May 23, 2022 between Luciano, Abundis and QRE, a copy of which is
attached as Exhibit A. Exhibit A to the complaint appears to be an addendum to
the Purchase Agreement for the lease of the Unit for a term following the sale
of the Unit. HOA is not a party to the contract and is not mentioned in the
contract.
As to the second
cause of action, Plaintiff has alleged that a written agreement was made on or
about November 1, 2022 between CMS and HWA, a copy of which is attached as
Exhibit B. Exhibit B to the complaint appears to be a home warranty plan
purchased in connection with the sale of the Unit. Again, HOA is not a party to
the contract and is not mentioned in the contract.
HOA’s demurrer,
then, is sustained.