 Case Number:  23PSCV01722    Hearing Date:   November 2, 2023    Dept:  K 1.         Defendant Karen Lynn Borromeo Dijamco’s
Demurrer to Plaintiffs’ [First] Amended Complaint is OVERRULED in part (i.e.,
as to the second cause of action) and SUSTAINED in part (i.e., as to the fourth
cause of action). The court will hear from counsel for Plaintiffs as to whether
leave to amend is requested and will require an offer of proof if so.
2.         Defendant Karen Lynn Borromeo Dijamco’s
Motion to Strike Portions of Plaintiffs’ First Amended Complaint is DENIED as
MOOT in part (i.e., as to Paragraphs 42 and 43) and GRANTED in part (i.e., as
to Paragraph 3 of the prayer). The court will hear from counsel for Plaintiffs as
to whether leave to amend is requested and will require an offer of proof if
so.
Background[1]  
Plaintiffs Guillermina Murcio and
Jorge Armendariz (together, “Plaintiffs”) sustained injuries in a February 12,
2023 head on motor vehicle collision. Plaintiffs allege that the driver of the
other vehicle, Karen Lynn Borromeo Dijamco (“Dijamco”), was intoxicated.
On August 22, 2023, Plaintiffs
filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”), asserting causes of action against
Dijamco, Victor Borromeo and Does 1-20 for:
1.                 
Negligence
2.                 
Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress
3.                 
Negligent Entrustment 
4.                 
Battery
A Case Management
Conference is set for November 2, 2023.
1.         Demurrer to FAC
Legal Standard
A
demurrer may be made on the grounds that the pleading, inter alia, does not
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action and/or is uncertain.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subds. (e) and (f).)
When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in
context. In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of
the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A
demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic
matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the
pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984)
153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905 [citations omitted].) At the pleading stage, a
plaintiff need only allege ultimate facts sufficient to apprise the defendant
of the factual basis for the claim against him. (Semole v. Sansoucie (1972) 28 Cal. App. 3d 714, 721.) “[A] demurrer
does not, however, admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law
alleged in the pleading, or the construction placed on an instrument pleaded
therein, or facts impossible in law, or allegations contrary to facts of which
a court may take judicial knowledge.” (S.
Shore Land Co. v. Petersen (1964) 226 Cal.App.2d 725, 732 [citations
omitted].)
Discussion
Dijamco demurs, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure §
430.10, subdivisions (e) and (f), to the second and fourth causes of action in
Plaintiffs’ FAC, on the basis that they both fail to state facts sufficient to
constitute causes of action and are uncertain.
Second Cause of Action (i.e., Negligent Infliction of
Emotional Distress)
Dijamco essentially demurs to the second cause of action on
the basis that it is duplicative of the negligence cause of action. (Demurrer,
7:1-3 [“Here, Plaintiffs have a cause of action for negligence and if they
prevail, they may recover damages for any emotional distress that they can
prove arose out of the subject accident. It is entirely improper o [sic] maintain
a separate cause of action for NIED under these circumstances.”].) Dijamco has
failed to support her position with legal authority. Code of Civil Procedure §
430.10 does not authorize sustaining a demurrer on the basis of redundancy. (Blickman
Turkus, LP v. MF Downtown Sunnyvale, LLC (2008) 162 Cal.App.4th 858,
889-890).
Dijamco’s demurrer to the second cause of action is
overruled.
Fourth Cause of Action (i.e., Battery)
“The essential elements of a cause of action for battery
are: (1) defendant touched plaintiff, or caused plaintiff to be touched, with
the intent to harm or offend plaintiff; (2) plaintiff did not consent to the
touching; (3) plaintiff was harmed or offended by defendant's conduct; and (4)
a reasonable person in plaintiff's position would have been offended by the
touching. (So v. Shin (2013) 212
Cal.App.4th 652, 668-669; see also, CACI No. 1300.) “In an action for civil
battery the element of intent is satisfied if the evidence shows defendant
acted with a ‘willful disregard’ of the plaintiff’s rights.” (Ashcraft v.
King (1991) 228 Cal.App.3d 604, 613.)
Plaintiffs have alleged, in relevant part, that “[d]espite
[consuming significant amounts of alcohol] and being aware that she was
incapable of operating a vehicle, [Dijamco] intentionally drove her vehicle
while inebriated, and then intentionally entered the opposite lane of travel on
the subject highway, with the intent to make contact with Plaintiffs and harm
or offend them.” (FAC, ¶ 38).
Plaintiffs’ allegations of intent and/or “willful disregard”
of their rights, however, are conclusory and not factually supported.
Dijamco’s demurrer to the fourth cause of action is
sustained.
2.         Motion to Strike Portions of FAC
Legal Standard
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 436, “the court may, upon a
motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon
terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter
inserted in any pleading. (b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an
order of the court.” The grounds for a motion to strike must “appear on the
face of the challenged pleading or from any matter of which the court is required
to take judicial notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)
Discussion
Dijamco moves to strike out Paragraphs 42 and 43, as well as
Paragraph 3 of the prayer in Plaintiffs’ FAC.
The motion is denied as moot in part (i.e., as to Paragraphs
42 and 43), based upon the ruling made on the demurrer.
Punitive damages may be awarded in an action for the breach of an
obligation not arising from contract upon clear and convincing evidence that a
defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. (Civ. Code § 3294,
subd. (a).)
“Malice” is defined as “conduct which is intended by the defendant to
cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the
defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of
others.” (Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (c)(1).) “Oppression” is defined as
“despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” (Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (c)(2).)
“Fraud” is defined as “an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment
of a material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the
defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or
otherwise causing injury.” (Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (c)(3).)
A “conclusory characterization of defendant’s conduct as intentional,
willful and fraudulent is a patently insufficient statement of ‘oppression,
fraud, or malice. . .’” (Brousseau v.
Jarrett (1977) 73 Cal.App.3d 864, 872.) “The mere allegation an intentional
tort was committed is not sufficient to warrant an award of punitive damages.
Not only must there be circumstances of oppression, fraud, or malice, but facts
must be alleged in the pleading to support such a claim.” (Grieves v. Superior Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 166.)
As to Paragraph 3 of the prayer, the California Supreme
Court in Taylor v. Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 892 determined that
“the act of operating a motor vehicle while intoxicated may constitute an act
of ‘malice’ under § 3294 if performed under circumstances which disclose a
conscious disregard of the probable dangerous consequences.” In Dawes v. Superior Court (1980) 111
Cal.App.3d 82, 89, the Fourth District Court of Appeal noted that driving while
intoxicated does not always give rise to a claim for punitive damages: “[W]e do
not agree that the risk created generally by one who becomes intoxicated and
decides nevertheless to drive a vehicle on the public streets is the same as
the risk created by an intoxicated driver’s decision to zigzag in and out of
traffic at 65 miles per hour in a crowded beach recreation area at 1:30 in the
afternoon on a Sunday in June. The risk of injury to others from ordinary
driving while intoxicated is certainly foreseeable, but it is not necessarily
probable." Notably, both Taylor and
Dawes were decided prior to 1987, when
the Legislature added the requirement to Civil Code § 3294 that conduct be “despicable”
in order to support imposition of punitive damages under a malice/willful and
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others standard.
Plaintiffs have alleged, without more, that Dijamco had,
prior to driving her vehicle, “consumed numerous alcoholic beverages” and was
“driving under the influence.” (FAC, ¶ 14)[2]. Plaintiffs,
however, have failed to allege any aggravating circumstances in the instant
case; as such, the motion is granted as to Paragraph 3 of the prayer.


