 Case Number:  23STCV23557    Hearing Date:   August 6, 2024    Dept:  73 08/06/24
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding 
 
NPSC WESTMORELAND LLC v. HERNANDEZ,
et al. (23STCV23557)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff/opposing party:  David Frank (Frank
Law Group, PC)
Counsel for
Defendants/moving party:  Christian
Oronsaye (Ivy Crest Attorneys, APC)
 
MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT (filed by Defendants on 06/20/2024)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Defendants’ motion for summary judgment is GRANTED. 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On September 28, 2023, Plaintiff NPSC Westmoreland LLC
(“Plaintiff”) filed this forcible detainer action against
Defendants Jose Hernandez and Diane Gomez (“Defendants”)
for the
premises located at 1140 N Westmoreland Avenue, Los Angeles,
California, 90029, County of Los Angeles (the “Premises”). 
 
The Complaint
alleges the following. On or about November 8, 2017, Plaintiff acquired title
to the Premises. (Compl. ¶ 7.) At some time after Plaintiff acquired
the Premises, Plaintiff, through its agents, verbally allowed Nikola Zuvic to
temporarily occupy the Premises as a licensee in exchange for management of the
Premises and other units Plaintiff’s owned. (Id. ¶ 8.) At no time
did Plaintiff provide Zuvic with any authority, explicit, ostensible, or
otherwise, to allow any other person or persons to occupy the Premises or to
rent or lease the Premises to any person or persons. (Ibid.)
 
“Shortly
after Plaintiff’s acquisition of the Premises, Defendants unlawfully entered
and possessed the Premises without the knowledge or permission of Plaintiff. At no time
have Defendants paid rent to Plaintiff for the Premises or otherwise occupied the
Premises with the permission of Plaintiff.” (Id. ¶ 9.) “Since at
least 2018, Defendants have forcibly prevented Plaintiff from regaining
possession of the Premises by changing the locks, physically occupying the
Premises, claiming possession of the Premises verbally and in writing, and
denying entry by all others, including Plaintiff and its agents.” (Id. ¶
11.)
 
On
or about June 6, 2023, Plaintiff caused to be served upon Defendants a Five-Day
Notice to Quit for Forcible Detainer, demanding surrender of the Premises to
Plaintiff. (Id.
¶ 12.) Defendants have retained and continue to retain,
without Plaintiff s consent, possession of the Premises up to and including the
date of Plaintiff s verification of this complaint and Plaintiff is informed
and believes, and based thereon alleges, that Defendants are intending to
remain permanently in possession of the Premises. (Id. ¶ 14.) The Complaint alleges
a single cause of action for forcible detainer. 
 

On June 20, 2024, Defendants filed a motion for
summary judgment or alternatively, summary adjudication, arguing:
·      
Defendants are entitled
to judgment pursuant to CCP § 1172 because they have been in possession of the
Property for more than one year before Plaintiff filed this action.
·      
As
a matter of law, where a defendant has resided in the subject property for a
period exceeding one year, the plaintiff is barred from bringing a claim for a
forcible detainer under CCP § 1172. 
·      
Here,
there is no dispute in this case that the Defendant has been a resident of the
subject property since September 2018. 
o   Here, the Plaintiff has conclusively,
through the verified complaint, admitted that Defendants have been in
possession since 2018 and that Zuvic was its agent and cannot contradict the
undisputed facts at this time. (Complaint, ¶¶ 7-9, 11; Hernandez Decl., ¶¶ 2-15.)
·      
In
addition, the evidence submitted here showed that the Defendant paid rent and
thus entered the premises with Plaintiffs' consent. A defendant's consensual
entry onto the premises sets up a defense to forcible entry. (See, e.g., Certeri
v. Roberts (1903) 140. Cal. 164, 166; see also Jordan v. Talbot
(1961) 55 Cal.2d 597, 605.)
 
Plaintiff did not file an opposition. 
 
II. ANALYSIS
 
A.      Legal
Standard for Motion for Summary Judgment 
 
CCP § 1170.7 provides that “A motion
for summary judgment may be made at any time after the answer is filed upon
giving five days notice. Summary judgment shall be granted or denied on the
same basis as a motion under Section 437c.”  
 
In moving for summary judgment, a
“defendant . . . has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of action
has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of
action, even if not separately pleaded, cannot be established, or that there is
a complete defense to the cause of action.” (CCP § 437c(p)(2).) Once the
defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that
a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to¿the¿cause of action
or a defense thereto.  (CCP § 437c(p)(2).)  “There is a triable issue
of material fact if, and only if, the evidence would allow a reasonable trier
of fact to find the underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion
in accordance with the applicable standard of proof.”  (Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co.¿(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850 (as modified (July 11,
2001).) The plaintiff “shall not rely upon the¿allegations or denials of its
pleadings to show that a triable issue of material fact exists but, instead,
shall set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue of material
fact exists as to¿the¿cause of action or a defense thereto.”  (CCP §
437c(p)(2).) 
 
“The motion for summary judgment shall
be granted if all the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as
to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to a judgment as a
matter of law.  In determining¿if¿the papers show that there is no triable
issue as to any material fact,¿the court shall consider all of the evidence set
forth in the papers, except¿the evidence¿to which objections have been made and
sustained by the court, and all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence,
except summary judgment¿shall¿not be granted by the court based on inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence if contradicted by other inferences or
evidence that raise a triable issue as to any material fact.”  (Id.
§ 437c(c).) 
 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 437c(s) makes Code of Civil Procedure section
437c(a) (time limit requirements for motions for summary judgment and Code of
Civil Procedure section 437c(b) (requirements for a separate statement of
undisputed facts) inapplicable to unlawful detainer actions.
 
B.     
Discussion
 
CCP § 1172 provides in relevant part
that, as an affirmative defense to a cause of action for forcible detainer, a
defendant need only show that he has been in quiet possession of real property
for at least one year before the beginning of the forcible detainer
proceedings: 
 
The
defendant may show in his defense that he or his ancestors, or those whose
interest in such premises he claims, have been in the quiet possession thereof
for the space of one whole year together next before the commencement of the
proceedings, and that his interest therein is not ended or determined; and such
showing is a bar to the proceedings. 
 
(CCP § 1172.) One purpose behind this
defense is similar to CCP § 1161(2)’s one-year rent limitation: to prevent
plaintiffs from “sleeping on their rights” and to encourage prompt action with
respect to issues of possession. (Cf. Levitz Furniture Co. v. Wingtip
Commc’ns (2001) 86 Cal.App.4th 1035, 1040 [the policy underlying the
one-year limit in CCP § 1161(2) is to prevent a landlord from “sitting on his
or her rights, when rent is unpaid at some point during the life of a lease,
then using long-overdue rent (but no recently overdue rent) to effect an
eviction.”].) The defendant’s possession of the property, standing alone,
appears to be sufficient to invoke the defense. For example, in Wilson v.
Carson (1910) 14 Cal.App.570, the court of appeal noted that the section
1172 defense could be established by a defendant who took possession of
property after a prior tenant had vacated “and continued to hold possession
thereof down to the time of the institution of this action, more than a year
thereafter.” (Id. at 571–572.) However, a defendant cannot
satisfy the one year requirement by claiming the ousted former occupant’s time
in possession as his own. (Karp v. Margolis (1958) 159 Cal.App.2d 69,74
[holding that defendants who, three days before litigation commenced and
without proceeding pursuant to CCP § 1161a, had ousted former owners of real
property after purchasing title at a trustee’s sale could not satisfy CCP §
1172 because “they could not use the very possession they seek to disrupt as a
basis of one year's quiet possession under the section as a defense for their
actions”].)  
 
Here, Defendants contend that they
have been in possession of the Premises for more than one year before Plaintiff
filed this action on September 28, 2023. In support of the motion, Defendants
point to the Complaint that alleges Defendants
unlawfully entered and possessed the Premises without the knowledge or
permission of Plaintiff “shortly after Plaintiff’s
acquisition of the Premises.” (Complaint, ¶¶ 7-9.)  The Complaint alleges Plaintiff acquired the
Premises on or about November 8, 2017. (Ibid.) The Complaint also alleges “since at least 2018,
Defendants have forcibly prevented Plaintiff from regaining possession of the
Premises by changing the locks, physically occupying the Premises, claiming
possession of the Premises verbally and in writing, and denying entry by all others,
including Plaintiff and its agents.” (Id. ¶
11.) Thus, Defendants assert that it is undisputed
that Defendants have resided on the premises since at least 2018. (See Walker
v. Dorn, (1966) 240 Cal. App. 2d 118 [facts established by pleadings as
judicial admissions are conclusive concessions of the truth of those matters,
are effectively removed as issues from the litigation, and may not be
contradicted by the party whose pleadings are used against him or her.])
 
In further support of their motion, Defendant Hernandez states
that they had been continuously living at the Premises since September 2018.
(Hernandez Decl., ¶ 6.) Defendant
Hernandez further states that Plaintiff has been aware of this fact, since Plaintiff
has accepted rent from Defendant, through its manager, from September 2018
through June 2023, when Plaintiff stopped accepting rent. (Id. ¶ 7.) In
support of this latter claim, Defendants attach pictures of several receipts of
rent payments. (Oronsaye Decl., Ex. 1.) 
 
Based on the allegations in the
Complaint and declaration submitted by Defendant Hernandez, the Court finds
Defendants have established a defense under CCP § 1172, as it appears
Defendants had been in possession of the Premises for more than a year before
Plaintiff filed this action. Therefore, the Court finds that Defendants have
met their initial burden on summary judgment of establishing a defense under
CCP § 1172, and the burden now shifts to Plaintiff to establish a triable issue
of material fact. (CCP § 437c(p)(2).) 
 
Here, Plaintiff did not file an opposition. “A party who has not timely filed
written opposition to a motion…may not be afforded an opportunity to offer oral
argument at the hearing.” (Sexton v. Superior Court (1997) 58
Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410.) “The failure to file opposition creates an inference
that the motion or demurrer is meritorious.”¿ (Id.)¿ “In such cases, the
court may hear argument limited to a request for a continuance of the hearing
in order to afford an opportunity for written opposition.” (Id.) “[T]he
rule is patently intended to prevent the introduction of legal theories without
prior notice to opposing counsel and the court.” (Id.) Plaintiff fails to carry its burden. 
 
Based
on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS Defendants’ motion for summary judgment. 
 
III.
DISPOSITION
 

Defendants’ motion for summary judgment is GRANTED. 