  Case Number:  19STCV38374    Hearing Date:   August 6, 2024    Dept:  73 8/06/2023
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding 
 
SHAHNAZ AMIRTALESH v. ROCHELLE
STERLING, et al. (19STCV38374)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff/moving party:  Shahnaz
Amirtalesh (Pro Per)
Counsel for Defendant/opposing
party:  Krista Dawkins (Pyka Lenhardt
Schnaider Dawkins)
 
DEFENDANT’S MOTION FOR AN ORDER TO COMPEL
PLAINTIFF TO PAY THE DEFENDANT’S EXPERTS’ DEPOSITION FEES (filed 01/11/24)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
Defendant’s Motion for an Order to Compel Plaintiff to
Pay the Defendant’s Experts’ Deposition Fees in the amount requested is GRANTED. Plaintiff is
ordered to pay the expert witness fees within 20 days.
BACKGROUND
 
On October 23, 2019, Plaintiff Shahnaz
Amirtalesh (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants Rochelle H.
Sterling (“Sterling”), Beverly Hills Properties (“BHP”), The Sterling Family
Trust, Susan Robman and Does 1-50 (collectively, “Defendants”).
 
This
action arises out of Plaintiff’s tenancy at 240 N. Crescent Drive, Apt. 107,
Beverly Hills, CA 90210 (the “Apartment”).  In her complaint, Plaintiff
alleges that the Apartment landlord, BHP, failed to maintain sewage pipes in
the building which caused a leak in her shower drain in October 24, 2018; that
BHP delayed in granting her request to replace flood-damaged carpeting in her
Apartment with laminate floors as a reasonable accommodation for her disability
stemming from lung cancer; that BHP did not properly enforce COVID-19
restrictions regarding the use of the Apartment swimming pool; and further,
that Apartment manager, Susan Robman, harassed and discriminated against
Plaintiff because of Plaintiff’s religious beliefs.   
 
In
the summer of 2019, Plaintiff filed complaints with the County of Los Angeles
Department of Public Health (“DPH”) and the City of Beverly Hills regarding her
apartment.  On September 5, 2019, the City of Beverly Hills issued a
notice of violations to BHP.  On September 10, 2019, DPH issued an
Official Inspection Report for violations regarding wall/ceiling floor and
faucet fixtures. 
  
On
October 23, 2019, Plaintiff filed her complaint against Defendants. Sterling is
the owner of BHP and the Apartment and the trustee of the Sterling Family
Trust.  On August 7, 2020, Plaintiff filed a Second Amended Complaint
(“SAC”) alleging eight causes of action.  On or about October 20, 2021,
the court sustained Defendants’ demurrer to the fifth cause of action in the
SAC without leave to amend.  The remaining causes of action are as
follows: 
C/A 1: Breach of Warranty of Habitability 
C/A 2: Negligence  
C/A 3: Nuisance  
C/A 4: Violation of Civil Code § 1942.4 
C/A 6: Violation of the California Fair Employment
and Housing Act  
C/A 7: Violation of the California Unruh Civil Rights
Act 
C/A 8: Breach of Implied Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment 
 
On March 17, 2023,
Plaintiff dismissed Defendant Susan Robman from the case.
 
On January 11,
2024, Defendant filed the instant Motion for an Order to Compel Plaintiff to
pay Defendant’s experts’ deposition fees, arguing:
·       Plaintiff took the deposition of Defendant’s
experts and Defendant claims Plaintiff did not pay the expert witness fees
related to the depositions.
·       The
Court should impose monetary sanctions because Plaintiff has misused the
discovery process by failing to submit payment to defense counsel.
 
On January
25, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition to Defendant’s motion, arguing:
·      
There is no contractual agreement between Plaintiff and any
defense attorneys or their law firm in regards to expert witness fee.
·      
Defendants failed to produce any retainer agreement from
plaintiff's former counsel Martin Jerisat and defense expert’s witnesses or
defense counsel. Plaintiff never met or spoke with Michael Welch, James
Cantrell or Ben Kolimeyer. Plaintiff does not believe that defense expert
witnesses has any relevance in her case or outcome of her case.
·       Plaintiff
requests sanctions imposed against defense counsel.
 
On March 25,
2024, Defendant filed a reply, arguing: 
·      
Plaintiff and her former counsel were not obligated to take these
depositions. They chose to take these depositions, and they chose to incur the cost
of the expert deposition fees. Failure to pay the expert fees is an abuse of
the discovery process that needs to be addressed by the granting this motion
and ordering the expert fees be paid.
 
On May 16, 2024, the Court continued the hearing on Defendant’s
Motion to Compel Plaintiff to Pay the Defendant’s Experts’ Deposition Fees to
allow Defendant to submit evidence of Defendant’s experts reasonable fees. 
 
On June 20, 2024, Defendant filed a Notice of Lodging Evidence in
Support of its Motion for an Order to Compel Plaintiff to Pay the Defendants’
Experts’ Deposition Fees in the Amounts of $500 to Dr. Michael Welch, M.D.;
$1,170 to Ben Kollmeyer; and $2,320 to James Cantrell. Defendant submitted
declarations of each of its experts. 
 
On July 10, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition, arguing:
·      
Defendant’s experts’ fees are unreasonable. Plaintiff asserts that
Benjamin Kollmeyer, for example, is charging $585 per hour which is
unreasonable because it is at least 12.5 times more than the average hourly pay
for certified industrial hygienists. 
·      
Plaintiff argues that there is no contractual agreement between
Plaintiff and any defense attorneys or their law firm in regards to expert
witness fee.
·      
Plaintiff requests monetary sanctions. 
 
On July 15, 2024, Defendant filed a reply, arguing:
·      
Plaintiff
erroneously asserts that an expert witness’s hourly rate for deposition
testimony should correlate to the hourly wage of a similar professional working
in a full-time position. However, Plaintiff does not cite to any sources and such
a standard would fail to account for the inconvenient reality that an expert
summoned to a deposition of indeterminate length must forego much, if not all,
other business for that day.
·      
At
the time of the deposition, Plaintiff was represented by counsel. Plaintiff’s
counsel did not move to challenge the reasonableness of the fee of any of the
experts he deposed in this matter. Code Civ. Proc. § 2034.470(a) states: “If a
party desiring to take the deposition of an expert witness [. . .] deems that
the hourly or daily fee of that expert for providing deposition testimony is
unreasonable, that party may move for an order setting the compensation of that
expert.” Instead, Plaintiff, through her counsel, voluntarily incurred those
fees by taking the depositions.
 
DISCUSSION
 
“A party
desiring to depose an expert witness described in subdivision (a) shall pay the
expert's reasonable and customary hourly or daily fee for any time spent at the
deposition from the time noticed in the deposition subpoena, or from the time
of the arrival of the expert witness should that time be later than the time
noticed in the deposition subpoena, until the time the expert witness is
dismissed from the deposition, regardless of whether the expert is actually
deposed by any party attending the deposition.” (Code of Civil Procedure (CCP)
§ 2034.430(b).) “Except as provided in subdivision (f), this section applies to
an expert witness, other than a party or an employee of a party, who is any of
the following: (1) An expert described in subdivision (b) of Section 2034.210 .
. . .” (CCP § 2034.430(a).) 
 
“If any
expert designated by a party under subdivision (a) is a party or an employee of
a party, or has been retained by a party for the purpose of forming and
expressing an opinion in anticipation of the litigation or in preparation for
the trial of the action, the designation of that witness shall include or be
accompanied by an expert witness declaration under Section 2034.260.” (CCP §
2034.210(b).) “Any party may demand a mutual and simultaneous exchange by all
parties of a list containing the name and address of any natural person,
including one who is a party, whose oral or deposition testimony in the form of
an expert opinion any party expects to offer in evidence at the trial.” (CCP §
2034.210(a).) 
 
“Misuses of
the discovery process include, but are not limited to, the following: . . . (b)
Using a discovery method in a manner that does not comply with its specified
procedures. (c) Employing a discovery method in a manner or to an extent that
causes unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and
expense . . . .” (CCP § 2030.010.) 
 
Defendant asserts that Plaintiff took the deposition of Defendant’s
experts and Defendant claims Plaintiff did not pay the expert witness fees
related to the depositions. The experts are as follows: 
 
Michael Welch: 1 hour of deposition at $500/hour for a total of
$500.00.
James Cantrell: 4 hours minimum at $580/hour for a total of
$2,320.00. 
Ben Kollmeyer: 2 hours of deposition at $585/hour for a total of
$1,170.00.
Defendant contends Plaintiff’s former counsel noticed the
depositions of defendant’s three experts, for the dates November 3, 2023 and
November 15, 2023. Defendant further states the depositions went forward as
scheduled.
As
stated in the Court’s May 16, 2024 order, the Court found that Plaintiff is
obligated to pay the fees for the depositions of Defendants’ experts. CCP §
2034.430(b) requires that Plaintiff pay Defendant’s experts their reasonable
and customary hourly or daily fee for any time spent at the deposition. However,
the Court continued the hearing to allow Defendant to submit evidence of
Defendant’s experts reasonable fees.
On June 20, 2024, Defendant submitted declarations of its
experts attesting to their experience and reasonableness of the rates. Plaintiff
does not cite any authority or support for her argument that the
experts’ fees are unreasonable or that they must correlate to the hourly wage
of a similar professional working in a
full-time position. The Court finds that the rates requested by Defendant appears to be reasonable and commensurate with rates charged
by experts with comparable skill and expertise. Based on the evidence before
it, the Court is not inclined to reduce the hourly rates requested.
The Court does not exercise its discretion to impose
sanctions and denies both parties’ requests for monetary sanctions. 
Accordingly, Defendant’s motion to compel payment of expert witness
deposition fees is GRANTED and Plaintiff is ordered to pay the expert witness
fees within 20 days. 
 
CONCLUSION 
Defendant’s Motion for an Order to Compel Plaintiff to
Pay the Defendant’s Experts’ Deposition Fees in the amount requested is GRANTED. Plaintiff is
ordered to pay the expert witness fees within 20 days.