 Case Number:  23STCV06515    Hearing Date:   August 1, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
March 23, 2023, Plaintiffs J.W. (“Plaintiff”), a minor, by and through her
guardian ad litem Brandi Ward filed this action against Defendants Uber
Technologies, Inc., Rasier LLC, Raiser-CA LLC,
Michael Venagas (“Venagas”), and Does 1-51 for negligence, negligent
entrustment, negligent hiring, supervision, and retention, and battery. 
On
August 4, 2023, the Court appointed Brandi Ward to serve as Plaintiff’s
guardian ad litem. 
On
June 4, 2024, Defendants Uber Technologies, Inc., Rasier LLC, and Raiser-CA LLC (collectively, “Uber”) filed a demurrer
to be heard on July 2, 2024. On June 18, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition.
On June 25, 2024, Uber filed a reply. The Court continued the hearing to August
1, 2024. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for September 19, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Uber
asks the Court to sustain the demurrer. 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to overrule the demurrer. 
LEGAL STANDARDS 
“The party against whom a complaint or cross-complaint
has been filed may object, by demurrer or answer as provided in Section 430.30,
to the pleading on any one or more of the following grounds: 
* * *
 “(e) The pleading does not state facts sufficient
to constitute a cause of action. 
“(f) The pleading is uncertain. As used in this
subdivision, “uncertain” includes ambiguous and unintelligible. . . .” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10,
subds. (e), (f).) 
In a
demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading
or by judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a) [“When any
ground for objection to a complaint, cross-complaint, or answer appears on the
face thereof, or from any matter of which the court is required to or may take
judicial notice, the objection on that ground may be taken by a demurrer to the
pleading”].) 
“For
the purpose of testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer
admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded (i.e., all ultimate
facts alleged, but not conclusions, deductions, or conclusions of facts or
law).”  (L. Edmon and C. Karnow, Cal.
Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2023) ¶ 7:43, p. 7(l)-25,
emphasis omitted (Cal. Practice Guide).)  
"A
demurrer may be filed to one of several causes of action in the complaint,
without answering the other causes of action."  (Cal. Practice Guide, supra, ¶ 7:34.1,
p. 7(l)-19.) 
DISCUSSION 
A.  
Plaintiff’s
complaint 
The
complaint alleges the following: 
With
the agreement, acceptance, knowledge, consent, authority, ratification, and
permission of Uber and Does 1-51, an unnamed person arranged, organized, and
paid for Plaintiff, a minor, to be transported from her home without parental
or adult permission to the area of Harvard Heights.  There, “she was dropped off and grabbed by an
old man who drug her down the street” and was “sexually abused and put back in
an Uber to return home.”  Venagas “assaulted, injured, battered and
criminally assaulted” Plaintiff. 
Uber
and Does 1-51 knew or should have known Plaintiff was a minor, that she did not
have an Uber account, that the trip was requested by someone other than Plaintiff
who did have an Uber account and that Plaintiff was unaccompanied, all in direct
violation of Uber’s policies and guidelines. 
On
or about April 2021, at the time of the incident, Defendant Doe 51 was a driver
and transportation provider who was operating a motor vehicle (“the vehicle”)
while using, utilizing and logged on to the Uber app.  Doe 51 was an agent, employee, servant, and/or
partner of Uber and Does 1-50 and was acting under their assignment,
scheduling, routing and direction, within within the course and scope of that
agency, employment and partnership, and with their full knowledge, consent,
authority, ratification, and permission. 
As a
result of the negligence, carelessness, recklessness and conscious disregard of
Plaintiff’s safety and security by Uber and Does 1-51, Plaintiff was subjected
to criminal assault and battery, sustaining serious injury.  Uber and Does 1-51 knew or should have known
that Plaintiff, as a minor, “was
potentially and actually in danger and jeopardy in being delivered into the
presence and control of a dangerous predator and or unsafe situation.” 
Uber
and Does 1-50 knew or should have known that Doe 51 was incompetent or unfit to
drive the vehicle as part of their pre-arranged transportation service.  Doe 51’s incompetence, carelessness,
negligence, dereliction of duty and/or unfitness to drive was a substantial
factor in causing harm to Plaintiff. 
B.  
Uber’s demurrer 
“The elements of a negligence claim [are] . . . a
legal duty of care, breach of that duty, and proximate cause resulting in
injury.” (Kesner v. Superior Court (2016) 1 Cal.5th 1132, 1159.) 
“ ‘ “ ‘Courts ... invoke[ ] the concept of duty to
limit generally “the otherwise potentially infinite liability which would
follow from every negligent act ....” ’ ” ’ ” (Williams v. Fremont Corners,
Inc. (2019) 37 Cal.App.5th 654, 663 (Williams).) “Our Supreme Court
has explained that an exception to the general rule of Civil Code section 1714
must be “ ‘ “ ‘clearly supported by public policy.’ ” ’ ” (Ibid.,
quoting Vasilenko v. Grace Family Church (2017) 3 Cal.5th 1077, 1083 (Vasilenko).)
“Courts look to what are commonly called ‘the Rowland factors’ in
determining whether policy considerations favor such an exception.” (Ibid.,
citing Vasilenko, supra, 3 Cal.5th at p. 1083.)  “These are “ ‘ “the foreseeability of harm to
the plaintiff, the degree of certainty that the plaintiff suffered injury, the
closeness of the connection between the defendant's conduct and the injury
suffered, the moral blame attached to the defendant's conduct, the policy of
preventing future harm, the extent of the burden to the defendant and
consequences to the community of imposing a duty to exercise care with
resulting liability for breach, and the availability, cost, and prevalence of
insurance for the risk involved.” (Rowland [v. Christian (1968)] 69
Cal.2d [108,] 113, 70 Cal.Rptr. 97, 443 P.2d 561.)’ ” (Ibid., quoting Vasilenko,
supra, 3 Cal.5th at p. 1083.) 
“One well-established limit is that there is no duty
to act to protect others from the conduct of third parties.” (Williams, supra,
37 Cal.App.5th at p. 663, citing Delgado v. Trax Bar & Grill (2005)
36 Cal.4th 224, 235 (Delgado).)  However, courts have recognized an exception
to the general no-duty-to-protect rule under the “special relationship”
doctrine, which applies “‘in cases involving the relationship between business
proprietors such as shopping centers, restaurants, and bars, and their tenants,
patrons, or invitees.’” (Ibid., quoting Delgado, supra, 36
Cal.4th at p. 235.) 
Uber argues that Plaintiff has not alleged facts that
establish Uber owed a duty to Plaintiff.  While Plaintiff alleges that Uber violated its
own “policies and community guidelines” by allowing Doe 51 to drive Plaintiff
without an accompanying adult, Uber’s internal policies concerning the
transportation of minors do not establish a legal duty supporting tort
liability.  (See Glynn v. Orange
Circle Lounge Inc. (2023) 95 Cal.App.5th 1289, 1294 [“we do not ordinarily
define either moral blame or a legal duty by reference to defendants' own
internal policy”].)  Instead, “[i]n
determining whether public policy warrants the creation of a duty of care,
courts can look to the public policy (1) found in the common law [citation],
and (2) embodied in statutes, regulations, and the like. [Citations.]”  (Issakhani v. Shadow Glen Homeowners
Assn., Inc. (2021) 63 Cal.App.5th 917, 925.)  
Weighing the Rowland factors, the Court finds
that Plaintiff has not alleged facts showing the harm she suffered
was foreseeable.  The Court accepts
as true Plaintiff’s allegation that she suffered injury.  However, Plaintiff has not pleaded facts showing
(1) a close connection between Uber’s conduct and Plaintiff’s injury or (2) moral
blame attached to Uber’s conduct.  In
addition, based on the facts alleged in the complaint, imposing a duty on Uber
would not further the policy of preventing future harm. 
The Court concludes that Plaintiff has not pleaded
facts that support imposition of a duty on Uber.  The Court therefore sustains the demurrer
with leave to amend. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court SUSTAINS the demurrer of Defendants Uber Technologies, Inc., Rasier LLC,
and Raiser-CA, LLC with 30 days leave to amend. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.