 Case Number:  24STCV02795    Hearing Date:   May 2, 2024    Dept:  58 Judge Bruce G. Iwasaki     

Department 58

Hearing Date:             May 2, 2024
Case Name:                Snyder v. Cardwell.
Case No.:                    24STCV02795
Matter:                        Motion
to Quash Service of Summons for Lack of Personal Jurisdiction
Moving Party:             Specially Appearing Defendant Mark Styslinger 

Responding Party:      Plaintiff Stephen Snyder


Tentative
Ruling:        The motion to quash service
of summons is granted based on a lack of personal jurisdiction over Defendant Mark Styslinger. 

 
            This action arises from a transaction
to acquire the rights to a feature film. Plaintiff Stephen Snyder (Plaintiff)
sued Defendants James Cardwell, James Cummings, Dweller, LLC, Monty the Dog
Productions, Inc., Big Movie, LLC, Leonard Maurice Foley II, and Mark Styslinger
for fraudulently inducing Plaintiff into executing an Acquisition
and Release Agreement where the Defendants acquired all rights, entitlements,
controls and all other interests which are associated with the motion picture
titled “Dweller.”
 
On
February 20, 2024, Defendant Mark Styslinger (Styslinger) specially
appeared and moved to quash service of summons based on a lack of personal
jurisdiction. Plaintiff opposes the motion to quash, contending that there is
personal jurisdiction over Styslinger. 
 
The
motion to quash service of summons for lack of personal jurisdiction is granted.
 
Defendant’s
objections to the declaration of Anthony Throne are ruled as follows: Nos. 1-21
are sustained. Defendant’s objections to the declaration of Stephen Snyder are
ruled as follows: Nos. 1-15 are sustained. 
 
Discussion
 
            Defendant Styslinger argues that he
is not subject to either general or specific jurisdiction in California. In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that Defendant Styslinger’s position as a director
at 101 Studios, LLC – a California LLC – and his involvement in the Los Angeles
film industry is sufficient to establish personal jurisdiction over him. 
 
            “The Due Process clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment constrains a State’s authority to bind a nonresident
defendant to a judgment of its courts. [Citation.] [A] nonresident generally
must have ‘certain minimum contacts . . . such that the maintenance of the suit
does not offend “traditional notions of fair play and substantial justice.” ’ ”
(Walden v. Fiore (2014) 571 U.S. 277, 283 (Walden).)  Personal jurisdiction may be either general
or specific.  For general jurisdiction, a
defendant’s forum contacts must be “so ‘continuous and systematic’ as to render
[the defendant] essentially at home in the forum State.”  (Daimler AG v. Bauman (2014) 571 U.S.
117, 139.)  The paradigm of general
jurisdiction for a corporation is its state of incorporation or principal place
of business. (Id. at p. 137.) 
 
            Specific or case-linked jurisdiction
“ ‘focuses on “the relationship among the defendant, the forum, and the
litigation.” ’ ”  (Walden, supra,
571 U.S. at pp. 283-284.) In particular, “the defendant’s suit-related conduct
must create a substantial connection with the forum State.”  (Id. at p. 284.)  There are three requirements for a court to
exercise specific jurisdiction over a nonresident defendant: “First, the
defendant must have purposefully availed himself or herself of forum benefits
or purposefully directed activities at forum residents.  Second, the controversy must relate to or
arise out of the defendant’s forum-related activities.  Third, the exercise of jurisdiction must
comport with traditional notions of fair play and substantial justice.”   (David
L. v. Superior Court (2018) 29 Cal.App.5th 359, 366.)  The plaintiff has the initial burden to
establish the first two requirements. 
Only after doing so does the burden shift to the defendant to show that
exercising jurisdiction would be unreasonable. 
(Id. at p. 367.)  The
plaintiff must do more than merely allege jurisdictional facts.  “ ‘It must present evidence sufficient to
justify a finding that California may properly exercise jurisdiction over the
defendant.’ ”  (Zehia v. Superior
Court (2020) 45 Cal.App.5th 543, 552.)
 
The Court lacks
personal jurisdiction over Defendant Styslinger
 
            Here, as preliminary matter, Plaintiff
alleges that the Court has personal jurisdiction over Defendant Styslinger due
to Defendant Styslinger’s principal place of residence being Los Angeles,
California, and that Styslinger has sufficient minimum contacts arising from
the activities of the business entities known as Dweller, LLC and Big Movie,
LLC, in which Styslinger is alleged to have ownership interest. (FAC ¶ 8.)
 
            In response to these allegations, Defendant
Styslinger submits evidence directly contradicting these allegations. He states
that he is a resident of the State of Alabama and does not own or rent any
commercial or rental property in California. (Styslinger Decl., ¶¶ 2-3.) He also submits evidence that
he is not a member
of Dweller, LLC, Big Movie, LLC, and not a shareholder of Dog Productions, Inc.;
he also represents that he has no control over any of these entities either.
(Styslinger Decl., ¶¶ 4-6.)   
 
Finally, he asserts that he has
not conducted business in California individually that in any way relates to
Plaintiff’s claims. (Styslinger Decl., ¶¶ 7-11.)
 
In opposition, Plaintiff
submits evidence
that Defendant Styslinger
is a director of non-party 101 Studios LLC, which has a principal place of
business in California. (Snyder Decl., Ex. 1.) Plaintiff claims that 101
Studios LLC is the production company behind the “Yellowstone” TV series, along
with the “Yellowstone” spinoffs of “1923: A Yellowstone Origin Story” and
“1883: A Yellowstone Origin Story.” (Snyder Decl., Ex. 3.) Additionally, 101
Studios LLC has produced the television series “Tulsa King,” “Mayor of
Kingstown,” “George & Tammy,” and “Special Op: Lioness,” among other
titles. (Snyder Decl., Ex. 3.)
 
Plaintiff also asserts that Styslinger
arranged for his daughter, Lydia Styslinger, to appear as an actress in several
films. (Snyder Decl., ¶¶ 5-7.)

 
Finally, Plaintiff submits
evidence that Styslinger “conducts business” in the film industry in Los
Angeles “in concert with” James Cardwell and James Cummings (Thorne Decl., ¶¶ 2-4,
Ex. 7.)
 
The Court rules that none of
this evidence is admissible. Plaintiff’s declarations are almost entirely
speculative, lacking in foundation, and largely irrelevant. Thus, the motion
must be granted on this ground alone because Plaintiff has not met his “initial
burden to demonstrate facts justifying the exercise of jurisdiction.” (Rivelli
v. Hemm (2021) 67 Cal.App.5th 380, 393.) 
 
Further, even if the Court
considered Styslinger’s role as director for 101 Studios, LLC, this evidence is
inadequate to establish specific personal jurisdiction. Here,
there is no evidence of any specific conduct by Defendant Styslinger directed
at the forum state of California.
 
“
‘[P]urposeful availment occurs where a nonresident defendant “ ‘purposefully
direct[s]’ [its] activities at residents of the forum” [citation], “
‘purposefully derive[s] benefit’ from” its activities in the forum [citation],
“create[s] a ‘substantial connection’ with the forum” [citation], “
‘deliberately’ has engaged in significant activities within” the forum
[citation], or “has created ‘continuing obligations’ between [itself] and
residents of the forum” [citation]. By limiting the scope of a forum’s
jurisdiction in this manner, the “ ‘purposeful availment’ requirement ensures
that a defendant will not be haled into a jurisdiction solely as a result of
‘random,’ ‘fortuitous,’ or ‘attenuated’ contacts … .” [Citation.] Instead, the
defendant will be subject to personal jurisdiction only if “ ‘it has clear
notice that it is subject to suit there, and can act to alleviate the risk of
burdensome litigation by procuring insurance, passing the expected costs on to
customers, or, if the risks are too great, severing its connection with the
state.’ ” [Citations.]’ ”  (HealthMarkets,
Inc. v. Superior Court (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1160, 1168.)
 
First, non-party 101
Studios, LLC has nothing to do with the causes of action alleged in the FAC,
which arise from the allegations that Defendants fraudulently induced Plaintiff
to sign an agreement.
Second, although the filing indicates a California address for Defendant
Styslinger in his role as one of twelve directors, the identified address is not
identified as Defendant Styslinger’s “domicile”; instead, the address listed
under his name is an office address that is repeated for every one of the 12
directors of 101 Studios LLC and is also identified as the principal place of
business for 101 Studios, LLC. (Snyder Decl., Ex. 1.)
 
Finally, and most importantly, Defendant
Styslinger’s position as nonresident director of an LLC does not by itself
permit the Court to exercise jurisdiction over him.
 
“[J]urisdiction
over an employee does not automatically follow from jurisdiction over the
corporation which employs him[.]” (Keeton v. Hustler Magazine, Inc.
(1984) 465 U.S. 770, 781, fn. 13; see Goehring v. Superior Court (1998)
62 Cal.App.4th 894, 904 [“jurisdiction over a partnership does not necessarily
permit a court to assume jurisdiction over the individual partners”]; Colt
Studio, Inc. v. Badpuppy Enterprise (C.D. Cal. 1999) 75 F.Supp.2d 1104,
1111 [“The mere fact that a corporation is subject to local jurisdiction does
not necessarily mean its nonresident officers, directors, agents, and employees
are suable locally as well.”].) 
 
This
rule is in keeping with the principle that jurisdiction cannot be vicarious or
derivative, but must be established with respect to each prospective
nonresident defendant. (See, e.g., Walden v. Fiore (2014) 571 U.S. 277,
284 [the relationship between the defendant and the forum State “must arise out
of contacts that the ‘defendant himself’ creates with the forum State”]; Sibley
v. Superior Court (1976) 16 Cal.3d 442, 448 [“the purpose of other parties
cannot be imputed to petitioner for the purpose of assuming personal
jurisdiction over him”]; In re Automobile Antitrust Cases I & II
(2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 100, 110 [“The jurisdictional facts shown must pertain
to each separate nonresident defendant”].)
 
Here,
Plaintiff’s evidence shows nothing more than Defendant Styslinger was one of 12
directors for 101 Studios, LLC. There is no evidence of Defendant Styslinger’s
“control of, and direct participation in the alleged activities” of the LLC. (Clarus
Transphase Scientific, Inc. v. Q-Ray, Inc. (N.D. Cal., Aug. 16, 2006, No. C
06-3450 JF RS) 2006 WL 2374738, at *3.)[1]
Plaintiffs failed to identify any “specific facts, transactions, or conduct”
that might give rise to personal jurisdiction.
            
            Accordingly, Plaintiff fails to meet
his burden of establishing general jurisdiction or the first two requirements
for specific jurisdiction. As Plaintiff failed to meet his burden of
establishing the first two requirements for specific jurisdiction, the Court
need not address whether exercise of jurisdiction would be fair and reasonable.
            
Conclusion 
 
The
Court grants Defendant Styslinger’s motion to quash for lack of personal
jurisdiction and dismisses him from this case. 


