

Hearing Date:             May
2, 2024
Case Name:                Licea v. Rocket Mortgage, LLC
Case No.:                    24STCV02041
Matter:                        Application
to be Admitted Pro Hac Vice
Moving Parties:          Defendant Rocket
Mortgage, LLC

Responding Party:      Unopposed

Tentative Ruling:      The
Court denies the Application to be admitted pro hac vice. 
 

 
            Defendant Rocket
Mortgage, LLC moves for an order granting the admission of Kyle Tayman to
appear on its behalf pro hac vice. The Court denies the application. 
 
Legal
Standard
 
            An
attorney in good standing in another jurisdiction may apply to appear as
counsel pro hac vice in the State of California by filing a verified
application together with proof of service by mail of a copy of the application
and notice of hearing on all parties who have appeared in the case and on the
State Bar of California at its San Francisco office, with payment of a $50.00
fee.  The attorney cannot be a resident
of California, employed in the state, or regularly engage in substantial
business, professional, or other activities in the state. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 9.40(a)(1)-(3), (c)(1).) 
 
            The
written application must state: (1) the applicant’s residence and office
address; (2) the courts to which the applicant has been admitted to practice
and the dates of admission; (3) that the applicant is a member in good standing
in those courts; (4) that the applicant is not currently suspended or disbarred
in any court; (5) the title of each court and cause in which the applicant has
filed an application to appear as counsel pro hac vice in this state in
the preceding two years, the date of each application, and whether or not it
was granted; and (6) the name, address, and telephone number of the active
member of the State Bar of California who is attorney of record in the local
action. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 9.40(d)(1)-(6).) 
 
Discussion
 
            The
provided declaration does not comply with the California Rule of Court
9.40(d)(1)-(6).
 
Kyle Tayman provides no
representation that he has not regularly engaged in substantial business,
professional, or other activities in California. He does represent that he resides
in Maryland and provides his business and home address. (Tayman Decl., ¶ 1.) Strangely
however, Tayman states both “[i]n the preceding two years, [he] ha[s] not filed
an application to appear as counsel Pro hac vice in any state or federal court
in the State of California. OR . . . [i]n the preceding two years, [he] ha[s]
filed one application to appear as counsel pro hac vice in this state. On
February 16, 2023, [he] filed an application to appear as counsel pro hac vice
in the case of Linda E. Pittman v. Rocket Mortgage, LLC, Case No. 22STCV32781 .
. ..” (Tayman Decl., ¶¶ 5-6.) These representations are contradictory. 
 
            Finally, Attorney
Tayman represents that a $50.00 check was submitted to the State Bar of
California for the pro hac vice fee and notice was given for this hearing. (Tayman
Decl., ¶ 9.)  
 
            Accordingly,
the Court denies without prejudice the Application of counsel, Kyle Tayman, to
appear on behalf of Defendant pro hac vice. 
 
            At the
hearing the Court will inquire of the applicant regarding the declaration and,
if appropriate, order that an amended declaration be served and filed on or
before May 6, 2024 at 12 noon Pacific Daylight Time for in chambers review. The
Court suggests that a courtesy copy be emailed to the Court by this deadline.