 Case Number:  23TRCV03696    Hearing Date:   September 5, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior Court
  of California
County of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance Dept. B




 
NOLVIA
  COREA CASTILLO, et al., 


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV03696




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
CAL
  BUILDING & MAINTENANCE,


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          September
5, 2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Petitioner Nolvia Corea Castillo
Responding
Party:                  None
(1)  
Petition to Approve Compromise of
Pending Action of Minor
(2)  
Petition to Approve Compromise of
Pending Action of Minor
 
            The Court considered the moving
papers.
RULING
The Court is inclined to grant
petitioner’s Petitions to Approve Compromise of Pending Action on behalf of
minor claimants Genesis Orantes Corea and Mauricio Orantes Corea.
Pursuant to California Rules of
Court, Rule 7.952(a), petitioner and minor claimants are required to attend the
hearing on the petition but the Court finds good cause to dispense with the
appearance of the minors based on the amount in settlement.
BACKGROUND
On November 6, 2023, plaintiff
Nolvia Corea Castillo filed a complaint against Cal Building & Maintenance
Industries, Inc. for motor vehicle negligence and general negligence based on
an incident that occurred on September 26, 2023, on the 405 freeway, near
Normandie exit.  Plaintiff alleges that
defendant employed a driver who while working in the course and scope of his
employment negligently rear ended plaintiff’s vehicle.
On January 31, 2024, plaintiff
filed an amendment designating Edilberto Escalante Villavicencio as Doe 1.
On May 29, 2024, the Court granted
plaintiff’s motion for leave to amend complaint to add minor plaintiffs,
Genesis Orantes Corea and Mauricio Orantes Corea.
On June 24, 2024, plaintiffs filed
a FAC.
DISCUSSION
The Court has reviewed the petitions
and finds the settlement terms to be fair and reasonable.  According to the petitions, claimants Genesis
Orantes Corea (age 16) and Mauricio Orantes Corea (age 17) were passengers in a
vehicle that was rearended by defendant’s vehicle, causing them to also strike the
vehicle in front of them.  Claimant
Genesis sustained soft tissue neck and back injuries.  Claimant Mauricio sustained soft tissue,
chest, back, leg, and foot pain.  Both
claimants treated for their injuries with chiropractic care.  Claimants have recovered completely from the
effects of the injuries.
Each claimant settled for $8,000,
to be allocated $2000 in (negotiated) medical expenses, $2000 in attorney’s
fees, and $4000 to claimant to be placed in a blocked trust account.  The Court notes that it appears that counsel
inadvertently marked paragraph 17.a.(1), and not 17.a.(2) in Genesis’
petition.  Counsel did attach the
retainer agreement.  The petitions are
also missing the amount requested for attorney’s fees at paragraph 13.a.  Counsel did attach a declaration discussing
the applicable factors under Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 7.955(b) and a copy of
the retainer agreement.
Accordingly, the Court is inclined
to grant the petitions.