  Case Number:  21TRCV00788    Hearing Date:   September 5, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
ARMANDO
  SANTIAGO, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
21TRCV00788




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
COMMAND
  SECURITY SYSTEMS, INC., et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          September 5,
2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Defendant United Building Company
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiff Armando Santiago
Motion for Summary
Judgment
 
            The Court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
The
motion for summary judgment is GRANTED. 
The motion for summary adjudication is MOOT in light of the ruling on
the motion for summary judgment.
BACKGROUND
On October 25, 2021, plaintiff
Armando Santiago filed a complaint against Command Security Systems, Inc.,
Arjun Singh Gill, Balbir Singh Gill, and Gautam Kumar for Labor Code
violations, violation of Bus. and Prof. Code, and PAGA.  Plaintiff alleges that he worked for
defendants from June 10, 2010 through March 31, 2021, as a Trailer Guard and
sometimes as an Armed Guard.
            On November 12, 2021, plaintiff
filed amendments to the complaint designating Deterrence Security System,
Amarjeet Singh Gill, and Parminder K. Gill as Does 1, 2, and 3.
            On March 7, 2023, plaintiff filed
amendments adding Steven Inouye, United Building Company, and David Rivera as
defendants.
            On July 26, 2023, defendants United
Building Company and David Rivera filed a cross-complaint against LA’s Best
Security, Inc, Deterrence Security System, and Arjun Singh Gill.
            On November 14, 2023, the court
granted United Building Company’s motion to compel further responses to request
for production of documents against plaintiff.
            On December 18, 2023, plaintiff
filed a request for dismissal as to defendant David Rivera.
            On March 8, 2024, the court granted
plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to request for production of
documents against defendant UBC as to Nos. 4-8 and denied it as to Nos. 1-3 and
9.  The court also denied defendant UBC’s
motion to dismiss the complaint under CCP §128.7.
            On July 3, 2024, the court granted plaintiff’s
motion to compel further responses to plaintiff’s request for production of
documents, set one against LA’s Best Security, Inc.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
The purpose of a motion for summary
judgment or summary adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut
through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their
allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.”  Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal. 4th 826, 843.  “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c,
subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the
evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’
and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.”  Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal. App. 4th 1110, 1119.
“On a motion for summary judgment,
the initial burden is always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing
that there are no triable issues of material fact.”  Scalf
v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal. App. 4th 1510, 1519.  A defendant moving for summary judgment or
summary adjudication “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of
action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the
cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a complete
defense to the cause of action.”  CCP §
437c(p)(2).  “Once the defendant . . .
has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a
triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or
a defense thereto.” CCP § 437c(p)(2).  
“When deciding whether to grant
summary judgment, the court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the
papers (except evidence to which the court has sustained an objection), as well
as all reasonable inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light
most favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.” Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal. App.
4th 463, 467; CCP §437c(c).
DISCUSSION
Defendant
United Building Company (“UBC”) requests summary judgment on the complaint on
the ground that there is no genuine issue as to any material fact and that UBC
is therefore entitled to a judgment as a matter of law.  In the alternative, UBC requests summary
adjudication as to each of the causes of action on the ground that UBC has met
its burden to show there is no triable issue of material fact.
The
complaint asserts Labor Code violations. 
UBC was named as Doe 6 in an amendment filed on March 7, 2023.  The complaint alleges that plaintiff worked
for defendants from June 2010 through March 2021 and that during this period he
was employed as a trailer guard and sometimes as an armed guard.  He performed daily duties including securing
the area or work sites, monitoring the cameras and properties, patrolling the
premises, answering the calls, observing, and monitoring and reporting unlawful
incidences to the police.  He worked
seven days a week, non-stop, both on and off the clock hours, including
weekends and holidays.  Entity defendants
are “joint employers, working as a joint enterprise, and/or are the alter egos
of” defendants and Does 1-20.
“The
controlling case on joint employment in California is Martinez v. Combs
(2010) 49 Cal.4th 35.”  Medina v.
Equilon Enters. (2021) 68 Cal. App. 5th 868, 874.  In Martinez, the California Supreme
Court held that joint employer status was controlled by orders of California’s
Industrial Welfare Commission, which stand apart from federal law and do not
incorporate any federal definition.  “[I]n
Labor Code wage and hour violation cases, the wage order definition of the
employment relationship and the Martinez test control.”  Taylor v. Financial Casualty & Surety,
Inc. (2021) 67 Cal. App. 5th 966, 996 (citation omitted).  The term “employment” in state wage and hour
cases means:  “(a) to exercise control
over the wages, hours or working conditions, or (b) to suffer or permit to
work, or (c) to engage, thereby creating a common law employment relationship.”  Martinez, supra, at 64. 
            Defendant
argues that it is entitled to judgment as a matter of law with respect to all
of plaintiff’s causes of action because only an employer may be held liable for
Labor Code violations, and the undisputed material facts show that UBC never
employed plaintiff.  
Defendant
presents evidence that it is a construction general contractor operating
throughout Southern California and specializing in affordable housing and
multi-family residential construction and that it has no security guards on its
payroll.  Defendant’s Separate Statement
of Undisputed Facts (“DSSUF”) Nos. 1-2; Mark Walther (executive vice president
and co-owner of UBC) decl.  UBC contracts
with “private patrol operators” to provide security guards for UBC’s
construction sites.  DSSUF No. 3.  The parties do not dispute that plaintiff was
hired by LA’s Best Security, Inc. in June 2010. 
DSSUF No. 20.  UBC contracted with
LA’s Best Security to provide security at a project on 76th Street
and Vermont in Los Angeles known as the Pointe. 
DSSUF No. 21.  Plaintiff was
assigned to the Pointe from December 8, 2019 to March 31, 2021.  DSSUF No. 22. 
Prior to his assignment to the Pointe, plaintiff had no interaction with
any UBC employee.  DSSUF No. 23.  UBC had no involvement in plaintiff’s
assignment to UBC’s construction site at the Pointe in December 2019.  DSSUF No. 24. 
Plaintiff negotiated his rate of pay with LA’s Best, not with UBC (No.
25); UBC never paid plaintiff (No. 26); plaintiff never told UBC how much he was
paid for his work at the Pointe (No. 27); no one at UBC ever threatened to have
plaintiff fired (No. 28); and no one at UBC ever told plaintiff that they could
have him fired (No. 29).  The parties
also do not dispute that UBC never gave plaintiff a guard handbook (No. 35);
UBC never gave plaintiff any guidelines on the use of force (No. 36); plaintiff
did not report to David Rivera (No. 40); no UBC employee ever spoke to
plaintiff about the Daily Activity Reports plaintiff submitted (No. 42);
plaintiff spoke with [the Pointe Superintendent] Fabian [Carreon] less than
once a week (No. 43); plaintiff did not check in with or out with any UBC
employee at the Pointe (Nos. 44, 45); no UBC employee ever told plaintiff he
had to stay at his post the entirety of his shift (No. 46); UBC did not provide
the trailer where plaintiff was posted while he was at the Pointe (No. 49);
plaintiff provided his own weapon, ammunition, and other equipment (No. 50);
plaintiff and another LA’s Best employee set up the security cameras at the
Pointe (No. 51); plaintiff contends that LA’s Best did not compensate him for
his last day of work at the Pointe (No. 52); and UBC did not control how many
guards LA’s Best assigned to cover the hours requested by UBC (No. 57). 
Mark Walther
states in his declaration that under the contract and in practice, UBC
exercises no control over how LA’s Best’s assigned outside security guards
perform their duties.  From time to time,
UBC may identify areas for particular attention or set general expectations for
the services to be performed.  UBC also
requires security guards to wear appropriate personal protective equipment in
areas of active work, as it does all personnel and visitors to the site.  Otherwise, LA’s Best’s security guards are
not subject to any UBC policies, directions, or orders, and no UBC employees
exercise supervisory authority over the guards. 
Walther decl., ¶6.  UBC does not
have a contractual right to dictate how LA’s Best’s staffs UBC sites and does
not have the power to hire or fire LA’s Best’s guards and it has never asked
for a guard to be reassigned from a UBC project.  Id., ¶7. 
During UBC’s negotiations with LA’s Best, UBC did not unilaterally set
the amount it would pay to LA’s Best or any other terms of the contract other
than the hours of coverage provided. 
Id., ¶8.  Walther further states
that he only became aware of plaintiff’s contention that LA’s Best paid him
cash under the table for his overtime hours after plaintiff testified to that
effect during his deposition.  Walther states
that “[n]either I nor any other UBC officer or employee had knowledge of this
practice at the time it allegedly occurred.” 
Id., ¶10.  UBC did not control or
schedule meal and rest periods for the outside security guards.  Id., ¶11. 
Outside security guards assigned to UBC sites, including the Pointe, do
not report their work hours to UBC and UBC does not process their payroll.  Id., ¶12.
Defendants
also presents the declaration of David Rivera (project manager for UBC at the
Pointe) who states that in his capacity as project manager for the Pointe, he
exercised no control over plaintiff while he worked as a security guard at the
Pointe project.  He did not direct
plaintiff in performing his duties or give him any orders or instructions.  Plaintiff did not check in or out with Rivera
at any time or report to him in any sense. 
David Rivera decl., ¶3.  He
further states that he coordinated with the onsite superintendent and a UBC
laborer and that based on his interaction with the two UBC staffers, he is
confident that neither of the employees supervised, directed, or controlled
plaintiff’s work as a security guard and that plaintiff did not report to
either of them.  Id., ¶4.  He states that neither he nor any other UBC
employee at the Pointe ever told plaintiff when to come to work, when to leave,
or when to take his meal or rest periods and that he was never under UBC’s
management and control during his time at the Pointe.  Id., ¶5. 
Rivera further states that he knew and interacted with plaintiff in a
friendly way while plaintiff worked security at the Pointe, and that in time,
they learned a little about each other’s families and outside lives, and that
their conversations were always limited to those personal subjects and that
they never discussed work.  Id., ¶6.  He also states that plaintiff never told him
anything about his working conditions, compensation, or generally what it was
like to work for LA’s Best or its subcontractor, and that he had no idea that
he was allegedly being paid cash under the table for his overtime hours, and
that he has no personal knowledge related to any of his claims for meal and
rest period violations, wage violations, unlawful deductions, or any other
claims.  Id., ¶7.
Defendant
also presents the declaration of Balbir Gill Singh (operations manager of LA’s
Best Security, Inc.) who states that LA’s Best is a “private patrol operator”
licensed by the State of California to provide armed and unarmed security
guards to its clients.  Under LA’s Best’s
contracts “with our clients and in practice, only LA’s Best controls its
employees.  LA’s Best has sole
responsibility for training its guards, hiring, firing, and disciplining them,
assigning them to client sites, compensating them, and complying with state and
federal employment laws.”  Id., ¶3.  He also states that LA’s Best “exercises its
discretion in sub-contracting its services to clients.”  Id. ¶4. 
He further states that plaintiff was employed by Command Security
Systems as a security guard at UBC’s site the Pointe, and that only Command
directed plaintiff’s work, and that he is not aware of any way in which UBC
controlled, directed, or supervised plaintiff’s work.  Id., ¶5.
In
opposition, plaintiff argues that there are numerous disputed material facts
that exist as to whether UBC is plaintiff’s joint employer and that all the
evidence proffered by UBC is “just one” exhibit, which is excerpts of
plaintiff’s deposition.  The Court notes
that as set forth above, defendant offered more than plaintiff’s deposition
excerpts, namely, three declarations. 
Plaintiff argues that UBC exercised control over plaintiff’s wages and
hours under the “revised contract” (Exhibit 12 “Revised Security Guard Service
Proposal” for project/location Sunset View, Sylmar, CA dated February 28, 2020)
between LA’s Best and UBC where UBC “restructured” the wages for the security
officer where it paid only $13.95 per hour to LA’s Best (minimum wage then was
$14/hr. and plaintiff was promised $17/hr.).  Thus, plaintiff contends, LA’s Best could only
make a profit via “illegal inconsistent, inaccurate underpayments” to
plaintiff, staggered in both checks and cash to avoid detection and that both
“joint employers then consistently retain about two thirds (166 hours) of
plaintiff’s earned wages as savings and profits per pay period.”  Plaintiff argues that under Labor Code §2810,
“(a) A person or entity shall not  enter
into a contract or agreement for labor or services with a construction, . . . ,
security guard, . . . . contractor, where the person or entity knows or should
know that the contract or agreement does not include funds sufficient to allow
the contractor to comply with all applicable local, state, and federal laws or
regulations governing the labor or services to be provided.”  The Court notes that plaintiff did not assert
any causes of action for violation of Labor Code §2810 against defendant
UBC.  See Conroy v. Regents of
University of California (2009) 45 Cal. 4th 1244, 1250 (“The
materiality of a disputed fact is measured by the pleadings, which ‘set the
boundaries of the issues to be resolved at summary judgment.’”) (Citations omitted).
Plaintiff
also argues that UBC exercised its right to control plaintiff’s work conditions
via the “revised contract,” [Exh. 12] which mandated that plaintiff turn in his
Daily Activity Reports to be filled and submitted to UBC every day before he
leaves; that all plaintiff’s Incident Reports be filled out and distributed in
a manner and procedure designated by UBC; that mandatory only forms developed
by UBC will be used at UBC’s facility; that all personnel supplied will use his
best efforts to observe and report to UBC any physical facility problems
observed such as damages, breakages, in a manner or procedure designated by
UBC; that UBC remains solely responsible for the scope and adequacy of the
security programs, including adequacy of lighting.  As stated below, the Court sustained
defendant’s objection to this “revised contract.”  Plaintiff further argues that UBC exercised
its right to “suffer or permit” work by plaintiff because it had the power and
authority to have plaintiff removed from any of UBC’s work sites and can have
LA’s Best remove plaintiff at its sole discretion.  Moreover, plaintiff argues, UBC met the
standard “to engage” with plaintiff for the reasons argued above.
Plaintiff
further contends that “facts essential to justify” the opposition are in the
exclusive control of UBC and “unavailable” due to UBC’s “obstruction to
discovery,” including Daily Activity Reports plaintiff submitted to UBC every
day at shift end.  Plaintiff also asserts
that UBC “blatantly disregarded the Court’s order of March 8, 2024 to produce
relevant documents.”
In reply,
defendant argues that plaintiff presents no admissible evidence to raise a
triable issue of material fact.  Rather,
defendant asserts, plaintiff “weaves a fantastical tale based on a purported
contract” between UBC and LA’s Best Security (which defendant objects to as
lacking authentication) and “never quite connects the dots,” including that the
“contract” governed the site where plaintiff was posted or supports plaintiff’s
contentions regarding “negotiating history.” 
As for plaintiff’s discovery-related arguments, defendant contends they
fail because plaintiff does not explain how further discovery would reveal any
evidence that would show a genuine dispute of fact or why such evidence could
not have been obtained with proper diligence in time to oppose the motion.  Defendant notes that plaintiff has taken no
depositions of UBC’s witnesses nor propounded new discovery after UBC filed the
motion.
Evidentiary
objections
Defendant’s
evidentiary objections are ruled on as follows (and numbered by the Court):  SUSTAINED as to No. 1 (Chinenye Iweze decl.,
para. 3 and Exh. 12) and OVERRULED as to Nos. 2 (para. 4), 3 (para. 5), 4
(para. 6), 5 (para. 7), 5 (para. 8), 6 (para. 9), 7 (para. 10), 8 (para. 11), 9
(para. 12), 10 (para. 13), 11 (para. 14), 12 (para. 15), 13 (para. 16), and 14
(para. 17).
 
The Court
rules as follows:  “To impose liability
for violations of the Labor Code, [plaintiff] must show that [defendant UBC] is
an employer as defined in IWC wage order[s].” 
Mattei v. Corporate Management Solutions, Inc. (2020) 52 Cal.
App. 5th 116, 122-23 (citation omitted).  As stated above, the term “employment” in
state wage and hour cases has three alternative definitions:  “(a) to exercise control over the wages, hours
or working conditions, or (b) to suffer or permit to work, or (c) to engage,
thereby creating a common law employment relationship.”  Martinez, supra, at 64.  “’The question of whether an employment
relationship exists “is generally a question reserved for the trier of fact.” .
. . This remains true “[w]here the evidence, though not in conflict, permits
conflicting inferences.” . . . However, if neither the evidence nor inferences
are in conflict, then the question of whether an employment relationship exists
becomes a question of law which may be resolved by summary judgment.’”  Aleksick v. 7-Eleven, Inc. (2012) 205
Cal. App. 4th 1176, 1187 (citations and internal quotations omitted). 
The Court
notes that it previously ruled that “[a]lthough plaintiff’s interrogatory
responses do not appear to be entirely consistent with plaintiff’s deposition
testimony, whether UBC is a ‘joint employer’ is a factual and legal issue and
discovery is ongoing.  Plaintiff’s
deposition testimony does not mean necessarily that plaintiff’s position that
UBC is a joint employer cannot be supported by existing law or have evidentiary
support.”  See Minute Order, dated March
28, 2024 denying defendant’s motion to dismiss pursuant to CCP §128.7.  Here, defendant has provided additional
evidence—three declarations—and the standard under CCP §128.7 is different from
the standard for motions for summary judgment.
The Court
finds that defendant UBC has met its burden of showing that plaintiff cannot
establish that defendant was a “joint employer” of LA’s Best Security under the
Martinez tests.  
                        Exercise of control
test
The
Supreme Court explained that in a joint employer situation, the exercise of
“control over how services are performed is an important, perhaps even the
principal, test for the existence of an employment relationship.”  Martinez, supra, at 76.  It stated that “one of the reasons the IWC
defined ‘employer’ in terms of exercising control was to reach situations in
which multiple entities control different aspects of the employment
relationship.  This occurs, for example,
when one entity (such as a temporary employment agency) hires and pays a
worker, and another entity supervises the work. 
Supervision of the work, in the specific sense of exercising control
over how services are performed, is properly viewed as one of the ‘working
conditions’ mentioned in the wage order.  To read the wage order in this way makes it
consistent with other areas of the law, in which control over how services are
performed is an important, perhaps even the principal, test for the existence
of an employment relationship.”  Id.
(citations omitted).  The undisputed
facts show that UBC did not control plaintiff’s wages, hours, and working
conditions.
                        Suffer
or permit to work test
The
Supreme Court in Martinez explained that the “suffer or permit to work”
test of employment rests “ ‘upon principles wholly distinct from those relating
to master and servant.’ ” Martinez, supra, at 69.  “[U]nder the ‘suffer or permit’ standard,”
the “basis of liability is the defendant's knowledge of and failure to prevent
the work from occurring.”  Id. at
70 (citation omitted).  The Martinez
Court explained that the “suffer or permit to work” standard prohibits
proprietors from knowingly allowing persons to work for less than minimum wage,
or failing to prevent such work while having the power to do so.  Id. at 69.  Defendant presented evidence that LA’s Best
had the exclusive power to hire and fire the security guards, to set their
wages and hours, and to tell them when and where to report to work.
                        Engage test/common
law employment relationship
“[T]he
verb ‘to engage’ has no other apparent meaning in the present context than its
plain, ordinary sense of ‘to employ,’ that is, to create a common law
employment relationship.”  Martinez,
supra, at 64.  “The common law test
focuses on the issue of whether a worker is an employee or an independent
contractor.”  Curry v. Equilon
Enterprises, LLC (2018) 23 Cal. App. 5th 289, 304 (citing to Estrada v.
FedEx Ground Package System, Inc. (2007) 154 Cal. App. 4th 1, 11).  Under the Estrada test, courts
consider:  “(1) whether the worker is
engaged in a distinct occupation or business, (2) whether, considering the kind
of occupation and locality, the work is usually done under the principal's
direction or by a specialist without supervision, (3) the skill required, (4)
whether the principal or worker supplies the instrumentalities, tools, and
place of work, (5) the length of time for which the services are to be
performed, (6) the method of payment, whether by time or by job, (7) whether
the work is part of the principal's regular business, and (8) whether the
parties believe they are creating an employer-employee relationship.”  Id. at 304-305 (citing to Estrada).

As
defendant argues and based on the evidence as to these factors, plaintiff was a
security guard, a distinct occupation from UBC’s general contracting business;
UBC did not direct plaintiff’s work; plaintiff was a trained and licensed
security guard; UBC provided no tools or equipment; UBC’s contract with LA’s
Best was for the length of the project, approximately 15 months; UBC paid LA’s
Best a fee based on the amount of time it supplied guards and UBC did not
directly pay plaintiff; security work is not part of UBC’s general contracting
business; and plaintiff admitted he did not believe UBC was his employer.
Plaintiff
failed to provide substantial evidence to raise a triable issue of material
fact as to any of these three Martinez tests.
The
motion for summary judgment is thus GRANTED. 
The motion for summary adjudication is MOOT in light of the ruling on
the motion for summary judgment.
 
ORDER
The
motion for summary judgment is GRANTED. 
The motion for summary adjudication is MOOT in light of the ruling on
the motion for summary judgment.
Moving
defendant is ordered to give notice of ruling.