 Case Number:  23TRCV03305    Hearing Date:   October 15, 2024    Dept:  E 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Southwest District
Torrance Dept. E




 
FRANK D.
  ADAMS, JR., by and through his Successor-in-Interest, Menuèt Adams, MENUÈT
  ADAMS, individually; and KRISTA ADAMS, individually,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV03305




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  Denied
 




 
SURMEL
  LLC dba ASBURY PARK NURSING & REHABILITATION CENTER; LAIBCO, LLC dba LAS
  FLORES CONVALESCENT HOSPITAL; KND SNF Real Estate Holdings, LLC dba KINDRED
  HOSPITAL PARAMOUNT; KINDRED HEALTHCARE OPERATING, LLC; and DOES 1 through 50,
  inclusive,


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:              October
15, 2024        
 
Moving Parties:          Defendant Laibco, LLC dba Las Flores
Convalescent Hospital
Responding
Party:      Plaintiffs Frank D. Adams Jr,
Menuét Adams, Krista Adams, and Jessica Adams
HEARING:
Motion to Compel Arbitration
            The Court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
            The Court Denies the Motion to Compel Arbitration.
BACKGROUND
            On October 10, 2023, Plaintiffs
Frank D Adams Jr., Menuét Adams, and Krista Adams filed the Complaint.
 
            On March 26, 2024, Plaintiffs filed
the First Amended Complaint alleging causes of action for statutory elder abuse
and neglect, negligence, and wrongful death.
 
            On April 2, 2024, Defendants Laibco,
LLC. dba Las Flores Convalescent Hospital filed the instant motion to compel
arbitration.
 
            On April 12, 2024, Plaintiffs filed
the Opposition.
 
            On August 12, 2024, the hearing was
continued to October 15, 2024.
 
            On October 8, 2024, Defendant filed
the Reply.
 
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
The Federal Arbitration Act (the “FAA”)
applies in both federal and state courts to contracts evidencing a transaction
involving interstate commerce. (9 U.S.C. §§ 1-2; Southland Corp. v. Keating
(1984) 465 U.S. 1, 12.) The FAA preempts conflicting state law. (Preston v.
Ferrer (2008) 552 U.S. 346, 353.) The party that contends the FAA applies
bears the burden to demonstrate that the arbitration agreement is in a
“‘contract evidencing a transaction involving commerce’ . . . .” (Woolls v.
Super. Ct. (2005) 127 Cal.App.4th 197, 211.) 
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2,
“[o]n petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the existence of
a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses
to arbitrate such controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the
respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to
arbitrate the controversy exists, unless it determines that: (a) The right to
compel arbitration has been waived by the petitioner; or (b)¿Grounds exist for
the revocation of the agreement.”¿ 
 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The instant case
arises from the alleged negligent care Plaintiff Frank D Adams Jr. (Frank)
obtained at Las Flores Convalescent Hospital. Before entering the facility,
Frank granted Menuét Adams (Menuét) Durable Power of Attorney (DPOA) on
February 23, 2021. The DPOA included powers over claims and litigation but not
over healthcare decisions. Defendant requests that the Court compel arbitration
based on the alleged signing of an arbitration agreement on December 13, 2022,
by Menuét, which reads, in pertinent part:
 
Article 1 (1.1) Recitals: It is understood that any dispute as to medical
malpractice, that is as to whether any medical services rendered under this
contract were unnecessary or unauthorized or were improperly, negligently, or
incompetently rendered, will be determined by submission to arbitration as
provided by California law and not by a lawsuit or resort to court process
except as California law provides for judicial review of arbitration
proceedings. Both parties to this contract, by entering into it, are giving up
their constitutional right to have any such dispute decided in a court of law
before a jury and instead are accepting the use of arbitration…  It is also understood that this agreement
similarly governs the submission to arbitration of any and all other claims
arising, or in connection with, or relating in any way to the Admission
Agreement (including, the validity, interpretation, construction, performance
and enforcement thereof) or any service or goods provided by the Facility to
the Resident, or which allege violations of the Elder Abuse and Dependent Adult
Civil Protection Act, the Unfair Competition Law, the False Advertising Law,
the Consumer Legal Remedies Act, or which seek an award of treble damages,
punitive damages or attorneys’ fees. (See Declaration of Raniyah Thomas
(“Thomas Decl.”), Exhibit A, ¶ 1.1, pg. 1.)
 
1.    
Existence of Valid Arbitration Agreement and
Claims Covered by Arbitration Clause¿ 
 
“[T]he petitioner
bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by
the preponderance of the evidence . . . .” (Giuliano v. Inland Empire
Personnel, Inc. (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1276, 1284.) “In determining whether
an arbitration agreement applies to a specific dispute, the court may examine
only the agreement itself and the complaint filed by the party refusing
arbitration [citation]. The court should attempt to give effect to the parties’
intentions, in light of the usual and ordinary meaning of the contractual
language and the circumstances under which the agreement was made.” (Weeks
v. Crow (1980) 113 Cal.App.3d 350, 353.) “To determine whether a
contractual arbitration clause requires arbitration of a particular
controversy, the controversy is first identified, and the issue is whether that
controversy is within the scope of the contractual arbitration clause.” (Titolo
v. Cano (2007) 157 Cal.App.4th 310, 316.) “Doubts as to whether an
arbitration clause applies to a particular dispute are to be resolved in favor
of sending the parties to arbitration. The court should order them to arbitrate
unless it is clear that the arbitration clause cannot be interpreted to cover
the dispute.” (California Correctional Peace Officers Ass’n v. State
(2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 198, 205.) 
 
[A] party opposing
the petition bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence any
fact necessary to its defense. [Citation.] In these summary proceedings, the
trial court sits as a trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations,
and other documentary evidence, as well as oral testimony received at the
court’s discretion, to reach a final determination. (Giuliano, supra,
149 Cal.App.4th at p. 1284.) 
 
 Defendant argues that the Arbitration
Agreement (the Agreement) should be interpreted broadly, and that arbitration
should be ordered unless it is explicitly clear that the agreement does not
apply to the dispute. (Wickes v. Crow (1980) 113 Cal.App.3d 350, 353.) Defendant
also cites the specific language of the Agreement, which covers any disputes
related to medical malpractice and any claims connected to or arising from the
Admission Agreement or services provided. (Thomas Decl. Exhibit A.)
 
Defendant further
supports its position with case law emphasizing the broad interpretation of
arbitration agreements. (See, Wagner Construction Co. v. Pacific Mechanical
Corp. (2007) 41 Cal.4th 19, 26.) Finally, Defendant argues that once the
existence of an arbitration agreement is established, the burden shifts to the
opposing party to prove it is unenforceable. (Condee v. Longwood Management
Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 219.) Based on these principles, Defendant
argues that the Agreement in question applies to the dispute and requires the
matter to be settled in arbitration.
 
In opposition,
Plaintiffs argue that Defendant has not met the burden of proving the existence
of a valid arbitration agreement, as Frank did not sign any such contract. (Garrison
v. Superior Court (2005) 132 Cal.App.4th 253, 263.) The party seeking to
compel arbitration must prove that a valid arbitration agreement exists, and
generally, a person not party to an arbitration agreement cannot be bound by
it. (Flores v. Evergreen at San Diego, LLC (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 581.)
 
Plaintiffs assert
that Defendant ignores the key issue that Frank never signed the Agreement, and
that no valid agency was established that could bind him to the arbitration. An
agency relationship requires actions by the principal, not just the agent. (Garcia
v. KND Dev. 52, LLC (2020) 58 Cal. App. 5th 736; see also Civ. Code,
§ 2315.) In the instant case, Frank did not confer any authority to Menuét, who
signed the agreement as a "responsible party." Additionally, Frank’s DPOA
explicitly excluded healthcare decisions, further undermining any claims of agency.
(Sitar Decl. Exhibit A.)
 
Plaintiffs point to
case law, where courts have found no agency or contract in similar
circumstances. (Pagarigan v. Libby Care Center, Inc. (2002) 99
Cal.App.4th 298; Yvonne Warfield v Summerville Senior Living, Inc (2007)
158 Cal.App.4th 443.) Plaintiffs argue that Defendant has presented no evidence
to show that Frank conferred agency to Menuét or that an arbitration agreement
exists with him. Therefore, Plaintiffs contend that arbitration cannot be
compelled.
 
In reply, Defendant
argues that although Plaintiffs claim Menuét lacked the authority to enter into
the Agreement under the DPOA due to its exclusion of healthcare decisions, this
exclusion is irrelevant to the case. (Sitar Decl. Exhibit A.) The DPOA did not
grant authority for healthcare decisions, but it did grant broad powers to Ms.
Adams, including authority over "claims and litigation."(Sitar Decl.
Exhibit A). This authority, Defendant argues, was sufficient for her to execute
the Agreement on behalf of Mr. Adams.
 
Defendant further
asserts that the scope of the DPOA, which included handling claims and
litigation, was broad and comprehensive enough to cover the signing of
contracts such as the Agreement. Defendant asserts that the California Supreme
Court has found that if there is a broad enough DPOA, it can bind parties to
Arbitration. (See Harrod v. Country Oaks Partners, LLC (2024) 15 Cal.5th
939, 966.)
 
In Hutcheson v.
Eskaton Fountain Wood Lodge (2017) 17 Cal.App.5th 937, the Court found that
admission of a resident to a nursing home and signing an arbitration agreement
as part of the intake process was a healthcare decision. (Hutcheson, 17
Cal.App.5th 937, 957.) Therefore, because the agent in Hutcheson did not have
power of attorney for healthcare decisions, the arbitration agreement was
invalid. (See, id.)
 
In Harrod v.
Country Oaks Partners, LLC (2024) 15 Cal.5th 939, the Supreme Court of
California found that the meaning of “health care decision” does not include
the power to enter into optional, separate arbitration agreements.” (Harrod,
supra, 15 Cal.5th 939, 965.) Therefore, Defendant argues that Menuét had
the power to enter into the arbitration agreement, which Defendant asserts was
optional, based on the DPOA, which granted Menuét power over all claims and
litigation. (See id.; Sitar Decl. Exhibit A.) However, in Harrod,
the Supreme Court referred to Hutcheson, stating, “We have no occasion
to address Hutcheson’s ultimate concern: whether an agent with
power over claims and litigation, but without power over health care decisions,
may agree to arbitration with a health care facility with whom the agent had no
right to contract for services in the first instance.” (Harrod,
supra, 15 Cal.5th 939, Fn. 7.)  
 
Here, the DPOA
signed by Frank explicitly does not grant power to his agent over healthcare
decisions. (Sitar Decl. Exhibit A.) Therefore, because Menuét did not have the
authority to make healthcare decisions for Frank, she also did not have the
power to sign the admissions agreement on his behalf, as supported by Hutcheson
and Harrod. As a result, she lacked the ability to bind Frank to an
arbitration agreement related to his admission to Las Flores Convalescent
Hospital pursuant to Hutcheson and Harrod. (See, Hutcheson,
supra, 17 Cal.App.5th 937, 957; Harrod, supra, 15 Cal.5th 939, Fn. 7.)
Thus, Defendant has failed to show the existence of a valid arbitration
agreement. (Giuliano, 149 Cal.App.4th 1276, 1284.)
 
      The Court denies the Motion to Compel
Arbitration.
            