


[1]
Defendant argues that the
court in Williams overruled this case. However, the court in Williams
only disapproved of San Diego Trolley to the extent it required the
party seeking information in this context to demonstrate a compelling interest
or compelling need. (Williams, supra, 3 Cal.5th at p. 560, fn. 8.) 


 
[2] In its opposition, Defendant
contends Plaintiff has waived his right to privacy in the employment records
with Third-Party Adventist. As Plaintiff notes, though, waivers must be
narrowly rather than expansively construed. (Britt v. Superior Court (1978)
20 Cal.3d 844, 859.) Plaintiff did not waive his right to privacy in his
employment records with Third-Party Adventist because only Plaintiff’s
employment with Defendant is directly relevant to this action.

//////////////////////////////////////
 
Motion to Quash or Modify Deposition
Subpoena for Business Records to Third Party Prospect Medical Group, Inc.
 
The
court considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply.
BACKGROUND 
            This
action arises from an employment dispute.
            On
July 6, 2022, Plaintiff Harmik Abrahamian (Plaintiff) filed a complaint against
Defendant Cedars-Sinai Medical Center (Defendant). The complaint alleges
retaliation, disability discrimination, failure to accommodate, failure to
engage in the interactive process, wrongful discharge in violation of public
policy, and failure to allow inspection of personnel files. 
            On
November 22, 2022, Defendant issued a subpoena to Third-Party Prospect Medical
Group (Third-Party Prospect).
            On
January 3, 2023, Plaintiff filed this motion to quash or modify the subpoena. 
LEGAL STANDARD
            Code of Civil Procedure section
1987.1, subdivision (a) provides that “[i]f a subpoena requires the attendance
of a witness or the production of documents, electronically stored information,
or other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue therein . . . the
court, upon motion reasonably made by [a witness] . . . may make an order
quashing the subpoena entirely [or] modifying it.” 
            “In
addition, the court may make any other order as may be appropriate to protect
the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable
violations of the right of privacy of the person.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1,
subd (a).) 
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiff
aims to quash or modify the subpoena issued to Third-Party Prospect on multiple
grounds. First, the subpoena does not describe the categories of documents
sought with particularity. A subpoena must reasonably particularize each
category of item sought. (Calcor Space Facility, Inc. v. Superior Court (1997)
53 Cal.App.4th 216, 221-222.) Here, the subpoena improperly requests all
documents that refer, relate, or pertain to the employment of Plaintiff and
provides a non-exhaustive list of such documents. Defendant must limit the
subpoena to the listed items. 
            Next,
Plaintiff objects to the following requested documents: personnel files,
manager and/or supervisor files, performance evaluations and reviews,
complaints by employees about Plaintiff, complaints by Plaintiff about
employees, disciplinary actions pertaining to Plaintiff, and termination
documents pertaining to Plaintiff. To that end, Plaintiff points out that these
categories are personnel records. As such, they are subject to Plaintiff’s
constitutional right to privacy. “The party asserting a privacy right must
establish a legally protected privacy interest, an objectively reasonable
expectation of privacy in the given circumstances, and a threated intrusion
that is serious.” (Williams v. Superior Court (2017)
3 Cal.5th 531, 552 (Williams).) Here, Plaintiff has identified a
legally protected privacy interest. (San Diego Trolley, Inc. v. Superior
Court (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 1083, 1097 [finding personnel records and
employment history are confidential], disapproved on another ground in Williams
v. Superior Court, supra, 3 Cal.5th at p. 560, fn. 8.)[1]
Plaintiff has a reasonable expectation of privacy in these documents because he
has not put his employment with Third-Party Prospect at issue in this action.[2] And
production of the documents would seriously compromise this privacy interest. 
            In
evaluating potential invasions of privacy, though, the court must balance
competing considerations. (Williams, supra, 3 Cal.5th at p. 552.) “The
party seeking information may raise in response whatever legitimate and
important countervailing interests disclosure serves.” (Ibid.) Defendant
first argues that the requested documents are relevant to assess Plaintiff’s
mitigation of his claimed damages. But Defendant has not specified which of of
the disputed categories of documents are necessary for this assessment. In
fact, the court notes that Plaintiff does not object to Defendant’s discovery
of his payroll records and timesheets from Third-Party Prospect, which would reflect
Plaintiff’s efforts to mitigate. 
            Defendant
further contends it needs the documents at issue to evaluate Plaintiff’s
credibility. That is, Defendant claims any information Plaintiff shared with Third-Party
Prospect about the reasons for this termination is relevant to his retaliation
and discrimination claims. This includes any statements Plaintiff made on his
employment application or to his supervisors at Third-Party Prospect. Once
again, though, Defendant has not specified which of the disputed categories
would be helpful. The court notes that Plaintiff does not object to the
production of Third-Party Prospect’s applications for employment, interview
notes, and new hire documents—all of which could include the statements
Defendant wants.
            Lastly,
Defendant argues it needs the disputed categories of documents because they
would show whether Third-Party Prosect disciplined Plaintiff for the same
reasons that led to his termination. But Defendant has not persuaded the court
that this evidence would be relevant to Plaintiff’s credibility. Rather, the
information would constitute inadmissible character evidence. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2017.010 [“[A]ny party may obtain discovery . . . that is relevant to the
subject matter involved in the pending action . . . if the matter is either itself
admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence.”]; Evid. Code, § 1101, subd. (a) [“[E]vidence
of a person’s character or a trait of his or her character ([including]
evidence of specific instances of his or her conduct) is inadmissible when
offered to prove his or her conduct on specified occasion.”].) 
            Accordingly,
the court will grant Plaintiff’s motion to modify the subpoena. Defendant shall
remove the following categories of documents sought from Third-Party Prospect:
personnel files, manager and/or supervisor files, performance evaluations and
reviews, complaints by employees about Plaintiff, complaints by Plaintiff about
employees, disciplinary actions pertaining to Plaintiff, and termination
documents pertaining to Plaintiff. In addition, Defendant shall limit the scope
of the following language: “All documents and/or records that refer, relate or
pertain to the employment of [Plaintiff] . . . including but not limited to . .
.” 
CONCLUSION 
Based
on the foregoing, the court grants Plaintiff’s motion to modify the subpoena
issued to Third-Party Prospect.
Plaintiff
is ordered to give notice.


