 Case Number:  23AHCV00325    Hearing Date:   January 4, 2024    Dept:  26  
 
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 26
 



 
zhenya he,
 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
YING CHEN; COLE HARRIS; JONATHAN MEYERS
  aka JONATHAN MERYERS; HIN KU; YOU FAN CAO, et al.
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.:  23AHCV00325
 
  Hearing Date:  January 4, 2024
 
[TENTATIVE] order RE:
Plaintiff’S motion for leave to amend
  the complaint
 
 



 
Procedural Background
            On February 13, 2023, Plaintiff Zhenya He
(“Plaintiff”) filed the instant quiet title action against Defendant Ying Chen,
Cole Harris, Jonathan Meyers aka Jonathn Meryers, Hin Ku, and You Fan Cao
(collectively “Defendants”).  On May 19,
2023, Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against
Defendants.  The FAC asserts two causes
of action for (1) Conversion and (2) Quiet Title.
            On
September 27, 2023, the instant action was deemed related to Los Angeles
Superior Court Case No. 22STCV09634 (“Lead Action”) and reassigned to the
current department.  
            On
November 17, 2023, Plaintiff filed the instant motion for leave to file a
second amended complaint in the instant action. 
On November 20, 2023, Plaintiff filed a notice of errata.  On November 28, 2023, Plaintiff filed a
second notice of errata for the instant motion. 
On December 4, 2023, Defendant Cole Harris (“Harris”) filed an
opposition.  On December 5, 2023, the
Court advanced the instant motion to January 4, 2024.  (Minute Order 12/5/23.)  On December 11, 2023, Plaintiff filed a
reply.
 
Legal Standard
            Code
of Civil Procedure § 473, subdivision (a)(1) states: “[t]he court may, in
furtherance of justice, and on any terms, as may be proper, allow a party to
amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any
party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any
other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or
demurrer.  The court may likewise, in its
discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be
just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may
upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time limited by this
code.”  
            Code
of Civil Procedure § 576 states that: “[a]ny judge, at any time before or after
commencement of trial, in the furtherance of justice, and upon such terms as
may be proper, may allow the amendment of any pleading or pretrial conference
order.”
            Judicial
policy favors resolution of all disputed matters between the parties, and
therefore, courts have held that “there is a strong
policy in favor of liberal allowance of amendments.” (Mesler v. Bragg
Management Co. (1985) 39 Cal.3d 290, 296-97; see also Ventura v. ABM
Industries, Inc. (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 258, 268) [“Trial courts are bound
to apply a policy of great liberality in permitting amendments to the complaint
at any stage of the proceedings, up to and including trial where the adverse
party will not be prejudiced.”].) 
            Pursuant
to California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(a), a
motion to amend must: (1) include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended
pleading, which must be serially numbered; and (2) state what allegations are
proposed to be deleted from or added to the previous pleading and where such
allegations are located.  Rule 3.1324(b)
requires a separate declaration that accompanies the motion, stating: “(1) the
effect of the amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3)
when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4)
the reason why the request for amendment was not made earlier.”  
 
Discussion
            Pursuant to the
second errata to the instant motion, Plaintiff seeks to amend the complaint to
include additional Defendants, additional causes of action, and more factual
allegations to support these additions.  Specifically,
Plaintiff seeks to add Sinora Chan, Maggie Ly Sien aka Maggie Chan, Real Estate
Elite Corporation, West Coast Escrow Co, and Chicago Title Co as Defendants.  (2nd Errata Exh. A.)  Plaintiff also seeks to pursue nine causes of
action for (1) Quiet Title, (2) Declaratory Relief, (3) Breach of Fiduciary
Duty, (4) Slander of Title, (5) Conversion, (6) Fraud, (7) Civil Remedy under
Penal Code § 496(c), (8) Cancellation of Deed, and (9) Unjust
Enrichment/Constructive Trust.  (2nd
Errata Exh. A.)  The first errata identifies
the specific changes made between the FAC and the proposed second amended
complaint.  (1st Errata,
Appendix.)  The second errata to the
instant motion includes the specific changes made between the first errata and
second errata.
            Plaintiff
discovered the facts giving rise to the need for these amendments after
receiving subpoenaed documents on May 17, 2023. 
(Mascheroni Decl. ¶ 5.)  Plaintiff’s
Counsel at the time conferred with Defendants’ Counsel regarding proposed amendments
to the complaint.  However, Plaintiff’s
then Counsel uncovered the Lead Action and discovered that Plaintiff had been
defaulted in the Lead Action. 
(Mascheroni Decl. ¶ 6.)  Because the
Lead Action involves many issues that could have a collateral effect against
Plaintiff in the instant action, Plaintiff’s Prior Counsel sought to set aside
the default in the Lead Action but due to health issues had to travel out of
the country, and Plaintiff’s Current Counsel assumed responsibility for the
case.  (Mascheroni Decl. ¶¶ 10-11.)  Defense Counsel for Defendants Hin Ku and You Fan
Cao agreed to stipulate to the filing of the proposed Second Amended Complaint,
but on November 14, 2023 Counsel for Defendant Harris refused to do so,
prompting the need for the instant motion. 
(Mascheroni Decl. ¶¶ 19-20.) 

            In opposition,
Defendant Harris claims that there has been significant delay in bringing the
instant motion.  While there may have
been some delay in bringing the instant motion to amend the complaint, “trial courts are
to liberally permit such amendments, at any stage of
the proceeding[.]”  (Hirsa v.
Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486, 488–489.)  Moreover, to justify a denial of a motion for
leave to amend, the delay must have caused prejudice to the adverse
parties.  (See Fair v. Bakhtiari (2011)
195 Cal.App.4th 1135, 1147, [“[W]here there is no prejudice to the adverse
party, it may be an abuse of discretion to deny leave to amend.”].)  Here, there is no prejudice to Defendants.  Though there have been many changes, the
instant action is still in early proceedings, and the claim against Defendants
are still made on the same general underlying facts.  Moreover, other than generally claiming
unspecified prejudice, Defendant Harris fails to identify any specific prejudice
that would be caused by the proposed second amended complaint.  
            Similarly, to the extent that the
proposed second amended complaint is deficient, Defendants can challenge such
deficiency in a demurrer or motion for summary judgment.   In
general, there is no requirement that a critical inquiry be made into the
merits of the amendment on a request for leave to amend.  (See Ruiz v. Santa Barbara Gas & Elec.
Co. (1912) 164 Cal. 188, 196 [ “The usual and orderly way to test the
sufficiency of an amended complaint is, in the first instance, by demurrer,
after the same has been filed, when the questions presented in regard thereto
may be considered and determined, and leave given to the pleader to amend if
the pleading be held insufficient and the court deem it proper that the party
should have such leave.”].)  
            The Court finds that no prejudice would
arise from the amendments, and thus, it would be an abuse of discretion to deny
the instant motion.  Plaintiff’s motion
for leave to amend is GRANTED.
  
Conclusion and ORDER
            Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff Zhenya He’s motion for leave to
amend the complaint is GRANTED.
            Plaintiff
is to file the proposed Second Amended Complaint within five (5) days of notice
of this order.
            All
parties are ordered to appear for a Case Management Conference on February 29,
2024 at 8:30 am.
            Moving
Party is to
provide notice of this order and file proof of service of such.
 
DATED: January ___, 2024                                                   ___________________________
                                                                                          Elaine
Lu
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court