  Case Number:  20GDCV00728    Hearing Date:   September 19, 2024    Dept:  D TENTATIVE RULINGCalendar: 2 Date: 9/20/2024 Case No: 20 GDCV00728 Trial Date: October 21, 2024Case Name: King Cobra Construction, PC v. Nieves, et al. MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE CROSS-COMPLAINTMoving Party: Defendants Probuild Company, LLC and Dixieline Builders Fund Control, Inc.  Responding Party: Plaintiff Corazon Nieves    RELIEF REQUESTED: Leave to file a cross-complaint and have the First Amended Cross-Complaint be deemed filed.   RELEVANT FACTS: The complaint in the lead case in these consolidated cases is brought by plaintiff King Cobra Construction, P.C. (King Cobra) which alleges that it is a licensed general contractor, and in 2019 entered into a written agreement with defendants Corazon S. Nieves, Trustee of the Corazon Revocable Trust Dated October 10, 2013, to act as the general contractor for a project located on 3080 Hollywell Place in Glendale, which property was owned by defendant.  There were also approved change orders and extra work performed that improved the property.Plaintiff alleges that it performed all of the conditions of the agreement, but defendant materially breached the terms of the agreement by failing to pay for the work performed and owes plaintiff no less than the sum of $288,000 plus interest and prompt payment penalties.  The complaint alleges causes of action for breach of written contract, breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, indebitatus assumpsit, account stated, foreclosure of mechanic’s lien and declaratory relief. Defendant Nieves, individually, and as trustee, has filed a cross-complaint in the lead case against King Cobra and its principal, Haroutyan Keshishyan, as cross-defendants, alleging that the construction contract between the parties did not contain any provision for payment of construction supervision fees to cross-defendants, or payment of profits, and that there were no executed change orders. The cross-complaint alleges that to finance the construction, Corazon obtained a loan from U.S. Bank (US Bank) (the Construction Loan), disbursements from which were handled by Dixieline Builders Fund Control, Inc.  (Dixieline).  The cross-complaint alleges that as of the time of the filing of this action, US Bank and Dixieline have paid to King Cobra the total sum of $613,501.00 out of the original contact price, and there remains $39,499.00 in escrow on hold until the instant litigation is resolved. Cross-complainant alleges that during the construction, Keshishyan alerted Nieves that disbursements were being held up by Dixieline because Dixieline required additional or specific forms to be completed, which Keshishyan offered to complete to spare cross-complainant the trouble of reviewing and completing the forms.  Cross-complainant alleges that cross-complainant would sign the forms completed by cross-defendants, and was not permitted to review the documents, and was assured that cross-complainant would have the opportunity to review the documents and make adjustments or corrections later in the process.  The cross-complaint alleges that unbeknownst to cross-complainant, the Dixieline Standard Cost Breakdown included a provision for “supervision” fees of $35,000 and “profit” of $60,000, which were not discussed or agreed upon by the parties. The cross-complaint alleges that over the course of the construction, Keshishyan began requesting that Nieves pay King Cobra directly for monies to fund the construction, separate and apart from the Construction Loan, representing that such would expedite completion, and that defendants would agree to an accounting for cross-defendants to reimburse any overpayment from reimbursement received from Dixieline.  The cross-complaint alleges that cross-complainant ultimately paid cross-defendants direct payments of $332,579.22, and that cross-defendants have been paid a total sum of $946,080.22 from the Construction Loan and direct payments.  The cross-complaint alleges that in April of 2020, after cross-complainant refused an offer to sell the property as is to a buyer located by cross-defendants to resolve cross-complainant’s growing liquidity problems, cross-complainant refused to make any further direct payments and demanded that cross-defendants complete construction and perform an accounting.  The cross-complaint alleges that cross-defendants then abandoned construction and took with them personal property belonging to cross-complainant, including appliances and fixtures, with the approximate value of $25,000.  Cross-defendant King Cobra then recorded a mechanic’s lien and sued cross-complainant in this lawsuit.  The cross-complaint in the lead case alleges causes of action for breach of written contract, breach of covenant of good faith and fair dealing, conversion, fraud, elder financial abuse, unfair competition, unjust enrichment, and declaratory relief.The consolidated case, originally Case Number 22 GDCV00004, was consolidated with the lead case on July 29, 2022, with all further matters to be handled in Case Number 20 GDCV000728.  Because of the timing of the consolidation, some of the pertinent papers were filed in Case Number 22 GDCV00004, including the operative First Amended Complaint, and can be located there.   The First Amended Complaint in the case was brought by Nieves as plaintiff, on behalf of herself and as attorney in fact for her brother, who allegedly co-owns the subject property.  Plaintiff alleges that defendants U.S. Bank National Association (US Bank), and its servicers and agents defendant Dixieline Builders Fund Control (Dixieline) and defendant Pro Build Company, LLC (ProBuild) were negligent in issuing payments to the construction company King Cobra in connection with the construction project at 3600 Hollywell Place in Glendale because work was not performed in a workmanlike fashion, and defendants failed to properly inspect and verify that the construction work was properly done.       On August 12, 2022, the court heard a demurrer and motion to strike in connection with the FAC brought by defendants US Bank and US Bancorp.   The demurrer was overruled as to the first cause of action for negligence, second cause of action for breach of contract, and fourth cause of action for breach of contract.  The demurrer was sustained with leave to amend to the sixth cause of action for unfair business practices.  The motion to strike allegations of pain and suffering and emotional distress and claims for attorney’s fees was granted without leave to amend at the concession of plaintiff in the opposition papers.  Plaintiff was permitted ten days leave to amend the sixth cause of action only.  No further amended complaint has been filed.    On August 29, 2022, plaintiff filed a Request for Dismissal with prejudice of the “6th Cause of Action (Unfair Business Practices) only—as to all Defendants.”  The dismissal was entered as requested on August 29, 2022.   On July 28, 2023, the court heard a motion for summary judgment, or, in the alternative, summary adjudication brought by defendant US Bank.  The motion for summary judgment was denied.  The motion for summary adjudication was granted as to the fourth cause of action for breach of contract under the USB-DX Agreement. On March 8, 2024, the court heard two motions for summary judgment or in the alternative summary adjudication on the consolidated complaint, one brought by defendant Dixieline, and one brought by Probuild.  The motions for summary judgment were denied. The motion for summary adjudication brought by Dixieline Builders was granted as to the fourth cause of action brought by plaintiff Nieves for breach of contract under the Master Services Agreement between U.S. Bank and Dixieline.  The file shows that on June 13, 2024, the parties filed a Stipulation for an order granting Probuild and Dixieline leave to file a cross-complaint against Barry Simonetti and Res-Com Inspection Services, Inc.  Pursuant to the stipulation, the court signed and filed the order the same date. The cross-complaint was filed on July 9, 2024.   The cross-complaint alleges that cross-defendants Barry Simonetti and Res-Com Inspection Services, Inc. entered into a Real Estate Services Consulting Agreement with Dixieline in May of 2011 concerning inspections of the project wherein cross-defendants agreed to provide contractual indemnity to Dixieline.  The cross-complaint alleges causes of action for contractual indemnity, implied/equitable indemnity, contribution, and declaratory relief.   ANALYSIS: Defendants and cross-complainants Dixieline and Probuild seek to file a first amended cross-complaint to add allegations to the July 9, 2024, inspectors cross-complaint against Nieves and King Cobra, for contractual indemnity and breach of duty to defend, and to include these parties to the existing equitable indemnity, contribution and declaratory relief causes of action.Cross-complainants argue that this is a compulsory cross-complaint, as it arises out of the same nexus of operative facts as the main consolidated action.   Under CCP § 428.50:“(a) A party shall file a cross-complaint against any of the parties who filed the complaint or cross-complaint against him or her before or at the same time as the answer to the complaint or cross-complaint. (b) Any other cross-complaint may be filed at any time before the court has set a date for trial.(c)  A party shall obtain leave of court to file any cross-complaint except one filed within the time specified in subdivision (a) or (b).  Leave may be granted in the interest of justice at any time during the course of the action.” It is held that relief under the permissive provisions of the statute is appropriate when a defendant seeks to file a cross-complaint for indemnity.  Platt v. Coldwell Banker Real Estate Services (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 1439, 1444.  This procedural posture is not a situation where the indemnity claims will be lost if not asserted in this matter.  Hence, although the parties here apply the bad faith standards generally applicable to compulsory cross-complaints, the amendments to the cross-complaint here are in fact not compulsory. In this case, the case has already been set for trial, so it is in the court’s discretion to grant leave “in the interest of justice.”  Cross-complainants argue that there has been no bad faith in seeking to file the cross-complaint against Nieves and King Cobra at this time, without directly arguing why it would be in the interests of justice to do so.   However, the moving papers argue that the circumstances giving rise to the need for amendment to include Nieves and King Cobra in the cross-complaint arose following a deposition of King Cobra’s principal on July 9, 2024, which was attended by a newly hired attorney for Dixieline and Probuild, John Goodman.  Goodman was prompted by the lack of documents produced to review the relevant documents.  Consequently, he discovered a strongly worded indemnity provision in the Fund Control Agreement signed by Nieves and King Cobra.  The indemnity clause was connected with a newly discovered side deal between the parties for additional funds to be paid during construction which had not been disclosed previously.  [Goodman Decl., paras. 5, 6].   Counsel determined that the indemnity clause was likely triggered by this failure to disclose, and promptly began meeting and conferring with counsel concerning stipulating to the amendment.  Nieves and King Cobra would not stipulate to the filing of an amended cross-complaint.  Mr. Goodman then prepared a motion to amend cross-complaint, which was filed and served on July 29, 2024.  [Goodman Decl., paras. 6-8, Ex. C].  The court finds that, although the indemnity claims would not be lost if not asserted in this action and could be asserted in a separate action after liability is determined in this matter, it is far more convenient to have all these issues determined together in the same action.  The motion also argues that there are no new parties, as Nieves and King Cobra are already parties to this action.  The motion also points out that there is no prejudice because no factual issues are added requiring additional discovery.  The only new issues are contractual and legal issues concerning contractual and equitable indemnity obligations.   The motion also points out that although the trial date was then set for October 21, 2024, that trial date would likely have to be pushed back in any event due to the recent addition of the cross-defendant inspectors.   In fact, the court, pursuant to plaintiff’s recent ex parte application, has continued the trial to April 7, 2025. Plaintiff Nieves has filed an opposition to the motion.  The opposition argues that Dixieline and Probuild have not acted with diligence in seeking leave to amend, and that the claims are not warranted in the cross-complaint and, to the extent they are viable, can be resolved by way of Nieves’ complaint. The showing discussed above demonstrates that sufficient diligence has been shown in pursuing the newly discovered claims.  Also, the arguments concerning the merits of the claims are not persuasive given the liberality of pleading claims for indemnity and contribution and the circumstance here that the newly added inspectors and Nieves and King Cobra may be jointly liable for the alleged inspection deficiencies adds to the reasons to allow for the amended cross-complaint.  It is not specified how such claims are already encompassed in the other pleadings, and if there is some overlap.  However, there is no harm in permitting the assertion of direct relief in case there is no comparable affirmative relief sought elsewhere in the various pleadings here in an answer or some form of a complaint or cross-complaint.   Overall, the court has a strong interest in having all of these matters tried together and would generally disfavors having cross-complainant be forced to bring another civil action against a potentially responsible party on indemnity and contribution theories.  There is also the assertion of a duty to defend, which would likely be related to this action, or the issue could be addressed at the close of this action.  Nieves argues that there will be prejudice if this motion is granted, as the amendment will result in a delay of the trial in this matter, and undoubtedly increase the burden of discovery.  As noted above, the current trial date has been continued pursuant to plaintiff’s recent ex parte application.  Such a continuance has been made with a continuance of the discovery cut off dates to correspond to the new trial date, so that any necessary discovery can be obtained.  It is not specified what new discovery would be required.  Also, there is no argument that due to a delay in asserting the new claims there has been deterioration or disappearance of evidence, which is ordinarily the type of prejudice which would justify denying a motion such as this one on the ground of prejudice.   The interests of justice here favor the judicial efficiency of the alleged liability and indemnity and contribution issues between the parties being determined and apportioned in a single proceeding.  The motion accordingly is granted.   RULING:Motion of Dixieline Builders Fund Control, Inc. and Probuild Company, LLC for Leave to File Compulsory Cross-Complaint is GRANTED in the interest of justice.  Moving parties are ordered to e-file their signed First Amended Cross-Complaint by the close of business this date.   DEPARTMENT D IS CONTINUING TO CONDUCT AND ENCOURAGE AUDIO OR VIDEO APPEARANCESPlease make arrangement in advance if you wish to appear via LACourtConnect by visiting www.lacourt.org to schedule a remote appearance.  Please note that LACourtConnect offers free audio and video appearances.  However, ADVANCE REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED. If no appearance is set up through LACourtConnect, or no appearance is otherwise made, then the Court will assume the parties are submitting on the tentative. 