  Case Number:  22STCV37000    Hearing Date:   September 30, 2024    Dept:  55 NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS:  Hearing on Defendant’s
Motion for Summary Judgment
 
Defendant Ceramic Tile Art, Inc.’s Motion for Summary
Judgment is granted.  
 
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff Maria Del Socorro
Sanchez-Quezada, as guardian ad litem of her minor daughters, Alondra Gonzalez,
Candelaria Gonzalez, and Blanca Lizeth Virgen Sanchez, and in that
representative capacity, as successor in interest of decedent, Juan Rodrigo Gonzalez-Morin
(“Decedent”), brings this action against dozens of defendants
including Ceramic Tile Art, Inc. (“Defendant”) alleging that Decedent died as a
result of died
from silicosis caused by his occupational exposure to silica-containing
products sold or manufactured by defendants.
The causes of action are: (1) Negligence; (2) Strict Liability - 
Warning Defect; (3) Strict Liability - 
Design Defect; (4) Fraudulent Concealment; and (5) Breach Of Implied
Warranties.
 
The motion now before the Court is Defendant’s Motion for Summary Judgment. The
motion is unopposed.
LEGAL STANDARD
In moving for summary judgment or summary
adjudication, a “defendant… has met his or her burden of showing that a cause
of action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the
cause of action, even if not separately pleaded, cannot be established, or that
there is a complete defense to the cause of action.” Code Civ. Proc., § 437c,
subd. (p)(2). Once the defendant has satisfied that burden, the burden shifts
to the plaintiff to “show, by responsive separate statement and admissible evidence,
that triable issues of fact exist.” Ostyan v. Serrano Reconveyance Co.
(2000) 77 Cal.App.4th 1411, 1418, disapproved on other grounds by Black Sky
Cap., LLC v. Cobb (2019) 7 Cal.5th 156, 165; see also Code Civ.
Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2). Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support
of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the
evidence in favor of that party.” Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006)
39 Cal.4th 384, 389.
 
ANALYSIS
Here, Defendant argues that it is entitled to summary
judgment because Plaintiff cannot establish that Defendant supplied any
products to which Decedent was exposed. Motion at p. 5:3-7. 
“The elements of the cause of action for wrongful
death are the tort (negligence or other wrongful act), the resulting death, and
the damages, consisting of the pecuniary loss suffered by the heirs.” Lattimore
v. Dickey (2015) 239 Cal.App.4th 959, 968 (citation omitted) (internal
quotation marks omitted).  
“The elements of negligence are a legal duty to use
due care, a breach of such legal duty, and the breach as the proximate or legal
cause of the resulting injury.” Vasilenko v. Grace Family Church (2017)
3 Cal.5th 1077, 1083. (citation omitted) (internal quotation marks
omitted).  
“‘The concept of strict liability imposes
legal responsibility for injury upon the manufacturer of a product without
proof of negligence ….’” Johnson v. Honeywell Internat. Inc. (2009)
179 Cal.App.4th 549, 558 (quoting Artiglio v. Superior Court (1994)
22 Cal.App.4th 1388, 1392.) “This doctrine of strict
liability extends to products which have design defects,
manufacturing defects, or ‘warning defects.’” Ibid (citation
omitted) (internal quotation marks omitted). 
“The required elements for fraudulent
concealment are (1) concealment or suppression of a material fact; (2) by
a defendant with a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff; (3) the
defendant intended to defraud the plaintiff by intentionally concealing or
suppressing the fact; (4) the plaintiff was unaware of the fact and would not
have acted as he or she did if he or she had known of the concealed or
suppressed fact; and (5) plaintiff sustained damage as a result of the
concealment or suppression of the fact.” Graham v. Bank of America, N.A. (2014)
226 Cal.App.4th 594, 606 (citing Bank of America Corp. v. Superior Court (2011)
198 Cal.App.4th 862, 870). 
A plaintiff in a personal injury action must “first
establish some threshold exposure to the defendant’s defective … product….” See
Rutherford v. Owens-Illinois, Inc. (1997) 16 Cal.4th 953, 982 (explaining
the causation requirements of an asbestos wrongful death action). Once exposure
is established, a plaintiff must establish that the exposure was a “substantial
factor” in creating the risk of contracting the subject disease. Ibid.
Here, Defendant argues that Plaintiff cannot establish
that Defendant supplied any products to which Decedent was exposed. Defendant
provides a declaration attesting that its sole business consists of installing
stonework at its customers’ homes and businesses and that it does not supply or
manufacture any products. Declaration of Al Klaus at ¶¶ 4,5.  Defendant never had a business relationship
with Decedent, has no reason to believe it ever worked with or around him, and
never concealed any facts it had a duty to disclose to him. Id. at ¶¶
9-11.  
Based on this evidence, the Court finds that Defendant
has met its initial burden by showing that Decedent was never exposed to any
products manufactured or supplied by Defendant. 
Because the evidence shows Defendant did not expose Decedent to any
toxic substances, Plaintiff cannot prevail on any of her claims. As Plaintiff
has not filed an opposition to the instant motion, the Court finds no triable
issue of material fact as to these issues. Accordingly, the unopposed motion
is granted.
 
CONCLUSION
Defendant’s Motion for Summary Judgment is granted.
Moving party is to give notice.