  Case Number:  23STCV28108    Hearing Date:   July 26, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     July 26, 2024                          TRIAL DATE: NOT SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Atlantic Management LLC v. Los Angeles
Clinica Medica General Medical Center, Inc. 
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV28108            
 
MOTION
TO CONSOLIDATE

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant Los Angeles Clinica Medica General Medical
Center, Inc.
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Atlantic
Management, LLC
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
11/15/23: Complaint filed. 
·        
05/21/24: Dismissal entered without prejudice as
to all parties and all causes of action. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an unlawful detainer action. Plaintiff alleges that Defendant
failed to timely vacate the premises after failing to exercise an option to
renew or extend the commercial lease agreement between the parties. 
 
Defendant moves to consolidate this
action with three other actions. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
            Defendant’s
Motion to Consolidate is DENIED. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Defendant to consolidate this
action, Atlantic Management LLC v. Los Angeles Clinica Medica General
Medical Center, Inc., Case No. 23STCV28108, with two other unlawful
detainer actions with the same title, Case Nos. 23STUD14911 and 24STCV11586,
and with the civil action entitled Los Angeles Clinica Medica General
Medical Center Inc. v. Atlantic Management LLC, Case No. 24STCV13007.
Legal Standard for Consolidation
 
When
actions involving a common question of law or fact are pending before the
court, it may order a joint hearing or trial of any or all the matters
in issue in the actions; it may order all the actions consolidated and
it may make such orders concerning proceedings therein as may tend to avoid
unnecessary costs or delay. 
 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 1048(a), bold emphasis added.) 
 
Requests for Judicial Notice
 
            Plaintiff
requests that the Court take judicial notice of (1) the Request for Dismissal
in this action and (2) the Request for Dismissal in the identically titled
action with Case No. 23STUD14911. Plaintiff’s request is GRANTED pursuant to
Evidence Code section 452(d) (court records). 
 
Procedural Requirements 
 
A motion to consolidate must satisfy the requirements of
California Rules of Court Rule 3.350, which provides, in relevant part: 
 
(a)
Requirements of motion 
 
(1) A
notice of motion to consolidate must: 
 
(A) List
all named parties in each case, the names of those who have appeared, and the
names of their respective attorneys of record; 
 
(B) Contain
the captions of all the cases sought to be consolidated, with the lowest
numbered case shown first; and 
 
(C) Be
filed in each case sought to be consolidated. 
 
(2) The
motion to consolidate: 
 
(A) Is
deemed a single motion for the purpose of determining the appropriate filing
fee, but memorandums, declarations, and other supporting papers must be filed
only in the lowest numbered case; 
 
(B) Must be
served on all attorneys of record and all nonrepresented parties in all of the cases sought to be consolidated; and 
 
(C) Must
have a proof of service filed as part of the motion. 
 
(Cal. Rules
of Court Rule 3.350(a).) Under Los Angeles
Superior Court Local Rule 3.3(g), cases must be related into the same
department prior to consolidation.
 
            Defendant seeks to consolidate this action, Atlantic
Management LLC v. Los Angeles Clinica Medica General Medical Center, Inc.,
Case No. 23STCV28108, with two other unlawful detainer actions with the same
title, Case Nos. 23STUD14911 and 24STCV11586, and with the civil action
entitled Los Angeles Clinica Medica General Medical Center Inc. v. Atlantic
Management LLC, Case No. 24STCV13007. 
 
            The moving party has not listed the parties who have
appeared in each case in the notice of motion, as required by Rule
3.350(a)(1)(A). Defendant merely recites the abbreviated case names with docket
numbers for each of the cases at issue. (See Notice of Motion pp.1-2.) The
moving party also has not listed the names of the respective attorneys
of record, as required by Rule 3.350(a)(1)(A). The motion does not contain the captions
of all the cases sought to be consolidated, as required by Rule
3.350(a)(1)(B), nor has it been filed in any of the other actions as required
by Rule 3.350(a)(1)(C). Further, Defendant has neglected to include a proof of
service or provide any evidence that the motion was served on all attorneys
of record and all nonrepresented parties in all cases, as
required by Rule 3.350(a)(2)(B)-(C). Moreover, the other three actions have not
been related into this department, as required by Local Rule 3.3(g). 
 
            While
the parties are identical across the three unlawful detainer actions and have
retained the same counsel in all three cases, the civil action (Case No.
24STCV13007) names an additional party, Sergio Gutierrez, as a defendant, who
is not accounted for in any of the papers. The Court therefore cannot find that
Defendant has complied with the procedural requirements for a motion to
consolidate.
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Defendant’s Motion to Consolidate is DENIED. 
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  July 26, 2024                          ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
            Any
party may submit on the tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via
email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later
than 4:00 p.m. the day before the hearing. All interested parties must be
copied on the email. It should be noted that if you submit on a tentative
ruling the court will still conduct a hearing if any party appears. By
submitting on the tentative you have, in essence, waived your right to be
present at the hearing, and you should be aware that the court may not adopt
the tentative, and may issue an order which modifies the tentative ruling in
whole or in part.