 Case Number:  22TRCV00532    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2024    Dept:  M 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka Thursday, October 31, 2024
Department M            Calendar No. 15   



 
 
 
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Jane
Doe v. American Medical Response Ambulance Service, Inc., et al.   
22TRCV00532
1.     
American Medical
Response, Inc., et al.’s Demurrer to Third Amended Complaint 
2.     
Eric Leahy’s
Demurrer to Third Amended Complaint   
 
TENTATIVE RULING

American Medical Response, Inc., et al.’s Demurrer to Third
Amended Complaint is overruled.
 
Eric Leahy’s Demurrer to Third Amended Complaint is sustained
without leave to amend.  
 
Background
 
Plaintiff’s Complaint was filed on August 18, 2022,
and the Third Amended Complaint was filed on May 22, 2024. Plaintiff alleges
the following facts. Plaintiff, a minor, had a mental health episode at her high
school in Temecula, California. The assigned high school police officer placed
her on a 72-hour Welfare & Institution Code § 5150 hold. During the
detention period, the police officer and emergency doctors at the local
hospital concluded that she needed to be transported to a psychiatric facility.
 American Medical Response (“AMR”)
employees, Jason D. Anderson and Shaivam Sharma, arrived at the hospital in
Temecula with an AMR for transport to Torrance, California. Defendant EMT
Anderson sexually battered Plaintiff, a minor, while she was strapped to a
gurney enroute to the psych ward. EMT driver, Sharma, observed Anderson’s
conduct but refused to intervene and pull over the vehicle. Defendant Eric
Leahy observed and reported a previously similar incident involving Anderson. Plaintiff
alleges the following causes of action: 1. Sexual Harassment in a Defined
Relationship (Civil Code § 51.9); 2. Sexual Battery (Civil Code §1708.5); 3.
Battery; 4. Gender Related Violence (Civil Code § 52.4); 5. Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress; 6. Negligence. On May 31, 2024, the fifth
cause of action was dismissed as to Eric Leahy leaving Leahy as a Defendant
only as to the sixth cause of action. 
 
            Meet and Confer
             
            Defendants American Medical Response
West and American Medical Response, Inc. (“AMR”) filed a meet and confer
declaration in sufficient compliance with CCP § 430.41.  (Decl., Daniel K. Dik.) 
 
            Defendant Leahy filed a meet and
confer declaration in sufficient compliance with CCP § 430.41. (Decl., Daniel
K. Dik.)
 
            Demurrer

A demurrer tests the sufficiency of a complaint
as a matter of law and raises only questions of law. (Schmidt v. Foundation Health
(1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 1702, 1706.)  In
testing the sufficiency of the complaint, the court must assume the truth of
(1) the properly pleaded factual allegations; (2) facts that can be reasonably
inferred from those expressly pleaded; and (3) judicially noticed matters. (Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)  The Court may not consider contentions,
deductions, or conclusions of fact or law.  (Moore v. Conliffe (1994) 7 Cal.App.4th
634, 638.) Because a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of a complaint, the
plaintiff must show that the complaint alleges facts sufficient to establish
every element of each cause of action.  (Rakestraw
v. California Physicians Service (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 39, 43.)  Where the complaint fails to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action, courts should sustain the demurrer.
 (C.C.P., § 430.10(e); Zelig v. County
of Los Angeles (2002) 27 Cal.App.4th 1112, 1126.)
Sufficient facts are the essential facts
of the case "with reasonable precision and with particularity sufficiently
specific to acquaint the defendant with the nature, source, and extent of his
cause of action.”  (Gressley v.
Williams (1961) 193 Cal.App.2d 636, 643-644.)  "Whether the plaintiff will be able to
prove the pleaded facts is irrelevant to ruling upon the demurrer."  (Stevens v. Superior Court (1986) 180
Cal.App.3d 605, 609–610.)  Under Code
Civil Procedure § 430.10(f), a demurrer may also be sustained if a complaint is
“uncertain.”  Uncertainty exists where a
complaint’s factual allegations are so confusing they do not sufficiently
apprise a defendant of the issues it is being asked to meet.  (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp.
(1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2.)
Defendants AMR demur to the first through
third and fifth causes of action of Plaintiff’s Third Amended Complaint pursuant
to CCP § 430.10(e) on the grounds that the causes of action fail to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action. 
First Cause of
Action for Sexual Harassment in a Defined Relationship (Civil Code § 51.9)
Second Cause of
Action for Sexual Battery (Civil Code §1708.5)
Third Cause of
Action for Battery
Fifth Cause of
Action for Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress
 
            Defendants’ demurrer to the first through third and fifth
causes of action is overruled. Plaintiff states facts sufficient to constitute
the causes of action and the causes of action are not uncertain. 
 
            Defendants’ demurrer is based on the
ground that Defendants cannot be held vicariously liable for the intentional
torts stated in the first through third and fifth causes of action. Plaintiff
opposes the demurrer arguing that Defendants are vicariously liable under
respondeat superior principles, and, also, alternatively, Plaintiff is
attempting to hold Defendants liable under a theory of ratification. The Court
finds that Plaintiff has alleged sufficient facts to support the theory of
ratification, and, thus, declines to comment on the respondeat superior theory.
 
“Typically, a corporation may be liable for employee
misconduct under a respondeat superior theory. 
... As an alternate theory to respondeat superior, an employer may be
liable for an employee's act where the employer either authorized the tortious
act or subsequently ratified an originally unauthorized tort. The failure to
discharge an employee who has committed misconduct may be evidence of
ratification. The theory of ratification is generally applied where an employer
fails to investigate or respond to charges that an employee committed an
intentional tort, such as assault or battery. Whether an employer has ratified
an employee's conduct is generally a factual question.” C.R. v. Tenet
Healthcare Corp. (2009) 169 Cal.App.4th 1094, 1110 (internal citations
and quotations omitted). “[R]atification may occur when an employer learns of
misconduct and fails to discharge an agent or employee. Principles of
ratification apply to a section 51.9 cause of action.” Id. at 1111
(internal citations and quotations omitted).
 
Here, Plaintiff alleges facts to support her theory of
ratification. The ratification theory is pled in paragraphs 20, and 34-41.
Plaintiff has alleged specific facts outlining a prior incident involving
Anderson regarding remarkably similar circumstances as the instant incident.
Upon being informed of the prior incident, Defendant’s HR department head allegedly
failed to report the incident to the Sheriff’s department and failed to take
any action against Anderson. Had Anderson been reported and discharged,
Plaintiff alleges that the instant incident would not have occurred. 
 
These allegations are compared with the allegations
set forth in C.R., in which the Court of Appeal found that facts of
ratification could be maintained based on Defendant’s failing to take action
against an alleged perpetrator based on incidents perpetrated upon other
individuals, previously.
 
“Mr. Gaspar was an agent and employee of defendant;
Mr. Gaspar was acting at all times on behalf of defendant; all acts or
omissions alleged in the first amended complaint were ratified by defendant;
during a two to three year period, several of defendant's “managing agents and
supervisors” knew Mr. Gaspar was sexually abusing patients and “refused to take
any action”; the managing agents and supervisors “hid” this information so Mr.
Gaspar could continue to work for it; while this was occurring, Mr. Gaspar
sexually assaulted a female employee and the information was “hid” so he could
continue his employment; with knowledge of Mr. Gaspar's sexual misconduct, no
disciplinary action was taken and he was allowed to be alone with women who
were patients; and defendant intentionally or negligently “spoiled evidence”
including destroying documents concerning other sexual assaults in order to
conceal them from plaintiff. The foregoing allegations that defendant, with
knowledge of Mr. Gaspar's misconduct, continued to employ him and destroyed
documents was sufficient to state a claim that it ratified his sexual
misconduct.” C.R. v. Tenet Healthcare Corp. (2009) 169 Cal.App.4th 1094,
1112.
 
The Court notes that AMR’s demurrer to these causes of
action was previously overruled. Courts have held that a demurrer to a pleading
on grounds which were previously overruled is improper. The Court is
“foreclosed from rendering a new determination on the viability of those
claims” absent a timely motion for reconsideration under CCP § 1008. Bennett
v. Suncloud (1997) 56 Cal.App.4th 91, 96-97. Other courts have allowed such
demurrers in the interests of justice. Pacific States Enterprises, Inc. v.
City of Coachella (1993) 13 Cal.App.4th 1414, 1420. Here, even if this
Court were to utilize the latter line of authority, nothing in the instant
demurrer presents any new authority or argument which would justify now
sustaining the demurrer to any cause of action which was previously overruled. 
 
Thus, the demurrer to the first through third and fifth
causes of action is overruled.
 
Defendant Eric Leahy demurs to the sixth cause of
action for Negligence on the grounds that the cause of action fails to state
facts sufficient to state a cause of action. CCP § 430.10(e).
 
            Sixth Cause of Action for
Negligence
 
            Defendant’s demurrer to the sixth cause
of action is sustained without leave to amend. Plaintiff fails to state facts sufficient
to constitute the causes of action. 
 
As to the sixth cause of action for Negligence, the
Court recognizes the following authority. “To succeed in a negligence action,
the plaintiff must show that (1) the defendant owed the plaintiff a legal duty,
(2) the defendant breached the duty, and (3) the breach proximately or legally
caused (4) the plaintiff's damages or injuries.” Thomas v. Stenberg
(2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 654, 662.
 
Plaintiff fails to state facts showing the existence
of a duty of care owed to the Plaintiff, breach of that duty, and causation of
damages. Plaintiff alleges that Leahy was a driver with Anderson in a previous
incident involving a completely different patient, and that somehow, the events
that occurred during that incident imposed a duty of care upon Leahy to
Plaintiff an individual who Leahy has not met and may not have even known of until
prior to being named in this action. 
 
Plaintiff argues that a duty of care exists based on the
existence of a special relationship. Regents of University of California v. Superior
Court (2018) 4 Cal.5th 607. First, that case involved the application of a
duty of care based on a special relationship to the college in which the
Plaintiff was enrolled and not any specific individual. There is no showing
that, under that theory, a special relationship would exist between an
individual employee of AMR and Plaintiff based on a completely different incident
not involving the Plaintiff. Of course, here, AMR did transport Plaintiff, but
Eric Leahy had no contact whatsoever with Plaintiff. To impose a special
relationship upon Leahy under this theory would essentially impose upon him a
duty of care to all individuals who might be transported by AMR in the future
even if Leahy was not involved in the transportation. Such an expansion of a
duty of care is unduly broad and incredibly vast. 
 
Plaintiff’s citation to Leger v. Stockton Unified
School District (1988) 202 Cal.App.3d 1448 is equally unavailing. The Court
held that a school district and employees could be held liable for failing to
protect a student from an attack in an unsupervised gym bathroom. However, Leger
is distinguishable because Leahy had no direct involvement whatsoever with the
Plaintiff in this action and would have no duty of care to protect this
Plaintiff. 
 
Finally, the Court notes that Plaintiff’s theory fails
factually as well since Plaintiff has specifically alleged that Leahy did, in
fact, report the incident that he observed – again, involving a completely
different individual – not Plaintiff. “Defendant Anderson’s other partner, Eric
Leahy, observed Defendant Anderson sexually molest another female patient in
the back of the ambulance while Leahy drove on March 5, 2022. He immediately
reported this incident to David Olguin on March 5, 2022, McAndrew (sic)
Supervisor[.]” (TAC, ¶ 20.)  In fact,
Plaintiff relies on the fact that Leahy did report the incident to support her
assertion that AMR ratified the incident involving her by stating that, after
Leahy specifically reported the incident to the supervisors, AMR took no action
against Anderson. 
 
Thus, the demurrer to the sixth cause of action is
sustained without leave to amend. 
 
Defendants AMR are ordered to file and serve an Answer
within 10 days of this date.
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give notice of
this ruling.