 Case Number:  24TRCV01324    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2024    Dept:  M 
 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka Thursday, October 31, 2024
Department M    Calendar No. 14  



 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Lazy
Dog Restaurants, LLC v. Slaters Restaurant Group, Inc., et al.  
24TRCV01324
1.     
Lazy Dog
Restaurants, LLC’s Application for Preliminary Injunction 
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Lazy Dog Restaurants, LLC’s Application for a
Preliminary Injunction is granted, in part, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
§ 526.
 
Background
 
Plaintiff’s Complaint was filed on April 18, 2024.
Plaintiff alleges the following facts. Defendant operates a restaurant adjacent
to Plaintiff’s restaurant. Defendant has undertaken extensive construction
which has caused excessive noise as well as water and debris intrusion onto
Plaintiff’s premises. Plaintiff alleges the following causes of action: 1. Nuisance;
2. Trespass; 3. Declaratory Relief.  
 
Application for Preliminary Injunction
 
“In determining whether to issue a preliminary
injunction, the trial court considers two related factors: (1) the likelihood
that the plaintiff will prevail on the merits of its case at trial, and (2) the
interim harm that the plaintiff is likely to sustain if the injunction is
denied as compared to the harm that the defendant is likely to suffer if the
court grants a preliminary injunction. 
The latter factor involves consideration of such things as the
inadequacy of other remedies, the degree of irreparable harm, and the necessity
of preserving the status quo.”  14859 Moorpark Homeowner’s Assn. v. VRT
Corp. (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 1396, 1402.
 
Plaintiff moves for a preliminary injunction to enjoin
Defendant as follows: “1. from allowing any further intrusion of water and/or
debris emanating from the Slaters 50/50 restaurant premises (“Slaters
Premises”) at the Del Amo Fashion Center, located at 3525 West Carson Street,
Torrance, CA 90503 (the “Shopping Center”) into the Lazy Dog Restaurant
premises (“Lazy Dog Premises”) located just below the Slaters Premises and
adjoining with the Slaters Premises via their shared floor/ceiling (altogether,
the “Trespass and Nuisance”); or, alternatively, if the foregoing cannot be
immediately accomplished by Defendants, 2. enjoining Defendants from further
operating the restaurant at the Slaters Premises until repairs can be made in
order to prevent such further Trespass and Nuisance.” (Notice of Application, page
2, lines 11-19.)
 
Defendant opposes the application arguing that there
may have been one prior incident of water intrusion, but that intrusion did not
emanate from Defendant directly but from pipes running between the two
locations. Defendant also states that it has undertaken extensive remedial work
to inspect any possible locations of potential water intrusion.
 
The Court finds that, solely for purposes of the
instant application for preliminary injunction, Plaintiff adequately met its
burden to demonstrate a likelihood that Plaintiff will prevail on the merits of
the case at trial. Plaintiff submitted evidence to, at a minimum, show that
Defendant may have committed the alleged acts that constitute factual support
for Plaintiff’s claims for nuisance and trespass. (Decl., John Florio, ¶¶ 4-9.)

 
As noted above, Defendant filed an opposition denying
all the allegations of the Complaint and stating that any leak did not emanate
from Defendant’s location and that it has thoroughly investigated its premises
to remove the potential for any water leaks. Clearly, the resolution of this dispute
will turn greatly on the credibility of the parties, documentary evidence, and
the availability of competent third-party witnesses.
 
Thus, in consideration of the above, the Court must
weigh the interim harm that Plaintiff may suffer if an injunction is denied
compared to the harm that Defendant is likely to suffer if an injunction is
granted. Preventing water intrusion from one’s own premises coming onto the
property of another premises is, as Defendant admits, a reasonable proposition
that individuals in a civilized society understands as part of the social
bargain. Causing water and debris to flow into the premises of an adjacent restaurant
certainly has the potential of inflicting irreparable harm upon Plaintiff. In
addition, the Court must consider the policy of retaining the status quo until
the resolution of the action on the merits. 
 
Therefore, the Court grants Plaintiff’s application
for preliminary injunction, in part.  In
conducting the balancing test, the Court determines that the interim harm that
Plaintiff may suffer if the injunction is not granted is greater than Defendant’s
relative harm if the injunction is granted. 
 
Thus, the application for a preliminary injunction is granted,
in part. Defendant is ordered to prevent water intrusion or debris from
emanating from its premises onto the premises of Plaintiff. Of course, this act
of prevention can only occur as to areas under the control of Defendant. If
Defendant is correct that water intrusion is coming from an area not under the
control of Defendant, such as a common area that is not directly in Defendant’s
control, then the instant Court order cannot operate to enjoin Defendant from such
conduct. In addition, the Court declines to order Defendant to stop operating
its restaurant as this act would be potentially harmful to Defendant and would
disrupt the status quo. 
 
“On granting an injunction, the court or judge must
require an undertaking on the part of the applicant to the effect that the
applicant will pay to the party enjoined any damages, not exceeding an amount
to be specified, the party may sustain by reason of the injunction, if the
court finally decides that the applicant was not entitled to the injunction.
Within five days after the service of the injunction, the person enjoined may
object to the undertaking. If the court determines that the applicant's undertaking
is insufficient and a sufficient undertaking is not filed within the time
required by statute, the order granting the injunction must be dissolved.” Code
Civ. Proc., § 529(a).
 
The Court determines that the amount that Defendant
may suffer would simply be an approximate amount of fees incurred by Defendant
to ultimately substantiate and prevail as to Defendant’s defenses. 
 
The Court orders that Plaintiff post a bond in the sum
of $35,000.00.  
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give notice of this ruling.