 Case Number:  23TRCV03883    Hearing Date:   October 9, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
CESAR
  CALACSAN, et al.,


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV03883




 
vs.


 


 
[TENTATIVE]
  RULING
 




 
MICHAEL
  MAKAR BUTLER,


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          October 9, 2024
 
Moving Parties:                      Plaintiffs Rowena Calacsan,
Julius Calacsan, Czarina Calacsan, Cesar Calacsan
Responding
Party:                   None
(1)  
Motion
to Compel Defendant’s Further Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One and
Request for Production of Documents, Set One (filed by Rowena Calacsan)
(2)  
Motion
to Compel Defendant’s Further Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One and
Request for Production of Documents, Set One (filed by Julius Calacsan)
(3)  
Motion
to Compel Defendant’s Further Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One and
Request for Production of Documents, Set One (filed by Czarina Calacsan)
(4)  
Motion
to Compel Defendant’s Further Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One and
Request for Production of Documents, Set One (filed by Cesar Calacsan)
 
            The Court considered the moving and
opposition papers.
RULING
The
motions are DENIED.
BACKGROUND
On November 17, 2023, plaintiffs
Cesar Calacsan, Rowena Calacsan, Julius Calacsan, and Czarina Calacsan filed a
complaint against Michael Makar Butler for motor vehicle negligence based on an
incident that occurred on February 18, 2023 in Rosecrans Avenue, in Hawthorne.
On March 18, 2024, Michael Maker
Butler, a minor by and through his guardian ad litem, Narine Jangozian Butler,
filed a cross-complaint against Roes 1-25 for indemnification, apportionment of
fault, and declaratory relief.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
45-Day Rule: 
This motion must be served within 45 days after service of the response
in question (extended if served by mail, overnight delivery, or fax; see CCP
§1013); otherwise, the demanding party waives the right to compel any further
response to the CCP §2031.010 demand. 
CCP §§2031.310(c), 2016.050; see Sperber
v. Robinson (1994) 26 Cal. App. 4th 736, 745.  The 45-day time limit is mandatory and
jurisdictional.  Sexton v. Superior Court (1997) 58 Cal. App. 4th 1403, 1410.  The parties, however, can also agree in
writing on a specific later date by which to file the motion to compel.  CCP §2031.310(c). 
Meet-and-Confer Requirement: 
The motion to compel further responses must be accompanied by a
declaration showing “a reasonable and good faith attempt” to resolve the issues
outside of court (so-called “meet and confer”). 
CCP §§2016.040, 2031.310(b)(2).
Separate Statement: 
Any motion involving the content of a discovery request or the responses
to such a request shall be accompanied by a separate statement.  This includes a motion to compel further
responses to demand for inspection of documents or tangible things.  CRC Rule 3.1020(a)(3).  
Interrogatories
CCP §2030.300 states:  “(a) On receipt of a response to
interrogatories, the propounding party may move for an order compelling a
further response if the propounding party deems that any of the following
apply:   (1) An answer to a particular
interrogatory is evasive or incomplete. . . . (3) An objection to an
interrogatory is without merit or too general. 
(b) A motion under subdivision (a) shall be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration under Section 2016.040. (c) Unless notice of this motion is
given within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any
supplemental verified response, or on or before any specific later date to
which the propounding party and the responding party have agreed in writing,
the propounding party waives any right to compel a further response to the
interrogatories. . . .”
CCP §2030.220 states:  “(a) Each answer in a response to
interrogatories shall be as complete and straightforward as the information
reasonably available to the responding party permits.  (b) If an interrogatory cannot be answered
completely, it shall be answered to the extent possible.  (c) If the responding party does not have
personal knowledge sufficient to respond fully to an interrogatory, that party
shall so state, but shall make a reasonable and good faith effort to obtain the
information by inquiry to other natural persons or organizations, except where
the information is equally available to the propounding party.”
CCP
§2030.230 states:  “If the answer to an
interrogatory would necessitate the preparation or the making of a compilation,
abstract, audit, or summary of or from the documents of the party to whom the
interrogatory is directed, and if the burden or expense of preparing or making
it would be substantially the same for the party propounding the interrogatory
as for the responding party, it is a sufficient answer to that interrogatory to
refer to this section and to specify the writings from which the answer may be
derived or ascertained. . . .”
CCP §2030.010(b)
provides:  “An interrogatory may relate
to whether another party is making a certain contention, or to the facts,
witnesses, and writings on which a contention is based.  An interrogatory is not objectionable because
an answer to it involves an opinion or contention that relates to fact or the
application of law to fact, or would be based on 
information obtained or legal theories developed in
anticipation of litigation or in preparation for 
trial.”
Request for Production of Documents
On receipt of a response to an
inspection demand, the demanding party may move for an order compelling further
responses to the demand if the demanding party deems that any of the following
apply:  (1) a statement of compliance
with the demand is incomplete; (2) a representation of inability to comply is
inadequate, incomplete, or evasive; or (3) an objection in the response is
without merit or too general.  CCP §
2031.310(a).
A statement of compliance shall
state that the production, inspection, and related activity demanded will be
allowed either in whole or in part, and that all documents or things in the
demanded category that are in the possession, custody, or control of that party
and to which no objection is being made will be included in the
production.  CCP § 2031.220.  
“A representation of inability to
comply with [a] particular demand for inspection . . . shall affirm that a
diligent search and reasonable inquiry has been made in an effort to comply
with that demand.  This statement shall
also specify whether the inability to comply is because the particular item or
category has never existed, has been destroyed, has been lost, misplaced, or
stolen, or has never been, or is no longer, in the possession, custody, or control
of the responding party.  This statement
shall set forth the name and address of any natural person or organization
known or believed by that party to have possession, custody, or control of that
item or category of item.”  CCP §
2031.230. 
A motion to compel further response
to requests for production “shall set forth specific facts showing good cause
justifying the discovery sought by the inspection demand.”  CCP § 2031.310(b)(1).  “To establish ‘good cause,’ the burden is on
the moving party to show both:  [1] Relevance to the subject matter (e.g.,
how the information in the documents would tend to prove or disprove some issue
in the case); and [2] Specific facts justifying discovery
(e.g., why such information is necessary for trial preparation or to prevent
surprise at trial).  The fact that there
is no alternative source for the
information sought is an important factor in establishing ‘good cause’ for
inspection.  But it is not essential in every case.”  Weil & Brown, Civil Procedure Before Trial, 8:1495.6 (citations omitted).  “Declarations are generally used to show the
requisite ‘good cause’ for an order to compel inspection.  The declarations must contain ‘specific facts’
rather than mere conclusions.”  Id. at 8:1495.7 (citation omitted).  “The declarations may be on information and
belief, if necessary.  However, in such
cases, the ‘specific facts’ supporting such information and belief (the sources
of the information) must also be alleged.” 
Id. at 8:1495.8 (citation
omitted).  “Most declarations are made by
the attorney for the moving party, who is usually more familiar with the
relevancy and ‘specific facts’ constituting ‘good cause’ for inspection.”  Id.
at 8:1495.9.
“If ‘good cause’ is shown by the moving
party, the burden is then on the responding party to justify any objections
made to document disclosure (the same as on motions to compel answers to
interrogatories or deposition questions. . . ).”  Id.
at 8:1496 (citation omitted).
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiffs
Rowena Calacsan, Czarina Calacsan, Julius Calascan, and Cesar Calacsan request
that the Court compel further responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One, Nos.
13.1 and 13.2 and to produce responsive documents thereto.  
            Plaintiffs
contend that they served written discovery on June 20, 2024.  Defendant served verified responses on August
13, 2024.  Plaintiff’s counsel met and
conferred with defense counsel on August 13 seeking further responses to Form
Interrogatories, Nos. 13.1 and 13.2. 
After seeking an extension to August 27, 2024, defense counsel stated that
further responses would not be provided.
Plaintiffs
argue that defendant’s objections to Nos. 13.1 and 13.2 are without merit, and
that sub rosa evidence is not protected by attorney-client or attorney work
product privilege.
In
opposition, defendant argues that the motion is procedurally defective in
several respects.  Defendant asserts that
plaintiff did not seek and IDC in compliance with the Court’s online
procedures.  Further, plaintiff failed to
file a separate statement and cite to the proper law, incorrectly citing to CCP
§2030.290, where a party fails to respond to all interrogatories, but defendant
did serve responses.  Also, defendant
notes, plaintiff failed to file a separate motion for each set of discovery and
to specify which requests for production plaintiff seeks further
responses.  Defendant also argues that
further responses are not warranted because sub rosa is protected work-product
because investigation performed at the direction of defense counsel in
preparation for trial is work product. 
            The
Court rules as follows:  The Court finds
several procedural defects.  Plaintiffs
improperly combined two motions into one. 
Plaintiffs paid for only one filing fee. 
The notices do not refer to the proper code sections for motions to
compel further responses, which are noted above under Legal Authority.  Plaintiffs failed to file separate statements
as required by CRC
Rule 3.1020(a)(3).  Further, counsel’s declaration does not
attest that the exhibits are true and correct copies.  Moreover, plaintiffs did not seek to engage
in an IDC prior to the hearing. 
Plaintiffs also did not identify the requests for production that they
seek to compel further.  Plaintiff has
also not shown good cause for production.
            The
motions are thus DENIED.
Sanctions
Under CCP § 2023.030(a), “[t]he
court may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse
of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay
the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a
result of that conduct. . . . If a monetary sanction is authorized by any
provision of this title, the court shall impose that sanction unless it finds
that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or
that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  Under CCP § 2023.010, an example of the
misuse of the discovery process is “(d) Failing to respond or to submit to an
authorized method of discovery.” 
Sanctions are mandatory in
connection with motions to compel further responses against any party, person,
or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel unless the
court “finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.”  CCP § §2030.300(d),
2031.310(h).
Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1348(a)
states:  “The court may award sanctions
under the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel
discovery, even though no opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to
the motion was withdrawn, or the requested discovery was provided to the moving
party after the motion was filed.” 
Each plaintiff requests $1400 in
sanctions against defendant and his attorney of record.  In opposition, defendant contends that
plaintiff cited to inapplicable statutes and that defendant acted with
substantial justification; thus, sanctions are not warranted.
The Court finds that sanctions are
not warranted in light of the ruling on the motions and that defendant acted
with substantial justification.  The
request for sanctions is denied.
ORDER
The
motions are DENIED.
Defendant
is ordered to give notice of ruling.