 Case Number:  24TRCV00663    Hearing Date:   October 9, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
CM
  CLEANING SOLUTIONS, INC.,  


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
24TRCV00663




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
DO
  & CO LOS ANGELES, INC.,


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          October
9, 2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Plaintiff CM Cleaning Solutions, Inc. 
Responding
Party:                  Defendant DO & CO Los Angeles, Inc.
(1)  
Motion
to Compel Defendant to Respond to Form Interrogatories
(2)  
Motion
to Compel Defendant to Respond to Special Interrogatories
(3)  
Motion
to Compel Defendant’s Compliance with Requests for Production of Documents, Set
One
(4)  
Motion
to Deem Requests for Admission, Set One, as Admitted
 
Disclosure:
The Court makes the following disclosure to the
parties:  Plaintiff is represented by Adam
I. Miller and Michael S. Palmer, of Miller Miller Gerber LLP.  Judge Douglas Stern’s niece is married to
Cory Miller, an attorney with the firm of Miller Miller Gerber LLP.  Adam Miller is the brother of Cory Miller.  Scott Miller is Cory Miller’s father.  Judge Stern attended a family event at the
home of Scott Miller on Sunday October 6, 2024 along with in excess of 100
other people.  The Court does not believe
that the relationship requires that the Court recuse itself in this matter.  See Code
of Civil Procedure § 170.1.
 
            The Court considered the moving
papers and the Defendant’s Statement of Non-Opposition to Plaintiff’s discovery
motions where Defendant noted that it “does not oppose the following motions…” as
well as Plaintiff’s Reply to Defendant’s Statement of Non-Opposition.
RULING
The motions are GRANTED.
Defendant DO & CO Los Angeles,
Inc. is:
(1) Ordered to respond without
objections to Plaintiff’s Form Interrogatories, Set One within 20 days of
service of this Order on Defendant;
(2) Ordered to respond without
objections to Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatories, Set One, within 20 days of
service of this Order on Defendant;
(3) Ordered to serve on Plaintiff a
verified response without objections to Plaintiff’s Request for Production of
Documents, Set One and to produce all documents and things in Defendant’s
possession, custody, or control, which are responsive to Plaintiff’s request, within
20 days of service of this Order on Defendant;
(4) The Court orders the truth of
the matters deemed admitted in Plaintiff’s Requests for Admission, Set One against
Defendant DO & CO Los Angeles, Inc.; and
(5) The Court orders Defendant DO
& CO Los Angeles, Inc. to pay to Plaintiff a monetary sanction in the
amount of $1,840.00, in total for the four motions, within 30 days of service
of this Order on Defendant.
BACKGROUND
On February 26, 2024, Plaintiff CM
Cleaning Solutions, Inc. filed a complaint against DO & CO Los Angeles,
Inc. for (1) breach of contract and (2) conversion.  Defendant filed its Answer on May 8, 2024.  On June 18, 2024 Plaintiff served the four
sets of discovery that are the subject of these four motions.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
            Interrogatories
If a party to whom interrogatories
are directed fails to serve a timely response, the propounding party may move
for an order compelling responses and for a monetary sanction.  CCP §2030.290(b).  The statute contains no time limit for a
motion to compel where no responses have been served.  All that need be shown in the moving papers
is that a set of interrogatories was properly served on the opposing party,
that the time to respond has expired, and that no response of any kind has been
served.  Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal. App. 3d 902, 905-906. 
Request for Production of Documents
Where there has been no timely
response to a CCP §2031.010 demand, the demanding party must seek an order
compelling a response.  CCP
§2031.300.  Failure to timely respond
waives all objections, including privilege and work product.  Thus, unless the party to whom the demand was
directed obtains relief from waiver, he or she cannot raise objections to the
documents demanded.  There is no deadline
for a motion to compel responses. 
Likewise, for failure to respond, the moving party need not attempt to
resolve the matter outside court before filing the motion.  Where the motion seeks only a response to the
inspection demand, no showing of “good cause” is required.  Weil & Brown, Civil Procedure Before Trial, 8:1487.
Request for Admissions 
Pursuant to CCP § 2033.280(b), a
party may move for an order that the genuineness of any documents and the truth
of any matters specified in the requests be deemed admitted, as well as for a
monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010).  “Failure to timely respond to RFA does not
result in automatic admissions.  Rather,
the propounder of the RFA must ‘move for an order that the genuineness of any
documents and the truth of any matters specified in the requests be deemed
admitted, as well as for a monetary sanction’ under § 2023.010 et seq.”  Weil & Brown, Civ. Proc. Before Trial, ¶ 8:1370, citing CCP § 2033.280(b).  The court “shall” grant the motion to deem
RFA admitted, “unless it finds that the party to whom the requests for
admission have been directed has served, before the hearing on the motion, a proposed
response to the requests for admission that is in substantial compliance with
Section 2033.220.”  CCP § 2033.280(c).
DISCUSSION
Plaintiff CM Cleaning Solutions,
Inc. requests that the Court compel Defendant DO & CO Los Angeles, Inc. to respond
without objections to Plaintiff’s initial form and special interrogatories and
request for production of documents and to deem admitted the requests for
admissions.  In its Notice of Motions Plaintiff
also seeks sanctions from Defendant for each motion.
Plaintiff served its discovery
requests on Defendant on June 18, 2024. 
Responses were due by July 22, 2024. 
Responses were not provided.  When
no responses were received, on August 6, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel sent a meet
and confer letter to defense counsel requesting responses by August 12, 2024.  Defendant failed to respond to the August 6,
2024 letter, necessitating the filing of these four largely duplicative
motions.  As of the filing date of September
5, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel had not received responses to any of the
discovery.
In a Statement of Non-Opposition, Defendant
states that “it does not oppose the following motions…” and that it “will
provide compliant responses to the discovery at issue in such motions prior to
the hearing date, thus mooting any non-monetary relief sought.”
In the Reply filed October 1, 2024,
Plaintiff asserts that it has not received responses as of that filing date.  Plaintiff also argues that sanctions are
warranted (against both Defendant and Defendant’s counsel) even if responses
are served prior to the hearing date.
The Court finds that Plaintiff
properly served discovery requests and Defendant failed to respond.
The motions are GRANTED.
Sanctions
With
respect to each of the four motions Plaintiff’s counsel states in his
Declaration:
“9. As
the result of Defendant’s refusal to answer the [discovery], I have been compelled
to make the instant motion.  In all, I
have expended approximately 2 hour on this matter.  I expect to spend another 3 hours drafting any
reply and 1 hour appearing at the hearing on the motion.  My hourly billing rate in this matter is $
500.00.  In addition, my firm has paid a
$60.00 filing fee for the motion.  Therefore,
it is respectfully requested that Defendant be ordered to pay monetary
sanctions to Plaintiff in the sum of $3,060.00 for this motion.”
Under CCP
§ 2023.030(a), “[t]he court may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one
engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that
conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees,
incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct. . . . If a monetary sanction is
authorized by any provision of this title, the court shall impose that sanction
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.”  Under CCP § 2023.010, an
example of the misuse of the discovery process is “(d) Failing to respond or to
submit to an authorized method of discovery.” 
Sanctions are mandatory in
connection with motions to compel responses to interrogatories and requests for
production of documents against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel unless the court “finds that
the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that
other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  CCP §§ 2030.290(c), 2031.300(c).
Cal.
Rules of Court, Rule 3.1348(a) states: 
“The court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a
party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no opposition to the
motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or the requested
discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion was filed.”
Plaintiff
requests $3,060 in monetary sanctions for each motion against Defendant (not
against Defendant’s counsel).  Plaintiff’s
counsel testified that he spent 2 hours drafting each motion.  Yet the motions are virtually identical to
one another and are simply “failure to respond” motions.  A total of 8 hours is excessive.  The Court finds that a total of 3 hours is
appropriate for all four motions.  Additional
time is estimated by Plaintiff’s counsel to review and address any
Opposition.  Yet no Opposition was
filed.  While a Reply was filed, it
merely repeated the moving papers and updated the Court on the fact that no
responses have been received as of October 1, 2024.  This justifies 30 minutes of additional
work.  Finally, the hearing shall not
involve more than 30 minutes.  The Court finds that it shall award 4
hours of attorney time at a rate of $400 per hour for $1,600 as a reasonable
attorney’s fee, plus the filing fees of $240 for the four motions.
ORDER
The motions are GRANTED.
Defendant DO & CO Los Angeles,
Inc. is:
(1) Ordered to respond without
objections to Plaintiff’s Form Interrogatories, Set One within 20 days of
service of this Order on Defendant;
(2) Ordered to respond without
objections to Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatories, Set One, within 20 days of
service of this Order on Defendant;
(3) Ordered to serve on Plaintiff a
verified response without objections to Plaintiff’s Request for Production of
Documents, Set One and to produce all documents and things in Defendant’s
possession, custody, or control, which are responsive to Plaintiff’s request, within
20 days of service of this Order on Defendant;
(4) The Court orders the truth of
the matters deemed admitted in Plaintiff’s Requests for Admission, Set One against
Defendant DO & CO Los Angeles, Inc.; and
(5) The Court orders Defendant DO
& CO Los Angeles, Inc. to pay to Plaintiff a monetary sanction in the
amount of $1,840.00, in total for the four motions, within 30 days of service
of this Order on Defendant.
Plaintiff is ordered to give notice
of ruling. 