  Case Number:  19TRCV01062    Hearing Date:   October 9, 2024    Dept:  B WEBTOON ENTERTAINMENT, INC., A DELAWARE CORPORATION, et al.
vs ROCKETSHIP ENTERTAINMENT, LLC, A PENNSYLVANIA LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY, et
al.
Case No. 19TRCV01062
(1) Motion of Defendant/Cross-Complaint Rocketship
Entertainment, LLC to Re-Open Discovery
(2) Motion of Plaintiffs to Bifurcate Equitable Issue
This lawsuit has a long history.  It was set for trial a number of years ago in
April 2021, but was stayed pending an appeal filed by Rocketship Entertainment,
LLC.  The appeal was resolved on February
28, 2024, when the Court of Appeal dismissed the appeal as there was not yet an
appealable order.
Discovery was closed in early 2021.  Rocketship Entertainment, LLC has now asked
this court to reopen discovery to allow it to obtain discovery from Webtoon
Entertainment, Inc. regarding the economic and related information regarding the
late-2023 print publication by Webtoon Entertainment, Inc.
Rocketship Entertainment, LLC also seeks information
regarding various personnel changes at Plaintiff Webtoon Entertainment, Inc.
The Court has a number of questions for the parties at the
hearing of this matter.
First, Rocketship Entertainment, LLC should explain to the
Court the significance of the various management changes at Webtoon
Entertainment, Inc. discussed in the moving papers and why the discovery
requested appropriate.
Second, the Court requests that Webtoon Entertainment, Inc.
be prepared to discuss whether it intends to make use at trial of any of the print
publication information that is sought by Rocketship Entertainment, LLC, such
as the sales and marketing information regarding the 2023 print publication.
Third, in light of the presence of Webtoon Entertainment,
Inc.’s claim for damages, why is it appropriate to not provide to Rocketship
Entertainment, LLC the actual sales/profit information that Webtoon
Entertainment, Inc. has now experienced with the print publication so that it
might use it to defend against the Plaintiff’s claim.
Fourth, the parties should be prepared to discuss the
significance, if any, of the fact that Rocketship Entertainment, LLC did not
identify an expert witness to address damages claimed by either party.
Fifth, the parties should be prepared to address the status
of the Han equitable claim for rescission in light of the fact that the Rocketship
Entertainment, LLC contract has expired.