  Case Number:  20STCV07283    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2023    Dept:  17 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



ERA
  NOUVEAU HOLDINGS, LLC
                           
         vs.
 
SOUTHERN
  MOTION, INC.
 
                                         


 Case No.: 
  20STCV07283
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  November 15, 2023



 
Southern
Motion’s motion to compel further responses is DENIED.  Southern Motion is sanctioned, jointly and
severally with counsel, $1,400.00. 
 
            On 2/21/2020,
Plaintiff Era Nouveau Holdings, LLC (ENH or Era Nouveau or
Enouvation) filed a Complaint against Southern Motion, Inc. (SM or
Southern Motion), setting forth a claim for declaratory relief and a claim for
breach of contract. Southern Motion answered
and cross-complained against Era Nouveau, adding Era Nouveau
USA, LLC (EN USA LLC) and Era Nouveau, LLC (EN LLC) as
Cross-Defendants and setting forth claims for 1) fraudulent misrepresentations;
2) fraudulent concealment; 3) breach of implied warranty of merchantability; 4)
breach of implied warranty of fitness for particular purpose; 5) breach of
contract; and 6) violation of Business and Professions Code section 17200. 
 
            Now,
Southern Motion moves to compel further responses to Form Interrogatories and
Special Interrogatories from ENH, ERA Nouveau, LLC (EN LLC), Era Nouveau USA
(EN USA), Samuel Contreras, and Thomas Peper. 
 
Discussion 
 
Southern
Motion argues that further responses are necessary because Cross-Defendants
have either refused to respond to discovery responses or have provided
blatantly false responses.  
 
            After
review, the Court finds the motion must be denied as procedurally improper and
for inadequate meet and confer. 
 
            As
a preliminary matter, Southern Motion’s omnibus motion is improper.
Cross-Complainant has filed one single Motion to Compel against five different
Cross-Defendants that each served their own responses to Form-Interrogatories
and Special Interrogatories. While the Court has allowed such omnibus motions
to be filed under certain circumstances, here, it has created confusion as to
what responses were provided by each party (Southern Motion’s Separate
Statement only includes one response and does not specify which party provided
the response), as well as confusion as to which parties further responses are
being sought from. For example, Southern Motion seeks to compel further
responses from Plaintiff ENH and Cross-Defendants EN LLC, EN USA, Contreras,
and Peper to Form Interrogatory Nos. 3.3(e), 3.7, 14.1, 15.1, and 50.2 because
they are purportedly evasive. However, Southern Motion did not propound Form
Interrogatory Nos. 3.3(e) or 3.7 on either Contreras or Peper, and thus no
further responses can be compelled of these parties.
 
            Second,
each “Why Further Response is Warranted” section in Southern Motion’s Separate
Statement is identical. As such, Southern Motion has not explained with any
nuance why any given response is insufficient or why the objections are invalid
as to any particular request. Rather, Southern Motion copy and pasted the same
exact justification for each discovery response, despite the wide range of
responses implicated by the motion. Given that a 589-page Separate Statement
was filed, Southern Motion’s copy-and-paste motion has not met its burden to
show that further responses are warranted as to each of the discovery requests,
which includes 117 Special Interrogatories.
 
            Third,
Defendants’ opposition strongly indicates that adequate meet and confer did not
take place here. According to Defendants, Southern Motion did not send any meet
and confer correspondence at all until October 17, 2023 - the day that their
motion was due and one day before it was actually filed. Southern Motion sent
one relatively short email demanding further responses to every single special
interrogatory and most form interrogatories within seven hours. The Discovery
Act demands more, and the nature of the disputes here could be greatly narrowed
through good faith informal meet and confer.  
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Southern Motion’s motion to compel further responses is
denied. Given that this motion was not preceded by good faith meet and confer,
alongside the issues with Southern Motion’s motion and Separate Statement, the
Court finds sanctions to be warranted here. Southern Motion is sanctioned,
jointly and severally with counsel, $1,400, the full amount requested by
Defendants.   
 
 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  November   
, 2023
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 