 Case Number:  22STCP04143    Hearing Date:   December 8, 2023    Dept:  86 RODRIGUEZ V. LOS ANGELES COUNTY CIVIL SERVICE
COMMISSION 
Case Number: 22STCP04143
Hearing Date: December 8, 2023 
 
[Tentative]       ORDER
DENYING PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE 
 




















 
Petitioner, Ronald Rodriguez, requests a writ of
mandate directing Respondent, Los Angeles County Civil Service Commission
(Commission), to set aside the administrative decision discharging Petitioner
from his position as Senior Detention Services Officer with the probation department
(Department) for Respondent, the County of Los Angeles. The County opposes the
petition.  
 
BACKGROUND
 
At the time of the incident leading to
Petitioner’s discharge, Petitioner “was employed by the Department as a Senior
Detention Services Officer (SDSO) at the Nidorf (Sylmar) Juvenile Facility.”
(AR 450.)[1]
Starting around 2012, Petitioner was assigned to Unit W, which housed high-risk
offender minors at the facility. (AR 547.) Among other duties, Petitioner
worked with volunteers who came to the compound to work with such minors. (AR
547-548.)  Petitioner also supervised
other probation officers, supervised the minors and ensured they followed the
unit’s rules, and helped to deescalate any issues with the minors that would
arise. (AR 554.) At the time of his discipline, Petitioner had approximately 29
years of service with the Department. (AR 451.)
 
In February 2016, Petitioner was arrested for driving
under the influence while off duty.  (AR
549.) On July 25, 2016, Petitioner pleaded no contest to “California Vehicle
Code Section 23152(B), drunk driving” and was sentenced to three years of summary
probation. (AR 365.)  The Department
imposed a 15-day suspension on Petitioner because of the conviction. (AR
363-367, 549.) The Department explained the incident leading to Petitioner’s
suspension constituted “Conduct incompatible with peace officer status” and
“Failure to exercise sound judgment.” (AR 364.) Petitioner did not appeal the
suspension. (AR 550.)  
 
Petitioner’s excessive use of alcohol did not end
with his arrest and conviction in 2016. Petitioner’s wife, Kristine Rodriguez,
testified in the administrative hearing conducted here that Petitioner became
verbally abusive with her while he was under the influence of alcohol in
December 2015 and January 2017. (AR 457, 1366.)
 
The events resulting in Petitioner’s discharge
from the Department also occurred while Petitioner was under the influence of
alcohol. Specifically, on February 25,
2018, Petitioner attended a baby shower for Mrs. Rodriguez, who was then eight
months pregnant. (AR 451.)  Before and
during the event Petitioner consumed 10 to 15 containers of beer. (AR 451, 460.)   Upon returning home, Petitioner “became
belligerent, questioning Mrs. Rodriguez about her interaction with a male guest
at the shower.” (AR 451.)
 
“The argument escalated
and Mrs. Rodriguez went into the closet of the master bedroom, shutting the
door. [Petitioner] banged on the door repeatedly, telling Mrs. Rodriguez to
come out of the closet.  At that point, Mrs.
Rodriguez’ (then) minor daughter, came into the master bedroom and tried to
intervene. [Petitioner] pushed the minor out of the master bedroom and into the
hallway. Mrs. Rodriguez exited the closet and walked down the hall to her
daughter’s bedroom. [Petitioner] followed and entered the daughter’s bedroom. .
. . [¶] [Petitioner] told Mrs. Rodriguez to return to the master bedroom. When
Mrs. Rodriguez refused [Petitioner] grabbed her by the back of the head and
hair and pushed her towards the master bedroom. 
At that point Mrs. Rodriguez asked her daughter to call 911.” (AR
451-452; see also AR 1370-1401 [testimony of Mrs. Rodriguez].)  
 
Los Angeles County
Sheriff deputies responded and arrested Petitioner without further incident.
Petitioner spent the night in jail and timely notified his supervisor of the
arrest and incarceration. Petitioner was subject to a restraining order
following the February 25, 2018 incident. (AR 461.) After about three months,
the restraining order was withdrawn and Petitioner moved back into his home
with Mrs. Rodriguez and his stepdaughter. (AR 461.)
 
On May 21, 2018, Petitioner
pleaded no contest to a charge of disturbing the peace based on the domestic
violence incident. The court placed Petitioner on 36 months of probation and ordered
him to attend 52 weeks of domestic violence prevention classes. In addition,
the court required Petitioner to attend six months of mandatory Alcoholics
Anonymous meetings and to use an alcohol detention monitor for four months. Petitioner
complied with all of the court’s orders. (AR 461.)
 
After an administrative
investigation, the Department gave Petitioner notice of its intent to discharge
him from his employment for misconduct related to the February 25, 2018
incident.  (AR 227-235.) On July 3, 2019,
after a Skelly hearing,[2]
the Department issued a notice of discharge to Petitioner. (AR 462, 2-10.)
 
Petitioner appealed his
discharge and an administrative hearing was held before a hearing officer for
the Commission. On August 9, 2021, the hearing officer issued a proposed
decision finding the allegations of the Department’s July 3, 2019 to be true. The
hearing officer also found that various mitigating factors, including
Petitioner’s length of service, service record, admission of guilt, cooperation
in the investigation, expression of remorse, and demonstrated potential for
rehabilitation, merited a reduction of the penalty from a discharge to a 30-day
suspension. (AR 463.)
 
After considering the Department’s
objections to the hearing officer’s proposed decision, the Commission issued a
new proposed decision with revised conclusions of law finding the various mitigating
factors did not merit a reduction in the penalty of discharge. (AR
492-493.)  On August 31, 2022, the
Commission, by a three to two vote, overruled Petitioner’s objections and
adopted the new proposed decision to impose the discharge. (AR 744.)
 
This proceeding ensued.[3]

 
STANDARD OF REVIEW 
 
Petitioner
seeks relief pursuant Code of Civil Procedure section 1094.5. 
 
Under
Code of Civil Procedure section 1094.5, subdivision (b), the issues for review
of an administrative decision are: whether the respondent has proceeded without
jurisdiction, whether there was a fair trial, and whether there was a
prejudicial abuse of discretion.  An
abuse of discretion is established if the respondent has not proceeded in the
manner required by law, the decision is not supported by the findings, or the
findings are not supported by the evidence. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1094.5, subd.
(b).)
 
The termination of Petitioner’s
employment with the County as a SDSO concerns a fundamental vested right. Accordingly,
the court exercise its independent judgment on the administrative findings.
(See Wences v. City of Los Angeles
(2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 305, 314; Bixby v.
Pierno (1971) 4 Cal. 3d 130, 143.) However, as noted earlier, the
Commission’s factual findings have not been challenged by Petitioner.
 
Under
the independent judgment test, “the trial court not only examines the
administrative record for errors of law, but also exercises its independent
judgment upon the evidence disclosed in a limited trial de novo.” (Bixby v. Pierno
(1971) 4 Cal. 3d 130, 143.) The court may draw its own reasonable inferences
from the evidence and make its determinations as to the credibility of
witnesses. (Morrison v. Housing Authority
of the City of Los Angeles Board of Commissioners (2003) 107 Cal. App. 4th
860, 868.) Exercise of independent
judgment “does permit (indeed, [] requires) the trial court to reweigh the
evidence by examining the credibility of witnesses.” (Barber v. Long Beach
Civil Service Com. (1996) 45 Cal.App.4th 652, 658.) Under independent
judgment, “abuse of discretion is established if the court determines that the
findings are not supported by the weight of the evidence.” (Code of Civ. Proc.,
§ 1094.5, subd. (b).)
 
“In
exercising its independent judgment, a trial court must afford a strong
presumption of correctness concerning the administrative findings, and the
party challenging the administrative decision bears the burden of convincing
the court that the administrative findings are contrary to the weight of the
evidence.”  (Fukuda v. City of Angels (1999) 20 Cal. 4th 805, 817; see also
Evid. Code, § 664.)
 
Finally, while the weight of the evidence standard
applies to the court’s review of administrative factual findings, a more
deferential standard applies to the court’s review of the agency’s selection of
penalty. “With respect to the question of penalty, the superior court’s powers
of review are quite limited, and are exercised only with great deference to the
administrative agency’s findings.” (Deegan v. City of Mountain View (1999)
72 Cal.App.4th 37, 45.) “The propriety of a
penalty imposed by an administrative agency is a matter vested in the
discretion of the agency, and its decision may not be disturbed unless there
has been a manifest abuse of discretion.” (Williamson
v. Board of Medical Quality Assurance (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 1343,
1347.)  
 
ANALYSIS 
 
Weight of the Evidence 
 
Petitioner “does not contest the findings of fact of the Hearing Officer, all of
which were adopted by the Commission. Accordingly, the only issue presented is
the appropriateness of the penalty.” (Opening Brief 5:3-5.) Even assuming there
was a challenge to the Commission’s findings, however, exercising
its independent judgment on the whole record, the court concludes the weight of
the evidence supports the Commission’s findings. (AR 460-462.)
 
Propriety of the Penalty
 
As noted, “[t]he propriety of a penalty imposed by an
administrative agency is a matter vested in the discretion of the agency, and
its decision may not be disturbed unless there has been a manifest abuse of
discretion.” (Williamson v. Board of
Medical Quality Assurance, supra, 217 Cal.App.3d at 1347.) “If
reasonable minds may differ with regard to the appropriate disciplinary action,
there is no abuse of discretion.” (County
of Los Angeles v. Civil Service Commission (1995) 39 Cal.App.4th 620,
634.)  
 
In considering whether an abuse of discretion occurred, the
“overriding consideration . . . is the extent to which the employee’s conduct
resulted in, or if repeated is likely to result in, ‘[h]arm to the public
service.’ [Citations.] Other relevant factors include the circumstances
surrounding the misconduct and the likelihood of its recurrence.” (Skelly, supra, 15 Cal.3d at 218.)  
 
Petitioner contends the Department did not prove his misconduct on
February 25, 2018 caused harm to the public service and/or was sufficiently
related to his job to justify his discharge. In Blake v. State of Personnel Board (1972) 25 Cal.App.3d 541, the Court of Appeal explained the
requirement of a relationship between misconduct, an employee’s job and the
penalty imposed: 
 
The nature of the misbehavior and its
effect on the public service rather than the time or place of its occurrence
should be the determinative factors.  If
the misconduct bears some rational relationship to the employment and is of a
character that can reasonably result in the impairment or disruption of public
service, it should be no less a cause for discipline . . . simply because it
occurred outside of duty hours. In determining whether an employee should be
disciplined, whatever the cause, the overriding consideration is whether the
conduct harms the public service. (Id.
at 550-551.)  
 
The Department
and the Commission could reasonably conclude, as they did, that Petitioner’s
second, alcohol-related off-duty offense harmed the public service and had a
“job nexus” because it showed poor judgment; conflicted with the core mission
of the Department to “protect and teach” troubled youth in the Department’s
custody; reflected poorly on the Department given Petitioner’s arrest by the
Sheriff’s Department and Petitioner’s no contest plea to disturbing the peace; and
was “conduct unbecoming” of, and incompatible with, being a peace officer. (AR
2-3, 1250-1252.) Notably, the Department’s Guidelines for Discipline provide discharge
is the only recommended penalty for a second occurrence of a “conviction of any
crime which constitutes a job nexus to County employment.” (AR 395.) Consistent
with the guidelines, the Department and the Commission could reasonably
conclude discharge was the appropriate penalty.
 
The Department
and the Commission could also reasonably conclude that Petitioner’s egregious
conduct on February 25, 2018, in context of a prior conviction for driving
under the influence, demonstrated that Petitioner could not meet the standard
of behavior required of peace officers working for the Department. “[A peace
officer’s] job is a position of trust and the public has a right to the highest
standard of behavior from those they invest with the power and authority of a
law enforcement officer. Honesty, credibility and temperament are crucial to
the proper performance of an officer's duties.” (Talmo v. Civil Service Com.
(1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 210, 231.)  
 
Petitioner’s
wife was eight months pregnant at the time of the February 25, 2018 incident.
The incident also involved Petitioner’s minor stepdaughter. Petitioner pushed
his minor stepdaughter and later grabbed his wife by the back of the head and
hair and pushed her. Petitioner caused both his wife and his minor stepdaughter
to fear for their safety and resulted in an emergency call to 911 for
assistance. (See AR 451-452; see also AR
1370-1401 [testimony of Mrs. Rodriguez].) As testified by Chief Mark Garcia,
the Department’s decisionmaker who imposed the discipline, the Department
oversees child offenders who are “traumatized,” “damaged,” and “have had drug
abuse/substance abuse/alcoholism.” (AR 1276.) 
As Chief Garcia further testified, even though Petitioner was arrested
for driving under the influence in February 2016 and thereafter was placed on
probation, he nonetheless failed to control his behavior while under the
influence of alcohol and jeopardized his eight-month pregnant wife, unborn
child, and minor stepdaughter during the February 2018 incident. (AR
1277.)  On those facts, the Department
and the Commission could reasonably conclude, in light of Petitioner’s job
duties supervising troubled youth, Petitioner’s repeated alcohol-related
misconduct harmed the public service because it demonstrated that Petitioner
lacked the ability to use good judgment, maintain control, and risked the safety
of children in the Department’s custody. (AR 1277-1278.)  
 
Petitioner challenges
the testimony of decisionmaker Chief Garcia, and the Commission’s decision to
uphold the discharge, on several grounds. First, Petitioner argues throughout
his employment, Petitioner “received numerous letters of appreciation and
commendation that recognized his hard work, integrity, dedication, leadership
skills, and his unique ability to communicate with minors.” (Opening Brief
6:14-16.) Second, Petitioner’s performance evaluations “document [his] sound
judgments and effective communication with the minors for whom he was
responsible.” (Opening Brief 11:1-2.) Last, Petitioner’s work performance, as
described by his supervisors, undermines Chief Garcia’s opinion Petitioner
could put minors in jeopardy and could not make good judgments and teach
minors. (Opening Brief 11:7-10.)  
 
The court has
considered each of Petitioner’s record citations in support of these arguments.  Among other evidence, Petitioner cites a
letter from a school principal at Nidorf Juvenile Hall dated March 5, 2018,
after the February 2018 domestic violence incident.  The principal wrote: 
 
Mr. Rodriguez is patient, helpful, and a
problem-solver. When we have difficult students he is the first person to
respond and deescalate the student. He is not only a great Probation Officer
but a great friend to all of our students. On many occasions he volunteers his
own time in order to assist the school and it’s [sic] students. That kind of
dedication and good will cannot be found in many employees. (AR 58.)  
 
Various performance
evaluations also acknowledge Petitioner’s skill in communicating and
interacting with minors. (See e.g., AR 112-115, 1134.) Petitioner’s most
recent, immediate supervisor testified positively about Petitioner’s job performance.
(AR 678-692.)
 
Petitioner’s evidence
does not show a “manifest abuse of discretion” as to the penalty imposed by the
Commission. (Williamson v. Board of Medical Quality
Assurance, supra, 217 Cal.App.3d at 1347.) Petitioner’s discharge from employment was based on
off-duty, alcohol-related misconduct that harmed the public service. When
assessing Petitioner’s performance evaluations and work performance, the Commission
could reasonably give more weight to the egregiousness of Petitioner’s
misconduct and the temporal proximity to Petitioner’s 15-day suspension for
another off-duty, alcohol-related incident. Stated another way, the Commission
could reasonably determine Petitioner’s recent disciplinary history shows
substantial and ongoing risk of harm to the public service given his employment
with the Department. The Commission could also reasonably find Petitioner’s
mitigating evidence did not outweigh the other relevant discipline factors. 
 
Petitioner also argues
there is “little likelihood of the recurrence” of his misconduct because
Petitioner participated in an Alcoholics Anonymous program, demonstrated a
“sincere desire to stop drinking,” and “has ceased drinking.” (Opening Brief
12:16-17, 13:21.) Relatedly, Petitioner cites a definition of “alcoholism” (from
extra-record evidence not properly before the court) and the following
statement of the hearing officer: “There are no guarantees of permanent
sobriety for an alcoholic, but over three years of abstinence is a positive
indicator of rehabilitation.” (Opening Brief 13:21-23 [citing AR 458].) In a
footnote, Petitioner also reports: 
 
While no medical testimony was present, it is safe to
say that Rodriguez’ conduct meets the definition of alcohol use disorder
(‘AUD’). The National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism defines AUD as
‘a medical condition characterized by an impaired ability to stop or control
alcohol use despite adverse social, occupational, or health consequences.’
[website citation].”  (Opening Brief 13,
fn. 5.)  
 
Finally, Petitioner explains
his “alcoholism caused his aberrant behavior,” and he “did not realize that he
had a problem with alcohol until the domestic violence incident.” (Reply 3:18, 4:12-13.)
 
Assuming Petitioner was
an alcoholic at the time of his driving under the influence conviction and the
domestic violence incident,[4]
and considering the testimony that Petitioner has remained sober since the
February 25, 2018 incident (see AR 458), the Commission could nonetheless reasonably
conclude that the likelihood of recurrence was significant and the penalty of
discharge was reasonable in light of the risk of recurrence.  As discussed earlier, Petitioner
was arrested for an off-duty driving under the influence incident in February
2016, pleaded no contest in July 2016, received three years of probation, and
received a 15-day suspension from the Department for the conviction in November
2016. (AR 549, 460, 365.)  Shortly after the
Department imposed the 15-day suspension, Petitioner became verbally abusive
with his wife while under the influence of alcohol in December 2016 and January
2017.  (AR 457, 1366.) At the
administrative hearing, Petitioner admitted he was aware of the dangers of
drinking alcohol excessively prior to February 25, 2018, and he had attended Alcoholics
Anonymous meetings after his arrest in 2016. (AR 612-614.) Despite his recent
problems with alcohol and participation in Alcoholics Anonymous, Petitioner
drank 10 to 15 alcoholic beverages at the baby shower on February 25, 2018 and then
engaged in a domestic violence incident involving his eight-months pregnant
wife and minor stepdaughter. Given the timeline of events, the Commission could
reasonably view the February 2018 incident as part of a pattern, that the prior
15-day suspension had not deterred further alcohol-related misconduct, and
there was an unreasonably high likelihood of recurrence, despite Petitioner’s
testimony that he had not consumed alcohol since the February 2018 incident.  
 
Petitioner contends Blake v. State Personnel Board (1972) 25 Cal.App.3d 541 [Blake] and Skelly, supra, 15 Cal.3d at 194 support a
conclusion the Commission abused its discretion with the penalty it imposed.
The court disagrees.
 
In Blake, a divided Court of Appeal held the discharge of a
supervising deputy labor commissioner for an off-duty incident was an abuse of
discretion. The labor commissioner had not previously suffered disciplinary
action of any kind in approximately 19 years of state service. (Blake,
supra, 25 Cal.App.3d at 553-554.)  
 
Here, the circumstances are readily distinguished from those in Blake
in that Petitioner received a 15-day suspension for a driving under the
influence conviction in November 2016, and the County has disciplinary
guidelines recommending discharge as the only penalty for a second off-duty
offense of this nature. (AR 395.) Further, the employee in Blake was not
a peace officer and there was no showing his misconduct harmed the public
service as severely as Petitioner’s domestic violence incident, which involved
a minor and a call to 911 for assistance.
 
In Skelly, “the punitive dismissal was based upon the doctor's
conduct in extending his lunch break beyond his allotted one hour on numerous
occasions, generally by five to fifteen minutes, and in twice leaving the
office for several hours without permission.” (Skelly, 15 Cal.3d at
218.)  The petitioner in Skelly was
not a peace officer and he did not engage in off-duty crimes. Skelly is also
distinguishable.  
 
The court finds guidance in cases where the courts have affirmed the
administrative agency’s selection of penalty as a proper exercise of
discretion. (See e.g. Cranston v. City
of Richmond (1985) 40 Cal.3d 755,
769-773 [Cranston] and Talmo, supra,
231 Cal.App.3d at 229-232.) Although Petitioner’s misconduct was not the same
as that of the officers in Cranston and Talmo, it was similarly
egregious and followed prior discipline for an alcohol-related incident.  For the reasons discussed earlier, the Commission
could reasonably find Petitioner’s such misconduct harmed the public service
and was likely to recur.
 
Given the
egregiousness of Petitioner’s misconduct, his prior 15-day suspension for a
conviction for driving under the influence, and the County’s disciplinary guidelines
for a second offense of this nature, the penalty of discharge was well within the
Commission’s discretion. That reasonable minds could differ on the penalty, as
reflected in Commission’s three to two vote, further supports the conclusion the
Commission did not abuse its discretion. Finally, considering all the facts and
circumstances before the Commission, the court cannot find the Commission
committed a manifest abuse of discretion when it discharged Petition from his
employment with the Department.   
 
CONCLUSION 
 
The petition for writ of mandate is DENIED.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
December 8, 2023                                                                                                                                                        
________________________________ 
Hon. Mitchell Beckloff  
Judge of the Superior Court 
 


