  Case Number:  21STCP03696    Hearing Date:   December 8, 2023    Dept:  86 SAVE OUR RURAL TOWN v. COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
Case No. 21STCP03696
Hearing Date: December 8, 2023
 
 
[Tentative]       ORDER
ON OSC RE ENTRY OF JUDGMENT
 
                                                                                                                                                                                            
 
This matter is before the court on an Order to Show
Cause re Entry of Judgment. At the heart of the dispute is whether judgment
should be entered requiring Real Parties in Interest, Doug Gaudi, Joanna Gaudi,
Paul Zerounian and Robert Friedman, should be required to pay Petitioner, Save
Our Rural Town, pursuant to a memorandum of costs filed by Petitioner.
Petitioner’s memorandum of costs reports Petitioner incurred almost $94,000 in
enforcement costs—most of which represents attorneys’ fees.
 
The court finds Petitioner is not a prevailing party
under Code of Civil Procedure section 1032, subdivision (a)(4) because
Petitioner did not recover any relief against Real Parties. (Code Civ. Proc., §
1032, subd. (a)(4) [prevailing party includes “a defendant as against those
plaintiffs who do not recover any relief against that defendant”].)
 
The
court agrees and adopts those arguments made by Real Parties filed in response
to the OSC on November 27, 2023. The court finds the following facts
determinative:
 
·      
The underlying
petition sought no relief from Real Parties. Petitioner alleged a single cause
of action against Respondents. The prayer for relief sought relief only against
Respondent. To the extent Petitioner now reads a non-specific request in the
prayer for enforcement costs, Petitioner’s position is unconvincing.[1]
Moreover, Petitioner specifically sought relief through its petition under
Government Code section 970.2, a statute applicable to public entities only.
·      
Petitioner had an
enforceable judgment against Real Parties as of June 22, 2021 from Los Angeles
Superior Court Case No. BS155732. The judgment made Respondents and Real Party
jointly and severally liable for certain attorney’s fees under Code of Civil Procedure
section 1021.5. Accordingly, Petitioner could obtain no relief against Real
Party in this proceeding—a collection action against Respondents.
·      
The court
questions whether Petitioner properly named Real Parties as Real Parties in
Interest in this litigation. Given the joint and several liability of
Respondents and Real Parties, this litigation could “affect their rights,
interests, and obligations.” (Petitioner’s Request filed November 14, 2023 at
3:22-23.) Real Parties had already incurred the obligation.
·      
The court finds
Petitioner’s position this litigation caused Real Parties to pay Petitioner
disingenuous. The only order made by this court impacted Respondents. That Real
Parties and Respondents may have reach an accord about the joint and several
obligation, and whether Real Parties paid some part of the joint and several
obligation is irrelevant. That the court ordered Respondents to pay Petitioner
caused Petitioner to be paid. The court could have taken no enforcement action
against Real Parties based on this petition and the result in this litigation.
In fact, Petitioner’s Opening Brief, like its petition, sought no relief from
Real Parties.
·      
Real Parties
never appeared in this proceeding, and Petitioner sought no relief against
them.
·      
While Petitioner
served Real Parties with their memorandum of costs, Petitioner is not entitled
to any costs from Real Parties since Petitioner was not the prevailing party as
against Real Parties. Thus, Petitioner is not “entitled as a matter of right to
recover” its costs from Real Parties. (Response to Real Parties filed December
1, 2023 at 3:9.)
·      
Friends of
Spring Street v. Nevada City (2019)
33 Cal.App.5th 1092, 1104 because the case concerned Code of Civil Procedure
section 1032, subdivision (a)(4)’s provision for “in situations other than as
specified.”
 
Based on the foregoing, the court intends to revise
the judgment submitted by Petitioner to (1) specify at item 1 that Petitioner
is the prevailing party as against Respondents only; (2) strike items 5, 6, 7
and 8; and (3) add a new item 5 specifying Real Parties are the prevailing
parties as against Petitioner.
 
 
 


