 Case Number:  23STCV17503    Hearing Date:   August 19, 2024    Dept:  51 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Upinder S.
Kalra, Department 51
 
HEARING DATE:   August
19, 2024                                              
 
CASE NAME:           Maverick
Bankcard, Inc. v. Watch Rapport, LLC, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                23STCV17503





















 
MOTION
FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT


 
MOVING PARTY:  Plaintiff
Maverick Bankcard, Inc.
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): None as of August 14, 2024
 
REQUESTED RELIEF: 
 
1.      An
Order granting summary judgment as to Plaintiff’s first and second causes of
action in Plaintiff’s favor.
TENTATIVE RULING: 
 
1.      Motion
for Summary Judgment is DENIED.
STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: 
 
On July 26, 2023, Plaintiff Maverick Bankcard, Inc.
(Plaintiff) filed a Complaint against Defendants Watch Rapport, LLC and
Aleksandra Bulgach (Defendants) with two causes of action for: (1) Breach of
Contract; and (2) Fraud and Deceit.  
 
According to the Complaint, the parties entered an
Agreement on November 23, 2022 that Defendants materially breached. 
 
On October 12, 2023, Defendants filed an Answer. 
 
On December 20, 2023, Plaintiff filed Motions to Compel
initial discovery responses and deem RFAs admitted which the court GRANTED.
 
On May 22, 2024, Plaintiff filed the
instant Motion for Summary Judgment.
 
On August 13, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
Notice of Non-Opposition to Motion for Summary Judgment.
 
As of August 14, 2024, the court has not received any
opposition or response from Defendants.
 
LEGAL STANDARD: 
 
Summary
Judgment/Adjudication¿ 
¿ 
A party seeking summary judgment has the burden of producing
evidentiary facts sufficient to entitle him/her to judgment as a matter of
law.¿ (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(c).)¿ The moving party must make an affirmative
showing that he/she is entitled to judgment irrespective of whether or not the
opposing party files an opposition.¿ (Villa
v. McFerren (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 733, 742-743.)¿ Thus, “the initial burden
is always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no
triable issues of material fact.”¿ (Scalf
v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519 (citing Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001)
25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)¿¿ 
¿¿ 
When a plaintiff seeks summary judgment, he/she must produce
admissible evidence on each element of each cause of action on which judgment
is sought.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(p)(1).)¿ When a defendant seeks summary
judgment, he/she has the “burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit
if the party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of action, even
if not separately pleaded, cannot be established, or that there is a complete
defense to the cause of action.”¿ (Code of Civ. Proc. § 437c(p)(2).)¿¿ 
¿¿ 
The opposing party on a motion for summary judgment is under
no evidentiary burden to produce rebuttal evidence until the moving party meets
his or her initial movant’s burden.¿ (Binder
v. Aetna Life Insurance Company (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 840.)¿ Once the
initial movant’s burden is met, then the burden shifts to the opposing party to
show, with admissible evidence, that there is a triable issue requiring the
weighing procedures of trial.¿ (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(p).)¿ The opposing party
may not simply rely on his/her allegations to show a triable issue but must
present evidentiary facts that are substantial in nature and rise beyond mere
speculation.¿ (Sangster v. Paetkau
(1998) 68¿Cal.App.4th 151, 162.)¿ Summary judgment must be granted “if all the
evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’
and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.”¿ (Adler v.
Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7¿Cal.App.4th¿1110, 1119.)¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
As to any alternative request for summary adjudication of
issues, such alternative relief must be clearly set forth in the Notice of
Motion and the general burden-shifting rules apply but the issues upon which
summary adjudication may be sought are limited by statute.¿ (Code Civ. Proc.,
§¿437c(f)(1).)¿ “A motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only if it
completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for
damages, or an issue of duty.”¿ (Ibid.)¿¿ 
 
Request for Judicial Notice
 
The court grants Plaintiff’s request for
judicial notice as to Exhibit G. (Evid. Code § 452(c), (h); See Kalnoki v. First American Trustee Servicing
Solutions, LLC (2017) 8 Cal.App.5th 23,37.) However, the court only takes
judicial notice of the foregoing documents only as to “the existence, content
and authenticity of public records and other specified documents”; it does not
take judicial notice of the truth of the factual matters asserted in those
documents. (Dominguez v. Bonta (2022)
87 Cal. App. 5th 389, 400.)
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
Plaintiff seeks summary judgment of the two causes of action
in its Complaint.
 
First Cause of
Action - Breach of Contract
 
Plaintiff contends it has established its claim for breach
of contract. Defendants did not file an opposition.
 
To state a claim
for breach of contract, a plaintiff must allege sufficient facts to establish
(1) a contract between the parties, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for
nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) damages to the plaintiff from
the breach. (Wall Street Network, Ltd. v.
New York Times Co. (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 1171, 1178.)¿“As damages are an
element of a breach of contract cause of action [citation], a plaintiff cannot
obtain judgment on a breach of contract cause of action in an amount of damages
to be determined later.” (Paramount
Petroleum Corp. v. Superior Court (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 226, 241.)¿ 
 
As the moving
party, Plaintiff has the burden to show, through admissible evidence, that
there is no genuine dispute of material fact as to each element of a cause of
action for breach of contract.¿ 
 
Plaintiff submitted the Declaration of Benjamin Griefer,
Chief Operating Officer of Plaintiff Maverick Bankcard, Inc. in support of its
motion. Mr. Griefer is responsible for the oversight and management of the
onboarding process of new merchant accounts, overseeing risk and collections,
as well as bank reconciliation as it relates to chargebacks and rejects.
(Griefer Decl. ¶ 1.) Plaintiff also submitted its Requests for Admission (Set
One) which the court deemed admitted on February 29, 2024. (Declaration of
Trevor Witt ¶¶ 2-4, Exhibits A, B, and C.)
 
Plaintiffs provided a copy of the Merchant Account
Application and Agreement (the Agreement) that the parties entered on/about
November 23, 2022. (Griefer Decl. ¶ 5, Exhibit D.) 
 
Plaintiff performed under the Agreement because it provided
payment processing services for Defendants pursuant to the Agreement’s terms.
(Griefer Decl. ¶¶ 9-10; Witt Decl., Exhibit A.)
 
Defendants breached the Agreement by failing to maintain
sufficient funds to cover amounts owed in the bank account designated and
authorized for fee debits and deposits of proceeds, fund a reserve account in
amounts deemed sufficient to protect Plaintiff from a risk of loss associated
with Defendants’ use of its services, and pay all amounts due and owing to
Plaintiff under the Agreement. (Griefer Decl. ¶¶ 14-17.) Defendants also
breached the Agreement by failing to maintain the appropriate funding for the
reserve account and eventually placing a stop payment on their bank account.
(Griefer Decl. ¶ 18.) Defendants admit to breaching the Agreement. (Witt Decl.,
Exhibits A & B.)
 
Plaintiff demonstrated damages from Defendants’ breach
because Plaintiff was left responsible to account for the chargebacks
($3,070,760.81) and the negative balance in the reserve account which totaled
$-1,959,456.80 as of May 17, 2024. (Griefer Decl. ¶¶ 22-26.) Plaintiff refunded
the bank $1,959.456.80.) (Griefer Decl. ¶ 25; Witt Decl., Exhibits A & B.)
 
Defendants have not filed an Opposition or any objections to the instant
Motion to argue that there is a genuine dispute of material fact.¿
 
Based on
the foregoing, Plaintiff’s evidence is sufficient to establish the existence of
an Agreement with Defendants, their performance, and Defendants’ breach of the
Agreement resulting in damages.
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff has met its burden and is entitled to
summary judgment on its cause of action for breach of contract.
 
Second Cause of
Action – Fraud & Deceit
 
Plaintiff contends it has established a claim for fraud. Defendants
did not file an opposition.
 
“The elements of fraud, which give rise to the tort action
for deceit, are (a) misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or
nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity (or 'scienter'); (c) intent to
defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting
damage.” (Lazar v. Superior Court¿(1996)
12 Cal.4th 631, 638.)¿¿ 
 
Plaintiff provides the same evidence here as for the first
cause of action. Unlike above, however, the evidence does not establish their
claim for fraud. Even reading RFA 20 and 34 
broadly, there is no admission or evidence regarding the timing of the fraudulent
scheme. Notably missing is evidence of a misrepresentation and evidence of
knowledge of falsity at the time the
Merchant Account Application and Agreement was entered into. Instead, Plaintiff
argues that the misrepresentation was that they would maintain a reserve
account with sufficient funds to satisfy the chargebacks and associated fees.
(MSJ Memo 9:2-4, citing Undisputed Material Fact (UMF) Nos. 18, 24, and 25.)
However, these UMFs detail the terms and breach of the Agreement. (UMF Nos. 18,
24, and 25.) They are not different from the alleged breach of contract. 
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff has not met its initial burden and
is not entitled to summary judgment on its second cause of action.
 
Because Plaintiff did not move for summary adjudication
in the alternative, the court may not grant summary judgment in its favor. As
such, Plaintiff’s Motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED. However, if Plaintiff dismissed
the fraud claim, Plaintiff would be entitled to summary judgment on the lone
breach of contract cause of action.
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            For
the foregoing reasons, the Court decides the pending motion as follows: 
 
1.      Motion
for Summary Judgment is DENIED as currently pled..
Moving party is to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
Dated:              August 19, 2024                      __________________________________                                                                                                                Upinder
S. Kalra
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court