 Case Number:  23STCV03188    Hearing Date:   August 19, 2024    Dept:  51 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Upinder S.
Kalra, Department 51
 
HEARING DATE:   August
19, 2024                                              
 
CASE NAME:           Barrye Jacobson v. Adam S. Cohen, et
al.
 
CASE NO.:                23STCV03188

 
MOTION
FOR LEAVE TO AMEND FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT

 
MOVING PARTY:  Plaintiff
Barrye Jacobson
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Defendants Adam Cohen and Saxon
Spencer Capital, Inc.
 
REQUESTED RELIEF: 
 
1.      Leave
to amend the First Amended Complaint to add five new causes of action and amend
the current cause of action for quantum meruit.
TENTATIVE RULING: 
 
1.      Motion
for Leave to Amend the FAC is DENIED.
STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: 
 
On February 14, 2023, Plaintiff Barrye Jacobson (Plaintiff)
filed a Complaint against Defendants Adam S. Cohen and Saxon Spencer Capital,
Inc. (Defendants) with six causes of action for: (1) Specific Performance or
Damages Based Upon Breach of Express Contract, (2) Fraud and Deceit, (3)
Negligent Misrepresentation, (4) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress,
(5) Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress, and (6) Quantum Meruit.
 
On August 8, 2023, the court SUSTAINED Defendants’ Demurrer
to the Complaint with leave to amend.
 
On August 28, 2023, Plaintiff filed a First Amended
Complaint (FAC) with four causes of action for: (1) Breach of Contract, (2)
Fraud and Deceit, (3) Negligent Misrepresentation, and (4) Quantum Meruit.
 
According to the FAC, Plaintiff began working for Defendants
and eventually entered a romantic relationship with Defendant Cohen. Between
2019 and 2022, Plaintiff was hired and fired on three separate occasions. In
2021, Plaintiff was promoted to Chief Financial Officer/Chief Operation Officer
for Defendant Saxon. Additionally, Plaintiff was promised a share of profits
from an LLC, which would be managed by both Jacobson and Cohen. However, this
did not happen, and Plaintiff was fired in April 2022.
 
On October 17, 2023, Defendants filed a Demurrer and Motion
to Strike the FAC which the court ruled as follows:
1.      Demurrer
to the First Cause of Action is OVERRULED as to the March 2019 employment
contract;
2.      Demurrer
to the First Cause of Action is OVERRULED as to the November 25, 2021 Agreement
as to Defendant Cohen and SUSTAINS as to Defendant Saxon;
3.      Demurrer
to the Second and Third Causes of Action is OVERRULED as to Defendant Cohen and
SUSTAINED as to Defendant Saxon;
4.      Motion
to Strike is DENIED as to prayer for punitive damages and prejudgment interest;
and
5.      Motion
to Strike is GRANTED as to attorney’s fees.
On January 5, 2024, Defendants filed an Answer and
Cross-Complaint with eight causes of action for: (1) Negligence, (2)
Conversion, (3) Trespass to Chattles, (4) Intentional Misrepresentation, (5)
Negligent Misrepresentation, (6) Accounting, (7) Money had and received, and
(8) Unjust Enrichment. 
 
On February 1, 2024, Plaintiff filed an Answer to the
Cross-Complaint.
 
On June 6, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant Motion for
Leave to Amend her First Amended Complaint. On August 6, 2024, Defendants filed
an opposition. On August 12, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply.
 
LEGAL STANDARD: 
 
California Code of Civil Procedure (CCP) section 473,
subdivision (a)(1) provides, in relevant part: “The court may, in furtherance
of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any
pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by
correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect;
and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or demurrer.¿ The court
may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon
any terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other
particulars; and may upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time
limited by this code.”¿¿¿ 
 
CCP section 576 provides: Any judge, at any time before or
after commencement of trial, in the furtherance of justice, and upon such terms
as may be proper, may allow the amendment of any pleading or pretrial
conference order.
¿¿ 
“This discretion should be exercised liberally in favor of
amendments, for judicial policy favors resolution of all disputed matters in
the same lawsuit.”¿ (Kittredge Sports Co.
v. Superior Court¿(1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1047.)¿ Ordinarily, the court
will not consider the validity of the proposed amended pleading in ruling on a
motion for leave since grounds for a demurrer or motion to strike are
premature.¿ The court, however, does have discretion to deny leave to amend
where a proposed amendment fails to state a valid cause of action as a matter
of law and the defect cannot be cured by further amendment.¿ (See¿California Casualty General Ins. Co. v.
Superior Court¿(1985) 173 Cal.App.3d 274, 281 (overruled on other grounds
by¿Kransco¿v. American Empire Surplus
Lines Ins. Co.¿(2000) 23 Cal.4th 390).)¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
Under California Rules of Court Rule (CRC), rule 3.1324,
subdivision (a), a motion to amend a pleading shall (1) include a copy of the
proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to
differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments; (2) state what
allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and
where, by page, paragraph and line number, the deleted allegations are located;
and (3) state what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous pleading,
if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the additional
allegations are located.¿¿  
¿¿ 
Under California Rule of Court, rule 3.1324, subdivision
(b), a separate declaration must accompany the motion and must specify (1) the
effect of the amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3)
when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4)
the reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier.¿¿¿ 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
Plaintiff seeks to allege the following five new causes of
action: (1) Sexual Harassment in violation of FEHA – Quid Pro Quo; (2) Sexual
Harassment in violation of FEHA – Hostile Work Environment; (3) Discrimination
Based on Sex in Violation of FEHA; (4) Failure to Prevent Discrimination and
Harassment; and (5) Retaliation. Plaintiff also seeks to amend her cause of
action for quantum meruit to allege that she is additionally owed $140,000 from
the Defendants not paying Plaintiff for several payment cycles and that
Plaintiff incurred a loss of at least $140,000 in base salary wages, resulting
from a series of events including terminations, retaliations, and adherence to
a non-compete agreement she was compelled to sign. Plaintiff contends leave is
warranted because the proposed amendments relate to the same transaction,
occurrence, and parties as alleged in the complaint. Finally, Plaintiff
contends Defendants will not be prejudiced by the amendments because trial is
not set until April 25, 2025.
 
Defendants argue that Plaintiff previously represented to
the court that they would not seek leave to amend which demonstrates lack of
good faith, violate the sham pleading doctrine, are procedurally unfair,
significantly expand the scope of litigation, and are futile. 
 
Plaintiff replies that counsel mistakenly represented to the
court that they did not intend to seek leave to amend and that she alleged new
facts warranting the amendment.
 
First, Plaintiff complied with CRC, rule 3.1324(a).
Plaintiff includes a copy of the Proposed Second Amended Complaint with
highlighted text indicating the proposed amendments. (Exhibit A.) Plaintiff
also stated the scope of proposed amendments pursuant to CRC, rule
3.1324(a)(3). (Mot. 10:25-21:11.)
 
However, Plaintiff did not comply with CRC, rule 3.1324(b). Notably,
the declaration indicates the facts were discovered through the filing of this
action and leave was not sought earlier because Plaintiff received their right
to sue letter in April 2024. (Burns Decl. ¶ 5.) There are simply no new factual
allegations. For example, the FAC alleges the abrupt and intermittent
employment depending on Defendant Cohen’s temperament with a detailed account
of the various terminations spanning from December of 2019 to October of 2021.
(FAC ¶¶ 11-15.) The proposed “new” allegation that Defendant Cohen, for the
same time period, created a hostile work environment for Plaintiff only adds
detail behind these terminations. (Proposed SAC ¶ 19.) The other proposed new
allegations fare no better. The court is not persuaded that Plaintiff did not
know these facts when she filed her complaint, or the FAC, or even at the
hearing on the demurrer in December of 2023. Indeed, if the only delay resulted
from Plaintiff waiting for her right to sue letter from DFEH, she could have
said so.
 
Accordingly, the court exercises its discretion to DENY
Plaintiff’s motion for leave to amend the FAC.
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            For
the foregoing reasons, the court decides the pending motion as follows: 
 
1.      Motion
for Leave to Amend the FAC is DENIED.
Moving party is to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
Dated:             August
19, 2024                      __________________________________                                                                                                                Upinder
S. Kalra
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 