 Case Number:  23STCV18064    Hearing Date:   May 7, 2024    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Motion to
Determine Good Faith Settlement
 
Moving Party: Defendants LNP Everland, Inc., The H Realty, Eui S. Chang, and
Christina Kwon
Resp. Party:    Defendant Emotional Health Association
 
 
The Renewed Motion to Determine Good Faith
Settlement is DENIED without Prejudice. 
 
BACKGROUND:
 
On July 31,
2023, Plaintiff Sean McDowell filed his Complaint against Defendants LNP
Everland Inc., Emotional Health Association, Eui S. Chang, Hee Kyung Chang, The
H Realty, and Christina Kwon. Multiple causes of action are pleaded against
Defendants. 
 
        On
January 2, 2024, Defendants LNP Everland, Inc., Eui S. Chang, H Realty, and
Christina Kwon filed their Answer to the Complaint. 
 
        On
January 5, 2024, Defendant Emotional Health Association filed its Answer to the
Complaint. 
 
        On
March 26, 2024, the Court denied without prejudice the Motion to Determine Good
Faith Settlement filed by Defendants LNP Everland, Inc., The H Realty, Eui S.
Chang, and Christina Kwon (“Settling Defendants”). 
 
        On
April 11, 2024, Settling Defendants filed their Motion to Determine Good Faith
Settlement (“Renewed Motion to Determine Good Faith Settlement”). 
 
        On
April 26, 2024, Defendant Emotional Health Association (“Non-Settling
Defendant”) filed its Opposition to the Renewed Motion to Determine Good Faith
Settlement. In support of its Renewed Motion to Determine Good Faith
Settlement, Non-Settling Defendant concurrently filed: (1) Declaration of Jason
Robison; (2) Declaration of Matthew M. Gorman; and (3) Evidentiary Objections. 
 
        On
April 30, 2024, Settling Defendants filed their Reply in support of their
Renewed Motion to Determine Good Faith Settlement. 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.         
Evidentiary Objections
 
Non-Settling Defendant objects to portions of
Settling Defendants’ evidence. The following are the Court’s rulings on these
objections.
 




Objection


 


 




1


 


OVERRULED




2


 


OVERRULED




3


SUSTAINED


 




4


SUSTAINED


 




5


 


OVERRULED




6


 


OVERRULED




7


 


OVERRULED




8


SUSTAINED





9


SUSTAINED


 




10


SUSTAINED


 




11


 


OVERRULED




 
 
Although the Court has ruled on
the Non-Settling objections, it would be helpful in the future for counsel to
number their objections for ease of reference.
 
 
 
II.       Legal
Standard
 
“Any party to an action in which it
is alleged that two or more parties are joint tortfeasors or co-obligors on a
contract debt shall be entitled to a hearing on the issue of the good faith of
a settlement entered into by the plaintiff or other claimant and one or more
alleged tortfeasors or co-obligors, upon giving notice in the manner provided
in subdivision (b) of Section 1005.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (a)(1).)
 
“In the alternative, a settling
party may give notice of settlement to all parties and to the court, together
with an application for determination of good faith settlement and a proposed
order.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd.
(a)(2).)
 
“The issue of the good faith of a
settlement may be determined by the court on the basis of affidavits served
with the notice of hearing, and any counteraffidavits filed in response, or the
court may, in its discretion, receive other evidence at the hearing.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (b).)
 
III.     Discussion
 
The entire discussion on the Renewed Motion
to Determine Good Faith Settlement can be distilled into a single line written
by Settling Defendants’ Counsel:
 
“There was no reason to deny the motion
before, and there is no reason to deny it now.” (Reply in support of Renewed
Motion to Determine Good Faith Settlement, p. 5:24–25.)
 
The Court understands that Settling
Defendants’ Counsel – whose previous motion was denied – feels that his
position is righteous. That may well explain why Counsel doubles down on a
motion that was previously denied – submitting the same arguments and evidence as
before. However, such doubling down is not very convincing to the trier of
fact.
 
The Court still believes that there were
ample reasons for denying the original Motion to Determine Good Faith
Settlement. (See Minute Order, March 26, 2024, pp. 4–5.) As indicated in its
previous Order, Settling Defendants’ Counsel did not provide the Court with
sufficient evidence to meet the relevant standard and grant the requested
relief.
 
“A party who
originally made an application for an order which was refused in whole or part,
or granted conditionally or on terms, may make a subsequent application for the
same order upon new or different facts, circumstances, or law, in which case it
shall be shown by affidavit what application was made before, when and to what
judge, what order or decisions were made, and what new or different facts,
circumstances, or law are claimed to be shown. For a failure to comply with
this subdivision, any order made on a subsequent application may be revoked or
set aside on ex parte motion.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1008, subd. (b).)
 
Here, Settling Defendants’ Counsel is asking
for the same order as before.  Affidavits
have been submitted from the same individuals as before, the settlement offer
appears to be completely unchanged from before, and there does not appear to
have been any change in the law. The only difference is that the Settling
Defendants indicate that neither LNP Everland,
Inc. nor Eui Chang have E&O insurance to cover this dispute.  (See Declaration of Chang, ¶ 1; Declaration
of Kwon, ¶ 3.)  No evidence has been
presented about Defendant H Realty.  
 
The standard for filing a renewed motion has
not been met. On that basis alone, the instant motion should be denied. 
 
In addition, the Court notes that Settling
Defendants still have not met their burden of proof regarding the Tech-Bilt factors.
(See Minute Order, March 26, 2024, pp. 4–5.) That is an additional and
independent basis for denying the instant motion. 
 
IV.      Conclusion
 
The Renewed Motion to Determine Good Faith
Settlement is DENIED without Prejudice. 
 