 Case Number:  24STCP00343    Hearing Date:   March 25, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
BOOK AND VIG, LLC,
                        Petitioner,
            v.
 
8029 SUNSET, LLC, 
                        Respondent.
  


 
  Case No.:  24STCP00343
  Hearing Date:  March 25, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
petition to confirm arbitration award 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On February 2, 2024, Petitioner Book
and Vig, LLC initiated this proceeding by filing a petition to confirm the
arbitration award issued in its case against Respondent 8029 Sunset, LLC.
Respondent filed its response to the petition on February 27, 2024. Petitioner
filed its reply on March 12, 2024. 
LEGAL STANDARD
“Any party to an arbitration in which an
award has been made may petition the court to confirm, correct or vacate the
award.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1285.) A petition shall set forth the substance of
the agreement to arbitrate, the names of the arbitrators, and any written
opinion of the arbitrators. (Id., § 1285.4.) If the petition is duly
served and filed, “the court shall confirm the award as made, whether rendered
in this state or another state, unless in accordance with this
chapter
it corrects the award and confirms it as corrected, vacates the award or
dismisses the proceeding.” (Id., § 1286.)
            The court shall correct the award if
it determines that: (a) there was an evident miscalculation of figures or an
evident mistake in the description of any person, thing or property referred to
in the award; (b) the arbitrators exceeded their powers but the award may be
corrected without affecting the merits of the decision upon the controversy
submitted; or (c) the award is imperfect in a matter of form, not affecting the
merits of the controversy. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1286.6.) 
DISCUSSION
I.
Correcting the Award
“[P]arties to a private arbitration
impliedly agree that the arbitrator's decision will be both binding and final.”
(Moncharsh v. Heily & Blase (1992) 3 Cal.4th 1, 9.) “[T]he essence
of the arbitration process is that an arbitral award shall put the dispute to
rest.” (Id. at p. 10.) “Expanding the availability of judicial review of
such decisions ‘would tend to deprive the parties to the arbitration agreement
of the very advantages the process is intended to produce.’” (Ibid.) “As
a consequence, arbitration awards are generally immune from judicial review.” (Id.
at p. 11.) This is so even if an arbitrator’s decision is mistaken, because the
parties voluntarily assume that risk in exchange for the less formal, expedited
procedure. (Id. at pp. 11-12.) Additionally, “an arbitrator is not
ordinarily constrained to decide according to the rule of law.” (Id. at
p. 11.) “An error of law is not one of the grounds” for vacating or
correcting an arbitration award. (Id. at p. 14.)    
Here, the arbitrator’s award provided, in
pertinent part, that “there is no prevailing party” because “neither party has
proven that it suffered damages and none are payable by either party to the
other.” (Attachment 8(c) to Petition.) Accordingly, the arbitrator ruled that “each
side shall bear its own costs and expenses in connection with this Arbitration
and equally share and pay the following . . . .” (Ibid.) Additionally,
the arbitrator concluded that “CCP Section 998 is not applicable as Claimant is
awarded no damages hereunder and therefore failed to obtain a more favorable
award than contain in the Section 998 Settlement Offer proffered by Respondent.”
(Ibid.) 
            Respondent argues that the award
should be corrected to award Respondent costs under Section 998 because it made
a settlement offer for $50,000, and Petitioner failed to obtain a more
favorable result in the arbitration, having recovered nothing. Respondent
contends that the arbitrator erred because he acknowledged that Petitioner
failed to obtain a more favorable result but then somehow concluded that
Section 998 did not apply. Respondent had previously filed a request for
modification of the award directly with the arbitrator on the same grounds, but
the arbitrator denied the request, holding that “the Award as submitted remains
final and will not be modified.” (Shackelford Decl., Ex. F, H.)            
            First, this is not a situation
involving “an evident miscalculation of figures or an evident mistake in the
description of any person,” or an “imperfect[ion] in a matter of form.” (See
Code Civ. Proc., § 1286.6(a), (c).) The arbitrator clearly declined to award
costs under Section 998 and clearly intended to do so, as confirmed by his
second ruling that the award “will not be modified” despite considering the
same arguments Respondent makes here. There was no miscalculation, typo, or
formatting error. 
            Nor did the arbitrator exceed his
powers. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 1286.6(b).) “An arbitrator does not exceed his
or her powers . . . merely by rendering an erroneous decision on a legal or
factual issue, so long as the issue was within the scope of the controversy
submitted to the arbitrator. The arbitrator's resolution of these issues is
what the parties bargained for in the arbitration agreement.” (Moshonov v.
Walsh (2000) 22 Cal.4th 771, 773.) “An arbitrator's powers ‘derive from,
and are limited by, the agreement to arbitrate.’” (Kelly Sutherlin McLeod
Architecture, Inc. v. Schneickert (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 519, 528.) 
Respondent does not contend that the
arbitrator in this case went beyond the authority granted by the arbitration
agreement or arbitration rules. Rather, the issue of costs under Section 998
was a matter properly brought before the arbitrator and subject to his
jurisdiction. The parties voluntarily agreed that such matters would be finally
decided by an arbitrator, and that is precisely what occurred. That the
arbitrator legally erred in denying costs under Section 998 is not grounds for
modifying the award. (See Moncharsh, supra, 3 Cal.4th at p. 14; Moshonov,
supra, 22 Cal.4th at p. 773.) 
Respondent relies on the federal standard
that an arbitrator exceeds their powers when they express a “manifest disregard
of law.” However, California courts are the governing authority with regards to
the legal standards under the California Arbitration Act, including the
standards applicable to correcting awards under Code of Civil Procedure section
1286.6. As established above, California courts have repeatedly held that legal
error is not grounds for correcting an award, and an arbitrator is not confined
to the law in the same way as a court is. 
In sum, there are no grounds for
correcting the arbitration award entered in this case. The award may be
confirmed as requested. 
II.
Attorneys’ Fees
            Petitioner requests an award of
attorneys’ fees for having to reply to Respondent’s opposition. Petitioner
argues that under the AAA Commercial Rules, “[i]n any interim, interlocutory,
or partial award, the arbitrator may assess and apportion the fees, expenses,
and compensation related to such award as the arbitrator determines is
appropriate,” including an award of attorneys’ fees. (R-47(b), (d)(ii).) 
            However, this Court is not the
arbitrator and cannot award costs and fees under the AAA Commercial Rules.
Petitioner provides no authority allowing the Court to award attorneys’ fees on
a petition to confirm arbitration award. 
CONCLUSION
            Petitioner’s motion to confirm
arbitration award is GRANTED. Petitioner’s request for attorneys’ fees is
denied. 