  Case Number:  24STCV06281    Hearing Date:   January 16, 2025    Dept:  50  
 
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 




ERNESTO ARELLANO, as an
  individual, and on behalf of all others similarly situated,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
VALERO SERVICES, INC., et al.
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


24STCV06281




Hearing Date:


January 16, 2025




Hearing
  Time:   2:00 p.m. 
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER
  RE:
 
DEFENDANT VALERO
  SERVICES, INC.’S MOTION TO STAY REPRESENTATIVE ACTION




            
Background
On March 13, 2024, Plaintiff Ernesto
Arellano, as an individual, and on behalf of all others similarly
situated (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendant Valero Services,
Inc. (“Defendant”). Plaintiff’s “Representative Action Complaint Under the
Private Attorneys General Act of 2004” alleges one cause of action for
violation of Labor Code section 2698, et seq.

Defendant now moves for an order staying this action. Plaintiff
opposes. 
Requests for Judicial Notice 
The Court denies Defendant’s request for
judicial notice. The Court also denies Plaintiff’s request for judicial
notice.  
            Discussion
As set forth above, Defendant moves for an order
staying the instant action. In his supporting declaration, Defendant’s counsel
states that “[o]n April 23, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Demand for
Arbitration against Defendant and included an individual PAGA claim.” (Crosner
Decl., ¶ 4.) Plaintiff does not appear to dispute
that the parties stipulated to arbitrate Plaintiff’s “individual” PAGA claims
in this action.  Defendant asserts
that “[t]he sole dispute here is whether Plaintiff’s representative PAGA claim should
be stayed pending individual arbitration.” (Mot. at p. 5:11-12.)  
Both parties cite to Adolph v. Uber
Technologies, Inc. (2023) 14 Cal.5th 1104, 1114, where the
California Supreme Court noted that “[t]he question here is whether an aggrieved employee who has
been compelled to arbitrate claims under PAGA that are ‘premised on Labor Code
violations actually sustained by’ the plaintiff (Viking River, supra, 596 U.S. at p. 648 [142 S.Ct. at p. 1916]; see §§ 2698, 2699,
subd. (a)) maintains statutory standing to pursue ‘PAGA claims arising out
of events involving other employees’ (Viking River, at pp. 648–649 [142 S.Ct. at p. 1916]) in court.” The Adolph
Court held that “the answer is yes,” and that “[w]here a plaintiff has brought
a PAGA action comprising individual and non-individual claims, an order
compelling arbitration of the individual claims does not strip the plaintiff of
standing as an aggrieved employee to litigate claims on behalf of other
employees under PAGA.” (Ibid.) The Adolph
Court further found as follows:  
 
“Nothing
in PAGA or any other relevant statute suggests that arbitrating individual
claims effects a severance. When a case includes arbitrable and nonarbitrable
issues, the issues may be adjudicated in different forums while remaining part
of the same action. Code of Civil Procedure section
1281.4 states that upon ‘order[ing] arbitration of a controversy which
is an issue involved in an action,’ the court should ‘stay the action.’ It
further provides that ‘[i]f the issue which is the controversy subject to
arbitration is severable, the stay may be with respect to that issue only.’ Section 1281.4 does not contemplate that the compelled
arbitration of an issue in controversy in the action is a separate action. The
statute makes clear that the cause remains one action, parts of which may be
stayed pending completion of the arbitration.” ((Adolph v. Uber
Technologies, Inc., supra,
14 Cal.5th at pp. 1124-1125.) 
Defendant asserts that
here, “[t]his Court has a compelling interest in granting a stay to avoid
unseemly conflicts caused by the potential for inconsistent adjudications, as
well as an interest in conserving judicial resources.” (Mot. at p. 10:7-9.) Defendant
asserts that “[i]f the requested stay is not granted, it creates the risk that
after extensive civil discovery this Court could rule on the same issues that
would also be determined in arbitration, and could easily enter rulings that
are different from those determined in the arbitration.” (Mot. at p.
10:19-22.)  
In the opposition,
Plaintiff asserts that the Court should “allow Plaintiff to proceed with the
non-individual PAGA claims despite any pending arbitration…there is a
distinction between the claims of an individual PAGA plaintiff and the claims
of the State of California and the Labor Workforce Development Agency (the
‘LWDA’).” (Opp’n at p. 3:18-21.) Plaintiff cites to Kim v. Reins
International California, Inc. (2020) 9 Cal.5th 73, 81, where the California
Supreme Court noted that “[a] PAGA
claim is legally and conceptually different from an employee’s own suit for
damages and statutory penalties. An employee suing under PAGA does so as
the proxy or agent of the state's labor law
enforcement agencies. Every PAGA claim is a dispute between an employer and the state.” (Internal
quotations, citation, and emphasis omitted.) But as set forth above, the Adolph
Court noted that “[Code of Civil Procedure] Section
1281.4 does not contemplate that the compelled arbitration of an issue in
controversy in the action is a separate action. The statute makes clear that
the cause remains one action, parts of which may be stayed pending completion
of the arbitration.” ((Adolph v. Uber Technologies, Inc., supra, 14 Cal.5th at p. 1125.)

The Court finds that a
stay of the “non-individual” PAGA claims is warranted, particularly to avoid
inconsistent rulings. Thus, the Court grants
Defendant’s request to stay Plaintiff’s non-individual PAGA claims pending
completion of arbitration of Plaintiff’s individual PAGA claims. 
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, Defendant’s motion for an order
staying this action is granted. The action is stayed pending completion of
arbitration of Plaintiff’s individual PAGA claims. 
The Court sets an arbitration completion status conference
on January 16, 2026, at 10:00 a.m. in Dept. 50. The parties are ordered to file
a joint report regarding the status of the arbitration five court days prior to
the status conference, with a courtesy copy delivered directly to Department
50.  
Defendant is ordered to provide notice of this Order. 
 
DATED:  January 16, 2025                            
________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court
 