 Case Number:  23SMCV04271    Hearing Date:   July 8, 2024    Dept:  I This is a motion to compel arbitration, and it is DENIED. 
 
Plaintiffs filed a breach of a construction contract.  An earlier motion to compel arbitration was
denied because the arbitration provision attached to the motion was not signed
by the moving party.  Further, the
agreement provided that if all parties did not sign or initial the provision,
then it would be “conclusively” determined that the parties did not agree to
arbitrate.  However, the court stated
that defendant could bring another motion if defendant could produce a copy
that was signed by all parties. 
Defendant did so, and that is the motion now pending.  Defendant contended that in fact it had
signed the arbitration provision.  The
electronic version was not signed because plaintiffs used both spots to sign
(there are two plaintiffs) and thus there was nowhere for the defendant to
sign.  According to the defendant,
though, the defendant then signed the hard copy and returned the fully executed
version to plaintiffs.  When defendant
looked through the hard copy file, the defendant found the signed
document.  Plaintiffs opposed the
motion.  They noted that the version that
defendant gave them had no signatures at all in the arbitration section,
although defendant had signed the contract at the end.  Plaintiffs did initial the arbitration
provision, and they also signed the contract and returned it.  Plaintiffs stated that they never got a
version with defendant’s signature or initials in the arbitration section.   
 
This is a serious problem. 
Defendant swore under oath that the reason defendant did not initial the
electronic version was because plaintiffs had already filled out the
spots.  But plaintiffs—purporting to have
the metadata showing when things were signed—contend that such is not the case,
but rather that defendant signed the contract but did not initial the
arbitration provision before providing the contract to them.  Both versions cannot be true.  Either defendant is telling the truth, and
plaintiffs signed the entire document first and defendant just did not have
room to sign the arbitration provision electronically, or defendant signed the
document first and elected not to sign the arbitration portion.  Further, plaintiffs contend that defendant
never gave them a version with the arbitration provision signed.
 
The court continued the hearing to allow defendant to
provide evidence to rebut the metadata plaintiffs provided.  Defendant did not do so.  Nor is there strong evidence that a version
of the contract with defendant’s signature on the arbitration provision was
ever sent to plaintiffs.  Defendant’s
declaration speaks only to custom and practice; plaintiffs’ declaration speaks
to actual memory.
 
Given that, the court finds plaintiffs to be credible and
Grushkoviski to be not credible.  Because
the contract says that if the arbitration provision is not signed by all
parties the court must “conclusively” determine that there is no agreement to
arbitrate, the court follows the contract. 
There is no agreement to arbitrate, and therefore the motion is DENIED.
 
The matter will be stayed for 20 days.  If an appeal is taken before that time, the
matter will remain stayed until the appeal is resolved.  If no appeal is taken within 20 days, there
will be no stay until and unless an appeal is taken.  If a timely appeal is taken, the matter will
be stayed from that point forward until the appeal is resolved without the need
for further order.
 