 Case Number:  23SMCV05977    Hearing Date:   July 8, 2024    Dept:  I This is one of a series of related cases.  In this case, plaintiff ROE alleges that she
was invited to defendant’s business by Ronald Jeremy, a known pornographic
celebrity.  While at the Rockin’ Horse,
plaintiff alleges that Jeremy grabbed her and forced her into a private
restroom to which the owners had given him access.  While there, Jeremy allegedly sexually
assaulted plaintiff.  She also alleges
that the Rockin’ Horse serves a drink called the “Ron Jeremy Special” that
contains some sort of agent (other than alcohol) that makes it easier to
sexually assault women—the implication being that the drink is drugged by The
Rockin’ Horse.  Rockin’ Horse brings this
demurrer to the second cause of action only (which alleges that Rockin’ Horse
is vicariously liable for Jeremy’s conduct), asserting essentially that
assuming that the assault occurred, there is no liability for Rockin’ Horse as
the owner of the establishment. 
Plaintiff opposes, suggesting that Jeremy is Rockin’ Horse’s agent and
that the case falls outside the normal Lisa M. doctrine, which generally
states that an employer is not vicariously liable for a sexual assault by an
employee because the employee is not acting withing the scope of the employee’s
duties when engaging in the assault.   
 
This is a close one, but on balance the court will OVERRULE
the demurrer given the unique and unusual facts alleged.  Plaintiff does not go so far as to allege
that Jeremy is employed by Rockin’ Horse in same manner as would be a waiter or
bartender.  Rather, the argument is that
Rockin’ Horse benefits from having Jeremy frequent the business due to his
celebrity status and they encourage him to do so.  Indeed, in the instant case plaintiff was at
a charity event nearby when Jeremy invited her to go to the Rockin’ Horse for a
drink.  She alleges that Rockin’ Horse is
aware that Jeremy invites women to the bar and that Rockin’ Horse is also aware
that he sexually assaults them at the bar. 
Rockin’ Horse does this, it is alleged, because of the notoriety it gets
from having Rockin’ Horse be Jeremy’s bar of choice.  Further, plaintiff alleges that there is an
agency relationship given that Rockin’ Horse gives Jeremy access to a private
restroom—one that the public generally cannot enter.  That, plaintiff asserts, gives rise to more
than a casual relationship and is enough for at least ostensible agency.
 
Agency can be actual or ostensible.  (J.L. v. Children’s Institute, Inc.
(2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 388.)  Actual
agency is where the principal actually uses the agent to achieve some end on
the principal’s behalf.  In that case,
the principal is liable for the agent’s conduct within the course and scope of
the agency.  Ostensible agency occurs
where there is no actual agency, but the principal through its acts makes it
appear that the tortfeasor is acting as the principal’s agent and the plaintiff
non-negligently so believes.  It is not
enough that the victim believe that there is an agency; the principal must have
done something to create that belief.  (Van
Den Eikhof v. Hocker (1978) 87 Cal.App.3d 900.)  Where there is an ostensible agency, the
principal is liable for the agent’s acts essentially to the same extent as if
there had been an actual agency.
 
While thin, here there is enough, at least for pleading
purposes.  Jeremy was given access to a
private location on the premises.  A
typical customer would not have access to a private room, especially one that
is locked.  When that unique access is
coupled with the allegation that the Rockin’ Horse serves a drugged drink named
after this person, it is enough for at least ostensible agency for purposes of
pleading.  And here, Jeremy’s function
was, at least in part, to cause people who would otherwise not go to the
Rockin’ Horse to go to that establishment. 

 
But that alone is not enough.  Under Lisa
M. v. Henry Mayo Newhall Memorial Hospital (1995) 12 Cal.4th 291, even an employee’s sexual assault will not give
rise to vicarious liability.  That is
because an employee’s job is typically not to sexually assault women.  In Lisa
M., a medical technician allegedly
sexually assaulted a patient while purportedly conducting a procedure.  When the patient sued the employer, the
employer defeated the case.  Our Supreme
Court concluded that the employee’s job was to conduct the procedure and that
the sexual assault was done for purposes of personal gratification, not based
on the employment status.  Lisa M. is not an outlier.  It has been
followed many times by the Supreme Court and Courts of Appeal.  To be fully candid, the court has never been
a fan of Lisa M., even though the rule has been tempered
somewhat by allowing the tort of negligent hiring or supervision to go
forward.  Were the court writing on a
clean slate, the court might well hold that where an employer puts an employee
in the position of being able to sexually assault others, vicarious liability
is not a bad thing.  But the slate is not
clean, and the court lacks the authority to forge a new path that diverges from
the one that our Supreme Court has laid out.
 
But even Lisa M. has its exceptions.  Vicarious
liability is also appropriate where “in the context of the particular
enterprise an employee’s conduct is not so unusual or startling that it would
seem unfair to include the loss resulting from it among other costs of the
employer’s business.”  (Id.,
at p. 302, quoting Rodgers v.
Kemper Construction Co. (1975) 50
Cal.App.3d 608, 619.)  Here, there is
enough, at least reading the complaint liberally (which the court must do for
purposes of demurrer).  Jeremy’s
notoriety is due to his status as a star of pornographic movies; he was given
access to a private location; a drink after his name contains some sort of
drugging agent.  It might well be that
defendant is of the view that sexual encounters are part of Jeremy’s lure.  That is not to say that Rockin’ Horse goes
the extra step of viewing unwanted or forced sexual encounters as being part of
the deal, but unlike performing a medical procedure, once sexual encounters are
part of the equation, this would seem to fall within the Rodgers exception, at least allegedly. 
The unwanted assault is at least arguably an “outgrowth” of the
agency.  (Lisa M., supra, 12 Cal.4th at p. 298.)
 
In addition, even
were this not strict vicarious liability, by providing Jeremy with access to a
private room with knowledge that he has used the room to do this sort of thing
before, Rockin’ Horse at least arguably aided and abetted the assault.  Critically, here, plaintiff alleges that
Jeremy has done this before, that it was reported to Rockin’ Horse, and that
Rockin’ Horse tried to cover up the prior assaults.  Doing all of that, and still giving him
access to a private room, would be enough at least arguably for aiding and
abetting.  True, this cause of action is
not so titled.  But the caption is not
binding; if the allegations support any cause of action, it is enough to defeat
a demurrer. 
 
Thus, while the
case is a close one given the status of the law, the court finds that these
facts are unique and unusual enough to state a cause of action.  Therefore, the demurrer is OVERRULED.  
 
The motion to
strike punitive damages is DENIED.  These
allegations, if true, are enough. 
Specifically, if Rockin’ Horse was aware that Jeremy had used his
position with the entity and the access to the private restroom to sexually
assault others and the Rockin’ Horse had covered up that behavior and continued
to provide Jeremy with access, that could be enough.
 
Defendant has 30
days’ leave to answer.  Nothing herein
should be considered a bar to a summary adjudication motion if Rockin’ Horse
believes that undisputed facts would so warrant.