 Case Number:  SC123657    Hearing Date:   July 8, 2024    Dept:  I There are a number of different issues pending before the
court.  The court will try to address
them now.
Lost Revenue. 
Plaintiff Triurol seeks to introduce evidence of lost
revenue/income.  It is doing so through
the testimony of Dr. Rajfer, one of its owners. 
He has put together an exhibit to calculate the lost income.  Before getting to the exhibit, it is worth
discussing the theory.
Dr. Rajfer asserts that had Triurol known of defendants’
fraud, Triurol would have rescinded the license agreement or terminated it,
taken back the license, and sold the products itself.  Triurol could not sell the products as long
as the contract was in force, of course, because the license agreements gave
Farr the exclusive right to do that in return for a royalty.
There are a number of threshold issues that must be
addressed before discussing the actual asserted evidence.  One is whether this measure of damages is
recoverable at all, even as a theoretical matter.  Plaintiffs agree that the measure is not
really one that works on a breach of contract theory.  The breach of contract will warrant
expectation damages—that is, the amount that plaintiffs should have received
had the contract been performed.  But,
they argue, it is recoverable in fraud under one of two theories: the first is
that it is general fraud damages, and the second is a form of rescissory
damages.
The typical measure of damages for fraud is the difference
between what the plaintiff paid for the good or service and what it actually
received.  Generally, a plaintiff is not
entitled to recover the difference between what was paid and what the product
was supposedly worth.  For example, if a
person buys a Rolex watch and pays $500 for it but it is actually a cheap
knock-off worth about $20, the damages are $480.  The plaintiff is not entitled to the actual
value of a Rolex watch, say $4000, for a recovery of $3480 (the difference
between $4000, the price paid and expected to be paid for the Rolex of $500,
and the value of the watch, or $20).  The
larger recovery is available in some breach of fiduciary duty cases on a secret
profit theory, but there is no alleged fiduciary duty here.
That measure does not particularly help plaintiff here.  Plaintiff “paid” the consideration in the
2009 agreement.  Specifically, it “paid”
the reduction of the minimum sales requirement, the reduction in the royalty
payments, and (arguably) a waiver of lower royalties paid in the past.  It thought it was getting a royalty on other
products.  What plaintiffs did not have
the right to do was to terminate immediately the license agreement.  Arguably, it could have declared that
defendants were in default and provided a window to cure the default, but until
the window closed without cure there was no right to terminate.  Thus, it never paid for the total income from
the sale of the product, and it never got that. 
The measure that Dr. Rajfer puts forward is just not relevant.
The rescission argument is a bit stronger.  The argument there is that the parties ought
to give back what they got and gave.  But
the same problem pertains.  Plaintiffs
never “gave” the license agreement in 2009; it gave the license in 1999.  Either way, getting the income is not the
measure of the recovery.
Plaintiffs cite to Ward v. Taggart.  In that seminal California Supreme Court
case, the fraud measure of damages was articulated.  In that case, at plaintiff Ward’s request,
broker Thomsen was told to look for properties Ward might buy.  Defendant Taggart told Thomsen that he represented
a seller who had several acres of land for sale.  Thomsen said he had a client who might buy it
but noted that another broker was purporting to be able to sell the
property.  Taggart said he had taken the
listing.  Ward authorized Thomsen to
offer Taggart $4000/acre for the property. 
Taggart said he would take it to the seller and later told Thomsen that
the seller refused the offer but essentially countered at $5000/acre, half in
cash.  Thomsen conveyed that to Ward, who
agreed and told Thomsen to convey the offer, which he did.  Taggart told Thomsen that the seller had
accepted the offer and presented escrow papers. 
The escrow named Taggart as the principal and his associate Jordan as
the payee of the note, saying that it was a formality not to name the actual
seller.  Ward paid the amount
promised.  It was only later that Ward
learned that Taggart never had the listing. 
Rather, Taggart presented his own offer to the seller of $4000/acre and
then pocketed the extra $1000/acre as a profit. 
All of the money used by Taggart to buy the property came from
Ward.  Ward sued.  Taggart defended, claiming that the property
was in fact worth $5000/acre, so there was no damage.  Ward’s response was that the normal fraud
measure of damages does not apply to secret profits.  Our Supreme Court rejected the secret profit
theory, noting that such was available only where the defendant is the
plaintiff’s agent.  But the Court also
said that the defendant could not profit from its own wrong.  The Court suggested that Taggart became an
involuntary trustee over the res, made up of Ward’s payment, and as
such, violated his duty to Ward and the judgment was affirmed.  The co-defendant (Jordan) was held not
liable, however, because she did not actually received the money from Ward.
Ward has been cited many times and remains good
law.  But it is based on a constructive
trust model—the person committing the fraud becomes an involuntary trustee of
the res and is therefore liable for secret profits.  It is a bit hard here to see exactly what the
res would be in this case.  The res might be the license, but that does not quite fit very well.  The alleged fraud here, at least that has
been proven, is that other products that should have been covered by the
license agreement were being sold by Farr or one of Reinstein’s affiliated
entities and no royalties were being paid for those products.  At most, that would warrant the res being not the license in general, but something else.  It is hard to see how one goes from there to
a recovery of all of the profits Farr made from the sale of all of the products
here at issue.  The res cannot be the products themselves because the products did not come
from plaintiffs at all.
A second problem is
the way this came up.  There are four
members of Triurol.  None of them, except
Dr. Rajfer, testified that there was any plan to take back the license and sell
the products directly.  They all
testified, but not a one of the other three so much as mentioned this as a
possibility that was being considered in real time.  Nor is there any other contemporaneous
evidence of it.  There are no emails
between Triurol’s members even discussing this as a possibility.  Although the privilege has been waived as
between plaintiffs and their counsel Langer at the time, there is no written
communication in evidence with Langer discussing this even though Rajfer
testified that he and Langer did discuss and agree that such was the plan.  Nor is there any evidence that plaintiffs at
any time took any steps to start the process. 
There is, for example, no evidence that they reached out to a
manufacturer or fulfillment agent or web site agent actually to do the work
that would need to be done—not in 1999 and not as of today.  So far as this record is concerned, there is
not a single electron or piece of paper that suggests that this was something
really being considered.  The striking
lack of any supporting evidence that this was actually under consideration is also
a death knell to the theory.
The court
recognizes that this is a different issue than whether the measure of damages
is appropriate.  In other words,
plaintiffs are arguing that they are entitled to this sort of recovery as a
legal matter whether or not they actually intended to sell the merchandise
themselves.  It is, they argue, just one
measure of damages.  For the reasons set
forth above, the court disagrees. 
Whether they really would have done this is (and therefore whether this
might be a form of reliance, for example) a different line of attack for
plaintiffs, as they argue that the only thing that stopped them from pursuing
this option was that they felt that they lacked the ability to do so—not
knowing of defendants’ fraud and that such would have given them the right to
terminate the agreement.  However, there
is just no evidence to support the notion that such was in fact plaintiffs’
plan.  Nor, the court notes, did
plaintiffs ever seek relief from the court to allow them to sell the product on
an interim basis through preliminary injunction or the like.
The parties have
not gone through the discovery with the court, so the court, as it sits here,
does not know if defendants ever asked plaintiffs to articulate their damages
theory by way of an interrogatory.  It
would be a first for such an interrogatory not to have been asked in a case
with sophisticated counsel.  (The court
notes that present defense counsel did not come into the case until well after
discovery had closed.)  But plaintiffs
seem to concede that they never articulated this theory of recovery in
discovery.  That is fine if they were not
asked—which is possible.  But it would be
strange, to say the least.
Even if one could
get through those issues, there are more problems.  Unless plaintiffs are able to obtain
disgorgement as a remedy, they need to establish what they would have made.  (Disgorgement
is different; that is simply saying that defendants have to give up their
profits, whatever they might be.  Here,
the amount of receipts are apparently known. 
The burden would be on the defense to prove up any reductions in revenue
in the form of expenses to get to a net profit figure.)  That means that they would have to show what
Triurol would have realized from the sale of the product itself.  Normally, that would require expert
testimony—someone who could articulate what the expenses would in fact be to
manufacture the product, create labels for the bottles, and the like.  There is no expert here.  Dr. Rajfer claims to be such an expert, but
he is not.  He has no training in terms
of actually selling product.  What he
does have is other relationships with other sellers of other products.  But that is not the same thing.  He can, presumably, testify that he has done
business with entities like Farr for other products and that they have shared
their business records with him so he knows as a general matter how much it
costs to make those other products, put up a web site, do the bookkeeping, hire
the employees, run the other advertising, and complete the actual
fulfillment.  But that does not make him
an expert; it makes him someone who knows an expert and has seen their
records.  Those records are not in
evidence—nor will they ever be in evidence as they would be case specific
hearsay even if plaintiffs had the records, which they do not (unless there
were a witness who could establish the business records exception to the
hearsay rule).  It is just Dr. Rajfer’s
testimony about what he remembers seeing in other contexts from other
companies.  That is far too speculative
to get to a jury, and Dr. Rajfer is just not qualified to give that
opinion.  The court does not know why no
expert was retained to provide this evidence, but the fact remains that Dr.
Rajfer cannot fill that gap.
Nor was Dr. Rajfer
designated as an expert.  There is some
murk in this aspect of the issue, but still, it is a problem for
plaintiffs.  This case has been set for
trial more times than the court can count. 
In one of the earlier settings, the court understands that there was an
expert demand.  Apparently neither side
designated any experts.  But the
discovery windows re-opened after that, so the failure to designate an expert
at that time would not be fatal.  As new
trial dates were set, apparently no new demands were made.  But even so, there is a problem.  Having had one timely demand made, it is
incumbent upon a party who wants to supplement the list to so state.  True, additional experts might be something
that could be added by right—or even if not by right, it is hard to see how the
court would refuse to allow it if the discovery cut off was extended by years.  But it is one thing to say it is easy to add
an expert and another thing to say that the new expert can be added and kept
secret from the other side.  At least as
the court understands this 80+ page docket, this is not a case where no expert
demand was ever made.  As such,
plaintiffs had a duty to designate Dr. Rajfer as an expert if they wanted him
to give an expert opinion.
Finally, if
plaintiffs could get through all of that, the court still has doubts.  Dr. Rajfer’s testimony consists of a
handwritten chart that he made.  In one
column is the total number of bottles of product sold for each year starting in
2009.  That number, it is conceded, came
directly from the defense.  However, the
defense challenges whether plaintiffs could have sold the same number of
bottles.  The court agrees with the
defense here.  It would take expert
testimony to determine whether plaintiffs would be able to sell the same number
of bottles of product as did the defense. 

In the next column
is what he claims is the cost of making the product, which he says he got from
looking at the underlying documents showing invoices from the manufacturing
companies as sent to Farr.  Although he
claims to have done so for each product for each quarter for each year and then
totaled them up, the only evidence in the record thus far are two
invoices.  The court will assume that Dr.
Rajfer actually did that work, although it is not clear to the court that he
did not take a few invoices and extrapolate. 
For now, the court will take counsel’s word that he actually did that
leg work.  The problem is that Dr. Rajfer
must assume that plaintiffs’ costs would be identical to Farr’s cost.  Dr. Rajfer has no way of knowing, and it is
conceded that he never asked anyone—including other suppliers.
The third column is
the royalty payment.  These numbers came
from the defense.  
He also has the
gross revenues.  The court assumes that
he got this from looking at Farr’s website and multiplying the stated cost of a
bottle of product by the number of bottles and that he did so for each product
for each year.  The court assumes this,
and will ask plaintiffs’ counsel if this is so in the form of an offer of
proof.  If the court is correct, that
might give rise to a fair estimate of Farr’s revenues.  But there is no evidence that Triurol could
have or would have sold the product at the same price point.  Dr. Rajfer is not an expert in marketing and
Triurol did not set Farr’s price in the past. 
It is an assumption that would require expert testimony to assume that
had plaintiffs been selling the product they could have sold it for the same
price.
Finally, Dr. Rajfer
determines the net profits.  He takes the
gross revenues, subtracts the cost of manufacturing and shipping, subtracts the
royalties, and finally subtracts $150,000/year as the cost of other
expenses.  As to the $150,000 number,
there is no evidence as to where that comes from or how Dr. Rajfer can testify
about it except to say that this comes from the same place as the other
evidence: he knows people who have shown him their books and records and this
seems about right.
Dr. Rajfer also
adds prejudgment interest in the next column. 
The court has no trouble with this column, as it is a mathematical
exercise if one assumes the prejudgment interest rate.
Finally, Dr. Rajfer
adds the actual “net” revenue and interest for a total.
The court believes
that Dr. Rajfer is qualified to do the math, but not to make the underlying
assumptions.  That requires a real
expert, properly designated and properly trained.  And even were there such an expert, this
would be an opinion as to the profits of Triurol in an area of business in
which Triurol has never entered.  The
numbers in the chart are nothing more than rank speculation.  The court has a gatekeeping function, and
that function comes into play here.  This
is a Sargon question, and the court believes it would allow the jury to
speculate as to these damages.
For all of the
foregoing reasons—each of which is independently reason enough—the court must
exclude this evidence.  Dr. Rajfer will
not be allowed to testify as to his chart. 
As an aside, the court considered allowing the chart to go in and to
have the jury respond with specificity in the verdict form as to whether it
relied on it, but also to render a verdict as to other forms of damages.  The advantage of doing so would be to allow
there to be an easy record for appellate purposes.  If the jury awarded these damages and the
court is in error by otherwise excluding them, the court can rectify the
problem post-verdict, and the Court of Appeal can reinstate the higher number
if appropriate.  That would avoid the
potential need for a retrial.  But
ultimately it allows prejudicial evidence to get to the jury and it will take a
significant amount of time for Dr. Rajfer to go through the chart and for
defendants to rebut it.  It will confuse
the jury as well, at least if the court is correct.  On balance, the court has rejected this
option.
Second.  The
second issue is the contracts’ meaning. 
Defendants raise two related issues the court will now decide.  The first is who is liable for what duties
under which contracts.  More
specifically, defendants contend that Farr, and Farr alone, is responsible for
the duties under the License Agreements (and the amendments thereto), but not
for any duties under what the court has called the non-competition
agreement.  (The court uses that
nomenclature for purposes of differentiation. 
The court is aware that plaintiffs view that agreement as part of the
overall License Agreement.)  Defendants
argue that the individuals only are parties to that agreement, and thus Mr.
Reinstein, Mr. Rodriguez, and the three doctors are bound by it, but neither
Triurol nor Farr has any duties thereunder. 
This is important, defendants claim, because to the extent that the
non-compete agreement was breached (and they concede no breach), only the doctors
individually can sue and they must show direct damages to them.  Any damage to Triurol, they claim, is
not recoverable because Triurol is not a party. 
And, relatedly, Mr. Reinstein has no duties under the License Agreement
because he is not a party to it.  Only Farr
can be held liable for a breach of that contract.  
A second issue
going to meaning is what it is that the agreements cover.  Farr has argued that the License Agreement
covers only “Quercitin based” products. 
Plaintiffs contend that the agreements cover any “product containing
Quercitin” marketed for prostate health or bladder integrity (for the Cysta-Q
License).  That is a distinction with a
difference, or at least a potential one. 
Defendants argue that “Quercitin based” means a product where Quercitin
is the primary ingredient—in fact, it must make up a majority of the
product.  Plaintiffs argue that a
“product containing Quercitin” is the line to be drawn, and it means what it
says—any product that has any Quercitin in it. 
So a Vitamin D supplement is outside the scope, but any product with
even a tiny bit of Quercitin is covered, at least if it is sold for prostate health
or bladder integrity.
In the Prosta-Q
context, the two agreements were signed contemporaneously.  The License Agreement says it is between the
entities Triurol and Farr, although in both cases the entity is defined by
those individuals who make it up.  The
License Agreement is signed by individuals apparently in their official
capacities, and Dr. Shoskis did not sign it at all.  The non-compete agreement is entered into by
the individuals, although the entities are mentioned.  Interestingly, the Cysta-Q License Agreement
incorporates the provisions of the Prosta-Q License Agreement and the
non-compete agreement into one document. 
Its preamble, though, is the same as the Prosta-Q preamble.
 
While this may seem
a bit thorny at first blush, that is because it is.
First a few general
rules.  Contract interpretation is for
the court generally speaking.  The jury
does not interpret contracts.  The court tells
the jury what the contract means.  It is
a judicial function.  California follows
the objective rule in contract interpretation: interpretation is governed by
the words used in the contract.  They are
to be given their plain meaning.  And
they mean what they say.  When there is
no ambiguity, that ends the inquiry, even for a fully integrated contract.  However, parol evidence can still come into
play a bit.  First, if the contract is
not fully integrated, parol evidence can be introduced to add to, but not to
vary, a contract’s terms.  Second, even
if a contract is fully integrated, parol evidence can be introduced to resolve
a patent or latent ambiguity. 
This is different from some other jurisdictions, where parol evidence
can be introduced only to resolve a patent ambiguity.  A latent ambiguity is one that does not appear
from the contract’s face, but becomes apparent only when considering the parol
evidence.  
Accordingly, parol
evidence is dealt with in two phases. 
First, the evidence is conditionally admitted (assuming it is otherwise
admissible).  Then, if the parol evidence
would be used to lead to a meaning to which the contract’s words are reasonably
susceptible, the evidence is admitted fully. 
However, if the parol evidence would lead to a meaning to which the
words are not reasonably susceptible, then the evidence
is excluded.
Take for example a
contract stating that plaintiff will buy a widget from defendant on Saturday,
July 6, 2024, for $100.  Parol evidence
might be introduced as to a conversation between the parties in which they
stated that the $100 was to be in Canadian currency.  Such evidence would be admissible.  The term “$100” could be either US or
Canadian dollars, even though absent the evidence an American court might
assume is was US dollars only.  However,
if the parol evidence was that the purchase would take place on Monday, July 1,
2024, the evidence would be excluded. 
The term “Saturday, July 6, 2024” simply cannot mean “Monday, July 1,
2024.”
So, back to
contract interpretation.  Even where
there is parol evidence, the interpretation is still for the court.  That is true even where there are competing
reasonable interpretations.  One might
think that would be for the jury.  After
all, it is hard to fathom the doctrinal reason why the court ought to decide
from competing reasonable inferences. 
But the law is pretty well settled on this point.  Unless, however, there is conflicting parol
evidence.  That might occur, for example,
where two witnesses disagree on what was said during the negotiations.  When there is such a dispute, then the
dispute as to which parol evidence to use will be up to the jury.  At least arguably, it remains a judicial
function to interpret the contract in light of the jury’s decision.  But as a practical matter, the jury is often
tasked with the contract’s interpretation in light of the parol evidence conflict
resolution, one assumes on the theory that once the conflict is determined the
meaning is easy enough to ascertain.
Finally, it is well
settled that a private subjective understanding of a contract term, not
articulated to the other party, is irrelevant for almost all purposes.  (It is arguably admissible to show that both
parties had an identical understanding.) 
And it get a bit stranger still. 
Evidence like “I thought Quercitin based meant [fill in the blank] but I
never discussed it with the other side” is inadmissible as parol evidence—it
does not even make the provisional first phase. 
But that evidence is admissible if introduced by defendants for
purposes of the fraud cause of action and also for punitive damages.  An honest but erroneous understanding of the
contract would undercut a fraud cause of action because there would be no intent to defraud.  Similarly it would undercut a claim for
punitive damages because it would mean that the defendant did not act with
fraud, oppression, or malice.  So the
evidence as to at least Reinstein’s or Rodriguez’s understanding of the
contracts, even if not articulated to plaintiffs, is admissible as to the fraud
cause of action, but it would still not be admissible for the breach of
contract cause of action.  That, one
might say, is another reason why a judicial contract determination is better.
Here, the court asked the parties if there was any parol
evidence that was in dispute.  Recall
that if the parol evidence is not
in dispute, the issue is a judicial one. 
The only evidence anyone could articulate was Dr. Katske’s testimony
that the need for the non-compete was pressed by Reinstein, who said he wanted
to be sure that Triurol would not go off and create other products and have
another entity sell them.  Dr. Reinstein
disclaimed recalling any such communication. 
In all other respects, though, while there is some parol evidence, it is
not in dispute.
Given that, at
least the question of the terms “Quercitin based” and “product containing
Quercitin” is a question for the court. 
Along these lines, the court notes that in the Prosta-Q License
Agreement, only the former phrase is used, in the non-compete the latter phrase
is used, and in the Cysta-Q License Agreement, both phrases are used.  The court also notes that in the 2009
amendment, the preamble recites that all of the various agreements—including
the non-compete—are part of the same Prosta-Q contract.  And, of course, the two 1999 original
agreements were signed at least “as of” the same date.  When two contracts are signed in such a
manner, they are generally viewed as being part of a single transaction and a
single overall contract.  The court views
it that way here.
The court also
takes seriously the notion that a contract ought not to be a dead letter as a
practical matter.  The court will not
infer that the non-compete agreement was meant to be for show alone, but
unenforceable as a practical matter. 
Rather, whether one credits Dr. Katske’s testimony in this regard or
not, the need for the non-compete was obviously important to the
parties—important enough that they had the non-competecontract drafted up and
all of the individuals signed it.
Read together, the
court cannot agree with the defense that the agreements are hermetically
sealed.  They must be read together part
and parcel.  In that regard, the court
must conclude that “Quercitin based” and “product containing Quercitin” have
similar meanings, although worded differently. 
The court therefore interprets both phrases to mean that
the product in question must contain Quercitin and the Quercitin must be in the
product to provide some therapeutic benefit and by therapeutic benefit, the court
means as defined within the limit of the non-compete or Cysta-Q License
Agreement.  If it is there so that the
letter “Q” can be added to the name, that will not be enough.  But it need not be the “primary” benefit or
the single largest ingredient.  Whether
or not a particular product meets that definition will be for the jury to
decide.  This also harmonizes the fact
that both phrases are used in the Cysta-Q License Agreement, which the evidence
shows was meant to mirror the Prosta-Q License Agreement in substance.
As to who can be
sued for what, the question remains thorny. 
While it is true that different people signed in different capacities,
the court believes that the contracts are to be read together.  If an individual violates the non-compete,
then both the individual and Farr are jointly liable.  This harmonizes the contracts and makes sense
given the evidence before the court.  It
also avoids an absurd result.
Read as defendants
would read it, assuming, without deciding, that BPQMaxx is within the
contractual definition, the question is what damages?  It would be difficult to ascertain what, if
any, reduction in sales occurred of a product that is named as within the
Licensing Agreements resulted from the sale of BPQMaxx.  Maybe none; maybe some.  Of course, if there is evidence of it, that
amount can be recovered (that is, lost royalties from the reduction in sales).  But the court does not believe that is sufficient
expectation damages.  It seems obvious to
the court that it is at least plausible that the parties mutually intended that
a product within the non-complete would become subject to the licensing
agreements, just as Q-Urol did.  It seems
plausible—although the jury will need to decide—whether such an intent means
that the sales of any such products ought to be subject to the same royalty
payments as were within the licensing agreements.  As to the specific rates, that will be up to
the jury.
This gives heft to the
promise not to compete or develop products that compete.  The parties essentially joined forces for
products within the agreements’ scope.  Further,
because the development and sale of such a product would be a violation by
Reinstein as well as Farr, at least under the court’s interpretation, both
would be liable to Triurol.  The court
tends to agree that Triurol is the better plaintiff, given that the royalty would
be paid to that entity.  But because the
contracts work together as a unified whole agreement, Triurol has standing to
sue for those damages.  As to the
individuals, the court tends to agree that the individual doctors have no
standing.  They had no direct benefit
promised to them by any of the agreements; their benefit was indirect through
their ownership of Triurol.  Thus, rather
than try to view this as an indirect derivative action that (according to the
defense) Triurol cannot bring, the court views Triurol as a proper party.  The individual doctors will recover through
that entity.  The court understands
defendants’ position, and the court is as much of a proceduralist as
anyone.  But defendants’ interpretation
ultimately gives rise to a breach that causes damage that no one can recover as
a technical matter.  The court just does
not believe, based on the uncontroverted contract language and parol evidence,
that such was the parties’ intent, or the intent of any of them.  There is certainly no evidence that would so
suggest.  And, as set forth above, the
court believes that the Prosta-Q and Cysta-Q License Agreements were meant to
run in parallel, meaning that they had the same substantive provisions although
the compensation terms could be different and the products were different.  That is why Section 7 of the Cysta-Q License
Agreement essentially draws from the substantive provisions of the Prosta-Q
non-compete.  To read them in harmony,
then, it would seem that what would violate the Cysta-Q License Agreement would
violate the Prosta-Q License Agreement in terms of issues like who is
responsible or liable for what.
The jury will,
however, be instructed that for purposes of fraud and punitive damages, if the
jury finds that Reinstein had an honest but different understanding, that they
can find for Reinstein on the fraud cause of action.  As for whether Farr would escape in that
manner, it will depend upon whether they understand that both Reinstein and
Rodriguez held such a belief.  If
Rodriguez believed that royalties were due, it will be up to the jury to
determine whether that is enough to hold Farr, the entity, liable.  Rodriguez, of course, is not a defendant
because he settled out.
Third. 
There are various other issues at play, but they are more easily
resolved.  One is the waiver issue, which
is similar to the question whether the contract was in fact terminated.  The two are really two sides of the same
coin.  The court’s recollection is that
the issue arises from the various letters in 2011 and 2012 between Kamen and
Langer.  Langer wrote a number of times
that if royalties were not paid within a certain time, Triurol would view it as
an uncured breach and the contract would be terminated pursuant to its
terms.  However, Kamen always disputed
that.  Kamen contended that there was no
breach at all—let alone an uncured one. 
It will be up to the jury to decide whether the contract was in fact
terminated or whether Triurol had the right to terminate it, but never did so.
Related to that
question is one of waiver.  Even if
Langer’s letters operated as an actual termination of the contract, defendants
contend that they actually did pay Triurol the royalties due until about the
end of 2021.  While there was a delay,
ultimately, defendants state, the checks were paid and cashed.  Defendants take the view that by accepting
the checks—including on a going forward basis—that acts as a waiver.  Plaintiffs contend that accepting the checks
was no waiver, but rather is only a credit against any damages to which
plaintiffs are entitled.
A waiver is the
intentional relinquishment of a known right. 
It will be up to the jury to decide if that is what Triurol did.  Estoppel is conduct that would reasonably
cause another party to believe something is true to that party’s
detriment.  That, too, is a question of
fact under these circumstances.
There is also a
question of defendants’ motion to strike aspects of the testimony relating to
the bankruptcy.  The court is inclined to
grant that motion.  That testimony has to
be relevant to avoid being stricken.  And
the court is finding a hard time understanding the relevancy.
To recap a bit, shortly
before declaring bankruptcy, Fred Reinstein accepted loans from his son Michael
Reinstein reflected in a series of promissory notes from Farr in favor of
Michael Reinstein.  Plaintiffs assert
that right before declaring bankruptcy, Farr agreed to secure those loans by
essentially everything it owned.  Shortly
after that, and right before the trial was to start here, Farr declared bankruptcy.  As part of the bankruptcy proceedings,
Michael Reinstein bought all of Farr’s assets other than material relating to
the instant lawsuit.  In return, the
loans were forgiven.  The bankruptcy
court approved that transaction and, so far as the court knows, that decision is
final and not being appealed.  Almost
immediately thereafter, Farr moved to dismiss the bankruptcy action without
obtaining a discharge of debts.  That
motion was granted and the bankruptcy was discharged, but Triurol’s action
remains.  
Frankly, that
strikes the court as more than a little bit suspicious.  It smacks of Farr maneuvering to shield its
assets from its major creditor, Triurol. 
And it appears that third parties might now selling things that were
subject to the license agreement.  As
stated earlier, whatever liability those other entities might or might not have
to Triurol is not really before this court at this time.  However, the court intends there to be the
minimum possible claim or issue preclusion as between Triurol and those
entities as is possible under the law.  Obviously,
if there is preclusion that cannot be avoided even by court order, then there
is.  But to the extent that this court’s
intent has any weight, there should be no preclusion.
But having said all
of that, this court must return to the issues at hand.  The bottom line is that the bankruptcy court
did approve the asset sale by Farr to Michael Reinstein in return for the
debt.  The court held that Michael
Reinstein took those assets free and clear; it found that there was no
collusion or impropriety surrounding the sale; and that the sale was
above-board.  Those findings are binding
on this court, whether the court views things differently or not.  The court notes that Triurol, as a creditor
of Farr, had the right to be heard in the bankruptcy court and presumably made
its position known to the court with regard to the sale.  Given that, this court must conclude that as
a matter of law the loans from Michael Reinstein to Farr were not void or
voidable but rather were valid and made for a legitimate business purpose.  For if the loans were an attempt to allow
Farr to avoid its creditors, the bankruptcy court could not have made the
findings that it did.  The court must
also conclude that as a matter of law the asset sale was appropriate and
above-board.
If the foregoing is
true, then the court cannot see the relevance of the loan documents or any of
that testimony.  Its only purpose would
be to show that Fred Reinstein and Farr engaged in inappropriate or even
fraudulent conduct by having what Triurol would argue are sham or improper loans
made, then securing those improper loans by property in an effort to avoid
creditors, and then selling its assets to shield those assets from
creditors.  But none of that is
consistent with the bankruptcy court’s finding.
Because the court
can think of no other relevance, the court cannot allow the evidence to be
considered.  The motion to strike is
granted and the jury will be instructed to disregard the evidence concerning
the Michael Reinstein/Farr loans and the bankruptcy as it relates to the loans
or to the dismissal of that action without a discharge.
The court has also
considered whether or not to strike the testimony about Lundquist and
Reinstein’s agreement to fund (or partially fund) that lawsuit to induce
Lundquist to sue Triurol.  As stated
earlier in the trial, the court was inclined to exclude that evidence on 352
grounds.  Although it is consistent with
plaintiffs’ assertion that Reinstein said he would pay $1 million to stop
Triurol from seeing Farr’s books (other than those confirming the number of
bottles sold and the price per bottle), the jury confusion substantially
outweighed the probative value.  But then
Reinstein testified on direct—even after hearing the court’s 352 ruling and the
basis for it and the warning about “opening the door”—that the only reason that
Farr stopped paying royalties is that it ran out of money due to the cost of
defending itself in this litigation.  The
court then ruled that the Lundquist evidence could come in.  The court stands by that ruling.  Plaintiffs may argue both that Reinstein’s
credibility is at play because of the money spent on Lundquist when he said
that it was this case that was draining all the cash, and also on the theory
that it is at least arguably dirty pool to pay a third party to sue your
litigation adversary.  Of course,
defendants may argue the contrary.  It
will be up to the jury to determine what weight, if any, to put on this issue.
Concluding
thoughts.  This has been a longer essay than the court
originally intended.  However, there are
a number of issues where the court deferred ruling until the evidence was in—or
at least plaintiffs’ case.  The way the
witnesses actually came in, though, that means that the court could not rule
until the evidence was essentially closed.
The court also
promised it would go back and look at its decision granting Kamen summary
judgment and also (impliedly) on the Court of Appeal opinion affirming that
decision.  The court has done so.  The court’s own decision is, of course, not
law of the case or of any official moment at all (other than as to Kamen).  But the Court of Appeal’s decision is law of
the case as to legal principals it articulated. 
The court believes its recall was correct.  Kamen was let out because he contended that
the 2009 contract was signed before he made any statements at all save one, and
the one statement he made was such that it could not have been the basis for
fraud.  Triurol opposed the motion, but
in the court’s view, Triurol was unable to name one statement Kamen made that
predated the 2009 agreement.  In order to
hold Kamen liable for defrauding Triurol into signing the 2009 agreement, he
must have made some false statement upon which Triurol reasonably relied before
entering into that agreement.  He did
not.  The Court of Appeal agreed.  The same cannot be said of Reinstein or of
Farr more generally.  Remember, Kamen is
not individually a party to anything.  He
is not personally liable for Farr’s alleged fraud unless he personally
participated in it.  There was just no
evidence of that, or at least of any participation upon which Triurol
relied.  That decision, therefore,
affords no comfort now to either Farr or Reinstein.
The court views
this as a mixed bag for the parties, but the court notes that it is probably
more favorable to the defense than to the plaintiffs given the damages
discussion.  That is mitigated somewhat
in that the court believes that punitive damages are still in play if
plaintiffs can convince the jury (by clear and convincing evidence) that such
damages are appropriate.  And they are at
play both as to Farr and as to Reinstein.
The court also
wants to conclude by noting that nothing herein should be viewed as an attempt
to slight or criticize any of the lawyering done in this case.  Thus far, the trial has been conducted
professionally and civilly by all attorneys—at least to the extent the court can
see it.  That is very much appreciated by
the court and, most likely, by the jury as well.  The court does not know what tactical
decisions were made over the last many years during which this case has been
pending, and the court will not hazard to second guess any of those
decisions.  But the court must take this
case as it finds it, and this is how the court finds the case.