  Case Number:  23TRCV00445    Hearing Date:   March 13, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                    March 13, 2024
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   23TRCV00445
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Gabriella
Morgan v. American Honda Motor Co., Inc., et al. 
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                
Plaintiff, Gabriella Morgan
¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Defendant,
American Honda Motor Co., Inc. 
 
TRIAL DATE:                           May 5, 2025
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                                  (1) Motion to Compel Further
Responses to Plaintiff’s Request for Production of Documents, Set One
                                                (2) Request for
Sanctions
 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) Motion to Compel Further
Responses to Plaintiff’s Request for Production of Documents, Set One is
CONTINUED to April 26. The parties are ordered to meet and confer pursuant to
the guidelines provided by this Court, with a joint report on what issues or categories
remaining due by April 12 and a revised Separate Statement due by April 19
                                                (2) Plaintiffs’
Requests for Sanctions is CONTINUED and will be determined at the next hearing.  
¿¿ 
¿ 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿ 
¿ 
On
February 15, 2023, Plaintiff, Gabriella Morgan (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint
against Defendant, American Honda Motor Co., Inc., and DOES 1 through 10. The
Complaint alleges causes of action for: (1) Violation of Song-Beverly Act –
Breach of Express Warranty; and (2) Fraudulent Inducement – Concealment. 
 
On
October 17, 2023, Plaintiff propounded her first set of discovery requests,
including Requests for Production of Documents (“RFPs”), to investigate proof
of her claim and evidence of Honda’s defenses.  Per the moving papers, on November 30, 2023, Defendant
served its responses to Plaintiff’s discovery requests, but notes that many of
Defendant’s written responses to several categories failed to either agree to
produce the documents, agreed to produce certain document and failed to do so,
or failed to properly object in a manner required by the Code of Civil
Procedure. Plaintiff notes that on January 8, 2024, Plaintiff initiated a meet
and confer letter to Defendant specifying the deficiencies in Defendant’s
responses and requesting they be corrected. Given the 45-day period in which to
bring a motion to compel further responses, the delay by Plaintiff in getting
her meet-and-confer letter to Honda effectively consumed almost all of the time
to informally resolve the discovery dispute before a motion needed to be
filed.  In this letter, Plaintiff
requested that Defendant respond in less than a week, i.e., by January 12,
2024, but that Defendant failed to respond. On January 12, 2024, Plaintiff
notes that it sent another meet and confer letter, requesting Defendant respond
by January 16, 2024. Nonetheless, Plaintiff argues in the motion that Defendant
“ignored” these two short-windowed attempts at meeting and conferring to
resolve the discover disputes before seeking the Court’s assistance. 
 
Plaintiff
now brings this motion to compel further responses seeking an order from this
Court to compel Defendant to produce proper, Code-compliant, verified further
responses Plaintiff’s Requests for Production of Documents, all documents, and
award monetary sanctions. 
 
B. Procedural¿¿ 
¿ 
            On January 16, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Motion to Compel
Further Responses to Plaintiff’s Requests for Production of Documents, Set One.
On March 1, 2024, Defendant filed an opposition. On March 6, 2024, Plaintiff
filed a reply brief. 
¿ ¿¿ 
¿II. MEET
AND CONFER 
 
            Code of Civil Procedure § 2025.450(b)(2) requires that a
motion to compel a part deponent to appear or produce documents “shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration
under Section 2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition
and produce the documents, electronically stored information, or things
described in the deposition notice, by a declaration stating that the
petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the
nonappearance.”  (C.C.P. §2025.450(b)(2).) The attempt to resolve
informally may be made either by conferring “in person, by telephone, or by
letter with an opposing party or attorney.”  (C.C.P. §2023.010(i),
[failure to make such attempt constitutes “misuse of discovery process”].)
 
            Here, the
Court finds that the parties have not sufficiently met and conferred despite
Plaintiff’s two attempts at doing so. As noted below, the Court is continuing this motion and ordering
the parties to meet and confer by March 28, 2024, and provide the Court with a
status update on what issues remain after the parties meet and confer. 
 
III. ANALYSIS¿ 
¿ 
A.   
Legal
Standard 
“Unless otherwise limited by order
of the court in accordance with this title, any party may obtain discovery
regarding any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter
involved in the pending action or to the determination of any motion made in
that action, if the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears
reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (Code
of Civ. Proc. § 2017.010.) For discovery purposes, information is regarded as
relevant “if it might reasonably assist a party in evaluating the case,
preparing for trial, or facilitating settlement thereof.” (City of Los
Angeles v. Superior Court (2017) 9 Cal.App.5th 272, 288.)  
A motion to compel further
responses to a demand for inspection or production of documents (“RFP”) may be
brought based on: (1) incomplete statements of compliance; (2) inadequate,
evasive, or incomplete claims of inability to comply; or (3) unmerited or
overly generalized objections.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310(c).) A
motion to compel further production must set forth specific facts showing good
cause justifying the discovery sought by the inspection demand. (See Code Civ.
Proc., § 2031.310(b)(1).) In Digital Music News LLC v Superior Court
(2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 216 at 224, the Court defined “good cause” as a showing
that there “a disputed fact that is of consequence in the action and the
discovery sought will tend in reason to prove or disprove that fact or lead to
other evidence that will tend to prove or disprove the fact.” If the
moving party has shown good cause for the requests for production, the burden
is on the objecting party to justify the objections. (Kirkland v. Sup.Ct
(2002) 95 Cal. App.4th 92, 98.) ¿ 
"The court shall limit the
scope of discovery if it determines that the burden, expense, or intrusiveness
of that discovery clearly outweighs the likelihood that the information sought
will lead to the discovery of admissible evidence." (Cal. Code of Civ.
Proc. § 2017.020(a).) Generally, objections on the ground of burden require the
objecting party to produce evidence of (a) the propounding party's subjective
intent to create burden or (b) the amount of time and effort it would take to
respond. (See West Pico Furniture Co. of Los Angeles v. Superior Court In
and For Los Angeles County (1961) 56 Cal.2d 407, 417.) However, no such
evidence is necessary where discovery is obviously overbroad on its face. (See Obregon
v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 424, 431.)
B.    Discussion 
 
Preliminarily,
the Court notes that the purpose of a Separate Statement in a discovery motion
is to make it easier, not harder, for the Court to rule on specific
interrogatories or document demand categories. Regurgitating the full length of
arguments, points, authorities, and citations from a moving or opposing brief
in a separate statement, especially to the extent done by both sides here,
violates the page limitations of briefs supporting or opposing a motion. The
Court did not and will not read a 107-page separate statement that appears to
contain repetitively regurgitated material from the parties’ briefs.
Accordingly, the revised Separate Statement to be submitted will contain only
the definitions plus the verbatim requests at issue and the verbatim written response
to each request at issue. If a supplemental response was given, the revised
Separate Statement must include that as well immediately following the initial
verbatim language of the original written response.
 
For
purposes of enabling counsel to prepare for both their meet and confer and the
parties’ oral argument, the Court sets forth below some basic parameters for
what it typically orders with respect to certain of the discovery requests
embraced by this motion. The Court typically orders and limits production of
documents including ESI in a Song-Beverly single-vehicle case as follows:
 
1.     Purchase
and/or lease contract concerning the subject vehicle must be produced.
2.     Repair orders and invoices concerning the subject vehicle
must be produced, including the “accounting” copies showing the hours and dates
of activity by dealer personnel.
3.     Communications between the plaintiff and the
warrantor/manufacturer and/or its servicing dealers, and communications between
Plaintiff and the manufacturer’s factory representative and/or call center
concerning the subject vehicle.
4.     Warranty claims submitted to and/or approved by Defendant
concerning the subject vehicle.
5.     The applicable Warranty Policy and Procedure Manual
published by defendant and provided to its authorized repair facilities, within
the State of California, for the year the lawsuit was filed. If a separate
written policy, procedure, or manual exists regarding repurchases or buy backs
appliable to vehicles sold or leased in California, that would also be required
to be produced for the year the lawsuit was filed and/or the year Plaintiff
contends the vehicle became qualified for repurchase (such as upon satisfaction
of the Presentation Element of a Song-Beverly cause of action under Section
1793.2(d)(2) or 1793.22). Such documents would be produced subject to a
protective order.
6.     Any internal analysis and/or investigation regarding the
primary or other recurring alleged defects claimed by plaintiff in her/his
vehicle, applicable to the same year, make and model of the subject vehicle.
The Court tends to focus on the claimed symptom experienced by the plaintiff as
described in the dealers’ repair records, rather than a broad and vague
characterization of the claimed defect as described by counsel in the
litigation. For example, if the customer experienced a black Infotainment screen
when shifting in reverse, or a harsh engagement or clunk of the transmission
when accelerating from 2nd to 3rd gear, those symptoms rather than any other
nature of malfunction of the Infotainment system or transmission would be the
narrowing of scope of such internal analysis or investigation to be produced.
7.     Other customers’ complaints similar to the alleged defects
claimed by plaintiff, limited to vehicles purchased in California for the same
year, make and model of the subject vehicle. The other customer complaints
again would be limited in scope to the description of the symptom as shown on
the dealer repair records. The Court typically discusses with counsel the type
of documents that may be required and the format for a production of documents
such as in a sortable Excel spreadsheet that lists a compilation or summary of
voluminous documents.
8.     Technical Service Bulletins and/or Recall Notices for
vehicles purchased in California for the same year, make and model of the
subject vehicle, whether mentioned in the repair history of the subject vehicle
or not, but limited to the symptoms or type of symptoms reported in the subject
vehicle’s repair history.
 
Because
the Court is continuing this motion to April 26, the request for sanctions is
also continued and will be discussed during the continued hearing. The parties
are thus ordered to meet and confer by March 28, 2024. A joint status report by
the parties is due to be filed on or before April 12, 2024.  Further, Plaintiff is required to refile a
separate statement as detailed above on or before April 19, but limited to
those categories or request numbers that remain at issue after the
Court-ordered meet and confer process. 
 
IV. CONCLUSION¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
            For the foregoing reasons, Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production of Documents, Set
One and her request for monetary sanctions are  CONTINUED to April 26.  
 
            Plaintiff is ordered to give notice.

¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 