  Case Number:  22STCV21941    Hearing Date:   October 6, 2023    Dept:  40 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



FARZAN ALAMIRAD, an individual; FARZAN ALAMIRAD, D.D.S., INC., a
  California corporation, dba GENTLE BIODENTISTRY,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
MARJAN RAVANBAKHSH, an individual; PREMIER CPA CONSULTANTS,
  INC., a California corporation; and DOES 1 to 20, inclusive,
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          22STCV21941
 Hearing Date:   10/6/23
 Trial Date:        10/1/24
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Defendant Marjan
  Ravanbakhsh’s Motion for an Order Compelling Further Responses to Admissions
  by Plaintiff, and Request for Monetary Sanctions; and
Defendant Marjan
  Ravanbakhsh’s Motion for an Order Compelling Further Responses to Form
  Interrogatories by Plaintiff, and Request for Monetary Sanctions.



 
 
Background
Pleadings
Plaintiff Farzan Alamirad (Dr.
Alamirad) and Farzan Alamirad, D.D.S., Inc. (Alamirad Dentistry) (collectively,
the Alamirad Plaintiffs) sue Defendants Marjan Ravanbakhsh (an accountant;
hereafter CPA Ravanbakhsh), Premier CPA Consultants, Inc. (the accounting firm
under which Ravanbakhsh worked at all relevant times; hereafter, Premier CPA),
and Does 1 to 20 pursuant to a December 7, 2022 First Amended Complaint
alleging claims of (1) Breach of Contract, (2) Breach of the Duty of Good Faith
and Fair Dealing, (3) Professional Negligence (Accountant), and (4) Unfair
Business Practices.
The claims arise from allegations
that, among other things, after the Alamirad Plaintiffs hired Defendants in
2020 to perform accounting services for Alamirad Dentistry, Defendants used
their position of confidence and access to Plaintiffs’ financial information to
file fraudulent PPP and EIDL loans and erroneous tax returns on behalf of
Plaintiffs, otherwise failed to make quarterly payments to the IRS, EDD, and
FTB, and released Dr. Alamirad’s confidential financial information to his
estranged wife, from whom Dr. Alamirad was divorcing, and with whom Defendant
Ravanbakhsh maintained and continues to maintain a close friendship.
Defendant Ravanbakhsh previously
sued Mr. Alamirad in LASC Action No. 21STCV11318 (the Underlying Action) based
on facts similar to those advanced in this lawsuit. Mr. Alamirad did not serve
a cross-complaint in the Underlying Action prior to that action being dismissed
with prejudice by Ravanbakhsh on March 15, 2022.
Motion Before Court
On or around August 22, 2022, Defendant Ravanbakhsh served Request
for Admissions, Set One (RFAs, Set One), and Form Interrogatories – General,
Set One (FROGs, Set One), on Dr. Alamirad.
On October 24, 2022, Dr. Alamirad
served responses to this discovery.
Counsel for the parties thereafter
met and conferred regarding the sufficiency of Dr. Alamirad’s October 24, 2022
responses.
On December 19, 2022, Defendant Ravanbakhsh moved to compel
further responses to RFAs, Set One, Nos. 3-10, and FROGs, Set One, No. 17.1. The
motions are accompanied by facially valid proofs of service.
Dr. Alamirad has failed to oppose Defendant Ravanbakhsh’s motion, which is now
before the Court.
 
Motion to Compel Further Responses, Admissions
Legal
Standard
A
motion to compel a further response is used when a party gives unsatisfactory
answers or makes untenable objections to interrogatories, demands to produce,
or requests for admission. (See Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300, subd. (a),
2031.310, subd. (a), 2033.290, subd. (a); Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting,
Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 403
[interrogatories and demands to produce].)
To
obtain further responses to requests for admission, the movant must establish
that (1) the response to an RFA is evasive or incomplete (Code Civ. Proc., §
2033.290, subd. (a)(1)) or (2) the objection to an RFA is without merit or too
general (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.290, subd. (a)(2)).
Order
Compelling Further Admissions: DENIED.
After
review, the Court finds no merit to compelling further responses to RFAs, Set
One, Nos. 3-10.
Dr.
Alamirad’s responses to RFAs, Set One, Nos. 3-10 are comprised of various
objections—compound question, vagueness, ambiguity, unintelligibility, and/or
calls for legal conclusion—followed by a “Deny,” with the denial made subject
to the stated objections. (See RFAs Mot., Frank Decl., Ex. C.) None of the
stated objections allow for the ready conclusion that Dr. Alamirad withheld
responsive information based on a privilege or right, e.g., attorney-client or
work product privilege and right to privacy. The objections merely relate to
the form and language used in the RFAs. Dr. Alamirad therefore does not appear
to hold anything back from his responses to RFAs, Set One, Nos. 3-10.
Defendant
Ravanbakhsh seeks to compel further
responses with no objections to RFAs, Set One, Nos. 3-10, arguing that the
objections lack merit. (RFAs Mot., pp. 4-5; RFAs Mot., Separate Statement, pp.
2-12 [“Th[ese] [responses] should be amended by minimally withdrawing the
meritless and improper objections”].)
The Court disagrees. 
A
party’s responses are “unquestionably code compliant” when they consist of
one-word “Admit” or “Deny” responses. (St. Mary v. Superior Court (2014)
223 Cal.App.4th 762, 780.) The fact that a party may add an explanation or
qualification does not make an admission or denial equivocal and thus
insufficient. (See id. at pp. 780-781 [examples].)
Here,
Dr. Alamirad’s verified responses to Request Nos. 3-10 were comprised of a
one-word “Deny” that were qualified by objections that do not affect the
Court’s conclusion that the responses were sufficiently responsive. (RFAs Mot.,
Frank Decl., Ex. C.) Moreover, the Court finds no good reason to strike the
objections stated by Dr. Alamirad to these admission requests. Those objections
are Dr. Alamirad’s counsel’s interpretation of the quality of the posed
admission requests, and the Court did not see a meritorious argument for
compelling further responses that do not contain the stated objections.
Defendant
Ravanbakhsh’s motion to compel further
responses to RFAs, Set One, Nos. 3-10, is therefore DENIED.
Sanctions:
DENIED.
The Court must impose monetary sanctions against any
party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to
compel further responses to requests for admission, unless it finds that the
person to be sanctioned acted with substantial justification or other
circumstances make the imposition of sanctions unjust. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.290,
subd. (d).)
The court may award sanctions under the
Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even
though no opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was
withdrawn, or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after
the motion was filed. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348, subd. (a).)
The Court DENIES the request for monetary
sanctions based on the outcome of the motion.
 
Motion
to Compel Further Responses, Interrogatories
Legal Standard
A motion to compel a further response is
used when a party gives unsatisfactory answers or makes untenable objections to
interrogatories, demands to produce, or requests for admission. (See Code Civ.
Proc., §§ 2030.300, subd. (a), 2031.310, subd. (a), 2033.290, subd. (a); Sinaiko
Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148
Cal.App.4th 390, 403 [interrogatories and demands to produce].)
To compel a further response to
interrogatories, the movant can show that: (1) the responding party’s answer to
a particular interrogatory is evasive or incomplete (Code Civ. Proc., §
2030.300, subd. (a)(1)); (2) the responding party’s exercise of the option to
produce documents in response to an interrogatory was unwarranted or the
required specification of those documents was inadequate (Code Civ. Proc., §
2030.300, subd. (a)(2)); and (3) the responding party’s objection to an
interrogatory is without merit or too general (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300,
subd. (a)(3); see, e.g., Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th
531, 550 [defendant’s argument that plaintiff was required to establish good
cause or prove merits of underlying claim before propounding interrogatories
without merit]).
Order Compelling Further Interrogatory
Responses: GRANTED.
After review, the Court finds merit to
compelling further responses to FROGS, Set One, No. 17.1.
The eight verified responses sufficiently
respond to subsections (a), (c), and (d) of FROGs, Set One, No. 17.1, i.e.,
identify the RFA at issue, the names, addresses, and telephone numbers for all
persons who have knowledge of the facts raised in subsection (b), and all
documents and other tangible things that support the responses, as well as the
names, addresses, and telephone numbers for all persons who have possession of
those documents. (FROGs Mot., Frank Decl., Ex. C.)
However, the eight verified responses do not
sufficiently respond to subsection (b) of FROGs, Set One, No. 17.1. For
example, all responses to subsection (b) contain conclusions of fact relating
to how this action and the Underlying action involve different causes of action
(and defenses). Some of the responses—FROGS, Set One, No. 17.1 as it relates to
RFAs, Set One, Nos. 5-8—do not sufficiently explain the facts upon which Dr.
Alamirad denies that Defendants in this action are in privity with one another in
this action and the Underlying Action and that the Alamirad Plaintiffs are in
privity with one another in this action and the Underlying Action. Other
responses—FROGS, Set One, No. 17.1 as it relates to RFAs, Set One, No. 9—do not
sufficiently differentiate between the facts of this case and those in the
underlying action. Further responses to FROGS, Set One, No. 17.1 are necessary
to fully round out Dr. Alamirad’s denials to RFAs, Set One, Nos. 3-10.
Defendant Ravanbakhsh’s motion to compel further responses to FROGS, Set One, No.
17.1 is GRANTED.
Sanctions: GRANTED.
The Court must impose monetary sanctions
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel a further response to interrogatories, unless it finds that
the person to be sanctioned acted with substantial justification or other
circumstances make the imposition of sanctions unjust. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2030.300, subd. (d).)
The court may award sanctions under the
Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even
though no opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was
withdrawn, or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after
the motion was filed. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348, subd. (a).)
The Court GRANTS monetary sanctions against
Dr. Alamirad, as well as against Dr. Alamirad’s counsel—Law Offices of Morteza
Aghavali—based on their failure to supplement responses to valid discovery
requests. Sanctions are GRANTED in the amount of $1,060, comprised of two hours
expended on drafting this motion at a reasonable rate of $500 per hour and $60
expended in filing this motion. (Mot., Frank Decl., ¶¶ 1-7.)
 

Conclusion
I.
Defendant Marjan Ravanbakhsh’s
Motion for an Order Compelling Further Responses to Admissions by Plaintiff is DENIED.
The corresponding Request for
Monetary Sanctions is DENIED.
II.
Defendant Marjan Ravanbakhsh’s
Motion for an Order Compelling Further Responses to Form Interrogatories by
Plaintiff is GRANTED.
Plaintiff Farzan Alamirad is
ORDERED to provide further responses to Form Interrogatories – General, Set
One, No. 17.1, re: Requests for Admission, Set One, Nos. 3-10, within 10 days
of this ruling.
The corresponding Request for
Monetary Sanctions is GRANTED.
Plaintiff Farzan Alamirad and
counsel—Law Offices of Morteza Aghavali—are jointly and severally ORDERED to
remit sanctions of $1,060 to Defendant Marjan Ravanbakhsh within 30 days of
this ruling.