    BACKGROUND   On May 23, 2024, Plaintiff Mostafa Nasimi (“Plaintiff”),  filed a personal injury action against Defendant Lyft, Inc. (“Defendant”) and  Does 1 to 10, inclusive for 1) General Negligence and 2) Intentional Tort of  Assault and Battery.  Specifically,  Plaintiff alleges that they were a driver for Lyft when they picked up a passenger.  The passenger punched Plaintiff in the face after Plaintiff asked them to put  on a mask in compliance with Lyft’s COVID-19 mask rule. Plaintiff alleges that  they suffered wage loss, loss of use of property, hospital and medical  expenses, general damages, property damage, loss of earning capacity, and  non-economic damages.    MOVING PARTY  POSITION               On July 25,  2024, Defendant filed the instant Motion to Compel Arbitration.                                                                OPPOSITION               No  Opposition was filed.                ANALYSIS   I.          Legal  Standard & Discussion Under Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2, a court may order  arbitration of a controversy if it finds that the parties have agreed to  arbitrate that dispute. Because the obligation to arbitrate arises from  contract, the court may compel arbitration only if the dispute in question is  one in which the parties have agreed to arbitrate. (Weeks v. Crow (1980)  113 Cal.App.3d 350, 352.) Since arbitration is a favored method of dispute  resolution, arbitration agreements should be liberally interpreted, and  arbitration should be ordered unless the agreement clearly does not apply to  the dispute in question. (Id. at p. 353; Segal v. Silberstein  (2007) 156 Cal.App.4th 627, 633.)     A. Existence of a Valid Arbitration  Agreement The  right to compel arbitration exists unless the court finds that the right has  been waived by a party’s conduct, other grounds exist for revocation of the  agreement, or where a pending court action arising out of the same transaction  creates the possibility of conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or  fact. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2(a)-(c).)   ¿ The party moving to  compel arbitration must establish the existence of a written arbitration  agreement between the parties. (Code of Civ. Proc. § 1281.2.)  “With respect to the moving party's burden to  provide evidence of the existence of an agreement to  arbitrate, it is generally sufficient for that party to present a copy of the  contract to the court. (See Condee v. Longwood Management Corp. (2001)  88 Cal.App.4th 215, 218, 105 Cal.Rptr.2d 597 (Condee ); see also  Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1330 [“A petition to compel arbitration or to stay  proceedings pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure sections 1281.2 and 1281.4 must  state, in addition to other required allegations, the provisions of the written  agreement and the paragraph that provides for arbitration. The provisions must  be stated verbatim or a copy must be physically or electronically attached to  the petition and incorporated by reference”].) Once such a document is  presented to the court, the burden shifts to the party opposing the motion to  compel, who may present any challenges to the enforcement of the agreement and  evidence in support of those challenges. [Citation]” (Baker v. Italian Maple Holdings, LLC (2017) 13 Cal.App.5th  1152, 1160.)   Defendant seeks to compel arbitration of Plaintiff’s  claims based on Plaintiff’s acceptance of Lyft’s Terms of Service, which  includes an agreement to arbitrate all driver claims. (Exhibit List in Support  of Motion, Exh. 8.) Defendant argues that Plaintiff affirmatively accepted  Lyft’s Terms of Service, including the arbitration agreement, on ten separate  occasions before and after the subject accident. (Mot., Simmons Decl., ¶ 12.;  Exh. 1.) In support of the existence of an arbitration agreement, Defendants  submit evidence of a copy of the most recent Terms of Service that Plaintiff  accepted, which includes the arbitration agreement. (Exhibit List in Support of  Motion, Exh. 8.) The Agreement contains provisions obligating Plaintiff to  arbitrate any claim or dispute with Defendants. (Ibid.) The pertinent  provision reads:    “17.  DISPUTE RESOLUTION AND ARBITRATION AGREEMENT (a)  Agreement to Binding Arbitration Between You and Lyft.  YOU AND  LYFT MUTUALLY AGREE TO WAIVE OUR RESPECTIVE RIGHTS TO RESOLUTION OF DISPUTES IN  A COURT OF LAW BY A JUDGE OR JURY AND AGREE TO RESOLVE ANY DISPUTE BY  ARBITRATION, as set forth below…Except as expressly provided below, ALL  DISPUTES AND CLAIMS BETWEEN US (EACH A "CLAIM" AND COLLECTIVELY,  "CLAIMS") SHALL BE EXCLUSIVELY RESOLVED BY BINDING ARBITRATION SOLELY  BETWEEN YOU AND LYFT. These Claims include, but are not limited to, any  dispute, claim or controversy, whether based on past, present, or future events,  arising out of or relating to: this Agreement and prior versions thereof  (including the breach, termination, enforcement, interpretation or validity  thereof), the Lyft Platform, the Rideshare Services, the Lyft Services…”  (Exhibit  List in Support of Motion, Exh. 8.) Here, Defendants have met  their burden of demonstrating the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by  presenting a copy of the agreement to the Court. The burden now shifts  to Plaintiff to challenge the existence or enforceability of the agreement.  However, Plaintiff did not oppose this motion, and thus does not challenge the  existence or enforceability of the arbitration agreement. Further, Plaintiff  did not establish any  grounds for revocation of the agreement.    Therefore, a valid arbitration  agreement exists between Plaintiff and Defendant.      II.        Conclusion                           Defendant Lyft, Inc.’s Motion  to Compel Arbitration and Stay Civil Proceedings is GRANTED.   Civil Proceedings are stayed pending completion of  Arbitration.   Post Arbitration Status Conference is set for June 25,  2025, at 9:30 a.m. in Department 25 of the Spring Street Courthouse.   Counsel are directed to serve and electronically file a  JOINT Declaration / Report Re: Status of Arbitration at least (5) days prior to 06/25/2025.   The 11/20/2025 Trial date is advanced to this date and  hereby taken off calendar/vacated.   The Moving Party is ordered to give notice.