

 
BACKGROUND
 
This
action arises from a motor vehicle collision. On February 16, 2023, Plaintiff
Kim Youngblood (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Defendant Marton Price
(“Defendant”), alleging causes of action for: (1) motor vehicle; and (2)
general negligence. 
 
On May 6,
2024, Defendant filed an Answer to the Complaint.  
 
On June
4, 2024, a Notice of Association of Counsel was filed indicating that “Raymond
Feldman . . . of Law Offices of John C. Ye, APLC . . . have associated to
represent Plaintiff . . . in [this] . . . case.” (See Notice of Association of
Counsel at p. 2:2-6.) 
 
On August
21, 2024, Defendant filed and served the following two discovery motions: (1) a
Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Verified Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set
One, and Request for Sanctions in the amount of $1,410.00 against Plaintiff and
Plaintiff’s counsel of record, Howard J. Choi, Esq., of Law Offices of Howard
J. Choi (the “Interrogatories Motion”); and (2) a Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Verified
Responses to Request for Identification and Production of Documents, Set One, and
Request for Sanctions in the amount of $1,410.00 against Plaintiff and
Plaintiff’s counsel of record, Howard J. Choi, Esq., of Law Offices of Howard
J. Choi (the “RPD Motion”) (collectively, the
“Motions”). 
 
On
September 12, 2024, Plaintiff filed and served an opposition to the Motions. 
 
A reply
has been filed on September 18, 2024. 
 
 
MOVING PARTY
POSITION
 
            In support of the Interrogatories Motion, Defendant
asserts that Plaintiff has failed to respond to Set One of Defendant’s Form
Interrogatories.  
 
            In support
of the RPD Motion, Defendant asserts that Plaintiff has failed to respond to Set
One of Defendant’s Request for Identification and Production of Documents. 
 
 
OPPOSITION
 
            In
opposition to the motion, Plaintiff raises the following arguments: (1)
Plaintiff fell out of touch with counsel and expects to serve verified
responses before the hearing; (2) monetary sanctions in the amount of $1,410.00
for each motion is duplicative; (3) Defendant is seeking to defraud the Court
and Plaintiff by harvesting the virtually identical motions from another case,
which demonstrates that the Motions were apparently prepared by a non-lawyer
and disqualifying Defendant from claiming attorneys’ fees; (4) Defendant seeks
monetary sanctions from a different plaintiff and said plaintiff’s attorneys;
and (5) Plaintiff’s attorneys should not be sanctioned.  
 
REPLY
 
            Defendant
asserts that extension to discovery was previously provided.  Given the upcoming trial date scheduled for
December 13, 2024, it was necessary to proceed with the discovery.    
 
 
ANALYSIS
 
I.          Compelling Discovery
Responses and the Imposition of Sanctions 
A.               
Legal Standard 
“Within 30 days after service of interrogatories, the party to whom the
interrogatories are propounded shall serve the original of the response to them
on the propounding party, unless on motion of the propounding party the court
has shortened the time for response, or unless on motion of the responding
party the court has extended the time for response.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2030.260, subd. (a).) If the party to whom interrogatories are directed fails
to serve a timely response, “[t]he party to whom the interrogatories are
directed waives any right to exercise the option to produce writings under
Section 2030.230, as well as any objection to the interrogatories, including
one based on privilege or on the protection for work product.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (a).) “The party propounding interrogatories may move
for an order compelling response to the interrogatories.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2030.290, subd. (b).)  
 
Any party may obtain discovery . . . by inspecting, copying, testing, or
sampling documents, tangible things, land or other property, and electronically
stored information in the possession, custody, or control of any other party to
the action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.010, subd. (a).) Where a party fails to
timely respond to demand for inspection, copying, testing or sampling “[t]he
party to whom the demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling is
directed waives any objection to the demand, including one based on privilege
or on the protection for work product.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd.
(a).) Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300(b) provides that “[t]he party making the
demand may move for an order compelling response to the demand.”
 
Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.010(d)
provides that a misuse of the discovery process is “[f]ailing to respond to or
to submit to an authorized method of discovery.”  Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.010(h) states that a
misuse of the discovery process includes “[m]aking or opposing, unsuccessfully
and without substantial justification, a motion to compel or limit
discovery.”   “The court may impose a
monetary sanction against a party engaging in the misuse of the discovery
process, or any attorney advising that conduct” under Code Civ. Proc. §
2023.030(a).  A court has discretion to
fix the amount of reasonable monetary sanctions.  Cornerstone Realty Advisors, LLC v. Summit
Healthcare Reit, Inc. (2020) 56 Cal.App.5th 771, 791.
 
B.        The Interrogatories
Motion   
 
            Jeanette
D. Lawrence (“Lawrence”), who is counsel for Defendant, declares that Plaintiff
has failed to respond to Set One of Defendant’s Form Interrogatories, which
were served on Plaintiff on May 20, 2024. (Lawrence Decl., ¶¶ 7-10; Ex. A.)  
 
            Ms.
Lawrence states that her hourly rate is $225.00 per hour, and two (2) hours were
spent preparing the Interrogatories Motion, she anticipates spending an
additional two (2) hours reviewing the opposition and preparing a reply brief,
and she anticipates spending an additional two (2) hours to prepare for and
attend the hearing on the Interrogatories Motion. (Lawrence Decl., ¶ 14.) A
$60.00 filing fee was incurred as to the Interrogatories Motion. (Lawrence Decl.,
¶ 14.) Defendant requests sanctions of $1,410.00 as to the Interrogatories
Motion. (Lawrence Decl., ¶ 14.) 
 
            The
Court has reviewed the declaration of Raymond Feldman (“Feldman”) in opposition
to the Motions. While Mr. Feldman articulates numerous reasons why discovery
responses have not been propounded such as issues with obtaining Plaintiff’s
physical address and e-mail address (Feldman Decl., ¶ 6), Mr. Feldman
acknowledges that discovery responses have not been provided. (Feldman Decl., ¶
7.) The Court rejects Plaintiff’s contention that the Motions were harvested
from another case due to the wrong attorneys from which sanctions are sought
being referenced in the RPD Motion. (See RPD Motion at p. 5:6-9; Feldman Decl.,
¶ 10(c).) Such a reference to attorneys not being involved in this case appears
to be a typographical error. The Notice of Motion for both motions clearly
indicates that monetary sanctions are being sought against Plaintiff and Howard
J. Choi, Esq. of the Law Offices of Howard J. Choi, jointly and severally. Mr.
Choi is still counsel of record and therefore monetary sanctions can be imposed
against Mr. Choi. Here, Mr. Choi was the attorney to whom the discovery was sent,
and to which no responses thereto have been provided. 
 
As to monetary sanctions, the Interrogatories Motion is straightforward
in nature and not complex. The Court therefore reduces the total hours
concerning monetary sanctions as to the Interrogatories Motion. The Court
therefore GRANTS IN PART Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions as to the Interrogatories
Motion and AWARDS Defendant reasonable monetary sanctions as to the Interrogatories
Motion in the sum of $285.00, which represents one (1) hour of work on such
motion at the rate of $225.00 per hour plus the $60.00 filing fee.
 
            Monetary
sanctions are to be paid to Defendant by Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s counsel of
record, Howard J. Choi, Esq. of Law Offices of Howard J. Choi, jointly and
severally, in the amount of $285.00 within 30 days of the date of notice of
this order as to the Interrogatories Motion. 

 
C.        The
RPD Motion   
 
            Defendant
propounded Set One of his Request for Identification and Production of
Documents on Plaintiff’s counsel, Howard J. Choi, on May 20, 2024, to which no
responses have been received. (Lawrence Decl., ¶¶ 7-10; Ex. A.) Defendant
requests monetary sanctions of $1,410.00 as to the RPD Motion. (Lawrence Decl.,
¶ 14.) 
 
            The
Court references its analysis as to the Interrogatories Motion and incorporates
it herein. It is undisputed that Plaintiff has yet to provide responses to the
discovery at issue. 
 
            As
to monetary sanctions, the RPD Motion is straightforward in nature and not
complex. The Court therefore reduces the total hours concerning monetary
sanctions as to the RPD Motion. The Court therefore GRANTS IN PART Defendant’s
request for monetary sanctions as to the RPD Motion and AWARDS Defendant
reasonable monetary sanctions as to the RPD Motion in the sum of $285.00, which
represents one (1) hour of work on such motion at the rate of $225.00 per hour
plus the $60.00 filing fee.
 
            Monetary
sanctions are to be paid to Defendant by Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s counsel of
record, Howard J. Choi, Esq., of Law Offices of Howard J. Choi, jointly and
severally, in the amount of $285.00 within 30 days of the date of notice of
this order as to the RPD Motion.  
 
II.        Conclusion 
            
            Based on the foregoing, the Interrogatories Motion and
the RPD Motion are both GRANTED IN
PART. 
 
            Plaintiff
is ORDERED to provide verified, complete, and code-compliant responses, without
objections, to Defendant’s Request for Identification and Production of
Documents, Set One, within 30 days of the date of notice of this order. 
 
            Plaintiff is ORDERED to provide
verified, complete, and code-compliant responses, without objections, to Set
One of Defendant’s Form Interrogatories within 30 days of the date of notice of
this order. 
 
            Defendant’s request for monetary
sanctions as to each of the Motions is GRANTED IN PART. 
 
The Court
awards Defendant total monetary sanctions in the sum of $570.00 as to both the
Motions. Monetary sanctions are to be paid by Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s counsel
of record, Howard J. Choi, Esq., of Law Offices of Howard J. Choi, jointly and
severally, to Defendant in the total sum of $570.00 within 30 days of the date
of notice of this order. 
 
            Moving party is ordered to give notice.  