    BACKGROUND   This action arises from the alleged breach of a contract  for new roofing at residential real property located at 12660 Kling Street,  Studio City, CA 91604 (the “Property”). On June 6, 2024, Plaintiff Steven P.  Krakowsky (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Defendants Alfred Sinisgalli  (“Sinisgalli”), Contractors State License Board Registrar of Contractors  (“CSLB”), and Does 1 to 10, inclusive (collectively, “Defendants”), alleging  causes of action for: (1) breach of written contracts; (2) negligence; and (3)  contractor’s license bond.[1]    On July 10, 2024, Defendant Sinisgalli filed an Answer to  the Complaint.    Also, on July 10, 2024, pursuant to a stipulation between  Plaintiff and Defendant CSLB, the Court entered an order allowing Defendant  CSLB 45 days after the Court rules on its motion to interplead cash deposit to  respond to the Complaint.    On July 18, 2024, Defendant CSLB filed and served the  instant Motion to Allow Interpleader of Funds and for  Discharge of Liability and Dismissal of Defendant CSLB. Defendant CSLB  seeks “an order granting interpleader of funds in the amount of $15,000,  dismissing [CSLB] from . . . [this] action, and discharging [CSLB] of all  liability.” (Not. of Mot. at p. 2:2-5.)    As of September 19, 2024, no opposition  brief has been filed. Any opposition brief was required to have been filed and  served at least nine court days prior to the hearing. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1005,  subd. (b).)      MOVING PARTY  POSITION               Defendant  CSLB argues that it is only a stakeholder, it has no interest in the funds that  are the subject of this action, it cannot determine the validity of the  conflicting demands that have been made on the funds, and it is willing to  deposit the said funds with the Court for delivery to the prevailing claimant.      OPPOSITION               None filed  as of September 19, 2024.    REPLY               None filed  as of September 19, 2024.        ANALYSIS   I.          Motion  to Allow Interpleader of Funds and for Discharge of Liability and Dismissal  A.        Legal  Standard               “Any person, firm, corporation,  association or other entity against whom double or multiple claims are made, or  may be made, by two or more persons which are such that they may give rise to  double or multiple liability, may bring an action against the claimants to  compel them to interplead and litigate their several claims.” (Code Civ. Proc.,  § 386, sub. (b).)              “When the person, firm, corporation,  association or other entity against whom such claims are made, or may be made,  is a defendant in an action brought upon one or more such claims, it may either  file a verified cross-complaint in interpleader, admitting that it has no  interest in the money or property claimed . . . and alleging that all or such  portion is demanded by parties to such action, and apply to the court upon  notice to such parties for an order to deliver such money or property . . . to  such person as the court shall direct; or may bring a separate action against  the claimants to compel them to interplead and litigate their several claims.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 386, subd. (b).)              “Where the only relief sought  against one of the defendants is the payment of a stated amount of money  alleged to be wrongfully withheld, such defendant may, upon affidavit that he  is a mere stakeholder with no interest in the amount or any portion thereof and  that conflicting demands have been made upon him for the amount by parties to  the action, upon notice to such parties, apply to the court for an order  discharging him from liability and dismissing him from the action upon  depositing with the clerk of the court the amount in dispute and the court may,  in its discretion, make such order.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 386.5.)  B.        Pertinent  Allegations of the Complaint               The Court finds it necessary to set forth the  pertinent allegations of the Complaint. Plaintiff alleges the following: On or  about October 31, 2017, Plaintiff entered into his first written contract with  Defendant Sinisgalli whereby Defendant Sinisgalli agreed to remove the entire  roof of the Property and install a brand-new roof for a total price of $28,100.00.  (Complaint, ¶ 6.) Defendant Sinisgalli held himself out to be a licensed  specialty contractor with CSLB License No. 594258. (Complaint, ¶ 2.) Defendant  CSLB is a regulatory board with authority to investigate and take  administrative disciplinary action against licensed and unlicensed persons and  entities for violations of California State License Law. (Complaint, ¶ 3.) Issues  with the roof leaking arose and Defendant Sinisgalli’s repairs were  insufficient. (Complaint, ¶¶ 7-8.) In order to continue repairing the roof,  Defendant Sinisgalli requested additional payment from Plaintiff. (Complaint,  ¶¶ 8-11.) Plaintiff was required to hire other contractors to replace the  deficient work done by Defendant Sinisgalli. (Complaint, ¶¶ 12-14.) Plaintiff  alleges that Defendant Sinisgalli negligently designed and negligently  constructed the roof on the Property, which is in violation of the contracts.  (Complaint, ¶ 15.)               As to the third cause of action  asserted against Defendant CSLB, Plaintiff alleges that in lieu of a surety  bond, Defendant Sinisgalli provided a cash deposit bond in the sum of  $15,000.00 to Defendant CSLB for the benefit of claimants such as Plaintiff.  (Complaint, ¶ 25.) Defendant Sinisgalli violated the license law triggering  liability of Defendant CSLB on the cash deposit bond provided by Defendant  Sinisgalli. (Complaint, ¶  26.) Plaintiff alleges that Defendant CSLB is liable to Plaintiff for the full  $15,000.00 of the cash deposit bond provided by Defendant Sinisgalli.  (Complaint, ¶ 28.)   C.        Merits  of the Motion             Counsel for Defendant CSLB,  Stephanie J. Lee (“Lee”), provides a declaration in support of the motion. Ms.  Lee declares the following: Defendant Sinisgalli made cash deposits totaling  $15,000.00 with Defendant CSLB. (Lee Decl., ¶¶ 4, 6; Ex. B, C, D.) Defendant  CSLB holds these funds as a mere stakeholder only and, other than holding these  funds pursuant to statute, Defendant CSLB has no interest in Defendant  Sinisgalli’s cash deposits. (Lee Decl., ¶ 5.) Conflicting demands have been  made for the funds. (Lee Decl., ¶ 7.) Pursuant to statute, Defendant CSLB must  return the cash deposits to Defendant Sinisgalli three years after his license  is cancelled. (Lee Decl., ¶ 7.) In this action, Plaintiff claims a right to the  same funds based on Defendant Sinisgalli’s alleged violations of law. (Lee  Decl., ¶ 7.) Defendant Sinisgalli’s license will expire on September 30, 2025  unless renewed. (Lee Decl., ¶ 3; Ex. A.)  Defendant CSLB is unable to resolve these conflicting demands. (Lee  Decl., ¶ 8.) Making payment to Plaintiff without a court order would improperly  discharge Defendant Sinisgalli’s cash deposits and expose Defendant CSLB to the  risk of double liability if it were to pay the amount demanded by Plaintiff  without interpleading the funds. (Lee Decl., ¶ 8.) Defendant CSLB indicates  that it is willing to deposit the funds with the Court and seeks to be  discharged from any further liability to any of the claimants, and seeks to be  dismissed from this action. (Lee Decl., ¶ 9.)  The Court finds that Defendant CSLB has made a showing under CCP §§ 386  and 386.5. Here, Defendant CSLB indicates that it is subject to claims from  both Plaintiff and Defendant Sinisgalli. Further, Plaintiff only seeks the  payment of money from Defendant CSLB. Defendant CSLB has no interest in the  funds at issue according to Ms. Lee, and Defendant CSLB is the mere holder of  funds.  The Court also notes that there is no opposition to the motion. “[A]  failure to oppose a motion may be deemed a consent to the granting of the  motion.” (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 8.54(c).) The Court therefore deems that  Plaintiff and Defendant Sinisgalli consent to the granting of the motion given  the lack of an opposition brief.  II.        Conclusion                Based on the foregoing, the Motion  to Allow Interpleader of Funds and for Discharge of Liability and Dismissal is  GRANTED.  Defendant Registrar of Contractors, Contractors State  License Board is ordered to deposit the $15.000.00 with the Court within  30-days.   Upon deposit of the funds with the Court and filing of  proof of service of the Notice of Disbursement hearing, Defendant Registrar of  Contractors, Contractors State License Board will be Dismissed from this  action.   An Order to Show Cause Re:  Disbursement of Interpleader Funds is set for  11/13/2024 at 9:30 a.m. in Department 25 of the Spring Street Courthouse.   Each  Claimant must file a written claim within thirty (30) days of this Court’s order.   The written claim should include a  declaration signed under penalty or perjury setting forth the basis for the  claim of ownership or Interest.    All claimants  must also appear at the hearing either in person or remotely. If no claims or  appearances are made, the matter may be set for an OSC Re: Escheating Funds on  Deposit with the Los Angeles Superior Court to the State of California. (Code  Civ. Pro., § 128; Govt. Code, §68084.1.)                 Moving party is ordered to give  notice.      