  Case Number:  23STCV00524    Hearing Date:   August 15, 2024    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



JUAN CARLOS ALEJO,
  
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
ISLANDS RESTAURANTS, LLC, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCV00524
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING MOTION TO VACATE
  THE JOINT STIPULATION, STRIKE PLAINTIFF'S AMENDED COMPLAINT, AND TO COMPEL ARBITRATION
  
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
August 15, 2024



 
On April 22, 2024, Plaintiff
Juan Carlos Alejo and Defendants Islands Restaurants LLC and Islands Restaurants
L.P. filed a joint stipulation to lift the arbitration stay and permit Plaintiff
to amend his complaint.  Plaintiff filed his
amended complaint on June 13, 2024.
On
June 20, 2024, Defendants filed a Motion to Vacate the Joint Stipulation, Strike
Plaintiff's Amended Complaint, and to Compel Arbitration.  Defendants’ request for judicial notice is denied
as irrelevant.
Defendants
argue that the stipulation does not reflect the parties’ true material terms of
the agreement.  Through the stipulation, “the parties stipulate to Plaintiff’s amending his
complaint to re-allege his claims for Labor Code violations and Unfair Competition
on a class wide basis.”  According
to Defendants, “Plaintiff’s counsel claims that the term ‘re-allege’ is interchangeable
for the term ‘reinstate,’” which “is clearly in opposite of the Parties meet and
confer and against common sense.”  (Motion
at p. 7.)  Defendants therefore seek relief due to their mistake, inadvertence, surprise,
or excusable neglect.  (See Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 473, subd. (b).)
On April 12, 2024, Defendants’ counsel stated that they
were “okay with [Plaintiff’s] redlined revisions” to the stipulations and proposed
orders.  (Cabdad Decl., Ex. 5.)  These revisions did not include any changes to
“Plaintiff may amend his complaint to re-allege.”  The redlines show that Plaintiff edited Defendants’
version of “Plaintiff may amend his complaint to re-allege labor code violations
on a class wide basis” to “Plaintiff may amend his complaint to re-allege his claims
for Labor Code violations and Unfair Competition on a class wide basis.”
There is no evidence of any discussions or misunderstandings
about the term “re-allege.”  Instead, the
parties’ conduct suggests that Defendants understood Plaintiff’s intention to reinstate
class allegations.  On March 28, 2024, Plaintiff
filed a “Motion to Set Aside Order to Submit Matter to Arbitration, Lift the Stay
of This Action, and Reinstate Class Allegations.”  On April 22, 2023, the parties filed a “Joint
Stipulation to Continue Plaintiff’s Motion to Lift the Stay and Reinstate Class
Allegations.”  Defendants have not shown any
mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect that requires striking the
Joint Stipulation.
Defendants’ additional arguments about statute of limitations
(Motion at p. 8) and applicability of the Federal Arbitration Act (id. at
pp. 8-11) are irrelevant at this stage.  The
parties have agreed to “proceed in this judicial forum” with respect to Plaintiff’s
individual claims for alleged Labor Code violations and Unfair Competition.  Any argument that claims are time-barred should
be raised by the appropriate motions to challenge the pleadings or the merits of
the action.
Accordingly,
the Motion to Vacate the Joint Stipulation, Strike Plaintiff's Amended Complaint,
and to Compel Arbitration is DENIED.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 15th day of August 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 