 Case Number:  23STCV21671    Hearing Date:   August 15, 2024    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



MARIA EUGENIA TAPIA, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
LOS ANGELES UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCV21671
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER SUSTAINING IN PART DEMURRER
  TO FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
August 15, 2024



 
On
February 23, 2024, Plaintiff Maria Eugenia Tapia filed a first amended complaint
(“FAC”) against Defendants Los Angeles Unified School District (“LAUSD”), Henry
Ponce, and Oscar Pedroza.  The FAC alleges
(1) discrimination in violation of the Fair Employment and Housing Act (“FEHA”);
(2) harassment in violation of FEHA; (3) retaliation in violation of FEHA; (4) failure
to prevent discrimination, harassment, and retaliation in violation of FEHA; (5)
failure to provide reasonable accommodations in violation of FEHA; (6) failure to
engage in a good faith interactive process in violation of FEHA; (7) violation of
the Ralph Civil Rights Act; (8) violation of the Tom Bane Civil Rights Act; and
(9) failure to permit inspection of personnel and payroll records.
On
May 8, 2024, Defendants filed a demurrer.
DISCUSSION
A
demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.  (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740,
747.)  When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context, accepting the alleged facts as true.  (Nolte v. Cedars-Sinai Medical Center (2015)
236 Cal.App.4th 1401, 1406.)
A.        The FAC Lacks Specific Facts for the FEHA Causes of Action.
Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s FEHA claims are not pleaded with
particularity.  (Demurrer at p. 10.)  “[F]acts in support of each
of the requirements of a statute upon which a cause of action is based must be specifically
pled.”  (Fisher v. San Pedro Peninsula
Hospital (1989) 214 Cal.App.3d 590, 604; see also Baskin v. Hughes Realty,
Inc. (2018) 25 Cal.App.5th 184, 207 [“Generally, ‘[w]he[n] a party relies for
recovery upon a purely statutory liability it is indispensable that he plead facts
demonstrating his right to recover under the statute.  The complaint must plead every fact which is essential
to the cause of action under the statute.’”]; Hawkins v. TACA Internat. Airlines,
S.A. (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 466, 478 [“[S]imply parroting the language of [a
statute] in the complaint is insufficient to state a cause of action under the statute.”].)
1.         The FAC Does Not Allege Facts for Administrative
Exhaustion (FEHA Causes of Action).
Defendants
argue that Plaintiff’s first six causes of action do not sufficiently allege that
she exhausted her administrative remedies before bringing her FEHA claims.  (Demurrer at pp. 11-12.)
An
employee must file an administrative complaint with DFEH within one year after the
alleged unlawful action, and he or she must file suit within one year of a right-to-sue
letter.  (Govt. Code, §§ 12960, 12965, subd.
(b).)
Plaintiff
alleges that she “has satisfied Plaintiff’s administrative prerequisites with respect
to these and all related filings.”  (FAC ¶
12.)  This is a legal conclusion and does
not state facts showing that Plaintiff satisfied all requirements.
The
demurrer to the first six causes of action is sustained on this ground.
2.         The
FAC Does Not Allege Sufficient Facts About Plaintiff’s Protected Class (First, Second,
and Third Causes of Action).
Defendants
argue that the FAC lacks facts showing that Plaintiff was harmed because she was
a member of a protected class.  (Demurrer
at pp. 12-18.)
Plaintiff
alleges that she was discriminated against, harassed, and retaliated against due
to her “gender, sex, marital status, disability and/or medical condition, real or
perceived, and/or some combination of these protected characteristics.”  (FAC ¶¶ 43, 52, 63.)  Specifically, Plaintiff alleges that Defendant
Ponce, an employee of LAUSD, sexually harassed Plaintiff through comments and physical
contact, including “physically forc[ing] his body upon Plaintiff’s body, and rub[ing]
his genitals on Plaintiff’s body and press[ing] his torso onto Plaintiff’s body.”  (FAC ¶¶ 19-21.)  As a result, Plaintiff sought medical and mental
treatment for the trauma she experienced, and her “medical/mental condition affected
Plaintiff’s ability to engage in the life activity of working and constituted a
disability.”  (FAC ¶ 24.)  This sufficiently alleges a basis for her protected
status.  However, it does not allege facts
showing that Plaintiff suffered harm because of this status.
The
demurrer to the first three causes of action is sustained on this ground.
3.         The
FAC Does Not Allege Sufficient Facts for Discrimination and Retaliation (First and
Third Causes of Action).
Defendants
argue that there was no adverse employment action or causal nexus for discrimination
or retaliation.  (Demurrer at pp. 14-15, 17-18.)
To
establish a prima facie case of retaliation under FEHA, a plaintiff must show “(1)
he or she engaged in a ‘protected activity,’ (2) the employer subjected the employee
to an adverse employment action, and (3) a causal link existed between the protected
activity and the employer’s action.”  (Yanowitz
v. L’Oreal USA, Inc. (2005) 36 Cal.4th 1028, 1042.) 
Plaintiff
alleges that she reported Ponce’s harassment to her supervisor, “who was dismissive
of Plaintiff’s complaints and did not tell Plaintiff that he would speak with PONCE,
and nothing was done to stop the harassment, leading Plaintiff to believe PONCE
adopted and approved of Defendant PONCE’s actions towards Plaintiff.”  (FAC ¶ 22; see FAC ¶ 23.)  Because Defendants did not prevent further sexual
harassment, “Plaintiff could no longer tolerate the ongoing sexual harassment and
hostile work environment and was constructively terminated on or about February
23, 2022.”  (FAC ¶ 25.)  “Defendants discriminated and retaliated against
Plaintiff by creating a hostile work environment due to her complaints about sexual
harassment and for fostering an adverse employment action against Plaintiff by forcing
Plaintiff to work within an environment where Plaintiff’s harassment and discrimination
complaints to PEDROZA were ignored and Plaintiff was harassed by PONCE's acts of
staring at Plaintiff in a menacing and taunting manner and thereby constructively,
and wrongfully terminating Plaintiff.”  (FAC
¶ 26.)  These allegations of discrimination
and retaliation are conclusory and lack specific facts.
The
demurrer to the first and third causes of action is sustained on this ground.
4.         The FAC Does Not Allege Harassment by Defendant Pedroza (Second
Cause of Action).
Defendants
argue that Defendant Pedroza cannot be liable for harassment.  (Demurrer at pp. 16-17.)
Pedroza
was an employee of LAUSD and Plaintiff’s supervisor.  (FAC ¶¶ 5, 20, 22.)  Plaintiff reported her complaints of harassment
to Pedroza, who did not act on the complaints. 
(FAC ¶ 22.)
“A
supervisor who, without more, fails to take action to prevent sexual harassment
of an employee is not personally liable as an aider and abettor of the harasser,
an aider and abettor of the employer or an agent of the employer.  A supervisor does not aid and abet a harasser
by mere inaction.”  (Fiol v. Doellstedt
(1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 1318, 1331.)
The
demurrer to the second cause of action is sustained for Defendant Pedroza.
            5.         The
FAC Lacks Facts for Failure to Prevent (Fourth Cause of Action).
Failure to prevent discrimination, harassment, or retaliation
in violation of FEHA requires that (1) the plaintiff was an employee of defendant;
(2) the plaintiff was subjected to discrimination, harassment, or retaliation in
the course of employment; (3) the defendant failed to take all reasonable steps
to prevent the discrimination, harassment, or retaliation; (4) the plaintiff was
harmed, and (5) the defendant’s failure to take all reasonable steps to prevent
discrimination, harassment, or retaliation was a substantial factor in causing plaintiff’s
harm.  (CACI 2527; see Gov. Code, § 12940,
subd. (k).)
Because
the Court sustains the demurrer to the underlying causes of action for discrimination, harassment, or retaliation, the demurrer
to the fourth cause of action is also sustained.  (See Demurrer at pp. 18-19;
Trujillo v. North County Transit Dist. (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 280, 289.)
            6.         The
FAC Lacks Facts for Failure to Accommodate (Fifth and Sixth Causes of Action).
Defendants
argue that “Plaintiff provides a blanket statement that Defendants failed to properly
engage in a good faith interactive process but failed to pled facts what accommodations
Plaintiff requested from LAUSD.”  (Demurrer
at pp. 19-20.)
“The
essential elements of a failure to accommodate claim are: (1) the plaintiff has
a disability covered by the FEHA; (2) the plaintiff is a qualified individual (i.e.,
he or she can perform the essential functions of the position); and (3) the employer
failed to reasonably accommodate the plaintiff's disability.  [Citation]” 
(Cuiellette v. City of Los Angeles (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 757, 766.)  “Two principles underlie a cause of action for
failure to provide a reasonable accommodation. 
First, the employee must request an accommodation.  [Citation.] 
Second, the parties must engage in an interactive process regarding the requested
accommodation and, if the process fails, responsibility for the failure rests with
the party who failed to participate in good faith.  [Citation.] 
While a claim of failure to accommodate is independent of a cause of action
for failure to engage in an interactive dialogue, each necessarily implicates the
other.  [Citation.]”  (Moore v. Regents of University of California
(2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 216, 242.)
Plaintiff
alleges that she sought medical and mental treatment for the trauma she experienced.  (FAC ¶ 24.) 
“Because Employer Defendants provided no environment wherein Plaintiff would
not be subjected to further sexual harassment, personal safety threats and intimidation
by Defendant PONCE, Plaintiff could no longer tolerate the ongoing sexual harassment
and hostile work environment and was constructively terminated on or about February
23, 2022.”  (FAC ¶ 25.)  There are no further facts about Plaintiff’s requests
for accommodations.  (See FAC ¶¶ 77, 84.)
The
demurrer to the fifth and sixth causes of action is sustained.
B.        The FAC Does Not Sufficiently Allege a
Violation of the Ralph Act (Seventh Cause of Action).
The
Ralph Act provides, “All persons within the jurisdiction of this state have the
right to be free from any violence, or intimidation by threat of violence, committed
against their persons or property because of political affiliation, or on account
of any characteristic listed or defined in subdivision (b) or (e) of [Cvil Code]
Section 51, or position in a labor dispute, or because another person perceives
them to have one or more of those characteristics.”  (Civ. Code, § 51.7, subd. (b)(1).)  The statute is a “hate crimes” statute, and thus
it requires violence or a threat of violence. 
(Ramirez v. Wong (2010) 188 Cal.App.4th 1480, 1486.)  .)  “There
can be no ‘threat of violence’ without some expression of intent to injure or damage
plaintiffs or their property.”  (Ibid.)   “Under the Ralph Act, a plaintiff must establish
the defendant threatened or committed violent acts against the plaintiff or their
property, and a motivating reason for doing so was a prohibited discriminatory motive,
or that the defendant aided, incited, or conspired in the denial of a protected
right.”  (Gabrielle A. v. County of Orange
(2017) 10 Cal.App.5th 1268, 1291.)
Defendants
argue that Plaintiff does not allege “an act of physical ‘destructive’ violence.”  (Demurrer at p. 20.)  Plaintiff alleges that Defendant Ponce violated
the Ralph Act through his “violence, and/or intimidation by threats of violence
against their person on account of Plaintiff’s sex and/or gender.”  (FAC ¶ 90.) 
This included Ponce “repeatedly touch[ing] or hold[ing] Plaintiff’s hand
and press[ing] on Plaintiff’s fingers and other parts of her body,” and “physically
forc[ing] his body upon Plaintiff’s body, and rub[ing] his genitals on Plaintiff’s
body and press[ing] his torso onto Plaintiff’s body.”  (FAC ¶¶ 19-20.)  This sufficiently alleges violence that could
harm Plaintiff.  Defendants provide no authority
for a requirement of “physical ‘destructive’ violence.”  The demurrer is overruled on this ground.
Defendants
also argue that “Plaintiff has not, and cannot, sufficiently allege facts to show
that PONCE’s alleged actions because he was biased against or had an animus against
women.”  (Demurrer at p. 21.)  As discussed with the first three causes of action,
the FAC does not allege facts showing that Plaintiff suffered harm because of her
status.
The
demurrer to the seventh cause of action is sustained.
C.        The FAC Does Not Sufficiently Allege a
Violation of the Bane Act (Eighth Cause of Action).
The
Bane Act allows an individual to sue for damages if a person “interferes by threat,
intimidation, or coercion, or attempts to interfere by threat, intimidation, or
coercion, with the exercise or enjoyment by any individual or individuals of rights
secured by the Constitution or laws of the United States, or of the rights secured
by the Constitution or laws of this state . . .”¿¿(Civ. Code, § 52.1, subd. (b).)¿¿“‘The
essence of a Bane Act claim is that the defendant, by the specified improper means
(i.e., ‘threat[], intimidation or coercion’), tried to or did prevent the plaintiff
from doing something he or she had the right to do under the law or to force the
plaintiff to do something that he or she was not required to do under the law.’¿¿[Citation.]”¿¿(King
v. State of California¿(2015) 242 Cal.App.4th 265, 294.)  “The statutory framework of section 52.1 indicates
that the Legislature meant the statute to address interference with constitutional
rights involving more egregious conduct than mere negligence,” and “[t]he act of
interference with a constitutional right must itself be deliberate or spiteful.”  (Shoyoye v. County of Los Angeles (2012)
203 Cal.App.4th 947, 958-959.)
Defendants
argue that there are no factual allegations that Ponce prevented Plaintiff from
doing something she had a right to do under the law or forced her to do something
that she was not required to do under the law. 
(Demurrer at pp. 21-22.)
Plaintiff
alleges that she “had the right to lawful employment free from violence, threats
of violence and intimidation, as well as the right to report to their employer and/or
protest discriminatory and harassing conduct of Plaintiff based upon her sex and/or
gender, and in the peaceable exercise or enjoyment thereof to be free from interference
by threats, intimidation, or coercion, or attempts to interfere by threats, intimidation,
or coercion.”  (FAC ¶ 98.)  Defendant Ponce “repeatedly interfered with, or
attempted to interfere with Plaintiff’s peaceable exercise and enjoyment of said
rights by threats, intimidation, or coercion.” 
(FAC ¶ 99.)  This sufficiently alleges
Plaintiff’s rights and Ponce’s interference.
However,
for the reasons discussed above, Plaintiff does not sufficiently allege that any
wrongful conduct was due to Plaintiff’s protected status.  The demurrer to the eighth cause of action is
sustained on this ground.
D.        Failure to Permit Inspection of Records
(Ninth Cause of Action).
Defendants
argue that Plaintiff “failed to attach any exhibits that demonstrate she requested
copies of her personnel records,” and she “failed to allege, or attach any exhibits
to establish, she made any requests to the District’s Employee Relations Section.”  (Demurrer at pp. 22-23.)
Plaintiff
alleges that on March 31, 2022, she made a written request to inspect or receive
a copy of her personnel and payroll records from Defendants, but Defendants failed
and refused to permit Plaintiff’s inspection. 
(FAC ¶¶ 107-108.)  Plaintiff is not
required to include evidence with her complaint.
The
demurrer to the ninth cause of action is overruled.
CONCLUSION
The demurrer to the first through eighth causes
of action is SUSTAINED with 30 days’ leave to amend.
The
demurrer to the ninth cause of action is OVERRULED.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 15th day of August 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 