  Case Number:  22SMCV01860    Hearing Date:   August 5, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


August
  5, 2024




CASE NUMBER


22SMCV01860




MOTION


Motion
  for Summary Judgment/Adjudication




MOVING PARTIES


Defendants Morteza Farzadmehr; Shahla
  Farzadmehr Delijani; and Morteza Farzadmehr, as the Trustee of Progressive
  Trust




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff
  Noshin Khobian, as Trustee of JNK Family Trust  



 
MOVING PAPERS:
 

Notice
     of Motion and Motion for Summary Judgment/Adjudication; Memorandum of
     Points and Authorities
Declaration
     of Mohamad Ali Molai
Declaration
     of Morteza Farzadmehr
Declaration
     of Arsen Margossian
Declaration
     of Shahla Farzadmehr Delijani
Declaration
     of Afshin Farzadmehr
Declaration
     of Saul Reiss
Request
     for Judicial Notice
Notice
     of Lodging of Deposition Transcript
Deposition
     Transcript Changes
Separate
     Statement of Undisputed Material Facts 

 
OPPOSITION PAPERS:
 

Opposition to Motion for Summary
     Judgment/Adjudication; Memorandum of Points and Authorities
Declaration of Ali R. Moghaddami
Declaration of Charlie Tzeng
Declaration of Cyrus Azarmy
Declaration of Noshin Khobian
Declaration of Jacob Khobian
Separate Statement of Undisputed
     Material Facts 


 
REPLY PAPERS:
 

Reply
     to Plaintiff’s Opposition to Motion for Summary Judgment/Adjudication
Evidentiary
     Objections
Request
     for Judicial Notice

 
BACKGROUND
 
On October 14, 2022, Plaintiff Noshin Khobian as Trustee of JNK Family
Trust (“Plaintiff”) filed the verified complaint against Defendants Morteza
Farzadmehr, both individually and as Trustee of Progressive Trust, and Shahla
Farzadmehr Delijani (“Defendants”) alleging three causes of action for (1) negligence;
(2) nuisance; and (3) trespass.   
 
Defendants now move for summary judgment, or in the alternative,
adjudication, as to the following issues:
 
Issue No. 1: Summary Adjudication should be
granted as to the First Cause of Action of the Complaint for Negligence because
the claim is time barred.
 
Issue No. 2: Summary Adjudication should be
granted as to the Second Cause of Action of the Complaint for Nuisance because
the claim is time barred. 
 
Issue No. 3: Summary Adjudication should be
granted as to the Third Cause of Action of the Complaint for Trespass because
the claim is time barred. 
 
Issue No. 4: Summary Adjudication should be
granted as to the First Cause of Action of the Complaint for Negligence because
Defendants owed no duty to Plaintiff. 
 
Issue No. 5: Summary Adjudication should be
granted as to the Second Cause of Action of the Complaint for Nuisance because
Defendants did not create a nuisance. 
 
Issue No. 6: Summary Adjudication should be
granted as to the Third Cause of Action of the Complaint for Trespass because
Defendants did not trespass into Plaintiff’s property. 
 
Issue No. 7: Summary Adjudication should be
granted as to the First Cause of Action of the Complaint for Negligence because
the claim is barred by the doctrines of laches and unclean hands. 
 
Issue No. 8: Summary Adjudication should be
granted as to the Second Cause of Action of the Complaint for Nuisance because
the claim is barred by the doctrines of laches and unclean hands. 
 
Issue No. 9: Summary Adjudication should be
granted as to the Third Cause of Action of the Complaint for Trespass because
the claim is barred by the doctrines of laches and unclean hands.
 
            Plaintiff opposes the motion and
Defendants reply.
 
REQUESTS FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
In connection with the motion, Plaintiff requests judicial notice of the
following:
 
Exhibit 1: Grant Deed, Instrument Number
20100064168
 
Exhibit 2: Verified Complaint filed in
this action
 
Exhibit 3: Grant Deed Instrument Number 01
1201991
 
Exhibit 4: Defendants’ Verified Answer to
Plaintiff’s Verified Complaint
 
Exhibit 5: Plaintiff’s Ex Parte
Application for Mandatory Injunction
 
Exhibit 6: Minute Order, dated March 6,
2023
 
Exhibit 7: Minute Order, dated March 14,
2023
 
Exhibit 8: Minute Order dated February 2,
2023
 
Regarding Exhibits 2, 4, 5, 6, 7, and 8, Judicial notice may be taken of records of any court in this State.  (Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d)(1).)  Because the requested documents are part of
the Court’s record for this case, the Court may take judicial notice of them.  (Ibid.)   However, “while courts are free to take
judicial notice of the existence of each document in a court file, including
the truth of results reached, they may not take judicial notice of the truth of
hearsay statements in decisions and court files.  Courts may not take judicial notice of
allegations in affidavits, declarations and probation reports in court records
because such matters are reasonably subject to dispute and therefore require
formal proof.”  (Lockley v. Law Office
of Cantrell, Green, Pekich, Cruz & McCort (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 875,
882 [cleaned up].)  Accordingly, the
Court takes judicial notice of the existence of Plaintiff’s Ex Parte
Application for Mandatory Injunction, the Verified Complaint and Verified
Answer filed in this matter as a court record, but not the truth of the
allegations contained therein.  The Court
may, however, consider the allegations of the verified pleadings as
evidence.  Similarly, the Court takes
judicial notice of the Minute Orders, and the truth of the results reached
therein.  
 
Regarding Exhibits 1 and 3,
Courts can take judicial notice of the existence and recordation of real
property records, including deeds, if authenticity is not reasonably
disputed.  (Fontenot v. Wells Fargo
Bank, N.A. (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 256, 264-65.)  “The official act of recordation and the
common use of a notary public in the execution of such documents assure their
reliability, and the maintenance of the documents in the recorder’s office
makes their existence and text capable of ready confirmation, thereby placing
such documents beyond reasonable dispute.” 
(Ibid.)  Moreover, courts
can take judicial notice not only of the existence and recordation of recorded
documents but also matters that can be deduced from the documents, including
the parties, dates, and legal consequences of recorded documents relating to
real estate transactions.  (Ibid.)  
 
Therefore, the Court similarly
takes judicial notice of Exhibits 1 and 3.
 
In connection with the reply, Defendants
requests judicial notice of the following:
 
Exhibit 9: The search result
of Charles Tzeng on the Department of Consumer Affairs’ website
 
Exhibit 10: The search result
of Charles Tzeng on the Department of Consumer Affairs’ website
 
Exhibit 11: The search result
conducted on the Department of Consumer Affairs’ website as to the requirements
for becoming a licensed structural engineer.
 
The Court does not generally consider reply evidence, as it deprives
the opposing party of a fair opportunity to respond.  (San Diego Watercrafts, Inc. v. Wells
Fargo Bank, N.A. (2002) 102 Cal.App.4th 308, 316 [“Where a remedy as
drastic as summary judgment is involved, due process requires a party be fully
advised of the issues to be addressed and be given adequate notice of what
facts it must rebut in order to prevail”]; see also Wall Street Network Ltd.
v. New York Times Co. (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 1171.)  
 
            Therefore, the Court does not take
judicial notice of Exhibits 9, 10, or 11.
 
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS 
 
A.   
DECLARATION OF NOSHIN KHOBIAN
 
·      
Paragraph 7, 3:19-20:             Sustained –
Foundation
·      
Paragraph 7, 3:20-22:             Sustained –
Foundation
·      
Paragraph 7, Exhibit 17:         Sustained – Relevance
·      
Paragraph 8:                            Sustained
– Foundation/Inadmissible Hearsay
·      
Paragraph 10:                          Overruled
·      
Paragraph 11:                          Sustained
– Relevance
·      
Paragraph 14, 4:24-5:2:          Sustained – Foundation
·      
Paragraph 14, 5:5-8:               Sustained - 
Foundation
·      
Paragraph 15:                          Overruled
·      
Paragraph 17:                          Overruled
·      
Paragraph 18:                          Sustained
- Foundation
 
B.   
DECLARATION OF JACOB KHOBIAN
 
·      
Paragraph 3:                            Sustained
– Foundation/Declaration is incomplete.  
·      
Paragraph 4:                            Sustained
– Foundation
 
C.   
DECLARATION OF CYRUS AZARAMY 
 
·      
Paragraph 7:                            Sustained
– D’Amico v. Board of Med. Examiners[1] 
 
D.   
DECLARATION OF CHARLIE TZENG
 
·      
Entire Declaration:                 Sustained – Relevance/Immaterial to the issues                                                  raised
by the moving parties.
E.   
DECLARATION OF ALI R. MOGHADDAMI
 
·      
Entire Declaration:                 Overruled
·      
Paragraph 5:                            Sustained
– Foundation
·      
Paragraph 6:                            Sustained
- Foundation
·      
Paragraph 7:                            Sustained
- Foundation
·      
Paragraph 9:                            Sustained
- Foundation
·      
Paragraph 10:                          Sustained
– Foundation
·      
Paragraph 12:                          Sustained
– Foundation/Inadmissible Hearsay
·      
Paragraph 13:                          Sustained
– Foundation/Relevance
·      
Paragraph 15:                          Sustained
- Foundation
·      
Paragraph 16, 3:7                    Sustained – Inadmissible Hearsay
·      
Paragraph 16, 3:9-10:             Sustained - Relevance
·      
Paragraph 19:                          Sustained
- Foundation
·      
Paragraph 21:                          Sustained
- Foundation
·      
Paragraph 22:                          Sustained
- Foundation
·      
Paragraph 24:                          Sustained
- Foundation
·      
Paragraph 25:                          Sustained
- Foundation
 
LEGAL STANDARDS – MOTION FOR SUMMARY
JUDGMENT/ADJUDICATION
 
“[T]he party moving for
summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue
of material fact and that he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law[.]
There is a triable issue of material fact if, and only if, the evidence would
allow a reasonable trier of fact to find the underlying fact in favor of the
party opposing the motion in accordance with the applicable standard of proof.”
¿(Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850
(hereafter Aguilar).) ¿“[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears an
initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence
of any triable issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of production,
he causes a shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a burden of
production of his own to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a
triable issue of material fact.” ¿(Ibid.; Smith v. Wells Fargo Bank,
N.A. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 1463, 1474 [summary judgment standards held by Aguilar
apply to summary adjudication motions].)  
 
Further, “the trial court
may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a factfinder to determine whose
version is more likely true.  Nor may the
trial court grant summary judgment based on the court's evaluation of credibility.”  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th. at p. 840
[cleaned up]; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of Transportation
(2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or
summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the
light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences
in favor of that party”].)  
 
A party may move for
summary adjudication as to one or more causes of action, affirmative defenses,
claims for damages, or issues of duty if that party contends that there is no
merit to the cause of action, defense, or claim for damages, or if the party
contends that there is no duty owed.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).)  “A motion for summary adjudication shall be
granted only if it completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative
defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty.”  (Ibid.)  A cause of action has no merit if: (1) one or
more elements of the cause of action cannot be separately established, even if
that element is separately pleaded, or (2) a defendant establishes an
affirmative defense to that cause of action. 
(See Code Civ. Proc., §
437c, subd. (n); Union Bank v. Superior
Court (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 573, 583.) 
Once the defendant has shown that a cause of action has no merit, the
burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable issue of material fact
exists as to that cause of action.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (o)(2); Union Bank v. Superior Court, supra, 31 Cal.App.4th at p.
583.)  Additionally, in line with Aguilar,
“[o]n a motion for summary adjudication, the trial court has no discretion to
exercise.  If a triable issue of material fact exists as to the challenged
causes of action, the motion must be denied. If there is no triable issue of
fact, the motion must be granted.”  (Fisherman's Wharf Bay Cruise Corp.
v. Superior Court (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 309, 320.) 
 
DISCUSSION

 
1.     ISSUE 1-3: STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS
 
The statute of limitations for
“[a]n action for trespass upon or injury to real property” is three years.  (Civ. Code, § 338, subd. (b).)  All three of Plaintiff’s causes of action for
negligence, nuisance, and trespass, allege damage to Plaintiff’s property.  Therefore, the statute of limitations for all
three causes of action is three years.
 
Defendants’ Evidence
 
In support of their argument
that the 3-year statute of limitations has lapsed, Defendants point to the
verified complaint, which provides “Plaintiff first noticed damage to the
retaining wall and the tree roots raising the driveway blocks sometime in or
about March 2010.”  (Complaint at ¶ 17.)  Yet Plaintiff did not file the instant
lawsuit until twelve and a half years later, on October 14, 2022.
 
This issue previously addressed
on a  demurrer, where Plaintiff argued
that the alleged trespass and nuisance was continuing, as opposed to permanent,
such that the statute of limitations does not bar the claims.  The Court explained:
 
“Whether a trespass or nuisance claim for an
encroachment is barred by the statute of limitations turns on whether the
encroachment is continuing or permanent. For permanent encroachments, the
three-year statute of limitations begins to run on the date the encroachment
began, and bars all claims brought after its passage. For continuing
encroachments, a plaintiff may assert a claim even if the encroachment began
outside the limitations period, but is limited to recovering damages incurred
in the preceding three-year period.” (Madani v. Rabinowitz (2020) 45
Cal.App.5th 602, 605.) Courts consider several factors in determining whether
an encroachment is continuing or permanent: [W]hen deciding whether a trespass
or nuisance is permanent or continuing, previously considered whether the
circumstances of a structure’s construction “indicate an intention that the
trespass shall be permanent” (Kafka v. Bozio (1923) 191 Cal. 746, 750) and
whether a trespass or nuisance's “impact may vary over time.” (Field-Escandon v.
DeMann (1988) 204 Cal.App.3d 228, 234.) More recently, however, our Supreme
Court acknowledged the “‘crucial test of the permanency of a trespass or
nuisance is whether the trespass or nuisance can be discontinued or abated.’
[Citation].” (Mangini, supra, 12 Cal.4th at p. 1097.) Under this test,
sometimes referred to as the “abatability test” (see, e.g., Beck, supra, 44
Cal.App.4th at p. 1220), a trespass or nuisance is continuing if it “can be
remedied at a reasonable cost by reasonable means.” (Mangini, supra, 12 Cal.4th
at p. 1103.) (Id. at 608-609.)
 
(Minute Order, Feb. 2, 2023 at pp.
2-3.)  
 
            The
Court further explained, “Where a nuisance is of such character that it will
presumably continue indefinitely it is considered permanent, and the
limitations period runs from the time the nuisance is created.  […] On the other hand, if the nuisance may be
discontinued at any time it is considered continuing in character.”  (Minute Order, Feb. 2, 2023 at p. 3 [quoting Phillipsi
v. Pasadena (1945) 27 Cal.2d 104, 107.) 

 
            Applying
the law to the Verified Complaint, the Court noted:
 
Plaintiff’s Complaint alleges continuing and
worsening damage from the encroachment of Defendants trees which can be abated
at any time through the removal or maintenance of Defendants’ trees. (See
Complaint at ¶17 [alleging roots “caused extensive damage to plaintiff’s
property and caused a raised crack in the foundation of plaintiff’s house
leading to multiple raised and uneven cracks with the interior walls and floor
of Plaintiff’s house”]; ¶¶26-27 [alleging Plaintiff’s property has and will
continue to be damaged by the encroachment]; ¶31 [alleging “ongoing damages”];
¶32 [alleging “damages to the main structure will continue to worsen and
increase”]; ¶40 [alleging the roots will “grow and expand and further damage
Plaintiff’[sic] Property”; ¶¶30, 44 [alleging encroachment could be abated with
removal and maintenance of the trees].)
 
(Minute
Order, Feb. 2, 2023 at p. 3.) 
 
Ultimately, the Court held that “Whether an encroachment is continuing
or permanent is a question of fact, not law” and, construing the allegations of
the Verified Complaint most favorably to Plaintiff, determined that it could
not sustain the demurrer on the grounds that the statute of limitations barred
the claims.  (Ibid.)  
 
            Defendants contend that while the
Court was required to accept as true the allegations of the Complaint on
demurrer that the Ficus tree was a “boundary line tree” or was on Defendants’
property, such that the nature of the harm was a continuing nuisance, as
opposed to a permanent trespass, the evidence demonstrates the Ficus tree
belongs to Plaintiff and is completely on Plaintiff’s property.  (UMF Nos. 13-14, 42, 55-59, 81-83, 87-91, 95.)
 
            However, Defendants’ arguments go to
the merits of the claim, not whether the tree’s interference with Plaintiff’s
property was continuing, as opposed to permanent, in nature.  As such, Defendants have not met their burdens
of production and persuasion that the interference with Plaintiff’s property
was permanent, as opposed to continuing.
 
            Therefore, the Court denies summary adjudication
as to Issues 1-3.
 
2.      ISSUE 4-6:
WHETHER THE CAUSES OF ACTON FOR NEGLIGENCE, NUISANCE OR TRESPASS ARE
MERITORIOUS  
 
Defendants argue that they owed
no duty to Plaintiff, did not create a nuisance, and did not commit trespass,
because the trunk of the Ficus tree sits entirely on Plaintiff’s property, 611
North Camden Avenue, not Defendants’ property, and the only portion of Ficus the
tree on Defendants’ property are portions of the roots and branches that have
encroached upon Defendants’ property.   
 
Further, Defendants contend that
they owed no duty to Plaintiff, did not create a nuisance and did not commit
trespass, because contend that no other trees, including the Eugenia Tress,
caused or contributed to the alleged damage to Plaintiff’s property.  
 
In short, Defendants assert
that there is no merit to Plaintiff’s first, second or third causes of action.
 
Defendants’ Evidence
 
In support, Defendants have
produced the declaration of Mohamad Ali Molai, a professional land surveyor who
prepared a topographic survey of Defendants’ property.  (Molai Decl. ¶¶ 2-6.)  Mr. Molai declares, “As indicated in my Survey
(Exhibit A), the trunk of the subject Ficus tree is located entirely on 611 N.
Camden Drive.  Although certain roots and
branches of the Ficus tree had crossed the property line, the trunk of the tree
was entirely located on 611 N. Camden Drive.” 
(Molai Decl. ¶ 7.)  611 N. Camden
Drive is Plaintiff’s property.  (See
Verified Complaint ¶ 2.)  
 
Defendants have also produced
the declaration of Arsen Margossian, a Certified Consulting Arborist, who
conducted a tree assessment on Defendants’ property.  (Margossian Decl. ¶¶ 2-6.)  Margossian’s report indicates:
 
1/ According to the provided survey plan, the
wrought iron fence is located exactly on the property line and the five feet
tall brick columns between each section of the wrought iron fence are
completely on the abutting property, at 611 N. Camden Dr. The subject tree, a
mature multi-stem Weeping Fig (Ficus benjamina) tree, has been planted at the
center of the brick column, to which is anchored a steel gate that gives access
to the south side yard of the property. Over time, as the tree grew, some of
its stems and buttresses encroached onto the 609 N. Camden Dr. The reason for
that encroachment is the fact that toward the 609 N. Camden Dr., the stems
could grow into the wrought iron fence, while on the opposite side, the
concrete walkway has prevented that. I should also confirm that on the 609 N.
Camden Dr., roots of this Weeping Fig tree have reached into the narrow planter
along the north side of the drive way, past the gate.
 
[…]
 
-Over the 609 N. Camden Dr., the branches reach a
distance of 27 feet. 
-And toward the northwest side, or the 611 N.
Camden Dr., all the branches have been cut close to the wrought iron fence. 
 
I also observed the presence of another Weeping
Fig tree, at the opposite side of the house front, planted by the brick column
to which is anchored the steel gate that gives access to the north side yard.
And because that tree is very close to a mature American Sweetgum (Liquidambar
styraciflua) tree, and a hedgerow of mature Indian Laurel Fig (Ficus
macrocarpa) trees, both of which are known to have invasive root systems, that
Weeping Fig tree has not grown like the other one and its main crown has even
been cut down sometime in the past.
 
2/ As for the hedgerow past the gate on the north
side of the 609 N. Camden Dr. driveway, it consists of Brush Cherry (Eugenia
Spp.) trees, planted at various distances, but averaging about 16-18 inches
apart. The smallest of these trees has a DBH of two inches, and the biggest has
a DBH of 14 inches. But the majority average between five to seven inches DBH.
These trees are not known to have aggressive roots like the Fig and Sweetgum
trees. The masonry wall on the north side of these trees consists of an old
section in the middle, and newer ones at both ends. The section of this old
wall which starts opposite the first Brush Cherry tree, is slightly tilted
toward the north side, and various cracks are observed quite high from the soil
surface grade. It appears that a good section of this old wall has failed
sometime in the past, and the masonry blocks have been put back in place, using
rough mortar. Without excavating and without a masonry report which can assess
accurately the structural integrity of the old wall, my professional opinion is
that damage to the old wall is not from the Brush Cherry trees.
 
(Ex.
A to Margossian Decl.)
 
            Thus,
Defendants have met their initial burdens of production and persuasion that
they owed no duty to maintain the tree or abate the nuisance, and that they did
not commit trespass, because the Ficus tree sits entirely on Plaintiff’s
property, except for the roots and branches that have encroached upon
Defendants’ property.  
 
            Further,
Defendants have proffered evidence including Margossian’s report to establish
that the Eugenia Trees are not causing damage to Plaintiff’s property.  (See UMFs 102, 163, 164, 177, 238, 239, 252, 313,
314.)  
 
            Plaintiff’s
Evidence
 
            Plaintiff
produces the testimony and report of Cyrus Azarmy, a professional land surveyor,
who indicates, “The trunk and roots of the Ficus tree are partially located in
each property, but the majority of it is on the 611 Camden Drive
property.”  (Azarmy Decl. ¶ 7.)  
 
            But
Azarmy’s statement as set forth in paragraph 7 of his declaration:  “are partially located in each property” is
not competent evidence.  (See Evidentiary
Objections, fn. 1 above.)  
 
            But
even if Azarmy’s statement is competent evidence, Plaintiff has not satisfied her
burden of creating a triable issue of material fact.  That the “trunk and roots” of the Ficus tree
“are partially located in each property, but the majority of it is on”
Plaintiff’s property is consistent with Defendants’ expert evidence that the
trunk is located entirely on Plaintiff’s property, and some of the roots and
branches have encroached upon Defendants’ property.
 
            In
addition, concerning UMFs 105, 158, 159, 160, 167, 180,
233, 234, 235, 242, 255, 308, 309, 310 and 317, Plaintiff failed to raised
triable issues of material fact because Plaintiff failed to support the purported
disputes concerning such UMFs with either competent evidence (see Evidentiary
Objections vis-à-vis Plaintiff’s Opposition Separate Statement regarding UMFs
105, 158, 159, 160, 167, 180, 233, 234, 235, 242, 255, 308, 309, 310 and 317),
or evidence that substantiates the disputes. 
In particular, the Court finds Exhibit A to Margossian’s Declaration and
the Deposition Testimony of Plaintiff, 14:12-25, do not support Plaintiff’s
contentions that the UMFs are in dispute. 

 
            In
addition, Plaintiff has not advanced any other competent evidence to counter
Defendants’ evidence in support of UMFs 102, 163, 164, 177, 238, 239, 252, 313,
314 that none of the trees, including the Eugenia Trees, located on Defendants’
property caused any damage to Plaintiff’s property.  (See Evidentiary Objections vis-à-vis Plaintiff’s
Opposition Separate Statement regarding UMFs 102, 163, 164, 177, 238, 239, 252,
313, 314.)  And the only “verified” assertions
in this regard are made on information and belief:
 
12. Additionally, Plaintiff is informed and
believes, and thereon alleges, that there are roughly 22 additional trees
Syzigium Paniculatum or Eugenia trees (Hereinafter “Eugenia Trees”) on the
defendants’ property which have caused major damage to Plaintiff
retaining/border wall, separating the wall from its foundation, causing the
wall to dangerously lean onto plaintiff's property, creating an imminent risk
of harm and peril to any pedestrian 9 walking along the side this wall.
 
(Verified Complaint at ¶ 12.)  But Plaintiff’s assertions as set forth
in paragraph 12 of the complaint have no probative value.  (See, e.g., Long Beach Unified School
Dist. v. Margaret Williams, LLC (2019) 43 Cal.App.5th 87, 105, fn. 9
[affidavits on information and belief lack probative value and are permitted
only when the facts to be established are incapable of positive
averment].)  
 
Therefore, the Court grants
summary adjudication as to Issues 4, 5 and 6.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
The Court grants in part and denies in part Defendants’ Motion for
Summary Adjudication.  
 
Finding Defendants failed to meet their burdens of production and
persuasion to demonstrate that the harm caused by the tree was permanent, as
opposed to continuous, the Court denies summary adjudication as to Issues 1, 2,
and 3.  
 
Finding Defendants met their burden to demonstrate that the trunk of
the Ficus tree sits entirely on Plaintiff’s property, and none of the other
trees, including the Eugenia Trees, on Defendants’ property caused or
contributed damage to Plaintiff’s property, and finding Plaintiff has not
created any triable issues of material fact, the Court grants summary
adjudication as to Issues 4, 5 and 6.  
 
Because the Court grants summary adjudication as to Issues 4, 5, and
6, the Court need not address Issues 7, 8 or 9 of Defendants’ Motion for
Summary Adjudication.  Further, because
the Court denied summary adjudication as to Issues 1, 2 and 3, the Court denies
Defendants’ Motion for Summary Judgment.[2]  
 
Defendants shall prepare and file a proposed Order in conformity with
the Court’s ruling on or before August 19, 2024.   
 
Defendants shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file the
notice with a proof of service forthwith.   
 
 
 
DATED:  August 5, 2024                                                       ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court


