 Case Number:  24SMCV00527    Hearing Date:   August 5, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


June 12, 2024, continued to August 5, 2024




CASE NUMBER


24SMCV00527




MOTION


Demurrer




MOVING PARTY


Defendant Alex Borden, Personal Representative of the
  Estate of Mark Jarmus, deceased




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff RMO LLP



 
BACKGROUND
 
This case arises from a dispute concerning unpaid legal fees for
services rendered to and at the behest of now-deceased Mark Jarmus, as Trustee
of the Leslie Jarmus Family Trust.  
 
From January 25, 2017 through October 10, 2022, Plaintiff RMO LLP (“Plaintiff”)
provided legal representation to Mark Jarmus as Successor Trustee of the Leslie
Jarmus Family Trust in litigation involving Mark Jarmus’s administration of the
trust, which is still currently pending -- Los Angeles Superior Court Case No.
BP173009 (“Leslie Jarmus Trust Matter”). 
(Compl. ¶¶ 1, 10.)  That case also
involves claims against Mark Jarmus in his individual capacity, stemming from
allegations that he took funds from the Trust in bad faith.  (Compl. ¶ 13.)  Plaintiff has since withdrawn as counsel in
that matter.  (Compl. ¶ 24.)
 
Plaintiff alleges substantial legal fees were incurred that remain
outstanding.  (Compl. ¶ 1.)  On February 3, 2023, Mark Jarmus (“Jarmus”)
died.  (Compl. ¶¶ 3, 26.)  On July 26, 2023, Plaintiff filed a creditor
claim in the probate matter of Mark Jarmus’s estate, seeking the outstanding
legal fees.  On February 5, 2024,
Plaintiff filed this action against Mark Jarmus’ estate alleging one cause of
action for “failure to approve creditor’s claim.”
 
Defendant Alex Borden, Personal Representative of the Estate of Mark
Jarmus, deceased (“Defendant”) demurs to the complaint on the grounds that this
Court lacks jurisdiction, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure, section 430.10,
subdivision (a); that there is another action pending between the same parties
on the same causes of action, pursuant to subdivision (c); that there is a
defect or misjoinder of parties, pursuant to subdivision (d); that it fails to
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action, pursuant to subdivision
(e); and that it is uncertain, pursuant to subdivision (f).
 
Plaintiff opposes the demurrer and Defendant replies.
 
MEET
AND CONFER REQUIREMENT
 
            Code of Civil Procedure section
430.41, subdivision (a) requires that “Before filing a demurrer pursuant to
this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by
telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for
the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would
resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.”  
 
The statute further requires “As part of the meet and confer process,
the demurring party shall identify all of the specific causes of action that it
believes are subject to demurrer and identify with legal support the basis of
the deficiencies.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41, subd. (a)(1).)  “The party who
filed the complaint, cross-complaint, or answer shall provide legal support for
its position that the pleading is legally sufficient or, in the alternative,
how the complaint, cross-complaint, or answer could be amended to cure any
legal insufficiency.”  (Ibid.)
 
“The parties shall meet and confer at least five days before the date
the responsive pleading is due.  (Code
Civ. Proc. § 430.41, subd. (a)(2).)  “The
demurring party shall file and serve with the demurrer a declaration stating
either” the means by which the parties met and conferred, or that the party who
filed the pleading subject to demurrer failed to respond to the meet and confer
request.  (Id., subd.
(a)(3).)  
 
            At the initial hearing, the Court
found that the parties had not adequately met and conferred on all grounds for
the demurrer prior to filing, and therefore continued the hearing to allow the
parties to meet and confer and file a declaration regarding their meet and
confer efforts.  According to the joint
declaration filed on July 24, 2024, the parties have since met and conferred
telephonically and determined that the issues required a decision by the Court.
 
            Therefore, the Court finds that the
parties have satisfied their meet and confer obligations.
 
REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
            Defendant requests judicial notice
of the following:
 
·      
Exhibit “A”: Case Summary/Register of Actions
for the proceeding entitled In the Matter of Leslie Jarmus Family Trust, dated
June 4, 2009 (LASC Case No. BP173009) (“Trust Proceeding”).
 
·      
Exhibit “B”: The Third and Final Account and
Report of Trustee and Petition for Settlement Thereof and Petition for Order
Approving Attorneys’ Fees and Costs Advanced; Declaration of Scott E. Rahn in
Support Thereof, filed on January 14, 2022, in the Trust Proceeding.
 
·      
Exhibit “C”: The Second Account Current and
Report of Former Trustee and Petition for Settlement Thereof and Petition for
Order Approving Anticipated Attorneys’ Fees in Association With The Instant
Petition, filed on February 7, 2022, in the Trust Proceeding.
 
·      
Exhibit “D”: The Petition for Order Directing
Payment of Attorneys’ Fees and Confirming RMO LLP’s Interest in Trust Assets,
filed on July 26, 2023, in the Trust Proceeding.
 
Judicial notice may be taken
of records of any court in this state. 
(Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d)(1).) 
Because the above documents are part of court records for Leslie
Jarmus Trust Matter, Case No. BP173009,
the Court may take judicial notice of them. 
(Ibid.)   However, “while courts are free to take
judicial notice of the existence of each document in a court file, including
the truth of results reached, they may not take judicial notice of the truth of
hearsay statements in decisions and court files.  Courts may not take judicial notice of
allegations in affidavits, declarations and probation reports in court records
because such matters are reasonably subject to dispute and therefore require
formal proof.”  (Lockley v. Law Office
of Cantrell, Green, Pekich, Cruz & McCort (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 875,
882 [cleaned up].)  
 
Accordingly, the Court takes
judicial notice of the existence of exhibits as court records, but not the
truth of the hearsay statements contained therein.
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.     DEMURRER
 
“It is black letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of
the allegations in a complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015)
235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In testing the sufficiency of a cause of
action, a court accepts “[a]s true all material facts properly pled and matters
which may be judicially noticed but disregard contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.  [A court
also gives] the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole
and its parts in their context.”  (290
Division (EAT), LLC v. City & County of San Francisco (2022) 86
Cal.App.5th 439, 450 [cleaned up]; Hacker v. Homeward Residential, Inc.
(2018) 26 Cal.App.5th 270, 280 [“in considering the merits of a demurrer,
however, “the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however
improbable they may be”].)
 
Further, in ruling on a demurrer, a court must “liberally construe”
the allegations of the complaint “with a view to substantial justice between
the parties.”  (See Code Civ. Proc., §
452.)  “This rule of liberal construction
means that the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not
the defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)   
 
In summary, “[d]etermining whether the complaint is sufficient as
against the demurrer on the ground that it does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action, the rule is that if on consideration of all the
facts stated it appears the plaintiff is entitled to any relief at the hands of
the court against the defendants the complaint will be held good although the
facts may not be clearly stated, or may be intermingled with a statement of
other facts irrelevant to the cause of action shown, or although the plaintiff
may demand relief to which he is not entitled under the facts alleged.”  (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193
Cal.App.2d 636, 639.)
 
A.   
UNCERTAINTY
& FAILURE TO STATE A CAUSE OF ACTION
 
“[D]emurrers for uncertainty are disfavored.”  (Lickiss v. Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority (2012) 208 Cal.App.4th 1125, 1135.)  A demurrer for uncertainty will be sustained
only where the pleading is so bad that the responding party cannot reasonably
respond - i.e., he or she cannot reasonably determine what issues must be
admitted or denied, or what claims are directed against him or her.  (Khoury v. Maly’s of California (1993)
14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)  Where a
demurrer is made upon the ground of uncertainty, the demurrer must distinctly
specify exactly how or why the pleading is uncertain, and where such
uncertainty appears by reference to page and line numbers.  (See Fenton v. Groveland Comm. Services
Dist. (1982) 135 Cal.App.3d 797, 809.) 

 
Defendant first contends that the Complaint is uncertain and fails to
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action because “Failure to
Approve Creditor’s Claim” is not a viable cause of action.  
 
Probate Code section 9351 provides:  “An action may not be commenced against a
decedent’s personal representative on a cause of action against the decedent
unless a claim is first filed as provided in this part and the claim is
rejected in whole or in part.  (Prob.
Code, § 9351.)  Thus, Plaintiff contends
this lawsuit is proper because Plaintiff submitted the creditor’s claim and
Defendant failed to timely act on it, giving it the same legal effect as a
rejection under Probate Code section 9256. 
But Section 9351 is a legal prerequisite to bringing a cause of action; it
does not provide a legal basis for a cognizable cause of action.  
 
Defendant also argues that, at its heart, this appears to be a breach
of contract case stemming from the retainer agreement between Mark Jamus as
Trustee and RMO, and is therefore not properly brought against Borden as
personal representative of Mark Jamus’ estate. 
In opposition, Plaintiff points out that a trustee may be personally
liable for obligations arising from his ownership or control of the trust
property if the trustee is personally at fault. 
(Prob. Code, § 18001.)  
 
While it is clear that Plaintiff seeks to hold Defendant liable on the
grounds that Mark Jarmus is personally liable for failing to pay RMO’s legal
fees from the Trust fund, it is ultimately unclear exactly what underlying cause
of action or legal theory should be attributed to Mark Jarmus personally.  Defendant guesses that it may be breach of
contract, but it could also be any number of other potential legal
theories.  Defendant and the Court cannot
be left to guess Plaintiff’s underlying theor(ies) of liability.   
 
Therefore, because neither Defendant nor the Court cannot reasonably discern
what specific cause(s) of action are directed against Defendant, the Court sustains
the demurrer for uncertainty.[1]
 
B.   
EXCLUSIVE
CONCURRENT JURISDICTION
 
“The rule of exclusive concurrent jurisdiction provides that when two
or more courts have subject matter jurisdiction over a dispute, the court that
first asserts jurisdiction assumes it to the exclusion of the others.”  (Lofton v. Wells Fargo Home Mortgage
(2014) 230 Cal.App.4th 1050, 1062.)  It
does not matter if the parties or remedies sought are not exactly the same; it
is sufficient “that the issue in both actions is the same and arises out of the
same transaction or events.”  (County
of Siskiyou v. Superior Court (2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 83, 89.)
 
Exclusive concurrent jurisdiction “should be raised by demurrer where
the issue appears on the face of the complaint and by answer where factual
issues must be resolved.”  (People ex
rel. Garamendi v. American Autoplan, Inc. (1993) 20 Cal.App.4th 760,
771.)  If raised by answer, “the party
asserting the application of the rule may obtain a trial court ruling on the
issue by a motion to dismiss or abate or a motion for summary judgment.”  (Ibid.)
 
Further, Probate Code section 17000, subdivision (b) provides, “The
superior court having jurisdiction over the trust pursuant to this part has
concurrent jurisdiction over the following: […] (3) Other actions and
proceedings involving trustees and third persons.”
 
Here, the crux of Plaintiff’s complaint is that Mark Jarmus is
personally liable for failing to pay RMO’s legal fees out of the Trust funds as
the trustee.  Plaintiff argues in
opposition that because this Complaint seeks to recover against Mark Jarmus
personally, as opposed to recovering from the Trust, it is not another action
or proceeding involving the trustee and a third person.
 
The Court disagrees.  Mark
Jarmus was the trustee, and although Plaintiff seeks to hold him personally
liable (via his estate), the action arose from his actions and omissions conducted
in his role as trustee.  Whether Mark
Jarmus is ultimately liable as trustee, such that the Trust must pay RMO’s
legal fees, as alleged in the Trust Matter, or personally liable, such that his
estate must pay RMO’s legal fees, as alleged in this matter, both actions
clearly arise from the same underlying act (failing to pay RMO’s legal fees on
behalf of the Trust).  As such, this
action involves the trustee and third persons, and as such, the earlier filed Trust
Matter has jurisdiction.  
 
Therefore, the Court also sustains Defendant’s demurrer on the grounds
that this Court lacks jurisdiction over the dispute. 
 
2.    
LEAVE TO AMEND
 
A plaintiff has the burden of showing in what
manner the complaint could be amended and how the amendment would change the
legal effect of the complaint, i.e., state a cause of action. (See The
Inland Oversight Committee v. City of San Bernardino (2018) 27 Cal.App.5th
771, 779; PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v. Hulven Int'l, Inc. (2017)
14 Cal.App.5th 156, 189.) A plaintiff must not only state the legal basis for
the amendment, but also the factual allegations sufficient to state a cause of
action or claim. (See PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v. Hulven Int'l, Inc.,
supra, 14 Cal.App.5th at p. 189.)  Moreover,
a plaintiff does not meet his or her burden by merely stating in the opposition
to a demurrer or motion to strike that “if the Court finds the operative
complaint deficient, plaintiff respectfully requests leave to amend.” (See Major
Clients Agency v Diemer (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1116, 1133; Graham v. Bank
of America (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 594, 618 [asserting an abstract right to
amend does not satisfy the burden].)
 
Here, Plaintiff does not indicate any facts that could be added to
the Complaint to cure the deficiencies identified above.  Although the uncertainty as to what specific
cause of action Plaintiff seeks to assert could potentially be cured by
amendment, Plaintiff could not cure the jurisdictional issue by way of
amendment.  
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
            Therefore, because the Complaint is
uncertain, and because this Court lacks jurisdiction, the Court sustains
Defendant’s demurrer without leave to amend. 

 
            Defendant shall prepare and file a
proposed Order and Judgment of Dismissal on or before August 26, 2024.  Further, on the Court’s own motion, the Court
vacates the Case Management Conference set on September 25, 2024, and sets an
Order to Show Cause re Entry of Order and Judgment (Demurrer) on September 25,
2024 at 8:30 A.M. in Department 207.  No
appearance will be necessary if the Judgment is entered beforehand.  
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file the
notice with a proof of service forthwith. 

 
 
DATED:  August 5, 2024                                                       ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court


