  Case Number:  23CHCV02040    Hearing Date:   February 20, 2024    Dept:  F51 Dept. F-51¿¿ 
Date: 2/20/24 
Case #23CHCV02040
 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH VALLEY DISTRICT
DEPARTMENT F-51
 

FEBRUARY 16, 2024
 

DEMURRER

Los Angeles Superior Court Case
# 23CHCV02040

¿ 
Demurrer Filed: 10/2/23
¿ 
MOVING PARTY: Defendants Prince Hospitality, LLC, dba
Homewood Suites Santa Clarita; and Lawrence Barr (collectively, “Defendants”)
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff
Alicia Johnson (“Plaintiff”)
NOTICE: OK
¿ 
RELIEF REQUESTED: Defendants
demur against Plaintiff’s entire complaint.
¿ 
TENTATIVE RULING: The demurrer is overruled as to Plaintiff’s first, third,
fourth, and fifth causes of action, and sustained as to Plaintiff’s second and
sixth causes of action with 30 days leave to amend.
 
BACKGROUND¿ 
 
This is wrongful
eviction action in which Plaintiff alleges that she, “her two minor children,
and one adult child have resided at 28700 Newhall Ranch Rd., Room 103, Santa
Clarita, CA 91355 (hereinafter, ‘the unit’) for more than eighteen (18) months.”
(Compl. ¶ 8.) Defendant Prince Hospitality LLC owns and operates the subject
property, and defendant Lawrence Barr is employed by Prince Hospitality. (Id.
at ¶¶ 3–4, 7.) Plaintiff alleges that on 6/16/23 and 6/22/23, she was
unlawfully locked out of her unit, with her personal property removed
therefrom. (Id. at ¶¶ 9–17.) 
 
On 7/13/23,
Plaintiff filed her complaint against Defendants, alleging the following causes
of action: (1) Landlord Self Help; (2) Breach of Implied Covenant of Quiet
Enjoyment; (3) Wrongful/Constructive Eviction; (4) Conversion; (5) Negligent
Infliction of Emotional Distress; and (6) Intentional Infliction of Emotional
Distress.
 
On 10/2/23,
Defendants filed the instant demurrer to Plaintiff’s complaint. On 2/6/23, Plaintiff
filed her opposition. On 2/13/24, Defendants filed their reply.[1]
ANALYSIS
 
As a general matter, a party may respond to a pleading
against it by demurrer on the basis of any single or combination of eight
enumerated grounds, including that “the pleading does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action” and is uncertain, meaning
“ambiguous and unintelligible.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subds. (e) and
(f).) In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the
pleading or via proper judicial notice.¿(Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co.
(2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)¿
 
“A demurrer tests the pleading alone, and not the evidence
or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Servs.
(2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes the truth of the
complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Ibid.) The
only issue a demurrer is concerned with is whether the complaint, as it stands,
states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th
740, 747.) 
 
Here, Defendants
demur to Plaintiff’s entire complaint on the basis that Plaintiff fails to
allege facts to constitute any of the causes of action contained therein,
therefore the complaint is fatally uncertain.
 
1.      Meet
and Confer
 
Before filing its demurrer, “the demurring party shall meet
and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that
is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can
be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.”
(Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41, subd. (a).) The demurring party must file and
serve a meet and confer declaration stating either: “(A) The means by which the
demurring party met and conferred with the party who filed the pleading subject
to demurrer, and that the parties did not reach an agreement resolving the
objections raised in the demurrer;” or “(B) That the party who filed the
pleading subject to demurrer failed to respond to the meet and confer request
of the demurring party or otherwise failed to meet and confer in good faith.” (Id.
at subd. (a)(3).)
 
Here, Defendants’ counsel declares that on 9/14/23, he and Plaintiff’s
counsel met and conferred telephonically to discuss the issues raised in the
instant demurrer, but the parties were unable to come to an informal resolution.
(Decl. of Matthew Arnold ¶ 2.) Accordingly, the Court finds that counsel has satisfied
the preliminary meet and confer requirements of Code of Civil Procedure section
430.41, subdivision (a).
 
2.      Landlord
Self Help
 
Plaintiff’s first cause of action
alleges against Defendants Landlord Self Help in violation of Civil Code
section 789.3. “A landlord shall not, with intent to terminate the occupancy
under any lease or other tenancy or estate at will, however created, of
property used by a tenant as his or her residence, willfully: (1) Prevent
the tenant from gaining reasonable access to the property by changing the locks
or using a bootlock or by any other similar method or device; (2) Remove
outside doors or windows; or (3) Remove from the premises the tenant’s
personal property, the furnishings, or any other items without the prior
written consent of the tenant, except when done pursuant to the procedure set
forth in Chapter 5 (commencing with Section 1980) of Title 5 of Part 4 of
Division 3.” (Civ. Code § 789.3, subd. (b).)
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, California landlord-tenant laws do not apply to tenants who
maintain an occupancy at a hotel or motel where the innkeeper retains a right
of access to and control of the dwelling unit, and offers all of the following
services to all of the residents: facilities for safeguarding of personal
property; central telephone service; maid, mail, and room services; occupancy
for periods of less than 7 days; and food service provided by a food
establishment that is located on or adjacent to the premises of the hotel or
motel and that is owned or operated by the innkeeper or the innkeeper's lessee
or affiliate. (Civ. Code § 1940, subd. (b)(2).)
 
Here, Plaintiff alleges that “Defendants
have willfully prevented Plaintiff from gaining reasonable access to the unit
through their actions, including but not limited to deactivating Plaintiff’s
key card and removing Plaintiff’s personal property from the unit. … Defendants
took said actions with the intent to illegally terminate Plaintiff’s tenancy,
as prohibited by Civil Code Section 789.3, and without resorting to the
unlawful detainer process available under California law.” (Compl. ¶¶ 19–20.)
Plaintiff further alleges that she “has suffered and continues to suffer
general damages, emotional harm, and economic loss, all to her general and
special damages in an amount to be proven at trial, but no less than $100,000.”
(Id. at ¶ 22.)
 
Defendants argue on demurrer that
the subject property is a hotel and not an apartment, therefore Plaintiff
cannot invoke the protections of the relevant landlord-tenant laws. Defendants therefore
contend that “Plaintiff’s Complaint fails where Defendants[’] alleged Self-help
violation is not actionable.” (Dem. 4:12–13.) “Plaintiff states that she is a
tenant of the property and should be judged under tenant/landlord statutes when
she should in fact be judged under guest/innkeeper laws.” (Id. at 1:3–5.)
Defendants further contend that “Plaintiff currently owes Defendants in excess
of $20,000.” (Id. at 1:10.)
 
Plaintiff argues in opposition that
“Defendants misconstrue the standard for a demurrer throughout the Memo,
staking their claims on extrinsic facts not currently before the Court.
Defendants attempt to make much of the allegation that Plaintiff owes a balance
of unpaid fees. But Defendants have not answered or asserted counterclaims; no
such balance is pleaded in Plaintiff’s complaint, so it has no bearing on
Defendants’ Demurrer.” (Pl.’s Opp. 2:7–11.) “Additionally, an exemption based
on Section 1940(b)(2) of the Civil Code (“Section 1940(b)(2)”) requires a
factual analysis of the services allegedly provided by the Defendants.
Plaintiff’s Complaint does not admit that such services were provided; Section
1940(b)(2) therefore does not provide Defendants with a ground for demurrer.” (Id.
at 4:14–17.)
 
The Court agrees with Plaintiff,
and notes that at the demurrer stage, its analysis is limited to the facts as
alleged in the complaint and matters judicially noticeable. Here, neither party
has submitted a request for judicial notice. (Cal Rules of Ct., rule
3.1113(l).) Furthermore, as Plaintiff observes, nowhere in her complaint does
she allege that Defendants operate as a hotel within the definition of Civil
Code section 1940, subdivision (b)(2) so as to exempt the parties from
landlord-tenant laws. The Court notes that Defendants concede that Plaintiff “carefully
avoids acknowledging that she was in a hotel and not an apartment.” (Dem. 2:1.)
 
The Court therefore declines
Defendants’ invitation to consider extrinsic facts improper for determination
at the demurrer stage. Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiff
has sufficiently alleged a landlord-tenant relationship between the parties,
and that Defendants engaged in self-help in violation of Civil Code section
789.3. Accordingly, the demurrer to Plaintiff’s first cause of action is
overruled.
 
3.      Breach
of Implied Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment
 
Plaintiff’s
second cause of action alleges against Defendants a Breach of the Implied
Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment. The elements of a claim for breach of the covenant
of quiet enjoyment are: (1) a lease agreement between plaintiff and defendant;
(2) absence of language contrary to the implied covenant that tenant shall have
quiet enjoyment and possession; (3) act or omission of the landlord, or anyone
claiming under the landlord, which “substantially interfere[s] with a
tenant[’]s right to use and enjoy the premises for the purposes contemplated by
the tenancy”; and (4) an applicable remedy. (Andrews v. Mobile Aire Estates
(2005) 125 Cal.App.4th 578, 588–591.)
 
Here,
Plaintiff alleges that “through the actions described above, including but not
limited to locking Plaintiff out of the subject premises, Defendants have
violated Plaintiff’s right to quiet enjoyment. … As a direct and proximate
result of Defendants’ conduct detailed herein, Plaintiff has suffered and
continues to suffer general damages, emotional harm, and economic loss, all to
her general and special damages in an amount to be proven at trial, but no less
than $100,000.” (Compl. ¶¶ 26–27.)
 
Defendants
argue that “Plaintiff’s allegations are insufficient because this cause of
action applies to landlord-tenant relationships only.” (Dem. 5:27–28.) As the
Court notes above, Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged that she was a tenant at
Defendants’ property. However, upon review of the complaint, the Court notes
that Plaintiff fails to allege any lease agreement between the parties, let
alone the absence of language contrary to the implied covenant of quiet
enjoyment. (Andrews, 125 Cal.App.4th at 588–591.) Based on the
foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiff has not alleged facts sufficient to constitute
a cause of action for Breach of Implied Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment against
Defendants. Accordingly, the demurrer against Plaintiff’s second cause of
action is sustained.
 
4.      Wrongful/Constructive
Eviction
 
Plaintiff’s
third cause of action alleges against Defendants Wrongful/Constructive Eviction.
“California recognizes the tort of wrongful eviction. … A tenant who is
wrongfully evicted by his landlord before the expiration of the lease term may
maintain a wrongful eviction action for tort damages and punitive damages, if
appropriate.” (Nativi v. Deutsche Bank National Trust Co. (2014) 223
Cal.App.4th 261, 293–294.) A cause of action of action for wrongful eviction
requires a showing of two elements: (1) plaintiff’s peaceable possession; and
(2) defendants’ forcible entry. (Spinks v. Equity Residential Briarwood
Apartments (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1004, 1039.) Additionally, “an essential
element of a wrongful eviction claim is that the tenant has vacated the
premises.” (Ginsberg v. Gamson (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 873, 900.)
 
Here,
Plaintiff alleges that she has resided at the subject property for over 18
months, and that “on or about June 16, 2023, Defendants wrongfully evicted
Plaintiff by deactivating her key card and removing her personal property from
the unit.” (Compl. ¶¶ 8, 30.) As of 6/22/23, “Plaintiff was unable to gain
access to the unit.” (Id. at ¶ 17.)
 
Defendants
argue that “California courts have long recognized that hotel guests do not
have a possessory interest in their hotel rooms.” (Dem. 6:12–13, citing Erwin
v. City of San Diego (1952) 112 Cal.App.2d 213, 217.) The Court again notes
that this argument relies on facts not properly before this Court at the
demurrer stage. Here, the Court is satisfied that the above factual allegations
satisfy the requisite elements of a tort cause of action for Wrongful Eviction.
Accordingly, the demurrer against Plaintiff’s third cause of action is
overruled.
 
5.      Conversion
 
Plaintiff’s
fourth cause of action alleges against Defendants Conversion. “Conversion is
generally described as the wrongful exercise of dominion over the personal
property of another.” (Fremont Indemnity Co. v. Fremont General Corp.
(2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119.) “The elements of a conversion claim are: (1)
the plaintiff’s ownership or right to possession of the property; (2) the
defendant’s conversion by a wrongful act or disposition of property rights; and
(3) damages.” (Lee v. Hanley (2015) 61 Cal.4th 1225, 1240.)
 
Here,
Plaintiff alleges that “Defendants, willfully and without the consent of
Plaintiff, deprived Plaintiff of the possession and prevented her from
accessing said [personal] property by removing it from the unit and storing it
in an unknown location under the exclusive control of Defendants.” (Compl. ¶
35.) “As a direct and proximate result of Defendants’ conduct complained of
herein, Plaintiff has suffered and continues to suffer general and special
damages in an amount to be proven at trial, but no less than $10,000.” (Id. at
¶ 36.)
 
Defendants
argue that Plaintiff “was a hotel guest not a tenant, and therefore she has no
right to store her property in an unpaid hotel room if she is not going to pay
the daily room charges owed. When the hotel staff finally cleaned the room
after plaintiff had not been to the room in over two weeks, the hotel staff
finally entering the unit in June 2023 and removed her few personal items to a
secure and safe storage unit, consistent with the duties as an innkeeper.” (Dem.
7:21–25.) Defendants further contend that “Plaintiff cannot allege any
cognizable damages. Ms. Johnson’s few personal items were moved to a secure
location on the property for her to pick up. She was able (and is still able)
to pick up those items whenever she wished.” (Id. at 7:26–28.)
 
The Court
again finds that Defendants’ arguments rely on extrinsic facts improper for
determination at the demurrer stage. Here, as shown above, Plaintiff has sufficiently
alleged that she has suffered damages resulting from Defendants’ removal of her
personal property from the unit. Accordingly, the demurrer against Plaintiff’s
fourth cause of action is overruled.
 
6.      Negligent
Infliction of Emotional Distress
 
Plaintiff’s
fifth cause of action alleges against Defendants Negligent Infliction of
Emotional Distress. “The negligent causing of emotional distress is not an
independent tort, but the tort of negligence. The traditional elements of duty,
breach of duty, causation, and damages apply. Whether a defendant owes a duty
of care is a question of law.” (Spates v. Dameron Hosp. Ass’n (2003) 114
Cal.App.4th 208, 213.)
 
Here,
Plaintiff alleges that “Defendants owed a duty to Plaintiff to not interfere
with the tenancy in her peaceable possession. Defendants breached that duty [by
locking her out of her unit and removing her personal property] and as a
foreseeable, direct and proximate result, Plaintiff suffered mental and
emotional anguish.” (Compl. ¶¶ 10–17, 39.) On demurrer, Defendants again rely
on facts extrinsic to the four corners of Plaintiff’s complaint and any matters
judicially noticeable to attack the merits of Plaintiff’s allegations rather
than the factual sufficiency of the complaint itself. Based on the foregoing
factual allegations, the Court finds that Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged a cause
of action for Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress against Defendants.
Accordingly, the demurrer to Plaintiff’s fifth cause of action is overruled.
 
7.      Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress
 
Plaintiff’s
sixth cause of action alleges against Defendants Intentional Infliction of
Emotional Distress. “The elements of a prima facie case for the tort of
intentional infliction of emotional distress are: (1) extreme and outrageous
conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of
the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff’s suffering
severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate causation of
the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous conduct. Conduct to be
outrageous must be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated
in a civilized community.” (Wilson v. Hynek (2012) 207 Cal.App.4th 999,
1009.) A mere allegation that a plaintiff suffered severe emotional distress,
without facts indicating the nature or extent of any mental suffering incurred because
of the defendant's alleged outrageous conduct, does not state a cause of action
for intentional infliction of emotional distress. (Pitman v. City of Oakland
(1988) 197 Cal.App.3d 1037, 1047–1048.)
 
Here,
Plaintiff alleges that Defendants’ conduct in unlawfully locking her out of her
unit on two separate occasions and removing her personal property from the unit
was “intentional and malicious and were done for the purpose of causing the
Plaintiff to suffer mental anguish and emotional and physical distress. Alternatively,
Defendants’ acts and/or omissions were recklessly done without regard for
Plaintiff’s well-being.” (Compl. ¶ 42.) “As a direct and proximate result of
Defendants’ conduct detailed herein, Plaintiff has suffered and continues to
suffer general damages, emotional harm, and economic loss, all to her general
and special damages in an amount to be proven at trial, but no less than
$100,000.” (Id. at ¶ 43.)
 
Defendants
argue that “the allegations amount to the normal course of business for a
Hotel, in removing a patron that has not paid any hotel charges for months, has
not even been to the room in weeks, and is committing a felony each day she
accumulates another day’s charges and then proceeding to rent the room to a
paying customer.” (Dem. 9:17–20.) Defendants further argue that Plaintiff has
failed to allege severe emotional distress resulting from Defendants’ conduct.
(Id. at 9:26.) 
 
The Court
again notes that Defendants’ arguments rely on extrinsic facts improper for
determination at the demurrer stage. Nevertheless, upon review of the
complaint, the Court finds that Plaintiff has not alleged that she suffered
severe emotional distress resulting from Defendants’ conduct, let alone the
nature and extent of such severe emotional distress. Based on the foregoing,
the Court finds that Plaintiff has not alleged facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action for Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress against
Defendants. Accordingly, the demurrer is sustained as to Plaintiff’s sixth
cause of action.
 
8.      Unclean
Hands
 
The unclean
hands defense “demands that a plaintiff act fairly in the matter for which he
seeks a remedy. He must come into court with clean hands, and keep them clean,
or he will be denied relief, regardless of the merits of his claim. … Any
conduct that violates conscience, or good faith, or other equitable standards
of conduct is sufficient cause to invoke the doctrine.” (Kendall-Jackson
Winery, Ltd. v. Superior Court (1999) 76 Cal.App.4th 970, 978–979.) “Whether
the doctrine of unclean hands applies is a question of fact.” (Id. at
978.)
 
Here, Defendants
argue that the Court should sustain their demurrer based on the unclean hands
doctrine because “here there is no question that Plaintiff’s own felonious
conduct in defrauding the hotel of room charges relates directly to the
transaction upon which Plaintiff’s claim is based. Her refusal to pay the room
charges – a felony under California law – prevents her as a matter of law from
bring any claims against the hotel sounding in legal, equitable or tort.” (Dem.
11:15–18.)
 
The Court
notes that Defendants’ argument once again relies on facts outside the ambit of
the instant demurrer. As the Court declines to make any factual determinations
at the demurrer stage, the demurrer is overruled on this ground.
 
9.      Employee
Liability
 
Finally, Defendants
argue that Plaintiffs do not allege any liability against defendant Lawrence
Barr in his personal capacity. (Dem. 11:26–27, “Other than alleging acts by the
Hotel, the Complaint does not allege anything that Barr did or did not do that
was outside the scope of his employment as a manager of the Hotel.”)
 
However, upon
review of the complaint, the Court finds it sufficient that Plaintiff has
alleged that she “is informed, believes, and alleges that each of the
Defendants were at all times mentioned the owner, partner, and/or agent of each
of the remaining co-Defendants. Each Defendant did or failed to do the things
alleged, with the permission and consent of each other co-Defendants and acted
in the course and scope of such agency and/or employment.” (Compl. ¶ 6.) The
Court further observes that each cause of action is directed at both
Defendants.
 
Based on
the foregoing, the Court denies Defendants’ request to dismiss Barr from the
instant action at the demurrer stage.
 
10.  Uncertainty
 
Generally
speaking, “demurrers for uncertainty are disfavored and thus are strictly
construed because ambiguities can reasonably be clarified under modern rules of
discovery. Such demurrers are granted only if the pleading is so
incomprehensible that defendant cannot reasonably respond.” (Cal.Jur.3d § 137.)
“Where the complaint contains substantive factual allegations sufficiently
apprising defendant of the issues it is being asked to meet, a demurrer for
uncertainty should be overruled or plaintiff given leave to amend.” (Williams
v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (2011) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139 fn.2.)
 
Here,
Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s complaint is uncertain pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (f). In applying the stringent
standard for demurrers filed on this ground, the Court finds that the complaint
is not “so incomprehensible” that Defendants cannot respond, especially given
the extensive analysis they have argued against the pleading. Accordingly, the
demurrer is overruled on this ground.
 
11.  Leave
to Amend
 
Where a
demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be allowed where there is a
reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy
(1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is on the plaintiff to show the court
that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Ibid.; Lewis v.
YouTube, LLC (2015) 244 Cal.App.4th 118, 226.) However, “[i]f there is any
reasonable possibility that the plaintiff can state a good cause of action, it
is error to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend.” (Youngman v. Nevada
Irrigation Dist. (1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245).
 
Here,
Plaintiff asserts that “if the court finds any of Defendants’ arguments have
merit, Ms. Johnson should be granted leave to amend her Complaint, her claims
have a clear basis in the facts of this case and should be adjudicated
according to the evidence.” (Pl.’s Opp. 10:28–11:2.) The Court further notes
that this is the first demurrer heard against Plaintiff’s original complaint.
Accordingly, under the Court’s liberal policy of granting leave to amend, the
Court grants Plaintiff 30 days leave to amend her complaint to cure the defects
set forth above. Plaintiff is cautioned that “following an order sustaining a
demurrer … with leave to amend, the plaintiff may amend his or her complaint
only as authorized by the court's order. … The plaintiff may not amend the
complaint to add a new cause of action without having obtained permission to do
so, unless the new cause of action is within the scope of the order granting
leave to amend.” (Zakk v. Diesel (2019) 33 Cal.App.5th 431, 456.)
 
CONCLUSION¿ 
 
The demurrer is overruled
as to Plaintiff’s first, third, fourth, and fifth causes of action, and
sustained as to Plaintiff’s second and sixth causes of action with 30 days
leave to amend.


