 Case Number:  23CHCV02619    Hearing Date:   February 20, 2024    Dept:  F51 Dept. F-51¿¿ 
Date: 2/20/24 
Case #23CHCV02619
 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH VALLEY DISTRICT
DEPARTMENT F-51
 

FEBRUARY 16, 2024
 

MOTION TO STRIKE

Los Angeles Superior Court Case
# 23CHCV02619

¿ 
Motion Filed: 10/20/23
¿ 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant S&S Worldwide, Inc.
(“Moving Defendant”)
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiffs
Anne Hawley and William Hawley, individually and as Successors in Interest to
Decedent, Christopher Hawley (collectively, “Plaintiffs”)
NOTICE: OK
¿ 
RELIEF REQUESTED: Moving
Defendant moves to strike references relating to punitive damages and attorney
fees from Plaintiffs’ complaint.
¿ 
TENTATIVE RULING: The motion to strike is denied as to Plaintiffs’ references
to punitive damages and granted as to Plaintiffs’ prayer for attorney fees with
30 days leave to amend.
 
BACKGROUND¿ 
 
This is a wrongful
death action wherein Plaintiffs are the parents of decedent Christopher Hawley
(“Decedent”). Plaintiffs allege that on 6/23/22, Decedent visited Six Flags
Magic Mountain amusement park, located at 26101 Magic Mountain Parkway in
Valencia, California, and rode the X2 rollercoaster, after which he sustained a
brain injury resulting in his death. (Compl. ¶¶ 1, 24–32.) Plaintiffs allege
that Moving Defendant “owns the design for fourth dimension rollercoasters.” (Id.
at ¶ 11.)
 
On 8/30/23,
Plaintiffs filed their complaint, alleging against seven named defendants the
following causes of action: (1) Strict Liability – Design Defect; (2) Strict
Liability – Failure to Warn; (3) Negligent Product Design; (4) Negligent
Failure to Warn; (5) Negligence; and (6) Premises Liability. All causes of
action other than the sixth are alleged against Moving Defendant.
 
On 10/20/23,
Moving Defendant filed the instant motion to strike. On 2/5/24, Plaintiffs
filed their opposition. On 2/9/24, Moving Defendant filed its reply.
ANALYSIS
 
The court may, upon a motion, or at any
time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436,
subd. (a).) The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn
or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order
of the court. (Id., § 436, subd. (b).) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the
face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Id., § 437.)
 
A.    Meet
and Confer
 
“Before
filing a motion to strike pursuant to this chapter, the moving party shall meet
and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that
is subject to the motion to strike for the purpose of determining if an
agreement can be reached that resolves the objections to be raised in the
motion to strike.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 435.5, subd. (a).)
 
Here, Moving Defendant’s counsel declares that she and
Plaintiffs’ counsel met and conferred telephonically regarding the issues
raised in the instant demurrer, but the parties were unable to come to a
resolution. (Decl. of Gina Bazaz ¶¶ 4–7.) Therefore, the Court finds
that counsel has satisfied the preliminary meet and confer requirements of Code
of Civil Procedure section 435.5, subdivision (a).
 
B.     Punitive
Damages
 
Punitive
damages may be recovered upon a proper showing of malice, fraud, or oppression
by clear and convincing evidence. (Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (a).) “Malice” is
defined as conduct intended to cause injury to a person or despicable conduct
carried on with a willful and conscious disregard for the rights or safety of
others. (Id. at subd. (c); Turman v. Turning Point of Cent. Cal.,
Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63.) “Oppression” means despicable conduct
subjecting a person to cruel and unjust hardship, in conscious disregard of the
person’s rights. (Ibid.) “Fraud” is an intentional misrepresentation,
deceit, or concealment of a material fact known by defendant, with intent to
deprive a person of property, rights or otherwise cause injury. (Ibid.)
 
1.     
Malice, Fraud, or Oppression
 
Punitive
damages must be supported by factual allegations. Conclusory allegations,
devoid of any factual assertions, are insufficient to support a conclusion that
parties acted with oppression, fraud or malice. (Smith v. Superior Court
(1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1033, 1042; Anschutz Entertainment Group, Inc. v.
Snepp (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 598, 643.)
 
In the
complaint, Plaintiffs allege that “Defendants, and each of them, knew, and at
various times reported to state safety authorities, numerous prior injuries
caused by the normal and intended operation of X and X2 including, but not
limited to, severe back, spine, neck, and head injuries, as well as traumatic
brain injuries. Plaintiffs are informed and believe, and thereon allege, that
Defendants, and each of them, have been involved in prior litigation involving
such injuries.” (Compl. ¶ 33.) Plaintiffs further allege that “despite this
knowledge, said Defendants consciously disregarded these known and appreciated
risks and instead made the conscious, knowing, and informed decision not to
redesign X2, putting park profits over the safety of their paying customers.” (Id.
at ¶ 47.)
 
Here,
Moving Defendant argues that “besides using the terms ‘malice, oppression or
fraud,’ there is not a single factual allegation that would support the claim
of any wrongful or despicable conduct by S&S.” (MTS 7:8–10.) Moving
Defendant further contends that “there is a distinction between the duty of
care that Magic Mountain owes to X2 passengers, in contrast to the duty of care
S&S owes to X2 passengers, arising from the re-design of component parts
for the roller coaster. Yet, Plaintiffs' allegations in the Complaint
deliberately blur these lines.” (MTS 10:6–9.) “No specific facts are alleged
establishing how or why S&S’ conduct was oppressive, fraudulent or
malicious. On the contrary, Plaintiffs regurgitate the same allegations against
S&S as if it were the entity charged with operating the roller coaster.” (Id.
at 11:13–16.)
 
In
opposition, Plaintiffs argue that they have sufficiently met the pleading
standard for punitive damages because the “Complaint asserts that S&S, the
entity responsible for the design of the roller coaster that caused Mr.
Hawley’s fatal injuries, put profits over people by failing to redesign X2 or
otherwise address the countless, publicly-posted concerns and complaints by
prior X2 passengers regarding the very safety issues that resulted in Mr.
Hawley’s death.” (Pls.’ Opp. 11:3–6, citing Compl. ¶¶ 11, 23, 33–35, 47, 60,
71, 87, 97, and 108.)
 
On reply,
Moving Defendant reasserts that “the allegations do not furnish S&S with
certain definite charges, but make general assertions that S&S is under the
same duty of care as Magic Mountain, even though there is not a single
allegation that S&S ‘operates’ the X2 rollercoaster.” (Def.’s Reply 2:17–19.)
“Plaintiffs have not alleged that S&S had any control or the ability to
control the roller coaster after it was sold to Magic Mountain.” (Id. at
2:21–23.)
 
The Court
finds that here, at the pleading stage, it is sufficient that Plaintiffs direct
their factual allegations against all Defendants, in support of their prayer
for punitive damages. Moreover, the factual allegations, as pled, sufficiently constitute
a basis for punitive damages against Defendants based on malice or oppression. At
the pleading stage, the Court declines to make factual determinations regarding
the alleged duty owed to Decedent by each separate defendant, or the chronology
of each defendant’s alleged acts.
 
Based on
the foregoing, the Court finds that at this stage, Moving Defendant’s alleged
conduct as pled may be considered malicious and oppressive as defined by Civil
Code section 3294. Further investigation of the merits of Plaintiff’s
allegations may be resolved through the discovery process.
 
2.     
Employer Liability
 
“An
employer shall not be liable for [punitive] damages … based upon acts of an
employee of the employer, unless the employer had advance knowledge of the
unfitness of the employee and employed him or her with a conscious disregard of
the rights or safety of others or authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct
for which the damages are awarded or was personally guilty of oppression,
fraud, or malice. With respect to a corporate employer, the advance knowledge
and conscious disregard, authorization, ratification or act of oppression,
fraud, or malice must be on the part of an officer, director, or managing agent
of the corporation.” (Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (b).)
 
Throughout
the complaint, Plaintiffs allege that “the aforementioned acts were committed
by Defendants, and each of them, by and through their respective officers,
directors, managing agents, agents and/or representatives and/or were known to,
aided, abetted, authorized by, ratified by and/or otherwise approved by their
respective officers, directors, managing agents and/or representatives.”
(Compl. ¶¶ 46, 59, 70, 86, 96, 107.)
 
Here, Moving
Defendant further argues that “there are no allegations that any S&S
officer, director or managing agent authorized or ratified any type of
oppressive, fraudulent or malicious conduct regarding the re-design of the
trains for the X2 roller coaster back in May 2008. Without these specific
factual allegations, Plaintiffs are not entitled to punitive damages.” (MTS 9:21–24.)
“The Complaint is ambiguous and fails to allege that the injuries purportedly
suffered by Plaintiffs were committed by any officer, director or managing
agent of S&S.” (Id. at 13:24–26.)
 
In
opposition, Plaintiffs argue that Moving Defendant “attempts to create a
pleading requirement that Plaintiffs need not meet.” (Pls.’ Opp. 6:23.) The
Court agrees. As Plaintiffs observe, “Plaintiffs need not include the level of
detail that S&S believes is required. Through discovery, Plaintiffs will be
able to identify the specific names of the S&S officers, directors,
managing agents, or other corporate decisionmakers.” (Id. at 13:13–15.)
 
Based on
the foregoing, the Court finds that at this stage, Plaintiff has sufficiently
alleged that Moving Defendant ratified/approved of the allegedly wrongful
conduct by its agents. The Court again notes that further investigation of the
merits of Plaintiff’s allegations may be resolved through the discovery process.
Accordingly, the Court denies Moving Defendant’s motion to strike portions of
Plaintiffs’ complaint referencing punitive damages.
 
C.    Attorney
Fees
 
An award of
attorney fees is proper when authorized by contract, statute, or law. (Code
Civ. Proc. §§ 1032, subd. (b); 1033.5, subd. (a)(10).) Here, Plaintiffs pray “for
attorneys’ fees, to the extent allowed by law.” (Compl. 23:5.) Moving Defendant
argues that “Plaintiffs do not make any reference to a contract or statutory
framework that would support attorneys’ fees.” (MTS 7:15–16.)
 
Plaintiffs
argue in opposition that “even where a complaint is silent on the statutory or
contractual basis for the recovery of attorneys’ fees, courts are ‘not required
to strike the prayer [for fees] before [plaintiff] has had a full opportunity
to determine, through discovery, whether a basis for recovery exists.’” (Pls.’
Opp.14:23–26, quoting Camenisch v. Superior Ct. (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th
1689, 1699.) Plaintiffs reiterate that here, “Plaintiffs’ Complaint makes
abundantly clear that they intend to pursue attorney fees only “’to the extent
allowed by law,’” therefore “striking Plaintiffs’ conditional prayer for
attorney fees now is premature and not required.” (Id. at 15:12–13; 15:17.)
Plaintiffs contend that “there are multiple contracts which will likely wind up
at issue in this matter.” (15:5–6.)
 
Based on
the foregoing, the Court agrees with Moving Defendant that Plaintiffs have not
sufficiently alleged a basis for the recovery of attorney fees in their
complaint. To the extent that Plaintiffs contend that there exist contractual
or statutory bases for the recovery of attorney fees, those allegations are not
stated in the complaint. Accordingly, the motion to strike page 23, line 5, paragraph
j from Plaintiffs’ complaint is granted. 
 
D.    Leave
to Amend
 
“If a
motion to strike is granted pursuant to Section 436, the court may order that
an amendment or amended pleading be filed upon terms it deems proper.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 472a, subd. (d).) As in the case of a sustained demurrer, a judge
should grant leave to amend if the defect is presumably curable and the pleader
has not been afforded a previous opportunity to amend. (Courtesy Ambulance
Service v. Superior Court (1992) 8 Cal.App.4th 1504, 1519 fn.12.)
 
Here, the
Court notes that this is the first motion to strike heard by this Court against
Plaintiffs’ original complaint. Accordingly, under the Court’s liberal policy
of granting leave to amend, the Court grants Plaintiffs 30 days leave to amend
their complaint to cure the defects set forth above.
 
CONCLUSION¿ 
 
The motion to
strike is denied as to Plaintiffs’ references to punitive damages and granted
as to Plaintiffs’ prayer for attorney fees with 30 days leave to amend.