 Case Number:  21STCV13451    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2023    Dept:  29 Tentative
The
Court determines that the settlement between Plaintiff and Thomas Slater dba
Atomic Concrete Pumping is in good faith under Code of Civil Procedure section
877.6.


Background
This case arises out of an alleged incident outside
a Kaiser facility on De Soto Avenue in Woodland Hills, California on November
14, 2019. Plaintiff Katheryn Heukrodt (“Plaintiff”) alleges that she was
walking next to a construction or demolition or repair project “when an
unexpected powerful explosion occurred.” (Complaint, ¶ 4.) “The blast force was
so powerful so as to cause plaintiff’s body and person to be struck by material
propelled by the force of the blast throwing the plaintiff through the air
causing plaintiff’s body to come to very abrupt and forceful stop when it
struck the cement sidewalk.” (Ibid.)
On April 8, 2021, Plaintiff filed the complaint
asserting one cause of action for negligence and one cause of action for “res
ipso loquitor” against Defendants Kaiser Foundation Hospitals; Kaiser
Foundation Hospital Woodland Hills California; McCarthy Building Company, Inc.;
Doe Cement Pumping Company; Doe Subcontractor; and Does 1-200.
McCarthy Building Companies, Inc. (erroneously
sued as McCarthy Building Company, Inc.) (“McCarthy”) and Kaiser Foundation
Hospitals (“Kaiser”) each filed an answer on August 25, 2021. The same day,
McCarthy and Kaiser each filed a cross-complaint against Harris Concrete
Pumping; Dustin C. Harris; Atomic Concrete Pumping; Thomas R. Slater; and Roes
1-50. McCarthy and Kaiser each submitted a First Amended Cross-Complaint on April
28, 2022.
On January 10, 2022, Thomas Slater dba Atomic
Concrete Pumping (erroneously sued as Thomas R. Slater and as Atomic Concrete
Pumping) (“Atomic”) filed answers to the cross-complaints of McCarthy and
Kaiser. Atomic also filed a cross-complaint against Harris Concrete Pumping;
Dustin C. Harris; and Moes 1 through 100. Atomic amended the Cross-Complaint on
June 9, 2022, to name Kaiser as Moe 1, McCarthy as Moe 2, Jezowski & Markel
Contractors, Inc. aka J&M Concrete Contractors (“J&M”) as Moe 3, and Brandsafway
Services, LLC aka Safway Services, LLC (“Brandsafway”) as Moe 4.
On June 9, 2022, Dustin Harris dba Harris
Concrete Pumping (erroneous sued as Dustin C. Harris and Harris Concrete
Pumping) (“Harris”) filed answers to the cross-complaints of McCarthy, Kaiser,
and Atomic. Harris also filed a cross-complaint against McCarthy, Kaiser, Atomic,
J&M, Brandsafway, and Zoes 1 through 50. Harris also filed a
cross-complaint against Brandsafway and Joes 1 through 20 on August 9, 2023.
On June 22, 2023, Plaintiff amended the
complaint to name Atomic as Doe 101, J&M as Doe Subcontractor, Harris as
Doe Cement Pumping Company, Brandsaway Services, LLC as Doe 111, and Brandsafway
as Doe 112.
On August 1, 2023, Brandsafway answered the
complaint and filed a cross-complaint against Atomic, Harris, and Zoes 1
through 10.
On September 14, 2023, Atomic filed a notice of
settlement and application for good faith settlement. The basic terms of the
settlement, according to Atomic, are that Atomic will pay Plaintiff $1 million
and Plaintiff will give Atomic a full release.
On October 9, 2023, McCarthy and Kaiser filed a
motion to challenge the good faith of Atomic’s settlement. The motion was set
for hearing on November 29.
Also on October 9, Harris filed a motion to
challenge the good faith of Atomic’s settlement. The motion was set for hearing
on December 6.
Brandsafway filed a joinder to the motion of
McCarthy and Kaiser on October 27. 
Atomic filed oppositions to the motions and to the
joinder on November 14 and 20.  McCarthy
and Kaiser filed replies and objections on November 20. Harris filed a reply on
November 29.
On November 29, the Court, on its own motion,
continued the hearing on the motion filed by McCarthy and Kaiser to December 6,
so that both motions could be heard at the same time.
Legal Standard
In a case involving two or
more alleged joint tortfeasors, a party may seek a court order under Code of
Civil Procedure section 877.6 determining that a settlement between the
plaintiff and one or more of the alleged tortfeasors is in good faith. A
judicial determination of good faith “bar[s] any other joint tortfeasor … from
any further claims against the settling tortfeasor … for equitable comparative
contribution, or partial or comparative indemnity, based on comparative
negligence or comparative fault.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 877.6(c).)
In evaluating whether a
settlement has been made in good faith, courts consider the following factors,
as set forth by the California Supreme Court in the landmark case Tech-Bilt, Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde &
Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488: 
             1)
“a rough approximation of plaintiffs’ total recovery”;
             2)
“the settlor’s proportionate liability”;
            3) “the amount paid in settlement”;
      4) “the allocation of the settlement
proceeds among plaintiffs”;
5) “a recognition that a settlor should pay
less in settlement than he would if he were found liable after a trial”;
             6)
the settling party's “financial conditions and insurance policy limits”;
7) any evidence of “collusion, fraud, or
tortious conduct aimed to injure the interests of nonsettling defendants.”
(Id. at 499.) “Practical
considerations obviously require that the evaluation be made on the basis of
information available at the time of settlement.” (Ibid.)
The “good faith” concept in
Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6 is a flexible principle imposing on
reviewing courts the obligation to guard against the numerous ways in which the
interests of nonsettling defendants may be unfairly prejudiced. (Rankin v.
Curtis (1986) 183 Cal. App. 3d 939, 945.) Accordingly, under Tech-Bilt, the party asserting the lack
of “good faith” may meet this burden by demonstrating that the settlement is so
far "out of the ballpark" as to be inconsistent with the equitable
objectives of the statute. (Tech-Bilt, supra, 38 Cal.3d at 499-500.)
Such a demonstration would establish that the proposed settlement was not a “settlement
made in good faith” within the terms of section 877.6. (Ibid.) 
The Supreme Court explained
that Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6 is designed to further two equitable
policies: 
1)
encouragement of settlements; and 
2)
equitable allocation of costs among joint tortfeasors.  
(Ibid.)  
Those policies would not be
served by an approach which emphasizes one to the virtual exclusion of the
other. (Ibid.) Accordingly, a settlement will not be found in good faith
unless the amount is reasonable in light of the settling tortfeasor's
proportionate share of liability. (Std. Pac. of San Diego v. A. A. Baxter
Corp. (1986) 176 Cal. App. 3d 577, 589.) Or, as the California Supreme
Court has stated, a “defendant’s settlement figure must not be grossly disproportionate
to what a reasonable person, at the time of the settlement, would estimate the
settling defendant’s liability to be.” (Tech-Bilt, supra, 38 Cal.3d at
499.)
When a motion seeking a
determination under Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6 is not opposed, the
burden on the moving parties to show that the settlement was made in good faith
is slight. (City of Grand Terrace v. Superior Court (1987) 192
Cal.App.3d 1251, 1261 [holding that a “barebones motion” including a
declaration setting forth “a brief background of the case is sufficient”].) 
When a good faith motion is
contested, however, the moving parties have the initial burden of producing
evidence in support of the requested good faith determination. (Id. at pp.
1261-1262.) “Section 877.6 and Tech-Bilt require an evidentiary showing,
through expert declarations or other means, that the proposed settlement is
within the reasonable range permitted by the criterion of good faith.” (Mattco
Forge v. Arthur Young & Co. (1995) 38 Cal.App.4th 1337, 1351.) “Substantial
evidence” is required. (Id. at p. 1352.) A declaration from a settling
defendant’s attorney that states, in conclusory fashion, that the client has
little or no share of the liability may not be sufficient. (Greshko v.
County of Los Angeles (1987) 194 Cal.App.3d 822, 834-35; see also 3 Weil
& Brown, California Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (The
Rutter Group 2023) ¶¶ 12:774, 12:872-873.) 

The ultimate burden of
persuasion is on the party opposing the good faith determination.  The “party asserting a lack of good faith
shall have the burden of proof on that issue.” 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 877.6(d); see also 3 Weil & Brown, supra,
at ¶ 12:875.) 
Objections
Kaiser and McCarthy present
31 objections. The Court has carefully considered these objections. They are
all OVERRULED.
Atomic objects to Brandsafway’s
joinder as untimely. That objection is OVERRULED.
Discussion
This case involves an accident at a large construction
site at a Kaiser facility. Kaiser owned the premises. Kaiser hired McCarthy as
the general contractor for the project. McCarthy hired J&M as the concrete
subcontractor. J&M hired Harris to supply concrete equipment.  Harris hired Atomic to supply and operate concrete
pumping equipment.
Separately, McCarthy hired Brandsafway to
provide a barrier between the site of the construction project and outside
areas, including where pedestrians traveled.
There is evidence indicating that Atomic pumped
pressurized concrete into a hose owned and provided by Harris. The hose burst. Some
debris from the burst hose dislodged plywood from the pedestrian barrier, and
that plywood from the pedestrian barrier struck Plaintiff.
The various parties now point fingers of blame
at each other. Kaiser, McCarthy, and Harris assert that Atomic is perhaps the
most culpable party, as they allege (among other things) that Atomic pumped
pressurized concrete into a hose without first conducting a proper inspection
of the hose. Atomic contends that Harris is perhaps the most culpable party, as
Harris was the owner of the (possibly defective) hose that burst. Atomic also
contends (among other things) that Brandsafway improperly installed the
pedestrian barrier and that McCarthy (as the general contractor) and Kaiser (as
the property owner) both had overarching and primary duties to ensure the
safety of the activities at the construction site.
It is against this factual background (which
the Court has merely briefly summarized above) that the Court must now consider
and weigh the various factors set forth in Tech-Bilt and its progeny to
determine whether Atomic’s settlement with Plaintiff is a good faith settlement
under Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6.
1.                 
Rough approximation of Plaintiff’s total recovery. 
Plaintiff attributes a wide range of injuries
to the incident, including (but not limited to) traumatic brain injury, inability
concentrate, emotional behavioral decline/changes, psychological, speech,
depression, anxiety, speech , left sinus Tarsi Syndrome, left shin, left knee,
left hip, left buttock, lower back/pelvis, left lower back to left upper back,
left shoulder, neck, base of neck, base of head, head, ears, and stomach/GI. (Barnett
Decl., Exh. 12, Resp. to Form Interrogatory 6.2.) She is still suffering from chronic
and acute pain in her hip, lower back/pelvis, lower back to upper back, shoulder,
neck, and head some of which was made worse by walking or other movement; experiencing
difficulty walking and limbing stairs; and suffering from cognitive decline and
speech difficulty. (Id., Resp. to Form Interrogatory 6.3; see also id.,
Exh. 10, Resp. to Special Interrogatory 58.) Treatment is ongoing. (Id.,
Exh. 12, Resp. to Form Interrogatory 6.4.) 
Plaintiff is currently 72 years old. (Id.,
Resp. to Form Interrogatory 2.3.) She states that because of the incident she
was forced to retire from her job as a high school teacher. (Id., Resp.
to Form Interrogatory 2.7, 8.5, 8.6.)
McCarthy and Kaiser present the following breakdown
of Plaintiff's alleged damages, based on discovery responses provided by
Plaintiff in February and October 2022: 
 



Damage
  Type


Plaintiff’s
  Alleged Damages




Medical Expenses Not Paid by Healthcare
  Insurer


$100,000 and increasing 




Medial Consultant Fees Not Paid by
  Healthcare insurer


$20,000 and increasing




Medical Expenses Paid by Healthcare
  Insurer


$100,000




Medical Consultant Fees Paid by
  Healthcare Insurer


$20,000 and increasing




Future Medical Expenses


$5,000,000




Past Wage Loss


$274,745.28




Future Wage Loss


$412,117.92




Modifications to home for ADA
  compliance,


$400,000  




Past economic losses or damages


$800,000




Home care


$732,120




Pain and Suffering


In excess of $1,500,000




Total


$9,358,983.20



 
(Mem. at p. 8; Barnett Decl., Exh. 11, Resp. to
Special Interrogatories 2-5, 8-10, 13-14; Exh. 12, Resp. to Form Interrogatories
8.7, 8.8.)
These are the damages claimed by Plaintiff in
her discovery responses. Her likely recovery at trial, of course, may be
significantly less. In particular, Plaintiff’s claimed future medical expenses of
$5 million seem particularly high, given the total claimed medical expenses of
approximately $240,000 in the three years immediately after the incident. In
addition, $800,000 in claimed past economic losses (separate from and in addition
to her claimed wage loss) appears uncertain at best.
After carefully considering all of the evidence
presented, as well as the arguments from all parties, the Court finds that the
rough approximation of Plaintiff’s likely total recovery is in the range of $4 million
to $6 million.  
2.                 
The settlor’s proportionate liability. 
This factor is strongly disputed by all parties. 
Atomic contends that its culpability is limited to
0-10 percent. (Opp. at 8.) It attaches primarily culpability to Kaiser and
McCarthy, as the property owner and general contractor, with a combined share
of 60 percent. The remainder, according to Atomic, is divided among Harris (10
to 20 percent), Brandsafway (10 percent), and J&M (10 percent).
Atomic states that apparently neither Harris nor
anyone else inspected the hose prior to the accident. (Barnett Decl., Exh. 5,
at pp. JM97-JM98.) The hose was expected to carry a considerable load of
pressurized concrete. (Harada-Orosz Decl., Exh. 7, at 19:8-22, 31:3-5.) Atomic
believed that Harris had inspected its hoses prior to using them. (Barnett
Decl., Exh. 8, at p. 3.) Harris testified that under the circumstances, it would
have been reasonable for Atomic to assume that the hoses had already been inspected
and were safe to use. (Harada-Orosz Decl., Exh. 7, at 108:4-17.) Harris stated unequivocally
in his deposition that he did not believe that Atomic was responsible. (Id.,
at 93:13-15; see also id., at 87:1-3.) 
McCarthy’s Regional Safety Manager, Fernando
Galicia, testified that “as the safety person for McCarthy on the job site,” he
was “responsible for the overall job safety.” (Id., Exh. 5, at 19:14-17.)
That includes, he testified, “looking to make sure that the contractors are
doing things in a safe manner,” and that he was “responsible to insure that the
concrete was being poured in a manner that was safe for the project site.” (Id.,
at 20:17-25, 24: 24:9-21.) Mr. Galicia did not inspect the hose before the accident;
he “let the experts do the inspection; in this case, Harris.” (Id., at
62:8-15.) After the accident, Mr. Galicia determined that there was significant
wear in the hose and that the hose” should not have been used on the job site.”
(Id., at 115:4-10.)
Atomic also asserts that Brandsafway improperly
installed the pedestrian barrier, which contributed to the failure of the
barrier in the incident. (Id., Exh. 7, at 87:1-19, 93:13-19.) An incident
report signed five days after the incident stated that the plywood “was poorly
secured … resulting in plywood [being] easily detached with the impact of
concrete striking pedestrian.” (Barnett Decl., Exh. 5, at p. JM97.)
Kaiser, McCarthy, and Harris have a much different
view. They note that it was Atomic who pumped the pressurized concrete into the
hose that burst without inspecting the hose. (Barnett Decl., Exh. 6, at 91:13-16;
Exh.
8 at p. 3.) The incident report generated in the days after the incident attributed
the cause to “[u]sing unsafe damaged hose to pour concrete” and to the absence
of any “protocol in place to inspect pump equipment prior to use to determine
if equipment was safe.” (Barnett Decl., Exh. 5, at pp. JM97-JM98.)
The Court has carefully reviewed the evidence
presented, including, but not limited to, the evidence summarized above. Based
on that review, the Court concludes that each of the parties bears some degree
of culpability for Plaintiff’s injuries. Kaiser, McCarthy, and J&M bear
some degree of culpability for failing to supervise for safety the activities occurring
on its premises (Kaiser), for failing to supervise for safety the activities on
a job site on which it was the general contractor (McCarthy), and for failing to
supervise for safety the activities of its subcontractor (J&M). Harris appears
to bear the greatest degree of culpability, as it supplied the defective hose
and did not inspect it prior to use. Atomic bears some culpability, as it did
not inspect the hose prior to using it to pump the pressurized concrete, but,
based on the deposition testimony of Harris, the Court concludes that Harris’s
culpability is significantly greater than Atomic’s. Finally, Brandsafway shares
some degree of culpability as well, as at least some witnesses identified defects
in the fence as contributing significantly to Plaintiff’s injury.
On this record, the Court concludes that Atomic’s proportion
of the total liability is in the range of 25 to 30 percent. 
Multiplying that percentage by the Court’s finding
regarding the rough approximation of Plaintiff’s likely
total recovery ($4 million to $6 million) produces a range of proportionate
liability for Atomic somewhere between $1.0 million at the low end and $1.8
million at the high end.
3.                 
The amount paid in settlement. 
Atomic has agreed to pay $1 million in settlement.
4.                 
The allocation of the settlement proceeds among
plaintiffs. 
As there is only one plaintiff, this factor does not
apply here.
5.                 
A recognition that a settlor should pay less in
settlement than he would if he were found liable after a trial.  
This factor supports a good faith determination.
6.                 
The settling party’s financial conditions and
insurance policy limits. 
Atomic has substantial additional insurance coverage
available for this accident. It has not settled for the full extent of insurance
policy limits or the full extent of its ability to pay.
7.                 
Any evidence of collusion, fraud, or tortious
conduct aimed to injure the interests of nonsettling defendants. 
There is no evidence of any fraud or collusion. The
settlement was reached after negotiation and a Code of Civil Procedure section
998 offer. 
Taking all of these factors into account, the
Court finds that the settlement between Plaintiff and Atomic is in good faith
under Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6. The amount of the settlement
appears to be less than Atomic’s likely proportionate liability, but that is to
be expected in a settlement, particularly the first settlement in a multi-defendant
case. Although Atomic had additional insurance coverage available, nothing in Tech-Bilt
or its progeny requires a party to exhaust all available insurance to obtain a
good faith settlement determination. 
In sum, the parties challenging the requested
determination of good faith have not met their burden of showing that this
settlement is so far “out of the ballpark” as to be “grossly disproportionate to what a
reasonable person, at the time of the settlement, would estimate the settling
defendant’s liability to be.” (Tech-Bilt, supra, 38 Cal.3d at 499.)
Conclusion
 
The
Court determines that the settlement between Plaintiff and Thomas Slater dba
Atomic Concrete Pumping is in good faith under Code of Civil Procedure section
877.6.
 
Counsel
for Thomas Slater dba Atomic Concrete Pumping is ordered to give notice.  
 