Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 22STCV15044
Plaintiff's Name: Martha Maldonado Luna
Defendant's Name: Baraat Moller and Curtis Dailey
People: Martha Maldonado Luna, Baraat Moller, Curtis Dailey
Company: None mentioned
Place: Los Angeles, California
Date: February 14, 2024
Event: Motion to Compel Document Production
Money: None mentioned
Intentions: Plaintiff seeks to compel production of sub rosa video and bills/invoices related to investigative work
Facts: Plaintiff conducted Moller's deposition on October 10, 2023, and Moller objected to producing the sub rosa evidence, citing attorney-client privilege and work product doctrine
Disputes: Plaintiff argues that the sub rosa evidence is not privileged and should be produced, while Moller argues that it is entitled to absolute protection under the work product doctrine
Acts: Plaintiff filed a motion to compel production of documents, and Moller opposed the motion
Agreements: None mentioned
Laws: CCP § 2025.480(b), CCP § 2025.480(a), CCP § 2018.030
Case Citations: Suezaki v. Superior Court (1962) 58 Cal.2d 166, Wellpoint Health Networks, Inc. v. Superior Court (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 110, People v. Superior Court (Jones) (2021) 12 Cal.5th 348
Statutes: CCP § 2025.480, CCP § 2016.040, CCP § 2018.030
Roles: Judge Michelle C. Kim, Plaintiff Martha Maldonado Luna, Defendant Baraat Moller and Curtis Dailey
Significant Statements:
* The Court grants, in part, Plaintiff's motion to compel responses to the demand for sub rosa evidence and orders production of the sub rosa evidence after Plaintiff's deposition (if not already completed).
* The Court notes that the sub rosa evidence is the work product of defense counsel, but it is entitled to qualified protection, not absolute, because Defendant has failed to show that the sub rosa evidence is writings reflecting his impressions, conclusions, opinions, or legal research or theories.
* Moller cannot have it both ways; Moller cannot hold the sub rosa evidence as impeachment to be used at trial, while simultaneously protecting it from disclosure under the attorney work product doctrine.
```

Here is a summary of the Judge's tentative ruling in English text:

The Court has considered the motion to compel production of documents filed by the Plaintiff, Martha Maldonado Luna, and opposed by the Defendant, Baraat Moller. The Plaintiff seeks to compel the production of sub rosa video and bills/invoices related to investigative work conducted by Moller's counsel. Moller objects to the production of this evidence, citing attorney-client privilege and work product doctrine.

The Court has reviewed the relevant case law and statutes and finds that the sub rosa evidence is the work product of defense counsel, but it is entitled to qualified protection, not absolute, because Defendant has failed to show that the sub rosa evidence is writings reflecting his impressions, conclusions, opinions, or legal research or theories.

The Court grants, in part, the Plaintiff's motion and orders the production of the sub rosa evidence after the Plaintiff's deposition (if not already completed). The Court also requires Moller to notify the Plaintiff in writing if Moller intends to use the sub rosa evidence during any stage of the action and produce the sub rosa evidence within 5 days of that written notice.

The Court notes that Moller cannot have it both ways; Moller cannot hold the sub rosa evidence as impeachment to be used at trial, while simultaneously protecting it from disclosure under the attorney work product doctrine. The Court further finds that the Plaintiff is in the best position to determine whether any surveillance of her would be consistent with her alleged injuries and to present evidence through her own testimony regarding the extent of her injuries.