 Case Number:  22STCV15044    Hearing Date:   February 14, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  MARTHA MALDONADO LUNA, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  BARAAT MOLLER, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 22STCV15044  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL DOCUMENT PRODUCTION   Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  February 14, 2024  I. Background Plaintiff, Martha Maldonado Luna (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendants, Baraat Moller (“Moller”) and Curtis Dailey for damages arising from an automobile accident.    Plaintiff now moves to compel Moller to produce documents to Plaintiff’s demand for production of documents provided with the deposition notice of Moller.  Moller opposes the motion, and Plaintiff filed a reply.  Moving Argument Plaintiff noticed and deposed Moller on October 10, 2023. The Notice requested production of “1. All sub rosa video of Plaintiff including audio. 2. All bills and invoices for investigative work done in relation to the sub rosa video surveillance.” (Nolan Decl. ¶ 2; Exh. 1.) Moller objected on the grounds of attorney-client privilege and work product doctrine, and that it was created in anticipation of litigation. After meet and confer efforts, Moller refused to produce the sub rosa evidence at both Part I and Part II of his deposition. Plaintiff avers the depositions were suspended until the instant motion could be considered.  Opposing Argument Moller argues the sub rosa evidence is entitled to absolute protection under the work product doctrine, because it would reveal his counsel’s mental impressions, and that even if not absolute, then it is entitled to qualified protection. Moller argues any disclosure pertaining to sub rosa before his counsel has made the decision to use it at trial gives Plaintiff free evidence and would disclose his counsel’s thought process behind obtaining the sub rosa.   Reply Argument Plaintiff argues she should not be surprised at trial, and that she is not seeking to profit off of exclusive footage secretly obtained. Plaintiff contends she does not seek counsel’s edited version of the video, but rather the entire raw footage, which would not hold Moller’s counsel’s impressions.  II. Motion to Compel Production of Documents At Deposition Procedural CCP § 2025.480(b) provides that motion shall be made no later than 60 days after the completion of the record of the deposition, and shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.  Plaintiff conducted Moller’s deposition on October 10, 2023. The motion was filed within 60 days of completion, on October 30, 2023.  Further, the motion is accompanied by a meet and confer declaration. The requirements of CCP § 2025.480(b) have therefore been met.     Production of Documents If a deponent fails to answer any question or to produce any document under its control, the party seeking discovery may move the court for an order compelling that answer or production.  (CCP § 2025.480(a).)  If the court determines that the answer or production sought is subject to discovery, it shall order that the answer be given or the production be made on the resumption of the deposition.  (CCP § 2025.480(i).) The request for documents to Moller’s deposition notice requested: “All sub rosa video of Plaintiff including audio” and  “All bills and invoices for investigative work done in relation to the sub rosa video surveillance.” Defendant objected, the salient objections being attorney-client privilege and attorney work product doctrine.    The Court has reviewed the primary case relied upon by the parties. Suezaki v. Superior Court (1962) 58 Cal.2d 166 is highly relevant to the issue before the Court herein.  The Supreme Court, in Suezaki, was asked to determine whether the defendant’s surveillance footage of the plaintiff was privileged as a matter of law.  The Court held that the footage is not privileged, but that it is subject to work product protection. “While it would appear that inspection of the films should be permitted, the discretion granted by the statute is the discretion of the trial court, not of this court.” (Id. at 179.) The Court remanded the issue back to the trial court to determine whether the footage must be produced in light of the work product doctrine. Thus, this Court must consider the work product doctrine. CCP § 2018.030 states:  A writing that reflects an attorney's impressions, conclusions, opinions, or legal research or theories is not discoverable under any circumstances.  (b) The work product of an attorney, other than a writing described in subdivision (a), is not discoverable unless the court determines that denial of discovery will unfairly prejudice the party seeking discovery in preparing that party's claim or defense or will result in an injustice.  Furthermore, as the Rutter Guide on Civil Procedure Before Trial, §§8:243, et seq., explains on this issue:  Surprisingly, there is no recent authority dealing with claims of work product protection for photos, videos, etc. prepared under an attorney's direction. (Again, the Discovery Act is not helpful because it leaves the definition of “work product” to case law.)  • [8:243.1] Photographs of physical evidence taken by the attorney or attorney's agents (e.g., the damaged vehicle, the accident scene, the injuries, etc.) may be treated as “nonderivative” material; and thus discoverable as “mere evidence.”  • [8:243.2] But photos or films reflecting counsel's strategies and tactics in preparation for trial should be treated as “qualified work product” (e.g., a video or surveillance film impeaching plaintiff's claim of disabling injury). It would be basically unfair to allow the other side free access to such material. That party should have to show a special need for discovery and inability to obtain similar information, etc. [See Suezaki v. Sup.Ct. (Crawford) (1962) 58 C2d 166, 177–178, 23 CR 368, 374 (decided before attorney “work product” received statutory protection)]  • [8:243.3] Indeed, certain photos or films “reflecting” counsel's “impressions, conclusions (or) theories” may be “writings” entitled to absolute protection (e.g., photos taken from a particular angle or viewpoint, photographic enlargements, that show counsel's theory of liability).   The Suezaki Court did not specifically hold that surveillance footage is discoverable or not discoverable, but the opinion provided guidance for the trial court to make this determination.  What is more, this Court notes that the burden on the party seeking production of qualified work product is higher now than it was when Suezaki was decided- that is, unfair prejudice now versus good cause then. Here, the sub rosa was developed at the behest of counsel for Moller, and such evidence exists because of the efforts of defense counsel. (See, e.g., Coito, supra, 54 Cal.4th at p. 495 [“witness statement is in part the product of the attorney’s work. The witness statement would not exist but for the attorney’s initiative, decision, and effort to obtain it”].) Thus, the sub rosa evidence is the work product of defense counsel. However, it is entitled to qualified protection, not absolute, because Defendant has failed to show that the sub rosa evidence is writings reflecting his impressions, conclusions, opinions, or legal research or theories. The existence of sub rosa evidence is, in itself, not evidence that it should be afforded absolute protection. It is unclear to the Court whether there is, in fact, any “edited version” of the sub rosa evidence as argued by Plaintiff. However, to the extent that any edited version may exist to demonstrate defense counsel’s impressions, conclusions, and opinions, Plaintiff seeks the entire raw footage, not the pared down version. The raw footage itself is subject to qualified protection. Moller’s counsel avers they have not yet made a conscious decision of whether to use the sub rosa at trial, and that disclosure now would allow Plaintiff to “sanitize” her testimony and prejudice Moller’s defense of the matter. Whether the sub rosa evidence has any probative value will depend on what Plaintiff discloses during the discovery process, including at her deposition. It is unclear to the Court what information has already been disclosed by Plaintiff, and whether Plaintiff’s deposition has already moved forward. If Plaintiff discloses information consistent with the sub rosa evidence, then such evidence loses its potential impeachment quality, and may not be used. At this juncture, Plaintiff is in the best position to determine whether any surveillance of her would be consistent with her alleged injuries, and to present evidence through her own testimony regarding the extent of her injuries which may or may not affect her life activities. Ultimately, Moller cannot have it both ways. Moller cannot hold the sub rosa evidence as impeachment to be used at trial, while simultaneously protecting it from disclosure under the attorney work product doctrine. If this is the course chosen, then it must be done with the understanding that the attorney-client privilege and the work product doctrine are thereby waived.” (Wellpoint Health Networks, Inc. v. Superior Court (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 110, 128 [at issue was whether a pre-litigation investigation report should be produced during discovery].) Similarly, the California Supreme Court has held that an attorney cannot simultaneously advance work product in an affirmative fashion and preclude disclosure of such work product. (People v. Superior Court (Jones) (2021) 12 Cal.5th 348.) Accordingly, the Court GRANTS, in part, Plaintiff’s motion to compel responses to the demand for sub rosa evidence and orders production of the sub rosa evidence after Plaintiff’s deposition (if not already completed), and provided that should Moller intend to use such evidence, pre-trial or at trial, Moller shall notify Plaintiff in writing if Moller intends to use the sub rosa evidence during any stage of the action (including non-expert and expert discovery phases) and produce the sub rosa evidence within 5 days of that written notice.  Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 13th day of February 2023      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   