 Case Number:  23STCV02779    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2023    Dept:  14 Instant Motion
 
            Defendant Termechi now moves
this court for an order setting aside his default and permitting him to file an
Answer.
 
Decision
 
            Defendant’s
Evidentiary Objections are OVERRULED.
 
            The motion is
GRANTED. 
 
Discussion
 
            It is
undisputed that Defendant Breadman occupies two physical locations. It is
undisputed that only one of those locations, the “First Location,” is listed on
Defendant Breadman’s public filings as its official address. The other location,
the “Second Location,” is not so listed.
 
            It is also
undisputed that Plaintiff attempted to serve both defendants at the Second Location.
Defendant Termechi claims that he has gone to the Second Location twice in the
past four years. (Declaration of Mehran Termechi ¶ 6). Plaintiff argues
that this is false. But Plaintiff can only attest that Defendant Termechi has
been at the Second Location twice since June of 2020. (Declaration of Farzad
Kohanbash ¶ 4).
 
            The proofs
of service filed with this court indicate substitute service: that a copy of
the summons and complaint was left with a receptionist and later mailed to the
Second Location. 
 
            On April 5,
2023, Plaintiff’s counsel was contacted by a Mr. Benjamin Smith, who expressly
disclaimed being counsel for Defendant Termechi, but expressed an understanding
that the complaint was served and wanted a 30-day extension on the deadline to
respond. (Declaration of Homan Mobasser Exhibit 1). On April 28, 2023,
Defendant Termechi emailed Plaintiff’s counsel directly about a demand letter
that Plaintiff’s counsel had sent him months earlier. (Id. Exhibit 2).
Plaintiff’s counsel responded by warning him that he was soon to be in default.
(Id.).
 
            The default
was entered on May 19, 2023. This motion followed on July 31, 2023.
 
            Defendant
Termechi argues that the default should be set aside as void pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure § 473(d). He is correct.
 
            A default
entered against a defendant is void if the defendant was never properly served,
because proper service is a necessary predicate to personal jurisdiction. Ellard
v. Conway (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 540, 544. Code of Civil
Procedure § 415.20(b) governs substitute service, and it requires that the
summons and complaint be delivered to the defendant’s “usual place of business
or usual mailing address.” The evidence presently before this court shows that
the Second Location is not Defendant Termechi’s usual place of business or
usual mailing address. Defendant Termechi’s registered address is elsewhere,
and there is no evidence that Defendant Termechi has been to the Second
Location more than twice since June of 2020.
 
            Plaintiff
argues that Defendant Termechi admitted to being properly served. He did not. Defendant
Termechi’s own email to counsel does not mention service at all. It only
mentions a demand letter sent well before the complaint was filed, and
mediation. While Mr. Smith did convey his own personal understanding that
service had occurred, Mr. Smith was not Defendant Termechi’s counsel at the
time. He had no personal knowledge regarding service, and his position was not
binding on a party he did not formally represent.
 
Conclusion
 
            Because Plaintiff
did not serve Defendant Termechi at his usual place of business or usual
mailing address, Defendant Termechi was never properly served. Because
Defendant Termechi was never properly served, the default entered against him
is void. The motion is therefore GRANTED.