 Case Number:  24CHCV00588    Hearing Date:   July 11, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43
Date: 7-11-24
Case #24CHCV00588 , Chinyere
Valerie Ibe vs. Bamboo Insurance Services, Inc., et al.
Trial Date: N/A
 
DEMURRER TO FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT 
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant Sutton National Insurance Company
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Chinyere Valerie Ibe
 
RELIEF REQUESTED
Demurrer to the Complaint
·        
4th Cause of Action for Intentional
Misrepresentation
·        
5th Cause of Action for Violation of
California Business & Professional Code
·        
6th Cause of Action for Unjust
Enrichment
·        
7th Cause of Action for Defamation
 
RULING: Defendant’s demurrer is sustained.
 
SUMMARY OF ACTION 
Plaintiff Chinyere Valerie Ibe (Plaintiff) filed her
First Amended Complaint (FAC), in pro per, on March 25, 2024. Plaintiff’s
complaint alleges seven causes of action for (1) Breach of the Duty of Good
Faith and Fair Dealing; (2) Bad Faith Denial of Insurance Claim; (3) Breach of
the Contractual Duty to Pay a Covered Insurance Claim; (4) Intentional
Misrepresentation; (5) Violations of Cal. Bus. & Prof. Code §§ 17200, et. seq.; (6)
Unjust Enrichment; and (7) Defamation.
 
The First through Third Causes of Action are only against
Defendant Bamboo Insurance Services, Inc. The Fourth through Seventh Causes of
Action are against all Defendants. Defendant Sutton National Insurance Company
(Sutton) is the demurring Defendant in this instance. Sutton demurs to the
Fourth through Seventh Causes of Action.
 
Plaintiff’s FAC alleges that the water heater in the
garage of her home burst. This caused the garage to flood, damaging the drywall
and items that were stored in the garage. Sutton indicates in its demurrer that
it is Plaintiff’s homeowners’ insurer, and Bamboo IDE8 Insurance Services, LLC
(Bamboo) is Sutton’s claims administrator, but there is nothing in Plaintiff’s
FAC that indicates what the relationship is between Bamboo and Sutton. While
Bamboo is mentioned throughout Plaintiff’s FAC, Sutton is only mentioned by
name once, under the parties section of Plaintiff’s FAC. (FAC, ¶ 4.) It is unclear from
Plaintiff’s FAC what allegations, if any, are directed at Sutton.
 
Sutton
filed its demurrer on May 28, 2024. Plaintiff filed an opposition on June 26,
2024. On July 3, 2024, Sutton filed its reply.
 
Plaintiff’s
opposition argues that she was not validly served with the demurrer because she
had not consented to service of the demurrer via email, which is how she
claimed she received the demurrer. However, the proof of service filed with
Defendant’s demurrer indicates that Plaintiff was served via U.S. Mail, so it
is unknown why she did not receive the demurrer in the mail. Plaintiff also
argues that Defendant did not meet and confer, but Defendant’s demurrer
indicates that it attempted to meet and confer with Plaintiff, but Plaintiff did
not respond to attempts to meet and confer with her.
 
The
Court will address the merits of the demurrer.
 
Request
for Judicial Notice: Defendant requests that the Court take judicial notice of
Plaintiff’s FAC. The Court takes judicial notice of this document.
 
ANALYSIS
A demurrer is an objection to a pleading, the grounds for
which are apparent from either the face of the complaint or a matter of which
the court may take judicial notice. (CCP § 430.30(a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the sufficiency of a pleading
“by raising questions of law.” (Postley
v. Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a
pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be
liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.” (CCP
§ 452.) The court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all material facts
properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law…”
’ ” (Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152
Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) In applying these standards, the court liberally
construes the complaint to determine whether a cause of action has been stated.
(Picton v. Anderson Union High School
Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 726, 733.)
 
            Fourth
Cause of Action for Intentional Misrepresentation
Defendant Sutton demurs to Plaintiff’s cause of action for intentional
misrepresentation on the basis that it fails to plead any specific allegations
against Sutton.
 
“The elements of intentional misrepresentation are (1) a
misrepresentation, (2) knowledge of falsity, (3) intent to induce reliance, (4)
actual and justifiable reliance, and (5) resulting damage.” (Aton Center,
Inc. v. United Healthcare Ins. Co. (2023) 93 Cal.App.5th 1214, 1245.)
Notably, “in California, fraud must be pled specifically; general and
conclusory allegations do not suffice.” (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996)
12 Cal.4th 631, 645.) “This particularity requirement necessitates pleading
facts which show how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the
representations were tendered.” (Id.)
 
There are no specific allegations against Sutton under this
cause of action. Instead, Plaintiff just alleges that “Defendants” made misrepresentations
regarding what would be covered by Plaintiff’s insurance policy. (FAC, ¶ 78.) There
are no allegations under this cause of action for any misrepresentations made
specifically by Sutton.
 
Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s Fourth Cause of Action
is sustained with leave to amend.
 
            Fifth
Cause of Action for Violation of Cal. Bus. & Prof. Code §§ 17200 et. seq.
Sutton demurs to this cause of action on the basis that there
are insufficient facts against Sutton to support this cause of action.
 
Cal. Business & Professions Code § 17200 et seq. includes
the California Unfair Competition Law and provides consumers with remedies when
businesses engage in unfair or fraudulent practices. The Unfair Competition Law
(UCL) is an equitable action by means of which a plaintiff may recover money or
property obtained from the plaintiff or persons represented by the plaintiff
through unfair or unlawful business practices. (Troyk v. Farmers Group, Inc.
(2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1305, 1338.) The UCL does not permit recovery of
“damages” but is limited to “injunctive relief and restitution.” (Cel-Tech
Communications, Inc. v. Los Angeles Cellular Telephone Co. (1995) 20
Cal.4th 163, 179.) Thus, through the UCL, a plaintiff may seek restitution in
money or property taken by means of unfair competition or may seek injunctive
relief. (Troyk, 171 Cal.App.4th at 1339.)
 
Plaintiff’s FAC does not contain any allegations indicating
that Sutton violated the Business and Professions Code. Furthermore, Plaintiff
is not seeking restitution under this cause of action but is instead seeking
damages. Damages are not a permitted form of relief under the UCL.
 
For these reasons, Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s Fifth
Cause of Action is sustained with leave to amend.
 
            Sixth
Cause of Action for Unjust Enrichment
Sutton demurs to this case of action on the basis that Plaintiff
cannot assert a cause of action for unjust enrichment.
 
The theory of unjust enrichment requires one who acquires a
benefit at the expense of another to either return the thing or its equivalent
to the aggrieved party so as not to be unjustly enriched. (Lyles v.
Sangadeo-Patel (2014) 255 Cal.App. 4th 759.)
 
There is also no cause of action for unjust enrichment in
California. (Melchior v. New Line Productions, Inc. (2003) 106
Cal.App.4th 779, 785, 793 (“unjust enrichment is not a valid cause of action
under California law”).)
 
Unjust enrichment is not a valid cause of action.
Furthermore, Plaintiff’s FAC contains no allegations indicating how Sutton was
unjustly enriched separate from any breach of contract.
 
Because unjust enrichment is not a valid cause of action,
Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s Sixth Cause of Action is sustained without
leave to amend.
 
            Seventh
Cause of Action for Defamation
Sutton demurs to this cause of action on the basis that it
does not allege facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action for
defamation.
 
Defamation is an intentional tort that requires proof that
the defendant intended to publish the defamatory statement. (Stellar v.
State Farm General Ins. Co. (2007) 157 Cal.App 4th 1498.) California law
requires that any words constituting an alleged defamation must be specifically
identified, if not pleaded verbatim, in the complaint. (ZL Technologies,
Inc. v Does 1 – 17 (2017) 13 Cal.App. 5th 603.)
 
There are no specific allegations against Sutton under this
cause of action. There is nothing in Plaintiff’s FAC to indicate how Sutton
defamed Plaintiff, nor does Plaintiff specifically identify the alleged
defamation. Plaintiff also does not attach the alleged defamatory letter to her
FAC, despite identifying the denial letters as Exhibits A, B, and C.
 
Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s Seventh Cause of Action
is sustained with leave to amend.
 
CONCLUSION
Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s Fourth, Fifth, and
Seventh Causes of Action is sustained with leave to amend. Defendant’s demurrer
to Plaintiff’s Sixth Cause of Action is sustained without leave to amend.
 
Moving party to give notice to all parties.