  Case Number:  23STCV24029    Hearing Date:   February 20, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept. 68Date: 2-20-24Case #23STCV24029Trial Date: Not SetDEMURRERMOVING PARTY: Defendant, D. Masin Consulting, LLCRESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff, Limelight International, Ltd., et al.RELIEF REQUESTEDDemurrer to the First Amended Complaint· 2nd Cause of Action: Breach of Fiduciary DutySUMMARY OF ACTIONPlaintiff Limelight International Ltd., (Limelight) a Hong Kong based company authorized to conduct business in California alleges an unspecified defaulted balance owed by defendant RLoom LLC (RLoom) in 2022. On February 8, 2023, RLoom and defendant D. Masin Consulting, LLC (D. Masin) executed a “General Assignment for the Benefit of All Creditors,” whereby all assets were subject to liquidation for payment of outstanding debts. Also on February 8, 2022, D. Masin and RLoom Design Corp. aka Newstyle Fashion Inc. also entered into an “Asset Purchase Agreement, whereby said assets were assigned by RLoom to D. Masin were sold to Newstyle for $365,000. Limelight maintains an asset value of at least $9,000,000, including its claimed outstanding debt.On March 27, 2023, Plaintiffs filed its complaint for Malicious Prosecution, Breach of Fiduciary Duty, Fraudulent Conveyance, Successor Liability, Aiding and Abetting Breach of Fiduciary Duty, and Conspiracy to Fraudulently Transfer Property. Following certain defendants answer to the complaint, the parties stipulated to the filing of a first amended complaint. The first amended complaint filed on January 3, 2024, alleges Malicious Prosecution, Breach of Fiduciary Duty, Fraudulent Conveyance, Successor Liability, Aiding and Abetting Breach of Fiduciary Duty, and Conspiracy to Fraudulently Transfer Property.RULING: Overruled.Defendant D. Masin Consulting, LLC (D. Masin) submits a demurrer to the second cause of action for Breach of Fiduciary Duty in the first amended complaint on grounds that the subject cause is both premature, due to a prior pending action, and the instant action lacks sufficient facts. Plaintiff in opposition maintains the challenged cause of action is properly pled with a step-by-step elemental analysis of the claim. Defendant in reply reiterates the abatement and economic loss rule arguments. Defendant also challenges the claim on ripeness and lack of standing.A demurrer is an objection to a pleading, the grounds for which are apparent from either the face of the complaint or a matter of which the court may take judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the sufficiency of a pleading “by raising questions of law.” (Postley v.Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) The court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law . . . .” ’ ” (Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) In applying these standards, the court liberally construes the complaint to determine whether a cause of action has been stated. (Picton v. Anderson Union High School Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 726, 733.)“A demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616; Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139 [“[U]nder our liberal pleading rules, where the complaint contains substantive factual allegations sufficiently apprising defendant of the issues it is being asked to meet, a demurrer for uncertainty should be overruled or plaintiff given leave to amend.]PrematureD. Masin challenges the subject complaint on grounds that the current action is premature. (Morse v. Steele (1901) 132 Cal. 456, 458.) Paragraph 23 of the first amended complaint states: “On December 9, 2022, Limelight filed a verified complaint in the Los Angeles Superior Court, commencing Limelight v. Oneworld Apparel, LLC, Case Number 22STCV38443 (the ‘Lawsuit’). In the Lawsuit, Limelight seeks to recover $586,962.09 from RLoom for unpaid invoices on account of purchase orders made between February 2022 to July 2022.” According to D. Masin, Oneworld Apparel, LLC (“Oneworld”), as the prior business entity of current defendant RLoom.The argument relies on an assumption that the subject action prematurely seeks damages prior to resolution of the claim against Oneworld. Concurrent prosecution of both cases may render it liable for more than the total damages sought. “A plea in abatement, without disputing the justness of plaintiff's claim, objects to the place, mode, or time of asserting it and requires pro hac vice that the judgment be given for the defendant, leaving it open to renew the suit in another place, or form, or at another time. It must not only point out the plaintiff's error, but must show him how it may be corrected, or, in technical language, it must give the plaintiff a better writ. (Nevills v. Shortridge (1905) 146 Cal. 277, 278.) “But, by the happening of the event upon which the contingency depends, the claim becomes due, and then may be enforced as any other claim which becomes due. If the event upon which the contingency depends never happens, the claim never becomes due, and necessarily no action can be or should be brought upon it. By this construction of the statute the rights of all parties are protected, and equal and exact justice done. It follows that an action upon a rejected contingent claim may be brought only within two months after such claim becomes due. The claim here sued upon, shows upon its face, that it was a contingent claim, and necessarily not due when the complaint was filed; hence the action was prematurely brought.” (Morse v. Steele (1901) 132 Cal. 456, 458.)Plaintiff counters that the nothing in the reliance on the single paragraph in the operative complaint regarding the other action in any way establishes redundant claims. (Bush v. Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1374, 1384.) Plaintiff relies on primary right theory.California is a primary right state. (Bay Cities Paving & Grading, Inc. v. Lawyers' Mutual Ins. Co. (1993) 5 Cal.4th 854, 860.) “Even where there are multiple legal theories upon which recovery might be predicated, one injury gives rise to only one claim for relief.” (Slater v. Blackwood (1975) 15 Cal.3d 791, 795.) “[A]ll claims based on the same cause of action must be decided in a single suit; if not brought initially, they may not be raised at a later date. ‘Res judicata precludes piecemeal litigation by splitting a single cause of action or relitigation of the same cause of action on a different legal theory or for different relief.’” (Mycogen Corp. v. Monsanto Co. (2002) 28 Cal.4th 888, 897.) “‘The primary right theory ... is invoked ... when a plaintiff attempts to divide a primary right and enforce it in two suits. The theory prevents this result by either of two means: (1) if the first suit is still pending when the second is filed, the defendant in the second suit may plead that fact in abatement [citations]; or (2) if the first suit has terminated in a judgment on the merits adverse to the plaintiff, the defendant in the second suit may set up that judgment as a bar under the principles of res judicata.’” (Id. at p. 904.)Factually, Plaintiff maintains that the underlying debt collection effort constitutes a separate and distinct claim from the one for breach of fiduciary against D. Masin. The prior complaint arises in contract; the subject case, in tort. Regardless, even if the argument were correct, the remedy is abatement, not dismissal.While the demurrer arguably relies on extrinsic inference beyond the scope of the pleading, the court appreciates the redundancy of the pled claims given the respective complaints both seek the exact same amount of damages as a result of the liquidated unsecured interest. “As a result of D. Masin’s breaches of its fiduciary duty, Limelight has suffered damages in an amount that will be determined according to proof at trial, but which is believed to be no less than $586,962.09. In addition, Limelight is entitled to an order from the Court removing D. Masin as assignee of the Assignment Estate for nonfeasance.” [First Amend. Comp., ¶ 39.]Nevertheless, missing from the demurrer is address of the distinction between the two claims. As addressed above, an argument for a premature action requires discussion of an underlying contingency to prosecute the claim against a co-defendant. The prior action is only brought against the Oneworld entity, while the current action names new defendants and different forms of potential recovery even if for the same amount of damages. (See American Broadcasting Companies, Inc. v. Walter Reade-Sterling, Inc. (1974) 43 Cal.App.3d 401, 407; Ostrowski v. Miller (1964) 226 Cal.App.2d 79, 87.) The court finds the arguments for a premature claim based on an underlying contingency insufficiently supported, and declines to abate the action in the form of a demurrer simply based on the potential for concurrent recovery against a joint-defendant under a different basis of recovery. The court overrules the demurrer on this basis.Ripeness and StandingPlaintiff also adds in argument under ripeness doctrine. The California Supreme Court described a two prong test for ripeness: “The problem is best seen in a twofold aspect, requiring us to evaluate both the fitness of the issues for judicial decision and the hardship to the parties of withholding court consideration.” (Pacific Legal Foundation v. California Coastal Com. (1982) 33 Cal.3d 158, 171.) The court describes the first prong of the two part test for ripeness. “‘The controversy must be definite and concrete, touching the legal relations of parties having adverse legal interests. [Citation.] It must be a real and substantial controversy admitting ofspecific relief through a decree of a conclusive character, as distinguished from an opinion advising what the law would be upon a hypothetical state of facts.’” (Id. at pp. 170–171.) As addressed above, the court finds the claim against D. Masin for breach of fiduciary duty independently stated. The court also finds no support for any lack standing argument also raised in the opposition and followed-up on in the reply.Economic Loss RuleDefendant next challenges the operative complaint on grounds that the “economic loss rule” precludes recovery on tort damages for a claim arising fundamentally in contract. Again, the basis of the disagreement over the ability to pled the claim relies on the equivalent amounts of claimed damages. Plaintiff in opposition again challenges the argument on grounds of misapplication of the rule: the claim for damages arises in tort, not contract.“We begin with a review of the contours of the economic loss rule. The rule itself is deceptively easy to state: In general, there is no recovery in tort for negligently inflicted ‘purely economic losses,’ meaning financial harm unaccompanied by physical or property damage.” [¶][¶] “In another recurring set of circumstances, the rule functions to bar claims in negligence for pure economic losses in deference to a contract between litigating parties.” (Sheen v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2022) 12 Cal.5th 905, 922.) “Because it involves parties who are in contractual privity, this strand of the economic loss rule is sometimes referred to as the ‘contractual economic loss rule,’ ‘contractual rule,’ or ‘consensual paradigm.’” (Id. at p. 923.) The economic loss rule requires the pleading of wrongful conduct separate and independent from the obligations within the contract itself. (Id. at p. 923; Robinson Helicopter Co., Inc. v. Dana Corp. (2004) 34 Cal.4th 979, 991; Erlich v. Menezes (1999) 21 Cal.4th 543, 554.)“A breach of contract remedy assumes that the parties to a contract can negotiate the risk of loss occasioned by a breach. ‘[W]hen two parties make a contract, they agree upon the rules and regulations which will govern their relationship; the risks inherent in the agreement and the likelihood of its breach. The parties to the contract in essence create a mini-universe for themselves, in which each voluntarily chooses his contracting partner, each trusts the other's willingness to keep his word and honor his commitments, and in which they define their respective obligations, rewards and risks. Under such a scenario, it is appropriate to enforce only such obligations as each party voluntarily assumed, and to give him only such benefits as he expected to receive; this is the function of contract law.’ (Citation.) However, ‘[a] party to a contract cannot rationally calculate the possibility that the other party will deliberately misrepresent terms critical to that contract.’ (Citation.) No rational party would enter into a contract anticipating that they are or will be lied to. ‘While parties, perhaps because of their technical expertise and sophistication, can be presumed to understand and allocate the risks relating to negligent product design or manufacture, those same parties cannot, and should not, be expected to anticipate fraud and dishonesty in every transaction.’ (Citation.) Dana's argument therefore proposes to increase the certainty in contractual relationships by encouraging fraudulent conduct at the expense of an innocent party. No public policy supports such an outcome.” (Robinson Helicopter Co., Inc. v. Dana Corp., supra, 34 Cal.4th at pp. 992–993 (internal quotation marks omitted).)Nothing in either complaint filed by Limelight in any way alleges a contractual claim against D. Masin. Nothing in the demurrer suggests any basis of contractual privity between the parties. The court declines to merge the contractual claim against the Oneworld and RLoom entities with the breach of fiduciary claims against D. Masin. The demurrer is overruled on this argument.The demurrer is therefore overruled in its entirety. D. Masin to answer within 10 days of the order.Oneworld/RLoom may also file a notice of related cases.D. Masin to give notice to all parties.Dept. 68Date: 2-20-24Case #23STCV24029Trial Date: Not SetDEMURRERMOVING PARTY: Defendant, Rosenthal & Rosenthal of California, Inc.RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff, Limelight International, Ltd., et al.RELIEF REQUESTEDDemurrer to the First Amended Complaint· 5th Cause of Action: Aiding and Abetting Breach of Fiduciary DutySUMMARY OF ACTIONPlaintiff Limelight International Ltd., (Limelight) a Hong Kong based company authorized to conduct business in California alleges an unspecified defaulted balance owed by defendant RLoom LLC (RLoom) in 2022. On February 8, 2023, RLoom and defendant D. Masin Consulting, LLC (D. Masin) executed a “General Assignment for the Benefit of All Creditors,” whereby all assets were subject to liquidation for payment of outstanding debts. Also on February 8, 2022, D. Masin and RLoom Design Corp. aka Newstyle Fashion Inc. also entered into an “Asset Purchase Agreement, whereby said assets were assigned by RLoom to D. Masin were sold to Newstyle for $365,000. Limelight maintains an asset value of at least $9,000,000, including its claimed outstanding debt.On March 27, 2023, Plaintiffs filed its complaint for Malicious Prosecution, Breach of Fiduciary Duty, Fraudulent Conveyance, Successor Liability, Aiding and Abetting Breach of Fiduciary Duty, and Conspiracy to Fraudulently Transfer Property. Following certain defendants answer to the complaint, the parties stipulated to the filing of a first amended complaint. The first amended complaint filed on January 3, 2024, alleges Malicious Prosecution, Breach of Fiduciary Duty, Fraudulent Conveyance, Successor Liability, Aiding and Abetting Breach of Fiduciary Duty, and Conspiracy to Fraudulently Transfer Property.RULING: Overruled.Defendant Rosenthal & Rosenthal of California, Inc. (Rosenthal) submits a demurrer to the fifth cause of action for Aiding and Abetting Breach of Fiduciary Duty in the first amended complaint on grounds that the subject cause is both premature and barred by the economic loss rule. Plaintiff in opposition maintains the challenged cause of action is properly pled with a step-by-step elemental analysis of the claim. Defendant in reply contends the operative complaint fails to establish the cause of action, due to the lack of facts supporting the substantial encouragement element requirement. Rosenthal also maintains a lack of facts establishing intent.A demurrer is an objection to a pleading, the grounds for which are apparent from either the face of the complaint or a matter of which the court may take judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the sufficiency of a pleading “by raising questions of law.” (Postley v.Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) The court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law . . . .” ’ ” (Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) In applying these standards, the court liberally construes the complaint to determine whether a cause of action has been stated. (Picton v. Anderson Union High School Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 726, 733.)“A demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616; Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139 [“[U]nder our liberal pleading rules, where the complaint contains substantive factual allegations sufficiently apprising defendant of the issues it is being asked to meet, a demurrer for uncertainty should be overruled or plaintiff given leave to amend.]Rosenthal is identified as a defendant in paragraph four of the first amended complaint, but otherwise lacks any specific address in the “general allegations” section of the operative pleading. [First Amend. Comp., ¶¶ 12-21.] Rosenthal is only named in the fifth cause of action, whereby Plaintiff alleges Rosental “was engaged in financial transactions with RLoom, including but not limited to providing accounts receivable financing to RLoom pursuant to a factoring agreement.” [First Amend. Comp., ¶ 56.] Rosenthal held a perfected security interest in Rloom assets. [First Amend. Comp., ¶ 58.] The allegations against Rosenthal continue with a claim of approval of the underlying asset transfer by RLoom D. Masin, RLoom Design Corp. aka Newstyle Fashion Inc., as well as knowledge of the violation of the fiduciary relationship between Limelight, Rloom and D. Masin. [First Amend. Comp., ¶¶ 59-65.] The transfer was only made possible due to the approval of Rosenthal. [First Amend. Comp., ¶ 66.]“A defendant is liable for aiding and abetting another in the commission of an intentional tort, including a breach of fiduciary duty, if the defendant ‘knows the other's conduct constitutes a breach of duty and gives substantial assistance or encouragement to the other to so act.’” (Citation.) The elements of a claim for aiding and abetting a breach of fiduciary duty are: (1) a third party's breach of fiduciary duties owed to plaintiff; (2) defendant's actual knowledge of that breach of fiduciary duties; (3) substantial assistance or encouragement by defendant to the third party's breach; and (4) defendant's conduct was a substantial factor in causing harm to plaintiff.” (Nasrawi v. Buck Consultants LLC (2014) 231 Cal.App.4th 328, 343 [internal quotation marks omitted].)“‘California courts have long held that liability for aiding and abetting depends on proof the defendant had actual knowledge of the specific primary wrong the defendant substantially assisted. In Lomita Land & Water Co. v. Robinson (1908) 154 Cal. 36 [97 P. 10] ..., the California Supreme Court explained this requirement in the course of affirming a judgment against two defendants for aiding and abetting a fraudulent land sale scheme engineered by two others. The court stated, “The words ‘aid and abet’ as thus used have a well understood meaning, and may fairly be construed to imply an intentional participation with knowledge of the object to be attained.” [Citation.]’ (Citation.) A defendant who acts with actual knowledge of the intentional wrong to be committed and provides substantial assistance to the primary wrongdoeris not an accidental participant in the enterprise.” (Upasani v. State Farm General Ins. Co. (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 509, 519.)“Liability may also be imposed on one who aids and abets the commission of an intentional tort if the person (a) knows the other's conduct constitutes a breach of duty and gives substantial assistance or encouragement to the other to so act or (b) gives substantial assistance to the other in accomplishing a tortious result and the person's own conduct, separately considered, constitutes a breach of duty to the third person.” (Saunders v. Superior Court (1994) 27 Cal.App.4th 832, 846; Schulz v. Neovi Data Corp. (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 86, 95.) “‘Mere knowledge that a tort is being committed and the failure to prevent it does not constitute aiding and abetting. [Citation.] ‘As a general rule, one owes no duty to control the conduct of another...’” (Austin B. v. Escondido Union School Dist. (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 860, 879.)Rosenthal concedes that the cause of action (conclusively) complies with the elemental standards for the claim. Notwithstanding the pro forma pleading, Rosenthal maintains the assignment led to the satisfaction of secured creditor debt, and Limelight, as an unsecured creditor, lacks any basis of relief against Rosenthal for its alleged participation in the assignment. Imposing liability on an entity such as Rosenthal violates commercial lending practice norms by imposing a standard of “full” or “fair[]” payment to unsecured creditors during a liquidation.While the court declines to consider extrinsic inference regarding the outcome of the liquidation as to secured and unsecured creditors, on the legal merits of the claim, Rosenthal raises a valid challenge based on the lack of any duty owed to Plaintiff. An entity involved in financial enterprises, without any public policy requirement compelling consideration of potential third party impacts caused by the underlying conduct, owes no duty to harmed persons or entities. (Quelimane Co. v. Stewart Title Guaranty Co. (1998) 19 Cal.4th 26, 58-60.)Plaintiff challenges the position that Rosenthal evades liability simply based on the approval of the underlying transaction as a financial entity. [First Amend. Comp., ¶¶ 62, 66.] The argument squarely falls into an area of more recent case law superimposing and broadening the effective scope of care rendered against financial institutions under the guise of aiding and abetting, as otherwise insulated in circumstances discussed by the California Supreme Court in Quelimane Co. v. Stewart Title Guaranty Co. “We have found no California cases directly on point. Nevertheless, common sense tells us that even ‘ordinary business transactions’ a bank performs for a customer can satisfy the substantial assistance element of an aiding and abetting claim if the bank actually knew those transactions were assisting the customer in committing a specific tort. Knowledge is the crucial element. We thus reject the banks' challenge to the sufficiency of the substantial assistance allegations, and focus instead on whether the Trustee adequately alleged the knowledge element of the aiding and abetting claim.” (Casey v. U.S. Bank Nat. Assn. (2005) 127 Cal.App.4th 1138, 1145.) “‘[A] defendant may be found liable for aiding and abetting a breach of fiduciary duty even though the defendant owes no independent duty to the plaintiff.” (Nasrawi v. Buck Consultants LLC, supra, 231 Cal.App.4th at p. 345; See Chance World Trading E.C. v. Heritage Bank of Commerce (N.D. Cal. 2005) 438 F.Supp.2d 1081, 1084, aff'd (9th Cir. 2008) 263 Fed.Appx. 630 [“California courts have acknowledged that the tort of aiding and abetting is at odds with statutory limitations on bank liability”].)The court adheres to the holding from the Sixth District Court of Appeal. (Sarti v. Salt Creek Ltd. (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 1187, 1193 accord Auto Equity Sales, Inc. v. Superior Court of Santa Clara County (1962) 57 Cal.2d 450, 455.) For purposes of ruling on the demurrer only, the court finds the operative complaint sufficiently articulates the elements of the claim. Distinctions regarding intent, and/or knowledge and ability to control the conduct of others for purposes of establishing the validity of the claim exceeds the scope of the pleadings for purposes of ruling on a demurrer. The court defers any evidentiary consideration to an appropriate form. (Austin B. v. Escondido Union School Dist., supra, 149 Cal.App.4th at p. 879.)The demurrer is overruled. Rosenthal to answer within 10 days of the order.Rosenthal & Rosenthal of California, Inc. to give notice.