 Case Number:  21STCV21363    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2024    Dept:  T Motion for Summary Judgement/Adjudication Moving Party:  Defendants Jeremy and Teresa Maltz Responding Party:  Plaintiff Sharon MoultrieTentative Ruling:    Denied BACKGROUND This is a trip and fall case. Plaintiff alleges that on June 30, 2020, Plaintiff tripped and fell while walking on a public sidewalk adjacent to residential property in which Defendants were tenants. MOVING PARTY POSITION  Defendants argue there is no triable issue in this case because they are not responsible for maintenance and repair of the public sidewalk and have no legal duty to Plaintiff.  OPPOSITION Plaintiff argues the motion for summary judgment should be denied because Defendants failed to completely dispose the issue of duty, and submits that Defendants owed Plaintiff a duty to use due care in the maintenance of the sidewalk in front of the property. REPLY Defendants contend that Plaintiff failed to produce any evidence that they exercised sufficient control over the parkway to create a legal duty to third parties. ANALYSIS I.          Evidentiary Objections Defendants submit three objections to the Declaration of Armin Abazari. Cross Defendants’ objections are overruled. Plaintiff submits ten objections to Defendants’ evidence, specifically with respect to the Declarations of Ruben M. Green and John Coffey. Plaintiff’s objections are overruled.II.        Summary JudgementSummary judgment is proper “if all the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §437c(c).)  The moving party bears the initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material fact. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  A defendant moving for summary judgment must show either (1) that one or more elements of the cause of action cannot be established or (2) that there is a complete defense to that cause of action.  (Id. at §437c(p).)  A defendant may discharge this burden by furnishing either (1) affirmative evidence of the required facts or (2) discovery responses conceding that the plaintiff lacks evidence to establish an essential element of the plaintiff's case.   To establish premises liability, plaintiff must prove that the defendant breached a duty of care owed to the plaintiff that proximately caused injury and damages. “Those who own, possess, or control property generally have a duty to exercise ordinary care in managing the property in order to avoid exposing others to an unreasonable risk of harm.” (Annocki v. Peterson Enterprises, LLC (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 32, 37.)  An owner is charged with constructive knowledge of the existence of a dangerous condition if the condition was present for a sufficient period of time. (Castellon v. U.S. Bancorp (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 994, 998 (citing Ortega v. Kmart Corp. (2001) 26 Cal.4th 1200, 1205; Civil Code § 1714(a)).) (Id.) In Alcaraz v. Vece (1997) 14 Cal.4th 1149, our Supreme Court held that a landowner who exercises control over an adjoining strip of land has a duty to protect or warn others entering the adjacent land of a known hazard there. (Id. at 1170-1171.) This duty arises even if the person does not own or exercise control over the hazard and even if the person does not own the abutting property on which the hazard is located. (Id. at 1155-1156.).   Defendants’ burden on summary judgment is to affirmatively establish that no duty was owed to Plaintiff.  Here, Defendants merely established that they were tenants and did not own the public sidewalk.  However, Defendants failed to meet their burden of establishing that they did not exercise control over the subject property, that they did not maintain the subject property to the extent that might create a duty, or that they did not create the subject hazard.  More specifically, Defendants’ motion is silent as to what, if any, maintenance and control they exercised over the tree which Defendants’ expert contends was the cause of the alleged defect in the sidewalk.  Further, while Defendants contend they were not responsible for the maintenance of the sidewalk, they failed to establish that they, in fact, did not maintain the sidewalk.  Because a duty could arise if the character of Defendants maintenance and control over the tree or sidewalk was more than “minimal, neighborly maintenance” (Alcaraz, supra, 14 Cal.4th at 1167), Defendants were obligated to negate that possibility.  They failed to do so.  Consequently, Defendants failed to meet their burden on summary judgment/adjudication that one or more elements “cannot be established.” RULING  Based on the foregoing, Defendants’ motion for summary judgement/adjudication is DENIED. 