  Case Number:  20STCV34900    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2024    Dept:  T Motion for Summary JudgementMoving Party:         Defendant 4070 Venice LLC Responding Party: Plaintiff Deborah McCreeTentative Ruling: DENIEDBACKGROUND This is a trip and fall case. Plaintiff alleges that on October 28, 2019, Plaintiff was walking on the sidewalk in front of 4070 Venice Blvd., when she tripped and fell causing her to sustain serious injuries. Plaintiff filed a complaint against Defendant for general negligence and premises liability.MOVING PARTY POSITION Defendant argues the Court should grant summary judgement because Defendant did not own, maintain or control the public sidewalk where Plaintiff fell nor create the alleged dangerous condition.OPPOSITION Plaintiff argues there is a triable issue of material fact as to Plaintiff’s causes of action for negligence and premises liability, including whether Defendant exercised dominion or control over the subject over the area of the sidewalk where Plaintiff fell and whether Defendant created the subject dangerous condition.REPLYNo reply has been filed.ANALYSIS I. Evidentiary Objections Plaintiff submits 4 evidentiary objections concerning the Declaration of George Mekhaiel and Ronald Mayer. Plaintiff’s objections are overruled.II. Summary JudgementSummary judgment is proper “if all the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §437c(c).)  The moving party bears the initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material fact. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  A defendant moving for summary judgment must show either (1) that one or more elements of the cause of action cannot be established or (2) that there is a complete defense to that cause of action.  (Id. at §437c(p).)  A defendant may discharge this burden by furnishing either (1) affirmative evidence of the required facts or (2) discovery responses conceding that the plaintiff lacks evidence to establish an essential element of the plaintiff's case.  The elements of a cause of action for premises liability are the same as those for negligence: duty, breach, causation, and damages.” (Castellon v. U.S. Bancorp (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 994, 998 (citing Ortega v. Kmart Corp. (2001) 26 Cal.4th 1200, 1205; Civil Code § 1714(a)).)  To establish premises liability, plaintiff must prove that the defendant breached a duty of care owed to the plaintiff that proximately caused injury and damages. “Those who own, possess, or control property generally have a duty to exercise ordinary care in managing the property in order to avoid exposing others to an unreasonable risk of harm.” (Annocki v. Peterson Enterprises, LLC (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 32, 37.)  In this case, Defendant meets its burden and makes a prima facie showing that there is no triable issue with respect to Defendant’s duty.  Namely, Defendant’s evidence that it did not control the public sidewalk or create the alleged dangerous condition is sufficient to make a prima facie showing that Defendant did not have a duty to Plaintiff with respect to maintaining the sidewalk. Indeed, the case Williams v. Foster provides that “[o]rdinarily, in the absence of a special relationship or statute giving a rise to a duty to act, a person has no affirmative duty to protect another from perils he did not create.” (Williams v. Foster (1989) 216 Cal.App.3d 510, 521.) Defendant, by providing evidence that it neither controlled nor created the peril Plaintiff alleges, makes a prima facie case that it owed no duty to Plaintiff. The burden thus shifts to Plaintiff to show a triable issue exists that Defendant owed a duty to protect Plaintiff from the alleged dangerous condition.“An abutting landowner may be held liable for the dangerous condition of portions of the public sidewalk which have been altered or constructed for the benefit of his property and which serve a use independent of and apart from the ordinary and accustomed use for which sidewalks are designed.” (Peters v. City and County of San Francisco (1953) 41 Cal.2d 419, 423 (citing Sexton v. Brooks (1952) 39 Cal.2d 153, 157.))  “[L]iability under this theory does not arise upon a mere finding that the abutting owner derives a benefit from the alteration. The additional factors of whether the alteration serves a use independent of and apart from the ordinary and accustomed use of the sidewalk and the degree of exclusivity of such use must be considered. (Contreras v. Anderson (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 188, 202 (citing Seaber v. Hotel Del Coronado (1991) 1 Cal.App.4th 481, 490–491)).  Here, the Court finds that Plaintiff has raised a triable issue of fact as to whether a duty was owed.  There are triable issues of fact as to whether the subject driveway has any other purpose other than to provide access to the parking on Defendant’s property.  It remains for a jury to decide whether the alteration of construction of the driveway was for Defendant’s benefit and whether the driveway was exclusively used for access to Defendant’s property.  RULING Based on the foregoing, Defendant’s motion for summary judgement is DENIED. 