 Case Number:  21STCV15295    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2024    Dept:  T Motion to Compel Deposition Moving Party:             Plaintiff Rafael MorenoResponding Party:      N/ATentative Ruling:        GRANT BACKGROUND This is a car collision case arising from an April 30, 2019 incident in which Plaintiff alleges Defendant Ryan Thomas failed to stop for traffic on the highway and caused a chain-reaction collision that resulted in injuries to Plaintiff.  Plaintiff noticed Defendant Thomas’ deposition on July 28, 2023, but it taken off calendar by counsel for Defendants. On October 30, 2023, Plaintiff again served an Amended Notice of Mr. Thomas’ deposition, but it was taken off calendar by counsel Defendant. On April 11, 2024, Plaintiff noticed Defendant Thomas’ deposition yet again, but on April 12, 2024, counsel for Defendant informed Plaintiff’s counsel that they have tried multiple times to reach Defendant Thomas, but he has been unresponsive. On May 29, 2024, Plaintiff again noticed the deposition of Defendant Thomas.  When Defendant and Plaintiff met and conferred on June 12, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel informed Defense counsel that the timely noticed deposition of Defendant Thomas was going to remain on calendar unless they provided firm availability on another date for his deposition. Defense counsel reiterated that they had no contact with Defendant Thomas. Plaintiff stated the deposition would proceed as noticed, and Defendant made no objections. Defendant Thomas did not appear at the deposition, prompting Plaintiff’s counsel to obtain a Certificate of Non-Appearance.  MOVING PARTY POSITION Plaintiff argues the Court should compel Defendant Thomas’ deposition because Plaintiff has attempted unsuccessfully multiple times to obtain it, including in cooperation with Defendant’s counsel. Plaintiff argues Defendant will not be prejudiced by granting Plaintiff’s motion, whereas Plaintiff will be heavily prejudiced if Mr. Thomas’ deposition cannot be obtained, particularly given the current December 2, 2024 trial date. Plaintiff also seeks sanctions in the amount of $2,424.50 against Mr. Thomas based on a $700.00 per hour rate and 1.50 hours of work preparing this Motion and proposed Order, in addition to an estimated 1.0 hour reviewing the Opposition and preparing a reply brief and 0.50 hours attending the hearing on this motion (Declaration of Elizabeth A. Hernandez ¶13.) OPPOSITIONThere is no opposition filed for this motion. ANALYSISI.          Motion to Compel Deposition Where a would-be deponent fails to appear for properly noticed deposition, the noticing party may move for an order to compel said deponent’s attendance, testimony, and/or production for inspection of any document described in the deposition notice.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2025.230, 2025.450 (a).) Here, Plaintiff’s declaration and exhibits demonstrate Plaintiff repeatedly attempted to depose Defendant Thomas and to schedule a deposition — but to no avail. (Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Deposition, Exhibits 1-5.) Given that Defendant Thomas was the driver who allegedly caused the chain reaction collision, there is clearly good cause to compel the deposition.  The Court accordingly finds an order compelling Defendant Thomas to attend his deposition to be appropriate.  II.        SanctionsIf the court grants a motion to compel deposition and produce documents, “the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) in favor of the party who noticed the deposition and against the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (g)(1).) Here, Plaintiff requests sanctions in the amount of $2,100 against Defendant Thomas for 1.50 hours of work in addition to another 1.50 hours of anticipated work relating to this motion — based on a $700.00 per hour rate, plus $254.50 for the non-appearance fee and the $60 filing fee for this motion.  The requested hours appear reasonable, but given the routine nature of this motion, the Court finds that an hourly billing rate of $450 is appropriate.  RULINGPlaintiff’s motion to compel deposition is GRANTED.  Plaintiff’s motion for sanctions against Defendant Thomas is GRANTED in the amount of $1,664.50.