 Case Number:  21STCV27987    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2024    Dept:  T Motion for Summary JudgementMoving Party: Defendant Costco Wholesale CorporationResponding Party: Plaintiff Cynthia HopesTentative Ruling: DENYBACKGROUNDThis is a trip and fall case arising from a November 19, 2020, incident wherein Plaintiff was shopping at the Costco Warehouse (“Costco”) and allegedly tripped over an empty pallet that had been left askew in the walkway. Plaintiff now brings claims against Costco for injuries attributed to the trip and fall, alleging that Costco was negligent in its maintenance and inspection of the warehouse. MOVING PARTY POSITION Defendant argues the Court should grant summary judgement on three grounds. First, that Plaintiff cannot establish that Defendant did not exercise reasonable care; second, that Plaintiff cannot meet her burden of proof that Defendant had actual or constructive notice of the condition with sufficient time to discover and correct it; and third, that Plaintiff cannot meet her burden of proof regarding causation. OPPOSITION Plaintiff argues there are disputed issues of material fact as to whether Defendant exercised reasonable care, whether Defendant breached its own policies and procedures and duty to inspect the area where the subject pallet was left unattended, and whether Defendant had actual or constructive notice of the dangerous condition of the unattended pallet.REPLYDefendant argues Plaintiff’s Opposition fails to provide any admissible competent evidence which would create a genuine issue of material fact, as Plaintiff has not disputed any of Defendant’s facts but merely qualified some of them.ANALYSIS I. Evidentiary Objections Defendant submits 9 evidentiary objections in total concerning the Declaration of Ariella E. Perry and Supporting Evidence. All 12 of Defendant’s objections are overruled.II. Summary JudgementSummary judgment is proper “if all the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §437c(c).)  The moving party bears the initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material fact. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  A defendant moving for summary judgment must show either (1) that one or more elements of the cause of action cannot be established or (2) that there is a complete defense to that cause of action.  (Id. at §437c(p).)  A defendant may discharge this burden by furnishing either (1) affirmative evidence of the required facts or (2) discovery responses conceding that the plaintiff lacks evidence to establish an essential element of the plaintiff's case.  The elements of a cause of action for premises liability are the same as those for negligence: duty, breach, causation, and damages.” (Castellon v. U.S. Bancorp (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 994, 998 (citing Ortega v. Kmart Corp. (2001) 26 Cal.4th 1200, 1205; Civil Code § 1714(a)).) In order to impose liability on a property owner for a dangerous condition, the owner must have either actual or constructive knowledge of the dangerous condition or have been able to discover the condition by the exercise of ordinary care. (See Ortega, supra, 26 Cal.4th at 1206.) An owner is charged with constructive knowledge of the existence of a dangerous condition if the condition was present for a sufficient period of time. (See id.) “Whether a dangerous condition has existed long enough for a reasonably prudent person to have discovered it is a question of fact for the jury.” (Id. at 1207.)  To establish premises liability, plaintiff must prove that the defendant breached a duty of care owed to the plaintiff that proximately caused injury and damages. “Those who own, possess, or control property generally have a duty to exercise ordinary care in managing the property in order to avoid exposing others to an unreasonable risk of harm.” (Annocki v. Peterson Enterprises, LLC (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 32, 37.)  A. Reasonable Care  Defendant meets its initial burden of making a prima facie showing that it exercised reasonable care and thus did not breach its duty of care to Plaintiff.  Defendant provides evidence of a routine standard of care in place at the time of the incident, including hourly floor-walk inspections by employees, who are required to note any hazards or problems and immediately act to remedy the hazard. (Motion for Summary Judgement p. 11-12.) The policies Defendant provides suffice to show a prima facie case that there is no triable issue.Plaintiff, in turn, meets its burden to show a triable issue does exist with respect to whether Defendant exercised reasonable care. Namely, while Plaintiff here does not dispute the adequacy of Defendant’s policies at the time of the incident, Plaintiff raised triable issues of fact as to whether Defendant breached its duty to inspect and breached its own policies and procedures. (Plaintiff’s Undisputed Material Facts No. 4, 6 – 8, 15, 21.) B. NoticeDefendant similarly meets its initial burden of making a prima facie showing that it did not have actual or constructive notice of a dangerous condition by providing evidence of its inspection policies as well as evidence that the empty pallet was on the warehouse floor for an insufficient amount of time for Defendant to have constructive notice of it. (MSJ p. 13.)However, Plaintiff here is also able to meet her burden in showing a triable issue exists as to whether Defendant had constructive notice of the dangerous condition.  Here, Plaintiff provides evidence that the pallet she fell over was unattended and left empty for “a good ten minutes, at least.” (Plaintiff’s Undisputed Material Facts No. 4.) Plaintiff also introduced evidence that two Costco employees were near the location of the pallet.  (Plaintiff’s Undisputed Material Facts No. 7.)  Further, Plaintiff’s presents evidence that Costco’s policy was to immediately remove empty pallets from customer walkways.  (Plaintiff’s Undisputed Material Facts No. 15.)Cases such as Ortega v. Kmart Corp. are instructive here by establishing that a similar period of time may be sufficient to create a triable issue as to whether a defendant retail company had constructive notice of a dangerous condition. (Ortega v. Kmart Corp. (2001) 26 Cal.4th 1200, 1205.) Moreover, Ortega reiterates the notion that the “failure to inspect the premises within a reasonable time prior to the accident” may “give rise to an inference that the defective condition lasted long enough to have been discovered and remedied.” (Ortega v. Kmart Corp. (2001) 26 Cal.4th 1200, 1211.)  Here, there are triable issues of fact regarding whether the allegedly dangerous condition existed for a sufficient time to give rise to a duty to correct it and whether Defendant was on constructive notice of the condition.  C. Causation  Defendant here has not met its burden of proof to make a prima facie showing that there is no triable issue on whether Defendant’s alleged conduct caused Plaintiff’s injury.  Namely, Defendant fails to provide evidence that Plaintiff’s injury was not caused by tripping over the pallet, nor does Defendant provide evidence to make a prima facie showing that Defendant was not responsible for the placement of the pallet. Defendant’s analogy to Oldenburg v. Sears is unavailing, as the pallet in this case does not parallel the piece of chalk in Oldenburg, as the pallet in this case is not located outside the storefront, and is directly owned and controlled by Defendant inside Defendant’s warehouse. Thus, a triable issue exists as to whether Defendant caused Plaintiff’s injury by failing to notice and remedy the alleged dangerous condition. (Oldenburg v. Sears, Roebuck & Co. (1957) 152 Cal.App.2d 733, 743.)RULING Based on the foregoing, Defendant’s motion for summary judgement is DENIED. 