 Case Number:  24STLC02909    Hearing Date:   December 18, 2024    Dept:  25 PROCEEDINGS:     MOTION TO EXPUNGE LIS PENDENS AND MECHANIC’S
LIEN
 
MOVING PARTY:   Defendant
Luco Enterprises, LLC
RESP. PARTY:         Plaintiff SoCal Lien Solutions, LLC
 
MOTION TO EXPUNGE LIS PENDENS AND MECHANIC’S LIEN
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 405.20, et seq.)
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendant Luco Enterprises, LLC’s Motion
to Expunge Lis Pendens and Mechanic’s Lien is DENIED.  
 
Plaintiff’s request for Attorney’s
Fees and Costs is DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE. 

 
Moving party is ordered to
give notice. 
 
SERVICE:  
 
[   ] Proof of Service Timely Filed (CRC,
rule 3.1300)                     NO
[   ] Correct Address (CCP §§ 1013, 1013a)                                      NO 
[   ] 16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP §§ 12c,
1005(b))                       NO 
 
OPPOSITION:          Filed
on December 5, 2024                                        [  ] Late           [   ] None
REPLY:                     Filed
on December 11, 2024                                      [  ] Late           [  
] None
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.                   
Background

 
On April 19, 2024, Plaintiff SoCal
Lien Solutions, LLC (“Plaintiff”) initiated this action against Defendants American
Flower, LLC (“American Flower”), Luco Enterprises, LLC (“Luco Enterprises”),
and Ti Properties, Inc. (“Ti Properties”) (“Defendants”) and Does 1-10 alleging
causes of action for Services Rendered, Quasi Contract Recovery, and
Enforcement of Mechanic’s Lien. (Compl., p. 1.) 
 
On June 6, 2024, Plaintiff filed
amendments to the Complaint to designate Doe 1 as IDM Endeavors, LLC (“IDM
Endeavors”) and Doe 2 as Mortgage Vintage, Inc (“Mortgage Vintage”). 
 
On June 6, 2024, American Flower, LLC
filed an Answer. On June 24, 2024, Luco Enterprises filed an Answer.
 
On June 24, 2024, Luco Enterprises
filed a Cross-Complaint against Plaintiff as assignee of Sky Country, Inc. dba
Aztec Construction (“Aztec Construction”) and Roes 1-50.
 
On July 16, 2024, Mortgage Vintage
filed an Answer, and IDM Endeavors filed an Answer.
 
On October 8, 2024, Luco Enterprises
filed the instant “Motion to Remove Mechanic’s Lien Filed by Plaintiff SoCal
Lien Solutions, LLC (CCP §§ 405.32, 405.23)” (the “Motion”). 
 
On December 5, 2024, Plaintiff filed
an Opposition.
 
On December 11, 2024, Luco Enterprises
filed a Reply.
 
II.                
Procedural
Issues
 
In its Motion, Luco Enterprises
attaches proof of service demonstrating service by mail of the Motion on
Plaintiff. However, Luco Enterprises fails to provide proof of service of the Motion
on all parties in the action. 
 
The Court also notes the Opposition
and Reply proofs of service are defective as they too were not served on all
parties in the action.
 
III.             
Legal
Standard & Discussion
 
Moving Party Position
 
Luco Enterprises moves for an order
expunging the mechanic’s lien and lis pendens filed by Plaintiff on the
following grounds: “Plaintiff cannot establish the probable validity of the
claim under the facts of this case and, as such, the same must be expunged,”
and “Plaintiff cannot establish the probable validity of the lis pendens under
the facts of this case, and, as such, the same must be expunged.” (Motion, p.
3.) Luco Enterprises attaches the subject mechanic’s lien to its Motion. (Rippy
Decl., ¶ 9, Exh. E.) 
 
Luco Enterprises argues that Aztec Construction
only performed 75 percent of the contracted work and overspent on the contract
budget. (Motion, p. 6; Bowers Decl., ¶¶ 6-7; Rippy Decl., ¶¶ 6-9.) Thereafter,
Aztec Construction filed a mechanics lien and lis pendens against the subject
property, even though Luco Enterprises refused to further pay Aztec
Construction because Aztec Construction “was requesting further draws in excess
of funding to which it [was] entitled.” (Motion, p. 6.) Thus, Luco Enterprises
argues the “filing of the mechanics lien was made in bad faith in an effort to
squeeze further funds from Luco and its partners.” (Motion, p. 6.) 
 
Finally, Luco Enterprises requests all
reasonable fees and costs should Luco Enterprises be the prevailing party.
(Motion, p. 6.) 
 
Opposition
 
In Opposition, Plaintiff contends Luco
Enterprises’ contention that the subject mechanic’s lien is invalid fails
because there is no written memorialization of the alleged fixed contract price,
and Plaintiff submits proof that Defendants have not made full payment to Aztec
Construction for work performed. (Opp., pp. 2-3; Opp., Parikh Decl., ¶¶ 3-4,
Exhs. A, B.) Specifically, Plaintiff contends Luco Enterprises cancelled
payment to Aztec Construction “not for payments to Aztek having reached 75% of
the budget, but due to Aztek being removed as contractor.” (Opp., Parikh Decl.,
¶ 4, Exh. B.) To bolster this claim, Plaintiff attaches evidence of an email
exchange between Aztek Construction, La Mesa Fund Control & Escrow, Inc. –
“the fund controller handling construction loan draw requests for the
construction loan made to Luco Enterprises” (Opp., Parikh Decl., ¶ 3) – and Mortgage
Vintage, wherein La Mesa Fund Control and Escrow, Inc. stated: “We still have
[a] request pending your approval. since the contractor is being removed etc.
would you like us to void and cancel this request?” (Opp., Parikh Decl., ¶ 4,
Exh. B.) Mortgage Vintage replied, “yes.” (Opp., Parikh Decl., ¶ 4, Exh. B.)
 
Finally, Plaintiff requests attorney
fees under Code of Civil Procedure Section 405.38.
 
Reply
 
            In
Reply, Luco Enterprises states the contract between the parties was verbal,
meaning the terms of the contract can “only be determined by extrinsic
writings, documentation, performance by the parties, and the funding agencies
adopted by the parties during the contract execution.” (Reply, p. 2.)
Accordingly, Luco Enterprises contends these factors evidence the state of
performance and payments during the run of the contract, and the performance
under the contract was incomplete when Aztec Constructions filed its last
request for withdrawal under the budget. (Reply, p. 2.) Contrary to Plaintiff’s
assertion, Luco Enterprises argues the budget is “indeed written evidence of
the contracted price.” (Reply, p. 2.) 
 
            In
response to Plaintiff’s allegation that the last withdrawal request was denied
at the direction of Luco Enterprises, Luco Enterprises denies the claim and
states that determination was made by La Mesa Fund Control and Escrow, Inc.,
not Luco Enterprises. (Reply, pp. 2-3.) Luco Enterprises then reiterates its
argument that Aztec Construction failed to perform under the contract and
provides additional evidence that the replacement contractor who came in after
Aztec Construction stated Aztec Construction’s work was performed only at 70
percent of competition and was rife with various examples of poor workmanship.
(Reply, p. 3, Exh. A.)
 
            Finally,
Luco Enterprises argues Plaintiff failed to meet its burden under Code of Civil
Procedure section 405.32 to establish by a preponderance of the evidence the
probable validity of the claim and its lien; Aztec Construction overdrew and
underperformed; Plaintiff only presents evidence of a $9,800 draw request in
its Opposition, which is substantially less than the amount requested in the
Complaint and mechanic’s lien; and, due to Aztec Construction’s insufficient
performance, Luco Enterprises had to have a new remedial contract in the amount
of approximately $300,000. (Reply, pp. 4-5.) 
 
Analysis
 
“At any time after notice of
pendency of action has been recorded, any party, or any nonparty with an
interest in the real property affected thereby, may apply to the court in which
the action is pending to expunge the notice.… Evidence or declarations may be
filed with the motion to expunge the notice.… The claimant shall have the
burden of proof under Sections 405.31 and 405.32.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 405.30,
emphasis added.) The “claimant” is the “party to an action who asserts a real
property claim and records a notice of the pendency of the action.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 405.1.) The court shall order the notice expunged if (1) the court
“finds that the claimant has not established by a preponderance of the evidence
the probable validity of the real property claim,” or (2) the Court “finds that
the pleading on which the notice is based does not contain a real property
claim.” (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 405.31-405.32.) The Court shall not order an
undertaking to be given as a condition of expunging the notice where the Court
finds the pleading does not contain a real property claim or the claimant has
not established the probable validity of the real property claim. (Code Civ.
Proc., §§ 405.31-405.32.)
 
            As an
initial matter, the Court notes a lis pendens regarding the subject mechanic’s
lien has not been filed with the Court. Accordingly, the Court is unable to
make a ruling regarding expunging a lis pendens when no lis pendens is before it.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 405.30.)
 
            To the
extent Luco Enterprises moves to expunge the mechanic’s lien described as “1667
Cota Ave, Long Beach, CA 90813 Los Angeles 7432-001-023” (Compl., ¶ 22; Motion,
p. 3), the Motion is brought pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure sections 405.32
and 405.23; however, those statutes pertain to recording a notice of pendency
of action (lis pendens) on which a real property claim is alleged. (See Code
Civ. Proc., §§ 405.23, 405.32.) Luco Enterprises has not demonstrated that this
statute allows the Court to expunge a mechanic’s lien.  
 
            Accordingly,
Luco Enterprises’ Motion is DENIED.
 
Attorneys’ Fees
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 405.38
provides that, “[t]he court shall direct that the party prevailing on [a motion
to expunge lis pendens] be awarded the reasonable attorney’s fees and costs of
making or opposing the motion unless the court finds that the other party acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of attorney’s fees and costs unjust.”

            Here, Plaintiff is the
prevailing party and is thus entitled to reasonable attorney fees and costs.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 405.38.) However, Plaintiff provides no proof of fees and
costs.
 
            Thus,
Plaintiff’s request is DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE.
 
IV.             
Conclusion
& Order
 
For the foregoing reasons, Luco
Enterprises, LLC’s Motion to Expunge Lis Pendens and Mechanic’s Lien is
DENIED. 
 
Plaintiff’s request for Attorney’s
Fees and Costs is DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE. 

 
Moving party is ordered to give notice. 