  Case Number:  20STCV49213    Hearing Date:   August 9, 2024    Dept:  74 Brandon
Charif v. Fuelster Technologies, Inc., et al.
Plaintiff’s Motion for Order
Establishing Admissions and Request for Sanctions 
 
BACKGROUND
This is a breach of contract
and fraud action arising out of a referral/commission relationship in the
mobile fueling business.
On September 6, 2023, Plaintiff  Brandon Charif (“Plaintiff”) served his
Requests for Admissions, Set Two, on Defendant Fuelster Technologies, Inc.
(“Defendant”).  (Rozio Decl., ¶ 3; Ex.
“A.”)  The deadline for Defendant to
respond to the set of requests for admissions was October 6, 2023.  Defendant neither requested an extension for
time to respond nor served responses. (Rozio Decl., ¶ 4-5.) On June 17, 2024,
Plaintiff filed his motion requesting an order establishing admissions by
Defendant and sanctions of $1,060 against Defendant and its former counsel,
David Martin Gonor (“Gonor”).  Gonor
opposes the request for sanctions against him. 
 
LEGAL STANDARD
If a party to whom
requests for admission are directed fails to serve a timely response, the
requesting party may move for an order that the truth of any matters specified
in the requests be deemed admitted, as well as for a monetary sanction.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (b).) The court “shall make this order, unless
it finds that the party to whom the requests for admission have been directed
has served, before the hearing¿on the motion, a proposed response to the
requests for admission that is in substantial compliance with Section
2033.220.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280,
subd. (c).)  It is “mandatory that the Court impose a monetary sanction…on the
party or attorney, or both, whose failure to serve a timely response to
requests for admission necessitated this motion.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).)
DISCUSSION  
            Defendant failed to serve
responses to Plaintiff’s Requests for Admission, Set Two. (Rozio
Decl., ¶¶ 3-5.)  Therefore, the requests
are deemed admitted. 
            Plaintiff
requests monetary sanctions against Defendant and its former counsel in the
amount of $1,060 (2 hours incurred at $500 hourly rate, plus $60 filing
fee).  (Rozio Decl., ¶¶ 6-8.)  The Court grants the request for sanctions only against Defendant.
Additionally, the Court reduces the sanctions awarded because this motion is
one of a series of motions to compel for which Plaintiff’s counsel
appropriately duplicated his work.
CONCLUSION 
                The
Court grants Plaintiff’s Motion for Order Establishing Admissions by Defendant
Fuelster Technologies, Inc. The Court orders the
matters in Plaintiff’s Requests for Admission, Set Two to Defendant deemed admitted.  The Court orders sanctions of $560 payable by
Defendant within 20 days of this order. 
            Plaintiff shall give notice.