 Case Number:  21STCV24488    Hearing Date:   November 2, 2023    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



KYLE MADISON, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
MICHAEL THEODORE, MICHAEL THEODORE,
  TRUSTEE OF THE MICHAEL THEODORE REVOCABLE TRUST, CASA THEODORE, LLC, CASA THEODORE
  INC., CECILIA FUNK, ROSALIND FUNK, CHARLES FUNK, and DOES 1-50, 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.: 21STCV24488
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL
 
Date: November 2, 2023
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff
Kyle Madison 
RESPONDING PARTY: None
 
            The Court has considered the moving
papers. 
BACKGROUND
            The currently operative fourth amended
complaint (the “4AC”) alleges: (1) statutory voidable transfers; and (2) common
law voidable transfers.
 
            On September 20, 2023, Plaintiff
Kyle Madison (“Plaintiff”) filed this motion to continue trial. On October 17,
2023, the Court granted Plaintiff’s Ex Parte Application to Advance Hearing on
Motion to Continue trial and advanced the hearing date from 01/24/2023 to
11/02/2023. (10/17/2023 Minute Order.) No opposition is filed. 
 
DISCUSSION
            California Rules of Court, rule
3.1332, subdivision (c) states that although disfavored, the trial date may be
continued for “good cause,” which includes (without limitation): (1)
unavailability of trial counsel or witnesses due to “death, illness, or other
excusable circumstances”; (2) the addition of a new party depriving the new
party (or other parties) from conducting discovery and preparing for trial; (3)
“excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material
evidence despite diligent efforts”; or (4) “[a] significant, unanticipated
change in the status of the case” preventing it from being ready for trial.
(Id., Rule 3.1332(c).) 
 
Other
relevant considerations may include: “(1) The proximity of the trial date; [¶]
(2) Whether there was any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of
trial due to any party; [¶] (3) The length of the continuance requested; [¶]
(4) The availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise
to the motion or application for a continuance; [¶] (5) The prejudice that
parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance; [¶] (6) If the
case is entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status
and whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; [¶]
(7) The court's calendar and the impact of granting a continuance on other
pending trials; [¶] (8) Whether trial counsel is engaged in another trial; [¶]
(9) Whether all parties have stipulated to a continuance; [¶] (10) Whether the
interests of justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the
matter, or by imposing conditions on the continuance; and [¶] (11) Any other
fact or circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or
application.” (Id., Rule 3.1332(d).) 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2024.050 allows a court to grant leave to complete
discovery proceedings. In doing so, a court shall consider matters relevant to
the leave requested, including, but not limited to: (1) the necessity of the
discovery, (2) the diligence in seeking the discovery or discovery motion, (3)
the likelihood of interference with the trial calendar or prejudice to a party,
and (4) the length of time that has elapsed between previous trial dates. (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2024.050.)
 
            Plaintiff moves to continue trial
from December 5, 2023, to June 5, 2023, and requests that all discovery and
motion cut-off dates be based upon the new trial date. Plaintiff brings this
motion on the grounds that Plaintiff has been unable to obtain essential
evidence, discovery will not be completed before the trial date, the case has
taken longer than usual to prepare for trial and the interests of justice are
best served by a continuance.  Plaintiff
asserts that he scheduled several informal discovery conferences, filed a motion
to compel discovery of documents pertaining to bank statements for certain
Mexican bank accounts, tax returns and reports of foreign bank and financial
accounts but Defendant Michael Theodore (“Defendant”) did not provide the
requested information. (Mink Decl. ¶12, 13.) The Court granted Plaintiff’s
motion to compel requests for production of documents, Set Five, on September
19, 2023. (Notice of Ruling 09/19/2023.)
 
 Plaintiff’s counsel states that Defendant and
his wife have now moved from California, which will make enforcement of the
judgment difficult. (Mink Decl. ¶15.) Furthermore, the Los Angeles County
Sheriff levied a writ of execution on Defendant’s uncertificated stock in Casa
Theodore, Inc. and the date of the stock sale has not been set and purchase of
the stock will affect Defendant’s obligations in this action. (Id. at ¶17,
Ex. 5, 6, 7.) Plaintiff’s counsel asserts he has a trial in Department 78 on
December 11, 2023, and the trial judge has repeatedly stated that she will not
continue that trial date. (Id. at ¶18.) 
            The Court finds there is good cause to continue trial as Plaintiff has been
unable to obtain evidence and has not completed discovery before the trial
date. The Court granted Plaintiff’s motion to compel Request for Productions of
Documents, Set Five, on September 19, 2023, and it is uncertain what
information Defendant will provide to Plaintiff. Plaintiff needs to obtain this
discovery to continue the discovery process and obtain evidence to present at
trial. (Mink Decl. ¶16.)
Furthermore, the date of Defendant’s uncertificated stock sale has not been set
yet, which will affect Defendant’s obligations in this case. (Id. at ¶17,
Ex. 5,6, 7.)  Counsel has also stated
that he will be in trial for a different case on December 11, 2023, in
department 78. (Id. at ¶18.)  No opposition is filed, so no party would be
prejudiced by a trial continuance. Rather, Plaintiff would suffer prejudice if
it were not afforded sufficient time to litigate the matter. Thus, the motion
is granted. Trial is continued to June 5, 2024.
 
            Accordingly, the motion to continue
trial is GRANTED.  Trial is continued to
June 5, 2024. Discovery and motions cutoff dates are to track the new trial
date.
 
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
            


 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 2nd day of November 2023
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



