  Case Number:  20STCV19545    Hearing Date:   November 2, 2023    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



EMMA MARTIN,
  ELIZABETH GAGLIANO, KATHRYN SESSINGHAUS, INDIVIDUALLY AND AS HEIRS OF VINCENT
  PAUL MARTIN, DECEASED, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
SERRANO POST ACUTE LLC, d/b/a HOLLYWOOD
  PREMIER HEALTHCARE CENTER, a/ka/ SERRANO HEALTHCARE, a/k/a SERRANO NORTH
  CONVALESCENT HOSPITAL, BENJAMIN LANDA, MARCEL ADRIAN SOLERO FILART, BEECAN
  HEALTH, LLC, IHCM MANAGER LLC, and DOES 1-48, 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.: 20STCV19545
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION OF PERSON
  MOST KNOWLEDGEABLE 
 
Date: November 2, 2023
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiffs
Emma Martin, Elizabeth Gagliano, Kathryn Sessinghaus, Individually and As Heirs
of Vincent Paul Martin and together with Plaintiffs Jamie Ann Ivey, Sandra Dee
Ivey, and James Edward Ivey, Jr., individually and as heirs of James Marvin
Ivey
 
RESPONDING PARTY: Defendants
Serrano Post Acute LLC, Dba Hollywood Premier Healthcare Center, Benjamin
Landa, Beecan Health, LLC and IHCM Manager, LLC
 
            The Court has considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers. 
BACKGROUND
             The currently operative fourth amended
complaint (the “4AC”), filed on March 21, 2022, alleges: (1) violations of the
Elder and Dependent Adult Civil Protection Act; (2) negligence; (3) wrongful
death; (4) fraudulent concealment; and (5) fraudulent misrepresentation.       On October 5, 2022, the Court granted the
Motion to Relate and Consolidate cases 20STCV19545 and 20STCV24087 (Notice of
Entry of Order 10/05/2022.) 
 
            On October 10, 2023, Emma Martin,
Elizabeth Gagliano, Kathryn Sessinghaus, individually and as heirs of Vincent
Paul Martin, (“Martin Plaintiffs”) and Jamie Ann Ivey, Sandra Dee Ivey, and
James Edward Ivey, Jr., individually and as heirs of James Marvin Ivey (“Ivey
Plaintiffs”) (collectively “Plaintiffs”) filed a motion to compel deposition of
Defendants Serrano Post Acute, LLC d/b/a Hollywood Premier Healthcare Center’s
(“HPHC or “Defendants”) Person Most Knowledgeable (“PMK”) on  (1) Corporate Relationships, (2) Laboratory
Systems, (3) Mr. Ivey’s Change of Conditions, (4) Mr. Martin’s Change of
Conditions, (5) Audit Data, (6) Insurance, and (7) Staffing. On October 25,
2023, Defendants filed an opposition. On October 27, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a
reply. 
 
MEET AND CONFER 
             The parties have met the meet and confer
requirement. 
¿
DISCUSSION
Any
party may obtain discovery … by taking the oral deposition of any person,
including any party to the action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.010.)  Where a party objects to the deposition, the
proper remedy is an objection under Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.410.
If such an objection is made within three calendar days before the deposition
date, the objecting party must make personal service of that objection. (Code
Civ. Proc. 2025.410, subd. (b).) 
 
CCP
section¿2025.450(a) provides:¿“If, after service of a deposition notice, a
party to the action . . . , without having served a valid objection under
Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to
produce for¿inspection any document . . . described in the deposition notice,
the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s
attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document . .
. described in the deposition notice.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450(a).) 
 
Plaintiffs move for an order compelling the
depositions of persons most knowledgeable on the following noticed topics: (1)
Corporate Relationships, (2) Laboratory Systems, (3) Mr. Ivey’s Change of
Conditions, (4) Mr. Martin’s Change of Conditions, (5) Audit Data, (6)
Insurance, and (7) Staffing. Plaintiffs assert that Defendants refuse to
designate PMKs, produce PMKs or discuss scheduling availability.           In opposition, Defendants argues that
the extent of topics and requests for production underlying the PMK deposition
notices render compliance overly burdensome. Defendants contend that the
remaining PMK depositions would be adequately addressed through the process of
written discovery. In reply, Plaintiffs
assert that they served detailed deposition notices so that Defendants could
properly designate a deponent and are entitled to take each PMK deposition.
Plaintiffs offer to meet and confer as to any contention that requests for
production of documents attached to the deposition notice are duplicative or overbroad.
Plaintiffs dispute that written discovery is appropriate. 
 
            On December 6, 2022, counsel for a related
and consolidated case, Ivey, et al. v. Serrano Post Acute, LLC et al.
(20STCV24087), sent a letter to Defendants requesting availability for numerous
deponents including PMKs of (1) Corporate Relationships, (2) Laboratory
Systems, (3) Mr. Ivey’s Change of Conditions, (4) Audit Data, (5) Insurance,
and (6) Staffing. (Brown Decl. ¶3, Ex. A.) On January 23, 2023, Defendants’
counsel responded that it had identified PMK deponents for the following
topics: Mr. Ivey’s Change of Conditions, Audit Data, Insurance, and Staffing. (Id.
at ¶5, Ex. C.) On January 25, 2023, Plaintiffs noticed each of the above six
depositions including the seventh – Change of conditions of Mr. Martin. (Id.
at ¶6, Ex. D.)
 
 On March 3, 2023, Defendants served objections
to the depositions of PMKs of Insurance, Audit Data, and Laboratory Systems,
citing deponent unavailability. (Id. at ¶8, Ex. F.) Plaintiffs took the
remaining PMK depositions off calendar and followed up again regarding witness
availability on March 14, 2023, and On March 23, 2023, Defendants stated it
would send deponents availability but on March 31, 2023, Plaintiffs’ addition
of Beecan Health LLC and IHCM, LLC complicated its ability provide PMK
deponents’ availability. (Id. at ¶10, Ex. G.) On August 22, 2023, after
attempting to meet and confer and requesting availability on or before
September 6, 2023, Plaintiffs noticed the PMK depositions of Corporate
Relationships, Change of Conditions of Mr. Martin, Change of Conditions of Mr.
Ivey, Insurance, Laboratory Reporting, and Audit Data and noticed the
deposition of PMK of Staffing on September 8, 2023. (Id. at ¶12-13, Ex.
I, J.)  On September 13, 2023, Defendants
served objections to the depositions of PMKs of Corporate Relationships and
Staffing and Plaintiffs would not take the noticed depositions off calendar
unless Defendants offered alternative dates, but they offered no response. (Id.
at ¶13-14, Ex. K, I.) On September 19, 2023, the depositions of PMK of
Corporate Relationships went forward and Defendants’ counsel and the deponent
did not appear, and Plaintiff took a certificate of non-appearance. (Id.
at ¶16, Ex. M.) On September 20, 2023, Defendants failed to produce a witness
for deposition of PMK of Staffing and Plaintiff took another certificate of
non-appearance. (Id., Ex. N.) Defendants asserts that it timely objected
to the PMK re: Staffing on September 13, 2023, which was noticed for September
20, 2023. (Remijas Decl. ¶7.) Defendants’ counsel also states that he appeared
at the PMK re: Staffing noticed for September 20, 2023, to object on the
record. (Id. at ¶8.) 
 
Defendants
argue that these specific requests are overly burdensome.
·      
Category
No. 1 seeks Corporate Relationships including membership and ownership of HPHC
and related entities, contracts, and relationships between said entities,
operation, management and/or control of the facility, and indefinite
communications by, between and among named Defendants and related parties and
affiliates. Defendants argues that the notice is accompanied by 36 requests for
production of documents evidencing each of the above identified subject matters
in the scope of various “any and all” demands for documents and communications
that are not reasonably producible without imposing an undue burden on Defendants.

·      
Category
No. 2 seeks Laboratory Systems including various facilities policies and
procedures, “the existence, nature, and delineation of duties set forth in any
contract or agreement with any laboratory service provider”; and lab orders,
specimen collection, specimen tracking and communication about testing as it
pertains to the decedents. Defendants argue that requests mirror the document
requests set forth in Exhibit B to Plaintiffs’ deposition notice and the burden
outweighs the value of testimony obtained through document production. 
·      
Category
No. 3 and 4 of Mr. Martin and Mr. Ivey’s Change of Conditions relates to the
care and treatment of Mr. Martin and Mr. Ivey at HPHC during 2020. Defendants argue
preparation would require HPHC to educate one nursing staff member on the care
and treatment provided by different nursing staff over three years ago. 
·      
Category
No. 5 Audit Data pertains to electronically stored information. Defendants argue
this is an exhaustive burdensome inquiry as to its information storage
practices. 
·      
Category
No. 6 seeks matters from the complete insurance policy that Defendants
previously produced in these consolidated cases. Defendants argue that these
document requests can be addressed through reviewing the insurance policy. 
·      
Category
No. 7 seeks staffing levels of Defendants’ facility. Defendants argue these
documents are burdensome, as Plaintiffs have levied 93 subject matter topics
against HPHC in their notice as well as 73 document demands.
 
The
Court finds that the categories the PMK will testify to are directly relevant. Category
No. 1 is relevant for determining the relationships regarding the management,
control of the facility and communications with related parties during
decedents’ residency at the facility. Category No. 2 seeks information about
the lab orders, specimen collection, and communication about testing regarding
the decedents raises claims under wrongful death – general negligence.
Categories Nos. 3 and 4 involving the care and treatment of Mr. Martin and Mr.
Ivey leads to discoverable information regarding the elder abuse and neglect
and wrongful death – general negligence claims. 
 
Category
No. 5, however, is overbroad because Plaintiffs'
definition of "Audit Data" is not narrowly defined and seeks all
types of online usage actions and audit data inquiries from August 24, 2016, to
present that are connected to each time anyone accessed the health records of
Decedent.  The Court does not
order the production of a PMK on Category 5.
 
Category
No. 6 is relevant since Plaintiffs seek information regarding whether Defendants
has insurance covered by Plaintiffs’ claims in the action and policies in
effect at the time of decedent’s residency at the facility. As to category 7,
this information is directly relevant as it seeks information regarding the
staffing levels of individuals working at the facility where Mr. Martin and Mr.
Ivey died.   
 
The Court finds that
Plaintiff is entitled to take the deposition of Defendants’ PMKs. Categories of
information directly relevant to the current matter are: 1-4, 6-7. The only
category that is not ordered as overbroad is No. 5, which pertains to Defendants’
electronically stored information. Thus, the motion is granted, subject
to the limitations stated by the Court. 
 
Sanctions 
Code of Civil Procedure § 2023.030(a)
provides, in pertinent part, that the court may impose a monetary sanction on a
party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process to pay the reasonable
expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that
conduct. A misuse of the discovery process includes failing to respond or to
submit to an authorized method of discovery. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010(d).)
In addition, a court shall impose monetary sanctions if a motion to compel a
deposition is granted unless “the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust.” (Code. Civ. Proc. § 2025.450(g)(1).)
 
Plaintiffs
move for monetary sanctions in the amount of $13,990.65 against Defendants.
Plaintiff’s counsel charges an hourly billing rate of $600.00 per hour. (Brown
Decl. ¶20.) Plaintiff’s counsel claims that she spent ten (10) hours on meet
and confer efforts, two (2) hours on re-noticing previously noticed
depositions, one (1) hour on taking certificates of non-appearance, eight (8)
hours drafting the instant motion and gathering supporting documents, totaling
twenty-one (21) hours. (Id.) Plaintiffs’ counsel also paid $680.05 to
the court reporter for the September 19 deposition and $710.60 for the
September 20 deposition, totaling $1,390.65. (Id. at ¶16.) 
 
The
Court finds that the instances of billing were not reasonably incurred. The
Court does award sanctions for meet and confer efforts or for re-noticing
depositions on motions to compel, as those would be incurred even if the
efforts had been successful.  Moreover,
eight hours is too much time spent on the motion to compel, especially at the
claimed rate for fees.  The Court will
award five hours for preparing the papers for the motion and preparing for and
attending the motion, half an hour for taking certificates of non-appearance
and $1,390.65 for court reporter fees, for a total of $4,690.65. 
 
            Accordingly, the Motion to Compel
Deposition of Defendants’ Person Most Knowledgeable is GRANTED, subject to the
limitations stated by the Court.   
 
Monetary
sanctions are awarded to Plaintiffs against Defendants and their counsel,
jointly and severally, in the reduced total amount of $4,690.65, payable within
thirty days of the date of this order.
 
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 


 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 2nd day of November
2023
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



