  Case Number:  24STCV06750    Hearing Date:   January 21, 2025    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     January 21, 2025                               TRIAL DATE: NOT SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Troy Williams v. Ralphs Grocery Co., et
al. 
 
CASE NO.:                 24STCV06750            
 
MOTION
FOR PROTECTIVE ORDER (x8); REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants Ralphs Grocery Co., The Kroger Company, and
Kirk Reynolds
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Troy
Williams
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
03/18/24: Complaint filed. 
·        
08/23/24: First Amended Complaint filed. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for defamation and unfair business practices. Plaintiff
was terminated in December 2010 for allegedly stealing six bottles of lemonade.
In 2012, Plaintiff filed the action Willams v. Ralphs Grocery Co. LASC
Case No. BC495977, which concluded with a jury verdict in Plaintiff’s favor,
with judgment entered on January 11, 2024. Plaintiff alleges that, during the
pendency of that proceeding, Defendants continued to defame him by communicating
to others that he was a thief. 
 
Defendants move for protective
orders as to (1) three identical sets of special interrogatories; (2) three
identical sets of requests for production; and (3) two deposition notices.
Defendants also request sanctions against Plaintiff and his counsel, jointly
and severally. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendants’ Motions for Protective
Orders Regarding Special Interrogatories are GRANTED IN PART with respect to
Special Interrogatories Nos. 1 through 4 and 8 through 11. Defendants shall not
be required to respond to those interrogatories. 
 
Defendants’ Motions for Protective
Orders Regarding Requests for Production are GRANTED IN PART with respect to
Requests Nos. 1 through 7 and 23 through 27. Defendants shall not be required
to respond to those requests. 
 
Defendants’ Motions for Protective
Orders are GRANTED IN PART as to the Depositions of Ralphs’ Person Most
Knowledgeable and as to Defendant Reynolds as described herein. 
 
            Defendants’
Request for Sanctions is DENIED. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Motions for Protective Orders (Special
Interrogatories)
 
            Defendants
move for protective orders as to identical sets of special interrogatories
propounded to each of the three Defendants. 
 
Legal Standard
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.090 provides, in
relevant part: 
 
(a) When
interrogatories have been propounded, the responding party, and any other party
or affected natural person or organization may promptly move for a protective
order. This motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under
Section 2016.040.
(b) The
court, for good cause shown, may make any order that justice requires to
protect any party or other natural person or organization from unwarranted
annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and expense. This
protective order may include, but is not limited to, one or more of the
following directions:
(1) That
the set of interrogatories, or particular interrogatories in the set, need not
be answered.
(2) That,
contrary to the representations made in a declaration submitted under Section
2030.050, the number of specially prepared interrogatories is unwarranted.
(3) That
the time specified in Section 2030.260 to respond to the set of
interrogatories, or to particular interrogatories in the set, be extended.
(4) That
the response be made only on specified terms and conditions.
(5) That
the method of discovery be an oral deposition instead of interrogatories to a
party.
(6) That
a trade secret or other confidential research, development, or commercial
information not be disclosed or be disclosed only in a certain way.
(7) That
some or all of the answers to interrogatories be sealed and thereafter opened
only on order of the court. 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.090(a)-(b).) 
 
Meet and Confer
 
            In
connection with filing a motion for a protective order, Defendants must file a
declaration stating their efforts to meet and confer with the opposing party to
resolve this dispute, showing a “reasonable and good faith attempt” to resolve
informally the issues presented by the motion before filing the motion. (Code
Civ. Proc. §§ 2016.040; 2030.090(a).)
 
            The Omnibus
Declaration of Joshua Waldman in support of Defendants’ Motions states that the
parties exchanged email correspondence between October 10 and 15, 2024, but
were unable to resolve this dispute. (Declaration of Joshua Waldman ISO Mot. ¶¶
8-9; Exh. 5.) Defendants have satisfied their statutory meet-and-confer
obligations.
 
Request for Judicial Notice
 
            Defendants
request that the Court take judicial notice of (1) the Complaint in the action Williams
v. The Kroger Co. LASC Case No. BC495977 (the “Prior Action,”); (2) the
January 11, 2024 Judgment in the Prior Action; (3) the Complaint in this action;
(4) the Court’s October 7, 2024 Ruling on the Demurrer to the First Amended
Complaint; and (5) an excerpt of the September 7, 2023 trial transcript in the
Prior Action. Defendants’ requests are GRANTED based on Evidence Code § 452(d)
(court records). 
 
Separate Statements
 
            Plaintiff
objects to these motions as not including a Separate Statement. This objection
is misplaced. No separate statement is required in the Code of Civil Procedure
nor the Rules of Court for motions of this nature. (See Code Civ. Proc. §
2030.090; Cal Rules of Court Rule 3.1345.) 
 
Analysis
 
            Defendants
move for protective orders as to identical sets of 20 special interrogatories propounded
to each of the three Defendants in this action. Defendants seek to be released from
the obligation to answer some or all the interrogatories.
 
            Plaintiff
propounded identical sets of 20 special interrogatories to Defendants Ralph’s,
Kroger, and Reynolds on August 13, 2024. (Waldman Decl. Exh. 1.) Interrogatories
Nos. 1-4 and 8-11 inquire into the circumstances and potentially knowledgeable
persons regarding a redaction to Defendant Reynolds’s investigative notes concerning
the accusation of theft leveled at Plaintiff which erased the phrase “a thief” from
those notes. (Waldman Decl. Exh. 1 Nos. 1-4; 8-11.) Interrogatory No. 5 asks
when the notes were drafted. (Id. No. 5.) Interrogatories Nos. 6, 7, 12,
and 16 through 20 ask Defendants to identify any individuals to whom either
version of the notes were disseminated. (Id. Nos. 6-7, 12, 16-20.) Interrogatory
No. 13 asks Defendants to explain the reference to “Michael” found in the
notes, and Nos. 14 and 15 ask Defendants to explain the reference to “A Thief.”
(Id. Nos. 13-15.)
 
            Defendants
contend that these interrogatories are improper in light of the Court’s October
7, 2024 Ruling on the Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint. In that ruling,
the Court concluded that Plaintiff’s claims for defamation were barred by the
doctrine of res judicata to the extent they were premised on publications made
before the September 18, 2023 jury verdict in the prior action. (October 7,
2024 Minute Order.) The Court did not sustain the demurrer as to those causes
of action, however, because Plaintiff had also alleged, in general terms, subsequent
publications asserting that Plaintiff was terminated for theft which post-dated
that verdict. (Id.) Defendants argue that, based on the Court’s ruling,
any inquiry into matters predating the jury verdict is wholly irrelevant and merely
intended to harass Defendants. 
 
            Defendants’
argument overstates their case. Although Plaintiff’s argument in opposition is
couched in terms of “pre-verdict publications,” which are not themselves
relevant, Plaintiff is correct that discovery about the handling of Defendant
Reynolds’s investigative notes, as touched upon by Interrogatories Nos. 6, 7,
12, 13, and 16 through 20 is reasonably calculated to lead to the discloser of
admissible evidence regarding any post-verdict publications may have been made.
Moreover, the intended meaning of those notes, as sought in Interrogatories
Nos. 14 and 15, are facially relevant to Plaintiff’s claims, the age of the
notes notwithstanding. That said, Defendants are correct that the redaction
of the notes is not relevant to this action. Contrary to Plaintiff’s assertion,
both in opposition to this motion and in previous oppositions, the suppression
of evidence is intrinsic fraud, which does not undermine the preclusive effect
of a judgment, because it does not deprive the party of the opportunity to
appear and present the case. (Eichman v. Fotomat Corp. (1983) 147
Cal.App.3d 1170, 1175-76.) Thus, any publications made before the jury’s
September 18, 2023 verdict, suppressed or not, cannot serve as a basis for
Plaintiff’s claims in this action. To the extent that inquiry into the
redaction of the notes might unearth other concealed publications following the
verdict, that concern is adequately addressed by the broader investigation into
the handling of the notes that is the subject of the remaining interrogatories.
Plaintiff’s sweeping assertions that evidence about the redaction is relevant
to the credibility of witnesses does not persuade the Court to deviate from
this perspective.
 
            The Court
therefore finds good cause for a protective order that Defendants are not
required to respond to Special Interrogatories Nos. 1 through 4 and 8 through
11. 
 
//
Sanctions
 
            Defendants
request sanctions against Plaintiff and his counsel, jointly and severally, in
the amount of $2,800 in connection with all eight motions for protective
orders. 
 
            Code of
Civil Procedure section 2030.090 subdivision (d) states that the Court “ shall
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010)
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion for a protective order under this section, unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
2030.090(d).) 
 
            Here, as
neither Plaintiff nor Defendants have wholly prevailed on the motions for
protective orders with respect to the special interrogatories, the Court finds
that sanctions are not justified in this context. 
 
Conclusion
 
            Accordingly,
Defendant’s Motions for Protective Orders Regarding Special Interrogatories are
GRANTED IN PART with respect to Special Interrogatories Nos. 1 through 4 and 8
through 11. Defendants shall not be required to respond to those
interrogatories. 
 
Motions for Protective Orders (Requests for
Production)
 
            Defendants
also move for protective orders with respect to identical sets of 28 requests
for production propounded to each of the three Defendants. 
 
Legal Standard
 
Civil Procedure section 2031.060 provides, in relevant
part: 
 
(a) When an
inspection, copying, testing, or sampling of documents, tangible things,
places, or electronically stored information has been demanded, the party to
whom the demand has been directed, and any other party or affected person, may
promptly move for a protective order. This motion shall be accompanied by a
meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040. 
 
(b) The
court, for good cause shown, may make any order that justice requires to
protect any party or other person from unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or
oppression, or undue burden and expense. This protective order may include, but
is not limited to, one or more of the following directions: 
 
(1) That
all or some of the items or categories of items in the demand need not be
produced or made available at all. 
 
(2) That
the time specified in Section 2030.260 to respond to the set of demands, or to
a particular item or category in the set, be extended. 
 
(3) That
the place of production be other than that specified in the demand. 
 
(4) That
the inspection, copying, testing, or sampling be made only on specified terms
and conditions. 
 
(5) That a
trade secret or other confidential research, development, or commercial
information not be disclosed,
or be disclosed only to specified persons or
only in a specified way. 
 
(6) That
the items produced be sealed and thereafter opened only on order of the court. 
 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.060(a)-(b).) 
 
Meet and Confer
 
            In
connection with filing a motion for a protective order, Defendants must file a
declaration stating its efforts to meet and confer with the opposing party to
resolve this dispute, showing a “reasonable and good faith attempt” to resolve
informally the issues presented by the motion before filing the motion. (Code
Civ. Proc. §§ 2016.040; 2031.060(a).)
 
            The Omnibus
Declaration of Joshua Waldman in support of Defendants’ Motions states that the
parties exchanged email correspondence between October 10, 2024 and October 15,
2024, but were unable to resolve this dispute. (Declaration of Joshua Waldman
ISO Mot. ¶¶ 8-9; Exh. 5.) Defendants have satisfied their statutory
meet-and-confer obligations.
 
Analysis
 
            Defendants
move for protective orders as to identical sets of 28 requests for production
propounded to each of the three Defendants in this action. Defendants seek to
be released from the obligation to answer some or all of the requests.
 
            Plaintiff
propounded identical sets of 28 requests for production to Defendants Ralph’s,
Kroger, and Reynolds on August 13, 2024. (Waldman Decl. Exh. 2.) Requests Nos.
1 through 7 seek various documents pertaining to the redaction of the phrase “A
Thief” from Defendant Reynolds’s investigative notes. (Waldman Decl. Exh. 2.
Nos. 1-7.) Requests Nos. 8 through 10 seek documents pertaining to that phrase
more generally. (Id. Nos. 8-10.) Requests Nos. 11 through 13 seek
documents pertaining to the dissemination of Defendant Reynolds’s notes. (Id.
Nos. 11-13.) Similarly, Requests Nos. 15 and 16 seek documents reflecting the
individuals who maintained possession of both the unredacted and redacted notes.
(Id. Nos. 15-16.) Requests Nos. 14 and 17 through 21 seek documents
pertaining to correspondence between Defendant Reynolds and Michael Straeter
relating to Plaintiff, either in the context of the accusation of theft (No.
14) or generally between November 1, 2010 and January 1, 2011. (Nos. 17-21.) Request
No. 22 seeks any documents serving as the basis for the characterization of “A
Thief” reflected in the unredacted notes. (Id. No. 22.) Requests Nos. 23
through 26 seek documents pertaining to any retraction of any accusations
against Plaintiff of thievery. (Id. Nos. 23-26.) Request No. 27 seeks Defendant
Reynolds’s W-2 forms from 2010 through the present. (Id. No. 27.) Finally,
Request No. 28 seeks each insurance policy of Defendant Kroger which is
potentially applicable to Plaintiff’s claims in this action. 
 
            Defendants
seek protective orders on the grounds that the documents sought by these
requests largely pertain to matters which are outside the permissible scope of
this action, as reflected in the Court’s October 7, 2024 ruling. Defendants
contend that Defendant Reynolds’s notes are not relevant because they pertain
only to the reasonableness of Ralphs’ investigation, which was extensively and
conclusively litigated in the prior action. The Court does not consider the
relevance inquiry to be so narrowly constrained. Plaintiff has alleged that
Defendants have continued to publish defamatory statements following the
September 18, 2023 jury verdict which continue to falsely accuse him of theft. The
age of the records notwithstanding, Plaintiff’s inquiry into the handling of
the investigative notes and related materials and correspondence bears a
logical connection to those claims. Those documents might reasonably reveal—or
lead to further discovery which would reveal—the extent of any new publications
of defamatory accusations by these Defendants. In that context, the Court is
not persuaded that Requests Nos. 8 through 22 are irrelevant, overbroad, or
otherwise improper. 
            
That said, and as addressed above
in the context of the interrogatories, Defendants are correct that the redaction
of the notes is not relevant to this action. Requests Nos. 1 through 7 are
therefore improper, and good cause exists for a protective order as to those
requests. Similarly, whether Defendants issued a retraction is not relevant to
Plaintiff’s claims, nor is the Court persuaded that such discovery is
reasonably likely to lead to admissible evidence beyond that which is
encompassed within the requests discussed above. 
 
As to request No. 27, this request
is facially improper. W-2 forms are subject to the taxpayer privilege. (Brown
v. Superior Court (1977) 71 Cal.App.3d 141, 143-44.) Defendant Reynolds’s
tax information is not at issue in this case, and none of the authorities cited
by Plaintiff in opposition state a basis for abrogation of that privilege.
(E.g. Faigin v. Signature Group Holdings, Inc. (2012) 211 Cal.App.4th
726, 737.) To the extent that the exact employment relationship between the
three Defendants remains at issue, any investigation into that matter may be
conducted by other discovery methods, such as interrogatories or requests for
admissions, which do not demand disclosure of privileged tax documents. 
Finally, with respect to Defendant
Kroger’s insurance coverage, such materials are expressly discoverable. (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2017.020.) Request No. 28 is therefore proper, and no protective
order is warranted as to that request. 
 
Sanctions
 
            Defendants
also request sanctions against Plaintiff and his counsel, jointly and
severally, in the amount of $2,800 in connection with all eight motions for
protective orders. 
 
            Code of
Civil Procedure section 2031.060 subdivision (d) states that the Court “ shall
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010)
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion for a protective order under this section, unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
2031.060(d).) 
 
            Here, as
neither Plaintiff nor Defendants have wholly prevailed on the motions for
protective orders with respect to the special interrogatories, the Court finds
that sanctions are not justified in this context. 
 
Conclusion
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s Motions
for Protective Orders Regarding Requests for Production are GRANTED IN PART
with respect to Requests Nos. 1 through 7 and 23 through 27. Defendants shall
not be required to respond to those requests. 
 
Motions for Protective Orders (Depositions)
 
            Defendants
also seek protective orders limiting or outright prohibiting the deposition of
(1) the corporate Defendants’ person most knowledgeable, and (2) Defendant
Reynolds. 
 
Legal Standard
 
Code of Civil Procedure section
2025.420 authorizes a party, deponent, or any other affected person or entity
to move for a protective order. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.420(a).) Subdivision
(b) authorizes the Court to, for good cause shown, issue a protective order “to
protect any party or other natural person from unwarranted annoyance,
embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and expense.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
2025.420(b).) A protective order under this section may include, inter alia,
an order that the deposition not be taken at all, or that the scope of the
examination be limited. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.420(b)(1); (9)-(10).) 
 
//
 
Meet and Confer
 
            In
connection with filing a motion for a protective order, Defendants must file a
declaration stating its efforts to meet and confer with the opposing party to
resolve this dispute, showing a “reasonable and good faith attempt” to resolve
informally the issues presented by the motion before filing the motion. (Code
Civ. Proc. §§ 2016.040; 2025.420(a).)
 
            The Omnibus
Declaration of Joshua Waldman in support of Defendants’ Motions states that the
parties exchanged email correspondence between October 10, 2024 and October 15,
2024, but were unable to resolve this dispute. (Declaration of Joshua Waldman
ISO Mot. ¶¶ 8-9; Exh. 5.) Defendants have satisfied their statutory
meet-and-confer obligations.
 
Analysis
 
            Defendants
move for protective orders to prohibit or limit the scope of any depositions of
Defendant Reynolds or of the corporate Defendants’ Person Most Knowledgeable. 
 
            On August
13, 2024, Plaintiff served two notices of deposition on Defendants; one as to
Defendant Ralphs’ Person Most Knowledgeable; and one as to Defendant Reynolds,
individually. (Waldman Decl. Exhs. 3-4.) The Deposition Notice for the person
most knowledgeable indicates that it will pertain to (1) the redaction of
Defendant Reynolds’s notes, (2) the dissemination of those notes; and (3) the
maintenance of the notes. (Id. Exh. 3.) Plaintiff also demands documents
associated with each area of inquiry. (Id.) The Deposition Notice for
Defendant Reynolds individually does not specify any areas of inquiry. (Id.
Exh. 4.) 
 
            Defendants
argue that these depositions should be limited or prohibited entirely because they
are targeted at irrelevant matters and serve merely to subject Defendants to
unwarranted annoyance, burden, and expense. As discussed above, the Court finds
that the redaction of Defendant Reynolds’s notes is wholly irrelevant to this
action and is therefore not reasonably calculated to lead to admissible
evidence. However, the dissemination and handling of those notes is facially
relevant to whether any recent publications were made which included or were
based upon the notes. The Court therefore finds that protective orders are
warranted limiting the scope of these depositions to exclude specifics of the circumstances
surrounding the redaction of Defendant Reynolds’ notes.
 
Sanctions
 
            Defendants
also request sanctions against Plaintiff and his counsel, jointly and
severally, in the amount of $2,800 in connection with all eight motions for
protective orders. 
 
            Code of
Civil Procedure section 2025.420 subdivision (h) states that the Court “ shall
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010)
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion for a protective order under this section, unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.420(h).)

 
            Here, as
neither Plaintiff nor Defendants have wholly prevailed on the motions for
protective orders with respect to the special interrogatories, the Court finds
that sanctions are not justified in this context. 
 
Conclusion
 
            Accordingly,
Defendants’ Motions for Protective Orders are GRANTED IN PART as to the
Depositions of Ralphs’ Person Most Knowledgeable and as to Defendant Reynolds
as described herein. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
For the reasons explained above, Defendants’
Motions for Protective Orders Regarding Special Interrogatories are GRANTED IN
PART with respect to Special Interrogatories Nos. 1 through 4 and 8 through 11.
Defendants shall not be required to respond to those interrogatories. 
 
Defendants’ Motions for Protective
Orders Regarding Requests for Production are GRANTED IN PART with respect to
Requests Nos. 1 through 7 and 23 through 27. Defendants shall not be required
to respond to those requests. 
 
Defendants’ Motions for Protective
Orders are GRANTED IN PART as to the Depositions of Ralphs’ Person Most
Knowledgeable and as to Defendant Reynolds as described herein. 
 
            Defendants’
Request for Sanctions is DENIED. 
 
            Moving
Parties to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  January 21,
2025                                ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 