  Case Number:  18STPB11082    Hearing Date:   April 19, 2024    Dept:  200 LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURTWEST DISTRICT - BEVERLY HILLS COURTHOUSEDEPT. 200TENTATIVE RULING ON AMOUNT OF MONETARY SANCTIONS PURSUANT TO STATEMENT OF DECISION AFTER MOTION FOR SANCTIONS BASED UPON SPOLIATION OF EVIDENCEMing-Chao Huang, et al. v. Michael Velcherean, Case No. 18STPB11082 (related to Case No. 19STCV01901)Hearing Date: April 19, 2024, 8:30 a.m.BACKGROUND AND STATEMENT OF CONTENTIONSOn March 7, 2024, the Court filed its Tentative Statement of Decision after evidentiary hearing on the motion for discovery sanctions and or for adverse inference determination based upon spoliation of evidence. The Court granted the motion in part and denied it in part. In granting the motion, the Court stated in relevant part:“The Court finds that Contestants are also entitled to monetary sanctions against Respondent. Contestants are the prevailing party on this motion. Respondent has not shown how an award of sanctions would be “without substantial justification.” The Court cannot now determine the amount since the fees here are likely far more than when first sought in the initial motion. Since then, Contestants have engaged in expert depositions, conducted an evidentiary hearing and other work related to the numerous additional filings – over and above what would typically be anticipated on a motion.”On March 20, 2024, Moving Parties filed Supplemental Declarations of counsel in support of the amount of fees and costs requested. They seek total monetary sanctions of $273,857. This amount is comprised of attorney’s fees of R. Lance Belsome in the initial amount requested of $58,275,1 together with additional fees of $85,743, representing 185 hours of work, for a total of $144,018, as well as attorney’s fees of Pio S. Kim in the sum of $21,150, representing 40.8 hours of work, as well as costs of $108,689.2 Belsome and Kim both set forth their respective professional experiences as lawyers to warrant their fees sought by Belsome at a discounted rate of $315.00 perhour and by Kim at the rate of $500.00 per hour in 2023 and at $525.00 per hour in 2024. The costs comprise $11,875 in the former discovery referee’s fees,3 $20,340.21 for deposition and evidentiary hearing transcripts, video and exhibits, as well as $76,474,42 for the computer forensics expert fees.On March 27, 2024, the Court made its Tentative Statement of Decision final after no objections were filed within the time prescribed.On April 8, 2024, Respondent filed a Responsive Brief and Objections to the Supplemental Declarations. Respondent emphasizes the need for the Court to exercise its discretion to decide the amount of a reasonable sanction and to exclude from the award those costs and fees not incurred as a result of the sanctioned conduct. (Cornerstone Realty Advisors v. Summit Healthcare REIT (2020) 56 Cal.App.5th 771, 794) The Court is not to merely rubber stamp the request for fees nor allow the sanction overall to be punitive. In his objections, Respondent raises several issues:- 50 hours to draft the sanctions motion- 20.5 hours to draft the Reply on the sanctions motion- entries that do not relate to the sanctions motion- 20.5 hours on an ex parte application re: imaging of the i-phone and the hard drive- 26.5 hours on the motion on the same subject- 10.5 hours on an opposition to Respondent’s ex parte application for additional time- 3 hours on an e-mail to the discovery referee- 11.5 hours on an opposition to an ex parte application for clarification of a ruling- 38.8 hours on response to Respondent’s objection to the referee’s ruling- 7.5 hours opposing an ex parte application to vacate the discovery reference- 32.5 hours reviewing Decedent’s computer and i-phone – which may have needed to be performed regardless of spoliation issues- 68.8 hours on the motion and meeting and conferring concerning same, which is duplicative of the time already invoiced- $59,375 paid to the discovery referee for hearings over nine months- The basis for $76,474.42 in computer forensic expert fees as conclusory and excessive.- The attorney’s fees of Kim as duplicative of work performed by Belsome.DISCUSSIONThe issues Respondent raises go to the reasonableness of the total sought. Initially, however, the objections are also overstated in that they are as to the total time Belsome spent -- which is twice what he is requesting. Hence, to be fair, the objection should be to half of the amounts for Belsome’s time, as opposed to what he is requesting.That said, the Court intends to grant only a portion of the fees and costs requested based on the following considerations:- The rates charged are fair if not significantly less than market-rate for Belsome. No reduction to either attorney’s fees is made on this basis.- Though not discussed in the motion, this case has been very complex: the subject matter has been of the utmost importance to the parties, the amounts at stake are very large and there has been a long history to the litigation with successive bench officers during thediscovery phase, as well as different lawyers - all pertaining to several related cases each with their own multiples issues. All parties have been heavily litigating this case, not just Moving Parties. Moving Parties’ briefing has always been very thorough given the voluminous record and number of issues to address. This takes time and effort that would not otherwise be needed on more routine matters.- As noted in the Statement of Decision, the Court intended only to award fees on this prolonged motion concerning spoliation, that required expert testimony and an evidentiary hearing and follow up briefing - not as to conduct related to other discovery orders or motions or generally for having to conduct discovery. For this reason, the Court does not believe any fees or costs are warranted here for work related to motions before the discovery referee – even though some if it involved the forensic experts (but for slightly different reasons) - that preceded the filing of this motion. The Court will discuss the total fees below, but the Court disallows the amount requested for referee’s fees of $11,875.- No objection is asserted as to $20,340.21 for deposition and evidentiary hearing transcripts, video and exhibits.- The expert’s invoices have very little information. They indicate Albee charges $290.00 per hour for his work (and $300 per hour for Ellington’s deposition), as well as per diem travel and hotel expense and monthly hosting fees of $1,160 and other charges for secure device storage. This motion was filed on August 29, 2023. Approximately $18,000 in Albee’s fees were incurred prior to filing of the motion. The Court is reducing Albee’s fees of $76,474.42 by $18,000. No objection is asserted as to his hourly rates.- As a result, permissible expenses will be $20,340.21 and $58,474.42 for a total of $78,814.63.- Some of amount of time should be reduced for likely duplication of work as between Belsome and Kim. Belsome is the lead attorney. It was also not clear to the Court the level of or need for Kim’s involvement given how involved Belsome is in all details of the case. The Court reduces the fees for Kim by $10,000.- Even assuming Belsome is requesting payment for only half of what Respondent is objecting concerning, and notwithstanding the comments above, some of the time referenced above needs to be reduced given Respondent is being ordered to pay same, even if Moving Parties elected to spend as much as they have on prosecuting this matter.- As mentioned above, a good percentage of the fees sought relate to discovery issues over and above litigating the spoliation issues on this motion.- The time spent by Moving Parties on the motion and ex parte applications also still appears very high notwithstanding whatever need there was to thoroughly address background.- Combining the above-referenced concerns, the Court awards a total of $90,000 for Belsome’s work on this unusually difficult motion and disallows the balance of $54,018.CONCLUSIONFor these reasons, the Court orders Respondent to pay Moving Parties a total of $179,964.63 ($90,000 in fees for Belsome, $11,150 in fees for Kim plus $78,814.63 in costs) in discovery sanctions on this motion for the reasons set forth in the Statement of Decision.LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURTWEST DISTRICT - BEVERLY HILLS COURTHOUSEDEPT. 200TENTATIVE RULING ON PETITION TO CONFIRM POWERS OF SPECIAL ADMINISTRATOR TO SETTLE ESTATE LIABILITIES, OR TO CONFER ADDITIONAL OR GENERAL POWERS TO SETTLE ESTATE LIABILITIESMing-Chao Huang, et al. v. Michael Velcherean, Case No. 18STPB11082 (related to Case No. 19STCV01901)Hearing Date: April 19, 2024, 8:30 a.m.BACKGROUND AND STATEMENT OF CONTENTIONSOn January 8, 2019, Judge Paul Suzuki stated an intention to appoint a private professional fiduciary (“PPF”) in lieu of Michael Velcherean (“MV”) who was petitioning to serve as administrator or executor of the Estate of his wife, Amy Huang (“Amy”), even if the Court might ultimately appoint MV.On January 22, 2019, Ming-Chao Huang, Mei Jung Lin, Sophia Huang and Yu Ching Huang (“Family Members”) filed the above-referenced related civil action against MV for Amy’s wrongful death and her abuse as a dependent adult.On February 2, 2019, Judge Suzuki expressed an intent to appoint a temporary administrator to manage and marshal funds of the Estate until the underlying dispute between the various parties was resolved; however, he indicated a petition for appointment of special administrator would need to be filed beforehand.On April 2, 2019, Judge Suzuki stated, in summary, his intent was that the purpose of the appointment of a special administrator was to hold the money in the meantime and keep everything in order so none was lost.On April 10, 2019, Judge Suzuki appointed Eileen Federizo Special Administrator of Amy’s Estate with “all those powers pursuant to California Probate Code section 8544.”1On November 16, 2020, Family Members filed a petition under sec. 850 against the Estate.On September 26, 2022, MV filed a petition under sec. 850 against the Estate.On March 25, 2024, Family Members filed a petition to (1) confirm the power of Federizo, as Special Administrator, to defend and settle suits involving the Estate, or (2) confer on her such additional authority to settle or defend suits involving the Estate, subject to a petition for approval of any agreement under secs. 9610-9611, or (3) grant her general powers. Relevant thereto, Family Members assert that Family Members and Amy’s undisclosed spouse, MV, are involved in litigation herein, specifically a Will Contest related to whether MV may properly serve as Executor of the Estate, that creates a conflict for MV to serve as administrator of the estate where he is also advancing his own personal interests. They also assert MV has additional conflict in serving as administrator because he participated in Amy’s wrongfully representing to Family Members that she was single and required financial assistance from Family Members. By the same token, Family Members acknowledge their own conflict in serving as administrators in view of their petition against the Estate under sec. 850. Family Members contend that settlement of their sec. 850 petition is impeded by not knowing whether Federizo has the authority to do so.Based on the foregoing, Family Members contend it is appropriate for Federizo to act as special administrator to be able to defend and settle the sec. 850 petition - either without need for an order under sec. 8544(a)(3) or by way of the Court making an order allowing the special administrator to do so under sec. 8544(b)(3) or by granting general powers under sec. 8545. They cite to Estate of Massaglia (1974) 38 Cal.App.3d 767, 711 where there was, like here, a will contest as an appropriate circumstance for the Court exercising its discretion to make an appointment under one of these bases. Finally, they note that developments in this case since Judge Suzuki made the appointment compel this result even if they may not have at that time.On April 12, 2024, MV filed a Response and Objections to the petition. MV contends this petition is an attempt to cramdown a more favorable settlement than Family Members would otherwise be able to reach with MV. He also notes Federizo has not joined in the petition. Moreover, he argues Federizo’s appointment was intended only as temporary to marshal and hold assets. He points out that Family Members had advised Judge Suzuki that a special administrator would not be involved in the sec. 850 petition and stand on the sideline while the other parties litigated. Finally, he contends that there is no reason now to expand her powers after five years where there was no prior request to do so and trial is imminent on the will contest.For these reasons, MV asserts there is no basis to confirm the Special Administrator’s power encompasses the authority to defend or settle claims against the Estate, and that the sec. 850 petition is distinct from marshalling assets for the Estate. In turn, MV argues it would be improper to expand the special administrator’s powers so she can settle claims as to do so would force her to choose sides.2On April 14, 2024, Family Members filed a Reply in support of their petition. They argue there are changed circumstances since Judge Suzuki reviewed this issue in 2019, including considerable wrongful litigation conduct by MV. In addition, they assert that the interests of the Estate and MV will never be aligned because by virtue of their claims he would be disqualified from serving asexecutor. Hence, there should be no further delay in administration of the Estate with only a temporary administrator - to assure its preservation. They also argue that in seeking the appointment of a special administrator, they reserved the right to later seek general powers if necessary. Finally, they note that the purpose here is not per se to settle matters with MV but with the Estate – which are separate claims.DISCUSSIONInitially, while technically the existing order might give Federizo the authority to defend and settle claims against the estate under sec. 8544(a)(3), the order did not expressly so indicate. Indeed, it appears the parties since then believed she did not have such authority or she would have been acting in that capacity already. Hence, a petition to confirm was appropriate. That said, it appears there was some basis for uncertainty whether Judge Suzuki intended her to have such authority. For example, the parties disagree whether a sec. 850 petition brought by Family Members would constitute marshaling of assets. Simply put, sec. 850 requires that assets properly belonging to the estate be returned to the estate. Sec. 850 is a vehicle for marshalling assets and in many ways, they are one and the same function. However, here the sec. 850 petition is brought by Family Members, not by an administrator, against MV. Hence, this is litigation that Judge Suzuki did not intend the special administrator be involved with and for her to instead leave it to those with an underlying interest as heirs. Hence, the Court cannot confirm that Federizo has the power to settle or defend suits at this time.Nonetheless, even if a change of circumstances is not required to add powers to an order, under sec. 8544(b)(3), the Court still finds there has developed a change of circumstances in this case since 2019: Considerable ongoing litigation has been undertaken at presumably very great expense from what the Court has been able to observe. Even if some of such litigation was then contemplated, the cases had not developed to the very significant degree they have since then – as the voluminous court files reflect. This multi-faceted litigation also likely still has a long way to go before it is concluded given the nature of the claims and the amounts involved. Though the will contest is scheduled for commencement of trial on June 3, 2024, the jury trial of the related civil case has not yet been scheduled due to the need to try equitable issues beforehand. Further, the sec. 850 petitions of Family Members (and of MV) still need to be scheduled for trial. All the litigation activity to date has been highly contested and much remains to be done. Until all these underlying issues are resolved, the Court would likely not be able to determine whether one of the Family Members, on the one hand, or MV, on the other hand, is more suitable as personal representative with general powers or as executor.3In the interim, however, Family Members contend that MV is funding this litigation with money that is not his and belongs either to the Estate or to Family Members. The Court is concerned that if they are correct, and for which there is at least some basis for their belief (based on the facts theCourt has reviewed already in prior motion practice), MV may be improperly litigating this case with money that is not his, thereby leaving the Estate with little to nothing left and with no likely means of the Estate recovering that money from MV thereafter. See, analogously, People ex rel. Harris v. Shine (2017) 18 Cal.App.5th 524, 539 (in determining eligibility of a trustee for interim attorney’s fees from Trust funds to defend himself, there should be at least some inquiry into the ability of the trustee to repay fees if ultimately determined not to be entitled to the costs of defense due to trustee’s own wrongdoing.)As a result, there is need for a special administrator to preserve assets of the estate, as contemplated in sec. 8544(a)(1). Though MV argues the function of a special administrator is typically temporary, pending the appointment of an administrator with general powers, that is not the exclusive basis. See LASC Local Rule 4.50(b) (“If a contest is pending, the court may appoint a disinterested person…as special administrator.”) Courts may exercise their discretion to appoint a special administrator to safeguard an estate that may otherwise be depleted prior to the Court being able to appoint an executor of administrator with general powers, as in where administration is needed immediately and cannot wait until then. (See sec. 8540(a) (where ‘it may be appropriate under the circumstances for the preservation of the estate”)) For example, as in Massaglia, supra, a pending will contest may be reason to appoint a special administrator to defend or settle a claim that cannot wait until determination of that litigation. (See also O’Bryan v. Superior Court (1941) 18 Cal.2d 490 (a neutral can be appointed as special administrator with even general powers and thereby override statutory priority rules where there is an ongoing will contest) Here, there is no end in sight to this litigation. Further, there is some reasonable prospect of appellate review before any orders are final: The parties have already filed several petitions for writs of mandate, together with appeals from sanctions orders.Furthermore, even if Family Members were not able to prove MV was responsible for wrongful death or dependent adult abuse, and conversely MV was able to defeat their will contest, this Court has found already through its findings after an evidentiary hearing, by Statement of Decision filed March 7, 2024 (subsequently adopted as final), that MV is guilty of spoliation of evidence and therefore on that basis alone is unlikely to be able to serve as Amy’s personal representative. Under sec. 8402(a)(3), a proposed administrator may be denied appointment if there were grounds that would warrant their removal from office under sec. 8502(b). A person who destroys evidence is unlikely suited to act as an officer of the court with fiduciary duties. Hence, there is little reason to await the outcome of the pending litigation to now appoint Federizo as special administrator with the power to defend or settle litigation against the Estate, subject to court approval, pursuant to sec. 8541(c).4 MV’s argument that doing so would tilt Federizo against MV assumes Federizo’s role was not without conflict already as to MV, as discussed above. Moreover, MV points to no law disqualifying a neutral serving as special administrator merely because their interests do not parallel. The more critical issue is whether the proposed personal representative is also pursuing his or her own personal interests. Here, Federizo, unlike either MV or Family Members, has no personal stake in the outcome.MV has also not established that Federizo does not have the necessary “skill set” to take on these additional duties, as he claims. On the other hand, the Court does not know whether Federizo is willing to take on these additional duties. If not, the Court is inclined to designate a different PPF to do so.Given the foregoing, the Court does not need to reach the request that the Court grant Federizo general powers.CONCLUSIONFor these reasons, the Court grants that part of the petition seeking additional powers to Federizo to defend and settle the Family Members’ sec. 850 petition (as well as MV’s sec. 850 petition) subject to court approval, pursuant to sec. 8544(b)(3), and denies the balance of the petition.