 Case Number:  22STCV34670    Hearing Date:   December 23, 2024    Dept:  28 Having  considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows.BACKGROUND  On  October 31, 2022, Plaintiff Carmeletta Mobley (“Plaintiff”) filed this action  against Defendants Ross Dress for Less (Agent) CT Corporation System for general  negligence and premises liability.  On  December 12, 2022, Defendant Ross Dress for Less, Inc. (erroneously sued and served  as Ross Dress for Less (Agent) CT Corporation System) (“Defendant”) filed an  answer.  On  November 20, 2023, the Court granted Defendant’s unopposed motion to deem  admitted matters specified in requests for admission served on Plaintiff.  On  June 28, 2024, at the direction of the Master Calendar Department, Department 1/Supervising Judge, the case was assigned to Judge Craig Richman in Department  119 at the Clara Shortridge Foltz Criminal Justice Center for trial.  However, after conferring with Plaintiff and Defendant’s  counsel, the Court concluded that Plaintiff was not ready to proceed.  The Court continued the trial to July 11,  2024.  On  July 11, 2024, the Court granted Plaintiff’s oral request to continue the trial  and continued the trial over Defendant’s objection to August 1, 2024.  On  July 15, 2024, Defendant filed a motion for summary judgment.  The motion was set for hearing on March 10,  2024.  Plaintiff did not file an  opposition.  On  August 1, 2024, the Court granted Defendant’s ex parte application to continue  the trial.  The Court continued the trial  to January 22, 2025.  In addition, the  Court advanced the hearing on Defendant’s summary judgment motion to December  9, 2024.  The Court later continued the  hearing on the summary judgment motion to December 23, 2024.  On  August 8, 2024, the Court denied Plaintiff’s motion for relief from the Court’s  November 20, 2023 deeming admitted matters specified in requests for admission  served on Plaintiff.  Trial  is currently set for January 22, 2025. PARTY’S REQUEST  Defendant  asks the Court to grant summary judgment.LEGAL STANDARD  A.   Summary judgment  “‘[F]rom  commencement to conclusion, the party moving for summary judgment bears the  burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue of material fact and that  he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.’”  (LAOSD Asbestos  Cases (2023) 87 Cal.App.5th 949, 945, quoting Aguilar v. Atlantic  Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850 (Aguilar)) “[T]he party  moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of production to make a  prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact;  if he carries his burden of production, he causes a shift, and the opposing  party is then subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a prima  facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of material  fact.”  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 850.)  When  the moving party is a defendant, it must show that the plaintiff cannot  establish at least one element of the cause of action.  (Aguilar,  supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 853.) “The defendant has shown that the  plaintiff cannot establish at least one element of the cause of action by  showing that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,  needed evidence.”  (Id. at p. 854.) The defendant must  “present evidence, and not simply point out that the plaintiff does not  possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence.”  (Ibid.)  Thus, “the defendant must ‘support[ ]’ the ‘motion’ with  evidence including ‘affidavits, declarations, admissions, answers to  interrogatories, depositions, and matters of which judicial notice’ must or may  ‘be taken.’ [Citation.] The defendant may, but need not, present evidence  that conclusively negates an element of the plaintiff’s cause of action. The  defendant may also present evidence that the plaintiff does not possess, and  cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence—as through admissions by the  plaintiff following extensive discovery to the effect that he has discovered  nothing.”  (Id. at p. 855, original emphasis.)  “Supporting  and opposing affidavits or declarations . . . shall set forth admissible  evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (d).) “Matters which would be  excluded under the rules of evidence if proffered by a witness in a trial as  hearsay, conclusions or impermissible opinions, must be disregarded in  supporting affidavits.”  (Hayman v. Block (1986) 176  Cal.App.3d 629, 639.)  In  addition, a party moving for summary judgment must  support the motion with “a separate statement setting forth plainly and  concisely all material facts which the moving party contends are undisputed.  Each of the material facts stated shall be followed by a reference to the  supporting evidence.” (Parkview Villas Assn. v. State Farm Fire &  Casualty Co. (2006) 133 Cal.App.4th 1197, 1209, quoting Code Civ. Proc., §  437c, subd. (b)(1).) The party opposing the motion must file with the opposition  papers “a separate statement that responds to each of the material facts  contended by the moving party to be undisputed, indicating whether the opposing  party agrees or disagrees that those facts are undisputed. The statement also  shall set forth plainly and concisely any other material facts that the  opposing party contends are disputed. Each material fact contended by the  opposing party to be disputed shall be followed by a reference to the  supporting evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (b)(3).)  If  either party fails to comply with the applicable separate statement  requirement, that failure may in the court’s discretion constitute a sufficient  ground to decide the motion adversely to the offending party. (Code Civ. Proc.,  § 437c, subds. (b)(1), (3).)   In  ruling on the motion, the court must consider all the evidence and all the  inferences reasonably drawn from it and must view such evidence and  inferences in the light most favorable to the opposing  party.  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 843.)  B.   Premises liability and negligence  “The  elements of a negligence claim and a premises liability claim are the same: a  legal duty of care, breach of that duty, and proximate cause resulting in  injury.”  (Kesner v. Superior Court  (2016) 1 Cal.5th 1132, 1158.)  “ ‘  “Generally, one owes a duty of ordinary care not to cause an unreasonable risk  of harm to others....” ' [Citation.]” (Salinas v. Martin (2008) 166  Cal.App.4th 404, 411 (Salinas), quoting Padilla v. Rodas (2008)  160 Cal.App.4th 742, 747 (Padilla).) “ ‘Civil Code section 1714 sets  forth the general duty of a property owner toward others: “Everyone is  responsible, not only for the result of his or her willful acts, but also for  an injury occasioned to another by his or her want of ordinary care or skill in  the management of his or her property or person, except so far as the latter  has, willfully or by want of ordinary care, brought the injury upon himself or  herself.” The application of this provision entails an inquiry as to “whether  in the management of his property he has acted as a reasonable [person] in view  of the probability of injury to others....” [Citations.]’ ” (Id. at pp.  411-412, quoting Laico v. Chevron U.S.A., Inc. (2004) 123 Cal.App.4th  649, 659 (Laico).) “A landowner ‘ “ ‘has an affirmative duty to exercise  ordinary care to keep the premises in a reasonably safe condition, and  therefore must inspect them or take other proper means to ascertain their  condition. And if, by the exercise of reasonable care, he would have discovered  the dangerous condition, he is liable.’ ” ’ [Citation.]’ ” (Id. at p.  412, quoting Portillo v. Aiassa (1994) 27 Cal.App.4th 1128, 1134.)  “  ‘An exception to the statutory rule of liability for failure to use ordinary  care in the management of one's property requires clear support in public  policy.’ ” (Salinas, supra, 166 Cal.App.4th at p. 412, quoting Laico,  supra, 123 Cal.App.4th at pp. 659–660.) “ ‘ “In the case of a  landowner's liability for injuries to persons on the property, the  determination of whether a duty exists, ‘involves the balancing of a number of  considerations; the major ones are the foreseeability of harm to the plaintiff,  the degree of certainty that the plaintiff suffered injury, the closeness of  the connection between the defendant's conduct and the injury suffered, the  moral blame attached to the defendant's conduct, the policy of preventing  future harm, the extent of the burden to the defendant and the consequences to  the community of imposing a duty to exercise care with resulting liability for  breach, and the availability, cost, and prevalence of insurance for the risk  involved.’ [Citations.]” [Citation.]’ ” (Ibid., quoting Rinehart v.  Boys & Girls Club of Chula Vista (2005) 133 Cal.App.4th 419, 430.) “  ‘Foreseeability and the extent of the burden to the defendant are ordinarily  the crucial considerations, but in a given case one or more of the other  Rowland factors may be determinative of the duty analysis.’ ” (Ibid.,  quoting Castaneda v. Olsher (2007) 41 Cal.4th 1205, 1213.) “The  existence and scope of a defendant's duty is a question of law for the court's  resolution.” (Ibid., citing Shin v. Ahn (2007) 42 Cal.4th 482, 488;  Padilla, supra, 160 Cal.App.4th at p. 747.)  C.   Requests for admission  “[Requests  for admission] are different from other civil discovery tools such as  depositions, interrogatories, and requests for documents. ‘Most of the other  discovery procedures are aimed primarily at assisting counsel to prepare for  trial. Requests for admissions, on the other hand, are primarily aimed at  setting at rest a triable issue so that it will not have to be tried.’ ”  (St. Mary v. Superior Court (2014) 223  Cal.App.4th 762, 774-775, quoting Cembrook v. Superior Court (1961) 56  Cal.2d 423, 429.)  “[A]dmission requests  seek to eliminate the need for proof: ‘[T]he purpose of the admissions  procedure ... is to limit the triable issues and spare the parties the burden  and expense of litigating undisputed issues.’ Sometimes, the admissions  obtained will even leave the party making them vulnerable to summary judgment.”  (Id. at p. 775, quoting Hogan & Weber, 1 Cal. Civil Discovery (2d  ed. 2005) § 9.1, p. 9–2, fns. omitted.)   “Matters that are admitted or deemed admitted through RFA discovery  devices are conclusively established in the litigation and are not subject to  being contested through contradictory evidence.”  (Ibid., citing Murillo v. Superior  Court (2006) 143 Cal.App.4th 730, 736.) DISCUSSION  A.   The complaint  The  complaint alleges the following:  On November 12, 2021, Plaintiff visited the Ross Dress  for Less store on Pico Boulevard in Los Angeles.  Plaintiff reached for a pair of shoes on a  rack and “was met with an empty metal bar that blended into the background of the  store and went unnoticed to [Plaintiff’s] attention since the bar wasn’t properly  shelved with merchandise and/or apparel.”   Plaintiff then “went to lean in to inspect the shoes at the bottom of  the [shelf] and struck [her] head (full force) on the metal object.”  As a result of Defendant’s negligence,  Plaintiff suffered injuries and seeks compensatory damages.  B.   Undisputed facts   Ross Dress For Less, Inc., and its employees or agents were not responsible for the incident described in Plaintiff’s complaint.  The metal  display bar on which Plaintiff allegedly struck her head was open and  obvious.  The  incident was the result of Plaintiff’s own negligence.  The  location of the metal display bar did not constitute a hazard to anyone  exercising reasonable care.  The only  manner in which someone might injure themselves by striking their head on the metal  display bar was by failing to exercise  reasonable care.  Plaintiff  incurred no loss of earnings or loss of earnings capacity as a result of the incident.   Plaintiff suffered no personal injuries and  incurred no medical expenses as a result of the incident.  Plaintiff was not treated by a medical  practitioner.  C.   Defendant has carried its initial burden on summary  judgment  The  undisputed facts show that Defendant was not negligent, that any negligence by  Defendant did not cause Plaintiff’s injuries, and that Plaintiff did not suffer  injuries or incur damages as a result of the accident.  Defendant has carried its initial burden on  summary judgment, shifting the burden to Plaintiff.  D.   Plaintiff has not raised a triable issue of fact   Plaintiff has not filed an opposition to Defendant’s motion  for summary judgment.  Plaintiff  therefore has not raised a triable issue of fact.           The Court grants the motion.CONCLUSION  The  Court GRANTS Defendant Ross Dress for Less, Inc.’s motion for summary judgment.  Moving  party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.  Moving  party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court  within five days.