 Case Number:  23STCP02369    Hearing Date:   February 21, 2024    Dept:  86 GHAFOURI v. THE CITY OF LOS ANGELES
Case Number: 23STCP02369
Hearing Date: February 21, 2024 
 
[Tentative]       ORDER
SUSTAINING DEMURRER    
 
 
Respondents, Terence Newman and Priscillia
Hernandez, generally demur to the first amended verified petition for writ of
mandate and complaint for declaratory and injunctive relief (FAP) filed by
Petitioner, Niloufar Ghafouri.
 
Respondents’ Request for Judicial Notice (RJN) of
Exhibits A through C is granted. Petitioner’s objections are overruled. 
 
The court notes Petitioner submitted Exhibit B
and part of Exhibit C with her August 17, 2023 ex parte
application thereby admitting authenticity of those records. (Evid. Code, §
1414.) Exhibit A also appears to be an official state record issued by the Florida
Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services and therefore subject to
judicial notice. (Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (c).) While the court judicially
notices the existence of these official records, the court does not judicially
notice the truth of any disputed hearsay or factual statements made
therein. (See Joslin v.
H.A.S. Ins. Brokerage (1986)
184 Cal.App.3d 369, 374. [“The hearing on demurrer may not be turned into a
contested evidentiary hearing through the guise of having the court take
judicial notice of documents . . . .”]; Ramsden v. Western Union (1977)
71 Cal.App.3d 873, 879. [“A demurrer is simply not the appropriate procedure
for determining the truth of disputed facts.”]) 

 
APPLICABLE LEGAL STANDARD 
 
A
demurrer tests the sufficiency of a pleading, and the grounds for a demurrer
must appear on the face of the pleading or from judicially noticeable matters.
(Code Civil Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a); Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) “We assume the truth of the
allegations in the complaint, but do not assume the truth of contentions,
deductions, or conclusions of law.”  (California Logistics, Inc. v. State of
California (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 242, 247.) 
 
“A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and
not the evidence or other extrinsic matters.” 
(Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)  “[T]he complaint
ordinarily is sufficient if it alleges ultimate rather than evidentiary
facts.”  (Doe v. City of Los Angeles (2007)
42 Cal.4th 531, 550.)  The
allegations in the petition must be liberally construed in favor of a petitioner
on demurrer.  (See Mobil Oil Corp. v
Exxon Corp. (1986) 177 Cal.App.3d 942, 947.)
 
A
demurrer may be sustained without leave to amend when there is no reasonable
possibility the defect can be cured by amendment. (Blank v. Kirwan, supra, 39 Cal.3d at 318.) Indeed, where the facts
are not in dispute and the nature of the plaintiff's claim is clear, but no
liability exists under substantive law and no amendment would change the
result, sustaining a demurrer without leave to amend is proper. (City of Ceres v. City of Modesto (1969)
274 Cal. App. 2d 545, 554.) The burden is on the plaintiff to show how the
complaint might be amended to cure the defect. (Association of Community
Organizations for Reform Now v. Department of Industrial Relations (1995)
41 Cal.App.4th 298, 302.)
 
BACKGROUND 
 
The FAP alleges: 
 
“On or about March 11, 2023, a male chocolate
labradoodle dog was found wandering the streets on Valley Circle and El Cannon
in the rain, in the city of Los Angeles without tags or a collar.” (FAP ¶ 7.) “Although
the dog had a microchip, no ownership information was found when the chip was
accessed.” (FAP ¶ 9.)
 
“The next day, March 12, 2023, Petitioner was
contacted by a mutual friend, Nancy, and was informed that Shirin had located a
lost dog, but was unable to keep him at her residence.” (FAP ¶ 10.) “Petitioner
made multiple attempts to locate the dog’s initial owner, including posting in
NextDoor, Facebook, SFV Lost and Found, West SFV Lost and Found, the local
animal shelter, and posting paper fliers at Woodland Hills Park, PetCo, Bristol
Farms, and Pet Express.” (FAP
¶ 14.) “Accordingly, hearing no response for a
number of weeks, Petitioner adopted the dog, naming him Shance. She brought him
to a veterinarian for multiple checkups and vaccines, legally registered Shance
with the County of Los Angeles Department of Animal Care and Control, and added
her identifying information to the microchip.” (FAP ¶ 15.)
 
“On or about April 4, 2023, Petitioner received a
phone call from an individual that Petitioner now believes was Respondent
Hernandez. Hernandez did not identify herself, but claimed to be the previous
owner of Shance. Petitioner requested any information or documentation
whatsoever evidencing Hernandez’ ownership of Shance, such as a license,
microchip information, or veterinarian or medical information (as so instructed
to do by the shelter’s employee). Hernandez refused to provide any information
or documentation.” (FAP ¶ 16.)
 
“On or
about April 11, 2023, Petitioner was notified by LAPD that Shance had been
reported stolen by a third party. Petitioner replied that she was Shance’s
rightful owner, having properly registered Shance with all appropriate
government agencies, and had added her information to his microchip.” (FAP ¶
18.) “On or about June 14, 2023, the LAPD served a search warrant on
Petitioner’s residence, seizing Shance. The search warrant indicated that
Shance was ordered to be released to ‘the care of an animal control officer for
the City of Los Angeles Animal Services West Valley Shelter for the final
disposition of the dog.’ ” (FAP ¶ 19.)
 
“On or about June 16, 2023, Petitioner
emailed the West Valley Shelter branch of the Los Angeles City Animal Services
(‘Animal Services’), requesting return of Shance . . . . Animal Services informed
Petitioner that ‘the detective on this case says the animal is now with the
rightful owner.’ Without any court involvement, LAPD had taken it upon
themselves to make a legal determination of which party was the rightful owner
of Shance, and thereafter, on information and belief, summarily return Shance
to [Respondents] Hernandez and Newman (hereinafter collectively ‘Defendants’),
without any notification to Petitioner.” (FAP ¶ 21.)
 
“On or about August 2, 2023,
Petitioner, through counsel, received a communication from counsel for
Defendants, informing Petitioner that Defendants were jointly claiming
ownership of Shance.” (FAP ¶ 24.)
 
All causes of action in the FAP are
pleaded against the City of Los Angeles, as well as Respondents Newman and
Hernandez. Petitioner contends the return of the dog to Defendants by the City’s
police department violated Penal Code section 1407 and Evidence Code section
662 because “Petitioner is the owner of the legal title to Shance, and
therefore presumed to be the owner of the full beneficial title” (FAP ¶ 29), and “there has been no allegation by the People
that Shance was stolen or embezzled by Petitioner.” (FAP ¶¶ 30, 26-33.)
 
Petitioner seeks an ordinary writ of mandate
through the petition directing “return of Shance to Petitioner” and a judicial
declaration “of Petitioner’s rights to ownership of Shance.” (FAP Prayer ¶¶
1-2.)
 
ANALYSIS 
 
First Cause of Action – Ordinary Writ
of Mandate 
 
Petitioner’s first cause of action is
for ordinary mandate pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 1085. There
are two essential requirements for the issuance of an ordinary writ of mandate
under Code of Civil Procedure section 1085: (1) a clear, present, and
ministerial duty on the part of the respondent, and (2) a clear, present, and
beneficial right on the part of the petitioner to the performance of that duty.
(California Ass’n for Health Services at Home v. Department of Health
Services (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 696, 704.) “An action in ordinary mandamus
is proper where . . . the claim is that an agency has failed to act as required
by law.” (Id. at 705.)
 
Respondents
first assert they are not employed by the City and have no ministerial duties
enforceable by mandate. The court agrees. 
 
“Generally, mandamus is available to
compel a public agency's performance or to correct an agency's abuse of
discretion when the action being compelled or corrected is ministerial.”  (AIDS Healthcare Foundation v. Los Angeles
County Dept. of Public Health (2011) 197 Cal.App.4th 693, 700.) “A ministerial act is an act that a
public officer is required to perform in a prescribed manner in obedience
to the mandate of legal authority . . . .” (Kavanaugh
v. West Sonoma County Union High School Dist. (2003) 29 Cal.4th 911, 916 [emphasis
added].)  Petitioner has not alleged Respondents
are public officers with legal duties enforceable by mandate.
 
Respondents also contend Petitioner’s
claims are barred by Los Angeles Municipal Code (LAMC) section 53.09. Based on
the petition allegations and judicially noticed records, the court agrees.
 
LAMC section 53.09 provides, in
pertinent part: 
 
(a)   
Any person finding at any time any stray
domestic animal or any such animal found running at large contrary to the
provisions of this article may take up such animal; provided, however, that
persons taking up such animal shall, within four hours thereafter, or within
two hours thereafter if such animal is attached or hitched to a vehicle, give
notice to the Department [of Animal Services] or to some police officer, of the
fact that he has such animal in his possession, and shall furnish thereto a
description of such animal and a statement of the place where he found and
where he has confined the animal. . . .
 
(b)  
Any person taking up any such stray
animal found running at large or contrary to the provisions of this article
shall surrender such animal to the General Manager of the Department [of Animal
Services] or his duly authorized representative upon demand thereof.
 
(c)   
No person taking up any animal shall fail
or neglect to give notice thereof as required by this section or fail or refuse
to surrender such animal to the General Manager or his duly authorized
representative upon demand therefor.
 
.
. . .
 
(e)  
Within the first 24 hours of finding the
animal, the person finding the stray dog or cat shall comply with the
following:
 
1.   Transport
the animal to one of the City animal shelters for a microchip scan and
veterinary care, or bring the animal to a licensed California veterinarian at
the finder's own expense for a microchip scan and veterinary care.
2.   Provide
the Department with a record of the microchip scan and the veterinarian's
diagnosis, treatment, and prognosis.
3.   Make
and distribute posters with the animal's photo in a two-block radius of the
location where the animal was found and include the finder's contact
information. . . . 
 
(f)    
In addition to the requirements in
Subsections (d) and (e) above, the person finding the stray dog or cat shall
comply with the following:
 
.
. . .
 
4.   After
30 days, bring the dog or cat into the nearest City animal shelter and either
surrender the animal to the Department or complete the process to adopt the
animal, including having the animal vaccinated and sterilized. If the found
animal is a dog, adoption also will require the adopter to license the dog. The
Department shall waive the adoption fee for any animal adopted pursuant to this
section.[1]
 
Thus,
LAMC section 53.09 effectively provides for a 30-day period during which the
owner of the lost dog may identify themselves and the Department may demand
surrender of the animal. The provision also specifies the adoption of a lost dog
cannot be completed until after 30 days and after the lost dog is brought to
the nearest City animal shelter.
 
Petitioner
admits in the FAP Respondent Fernandez identified herself as the owner of the
dog on April 4, 2023, within 30 days of the dog being found on or about March
11, 2023. (FAP ¶¶ 7, 16.) Petitioner does not allege she complied with LAMC
section 53.09, subdivision (f).[2]
 
Judicially
noticeable records, including an “Official
Certificate of Veterinary Inspection for Intrastate Sale of Dog or Cat"
issued by the Florida Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services Division
and also a police department search warrant for Petitioner’s residence, indicate
Respondents are the registered owners of the dog. (RJN Exhs. A, B, C.) Petitioner
has not alleged sufficient facts in the FAP to create a factual dispute
concerning ownership of the dog. Accordingly, Petitioner has not alleged any
basis to support her assertion the City or Respondents have a legal duty to
return the dog to Petitioner.[3]  
 
In her brief opposition to the demurrer,
Petitioner does not materially respond to Respondents’ contentions. (Sehulster Tunnels/Pre-Con v. Traylor
Brothers, Inc. (2003) 111 Cal.App.4th 1328, 1345, fn. 16 [failure to
address point is “equivalent to a concession”].)  Petitioner states: “There are some underlying
circumstances that are very odd in this case. Plaintiff intends to get to the
bottom of it in discovery.” (Opposition 2:26.) Thus, Petitioner appears to concede
she has not presently stated a cause of action for ordinary mandate.  
 
The demurrer to the first cause of action
is SUSTAINED.  
 
Second Cause of
Action – Declaratory Relief 
 
The second cause of action for declaratory relief
is derivative of the first cause of action. 
For the reasons stated above, the demurrer to the second cause of action
is SUSTAINED.
 
Third and Fourth Causes of Action – Injunctive
Relief 
 
“Injunctive relief is a remedy, not a cause of action.
A cause of action must exist before a court may grant a
request for injunctive relief.” (Ivanoff v. Bank of America, N.A. (2017)
9 Cal.App.5th 719, 734.)  
 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the third and fourth
causes of action is SUSTAINED.
 
Leave to Amend 
 
As noted, a
demurrer may be sustained without leave to amend when there is no reasonable
possibility a pleading defect can be cured by amendment. (Blank v. Kirwan,
supra, 39 Cal.3d at 318.) This court acknowledges a petitioner is
generally permitted at least one time to amend a complaint after a demurrer is
sustained. (McDonald v. Superior Court
(1986) 180 Cal.App.3d 297, 303.) In assessing whether leave to amend should be
granted, the burden is on the complainant to show the court a pleading can be
amended successfully. (Goodman v.  Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335,
348-349.)  
 
This is the court’s
first ruling on demurrer, which generally weighs in favor of granting leave to
amend. While Petitioner requests leave to amend, she has not explained how she
could amend to correct the defects identified above—that is, there is no basis
for the court to find there is a reasonable likelihood Petitioner could amend the
FAP to state a cause of action against Respondents. That Petitioner would like to
conduct discovery does not inform on whether Petitioner can state a cause of
action against Respondents.
 
CONCLUSION 
 
The demurrer to the first, second, third, and
fourth causes of action is SUSTAINED.  
 
Petitioner should be prepared to discuss how she might amend her
allegations to state a cause of action against Respondents. Given the apparent
lack of any legal duty on Respondents, it appears a claim for ordinary mandate
will not lie.   
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
February 21, 2024                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ________________________________ 
Hon. Mitchell Beckloff  
Judge of the Superior Court 


