 Case Number:  23STCV07593    Hearing Date:   February 21, 2024    Dept:  86 HUNT CAPITAL PARTNERS, LLC v. LBB HOUSING
INVESTORS, L.P.
Case Number: 23STCV07593
Hearing Date: February 21, 2024
 
 
[Tentative]       ORDER
GRANTING APPLICATION FOR WRIT OF ATTACHMENT 
 
 
Plaintiff, Hunt Capital Partners, LLC, applies for
a writ of attachment against Defendant, Andrew Hanna, in the amount of $987,617.22.
 
The application is granted.
 
RELEVANT PROCEDURAL HISTORY 
 
On April 6, 2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint for
breach of contract and other claims against Defendants LBB Housing Investors,
L.P. (LBB); Global Premier Development, Inc. (Global); Hanna; and SF Eddy
Housing Investors L.P. (SF).
 
On June 13, 2023, Plaintiff filed its
applications for writs of attachment against Global and Hanna. Global opposed
the application.  
 
On July 31, 2023, LBB and SF filed a
cross-complaint against Plaintiff and JPMorgan Chase & Co.  
 
On August 30, 2023, Global filed a
cross-complaint against Plaintiff and JPMorgan Chase & Co.  
 
On August 31, 2023, the Honorable Judge James Chalfant
(Dept. 85) granted the application for a writ of attachment as to Global in the
amount of $987,617.22. The court ordered Plaintiff to file a $10,000
undertaking. Because Plaintiff had not yet completed service of summons on
Hanna, the court did not rule of the application against Hanna and continued
that application to October 19, 2023.
 
On August 31, 2023, the court entered a right to
attach order against Global.
 
On September 8, 2023, Plaintiff filed an
undertaking in the amount of $10,000 as to Global.  
 
On September 14, 2023, Hanna, in pro per,
answered the complaint.
 
On October 2, 2023, the court (Judge James Chalfant)
accepted a preemptory challenge filed by Hanna. The court reassigned the
application for a writ of attachment against Hanna to Department 86 (Judge
Mitchell Beckloff). This department continued the hearing on the application to
February 16, 2024.  
 
On January 17, 2024, the court granted Hanna’s ex
parte application to continue the hearing on the application to February 21,
2024.  
 
On February 14, 2024, Hanna filed and served an
opposition to the application and claim of exemption. 
 
On February 16, 2024, Plaintiff filed and served
a reply.
 
On February 16, 2024, Hanna filed an unauthorized
sur-reply. Hanna did not request or obtain leave of court to file a sur-reply.
Accordingly, the court disregards and strikes the written sur-reply on its own
motion. Hanna may orally respond to the reply brief at the time of hearing. 
 
APPLICABLE LAW 
 
“Upon the filing of the complaint or at
any time thereafter, the plaintiff may apply pursuant to this article for a
right to attach order and a writ of attachment by filing an application for the
order and writ with the court in which the action is brought.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 484.010.)
 
The court
shall issue a right to attach order if the court finds all
of
the following: 
 
(1)   The claim
upon which the attachment is based is one upon which an attachment may be
issued. 
(2)   The
plaintiff has established the probable validity of the claim upon which the
attachment is based. 
(3)   The
attachment is not sought for a purpose other than the recovery on the claim
upon which the attachment is based. 
(4)   The amount
to be secured by the attachment is greater than zero.  
 
(Id. at
§ 484.090.) 
 
“A claim has ‘probable validity’
where it is more likely than not that the plaintiff will obtain a judgment
against the defendant on that claim.” (Id. at § 481.190.) “In contested 
applications, the
court must consider the relative merits of the positions of the respective
parties and make a determination of¿the probable outcome of the litigation.”¿(Hobbs
v. Weiss (1999) 73 Cal. App.4th 76, 80.) 

 
“The application
shall be supported by an affidavit showing that the plaintiff on the facts
presented would be entitled to a judgment on the claim upon which the
attachment is based.”¿(Code Civ. Proc., § 484.030.) Code of Civil Procedure section
482.040 states in pertinent part: 
 
The facts stated
in each affidavit filed pursuant to this title shall be set forth with
particularity. Except where matters are specifically permitted by this title to
be shown by information and belief, each affidavit shall show affirmatively
that the affiant, if sworn as a witness, can testify competently to the facts
stated therein. As to matters shown by information and belief, the affidavit
shall state the facts on which the affiant's belief is based, showing the
nature of his information and the reliability of his informant. The affiant may
be any person, whether or not a party to the action, who has knowledge of the
facts.  
 
“The Attachment Law statutes are subject
to strict construction.” (Epstein v. Abrams (1997) 57 Cal.App.4th 1159, 1168.)  
 
ANALYSIS 
 
Probable Validity of Plaintiff’s Claim
 
The application is based on Plaintiff’s cause
of action for breach of a guaranty agreement. To establish a claim for breach
of contract, a plaintiff must prove: (1) existence of a contract; 
(2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for
nonperformance; (3) defendant’s breach of the contract; and (4) damages
incurred by plaintiff as a result of the breach.  (Durell
v. Sharp Healthcare (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 1350, 1367.)  
 
In support of the application, Plaintiff
submits the Declaration of Jeffery Kohn, general counsel for Plaintiff. Kohn
declares: In October 2019, LBB executed a note in favor of Plaintiff for the
purposes of providing capital for its business operations. LBB borrowed
$400,000 from Plaintiff pursuant to the note. Also in October 2019, to induce
Plaintiff to make the loan to LBB, Hanna executed a written guaranty of LBB’s
obligations to Plaintiff. (Kohn Decl. ¶¶ 6-7.) In April 2020 and January 2021,
LBB and Plaintiff entered into amended loan agreements which increased the
amount borrowed to $600,000, among other changes. (Kohn Decl. ¶¶ 8-9.)
 
In October 2019, SF executed a note in
favor of Plaintiff for the purposes of providing capital for its business
operations. SF borrowed $120,000 from Plaintiff pursuant to the note. Also in
October 2019, to induce Plaintiff to make the loan to SF, Hanna executed a
written guaranty of SF’s obligations to Plaintiff (together with the LBB guaranty,
Guaranties). (Kohn Decl. ¶¶ 10-11.)  
 
Although Plaintiff performed its
obligations under the LBB note and SF note, LBB and SF have breached their
obligations by failing to repay the loans. Both loans have matured and are
payable in full. Although demand has been made, Hanna has not performed his
obligations under the Guaranties. The total amount due on both notes and on the
Guaranties is $987,617.22, including interest (but not attorney’s fees). (Kohn
Decl. ¶¶ 13-30, Exh. 7.)  
 
The foregoing evidence, if not rebutted,
supports all elements of Plaintiff’s claim for breach of the Guaranties against
Hanna, specifically: (1) the existence of the loans and Guaranties; 
(2) Plaintiff’s performance of the agreements;
(3) Defendant’s breach of the Guaranties for failure to pay the full amount due
after the borrowers’ defaults; and (4) Plaintiff’s damages in the amount of
$987,617.22.
 
In opposition, Hanna raises certain
defenses to attachment. Hanna has the initial burden of proof to submit
evidence to support the defenses and claims for offset. (Lydig Construction,
Inc. v. Martinez Steel Corp. (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 937, 944-945.) “Courts
are generally suspicious of vague, unsupported counterclaims and defenses.” (Ibid.)  
 
              Assignment
 
Hanna contends Plaintiff lacks standing
to enforce the Guaranties because Hanna executed Guarantor Consents in October
2019 specifying that “Plaintiff HCP and JPMorgan had executed certain
Assignment Agreements, and Guarantors also acknowledges and consents to the
assignment of the Guaranty Agreements to JPMorgan as the assignee pursuant to
the Assignments.” (Opposition 4:3-6; Hanna Decl. ¶ 5, Exh. A, B.)  
 
Hanna submits documents entitled “Consent
and Acknowledgment of Guarantor,” which make reference to an Assignment of
Agreements between Plaintiff and JPMorgan Chase Bank.  However, Hanna has not submitted a copy of
the Assignment of Agreements and, therefore, the terms of any such assignment
are unclear on this record. In reply, Plaintiff submits evidence that
Plaintiff borrowed money pursuant to a Revolving Line of Credit from JPMorgan Chase
Bank in 2019 and that the Guaranties were pledged as collateral. Plaintiff
submits evidence that the JPMorgan loans were paid off in 2020 and the
collateral was released back to Plaintiff. 
(Kagey Decl. ¶¶ 7-18.) This evidence supports a conclusion, under the
probable validity standard, that Plaintiff is the current owner of the
Guaranties and that any prior assignment to JPMorgan does not prevent Plaintiff
from enforcing the Guaranties.[1]
 
              Failure
to Pursue or Exhaust Remedies Against the Borrowers 
 
Hanna next contends it is premature for
Plaintiff to enforce the Guaranties because Plaintiff has not pursued or exhausted
its remedies against the borrowers. Hanna relies on paragraph 25 of the
Guaranties, which states in full:
 
25. With respect to all of the Indebtedness, the Guaranty may not be
enforced against Guarantor by Borrower or Lender (for itself or on behalf of
Borrower), without first pursuing or exhausting any other right or remedy,
provided, however, that nothing in this Guaranty shall prevent the Borrower or
the Lender from suing to enforce the provisions of the Loan Documents or from
exercising any rights hereunder.
 
Hanna does not address paragraph 7 of the
Guaranties, which states in relevant part:
 
7. Except as otherwise provided herein or in any of the other Loan
Documents Guarantor hereby waives and agrees not to assert or take advantage
of: 
 
(a) any right to require Lender to proceed against any other person or
to proceed against or exhaust any security held by Lender at any time or to
pursue any other remedy in Lender's power before proceeding against Guarantor
hereunder;
 
(See Kohn
Decl. Exh. 2.)
 
There is a potential ambiguity in the
Guaranties created by paragraphs 25 and 7 with respect to whether Hanna waived
any obligation of Plaintiff to pursue or exhaust its remedies against the
borrowers, as permitted by Civil Code section 2856. In opposition, Hanna does
not develop any argument that paragraph 25 should be given precedent in
resolving this conflict. “Where general and specific provisions [of a contract]
are inconsistent, the specific provision controls.”  (California Union Square L.P. v. Saks &
Co. LLC (2021) 71 Cal.App.5th 136, 143.) 
Arguably, paragraph 7 is the more specific provision and should control
here.  
 
Moreover, even if paragraph 25 applies, Hanna
does not explain why Plaintiff’s filing of this lawsuit, which names LBB and SF
as co-defendants, does not satisfy the requirement for Plaintiff to “pursu[e] or
exhaust[] any other right or remedy.” Because paragraph 25 could be satisfied
by this lawsuit (see Kagey Decl. ¶ 6 [asserting SF and LBB are insolvent and
have no assets]), Defendant does not show, for purposes of pre-judgment
attachment, that Plaintiff has failed to pursue or exhaust other rights or
remedies against the borrowers.  
 
              Intentional/Negligent
Misrepresentation 
 
In his answer, Hanna alleges: 
 
Plaintiff intentionally misrepresented to Defendants that JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (‘JPMorgan’) has passed litigation check of Defendant and the
sponsors, with the intent to convince Defendant to believe that JPMorgan would
actually move forward and close the partnerships with Defendant and induce
Defendant to borrow large sums of loan from Plaintiff prematurely. Defendant’ [sic]
detrimental reliance on Plaintiff’s representations was a substantial factor in
causing their substantial financial harm. (Ans., Aff. Def. ¶ 12.)  
 
Hanna raises this defense in opposition
as a basis to reduce or offset the attachment. (Opposition 6:3-7:17; see Code Civ.
Proc., § 483.015, subd. (b).) “To sustain reduction in a writ amount, most
courts require that defendant [or cross-defendant] provide enough evidence
about its counterclaims [or claims] and/or defenses to prove a prima facie
case.” (Lydig Construction, Inc. v. Martinez Steel Corp., supra, 234
Cal.App.4th at 944-945.) Accordingly, Hanna must satisfy all requirements for
pre-judgment attachment, including a showing that his defense is probably valid
and that his damages are fixed and readily ascertainable from a contract. (Ibid.)  
 
To prove fraud or intentional
misrepresentation, Defendant must show: “(1) a knowingly false representation
by the defendant; (2) an intent to deceive or induce reliance; (3) justifiable
reliance by the plaintiff; and (4) resulting damages.” (Service by
Medallion, Inc. v. Clorox Co. (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 1807, 1816.) “The
elements of negligent misrepresentation are (1) a misrepresentation of a past
or existing material fact, (2) made without reasonable ground for believing it
to be true, (3) made with the intent to induce another's reliance on the fact
misrepresented, (4) justifiable reliance on the misrepresentation, and (5)
resulting damage.”  (Ragland v. U.S.
Bank National Assn. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 182, 196.)  
 
In his declaration, Hanna declares:
 
17. Upon signing the LBB Letter of Intent Agreement, HCP introduced
JPMorgan to me and indicated that JPMorgan was interested in processing
construction loans and permanent loans for both LBB and SF EDDY.
 
18. My staff started coordinating with HCP and JPMorgan by providing
all preliminary due diligence related documentations, such as LBB and SF EDDY
projects information, financial models, Sponsors’ financial information, full
disclosure of sponsors’ past and current litigation status including detailed
explanation of GPD’s seven years long litigation with AIG/ SunAmerica which was
settled and concluded in 2018. 
 
19. In or about October 2019, HCP, through its authorized
representative, told me and my staff that JPMorgan was satisfied with its
preliminary due diligence of the Sponsors, which included passing litigation
checks and other required financial reviews of the Sponsors, and would move
forward to close partnerships of both projects. 
 
25. On or about August 7, 2020, JPMorgan’s representative notified me
over the phone that JPMorgan decided to not move forward with the LBB project,
as they did not pass the litigation check of the Sponsors, disregard of the
fact that HCP’s representative had explicitly informed LBB ten months prior
that JPMorgan has been satisfied with all the litigation check with the
Sponsors.
 
Defendant does not show Plaintiff made
any representation that JPMorgan would make a final commitment to the
partnerships. Rather, Plaintiff’s representative only stated “JPMorgan was
satisfied with its preliminary due diligence of the Sponsors.”
(Hanna Decl. ¶ 19 [emphasis added].) Moreover, Defendant has not shown, under
the probable validity standard, that Plaintiff knew the alleged statement was
false or that Plaintiff had no reasonable grounds to believe in the truth of
the statement. Accordingly, on this record, Hanna has not shown a probably
valid defense for intentional or negligent misrepresentation.  
 
Finally, while not raised by Plaintiff in
reply, it appears Hanna’s alleged damages from the alleged fraud are not fixed
and readily ascertainable from any contract. (See Hanna Decl. ¶ 30 [discussing
consequential damages].) 
 
For these reasons, Hanna has not shown
the attachment should be reduced by any specific amount in connection with
Defendant’s defense for intentional or negligent misrepresentation.
 
Breach of Letters of Intent; and Breach of Implied Covenant of Good
Faith and Fair Dealing 
 
In the answer, Defendant alleges: 
 
Plaintiff breached its LBB and SF EDDY Letter of Intent Agreements
with Defendants for failure to perform any part of its equity commitments to
the projects, Plaintiff also breached the implied covenant of good faith and
fair dealing, and by reason of such breach, Defendant has been excused of any
duty it may have had to perform any obligation set forth in any agreement with
Plaintiff. (Ans., Aff. Def. ¶ 10.)
 
In opposition, Hanna contends Plaintiff
breached the Letter of Intent Agreements (LOIs) between Plaintiff and LBB and
SF by: 
 
failing and refusing to: a) enter into the LBB and SF EDDY
partnerships as the Investor Limited Partner, along with all of the benefits
and obligations to Defendants associated therewith, b) make any portion of the
Tax Credit equity investments to the partnership as agreed, and c) fund balance
of the predevelopment loan in the amount of $280,000 as required by the SF EDDY
Letter of Intent Agreement and SF EDDY Note. (Opposition 8:8-12; see also Hanna
Decl. ¶¶ 12-13, 28-30, Exh. E, F.)  
 
For purposes of this application, Hanna
has not shown the LOIs created binding obligations for Plaintiff to enter the
partnerships. Generally, “[t]he purpose and function of a preliminary letter of
intent is not to bind the parties to their ultimate contractual objective.
Instead, it is only ‘to provide the initial framework from which the parties
might later negotiate a final . . . agreement, if the deal works out.’ ”  (Rennick v. O.P.T.I.O.N. Care, Inc. (9th
Cir. 1996) 77 F.3d 309, 315.) Here, the LOIs outline the “proposal of the basic
business terms to be included in the Partnership Agreement.”
(Hanna Decl. Exh. E, F [emphasis added].)  
 
Moreover, Hanna does not identify any
specific terms that were binding upon Plaintiff, were allegedly breached, and
resulted in fixed and readily ascertainable contract damages. While Hanna refers
to the “exclusivity” clause in the LOIs, Hanna does not cite evidence that
Plaintiff breached that clause. Hanna also states, generally, the “SF EDDY
Letter of Intent Agreement specifically required Plaintiff to fund the
remaining of the SF EDDY predevelopment loan in the amount of $280,000 upon
request, with the condition that the entitlements are in place before November
30, 2019.” (Opposition 8:2-4.) Hanna does not cite the specific clause at
issue.  Moreover, Hanna does not identify
any damages he suffered that are fixed and readily ascertainable from the terms
of the LOIs. Rather, Hanna argues LBB, SF, and Global suffered consequential
damages, such as out of pocket expenses and legal expenses related to “ongoing
lawsuits with the lenders.” (Hanna Decl. ¶ 30.) Those types of consequential
damages are not “readily ascertainable by reference to the contract . . . .’ ”
(CIT Group/Equipment Financing, Inc. v. Super DVD, Inc. (2004) 115
Cal.App.4th 537, 541.)
 
Finally, as argued in reply, “[t]he LOIs
are expressly contingent on several factors, including final review and
approval by Hunt, a satisfactory site visit, accuracy of documentation, receipt
of copies of all mortgage loans, ‘soft loans’ and grants, satisfactory review
of the partnership agreement and due diligence, approval of construction plans,
market study, and property appraisal.” (Reply 4:10-13; see Hanna Decl. Exh. E,
F.) The court agrees, for purposes of this application, Hanna has not shown the
contingencies of the LOIs were satisfied. 

 
Hanna’s claim for breach of implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing is derivative of the arguments
discussed above. Hanna has not satisfied all requirements of attachment for any
of his defenses.  
 
Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff has
shown a probably valid claim against Hanna in the amount of $987,617.22.
 
Basis
of Attachment 
 
“[A]n attachment may be issued only in an
action on a claim or claims for money, each of which is based upon a contract,
express or implied, where the total amount of the claim or claims is a fixed or
readily ascertainable amount not less than five hundred dollars ($500)
exclusive of costs, interest, and attorney’s fees.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 483.010,
subd. (a).) “An attachment may not be issued on a claim which is secured by any
interest in real property arising from agreement . . . .” (Code Civ. Proc., § 483.010,
subd. (b).) “[A]n attachment
will lie upon a cause of action for damages for a breach of contract where the
damages are readily ascertainable by reference to the contract and the basis of
the computation of damages appears to be reasonable and definite.’ ” (CIT
Group/Equipment Financing, Inc. v. Super DVD, Inc., supra, 115
Cal.App.4th at 541.)
 
“If the
action is against a defendant who is a natural person, an attachment may be
issued only on a claim which arises out of the conduct by the defendant of a
trade, business, or profession. (Code Civ. Proc., § 483.010, subd. (c); see Advance
Transformer Co. v. Superior Court (1974) 44 Cal.App.3d 127, 143-144.)  
 
Here, Plaintiff’s application for writ of
attachment is based on an agreement where the total amount allegedly due is in
excess of $500. The Guaranties are not secured by real property. Plaintiff’s
damages are fixed and readily ascertainable from the terms of the Guaranties
and Plaintiff’s declaration and exhibits. The evidence shows Hanna executed the
Guaranties as part of his trade, business, or profession. (See Kohn Decl. Exh.
2, 6 [Hanna executed Guaranties in business capacity]; and Hanna Decl. ¶
1.)  
 
Purpose and Amount of Attachment 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 484.090
states the Court shall issue a right to attach order if “the attachment is not
sought for a purpose other than the recovery on the claim upon which the
attachment is based . . . [and] the amount to be secured by the attachment is
greater than zero.”
 
Plaintiff declares, and the court finds, attachment
is not sought for a purpose other than the recovery on Plaintiff’s contract
claim. (Appl. ¶ 4.) The amount to be secured is greater than zero.
 
Hanna has not
submitted sufficient evidence that Plaintiff filed the application “for an ulterior purpose of harassing Defendant.” (Opposition
3:10.) That Plaintiff has been granted a writ of attachment as to Global, and
received an offer to attach certain of Global’s assets, does not prove
Plaintiff seeks attachment against Hanna for an improper purpose. (See Hanna
Decl. ¶¶ 31-32.) Hanna also reiterates his position that Plaintiff lacks a
probably valid claim. For the reasons discussed earlier, the court
disagrees.  
 
Reduction of Amount to be Secured by Attachment 
 
For the reasons discussed earlier, Hanna has not
proven that the attachment should be reduced. 

 
Subject Property
 
Plaintiff
requests attachment against Defendant, a natural person, of items listed in Code
of Civil Procedure section 487.010, subdivisions (c) and (d). (Appl. ¶ 9c.)
That request is proper. (See Bank of America v. Salinas Nissan, Inc.
(1989) 207 Cal.App.3d 260, 267-268.)  
 
However,
Plaintiff has included some items in the proposed order not specified in Code
of Civil Procedure section 487.010, subdivisions (c) and (d), such as “all
estates” or any judgment in which Defendant has an interest. (See Appl. Attach.
9(c) at ¶¶ 17-18.) The writ of attachment shall be limited to the items
specified in Code of Civil Procedure section 487.010, subdivisions (c) and (d).   
 
Exemptions 
 
“If a defendant filing a notice of
opposition desires to make any claim of exemption as provided in Section
484.070, the defendant may include that claim in the notice of opposition filed
pursuant to this section.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 484.060, subd. (b).) A claim of
exemption must describe the property to be exempted and specify the statute
section supporting the claim. (Id. at § 484.070, subd. (c).) “The claim
of exemption shall be accompanied by an affidavit supporting any factual issues
raised by the claim and points and authorities supporting any legal issues
raised.” (Id. at § 484.070, subd. (d).)
 
Defendant claims exemption “of the
following entities pursuant to C.C.P. 487.010: Foundation for Better Housing, a
California Non-Profit Corporation, Salton Power, Inc., a California
Corporation, Dreamland Foundation, a California Non-Profit Corporation.” (Hanna
Decl. ¶ 33.)  Hanna has not specified the
exemption upon which he relies.  
 
Hanna states:
“I do not have ownership interest in those entities. I do not take any salary,
distribution, dividend, payment, repayment or other transfer of money or assets
from those entities.” (Hanna Decl. ¶ 33.) If that is true, then the writ of
attachment will not apply to any transfers of money or assets from the stated
entities.  As discussed, the writ of
attachment will only issue as to Hanna’s assets and those items of property
listed in Code of Civil Procedure section 487.010, subdivisions (c) and (d).   
 
Because Hanna
does not cite any pertinent statutory exemption or explain how it applies, the
claim of exemption is DENIED.
 
Undertaking 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 489.210
requires the plaintiff to file an undertaking before issuance of a writ of
attachment. Code of Civil Procedure section 489.220 provides, with exceptions,
for an undertaking in the amount of $10,000. The court concludes that the
statutory undertaking of $10,000 is appropriate. Hanna has not submitted
evidence to support a finding that his probable recovery for wrongful
attachment is likely to be more than $10,000. 
Hanna is representing himself in this action, and thus he does not show
he will be entitled to attorney’s fees.
 
CONCLUSION 
 
The application is
GRANTED as prayed. Hanna’s claim of exemption is DENIED.
 
Plaintiff to post an
undertaking of $10,000.
 
The writ of
attachment shall be limited to the items specified in Code of Civil Procedure section
487.010, subdivisions (c) and (d).   
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
February 21, 2024                                                                 ________________________________ 
Hon. Mitchell Beckloff  
Judge of the Superior Court 


