 Case Number:  23TRCV01598    Hearing Date:   July 9, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
MOHAMMED
  AMINUR RASHID, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV01598




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  NO RULING
 




 
BABUL
  MIAH, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          July
9, 2024
Moving
Party:                         Plaintiff
Mohammed Aminur Rashid
Responding
Parties:                Defendants Babul Miah, Abdul Miah, Jupiter West, LLC and South
Five, LLC
Motion
to Disqualify Counsel
At present Defendants Babul Miah, Abdul
Miah, Jupiter West, LLC and South Five, LLC are all represented by the same
counsel.  Plaintiff seeks to disqualify
Defendants’ counsel from representing Jupiter West, LLC and South Five, LLC.
The Court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
 
BACKGROUND
On May 19, 2023, plaintiff Mohammed
Aminur Rashid, as an individual and director of South Five, LLC and Jupiter
West, LLC filed a complaint against Babul Miah and Abdul Mian, individually and
as directors of South Five, LLC and Jupiter West, LLC for (1) involuntary
dissolution of LLC, (2) partition, (3) breach of fiduciary duty, (4)
accounting, and (5) declaratory and injunctive relief.
On January 9, 2023, plaintiff filed
a FAC for (1) involuntary dissolution of LLC, (2) breach of fiduciary duty, (3)
accounting, and (4) declaratory and injunctive relief and added South Five, LLC
and Jupiter West, LLC as defendants.
On March 13, 2024, the Court
overruled defendants’ demurrer as to the first and second causes of action and
granted the motion to strike with leave to amend.
On April 2, 2024, plaintiff filed a
SAC.
In the SAC Plaintiff Mohammed
Aminur Rashid alleges that he and his two siblings, Babul Miah and Abul Miah formed
two corporations on September 12, 2007.  One
was Jupiter West, Inc.  The other was
South Five, Inc.  Then in October 2007
they converted the two corporations into limited liability companies, Jupiter
West, LLC and South Five, LLC.  (Complaint
¶ 10.)  Each of the LLCs owns a
residential apartment building.  Jupiter
West, LLC owns the Rosecrans property while South Five, LLC owns the Roselle
Avenue property.  (Complaint ¶ 12.)
“14.  Plaintiff wants to obtain full ownership for
one of the Properties.  He has offered to
pay the difference to obtain full ownership for one of the Properties.  However, Defendants have refused to cooperate.  Further, Defendants failed to provide bank
records to allow Plaintiff to perform an adequate accounting to determine the
amounts owing to Plaintiff.  Therefore,
Plaintiff is unable to determine the amounts owing to him in the event that
Defendants wanted to buy Plaintiff’s interest.
15. 
On July 26, 2022, Plaintiff sent a demand letter to Defendants that
requested all bank statements for the Companies, and demanded that Defendants
buy out his interests in the Companies and Properties.  However, Defendants did not adequately
respond.
16. 
On April 12, 2023, Plaintiff’s counsel had an informal settlement
discussion with Defendants former counsel Gerald Rome, Esq. wherein settlement
discussions occurred regarding amounts of money owing to Plaintiff.  Plaintiff’s counsel again requested that
Defendants provide all bank statements for the corporations to Plaintiff.  However, Defendants’ counsel never provided
all of the requested bank statements, which inhibited Plaintiff from being able
to determine the amounts of money owing to him.”  (Complaint ¶ 14-16.)
Plaintiff asserts as his First
Cause of Action that he is entitled to an involuntary dissolution of Jupiter
West, LLC and South Five, LLC.  He sets
forth as the grounds the fact that the defendants have withheld bank statements
from him and abused their authority and exhibited persistent unfairness toward
him.  They have discussed settlement, but
there is internal dissention and an inability to agree upon an acceptable price.
“24.  Plaintiff alleges that Defendants have
withheld amounts of money owing to him which are estimated to exceed $45,000.  Defendants have been managing the Companies
and the Properties without paying all amounts owing to Plaintiff.  Therefore, it is not reasonably practicable
to carry on the businesses and dissolution is reasonable and necessary for
Plaintiff to protect his rights and interests against BABUL MIAH, ABUL MIAH,
and DOES 1 to 30.”  (Complaint ¶ 24.)
Plaintiff also asserts as his
Second Cause of Action a claim for breach of fiduciary duty claiming that
defendants breached their duties of loyalty to Plaintiff by withholding amounts
due him, estimated to exceed $45,000.  Defendants
failed to account to plaintiff and provide adequate financial records to
determine the amount owed him.  He also
alleges the failed settlement discussions and inability to agree upon a buyout
price.
The Third Cause of Action is for an
accounting of all the financial transaction involving the companies from 2007
to present.
The Fourth Cause of Action for
declaratory relief seeks a declaration that: “Plaintiff is the one third owner
of the right, title and interest the Companies’ Properties, and that they and
the Properties are free of any liens in favor of any other parties.”
On
March 13, 2024, the Court overruled defendants’ demurrer as to the first and
second causes of action and granted the motion to strike with leave to amend.
On
April 2, 2024, plaintiff filed a SAC.
DISCUSSION
Plaintiff requests that the Court disqualify Grant/Shenon
APC and its attorneys from representing defendants South Five, LLC and Jupiter
West, LLC.
Plaintiff contends that Grant/Shenon APC has a
nonwaivable actual conflict of interest in simultaneously representing two
members of South Five, LLC and Jupiter West, LLC against another member,
plaintiff Mohammed Rashid, citing to Rules of Prof. Conduct, Rule 1.7.  Plaintiff argues that “[a] glaring conflict
exists between the simultaneous representation of the Individual Defendant
interests and the Corporate Defendant interests.”  Plaintiff cites to Corp. Code §17704.07(4),
asserting that consent of all members of the companies was required to hire
Grant/Shenon APC because the act was outside the ordinary course of the
companies’ activities, which is to own and manage residential apartments for
income.  Plaintiff contends that he never
consented to simultaneous representation and that the corporate defendants did
not have a right to choose Grant/Shenon APC. 
Plaintiff also argues that Grant/Shenon APC does not have any compelling
interest to continue representation of the corporate defendants; the corporate
defendants do not have a financial burden for their change of counsel;
defendants will be unable to show that there is any tactical abuse by plaintiff
in filing the motion; and that disqualification of Grant/Shenon APC would
ensure that the corporate defendants and their new counsel can effectuate fair
resolution of the dispute with vigorous representation because the new counsel
would be able to represent the corporate defendants without any conflicts of
interest.
In opposition, defendants argue that the motion is
“merely a tactical device” based on plaintiff’s delay and that “significant
discovery” and briefing has already taken place.  Defendants also assert that plaintiff was
aware that Grant/Shenon was representing the individual Miah defendants
throughout this time and did not object and that it was plaintiff’s counsel
that requested that Grant/Shenon accept service on behalf of the LLCs.
Further, defendants assert, plaintiff fails to
establish that “any real danger exists as a result of” Grant/Shenon’s
representation because plaintiff’s claims are not aimed at the LLCs and thus
not derivative.  Defendants argue also
that disqualification would unnecessarily prejudice defendants and that Grant/Shenon
has represented the individual defendants from the beginning.  Moreover, given the adverse interests between
plaintiff and the individual defendants, “the prospect that they would agree on
replacement counsel seems unlikely at best.” 
Defendants request that, in the alternative, defendants should be
permitted to appoint counsel for the LLCs while maintaining Grant/Shenon as
counsel for the individual defendants.
In reply, plaintiff argues that he has timely filed
his motion and it is not a delay tactic. 
Plaintiff asserts that he filed this motion under the belief that the
corporate defendants were paying attorneys that had not been agreed to by
plaintiff, and that the corporate defendants did not accept service of the FAC
until mid-November 2023, which is after plaintiff had already received subpoena
results from the bank, which did not show any payments by the corporations to
counsel.  But, plaintiff explains, he has
recently obtained additional records from the bank that show that the corporate
defendants are making payments to counsel. 
Thus, plaintiff contends, defendants are using corporate money to fund a
defense against plaintiff, who is a member of the corporations, and thus there
is an inherent conflict.  Plaintiff also
argues that disqualification would not prejudice defendants as trial is not
until April 2025 and that the parties have only just begun litigating and have
not completed much other than written discovery.

LEGAL AUTHORITY
Under CCP §128(a)(5), one of the
court’s powers is to control the conduct of its ministerial officers and of all
other persons in any manner connected with a judicial proceeding before it in
furtherance of justice.  That power
includes disqualifying an attorney.  “The
issue of disqualification ‘ultimately involves a conflict between the clients’
right to counsel of their choice and the need to maintain ethical standards of
professional responsibility.  The
paramount concern, though, must be the preservation of public trust in the
scrupulous administration of justice and the integrity of the bar.  The recognized and important right to counsel
of one’s choosing must yield to considerations of ethics that run to the very
integrity of our judicial process.’”  Metro-Goldwyn
Mayer v. Tracinda Corp. (1995) 36 Cal. App. 4th 1832, 1838.
In exercising its discretion to
disqualify an attorney, the court is required to make a reasoned judgment which
complies with the legal principles and policies applicable to the issue at hand.  Henriksen v. Great Am. Sav. & Loan
(1992) 11 Cal. App. 4th 109, 113.
“Where . . . a motion for
disqualification is based on an asserted breach of confidentiality or conflict
of interest, the trial court must cautiously balance the competing
interests.”  Med-Trans Corp. v. City
of Cal. City (2007) 156 Cal. App. 4th 655, 663.  “’The court must weigh the combined effect of
a party’s right to counsel of choice, an attorney’s interest in representing a
client, the financial burden on a client of replacing disqualified counsel and
any tactical abuse underlying a disqualification proceeding against the
fundamental principle that the fair resolution of disputes within our adversary
system requires vigorous representation of parties by independent counsel
unencumbered by conflicts of interest.’” 
Id. at 663-64 (citation omitted).
 
The Court notes that the claimed “conflict”
is between the two individual defendants on the one hand and the entity defendants.  Yet none of the parties claimed in be in a “conflicting”
position are objecting to the representation. 
No defendant objects to sharing defense counsel.
Does Plaintiff contend that the
entities as entities are taking any particular position in this litigation?  Is it Plaintiff’s contention that the
entities are required to play no role in this litigation, since the entities
have three owners and they are not in agreement, and must agree or the entities
can take no position?  If that is
correct, should the entities retain counsel for any purpose?  If the entities are required to retain counsel
separate from the individual defendants, who provides that counsel instructions?
 
Plaintiff should be prepared to identify
to the Court the adverse interests between the individual defendants and the entity
defendants, and why this claimed adverse interest requires that the entities be
stripped of their chosen counsel.  It
appears to the Court that the entity defendants have no real interest in the
dispute.  For instance, the entities are
legally indifferent to the claim for involuntary dissolution.  While the three owners have different views
on that, the entities as entities appear to have no independent position.  They are not harmed by not having separate counsel.  In what way are the entities harmed by the
representation?
So too, Plaintiff has previously
made it clear that the claim for breach of fiduciary duty is his personal claim
that he had not been paid the amounts due him and he has not been provided the
bank records by the other two owners. 
The Court discerns no position to be taken by the entities as entities.
Nor do the entities appear to have
any role or position with respect to the claim for an accounting.
Finally, the declaratory relief claim
does not involve the entities.  It seeks
a determination of the ownership rights of Plaintiff.
In short, it appears to the Court
that there is no meaningful position or role of either entity such that there
is a conflict of interest.
 
Plaintiff should also be prepared
to address what the consequence would be should this Court grant this motion.  Plaintiff takes the position that the entities
may not retain any counsel absent unanimity between the three owners.  Yet there appears to be no reasonable
likelihood that the three will agree upon an attorney to separately represent
the entities.  Where does that leave the
entities?
 
Why should the Court burden the
parties and the two entities with the added expense of retaining and paying separate
counsel?  And if the Court does impose
that obligation on the entities, how will either entity be capable of taking
any position in this litigation given the unanimity obligation articulated by
Plaintiff?  Shall the entities
essentially be led entirely by retained counsel, separate from the decisions of
any of any of the owners?  In short, who
calls the shots for the entities?
 
What is the consequence if no
counsel can be agreed upon by the three owners? 
Shall the entities suffer a default as they must be represented by
counsel?  But if they did suffer a default,
would that have any real consequence?  It
appears not, as the entities have no apparent interest in this litigation.
 
Perhaps the appropriate solution is
to merely have all the parties stipulate that the entities as entities take no
position on the claims presently asserted in the litigation and that to the
extent that there is any judgment that impacts the entities, the entities shall
be bound by the judgment of the Court.
 
The Court expects argument.