 Case Number:  23TRCV02392    Hearing Date:   July 9, 2024    Dept:  B INTERINSURANCE EXCHANGE OF THE AUTOMOBILE CLUB, AN INSURANCE
EXCHANGE vs RASHAD MAKKEL AUSTIN, Case No. 23TRCV02392           
This matter is before the Court on an Order to Show Cause re:
Entry of Default Judgment.  The action
was filed on July 24, 2023 as a complaint for damages based upon an automobile
subrogation claim. Plaintiff alleges that it paid $40,000 to its insured and
passenger of the insured and seeks to recover that amount, plus interest from
Defendant RASHAD MAKKEL AUSTIN.
At the Case Management Conference, etc. heard on November
21, 2023 Plaintiff’s counsel advised the court that Plaintiff was having
difficulty serving the defendant. At that time the Court issued an order
imposing sanctions, but staying the order to allow Plaintiff to file a
declaration showing efforts at service. On December 28, 2023 Plaintiff’s
counsel filed his declaration setting forth information regarding the
difficulties he was having serving Defendant. On January 9, 2024 the Court
discharged the order to show cause.
Plaintiff was successful in serving Defendant, and on
February 15, 2024 Defendant RASHAD MAKKEL AUSTIN default was entered by the
clerk of the court.
On April 8, 2024 the Court set the Order to Show Cause re:
Entry of Default for hearing July 9, 2024. The Court’s Minute Order recites “The
Court expects a Default Judgment to be entered or Responsive Pleading to be
filed prior to the next hearing date.”
On June 11, 2024, in response to the Order to Show Cause,
Plaintiff’s counsel filed his declaration. Among other things, he noted that declarations
had been prepared and forwarded for review and signatures. Plaintiff intends to
file the papers seeking a default judgment once he has received the signed
declarations and supporting materials.
The Court reminds Plaintiff’s counsel that California Rule
of Court 3.110(h) provides:
(h) Default judgment
When a default is entered, the
party who requested the entry of default must obtain a default judgment against
the defaulting party within 45 days after the default was entered, unless the
court has granted an extension of time. The court may issue an order to show
cause why sanctions should not be imposed if that party fails to obtain entry
of judgment against a defaulting party or to request an extension of time to
apply for a default judgment within that time.”
We are nearing the end of that 45 day period.  The Order to Show Cause re Entry of Default
Judgment is continued to November 8, 2024 at 8:30 a.m.  The Court anticipates that a default judgment
shall have been granted long before that hearing date.