 Case Number:  BC722638    Hearing Date:   January 10, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department
40
 



SHAMA ENTERPRISES, LLC, 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
CLINICA MEDICA SAN MIGUEL, etc., et al.,
                        Defendants. 


  Case No.:         BC722638
  Hearing Date:  01/10/24
  Trial Date:       N/A
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Motion to Amend
  Judgment and Add Non-Parties as Judgment Debtors 



 
 
 
Plaintiff Shama Enterprises, LLC filed a
motion for an order amending the judgment in this action to add non-parties as
judgment debtors. The motion is unopposed.
 
After review, the Court GRANTS IN PART Plaintiff’s
Motion to Amend the Judgment and Add Non-Parties as Judgment Debtors. 
 
Background
 
This action arises from the breach of a
lease agreement as to commercial property. On September 20, 2018, Plaintiff
Shama Enterprises, LLC (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Defendants
Clinica Medica San Miguel I.P.A. Medical Group and Does 1 to 100, alleging a
single cause of action for Breach of Contract. 
 
On February 6, 2019, Plaintiff filed the
operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against Defendants Clinica Medical
San Miguel I.P.A. Medical Group, Mahfouz M. Michael (collectively,
“Defendants”), and Does 1 to 15, alleging causes of action for: (1) Breach of
Contract and (2) Alter Ego. 
 
On March 7, 2019, Defendants filed an
Answer to the Complaint. 
 
On June 30, 2020, the Court held a final
status conference, mandatory settlement conference, and jury trial in this
action, which only Plaintiff’s counsel attended. Plaintiff’s counsel
represented that the parties had settled the case. The Court therefore vacated
its hearings, ordered the FAC dismissed without prejudice, and stated that it
“[retained] jurisdiction to make orders to enforce any and all terms of
settlement, including judgment, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure Section
664.6.” (06/30/20 Minute Order.) 
 
On October 5, 2023, Plaintiff filed a motion
to enforce the settlement agreement, i.e., seeking to enforce the settlement
insofar as Defendants defaulted on the settlement in April 2023. (10/31/23
Minute Order at pp. 1-2.) 
 
On October 31, 2023, after hearing, the
Court granted in part Plaintiff’s motion to enforce settlement. The Court
granted the motion as to the order enforcing the settlement and entry of
judgment against Defendants pursuant to the terms of the February 18, 2020,
settlement agreement. (10/31/23 Minute Order, p. 4.) The Court, however, denied
the motion as to Guarantors MSP Properties, LLC, MSP Properties V, LLC, and MSP
Properties VIII, LLC because “Guarantors are not parties to this action, and
though they have agreed to the jurisdiction of this Court . . . there must
first be a judgment in this action, after which Guarantors can be added to the
action pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 187.” (10/31/23 Minute
Order, p. 4.) 
 
On December 1, 2023, judgment in this
action was entered against Defendants in the amount of $97,668.90. The Court
entered judgment “pursuant to the terms of the [s]ettlement agreement of
February 18, 2020.” (Judgment, 1:19-23.) 
 
 
The Instant Motion 
 
On December 8, 2023, Plaintiff filed and
served the instant unopposed motion (the “Motion”) for an order amending the
judgment to name the following non-parties as additional judgment debtors: (1) MSP
Properties, LLC; (2) MSP Properties V, LLC; and (3) MSP Properties VIII, LLC
(collectively, “Guarantors”). Plaintiff also seeks to amend the judgment to add
Donna Michael as a judgment debtor. The Motion is unopposed. Any opposition to
the Motion was required to have been filed and served at least nine court days
prior to the hearing. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1005, subd. (b).) A facially valid
proof of service was filed on December 8, 2023.
 
The Motion is made on the grounds that
the addition of Guarantors, as well as Donna Michael, to the judgment is
necessary to carry out the parties’ intent and the judgment of December 1,
2023. Plaintiff contends that the equities overwhelmingly favor amending the
judgment to prevent injustice to Plaintiff. 
 
 
Motion to Amend
Judgment and Add Non-Parties as Judgment Debtors: GRANTED IN PART.
            
 
Legal Standard: 
 
“When jurisdiction is, by the Constitution or this Code, or
by any other statute, conferred on a Court or judicial officer, all the means
necessary to carry it into effect are also given; and in the exercise of this
jurisdiction, if the course of proceeding be not specifically pointed out by
this Code or the statute, any suitable process or mode of proceeding may be
adopted which may appear most conformable to the spirit of this Code.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 187.) 
 
“Under section 187, the trial court is authorized to amend a
judgment to add additional judgment debtors.” (Greenspan v. LADT, LLC (2010)
191 Cal.App.4th 486, 508.) “[A] court may amend its judgment at any time so
that the judgment will properly designate the real defendants.” (Ibid.
[quotations omitted].) “The greatest liberality is to be encouraged in the
allowance of such amendments in order to see that justice is done.” (Ibid.
[quotations omitted, citation omitted].) “Amendment of a judgment to add an alter
ego is an equitable procedure based on the theory that the court is not
amending the judgment to add a new defendant but is merely inserting the
correct name of the real defendant.” (Carolina Casualty Ins. Co. v. L.M.
Ross Law Group (2012) 212 Cal.App.4th 1181, 1188 [quotations omitted,
citations omitted].) “[E]ven if all the formal elements necessary to establish
alter ego liability are not present, an unnamed party may be included as a
judgment debtor if the equities overwhelmingly favor the amendment and it is
necessary to prevent an injustice.” (Id. at p. 1188-89 [quotations
omitted, citations omitted].)  
 
Analysis: 
 
I.  Appropriateness of
Amending the Judgment to include Guarantors 
 
According to the declaration of Plaintiff’s counsel,
Margaret M. Kame (“Kame”), in support of the Motion, on February 18, 2020,
Plaintiff entered into a settlement agreement with Defendants. (Kame Decl., ¶
7; Exhibit 1.) On February 18, 2020, Guarantors signed a guarantee agreement, agreeing
to guarantee Defendants’ obligations under the settlement agreement. (Kame
Decl., ¶ 8; Exhibit 2.) Based on the settlement agreement and guarantee
agreement, Plaintiff dismissed its complaint against Defendants and the Court
issued an order retaining jurisdiction to make orders to enforce the terms of
settlement including judgment. (Id., ¶ 10; Exhibit 3.) Guarantors are
legal entities owned by Defendant Mahfouz M. Michael. (Id., ¶ 9.) Plaintiff’s
motion to enforce settlement was granted on October 31, 2023, and judgment was
entered thereon on December 1, 2023. (Id., ¶ 11; Exhibits 4 and 5.) Guarantors
have been managed and controlled by Defendant and Judgment Debtor Mahfouz M.
Michael. (Id., ¶ 12; Exhibits 6-8.) 
 
According to the guarantee agreement, the Guarantors assumed
liability for Defendants’ debts and obligations pursuant to the settlement
agreement, as well as submitted to this Court’s jurisdiction. (Kame Decl.;
Exhibit 2 at ¶ 1(b), 1(c), and 5(r).) Guarantors have therefore assumed
liability for any breach of the settlement agreement and grounds exist to amend
the judgment to include Guarantors. The Court finds that injustice would result
if Guarantors were not held liable for their obligations. 
 
II.  Amending the
Judgment to Include Donna Michael 
 
Plaintiff contends that members of a dissolved LLC may be
sued in the name of the LLC and, because Donna Michael was a former co-member
of Guarantor MSP Properties, LLC, Donna Michael should be named individually in
the name of MSP Properties, LLC. 
 
“As a matter of procedure only, and not for purposes of
determining liability, members of the dissolved limited liability company may
be sued in the name of the limited liability company upon any cause of action
against the limited liability company.” (Corp. Code, § 17707.07, subd. (a)(3)
[emphasis added].) A cause of action against a dissolved limited liability
company may be enforced against members of the dissolved limited liability
company “[i]f any of the assets of the dissolved limited liability company have
been distributed to members . . . to the extent of the limited liability
company assets distributed to [such member] upon dissolution of the limited
liability company.” (Corp. Code, § 17707.07, subd. (a)(1)(B).)  
 
While Plaintiff has submitted evidence that Donna Michael
was a manager or member of MSP Properties, LLC (Kame Decl.; Exhibit 6), the
Court finds that Plaintiff has failed to provide a legally sufficient reason
for amending the judgment to add Donna Michael. Plaintiff argues that MSP
Properties, LLC filed a Certificate of Cancellation on June 27, 2022; however, Plaintiff
presents no evidence to support such fact. Moreover, while Mark Aprahamian
declares that he did not learn of the termination of MSP Properties, LLC until
June 27, 2022 (Aprhamian Decl., ¶ 7), such fact does not warrant a finding that
Donna Michael should be added as a judgment debtor to an amended judgment. 
 
Plaintiff’s reliance on Corporations Code section 17707.07,
subd. (a)(3) is not persuasive because such section only allows a member of a
limited liability company to be sued in the name of the limited
liability company. Also, Donna Michael was not a signatory to the guarantee
agreement. Moreover, Plaintiff presents no evidence that any assets of MSP
Properties, LLC have been distributed to Donna Michael to warrant enforcement
of a cause of action under Corp. Code § 17707.07(a)(1)(B). Thus, the Court
finds that amending the judgment to add Donna Michael is not appropriate. 
 
III.  Attorneys’ Fees,
Filing Fees, and Service Fees 
 
Plaintiff contends that attorneys’ fees, filing fees, and
service fees for the Motion should be added to the judgment. 
 
Section 5(o) of the guarantee agreement provides that “[i]n
the event it is necessary for either to retain the services of an attorney . .
. to enforce this [a]greement . . .  the
prevailing party agrees to pay to the non-prevailing party as a result thereof.
If the Beneficiary is the prevailing party, then such costs, fees and expenses
shall be included in Costs.” (Kame Decl.; Exhibit 2 at ¶ 5(o).) Plaintiff is
defined as the Beneficiary under the guarantee agreement. Counsel for Plaintiff
declares that: (1) she has spent four hours preparing the motion at an hourly
rate of $325.00 per hour (Kame Decl., ¶ 13); (2) her hourly rate for attending
hearings is $425.00 per hour (Id.); (3) the cost of filing the motion was
$61.65 (Id., ¶ 14); and (4) the cost of overnight delivery, the method
of delivery, per section 5(l) of the guarantee agreement, is expected to be
approximately $120.00 (Id., ¶ 15.) Plaintiff seeks attorneys’ fees,
filing fees, and service fees in the amount of $1, 725.00. (Id., ¶ 13.) 
 
Plaintiff’s request for attorneys’ fees, filing fees, and
service fees cannot be granted as it is procedurally improper. “A notice of
motion must state in the opening paragraph the nature of the order being sought
and the grounds for issuance of the order.” (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.110,
subd. (a).) Here, the notice of motion is void of any request for attorneys’
fees, filing fees, and service fees. (See Motion at 1:25-2:15.) Nor is
this request in the caption of the motion, or anywhere in the first six pages
of the memorandum of points and authorities. Due process requires adequate
notice. (Fenn v. Sherriff (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 1466, 1481.) 
 
The Court therefore DENIES Plaintiff’s request for
attorneys’ fees, filing fees, and service fees related to the Motion. 
 
Accordingly, the Motion is GRANTED IN PART. 
 
Plaintiff’s request to amend the judgment to add MSP
Properties, LLC, MSP Properties V, LLC, and MSP Properties, VIII, LLC as
judgment debtors is GRANTED.
 
The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s request to amend the judgment to
add Donna Michael as a judgment debtor.
 
The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s request to amend the Judgment
to add attorneys’ fees, filing fees, and service fees. 
 
Conclusion
 
Plaintiff’s Motion to Amend the Judgment to Add Non-Parties
as Additional Judgment Debtors is GRANTED IN PART.  
 
Plaintiff’s request to amend the judgment to add MSP
Properties, LLC, MSP Properties V, LLC, and MSP Properties, VIII, LLC as
judgment debtors is GRANTED.
 
The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s request to amend the judgment
to add Donna Michael as a judgment debtor.
 
The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s request for attorneys’ fees,
filing fees, and service fees. 