  Case Number:  20STCV41519    Hearing Date:   January 10, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles Department 40      IAN ZACHARY BOTNICK, an individual, CANDY MICHELLE BOTNICK, an individual, and MARY JONES, an individual,                           Plaintiffs,               v.   BMW OF NORTH AMERICA, LLC., a Delaware Limited Liability Company, and DOES 1 through 10, inclusive,                           Defendants.    Case No.:          20STCV41519  Hearing Date:   01/10/24  Trial Date:        3/5/24    [TENTATIVE] RULING    RE: Plaintiffs’ Motion for Leave to File First Amended    Complaint.        Background Pleadings   Plaintiffs filed  this “lemon law” suit  against Defendants (1) BMW of North America, LLC (“Defendant”) and (2) Does 1-10 on October 29, 2020. The  Complaint alleges three causes of action under the Song-Beverly Act (the “Act”): (1) breach of express warranty, (2) breach of  implied warranty, and (3) violation of Section 1793.2(b) of the Act.   The claims arise  from Plaintiffs’ purchase of a used car (the “Vehicle”) from Defendant. Plaintiffs allege that the  Vehicle was delivered to Plaintiffs with, and later on continued to develop  more, serious defects and noncomformities with warranty. Plaintiffs seek relief  in the form of restitution, actual damages, consequential and incidental  damages, a two-time civil penalty, and attorney’s  fees and costs.    Motion Before the Court   On November 2, 2023, Plaintiffs filed the  instant motion for leave to file a first amended complaint after discovering  facts constituting grounds to file two additional causes of action against  Defendant BMW for violation of the Magnuson-Moss Warranty Act (“MMWA”), and breach of express warranty under the  California Commercial Code, both of which relate to the same facts at issue in  the underlying litigation.   On December 27, 2023, BMW filed an  opposition, stating that the facts that Plaintiffs allegedly just discovered  were actually known to Plaintiffs when they filed the original complaint, the  proposed causes of action are not supported by sufficient facts, and Plaintiffs  would be prejudiced by the granting of the motion.    On January 3,  2024, Plaintiffs filed a reply.    Trial is  currently set for March 5, 2024.   Motion  for Leave to Amend    a.     Legal  Standard for Motions for Leave to Amend: General Provisions   Under  Code of Civil Procedure section 576, “[a]ny judge, at any time before or after  commencement of trial, in the furtherance of justice, and upon such terms as  may be proper, may allow the amendment of any pleading or pretrial conference  order.”    Permissible  amendments pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (a)  include amendments which add causes of action.¿ A plaintiff that fails to plead  a cause of action arising out of the transaction or occurrence that gave rise  to the complaint may apply to the court for leave to amend the complaint to  assert the cause of action, whether that failure was the result of oversight,  inadvertence, mistake, neglect, or other cause.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 426.50;  see Code Civ. Proc., § 426.10, subd. (c).)¿ The motion to amend may be filed at  any time during the course of the action, on notice to the adverse party.¿  (Id., § 426.50.)¿    Code  of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (a)(1) provides, in relevant part:  “[t]he court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper,  allow a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the  name of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a  mistake in any other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for  answer or demurrer.¿ The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to  the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any  pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an  answer to be made after the time limited by this code.”¿¿  ¿  “This  discretion should be exercised liberally in favor of amendments, for judicial  policy favors resolution of all disputed matters in the same  lawsuit.”¿(Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court¿(1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045,  1047.)¿ The Court of Appeal in Morgan v. Superior Court held “If the motion to  amend is timely made and the granting of the motion will not prejudice the  opposing party, it is error to refuse permission to amend and where the refusal  also results in a party being deprived of the right to assert a meritorious cause  of action or a meritorious defense, it is not only error but an abuse of  discretion.”  (Morgan v. Superior Court (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530,  citations omitted.)  Moreover, “it is an abuse of discretion for the court  to deny leave to amend where the opposing party was not misled or prejudiced by  the amendment.”  (Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213  Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048 [opposing party did not establish harm by the delay in  moving to amend the complaint].)    “The  court may grant leave to amend the pleadings at any stage of the action.” (Weil  & Brown, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter  Group 2022) ¶ 6:636 (hereafter Weil & Brown).)  Denial of a motion to  amend is rarely justified if the motion is timely made and granting the motion  will not prejudice the opposing party. (Id. at ¶ 6:639, citations  omitted.)  However, if the party seeking the amendment has been dilatory,  and the delay has prejudiced the opposing party, the judge has discretion to  deny leave to amend. (Id. at ¶ 6:655, citations omitted. Absent prejudice, any  claimed delay alone is not grounds for denial. “If the delay in seeking the  amendment has not misled or prejudiced the other side, the liberal policy of  allowing amendments prevails. Indeed, it is an abuse of discretion to deny  leave in such a case even if sought as late as the time of trial. (Id. at ¶  6:653 (citing Higgins v. Del Faro (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 558, 564-565).)   “Prejudice exists where the amendment would result in a delay of trial, along  with loss of critical evidence, added costs of preparation, increased burden of  discovery, etc.  . . .  But the fact that the amendment involves a  change in legal theory which would make admissible evidence damaging to the  opposing party is not the kind of prejudice the court will consider.”   (Weil & Brown, supra, at ¶ 6:656, citations omitted.)    “Even  if some prejudice is shown, the judge may still permit the amendment but impose  conditions, as the Court is authorized to grant leave ‘on such terms as may be  proper.’”  (Weil & Brown, supra, at ¶ 6:663, citation omitted.)   For example, the court may cause the party seeking the amendment to pay the  costs and fees incurred in preparing for trial. (Id. at ¶ 6:664 (citing Fuller  v. Vista Del Arroyo Hotel, 42 Cal.App.2d 400, 404).)   b.     Leave  to Amend: Procedural Requirements     Pursuant  to California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(a), a motion to amend a pleading  before trial must:     “(1)  Include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleadings, which must be  serially numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or  amendments;    (2)  state what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if  any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the deleted allegations  are located; and    (3)  State what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if  any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations  are located.”    In  addition, under Rule 3.1324(b), a motion to amend a pleading before trial must  be accompanied by a separate declaration that specifies the following:    “(1)  the effect of the amendment;     (2)  why the amendment is necessary and proper;    (3)  when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered;  and    (4)  the reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier.”    Analysis               Although  Plaintiffs appeared to delay in bringing this motion for leave to amend the  pleadings, in the interest of deciding cases on their merits, and considering  the court’s liberal policy in granting leave to amend, the Court grants  Plaintiffs’ motion for leave to amend.                a.  Procedural Requirements               Plaintiffs  have satisfied most of the procedural requirements of California Rules of  Court, Rule 3.1324. They submitted redlined and clean versions of the  proposed first amended complaint, wherein they specify which allegations are  proposed to be removed and which are proposed to be added. (Shippen-Murray  Decl., Exs. B and C.) Additionally, in a separate declaration, Plaintiffs state  why the amendment is necessary and proper. (Shippen-Murray Decl., ¶ 10.)               However,  Plaintiffs do not clearly explain why this amendment was not made earlier.  According to the Shippen-Murray Declaration in Support of Plaintiffs’ Motion  for Leave to Amend Complaint, BMW did not state the used status of the subject  vehicle as an affirmative defense in its November, 2020 Answer to the Complaint  or in its November, 2021 responses to form interrogatories. (Shippen-Murray Decl., ¶ 9.) This is not a  sufficient explanation of how this provides grounds for the instant motion for  leave to amend or why this motion was not filed earlier. In fact, Plaintiffs’  explanation indicates that in fact, before now they were simply unaware of the  legal grounds for their claims: “In this case, despite diligent efforts,  Plaintiffs’ counsel was initially unaware of the fact that, based on Defendant’s  defenses, as well as documents received from Defendant and through third-party  discovery, two additional causes of action should be presented.” (Motion, p.  5., lines 19-21.)                The Court moves  on to address the substance of Plaintiffs’ motion and the issue of prejudice.                b.  There are grounds for Leave to Amend                          Plaintiffs  seek leave to amend on the grounds that new facts have arisen giving rise to  two additional causes of action against Defendants: violation of the  Magnuson-Moss Warranty Act (“MMWA”) and breach of  express warranty under the California Commercial Code.                The new  allegations relate to additional Certified Pre-Owned Vehicle Warranties that  accompanied the sale of the subject vehicle to Plaintiffs.                           Plaintiffs  contend that no additional discovery will be required as a result of granting  this motion because the proposed causes of action arise from exactly the same  set of facts as the other causes of action. Thus, Plaintiffs contends, BMW will  not be prejudiced by this amendment.                In opposition,  BMW first contends that Plaintiffs were in possession of the facts giving rise  to the proposed additional claims when the lawsuit was originally filed.  Additionally, BMW contends that the proposed claims would be unsupported by  facts and thus should be denied.                Regarding  Plaintiffs’ proposed MMWA claim for breach of warranty, BMW contends it is not  valid because in order to bring a valid claim under the MMWA, Plaintiffs were  required to participate in BMW’s qualified third-party dispute resolution  process. BMW relies on 15 U.S.C. §2310(a)(3)  and Walsh v. Ford Motor Co. (D.D.C. 1986) 627 F.Supp. 1519, 1522 to  support this contention. BMW contends that it maintains a qualified third-party  dispute resolution program through the Better Business Bureau’s Auto Line® Program, a qualified third-party  dispute resolution process which has been certified by the California  Department of Consumer Affairs. BMW also contends there is no evidence that  Plaintiffs filed a claim under this program. BMW further contends that it  notified Plaintiffs of the prior resolution requirement through its Service and  Warranty Information Booklet that accompanies all sales or leases.                Regarding  Plaintiffs’ proposed Uniform Commercial Code claim for breach of warranty, BMW  contends that the claim cannot be substantiated by the allegations because it  was not the seller of the vehicle as the seller was nonparty CarMax, an  independent third-party dealership. BMW contends that whatever affirmations of  fact or promises that were made by CarMax regarding the subject vehicle were  not made by BMW and thus that BMW did not issue any warranty of any kind to  Plaintiffs.                In reply,  Plaintiffs contend they should be granted leave to amend for the following  reasons. First, Plaintiffs have not previously amended their complaint. Second,  Plaintiffs contend they diligently presented their motion after reviewing  discovery responses and document production from BMW and through third party  discovery, which revealed that at least two of BMW’s unexpired, fully transferrable  express warranties, as defined in the MMWA, accompanied the sale of the subject  vehicle to Plaintiffs. Third, BMW’s failure to conform the subject vehicle to its  warranties is in violation of both the MMWA and Section 2- 313 of the  California Commercial Code. Fourth, the vehicle was also sold with the  remaining portion of a BMW Certified Pre-Owned Warranty. And fifth, granting  the motion will not prejudice BMW. Plaintiffs argue that these claims are not  barred for failure to participate in the informal resolution process because BMW’s  program goes not qualify and because BMW is a warrantor of the subject vehicle,  even if BMW did not sell it to Plaintiffs.               Regarding BMW’s  substantive arguments concerning the sufficiency of Plaintiffs’ proposed  claims, the Court finds their arguments better suited for a demurrer or summary  judgment, as the Court cannot determine as a matter of law that Plaintiffs’  claims would be dismissed on this record.                On the issue of  what prejudice would result to BMW if leave to amend were granted, the Court  finds that any prejudice would be minimal, as the new claims are based on the  same underlying facts as the other three claims: the purchase of the subject  vehicle and the failure of BMW and others to conform the vehicle within a  reasonable time. The Court agrees with Plaintiffs that no significant  additional discovery would be required by adding two new claims.                Even though  Plaintiffs lacked diligence in bringing this motion, without a showing of  prejudice to BMW, the Court cannot deny Plaintiffs’ request for leave to amend  the complaint to add two new claims considering the liberal policy of the Court  in allowing leave to amend. (Weil & Brown, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil  Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2022) ¶ 6:653, Higgins v. Del Faro  (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 558, 564-565).)               Accordingly,  Plaintiffs’ motion for leave to amend is granted.    Conclusion  Plaintiffs’  Motion for Leave to Amend to File a First Amended Complaint is GRANTED.   *                                 *                                                                                      *Superior Court of CaliforniaCounty of Los AngelesDepartment 40 


IAN ZACHARY BOTNICK, an individual and CANDY MICHELLE BOTNICK,
  an individual and MARY JONES an individual,
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
BMW OF NORTH AMERICA, LLC, a Delaware Limited Liability Company,
  and DOES 1 through 10, inclusive,
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          20STCV41519
 Hearing Date:   1/10/24
 Trial Date:        3/5/24
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Plaintiffs Ian
  Zachary Botnick, Candy Michelle Botnick, and Mary Jones’s Motion and Ex Parte
  Application to Compel Defendant BMW of North America, LLC’s with the Court’s
  September 14, 2023 Minute Order, and for Monetary Sanctions.


 BackgroundPleadingsPlaintiffs Ian Zachary Botnick,
Candy Michelle Botnick, and Mary Jones sue Defendants BMW of North America, LLC (BMW) and Does 1 through 10 pursuant
to an October 29, 2022 Complaint alleging claims of (1) Violation of
Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Express Warranty, (2) Violation of Song-Beverly
Act – Breach of Implied Warranty, and (3) Violation of Song-Beverly Act Section
1793.2(b).Relevant Procedural BackgroundOn October 12, 2021, Defendant’s person most qualified (PMQ), Daniel
Mark, was initially deposed as to certain matters for examination pursuant to
Plaintiffs’ October 6, 2021 Amended Notice of Deposition.On May 2, 2023, the Court granted a motion for summary adjudication by
BMW, specifically as to the Complaint’s second and third causes of action.On June 20, 2023, Plaintiffs served a second PMQ deposition notice
seeking to depose BMW’s PMQ on July 7, 2023 as to additional matters for examination
revealed through discovery and specifically tied to “Fault Codes,” “Check
Control Messages,” “Technical Service Bulletins,” recalls, and other evidence
of defects and nonconformities affecting the Subject Vehicle in particular, and
2015 model year BMW i3 vehicles generally. The deposition was noticed for July
7, 2023.On June 27, 2023, BMW objected to the deposition of, and production of
documents by its PMQ.Between June 30, 2023 and July 12, 2023, the parties met and conferred
regarding alternative dates for the deposition and production, to no avail.Thus, on August 14, 2023, Plaintiffs moved to compel the deposition
attendance of, and production of documents by BMW’s PMQ. The second PMQ deposition
notice contained 24 matters of examination and 20 production requests.On August 31, 2023, BMW opposed the motion.On September 6, 2023, Plaintiffs replied to the opposition.On September 14, 2023, the Court granted Plaintiffs’ motion as to all
matters of examination and production requests.Motion Before the CourtPursuant to the Court’s September
14, 2023 order, the parties met and conferred and agreed to a deposition date
of October 12, 2023.At some point on or prior to
October 12, 2023, BMW cancelled the deposition and requested a rescheduled
deposition for December 12, 2023, to which Plaintiff’s counsel assented.On December 5, 2023, Plaintiffs
served an amended deposition notice (the fourth PMQ deposition notice) for the December
12, 2023 deposition date, which contains the same 24 matters of examination and
20 production requests as the second PMQ deposition notice.That same day, BMW served
objections to the fourth amended deposition notice despite the Court’s
rejection of similar objections at the September 14, 2023 hearing.On December 12, 2023, Daniel Mark
appeared for the noticed PMQ deposition. Through Mark, BMW produced 14 pages
related to Service Information Bulletins (SIBs). Daniel Mark was also deposed
one or more of the matters of examination.On December 15, 2023, Plaintiffs
filed an ex parte application to compel BMW’s compliance with the September 14,
2023 order and seeking sanctions against BMW and its counsel. Specifically,
Plaintiffs argue that (1) Daniel Mark was not qualified to serve as BMW’s PMQ
because Mark was, per his own testimony, not informed as to certain matters of
examination and (2) BMW produced insufficient documents in response to the 20
production requests in the fourth PMQ deposition notice. The ex parte does not
attach a copy of the December 12, 2023 production.On December 18, 2023, BMW opposed
the ex parte application.On December 19, 2023, the Court
heard and denied the ex parte application in favor of setting the application
as a noticed motion to be heard on January 3, 2024. The Court permitted BMW to
file an additional opposition by December 21, 2023 and Plaintiffs to file an
additional reply by January 3, 2024.On January 3, 2024, Plaintiffs
filed a Reply brief (no additional opposition brief having been filed by BMW).Plaintiffs’ ex parte application,
heard as and referred to herein as a motion, is now before the Court. Motion and Ex Parte to Compel Compliance, Further DepositionLegal StandardIf [1] a deponent [2] fails to
answer any question or to produce any document, electronically stored
information, or tangible thing [3] under the deponent’s control [4] that is
specified in the deposition notice or a deposition subpoena, [5] the party seeking
discovery may move the court for an order compelling that answer or
production.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480, subd. (a).)This motion shall be made no later
than 60 days after the completion of the record of the deposition and shall be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.480, subd. (b).) The record is completed once the entire
inspection at issue is finished, including the raising of objections during
that process. (Unzipped Apparel, LLC v. Bader (2007) 156 Cal.App.4th
123, 134.)Notice of this motion shall be
given to all parties and to the deponent either orally at the examination, or
by subsequent service in writing. If the notice of the motion is given orally,
the deposition officer shall direct the deponent to attend a session of the
court at the time specified in the notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480, subd.
(c).)If a deposition transcript is
available, it must also be filed with the Court not less than five days prior
to the hearing on this motion. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480, subd. (h); Unzipped
Apparel, LLC v. Bader, supra, 156 Cal.App.4th at p. 135 [deposition
transcript need not be lodged when motion to compel involves failure to produce
documents requested in business-records subpoena because no part of transcript
will be relevant].)If the court determines that the
answer or production sought is subject to discovery, it shall order that the
answer be given or the production be made on the resumption of the deposition.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480, subd. (i).)If the proposed deponent made some
response to the deposition notice, then a separate statement must accompany any
motion to compel deposition attendance or production. (See Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 3.1345, subd. (b).)Order Compelling Deposition
Answer or Production: DENIED, without prejudice.A separate statement is required
for motions that seek to compel answers at a deposition. (Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 3.1345, subd. (a)(4); see also Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345, subd. (c)
[“The separate statement must include—for each discovery request (e.g., each …
deposition question[] or inspection demand) to which a further response,
answer, or production is requested—the following: …”].)“[T]he moving party, as to each
allegedly inadequate … response, must [in a separate statement] state
individually the [discovery at issue], the [discovery] response, and the
factual and legal reasons why the response is inadequate. (Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 3.1345; see Mills v. U.S. Bank (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 871, 893, 83
Cal.Rptr.3d 146 [failure to include separate statement required by Cal. Rules
of Court provided justification of court’s denial of discovery motion].)” (St.
Mary v. Superior Court (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 762, 778.)By way of this motion, Plaintiffs
seek a court order compelling BMW to produce a PMQ to answer questions at a
deposition and to produce documents. Such a motion requires a separate
statement. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345, subd. (a)(4); see, e.g., 8/14/23
Separate Statement [filed by Plaintiffs in support of their initial motion to
compel a deposition of and production by BMW’s PMQ].) However, no such separate
statement is attached to Plaintiffs’ motion. This is despite Plaintiffs’ papers
referring to a non-existing separate statement. (Mot., p. 7; Mot., Daghighian
Decl., ¶ 24.) If Plaintiffs’ papers refer to the August 14, 2023 separate
statement, the Court notes that Plaintiffs do not attempt to incorporate the
August 14th separate statement into the body of the points and authorities (see
note on incorporation below), nor did Plaintiffs file with this motion a new
separate statement virtually identical to the August 14, 2023 separate
statement, with corresponding updates informed by the December 12, 2023
deposition. Neither did Plaintiffs take advantage of the additional briefing
suggested by the Court to provide such a separate statement. Plaintiffs also
did not file an ex parte application requesting that the Court consider this
motion without a separate statement or requesting that the Court allow
Plaintiffs to submit, in place of a separate statement, a concise outline of
the discovery request and each response in dispute. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1345, subd. (b)(2).)The Court also notes that even if
it read Plaintiffs’ points and authorities as simultaneously serving as a
separate statement, such points and authorities are deficient insofar as they
do not provide a “full and complete” summary of the discovery at issue, the
responses at issue, and the arguments for why a court order should be granted
compelling further responses such that “no person is required to review any
other document in order to determine the full request and the full response.”
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345, subd. (c).) And to the degree that Plaintiffs’
points and authorities are used in lieu of a separate statement, no
incorporation by reference is allowed in separate statements (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1345, subd. (c)), for which reason the points and authorities
must stand as a separate statement on their own, without incorporating other
documents and their contents by reference. As discussed above, the points and
authorities fail to do this.Based on this omission, the Court
DENIES Plaintiffs’ motion. (Mills v. U.S. Bank, supra, 166
Cal.App.4th at p. 893.)However, the denial is made without
prejudice, as to permit Plaintiffs to file a new motion that complies with the
Rules of Court so that the Court and all parties will be clear on precisely which
questions, areas of expertise, and further responses to document requests are
being compelled. The Court will note, however, that
based upon the information that was provided to the Court in the motion and the
opposition, the Court sees merit to the allegations that 1) the person designated
lacked sufficient information over some of the areas listed in the deposition
notice, and 2) BMW’s objections appear duplicative of the very objections
previously overruled by this Court. The Court notes BMW’s argument in its
opposition that it will comply with the prior motion to compel by producing
additional documents by January 12, 2024. The Court strongly advises counsel to
meet and confer to permit a further deposition after that date in response to
this Court’s indication, to avoid future motion practice which could contain an
order for sanctions. Sanctions: DENIED,
without prejudice.The court shall impose a monetary
sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party,
person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel an
answer or production, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction
acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the
imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480, subd. (j).)Here, given that Plaintiff’s motion
has been denied, the Court also DENIES sanctions, without prejudice. Conclusion









































































































Plaintiffs Ian Zachary Botnick, Candy Michelle Botnick, and Mary Jones’s
Motion and Ex Parte Application to Compel Defendant BMW of North America, LLC’s
with the Court’s September 14, 2023 Minute Order, and for Monetary Sanctions,
is DENIED, without prejudice.