 Case Number:  23STCV11470    Hearing Date:   January 10, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department
40
 



GREEN COMMUTER, INC., etc., 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
GREENPOWER MOTOR COMPANY, INC., etc., et al.,
                        Defendants. 


  Case No.:         23STCV11470
  Hearing Date:  01/11/24
  Trial Date:       N/A
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Demurrer and
  Motion to Strike Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint  



 
Defendants GreenPower Motor Company, Inc.
and San Joaquin Valley Equipment Leasing, Inc. (“Defendants”) filed a demurrer
to the sixth and eighth causes of action in the First Amended Complaint, as
well as a motion to strike portions of the First Amended Complaint. Plaintiff
Green Commuter (“Plaintiff”) filed an opposition on December 28, 2023, to which
Defendants filed a reply brief on January 4, 2024.
 
After review, the Court DENIES
Defendants’ Motion to Strike, SUSTAINS the demurrer to the sixth cause of
action in the FAC, and OVERRULES the demurrer to the eighth cause of action in
the FAC. 
 
Background
 
This action arises from wrongful actions
pertaining to contracts for the sale of electric vehicles. On May 22, 2023,
Plaintiff Green Commuter, Inc. (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against
Defendants GreenPower Motor Company, Inc., San Joaquin Valley Equipment
Leasing, Inc. (collectively, “Defendants”), and Does 1 through 100, alleging
causes of action for: (1) Breach of Contract, (2) Breach of Contract, (3)
Breach of Contract, (4) Breach of Contract, (5) Conversion, (6) Unjust Enrichment,
(7) Intentional Interference with Contractual Relations, (8) Negligent Interference
with Contractual Relations, and (9) Violation of California’s Unfair
Competition Law.
 
On August 17, 2023, Plaintiff filed the
operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against Defendants alleging causes of
action for: (1) Breach of Contract, (2) Breach of Contract, (3) Breach of
Contract, (4) Breach of Contract, (5) Conversion, (6) Unjust Enrichment, (7)
Intentional Interference with Contractual Relations, and (8) Violation of
California’s Unfair Competition Law. 
 
On September 20, 2023, Defendants filed
and served a combined demurrer and motion to strike. Defendants demur to the
sixth cause of action for unjust enrichment and eighth cause of action for
violation of California’s unfair competition law. Initially, the Court notes
that Defendants’ notice of motion contains a typographical error indicating
that Defendants are demurring to the fourth cause of action for unjust
enrichment. The fourth cause of action, however, is one for breach of contract
and not for unjust enrichment. Thus, Defendants are demurring to the sixth and
eighth causes of action in the FAC. Defendants also seek to strike portions of
the prayer for relief in the FAC.
 
On December 28, 2023, Plaintiff filed an
opposition to the demurrer. Plaintiff’s opposition raises arguments as to the
procedural deficiencies of the motion and requests the motion be denied in its
entirety. On January 4, 2024, Defendants filed a reply brief.  
 
Meet
and Confer
 
The Court finds that the meet and confer
requirement has been met as to both the demurrer and motion to strike. (Johnson
Decl., ¶ 6.) 
 
Demurrer:
SUSTAINED without leave to amend as to the sixth cause of action and OVERRULED
as to the eighth cause of action. 
Motion to Strike:
DENIED. 
 
Legal Standard: 
The party against
whom a complaint has been filed may object to the pleading, by demurrer, on
several grounds, including the ground that the pleading does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action and it cannot be determined how, or
in what manner, Defendants committed or can be liable for such cause of action.
(Code Civ. Proc. §§ 430.10(e) and 430.10(f).) 
 
“A demurrer tests
the sufficiency of a complaint as a matter of law.”  (Durell v. Sharp Healthcare (2010) 183
Cal.App.4th 1350, 1358.) “[T]he court gives the complaint a reasonable
interpretation, and treats the demurrer as admitting all material facts
properly pleaded.”  (Ibid.) A
demurrer accepts as true all well pleaded facts and those facts of which the
court can take judicial notice but not deductions, contentions, or conclusions
of law or fact. (Fox v. JAMDAT Mobile, Inc. (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1068,
1078.) Although courts construe pleadings liberally, sufficient facts must be
alleged to support the allegations pled to survive a demurrer. (Rakestraw v.
California Physicians' Serv. (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 39, 43.)  
 
Where a demurrer is
sustained, leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable
possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v.
Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.) The burden is on the plaintiff to
show the court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Ibid.) “If
there is any reasonable possibility that the plaintiff can state a good cause
of action, it is error to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend.” (Youngman
v. Nevada Irrigation Dist. (1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245.)  
 
Analysis: 
I.  Motion to Strike 
 
Plaintiff contends that Defendants’ demurrer and motion to strike
are procedurally defective because Defendants improperly combined a demurrer
and motion to strike into one motion. At a minimum, Plaintiff contends that the
motion to strike should be denied as Defendants did not file such motion as a
separate document. Defendants contend that the motion to strike is not
defective. 
 
“A notice of motion to strike a portion of a pleading must
quote in full the portions sought to be stricken except where the motion is to
strike an entire paragraph, cause of action, count or defense. Specifications
in a notice must be numbered consecutively.” (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1322,
subd. (a).) “A notice of motion to strike must be given within the time allowed
to plead, and if a demurrer is interposed, concurrently therewith, and must be
noticed for a hearing and heard at the same time as the demurrer.” 
 
Initially, the Court finds that Defendants’ citations to:
(1) Protect Agricultural Land v. Stanislaus County Local Agency Formation
Com. (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 550; (2) People ex rel. Dept. of
Transportation v. Acosta (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 762; and (3) Longshore
v. Pine (1986) 176 Cal.App.3d 731 are all inapposite as such cases did not
pertain to a demurrer and motion to strike being presented in a single
document. Here, Defendants include their motion to strike as part of their
demurrer to the FAC. The notice of motion, however, fails to identify what
portions of the FAC that Defendants seek to strike. Thus, the notice of motion
is defective as it concerns the motion to strike. Defendants merely state that
they “hereby do demur to, and move to strike portions of, the First Amended
Complaint.” (Motion, 1:23-24.) Moreover, as an additional defect, Defendants
have failed to cite the paragraphs sought to be stricken from the FAC in the
notice of motion.
 
The Court therefore finds that the motion to strike is
procedurally defective. Plaintiff should have been given adequate notice of the
paragraphs sought to be stricken. The Court cannot ascertain whether Defendants
seek to strike only certain clauses in the prayer for relief or full paragraphs
from the prayer for relief. (Motion, 10:6-8.) 
 
The Court therefore DENIES the motion to strike as it is
procedurally defective. The Court will now address the demurrer to the FAC. 
 
II.  Demurrer to the Sixth
Cause of Action in the FAC for Unjust Enrichment 
 
Defendants contend that there is no independent cause of
action for unjust enrichment. Plaintiff contends that California courts differ
on whether unjust enrichment is a claim. 
 
“[T]here is no cause of action in California for unjust
enrichment.” (Melchior v. New Line Productions, Inc. (2003) 106
Cal.App.4th 779, 793.) “The phrase [u]njust [e]nrichment does not describe a
theory of recovery, but an effect: the result of a failure to make restitution
under circumstances where it is equitable to do so.” (Ibid. [citations
omitted, internal quotations omitted].) “Unjust enrichment is a general
principle, underlying various legal doctrines and remedies, rather than a
remedy itself.” (Ibid. [citations omitted, internal quotations
omitted].) 
 
Initially, the Court finds that Plaintiff’s citation to Lectrodryer
v. SeoulBank (2000) 77 Cal.App.4th 723 is inapposite as such case did not
address the issue of whether unjust enrichment is a recognized cause of action
in California. Moreover, Plaintiff’s reliance on Raeisi Group, Inc. v.
Velocity Commercial Capital, No. B293744, which is an unpublished opinion,
is in violation of California Rules of Court, Rule 8.1115 which
prohibits a citation to an unpublished opinion. 
 
Thus, under Melchior v. New Line Productions, supra,
106 Cal.App.4th 779, 793, the cause of action for unjust enrichment is not
legally sufficient as there is no recognized cause of action for unjust
enrichment in California. 
 
The Court therefore SUSTAINS the demurrer of Defendants to
the sixth cause of action in the FAC for unjust enrichment without leave to
amend. 
 
III.  Demurrer to the Eighth
Cause of Action in the FAC for Violation of California’s Unfair Competition Law
 
Defendants assert that Plaintiff failed to state, and cannot
state, facts sufficient to state a claim under the Unfair Competition Law
(“UCL”). Plaintiff contends that its eighth cause of action for violation of
the UCL is properly pleaded. 
 
To set forth a claim for a violation
of Business and Professions Code section 17200 (“UCL”), Plaintiff must
establish Defendant was engaged in an “unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business
act or practice and unfair, deceptive, untrue or misleading advertising” and
certain specific acts. (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 17200.) A cause of action for
unfair competition “is not an all-purpose substitute for a tort or contract
action.” (Cortez v. Purolator Air
Filtration Products Co. (2000) 23 Cal.4th 163, 173.) The UCL is broad
and “it defines unfair competition to include any unlawful, unfair or
fraudulent business act or practice.” (Cel-Tech Communications, Inc. v. Los
Angeles Cellular Telephone Co. (1999) 20 Cal.4th 163, 180 [citations
omitted, internal quotations omitted].) “By proscribing any unlawful business
practice, section 17200 borrows violations of other laws and treats them as
unlawful practices that the unfair competition law makes independently
actionable.” (Ibid. [citations omitted, internal quotations omitted].) 
 
 “When a plaintiff who
claims to have suffered injury from a direct competitor’s unfair act or
practice invokes section 17200, the word unfair in that section means conduct
that threatens an incipient violation of antitrust law, or otherwise violates
the policy or spirit of one of those laws because its effects are comparable to
or the same as a violation of the law, or otherwise significantly threatens or
harms competition.” (Id. at p. 187.) “A plaintiff alleging unfair
business practices . . . must state with reasonable particularity the facts
supporting the statutory elements of the violation.” (Khoury v. Maly’s of
California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 619.) 
 
Plaintiff alleges that “Defendants refused to deliver
vehicles, required that vehicle[s] not yet delivered were surreptitiously
improperly and unlawfully registered with the State of California, while at the
same time requiring Plaintiff to make lease and finance payments on vehicles
not yet in their possession, and repossessed vehicles that had been paid for
and brought current to the repossession occurring.” (FAC, ¶ 105.) Plaintiff and
Defendants are “competitors in the marketplace providing electric vehicles to
customers and generally target the same or similar customers.” (FAC, ¶ 100.) Plaintiff
alleges that Defendants refused to provide 10 and repossessed 18 electric
vehicles from customers and potential customers. (FAC, ¶ 103.) The FAC alleges
that Defendants undertook such action “for the purpose of competing with
Plaintiff unfairly and interfering with Plaintiff’s business and sales in
support of the important public policy.” (FAC, ¶ 103.) Plaintiff asserts that
Defendants’ conduct has violated Civil Code section 3336 which prohibits the
wrongful conversion of personal property. (FAC, ¶ 107.) 
 
The Court finds that Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged the
purported unfair and unlawful conduct undertaken by Defendants. Plaintiff has
alleged that the actions of Defendants were done to interfere with Plaintiff’s
business. The Court rejects the argument of Defendants that Plaintiff has not
alleged facts with particularity. 
 
While the Court acknowledges Defendants’ argument that
California Commercial Code, Section 9609(a) allows a secured party to
take possession of collateral after default, the FAC alleges that the
repossessed vehicles had been paid for and brought current prior to the
repossessions. (FAC, ¶ 105.) Therefore, Defendants’ “safe harbor” argument
fails because the pleadings allege that Defendants’ repossession was in
violation of the law, and specifically Civil Code section 3336. 
 
In sum, the eighth cause of action sufficiently alleges that
Defendants’ conduct was unlawful and unfair. The Court therefore OVERRULES the
demurrer of Defendants to the eighth cause of action in the FAC. 
Conclusion
 
The demurrer of Defendants to the sixth cause of action in
the FAC is SUSTAINED without leave to amend. 
 
The demurrer of Defendants to the eighth cause of action in
the FAC is OVERRULED. 
 
The Court DENIES Defendants’ motion to strike portions of
the FAC.