 Case Number:  21PSCV00721    Hearing Date:   May 23, 2024    Dept:  G Cross-Defendants Carlota G. Cruz and Dora Cruz’s
Demurrer to the Second Amended Cross-Complaint
 
Respondent: Cross-Complainants Esteban Cruz and Ruth Cruz
 
Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants Carlota G. Cruz and Dora
Cruz’s Motion to Expunge Notice of Pendency Action as to the Park Real Property
and for Attorney’s Fees and Costs
 
Respondent: NO OPPOSITION
 
Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants Carlota G. Cruz and Dora
Cruz’s Motion to Expunge Notice of Pendency Action as to the Pipeline Real
Property and for Attorney’s Fees and Costs
 
Respondent: NO OPPOSITION
 
Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants Carlota G. Cruz and Dora
Cruz’s Motion to Expunge Notice of Pendency Action as to the Palomares Real
Property and for Attorney’s Fees and Costs
 
Respondent: NO OPPOSITION
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
Cross-Defendants Carlota G. Cruz and Dora Cruz’s
Demurrer to the Second Amended Cross-Complaint¿is OVERRULED.  Cross-Defendants are ordered to answer the
Cross-Complaint in ten (10) days.
 
Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants Carlota G. Cruz and Dora
Cruz’s Motion to Expunge Notice of Pendency Action as to the Park Real Property
is GRANTED. Furthermore, Attorney Fees and Costs are awarded in the amount of
$397.50, payable to Cross-Defendants in thirty (30) days.
 
Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants Carlota G. Cruz and Dora
Cruz’s Motion to Expunge Notice of Pendency Action as to the Pipeline Real
Property is GRANTED. Furthermore, Attorney Fees and Costs are awarded in the
amount of $397.50, payable to Cross-Defendants in thirty (30)
days.
 
Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants Carlota G. Cruz and Dora
Cruz’s Motion to Expunge Notice of Pendency Action as to the Palomares Real
Property is GRANTED. Furthermore, Attorney Fees and Costs are awarded in the
amount of $397.50, payable to Cross-Defendants in thirty (30)
days.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is an action arising from a dispute over a family
trust. In September 1998, Carlota G. Cruz and Carlota’s husband, Antonio V. Cruz,
formed The Antonio V. Cruz and Carlota G. Revocable Trust (Cruz Trust) and are
trustees of the Cruz Trust. In December 2012, Carlota and Antonio Cruz amended
the Cruz Trust. All of Carlota and Antonio Cruz’s assets and real property were
allegedly placed under the Cruz Trust. Due to their advanced age and medical
conditions, Carlota and Antonio Cruz became more dependent on their family
members and currently live in Pomona with Dora Cruz, their daughter. Carlota
and Antonio Cruz also have a son named Esteban Cruz who is married to Ruth
Cruz. Through Esteban and Ruth Cruz, Carlota and Antonio Cruz also have a
granddaughter named Wendy Cruz.
 
Esteban and Ruth Cruz allegedly reside in residential
property owned by Carlota and Antonio Cruz and have allegedly failed to (1) pay
for property insurance on the residence and (2) pay property taxes. In March
2021, Carlota Cruz learned Antonio Cruz had made changes to Antonio Cruz’s
health plan, allegedly at the behest of Esteban and Ruth Cruz. Carlota Cruz
also learned Antonio Cruz had closed bank accounts and changed his mailing
address to Esteban and Ruth Cruz’s address. Previously in February 2021, Carlota
and Antonio Cruz had agreed that Esteban Cruz would assist in collecting rent
from rental homes belonging to the Cruz Trust. However, Esteban, Ruth, and
Wendy Cruz allegedly began managing the properties and intimidating tenants to
force tenants to move out or pay rent.
 
On September 1, 2021, Carlota Cruz, as an individual and
trustee of the Cruz Trust, filed a complaint against Esteban and Ruth Cruz,
Wendy Cruz, and Does 1-20, alleging the following causes of action: (1) elder
abuse, (2) conversion, (3) accounting, (4) restitution, and (5) declaratory
relief.
 
On July 21, 2022, Esteban and Ruth Cruz filed a
cross-complaint against Carlota and Dora Cruz as trustees of the Cruz Trust,
alleging the following causes of action: (1) defamation, (2) elder abuse, and
(3) intentional interference with right of inheritance.
 
On August 29, 2022, Carlota and Dora Cruz filed a First
Amended Complaint (FAC) against the same defendants alleging the same causes of
action.
 
On September 13, 2022, Esteban and Ruth Cruz filed a First
Amended Cross-Complaint (FACC) against the Carlota and Dora Cruz and Roes 1-10,
alleging the same causes of action. On October 23, 2023, the court sustained
Carlota and Dora Cruz’s demurrer to the FACC in part with leave to amend.
 
On November 13, 2023, Esteban and Ruth Cruz filed a Second
Amended Cross-Complaint (SACC) against the same defendants alleging the same
causes of action.
 
On December 15, 2023, Carlota and Dora Cruz filed the
present demurrer. On April 25, 2024, the Court continued the hearing on Carlota
and Dora Cruz’s demurrer in order for parties to further meet and confer. On
May 10, 2024, Carlota and Dora Cruz’s counsel met and conferred telephonically
with Esteban and Ruth Cruz’s counsel. (Karr Suppl. Decl., ¶ 4.)
 
On March 1, 2024, Carlota and Dora Cruz filed the present
motions to expunge lis pendens. 
 
A hearing on the present motions and a case management
conference are set for May 23, 2024.
 
DEMURRER

Carlota and Dora Cruz demur to Esteban Cruz’s
second cause of action (­elder abuse) and third cause of action (­intentional
interference with right of inheritance). For the following reasons, the court OVERRULES their demurrer in its entirety.
 
Legal Standard
 
A party may demur to a complaint on the
grounds that it “does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) A demurrer tests whether the
complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 747 (Hahn).) When considering demurrers, courts accept
all well pleaded facts as true. (Fox v. JAMDAT Mobile, Inc. (2010) 185
Cal.App.4th 1068, 1078.) In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent
on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v.
Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the
pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it
lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are
judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d
902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the
complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of
action.” (Hahn, supra, at p. 747.)
 
Elder Abuse (Second Cause of Action)
 
Carlota and Dora Cruz argue Esteban Cruz’s second
cause of action for elder abuse is barred by the applicable statute of
limitations and fails to plead sufficient facts to state a claim. The court
disagrees.
 
Statute of Limitations
 
“A demurrer based on a statute of limitations
will not lie where the action may be, but is not necessarily, barred.
[Citation.] In order for the bar of the statute of limitations to be raised by
demurrer, the defect must clearly and affirmatively appear on the face of the
complaint; it is not enough that the complaint shows that the action may be
barred.” (Marshall v. Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th
1397, 1403.) An action for financial elder abuse must “be commenced within
four years after the plaintiff discovers or, through the exercise of reasonable
diligence, should have discovered, the facts constituting the financial abuse.”
(Welf. & Inst. Code, § 15657.7.)
 
In this case, Carlota and Dora Cruz argue Esteban
Cruz’s second cause of action for financial elder abuse on behalf of Antonio
Cruz is time-barred because it challenges the 2012 amendment to the Cruz Trust.
(Demurrer, p. 13:26-14:6, 14:17-22.) They also point to the SACC’s allegation that
Antonio Cruz was denied access to the amended trust as early as 2016.
(Demurrer, p. 14:22-26.) But these arguments fail as the 2012 amendment to the
Cruz Trust is not the only alleged basis for Esteban Cruz’s financial elder
abuse claims. The SACC also alleges Carlota and Dora Cruz obtained power of
attorney from Antonio Cruz and used the power of attorney to sell property
without Antonio Cruz’s consent or knowledge. (SACC, ¶ 29, 30, 32.) The SACC
further alleges Dora Cruz continued to utilize the power of attorney on Antonio
Cruz’s behalf after Antonio Cruz revoked consent. (SACC, ¶ 33.) Last, the SACC
alleges Carlota and Dora Cruz attempted to increase Antonio Cruz’s dependence
on them by limiting Antonio Cruz’s access to “even a modest amount of cash” and
physically isolating Antonio Cruz at their residence. (SACC, ¶ 31, 34.)
 
While the SACC does suggest the physical isolation
of Antonio Cruz occurred after Antonio Cruz began to live with Carlota and Dora
Cruz in 2020, the SACC does not specify when the other alleged incidents of
financial elder abuse occurred. (SACC, ¶ 34.) Because these allegations do not
appear to be clearly and affirmatively time-barred on their face, the court
finds this basis for the demurrer fails.
 
Sufficiency of Pleading
 
Pursuant to the Elder Abuse and Dependent Adult Civil
Protection Act (EADACPA), an elder or dependent adult may bring a civil action
for physical abuse, neglect, or abandonment pursuant to Welfare and
Institutions Code section 15657. An elder or dependent adult may also bring a
civil action for financial abuse pursuant to Welfare and Institutions Code
section 15657.5. For the purposes of the EADACPA, “elder” is defined as “any
person residing in this state, 65 years of age or older.” (Welf. & Inst.
Code, § 15610.27.) “Dependent adult” is defined as any person “regardless of
whether the person lives independently, between the ages of 18 and 64 years who
resides in this state and who has physical or mental limitations that restrict
his or her ability to carry out normal activities or to protect his or her
rights, including, but not limited to, persons who have physical or
developmental disabilities, or whose physical or mental abilities have
diminished because of age.” (Welf. & Inst. Code, §15610.23, subd. (a).)
 
The EADACPA defines financial abuse as the taking,
secreting, appropriating, obtaining, or retaining of an elder or dependent
adult’s real or personal property “for a wrongful use or with intent to
defraud, or both.” (Welf. & Inst. Code, § 15610.30, subd. (a).) Property is
deemed taken for a wrongful use if “the person or entity knew or should have
known that this conduct is likely to be harmful to the elder or dependent
adult.” (Welf. & Inst. Code, § 15610.30, subd. (b).) Financial abuse may also
occur when the taking, secreting, appropriating, obtaining, or retaining of an
elder or dependent adult’s real or personal property is the result of undue
influence as defined in Welfare and Institutions Code section 15610.70. (Welf.
& Inst. Code, § 15610.30, subd. (a)(3).)
 
In
this case, Carlota and Dora Cruz argue the allegation that Dora Cruz sold
Antonio Cruz’s real property without consent is contradicted by the fact that
Esteban Cruz admits Antonio Cruz was informed after the fact and consented.
(Demurrer, p. 15:24-16:5.) But this argument is based on misleading
paraphrasing of the SACC’s allegations. Without quoting verbatim the actual
language of the SACC, the demurrer states “[t]he SACC deficiently
alleges that Dora sold Antonio’s parcel of real property without his consent
and without informing him until ‘after the fact.’” (Demurrer, p. 15:24-25,
citing SACC, ¶ 32.) Nowhere does the actual language of these allegations state
Carlota and Dora Cruz informed Antonio Cruz and obtained his consent after the
fact. Instead, the SACC alleges “neither Cross Defendant
sought Antonio’s consent to sell this property, nor did they inform him that
the property had been sold after the fact.” (SACC, ¶ 32.) The SACC further
alleges “that when Antonio learned that Dora had sold his property without his
consent, he informed Dora that he had revoked the purported Power of Attorney
that named her as his attorney in fact.” (SACC, ¶ 33.)
 
Next, Carlota and
Dora Cruz argue the allegation that Dora Cruz failed to provide trust documents
to Antonio Cruz so Antonio Cruz could amend the Cruz Trust is a sham.
(Demurrer, p. 16:6-10, citing SACC, ¶ 47.) But this allegation was made as part
of the third cause of action for intentional interference with inheritance and
not the second cause of action for financial elder abuse that is at issue.
Furthermore, Carlota and Dora Cruz’s argument that this cause of action is
insufficiently pled fails to address the other financial elder abuse
allegations in the SACC. (Demurrer, p. 15:6-16:12.) Because a demurrer may
not “lie to a part of a cause of action,” Carlota and Dora Cruz have failed to
demonstrate how all financial elder abuse allegations are insufficient. (Cornejo
v. Lightbourne (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 932, 944.)
 
Accordingly, Carlota and Dora Cruz’s demurrer
to this cause of action is OVERRULED.
 
Intentional Interference with Right of
Inheritance (Third Cause of Action)
 
Carlota and Dora Cruz contend Esteban Cruz’s third
cause of action for intentional interference with right of inheritance fails to
plead sufficient facts to state a claim. The court disagrees.
 
Legal Standard
 
A cause of action for intentional
interference with right of inheritance consists of five elements. (Beckwith
v. Dahl (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 1039, 1057 (Beckwith).) “First, the
plaintiff must plead he had an expectancy of an inheritance” which is not
limited to the existence of a will and merely requires an expectation by the
plaintiff. (Ibid.) Second, plaintiff must allege causation. (Ibid.)
Third, plaintiff must allege “that the defendant had knowledge of the
plaintiff's expectancy of inheritance and took deliberate action to interfere
with it.” (Ibid.) Fourth, plaintiff “must allege that the interference
was conducted by independently tortious means, i.e., the underlying conduct
must be wrong for some reason other than the fact of the interference.” (Ibid.)
Last, “plaintiff must plead he was damaged by the defendant's interference.” (Ibid.)
A plaintiff cannot recover for intentional interference with right of
inheritance if “an adequate probate remedy exists.” (Id., at p. 1056; see
Munn v. Briggs (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 578, 587 [“Our independent research
also confirms that when a party has an adequate remedy in probate, the party
generally will be precluded from recovering in tort for interference with an
expectancy.”].)
 
Discussion
 
In this case, Carlota and Dora Cruz contend
this Court has already found this cause of action is barred by the existence of
an adequate probate remedy. (Demurrer, p. 18:24-19:8.) In sustaining Carlota
and Dora Cruz’s demurrer to the FACC, the Court found an adequate probate
remedy existed because Probate Code section 17200, subdivision (a) allows a
beneficiary of a trust to petition a probate court for issues involving the
internal affairs or existence of the trust. (10/23/2023 Ruling, p. 4.) In
opposition, Esteban Cruz contends Esteban Cruz was not seeking to contest the
terms or provisions of the Cruz Trust or its 2012 amendment. (Opp., p. 6:2-14.)
Instead, Esteban Cruz contends Carlota and Dora Cruz intentionally prevented
Antonio Cruz from “effectuating his testamentary wishes.” (Opp., p. 6:8-12.)
The SACC alleges they did so by refusing to provide a copy of the Cruz Trust to
Antonio Cruz for a period of at least five years. (SACC, ¶ 45.) 
 
In January 2021, Antonio Cruz finally
obtained a copy of the Cruz Trust and allegedly came to an agreement with
Carlota and Dora Cruz in which they agreed property in the Cruz Trust would be
transferred to Esteban Cruz. (SACC, ¶ 51.) While transfer documents were
prepared, the SACC alleges Carlota and Dora Cruz refused to execute them.
(SACC, ¶ 51.) As discussed in the Court’s previous ruling on the prior
demurrer, these issues involve the internal affairs of a trust that are
remedied by Probate Code section 17200 as the probate court had the power to
compel or instruct the trustee. (10/23/2023 Ruling, p. 4; Prob. Code, § 17200,
subd. (a)(6)-(7).)
 
In addition to property held in the Cruz
Trust, the SACC also alleges Antonio Cruz held an undivided fifty percent
interest in a property in Chino. (SACC, ¶ 49.) The SACC alleges Antonio and
Carlota Cruz agreed to hold the Chino property in constructive trust for
Antonio Cruz and that title would pass to Antonio Cruz upon their deaths or
when a purchase money loan on the property had been paid in full. (SACC, ¶ 50.)
When Antonio Cruz died, Antonio and Carlota Cruz still held title to the Chino
property as joint tenants and Antonio Cruz’s interest passed to Carlota Cruz.
(SACC, ¶ 54.) The SACC then alleges Carlota Cruz transferred the Chino property
to the Cruz Trust and that Dora Cruz has been attempting to sell the Chino
property. (SACC, ¶ 55-56.)
 
With regards to the Chino property, Carlota
and Dora Cruz contend the alleged oral agreement that formed the constructive
trust is unenforceable because it is barred by the statute of frauds.
(Demurrer, p. 17:14-28, 18:6-15.) But as noted in Beckwith, “[i]t is not
necessary to allege that ‘one is in fact named as a beneficiary in the will or
that one has been devised the particular property at issue. [Citation.] That
requirement would defeat the purpose of an expectancy claim. ... It is only the
expectation that one will receive some interest that gives rise to a cause of
action. [Citations.]’” (Beckwith, supra, 205 Cal.App.4th at p.
1057.) Thus, the enforceability or unenforceability of the alleged constructive
trust is not determinative as what is at issue is whether Esteban Cruz had an
expectation of receiving an inheritance.
 
Next, Carlota and Dora Cruz suggest Esteban
Cruz has not yet been damaged as Carlota Cruz remains alive as the surviving
settlor of the Cruz Trust and Esteban Cruz does not have an immediate right of
inheritance. (Demurrer, p. 18:3-23.) But the SACC established Esteban Cruz was
damaged as it alleges his expected right to inherit the entire
Chino property was lost. (SACC, ¶ 50, 53-58.)
 
Accordingly, Carlota and Dora Cruz’s demurrer
to this cause of action is OVERRULED.
 
MOTIONS TO EXPUNGE LIS PENDENS

Carlota and Dora Cruz move to expunge notices
of lis pendens that have been recorded against the following properties: 1326
South Park Avenue, Pomona, California 91766 (Park Avenue property); 12753
Pipeline Avenue, Chino, California 91710 (Chino property); and 1201 South
Palomares Street, Pomona, California 91766 (Palomares property). For the
following reasons, the Court GRANTS
their motions.
 
Legal Standard

Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
405.30, a party may move to expunge a notice of lis pendens if they meet the
requirements of Code of Civil Procedure sections 405.31 and 405.32. Code of
Civil Procedure section 405.31 states the court must expunge a notice of lis
pendens if “the pleading on which the notice is based does not contain a real
property claim.” If the pleading does contain a real property claim, “the court
shall order that the notice be expunged if the court finds that the claimant
has not established by a preponderance of the evidence the probable validity of
the real property claim.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 405.32.)
 
Discussion

In this case, Esteban Cruz failed to file any
timely opposition to the present motions. Because Esteban Cruz has the burden of
establishing the existence of a real property claim and that claim’s probable
validity, the Court GRANTS Carlota and Dora Cruz’s motions. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 405.30.)
 
Carlota and Dora Cruz also request the award
of attorney fees for making the present motions. Pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 405.38, a party prevailing on a motion to expunge a notice of
lis pendens shall “be awarded the reasonable attorney’s fees and costs of
making or opposing the motion unless the court finds that the other party acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of attorney's fees and costs unjust.” 
 
Utilizing the lodestar approach and in light
of the totality of the circumstances, the Court awards reasonable attorney fees
and costs to Carlota and Dora Cruz in the amount of $397.50 ($337.50 for 1.5
hours drafting the motion and attending the hearing at an hourly rate of
$225.00 plus $60.00 in filing fees).
 
CONCLUSION

Based on the
foregoing, Cross-Defendants Carlota and Dora Cruz’s demurrer to the SACC is OVERRULED
in its entirety.  Cross-Defendants Carlota
and Dora Cruz are ordered to answer the Cross-Complaint in ten (10) days.
 
Furthermore, Cross-Defendants
Carlota and Dora Cruz’s motions to expunge lis pendens are GRANTED and
costs are awarded against Esteban Cruz in the amount of $397.50 for each motion
(total of $1,192.50), payable to Cross-Defendants in thirty (30) days.