 Case Number:  23PSCV00288    Hearing Date:   May 23, 2024    Dept:  G Defendants Rosa Torres, Florentino Torres, Juan Jose  Uzeta, and Marrisa I. Uzeta’s Demurrer to the Second Amended Verified Complaint   Respondent: Plaintiff Lucinda Uzeta Hernandez   TENTATIVE  RULING   Defendants  Rosa Torres, Florentino Torres, Juan Jose Uzeta, and Marrisa I. Uzeta’s  Demurrer to the Second Amended Verified Complaint is OVERRULED.   Defendants are  ordered to answer in ten (10) days.   BACKGROUND   This is an action to quiet title involving a residential  property in La Puente (La Puente Property). On January 5, 1973, Defendants Rosa  Torres and Florentino Torres purchased the La Puente Property on behalf of Rosa  Torres’s minor sister. On May 22, 1976, they transferred title for the La  Puente Property through a grant deed to Rosa Torres’s mother, Plaintiff Lucinda  Uzeta Hernandez.   On September 14, 2000, Uzeta Hernandez alleges Rosa Torres  falsely told Uzeta Hernandez that Uzeta Hernandez could not collect Social  Security and Medicare benefits if Uzeta Hernandez still held title to the La  Puente Property. In response to Rosa Torres’s alleged misrepresentations, Uzeta  Hernandez transferred title for the La Puente Property through a quitclaim deed  to Rosa Torres and Defendant Juan Jose Uzeta, Uzeta Hernandez’s youngest son.  Uzeta Hernandez alleges Rosa Torres and Juan Uzeta had agreed to hold the La  Puente Property in trust for Uzeta Hernandez and all of Uzeta Hernandez’s  children.   From November 2004 to July 2012, Uzeta Hernandez alleges  Rosa Torres and Juan Uzeta obtained a series of loans from Defendant Jaime  Carrea and others secured by deeds of trust on the La Puente Property without  Uzeta Hernandez’s knowledge or consent. In 2012, Rosa Torres allegedly  requested Uzeta Hernandez provide financial assistance so Rosa Torres could  keep a house in Rowland Heights (Rowland Heights Property). Uzeta Hernandez  agreed to move into the Rowland Heights Property so Rosa Torres could collect rent  on the La Puente Property and collect money from the government for claiming to  be Uzeta Hernandez’s caregiver.   In August 2020, after the Rowland Heights Property was  sold, Uzeta Hernandez, Rosa Torres, and Florentino Torres moved back into the  La Puente Property. While Uzeta Hernandez paid for the La Puente Property’s  costs from 2012 to August 2020, Rosa Torres allegedly promised to cover the  costs when they moved back into the La Puente Property. However, Uzeta  Hernandez alleges Rosa and Florentino Torres refused to cover any costs or pay  rent after moving into the La Puente Property. On March 30, 2022, Rosa Torres  and Juan Uzeta transferred their interest through a grant deed to Defendants  Adam Torres and Rosie Gutierrez without Uzeta Hernandez’s knowledge or  permission. In April 2022, Uzeta Hernandez moved out of the La Puente Property  after Rosa Torres refused to deed the La Puente Property back to Uzeta  Hernandez.   On January 31, 2023, Uzeta Hernandez filed a complaint  against Rosa and Florentino Torres, Juan Uzeta, Marrisa I. Uzeta, Adam and Lisa  Torres, Rosie and Joshua Gutierrez, Carrea, Does 1-100, and all other persons  unknown claiming any right, title, or interest in the La Puente Property,  alleging the following causes of action: (1) quiet title, (2) imposition of a  constructive trust, (3) imposition of a resulting trust, (4) declaratory  relief, (5) slander of title, (6) physical and financial elder abuse, (7) intentional  infliction of emotional distress (IIED), (8) fraud and conspiracy to commit  fraud, (9) conversion, and (10) false imprisonment.   On July 7, 2023, Uzeta Hernandez filed a First Amended  Complaint (FAC) against the same defendants alleging the same causes of action  except for the ninth cause of action for conversion which was omitted. On January 23, 2024, the Court sustained demurrers by Adam and  Lisa Torres, Rosie and Joshua Gutierrez, Rosa and Florentino Torres, and Juan  and Marrisa Uzeta.   On  February 22, 2024, Uzeta Hernandez filed a Second Amended Complaint (SAC)  against the same defendants alleging the same causes of action except for the fifth  cause of action for slander of title and seventh cause of action for IIED.   On March 28, 2024, Rosa Torres filed the present demurrer. Prior  to filing, counsel for Rosa Torres attempted to telephonically meet and confer with  Uzeta Hernandez’s counsel. (Vergara Decl., ¶ 4.)   A hearing on the present demurrer and a case management  conference are set for May 23, 2024.   ANALYSIS   Rosa Torres demurs to Uzeta Hernandez’s sixth  cause of action (elder abuse) and eighth cause of action (fraud). For the  following reasons, the court OVERRULES  Rosa Torres’ demurrer.   Legal Standard   A party may demur to a complaint on the  grounds that it “does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of  action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) A demurrer tests whether the  complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147  Cal.App.4th 740, 747 (Hahn).) When considering demurrers, courts accept  all well pleaded facts as true. (Fox v. JAMDAT Mobile, Inc. (2010) 185  Cal.App.4th 1068, 1078.) In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent  on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v.  Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the  pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it  lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are  judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d  902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the  complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of  action.” (Hahn, supra, at p. 747.)   Elder Abuse (Sixth Cause of Action)   Rosa Torres argues Uzeta Hernandez’s sixth  cause of action for elder abuse fails because it is barred by the applicable  statute of limitations. The court disagrees.   Legal Standard   “A demurrer based on a statute of limitations  will not lie where the action may be, but is not necessarily, barred.  [Citation.] In order for the bar of the statute of limitations to be raised by  demurrer, the defect must clearly and affirmatively appear on the face of the  complaint; it is not enough that the complaint shows that the action may be  barred.” (Marshall v. Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th  1397, 1403 (Marshall).) A cause of action for financial elder abuse  “shall be commenced within four years after the plaintiff discovers or, through  the exercise of reasonable diligence, should have discovered, the facts  constituting the financial abuse.” (Welf. & Inst. Code, § 15657.7.) The  statute of limitations for an elder abuse action based on physical abuse is two  years. (See Benun v. Superior Court (2004) 123 Cal.App.4th 113, 127,  citing Code Civ. Proc., § 335.1.)   Discussion   In this case, Rosa Torres argues Uzeta  Hernandez’s cause of action is time-barred because the FAC does not allege any  wrongdoing that occurred within four years of when this action was filed on  January 31, 2023. (Torres-Uzeta Demurrer, p. 11:3-12.) But the statute of  limitations begins to run when Uzeta Hernandez discovered or should have  discovered the alleged financial abuse. The SAC alleges Uzeta Hernandez first discovered  Rosa Torres’ alleged fraud in April 2022. (SAC, ¶ 30.) Thus, as pled, the court  finds this cause of action is not time-barred.   Accordingly, Rosa Torres’ demurrer to this  cause of action is OVERRULED.   Fraud (Eighth Cause of Action)   Rosa Torres contends Uzeta Hernandez’s eighth  cause of action for fraud fails because it is barred by the applicable statute  of limitations. The court disagrees.   Legal Standard   “A demurrer based on a statute of limitations  will not lie where the action may be, but is not necessarily, barred.  [Citation.] In order for the bar of the statute of limitations to be raised by  demurrer, the defect must clearly and affirmatively appear on the face of the  complaint; it is not enough that the complaint shows that the action may be  barred.” (Marshall, supra, 37 Cal.App.4th at p. 1403.)   The statute of limitations for fraud actions  is three years and “is not deemed to have accrued until the discovery, by the  aggrieved party, of the facts constituting the fraud or mistake.” (Code Civ.  Proc., § 338, subd. (d).) “[I]f an action is brought more than three years  after commission of the fraud, plaintiff has the burden of pleading and proving  that he did not make the discovery until within three years prior to the filing  of his complaint.” (Hobart v. Hobart Estate Co. (1945) 26 Cal.2d 412,  437.) “In order to rely on the discovery rule for delayed accrual of a cause of  action, ‘[a] plaintiff whose complaint shows on its face that his claim would  be barred without the benefit of the discovery rule must specifically plead  facts to show (1) the time and manner of discovery and (2) the inability  to have made earlier discovery despite reasonable diligence.’” (Fox v.  Ethicon Endo-Surgery, Inc. (2005) 35 Cal.4th 797, 808, quoting McKelvey  v. Boeing North American, Inc. (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 151, 160, disapproved  on another ground in Lopez v. Sony Electronics, Inc. (2018) 5 Cal.5th  627, 633, fn. 3.)   Discussion   In previously sustaining Rosa Torres’  demurrer to this cause of action, the Court noted the alleged fraud occurred  more than three years before the present action was filed and found the FAC  failed to allege sufficient facts to invoke the discovery rule. (1/23/2024  Ruling, p. 6.) The SAC provides further allegations, stating Uzeta Hernandez  discovered the falsity of Rosa Torres’ prior representations in April 2022 when  “it became apparent to Plaintiff for the first time that Rosa never had any  intentions to deed the Prichard Street Parcel back into Plaintiff’s name and  that Rosa had lied to Plaintiff and fraudulently induced Plaintiff into  conveying the Prichard Street Parcel into Rosa’s name in the first instance.”  (SAC, ¶ 30.) The SAC further alleges “that Rosa actively concealed her fraud  and true intentions from Plaintiff and that Plaintiff with reasonable diligence  would not have and/or could not have discovered Rosa’s fraud until April of  2022, when Rosa made the statements above.” (SAC, ¶ 30.)   Rosa Torres contends these allegations fail  to plead specific facts that show the time and manner of discovery.  (Torres-Uzeta Demurrer, p. 13:2-6.) But the Court finds the SAC does so as it  alleges Uzeta Hernandez discovered the fraud in April 2022 when Rosa Torres  refused to deed the La Puente property back to Uzeta Hernandez because “the  government will take your house.” (SAC, ¶ 30.) Rosa Torres also contends that  Uzeta Hernandez is a “sophisticated individual” and that a “simple phone call  or meeting with the Social Security Administration would have debunked” Rosa  Torres’ alleged misrepresentation. (Torres-Uzeta Demurrer, p. 13:6-18.) But  whether Uzeta Hernandez exercised reasonable diligence and could have  discovered the alleged fraud earlier is a question of fact to be resolved at  trial. (Neet v. Holmes (1944) 25 Cal.2d 447, 468.) At this stage, the  allegation that Uzeta Hernandez exercised reasonable diligence and could not  have discovered the alleged fraud until April 2022 is sufficient to defeat Rosa  Torres’ demurrer.   Accordingly, Rosa Torres’ demurrer to this  cause of action is OVERRULED.   CONCLUSION  Based on the  foregoing, Defendants’ demurrer is OVERRULED in its entirety.   Defendants are  ordered to answer in ten (10) days.