  Case Number:  19PSCV00678    Hearing Date:   May 23, 2024    Dept:  G Defendants/Cross-Complainants William Wei Weng and  Miao Li Feng’s Motion to Quash Deposition Subpoena for Business Records to  Turbotar, Inc. and Any of Its Affiliates and Request for Monetary Sanctions Respondent: Plaintiff Mo Chen TENTATIVE RULING Defendants/Cross-Complainants William Wei Weng and  Miao Li Feng’s Motion to Quash Deposition Subpoena for Business Records to  Turbotar, Inc. is DENIED. Plaintiff Mo Chen’s Request for Sanctions is GRANTED  and sanctions are awarded in the amount of  337.50, payable within thirty (30) days of  the issuance of this order. BACKGROUND This  is an action arising from a business dispute. On January 18, 2005, Da Zhen  Health Services, Inc. (Da Zhen Health) was registered as a California  corporation and was established to provide healthcare and daycare services for  seniors. Defendants William Wei Weng and Miao Li Feng (also referred to as Miao  Li Lily Weng in the First Amended Complaint) were majority shareholders in Da  Zhen Health. Plaintiff Mo Chen was a minority shareholder in Da Zhen Health. In  2019, Chen alleges Weng and Feng transferred all of Da Zhen Health’s business  to Da Zhen Travel Agency, an entity owned and controlled by Weng and Feng,  without Chen’s consent. Chen also alleges Weng and Feng misappropriated funds  from Da Zhen Health for their own personal use. On  July 29, 2019, Chen filed a verified complaint against Da Zhen Health, Weng,  Feng, and Does 1-20 inclusive, alleging causes of action for: (1) dissolution  of Da Zhen Health, (2) breach of fiduciary duty, and (3) accounting. On  September 27, 2019, Weng and Feng filed a cross-complaint against Da Zhen  Health, Chen, and Sheng Le Cheng, alleging causes of action for: (1)  dissolution of Da Zhen Health, (2) breach of fiduciary duty, and (3)  accounting. On  August 7, 2020, Chen was granted leave to file a First Amended Complaint (FAC)  that was filed on October 22, 2020, against the same defendants as well as Da  Zhen Travel, alleging causes of action for: (1) breach of fiduciary duty, (2)  fraudulent concealment, (3) fraudulent transfer, (4) dissolution of Da Zhen  Health, and (5) accounting. On  June 18, 2021, Chen moved for summary adjudication on the fourth and fifth  causes of action in Chen’s FAC. On December 1, 2021, the Court denied Chen’s  motion. On  January 26, 2023, Weng and Feng were granted leave to file a First Amended  Cross-Complaint (FACC) against the same cross-defendants alleging the same  causes of action and a fourth cause of action for recession of contract based  on fraud. On  March 15, 2023, Weng and Feng filed a Second Amended Cross-Complaint (SACC)  against the same cross-defendants alleging the same causes of action. On  February 22, 2024, Weng and Feng filed the present motion. A hearing on the  present motion is set for May 23, 2024, with a final status conference set for  July 2, 2024, and a non-jury trial set for July 16, 2024. ANALYSIS Weng  and Feng move to quash Chen and Cheng’s business records subpoena that was  served on Turbotar, Inc. for financial and insurance billing records. For the  following reasons, the court DENIES their motion. Legal Standard If  a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the production of books,  documents, electronically stored information, or other things before a court,  or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the  court, upon motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision (b),  or upon the court's own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity  to be heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or  directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall  declare, including protective orders. In addition, the court may make any other  order as may be appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or  oppressive demands such as unreasonable violations of the right of privacy.¿  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1.) Discussion As  an initial matter, Chen argues the present motion is untimely as it was filed  only six court days before its original hearing date. (Opp., p. 6:4-7.) The  Court finds any challenge to the motion’s timeliness has been waived by Chen’s  filing of an opposition on the merits. (See Carlton v. Quint (2000) 77 Cal.App.4th  844, 697-698.) Chen also argues the present motion violates Rule 3.1345 of  the California Rules of Court by failing to include a separate statement.  (Opp., p. 6:8-12.) Pursuant  to Rule 3.1345, “[a]ny motion involving the content of a discovery request or  the responses to such a request must be accompanied by a separate statement.  The motions that require a separate statement include a motion: . . . (5) ¿To  compel or to quash the production of documents or tangible things at a  deposition.” (Cal. Rules of Court, 3.1345, subd. (a)(5).) The Court has the  discretion to deny such a motion when this rule is not complied with. (Mills  v. U.S. Bank (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 871, 893.) While Weng and Feng failed  to provide a separate statement, the Court declines to deny the motion to quash  on this ground and addresses the motion on its merits. In  this case, Weng and Feng contend that the subpoena at issue is void as Chen and  Cheng failed to give proper notice to consumers pursuant to Valley Bank of  Nevada v. Superior Court (1975) 15 Cal.3d 652, 658. (Motion, p. 6:1-26.)  There, our supreme court held a bank must give notice to its customers of a  pending action involving the disclosure of their confidential information. (Ibid.)  Subsequently, these notice requirements were codified in Code of Civil  Procedure section 1985.3. (Sehlmeyer v. Department of General Services (1993)  17 Cal.App.4th 1072, 1077.) Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 1985.3,  subdivision (b), a “subpoenaing party shall serve or cause to be served on the  consumer whose records are being sought a copy of the subpoena duces tecum, of  the affidavit supporting the issuance of the subpoena, if any, and of the  notice described in subdivision (e), and proof of service as indicated in  paragraph (1) of subdivision (c).” This  notice requirement, however, does not apply “to any subpoena duces tecum which  does not request the records of any particular consumer or consumers and which  requires a custodian of records to delete all information which would in any  way identify any consumer whose records are to be produced.” (Code Civ. Proc.,  § 1985.3, subd. (i).) Here, Chen and Cheng’s subpoena is not aimed at the records  of specific consumers and instead requests all of La Puente Adult Day Care  Health Center’s (La Puente ADCHC) financial and insurance billing records.  (Motion, Ex. A.) And while the request does not authorize Turbotar to redact the  personal information of individual consumers, Chen states Chen is not opposed  to the redaction of such information and to a stipulation for a protective  order. (Opp., p. 5:25-28.) Thus, the Court will not quash Chen and Cheng’s  subpoena on this ground. Last,  Weng and Feng maintain Chen and Cheng’s subpoena violates the privacy of Medi-Cal  recipients and requests irrelevant information, as the billing of Medi-Cal  recipients is not at issue. (Motion, p. 4:20-5:26, 8:7-11.) But Chen  establishes the billing records are necessary to uncover the income generated  by La Puente ADCHC after Weng failed to provide requested bank statements.  (Opp., p. 3:6-22.) And to the extent Weng and Feng express legitimate concerns  about the privacy of their patients’ medical information, the Court finds this  issue is resolved by ordering redactions and a protective order. Accordingly,  Weng and Feng’s motion is DENIED. Chen  also moves for sanctions. Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.2,  subdivision (a), the Court finds Chen is entitled to sanctions as Weng and Feng’s  motions were made without substantial justification as they failed to make any  attempt to propose a protective order prior to their attempt to quash the  subpoena. Utilizing  a lodestar approach and in view of the totality of the circumstances, the Court  awards Chen reasonable attorney fees and costs in the reduced amount of ($337.50  for 1.0 hour drafting the opposition and 0.5 hours attending the hearing at an  hourly rate of $225.) CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, Weng  and Feng’s motion to quash Chen and Cheng’s subpoena to Turbotar is DENIED  and sanctions  are awarded to Chen in the amount of $337.50, payable within thirty (30) days  of the issuance of this order. Furthermore, the Court orders  Turbotar to redact the names and personally identifiable information of  patients that are included in the records produced. The parties are also  further ordered to keep all information produced pursuant to the subpoena at  issue confidential and are prohibited from disclosing such information to  anyone other than their counsel or the Court.