 Case Number:  22STCV38100    Hearing Date:   April 30, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are  encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if  a resolution may be reached.  If the  parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this  tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date  and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the  identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email  indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no  appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or  adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this  tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the  Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent  authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the  tentative ruling as the order of the Court.      TENTATIVE  RULING      DEPT:   32     HEARING DATE:   April    30, 2024     CASE NUMBER:   22STCV38100     MOTIONS:     (1)    Compel Response to Request for Statement of Damages (2)    Compel Response to Request for List of All Parties     MOVING PARTY:   Defendant    Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority     OPPOSING PARTY:   Unopposed        BACKGROUND               Defendant Los Angeles County  Metropolitan Transportation Authority (“Defendant”) moves to compel Plaintiff Mishaun  Dillon (“Plaintiff”) to provide a response to its requests for a statement of  damages and a list of all parties. Defendant seeks monetary sanctions. No  opposition has been filed.    ANALYSIS     Request  for Statement of Damages    In a personal injury action, a defendant may at any time request a  statement of damages setting forth the nature and amount of damages being  sought. The request shall be served upon the plaintiff, who shall serve a  responsive statement as to the damages within 15 days. (Code Civ. Proc.,  section 425.11, subd. (b).) If a plaintiff fails to respond after a defendant  makes the request, the defendant may petition the court in which the action is  pending to order the plaintiff to serve a responsive statement. (Id.)    Here, Defendant served the request for statement of damages on January  30, 2023. (Buchongo Decl. ¶ 2, Exh. A.) Since then, no response has been  received. (Id. ¶ 3.) Therefore, since no response has been received, the  motion is granted.    To support awarding sanctions, Defendant cites an unpublished case  which cited Argame v. Werasophon, 57 Cal.App.4th 616. However, in Argame,  the court stated in dicta that the trial court would have been justified in  awarding sanctions for a party’s failure to comply with Code Civ. Proc.,  section 425.11. (Argame, supra, 57 Cal.App.4th at 618, fn. 3 [“Considering  counsel's disregard for the requirements of section 425.11 displayed here, the  court would have been justified in requiring Argame (or more appropriately her  counsel) to reimburse defendants for costs incurred in making such a motion.”].)  However, the Court may not award sanctions unless they are authorized by  statute. Defendant only provides a statutory basis for sanctions under section  2023.030(a). However, a court may not award monetary sanctions under Code of Civil  Procedure sections 2023.010 and 2023.030 standing alone or read together without  regard to any other provision of the Discovery Act. (City of Los Angeles v.  PricewaterhouseCoopers, LLC (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 466, 504.) Therefore,  without a statutory basis for sanctions, the request is denied.    Request  for List of Parties   “Except as provided under rule 2.251 for electronic service, if  more than two parties have appeared in a case and are represented by different  counsel, the plaintiff or petitioner named first in the complaint or petition  must: (1)  Maintain a current list  of the parties and their addresses for service of notice on each party; and (2)  Furnish a copy of the  list on request to any party or the court.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule  3.254(a).)  Here, on January 30, 2023,  Defendant served the request for list of all parties on Plaintiff. (Buchongo  Decl. ¶ 2, Exh. A.) Since then, no response has been received. (Id. ¶  3.) However, Defendant provides no statutory basis for ordering Plaintiff to  respond. Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.290 only applies to  interrogatories.  Turning to sanctions, under California Rules of Court, rule 2.30,  “[i]n addition to any other sanctions permitted by law, the court  may order a person, after written notice and an opportunity to be heard, to pay  reasonable monetary sanctions to the court or an aggrieved person, or both, for  failure without good cause to comply with the applicable rules. For the  purposes of this rule, "person" means a party, a party's attorney, a  witness, and an insurer or any other individual or entity whose consent is  necessary for the disposition of the case. If a failure to comply with an  applicable rule is the responsibility of counsel and not of the party, any  penalty must be imposed on counsel and must not adversely affect the party's  cause of action or defense thereto.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.30(b).)  However, here, Defendant did not  seek sanctions under rule 2.30 in the notice of motion. The notice of motion  only sought sanctions under the Code of Civil Procedure. As a result, the Court  declines to award sanctions.    CONCLUSION  AND ORDER   Accordingly, Defendant’s Motion to Compel Response to Request for  Statement of Damages is GRANTED. Plaintiff Mishaun Dillon shall serve the  statement of damages to Defendant within 20 days.                Defendant’s motion to compel the  request for list of parties is DENIED.   Defendant  shall provide notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of service of such. 