  Case Number:  22STCV04906    Hearing Date:   April 30, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


April
  2, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV04906




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Leave to File an Amended Complaint




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Jorge
  Zamarita et al.




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendant
  County of Los Angeles



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On
February 8, 2022, Plaintiffs Jorge R. Zamarita, Carlos R. Zamarita, Deisi
Rodriguez, Jozelee Rodriguez, and Georgina Rodriguez, (collectively,
“Plaintiffs”) individually and as successors in interest to Carlos Rodriguez
(“Decedent”) brought this action against County of Los Angeles (“County”) and
Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department (erroneously sued separately) for
damages arising from Decedent’s death while in Men’s Central Jail at 441
Bauchet St., Los Angeles, CA, 90012. Plaintiffs alleged the following causes of
action: (1) negligence, (2) wrongful death, and (3) premises liability.
 
On
August 22, 2023, the Court granted County’s motion for judgment on the
pleadings with leave to amend. On September 11, 2023, Plaintiff filed a first
amended complaint (“FAC”) alleging two additional causes of action against all
defendants for failure to summon medical aid and a violation of the Eight
Amendment to the United States Constitution. 
 
On
November 27, 2023, the Court sustained County’s demurrer to the first three
causes of action without leave to amend. As for the remaining causes of action,
the Court found that the Court’s previous order granting the motion for
judgment on the pleadings did not allow Plaintiffs to assert new causes of
action and Plaintiffs had not filed a noticed motion requesting leave to amend.
As a result, the Court sustained the demurrer. Counsel for Plaintiff was given
30 days from the order to file a motion for leave to amend the complaint. (Min.
Order, 11/27/23.) 
 
On
December 19, 2023, Plaintiffs filed the instant motion for leave to amend the
complaint by adding the following causes of action: (1) negligence asserted
against Doe defendants only; (2) wrongful death (3) a Failure to Summon Medical
Aid and (4) Violation of the Eighth Amendment of the United States’
Constitution. County opposes. Plaintiffs filed an untimely reply
on April 19, 2024. The Court exercises its discretion to consider the
reply.  
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Amendment
to Pleadings: General Provisions
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 576, “[a]ny judge, at any time before or
after commencement of trial, in the furtherance of justice, and upon such terms
as may be proper, may allow the amendment of any pleading or pretrial
conference order.”
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (a)(1) provides, in
relevant part: “[t]he court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as
may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or
striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a
party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the
time for answer or demurrer.¿ The court may likewise, in its discretion, after
notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment
to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms
allow an answer to be made after the time limited by this code.”¿ 
 
“This discretion should be exercised liberally in favor of amendments,
for judicial policy favors resolution of all disputed matters in the same
lawsuit.”¿(Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court¿(1989) 213 Cal.App.3d
1045, 1047.)¿ The Court of Appeal in Morgan v. Superior Court held: “If
the motion to amend is timely made and the granting of the motion will not
prejudice the opposing party, it is error to refuse permission to amend and
where the refusal also results in a party being deprived of the right to assert
a meritorious cause of action or a meritorious defense, it is not only error
but an abuse of discretion.”  (Morgan
v. Superior Court (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530, citations omitted.)  Moreover, “it is an abuse of discretion for
the court to deny leave to amend where the opposing party was not misled or
prejudiced by the amendment.”  (Kittredge
Sports Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048 [opposing
party did not establish harm by the delay in moving to amend the complaint].)
 
“The court may grant leave to amend the pleadings at any stage of the
action.” (Weil & Brown, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial
(The Rutter Group 2022) ¶ 6:636 (hereafter Weil & Brown).)  Denial of a motion to amend is rarely
justified if the motion is timely made and granting the motion will not
prejudice the opposing party. (Id. at ¶ 6:639, citations omitted.)  However, if the party seeking the amendment
has been dilatory, and the delay has prejudiced the opposing party, the judge
has discretion to deny leave to amend. (Id. at ¶ 6:655, citations
omitted. Absent prejudice, any claimed delay alone is not grounds for denial.
“If the delay in seeking the amendment has not misled or prejudiced the other
side, the liberal policy of allowing amendments prevails. Indeed, it is an
abuse of discretion to deny leave in such a case even if sought as late as the
time of trial. (Id. at ¶ 6:653 (citing Higgins v. Del Faro (1981)
123 Cal.App.3d 558, 564-565).) 
“Prejudice exists where the amendment would result in a delay of trial,
along with loss of critical evidence, added costs of preparation, increased
burden of discovery, etc.  . . .  But the fact that the amendment involves a
change in legal theory which would make admissible evidence damaging to the
opposing party is not the kind of prejudice the court will consider.”  (Weil & Brown, supra, at ¶ 6:656,
citations omitted.)
 
“Even if some prejudice is shown, the judge may still permit the
amendment but impose conditions, as the Court is authorized to grant leave ‘on
such terms as may be proper.’”  (Weil
& Brown, supra, at ¶ 6:663, citation omitted.)  For example, the court may cause the party
seeking the amendment to pay the costs and fees incurred in preparing for
trial. (Id. at ¶ 6:664 (citing Fuller v. Vista Del Arroyo Hotel,
42 Cal.App.2d 400, 404).) 
 
California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1324:  Procedural
Requirements
 
Pursuant to California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(a), a motion to
amend a pleading before trial must: 
 
“(1) Include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleadings,
which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or
amendments;
 
(2) state what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be
deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the deleted
allegations are located; and
 
(3) State what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous
pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the
additional allegations are located.”
 
In addition, under Rule 3.1324(b), a motion to amend a pleading before
trial must be accompanied by a separate declaration that specifies the
following:
 
“(1) the effect of the amendment;
 
 (2) why the amendment is
necessary and proper;
 
(3) when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were
discovered; and
 
(4) the reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier.”
 
JUDICIAL
NOTICE
 
The Court takes judicial notice of County’s exhibits 1­-10. (Evid.
Code § 452(c).) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
As an initial matter, Plaintiffs have not met the procedural
requirements for making this motion, and the Court denies the motion on
procedural grounds. First, the declaration in support does not provide facts
for why the amendment is necessary and proper, does not state when the facts
giving rise to the allegations were discovered, and does not explain why the
amendment was not requested earlier. Second, the motion does not include by
page, paragraph, or line number, which allegations were deleted or added. 
 
Even if the Court were to reach the merits, the Court agrees with the
County. In opposition, County argues the new causes of action fail as a matter
of law. County further argues that the failure to summon medical aid cause of
action is inconsistent with their government claim.  
 
A.   
Government Claim
 
“The aim of the tort claim statutes is to provide sufficient
information to enable the public entity to investigate claims and settle, if
appropriate, without the expense of litigation, and to take the potential claim
into account in fiscal planning.” (Castaneda v. Department of Corrections
& Rehabilitation (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 1051, 1060.) The claim
provisions are mandatory. “Thus, an injured party may not maintain an action
against a public entity unless it has presented a claim to the entity.” (Id.
at 1061.) “ ‘[A] claim need not contain the detail and specificity required of
a pleading, but need only “fairly describe what [the] entity is alleged to have
done.” [Citations.] As the purpose of the claim is to give the government
entity notice sufficient for it to investigate and evaluate the claim, not to
eliminate meritorious actions [citation], the claims statute “should not be
applied to snare the unwary where its purpose has been satisfied’ [citation].” [Citation.]
To be fortified against a demurrer, the complaint should allege the factual
basis for recovery that fairly reflects the written claim. [Citation.]” (Id.
at 1062.) 
 
Government Code section
845.6 states in relevant part: “a public employee, and the public entity
where the employee is acting within the scope of his employment, is liable if
the employee knows or has reason to know that the prisoner is in need of
immediate medical care and he fails to take reasonable action to summon such
medical care.” Section 845.6 is an enumerated exception to section 844.6
immunity. (See Gov. Code § 844.6(a).)
 
Here, Plaintiffs’ government claims stated the following for why
County was responsible: “He was in the custody of the County.  The County failed to properly supervise their
employees, train their employees and provide a safe place for the person in
their custody. The [C]ounty failed to protect [their] Father who was in their
custody.” (Exh. 3-6.) Here, there is no allegation concerning a failure to
render medical aid and therefore, the government claim fails to allege a
factual basis for recovery under Government Code section 845.6. (See Watson
v. State of California (1993) 21 Cal.App.4th 836, 844-45 [affirming sustaining
demurrer based on different factual allegations in government claim and
pleading where claim stated plaintiff was refused medical treatment but where
pleading stated that public entity failed to provide plaintiff with
“appropriate and adequate medical treatment”].) 
 
 Plaintiffs’ motion does not
address this. In reply, Plaintiffs argue the claim substantially complies
because it is based on the same fundamental facts. Plaintiffs rely on Blair
v. Superior Court (1990) 218 Cal.App.3d 221 and White v. Superior Court
(1990) 225 Cal.App.3d 1505.
 
In Blair, the court summarized cases where the claims and
pleadings were not based on the same facts. The court there observed: “[i]t is
apparent that in each of the decisions the plaintiff did not merely elaborate
or add further detail to a claim which was predicated on the same fundamental
facts set forth in the complaint. Rather, there was a complete shift in
allegations, usually involving an effort to premise civil liability on acts or
omissions committed at different times or by different persons than those described
in the claim.” (Blair, supra, 218 Cal.App.3d at 226.) 
 
However, here, unlike in Blair and White, Plaintiffs’
claim did not contain any factual details of how County or its employees caused
Decedent’s death. In White, the plaintiff’s claim contained factual
allegations that she was beaten and falsely arrested by a police officer. (White,
supra, 225 Cal.App.3d at 1507.) Discussing the relevant case law, the court
there concluded that adding a cause of action for negligent hiring, training,
and retention did not shift the fundamental facts about her injury but merely
showed that the public entity was liable for the officer’s actions. (Id.
at 1511.) Here, Plaintiff’s claim contained no facts or even suggestion of a
failure to render medical aid. Accordingly, Plaintiffs fail to show this new
cause of action is based on the same facts asserted in the claim. 
 
B.    
Eighth Amendment
 
“State courts have concurrent jurisdiction with federal courts to
entertain suits brought under section 1983.” (County of Los Angeles v.
Superior Court (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 1166, 1170.) Section 1983 of title 42
of the U.S. Code states in relevant part:
 
Every person who, under color of any statute, ordinance, regulation,
custom, or usage, of any State or Territory or the District of Columbia,
subjects, or causes to be subjected, any citizen of the United States or other
person within the jurisdiction thereof to the deprivation of any rights,
privileges, or immunities secured by the Constitution and laws, shall be liable
to the party injured in an action at law[.]
(42 U.S.C. § 1983.) 
 
“Section 1983 ‘is not itself a source of
substantive rights,’ but merely provides ‘a method for vindicating federal
rights elsewhere conferred.’” (Albright v. Oliver (1994) 510 U.S. 266,
271 [quoting Baker v. McCollan, 443 U.S. 137, 144, fn. 3.].)
 
“Local governmental bodies such as cities and counties are considered
‘persons’ subject to suit under section 1983.” (Kirchmann v. Lake Elsinore
Unified School Dist. (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 1098, 1101.) A local government
is liable under Section 1983 “when execution of a government's policy or
custom, whether made by its lawmakers or by those whose edicts or acts may
fairly be said to represent official policy, inflicts the injury that the
government as an entity is responsible under section 1983.” (Monell v.
Department of Social Services of City of New York (1978) 436 U.S. 658,
694.)
 
However, the Supreme Court has held that the government policy or
custom requirement can be met where the failure to adequately train police “amounts
to deliberate indifference to the rights of persons with whom the police come
into contact.” (City of Canton, Ohio v. Harris (1989) 489 U.S. 378,
388.) As the Court explained further: 
 
“This rule is most consistent with our admonition in Monell,
436 U.S., at 694, 98 S.Ct., at 2037, and Polk County v. Dodson, 454 U.S.
312, 326, 102 S.Ct. 445, 454, 70 L.Ed.2d 509 (1981), that a municipality can be
liable under § 1983 only where its policies are the ‘moving force [behind] the
constitutional violation.’ Only where a municipality's failure to train its
employees in a relevant respect evidences a ‘deliberate indifference’ to the
rights of its inhabitants can such a shortcoming be properly thought of as a
city ‘policy or custom’ that is actionable under § 1983.”
 
(City of Canton, Ohio, supra, 489 U.S. at 388–89.)
 
Here, the proposed amended complaint alleges: “Defendants did not only
allow the flow of these dangerous drugs, Defendants have encouraged it by
deliberately turning a blind eye and doing nothing to stop the flow of these
illicit and dangerous drugs into the Men’s Central Jail. Defendants have failed
to properly train and or instruct their employees on the detection and
prevention of the flow of illicit and dangerous drugs like Fentanyl into the
mens Central Jail where they are consumed by vulnerable inmates.” (Proposed
Amend. Complaint ¶ 19–20.) 
 
As discussed above, the declaration in support of this motion does not
set forth any facts to support an allegation of deliberate indifference to the
rights of the decedent to explain why the amendment is necessary and proper,
when the facts were discovered, and the reasons why the request was not made
earlier.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Plaintiffs’ motion for leave to amend their complaint is DENIED.
 
Plaintiffs to provide notice and file a proof of service of such. 