 Case Number:  22STCV21519    Hearing Date:   April 30, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


April
  30, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV21519




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Summary Judgment, or in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Southern California Edison
  Company 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiffs
  Brandee Vasquez and the Estate of Jonathyn Bradford, through successor in
  interest Brandee Vasquez   



 
MOVING PAPERS
 
1.      Notice of Motion and Motion for Summary Judgment,
or in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication; Memorandum of Points and
Authorities 
2.      Separate Statement of Undisputed Material
Facts
3.      Request for Judicial Notice 
4.      Compendium of Evidence in Support
 
OPPOSITION PAPERS
1.      Plaintiffs’ Memorandum in Opposition 
2.      Separate Statement in Opposition
3.      Objections to Evidence Submitted by Defendant
4.      Plaintiffs’ Compendium of Evidence in Support
of Opposition
 
REPLY PAPERS 
1.      Reply in Support
2.      Objections to Plaintiffs’ Evidence 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On December 5, 2022,
Plaintiffs Brandee Vasquez and the Estate of Jonathyn Bradford, through
successor in interest Brandee Vasquez (“Plaintiffs”) filed the operative first
amended complaint (“FAC”) against Defendants Southern California Edison Co. and
Does 1 to 20, asserting a wrongful death and survival action based on
negligence surrounding the tragic death of Decedent Jonathyn Bradford
(“Decedent”). The third cause of action asserted is negligent infliction of
emotional distress brought solely by Brandee Vasquez. 
 
Plaintiffs allege that on July 7, 2020, Decedent was swimming in Shaver
Lake, when he was suddenly pulled underwater and ultimately drowned. (FAC ¶ 4.)
Brandee Vasquez witnessed Decedent struggling during the incident. (Id.
¶ 50.)
 
Plaintiffs allege the following against Moving Defendant Southern
California Edison Company (“Defendant”). Defendant owned, control, operated, or
managed Shaver Lake, which is artificial and was created by Defendant. (FAC ¶
9, 15.) Plaintiffs allege the lake receives waters from the tunnels of
Defendant’s Big Creek Hydroelectric Project. (Id. ¶ 15.) Defendant owed
a duty of care to Plaintiffs and breached that duty by failing provide the
following: signs or warnings about hazards at the lake such as strong currents,
frigid temperatures, and debris, notice that five others had drowned at the
lake, failing to provide a lifeguard on duty or rescue equipment, and that
emergency services were hours away. (Id. ¶ 28.) 
 
Plaintiffs also allege this conduct constituted “willful or malicious
failure to guard or warn against a dangerous condition, use, structure, or
activity because: (1) Defendants had actual or constructive knowledge of the
dangerous condition; (2) Defendants had actual or constructive knowledge that
injury is a probable, as opposed to possible, result of the danger; and (3)
Defendants exhibited a conscious failure to act to avoid the danger.” (FAC ¶
31.) Accordingly, the FAC prays for punitive damages. 
 
Defendant now moves for summary judgment, or in the alternative,
summary adjudication of the following issues: (1) Defendant did not owe a duty
to Decedent since it does not own, possess, or control the navigable waters of
Shaver Lake; (2) Plaintiffs’ claims are barred by the doctrine of recreational
immunity under Civil Code section 846; (3) Plaintiffs’ claims are barred by the
doctrine of primary assumption of the risk; and (4) the punitive damages claim
fails. Plaintiffs oppose and Defendant replies.  
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
“A
party may move for summary adjudication as to one or more causes of action
within an action, one or more affirmative defenses, one or more claims for
damages, or one or more issues of duty, if the party contends that the cause of
action has no merit, that there is no affirmative defense to the cause of
action, that there is no merit to an affirmative defense as to any cause of
action, that there is no merit to a claim for damages, as specified in Section
3294 of the Civil Code, or that one or more defendants either owed or did not
owe a duty to the plaintiff or plaintiffs.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(f)(1).) “A motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only if it
completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages,
or an issue of duty.” (Id.) “[T]he party moving for
summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue
of material fact and that he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law[.]
There is a triable issue of material fact if, and only if, the evidence would
allow a reasonable trier of fact to find the underlying fact in favor of the
party opposing the motion in accordance with the applicable standard of
proof.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826,
850.)  “[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of
production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable
issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of production, he causes a
shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a burden
of production of his own to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a
triable issue of material fact.” (Ibid.; Smith v. Wells Fargo
Bank, N.A. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 1463, 1474 [summary judgment standards
held by Aguilar apply to summary adjudication motions].)  Further, in line with Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co., “[o]n a motion for summary adjudication, the trial court has
no discretion to exercise.  If a triable
issue of material fact exists as to the challenged causes of action, the motion
must be denied. If there is no triable issue of fact, the motion must be
granted.” (Fisherman's Wharf Bay Cruise Corp. v. Superior Court (2003)
114 Cal.App.4th 309, 320.)
 
“On a summary judgment motion, the court must therefore consider what
inferences favoring the opposing party a factfinder could reasonably draw from
the evidence. While viewing the evidence in this manner, the court must bear in
mind that its primary function is to identify issues rather than to determine
issues.  Only when the inferences are
indisputable may the court decide the issues as a matter of law. If the
evidence is in conflict, the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” (Binder
v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839 [cleaned up].)  Further, “the trial court may not weigh the
evidence in the manner of a factfinder to determine whose version is more
likely true.  Nor may the trial court
grant summary judgment based on the court's evaluation of credibility.” (Id.
at p. 840 [cleaned up]; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of
Transportation (2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for
summary judgment or summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must
instead view it in the light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all
reasonable inferences in favor of that party”].)  
 
JUDICIAL
NOTICE
 
The Court grants the requests for judicial notice. 
 
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
 
The Court overrules the following objections by Plaintiffs: 1–8. The
Court declines to rule on Plaintiff’s objection number 9 as it has no effect on
the ruling herein. 
 
The Court declines to rule on Defendant’s objections as they have no
effect on the ruling herein. 
 
DISCUSSION
The elements of a cause of action for negligence are: (1) a
duty on the part of defendant toward plaintiff; (2) defendant’s breach of that
duty; and (3) harm to the plaintiff caused by that breach. (Kesner v.
Superior Court (2016) 1 Cal.5th 1132, 1142.)¿¿To prevail on a claim
for premises liability, Plaintiff must prove: (1) defendant owned or controlled
the subject property; (2) defendant was negligent in the use or maintenance of
the property; (3) plaintiff was harmed; and (4) defendant’s negligence was a
substantial factor in causing plaintiff’s harm. (See Rowland v. Christian
(1968) 69 Cal.2d 108.) 
In general, “[e]veryone is responsible, not only for the
result of his or her willful acts, but also for an injury occasioned to another
by his or her want of ordinary care or skill in the management of his or her
property or person, except so far as the latter has, willfully or by want of
ordinary care, brought the injury upon himself or herself.” (Civ. Code, §
1714.) Section 1714 “establishes the default rule that each person has a duty
to exercise, in his or her activities, reasonable care for the safety of
others.” (Brown v. USA Taekwondo (2021) 11 Cal.5th 204, 214.)¿¿“[T]he
law imposes a general duty of care on a defendant only when it is the defendant
who has created a risk of harm to the plaintiff, including when the defendant
is responsible for making the plaintiff's position worse. [Citation.]” (Id.
[internal quotation marks omitted].) 
Primary Assumption of the
Risk 
 
Defendant argues that Plaintiffs’
claims are barred by the doctrine of primary assumption of the risk.
 
The primary assumption of the risk doctrine bars a plaintiff’s recovery for
negligence when “it can be established that, because of the nature of the
activity involved and the parties’ relationship to the activity, the defendant
owed the plaintiff no duty of care.”¿ (Neighbarger v. Irwin Industries, Inc.
(1994) 8 Cal.4th 532, 538; see also Avila v. Citrus Community College Dist.
(2006) 38 Cal.4th 148, 161 [“[p]rimary assumption of the risk arises when, as a
matter of law and policy, a defendant owes no duty to protect a plaintiff from
particular harms”].)¿ “The doctrine of ‘primary’ assumption of risk developed
as an exception to the general rule that all persons have a duty to use due
care to avoid injury to others. . . . Primary assumption of risk is a complete bar to recovery.”¿ (Childs
v. County of Santa Barbara (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th 64, 69 [citation
omitted].)¿ 
 
“Primary assumption of the risk is an objective test.¿ It does not
depend on a particular plaintiff’s subjective knowledge or appreciation of the
potential for risk. . . . Whether a duty exists ‘does not turn on the
reasonableness or unreasonableness of the plaintiff’s conduct, but rather on
[1] the nature of the activity or sport in which the defendant is engaged and
[2] the relationship of the defendant and the plaintiff to that activity or
sport.’¿ If a duty is found not to exist, primary
assumption of risk applies, and a defendant is
liable only if he intentionally injures the plaintiff or engages in conduct so
reckless as to be totally outside the range of the ordinary activity involved
in the sport or activity.”¿(Saville v. Sierra College (2005) 133
Cal.App.4th 857, 866 (citing Knight v. Jewett (1992) 3 Cal.4th 296,
313).)¿
 
There is also a duty not to unreasonably increase the risks
of injury to participants beyond those inherent in the activity. (Nalwa v.
Cedar Fair, L.P. (2012) 55 Cal.4th 1148, 1162.)¿The doctrine of primary assumption of risk
applies “where ‘conditions or conduct that otherwise might be viewed as
dangerous often are an integral part of the sport [or activity] itself.’”¿ (Saville,
supra, 133 Cal.App.4th at p. 867.) 
 
To evaluate the applicability of the primary assumption of risk
doctrine, a court must examine “the nature of the sport itself,” as well as
“the defendant’s role in, or relationship to, the sport.”¿ (Knight, supra,
3 Cal.4th at p. 317.)¿ “[T]he primary assumption of risk doctrine is not limited to activities
classified as sports, but applies as well to other recreational activities
‘involving an inherent risk of injury to voluntary participants . . . where the
risk cannot be eliminated without altering the fundamental nature of the
activity.’”¿ (Nalwa, supra, 55 Cal.4th at p. 1156 [citing Beninati
v. Black Rock City, LLC (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 650, 658].)¿ 
 
“Which
risks are inherent in a given recreational activity is suitable for resolution
on summary judgment. [Citation.] Such a determination is a legal question
within the province of the courts and is reached from common knowledge. [Citation.]
The court may also consider its ‘own or common experience with the recreational
activity ... and documentary evidence introduced by the parties on a motion for
summary judgment.’ [Citation.]” (Griffin v. The Haunted Hotel, Inc.
(2015) 242 Cal.App.4th 490, 499.) 
 
“Under
the primary assumption of risk doctrine, ‘a court need not ask what risks a
particular plaintiff subjectively knew of and chose to encounter, but instead
must evaluate the fundamental nature of the [recreational activity] and the
defendant's role in or relationship to that [activity] to determine whether the
defendant owes a duty to protect a plaintiff from the particular risk of harm.’
[Citation.]” (Griffin, supra, 242 Cal.App.4th at 499.) 
 
            Here,
Defendant sets forth the following relevant facts:
 
-         
Plaintiff has acknowledged in discovery that she is no
longer contending that the submerged remains of an old mill and its mechanical
remnants, lumber industry by-products (including thousands of feet of logs),
and the jagged and rusting hull of an old steamship caused or contributed to
Decedent’s death. (UMF 59.) 
-         
In response to discovery, Plaintiff was unable to
provide any substantive support that changing water depths, underwater caves,
ledges and/or sudden drop offs caused Decedent’s drowning, but only conclusory
assertions that “given the nature of [Decedent’s] death by drowning,” such
conditions “may have been involved.” (UMF 60.) 
-         
At the location where the incident occurred, there is
only dirt and rocks at the lake bottom. (UMF 61.) 
-         
The drowning on July 7, 2020, did not involve an SCE
operation or facility. (UMF 62.) 
-         
SCE’s hydroelectric facilities were located on the
opposite side of the lake about three miles away from the cove where the
incident occurred. (UMF 63.) 
-         
SCE was, and is, not aware that the waters in Eastwood
Cove (where the incident occurred) contain strong currents, unusually frigid
temperatures, or pose a greater drowning risk than the obvious ones that exist
at any lake, ocean, or other body of water. (UMF 64.) 
-         
SCE has no record of, and is not aware of, any prior
reports that Eastwood Cove contains strong currents, unusually frigid
temperatures, dangerous debris, or any other conditions that would endanger
swimmers or otherwise increase the dangers of lake swimming. (UMF 65.) 
-         
Despite thousands of visitors a year, SCE is unaware of
any fatal drownings ever occurring at Eastwood Cove other than Decedent. (UMF
66.) 
 
Here, it is undisputed that
Decedent drowned while swimming in a lake. The Court finds that drowning is a
risk inherent in the activity of swimming. (Capri v. L.A. Fitness
International, LLC (2006) 136 Cal.App.4th 1078, 1088 [“There are risks
inherent in the sport of swimming, such as drowning.”].) However, this by
itself does not automatically preclude liability. As noted in the authorities
above, the court must also examine the defendant’s role or relationship to the
activity.[1] On
this point, Plaintiffs contend that Defendant’s activities pulling water to and
from the lake to manage the dam contributed to Decedent’s drowning. 
 
Plaintiff sets forth the following
relevant facts: 
 
-         
SCE’s PMQ witnesses testified in this case that SCE
“controls,” “manages,” and “manipulates” the water of Shaver Lake and the
surrounding shoreline and recreational areas. (PAMF 3.) 
-         
SCE was aware of the risk of cold-water shock in Shaver
Lake. (PAMF 11.) 
-         
SCE was also aware of water fluctuations in Shaver
Lake; indeed, SCE itself causes the water fluctuations, including “increas[ing]
the lake level” a month before Jonathyn drowned. (PAMF 13.) 
-         
SCE was also aware of the high water turbidity in
Shaver Lake. (PAMF 15.) 
-         
Jonathyn’s brother, who was swimming alongside him and
has stated that his breath was taken away by the cold temperature of the water,
tried to find him immediately after he went under water but could not see him
due to the water turbidity. (PAMF 42.) 
-         
Multiple members of Jonathyn’s extended family who
searched for him emphasized that they could not find him because of the water
turbidity and that the frigid water impeded their ability to search. (PAMF 43.)

-         
The coroner’s report notes that the water was 50-55
degrees Fahrenheit on the day of Jonathyn’s drowning. (PAMF 46.) 
-         
50–55-degree water (or even water much less cold) can
cause cold water swim failure within minutes of entering the water. (PAMF 47.) 
-         
SCE admits that it had “control” over highly turbid
water that was released from Shaver Lake in 2011 and caused significant
environmental damage, obligating SCE to pay a $3 million fine. (PAMF 54.) 
-         
SCE caused water fluctuations in Shaver Lake, including
in Eastwood Cove. (PAMF 83.) 
-         
SCE increased water turbidity in Shaver Lake through
its pumping activities. (PAMF 84.) 
-         
SCE collects the water that forms Shaver Lake from the
higher elevations of the Sierra Mountain range’s watershed, which is extremely
cold. (PAMF 85.) 
-         
The water turbidity, water fluctuations, and frigid
temperatures, which are the result of SCE’s conduct, are not open, obvious, or
known hazards, and are instead hidden from and unknown to swimmers at Shaver
Lake. (PAMF 88.) 
 
According to the Declaration of
Gavan Rice, who attempted to dive below to find Decedent after he submerged, he
observed: “[a]s I would dive down, the water would grow quickly colder, and I
felt a strong undercurrent pulling me deeper into the lake. The water was green
and brown, and I couldn’t see a thing. I had zero visibility.” (Pl. Evid. Rice
Decl. ¶ 9.) Plaintiffs proffer the declaration of Dr. Alan Steinman, a water
rescue/drowning expert. He submitted a declaration and report opining that
Decedent drowned due to cold-water induced swimming failure or cold-water
induced leg cramps. (Steinman Decl. ¶ 3, Exh. 1, pg. 6–7.) His report stated
that water in the low to mid-50 degrees Fahrenheit could pose this risk. (Id.
at pg. 7.) He also opined in his report that the turbidity, or lack of clarity
in the lake, impeded Decedent’s rescue since visibility was poor. (Id.
at pg. 8.) 
 
 Martin Ostendorf was deposed as Defendant’s
person most qualified. (Khan Decl., Exh. B, Ostendorf Depo.) He testified that Shaver
Lake is fed by the watershed above the lake and other reservoirs through
tunnels and conduits. (Ostendorf Depo. 150:18–25.) This primarily consists of
snow melts from higher elevations. He testified that Defendant manages or
controls the North Fork Stevenson Creek and the waters upstream from the south
fork of the San Joaquin River through diversions and tunnels to bring the water
to Shaver Lake. (Id. 151:1–20.) 
 
Defendant has met its initial
burden to show that the primary assumption of the risk doctrine applies. The
burden shifts to Plaintiffs. Based on the evidence provided by Plaintiffs,
including that the water in the lake was between 50- and 55-degrees Fahrenheit
on the date of the incident, they have not shown a triable issue of fact. Plaintiffs’
expert opined that the drowning was induced by cold water. The risk of drowning
brought by exposure to cold water was inherent in the activity of swimming in
an outdoor lake. Plaintiffs provide no evidence that Defendant’s conduct made
the water in the area where Decedent tragically died any colder such that it
increased the risks inherent in swimming in an outdoor lake. Therefore, the
Court finds the absence of a triable issue of material fact that Defendant owed
a duty of care to Decedent.
 
C. Negligent Infliction of
Emotional Distress 
 
“ ‘Negligent infliction of emotional
distress is a form of the tort of negligence, to which the elements of duty,
breach of duty, causation and damages apply…’ ”¿ (Huggins v. Longs Drug
Stores California, Inc. (1993) 6 Cal.4th 124, 129-130.)¿ “The law of
negligent infliction of emotional distress in California is typically
analyzed…by reference to two ‘theories' of recovery: the ‘bystander’ theory and
the ‘direct victim’ theory.”¿ (Burgess v. Superior Court (1992) 2
Cal.4th 1064, 1071.)¿  
 
The elements of a cause of action
for the negligent infliction of emotional distress based on the bystander
theory are: (1) the plaintiff is closely related to the injury victim; (2) is
present at the scene of the injury producing event at the time it occurs and is
then aware that it is causing injury to the victim; and (3) as a result suffers
serious emotional distress-a reaction beyond that which would be anticipated in
a disinterested witness and which is not an abnormal response to the
circumstances.¿ (Thing v. La Chusa (1989) 48 Cal.3d 644, 667–68; see also Ra v. Sup. Ct.
(2007) 154 Cal.App.4th 142, 148–49 [bystanders must be closely related to the
victim, have been present at the scene and contemporaneously aware of injuring,
and have suffered serious emotional distress]; Smith v. Pust (1993) 19
Cal.App.4th 263, 273 [plaintiff must be direct victim or a bystander who
witnessed to the injury].)¿ 
 
            Here,
because Defendant has shown there is no triable issue of fact for negligence
regarding Decedent’s death, the cause of action for negligent infliction of
emotional distress fails. 
 
Because the issue of primary
assumption of the risk is dispositive of this motion, the Court declines to
address Defendant’s other arguments. 
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
            Based on the foregoing, Defendant
Southern California Edison Company’s Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED. Defendant
shall serve and file a proposed judgment within 10 days.
 
            Defendant shall provide
notice of this ruling and file a proof of service of such.
 
 


