  Case Number:  20STCV21816    Hearing Date:   December 16, 2024    Dept:  C Skinner v. Downey Unified School District 20STCV21816This action was filed by MYKAI SKINNER, a minor by and through his GAL Brenda Rhona Nonette on June 9, 2020. Trial is scheduled to begin on January 21, 2025. Plaintiff now moves ex parte to reopen discovery in order to propound discovery and take depositions of persons most knowledgeable in this case. Plaintiff's counsel states that the the following depositions must be taken: Head Coach Jack Williams, Freshman head coach Thomas Nunley, and Varsity Defensive Line coach James Bashmen. A motion to reopen discovery shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under CCP 2016.040. (CCP 2024.050(a).) Although "meet and confer" correspondence was perfunctory at best, and demanded a response within two business days, the Court finds that counsel for Plaintiff has satisfied the meet and confer requirement. CCP 2024.050(b) provides that, in ruling on a motion to extend discovery, “the court shall take into consideration any matter relevant to the leave requested, including, but not limited to, the following:(1) The necessity and the reasons for the discovery.(2) The diligence or lack of diligence of the party seeking the discovery or the hearing of a discovery motion, and the reasons that the discovery was not completed or that the discovery motion was not heard earlier.(3) Any likelihood that permitting the discovery or hearing the discovery motion will prevent the case from going to trial on the date set, or otherwise interfere with the trial calendar, or result in prejudice to any other party.(4) The length of time that has elapsed between any date previously set, and the date presently set, for the trial of the action.”Plaintiff's Ex Parte Application to Reopen Discovery is DENIED without prejudice. Prior Counsel's failure to complete discovery does not warrant re-opening discovery at this stage, given the prejudice to Defendants/Opposing Party. Moreover, there is no evidence that Plaintiff has attempted to propound any of the discovery referenced in the Ex Parte Application, and there are no Motions to Compel Discovery scheduled to be heard. If essential discovery is ongoing, the parties are not foreclosed from seeking a trial continuance in Dept. SE-F, and requesting that the discovery cutoff date to be tied to the new trial date, if necessary. Opposing Party to give notice. 