 Case Number:  23SMCV04430    Hearing Date:   March 11, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


March 11, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV04430




MOTIONS


Applications to Be Admitted Pro Hac Vice




MOVING PARTIES


Natlie M. Georges and Brian W. Shaffer, counsel for Defendants
  Cigna Health & Life Insurance Company and Cigna Healthcare of California




OPPOSING PARTY


(none)



 
 
MOTIONS
 
Natalie M. Georges (“Georges”) and Brian W. Shaffer (“Shaffer”) previously
moved for a court order allowing them to appear as counsel pro hac vice for Defendants
Cigna Health & Life Insurance Company and Cigna Healthcare of California
(“Defendants”) in this action.  The Court
denied the applications for failure to provide evidence of notice of the
hearing to the State Bar, as required by California Rules of Court, rule
9.40.  (January 3, 2024 Minute Order.)
 
Georges and Shaffer have moved again to appear as counsel pro hac vice
for Defendants.  The applications are
unopposed.
 
ANALYSIS
 
            California Rules of Court, rule 9.40
provides that an attorney in good standing in another jurisdiction may apply to
appear as counsel pro hac vice in the State of California by filing a verified
application together with proof of service by mail of a copy of the application
and notice of hearing on all parties who have appeared in the case and on the
State Bar of California at its San Francisco office, with payment of a $50.00
fee, so long as that attorney is not a resident of the State of California, and
is not regularly engaged in substantial business, professional, or other
activities in the State of California. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 9.40.)
 
The application must state: (1) the applicant’s residence and office
addresses; (2) the courts to which the applicant has been admitted to practice
and the dates of admission; (3) that the applicant is a member of good standing
in those courts; (4) that the applicant is not currently suspended or disbarred
in any court; (5) the title of each court and cause in which the applicant has
filed an application to appear as counsel pro hac vice in this state in the
preceding two years, the date of each application, and whether or not it was
granted; and (6) the name, address, and telephone number of the active member
of the State Bar of California who is attorney of record in the local action.
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 9.40(d).)
 
            The Court finds that Georges and
Shaffer have satisfied these requirements. 
With regard to notice on to the State Bar, Georges and Shaffer have
provided proofs of service indicating that the State Bar was served with (1) notice
of the original January 29, 2024 hearing on January 5, 2024 both electronically
and by mail; (2) electronic notice on January 29, 2024 that the hearing was
continued to February 21, 2024; and (3) electronic notice on February 16, 2024 that
the hearing was continued again to March 11, 2024.  
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER 
Therefore, the Court grants both pro hac vice applications.
 
Defendants shall give notice and file a proof of service of such.
 
DATED: March 11, 2024                                                       ___________________________
Michael E. Whitaker
                                                                                    Judge of the Superior Court
 
 