 Case Number:  24TRCV00775    Hearing Date:   May 24, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling   HEARING DATE:                 May 24, 2024   CASE NUMBER:                  24TRCV00775  CASE NAME:                        David Thompson Boyd v. Anuko Corporation,  et al.   MOVING PARTY:                Plaintiff, David  Thompson Boyd, in pro per   RESPONDING PARTY:       Defendant, Anuko Corporation,  its successors and/or assigns aka Amuko Corporation¿  TRIAL DATE:                        24TRCV00775  - Not Set.                                                   24IWUD00668  – May 29, 2024   MOTION:                             (1) Motion to  Consolidate     Tentative Rulings:                  (1) DENIED.      The  Court notes that two different spellings of the entity party’s name are  contained in the pleadings, “Anuko” and “Amuko”.  For consistency of reference in this  tentative ruling and until the true spelling can be determined, the Court will  use the spelling with the letter “N”.    I. BACKGROUND   A.     Factual   This motion  involves the present case, Case No. 24TRCV00775, David Thompson Boyd v. Anuko Corporation, et  al. and the second case sought to consolidate with it, Case No. 24IWUD00668  Anuko Corporation v. David Boyd, et al.                On  March 4, 2024, Plaintiff in the present case, David Thompson Boyd (“Boyd”)  filed a Complaint, in pro per, against Defendant, Anuko Corporation, and DOES 1  through 20 for: (1) Breach of Contract; (2) Breach of Covenant of Good Faith  and Fair Dealing; (3) Retaliatory Eviction; (4) Uncured Building Violations;  (5) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress; (6) Negligent Infliction of  Emotional Distress; and (6) Negligence.                Further,  in Case No. 24IWUD00668, the case Boyd is seeking to consolidate, Amuko filed  an unlawful detainer case on March 21, 2024 as against Boyd which is set for  trial the week after the hearing on this motion.               Boyd  now moves consolidate Anuko’s unlawful detainer case with the leading numbered  case Boyd filed here.      B.      Procedural    On May 1, 2024, Boyd filed this Motion to Consolidate  Actions. On May 13, 2024, Anuko filed an opposition brief. To date, no reply  brief has been filed.    II. ANALYSIS   A.     Legal  Standard   California Rules of Court,  rule 3.350, subdivision (a) states in relevant part:    (1) A notice of motion to consolidate must:  (A) List all named parties in each case, the names of those who  have appeared, and the names of their respective attorneys of record;  (B) Contain the captions of all the cases sought to be  consolidated, with the lowest-numbered case shown first; and  (C) Be filed in each case  sought to be consolidated.    (2) The motion to consolidate:  (A) Is deemed a single motion for the purpose of determining the  appropriate filing fee, but memorandums, declarations, and other supporting  papers must be filed only in the lowest-numbered case;  (B) Must be served on all attorneys of record and all  non-represented parties in all of the cases sought to be consolidated; and  (C) Must have a proof of service  filed as part of the motion.    (Cal. Rules of Court, rule  3.350, subd. (a)). Also, the consolidation statute, Code of Civil Procedure  section 1048, states in relevant part:    (a)  When actions involving a common question of law or fact  are pending before the court, it may order a joint hearing or trial of any or  all the matters in issue in the actions; it may order all the actions  consolidated and it may make such orders concerning proceedings therein as may  tend to avoid unnecessary costs or delay.    (b)  The court, in furtherance of convenience or to avoid  prejudice, or when separate trials will be conducive to expedition and economy,  may order a separate trial of any cause of action, including a cause of action  asserted in a cross-complaint, or of any separate issue or of any number of  causes of action or issues, preserving the right of trial by jury required by  the Constitution or a statute of this state or of the United States.    (Code Civ. Proc., § 1048,  subd. (a).)     The granting or denial of the  motion to consolidate rests in the sound discretion of the trial court and will  not be reversed except upon a clear showing of abuse of discretion. (See Fellner  v. Steinbaum (1955) 132 Cal.App.2d 509, 511.)     B.      Discussion     Here, this Court notes  that Boyd does not quite comply with the requirements of a Motion to  Consolidate. For example, while Boyd does comply with California Rules of  Court, rule 3.350, subdivision (a), when he listed all named parties in each  case and their attorneys, contained the captions of each case sought to be  consolidated, with the lowest-numbered case shown first, Boyd failed to comply  by failing to list the parties who have appeared in the cases, and also failed  to file the motion in each of the cases sought to be consolidated. A review of  the documents filed in Anuko’s unlawful detainer action does not contain any  motion to consolidate. As such, Boyd has not complied with rule 3.350(a)  completely.    Further, Boyd’s motion  to consolidate does not have any evidentiary support.  There is no declaration attesting to the  similarity of the case, commonality of issues to be tried, status of discovery  in one or both of the cases, and other facts relevant to a court’s  determination of a consolidation motion.   Boyd’s motion also does not address the looming trial date in the  unlawful detainer action, even though the prejudice to one or more of the  parties is one of the factors a court must consider in deciding whether to  consolidate two or more cases.  (See State  Farm Insurance Co. v. Superior Court (1956) 47 Cal.2d 428, 431-32.)  The Opposition highlights the issue of  potential prejudice to Anuko if the two cases were consolidated and trial were  delayed.  Unlawful detainer cases are  entitled to statutory precedence for trial Per Code of Civil Procedure §1179a  because the right to possession of real property is at issue.  The Unlawful detainer case is set for trial on  May 29, 2024, less than a week after the hearing on this consolidation  motion.  (Block Decl. ¶ 5.)  The Opposition points out that unlawful  detainer cases are generally not tried together with other causes of action, in  large part because of the limited, summary nature of the right-to-possession  inquiry that is the sine qua non of an eviction trial, and because the  expeditious processes in an unlawful detainer case would be frustrated if a UD  case were consolidated or related to an unlimited civil case for monetary damages,  statutory violations, declaratory relief, and the like.  (See Childs v. Eltinge (1973) 29  Cal.App.3d 843, 853.)  Unlimited civil  cases have much longer time periods for discovery, responsive pleadings, notice  of motions, and other procedures than the 5-day periods for each of those  things in a UD case.  As one telling  example, the case management conference in Mr. Boyd’s lawsuit is not scheduled  to occur until August 27, 2024, three months after the trial is set in the UD  case.   The Court finds the  Opposition to be far more persuasive than the moving papers, and thus the Court  exercises its discretion to deny the motion to consolidate Mr. Boyd’s unlimited  civil lawsuit with Anuko’s unlawful detainer suit.   Boyd’s  motion is thus DENIED.    III. CONCLUSION  For the foregoing reasons, Plaintiff’s  Motion to Consolidate is DENIED   Defendant is ordered to give  notice. 