  Case Number:  20STCV09554    Hearing Date:   May 24, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling  HEARING  DATE:                 May 24, 2024  CASE  NUMBER:                  20STCV09554  (consolidated with Case No. 20STCV35557)   CASE NAME:                        Maria Lopez, et al. v. Matrix  Service, Inc., et al.          MOVING  PARTY:                Plaintiffs, Sonia  Soto, individually and successor-in-interest to The Estate of Gamaliel  Gonzalez, and Jayden Salas, Giancarlo Salas, Christian Gonzalez, by and through  their Guardian Ad Litem, Sonia Soto   RESPONDING  PARTY:       Defendant, Matrix Services,  Inc.    TRIAL  DATE:                        September 9,  2024    MOTION:                             (1) Motion  for Trial Preference    Tentative  Rulings:                  (1) Plaintiff’s  Motion for Trial Preference is GRANTED.      I.  BACKGROUND   A. Factual   This action concerns the wrongful death of decedent  Gamaliel Gonzalez, who was working inside an oil storage tank at Torrance  Refinery, when a jack stand his crew was using malfunctioned under weight,  causing parts of the jack stand to break apart under high velocity, striking  him in the head. Decedent Gamaliel Gonzalez was employed by J.T. Thorpe, a  company engaged in the business of oil tank maintenance. On May 8, 2020,  Plaintiffs Maria Lopez and Martin Gonzalez filed the operative first amended  complaint for negligence (wrongful death) and strict liability against Matrix  Service, Inc. (“Matrix”) and Torrance Refining Company LLC (“TRC”). TRC owns  Torrance Refinery and the tank where the accident occurred. Matrix is alleged  to have worked on the design and manufacture of the jack stand that  malfunctioned and caused the accident. On September 17, 2020, Plaintiffs Sonia  Soto, individually and as successor in interest to The Estate of Gamaliel  Gonzalez, as well as Jayden Salas, Giancarlo Salas, and Christian Gonzalez  filed a complaint alleging various causes of action against Matrix and TRC.    Plaintiffs note that the trial is currently schedules  for September 9, 2024, based on the parties’ stipulation and the court’s  availability. Plaintiffs now make this motion to “solidify” the existing trial  date so that no further continuances will be made. Plaintiffs contend that minor  Christian Gonzalez has a “substantial interest” in the outcome of this case as  he is decedent’s biological child. Thus, he requests this Court to grant his  motion to solidify the September 9, 2024 trial date.      B. Procedural  On April 25, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Motion for Trial  Preference pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure, section 36, subdivision (b). On  May 13, 2024, Matrix filed an opposition brief.   Plaintiff’s reply was filed May 16, 2024.    II.  ANALYSIS   A.    Legal  Standard     Code of Civil Procedure § 36 provides in relevant part  as follows:   “(b) A civil action to recover damages for wrongful  death or personal injury shall be entitled to preference upon the motion of any  party to the action who is under 14 years of age unless the court finds that  the party does not have a substantial interest in the case as a whole… … (f) Upon the granting of such a motion for preference,  the court shall set the matter for trial not more than 120 days from that date  and there shall be no continuance beyond 120 days from the granting of the  motion for preference except for physical disability of a party or a party's  attorney, or upon a showing of good cause stated in the record. Any continuance  shall be for no more than 15 days and no more than one continuance for physical  disability may be granted to any party.”   B.     Discussion     Here, Plaintiffs  contend that one of them, Christian Gonzalez, is a party who is under the age  of 14 years old. Code of Civil Procedure, section 36, subdivision (b), allows a  party seeking to recover damages in a wrongful death or personal injury action  to seek trial preference so long as that party has a substantial interest in  the case. Counsel for Plaintiffs has filed a declaration in support of the  motion, attaching the birth certificate of Christian Gonzalez, which states he  was born on September 17, 2018. (Declaration of Mark G. Cunningham (“Cunningham  Decl.”), ¶¶3-4.) Moreover, Plaintiffs assert that  the legislature intended trial preference under section 36(b) to be mandatory.  (citing Peters v. Superior Court (1989) 212 Cal.App.3d 218, 224.)    In opposition, Matrix agues that the  motion should be denied because: (1) it is not supported by admissible  evidence; and (2) plaintiff lacks substantial interest in the case. Here, the  Court is not persuaded by the admissible evidence argument. Plaintiff’s counsel  Mark G. Cunningham attached a copy of Christian Gonzalez’s birth certificate  and has declared under the penalty of perjury that it is his actual birth  certificate.  The document attached to counsel’s  declaration bears circumstantial indicia of accuracy including the watermark of  the County, seals and barcode impressions on the face of the document, an  absence of apparent alterations or erasures, etc.  The Clerk’s certification also appears at the  bottom left portion of the exhibit.  Further,  Mr. Cunningham gave a reply declaration where he stated that Christian’s mother  confirmed his age when the mother was recently deposed.  While technically the birth certificate attached  as an exhibit should have been a certified copy and Ms. Lopez herself could  have given the declaration, the Court is not inclined to require Plaintiffs to  do either in the absence any evidence that that the representations of counsel  as to those matters are untrue.     Second, Matrix is asserting that  Christian Gonzalez is one of six (6) plaintiffs in this consolidated action seeking  wrongful death damages, and thus has 14.29% interest in the case.  There does not appear to be case law or  statutory precedent which defines what “substantial interest” means. Matrix cited  Rice v. Superior Court (1982) 136 Cal.App.3rd 81, 86 to make  its argument that the plain dictionary definition of terms in Section 36(a)  should be employed.  In the Court’s view,  it would be incongruous if an only child of a deceased parent could bring a  preference motion but one of four or more children of the same decedent could  not.  In the Court’s view, the term “substantial  interest” means an interest that is considerable in quantity, important, real,  material, or significant.  By reference  to the “substantial factor” test of causation in CACI 430, “substantial” means a  factor that is “more than a remote or trivial” one, and an interest that may be  one of many rather than the sole or only factor.  Matrix points out that Section 36(a) includes  the phrase “in the case as a whole.”  In  the Court’s view this restriction on a moving party’s interest means that the  moving party cannot only have a stake limited to a portion of the case or only  one of multiple causes of action.  Christian’s interest seems to the Court to be in  the case as a whole, even if he might be entitled to only a percentage or  fraction of the total amount awarded, if any. None of the other children of the  decedent have filed opposition to the preference motion, a factor the Court  would consider if the majority of the plaintiffs opposed a trial set within 120  days from the hearing of this motion.     The Court’s tentative ruling, pending  oral argument, is to grant this motion discretionarily if not mandatorily. The  case was filed on March 6, 2020. A minor child who has lost his father,  allegedly due to misconduct by one or mor defendants, has patiently waited for  over four years for the case to be brought to trial.  Further, this case already has been set and  re-set for trial, which is now scheduled approximately six (6) months prior to  the case’s five-year anniversary.    III.  CONCLUSION  For the foregoing reasons, Plaintiffs’ Motion for  Trial Preference is GRANTED.  If for some  reason the current September 9, 2024 trial date is sought to be briefly  continued, it would likely not be postponed beyond the 120-day period of  Section 36 running from the May 24, 2024 date the Court is granting the  motion.     Plaintiffs  are ordered to give notice.  