 Case Number:  23TRCV03160    Hearing Date:   May 24, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 May 24, 2024¿¿ 
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   23TRCV03160
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Conjunction
Junction, LLC v. Gordon Leaon, et al.
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendants, Gordon Leon, Michael Barth, Jim Knight,
Colleen Miller 
¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:        Plaintiff,
Conjunction Junction, LLC.
¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                        None set.  
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Demurrer¿ 
                                                (2)
Motion to Strike 
¿ 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) SUSTAINED
                                                (2) Defendant’s
Motion to Strike is MOOTED
 
¿ 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿ 
¿ 
 
On September 25, 2023,
Plaintiff, Conjunction Junction, LLC (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against
Defendants, Gordon Leon, Michael Barth, Sandy Marshall, Jim Knight, Scott
Kerwin, Colleen Miller, collectively dba ACLAD dba Abalone Cove Landslide
Abatement District, and DOES 1 through 100. On January 12, 2024, Plaintiff
filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) alleging causes of action for: (1)
Declaratory Relief; (2) Fraud – Concealment; (3) Fraud – Intentional
Misrepresentation; (4) Fraud – Negligent Misrepresentation; (5) Constructive
Trust; and (6) Violation of 42 U.S.C. § 1983. On March 12, 2024, this Court
SUSTAINED the demurrer to the FAC with leave to amend. 
 
On March 26, 2024,
Plaintiff filed a Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) alleging causes of action
for: (1) Declaratory Relief; (2) Fraud – Concealment; (3) Fraud – Intentional
Misrepresentation; (4) Fraud – Negligent Misrepresentation; (5) Constructive
Trust; (6) Violation of 42 U.S.C. § 1983; (7) Violation of State and Local
Election Laws; (8) Violation of The Brown Act; (9) violations of Prevailing
Wage Laws; (10) Violations of Proposition 13 and 218; (11) Breach of Fiduciary
Duty; and (12) Public Records Act. 
 
Plaintiff’s SAC is
based on the assertion that Abalone Cove Landslide Abatement District (“ACLAD”)
was not properly formed, but acted as if it were. Defendants now demur, amongst
other things, asserting this is incorrect, and that City and Board resolutions
clearly establish that the City ordered the formation of ACLAS and all
procedural requirements for the formation of ACLAD were met – including the
adoption of the plan of control and initial budget. Defendants contend the City
and Board resolutions establish ACLAD was formed in 1981, over 42 years ago. 
 
Plaintiff contends that
he owns property located at APN 757201602422000
(“Plaintiff’s Property.”) (SAC, ¶ 71.) Plaintiff alleges at the time of
purchasing Plaintiff’s property, the prior owners executed an assignment of any
claims associated with Plaintiff’s Property against third-parties in favor of
Plaintiff. Each year, Plaintiff alleges that ACLAD issued assessment notices to
Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s predecessors in interest in Plaintiff’s Property,
each of which were paid. (SAC, ¶ 72.) Plaintiff further alleges the 2022
assessment totaled $4,808.99, and the 2023 assessment totaled $5,976.60. (SAC,
¶ 75) Plaintiff also asserts ACLAD has taken easements over properties
throughout the region, including on Plaintiff’s Property. (SAC, ¶ 76.)
Plaintiff’s FAC is based on the allegation that ACLAD was never actually formed
into a governmental entity, that the usual requirement of exhaustion of
administrative remedies does not apply here, and thus, Plaintiff files this FAC
for damages incurred throughout the years by ACLAD. (SAC, ¶ 77.)
 
Defendants Gordon Leon,
Michael Barth, Jim Knight, and Colleen Miller (“Defendants”) now file a
Demurrer and Motion to Strike portions of the SAC. Moving Defendants also file
a Motion for Protective Order to Stay all Discovery Pending Resolution of
Defendants’ Demurrer and Motion to Strike. 
 
B. Procedural¿¿ 
¿ 
            On February 14, 2024, Moving Defendants filed their
Demurrer and Motion to Strike. On February 27, 2024, Plaintiff filed opposition
briefs. On March 5, 2024, Moving Defendants filed reply briefs. 
 
            Additionally, on December 14, 2023, Moving Defendants
filed a Motion to for Protective Order and Stay pending resolution of the
Defendants’ Demurrer and Motion to Strike. On January 17, 2024, Plaintiff filed
an opposition. On March 5, 2024, Moving Defendants filed a reply brief. 
 
II. REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL
NOTICE 
 
Along with Moving Defendants’
motions, they have requested this Court take judicial notice of the following
documents: 
 
1.     Document
No. 1 is a true and correct copy of the Certified Transcript of the March 12,
2024 hearing on Defendant's demurrer to, and motion to strike plaintiff's first
amended complaint, and motion for protective order and request for judicial
notice. 
2.     Document
No. 2 is a true and correct copy of ACLAD’s Resolution No. 23-3. This
Resolution was passed, approved and adopted on April 20, 2023. 
3.     Document
No. 3 is a true and correct copy of ACLAD’s April 25, 2023 invoice and letter
to Plaintiff for payment of assessments on or before June 14, 2023.
 
The
Court grants Moving Defendants’ request and takes judicial notice of the above
documents, despite Plaintiff’s objections. 

 
Plaintiff
has also filed a request for this court to take judicial notice of the
following: 
 
1.     Exhibit
1 – The ACLAD website Home Page and Contact Page located at
https://www.abalonecovelad.com/ 
2.     Exhibit
2 – California Secretary of State Search for ACLAD 
3.     Exhibit
3 – California State Controller Response To Public Records Act Request
 
The Court GRANTS this request. 
 
III. ANALYSIS¿ 
¿ 
A. Demurrer¿¿¿ 
¿ 
            Preliminarily,
this Court notes that it advised Plaintiff that if it were to amend its
pleading and rely again on the invalid formation of ACLAD 43 years ago, this
Court was going to sustain an ensuing demurrer without leave to amend. Such a
discussion can be seen in Exhibit 1 of Defendants’ Request for Judicial Notice
– transcripts from the March 12, 2024 hearing. Despite this warning, Plaintiff
has added even more paragraphs addressing ACLAD’s alleged formation issues. 
 
            Now,
Plaintiff is asserting that because, 43 years ago, ACLAD’s formation did not
comply with the Public Resources Code section 26550 when it may or may not have
failed to forward a copy of the resolution to the California State Controller,
that this Court should reconsider the same verbatim causes of action one
through six, which are exact replicas of the causes of action as to which this
Court already sustained a demurrer. The Court is not persuaded by Plaintiff’s argument.
This Court notes that its analysis does not change, nor does the validity of
the Las Tunas discussion this Court analyzed in depth in its previous
tentative ruling on the demurrer to the FAC. In fact, the Las Tunas
Court stressed that formation issues generally were to be brought within the
six-month period. Because this is, again, a formation issue that is being
raised 43 years after the formation of ACLAD, this Court’s ruling is the same. 
 
            Plaintiff
asserts that he has added more factual allegations bearing on the formation
issue, concerning the assertion that a resolution was not forwarded to the State
Controller’s office.  The Opposition
argues that the Controller’s office “confirmed that no such resolution was
adopted and sent to them,” referencing SAC ¶¶ 84-89, but that is not exactly
what the documents in the Request for Judicial Notice state.   Instead, the State Controller’s office indicated
that it did not currently have, some 40 years afterwards, copies of all documents
they may have received.   IN the Court’s view, this is an alternative
method of attacking the formation of ACLAD, after the 6-month window in which to
challenge the formation has closed tightly shut.  The Court declines to relitigate causes of
action one through six and said causes of action are SUSTAINED without leave to
amend.  If that is the goal Plaintiff sought
to enable a writ to the appellate court on this issue, that goal is
achieved.  
 
Legal Standard 
 
A demurrer can be used only to challenge
defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters
outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan
(1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) “To survive a demurrer, the complaint need only
allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action; each evidentiary fact that
might eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.” (C.A.
v. William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.) For
the purpose of testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer
admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City
Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does not admit
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Daar v. Yellow Cab
Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.)¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A pleading is uncertain if it is
ambiguous or unintelligible. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f).) A demurrer
for uncertainty may lie if the failure to label the parties and claims renders
the complaint so confusing defendant cannot tell what he or she is supposed to
respond to.¿ (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d
135, 139, fn. 2.) However, “[a] demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed,
even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can
be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly's of
California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)¿¿ 
 
Causes
of Action based on Formation.
 
            As noted above, causes of action one
through six are sustained without leave to amend. 
 
Failure
to Comply with Government Claims Act
 
            Next, Defendants assert that the
demurrer to Plaintiff’s First through Sixth, Tenth and Eleventh Causes of
action should be sustained, without leave to amend, because of Plaintiff’s failure
to comply with Tort Claims Act. As noted above, the
first through sixth causes of action have already been sustained without leave
to amend on different grounds. Plaintiff’s tenth cause of action is for “Violations
of Proposition 13 and 218”, and the eleventh cause of action is for “Breach of
Fiduciary Duty.”
            The Opposition addresses this issue in part in its argument
that Defendants made service of a Government Code claim “impossible.”   The
SAC also alleges (SAC ¶77) in the alternative that Plaintiff was not required to
comply with the Tort Claims Act because ACLAD was allegedly never formed into a
governmental entity, an issue on which the Court previously found against Plaintiff
at the hearing on the Demurrer to the FAC. 
The Opposition argues that because Plaintiff lacked a street address for
ACLAD, it was “impossible” to validly serve a pre-litigation Government Code
claim so as to exhaust his administrative remedies before filing suit.  But as the Reply Brief discusses, there is
nothing in Government Code §915(a) that requires a tort claim must be served in
the same manner as a Summons and Complaint. 
To the contrary, Section 915.2(a) states that if the claim is not personally
delivered but is served by mail instead, the claim “shall be mailed in the
manner prescribed in this section.”   The
statute does not reference Code of Civil Procedure §415.20, which is argued by the
Opposition to apply and which makes mailing to a post office box ineffective.  But the Government Code section describing how
a claim is to be presented does NOT bar mailing to a post office box. 
Service
of a Summons and Complaint cannot be validly done by mere mailing to a street
address either, but the rules on service of a Summons and Complaint do not
apply to the service of the California Tort Claims Act claim.  The applicable law, Government Code §§915 and
915.2, expressly permit service of a claim form by U.S. mail: “The claim,
amendment, application, or notice shall be deposited in the United States post
office, a mailbox, sub-post office, substation, mail chute, or other similar
facility regularly maintained by the government of the United States, in a
sealed envelope, properly addressed, with postage paid.”  There is nothing that indicates that the “properly
addressed” envelope containing the claim form cannot be a post office box.  Or to an email address if authorized by an
ordinance or resolution of the entity: Section 915.2(d) indicates that
electronic service of a claim form is permissible and that proof of such
service may be effectuated “in a manner prescribed by Section 1013b of the Code
of Civil Procedure . . . .”  
Moreover,
under the Government Code a pre-litigation claim is deemed to have been properly
presented  -- even if it were not
delivered or mailed as provided in Section 915 -- if  “It is actually received by the clerk,
secretary, auditor, or board of the local public entity.”  (Gov. Code, § 915(e)(1).)  Thus, if Plaintiff were truly befuddled by the
lack of a street address despite admitting that he had a post office box
address for ACLAD (Opposition at 3:3-4) where he could have served ACLAD, he could
have emailed or mailed or delivered a California Tort Claims Act claim form to
a board member such as the individual defendants he named and sued in this action,
and upon the Board member’s receipt he would be deemed to have properly served
ACLAD.  
            Accordingly, the Court rejects Plaintiff’s “impossibility
of service” argument regarding the undisputed failure to comply with the claim presentation
requirement as a condition precedent to suing a governmental entity.  The Court thus Sustains the Demurrer to the
causes of action as to which satisfaction of the exhaustion of administrative remedies
requirement applies, i.e., the First through Sixth, Tenth and Eleventh causes
of action
 
Statutory
Immunity
 
            Next, Defendants argue that each
cause of action is barred by statutory immunity. Pursuant to California
Government Code, section 8655 provides: “The state or its political
subdivisions shall not be liable for any claim based upon the exercise or
performance, or the failure to exercise or perform, a discretionary function or
duty on the part of a state or local agency or any employee of the state or its
political subdivisions in carrying out the provisions of this chapter.” (Gov.
Code § 8655.) Defendants acknowledge that in its opposition to the demurrer to
the FAC, plaintiff admitted the only basis it had to challenge that immunity
was on the basis ACLAD was not properly formed. In Plaintiff’s current
opposition, it makes no mention of a discussion having to do with statutory
immunity. Normally the failure to address a ground for demurrer in the Plaintiff’s
opposition papers is tantamount to a capitulation to that ground, but the Court
will give Plaintiff an opportunity to discuss this issue during oral argument
if he has anything new to add.  The
Court’s tentative ruling is to SUSTAIN the demurrer on immunity grounds without
leave to amend. 
 
Seventh
Cause of Action for Violation of Election Laws
            
            The Demurrer to the SAC contends that Plaintiff’s cause
of action is untimely as Plaintiff failed to bring this cause of action within
the 60 day time period as required by Code of Civil Procedure §§ 861, 863, and
864. The validation statutes codified in Code of Civil Procedure §§ 860 through
870, authorize a public agency to bring an action to validate certain matters, and
if the public agency does not bring such an action, then “any interested person
may bring an action within the time and in the court specified by Section 860
to determine the validity of such matter.” (§ 863.) The Seventh Cause of Action
appears to be a so-called “reverse validation action” brought by Plaintiff.  But whether characterized as a taxpayer waste
action under section 526a or as a reverse validation action under section 863
for illegal diversion of municipal funds, either suit must be filed within 60
days of the public agency’s adoption of the resolution or ordinances approving
the challenged plan or expenditure.  (See
McLeod v. Vista Unified School Dist. (2008) 158 Cal.App.4th 1156, 1167.)  
            Plaintiff fails to address this issue in the Opposition, which
again is a tacit admission of the ground for the demurrer.  The Court sustains the Demurrer to this cause
of action as well.  
 
Eighth
Cause of Action – The Brown Act 
 
            Pursuant to California Government
Code section 54954.1, “[a]ny person may request that a copy of the agenda, or a
copy of all the documents constituting the agenda packet, of any meeting of a
legislative body be mailed to that person.” Section 54960.1, subdivision (a)
provides that an interested person may sue the legislative body of a local
agency by mandamus or injunction to determine whether an action taken by that
body violated certain provisions of the Ac, and as a consequence is null and
void. Section 54960.1 limits its remedy to actions that violated the Act’s
mandate for open and public meetings and its agenda posting requirements. To
state a cause of action under this section, a complaint must allege: (1) that a
legislative body of a local agency violated one or more enumerated Brown Act
statutes; (2) that there was “action taken” by the local legislative body in
connection with the violation; and (3) that prior to commencing the action,
plaintiff made a timely demand of the legislative body to cure or correct the
action alleged to have been taken in violation of the enumerated statutes, and
the legislative body did not cure or correct the challenged action. (Bell v.
Vista Unified School Dist. (200) 82 Cal.App.4th 672, 684.) 
 
            Plaintiff’s SAC fails to allege at
least one of the required elements, namely a timely demand of the legislative
body to cure or correct the action alleged to have been taken in violation of
the enumerated statutes.  Because of
this, the demurrer is SUSTAINED.  The Court
will take argument as to what if any amendment could be truthfully alleged to
address this fatal defect in the pleading. 
 
Ninth
Cause of Action for Violation of Unidentified Prevailing Wage Statute 
 
            This seemingly after-thought cause
of action entirely lacks specificity and is uncertain. The Demurrer also raises
a standing challenge to this late-added claim, because Plaintiff fails to state
facts showing that he is a real party in interest such as an ACLAD employee.  The Court finds the grounds in the demurrer
to be meritorious and thus the Demurrer to this Cause of action is SUSTAINED.  
 
Tenth Cause of Action for Violation of
the Propositions 13 and 218 
As
raised by the Demurer, a claimant seeking money or damages against a public agency
must properly present a Government Code claim first. (See Gov. Code, §§ 905,
945.4.) As discussed above, the Court sustains the demurrer to this cause of
action on that ground, without reaching other grounds asserted in the demurrer.  
 
Twelfth
Cause of Action for Violation of the Public Records Act 
 
            Defendant contends in the Demurrer that
Plaintiff admits there was no violation of PRA because he merely requested
records and had not received a response by the time the SAC was field.  The SAC thus does not allege that ACLAD has
withheld any records or that any response it made to the records request violated
a specific requirement.   At best, the allegations of this cause of
action are vague and uncertain as to what misconduct or wrongdoing Defendants allegedly
have engaged in.  The cause of action thus
fails to allege an essential element and the Demurrer to it is sustained.  
 
            B. Motion to Strike 
 
Legal
Authority 
 
Any party,
within the time allowed to respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of
motion to strike the whole or any part thereof. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd.
(b)(1).) The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and
upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter
inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a); Stafford v.
Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782 [“Matter in a pleading which is not
essential to the claim is surplusage; probative facts are surplusage and may be
stricken out or disregarded”].) The court may also strike all or any part of
any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with California law, a court
rule, or an order of the court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (b).) An
immaterial or irrelevant allegation is one that is not essential to the
statement of a claim or defense; is neither pertinent to nor supported by an
otherwise sufficient claim or defense; or a demand for judgment requesting
relief not supported by the allegations of the complaint. (Code Civ. Proc., §
431.10, subd. (b).) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of
the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)¿¿
 
Discussion
 
            Here, because this Court has
SUSTAINED demurrer, thus mooting the motion to strike. 
 
IV. CONCLUSION¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
For the foregoing reasons,
Defendants’ Demurrer is SUSTAINED. The Motion to Strike is MOOTED. 
 
Moving party is ordered to
give notice.¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 