 Case Number:  23TRCV02090    Hearing Date:   May 24, 2024    Dept:  8 
Tentative Ruling HEARING DATE:  May 24, 2024 CASE NUMBER:  23TRCV02090 CASE NAME: Louis A. Sparks, Jr. V. Willie Bell, et al. MOVING PARTY: Defendant, Willie Bell and Maura Bell  RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff, Louis A. Sparks, Jr., in pro per  TRIAL DATE:  None Set.   MOTION:  (1) Demurrer Tentative Rulings:  (1) Bell Defendants’ Demurrer is SUSTAINED.  The issue of the Court granting another opportunity to amend will be discussed in oral argument   I. BACKGROUNDA. FactualOn June 29, 2023, Louis A. Sparks (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants, Willie Bell, Maura Bell, Maura Sparks, Earl L Coats, Davita Dialysis, Robert Sparks, Lois Sparks, Dennis Sparks, Wesslyn L. Hamilton, Edward E. Sarks. Matrae L. Sparks, Marcus O. Sparks, Joyce R. Sparks, Edelberto Ysaguirre, and Hilberto Ysaguirre (“Defendants”). The Complaint appeared to allege a cause of action for Murder.   On October 3, 2023, this Court sustained the Defendants’ demurrer to the original complaint.   On January 11, 2024, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) alleging causes of action for: (1) Personal Injury; (2) Property Damage; and (3) Wrongful Death. This Court also sustained Defendant, Wesslyn L. Hamilton’s (“Hamilton”) demurrer to the FAC, with leave to amend. On March 25, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Second Amended (“SAC”) alleging that based on information received, Plaintiff believes Louis A. Sparks, Sr. and Alvin L. Sparks were both murdered for Life Insurance and Oil, Gas, and mineral Leases in Cass County, Texas.     At the May 14, 2024 hearing on Defendant Hamilton’s demurrer to the SAC, the Court SUSTAINED the Demurrer as to Hamilton without leave to amend.  Now, Defendants, Willie and Maura Bell (“Bell Defendants”) also file a Demurrer to the SAC.    B. Procedural On April 26, 2024, Bell Defendants filed their demurrer to the SAC. On May 16, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition brief. On May 22, 2024, Bell Defendants filed a reply brief.   II. MOVING PARTYS’ GROUNDS  The Bell Defendants demur to Plaintiff’s SAC on the grounds they argue: (1) the SAC fails to state facts sufficient to constitute any cause of action; (2) Plaintiff’s allegations are uncertain; and (3) Plaintiff’s SAC is barred by the statute of limitations.    III. ANALYSIS Legal Standard  A demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) “To survive a demurrer, the complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action; each evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.” (C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.) For the purpose of testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does not admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.)¿¿¿¿ A pleading is uncertain if it is ambiguous or unintelligible. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f).) A demurrer for uncertainty may lie if the failure to label the parties and claims renders the complaint so confusing defendant cannot tell what he or she is supposed to respond to.¿ (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2.) However, “[a] demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) Discussion   By way of background, this Court previously sustained the demurrer to the original complaint because on the face of Plaintiff's Complaint, the Court was unable to comprehend what causes of action Plaintiff was alleging against the various Defendants, and even if the Court were to consider the original Complaint as attempting to state a civil cause of action for wrongful death, there were insufficient allegations of facts alleged to show the elements of a wrongful death cause of action.    Moreover, on May 14, 2024, the other Defendant in this case, Wesslyn L. Hamilton, had his demurrer to the SAC heard by this Court. This Court noted, the SAC appeared to be maintaining causes of action for: personal injury, property damage, and wrongful death against Defendants. Of course, a claim of personal injury or property damage alone is not a cause of action. Instead, a plaintiff must allege a legal basis for seeking to recover for a personal injury or damage to property such as negligence, or an intentional tort, or strict liability in tort. Similarly, the pleading of a claim for wrongful death must include the elements of the tort giving rise to such a claim. (Lopez v. City of Los Angeles (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 675, 685.) This Court noted that the crux of the missing ingredients in the SAC is that it is still not clear which if any tort Plaintiff is alleging. This Court posited the question of whether Plaintiff is alleging wrongful death via negligence, intentional misconduct, conspiracy, etc.? This Court noted the only basis Plaintiff makes for these allegations is, yet again, Penal Code§ 187(a). Penal Code§ 187(a) is not a basis for civil liability. It is a criminal statute that has its own elements of the crime, as distinct from a cause of action in a civil court. Failure to allege civil tortious conduct in a wrongful death case makes plaintiff unable to maintain a claim for damages against Defendants.  As noted in the Court's ruling in February on the demurrer to the FAC, one of the attachments to the FAC and to the SAC indicates that Plaintiff's father died in 1992, over 30 years before this lawsuit was filed. Under California Code of Civil Procedure section 335.1, a suit for the alleged wrongful death of a parent must be brought within two years of the parent's death. While there are some exceptions to the two-year limitation period, the exception(s) must be alleged in the lawsuit for it to survive a demurrer. The SAC does not explain or correct this deficiency, which is a fatal defect in an attempt to plead a viable civil cause of action for wrongful death (or personal injury or property damage, although the state of limitations for a property damage case in three years). The SAC also attaches an exhibit regarding the alleged death of Plaintiff's brother in 2013, which also would be barred by the statute of limitations. Regardless of the truth of the assertion that defendants here benefitted or knew about the death of Plaintiff's father, there is no allegation of the elements of a cause of action for wrongful death, personal injury, or property damage in the SAC that can survive a demurrer, nor are there allegations as to a basis for extending the statute of limitations period. The California Supreme Court addressed the discovery rule and its potential tolling or delaying the running of the statute of limitations in the seminal case of Jolly v. Eli Lilly & Company.  The Jolly Court discussed the policies behind the tort statute of limitations as follows:  “the fundamental purpose of the statute is to give defendants reasonable repose, that is, to protect parties from defending stale claims. A second policy underlying the statute is to require plaintiffs to diligently pursue their claims. Because a plaintiff is under a duty to reasonably investigate and because a suspicion of wrongdoing, coupled with a knowledge of the harm and its cause, will commence the limitations period, suits are not likely to be unreasonably delayed, and those failing to act with reasonable dispatch will be barred. At the same time, plaintiffs who file suit as soon as they have reason to believe that they are entitled to recourse will not be precluded.”  (Jolly v. Eli Lilly & Co. (1988) 44 Cal.3d 1103, 1112.)   . . . .  “In sum, the limitations period begins when the plaintiff suspects, or should suspect, that she [or he] has been wronged.”  (Id. at p. 1114.)   At the hearing on the Hamilton Demurrer, Ms. Sparks discussed a telephone call he received within the last three years which gave him a basis for wondering what role Hamilton and the Bell Defendants might have played in the death of his father and in the death of his brother.   The SAC attaches proof of an investigation that Plaintiff initiated in 2021 and 2022 into various matters, which apparently was undertaken in response to the telephone call.  But in judging the basis for potential tolling of the statute of limitations, the Court must have factual allegations in the pleading itself, not at a hearing on a demurrer, so the defendants can review those allegations and respond with a demurrer or other responsive pleading.   An attachment to the SAC appears to allege that Plaintiff claims his father was murdered for insurance, social security, and oil and gas leases in Cass County, Texas.  The same page of the attachment alleges that someone other than Plaintiff’s brother answered the phone in December of 1992 when Plaintiff called to speak to his father to say that rigor mortis has set in, and that his father was not breathing.  He alleges on this attachment that Maura Bell and Maura Galvez conspired to murder both Plaintiff’s father and brother, but there are no factual allegations as to what they did or when he learned of these alleged facts, other than the allegation that “it is my belief [that] Mr. Bell provided contaminated blood to Maura Bell, his wife to give to Alvin L. Sparks.”  Given the 1992 date of death and the 2023 date the lawsuit was filed, this allegation without more is not sufficient to overcome the defects in the SAC.  “Once the plaintiff has a suspicion of wrongdoing, and therefore an incentive to sue, she [or he] must decide whether to file suit or sit on her [or his] rights. So long as a suspicion exists, it is clear that the plaintiff must go find the facts; she [or he] cannot wait for the facts to find her [or him].  (Jolly, supra, 44 Cal.3d at p. 1111.)    As this is Plaintiff's third bite at the apple, Plaintiff will be required to explain to the Court in detail if and how he plans to move forward with his claims against Bell Defendants if he were granted an additional leave to amend. However, this Court was not persuaded by the arguments presented in the hearing on Defendant Hamilton’s demurrer.  The Court’s tentative ruling is to SUSTAIN the demurrer.  The issue of the Court granting another opportunity to amend will be discussed in oral argument.   Bell Defendants are ordered to give notice.   