  Case Number:  24PSCV01437    Hearing Date:   August 5, 2024    Dept:  H   Plaintiff Jose Antonio Pimentel  and his Successor in Interest Guadalupe Pimentel’s Motion to Substitute  Plaintiff is GRANTED.BackgroundIn this  wrongful termination case, plaintiff Jose Antonio Pimentel (“Plaintiff”) brings several claims against his former employer, Rentokil North America,  Inc. (“Rentokil”), and his former manager, Richard Thongsavanh (“Thongsavanh”),  in connection with Plaintiff’s brain cancer diagnosis.  Specifically, Plaintiff alleges that before  being diagnosed with cancer, he worked as a pest control technician for  Rentokil but never received the proper training for the handling of hazardous  chemicals, even though his manager falsely certified that Plaintiff had received  the requisite training.  Plaintiff  further alleges that after being diagnosed with cancer and while he was  undergoing chemotherapy, Rentokil unlawfully discriminated against him and terminated  him based on his medical condition.  Based on these allegations, the  First Amendment Complaint asserts 14 causes of action against Rentokil, Thongsavanh, and Does 1 through 10,  including, among others, discrimination, retaliation, wrongful termination, failure  to provide overtime wages, unlawful and unfair business practices, and negligent  hiring, supervising, and retention. Following  Plaintiff’s death on May 4, 2014, Plaintiff and his successor in interest now  move for an order to substitute Guadalupe Pimentel, Plaintiff’s spouse and  successor in interest, as the plaintiff in this case. Legal  Standard “On  motion after the death of a person who commenced an action or proceeding, the  court shall allow a pending action or proceeding that does not abate to be  continued by the decedent’s personal representative or, if none, by the  decedent’s successor in interest.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.31.) The  person seeking to continue a pending action as the decedent’s successor in  interest shall file an affidavit or declaration setting forth various facts,  including, among others, the decedent’s name, the date and place of the  decedent’s death, and facts demonstrating that the affiant or declarant is the  decedent’s successor in interest and that no other person has a superior right  to be substituted for the decedent.   (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.32, subd. (a).)   “A certified copy of the decedent’s death certificate shall be attached  to the affidavit or declaration.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.32, subd. (c).)   Discussion Here, the  proposed substitute plaintiff, Guadalupe Pimentel, has filed a declaration that  complies with the requirements of Code of Civil Procedure § 377.32, subdivision  (a).  The declaration identifies  decedent’s name (Jose Antonio Pimentel [Decl., ¶ 1]) and the date and place of  his death (May 4, 2024 in Hacienda Heights, California [Id., ¶ 4]);  confirms that “[n]o proceeding is now pending in California for administration  of the decedent Jose Antonio Pimentel’s estate” [Id., ¶ 8]); and declares  that Guadalupe Pimentel is “Jose Antonio Pimentel’s successor in interest, as  defined in Section 377.11 of the California Code of Civil Procedure, and  [succeeds] to his interest in this action” [Id., ¶ 9] and that “[n]o  other person has a superior right to commence this action or to be substituted  for the decedent Jose Antino Pimentel in this action” [Id., ¶ 7].  The declaration also attaches a certified copy  of Jose Antonio Pimentel’s death certificate. (Id., ¶ 4, Exh. B). Accordingly,  the Court grants the motion and orders that Guadalupe Pimentel be substituted  as the plaintiff. 