 Case Number:  23AHCV01330    Hearing Date:   August 15, 2024    Dept:  X   Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:   August 15, 2024                                    TRIAL
DATE: No date set.
                                                           
CASE:                         HEBEI WANG v.
LIQIANG ZHANG, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 23AHCV01330

 
 
 
MOTION FOR RECONSIDERATION
 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff
Hebei Wang
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      Specially Appearing Defendant Fuxian Zhang
 
SERVICE:                             Filed July 8, 2024
 
OPPOSITION:                     Filed August 2, 2024
 
REPLY:                                 None filed.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
            Plaintiff
Hebei Wang moves for reconsideration of an order made on June 27, 2024, which
granted specially appearing Defendant Fuxian Zhang’s motion to quash service of
summons on the grounds that she is not the Fuxian Zhang named in the First
Amended Complaint. Plaintiff requests the Court to reconsider the decision and
to deny Defendant’s motion to quash.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a contractual fraud case. Plaintiff Wang alleges that
defendants defrauded Plaintiff on an immigration visa or investment-based
immigration project. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
The motion for reconsideration is
DENIED.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
A motion for reconsideration must
be accompanied by an affidavit from the moving party that states: (1) what
application was previously made; (2) when and to what judge; (3) what order was
made; and (4) what new or different facts, circumstances or law are claimed to
be shown. (Code Civ. Proc. § 1008(a).) A party seeking reconsideration also
must provide a satisfactory explanation for the failure to produce the evidence
at an earlier time. (New York Times Co. v. Super. Ct. (2005) 135
Cal.App.4th 206, 213.) 
 
The burden under Code of Civil
Procedure section 1008 “is comparable to that of a party seeking a new trial on
the ground of newly discovered evidence: the information must be such that the
moving party could not, with reasonable diligence, have discovered or produced
it at the trial.” (Weil & Brown, Cal. Prac. Guide: Civ Proc. Before Trial
(The Rutter Group 2023) ¶ 9:328, citing New York Times Co. v. Sup.Ct. (Wall
St. Network, Ltd.) (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 206, 212- 213.) The party seeking
reconsideration also must provide a satisfactory explanation for failing to
present the information at the first hearing, i.e., a showing of reasonable
diligence. (Id. at ¶9:329, citing Garcia v. Hejmadi (1997) 58
Cal.App.4th 674, 690, and California Correctional Peace Officers Ass'n v.
Virga (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 30, 47, fn. 15 (collecting cases).) Granting a
motion to reconsider is improper and in excess of a court’s jurisdiction where
the “new facts” were within the moving party’s possession at the time of the
underlying motion. (Garcia v. Hejmadi (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 674,
689-91.)
 
DISCUSSION
 
Here, Plaintiff seeks
reconsideration of the June 27, 2024 Minute Order granting a motion to quash by
specially appearing Defendant Fuxian Zhang. On the current motion for
reconsideration, Plaintiff argues that Zhang is indeed the person Plaintiff is
looking for. Plaintiff’s new facts are that Fuxian Zhang is the correct person
by way of comparing the home addresses of defendants. Plaintiff argues Fuxian
Zhang is the adopted daughter of another defendant, Liqiang Zhang, and thus
Fuxian’s evidence in her motion to quash—a marriage certificate that shows her
biological father is not named Liqiang Zhang—does not prove that she is not the
adopted daughter of Liqiang Zhang. Further, Plaintiff argues that Fuxian
Zhang’s counsel only allowed Plaintiff to have a short video conference with
Fuxian, and due to the internet connection, Plaintiff was unable to see her
face clearly to make any conclusion.
 
The opposition states Plaintiff
offers no evidence that specially appearing Zhang is not the person who showed
up on the video call, and is the Fuxian Zhang adopted by Liqiang Zhang. The
court agrees. Specially appearing Zhang’s father’s name is Taian Zhang, not
Liqiang Zhang. The Fuxian Zhang Declaration states she does not know any of the
defendants in this case.
 
Based on the court’s review of the
declaration of Plaintiff and counsel, the Court finds Plaintiffs have failed to
meet their burden under Code Civil Procedure section 1008 to establish the
existence of new or different facts along with a satisfactory explanation for
the failure to produce the evidence at an earlier time. 
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s motion for
reconsideration is DENIED.
 
CONCLUSION
 
The motion for reconsideration is
DENIED.
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
 
            
Dated: August 15, 2024                                              ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court



Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the court indicating their 
intention to submit.  alhdeptx@lacourt.org
