  Case Number:  20GDCV00722    Hearing Date:   August 15, 2024    Dept:  X   Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:   August 15, 2024                                    TRIAL
DATE: No date set.
                                                           
CASE:                         LEAFIRE INC, et
al. vs CADM INC, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 20GDCV00722

 
 
 
MOTION TO COMPEL COMPLIANCE WITH SUBPOENA
 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiffs
Leafire Inc. and LLULLLU LLC
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      Defendant Jianqiang Gu
 
SERVICE:                             Filed June 27, 2024
 
OPPOSITION:                     None filed.
 
REPLY:                                 Filed
August 5, 2024
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
            Plaintiffs
are Judgment Creditors, who move to compel banks to comply with a subpoena for bank
records of Judgment Debtor Defendant and his non-party wife. Plaintiffs seek an
order overruling all objections made by Defendant Gu and his wife. Also,
Plaintiff requests discovery abuse sanctions in amount of attorneys fees and
costs totaling $9,600 against Defendant Gu and counsel.
 
BACKGROUND
 
On March 22, 2024, this Court entered a substantial money
judgment award in favor of Plaintiffs against Defendant Gu and his entities: CADM
Inc., CAXYH LLC; CAYFD LLC; CAMYG LLC; CAMG LLC; and CAJYQNG LLC. The total
judgment dollar amount exceeds $20 million and remains nearly entirely
outstanding and unpaid.
 
Plaintiff’s counsel issued the subpoenas to the banks,
demanding production of Gu and his entities’ financial documents and other
documents concerning deposit accounts and assets of Gu and his entities, and
Gu’s spouse Ying Guan.
 
Gu and his wife served consumer
objections by non-parties to production of records, on the banks. Consequently
the banks refuse to produce any documents pending a court order.
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
The motion to compel compliance
with subpoenas is GRANTED.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
Code of Civil Procedure §1985.3
imposes a 20-day deadline for motion to compel production of documents. (See
Code Civ. Proc. §§1985.3(g), 1985.6(f)(4); Thai v. Richmond City Center,
L.P. (2022) 86 Cal.App.5th 282, 287-288 [the proper vehicle to contest
third party consumer’s objection to production is Code Civ. Proc. §1985.3,
which imposes a 20-day deadline, rather than Code Civ. Proc.§2025.480, which
applies when a third party fails to produce records under the third party’s
control and provides a 60-day deadline for bringing a motion to compel].) 
 
Where the subject of the record is
a non-party, the subject may serve objections to the subpoena, which relieves
the recipient of the subpoena from having to produce the records pending a
court order. (Code Civ. Proc. § 1985.3(g).) Where the recipient is a party to
the action, it must file a motion to quash the subpoena, which has the same
effect. (Id.) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff’s motion to compel is
brought with respect to subpoenas issued to (1) Bank of America, N.A., (2) Wells
Fargo Bank, N.A., (3) Cathay Bank, (4) JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., (5) Citibank,
N.A., (6) East West Bank, (7) New Omni Bank, N.A., and (8) U.S. Bank National
Association.
 
Defendant Gu’s objections were
served on June 17, 2024. (Benjy Decl. ¶20.) This motion was due 20 days after
that (Code Civ. Proc. §1985.3), extended by two days because of email service (Code
Civ. Proc. § 1010.6(a)(3)(B)). The deadline was July 9, 2024 and this motion
was filed on June 27—thus the motion is timely.
 
The motion is unopposed. 
 
The Motion to Compel Production of
Documents sought by this subpoena is brought pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 1987.1, which allows the Court to “make an order quashing the
subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those
terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective orders.”
(Code Civ. Proc. § 1987.1(a).)
 
First, Plaintiffs contend Gu is a
party to the action and objections are reserved for non-parties who are the
subject of a record. The court agrees—as a party to the action, Gu was supposed
to file a motion to quash the subpoena instead of serving objections to the
subpoena. Therefore, Gu failed to properly object. 
 
Second, Plaintiffs contend “the
community estate of the Gu-Guan union is liable for the judgment debt of
Defendant Gu. To the extent that Spouse Guan wishes to argue that any specific
property is her separate property, she may do so at the appropriate time –
after levy on her assets. At this stage, Creditor is entitled to investigate
the issue and learn about what assets may exist and how those assets may have
been disbursed, transferred, or hidden. The nature of the property, whether
community or separate, is not presently being litigated and doing so would be
premature until discovery has first been completed.” The Court agrees with
Plaintiffs’ contentions. Family Code section 910 states in relevant part:
“Except as otherwise expressly provided by statute, the community estate is
liable for a debt incurred by either spouse before or during marriage,
regardless of which spouse has the management and control of the property and
regardless of whether one or both spouses are parties to the debt or to a
judgment for the debt.” (Cal. Fam. Code § 910(a).) Family Code section 911
elucidates on this concept, as follows: “The earnings of a married person
during marriage are not liable for a debt incurred by the person’s spouse
before marriage. After the earnings of the married person are paid, they remain
not liable so long as they are held in a deposit account in which the person’s
spouse has no right of withdrawal and are uncommingled with other property in
the community estate, except property insignificant in amount.” (Cal. Fam. Code
§ 911(a).) 
 
Defendant-Debtor Gu and Non-Debtor
Guan are married. California law provides that community property is liable for
debts of either spouse. (See Cal. Fam. Code § 910(a).) Even though the
non-judgement debtor spouse is not personally liable, all of the community
property is “liable” and can be reached to satisfy the debts of either spouse.
 
The subpoenas to the eight banks (Exh.
3) were directed to Gu’s and Guan’s accounts and accounts of the six business
entities which are also judgment debtors (CADM Inc., CAXYH LLC; CAYFD LLC;
CAMYG LLC; CAMG LLC; and CAJYQNG LLC). Plaintiffs learned Gu and Guan objected served
objections on all the banks, and subsequently all the banks refused to comply
with the subpoenas related to all the judgment debtors, subject to a court
order directing them to proceed with production. (Benjy Decl. ¶¶14-15.)
Plaintiffs’ counsel Benjy received from defense counsel Wang copies of all the
objections by email only, on June 17, 2024—the email and the eight objections
are attached to the motion as Exhibit “7”. (Benjy Decl. ¶20, Exh. 7.) The 
 
Absent a court order, the banks are
not required to produce the records sought. (Code Civ. Proc. § 1985.3(g); §
1985.6(f)(3).) Since the Court has not receive an opposition from any of the
judgment debtors or Guan, the Court is unable to discern any argument that
supports the debtors’ position. For example, if a bank declares that it has no
documents in response to the subpoena for the accounts of Gu, Guan, or the
debtor entities, or an argument that a certain real property is not directly
relevant to the community estate, or an argument that Plaintiffs made false
statements to the Court about community property. 
  
Plaintiffs sufficiently demonstrate
that post-judgment discovery was properly served to the banks, who would not
produce documents to Gu and Guan’s objections. The motion demonstrates the
existence of community assets and debtor assets such that discovery into these
financial records is warranted. The Motion to Compel Production of Documents by
(1) Bank of America, N.A., (2) Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., (3) Cathay Bank, (4) JPMorgan
Chase Bank, N.A., (5) Citibank, N.A., (6) East West Bank, (7) New Omni Bank,
N.A., and (8) U.S. Bank National Association is GRANTED. 
 
Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s
motion is GRANTED and sanctions are awarded in the amount of $9,600.00 for
filing costs. The banks shall provide complete, objection-free verified
responses to Plaintiffs and judgment debtor Defendants are to pay $9,600.00 in
sanctions within 30 days.
 
CONCLUSION
 
The motion to compel compliance
with the subpoena is GRANTED.
 
            Moving party
to provide notice. 
 
 
Dated: August 15, 2024                                              ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court



 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the court indicating their 
intention to submit.  alhdeptx@lacourt.org

 