  Case Number:  21STCP03121    Hearing Date:   July 9, 2024    Dept:  82 Wilshire Gayley, LLC                                              Case
No. 21STCP03121
                                                                                                
v.
                                                                    Hearing
Date: July 9, 2024, at 9:30 a.m.
                                                                                    Location:
Stanley Mosk Courthouse    
Los
Angeles County Metropolitan                          Department:
82                                             
Transportation
Authority, et al.                              Judge: Stephen I.
Goorvitch                         
 
 
[Tentative] Order Overruling Respondents’
Demurrers
 
 
INTRODUCTION 
 
            Petitioner
Wilshire Gayley, LLC (“Petitioner”) intends to build a high-rise project
at the northwest corner of Wilshire Boulevard and Gayley Avenue in Westwood.  The Los Angeles County Metropolitan
Transportation Authority (“Metro”) is expanding the subway system and intends
to place a station underneath Wilshire Boulevard and in close proximity to
Petitioner’s proposed high-rise.  The
City will not issue an “early start grading permit” because Metro had not
issued a clearance, even though Petitioner alleges that consultation with Metro
was not one of the original requirements. 
Petitioner alleges that Metro will not issue the clearance because Metro
did not design the tunnel and station to accommodate the full scope of Petitioner’s
project.  This petition follows, and
Petitioner asserts three causes of action. 
First, Petitioner seeks a peremptory writ of mandate under Code of Civil
Procedure section 1085 requiring the City to obey its
ministerial duty to issue a building permit without Metro’s approval.  Second, Petitioner seeks a peremptory writ of
mandate under section 1085 against Metro requiring Metro to design the station
in compliance with its own design criteria and in such a manner as to not
impact Petitioner’s property or project. 
Finally, Petitioner seeks a declaratory judgment as to whether the project
is subject to a requirement to consult with Metro.  Respondents demur to the third amended
petition, which Petitioner opposes.  The
court overrules the demurrers.  Essentially,
Respondents ask this court to resolve disputed issues in their favor, rendering
verdicts in advance of trial.  At heart,
the issues raised by the City and Metro cannot be resolved on demurrer and must
be resolved at the trial.    
 
SUMMARY OF PETITION 
 
            In 2010, the City approved a Vesting
Tentative Map (“VTM”) and other land use entitlements for Petitioner to build a
high-rise project at the northwest corner of Wilshire Boulevard and Gayley
Avenue in Westwood (the “Project”). 
(Third Amended Petition (“TAP”) ¶¶ 2, 25.)  According to the petition, the VTM granted
Petitioner “vested rights to develop the Project in substantial compliance with
the then-existing ordinances, policies, and standards prescribed by law.”  (Id. ¶ 26.)  “The City’s approvals also allowed the Project
to be built with a zero lot line setback from the property line shared with Lot
36.”  (Id. ¶ 27.)  
 
In
February 2018, Petitioner applied to the Los Angeles Department of Building and
Safety (The “LADBS”) for an expedited building permit to enable the
construction of the Project.  (Id.
¶ 33.)  “LADBS issued a Clearance Summary
Worksheet that included a checklist of clearances from City departments
required in order for LADBS to issue a building permit. The checklist also
contained one line item for Metro, stating: ‘Construction within Metro Rail
Planning Area (ZI-2410).’”  (Id. ¶
34.)  According to the petition, ZI No.
2410 purports to require “that a LADBS plan check engineer consult with and
obtain telephonic clearance from Metro prior to issuance of any building permit
for a new structure within ‘an identified Metro Rail planning area (five
hundred foot radius of future alignments).’” 
(Id. ¶ 35, Exh. 2.)
 
            At the same time Petitioner was attempting
to build its high-rise project, the Metro was attempting to expand the subway
system.  “In 2012, Metro approved the
Purple Line Extension Project, which included a proposed Station under Wilshire
Boulevard and station portal structure and entry plaza on Lot 36.”  (Id. ¶ 28; see TAP Exh. 1 [aerial map
of the Project lot, Lot 36, and the Station entrance].)  Then, in June 2018, Metro allegedly made “substantial
changes to the Station’s design, including the relocation of the proposed below
ground Station entrance structure much closer to the property line between Lot
36 and the WG Property.”  (Id. ¶
40.)
 
            The two projects “collided” in 2020,
when Metro informed Petitioner that in order to obtain building permits from the
LADBS for the Project, it needed to comply with ZI No. 1117, which was not
included on the LADBS’s 2018 Clearance Summary Worksheet. (TAP ¶¶ 10, 34-35,
43-45, 48, & Exh. 3.)  According to
the petition, ZI No. 1117 requires Petitioner to consult with Metro to ensure
that the Project will not impact access to, and operation of, the Purple Line
and the adjacent train station.  (TAP ¶
45 & Exh. 3.)  Specifically, ZI No.
1117 states:
 
Consultation with
the Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (Metro) is
required prior to the issuance of any building permit for projects within 100
feet of Metro-owned Rail or Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) right-of-way (ROW) that
meet the below criteria.  Metro must
review applicable projects to ensure safe access to, and operations of,
transportation services and facilities.
 
(TAP,
Exh. 3.)  
 
            In March 2021, Petitioner applied to
City for an early start grading permit. 
(Id. ¶ 57.)  “However,
because Metro had not issued a clearance, the LADBS would not issue a permit.”  (Ibid.)  On October 22, 2021, the LADBS issued a Plan
Check Correction Sheet requiring Petitioner to do the following before City
would issue any permits for the Project:
 
1.    
Get
an addendum letter to the soils report to include the underground
tunnel/station’s effect and mitigation for the design of the highrise building
with the approval of the the LADBS Grading Division.
 
2.    
Update
the structural design of the highrise building to include the effect of the
underground tunnel/station with the approval of the Peer Review Panel, and meet
the requirements of the Los Angeles county [sic] Metropolitan Transportation
Authority (MTA).
 
3.    
Update
the site plan and building sections in the architectural plans to show the
exact location of the MTA tunnel and station.
 
 (Id. ¶ 59.)
 
In
late 2021, Petitioner and Metro entered into an agreement for a third-party
engineer, GeoPentech, to analyze the structural interaction of the two projects
in their permanent condition.  (Id.
¶¶ 84.)  In a July 2022, letter,
GeoPentech opined: “We consider additional static and seismic impacts on the
[Project’s] Tower due to the Station to be negligible assuming that the
Station design accommodates additional demands imposed on it by the Tower under
static and seismic conditions.” 
(Id. ¶ 86 [bold italics in TAP].) 
In a report issued on September 2, 2022, GeoPentech opined that “Metro’s
design of its tunnel and Station did not take into account the Project’s tower
and instead only considered a general uniform 1000 psf surface load to
represent a potential future development at the Project site.”  (Id. ¶ 85.)  
 
            On September 6, 2022, the Los
Angeles City Council (the “City Council”) unanimously adopted a motion
introduced by then-City Councilmember for Council District 5, Paul Koretz, to
resolve this issue.  (Id. ¶ 60.)[1]  Petitioner alleges that the City Council
ordered the LADBS to “remove the requirement that Metro issue clearances for
the Wilshire Gayley project’s construction permits” and “refrain from imposing
any additional permitting requirements on the Wilshire Gayley project related
to the presence of the Metro station adjacent to the Wilshire Gayley
property.”  (Id. ¶ 60.)  Petitioner alleges that the LADBS has failed
to comply with the dictates of the motion. 
(Ibid.)  Among other
things, one day later, on September 7, 2022, the City asked Petitioner to submit
an “addendum” to the soil report.  (See
TAP Exh. 18.)  
 
            Based upon the foregoing, Petitioner
asserts three causes of action: (1)
Peremptory writ of mandate under Code of Civil Procedure section 1085 against
the City; (2) Peremptory writ of mandate under Code of Civil Procedure section
1085 against Metro; and (3) Declaratory relief under Code of Civil Procedure
section 1060 against Respondents.  In the first cause
of action, Petitioner alleges that the Project is subject to the Building Code,
as modified by provisions in Chapter IX of the Los Angeles Municipal Code (the “LAMC”),
that were in effect as of December 16, 2019. 
Petitioner alleges that the pertinent building regulations do not
include the clearance process with Metro set forth in ZI No. 1117, and that the
LADBS has a ministerial duty to issue the Project’s building permits without
regard to ZI No. 1117 and “without first obtaining Metro’s approval.”  (Id. ¶¶ 109-113.)
 
            In the second cause of action,
Petitioner alleges that Metro failed to account for the Project in its design
of its support of excavation plans and in its permanent design of the Station,
in violation of Metro’s duty to do so as set forth in Metro Rail Design
Criteria.  (Id. ¶¶ 114-137.)  Petitioner seeks a writ requiring Metro to
“comply with the Metro Design Criteria by ensuring that (a) the Station and
related structures are designed to withdrawn the loading from the Project,
including its static and dynamic pressures; (b) Metro’s temporary works for
support of excavation are designed so as not to exert loads on the WG Property;
and (c) the design of the station does not impact the construction and
operation of the Project.”  (Id.
at 34, ¶ 2.)
 
Finally,
the third cause of action seeks declaratory relief.  Petitioner alleges that “[a]n actual, present
controversy exists between WG on the one hand and Metro and the City on the
other, specifically as to whether the Project is subject to ZI No. 1117 in the
permitting process….”  (Id. ¶
115.)
 
EVIDENTIARY
ISSUES 
 
            The court grants Petitioner’s
request for judicial notice of Exhibits One through Eleven, though the court
did not necessary rely on every exhibit in ruling on the demurrers.  Metro argues that the court may take judicial
notice of the “existence” but not the “contents” of Exhibits Ten and Eleven.  In fact, the court can take judicial notice
of the existence of the contents of such documents, but not their truth.  (See Gong
v. City of Rosemead (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 363, 368 fn. 1.)  Therefore, Metro’s objections are overruled.[2]      
 
LEGAL STANDARD  
 
A demurrer tests the sufficiency of a pleading, and the
grounds for a demurrer must appear on the face of the pleading or from
judicially noticeable matters. (Code Civil Proc. § 430.30, subd. (a); Blank v.
Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) “We assume the truth of the allegations in
the complaint, but do not assume the truth of contentions, deductions, or
conclusions of law.”  (California Logistics, Inc. v. State (2008) 161
Cal.App.4th 242, 247.)  “A demurrer tests
the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters.”  (Hahn
v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) 
The allegations in the
petition must be liberally construed in favor of Petitioner on demurrer.  (See Mobil Oil Corp. v Exxon Corp.
(1986) 177 Cal.App.3d 942, 947.)  “A demurrer
must dispose of an entire cause of action to be sustained.”  (Poizner
v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119.)  “A motion for judgment on the pleadings performs the same
function as a general demurrer.”  (Burnett v. Chimney Sweep (2004) 123 Cal.
App. 4th 1057, 1064.)  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
            A.        The City’s Demurrer 
 
                        1.         Government Code section 66498.1(c)
 
            Petitioner seeks a writ of mandate
and declaration that ZI No. 1117 does not govern the approval process and that
“the City cannot apply ZI No. 1117 to Petitioner’s building permit
application.”  (Oppo. 16:16-17.)  Specifically, Petitioner seeks:
 
A declaration that
ZI No. 1117 does not apply to or have any legal effect on the project; that
Metro does not have the right to impose requirements on the Project through ZI
No. 1117; that the City cannot condition issuance of a building permit on the
requirement that WG assess whether Metro’s Station will impact the Project and
whether design changes need to be made to the Project to account for Metro’s
Station; and that Metro cannot interfere with the WG permitting process with
the City or otherwise prevent WG from pulling permits in the ordinary course,
including, but not limited to, the main building permit and early start permits
for excavation and shoring.
 
(TAP
Prayer ¶ 3.)  In other words, this action
challenges the legal effect of ZI No. 1117, specifically the City’s refusal to
issue the permit without Metro’s approval. 
The City demurs to the first cause of action, arguing that “the City is explicitly authorized by
the Subdivision Map Act to condition the issuance of permits on assurances that
the Project will not endanger the health and safety of City residents.”  (City Dem. at 6:23-25.)  The City further argues:
 
LADBS has conditioned approval for
WG’s projects on consultation with Metro, the provision of requested geotechnical
studies, or some other method of establishing that the project can be safely
constructed.  LADBS is explicitly
statutorily authorized to do so by Government Code section 66498.1(c).
 
(Id. at
7:26-8:1.)  In other words, the City
argues that its requirements, as reflected in ZI No. 1117, are authorized under
Government Code section 66498.1.   
 
Government
Code section 66498.1 states: “[T]he local agency may condition or deny a permit,
approval, extension, or entitlement if it determines [that] . . . [a] failure
to do so would place the residents of the subdivision or the immediate
community, or both, in a condition dangerous to their health or safety, or
both.”  (Gov. Code § 66498.1(c)(1).)  This section      authorizes a local agency to “apply policies and standards which were not in effect before a vesting
tentative map application was deemed complete if the condition promotes the
health and safety of the local agency’s residents.”  (Bright Development v. City of Tracy (1993)
20 Cal.App.4th 783, 799.)
 
Petitioner does not challenge the City’s authority to impose conditions or deny the
Project permits under section 66489.1(c)(1).  Rather, Petitioner alleges that “the City is
required to follow the building regulations that applied as of December 16,
2019, when the City’s plan check application was complete” and that “[t]his
does not conclude the clearance process with Metro set forth in ZI No. 1117.”  (TAP ¶ 109.) 
In other words, Petitioner alleges that “[b]ecause the ZI No. 1117 Metro
clearance process is not included in Chapter IX of the Municipal Code, it
cannot be used as a basis to refuse to issue or delay the Project’s
permits.”  (TAP ¶ 111.)  
 
More important, in order to condition or deny a permit
pursuant to section 66489.1(c)(1), the local agency must make an express finding
or “determination” that such action is necessary to promote the health and/or
safety of the local agency’s residents. 
(See Bright Development, supra, 20 Cal.App.4th at 799-800 [“There
is nothing in the record which suggests that at any time during the
administrative process City made the requisite health and safety finding.”].)  Because the City raises section 66489.1(c)(1)
as a defense, Petitioner was not required to allege that the City failed to
make the necessary health and safety findings. 
(See ibid.)  The City does
not show, by reference to the TAP or judicially noticeable record, that the City
has made the necessary findings to impose any conditions on the Project permits
pursuant to section 66489.1(c)(1).  Tellingly,
the City does not respond to this issue in its reply brief.  (See Sehulster Tunnels/Pre-Con v.
Traylor Brothers, Inc. (2003) 111 Cal.App.4th 1328, 1345, fn. 16 [failure
to address point is “equivalent to a concession”].)  Simply, the City asks the court to dismiss
this case, arguing that it had authority to proceed under Government Code
section 66489(c)(1), without providing proof that it complied with the
prerequisites of that section.  Therefore,
the court overrules the demurrer on this basis without prejudice to raising
this issue during the merits phase of the case. 
      
 
            2.         Soils Report Review Letter
 
            Similarly, Petitioner challenges the City’s authority to
require an addendum to the soils report. 
The City argues that “the Soils Report Review Letter is entirely
separate from the ZI No. 1117 consulting procedure which the TAP
challenges.”  (City Dem. at 9:15-16.)  The City argues that it has authority to
require a Soils Report under Los Angeles Building Code section 7006.2.  The City relies on the authority of Los
Angeles Municipal Code section 98.0403.1(a)(1), which states the LADBS “is granted the power to
enforce all ordinances and laws relating to the construction . . . of buildings
or structures in the City.”  (Id. at
8:17-19.)  
 
            Again, the City is not addressing
the dispositive issue, viz., whether the City has a ministerial duty to process
Petitioner’s permit application. 
Petitioner alleges that the City already reviewed Petitioner’s soils
report and issued Soils Report Approval Letters on March 17, 2020, and December
4, 2020.  (See RJN, Exhs. 6 &
7.)  Petitioner alleges that the LADBS
plan checker confirmed that the plan check process had been completed and that
the plans were ready to be stamped on October 13, 2021.  (TAP ¶ 58.) 
Then, according to Petitioner, the City rescinded its approval and demanded
that Petitioner amended its soils report to include the effect of the station
on the project.  (TAP ¶ 59.)  In response, Petitioner alleges that the City
Council adopted a motion prohibiting LADBS from imposing further permitting
requirements on the Project relating to the presence of the station.  (TAP ¶ 60.) 
Petitioner alleges that the LADBS ignored the motion and issued the
Soils Report Review Letter anyway.  (TAP
Exh. 18.)  These allegations are
sufficient to state a claim that must be resolved at trial.
 
                        3.         Public Safety Issues       
 
            The City’s demurrer, which is predicated on section
66489.1(c)(1) and the Soils Report Review Letter, raises various factual issues
related to public health and safety and the soils information submitted by
Petitioner and requested by City.  Such
factual questions cannot be resolved at the pleading stage.  (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116
Cal.App.4th 968, 994 fn. 5.)  Simply, these
issues must be resolved at trial.  
 
                        4.         Mootness
 
            Finally, the City argues that the first and third causes
of action are moot because the requested relief would result in no benefit to
Petitioner.  “California courts will decide only justiciable controversies.’”  (Wilson
& Wilson v. City Council of Redwood City (2011) 191 Cal.App.4th 1559,
1573.)  “The pivotal question in
determining if a case is moot is therefore whether the court can grant the
plaintiff any effectual relief.”  (Id. at
1574.)  A petition for writ of mandate
may be dismissed as moot if the requested writ will have “no practical benefit
to the petitioner.”  (County of San
Luis Obispo v. Superior Court (Munari) (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 288, 293.)
 
The City argues that, at best, Petitioner may obtain a writ prohibiting
the City “from consulting with Metro regarding the issuance of permits to the
Project,” but even if so:
 
[T]he project would be
ineligible to receive building permits until it complied with all of the
requirements outlined in the City’s September 7, 2022, Soils Report Review
Letter and established to the City’s satisfaction that the Project can be
constructed without harming the health and safety of the residents living
within and in the immediate vicinity of the Project.
 
(City Dem. at 9:27-10:4.)  It is
not clear that the City is correct.  Petitioner
sufficiently alleges an actual controversy as to whether “Metro has the
right to impose new conditions or requirements on the Project under ZI No.
1117.”  (TAP ¶ 115.)  Petitioner has also alleged a beneficial
interest in a writ prohibiting the City from applying ZI No. 1117 and
compelling the City to process Petitioner’s permit application without
obtaining Metro’s clearance.  Petitioner
could gain a practical benefit from the relief requested in the first and third
causes of action, even if such relief is narrowly limited to ZI No. 1117.  Accordingly, City
does not show, at the pleading stage, that the first and third causes of action
are moot.  
 
            B.        Metro’s Demurrer 
 
In
the second cause of action, Petitioner alleges that Metro failed to account for
the Project in its design of its support of excavation plans and in its
permanent design of the Station, in violation of Metro’s duty to do so as set
forth in Metro Rail Design Criteria (“MRDC”). 
(TAP ¶¶ 114-137.)  Petitioner
prays for a writ of mandate “compelling Metro to comply with the Metro Design
Criteria by ensuring that (a) the Station and related structures are designed
to withstand the loading from the Project, including its static and dynamic
pressures; (b) Metro’s temporary works for support of excavation are designed
so as not to exert loads on the WG Property; and (c) the design of the Station
does not impede construction and operation of the Project.”  (TAP Prayer ¶ 2.)
 
In
sustaining Metro’s demurrer to the second amended petition, the court
(Beckloff, J.) ruled that the second cause of action did not contain (1) “an
allegation of publication or some other reason MTA’s internal policies subject
to discretionary updating can serve as the basis for Section 1085 relief,” or
(2) an allegation that Metro “has failed to comply with that duty.” (RJN Exh. 9
at 122-123.)  At the hearing,
Petitioner’s counsel represented that, in 2018, the Metro Board of Directors
adopted a policy requiring station design to adhere to the MRDC and that Metro possessed
actual surcharge information about the Project prior to Station design, which
it was required to take into account. 
(RJN Exh. 8 at 71, 77.)  Based on
such representations, Judge Beckloff concluded that Petitioner had a reasonable
likelihood of amending the second amended petition to state a cause of action
under CCP section 1085 and granted Petitioner leave to amend.  
 
In
the third amended petition, Petitioner now alleges: 
 
118. …. On January
25, 2018, the Metro Board of Directors adopted the “Systemwide Station Design
Standards Policy,” (“Systemwide Design Policy”) to “ensure[] all future Metro
Rail and Bust Rapid Transit (BRT) stations follow a consistent, streamlined systemwide
design. . . .” (Exhibit 20, at p. 179.) The Systemwide Design Policy mandates
that “[s]tation designs shall be in compliance with Metro’s Systemwide Station
Design Standards, as set forth in in the Metro Rail Design Criteria (MRDC).”
(Id., p. 2.) With respect to contracts for new Metro stations, the policy
provides that “[e]ffective as of this date of this policy, all future Metro
station design contracts shall require that station designs be consistent with
the Systemwide Station Design Standards as contained in the most current MRDC….
 
[¶¶]
 
122. Metro issued
Request for Qualifications/Request for Proposals No. C45161C1152 for the
design-build of the Station (the “Station RFP”) on September 15, 2017. WG is
informed and believes and based thereon alleges that the Station RFP included
the Metro Design Criteria as a requirement for Station design. 
 
123. To that end,
a document titled “Contract C1152 – Stations and Systems, General Requirements
(Division 1),” dated February 28, 2019—prior to the awarding of the Station
contract—makes it clear that the Station design-build was to adhere to the
Metro Design Criteria.
 
(TAP
¶¶ 118-123.)  Petitioner also alleges
that “[u]nder the ‘Systemwide Station Design Standards Policy,’ Metro must
undertake a formal amendment process to make any changes to the Metro Design
Criteria and publish those changes to relevant design and engineering teams.”  (Id. ¶ 116, fn. 7.)
 
These
allegations are sufficient plead that Metro owes a ministerial duty to comply
with the MRDC in its design of the Station. 
“[A] ‘published procedure’ adopted by a public entity which provides
that the public entity will do a certain thing
… can provide the basis for a ministerial duty that
may be enforced by means of a writ of mandate.” 
(Galzinski v. Somers (2016) 2 Cal.App.5th 1164, 1172-1173;
see also Pozar v. Dept. of Transp. (1983) 145 Cal.App.3d 269, 271 [writ
of mandate issued directing agency to follow procedures in its contract bid
forms].)  
 
Metro
contends that the MRDC “dictates” only the design obligations of Metro’s
contractors, not Metro.  Relatedly, Metro
contends that it does not have a ministerial duty to comply with the MRDC
because it is “not available” on Metro’s website and that Metro could
theoretically amend the policy.  (Metro
Dem. 3-4 and Reply 2.)  These arguments
are not persuasive at the pleading stage. 
The TAP alleges that Metro’s Board adopted a policy mandating that
Metro’s transit projects, including the Station, are designed
consistent with the MRDC.  (See TAP Exh.
20.)  Petitioner further alleges that
Metro must undertake a “formal amendment process” to make changes to the
MRDC.  (Id. ¶ 116, fn. 7.)  These allegations are sufficient to plead that
Metro has adopted a formal policy with which it must comply.  Neither Galzinski nor Pozar requires
that an internal agency rule be posted on the agency’s website for the agency
to have a ministerial duty to comply with the rule.  Although the Board policy and MRDC could
possibly be amended, there are no allegations in the TAP or judicially
noticeable record suggesting that Metro has undertaken the “formal amendment
process.”  Accordingly, Petitioner has
sufficiently alleged that, at this time, Metro has a ministerial duty to comply
with the MRDC.
 
Metro
next contends that “[t]he allegations in the [third amended petition] about how
Metro’s Station design did or did not comply with the MRDC are identical to
those the court found deficient when ruling on Metro’s demurrer to the [second
amended petition].”  (Metro Dem.
4:22-24.)  The court disagrees.  As in the second amended petition, the third
amended petition alleges that section 5 of the MRDC requires Metro projects to
follow several design rules, including the following:
 
A minimum [earth]
surcharge load of 400 psf shall be used in the design of tunnels and
underground structures. If there is a potential for future development
adjacent to the tunnels and underground structures, the surcharge from the
actual development shall be used in the design of the structure. In
lieu of a well defined loading, a minimum value of 1000 psf shall be used when
future development is a possibility.
 
            ….[¶¶]
 
Tunnel “liners
shall be designed to sustain all the loads to which they will be subjected with
adequate factors of safety. Such loads shall include: . . . Surcharge loads due
to adjacent buildings.”
 
(TAP
¶ 127 [bold italics in TAP].)  However,
the third amended petition was amended to allege the following:
 
131. Metro
possessed actual surcharge information about the Project since receiving the
Leighton Surcharge Report in September 2020, which was provided during the
precise period of time during which the Station design was scheduled to undergo
seismic analysis and analysis of adjacent existing structures.
 
132. Metro
received additional information about the Project’s surcharge and bearing
pressures between October 2020 and March 2021, at which time the Station design
was still in early stages. 
 
133.
Yet Metro has never accounted for the Project in its design of the Station.
 
(TAP
¶¶ 131-133.)  The third amended petition
also alleges that, in a report issued on September 2, 2022, GeoPentech opined
that “Metro’s design of its tunnel and Station did not take into account the
Project’s tower and instead only considered a general uniform 1000 psf surface
load to represent a potential future development at the Project site.”  (Id. ¶ 85.)  
 
These allegations are sufficient to plead
that Metro did not comply with the MRDC in its design of the Station and that
it has a ministerial duty to do so.  The
court has considered Metro’s arguments and finds them unpersuasive at the
pleading stage.  Metro has sufficient
notice of Petitioner’s claim.  With respect
to the MRDC policies quoted above, Metro raises fact questions concerning its
compliance with such policies that cannot be resolved on a demurrer.  
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
            Based
upon the following, the court need not resolve Petitioner’s argument that the
demurrers are barred by Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41(b).  The court orders as follows:
 
            1.         The City’s demurrer to the third
amended petition is overruled.
 
            2.         Metro’s demurrer to the third amended
petition is overruled.
 
            3.         Respondents shall file answers within
thirty (30) days.
 
            4.         Trial
in this matter shall be held on ______, ____ at 9:30 a.m.  Petitioner may file one opening brief of 25
pages or less at least 60 days before trial. 
Each respondent may file an opposition brief of 15 pages or less at
least 30 days before trial.  Petitioner
may file one reply brief of 15 pages or less at least 15 days before trial.
 
5.         Petitioner’s
counsel shall provide notice and file proof of service with the court.    
 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
 
Dated:  July 9, 2024                                                    ________________________________ 
                                                                                    Stephen
I. Goorvitch
                                                                                    Superior
Court Judge 


