 Case Number:  22STCV26523    Hearing Date:   May 23, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION AND REQUESTS FOR
SANCTIONS
Hearing Date: 5/23/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV26523 JESSICA MARIE
MOORE, et al. vs POMONA UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
Moving Party: Pomona Unified School District 
Responding Party: Plaintiff¿ 
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
Ruling:  
 
MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION IS GRANTED;
REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS IS DENIED
 
 
Legal Standard 
¿¿¿¿ 
Any party may obtain any discovery
of information, documents, land, property, or electronically stored information
so long as the discoverable matter is not privileged, is relevant to the
subject matter and can lead one to admissible evidence.¿(Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.010.)
 
Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450¿provides in pertinent part the
following:
 
“(a) If, after service of a
deposition notice, a party to the action or an officer, director, managing
agent, or employee of a party, or a person designated by an organization that
is a party under Section 2025.230, without having served a valid objection
under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it,
or to produce for inspection any document, electronically stored information,
or tangible thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the
notice may move for an order compelling the deponent's attendance and
testimony, and the production for inspection of any document, electronically
stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.
¿¿¿ 
(b) A motion under subdivision (a)
shall comply with both of the following:
 
(1) The motion shall set forth specific facts showing
good cause justifying the production for inspection of any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice.
 
(2) The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration under Section 2016.040¿or, when the deponent fails to
attend the deposition and produce the documents, electronically stored
information, or things described in the deposition notice, by a declaration
stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.
 
Background
On August 16, 2022,
Plaintiff filed the present case alleging that Plaintiff Jessica Moore, who was
five at the time of the incident, was choked by a teacher’s aide within the
Pomona Unified School District. The parties agreed that Defendant would take
Plaintiff’s and Plaintiff’s guardian ad litem’s depositions on January 11,
2024. On January 11, 2024, Plaintiff’s guardian ad litem attended the
deposition; however, Plaintiff did not attend. On January 12, 2024, Plaintiff’s
deposition was noticed again for February 7, 2024. On February 6, 2024, Defendant
emailed Plaintiff’s counsel to confirm Plaintiff’s appearance for the
deposition. Plaintiff’s counsel responded that he would not “voluntarily
subject [Plaintiff] to a deposition without a Court Order.” Defendant now moves
the Court to compel Plaintiff’s deposition.
All prerequisites to
compel Plaintiff's deposition have been met. Plaintiff's deposition was duly
noticed for February 7, 2024, but Plaintiff failed to attend. Furthermore, no
timely written objections to the notice of deposition were served. Additionally,
Defendant has satisfied the meet and confer requirement, as the parties have
reached an impasse regarding whether Plaintiff should be required to attend a
deposition.
As to the issue of
whether Plaintiff should be compelled to attend a deposition given her status
as a minor, California Evidence Code Section 700 provides that "every
person, irrespective of age, is qualified to be a witness, and no person is
disqualified to testify to any matter." Plaintiff’s counsel has not
contended that Plaintiff is unfit to testify. Conversely, California Evidence
Code Section 765 mandates that the Court exercise heightened care with
witnesses under the age of 14 or dependent persons with substantial cognitive
impairments, to protect them from undue harassment or embarrassment and to
limit repetitive questioning. Therefore, while Plaintiff is eligible to
testify, the Court must ensure that the deposition procedures are adjusted
appropriately to accommodate her age and safeguard her rights during the
testimony.
As analyzed above,
Defendant has met all the requirements for a motion to compel. Consequently,
the Court grants the present motion, and Plaintiff is ORDERED to sit for her
deposition within 30 days from today. Additionally, the Court ORDERS both
parties to meet and confer regarding the duration, location, and presence of a
guardian during the deposition, as well as the scope of the questions to be
asked, to ensure the child is protected from undue harassment.
The Court declines to
impose sanctions at this time, as the deposition of children is not a
well-developed area of law. There are conflicting needs to protect the
interests of the child and to develop a defense. Plaintiff’s hesitation to
produce the minor for a deposition without the Court’s guidance on this matter
is understandable, though the Court questions why counsel appears to have
agreed to such deposition on at least one occasion.  Nonetheless, the Court deems counsel to have
acted with substantial justification in requiring court involvement in the
process.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party
must send an email to the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the
Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties
submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear
remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the
Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of
the subject motion without leave.