  Case Number:  22STCV03418    Hearing Date:   May 23, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT¿AND SUMMARY ADJUDICATION 
Hearing Date: 5/23/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV03418 IGNACIO CHAVEZ, et
al. vs JASON WAGNER
Moving Party: Defendants Samantha Wagner and
Jason Wagner
Responding Party: Plaintiff
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
Ruling: SUMMARY JUDGMENT/ADJUDICATION OF THE
CLAIMS AGAINST SAMANTHA WAGNER IS GRANTED; 
SUMMARY JUDGMENT/ADJUDICATION OF THE CLAIMS
AGAINST JASON WAGNER IS DENIED.
 
Background
 
On
January 27, 2022, Plaintiff filed this automobile accident case against
Defendants Jason Wagner (“Defendant”) and Samantha Wagner, alleging that
Defendants rear-ended Plaintiff's car. Defendants now move for summary judgment
or summary adjudication, arguing that Jason Wagner was suddenly stricken by an
unforeseen illness and fell unconscious, thereby causing the accident.
Additionally, Defendants assert that Samantha Wagner has no relation to this
matter, as she is not the owner of the vehicle, was not in the vehicle at the
time of the accident and was not involved in the accident in any way.
 
Evidentiary Ruling
 
The Parties
did not make any objections to evidence that were material to the Court’s
ruling. (CCP § 437c(q).) The court GRANTS the Parties’ requests for judicial
notice.
 
Legal Standard
 
The purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary
adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’
pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in
fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal. 4th 826, 843.) “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c,
subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the
evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’
and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal. App. 4th 1110, 1119.)
 
“On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on
the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues
of material fact.” (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal. App.
4th 1510, 1519.) A defendant moving for summary judgment or summary
adjudication “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has
no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of
action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to the
cause of action.” CCP § 437c(p)(2). “Once the defendant . . . has met that
burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue
of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense
thereto.” CCP § 437c(p)(2). "When the motion for summary judgment is
supported by affidavits sufficient to sustain the motion,…the burden of showing
that triable issues exist shifts to the party opposing the motion. [Citation.]
A party cannot avoid summary judgment based on mere speculation and
conjecture…but instead must produce admissible evidence raising a triable issue
of fact. (Crouse v. Brobeck, Phleger & Harrison (1998) 67
Cal.App.4th 1509, 1524.) “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment
should be granted.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center
(2008) 159 Cal. App. 4th 463, 467.)¿ 
 
MSJ For Claims Against Samantha
Wagner
 
Defendant Samantha Wagner has met her
initial burden by demonstrating that she is not the owner of the vehicle
involved in the accident, her name is not on the vehicle’s certificate, she was
not driving the vehicle at the time of the incident, nor was she involved with
the accident in any capacity. (Declaration of Samantha Wagner ¶ 2; Declaration
of Jason Wagner ¶¶ 2, 11-14, Def’s Exhibit A.) Plaintiff does not dispute this
in his separate statement or opposition, and he has failed to introduce any
evidence to raise a triable issue of fact. Therefore, summary judgment of Plaintiff's
claims against Defendant Samantha Wagner is GRANTED.
 
MSJ For Claims against Jason Wagner
 
Cohen Rule/Sudden Illness
 
“‘California has approved the rule
of Cohen v. Petty (D.C. Cir. 1993) 65 F.2d 820, 821: as
between an innocent passenger and an innocent fainting driver, the former must
suffer.’  [Citation.]”  (Bashi v. Wodarz (1996) 45
Cal.App.4th 1314, 1318.)  Generally, one who is suddenly stricken by an
illness, which he had no reason to anticipate, while driving an automobile,
which renders it impossible for him to control the car, is not chargeable with
negligence.  (Id. at 1319; see, e.g., Hammontree v.
Jenner (1971) 20 Cal.App.3d 528, 530-531 [loss of consciousness due to
unexpected epileptic seizure]; Tannyhill v. Pacific Motor Transport Co. (1964)
227 Cal.App.2d 512, 520 [heart attack]; Zabunoff v. Walker (1961)
192 Cal.App.2d 8, 11 [jurors could have concluded that a sudden sneeze was an
intervening cause similar to a fainting spell]; Ford v. Carew &
English (1948) 89 cal.App.2d 199, 203 [fainting spell from strained
heart muscle]; Waters v. Pacific Coast Dairy, Inc. (1942) 55
Cal.App.2d 789, 793 [driver rendered unconscious from sharp pain in left arm].)
 
The “basis behind the Cohen rule
is related to the general concept of ‘unavoidable accident’ . . . [which] is
predicated upon absence of fault.” (Bashi v. Wodarz (1996) 45
Cal.App.4th 1314, 1319.) “The conduct of an actor during a period of a
sudden incapacitation or loss of consciousness resulting from physical illness
is negligent only if the sudden incapacitation or loss of consciousness was
reasonably foreseeable to the actor.” (Rest.3d Torts, § 11.)
 
In Waters, the defendant
testified he became unconscious due to sharp pain in his arm.  However,
the jury found in favor of the plaintiffs. The appellate court affirmed
the determination of the jury because the defendant failed to present evidence
showing how long he suffered from the cause of the loss of consciousness and
whether he should have had reason to anticipate such an attack at said time and
place. (Id. at p. 793.)
 
In Hammontree, the defendant suffered from
epilepsy, which was controlled by medication.  The defendant’s doctor
advised the DMV in writing, once per year, of the defendant’s condition and
testified he believed it was safe for the defendant to drive. (Hammontree, supra,
20 Cal.App.3d at pp. 530-532.) The court found that Defendant had no
reason to anticipate an attack while driving as there was no inkling or warning
that he was about to have a seizure prior to the occurrence of the accident. (Ibid.)
 
Analysis
 
        On March 4, 2021, at
10:30 AM, Defendant drove to Cal State Northridge for his COVID-19 vaccine
appointment. After receiving the vaccine, he waited 15 minutes as instructed
before leaving and was told to return if he felt any symptoms. (Wagner Decl. ¶
10.) During the 15-minute waiting period, Defendant did not experience any
symptoms. He reported, “As I started to drive, I did not have any symptoms and
generally felt fine.” (Wagner Decl. ¶¶ 11-12.)
Five minutes after leaving Cal State
Northridge, Defendant began to feel lightheaded. (Wagner Decl. ¶ 13.) He
decided to turn around and return to the vaccination site as advised. (Id.)
After passing through the intersection of Nordhoff and Balboa, he turned around
to head westbound on Nordhoff back to Cal State Northridge. (Id.) He
stopped completely behind Plaintiff’s vehicle at the intersection of Nordhoff
and Balboa due to a red light. (Id.) Shortly thereafter, Defendant
suddenly and unexpectedly lost consciousness and collided with Plaintiff’s car.
(Wagner Decl. ¶ 14.) Defendant also provided a declaration from his expert
witness doctor who testified that the cause of Defendant’s loss of
consciousness is unknown. (Declaration of Barry Ludwig.)
Summary judgment is a drastic remedy
to be used sparingly, and any doubts about its propriety must be resolved in
favor of the opposing party. (Castaneda v. Ensign Group, Inc. (2014) 229
Cal.App.4th 1015, 1019.) Here, summary judgment as to Defendant is not
appropriate because triable issues of fact exist.  For instance, Defendant failed to show how
long he felt lightheaded before the accident and whether he had reason to
anticipate fainting. Although Defendant produced evidence indicating he had no
prior medical conditions and had no reaction within the 15-minute waiting
period after taking the vaccine, and therefore he had no reason to anticipate
feeling lightheaded or fainting in general, Defendant failed to produce
evidence showing that fainting was not reasonably foreseeable at the "said
time and place" once he started to feel lightheaded. This case is unlike Hammontree
where there was no inkling or warning that he was about to have a seizure prior
to the occurrence of the accident.
Additionally, it appears appropriate
for a trier of fact to determine whether Defendant can be found free of fault
or if the accident was truly unavoidable. In particular, Defendant failed to
stop and pull over when he began feeling lightheaded, just minutes after
leaving the vaccination site. Although the clinic advised him to return if he
felt unwell, his lightheadedness or dizziness, arguably directly impacted his
ability to drive safely. Reasonable minds could differ on whether Defendant acted
reasonably under the circumstances. Additionally, reasonable minds could also
differ on whether his fainting was reasonably foreseeable from his earlier
symptoms of lightheadedness, especially considering that he had received his
first COVID-19 vaccine only 20 minutes prior and was informed to expect
potential side effects. Thus, Defendant has failed to meet his initial burden
and summary adjudication of the claims against Jason Wagner is denied.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting. 
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the
hearing to argue. 
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion. 
 