 Case Number:  23STCV23614    Hearing Date:   May 23, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION FOR PROTECTIVE ORDER
Hearing Date: 5/23/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 23STCV23614 JOHN MERRIETT vs
UBER TECHNOLOGIES, INC 
Moving Party: Defendant Uber Technologies, Inc
Responding Party: Plaintiff 
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: MOTION FOR PROTECTIVE ORDER IS DENIED
WITHOUT PREJUDICE
 
Plaintiff filed this action against Defendants Vincent
Mack, Jr and Uber Technologies, Inc. for damages arising out of an automobile
accident. Vincent Mack, Jr was driving for Uber at the time of the accident.
 
Uber moves for a protective order. Uber
contends that Plaintiff has propounded form interrogatories, special
interrogatories, requests for documents, and requests for admissions that seek
to discover confidential information. Uber requests that the Court issue a
protective order concurrently with the present motion. Upon reviewing the
exhibits, the Court notes the absence of a proposed draft order that Uber
intends for the Court to adopt. Although Uber has provided communications with
Plaintiff that include a protective order attached, there are two versions, and
it is unclear which version Uber wishes the Court to adopt, or if there is
another version that was not attached but is intended for the Court's
consideration.
 
Uber primarily relies on CCP §§2031.060, et
seq., in support of its motion. “When an inspection, copying, testing, or
sampling of documents, tangible things, places, or electronically stored
information has been demanded, the party to whom the demand has been directed,
and any other party or affected person, may promptly move for a protective
order.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.060, subd. (a).) “The Court, for good cause
shown, may make any order that justice requires to protect any party or other
person from unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue
burden and expense.” A protective order may direct “[t]hat the inspection,
copying, testing, or sampling be made only on specified terms and conditions
[or] [t]hat a trade secret or other confidential research, development, or
commercial information not be disclosed, or be disclosed only to specified
persons or only in a specified way.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.060, subds.
(b)(4)-(5).) Although Uber cites § CCP 2025.420, the statutory provision governing
protective orders for depositions, Uber's motion does not reference any
deposition being noticed nor does it attach a copy of the notice of deposition.
 
Per Civil Code section 3426.1, “Trade secret
means information, including a formula, pattern, compilation, program, device,
method, technique, or process, that: (1) derives independent economic value,
actual or potential, from not being generally known to the public or to other
persons who can obtain economic value from its disclosure or use; and (2) is
the subject of efforts that are reasonable under the circumstances to maintain
its secrecy.” (Civ. Code, § 3426.1.)
 
The issue with Uber's motion is that it is
overly broad. Uber seeks a protective order for "documents, testimony, or
information" (Motion at pg. 2) even though the motion was not even made in
response to Plaintiff's notice of deposition. Of note, Uber’s notice of motion
fails to indicate any authority, statutory or otherwise, upon which the motion
is based for such broad protective order sought.
 
Uber cites case law concerning filing of
documents under seal (In re Providian Credit Card Cases (2002) 96
Cal.App.4th 292, 298-299. It also cites case law concerning a stipulated
protective order (GT, Inc. v. Superior Court (1984) 151 Cal.App.3d 748,
751-52). Uber cites case law concerning whether or not private financial
information is subject to discovery (Dompeling v. Superior Court (1981)
117 Cal.App.3d 798, 808-809). It does not, however, cite any authority
permitting the Court to essentially require the parties to sign the court’s
suggested stipulated protective order governing confidential information.
 
The Court notes that Uber argues various
trial courts have granted Uber’s requested motion for a protective order. The
Court is also aware of various trial court orders denying these motions. Trial
court orders are, of course, not binding authority. Absent applicable statutory
or appellate authority, the motion is denied.
 
Uber cites specific discovery requests and
argues that these requests might disclose trade secrets, yet fails to justify
the blanket protective order it seeks in the present motion, which pertains to
all information, documents, or testimonies. Furthermore, during the meet and
confer emails with opposing counsel, no arguments were communicated regarding
how specific discovery requests might disclose trade secrets. Instead, Uber
requested that opposing counsel sign a blanket protective order to obtain document
production. Uber needs to meet and confer on how a specific discovery request
will disclose trade secrets or why a protective order is necessary for the
request sought. For example, in Uber’s meet and confer letter, Uber states that
it will be producing documents responsive to certain requests for production
without a protective order. However, Uber did not meet and confer with opposing
counsel on why the rest of the documents or categories of documents require a
protective order. Furthermore, adequate meet and confer efforts usually require
an in-person meeting or a phone call. 
 
The present motion is DENIED without
prejudice for failing to comply with the meet and confer requirement, as well
as for the ambiguity noted above regarding what specific protective order Uber
is seeking
.
Uber is ordered to give notice.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the
hearing to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.
 