 Case Number:  23TRCV04151    Hearing Date:   November 20, 2024    Dept:  M 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka Wednesday, November 20, 2024
Department M    Calendar No. 20  



 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Merlita
Q. Licaros v. Torrance Memorial Medical Center 

23TRCV04151
1.     
Torrance Memorial
Medical Center’s Motion for Summary Judgment    
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Torrance Memorial Medical Center’s Motion for Summary
Judgment is denied.  
 
Background
 
Plaintiff’s Complaint was filed on December 15, 2023. Plaintiff
alleges the following facts. Plaintiff alleges injuries suffered which were
caused by Defendant on September 20, 2022. 
 
Request for Judicial Notice
 
Defendant’s request for judicial notice is granted
pursuant to Evidence Code § 452(d).
 
Motion for Summary Judgment

The purpose of a motion for summary judgment or
summary adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the
parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations,
trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.”  (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c,
subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the
evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’
and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal. App. 4th 1110, 1119.)
 
“On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden
is always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no
triable issues of material fact.”  (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005)
128 Cal. App. 4th 1510, 1519.)  A
defendant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or
her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has
shown that one or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be
established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action.”  CCP § 437c(p)(2).  “Once the defendant . . . has met that
burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue
of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense
thereto.” CCP § 437c(p)(2).  “If the
plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.”  Avivi
v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal. App. 4th 463, 467.
 
“When deciding whether to grant summary judgment, the
court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers (except
evidence to which the court has sustained an objection), as well as all
reasonable inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light most
favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.”  (Avivi,
159 Cal.App.4th at 467; CCP § 437c(c).)
 
Defendant moves for an order granting summary
judgment. The motion is made on the grounds that Plaintiff does not have the
legal capacity to sue. Namely, Defendant argues that the notice of intent to
sue letter states the name of a different patient – Charles Sandoval. 
 
Defendant has met its initial burden to show that
Plaintiff’s cause of action has no merit by showing that one or more elements
of the cause of action cannot be established. 
(Defendant’s Separate Statement of Facts and Supporting Evidence, 1-4.)
Plaintiff has met her burden, pursuant to CCP § 437c(p)(2), to provide specific
facts to show that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the cause of
action. (Plaintiff’s Response to Separate Statement of Facts and Supporting
Evidence, 1-4). Contrary to Defendant’s argument in the Reply, Plaintiff did file
a separate statement and did submit evidence in the form of her own
declaration. 
 
It is true that the notice of intent letter references
wounds suffered by Plaintiff’s husband during his hospitalization. However, the
references in the letter to “emotional destress (sic),” “mental anguish,” and “intent
to seek additional damages” could clearly also encompass a potential loss of
consortium claim brought by the named Plaintiff. “Contrary to the trial court's
reasoning, loss of consortium is not a derivative cause of action. While the
cause of action is triggered by the spouse's injury, a loss of consortium claim
is separate and distinct, and not merely derivative or collateral to the
spouse's cause of action.” Rosencrans v. Dover Images, Ltd. (2011) 192
Cal.App.4th 1072, 1089. 
 
“[L]oss of consortium is not a derivative cause of
action. While the cause of action is triggered by the spouse's injury, a loss
of consortium claim is separate and distinct[.] [T]he injury incurred can
neither be said to have been ‘parasitic’ upon the husband's cause of action nor
can it be properly characterized as an injury to the marital unit as a whole.
Rather, it is comprised of [the spouse's] own physical, psychological and
emotional pain and anguish which results when [the injured spouse] is negligently
injured to the extent that he [or she] is no longer capable of providing the
love, affection, companionship, comfort or sexual relations concomitant with a
normal married life. While joinder of a loss of consortium claim with the
injured spouse's personal injury claim is encouraged, it is not mandatory and a
loss of consortium claim may be maintained independently.” Leonard v. John
Crane, Inc. (2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 1274, 1279–1280.
 
While the cause of action asserted in the Complaint
was titled “General Negligence,” the factual allegations, while quite sparse,
could encompass the elements of a cause of action for Loss of Consortium. “It
has long been established that [. . .], the trial court is obligated to look
past the form of a pleading to its substance. Erroneous or confusing labels
attached by the inept pleader are to be ignored if the complaint pleads facts
which would entitle the plaintiff to relief. It is not what a paper is named,
but what it is that fixes its character.” Saunders v. Cariss (1990) 224
Cal.App.3d 905, 908 (internal citations and quotations omitted). Here, while
the pro per Plaintiff may have named the cause of action “General Negligence,”
the facts asserted in the Complaint, especially because the cause of action was
brought by her personally rather than by her husband or by the husband’s Estate,
could certainly encompass a claim for Loss of Consortium. As noted above, the
notice of intent to sue letter could also encompass an intent to sue for Loss
of Consortium. 
 
Defendant’s only grounds for bringing this motion was
based on this alleged defective notice of intent to sue letter and it being
contrary to the actual named Plaintiff in this action. For the reasons noted
above, Defendant has failed to establish its right to obtain summary judgment
based on this theory.
 
Therefore, Defendant’s motion for summary judgment is
denied.
 
Defendant is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
 