 Case Number:  24TRCV00249    Hearing Date:   November 20, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                      Wednesday,
November 20, 2024
Department M                                                                                                             Calendar
No. 13
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Rose Marie Krawczyk v. Episcopal
Community & Services for Senior, et al.
            24TRCV00249
1.      Rose Marie Krawczyk’s Petition for Approval of
Compromise of Claim for Person with a Disability
2.      Rose Marie Krawczyk’s Motion
to File Guardian Ad Litem Compromise Approval Forms Under Seal 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Rose Marie Krawczyk’s Petition for
Approval of Compromise of Claim for Person with a Disability is granted. 
 
Rose Marie Krawczyk’s Motion to File Guardian Ad Litem
Compromise Approval Forms Under Seal is granted.
 
Background 
            
            Plaintiff filed the Complaint on January
24, 2024. Plaintiff alleges the following facts. Due to the negligent and
willful conduct of Defendants, Plaintiff suffered multiple falls at Defendants’
facilities causing serious injuries to Plaintiff. Plaintiff set forth the
following causes of action: 1. Statutory Elder Abuse/Neglect 2. Negligence 3.
Violation of Health & Safety Code § 1430. 
 
Petition to Approve Compromise of Claim of Disabled
Person
 
The proposed petition for
compromise of the pending action and the proposed disposition of the proceeds
of the settlement funds are hereby approved.
 
Motion for Order to Seal Petition for Compromise of
Claim
 
“A record must not be filed under seal without a court
order. The court must not permit a record to be filed under seal based solely
on the agreement or stipulation of the parties.”  Cal Rules of Court, Rule 2.551(a).
 
“A party requesting that a record be filed under seal
must file a motion or an application for an order sealing the record. The
motion or application must be accompanied by a memorandum and a declaration
containing facts sufficient to justify the sealing.”  California Rules of Court, Rule
2.551(b)(1).  California Rules of Court,
Rule 2.551(b)(4) also provides that the party requesting that a record be filed
under seal must lodge it with the court when the motion or application is made
and, pending the determination of the motion or application, the lodged record
will be conditionally under seal.  
 
“The court may order that a record be filed under seal
only if it expressly finds facts that establish:
(1)
There exists an overriding interest that overcomes the right of public access
to the record;
(2)
The overriding interest supports sealing the record;
(3)
A substantial probability exists that the overriding interest will be
prejudiced if the record is not sealed;
(4)
The proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and
(5)
No less restrictive means exist to achieve the overriding interest.”
Cal
Rules of Court, Rule 2.550(d).
 
Plaintiff moves for an order sealing the proposed Petition
for Compromise of Claim and corresponding order. 
 
The motion is supported by a memorandum of points and
authorities and evidence submitted by Plaintiff in the form of the declaration
of Jillian C. Hipschman. Plaintiff identifies the following overriding interest
that support sealing and overcomes the public right of access: the existence of
an agreement to agree not to disclose the terms of the release and
confidentiality agreement. See, NBC
Subsidiary Inc. v. Superior Court
(1999) 20 Cal.4th 1178, 1222, fn. 46. 
 
The Court finds that Plaintiff made a competent
showing to support a finding that the overriding interest identified by Plaintiff
overcomes the public right of access to the identified documents and that the
overriding interest supports sealing the documents. Plaintiff has adequately
shown that there is a probability that the parties’ interests will be
prejudiced if the document is made public. The Court also finds that the
proposed sealing order is narrowly tailored. The parties have proposed sealing
only the petition for approval of compromise of claim of disabled individual. The
Court finds that there are no less restrictive means to achieve the identified
overriding interest.  
 
Therefore, for the foregoing reasons, Plaintiff’s
Motion for Order to File Petition for Approval of Compromise of Claim For a
Person with a Disability (form MC-350) and Order Approving Compromise of Claim
for a Person with a Disability (form MC-351) Under Seal is granted. 
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give notice of this ruling.
 