  Case Number:  23TRCV03539    Hearing Date:   November 20, 2024    Dept:  M 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka   Wednesday, November 20, 2024
Department M      Calendar No. 8  



 
 
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Yolanda
Williams v. Mercedes-Benz of South Bay, et al.
23TRCV03539
1.     
Yolanda Williams’
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Request for Production of Documents, Set Two,
and Request for Sanctions 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Yolanda Williams’ Motion to Compel Further Responses
to Request for Production of Documents, Set Two, and Request for Sanctions, is granted,
in part, and denied, in part. 
 
Background
 
Plaintiff filed the Complaint on October 24, 2023.
Plaintiff alleges the following facts. Plaintiff
brought her vehicle for service at Mercedes-Benz of South Bay. After having her
brakes serviced, a few miles after leaving the facility the driver’s side wheel
became unattached causing the vehicle to crash. 
 
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for
Production of Documents 
 
A party responding to an inspection demand shall
respond to each demand with one of the following:  a statement the party will comply with the
demand, a representation the party lacks the ability to comply with the demand,
or an objection.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.210, subd. (a).)  A response to an
inspection demand may be inadequate because it is evasive or incomplete;
contains an incomplete statement of compliance; an inadequate, incomplete, or
evasive representation of inability to comply; or meritless or overly general
objections to a demand.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (a).) 
 
If a demanding party believes the responding party
responded inadequately, the demanding party may move for an order compelling
further response.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2031.310, subd. (a).)  “Unless
notice of this motion is given within 45 days of the service of the verified
response, or any supplemental verified response, or on or before any specific
later date to which the demanding party and the responding party have agreed in
writing, the demanding party waives any right to compel a further response to the
demand.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310,
subd. (c).)   
 
Meet and Confer
 
            Plaintiff set forth a meet and confer
declaration in substantial compliance with CCP § 2031.310(b)(2).  (Declaration, Cindy Hickox, ¶¶ 5-8.) 
 
            Motion to Compel 
 
Plaintiff seeks a further response to Request for
Production of Documents, Set Two, Number 15. The request states: “Any
write-ups, warnings, reprimands, performance reviews, or performance
improvement plans for Andy Chan, during his employment with YOU. “YOU” and
“YOUR” mean and refer to Defendant MERCEDES-BENZ OF SOUTH BAY.”  
 
Plaintiff contends that Andy Chan was the technician
who serviced her vehicle. Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s motion is moot
because Defendant served further responses on November 4, 2024. (Decl., Jon C.
Abramson, ¶ 6, Ex. 2.) However, the further responses are not verified.
Unverified responses are tantamount to no responses at all. Appleton
v. Superior Court (1988) 206
Cal.App.3d 632, 636. Thus, the motion is not rendered moot by this service of
what is essentially a non-response. 
 
“The state Constitution
expressly grants Californians a right of privacy. (Cal. Const., art. I, §1.)
Protection of informational privacy is the provision’s central concern.”  Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3
Cal.5th 531, 552. “[W]hen a discovery request seeks information implicating the
constitutional right of privacy, to order discovery simply upon a showing that
the Code of Civil Procedure section 2017.010 test for relevance has been met is
an abuse of discretion.”  Williams v.
Superior Court, supra, 3 Cal.5th at 556 (citations omitted).
 
In Hill v. National
Collegiate Athletic Assn. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 1, 35-37, the California Supreme
Court “established a framework for evaluating potential invasions of
privacy.  The party asserting a privacy
right must establish a legally protected privacy interest, an objectively
reasonable expectation of privacy in the given circumstances, and a threatened
intrusion that is serious. . . . . The party seeking information may raise in
response whatever legitimate and important countervailing interests disclosure serves,
while the party seeking protection may identify feasible alternatives that
serve the same interests or protective measures that would diminish the loss of
privacy. A court must then balance these competing considerations.” Williams
v. Superior Court, supra, 3 Cal.5th at 552 (citations omitted). In Hill,
the Court “explained that not ‘every assertion of a privacy interest under
article I, section 1 must be overcome by a “compelling interest.” . . . . A
‘“compelling interest”’ is still required to justify ‘an obvious invasion of an
interest fundamental to personal autonomy.’” 
Id. at 556.
 
Disclosure depends upon
balancing the need for discovery against the need for confidentiality.  “Courts must instead place the burden on the
party asserting a privacy interest to establish its extent and the seriousness
of the prospective invasion, and against that showing must weigh the
countervailing interests the opposing party identifies, as Hill
requires.”  Williams v. Superior Court
(2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 557.  
 
Confidential personnel files
at a person's place of employment are within a zone of privacy. See, Board of Trustees of Leland Stanford
Jr. Univ. v. Superior Court (1981) 119 Cal.App.3d 516, 528-30 disapproved
on other grounds in Williams v. Superior
Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 557. 
“Courts must instead place the burden on the party asserting a privacy
interest to establish its extent and the seriousness of the prospective
invasion, and against that showing must weigh the countervailing interests the
opposing party identifies, as Hill
requires.”  Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 557.  
 
Upon balancing the need for
the discovery against the privacy interest involved, the Court finds that
Plaintiff has adequately demonstrated that the need for the discovery outweighs
the privacy interest of Mr. Chan. This finding is made largely because the
parties stipulated to a protective order to address Mr. Chan’s and third
parties’ privacy interests. The Court notes that the Complaint does not include
a cause of action for Negligent Hiring, Training, and Supervision to which the
documents sought may be more pertinent. However, in considering the broad
standard of relevance for discovery, it cannot be stated definitively, at this
time, that the request will not lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. 
 
As to Plaintiff’s contention
that Defendant may be withholding documents, the Court makes no comment other
than to note that all discovery responses are required to be served verified
under the penalty of perjury. Thus, obviously, withholding discovery and making
false and perjurious statements to the Court and the parties could certainly
lead to potential serious consequences and ramifications.
 
Defendant is ordered to
serve a verified further response within 10 days of this date.
 
Plaintiff and Defendant’s respective requests for
monetary sanctions are denied.
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give notice of this ruling.