 Case Number:  24TRCV00010    Hearing Date:   November 20, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                       Wednesday, November 20, 2024
Department B                                                                                                            Calendar No. 11
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Del Amo Fashion Center Operating
Company, LLC v. A&Z Solutions, Inc., et al. 
            24TRCV00010
1.      A&Z Solutions, Inc., et al.’s Motion to Set Aside
the Default and Default Judgment    
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            A&Z Solutions, Inc., et al.’s
Motion to Set Aside the Default and Default Judgment is denied without
prejudice.  
 
Background 
            
            Plaintiff filed the Complaint on January
2, 2024. The action stems from an alleged breach of lease and personal
guaranty. Defaults were entered on March 13, 2024. Default judgment was entered
on August 19, 2024.  
 
Motion to Set Aside Default Judgment
 
            CCP § 473(b) states, in relevant
part: “The court may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or
her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding
taken against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall be accompanied by a copy
of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed therein, otherwise the
application shall not be granted, and shall be made within a reasonable time,
in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment, dismissal, order, or
proceeding was taken.  . . .  Notwithstanding any other requirements of
this section, the court shall, whenever an application for relief is made no
more than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper form, and is
accompanied by an attorney's sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1) resulting default entered by
the clerk against his or her client, and which will result in entry of a
default judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment or dismissal entered
against his or her client, unless the court finds that the default or dismissal
was not in fact caused by the attorney's mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
neglect. The court shall, whenever relief is granted based on an attorney's
affidavit of fault, direct the attorney to pay reasonable compensatory legal
fees and costs to opposing counsel or parties. . . .”
 
            CCP § 473.5(a) states, in relevant
part: “When service of a summons has not resulted in actual notice to a party
in time to defend the action and a default or default judgment has been entered
against him or her in the action, he or she may serve and file a notice of
motion to set aside the default or default judgment and for leave to defend the
action.  The notice of motion shall be
served and filed within a reasonable time, but in no event exceeding the
earlier of: (i) two years after entry of a default judgment against him or her;
or (ii) 180 days after service on him or her of a written notice that the
default or default judgment has been entered.” 
 
            CCP § 473.5(b) states: “A notice of
motion to set aside a default or default judgment and for leave to defend the
action shall designate as the time for making the motion a date prescribed by
subdivision (b) of Section 1005, and it shall be accompanied by an affidavit
showing under oath that the party's lack of actual notice in time to defend the
action was not caused by his or her avoidance of service or inexcusable
neglect. The party shall serve and file with the notice a copy of the answer,
motion, or other pleading proposed to be filed in the action.” The phrase
“actual notice” means “genuine knowledge of the party litigant” and does not
include constructive or imputed notice to the client. Tunis v. Barrow
(1986) 184 Cal.App.3d 1069, 1077.
 
            “After six months from entry of default,
a trial court may still vacate a default on equitable grounds even if statutory
relief is unavailable.  . . . One ground
for equitable relief is extrinsic mistake—a term broadly applied when
circumstances extrinsic to the litigation have unfairly cost a party a hearing
on the merits. Extrinsic mistake is found when [among other things] ... a
mistake led a court to do what it never intended[.] When a default judgment has
been obtained, equitable relief may be given only in exceptional circumstances.
[W]hen relief under section 473 is available, there is a strong public
policy in favor of granting relief and allowing the requesting party his or her
day in court. Beyond this period there is a strong public policy in favor of
the finality of judgments and only in exceptional circumstances should relief
be granted.  . . . To set aside a judgment based
upon extrinsic mistake one must satisfy three elements. First, the defaulted
party must demonstrate that it has a meritorious case. Second[ ], the party seeking
to set aside the default must articulate a satisfactory excuse for not
presenting a defense to the original action. Last[ ], the moving party must
demonstrate diligence in seeking to set aside the default once ... discovered.”
Rappleyea v. Campbell (1994) 8 Cal.4th 975, 981–82 (internal
citations and quotations omitted; emphasis in original).
 
            CCP § 473(d) empowers the Court to
set aside any judgment that is void as a matter of law, e.g., lack of subject
matter jurisdiction; lack of personal jurisdiction; lack of proper service of
the summons and complaint; or the judgment violated due process rights.  See
Dhawan v. Biring (2015) 241 Cal.App.4th 963, 973-74; See also Ellard v. Conway (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 540, 544; See also Heidary v. Yadollahi (2002) 99
Cal.App.4th 857, 862-64.  “It is well
settled that a judgment or order which is void on its face, and which requires
only an inspection of the judgment roll or record to show its invalidity, may
be set aside on motion, at any time after its entry, by the court which
rendered the judgment or made the order.” 
Hiroko Kawakita Hayashi v. Lorenz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 848, 851.  
 
            “Mistake is not a ground for relief
under section 473, subdivision (b), when the court finds that the ‘mistake’ is
simply the result of professional incompetence, general ignorance of the law,
or unjustifiable negligence in discovering the law.  Further, the term surprise, as used in
section 473, refers to some condition or situation in which a party is
unexpectedly placed to his injury, without any default or negligence of his
own, which ordinary prudence could not have guarded against.  Finally, as for inadvertence or neglect, to
warrant relief under section 473 a litigant's neglect must have been such as
might have been the act of a reasonably prudent person under the same
circumstances. The inadvertence contemplated by the statute does not mean mere
inadvertence in the abstract. If it is wholly inexcusable it does not justify
relief.  It is the duty of every party
desiring to resist an action or to participate in a judicial proceeding to take
timely and adequate steps to retain counsel or to act in his own person to
avoid an undesirable judgment. Unless in arranging for his defense he shows
that he has exercised such reasonable diligence as a man of ordinary prudence
usually bestows upon important business his motion for relief under section 473
will be denied.  Courts neither act as
guardians for incompetent parties nor for those who are grossly careless of
their own affairs.  The only occasion for
the application of section 473 is where a party is unexpectedly placed in a
situation to his injury without fault or negligence of his own and against
which ordinary prudence could not have guarded.” Hearn v. Howard (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 1193, 1206 (internal
citations and quotations omitted).
 
            Defendants move to set aside the
entry of default and default judgment. Defendants argue that Plaintiff failed
to properly serve the summons and complaint, Defendants were not aware of the
service, the default is void on its face, Defendants did not have notice in
time to defend the action, and that equitable grounds exist to set aside the
default and default judgment. Alternatively, Defendants also purport to rely
upon the mandatory provision of Section 473(b) based on attorney mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or neglect. Defendants cite to CCP §§ 473(b); 473.5,
473(d), and authority with respect to the Court’s inherent equitable power to
set aside the default. 
 
            First, Defendants have not
established that they are entitled to mandatory relief under Section 473(b).
Attorney Todd R. Haas provided a declaration stating that “through inadvertence
we were unaware that a responsive pleading had not been filed in this action.”
(Decl., Haas, ¶ 4.) The declaration provides no facts to establish that the
entry of default was actually caused by the attorney’s neglect. “Section 473(b)
includes a mandatory relief or “attorney fault” provision, which requires the
court to vacate a default and any resulting default judgment, if a motion or
application for relief from the default judgment (1) is filed “no more than six
months after entry of judgment,” (2) is “in proper form,” and (3) is
accompanied by an attorney's affidavit of fault, unless the court finds that
the default judgment or dismissal was not caused by the attorney's mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.” Jimenez v. Chavez (2023) 97
Cal.App.5th 50, 57 (emphasis added). Here, for example, there are no facts that
the attorney was retained prior to March 13, 2024, the date the defaults were
entered, and neglected to file a responsive pleading, thus actually causing the
entries of default.
 
            Second, all Defendants have failed
to provide facts to demonstrate their entitlement to relief under all the other
authorities listed above. First, as to A&Z Solutions, Inc. and Noor Zia, no
competent evidence whatsoever was submitted. The only evidence submitted was a
declaration by Defendant Ahmad Zia. Nothing in the declaration establishes that
the declaration was more than simply a statement made in his individual
capacity as opposed to one made both for himself individually and as a
representative of A&Z Solutions, Inc. As to Noor Zia, no competent
first-hand declaration made by Noor Zia to constitute competent admissible
evidence stating grounds why the default entered against Noor Zia should be set
aside.
 
            As to Ahmad Zia, nothing in the
declaration of Ahmad Zia definitively establishes that the  service of summons and complaint was void on
its face. The proof of service was effectuated by a licensed process server
indicating substitute service on January 29, 2024. The self-serving barebones declaration
of Ahmad Zia essentially denying service contending that the summons and
compliant was simply left at the door does not defeat the presumption of proper
service. Evid. Code § 647 states: “The return of a process server registered
pursuant to Chapter 16 (commencing with Section 22350) of Division 8 of the
Business and Professions Code upon process or notice establishes a presumption,
affecting the burden of producing evidence, of the facts stated in the return.”
The presumption of service was not controverted by any persuasive supporting
evidence submitted by Defendant, other than, as mentioned above, by his own
self-serving conclusory declaration. 
 
            As to relief under Section 473.5,
Defendant essentially admits to having notice in time to defend the action
since even his own declaration admits that he obtained the summons and
complaint in either late January or early February. Thus, relief under Section
473.5 is also not available under these facts.
 
            As to relief under the discretionary
provision of Section 473(b), Defendant fails to establish entitlement to
relief. The declaration essentially states that Defendant reached out to a
lawyer. Again, as mentioned above, the lawyer, assuming current counsel is that
lawyer, did not establish that the default was entered due to his own mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or neglect. Otherwise, simply because Defendant “lost
track” of the case, as Defendant also asserts, does not constitute excusable
neglect.
 
            Finally, for all the reasons noted
above, the evidence submitted by Defendant does not constitute grounds for
relief under the equitable power of the Court. Nothing in any of the evidence
presented by Defendants establish facts that the defaults were entered due to extrinsic
fraud or extrinsic mistake.
 
Thus, Defendants’ Motion to Set Aside Default and
Default Judgment is denied without prejudice.
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give notice of this ruling.  
 
            