  Case Number:  20STCV08922    Hearing Date:   May 3, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




the law firm of fox and fox

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
james jones

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


20STCV08922




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


May
   3, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
motion to be relieved as counsel for
  defendant
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Andrew J. Knez          
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Unopposed
Motion to be Relieved as Counsel for Defendant 
The court
considered the moving papers filed in connection with this motion.  No opposition papers were filed.
DISCUSSION
Andrew J. Knez (“Defendant’s Counsel”) moves to be relieved as counsel
for defendant James Jones (“Defendant”).
“The
question of granting or denying an application of an attorney to withdraw as
counsel (Code Civ. Proc., § 284, subd. 2) is one which lies within the sound
discretion of the trial court ‘having in mind whether such withdrawal might
work an injustice in the handling of the case.’”¿ (People v. Prince
(1968) 268 Cal.App.2d 398, 406 [internal quotations omitted].)¿ The court
should also consider whether the attorney’s “withdrawal can be accomplished
without undue prejudice to the client’s interests.”¿ (Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994)
21 Cal.App.4th 904, 915.)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
For
a motion to be relieved as counsel under Code of Civil Procedure section 284,
subdivision (2), California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362 requires (1) a notice
of motion and motion directed to the client (made on the Notice of Motion and
Motion to be Relieved as Counsel -- Civil form (MC-051)); (2) a declaration
stating in general terms and without compromising the confidentiality of the
attorney-client relationship why a motion under Code of Civil Procedure section
284, subdivision (2) is brought instead of filing a consent under Code of Civil
Procedure section 284, subdivision (1) (made on the Declaration in Support of
Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel -- Civil form (MC-052)); (3)
service of the notice of motion and motion, declaration, and proposed order on
the client and on all other parties who have appeared in the case; and (4) the
proposed order relieving counsel (prepared on the Order Granting Attorney’s
Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel -- Civil form (MC-053)).¿¿ 
The court
finds that Defendant’s Counsel (1) has shown that Defendant’s power of attorney
is Leslie Bushnell and that the retainer agreement governing Defendant and
Defendant’s Counsel’s attorney-client relationship was signed by Leslie
Bushnell as Defendant’s power of attorney, and (2) has served Defendant,
through his power of attorney Leslie Bushnell, with the moving papers by
certified mail and email, at Defendant’s power of attorney’s last known
address, which Defendant’s Counsel has confirmed within the past 30 days is
current.  (MC-052, ¶ 3, subds.
(a)(2), (b)(1)(a), (b)(1)(d); Supp. Knez Decl., Ex. A, Durable Power of
attorney for Management of Property and Personal Affairs, ¶¶ 1.A [designating
Leslie Bushnell to be Defendant’s power of attorney], 2.A., subd. (10) [authorizing
power of attorney to perform any acts or obligations that Defendant has for
property, real or personal, including “[t]o take any actions with respect to
any claim that [Defendant] may have or that has been asserted against
[Defendant]”]; Supp. Knez Decl., ¶¶ 3 [Leslie Bushnell signed retainer
agreement as power of attorney for Defendant], 6 [Leslie Bushnell confirmed her
current address and email address].) 
The court
also finds that Defendant’s Counsel has shown sufficient reasons why the motion should be
granted, and why counsel brought the motion under Code of Civil Procedure
section 284, subdivision (2) instead of filing a consent under section 284,
subdivision (1).  (MC-052, ¶¿2; MC-053, Attachment 2, Knez Decl., ¶ 2.) 
The court
therefore grants Defendant’s Counsel’s motion to be relieved as counsel for
Defendant. 
The court,
however, notes that the proposed “Order Granting
Attorney’s Motion to be Relieved as Counsel – Civil” is incomplete because
Defendant’s Counsel did not set forth Defendant’s current address and telephone
number in section 6.  The court will
require Defendant’s Counsel to provide Defendant’s current telephone number at
the hearing on this motion.[1]
Andrew J. Knez
will be relieved as counsel for defendant James Jones effective upon the filing of the proof of service of the signed
“Order Granting Attorney’s Motion to be Relieved as Counsel – Civil” on the
client.   
The
court orders Andrew J. Knez to give notice of this ruling and the signed “Order
Granting Attorney’s Motion to be Relieved as Counsel – Civil” to defendant
James Jones, defendant James Jones’s power of attorney, and to all other
parties who have appeared in this action. 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  May 3, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


