 Case Number:  23SMCV00235    Hearing Date:   August 6, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling
Hughes
v. Shekhtman, et al., Case No. 23SMCV00235
Hearing
date August 6, 2024
Defendants
Shekhtman and YS Insurance’s Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings
Plaintiff Hughes sued defendant
insurance brokers Shekhtman and YS Insurance for (1) professional negligence,
(2) negligent misrepresentation, and (3) breach of fiduciary duty.  Plaintiff Hughes alleges
defendants YS and Shekhtman, as agents of First National Insurance Company and
General Insurance Company, sold her two homeowner insurance policies. After
Hughes’ Malibu property was destroyed by fire, she learned the policies did not
cover the losses. Hughes alleges defendants sold the policies without informing
her they would not cover fire damage.
 
On October 17, 2023 the court
overruled defendants’ demurrer to the FAC, finding this action was not barred by
exclusive concurrent jurisdiction because the federal court hearing the insurance
companies’ claims did not have subject matter jurisdiction over the claims in
this matter, so stayed proceedings pending Hughes’ Ninth Circuit appeal.
Defendants now move for judgment on the pleadings based on issue preclusion.
 
Per
Evidence Code § 452, the court may take judicial notice of matters that include
records or rules of another court and facts or propositions of common
knowledge, among other matters. Defendants request judicial notice of:
1)     
Exhibit A – true and correct copy of Summary
Judgment entered against Hughes in U.S. District Court for the Central District
of California, Erin Hughes v. General Insurance Company of America, Case
No. CV 21-9334-MWF (RAO) (“Case 1”).
2)     
Exhibit B – true and correct copy of Summary
Judgment entered against Erin Hughes in U.S. District Court for the Central
District of California, Erin Hughes v. First National Insurance Company of
America, Case No. CV 22-1759-MWF (RAO) (“Case 2”).
3)     
Exhibit C – true and correct copy of Memorandum
of Disposition as to Case 1 and Case 2, issued by U.S. Court of Appeals for the
Ninth Circuit, denying Hughes’ appeal and affirming District Court’s
Judgment.  Although this document is “Not
for Publication,” pursuant to California Rules of Court, rule 8.1115(b)(1), it
may be used for the purpose of collateral estoppel.
4)     
Exhibit D – true and correct copy of plaintiff’s
complaint filed in Case 1.
Defendants’
request for judicial notice as to Exhibits A-D is GRANTED.
 
The
standard for ruling on a motion for judgment on the pleadings is essentially
the same as that applicable to a general demurrer -- it appears that a party is
entitled to judgment as a matter of law. Bezirdjian
v. O'Reilly (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 316, 321-322, citing Schabarum v. California Legislature (1998)
60 Cal.App.4th 1205, 1216. Matters subject to mandatory judicial notice may be
treated as part of the complaint and may be considered. “The motion is confined
to the face of the pleading under attack and all facts alleged in the complaint
must be accepted as true.”  Hightower
v. Farmers Insurance Exchange (1995) 38 Cal.App.4th 853, 858. A
plaintiff may move for judgment on the pleadings on the ground that “the
complaint states facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against the
defendant and the answer does not state facts sufficient to constitute a
defense to the complaint.” Code Civ. Proc. §438(c)(1)(A).
 
Issue Preclusion: “Collateral estoppel, or issue
preclusion, precludes re-litigation of issues argued and decided in prior
proceedings.” Mycogen Corp. v. Monsanto Co. (2002) 28 Cal.4th 888, 896.
“Full faith and credit must be given to a final order or judgment of a federal
court. Such an order or judgment has the same effect in the courts of this
state as it would have in a federal court.” Levy v. Cohen (1977) 19
Cal.3d 165, 172-173. “[F]or purposes of issue preclusion ‘‘final judgment’
includes any prior adjudication of an issue in another action that is
determined to be sufficiently firm to be accorded conclusive effect.’
[Citation.]” Border Business Park, Inc. v. City of San Diego (2006) 142
Cal. App. 4th 1538, 1564. 
 
“A prior adjudication of an issue in another action may be
deemed ‘sufficiently firm’ to be accorded preclusive effect based on the
following factors: (1) whether the decision was not avowedly tentative; (2)
whether the parties were fully heard; (3) whether the court supported its
decision with a reasoned opinion; and (4) whether the decision was subject to
an appeal.” Border, supra, at 1565; Sandoval v. Superior Court
(1983) 140 Cal.App.3d, 932, 936. Issue preclusion bars relitigation of any
issue which was actually litigated in the prior proceeding, as well as “any
legal theory or factual matter which could have been asserted in support of or
in opposition to the issue which was litigated. [Citation.]” Border, supra,
at 1565-66.
 
Plaintiff
previously filed two Los Angeles Superior Court cases arising from the same incident,
later removed to U.S. District Court: (1) Hughes v. General Insurance
Company of America (21STCV25389) and (2) Hughes v. First National
Insurance Company of America (22SMCV00036). The cases were consolidated,
and defendants General Insurance and First National moved for summary judgment,
arguing rescission based on material misrepresentation. On March 15, 2023 the District
Court granted summary judgment. Id. RJN, Exs. A-B. Plaintiff appealed,
which was denied by the Ninth Circuit. Id. RJN Ex. C.
 
This
court stayed the matter on October 17, 2023 pending the Ninth Circuit appeal,
stating “[i]f no stay is granted, there is a risk defendants will be deprived
of the opportunity to assert issue preclusion, and this court’s judgment might
conflict with the Ninth’s Circuit ruling.” 10-17-23 Minute Order. The stay was
lifted June 10, 2024, and defendants filed the instant motion. Defendants argue plaintiff’s claims were litigated on the
merits, and the federal judgments are final. RJN Ex. C. Defendants argue the District
Court found due to “Plaintiff’s own material misrepresentations and
omissions and failure to cooperate (i.e., not Defendants’ alleged negligence),
the subject policies were ordered cancelled (as if they never existed).”
Id. Each cause of action requires plaintiff demonstrate a causal link
between defendants’ conduct and the damages, “which Plaintiff cannot
prove now that the insurance policies have been deemed cancelled as a matter of
law because of Plaintiff’s own misdeeds.” 
Id. at pp. 10-11.
 
A.    Professional
Negligence
“The
elements of a cause of action for professional negligence are (1) the existence
of the duty of the professional to use such skill, prudence, and diligence as
other members of the profession commonly possess and exercise; (2) breach of
that duty; (3) a causal connection between the negligent conduct and the
resulting injury; and (4) actual loss or damage resulting from the professional
negligence.” Oasis West Realty, LLC v.
Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811, 821.
 
Plaintiff
alleges defendants owed a duty of reasonable care in the performance of
providing insurance policies that would cover the Malibu property. Plaintiff alleges
she informed defendants the location of the property was at increased risk of
fire and smoke hazard. Id.  Plaintiff
alleges defendants knew the property was close to a brush area, but offered and
sold a policy they knew or should have known would not cover properties in
proximity to a brush area and misinformed plaintiff regarding non-existence of
coverage in case of property rentals. Insurer Safeco cancelled the policy, and
plaintiff alleges damages exceeding $10,000,000 following the property’s
destruction.
 
Defendants
argue the following issues have been litigated to final judgment in federal
court.  These issues are presented as
undisputed facts in the ruling on General Insurance’s Motion for Summary
Judgment, granted in General Insurance’s favor:
 
(1)   “[General]
received, through Hughes’ insurance agent YS Insurance, an application for
homeowners’ insurance from Hughes for [the Property].” RJN, Ex. A, pp. 1-2.
(2)   “[General]
received the application through its online rating platform, which generates
the policy quote and application once the insurance agent completes the
application questionnaire with the insured.” RJN, Ex. A, p. 2.
(3)   “[General’s]
eligibility guidelines on its online rating platform automatically deny
applications where applicants disclose any rental business on the premises or
more than one prior loss in the last five year.” RJN, Ex. A, p. 2.
(4)   “Hughes
represented that she had no losses in the last five years. Hughes also
represented that there was ‘no’ ‘business on the premises.’ Hughes provided
this information in a phone interview conducted by an agent at YS Insurance as
part of the application process. Id. ¶ 7. She did not correct any of
those representations when she reviewed and electronically signed the
application. (Id.)” RJN, Ex. A, p. 2.
(5)   “Based
on Hughes’ completed application, the agent bound coverage for the Property
under Homeowners Policy No. OA4813047, effective December 4, 2020, through
December 4, 2021 (the “Homeowners Policy”). (Id. ¶ 9.)” RJN, Ex. A, pp.
1-2.
(6)   “These
uncontroverted facts establish that Hughes misrepresented in her insurance
application that the Property was not used as a business.” RJN, Ex. A, p. 9.
(7)   “…
Hughes understands, reads, and writes in English ….” RJN, Ex. A, p. 10.
(8)   “Hughes
provided false and material information regarding the use of the Property and
her prior loss history on the insurance application.” RJN, Ex. A, p. 11.
(9)   “Hughes
does not dispute that her prior loss history was a material fact to insurance
risk. Hughes also does not contest that the disclosure of her three prior
losses would have caused [General’s] online rating platform to automatically
reject and deny her application.” RJN, Ex. A, p. 11.
 
Plaintiff’s complaint
against General Insurance, LASC, Case No. 21STCV25389, alleged:
(1)   “The
Defendant SAFECO issued to Plaintiff a Homeowners INSURANCE POLICY NO.
OA4813047. The policy covered among other conditions property damage to the
PROPERTY as a result of a fire and included dwelling coverage of $721,300 and
Personal Property coverage of $650,000.” RJN, Ex. D. at ¶ 5.
(2)   “…
when a fire damaged her property and this event was covered by SAFECO INSURANCE
POLICY NO. OA4813047 which was in full force and effect at the time of loss.”
RJN, Ex. D. ¶ 21.
 
Defendants argue the
District Court found the subject policies were ordered cancelled, as if they
never existed, due to plaintiff’s material misrepresentations and omissions,
not defendants’ negligence.
Plaintiff argues the
federal court never litigated or decided the issue of the insurance agent’s negligence
in selling a policy that did not cover the Property due to its location or the
agent’s misrepresentation of coverage. She argues defendants failed to show the
issues of negligence and fraud are precluded because they did not show that the
issues are identical to those litigated in federal proceeding. She further
argues the allegations concern the agent’s negligence in selling an incorrect
insurance product have not been adjudicated by the federal court. Of course,
the federal court did not address alleged negligence by the broker/agent, which
was not a party to the federal case. Further, plaintiff alleges fraud here,
which was not a claim in the federal case.
In reply, defendants argue
the policies were cancelled due to plaintiff’s misrepresentations and omissions,
as adjudicated by the federal court. Thus, any damages plaintiff might claim were
adjudicated as caused by her own failures, not any alleged failures by
defendants in the federal case (the insurance companies) or by defendants
herein (insurance agent/broker). 
The issues of fraud and
negligence by the insurance broker/agent defendants were not litigated in the
federal action, which focused solely on the insurance companies’ actions. Here,
plaintiff alleges the broker defendants should never have sold her the policy,
as it would have been invalid ab initio due to the property’s location,
and never would have covered her home, regardless of any conduct by the
plaintiff. This issue was neither raised nor litigated in federal court. 
B.     Negligent
Misrepresentation
The elements of negligent
misrepresentation are “(1) the misrepresentation of a past or existing material
fact, (2) without reasonable ground for believing it to be true, (3) with
intent to induce another's reliance on the fact misrepresented, (4) justifiable
reliance on the misrepresentation, and (5) resulting damage.” Apollo Capital
Fund LLC v. Roth Capital Partners, LLC (2007) 158 Cal.App.4th 226, 243.
Negligent misrepresentation claims must be alleged with the same factual
specificity as intentional misrepresentation claims.  See Small v. Fritz Companies, Inc.
(2003) 30 Cal.4th 167, 184; Cadlo v. Owens-Illinois, Inc. (2004) 125
Cal.App.4th 513, 519.  “To be actionable,
a negligent misrepresentation must ordinarily be as to past or existing
material facts.”  Tarmann v. State
Farm Mutual Automobile Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 158. Plaintiff
alleges Shekhtman and employees or contractors, including Kate Vafina, made material
misrepresentations (FAC, para. 10), intending for plaintiff to rely on them. Again,
such claims were not directly litigated in federal court, so the motion is
denied as to this cause of action.
C.     Breach
of Fiduciary Duty
“The
elements of a cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty are the existence of
a fiduciary relationship, breach of fiduciary duty, and damages.” Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011)
51 Cal.4th 811, 820. Plaintiff alleges defendants owed a fiduciary duty as
insurance broker and agent and breached their fiduciary duty pursuant to
Insurance Code 790.02 and 2184.4 (FAC, para. 10). As with the previous causes
of action, these specific allegations were not made in the federal court
action, as defendants herein were not parties to that action. The motion is
denied for the reasons stated. 
 
For
the court to grant this motion based on issue preclusion, there would have to
be a determination on the merits by the federal court as to the actions of the
broker defendants herein. Plaintiff alleges the broker defendants breached
their fiduciary duty and duty of care and acted fraudulently in selling her the
policy. These claims were not litigated in federal court, as the broker
defendants were not parties therein. To the extent the broker defendants argue
lack of damages due to plaintiff’s misrepresentations to the insurer
defendants, the court acknowledges those were litigated and determined in
federal court. But plaintiff’s claims here are a bit different – plaintiff
alleges the broker defendants never should have sold her the policy in the
first place. DENIED.
 
The
court notes plaintiff seeks leave to file a second amended complaint via a
motion set for 9/9/24, naming Safeco Insurance and General Insurance. To the
extent these parties’ claims were litigated in federal court, this ruling would
not impact their ability to raise issue preclusion in this case, if plaintiff’s
motion is granted.