  Case Number:  22SMCV01932    Hearing Date:   August 6, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling
Chun v. Smith, Case No. 22SMCV01932
Hearing date August 6, 2024
Plaintiff Chun’s Demurrer to Amended
Cross-Complaint
Plaintiff
Chun sued defendant Smith for intentional tort and motor vehicle negligence.
Chun alleges Smith swung his hand at Chun’s face, attempting to strike him.
Smith cross-complained. The court sustained Chun’s demurrer to the
cross-complaint with leave to amend. Chun now demurs to the amended cross
complaint (ACC). 
 
A.   
Intentional
Tort
Chun
demurs to the cause of action for intentional tort for failure to state facts
that constitute a cause of action. Chun argues Smith has had two prior
opportunities to allege sufficient facts. The ACC does not make it clear
whether Smith’s claims are based on Chun’s civil or criminal complaints or how
these complaints were alleged to have been made with malicious intent. Smith
refers to video evidence but does not present facts about what this video
allegedly shows. He refers to damages to personal relationships and reputation,
but the ACC is devoid of details regarding these damages. Chun is protected by
Code of Civil Procedure §47(2), which provides immunity for citizens reporting
wrongdoing to law enforcement.
 
Smith
requests the court strike the demurrer and lawsuit “as frivolous and corrupt
without evidence of allegations.” Such is not proper on demurrer. Smith states
charges against him have been dismissed. None of this is sufficient to state a
claim or argue why the amended pleading has sufficiently alleged an intentional
tort. To the extent Smith’s claim is based on Chun’s
communications to law enforcement, these are protected. Smith had two prior
opportunities to amend the pleadings, without success. SUSTAINED without
leave to amend.
 
B.    
Fraud
Chun
demurs to the cause of action for fraud for failure to state facts a cause of
action. Smith again refers to video evidence without alleging specific facts
regarding the contents of this evidence. Smith inappropriately argues fraud and
conclusory allegations, without providing facts to support a cause of action
for fraud.
 
A claim for fraud must plead: (1) misrepresentation; (2)¿knowledge of
falsity; (3) intent to induce reliance; (4) justifiable reliance; and (5)
damage. Odorizzi v. Bloomfield School Dist. (1966) 246 Cal.App.2d 123,
128; Wilhelm v. Pray, Price, Williams & Russell (1986) 186
Cal.App.3d 1324, 1332. Fraud actions are subject to strict requirements of
particularity in pleading. Committee on Children’s Television, Inc. v.
General Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197, 216.  
 
Smith alleges Chun and his legal representatives filed a
civil lawsuit against Smith, claiming harm and suffering due to assault and
motor vehicle tort, to collect damages from Smith’s auto insurance company.
These claims were alleged to have been made knowingly and intentionally after
Smith provided “irrefutable video evidence of the event in question.” Id.
Chun allegedly concealed facts regarding his initiation of the altercation and
contact with Smith or his vehicle. Id. at FR-3. As a result, Smith alleges
“emotional distress, mental anguish, loss of times, loss of income, harm to
personal relationships, and loss of future prosperity.” Id. at FR-6.
 
Smith’s
claims appear to be premised on Chun’s filing of the complaint, which is
protected activity. Civil Code §47. Moreover, the
allegations are conclusory and do not meet the requirement of pleading facts
with particularly. Given that Smith has already had two prior opportunities to
amend the pleadings, the demurrer to the fraud cause of action is SUSTAINED
without leave to amend.
 
C.    
Punitive
Damages
Chun
demurs to the allegations forming the basis for punitive damages allegations.
Throughout the ACC, Smith makes conclusory allegations, defames Chun’s counsel
by alleging complicity in Chun’s allegedly fraudulent acts, and refers to video
evidence without any description of the alleged evidence. There are no facts
presented to rise to the level of maliciousness required for requesting
punitive damages. As the causes of action are both sustained without leave to
amend, this issue is MOOT. 