 Case Number:  23STCP01212    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2023    Dept:  25  Parker v. Barrera’s  Landscape  23STCP01212BACKGROUND                On February 28, 2023, Arbitrator  David Schlueter, through the Contractors State License Board Arbitration  Program, issued an arbitration award in the amount of $700 for Petitioner  Doreen Parker (“Petitioner” or “Parker”) and against Respondent Barrera’s  Landscape (“Respondent” or “Barrera’s”). (Pet. pp. 5-7; Pet. ¶¶ 6-8.)   On April 18, 2023,  Petitioner, in propria persona, filed the instant Petition to Correct  Contractual Arbitration Award (“Petition”) against Respondent. No proof of service  has been filed.   On July 28, 2023,  Petitioner requested a continuance due to medical reasons on the motion.     On August 22, 2023,  this Court continued the hearing and ordered Petitioner to serve Respondent  with the Notice of Petition, Petition, and other supporting papers. Petitioner was  also ordered to file proof that Respondent has been served with the papers.    To date, Petitioner  has not filed proof of serving Respondent with any of the aforementioned  papers.    No opposition has  been filed.    LEGAL STANDARD    “Any party to an  arbitration award in which an award has been made may petition the court to  confirm, correct or vacate the award.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 1285.) “A petition  under this chapter shall: (1) Set forth the substance of or have attached a  copy of the agreement to arbitrate unless the petitioner denies the existence  of such an agreement. (b) Set forth the names of the arbitrators. (c) Set forth  or have attached a copy of the award and the written opinion of the  arbitrators, if any.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 1285.4.) “A response to a petition  under this chapter may request the court to dismiss the petition or to confirm,  correct or vacate the award.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 1285.2.)  “It is well settled that  the scope of judicial review of arbitration awards is extremely narrow.” (California  Faculty Assn. v. Superior Court (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 935, 943.) “Neither  the trial court, nor the appellate court, may ‘review the merits of the  dispute, the sufficiency of the evidence, or the arbitrator’s reasoning, nor  may we correct or review an award because of an arbitrator’s legal or factual  error, even if it appears on the award’s face.” (EHM Productions, Inc. v.  Starline Tours of Hollywood, Inc. (2018) 21 Cal.App.5th 1058, 1063-64.) Moreover, Code of Civil  Procedure § 1283.6 provides that: “The neutral arbitrator shall serve a signed  copy of the award on each party to the arbitration personally or by registered  or certified mail or as provided in the agreement.” (Emphasis added.) In  addition, a party may seek a court judgment confirming an arbitration award by  filing and serving a petition no more than four years, but not less than 10  days, after the award is served. (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 1288, 1288.4)  Finally, Code of Civil  Procedure § 1290.4, the statute governing proper service of this Petition  states, in pertinent part:  “(a) A copy of the  petition and a written notice of the time and place of the hearing thereof and  any other papers upon which the petition is based shall be served in the manner  provided in the arbitration agreement for the service of such petition and  notice.  (b) If the arbitration agreement does not  provide the manner in which such service shall be made and the person upon whom  service is to be made has not previously appeared in the proceeding and has not  previously been served in accordance with this subdivision: ¶ (1) Service  within this State shall be made in the manner provided by law for the service  of summons in an action. DISCUSSION  Petitioner has satisfied the requirements of Code of Civil  Procedure section 1285.4 by attaching the parties’ agreement to arbitrate,  setting forth the arbitrator’s name (David Schlueter) and attaching a copy of Arbitrator Schlueter’s February  28, 2023, written order in Plaintiff’s favor. (See Arbitration Award.)      However, the Court notes that Petitioner has not filed proof  that the Respondent has been served with the Notice of Petition and Petition.   The  Court continues the hearing and orders Petitioner to serve Respondent with the  Notice of Petition, Petition, and other supporting papers. Petitioner must also  file proof that Respondent has been served with these papers.      IV.  CONCLUSION & ORDER    For  the foregoing reasons, the Hearing on Petition to Correct Contractual  Arbitration Award scheduled for 10/2/2023 is continued to NOVEMBER 7, 2023 at 10:00 A.M. in  Department 25 at Spring Street Courthouse.   At  least sixteen (16) court days before the next scheduled hearing, Petitioner  must serve Respondent with the Notice, Petition, and supporting papers, and  file proof of service with the Court. Failure to do so may result in the  Petition being placed off calendar or denied.     