 Case Number:  23STCP02756	    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2023    Dept:  25  Pomona Islander, L.P. v. Murillo 23STCP02756   ANALYSIS: 
 
               
I.Background  
 
On July 31, 2023, Petitioner Pomona
Islander, L.P. dba Pomona Islander Mobile Home Park (“Petitioner”) filed the
instant Petition for Permanent Injunction Pursuant to Civil Code section 798.88
(the “Petition”) against Respondent Miguel A. Murillo (“Respondent”).   
 
Petitioner entered proof of
service on Respondent on September 25, 2023,  notice of the hearing on August 18, 2023, via personal
service. (9/25/2023 Proof of Personal Service.)  
 
No response has been filed.  
 
             
II.Legal Standard  
 
The Mobilehome Residency Law (“MRL”) gives management an
injunctive relief remedy for violations of “reasonable” park rules and
regulations. (Civ. Code, § 798.88.) Specifically, management may obtain a
restraining order against a continuing or recurring violation of any “reasonable
rule or regulation.” (Civ. Code, § 798.88, subd. (b); Rancho Santa Paula
Mobilehome Park, Ltd. v. Evans (1994) 26 Cal.App.4th 1139, 1142.) At the
time of the hearing, the court shall issue the injunction if it finds by clear
and convincing evidence the existence of a continuing or recurring violation of
a “reasonable rule or regulation.” (Civ. Code, § 798.88, subd. (d).) The
duration of the injunction may not exceed three years. (Civ. Code, § 798.88,
subd. (d).) 
 
           
III.Discussion  
 
The Petition was properly served
on Respondent. (12/7/21 Proof of Service.)  
 
Petitioner explains that
Respondent is a tenant occupying a Mobilehome on Space 117 (the “Mobilehome”)
at Pomona Islander Mobile Home Park located 3667 Valley Blvd., Pomona, CA 91768
(the “Park”). (Pet., ¶¶ 1-7.) On or about April 22, 2005, Respondent signed the
Pomona Islander Mobile Home Park Rental Agreement (the “Rental Agreement”), the
Pomona Islander Mobile Home Park Rules and Regulations (the “Rules”), and the
Pomona Islander Mobile Home Park Pet Agreement and Rules (the “Pet Agreement”).
(Pet., Exhs. 1-2, Churchill Decl., ¶¶ 2-3.)  
 
Petitioner alleges that
Respondent has violated the Rules since before October 2021 and hereby seeks a
permanent injunction against Respondent requiring him to comply with the Rental
Agreement, Rules, and Pet Agreement.  
 
On October 7, 2021, Petitioner
issued a seven-day notice for violations of the Park’s Rules. (Pet., Exh. 3, Churchill
Decl., ¶ 5.) This first seven-day notice informed Respondent (1) that by
failing to properly maintain the accessory structures of his Mobilehome, he was
violating Rules A.6 and B.3 and the Rental Agreement with a damaged
siding, trim and skirting on the Mobilehome, bent awning stanchions in the
driveway, broken doors on a storage shed and a broken porch light.; (2) that by impermissibly
storing multiple items outside his Mobilehome including, but not limited to, sheets
of plywood and drywall, paint buckets, water jugs, wood, plastic containers and
hoses, he was violating
Rules B.1, B.8, and C.4; (3) that by having bare patches of dirt, failing to
remove dead plants, and allowing numerous weeds around his Mobilehome, he was
violating Rules B.1 and B.2 and the Rental Agreement; (4) that, by having a
window air conditioning, he was violating Rules B.4 and C.9. (Churchill Decl.,
¶ 4.)
 
Ms. Churchhill served the first seven-day
notice on October 8, 2021, by posting a copy on the Mobilehome and via mail.
(Pet., Exh. 3.) The issues, however, were not remedied. (Churchill Decl., ¶ 5.)
  On October 27, Petitioner issued
a second seven-day notice to comply with the Rules and to remedy any
violations. (Pet., Exh. 4, Churchill Decl., ¶ 6.) The second seven-day informed
Respondent: (1) that by impermissibly storing multiple items outside his
Mobilehome including, but not limited to, ice chests, barstools,
bird cage, dresser drawer, end table, wood, totes, buckets, and other items
covered by a tarp, he was
violating Rule C.4; (2) that by failing to replace all damaged
siding, siding trim, window trim and damaged skirting around the perimeter of
your home, Respondent was in violation of Rules B.1., Rule B.3., B.4., and C.3;
(3)that by having bare
patches of dirt, failing to remove dead plants, and allowing numerous weeds
around his Mobilehome, he was violating Rules B.1, B.2, and B.4 of the Rental
Agreement; and (4) that, by having large oil stains on the driveway, he was in
violation of Rule B.11.
 
Ms. Churchhill served the second seven-day
notice on October 28, 2021, by posting a copy on the Mobilehome and via mail.
(Pet., Exh. 4.) The issues, however, were not remedied. (Churchill Decl., ¶ 6.)
 
On
April 29, 2022, Churchill inspected the Premises and Mobilehome.  On that day, there was still damage on the
skirting of the Mobilehome, items stored outside, weeds/bare areas of dirt, and
the air-conditioning unit was still in the window. 
 
Petitioner
through Counsel then issued a third seven-day notice to comply with the Rules
and to remedy any violations.  (Pet., Exh. 5, Churchill Decl., ¶
8.) The third seven-day informed Respondent: (1) that by having bare patches of
dirt, failing to remove dead plants, allowing numerous weeds around his
Mobilehome, and scattered paver/cement pillars he was violating Rules B.1, B.2,
and B.4 of the Rental Agreement, (2) that by failing to replace
all damaged skirting, hot water heater door, and remove the damaged lattice,
Respondent was in violation of Rule B.3. and B.4; (3) that by failing to have
approved handrails on the steps, he was in violation of Rule B.3, B.4, and B.5;
(4) that by impermissibly
storing multiple items outside his Mobilehome including, but not limited to, a
wooden table, a cooler, propane tanks, hoses, laundry detergent, paint cans,
and cement pillars, he was in violation of Rules B.1, B.4, and C.4.; (5) that, by having a window air conditioning,
he was violating Rules B.4 and C.9. (Churchill Decl., ¶ 8.)
 
Ms. Churchhill served the third seven-day
notice on June 6, 2022, by posting a copy on the Mobilehome and via mail.
(Pet., Exh. 5.) The issues, however, were not remedied. (Churchill Decl., ¶ 6.)
 
On
June 17, 2022, Petitioner spoke with Respondent telephonically and Respondent
mentioned that new skirting had been installed, the Mobilehome had been
painted, and the air-conditioning had been removed. (Churchill Decl., ¶ 10.) Further Respondent
stated he would continue to work on the other violations. (Churchill Decl., ¶ 10.)
Petitioner filled out a Resident Contact Form accordingly.  (Churchill Decl., ¶ 10; Exh. C.)
 
On August 30, 2022, Petitioner
wrote to Respondent that he had only partially complied with the third
seven-day notice. (Churchill Decl., ¶ 11; Exh. D.) In the letter
and depicted in the photographs, Petitioner claimed there was painter's tape on
the front windows of the home, items were still being improperly stored in the
driveway, the damaged awning stanchions had not been repaired or replace, and
the incomplete landscaping had to be fixed after Respondent submitted a
landscape plan for Park approval. (Churchill Decl., ¶ 11; Exh. D.)
 
On October 29, 2022, Petitioner
received a Resident Objection Form concerning the condition of the
Premises.  In the form, another resident
complained of a dog constantly barking at Respondent’s dog. (Churchill Decl., ¶
12; Exh. E.)
 
On
November 4, 2022, Petitioner inspected the home and took further
photographs.  (Churchill Decl., ¶ 13; Exh. F.) Petitioner argues that the
photographs show that many items, including two air conditioners, were still
being improperly stored in the driveway, and that some of the items were within
three feet of the utility pedestals. There were also weeds and bare areas of
dirt on the Premises, damaged awning posts or stanchions, and an unapproved air
conditioner in one of the Mobilehome's windows. (Churchill Decl., ¶ 13; Exh. F.) During the inspection,
Petitioner spoke with Respondent’s wife, Ms. Soto, and showed her the defects
in the property that needed to be addressed for the property to fall into
compliance. (Churchill Decl., ¶ 14; Exh. G.)
 
On
December 30, 2022, Petitioner through Counsel then issued a fourth and final
seven-day notice to comply with the Rules and to remedy any violations.  (Pet., Exh. 6, Churchill Decl., ¶ 15.) The fourth seven-day
informed Respondent: (1) that by having bare patches of dirt, failing to remove dead
plants, allowing numerous weeds around his Mobilehome, and scattered
paver/cement pillars he was violating Rules B.1, B.2, and B.4 of the Rental
Agreement, (2) that by failing to remove the painter’s tape left
after painting and replacing the damaging awning posts Rules B.3 and B.4; (3) that by impermissibly storing
multiple items outside his Mobilehome including, but not limited to, a plastic
bucket, bicycles, a cooler, a wooden table and a portable air conditioner
according to Rule B.1, B.4, and C.4; (5) that, by having a window air
conditioning, he was violating Rules B.4 and C.9. (Pet., Exh. 6, Churchill
Decl., ¶ 15.)
 
On
March 28, 2023, and June 22, 2023, Petitioner inspected the home and took
further photographs.  (Churchill Decl., ¶¶ 16, 17; Exh.
H, I.)  Items were still stored
improperly as well as other defects.
 
 Petitioner argues
Respondent has refused to change his behavior despite receiving four separate
seven-day notices and that a permanent injunction is the only remaining option,
other than commencing eviction proceedings under Civil Code section 798.56, to force
Respondent to abide by the Rules and ensure no further violations. (Pet., pp.
18-19.)  
 
Having reviewed the Petition,
supporting declarations, Rental Agreement, Rules, and Pet Agreement, the Court
finds a three-year permanent injunction is warranted.  
 
The Court issues an injunction
prohibiting/ordering the following: 
 
1.     Respondent must repair or
replace the bent awning stanchions in the driveway at the Premises and the
broken storage shed doors, and ordered to repair or replace the broken porch
light at the front door of the Mobilehome; 
 
2.     Respondent
must remove the painter's tape from the windows of the Mobilehome; 
 
3.     Respondent
must remove all items being stored anywhere outside the Mobilehome and around
the Premises, and prohibited from storing items anywhere outside the Mobilehome
and around the Premises, except in an approved storage shed; 
 
4.     Respondent
must not store any items other than approved patio type furniture, BBQ
equipment, plants, bicycles and reasonable play area equipment outside the
Mobilehome and on the Premises; 
 
5.     Respondent
must maintain a clearance of at least three feet around the utility pedestals
and meters on the Premises;
 
6.     Respondent
must remove all weeds and dead plants from the Premises, and install ground
cover on the bare patches of dirt on the Premises pursuant to a landscape plan
that must be submitted to and approved by Park Management; and 
 
7.     Respondent
must remove one of the two dogs from the Premises, and register the remaining
dog with Park Management, and ordered to remove both dogs from the Premises
unless the dogs are prevented from disturbing Park residents by barking.
 
Notably, Respondent did not file
a response demonstrating the injunction should not be issued.  
 
          
IV.Conclusion & Order 
 
For the foregoing reasons,
Petitioner Pomona Islander, L.P.’s unopposed Petition for Permanent Injunction
is GRANTED. The Court HEREBY ISSUES A PERMANENT INJUNCTION FOR A PERIOD OF
THREE YEARS AS SET FORTH HEREIN. 
 
Moving party is ordered to give
notice.  
  