

 
BACKGROUND
 
On June 2, 2020, Plaintiff Jason
Ehlers (“Plaintiff”) filed a petition requesting that the clerk of the court
enter judgment on final order of the Labor Commissioner.  The total judgment amount equated to $16,875.55
against the judgment debtor O Hotel Group, Inc. 
 
On June 16, 2020, Plaintiff
assigned and transferred his money judgment to the Labor Commissioner of the
State of California (“Assignee”).
 
On April 17, 2024, Assignee filed
the instant Motion to Appoint a Receiver to Sell Judgment Debtor’s Interest in
his Liquor License to Enforce the Judgment. 
 
 
MOVING PARTY
POSITION
 
            Assignee contends
that it has attempted through conventional means to enforce the judgment
against the judgment debtor but the judgment has yet to be satisfied. (Choi
Decl. ¶¶ 8-10.) Thus, Assignee seeks the appointment of a receiver in order to
transfer the judgment debtor’s liquor license. Assignee contends that there is
good cause in this request because it is the only way to enforce the judgment,
and it asserts that it is unaware of any other claims or taxes. (Choi Decl. ¶
11.) Moreover, by satisfying the judgment, the judgment debtor would be
permitted to conduct business. Furthermore, Assignee contends that there are no
other methods of enforcing the judgment. Lastly, Assignee asserts that its
chosen receiver, Michael Brewer, is qualified to conduct the sale based on his
years of experience. 
 
OPPOSITION
 
            No
opposition filed as of May 9, 2024. 
 
REPLY
 
            No reply
has been filed as of May 9, 2024 
 
ANALYSIS
 
I.          Motion
to Appoint Receiver
A.        Legal Standard 
A receiver may be appointed by
the Court in which an action or proceeding is pending after judgment, to carry
the judgment into effect. Code Civ. Proc. § 564(b)(3).  The judgment debtor’s interest in an alcoholic
beverage license may be applied to the satisfaction of a money judgment only as
provided in this section.  Code Civ.
Proc. § 708.630(a).  “The court may
appoint a receiver for the purpose of transferring the judgment debtor's
interest in an alcoholic beverage license that is transferable under Article 5
(commencing with Section 24070) of Chapter 6 of Division 9 of the Business and
Professions Code….”  Code Civ. Proc. §
708.630(b).
 
B.        Merits
 
Assignee asserts that its attempts
to enforce the judgment for Labor Code violations against the judgment debtor
through conventional procedures have been unsuccessful.  Choi Decl. ¶¶ 8-10. Furthermore, there are no
other claims of creditors with priority over the Assignee. Id. at ¶ 11;
Code Civ. Proc. § 708.630(b).  Moreover, the
judgment debtor has attempted to avoid liability by having its principal
incorporate different corporate entities. 
Id.at ¶¶ 5-6, 9.  Thus, the
requested relief is necessary and reasonable under the circumstances.  Code Civ. Proc. § 708.620.  Based on the statutory authorities cited by Assignee,
the Court finds that the request for an appointment of a receiver to obtain
Judgment Debtor’s interest in its liquor license is authorized and appropriate
under the circumstances. As to Assignee’s chosen receiver, the Court finds that
the appointment of Michael Brewer is reasonable based on his extensive
experience as a professional liquor license broker.  Brewer Decl. ¶¶ 2-4, 8.
 
III.       Conclusion 
            
            Based on the foregoing, Assignee’s Motion to
Appoint Michael Brewer as a Receiver to Sell Judgment
Debtor’s Interest in Its ABC Liquor License number 431450 to Enforce and
Satisfy the Judgment is GRANTED.


 
Counsel for
Judgment Creditor is ordered to electronically submit a proposed form of order
within 5-court days of this Court’s ruling.
 
            Moving party is ordered to give
notice. 