

 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On January
30, 2024, Plaintiff Covina Hills MHC (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against
Defendants Eugenia Souza, Jermaine D. Souza, Julio Javier Romo, Francis Vinula,
and Does 1 through 100, asserting causes of action for (1) declaration of
mobile home abandoned, (2) open book account, (3) breach of implied in fact
contract, (4) common counts, (5) declaratory relief, (6) breach of written
contract, and (7) intentional misrepresentation.   
 
The
Complaint alleges the following, among other things. Plaintiff “operates a
mobilehome park in La Puente. Plaintiff served a Sixty (60) Notice To Terminate
Possession on Defendants Eugenia Souza and Jermaine D. Souza (aka German Souza)
… for [possessing] a pit bull dog that terrorized the community.” (Compl., ¶ 7.)
Plaintiff commenced eviction proceedings against the defendants when the
defendants could not sell their mobile home. (Compl., ¶ 9.) Before the case went
to trial, Eugenia Souza informed the court that she had vacated and moved from
the mobile home. (Compl., ¶ 10.) Therefore, the defendant was asked to pay
storage fees and to remove her mobile home from the park. (Compl., ¶ 10.) However,
because the defendant did not remove the mobile home and pay back storage
charges, Plaintiff commenced abandonment proceedings, which were later
dismissed because of an apparent transfer of ownership of the mobile home. (Compl.,
¶ 10.) Subsequently, Plaintiff discovered through title searches on August 15
and November 9, 2023, that the defendants Eugenia Souza and Jermaine D. Souza were
still the registered owners of the mobile home. (Compl., ¶¶ 14, 17.) Therefore,
Plaintiff seeks a judicial declaration that the mobile home at issue is
abandoned. (Compl., ¶ 18.) Plaintiff also seeks to recover, among other things,
monthly storage charges from May 1, 2022. (Compl., ¶ 20.)
 
On
February 8, 2024, Defendant Francis Vinula (“Defendant”) filed the instant “Motion
to Quash Summons and Complaint or Alternatively Motion to Dismiss Entire Action
for Lack of and Defective Service of Process” before Plaintiff filed a proof of
service. 
 
On
February 13, 2024, Plaintiff filed a proof of service of summons indicating
that Defendant was served through personal service on February 6, 2024. 
 
            On
April 18, 2024, Plaintiff filed its opposition to the motion to quash. 
 
            On
May 13, 2024, Defendant filed a late reply in the form of a declaration. 
 
MOVING PARTY’S
POSITION
 
            This action
should be dismissed because no personal service attempt was made by a
registered process server at the correct address, and no declaration of due
diligence was filed indicating personal service attempts. Defendant only
received papers through mail. 
 
 
OPPOSITION
 
            The Court
should deny the motion because the Defendant was properly served by a
registered California process server, who has submitted a declaration attesting
to personal service. 
 
REPLY
 
            Defendant alleges
that the process server falsely served him with a process containing a different
name and address in both his home and alleged place of employment. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
I.          MOTION TO
QUASH SERVICE OF SUMMONS AND COMPLAINT
A.        Legal
Standard 
“A summons may be served by personal delivery of a copy of
the summons and of the complaint to the person to be served. Service of a
summons in this manner is deemed complete at the time of such delivery. ¶ The date upon which
personal delivery is made shall be entered on or affixed to the face of the
copy of the summons at the time of its delivery. However, service of a summons
without such date shall be valid and effective.” Code Civ. Proc. § 415.10.
 
Service may also be effectuated on an individual through
substituted service. Code Civ. Proc. § 415.20, subd. (b) (“If a copy of the
summons and complaint cannot with reasonable diligence be personally delivered
to the person to be served, as specified in Section 416.60, 416.70, 416.80, or
416.90, a summons may be served by leaving a copy of the summons and complaint at
the person’s dwelling house, usual place of abode, usual place of business, or
usual mailing address other than a United States Postal Service post office
box, in the presence of a competent member of the household or a person
apparently in charge of his or her office, place of business, or usual mailing
address other than a United States Postal Service post office box, at least 18
years of age, who shall be informed of the contents thereof, and by thereafter
mailing a copy of the summons and of the complaint by first-class mail, postage
prepaid to the person to be served at the place where a copy of the summons and
complaint were left. Service of a summons in this manner is deemed complete on
the 10th day after the mailing”). 
A defendant has 30 days after the service of the summons,
or 40 days if service was effectuated by substitute service, to file a
responsive pleading. Code Civ. Proc., § 412.20, subds. (a)(3), (b).
 
“A defendant, on or before the last day of his or her time
to plead or within any further time that the court may for good cause allow,
may serve and file a notice of motion for one or more of the following
purposes: ¶ To quash service of summons on the ground of lack of jurisdiction
of the court over him or her.” Code Civ. Proc., § 418.10, subd. (a)(1).
B.        Discussion 
 
As an initial matter, the Court
finds Defendant’s motion timely as it was filed on February 8, 2024, within two
(2) days of the alleged personal service on February 6, 2024. 
 
Defendant moves to quash the
service, testifying as follows in his declaration. No attempts of personal
service were made by a registered process server, and no notice or its
equivalent was properly served, on Defendant. Motion, Declaration of Francis
Vinuya (“Vinuya Decl.”), ¶¶ 3, 6. No one is authorized to accept service of
process on his behalf. Vinuya Decl., ¶ 9. Since Defendant was not properly
served, Plaintiff cannot maintain this action against him. Vinuya Decl., Id.

 
In opposition, Plaintiff
submits the declaration of Elias Eihayek (“Eihayek”), a registered California
process server. Eihayek testifies that on February 6, 2024, he personally
served Defendant at Defendant’s place of business, REMAX Olympic, located at 3110
East Garvey Avenue South, West Covina, California. Declaration of Elias
Eihayek, filed April 18, 2024, ¶ 2. 
 
Defendant alleges in reply to
the opposition that the process server falsely served him with a process
containing a different name and address in both his home and alleged place of
employment. Vinuya Decl. filed May 13, 2024, ¶
5. 
 
“The filing of a proof of service creates a rebuttable
presumption that the service was proper.” Floveyor International, Ltd. v.
Superior Court (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 789, 795. 
 
In addition, “[t]he return of a process server registered
pursuant to Chapter 16 (commencing with Section 22350) of Division 8 of the
Business and Professions Code upon process or notice establishes a presumption,
affecting the burden of producing evidence, of the facts stated in the return.”
Evid. Code § 647. 
 
Here, the Proof of Service
of Summons Plaintiff filed on February 13, 2024, states that Eihayek, a
registered California process server, effectuated personal service on the
Defendant on February 6, 2024, 4:42 pm, at 3110 E. Garvey Ave S, West Covina,
CA 91791.
 
Defendant has not produced any evidence rebutting the
presumption that service was proper. Specifically, Defendant has not testified
that on February 6, 2024, at 4:42 pm, he was
not at his alleged place of business, REMAX Olympic, allegedly located
at 3110 East Garvey Avenue South, West Covina, California. 
 
Accordingly,
the Court finds it proper to deny the motion. 
 
II.        CONCLUSION 
            
            Defendant Francis Vinuya’s Motion to Quash Summons and
Complaint or, Alternatively, Motion to Dismiss Entire Action for Lack of and
Defective Service of Process is DENIED.
 
            Moving
party is ordered to give notice. 