  Case Number:  22STCV16119    Hearing Date:   December 17, 2024    Dept:  34 Forward Westwood, Inc., et al. v. Meny A. Atias (22STCV16119)
 
Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants Forward Westwood Inc.,
Forward Calabasas Inc., Paul Morris, Edward Krifcher, and Joseph Sacavitch’s Motion to Reopen Discovery is GRANTED.
 
Background
 
On May 13, 2022, Plaintiffs Forward
Westwood, Inc., Forward Calabasas, Inc., Joseph Sacavitch, Edward Krifcher, and
Paul Morris filed a Complaint against Defendant Meny A. Atias arising from the parties’
business relationship alleging causes of action for: 
1.              
Misappropriation
of Corporate Opportunities; 
2.              
Interference
with Contractual Relations;
3.              
Interference
with Prospective Business Advantage; 
4.              
Breach
of Fiduciary Duty; 
5.              
Conversion;

6.              
Violation
of California Penal Code section 496; 
7.              
Negligent
Misrepresentation; 
8.              
Fraud;

9.              
Unfair
Competition; and 
10.           
Unjust
Enrichment. 
On July 12, 2022,
Defendant/Cross-Complainant Meny A. Atias filed: (1) Cross-Complaint against
Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants Forward Westwood, Inc., Forward Calabasas, Inc.,
Paul Morris, Edward Krifcher, and Joseph Sacavitch; and (2) Answer to the
Complaint. The Cross-Complaint alleged the following causes of action: 
1.              
Defamation;

2.              
Breach
of Contract; 
3.              
Breach
of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; 
4.              
Breach
of Contract; 
5.              
Reasonable
Value of Work, Labor, and Services (Quantum Meruit); 
6.              
Reasonable
Value of Work, Labor, and Services (Quantum Meruit); 
7.              
Intentional
Interference with Contractual Relations; 
8.              
Intentional
Interference with Contractual Relations; 
9.              
Intentional
Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage; 
10.           
Failure
to Pay Earned and Unpaid Compensation; 
11.           
Waiting
Time Penalties; 
12.           
Failure
to Pay Earned and Unpaid Compensation; 
13.           
Waiting
Time Penalties; 
14.           
Unfair
and Unlawful Business Practices; 
15.           
Accounting;

16.           
Accounting;
and 
17.           
Declaratory
and Injunctive Relief. 
On August 15, 2022,
Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants filed their Answer to the Cross-Complaint.
On August 5, 2024, the court
granted Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants’ Ex Parte Application to Continue Trial
Date vacating the Final Status Conference scheduled for 08/28/2024, and Jury
Trial scheduled for 09/09/2024. 
On August 6, 2024, the court
granted the parties’ Stipulation to Bifurcate the Issue of Punitive Damages.
On October 11, 2024,
Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants filed this Motion to Reopen Discovery. On December
4, 2024, Defendant/Cross-Complainant filed an opposition. No reply has been
filed. 
On October 22, 2024,
Defendant/Cross-Complainant filed a Motion for Sanctions which was later taken
off-calendar. 
On November 7, 2024, the court
granted Defendant/Cross-Complainant’s Motion for Summary Adjudication in favor
of Defendant/Cross-Complainant as to the first, fifth, and sixth causes of
action. 
On December 5, 2024, the Court’s
Clerk rejected Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants Request for Dismissal.
A Trial Setting Conference is
scheduled for December 17, 2024.
Legal Standard
“On motion of any party,
the court may grant leave to complete discovery proceedings, or to have a
motion concerning discovery heard, closer to the initial trial date, or to
reopen discovery after a new trial date has been set.¿ This motion shall be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.”¿ (Code
Civ. Proc., section 2024.050, subd. (a).)¿
¿¿
“In exercising its
discretion to grant or deny this motion, the court shall take into
consideration any matter relevant to the leave requested, including, but not
limited to, the following: (1) The necessity and the reasons for the
discovery.¿ (2) The diligence or lack of diligence of the party seeking the
discovery or the hearing of a discovery motion, and the reasons that the
discovery was not completed or that the discovery motion was not heard
earlier.¿ (3) Any likelihood that permitting the discovery or hearing the
discovery motion will prevent the case from going to trial on the date set, or
otherwise interfere with the trial calendar, or result in prejudice to any
other party.¿ (4) The length of time that has elapsed between any date
previously set, and the date presently set, for the trial of the action.”¿
(Code Civ. Proc., section 2024.050, subd. (b)(1)-(4).)¿¿¿
“The court shall impose a
monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against
any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to
extend or to reopen discovery, unless it finds that the one subject to the
sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make
the imposition of the sanction unjust.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., section 2024.050,
subd. (c).)
Discussion 
 
            Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants seek to
reopen discovery in the instant action. Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants contend
that they faced obstacles beyond their control and were unable to complete
certain discovery tasks prior to the discovery cut off date. (Motion, at p. 2.)
Additionally, Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants contend that since the court vacated
the trial date set for this action on August 5, 2024 and did not set a new date,
the discovery deadlines were also nullified. (Ibid.) Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants
argue that the court’s intervention to allow additional discovery is needed as Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants
have spent significant time and money in attempting to track down a witness,
Jennifer Kucera, who is believed to hold key evidence in this case. (Id.,
at p. 3.) Additionally, Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants have faced challenges
acquiring financial information from Pacific Coastline Escrow who is a vital
part of the case. (Ibid.) Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants also contend that new
witnesses have been identified that required further depositions past the
discovery cutoff date. (Id., at p. 4.) Lastly,
Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants argue that Defendant/Cross-Complainant will also
benefit from reopening discovery as he was unable to complete written discovery
in time. (Ibid.) Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants’ counsel declares that the
parties were unable to reach a solution on these discovery issues. (Herman
Decl., ¶ 9.) 
 
            In
opposition, Defendant/Cross-Complainant argues that the discovery cut off date passed
before the court issues its August 5, 2024, order granting the parties’ Ex
Parte Application to Continue the Trial Date. (Opp., at p. 4.)
Defendant/Cross-Complainant notes that Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants do not
provide any authority to support their argument that when a trial date is
vacated, discovery may be reopened. (Id., at p. 5.) Additionally,
Defendant/Cross-Complainant argues that Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants fail to
meet their burden to show discovery should be reopen under Code of Civil
Procedure section 2024.050 as Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants had already conducted
significant discovery and were clearly not diligent in seeking the discovery
they now claim to need. (Id., at pp. 6-8.) Lastly,
Defendant/Cross-Complainant contends that he will suffer undue prejudice if
discovery is reopened as he has already expended significant resources to
properly serve discovery within the discovery period, fully brief his motions
in limine regarding evidence to be excluded at trial, and select his exhibits
and witnesses for trial. (Id., at p. 8.)
 
            No
reply has been filed. 
Although Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants
have not offered satisfactory evidence of diligence
in pursuing the discovery sought, the court finds that lack of diligence is
offset by the narrow scope of the request, the facially-apparent relevance of
the information sought, and the relative distance of the trial date which will
be set on December 17, 2024. The court therefore finds that discovery should be
reopened for the limited purpose of conducting discovery to contact Jennifer
Kucera as a witness, acquiring financial information from Pacific Coastline
Escrow, and depose the new witnesses identified. 
Accordingly, the motion
to reopen discovery is granted. The court declines to award monetary sanctions.
Conclusion
 
Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants Forward
Westwood Inc., Forward Calabasas Inc., Paul Morris, Edward Krifcher, and Joseph
Sacavitch’s Motion to Reopen Discovery is GRANTED.