 Case Number:  23STCV25565    Hearing Date:   December 17, 2024    Dept:  34 Defendant’s Counsel Brian
T. Corrigan’s Motion to be Relieved as Counsel is GRANTED, subject to
the filing of a proposed order within five (5) days of this order, and effective
upon the filing of proof of service showing service of the signed order. 
 
Background
 
On October
19, 2023, Plaintiff Megna Grizzly Bear’s Burgers, Inc. (“Plaintiff”) filed a
complaint against Defendant Mahmud Ulkarim (“Defendant”) and Does 1-25 arising
from an agreement between the parties to invest in a commercial real property
located at 2211 Sierra Highway, Acton, CA 93510 alleging causes of action for: 
 
1.           Breach of Contract; 
2.           Conversion; 
3.           Breach of Fiduciary Duty; 
4.           Illegal Loans; 
5.           Imposition of Constructive Trust; 
6.           Accounting; 
7.           Injunctive Relief; 
8.           Appointment of a Receiver;
9.           Declaratory Relief; and
10.        Violation of Cal. B&P §17200. 
 
On November
8, 2023, Plaintiff filed a Notice of Lis Pendens regarding the subject
property. 
 
On November
5, 2024, Defendant’s counsel, Brian T. Corrigan (“Counsel”), filed: (1)
MC-051, Motion to be Relieved as Counsel; (2) MC-052, Declaration; and (3)
Proof of Service.
 
No
opposition or other response has been filed. 

 
Legal Standard
 
“The
attorney in an action or special proceeding may be changed at any time before
or after judgment or final determination, as follows: 1. Upon the consent of
both client and attorney, filed with the clerk, or entered upon the minutes; 2.
Upon the order of the court, upon the application of either client or attorney,
after notice from one to the other.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 284.)
 
An
attorney moving to be relieved as counsel under California Code of Civil
Procedure section 284(2) must meet the requirements set out in California Rules
of Court, rule 3.1362. 
 
To
comply with rule 3.1362, the moving party must submit the following forms: (1)
Notice of Motion and Motion to be Relieved as Counsel; (2) Declaration in
Support of Attorney's Motion to be Relieved as Counsel; and (3) Order Granting
Attorney's Motion to be Relieved as Counsel. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1362(a), (c), (e).) 
 
The
moving party must serve the aforementioned forms on the client and all other
parties who have appeared in the case. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362(d).)
Further, when the client is served by mail, the attorney's declaration must
show that the client's address was confirmed within the last 30 days and how it
was confirmed. (Ibid.)  
 
Absent
a showing of resulting prejudice, an attorney’s request for withdrawal should
be granted.  (People v. Prince
(1968) 268 Cal.App.2d 398, 406.) 
 
Discussion
 
Counsel’s
Motion to be Relieved as Counsel complies with the requirements of California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, in that Counsel provided notice of motion and
motion to be relieved as counsel, and declaration in support of the motion to
be relieved as counsel. However, Counsel failed to provide a proposed order
granting Counsel’s motion.
 
            The declaration states that Defendant has breached the
terms of the firm’s written engagement agreement. (MC-052, ¶ 2.) Additionally, Counsel
states that Plaintiff’s counsel had committed to amend the complaint to
properly plead Plaintiff’s claims. (Id., ¶ 7.) Counsel contends that Plaintiff’s
counsel does not represent Plaintiff but pled the complaint as if they did. (Ibid.)
Defendant’s counsel agreed to wait for the amended pleadings in order to
respond but no amended pleadings have been filed. (Ibid.)
 
            The court determines that the requirements of Rules of
Court Rule 3.1362 enumerated above have not been sufficiently met in that
Counsel failed to provide a proposed order granting Counsel’s motion.
Nevertheless, the court grants the requested withdrawal, conditioned upon the
filling of a proposed order, and effective upon the filing of proof of service
showing service of the signed order. 
 
Conclusion
 
Defendant’s
Counsel Brian T. Corrigan’s Motion to be Relieved as Counsel is GRANTED, subject
to the filing of a proposed order within five (5) days of this order, and effective
upon the filing of proof of service showing service of the signed order. 