 Case Number:  23STCV03001    Hearing Date:   December 17, 2024    Dept:  34 Felix Pfeifle v. Alltrust Moving and Storage, Inc. (23STCV03001)
 
Plaintiff Felix Pfeifle’s
Motion to Set Aside/Vacate Dismissal is GRANTED. 
 
Background
 
On February 10, 2023,
Plaintiff Felix Pfeifle (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendant
Alltrust Moving and Storage, Inc. (“Defendant”) arising from Plaintiff’s use of
Defendant’s moving services alleging causes of action for:
 
1.              
Deceit;
2.              
Extortion; 
3.              
B&P Code 17200 et. seq.;
4.              
Civil RICO; and
5.              
Negligence. 
 
On December 8, 2023, the
court denied Defendant’s Motion to Dismiss for Forum Non Conveniens. 
 
On January 17, 2024, at
the request of Plaintiff, the Clerk’s Office entered default on Defendant.
 
On March 6, 2024, the court
held an OSC re Entry of Default Judgment. Plaintiff failed to file any of the
required documents for Entry of Default Judgement. The court denied the Entry
of Default Judgement, and stated, “The Court sets an[] OSC re Entry of Default
Judg[]ment for April 19, 2024. If default judgment is not entered by that time,
the Court will dismiss the case.” (Minute Order, dated March 6, 2024.)
 
On April 19, 2024, the
court dismissed the case without prejudice as Plaintiff failed to file any
documents for Entry of Default Judgment. 
 
On October 15, 2024,
Plaintiff filed this Motion to Vacate Dismissal. No other responsive pleading
has been filed. 
 
Legal Standard
 
“The court may, upon any
terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a
judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her
through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.
Application for this relief shall be accompanied by a copy of the answer or
other pleading proposed to be filed therein, otherwise the application shall
not be granted, and shall be made within a reasonable time, in no case
exceeding six months, after the judgment, dismissal, order, or proceeding was
taken. . . . No affidavit or declaration of merits shall be required of the
moving party. Notwithstanding any other requirements of this section, the court
shall, whenever an application for relief is made no more than six months after
entry of judgment, is in proper form, and is accompanied by an attorney’s sworn
affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect,
vacate any (1) resulting default entered by the clerk against his or her
client, and which will result in entry of a default judgment, or (2) resulting
default judgment or dismissal entered against his or her client, unless the
court finds that the default or dismissal was not in fact caused by the
attorney’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect. . . .” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 473, subd. (b).)
 
            Section
473(b) provides for two distinct types of relief. “Under the discretionary
relief provision, on a showing of “mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect,” the court has discretion to allow relief from a “judgment,
dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against” a party or his or her
attorney. Under the mandatory relief provision, on the other hand, upon a
showing by attorney declaration of “mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
neglect,” the court shall vacate any “resulting default judgment or dismissal
entered.” (Leader v. Health Industries of America, Inc. (2001) 89
Cal.App.4th 603, 615–616.)
 
Discussion
 
            Plaintiff
moves the court for relief pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 473,
subdivision (b). (Motion, at p. 2.) Specifically, Plaintiff moves the court to
vacate the dismissal of this action entered on April 19, 2024, due to
Plaintiff’s counsel’s mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect under the mandatory relief provision of section 473(b). (Ibid.)
 
            Plaintiff’s
counsel, Thomas W. Kielty (“Counsel”), declares that Counsel misread his
calendar and believed that the April 19, 2024, hearing was the deadline to file
the series of documents requested by the court at the OSC hearing on March 6,
2024. (Kielty Decl., ¶ 6.) As such, Plaintiff failed to attend the April 19, 2024
hearing. (Id., ¶ 7.) Additionally, Counsel declares to have been involved
in multiple trials from January 1, 2024, until April 19, 2024. (Id., ¶¶ 9-18.)
Counsel declares to have filed the requested prove up package on April 19,
2024, however it was rejected as it had been filed after the court had already
dismissed the case for failure to appear at the hearing. (Id., ¶¶ 20, 27.)
Counsel attaches the proposed documents to be filed if relief is granted. (Id.,
Exh. A.)
 
            The
court finds that the present motion is timely. Additionally, Plaintiff’s
counsel has submitted a declaration attesting to his mistake in failing to file
the documents requested by the court. The dismissal was a direct result of
Counsel’s error granting Plaintiff mandatory relief under section 473(b). As
all statutory requirements to set aside and vacate dismissal of this action are
present, Plaintiff’s motion is granted. 
 
Conclusion
 
Plaintiff Felix Pfeifle’s Motion to Set Aside/Vacate Dismissal is GRANTED. 
 