 Case Number:  20BBCV00397    Hearing Date:   January 26, 2024    Dept:  A MOTION FOR
TERMINATING SANCTIONSLos Angeles Superior Court
Case # 20BBCV00397
 



MP:  


SC26 III, LLC and Power Property
  Management, Inc. (Defendants)




RP:  


Jessica Stein (Plaintiff)



 NOTICE: 
The
Court is not requesting oral argument on this matter.  Pursuant to
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) notice of intent to appear is
required.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling, no
argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies all other parties and the
court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the party’s intention
to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become the ruling of the
court if no notice of intent to appear is received.”   
Notice
may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818)
260-8412. 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
On
June 24, 2020, Jessica Stein (“Plaintiff”) brought this action against SC26 III,
LLC and Power Property Management, Inc. (collectively “Defendants”) alleging habitability
issues with an apartment Plaintiff rented from Defendants. The Complaint
contains six causes of action for: (1) Breach of Warranty of Habitability, (2)
Breach of Quiet Enjoyment, (3) Violation of LARSO, (4) Violation of Business
and Professions Code § 17200, (5) Negligent Maintenance of Premises, and (5)
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress. 
Defendants now move for terminating sanctions, arguing that
Plaintiff has willfully failed to comply with discovery requests at multiple
junctures. The Court notes that Defendants have filed two separate motions to
compel discovery responses which were granted on April 9, 2021 and July 7, 2023.
Defendants state that production was eventually made with respect to the 2021
motion, but no responses have been received since the Court’s July 7, 2023
order. 
On January 19, 2024, Plaintiff filed a late opposition to
the motion. It is within the Court’s discretion to consider documents which are
untimely filed. (See CRC Rule 3.1300(d).) Given that the motion of terminating
sanctions presents the possibility that Plaintiff’s case resolves without a
determination on the merits, the Court elects to consider the late filed
opposition and Defendants’ reply. However, the Court admonishes Plaintiff that
all procedural rules must be strictly obeyed and any future late filing will
not be considered. 
ANALYSIS:  
I.               
LEGAL
STANDARD  
Where a
party fails to obey an order compelling answers to discovery, “the court may
make those orders that are just, including the imposition of an issue sanction,
an evidence sanction, or a terminating sanction.” (C.C.P., §§ 2030.290(c),
2023.010(c); R.S. Creative, Inc. v. Creative Cotton, Ltd. (1999) 75 Cal.
App. 4th 486, 495.) Terminating sanctions are appropriate when a party persists
in disobeying the court’s orders. (Deyo v. Kilbourne (1978) 84
Cal.App.3d 771, 795-796.) 
A
terminating sanction is a “drastic measure which should be employed with
caution.” (Deyo supra, 84 Cal. App. 3d at 793.) “A decision to order
terminating sanctions should not be made lightly. But where a violation is
willful, preceded by a history of abuse, and the evidence shows that less
severe sanctions would not produce compliance with the discovery rules, the
trial court is justified in imposing the ultimate sanction.” (Mileikowsky v.
Tenet Healthsystem (2005) 128 Cal. App. 4th 262, 279-280.) While the court
has discretion to impose terminating sanctions, these sanctions “should be
appropriate to the dereliction and should not exceed that which is required to
protect the interests of the party entitled to but denied discovery.” (Deyo
supra, at 793.) “[A] court is empowered to apply the ultimate sanction
against a litigant who persists in the outright refusal to comply with his
discovery obligations.” (Id.) Discovery sanctions are not to be imposed for
punishment, but instead are used to encourage fair disclosure of discovery to
prevent unfairness resulting for the lack of information. (See Midwife v.
Bernal (1988) 203 Cal. App. 3d 57, 64.) 
II.             
MERITS 
Despite Plaintiff’s neglect
of this case, the Court does not find Plaintiff’s failure to comply with the July
7, 2023 order warrants the drastic remedy of terminating sanctions.  The Court notes that, by Defendants’ own
admission, Plaintiff provided discovery responses pursuant to the April 9, 2021
order on May 15, 2021. (Lebow Decl. ¶ 7.) Plaintiff also paid the
sanctions ordered by the Court in July of 2021. (Id.) As such, the only
outstanding discovery responses at the time this motion was filed are those noted
in the July 7, 2023 order.  
“The trial court may order
a terminating sanction for discovery abuse ‘after considering the totality of
the circumstances: [the] conduct of the party to determine if the actions were
willful; the detriment to the propounding party; and the number of formal and
informal attempts to obtain the discovery.’” (Los Defensores, Inc. v. Gomez
(2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 377, 390, quoting Lang v. Hachman (2000) 77
Cal.App.4th 1225, 1246.) 
In her opposition,
Plaintiff states that discovery responses pursuant to the July 7, 2023 order
were served upon Defendants on January 18, 2024. Plaintiff also states that the
sanctions ordered by the Court were paid on the same date. The Court notes that
while Plaintiff’s opposition refers to a declaration by her counsel, Bryan
Castorina, no such declaration is attached. Further, the opposition does not
attach the discovery responses as exhibits despite referencing them as such. 
The Court finds Defendants
have not shown that Plaintiff’s failure to adhere to the Court’s order is
willful rather than the result of neglect. The Court acknowledges that
Plaintiff has now twice provided discovery responses past the deadline ascribed
by an order of the Court. Regardless, Plaintiff’s untimely compliance is not,
in and of itself, a showing of willful behavior. While Plaintiff has
established a pattern of providing discovery well past the ascribed deadlines,
Defendants have not offered any evidence that this failure is a willful effort
to stymie litigation. 
Defendants are certainly
entitled to receive responses to the discovery that has been propounded, and
Plaintiff is subject to appropriate (and potentially escalating) sanctions for
the failure to comply with his obligations under the Civil Discovery Act and
court orders, but at this time the Court cannot make a determination that the
Plaintiff’s failures to comply were willful. 
Further, Defendants’ motion
makes no argument as to a detriment suffered which cannot be offset by less
severe sanctions. Defendants argue at length in their reply that Plaintiff’s
failure to provide a good faith explanation for the delay in responding to
discovery supports the granting of terminating sanctions. While the Court
agrees that lengthy refusals to respond to discovery certainly invite monetary
and even evidentiary sanctions, the delay here is not sufficient to justify the
radical measure of terminating sanctions. 
Accordingly, Defendants’
motion for terminating sanctions is DENIED. 
The only alternative
sanction briefed by Defendants are monetary sanctions. The Court finds monetary
sanctions would be appropriate to offset the cost of Defendants’ actions in
attempting to obtain discovery. Both of the Court’s prior orders were
accompanied by sanctions and both orders resulted in the eventual production of
discovery responses. As such, the Court grants monetary sanctions in the amount
of $1,125.00 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records.  
ORDER  
SC26 III, LLC and
Power Property Management, Inc’s Motion for Terminating Sanctions came on regularly for hearing on January 26, 2024, with
appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the
court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as
follows:  
DEFENDANTS’
MOTION FOR TERMINATING SANCTIONS IS DENIED. 
MONETARY
SANCTIONS ARE GRANTED AGAINST PLAINTIFF IN THE AMOUNT OF $1,125.00. SANCTIONS
ARE TO BE PAID TO PLAINTIFF WITHIN 30 DAYS. 
UNLESS
ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, DEFENDANTS TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
January 26, 2024                          _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    Yolanda
Orozco, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 