 Case Number:  22BBCV01101    Hearing Date:   January 26, 2024    Dept:  A MOTION
TO STRIKELos Angeles Superior Court
Case # 22BBCV01101
 



MP:  


Silver Point Trucking, Inc., Martin
  Gutierrez-Flores, and SSA Containers, Inc. (Defendants)




RP:  


Yolanda Cooper 


 
NOTICE: 
The
Court is not requesting oral argument on this matter.  Pursuant to
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) notice of intent to appear is
required.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling, no
argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies all other parties and the
court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the party’s intention
to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become the ruling of the
court if no notice of intent to appear is received.”   
Notice
may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818)
260-8412. 
ALLEGATIONS:  
Yolanda
Cooper (“Yolanda”) and Paul Cooper (collectively “Plaintiffs”) bring this
action against Silver Point
Trucking, Inc. (“Silver Point”), Martin Gutierrez-Flores (“Guiterrez”), and SSA
Containers, Inc. (collectively “Defendants”) in connection with a motor vehicle
accident. Plaintiffs allege that an employee of Silver Point, Guiterrez, negligently
operated a motor vehicle such that it collided with Yolanda’s vehicle while
stopped in traffic. Plaintiffs further allege Guiterrez failed to stop after
the collision. 
The Court previously
granted a motion to strike, with leave to amend, on November 17, 2023. The
Court found the allegations of the First amended Complaint (“FAC”) were
insufficient to support a claim for punitive damages. Plaintiffs filed their
Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) on December 15, 2023. 
Defendants now move once
more to strike portions of the SAC which request punitive damages. Plaintiffs
oppose the motion and Defendants reply.  
ANALYSIS:  
I.               
LEGAL
STANDARD  
Motions to strike are used to reach
defects or objections to pleadings that are not challengeable by demurrer, such
as words, phrases, and prayers for damages. (See C.C.P. §§ 435, 436, and 437.)
The proper procedure to attack false allegations in a pleading is a motion to
strike. (C.C.P. § 436(a).) In granting a motion to strike made under C.C.P. §
435, “[t]he court may, upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435 [notice of
motion to strike whole or part of complaint], or at any time in its discretion,
and upon terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or
improper matter inserted in any pleading.” (C.C.P. § 436(a).) Irrelevant
matters include immaterial allegations that are not essential to the claim or
those not pertinent to or supported by an otherwise sufficient claim. (C.C.P. §
431.10.) The court may also “[s]trike out all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an
order of the court.” (C.C.P. § 436 (b).) 
In ruling
on a motion to strike punitive damages, “judges read allegations of a pleading
subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts in their context, and
assume their truth.” (Clauson v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th
1253, 1255.) To state a prima facie claim for punitive damages, a plaintiff
must allege the elements set forth in the punitive damages statute, Civil Code §
3294. (College Hosp., Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 721.)
Per Civil Code § 3294, a plaintiff must allege that the defendant has been
guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. (Civ. Code, § 3294 (a).) As set forth
in the Civil Code:
 
(1) “Malice” means conduct which is intended by
the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is
carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others. 
 
(2) “Oppression” means despicable conduct that
subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that
person’s rights. 
 
(3) “Fraud” means an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury. 
(Civ.
Code, § 3294, (c)(1)-(3).) 
Further,
a plaintiff must assert facts with specificity to support a conclusion that a
defendant acted with oppression, fraud, or malice as there is a heightened
pleading requirement regarding a claim for punitive damages. (See Smith v.
Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1033, 1041-1042.) 
II.             
MERITS 
The Court previously
sustained Defendants’ motion to strike, finding that the allegations of the
Complaint could not sustain a claim for punitive damages. The Court first found
that a general claim for punitive damages was unsupported because the FAC
contained no allegations that Guiterrez consciously disregarded the safety of
others prior to the collision. The Court found the FAC only spoke to generally
negligent operation of a vehicle. 
The Court also found that
the FAC contained insufficient allegations to support punitive damages as it
pertained to Guiterrez fleeing the scene after the collision. The Court,
relying on Brooks v. E.J. Willig Truck Transp. Co., found that damages
for a hit and run can only be sustained when the act of fleeing causes
additionally injury above and beyond those caused by the collision itself. (See
Brooks v. E.J. Willig Truck Transp. Co. (1953) 40 Cal.2d 669, 680.) 
 The Court ultimately granted the motion to
strike but allowed Plaintiffs leave to amend. The Court noted that leave to
amend was granted because it was possible for Plaintiffs to allege Guiterrez
was aware of the dangerous consequences of his conduct in general. The Court
stated, “Although it appears Plaintiffs cannot amend to allege further injury
from the act of fleeing the scene, the Court finds they could still amend to allege
punitive damages stemming from Guiterrez’s awareness of the dangerous consequences
of his conduct in general.” (See the Court’s November 17, 2023 Minute Order.) In
so stating, the Court reinforced its position that amendment speaking to the
hit and run would not be persuasive and that any amendment would need to speak
to Guiterrez’s awareness of the dangerous consequences of his actions prior to
the collision. 
Plaintiffs’ SAC instead
focuses its claim for punitive damages entirely on Guiterrez’s post-collision
behavior. The only amended allegations speaking to the pre-collision conduct of
Guiterrez are as follows: 
 
Defendant MARTIN GUTIERREZ-FLORES' wide left turn, at an excessive
speed, caused the tractor trailer, inclusive of the chassis and trailer, to be
elevated off the ground as a result of impacting and dragging Plaintiffs
vehicle.
 (SAC Attachment p. 2.) 
The Court finds these
allegations remain indicative of negligence and do not rise to the level of a
conscious disregard for the safety of others sufficient to show malice. To
properly allege punitive damages in a motor vehicle accident action, a
plaintiff needs to “establish that the defendant was aware of the probable
dangerous consequences of his conduct, and that he willfully and deliberately
failed to avoid those consequences.” (Taylor v. Superior Court (1979) 24
Cal.3d 890, 24 Cal.3d at 896.) Conclusory allegations are not sufficient to
support a claim for punitive damages. (Brousseau v. Jarrett (1977) 73
Cal.App.3d 864, 872. Here, Plaintiffs have alleged in a conclusory fashion that
the turn at excessive speed was done with conscious disregard to the safety of
others when it could just as well have resulted from negligence. The Court
declines to find that making a turn at excessive speed constitutes conduct
qualifying for punitive damages. 
Further, the Court finds
that Plaintiffs’ additional allegations speaking to Guiterrez’s failure to stop
remain unsupportive of punitive damages. Plaintiffs’ additional allegations are
as follows:  
 
Plaintiff’s emotional injury was exacerbated by Defendant
GUTIERREZ-FLORES' failure to stop, and render immediate assistance, forcing the
Plaintiff to attempt interaction with GUTIERREZ-FLORES at the scene, and give
chase as he took off fast. A witness to the impact was also yelling at the
driver to stop but when he did not, Plaintiff followed. Plaintiff YOLANDA
COOPER called 911, reported the hit and run, took photos of the rear of
GUTIERREZ-FLORES' tractor trailer and once the 911 operator confmned[sic] she
obtained a photo of the license plate, instructed Plaintiff to stop for safety
reasons and file a police report. Plaintiff complied. 
 
It would have been nearly impossible for Defendant
GUTIERREZ-FLORES not to have observed the impact, or at the very least, feel
his tractor trailer elevating off the ground and falling back down 
(SAC Attachment p. 2.) 
In its previous ruling the
Court relied on Brooks v. E.J. Willig Truck Transp. Co. in finding the
hit and run did not support punitive damages. The ruling in Brooks makes
clear that additional injury from fleeing the scene needs to occur. In Brooks
this additional injury took the form of failure to assist a struck
pedestrian, which resulted in the pedestrian dying when timely assistance could
have saved his life. (Brooks supra 40 Cal.2d at 679.) The Brooks court
noted that “One who negligently injures another and renders him helpless is
bound to use reasonable care to prevent any further harm which the actor
realizes or should realize threatens the injured person/” (Id.) 
Plaintiffs’ allegations of
further injury caused by Guiterrez fleeing are factually distinct from those in
Brooks. Plaintiffs allege that Yolanda was further emotionally injured
by Guiterrez fleeing the scene. Yolanda was not rendered helpless by the
collision and, by her own admission, pursued Guiterrez for a great deal of time
after the collision.  Plaintiffs’
allegations that Yolanda’s anxiety was heightened speak more to her voluntary
decision to give chase to Guiterrez than the act of Guiterrez leaving the
scene. 
In short, Plaintiffs’
additional factual allegations do not cure the deficiencies in her request for
punitive damages. Plaintiffs have alleged no additional facts speaking to
Guiterrez’s awareness of his conduct prior to the collision, nor have they
alleged any additional injury caused by his fleeing the scene. Accordingly, the
motion to strike is GRANTED without leave to amend. 
---  
RULING: 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Silver Point
Trucking, Inc., Martin Gutierrez-Flores, and SSA Containers, Inc.’s Motion to Strike came on regularly for hearing on January 26, 2024, with
appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the
court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as
follows: 
 
THE MOTION TO STRIKE PUNITIVE DAMAGES IS GRANTED
WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.  
 
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, DEFENDANTS TO
PROVIDE NOTICE.
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
January 26, 2024                          _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    Yolanda
Orozco, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 