 Case Number:  23BBCV00552    Hearing Date:   January 26, 2024    Dept:  A MOTIONS
TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSESLos Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV00552
 



MP:  


Anthony Mark & Angelino Sebastian
  Mark (Plaintiffs)




RP:  


Circle K Outfitters Inc. (Defendant) 


 
NOTICE: 
The
Court is not requesting oral argument on this matter.  Pursuant to
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) notice of intent to appear is
required.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling, no
argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies all other parties and the
court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the party’s intention
to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become the ruling of the
court if no notice of intent to appear is received.”  
Notice
may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818)
260-8412. 
ALLEGATIONS:  
Anthony Mark and
Angelino Sebastian Mark, by and through his guardian ad litem Jocelle Maliwanag,
(collectively “Plaintiffs”) bring this action against
Circle K Outfitters Inc. (“Defendant”). Plaintiffs allege Defendant’s
negligence caused personal injury to Angelino Sebatian Mark when they permitted
him to ride a horse on their property without the appropriate safety equipment.
  
Before the Court are two
motions brought by Plaintiffs.  Plaintiffs
move to compel further responses to their Form Interrogatories and Special
Interrogatories. Defendant opposes the motions,
arguing they are mooted by subsequent responses being served. Plaintiffs have
filed no reply. 
ANALYSIS:  
I.               
LEGAL
STANDARD 
On
receipt of a response to interrogatories, the propounding party may move for an
order compelling a further response if the propounding party deems that the
responses contain: (1) answers that are evasive or incomplete, (2)¿an
unwarranted or insufficiently specific exercise of an option to produce
documents in lieu of a substantive response, or (3) unmerited or overly
generalized objections.  (C.C.P.
§¿2030.300(a).) The responding party has the burden of justifying the
objections thereto. (Coy v. Sup.Ct. (1962) 58 Cal.2d 210, 220-21.) 
II.             
MERITS 
Motions
to Compel Further Responses 
On August
4, 2023, Plaintiffs propounded their Form Interrogatories and Special
Interrogatories set one on Defendant via electronic service on Defendant’s
counsel. (Coppock Decl. ¶ 3-4, Exhs. C-D.) On October 10, 2023, Defendant served
objection only responses to Plaintiffs’ interrogatories. (Coppock Decl.
¶¶ 6-7, Exhs. G-H.) The parties thereafter met and conferred, and
Defendant indicated they would serve additional responses. (Coppock Decl.
¶ 11.) Between October 10 and November 29, Plaintiffs’ counsel reached out
several times, but further responses were never received. (Coppock Decl.
¶¶ 12-13.) On November 20, 2023, the parties agreed via email to extend
the deadline to file this motion to January 12, 2024, if no further responses
were received. (Coppock Decl. ¶ 14.) Despite the promise that further
responses would be served on November 29, 2023, they were not. (Coppock Decl. Exh.
L.) 
In
opposition Defendant argues that the motions before the Court are mooted by
subsequent production. Defendant states they served further responses to the
interrogatories on January 12, 2024. (Richards Decl. ¶ 1, Exh. 1.) Defendant’s
counsel states that he did everything in his power to provide discovery
responses and avoid these motions. (Richards Decl. ¶ 2.) Defendant’s
counsel states that there was an unexpected delay in providing further
responses which was the result of communication issues with the Defendant,
though he does not endeavor to explain the nature of this issue any further.
(Richards Decl. ¶ 3.) 
The Court
agrees with Defendant that the motions to compel further responses are mooted
by subsequent production. Plaintiffs’ motions are based on the original
objection only responses. Should the subsequent responses prove insufficient,
Plaintiffs retain the right to refile this motion with appropriate briefing. 
Accordingly,
the motions to compel are DENIED as MOOT. 
Sanctions 
As
concerns motions to compel, the law only requires sanctions in the event that a
party unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further response.
(C.C.P. § 2033.290(d), C.C.P. §¿2030.300(d).) As such, any monetary sanctions
granted are within the discretionary power of the Court as per C.C.P. §
2030.290. As per C.C.P. § 2023.010(d), failure to respond constitutes a misuse
of the discovery process. 
Here,
Defendant failed to produce the promised further discovery responses until
after these motions to compel were filed. However, the meet and confer
correspondence shows that Defendant’s counsel agreed that the 45-day time limit
to file these motions would not run until further responses were served.
(Coppock Decl. Exh. L.) Despite the fact that the parties agreed Plaintiffs had
until January 12, 2024, to file these motions, Plaintiffs chose to file the
motions on December 8, 2023. 
Further,
Plaintiffs’ counsel explicitly stated in a November 16, 2023 email that they
would withdraw their motions and request for sanctions upon service of
compliant responses. (Coppock Decl. Exh. L.) Defendant served their responses
on January 12, 2024, however, Plaintiff’s motions remain on calendar. Whether
this is because Plaintiffs believe the responses to be non-compliant is
unclear, as Plaintiffs have filed no reply to the opposition. 
While Plaintiffs
were within their right to file these motions, their choice to accelerate the
matter before the agreed upon deadline indicates the motions could have been
avoided entirely. Given the circumstances, the Court declines to grant
sanctions in the matter. 
--- 
 
RULING: 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records.  
ORDER
 
Anthony Mark &
Angelino Sebastian Mark’s Motion to Compel Further Responses came on regularly for hearing on January 26, 2024, with
appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the
court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as
follows:  
THE
MOTIONS TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO FORM INTEROGATORIES AND SPECIAL
INTERROGATORIES ARE DENIED AS MOOT.   
UNLESS ALL
PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, PLAINTIFFS TO GIVE NOTICE. 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: January
26, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    Yolanda
Orozco, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 