 Case Number:  23BBCV00952    Hearing Date:   January 26, 2024    Dept:  A MOTION
TO QUASH SERVICE OF PROCESSLos Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV00952
 



MP:  


Private Money Lenders, Inc. (Defendant)
  




RP:  


Nora Bekerian (Plaintiff)



 NOTICE: 
The
Court is not requesting oral argument on this matter.  Pursuant to
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) notice of intent to appear is
required.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling, no
argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies all other parties and the
court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the party’s intention
to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become the ruling of the
court if no notice of intent to appear is received.”   
Notice
may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818)
260-8412. 
ALLEGATIONS:  
Nora Bekerian (“Plaintiff”) brings this action against Private
Money Lenders, Inc. (“Private”), Charles Anthony Hasbun, and Mickey Lynn McClinton
(“McClinton”) (collectively “Defendants”). Plaintiff alleges a conspiracy
between Defendants whereby McClinton, serving as a General Contractor for
Plaintiff, pressured Plaintiff into taking out exorbitant loans through
Private. Plaintiff alleges she never received the benefit of these loans. 
Private now moves to quash service of the summons and complaint on
grounds that service was not rendered in compliance with California Code of
Civil Procedure (“C.C.P”) § 416.10. Private argues that Plaintiff’s service is
defective in that the registered agent of process for Private was never
personally served. Plaintiff opposes the motion, arguing the proof of service
creates a rebuttable presumption that service was valid. 
ANALYSIS: 
I.               
LEGAL
STANDARD  
“Service
of process, under longstanding tradition in our system of justice, is
fundamental to any procedural imposition on a named defendant.”  (AO
Alfa-Bank v. Yakovlev (2018) 21¿Cal.App.5th 189, 202 [internal quotations
marks and citation omitted].)  “To establish personal jurisdiction,
compliance with statutory procedures for service of process is
essential.”  (Kremerman v. White (2021) 71 Cal.App.5th 358,
371.)  Defendant’s knowledge of the action does not dispense with
statutory requirements for service of summons.  (Kappel v. Bartlett
(1988) 200 Cal.App.3d 1457, 1466.)  
“A
defendant, on or before the last day of his or her time to plead or within any
further time that the court may for good cause allow” may move “to quash
service of summons on the ground of lack of jurisdiction of the court over him
or her” that results from lack of proper service.  (C.C.P. §
418.10(a)(1).  A defendant has 30 days after the service of the summons to
file a responsive pleading.  (C.C.P. § 412.20(a)(3).)   
“When a
defendant challenges the court’s personal jurisdiction on the ground of
improper service of process ‘the burden is on the plaintiff to prove the
existence of jurisdiction by proving, inter alia, the facts requisite to an
effective service.’” (Summers v. McClanahan¿(2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 403,
413.)  
II.             
MERITS 
“Evidence
Code section 647 provides that a registered process server’s declaration of
service establishes a presumption affecting the burden of producing evidence of
the facts stated in the declaration.” (American Express Centurion Bank v.
Zara (2011) 199¿Cal.App.4th 383, 390 [internal citation omitted]; Evid.
Code § 647.)  
Plaintiff
provides proof of service on Saleh Hasbun (“Saleh”), Private’s registered agent
for service of process, on August 31, 2023. (Kosovan Decl. ¶ 9, Exhs. 1
& 2.) The proof of service shows Saleh was personally served at 17715
Chatsworth St. Ste. 101 Granada Hills, CA 91344, which is the registered
address with the California Secretary of State for Private. (Id.) The
process server’s affidavit is properly executed and creates a rebuttable
presumption that Saleh was indeed personally served. As such, the burden shifts
to Private to produce evidence in contravention of that presumption.  
In
opposition, Private offers the declaration of Saleh’s brother Charles Hasbun
(“Charles”). Charles states that Saleh does not fit the physical description on
the affidavit of service. (Charles Decl. ¶ 2.) Further, Charles states
that Saleh was not at the Granada Hills address on the date of service, as Saleh
is currently suffering from a medical condition which restricts his ability to
move and travel. (Id.) Charles states that he can provide further
details to the Court in camera under seal. However, Private has filed no motion
to seal and no exhibits are attached to the Charles declaration. 
Plaintiff
argues that the Charles declaration is vague, conclusory, and lacks foundation
for its factual assertions as required by C.R.C. Rule 5.111(b)(2). The Court
agrees that the Charles declaration is insufficient to rebut the presumption
created by the proof of service. Charles’ declaration is unaccompanied by any
source from which Charles’ knowledge can be drawn. Outside of his familial
relationship to Saleh, the Charles declaration does nothing to establish Charles’
familiarity with Saleh’s medical condition or the circumstances of service. The
Charles declaration is not accompanied by any evidentiary offerings as to
Saleh’s condition or his whereabouts on August 31, 2023. 
Further,
it is clear that Plaintiff was at the very least in substantial compliance. “It
is axiomatic that strict compliance with the code's provisions for service of
process is not required. (Ramos v. Homeward Residential, Inc., 223 Cal.
App. 4th 1434, 1443.) “[I]n deciding whether service was valid, the statutory
provisions regarding service of process should be liberally construed to
effectuate service and uphold the jurisdiction of the court if actual notice
has been received by the defendant.” (Gibble v. Car-Lene Research, Inc.
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 295, 313.) In essence, substantial compliance with the
code’s requirements for service of process is sufficient. (Id.)  
Plaintiff
states in their declaration that counsel for Private initiated contact with
Plaintiff’s counsel shortly after service was rendered. (Kosovan Decl.
¶ 4.) The Court also acknowledges the common-sense conclusion that service
was sufficient to provide actual notice given that Private was able to contact
Plaintiff’s counsel, timely file a motion to quash, and avoid default. In
accordance with the liberal construction rule, the Court finds Plaintiff
substantially complied with the service requirements such as to give Private
actual notice of this action. 
In short,
the Court finds Plaintiff has established service was proper and that Private
has not offered sufficient evidence in refutation. Accordingly, the motion to
quash service of process is DENIED. 
--- 
 
RULING: 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records.  
ORDER 
 Private Money
Lenders, Inc.’s Motion to Quash Service of Summons
came on regularly for hearing on January 26, 2024, with appearances/submissions
as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully
advised in the premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION TO QUASH SERVICE OF SUMMONS IS DENIED.

 
A RESPONSIVE PLEADING IS DUE WITHIN 20 DAYS.   
UNLESS
ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, PRIVATE MONEY LENDERS, INC. TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: January
26, 2024                           _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    Yolanda Orozco, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 