 Case Number:  22BBCV01268    Hearing Date:   January 26, 2024    Dept:  A MOTION
TO COMPEL ANSWERS TO DEPOSITION QUESTIONSLos Angeles Superior Court
Case # 22BBCV01268
 



MP:  


Mariane Mufta Bilolo (Defendant)




RP:  


Arie Waisbard (Plaintiff) 



 NOTICE: 
The
Court is not requesting oral argument on this matter.  Pursuant to
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) notice of intent to appear is
required.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling, no
argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies all other parties and the
court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the party’s intention
to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become the ruling of the
court if no notice of intent to appear is received.”   
Notice
may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818)
260-8412. 
ALLEGATIONS:  
Arie Waisbard
(“Plaintiff”) and Warawut Pongpradit bring
this action against Mariane Mufta Bilolo (“Defendant”). Plaintiff alleges they
were injured by virtue of Defendant’s negligent operation of a motor vehicle in
January of 2021. 
Before the Court is a
motion to compel Plaintiff to provide answer to questions asked at his
deposition. Plaintiff’s deposition occurred August 25, 2023. At the deposition,
Defendant’s counsel asked several questions which Plaintiff’s counsel
instructed Plaintiff not to answer on grounds that they were violative of his
right to privacy. Defendant now seeks to compel further answers to these
questions, arguing the refusal to answer was improper. Plaintiff opposes the
motion, arguing that the questions are irrelevant to the instant matter and
reasserting the privacy protections.  
ANALYSIS:  
I.               
LEGAL
STANDARD  
C.C.P. §
2025.480 permits a party to seek a motion
to compel deposition answers where a deponent fails
to answer any question or produce any document, electronically stored
information, or tangible thing under the deponent’s control. The Court shall
order the production or answer be given if it determines that the
matter sought is subject to discovery. (C.C.P. § 2025.480 (i).) The moving
party is required to lodge a certified copy of
the deposition transcript portions relevant to the motion. (C.C.P. §
2025.480(h).) 
A motion
made pursuant to C.C.P.§ 2025.480 must be made no later than 60 days
after the completion of the record of the deposition. (C.C.P.§ 2025.480
(b).) “If the court determines that the answer or production sought
is subject to discovery, it shall order that the answer be given or
production sought is subject to discovery, it shall order that
the answer be given or the production be made on the resumption of
the deposition.” (C.C.P. § 2025.480(i).) 
II.             
MERITS 
Questions Not Answered 
Plaintiff seeks answers to
the following deposition questions: 
 
1.    
Who did
you visit? [when travelling to Israel in September of 2023] (Depo. p. 98:
5-11.) 
a.     
Instructed
not to answer as an invasion of privacy. 
2.    
Did you
drive a Lexus? (Depo p. 148: 24.) 
a.     
Objected
to as overbroad, argumentative, designed to harass the deponent. Instructed not
to answer as an invasion of privacy. 
3.    
Were you
involved in a rear end collision when driving this Lexus? (Depo p. 149: 24.)
a.     
Objected
to as overbroad, argumentative, designed to harass the deponent. Instructed not
to answer as an invasion of privacy. 
4.    
Did you
have a disability placard through the DMV in the last 5 years? (Depo. p.
151:21-25.) 
a.     
Instructed
not to answer as an invasion of privacy. 
5.    
Do
[pleadings and discovery from a prior personal injury case brought by Waisbard]
refresh your memory as to your injuries from an accident in July 2019? (Depo p.
154: 4-11.) 
a.     
Instructed
not to answer as an invasion of privacy.
6.    
Were you
involved in an accident in December 2016 where you were driving a motor
vehicle? (Depo p. 157: 7-12.) 
a.     
Instructed
not to answer as an invasion of privacy. 
7.    
Did you
treat with Dr. Lawrence Miller for pain management in 2018? (Depo. p. 158:
5-10.) 
a.     
Instructed
not to answer as an invasion of privacy. 
Analysis 
Counsel should not instruct
clients not to answer a question at a deposition unless the purpose
is to protect privileged information. (See Stewart v. Colonial Western
Agency, Inc. (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 1006, 1014.) 
Under Article I § 1 of
the California Constitution, California recognizes a constitutional right to
privacy. This right “protects an individual’s reasonable expectation of
privacy against a serious invasion.” (Faunce v. Cate (2013) 222
Cal.App.4th 166, 171.) Under California law, even highly relevant,
nonprivileged information may be shielded from discovery if its disclosure
would impair a person’s inalienable right to privacy. (See Britt
v. Superior Court (1978) 20 Cal.3d 844, 855-56.) The right to privacy
protects the individual’s reasonable expectation of privacy against a serious
invasion. (Pioneer Electronics (USA), Inc. v. Superior Court (2007) 40
Cal.4th 360, 370.)  
Generally, in evaluating a
discovery dispute which involves a privacy claim the trial court should apply
the framework set forth in Hill v. National Collegiate Athletic Assn.
(1994) 7 Cal.4th 1. 
First, a claimant must
possess a “legally protected privacy interest.” (Hill supra, 7
Cal.4th at 35.) Second, the claimant must have a reasonable expectation of
privacy under the particular circumstances, including the customs, practices,
and physical settings surrounding particular activities. (Id. at 36-37.)
Third, the invasion of privacy must be serious in nature, scope, and actual or
potential impact. (Id. at 37.) If there is a reasonable expectation of
privacy and the invasion of privacy is serious, then the court must balance the
privacy interest at stake against other competing or countervailing interests.
(Id. at 37-40.) 
The California Supreme
Court, in Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, reiterated
that the Hill analysis is to be applied in determining the scope of
discovery of private information, and rejected in part some of the authority
cited in the opposition papers, holding that the burden to establish a privacy
interest remains initially with the party asserting such an interest. (Williams
supra, 3 Cal.5th 531 at 552.) The Supreme Court rejected case law which
requires a party seeking discovery of private information to establish a
compelling interest, placing the initial burden on the party asserting a
privacy objection to establish the extent and seriousness of the prospective
invasion. (Id. at 557.) “What suffices to justify an invasion will…vary
according to the context.” (Id.) Only obvious invasions of interests
fundamental to personal autonomy must be supported by a compelling interest. (Hill
supra, 7 Cal.4th at 34.) 
Unlike a privilege, privacy protection afforded is qualified, not
absolute. In each case, the court must carefully balance the right of
privacy against the need for discovery. Where a party asserts a privacy
objection, the burden shifts to the party seeking discovery to show that the
information is directly relevant to the cause of action or defense,
essential to a fair
resolution of the lawsuit, and cannot be obtained through any less intrusive
means. (Vinson v. Sup.Ct. (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 843-44; Britt
supra, 20 Cal.3d at 859-60.) The showing required to overcome the protection
depends on the nature of the privacy right asserted; in some cases, a simple
balancing test is sufficient, while in others, a compelling interest
must be shown. (Hill supra, 7 Cal.4th at 34-35.) In almost every
case, disclosure may be ordered if a “compelling public interest” would be
served thereby. (John B. v. Superior Court (2006) 38 Cal.4th 1177,
1199.) Moreover, even if the balance weighs in favor of disclosure, the scope
of disclosure must be narrowly tailored. (Life Technologies Corp. v. Superior
Court (2011) 197 Cal.App.4th 640, 652-53.) 
The Court first addresses
Plaintiff’s argument in opposition that there were alternative grounds for
objecting to the questions for which answers are sought. The Court notes that
other objections were raised to some of these questions, including that they
were overbroad, argumentative, and designed to harass the deponent. However,
upon review of the instruction not to answer each of these questions, the Court
finds Plaintiff’s counsel cited to the right to privacy each time he instructed
his client not to answer. Objection and refusal to answer are two separate
concepts which are addressed with separate procedures. For purposes of this
motion the Court is only concerned with whether answers may be compelled, not
with whether objections were properly stated. Accordingly, the privilege
arising from the constitutional right to privacy is indeed the only issue
determinative of whether answers to these questions may be compelled.  
The Court next addresses
the showing by Plaintiff that these questions concern a legally protected
privacy interest. Plaintiff’s moving papers make no affirmative representations
as to the privacy interest over which these questions concern. Plaintiff’s
argument with respect to each question is that Defendant’s counsel did not
provide a foundation for her line of inquiry or provide a reason for why the
question had any bearing on this litigation. This argument does not speak to a
privacy interest, it speaks to Plaintiff’s belief that the question is not
likely to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. In essence, Plaintiff
attempts to shift the burden of showing a protected privacy interest to the
Defendant. Williams makes clear that this is not legally proper.  
California courts have
recognized a variety of protected privacy interests. The courts have found
privacy interests exist in information pertaining to sexual conduct, medical
records, financial information, and affiliations with organizations. (See Vinson
v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833 [the right to privacy includes
one’s sexual conduct]; Look v. Penovatz (2019) 34 Cal.App.5th 61
[recognizing a right to privacy in one’s confidential financial documents]; United
Farm Workers of America v. Superior Court (1985) 170 Cal.App.3d 391[finding
a privacy interest in the identity of those who attended a union event]; Davis
v. Superior Court (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1008 [finding a personal injury
plaintiff’s therapeutic records to be private where they did no state a claim
for emotional distress].) 
Here, Plaintiff has made no
showing that the subject deposition questions involve any interest which is
protected by the constitutional right to privacy. Without such a showing,
Plaintiff’s burden is unfulfilled, and the burden never shifts to Defendant to
demonstrate how the need for the information outweighs the privacy right
implicated. Further, Plaintiff’s failure to demonstrate his interest impedes
the Court’s ability to gauge whether the questions are obvious invasions of
that interest which would require a compelling countervailing interest as
outlined in Hill. Plaintiff cannot state that a question violates his
privacy interest and then refuse to outline what that privacy interest is. 
In short, the court finds
Plaintiff has not upheld its burden to demonstrate a protected privacy
interest. Plaintiff’s arguments that Defendant did not lay the foundation for
these questions and that they are unrelated to the instant action do not satisfy
the affirmative requirement that Plaintiff must show a protected interest.
Whether any information obtained from these questions is admissible at trial is
a matter totally unrelated to this motion. Accordingly, the motion to compel
answers at deposition is GRANTED. 
Sanctions 
Monetary
sanctions are mandatory against an unsuccessful moving or opposing party unless
they acted with substantial justification or imposition of sanctions would be
unjust. (C.C.P. § 2025.480 (j).) 
While the
Court finds Plaintiff’s opposition unpersuasive, it does not find that it was
without substantial justification. As such, the Court declines to issue
sanctions. The Court cautions that further refusal to answer deposition questions
on the basis of privacy should be substantiated accordingly.   
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 

ORDER 
 
Mariane Mufta Bilolo’s
Motion to Compel Deposition Answers came on regularly
for hearing on January 26, 2024, with appearances/submissions as noted in the
minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the
premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION ANSWERS IS
GRANTED. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
January 26, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    Yolanda
Orozco, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 