 Case Number:  23SMCV03311    Hearing Date:   August 1, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


August 1, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV03311




MOTION


Demurrer to Third Amended Complaint




MOVING PARTY


Defendant Svetlana Vodolazhskaya




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Rone Oren



 
BACKGROUND
 
This action stems from a dispute over a broker’s commission between Plaintiff
Rone Oren (“Plaintiff”), a real estate broker, and Defendant Svetlana
Vodolazhskaya (“Defendant”), Plaintiff’s client.  
 
Defendant previously demurred to Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint,
which alleged three causes of action for (1) breach of contract; (2) common
counts; and (3) fraud.  
 
On January 19, 2024, the Court sustained with leave to amend Defendant’s
demurrer to the first cause of action, on the grounds that the statute of
frauds requires that a contract involving real estate be made in writing, and
Plaintiff had not adequately alleged a written agreement existed.   The Court overruled Defendant’s demurrers as
to the causes of action for common counts and fraud.  Plaintiff subsequently filed a Second Amended
Complaint, alleging only two causes of action for (1) common counts and (2)
fraud.  The parties subsequently
stipulated to allow Plaintiff to file a Third Amended Complaint.
 
In the operative Third Amended Complaint (“TAC”), Plaintiff again asserts
only two causes of action for (1) common counts; and (2) fraud.  
 
Defendant demurs to the first cause of action for common counts for
failure to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.  Plaintiff opposes the demurrer and Defendant
replies.
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.     DEMURRER
 
“It is black letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of
the allegations in a complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015)
235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In testing the sufficiency of a cause of
action, a court accepts “[a]s true all material facts properly pled and matters
which may be judicially noticed but disregard contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.  [A court
also gives] the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole
and its parts in their context.”  (290
Division (EAT), LLC v. City & County of San Francisco (2022) 86
Cal.App.5th 439, 450 [cleaned up]; Hacker v. Homeward Residential, Inc.
(2018) 26 Cal.App.5th 270, 280 [“in considering the merits of a demurrer,
however, “the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however
improbable they may be”].)
 
Further, in ruling on a demurrer, a court must “liberally construe”
the allegations of the complaint “with a view to substantial justice between
the parties.”  (See Code Civ. Proc., §
452.)  “This rule of liberal construction
means that the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not
the defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)   
 
In summary, “[d]etermining whether the complaint is sufficient as
against the demurrer on the ground that it does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action, the rule is that if one consideration of all the
facts stated it appears the plaintiff is entitled to any relief at the hands of
the court against the defendants the complaint will be held good although the
facts may not be clearly stated, or may be intermingled with a statement of
other facts irrelevant to the cause of action shown, or although the plaintiff
may demand relief to which he is not entitled under the facts alleged.”  (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193
Cal.App.2d 636, 639.)
 
A.   
FAILURE TO STATE A CAUSE OF ACTION
 
                                                      
ii.         
First
Cause of Action – Common Count
 
The elements of a common count
are (1) statement of indebtedness in a certain sum; (2) consideration; and (3)
nonpayment.  (Allen v. Powell
(1967) 248 Cal.App.2d 502, 510.)  
 
Defendant argues the common
counts claim fails because (1) the allegations of the TAC contradict those of
the SAC and FAC, and therefore the FAC constitutes a sham pleading; (2) the
statute of frauds bars Plaintiff’s common count claim.
 
Sham Pleading
 
“Under the sham pleading
doctrine, plaintiffs are precluded from amending complaints to omit harmful
allegations, without explanation, from previous complaints to avoid attacks
raised in demurrers or motions for summary judgment.”  (Deveny v. Entropin, Inc. (2006) 139
Cal.App.4th 408, 425.)
 
Defendant previously argued
that the sham pleading doctrine barred Plaintiff’s First Amended
Complaint.  The Court found that the
underlying facts between the original complaint and FAC to be essentially the
same.  Namely, that Plaintiff was
Defendant’s real estate broker in connection with Defendant’s purchase of real
property, Plaintiff’s commission on that purchase was $55,000, Plaintiff either
loaned or advanced that $55,000 to Defendant so Defendant could complete the
purchase of the property in exchange for Plaintiff’s agreement to allow
Defendant to list the property for sale after Plaintiff renovated it.  The Court found that while the FAC contained
more clarifying details than the original Complaint, the Court did not find
that the FAC fundamentally contradicted the initial complaint or otherwise
constituted a sham pleading.
 
The Court does not analyze
whether the allegations of the Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) are
contradictory, because the parties voluntarily stipulated to amending that
Complaint, and it is no longer operative.
 
Here, in relevant portion,
the FAC alleges:
 
3. In January, 2021, Defendant wanted to purchase
a residential real property at 650 Resolano Drive, Pacific Palisades, Ca 90272
(the “Resolano Property”). Defendant required the services of a real estate
broker to purchase the Resolano Property. 
 
4. On January 19, 2021, Defendant told Plaintiff
that he would receive a broker’s commission if he served as her real estate
broker and she was able to acquire the Resolano Property. Plaintiff agreed to
be Defendant’s real estate broker in exchange for a broker’s commission. 
 
5. On January 19, 2021, Defendant signed the
Disclosure of Regarding Real Estate Agency Relationship attached hereto as
Exhibit 1. On January 19, 2021, Defendant signed the California Residential
Purchase Agreement and Joint Escrow Instructions (“Purchase Agreement”)
attached hereto as Exhibit 2. ¶ 2(B) of the Purchase Agreement identifies
Plaintiff as Defendant’s Real Estate Broker. ¶ 18 of the Purchase Agreement
provides that Plaintiff will receive his real estate commission at Close of
Escrow. Plaintiff is a third party beneficiary of the Purchase Agreement. 
 
6. On or about January 26, 2021, the seller of
the Resolano Property instructed escrow to pay Plaintiff a commission of
$55,000.00. A true and correct copy of the Seller’s instructions to pay
Plaintiff a $55,000 commission is attached hereto as Exhibit 3. 
 
7. On or about January 28, 2021, Defendant told
Plaintiff that she would give Plaintiff the listing to sell the Resolano
Property after escrow closed if Plaintiff would advance her his $55,000
commission so she could close escrow for the Resolano Property.
 
8. On January 28, 2021, in consideration for
Defendant’s promise to allow Plaintiff to list and sell the Resolano Property
after escrow closed, Plaintiff signed an escrow instruction instructing escrow
to credit his $55,000 commission to Defendant. A true and correct copy of this
escrow instruction is attached hereto as Exhibit 4. 
 
9. On January 28, 2021, Defendant used
Plaintiff’s $55,000 commission to acquire the Resolano Property as evidence by
the Closing Statement attached hereto as Exhibit 5. Escrow closed on February
2, 2021.
 
10. On February 3, 2021, Plaintiff sent a text
message to Defendant requesting that Defendant acknowledge her agreement to
give Plaintiff the listing to sell the Resolano Property. Defendant
acknowledged that she would give Plaintiff the listing. A true and correct copy
of this text message exchange is attached hereto as Exhibit 6.
 
11. From February 3, 2021 through September 2022,
Defendant and Plaintiff spoke about the Resolano Property and Defendant’s
promise to allow Plaintiff to list and sell the Property. Defendant told
Plaintiff that she was fixing up the Property and Defendant showed Plaintiff
that she was fixing up the Resolano Property. Defendant told Plaintiff that she
would be ready to list and sell the Property soon. Plaintiff reminded Defendant
that she still owed him the $55,000 broker’s commission. 
 
12. Defendant stopped responding to Plaintiff’s
inquiries in January 2023. 
 
13. On or about June 6, 2023, Defendant accused
Plaintiff of stalking and harassing her. Defendant informed Plaintiff that she
would not allow him to list and sell the Resolano Property and would not pay
him his $55,000.00 commission.
 
(FAC ¶¶ 3-13.)   In contrast, the TAC alleges:
 
3. In January, 2021, Defendant wanted to purchase
a residential real property at 650 Resolano Drive, Pacific Palisades, Ca 90272
(the “Resolano Property”). Defendant required the services of a real estate
broker to purchase the Resolano Property. 
 
4. On January 19, 2021, Defendant told Plaintiff
that he would receive a broker’s commission if he served as her real estate
broker and helped her acquire the Resolano Property. Plaintiff agreed to be
Defendant’s real estate broker in exchange for a broker’s commission. 
 
5. On January 19, 2021, Defendant signed the
Disclosure of Regarding Real Estate Agency Relationship attached hereto as
Exhibit 1. On January 19, 2021, Defendant signed the California Residential
Purchase Agreement and Joint Escrow Instructions (“Purchase Agreement”)
attached hereto as Exhibit 2. ¶ 2(B) of the Purchase Agreement identifies
Plaintiff as Defendant’s Real Estate Broker. ¶ 18 of the Purchase Agreement
provides that Plaintiff will receive his real estate commission at Close of
Escrow. Plaintiff is a third party beneficiary of this Purchase Agreement. 
 
6. On or about January 26, 2021, the seller of
the Resolano Property instructed escrow to pay Plaintiff a commission of
$55,000.00 (the “Commission”). A true and correct copy of the Seller’s
instructions to pay the Commission to Plaintiff is attached hereto as Exhibit
3. 
 
7. On or about January 28, 2021, Defendant ran
into problem acquiring the funds necessary to purchase the Resolano Property
and close escrow. Defendant asked Plaintiff if he would loan the Commission to
her so she could close escrow. Plaintiff did not want to loan the Commission to
Defendant. Defendant told Plaintiff that she would let Plaintiff list and sell
the Resolano Property on the Multiple Listing Service (“MLS”) shortly after
escrow closed if Plaintiff loaned the Commission to her so she could close
escrow for the Resolano Property. Plaintiff and Defendant contemplated that the
Resolano Property could be sold on the MLS for substantially more than price
Defendant was paying for the Resolano Property.
 
8. On January 28, 2021, in reliance upon
Defendant’s promise to let Plaintiff to list and sell the Resolano Property on
the MLS and earn a sales commission from Defendant’s sale of the Resolano
Property after escrow closed, Plaintiff and Defendant signed an escrow
instruction instructing escrow to credit the Commission Plaintiff received from
the Seller to Defendant. A true and correct copy of this escrow is attached
hereto as Exhibit 4. 
 
9. On January 28, 2021, Defendant credited the
Commission back to the Seller which reduced the balance Defendant owed to the
Seller for the purchase of the Resolano Property as evidenced by the Closing
Statement attached hereto as Exhibit 5. Escrow closed on February 2, 2021. 
 
10. On February 3, 2021, Plaintiff asked
Defendant to ratify her agreement to let Plaintiff list and sell the Resolano
Property. Defendant ratified her agreement to let Plaintiff list and sell the
Resolano Property in a text message true and correct copy of this text exchange
is attached hereto as Exhibit 6.
 
11. From February 3, 2021 through September 2022,
Defendant and Plaintiff spoke about the Resolano Property and Defendant’s
promise to let the Plaintiff to list and sell the Resolano Property. Defendant
told Plaintiff that she was fixing up the Resolano Property for sale. Defendant
invited Plaintiff to the Resolano Property and showed Plaintiff her
renovations. Plaintiff reminded Defendant that she still owed him the
Commission he had given to her so she could close escrow. Defendant told
Plaintiff that she would let him list and sell the Resolano Property on the MLS
soon. 
 
12. Defendant stopped responding to Plaintiff’s
inquiries in January 2023.
 
13. On or about May 15, 2023, Defendant accused
Plaintiff of stalking and harassing her. Defendant informed Plaintiff that she
would not allow him to list and sell the Resolano Property and that she would
not pay him the $55,000 he had loaned to her so she could purchase the Resolano
Property.
 
(TAC ¶¶ 3-13.)
 
            Again,
these allegations are fundamentally the same, and contain substantially the
same dates, the primary difference being that the TAC adds even more detail to
the allegations.  Although the date
Defendant allegedly accused Plaintiff of stalking changed from “on or about
June 6, 2023” to “on or about May 15, 2023,” the difference between these dates
is not so vast as to constitute a sham pleading.  
 
            The
primary difference between the FAC and the TAC appears to be the requested
accrued interest.  The FAC alleges:
 
25. Defendant and Defendants are indebted
to Plaintiff in the sum of $55,000.00, the broker’s commission Defendant and
Defendants agreed to pay to Plaintiff on February 2, 2021 plus pre-judgment
interest of 10% per annum from February 2, 2021.
 
(FAC ¶ 25).  Whereas the TAC alleges:
 
20. Defendant and Defendants are indebted
to Plaintiff in the sum of $55,000.00, the amount Plaintiff gave to Defendant
and Defendants on January 28, 2021 which Defendant and Defendants used to
purchase the Resolano Property on February 2, 2021, plus pre-judgment interest
of 10% per annum from May 15, 2023.
 
(TAC ¶ 20 [emphasis original].)
 
            However,
that Plaintiff acknowledges that interest properly accrues from the date
Defendants refused to repay the $55,000 as promised, as opposed to the date
escrow closed does not mean the TAC constitutes a sham pleading.
 
Written Agreement
 
Defendant next argues that because
Plaintiff withdrew the breach of contract cause of action, instead of amending
the allegations to include the written agreement necessary to satisfy the
statute of frauds, that the statute of frauds similarly bars Plaintiff’s claim
for common counts.  
 
As a threshold matter, Defendant
already raised these arguments, which the Court rejected, in connection with
its ruling on the prior demurrer.  (See Minute
Order, Jan. 19, 2024.)  
 
Moreover, Defendant has not
provided any authority for the proposition that a cause of action for common
counts does not lie where there is no written agreement.  Instead, Defendant argues by analogy that
because common counts are based in contract or quasi-contract, and the statute
of frauds deems unenforceable any contract involving real property that is not
made in writing, that the common counts must also fail.  But Defendant’s argument by analogy is
tautological.  If a written agreement
existed, Plaintiff would have a breach of contract claim, not a common count.
 
As Defendant acknowledges, “[A]n
action as upon contract will lie for money had and received wherever one person
has received money which belongs to another, and which in 'equity and
good conscience,' or in other words, in justice and right, should be returned.”  (Demurrer at p. 6 [quoting Weitzenkorn v.
Lesser (1953) 40 Cal.2d 778, 793 [emphasis added].)  Further, Defendant acknowledges that a common
count can lie based on a theory of unjust enrichment.  
 
Therefore, the Court overrules Defendant’s demurrer to the first cause
of action for common counts.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the reasons stated, the Court overrules Defendant’s demurrer to
the first cause of action for common count asserted in the Third Amended
Complaint.      
 
The Court further orders Defendant to file and serve an answer to the
TAC on or before August 22, 2024.  
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file the
notice with a proof of service forthwith. 

 
 
DATED:  August 1, 2024                                                       ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court