 Case Number:  24SMCV01930    Hearing Date:   August 1, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


August 1, 2024




CASE NUMBER


24SMCV01930




MOTIONS


Demurrer and Motion to Strike Portions of Complaint




MOVING PARTY


Defendants Todd C. Miller and Kelley Miller




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiffs Joel G. Weinberg and Jill M. Weinberg



 
MOTIONS
 
This case arises over a dispute concerning the sale of real estate to
Plaintiffs Joel G. Weinberg, Trustee of the JW Family Trust dated October 26,
2015, as Amended on August 31, 2016; and Jill M. Weinberg, Trustee of the JW
Family Trust dated October 26, 2015, as Amended on August 31, 2016
(“Plaintiffs”).
 
On April 24, 2024, Plaintiffs filed suit against Defendants Todd C.
Miller; Kelley Miller (together, “the Millers”); Victor Chicas an individual
and doing business as VD Contractor and VD Contractor Locksmith; Luis Vasquez;
and Alberto Ruiz (together, “Defendants”), alleging six causes of action for
(1) Fraud/Deceit (misrepresentation); (2) Fraud/Deceit (concealment); (3)
Negligent Misrepresentation; (4) Negligence; (5) Violation of Civil Code
Section 2079; and (6) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress.   
 
The Millers, who were the seller’s real estate agents on the
transaction, demur to the sixth cause of action on the grounds that it fails to
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action and is uncertain,
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivisions (e) and (f),
respectively.  The Millers also move to
strike the requests for punitive damages, emotional distress damages, and
attorneys’ fees.
 
Plaintiffs oppose both motions.
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.     DEMURRER
 
“It is black letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of
the allegations in a complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015)
235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In testing the sufficiency of a cause of
action, a court accepts “[a]s true all material facts properly pled and matters
which may be judicially noticed but disregard contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.  [A court
also gives] the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole
and its parts in their context.”  (290
Division (EAT), LLC v. City & County of San Francisco (2022) 86
Cal.App.5th 439, 450 [cleaned up]; Hacker v. Homeward Residential, Inc.
(2018) 26 Cal.App.5th 270, 280 [“in considering the merits of a demurrer,
however, “the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however
improbable they may be”].)
 
Further, in ruling on a demurrer, a court must “liberally construe”
the allegations of the complaint “with a view to substantial justice between
the parties.”  (See Code Civ. Proc., §
452.)  “This rule of liberal construction
means that the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not
the defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)   
 
In summary, “[d]etermining whether the complaint is sufficient as
against the demurrer on the ground that it does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action, the rule is that if on consideration of all the
facts stated it appears the plaintiff is entitled to any relief at the hands of
the court against the defendants the complaint will be held good although the
facts may not be clearly stated, or may be intermingled with a statement of
other facts irrelevant to the cause of action shown, or although the plaintiff
may demand relief to which he is not entitled under the facts alleged.”  (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193
Cal.App.2d 636, 639.)
 
A.   
UNCERTAINTY
 
“[D]emurrers for uncertainty are disfavored.”  (Lickiss v. Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority (2012) 208 Cal.App.4th 1125, 1135.)  A demurrer for uncertainty will be sustained
only where the pleading is so bad that the responding party cannot reasonably
respond - i.e., he or she cannot reasonably determine what issues must be
admitted or denied, or what claims are directed against him or her.  (Khoury v. Maly’s of California (1993)
14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)  Where a
demurrer is made upon the ground of uncertainty, the demurrer must distinctly
specify exactly how or why the pleading is uncertain, and where such
uncertainty appears by reference to page and line numbers.  (See Fenton v. Groveland Comm.
Services Dist. (1982) 135 Cal.App.3d 797, 809.)  
 
Although the Millers purport to demur to the sixth cause of action on
the ground of uncertainty, the Millers do not make any substantive arguments in
this regard.  Ultimately, the Millers do
not demonstrate that any portions of the Complaint are so bad that they cannot
reasonably discern what issues must be admitted or denied, or what claims are
directed against them.  Therefore, the
Court declines to sustain the Millers’ demurrer on the basis of
uncertainty.  
 
B.   
FAILURE TO STATE A CAUSE OF ACTION
 
                                                        
i.         
Sixth Cause
of Action – Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress
 
To prevail on the Intentional Infliction of
Emotional Distress (“IIED”) cause of action, a plaintiff must prove: “(1)
extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing,
or reckless disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2)
the plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual
and proximate causation of the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous
conduct.” (Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035, 1050-1051.) A
defendant’s conduct is outrageous when “it is so extreme as to exceed all
bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community.” (Ibid.
[cleaned up].)  Further, the
defendant’s conduct must be “intended to inflict injury or engaged in with the
realization that injury will result.” (Id. at p. 1051 [cleaned up].)

 
The Complaint alleges:
 
82. Plaintiffs allege that Defendants pursued a
common course of conduct, acted in concert and conspired with one another, and
aided and abetted one another concerning the Property. 
 
83. Plaintiffs allege that the conduct of
Defendants was extreme and outrageous in concealing: 
 
• substantial and extensive mold infestation
throughout the Property; 
 
• mold at the Property with new and/or repaired
drywall that was painted;
 
 • water
damage at the Property with new and/or repaired drywall that was painted; 
 
• wood beams below the balcony that showed
extensive rot and degradation; 
 
• roof had been not been repaired to prevent
water intrusion; 
 
• side balcony had been not been repaired to
prevent water intrusion.
 
84. Plaintiffs allege that the conduct of
Defendants was extreme and outrageous in asserting: 
 
• water-damaged material at the Property had been
removed; 
 
• likely some mold at the Property that was
removed; 
 
• leaks at the Property had been repaired; 
 
• roof repaired and/or resurfaced to fix roof
leaks; 
 
• side balcony bad been waterproofed; 
 
• water intrusion into house was due to side
balcony sliding door. 
 
85. Plaintiffs allege that Defendants intended to
cause Plaintiffs emotional distress and/or Defendants acted with reckless
disregard of the probability that Plaintiffs would suffer emotional distress.
Plaintiffs are the purchasers of the Property, and purchased the Property so
they could have additional space for their two young children. Plaintiffs would
not put their children into the Property knowing that it was infested with
mold. Plaintiffs allege the actions and/or conduct of Defendants was directed to
Plaintiffs. 
 
86. As a proximate result of actions and/or
conduct of Defendants, Plaintiffs have been suffered severe emotional distress.

 
87. As a proximate result of actions, conduct,
and/or omissions of Defendants, Plaintiffs have been damaged in an amount
according to proof but no less than $360,000, with interest at the legal rate
per annum through judgment. 
 
88. The actions and conduct of Defendants,
inclusive, were oppressive, malicious, and fraudulent, justifying an award of
punitive damages in an amount according to proof.
 
(Complaint
at ¶¶ 82-88.)  
 
Plaintiff’s allegations that
the Millers actively concealed extensive mold infestation, water damage, and
rot throughout the property by covering it with new drywall and paint suffice
to allege extreme and outrageous conduct.
 
2.     MOTION
TO STRIKE
 
Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading, may serve
and file a motion to strike the whole pleading or any part thereof.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1); Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1322, subd. (b).) 
On a motion to strike, the court may: (1) strike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or
any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of
California, a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767,
782.)  
 
Here, the Millers move to strike Plaintiffs’ requests for punitive
damages, emotional distress damages, and attorneys’ fees.
 
Punitive Damages
 
In ruling on a motion to strike punitive damages, “judges read
allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts
in their context, and assume their truth.” 
(Clauson v. Superior Court
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.)  To
state a prima facie claim for punitive damages, a plaintiff must allege the
elements set forth in the punitive damages statute, Civil Code section 3294.  (College
Hosp., Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 721.)  Per Civil Code section 3294, a plaintiff must
allege that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).)   As set forth in the Civil Code, 
 
(1) “Malice” means conduct which is intended
by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which
is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard
of the rights or safety of others.  (2)
“Oppression” means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and
unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person's rights.  (3) “Fraud” means an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.
 
(Civ.
Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1)-(3), emphasis added.)  
 
Further, a plaintiff must assert facts with specificity to support a
conclusion that a defendant acted with oppression, fraud or malice.  To wit, there is a heightened pleading
requirement regarding a claim for punitive damages.  (See Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10
Cal.App.4th 1033, 1041-1042.)  “When
nondeliberate injury is charged, allegations that the defendant’s conduct was
wrongful, willful, wanton, reckless or unlawful do not support a claim for
exemplary damages; such allegations do not charge malice.  When a defendant must produce evidence in
defense of an exemplary damage claim, fairness demands that he receive adequate
notice of the kind of conduct charged against him.” (G. D. Searle & Co.
v. Superior Court (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 22, 29 [cleaned up].)  In Anschutz Entertainment Group, Inc. v.
Snepp, the Court of Appeal noted that the plaintiffs’ assertions related to
their claim for punitive damages were “insufficient to meet the specific
pleading requirement.”  (Anschutz
Entertainment Group, Inc. v. Snepp (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 598, 643
[plaintiffs alleged “the conduct of Defendants was intentional, and done
willfully, maliciously, with ill will towards Plaintiffs, and with conscious
disregard for Plaintiff's rights. Plaintiff's injuries were exacerbated by the
malicious conduct of Defendants. Defendants' conduct justifies an award of
exemplary and punitive damages”]; see also Grieves
v. Superior Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 166 [“The mere allegation an
intentional tort was committed is not sufficient to warrant an award of
punitive damages.  Not only must there be
circumstances of oppression, fraud, or malice, but facts must be alleged in the
pleading to support such a claim”].)  
 
Here, the Millers contend that the allegations are too conclusory to
support a claim for punitive damages.   
 
The Complaint alleges:
 
·      
The March 4, 2023 Seller Property Questionnaire
(“SPQ”) provided by the Millers to Plaintiffs refers to “roof & balcony
leaks caused interior damage and mold – leaks repaired and damaged drywall
removed, patched, and painted.” 
(Complaint ¶ 22.)
 
·      
The Millers’ April 6, 2023 Agent Visual
Inspection Disclosure (“AVID”) “suggests that water intrusion related issues to
the Property had been taken care [of]” 
(Complaint ¶ 22.)
 
·      
The January 29, 2023 remediation proposal from
handyman Chicas is addressed to Mr. Miller. 
(Complaint ¶ 22.)
 
·      
Therefore, “the Millers must have known about
the condition of the Property and of the ‘remediation’ work that was
done.”  (Complaint ¶ 22.)
 
·      
After Plaintiffs acquired the property, a
neighbor told them “that the person involved with staging the Property for
sale, who worked for Seller and Seller’s agent, had to leave the Property
because she was very sensitive to irritants and had a negative reaction to what
she believed was mold in the Property.” 
(Complaint ¶ 26.)
 
·      
Plaintiffs subsequently obtained a Mold Report
and Lab Report, which indicated, “this was not an isolated instance of mold;
there was mold throughout the entire house including in the Plaintiffs’
daughters’ bedroom and the children’s bathroom.”  (Complaint ¶¶ 28-29.)
 
·      
The mold remediation company Plaintiffs hired “advised
Mrs. Wienberg there was no way that anyone who had opened up the walls at the
Property to do repairs could have missed seeing mold within the Property’s
walls.”  (Complaint ¶ 33.)
 
·      
The Millers also hired a contractor to
investigate the balcony leak, which did not resolve upon replacing the sliding balcony
door. The contractor “identified the leak as being exterior to the
balcony sliding door” and “when that contractor opened the ceiling to the
living room to determine the source of the leak, the wood beams below the
balcony showed extensive rot and degradation.”  Thus, “the water intrusion from the balcony
was very clearly long-standing but was simply covered up.”  (Complaint ¶ 36.)
 
·      
The Millers further “discovered more water
intrusion into the house going all the way up to the roof.”  (Complaint ¶ 37.)
 
·      
“[W]hile the Millers asserted (in connection
with the sale of the Property) that ‘roof recently resurfaced to fix previous
roof leaks’, and Plaintiffs were provided an invoice regarding purported ‘roof
repair’, the issues related to the water intrusion were simply covered
up.”  (Complaint ¶ 37.)
 
·      
Plaintiffs incurred $358,496.85 in mold and
water damage remediation.  (Complaint ¶
38.)
 
Further, Plaintiffs allege three causes of action sounding in fraud, which
the Millers have not demurred to, alleging:
 
41. Plaintiffs allege that Defendants pursued a common course of
conduct, acted in concert and conspired with one another, and aided and abetted
one another concerning the Property. 
 
42. Plaintiffs allege that Defendants made numerous oral and/or
written representations and engaged in conduct intended to and which did
deceive Plaintiffs regarding the Property, including that: 
 
• water-damaged material at the Property had been removed; 
 
• likely some mold at the Property that was removed; 
 
• leaks at the Property had been repaired; 
 
• roof repaired and/or resurfaced to fix roof leaks; 
 
• balcony bad been waterproofed; 
 
• water intrusion into house was due to side balcony sliding door. 
 
43. Plaintiffs allege that the above representations by Defendants
were false or, in the alternative, were made recklessly and without regard for
their truth. 
 
44. Plaintiffs allege that the representations by Defendants were made
with the intent to deceive Plaintiffs and to induce reliance by Plaintiffs upon
those representations. Plaintiffs allege that the Millers are real estate
professionals (licensed Brokers) who have held themselves out as having
extensive experience with “Fixers and Flipping” property. Plaintiffs allege
that the Millers would not have received a commission from the sale of the
Property and/or would not have not been reimbursed for costs they incurred in
connection with work at the Property unless the sale of the Property closed.
Plaintiffs allege that the Defendants who engaged in work at the Property would
not have been paid unless the sale of the Property closed.
 
[…]
 
51. Plaintiffs allege that Defendants concealed the true nature and
condition of the Property including: 
 
• substantial and extensive mold infestation throughout the Property; 
 
• mold at the Property was concealed with new and/or repaired drywall
that was painted; 
 
• water damage at the Property concealed with new and/or repaired
drywall that was painted; 
 
• wood beams below the balcony reflecting extensive rot and
degradation; 
 
• roof had been not been repaired to prevent water intrusion; 
 
• balcony had been not been repaired to prevent water intrusion. 
 
52. Plaintiffs allege that the mold at the Property would only have
been discovered in connection with destructive testing (drilling into the walls
to obtain samples) that is not commonly granted during due diligence period,
the degraded and rotted wood beams below the balcony was concealed by the
ceiling in the living room, and the other repairs (related to balcony and roof
above it) purportedly to prevent water intrusion were not known to Plaintiffs
to have been ineffective and/or improperly done and could not have been
discovered to Plaintiffs except when it rained.
 
53. Plaintiffs allege they did not know the concealed facts. 
 
54. Plaintiffs allege that Defendants’ representations, actions,
and/or conduct were made with the intent to deceive Plaintiffs and to induce
reliance by Plaintiffs upon those representations. Plaintiffs allege that the
Millers are real estate professionals (licensed Brokers) who have held
themselves out as having extensive experience with “Fixers and Flipping”
property. Plaintiffs allege that the Millers would not have received a
commission from the sale of the Property and/or would not have not been reimbursed
for costs they incurred in connection with work at the Property unless the sale
of the Property closed. Plaintiffs allege that Defendants who engaged in work
at the Property would not have been paid unless the sale of the Property
closed.
 
(Complaint
¶¶ 41-44; 51-54.)
            
Thus, Plaintiffs have adequately alleged facts with requisite
specificity to demonstrate that the Millers knew about the extensive mold and
water damage, but fraudulently concealed it from Plaintiffs, to support
Plaintiffs’ request for punitive damages.
 
            Emotional
Distress
 
The Millers next argue that Plaintiffs are not entitled to emotional
distress because they seek purely economic damages and suffered no physical
impact or injury.  To the contrary,
Plaintiffs allege they and their children had to be relocated while the
remediation occurred, and they suffered emotional distress:
 
34. Plaintiffs allege that the mold remediation
work was done in phases so that Plaintiffs did not need to move out of the
Property while the work was done (except for one day and night) which has
limited the amount of alternative living expenses damages. Plaintiffs allege
that, given the location of the mold (throughout the Property) including in
Plaintiffs’ daughter’s bedroom and the master bedroom, it was necessary for
Plaintiffs (and their children) to sleep in different areas of the house while
the remediation work was done. Plaintiffs allege that, for instance, while the
Plaintiffs’ daughter’s bedroom was being remediated and repaired, Plaintiffs’
daughter was evicted from her bedroom and needed to share a bedroom with her
older brother. Plaintiffs allege that, and while the master bedroom was being
remediated and repaired because of substandard conditions, Plaintiffs were
evicted from their bedroom and were forced to sleep on an air mattress
downstairs. 
 
35. Plaintiffs allege that while the work was
being done, Plaintiffs lost access to portions of the Property while those
areas were contained and remediated, and Plaintiffs had to suffer with the
sound of constant loud humming of air filtration machines between when
remediation work was completed and until receipt of post-remediation testing.
Plaintiffs allege that they work primarily from home, so they had to deal with
this inconvenience.
 
[…]
 
63. Plaintiffs are informed and believe, and
thereon allege, that Defendants’ conduct described herein caused Plaintiffs to
suffer serious emotional distress and that Defendants’ conduct was a
substantial factor in causing Plaintiffs’ serious emotional distress, which
includes suffering, among others, anguish, fright, horror, nervousness, grief,
anxiety, worry, and shock.
 
(Complaint
¶¶ 34-35; 63.)  
 
            Attorneys’ Fees
 
The Complaint also seeks “attorneys’ fees as permitted by contract and
by law.”  (Prayer at ¶ 10.)  
 
Code of Civil Procedure
section 1033.5, which outlines recoverable costs to a prevailing party under
Code of Civil Procedure section 1032, permits the recovery of attorneys’ fees
when authorized by contract, statute, or law. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1033.5, subd. (a)(10).)  Code of Civil Procedure section 1021 provides
“[e]xcept as attorney’s fees are specifically provided for by statute, the
measure and mode of compensation of attorneys and counselors at law is left to
the agreement, express or implied, of the parties [….]”  Similarly, Civil Code section 1717 provides
“[i]n any action on a contract, where the contract specifically provides that
attorney’s fees and costs, which are incurred to enforce that contract, shall be
awarded either to one of the parties or to the prevailing party, then the party
who is determined to be the party prevailing on the contract, whether he or she
is the party specified in the contract or not, shall be entitled to reasonable
attorney’s fees in addition to other costs.” 
(Civ. Code, § 1717, subd. (a).)
 
Here, the Complaint does not
identify any contract or statute that would entitle Plaintiffs to attorneys’
fees.  Nor is it apparent that any such
contract would exist as between Plaintiffs, who purchased the subject property,
and the Millers, who acted as the seller’s agents.
 
Therefore, the Court strikes
Plaintiffs’ request for attorneys’ fees from the Prayer as to the Millers.
 
3.    
LEAVE TO AMEND
 
A plaintiff has the burden of showing in what
manner the complaint could be amended and how the amendment would change the
legal effect of the complaint, i.e., state a cause of action. (See The
Inland Oversight Committee v. City of San Bernardino (2018) 27 Cal.App.5th
771, 779; PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v. Hulven Int'l, Inc. (2017)
14 Cal.App.5th 156, 189.) A plaintiff must not only state the legal basis for
the amendment, but also the factual allegations sufficient to state a cause of
action or claim. (See PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v. Hulven Int'l, Inc.,
supra, 14 Cal.App.5th at p. 189.) Moreover, a plaintiff does not meet his
or her burden by merely stating in the opposition to a demurrer or motion to
strike that “if the Court finds the operative complaint deficient, plaintiff
respectfully requests leave to amend.” (See Major Clients Agency v Diemer
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1116, 1133; Graham v. Bank of America (2014) 226
Cal.App.4th 594, 618 [asserting an abstract right to amend does not satisfy the
burden].)
 
Here, Plaintiffs have failed to meet this burden as they have not
provided the Court with any additional facts that could be added to correct the
identified deficiency.    
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the reasons stated, the Court overrules the Millers’ Demurrer to
the Sixth Cause of Action for Intentional Infliction of Emotional
Distress.  Further, the Court grants in
part and denies in part the Millers’ Motion to Strike.  The Court strikes from the Complaint
Plaintiffs’ request for attorneys’ fees as to the Millers only.  The Millers’ Motion to Strike is denied in
all other respects. 
 
Further, the Court orders the Millers to file an Answer to the Complaint
on or before August 22, 2024.  
 
Further, on the Court's own motion, the Case Management Conference
scheduled for August 23, 2024 shall be continued to September 24, 2024 at 8:30
A.M. in Department 207.  All parties
shall comply with California Rules of Court, rules 3.722, et seq., regarding
Initial and Further Case Management Conferences.  In particular, all parties shall adhere to
the duty to meet and confer (Rule 3.724) and to the requirement to prepare and
file Case Management Statements (Rule 3.725). 
  
 
The Millers shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file the
notice with a proof of service forthwith. 

 
 
DATED:  August 1, 2024                                                       ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court