 Case Number:  23AHCV01466    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2023    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



NELSON ENRIQUE VANEGAS TORO, 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
ABERCROMBIE
   & FITCH STORES, INC., et al.,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 23AHCV01466
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANTS’ MOTION TO STRIKE
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
October
   11, 2023



 
On June 26, 2023 plaintiff Nelson
Enrique Vanegas Toro (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendants
Abercrombie and Fitch Stores, Inc. and Hollister Co. California, LLC
(collectively, “Defendants”) for general negligence. Plaintiff also asserts a
cause of action for intentional tort against Does 1 to 50 inclusive. Plaintiff
alleges on June 25, 2021, he was at a Hollister clothing store when he was
attacked by one or more security guards while the security guards were in the
course and scope of their employment with Defendants. With respect to his claim
of negligence against Defendants, Plaintiff alleges that the guards were not
properly trained, supervised or monitored, used excessive force and were
unlicensed.  Plaintiff also seeks punitive
damages and includes an attachment for exemplary damages against Does 1 to 50.
On September 11, 2023, Defendants filed
this motion to strike Paragraph 14, subsection (a)(2) of the Complaint for
punitive damages and Plaintiff’s exemplary damages attachment on the grounds
that the allegations do not set forth facts constituting “oppression, fraud, or
malice” within the meaning of Civil Code section 3294. 
However, Plaintiff does not seek
punitive damages against Defendants because he does not name Defendants in his
exemplary damages attachment. 
Accordingly, Defendants lack standing to bring this motion.  The motion is DENIED as moot. 
Moving party to give notice.
 
Dated
this 11th
day of October 2023
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 