  Case Number:  23AHCV01009    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2023    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



PAUL CHEW, 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
RITE
   AID,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  23AHCV01009
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEMURRER AND MOTION TO STRIKE BY DEFENDANT THRIFTY PAYLESS,
   INC. dba RITE AID PHARMACY  
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.

October
   11, 2023




 


 


 



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
On May 5, 2023, plaintiff Paul Chew
(“Plaintiff”), appearing in propria persona, filed this action against
defendant Thrifty Payless, Inc. dba Rite Aid Pharmacy (“Defendant”)
(erroneously sued as “Rite Aid”).  The
Complaint attaches a 2-page attachment asserting a cause of action for
intentional tort and a document entitled “Sworn Affidavit of Paul Chew” (the
“Affidavit”).  
On July 7, 2023, Defendants filed a
demurrer and motion to strike.
Plaintiff filed opposition briefs on
July 20, 2023. 
Defendants filed reply briefs on
October 3, 2023. 
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD
“A
demurrer based on a statute of limitations will not lie where the action may
be, but is not necessarily, barred.  [Citation] 
In order for the bar of the statute of limitations to be raised by
demurrer, the defect must clearly and affirmatively appear on the face of the
complaint; it is not enough that the complaint shows that the action may be
barred.  [Citation.]”  (Marshall v. Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher
(1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1397, 1403.)
A demurrer tests the legal sufficiency
of the pleadings and will be sustained only where the pleading is defective on
its face.  (City of Atascadero v.
Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc. (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 445,
459.)  “We treat the demurrer as
admitting all material facts properly pleaded but not contentions, deductions
or conclusions of fact or law.  We accept
the factual allegations of the complaint as true and also consider matters
which may be judicially noticed.  [Citation.]”  (Mitchell v. California Department of
Public Health (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 1000, 1007; Del E. Webb Corp. v.
Structural Materials Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604 [“the facts alleged
in the pleading are deemed to be true, however improbable they may be”].)  Allegations are to be liberally construed.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.)  A demurrer may be brought if insufficient
facts are stated to support the cause of action asserted.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).)  
III.       
DISCUSSION
Allegations of the Complaint 
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant and
its employee, Janet Sai, conspired with the Department of Homeland Security
(“DHS”) to withhold the second shot of the Moderna vaccine for SARS-Cov-2
(COVID-19) in order to expose him to the virus.  (See generally, Compl.)  Plaintiff claims that on May 7, 2021, Sai
“intentionally contacted [him] by using a needle to pierce [his] skin for a
split second and withdrawing it before injecting the Moderna vaccine.”  (Compl., IT-1, p. 1.) Plaintiff asserts that
this direct physical contact “constituted a tort of battery.” (Id.)
Plaintiff also alleges that Sai falsified his vaccination records to reflect
that he had been vaccinated, despite failing to inject him with the vaccine.  (Id.) 
Plaintiff “did not discover the fake
injection until days afterward” and while he attempted to get the second
Moderna injection at Defendant’s other pharmacy locations, he was unable to
because his records falsely showed that he had already received the vaccine.  (Compl., IT-1, p. 2.)  Plaintiff was only able to receive his second
shot when the Center for Disease Control and Prevention (“CDC”) authorized a
third shot of the vaccine for seniors.  (Id.)
 
Statute of Limitations
Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s
action is barred by the statute of limitations for professional negligence
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 340.5.  Code of Civil Procedure section 340.5
establishes a one-year limitations period for any "action for injury or
death against a health care provider based upon such person's alleged
professional negligence."  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 340.5.) The one-year period runs from the date "the
plaintiff discovers, or through the use of reasonable diligence should have
discovered, the injury."  (Ibid.)
 The statute also establishes a
three-year outer limitations period that runs from the date of injury
regardless of when the plaintiff discovers the injury.  Therefore, Defendant argues, the complaint is
time-barred because Plaintiff’s action is based on the professional negligence
of a healthcare provider and Plaintiff filed this action more than a year after
he learned of the fake vaccination.  
Defendant argues that although
Plaintiff’s complaint identifies a cause of action for “intentional tort”, his
claim is actually one for professional negligence because Plaintiff takes issue
with the standard of medical care that he received.  Defendant cites a number of cases in support
of this contention; the Court finds the discussion in the most recently issued
case, Larson v. UHS of Rancho Springs, Inc. (2014) 230 Cal.App.4th 336,
instructive.  In Larson, the Court
of Appeal distinguished between claims for intentional tort based on
intentional misconduct, like stealing and selling a person’s genetic material, from
claims for intentional tort based on professional negligence, such as the way
an anesthesiologist performed their job. 
(230 Cal.App.4th at p. 352 [citing Unruh-Haxton v. Regents of
University of California (2008) 162 Cal.App.4th 343, 355-356].)  The Larson court specifically noted
that the plaintiff’s claims “concern[ed] the manner in which [the defendant]
rendered his professional services as an anesthesiologist, not some collateral
course of conduct pursued for [the anesthesiologist]’s own gain or
gratification.”  (Ibid.)  The Larson court added that the
plaintiff did not allege that the anesthesiology acted with any other intent or
had any reason to intentionally injure him, nor did he allege that the
anesthesiologist deliberately deviated from the consent the plaintiff provided
for his surgery.”  (Ibid.)  
Here, Plaintiff alleges that Sai and
Defendant conspired with DHS and intended to withhold the vaccine from him and
expose him to COVID-19.  (Compl., IT-1,
pp. 1-2.)  This allegation of intentional
injury and violation of Plaintiff’s consent takes his claim outside the realm
of professional negligence.  On a
demurrer, the Court assumes the truth of Plaintiff’s allegations.  Therefore, Defendant’s demurrer on the
grounds that the action is time-barred is OVERRULED.  
Breach of Duty, Causation, and Damages
Defendant argues that Plaintiff fails
to allege sufficient facts to plead a breach of duty, causation, or damages.  With respect to a breach of duty, Defendant
argues that Plaintiff merely alleges that he was at increased risk of
contracting it and that the cases cited by Plaintiff do not support the legal
assertion that Defendant owed or breached a duty of care.  To establish a battery claim, the plaintiff
must prove that the defendant touched or caused the plaintiff to be touched
with the intent to harm or offend them, that they did not consent to the
touching, that the plaintiff was harmed or offended by the conduct, and that a
reasonable person in the plaintiff’s situation would have been offended by the
touching. (CACI No. 1300.) 
Here, Plaintiff’ alleges that Sai
committed a battery (i.e., breached a duty of care) because she interfered with
his “right to be freed [sic] from intentional and harmful contact” by failing
to give him the vaccine.  Plaintiff
alleges that the needle of the vaccine was placed on top of his skin; it is
uncertain whether he is alleging that the needle pierced his skin.  (Compare Compl., IT-1, p. 1 with Affidavit,
p. 2-15.)  Regardless of whether his skin
was pierced, Plaintiff does not allege that he suffered any harm from the
needle touching him.  Consequently,
Plaintiff fails to state sufficient facts to allege a cause of action for the
intentional tort of battery.  Because the
Court sustains the demurrer on this ground, the Court need not address whether
Plaintiff’s claim is barred by the Public Readiness and Emergency Preparedness
(“PREP”) Act. 
Leave
to Amend
Plaintiff requests leave to amend to
add a claim for intentional infliction of emotional distress and willful
misconduct.  Plaintiff also requests
leave to add DHS as a defendant.  In its
reply brief, Defendant argues that leave to amend should not be granted because
Plaintiff does not allege “extreme or outrageous conduct.”  However, leave to amend must be granted where
there is a reasonable probability of successful amendment.  (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d
335, 348.)  At this stage of the
pleadings, where Plaintiff’s allegations must be taken as true, it appears that
there is a reasonable probability that Plaintiff will be able to allege a claim
for intentional infliction of emotional distress.  Therefore, the Court sustains the demurrer
with 20 days’ leave to amend 
IV.        
CONCLUSION
The demurrer is SUSTAINED with 20 days’ leave to amend. 
The motion to strike is taken off calendar as moot. 
Dated
this 11th
 day of October, 2023
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to appear
at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the hearing and
argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If
the Court does not receive emails from the parties indicating submission on
this tentative ruling and there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court
may, at its discretion, adopt the tentative as the final order or place the
motion off calendar.
 