


[1]
Plaintiffs filed, on December 10, 2019, two Amendments to the Complaint (1) to
identify Jacob Emrani to be the true name for defendant Jacob Emroni, and (2)
to identify Law Offices of Jacob Emrani to be the true name for defendant Law
Offices of Jacob Emroni. 


[2] The
third cause of action for declaratory relief is solely alleged against
Counsel.  (Compl., p. 9:16-17.) 


[3] The
court also notes that, even if this evidence were sufficient to show that the Attorney-Client
Contingency Fee Agreement complied with Business and Professions Code section
6147 and that Defendants’ lien was, as a result, valid, such that Emrani did
not wrongfully assert control over Plaintiffs’ property, Plaintiffs have
submitted evidence sufficient to create a triable issue of material fact as to that
issue.  Specifically, Plaintiffs submitted
(1) the declaration of Vladovich, in which she states that she “never received
a copy of the ‘Retainer Agreement’ signed by [Emrani] or any other attorney[;]”
(2) the June 19, 2019 letter that Emrani sent to Vladovich, which attaches a
copy of the Attorney-Client Contingency Fee Agreement signed only by Vladovich;
and (3) the Attorney-Client Contingency Fee Agreement produced by Emrani in
discovery, which was signed only by Vladovich and not Emrani.  (Vladovich Decl., ¶ 6; Plummer Decl., Ex. B,
p. 3 [stating in the letter, “Please see attached, your signed retainer
agreement”], and attachment to Ex. B, p. 4 [Attorney-Client Contingency Fee
Agreement signed only by Vladovich, leaving unsigned signature block for
Emrani]; Plummer Decl., ¶ 11; Plummer Decl., Ex. D, PDF pp. 42-45.)  Thus, Plaintiffs have submitted evidence
sufficient to show that a triable issue of material fact exists as to
Defendants’ compliance with Business and Professions Code section 6147 and
therefore have submitted evidence sufficient to show that a triable issue of
material fact exists as to whether Defendants, in asserting a claim for $4,444
pursuant to an invalid attorney’s lien, assumed control and ownership of
property belonging to Plaintiffs. 

