  Case Number:  19STCV44103    Hearing Date:   January 18, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




karol vladovich

   , et al.;
 


   Plaintiffs,
 
 
vs.
 
 
jacob emroni

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


19STCV44103




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


January
   18, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
defendants’ motion for summary judgment or,
  in the alternative, summary adjudication
 



 
MOVING PARTIES:
            Defendants Jacob Emrani and
Law Offices of Jacob Emrani
 
RESPONDING PARTIES:     Plaintiffs Karol Vladovich and Law Offices
of Mark B. Plummer, PC
Motion for Summary Judgment or, in the Alternative, Summary
Adjudication
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with
this motion. 
LEGAL STANDARD
The purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary
adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’
pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in
fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” 
(Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  “Code
of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to
grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences
or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and
that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)
“On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on
the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues
of material fact.”  (Scalf v. D.B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510,
1519.)  A defendant or cross-defendant
moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or her burden
of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one
or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that
there is a complete defense to the cause of action.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c, subd. (p)(2).)  “Once the
defendant or cross-defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the
plaintiff or cross-complainant to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)  “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary
judgment should be granted.”  (Avivi v. Centro
Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)  “When deciding whether to grant summary
judgment, the court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers
(except evidence to which the court has sustained an objection), as well as all
reasonable inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light most
favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.”  (Id. at
p. 467; Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)
DISCUSSION
Defendants Jacob Emrani (“Emrani”) and Law
Offices of Jacob Emrani (“Counsel”) (collectively, “Defendants”)[1] move the court for an order granting summary
judgment in their favor and against plaintiffs Karol Vladovich (“Vladovich”)
and Law Offices of Mark B. Plummer, PC (“Plummer”) (collectively, “Plaintiffs”)
on their Complaint.
1.     Motion
for Summary Judgment as to Counsel
The court denies Counsel’s motion for summary judgment because Counsel
did not address, in its moving papers, all of the causes of action alleged against
it in Plaintiffs’ Complaint. 
Plaintiffs filed their Complaint on August 19, 2019, alleging four
causes of action for      (1) conversion, (2) legal malpractice, (3)
declaratory relief, and (4) unfair business practices.  Counsel did not address the third cause of
action for declaratory relief in its motion.[2]  Thus, the court finds that, because Counsel
has not addressed every cause of action alleged against it in Plaintiffs’
Complaint, Counsel has not met its burden to show that it is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)  The court
therefore denies Counsel’s motion for summary judgment. 
The court acknowledges that Defendants have alternatively attempted
to request summary adjudication as to Plaintiffs’ first, second, and fourth
causes of action.  However, the court
finds that the notice of motion is defective and therefore finds that
Defendants did not properly request summary adjudication as to those causes of
action in the alternative. 
“If summary adjudication is sought, whether separately or as an
alternative to the motion for summary judgment, the specific cause of action,
affirmative defense, claims for damages, or issues of duty must be stated
specifically in the notice of motion and be repeated, verbatim, in the separate
statement of undisputed material facts.” 
(Cal. Rules of Ct., rule 3.1350, subd. (b).)  Defendants’ notice of motion states only that
they seek, “in the alternative, summary adjudication.”  (Notice of Mot., p. 2:1-6.)  The notice does not state (1) the causes of
action that Defendants seek to adjudicate, or (2) the affirmative defenses that
Defendants contend bars Plaintiffs’ causes of action.  Thus, the court finds that Defendants’ notice
of motion is defective, and therefore does not rule on whether Defendants have
met their burden to show that they are entitled to an order granting summary
adjudication in their favor and against Plaintiffs on the first, second, or
fourth causes of action. 
Because the court has concluded, as set forth above, that (1) Counsel
did not address all the causes of action alleged against it in Plaintiffs’
Complaint, and (2) Defendants’ request for summary adjudication in their notice
of motion is defective, the court denies Counsel’s motion in its entirety. 
 
2.     Motion
for Summary Judgment as to Emrani 
The court finds that (1) Emrani has not met his burden to show
that the first cause of action for conversion has no merit, and therefore (2)
Emrani has not shown that he is entitled
to judgment on all the causes of action alleged against him in Plaintiffs’
Complaint as a matter of law. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (h); Slovensky v. Friedman (2006)
142 Cal.App.4th 1518, 1527 [“To prevail on a summary judgment motion that does
not request summary adjudication in the alternative, the defendant must show
conclusively that all of the plaintiff’s causes of action or legal theories
fail as a matter of law”].) 
“‘ “ ‘Conversion is the wrongful exercise of dominion over the
property of another.  The elements of a
conversion claim are: (1) the plaintiff’s ownership or right to possession of
the property; (2) the defendant’s conversion by a wrongful act or disposition
of property rights; and (3) damages . . . .’ ” ’”  (Lee v. Hanley (2015) 61 Cal.4th 1225,
1240.) 
First, it appears that Emrani contends that Plaintiffs cannot
establish the element of conversion of Plaintiffs’ property by a wrongful act
or disposition of property rights because Defendants requested that Vladovich’s
settlement be issued via two checks: (1) one to Vladovich and her attorney, and
(2) another to Defendants for the disputed attorney’s fees.  (Mot., pp. 3:17-20, 6:3-5.) 
The court finds that this evidence and argument is insufficient to
show that Plaintiffs cannot establish Emrani’s conversion of their property.  Plaintiffs have based their cause of action
for conversion on the factual assertion that Defendants falsely represented
that they had a lien for 100 percent of the fees on plaintiff Vladovich’s
underlying claim despite having never been retained.  (Def. Exs. 7 and 9, Plaintiffs’ Responses to
Special Interrogatory No. 6.)  In their
Complaint, Plaintiffs allege that Defendants did not have a valid lien on the
ground that the contingency fee agreement between Vladovich and Defendants did
not comply with Business and Professions Code section 6147 because (1) the
agreement was not signed by an attorney, and (2) Defendants did not return a
fully executed copy of the contingency fee agreement to plaintiff
Vladovich.  (Compl., ¶¶ 10-11.)  Thus, Plaintiffs have based this cause of
action on the theory that, because Defendants did not comply with Business and
Professions Code section 6147, no contingency fee agreement was created and
therefore Defendants’ representations that they had a lien on the underlying
settlement and were owed money (1) delayed Vladovich’s receipt of all funds
owed to her, and (2) constitutes conversion of Plaintiffs’ property. 
The court acknowledges that Emrani has presented the June 19, 2019
letter that he sent to plaintiff Vladovich, in which Emrani (1) stated that he
did not intend to keep her from being paid, and (2) informed Vladovich that he
spoke to her attorney, Plummer, and requested that he obtain two checks from
the settlement, one of which would be paid immediately to Vladovich, while the
other would represent the disputed attorney’s fees.  (Def. Ex. 5, pp. 1, 2.)  This evidence, however, does not establish
that Defendants—in asserting their lien and requesting $4,444 in attorney’s
fees—did not constitute an exercise of dominion over Plaintiffs’ property (the settlement
funds) merely because Emrani suggested that the partial payment to Vladovich not
be delayed.  (Def. Material Fact No 8
[“$4,444 is the amount Defendants claim in fees”]; Farmers Ins. Exchange v.
Zerin (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 445, 451-452 [“It is not necessary that there
be a manual taking of the property; it is only necessary to show an assumption
of control or ownership over the property, or that the alleged converter has
applied the property to his own use”].)  Thus,
because the actionable conversion was the false representation that Defendants
were entitled to a certain portion of the funds—not an intent to delay
Plaintiffs’ recovery—this evidence does not show that Plaintiffs cannot
establish the interference with or assumption of control over Plaintiffs’
property.  
Second, to the extent that Emrani has argued that Defendants’
attorney lien is valid and therefore does not constitute conversion, the court
finds that Emrani has not met his burden to present sufficient argument and
evidence in support of that contention.
As set forth above, Plaintiffs have alleged that Defendants’
attorney’s lien was invalid because the contingency fee agreement violated
Business and Professions Code section 6147. 
(Compl., ¶¶ 18 [alleging that a lien can be created only by a
contract and that Defendants knew that there was no contract], 10-11.)  
“The parties to a retainer agreement can create a lien in favor of
the attorney upon the proceeds of a client’s prospective recovery.  [Citation.] 
The form and content of attorney fee agreements are regulated by
statute.”  (O&C Creditors Group,
LLC v. Stephens & Stephens XII, LLC (2019) 42 Cal.App.5th 546, 574
[internal citation omitted].)  Pursuant
to Business and Professions Code section 6147, “[a]n attorney who contracts to
represent a client on a contingency fee basis shall, at the time the contract
is entered into, provide a duplicate copy of the contract, signed by both the
attorney and the client, . . . to the plaintiff. . . .”  (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 6147, subd.
(a).)  Failure to comply with this
requirement “renders the agreement voidable at the option of the plaintiff, and
the attorney shall thereupon be entitled to collect a reasonable fee.”  (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 6147,
subd. (b).) 
Plaintiffs have alleged that the contingency fee agreement was
invalid and violated Business and Professions Code section 6147 because (1) it
was not signed by any attorney, and (2) a fully signed copy was not returned to
Vladovich.  (Compl., ¶¶ 10-11.)  The court acknowledges that Defendants have
submitted the “Attorney-Client Contingency Fee Agreement” which purports to
bear the signatures of plaintiff Vladovich and Emrani.  (Def. Ex. 1, Fee Agreement, pp. 1, 4.)  However, Defendants did not address, in their
memorandum of points and authorities or in their separate statement, the
allegation that Defendants did not return to Vladovich, “at the time the
[Attorney-Client Contingency Fee Agreement] was entered into,    . . .
a duplicate copy of the contract, signed by both” Vladovich and Emrani.  (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 6147, subd.
(a).)  Thus, the court finds that Emrani
has not met his burden to show that the Attorney-Client Contingency Fee
Agreement did not violate Business and Professions Code section 6147 since he
did not present evidence showing that he provided to Vladovich a copy of the
Attorney-Client Contingency Fee Agreement signed by both himself and Vladovich.[3]

            The court therefore finds that
defendant Emrani has not met his burden of showing that the first cause of
action for conversion has no merit and therefore has not shown that he is entitled to judgment on all of the causes of action
alleged against him in Plaintiffs’ Complaint as a matter of law.
The court therefore denies defendant Emrani’s motion for summary judgment.

ORDER
The court denies defendants Jacob Emrani and Law Offices of Jacob
Emrani’s motion for summary judgment or, in the alternative, summary
adjudication on plaintiffs Karol Vladovich and Law Offices of Mark B. Plummer,
PC’s Complaint. 
The court orders plaintiffs Karol Vladovich and Law Offices of Mark B.
Plummer, PC to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  January 18, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


