 Case Number:  21STCV08365    Hearing Date:   January 18, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




haryati t.s. sentoso

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
keiko hasegawa

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


21STCV08365




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


January
   18, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
(1)  
  motion
  to be relieved as counsel for defendant keiko hasegawa
(2)  
  motion
  to be relieved as counsel for defendant philip sentoso
 



 
MOVING PARTIES:              Matthew M. Wrenshall and RMO LLP          
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Unopposed
(1)  
Motion
to be Relieved as Counsel for Defendant Keiko Hasegawa
(2)  
Motion
to be Relieved as Counsel for Defendant Philip Sentoso
The court
considered the moving papers filed in connection with each motion.  No opposition papers were filed. 
DISCUSSION
Matthew M. Wrenshall and RMO LLP (“Defendants’ Counsel”) move to be
relieved as counsel for (1) defendant Keiko Hasegawa, and (2) defendant Philip
Sentoso (“Defendants”).  In the interest
of efficiency, the court discusses the two pending motions to be relieved as
counsel for Defendants together. 
“The
question of granting or denying an application of an attorney to withdraw as
counsel (Code Civ. Proc., § 284, subd. 2) is one which lies within the sound
discretion of the trial court ‘having in mind whether such withdrawal might
work an injustice in the handling of the case.’”¿ (People v. Prince
(1968) 268 Cal.App.2d 398, 406 [internal quotations omitted].)¿ The court
should also consider whether the attorney’s “withdrawal can be accomplished
without undue prejudice to the client’s interests.”¿ (Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994)
21 Cal.App.4th 904, 915.)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
For
a motion to be relieved as counsel under Code of Civil Procedure section 284,
subdivision (2), California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362 requires (1) a notice
of motion and motion directed to the client (made on the Notice of Motion and
Motion to be Relieved as Counsel -- Civil form (MC-051)); (2) a declaration
stating in general terms and without compromising the confidentiality of the
attorney-client relationship why a motion under Code of Civil Procedure section
284, subdivision (2) is brought instead of filing a consent under Code of Civil
Procedure section 284, subdivision (1) (made on the Declaration in Support of
Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel -- Civil form (MC-052)); (3)
service of the notice of motion and motion, declaration, and proposed order on
the client and on all other parties who have appeared in the case; and (4) the
proposed order relieving counsel (prepared on the Order Granting Attorney’s
Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel -- Civil form (MC-053)).¿¿¿¿ 
The court finds that Defendants’ Counsel has served Defendants with
the moving papers by mail at their last known mailing addresses, which
Defendants’ Counsel has confirmed within the past 30 days are current.  (MC-052 Forms, ¶ 3, subds. (a)(2),
(b)(1)(d).)  The court also finds that
Defendants’ Counsel has shown sufficient reasons why counsel should be relieved
and why counsel has brought the motions under Code of Civil Procedure section
284, subdivision (2) instead of filing a consent under section 284, subdivision
(1).  (MC-052 Forms, ¶¶ 2, 7.) 
The court therefore grants Defendants’ Counsel’s (1) motion to be
relieved as counsel for defendant Keiko Hasegawa, and (2) motion to be relieved
as counsel for defendant Philip Sentoso.
Matthew M. Wrenshall and RMO LLP will be relieved as counsel for
defendants Keiko Hasegawa and Philip Sentoso effective upon the filing of the proof of service of the signed
“Order[s] Granting Attorney’s Motion to be Relieved as Counsel – Civil” as to
each defendant, on the clients. 
The court orders Matthew M.
Wrenshall and RMO LLP to give notice of this ruling and the signed “Order[s]
Granting Attorney’s Motion to be Relieved as Counsel – Civil” on defendants
Keiko Hasegawa and Philip Sentoso, and to all other parties who have appeared
in this action.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  January 18, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court