 Case Number:  23STCV09384    Hearing Date:   January 18, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




michael yanow

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
general motors llc

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


23STCV09384




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


January
   18, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
(1)  
  defendant’s
  demurrer to complaint
(2)  
  defendant’s
  motion to strike punitive damages
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant General Motors LLC
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff Michael Yanow
(1)  
Demurrer
to Complaint
(2)  
Motion
to Strike Punitive Damages
The court considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in
connection with the demurrer and motion to strike. 
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff Michael Yanow (“Plaintiff”) filed this lemon law action on
April 26, 2023 against defendant General Motors LLC (“Defendant”).  
Plaintiff alleges six causes of action for (1) fraudulent concealment
and misrepresentation; (2) negligent misrepresentation; (3) violation of
Business and Professions Code section 17200; (4) breach of express warranty;
(5) breach of implied warranty; and (6) violation of Civil Code section 1793.2,
subdivision (b).
Defendant now moves the court for an order (1) sustaining its demurrer
to Plaintiff’s first, second, and third causes of action, and (2) striking from
the Complaint Plaintiff’s prayer for punitive damages. 
DEMURRER
The court overrules Defendant’s demurrer to the first cause of action
for fraudulent concealment and misrepresentation because it states facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action for concealment since Plaintiff has
alleged, with sufficient particularity, that (1) Defendant concealed material
facts regarding the battery defect in the subject vehicle (Compl., ¶¶ 29,
25); (2) Defendant had a duty to disclose that fact to Plaintiff because
Defendant had exclusive knowledge of the battery defect since 2017, which was
not known to Plaintiff (Compl., ¶¶ 11, 13, 16-18, 31); (3) Defendant knew that
its concealment of this fact would sell more vehicles (Compl., ¶ 34), such
that the court reads the Complaint to allege that Defendant intended to defraud
Plaintiff by its concealment of this fact; (4) Plaintiff did not know of the
defect and would not have purchased the vehicle if he had known of the battery
defect (Compl., ¶¶ 11, 33); and (5) Plaintiff was harmed as a result of
the concealment (Compl., ¶ 35). 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e); Hambrick v. Healthcare
Partners Medical Group, Inc. (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 124, 162 [elements of
cause of action for fraudulent concealment]; Bigler-Engler v. Breg, Inc. (2017)
7 Cal.App.5th 276, 311 [duty to disclose arises “when the defendant had
exclusive knowledge of material facts not known to the plaintiff”].) 
The court sustains Defendant’s demurrer to the second cause of action
for negligent misrepresentation because it does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action since Plaintiff has not alleged, with the
requisite particularity, that Defendant made misrepresentations of fact,
without reasonable ground for believing it to be true, with the intent to
induce Plaintiff’s reliance thereon. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e); Borman v. Brown (2021)
59 Cal.App.5th 1048, 1060 [elements of cause of action for negligent
misrepresentation]; Foster v. Sexton (2021) 61 Cal.App.5th 998, 1028
[“For policy reasons . . . negligent misrepresentation . . . must be pleaded
with particularity . . . .”].)  The court
acknowledges that Plaintiff has alleged that Defendant, through its
advertisements and publications, made false representations regarding the
subject vehicle’s range on a single charge. 
(Compl., ¶ 8.)  However, Plaintiff
did not specifically allege, in connection with this alleged misrepresentation,
that Defendant had no reasonable ground for believing that representation to be
true, and that Defendant intended to induce Plaintiff’s reliance on that
fact.  (Ibid.)  
The court also notes that, in opposition, Plaintiff contends that he
alleged that Defendant misrepresented the defective qualities of the battery in
the subject vehicle, including that it was safe.  (Opp., p. 6:22-23.)  But Plaintiff did not sufficiently allege
that Defendant made misrepresentations as to the safety of the subject vehicle;
instead, Plaintiff has alleged, as set forth above, that Defendant concealed
that fact from Plaintiff.  Thus, the
court finds that Plaintiff has not sufficiently alleged facts supporting the cause
of action for negligent misrepresentation (1) based on the alleged
misrepresentation relating to the vehicle’s range on a single charge, or (2)
based on the alleged concealment regarding the safety of the battery. 
The court sustains Defendant’s demurrer to the third cause of action
for unfair competition in violation of Business and Professions Code section
17200 because it does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action since Plaintiff has not sufficiently alleged that he “has lost money or
property as a result of [Defendant’s] unfair competition.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e); Bus.
& Prof. Code, § 17204.)  
MOTION TO STRIKE
            Defendant moves the court for an
order striking Plaintiff’s prayer for punitive damages.  (Compl., p. 14, Prayer, ¶ 7.) 
            The court denies Defendant’s motion
to strike the prayer for punitive damages because Plaintiff has alleged facts
establishing that Defendant is guilty of fraud. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 436; Civ. Code, § 3294.) 
ORDER
            The court overrules defendant
General Motors LLC’s demurrer to plaintiff Michael Yanow’s first cause of
action for fraudulent concealment. 
The
court sustains defendant General Motors LLC’s demurrer to plaintiff Michael
Yanow’s second cause of action for negligent misrepresentation and third cause
of action for unfair competition in violation of Business and
Professions Code section 17200. 
The court denies defendant General Motors LLC’s motion to strike. 
The
court grants plaintiff Michael Yanow 20 days leave to file a First Amended
Complaint that cures the defects with the second cause of action for negligent
misrepresentation and third cause of action for unfair competition in
violation of Business and Professions Code section 17200.

            The court orders defendant General
Motors LLC to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  January 18, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court