  Case Number:  23STCP04254    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2024    Dept:  74 In Re: Paul  William Pilger Defendants Monica Potter, Sabrina  Coryell and Kevin Dwight’s Demurrer.   BACKGROUND              Plaintiff  Paul William Pilger (Plaintiff) sues defendants Monica Potter, Sabrina Coryell  and Kevin Dwight (Defendants) for intentional and/or negligent interference  with a prospective economic advantage.               JUDICAL NOTICE The  court denies the moving parties’ request for judicial notice of the Settlement  Agreement and Separation and Release Agreement because plaintiff alleges he  signed the agreements “under pressure” (2nd Amend. Pet. ¶ 26) –  implying duress or coercion if, as one must, reads the petition’s allegations  liberally – which is a factual allegation that is not amenable to resolution by  demurrer, thereby rendering the authorities the moving parties cite  distinguishable. The  court grants the requests for judicial notice of Exhibits “C”- “I”.   DISCUSSION             Defendants  demur to the petition on the grounds that (1) the settlement bars Plaintiff’s  claim; (2) Plaintiff cannot properly plead third-party interference; and (3)  the claim against defendant attorney Kevin Dwight is time-barred.   The Settlement Agreements and  Release             A  demurrer considers the four corners of the complaint and any documents that can  be judicially noticed.  Here, the two  agreements are not subject to judicial notice. Therefore, the court declines to  find by demurrer that the settlement agreements bar the claims.   Intentional Interference with a  Prospective Economic Advantage             The  elements of intentional interference with prospective economic advantage are “(1)  a relationship between the plaintiff and some third party with the probability  of future economic benefit to the plaintiff; (2) the defendant's knowledge of  the relationship; (3) a wrongful act, apart from the interference itself, by  the defendant designed to disrupt the relationship; (4) actual disruption  of the relationship; and (5) economic harm to the plaintiff proximately caused  by the acts of the defendant.”  (Salma v. Capon (2008) 161  Cal.App.4th 1275, 1290.)             Defendants  contend Plaintiff cannot plead (1) defendants are third parties and (2) an  independent wrongful act.             Third  Parties             Plaintiff  alleges that an economic relationship arose from Robert and Gywnneth Weiss’s long-term  employment of Plaintiff. From that relationship, Plaintiff alleges the Weisses  asked Plaintiff to manage mineral interests in perpetuity.  (SAC, ¶ 11.)   Later, Gywnneth Weiss also promised Plaintiff a condominium.  (SAC, ¶ 14.) Plaintiff thus sufficiently  alleges his economic relationship with the Weisses and their estate, for which  Defendants in their personal capacity are third-parties. Defendants  contend they are not third parties because plaintiff merely substituted the  trustees of the estate for Mr. and Ms. Weiss, and agents of the estate cannot  be considered “third parties” in that capacity. Plaintiff alleges that  defendants Monica Porter and Kevin Dwight were acting as trustee and legal  counsel, respectively, for the Wiess estate.   (SAC, ¶ 22.)  Plaintiff further alleges  that defendant Sabrina Coryell-Weiss was acting in her personal capacity.  (SAC, ¶ 23.)   Defendants cite Nevada law to support that agents of the estate are not third  parties to the economic relationship, but only cite California authorities that  support that a party to a contract is not a third party to that contract.  Defendants’ contention thus fails.              Independently  Wrongful Act Plaintiff  must plead that Defendants committed an independent wrongful act in addition to  interference.  (Salma, supra, 161  Cal.App.4th at 1290.)  Plaintiff alleges  that defendant Kevin Dwight concealed documents. This is sufficient to plead an  independent wrongful act against defendant Kevin Dwight. The court discerns, however,  no alleged wrongful act by defendants Monica Potter and Sabrina Coryell apart  from their alleged interference. Thus, plaintiff fails to state a cause of  action against Monica Potter and Sabrina Coryell.   Time barred Complaint              Although  plaintiff alleges defendant Dwight engaged in the wrongful act of concealment,  the statute of limitations for actions against an attorney “other than for  actual fraud” for professional services is one year after the Plaintiff  discovers the facts constituting the wrongful act.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 340.6.) Here, the petition  against Defendant Kevin Dwight is time-barred because Plaintiff alleges he knew  defendant Dwight was concealing documents in 2018.  CONCLUSION The  Court sustains without leave to amend the demurrer in its entirety. Defendants  shall give notice.