 Case Number:  23STCV15970    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2024    Dept:  74 Pena v. FCA
US LLC et al.
Plaintiff Liliana Pena’s Motion to
Compel Further Responses.
 
BACKGROUND 
             On July 10, 2023, plaintiff Liliana Pena
(Plaintiff) filed her Complaint against Defendant FCA US LLC (Defendant)
alleging products liability under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act.
            On
September 26, 2023, Plaintiff propounded Requests for Production, set One. 
            On
October 26, 2023, Defendant served unverified responses. 
            On
December 12, 2023, Plaintiff filed the Motion to compel further responses. 
            On
October 17, 2024, Defendant served supplemental responses. 
 
LEGAL STANDARD
            The
propounding party may bring motions to compel inspection or further responses
to interrogatories or requests for production if it believes (1) the responses
received are evasive, or (2) incomplete, or (3) if the objections raised are
meritless or too general. (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2030.300(a), 2031.310(a).) A
respondent has the burden to justify objections in response to a motion filed
to compel further responses. (Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (2000)
22 Cal.4th 245, 255.)   
            California
Rules of Court rule 3.1345 requires that all motions or responses involving
further discovery, including motions to compel further responses to a demand
for inspection of documents, contain a separate statement with the text of each
request, the response, and a statement of factual and legal reasons for
compelling further responses.  (CRC, rule
3.1345(a).) 
Meet and
Confer
            This
motion must be accompanied by a good-faith meet-and-confer declaration.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.310(b).)  “A determination of whether an attempt at
informal resolution is adequate… involves the exercise of discretion.”  (Stewart v. Colonial W. Agency (2001)
87 Cal.App.4th 1006, 1016.)  “The history
of the litigation, the nature of the interaction between counsel, the nature of
the issues, the type and scope of discovery requested, the prospects for
success and other similar factors can be relevant.  Judges have broad powers and responsibility
to determine what measure and procedures are appropriate in varying
circumstances.”  (Ibid.) 
 
DISCUSSION
As
an initial matter, the Court notes that Plaintiff has complied with all
procedural requirements.  Here, it is
undisputed that Defendant’s responses served on October 26 were
unverified.   The motion to compel is
timely.  Plaintiff also made good-faith
efforts to meet and confer prior to the instant motion beginning on September
27, 2023, and continuing through December 4, 2023.  (Lee Decl., ¶¶ 19-28.) 
Defendant
served supplemental responses to the Requests for Production No. 17-19 and 21,
making the motion moot for those requests for production. 
 
Request for Production Nos. 16 and
20
            Request
for Production No. 16 requests all documents and electronically stored
information relating to any internal analysis or investigation by the defendant
regarding the electrical defect in vehicles of the same year, make and model as
Plaintiff’s vehicle. 
            Request
for Production No. 20 requests all documents and electronically stored
information concerning the failure rates of vehicles of the same year, make and
model as Plaintiff’s vehicle. 
            Defendant
objects to RFP Nos. 16 and 20 on the grounds that the requests do not provide
sufficient information to identify the documents, that the term “ELECTRICAL
DEFECT” lacks foundation and is vague, ambiguous, argumentative, misleading,
nonsensical and not limited to “any part, component or system that could be
subject to any communications.” 
(Separate Statement, p. 2.)  
Defendant
also objects to the production of the ESI because it is unduly burdensome, not
reasonably calculated to lead to discovery, and not proportional to the needs
of this case. 
Defendant
also objects to the requests alleging that they violate client confidentiality
and the attorney-client privilege and seek attorney work product.  
Finally,
Defendant objects that the terms “YOU” and “YOUR” are overly broad and compound
because they include entitles not owned or operated by FCA US. 
Defendant’s
objections are unpersuasive.  First, the
request is sufficiently definite as to the “ELECTRICAL DEFECT” as it identifies
the warning messages, notifications and repair history of the relevant
vehicle.  (See Deyo v. Kilbourne
(1978) 84 Cal.App.3d 771, 783 [“A party may not deliberately misconstrue a
question for the purpose of supplying an evasive answer.  [Citations.] 
Indeed, where the question is somewhat ambiguous, but the nature of the
information sought is apparent, the proper solution is to provide an
appropriate response.” 
[Citations.].)   Similarly, the
request is not vague, ambiguous or overbroad. 
The requests address the very subject matter directly relevant to
Plaintiff’s case, namely documents about the same defect about which Plaintiff
complains, including documents about other cars of the same make, model and
year that suffered from the same defect. 
(See Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.010 [scope of discovery encompasses not just
specific claims and defenses but “any matter, not privileged, that is relevant
to the subject matter”].)  Third,
Defendant has not shown that the production would be unduly burdensome because Defendant
asserts, but does not describe, any burden. 
Finally, Defendant also objects to the use of “YOU” claiming it extends
to entities beyond Defendant’s control, but the definitions from the Request
for Production show otherwise.  
Defendant
objects to the request based on the attorney-client privilege. Defendant’s
assertion is unavailing.  Defendant has
failed to provide “sufficient factual information… to evaluate the merits of
any claimed privilege” because it provides no information establishing the
attorney-client privilege, attorney work product privilege, right to privacy,
or trade secret privilege as it relates to the requested documents.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.240(c)(1); Williams
v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 557 [rejecting “the de facto
starting assumption that such an egregious invasion [of privacy] is involved in
every request for discovery of private information” and holding that “[c]ourts
must instead place the burden on the party asserting a privacy interest to
establish its extent and the seriousness of the prospective invasion, and
against that showing must weigh the countervailing interests the opposing party
identifies”].)  
 
CONCLUSION
            The
Court grants Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to Request for
Production Nos. 16 and 20. 