  Case Number:  23AHCV00462    Hearing Date:   July 31, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE]  ORDER GRANTING DEFENDANT SAN GABRIEL VALLEY MEDICAL CENTER LP’S MOTION TO HAVE  PLAINTIFF DECLARED A VEXATIOUS LITIGANTI.        INTRODUCTION            This is an action arising from alleged medical  malpractice. On March 6, 2023, Plaintiff Hong Gan (“Plaintiff”), who is  self-represented, filed a Complaint against Defendant San Gabriel Valley  Medical Center.              On September 15, 2023, Plaintiff filed the operative First  Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against Defendant San Gabriel Valley Medical Center  alleging causes of action for: (1) Intentional Tort, Sexual Abuse; (2)  Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress; (3) Negligence; (4) False  Involuntary Detention in a Mental Hospital; and (5) Patient Rights Violation.              On November 14, 2023, Defendant AHMC San Gabriel Valley  Medical Center LP filed a demurrer to the entire FAC.               On April 30, 2024, after hearing oral argument, the Court  sustained Defendant AHMC San Gabriel Valley Medical Center LP’s demurrer to the  FAC without leave to amend on the grounds that this action is barred by the  doctrine of res judicata. (04/30/24 Minute Order.)             On March 27, 2024, this action was reassigned to the  Honorable Jared D. Moses sitting in Department P at Pasadena Courthouse  effective April 2, 2024.             On June 3, 2024, Defendant San Gabriel Valley Medical  Center LP (“Defendant”), who indicates that it was erroneously sued as San  Gabriel Valley Medical Center, filed and served the instant Motion to Have  Plaintiff Declared a Vexatious Litigant.             As of July 26, 2024, the motion to have Plaintiff declared  a vexatious litigant is unopposed. Any opposition was required to have been  filed and served at least nine court days prior to the hearing. (Code Civ.  Proc., § 1005, subd. (b).)    II.       LEGAL  STANDARD         The vexatious litigant  statute “provides a procedure in pending litigation for declaring a person a  vexatious litigant, and establishes procedure strictures that can be imposed on  vexatious litigants.” (In re Bittaker (1997) 55 Cal.App.4th 1004, 1008.)  A court may “issue a prefiling order that prohibits the vexatious litigant from  filing any new litigation without first obtaining permission of the presiding  judge of the court where the litigation is proposed to be filed.” (Ibid.)  “The vexatious litigant statute . . . was enacted . . . to curb misuse of the  court system by those acting in propria persona who repeatedly litigate the  same issues.” (Ibid.) “Their abuse of the system not only wastes court  time and resources but also prejudices other parties waiting their turn before  the courts.” (Ibid.) “The prefiling order component of the vexatious  litigant statute is a necessary method of curbing those for whom litigation has  become a game.” (In re Natural Gas Antitrust Cases (2006) 137  Cal.App.4th 387, 394.) “It does not deny the vexatious litigant access to the  courts, but operates to preclude meritless litigation and the attendant  expenditure of resources.” (Ibid.)   “A court may declare a  person to be a vexatious litigant who, in the immediately preceding seven-year  period has commenced, prosecuted, or maintained in propria persona at least  five litigations other than in a small claims court that have been . . .  finally determined adversely to the person . . . .” (Garcia v. Lacey (2014) 231 Cal.App.4th 402, 406, quoting CCP §  391(b)(1).) “The term [l]itigation is defined broadly as any civil action or  proceeding, commenced, maintained or pending in any state or federal court.” (Ibid., internal quotations omitted.) “A litigation is  finally determined adversely to a plaintiff if he does not win the action or  proceeding he began, including cases that are voluntarily dismissed by a  plaintiff.” (Ibid.)   A plaintiff may also be  declared a vexatious litigant under Code Civ. Proc., § 391, subd. (b)(2). A  vexatious litigant is a person who “[a]fter litigation has been finally  determined against the person, repeatedly relitigates or attempts to  relitigate, in propria persona, either (i) the validity of the determination  against the same defendant or defendants as to whom the litigation was finally  determined or (ii) the cause of action, claim, controversy, or any of the  issues of fact or law, determined or concluded by the final determination  against the same defendant or defendants as to whom the litigation was finally  determined.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 391, subd. (b)(2).)    III.     ANALYSIS             A.   Judicial  Notice The Court GRANTS  Defendant’s request for judicial notice. (Evid. Code §§ 452,  453.)  B.    Appropriateness  of Declaring Plaintiff a Vexatious Litigant  Defendant contends that Plaintiff is a vexatious  litigant under the terms of Code of Civil Procedure section 391(b)(1) and  391(b)(2). The Court agrees with Defendant.  In the last seven years, Plaintiff has filed six separate  actions in propria persona—two of which were against Defendant—that were all  determined adversely to Plaintiff. (Defendant’s RJN at Exs. A, D, E, H, I, K,  L, M, N, P, Q, and R.) Moreover, in the instant action, the demurrer of  Defendant to the FAC has been sustained without leave to amend. (Defendant’s  RJN at Exs. T and U.) Thus, Plaintiff is a vexatious litigant under CCP §  391(b)(1) as she has commenced, prosecuted, or maintained at least five  litigations, in propria persona, that have all been determined adversely to  Plaintiff.  Even under CCP § 391(b)(2), a finding is appropriate  that Plaintiff is a vexatious litigant. Including the instant action, Plaintiff  has brought three separate cases against Defendant. (Defendant’s RJN, Exhibit U  at p. 1.) In ruling on the demurrer to the FAC in the instant action, the Court  noted that “[t]his is Plaintiff’s third lawsuit against Defendant concerning  these same allegations. In Los Angeles Superior Court case numbers 19STLC08450  and 20STLC07641, demurrers were sustained without leave to amend and the  actions were dismissed.” (Id.) Plaintiff has therefore repeatedly  attempted to litigate the same claims against Defendant even “[a]fter a  litigation has been finally determined against [Plaintiff]” and such claims  were “determined or concluded by the final determination against the same  defendant . . . as whom the litigation was finally determined.” (Code Civ.  Proc., § 391, subd. (b)(2).)  Defendant requests that, along with being declared a  vexatious litigant, a prefiling order be entered. “[T]he court may, on its own  motion or the motion of any party, enter a prefiling order which prohibits a  vexatious litigant from filing any new litigation in the courts of this state  in propria person without first obtaining leave of the presiding justice or  presiding judge of the court where the litigation is proposed to be filed. Disobedience  of the order by a vexatious litigant may be punished as a contempt of court.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 391.7, subd. (a).) “The clerk of the court shall provide  the Judicial Council a copy of any prefiling orders issued pursuant to  subdivision (a).” (Code Civ. Proc., § 391.7, subd. (f).) The Court finds it appropriate to grant Defendant’s  request to enter a prefiling order.   IV.       CONCLUSION AND ORDER   Based on the foregoing, Defendant  San Gabriel Valley Medical Center LP’s Motion to Have Plaintiff Declared a  Vexatious Litigant is GRANTED.             Defendant San Gabriel Valley Medical Center LP to give  notice of this order.        Dated:  7/31/24                                                                                         JARED D. MOSES                                                                  JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT