 Case Number:  24AHCV00221    Hearing Date:   July 31, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE]ORDER  DENYING THE MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO SUBPOENA FROM NON-PARTY THE LOVELL  FIRM, P.C.  ORDER  DENYING THE MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO SUBPOENA FROM NON-PARTY LIFE  INSURANCE COMPANY OF THE SOUTHWESTI.        INTRODUCTION          In this action, Plaintiffs The One Pioneer LLC dba One Up  Insurance Agency (“TOP”), Dandan Song aka Alex Song, Peiran Li aka Alice Li,  Feng Tang aka Jenny Tang, and  Annie Yuan On (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) allege that their competitors in the  Asian--American insurance and wealth management industry, Defendants Pom  Insurance Agency Inc. dba Peace of Mind Wealth Management (“POM”), Alan Wen  (“Wen”), and Angel Wenjun Tang (“Tang”), caused many of Plaintiffs’ contracts  (valued in millions and billions) to be terminated, Plaintiffs’ clients to  cease doing business with TOP, and Plaintiffs to suffer substantial losses. The complaint asserts 15 causes of action,  including breach of contract, intentional interference with contractual  relations, misappropriation of trade secrets, defamation, assault, and battery.            Before the Court are motions  by POM, Wen, and Tang (collectively “Defendants”) seeking orders compelling  nonparties Life Insurance Company of the Southwest (“LSW”) and Lovel Firm, P.C.  (“Lovel Firm”) to comply with the Defendants’ subpoenas for the production of  business records. The nonparties oppose the motions. Because the motions fail  to comply with the relevant Code of Civil Procedure sections, the motions are  denied.  II.      LEGAL STANDARD“Unless otherwise  limited by order of the court …, any party may obtain discovery regarding any  matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the  pending action or to the determination of any motion made in that action, if the  matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated  to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2017.010.)“For discovery  purposes, information is relevant if it ‘might reasonably assist a party in  evaluating the case, preparing for trial, or facilitating settlement.…’  [Citation.] Admissibility is not the test and information, unless privileged,  is discoverable if it might reasonably lead to admissible evidence.” (Gonzalez  v. Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1539, 1546.) “[D]iscovery  from a nonparty may be obtained only by ‘deposition subpoena’ (§ 2020.010,  subd. (b)).” (Unzipped Apparel, LLC v. Bader (2007) 156 Cal.App.4th 123,  130 (italics removed) (“Unzipped”).) “A business records subpoena  directs the nonparty’s custodian of records (or other qualified person) to  deliver the requested documents (in person, by messenger, or by mail) to the  ‘deposition officer’ specified in the subpoena. [Citation.]” (Id. at p.  131.)“A  deposition subpoena that commands only the production of business records for  copying shall designate the business records to be produced either by  specifically describing each individual item or by reasonably particularizing  each category of item, and shall specify the form in which any electronically  stored information is to be produced, if a particular form is desired.” (Code  Civ. Proc., § 2020.410, subd. (a).)“If  a subpoena requires … the production of books, documents, electronically stored  information, or other things before a court …, the court, upon motion … may  make an order … directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as  the court shall declare, including protective orders.” (Civ. Code Proc., §  1987.1, subd. (a).)            III.     SUBPOENA  DIRECTED AT LOVEL FIRM“Any  person may serve the subpoena by personal delivery of a copy of it as follows:  ¶ (1) If the deponent is a natural person, to that person. ¶ (2) If the deponent  is an organization, to any officer, director, custodian of records, or to any  agent or employee authorized by the organization to accept service of a  subpoena.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.220, subd. (b).) “Personal  service of any deposition subpoena is effective to require all of the following  of any deponent who is a resident of California at the time of service: ¶ (1)  Personal attendance and testimony, if the subpoena so specifies. ¶ (2) Any  specified production, inspection, testing, and sampling.” (Code Civ. Proc., §  2020.220, subd. (c).)“[A]  deposition subpoena that has not been personally served in compliance with  section 2020.220 imposes no obligations on a nonparty deponent.” (In re  Marriage of Moore (2024) 322 Cal.Rptr.3d 249, 261.)Here,  Lovel Firm argues that Plaintiffs did not personally serve the deposition  subpoena on the firm. Plaintiffs do not address that issue in their reply  papers. Plaintiffs only address the other service issue that Lovel Firm raised (i.e.,  Plaintiffs failed to serve the affected consumers with the required notices).           Therefore, because Plaintiffs failed to personally serve  the Lovel Firm with the subpoena, the subpoena does not impose any obligation  on the nonparty andthe motion to compel is  denied.  IV.     SUBPOENA DIRECTED AT LIC          LSW opposes Plaintiffs’ motion,  arguing (among other things) that Plaintiffs failed to comply with Code of  Civil Procedure section 1985.3 (“Section 1985.3”) with regard to serving the  affected consumer with a statutory notice and, therefore, the motion should be  denied. “A deposition subpoena that seeks  ‘personal records pertaining to a consumer’ must be accompanied by proof that  the consumer was served with notice of the subpoena or by the consumer’s  written authorization to release his or her personal records. (Code Civ. Proc., §  2020.410, subd. (d).) The scope and nature of this notice is described by  statute. (Id., § 1985.3.)” Board  of Registered Nursing v. Superior Court of Orange County (2021) 59 Cal.App.5th 1011, 1035 (“Board of  Registered Nursing”) [emphasis  added].) “A ‘consumer,’ …  means any natural person.” (Board of Registered Nursing, supra,  59 Cal.App.5th at p. 1036.) “A subpoena that  requires the production of records, documents, or other things is known as a  subpoena duces tecum.” (City of Woodlake v. Tulare County Grand Jury  (2011) 197 Cal.App.4th 1293, 1299.)“Prior to the date called for in the subpoena duces  tecum for the production of personal records, the subpoenaing party shall serve or cause to be  served on the consumer whose records are being sought a copy of the subpoena  duces tecum, of the affidavit supporting the issuance of the  subpoena, if any, and of the notice described in subdivision (e), and proof of  service as indicated in paragraph (1) of subdivision (c).” (Code Civ. Proc., §  1985.3, subd. (b) [emphasis added].)Service  of the documents mentioned above (including a  copy of the subpoena) shall be made to  the consumer: “Not less than 10 days prior to the date for  production specified in the subpoena duces tecum, plus the additional time  provided by Section 1013 if service is by mail [i.e., five (5) calendar days if  service is made by mail to an address in California under Section 1013,  subdivision (a)].)” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1985.3, subd. (b)(2) [emphasis added].)  Service  must also be made: “At least five days prior to service upon the custodian of  the records, plus the additional time provided by Section 1013  if service is by mail.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1985.3, subd. (b)(3).) The subpoena  attached to defense counsel’s declaration as Exhibit A asked LSW to produce the  following records by April 22, 2024. 1.      All DOCUMENTS related to customer complaints against  The One Pioneer LLC dba One Up Insurance Agency.2.      All COMMUNICATIONS related to customer complaints  against The One Pioneer LLC dba One Up Insurance Agency.3.      All DOCUMENTS related to customer complaints against  DANDAN SONG.4.      All COMMUNICATIONS related to customer complaints  against DANDAN SONG.5.      All DOCUMENTS related to customer complaints against  PEIRAN LI.6.      All COMMUNICATIONS related to customer complaints  against PEIRAN LI.7.      All DOCUMENT'S related to investigations against The  One Pioneer LLC dba One Up Insurance Agency.8.      All COMMUNICATIONS related to investigations against  The One Pioneer LLC dba One Up Insurance Agency.9.      All DOCUMENTS related to investigations against Pom  Insurance Agency Inc. dba Peace of Mind Wealth Management.10. All COMMUNICATIONS related to investigations against  Pom Insurance Agency Inc. dba Peace of Mind Wealth Management.LSW argues that because the subpoena  seeks consumer records of Dandan Song and Peiran Li, Defendants were required  to first serve the statutory notices on those consumers but failed to do so. In response to that argument,  Defendants argue in their reply brief that the subpoena directed at LSW also seeks  records relating to entities TOP and POM and that since those entities are not  “consumers” within the meaning of Section 1985.3, no consumer notice was  required, and, therefore, LSW should have produced records pertaining to those entities.  However, Defendants did not raise that  argument in their moving papers. Therefore, in its opposition, LSW did  not have the opportunity to address Defendants’ suggestion that the relevant  statutes should be construed to only apply to the portion of a subpoena  that seeks consumer records and not the entire subpoena.           But even  if the Court were to consider that argument on its merits, the Court finds the  argument unpersuasive because it is not clear that the subpoena can be interpreted  the way Defendants have suggested. “The term ‘personal information,’ as adopted by the consumer notice statutes,  means ‘any information that is  maintained by an agency that identifies or describes an individual, including, but not limited to, his or her  name, social security number, physical description, home address, home  telephone number, education, financial matters, and medical or employment  history. It includes statements  made by, or attributed to, the individual.’ (Civ. Code, § 1798.3, subd. (a), adopted by Code Civ. Proc., §  1985.4.)” (Board of Registered Nursing, supra, 59 Cal.App.5th at  p. 1036 [emphasis added].) Here, the complaint alleges that Dandan Song and  Peiran Li founded TOP. (Compl., 2.) TOP and those two individuals are  plaintiffs in this case. Request Nos. 1, 7, and 8 above seek records  concerning investigations and complaints against TOP. However, those requests  do not contain language excluding records that contain statements by or attributed to consumers. In other words, there is no  evidence or language in the subpoena that allows the Court to find (as  Defendants appear to suggest) that LSW could have produced records in response  to Request Nos. 1, 7, and 8 that were exclusive of the documents sought  by Nos. 3 to 6. To the extent Request Nos. 1, 7, and 8 encompass records that contain statements by or attributed to Dandan  Song and Peiran Li, Defendants were required to comply with the consumer notice  requirements.           Since  Defendants failed to comply with the consumer notice requirements, the motion  to compel LSW to comply with their subpoena is denied.            V.       CONCLUSION  AND ORDER          Motions by Defendants  Pom Insurance Agency Inc. dba Peace of Mind Wealth Management (“POM”), Alan Wen  (“Wen”), and Angel Wenjun Tang (“Tang”) to compel nonparties Lovel Firm,  P.C., and Life Insurance Company  of the Southwest to comply with their deposition subpoenas is denied. Any  request for sanctions by the moving defendants or opposing nonparties is  denied.   Dated: July 31, 2024                                                                                                                    JARED D. MOSES JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT                                                                                                   