 Case Number:  23AHCV01904    Hearing Date:   July 31, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE]
ORDER GRANTING DEFENDANTS KAISER FOUNDATION HOSPITALS AND SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA
PERMANENTE MEDICAL GROUP’S PETITION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION AND STAY ACTION; GRANTING
DEFENDANT RIVERSIDE HEALTHCARE SYSTEM’S MOTION FOR AN ORDER TO STAY THE CIVIL
ACTION PENDING ARBITRATIONI.        INTRODUCTION
          This is an action arising from alleged negligence in providing
healthcare services. On August 21, 2023, Plaintiff Marcelline Benois
(“Plaintiff”), by and through her Power of Attorney, Sherlyn Benois-Green,
filed a Complaint against Defendants Kaiser Foundation Hospitals, The Southern
California Permanente Medical Group, Inc., Riverside Healthcare System, L.P.,
Community Convalescent Center of Montclair, Inc., and Does 1 through 200,
inclusive (collectively, the “Defendants”), alleging causes of action for: (1)
Elder Abuse; (2) Negligence; and (3) Violation of Residents’ Rights. 
          On September 21, 2023, Defendant Riverside Healthcare
System, L.P. (“Riverside”) filed an Answer to the Complaint.
          On November 9, 2023, Defendant Community Convalescent
Center of Montclair, Inc. (“CCCM”) filed its Answer to the Complaint. 
          On December 18, 2023, Defendants Kaiser Foundation
Hospitals (“KFH”) and Southern California Permanente Medical Group (“SCPMG”)
(collectively, “Kaiser”) filed the instant Petition to Compel Arbitration (the
“Petition”). Kaiser moves for an order compelling arbitration and staying this
action pending completion of arbitration. 
          On March 27, 2024, this action was reassigned to the
Honorable Jared D. Moses sitting in Department P at Pasadena Courthouse
effective April 2, 2024. 
          On April 24, 2024, Defendant Riverside filed a Motion for
an Order to Stay the Civil Action Pending Arbitration (the “Motion”). The
Motion is made on the grounds that Kaiser has petitioned the Court to compel
arbitration with Plaintiff and Defendant Riverside moves to stay this civil
action as to Defendant Riverside pending the conclusion of the arbitration
between Plaintiff and Kaiser. 
          On July 18, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition to the Motion.

          On July 24, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition to the
Petition. 
          On July 24, 2024, Defendant Riverside filed a reply brief
as to the Motion. 
Also, on July 24, 2024,
Kaiser filed a reply brief pertaining to the Petition. 
          The Court will address the respective filings by Kaiser and
Defendant Riverside in this one ruling. The Court will first address the
petition to compel arbitration, which was filed by Kaiser, followed by the
motion to stay the civil action filed by Defendant Riverside. 
 
 
II.      LEGAL
STANDARD       
Code Civ. Proc. §1281
provides: “A written agreement to submit to arbitration an existing controversy
or a controversy thereafter existing is valid, enforceable, and irrevocable,
save upon such grounds as exist for the revocation of any contract.” 
Code Civ. Proc. §1281.2
provides that upon petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the
existence of a written agreement to arbitrate and a party’s refusal to submit
to arbitration, the court shall order the parties to arbitrate the controversy
if it determines that an agreement exists, unless it determines that the right
to arbitrate has been waived, that grounds exist for revocation, or that a
party to the agreement is also party to a pending litigation arising out of the
same facts and there exists a possibility of conflicting rulings on a common
issue of fact or law.  In such a situation, the court may (1) refuse to
enforce the arbitration agreement and order intervention or joinder of all
parties in a single action, (2) order intervention or joinder as to all or only
certain issues, (3) order arbitration among the parties who have agreed to
arbitration and stay the action pending outcome of arbitration, or (4) stay
arbitration pending outcome of the litigation. 
A party petitioning to
compel arbitration has the burden of establishing the existence of a valid
agreement to arbitrate and the party opposing the petition has the burden of
proving, by a preponderance of the evidence, any fact necessary to its defense.
(Banner Entertainment, Inc. v. Superior Court¿(1998) 62 Cal.App.4th 348,
356-357.)¿¿ ¿ 
“If a court of competent
jurisdiction . . . has ordered arbitration of a controversy which is an issue
involved in an action or proceeding pending before a court of this State, the
court in which such action or proceeding is pending shall, upon motion of a
party to such action or proceeding, stay the action or proceeding until an
arbitration is had in accordance with the order to arbitrate or until such
earlier time as the court specifies.” (CCP § 1281.4.)¿ 
California Rules of
Court, rule 3.1330 provides, “A petition to compel arbitration or to stay
proceedings pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure sections 1281.2 and 1281.4 must
state, in addition to other required allegations, the provisions of the written
agreement and the paragraph that provides for arbitration. The provisions must
be stated verbatim or a copy must be physically or electronically attached to
the petition and incorporated by reference.” 
 
III.     ANALYSIS AS TO THE PETITION TO COMPEL
ARBITRATION
          
A.   The
Existence of a Written Agreement to Arbitrate is Established
Kaiser contends that
where the parties have a written agreement to arbitrate, 
California law requires that they be ordered to
arbitrate their disputes. Plaintiff argues that the arbitration agreement is
legally invalid as her purported electronic signature has not been legally
authenticated. Plaintiff also contends her medical records indicate that she
was diagnosed with dementia and Alzheimer’s and therefore was incompetent to
sign any documents. 
          “A
voluntary acceptance of the benefit of a transaction is equivalent to a consent
to all the obligations arising from it, so far as the facts are known, or ought
to be known, to the person accepting.” (Civ. Code § 1589.) “All persons are
capable of contracting, except minors, persons of unsound mind, and persons
deprived of civil rights.” (Civ. Code § 1556.) “A person who has a mental or
physical disorder may still be capable of contracting . . . .” (Prob. Code §
810(b).) “A judicial determination that a person is totally without
understanding, or is of unsound mind, or suffers from one or more mental
deficits so substantial that, under the circumstances, the person should be
deemed to lack legal capacity to perform a specific act, should be based on
evidence of a deficit in one or more of the person’s mental functions rather
than on a diagnosis of a person’s mental or physical disorder.” (Prob. Code §
810(c).) 
“[A]n electronic
signature has the same legal effect as a handwritten signature.” (Espejo v. Southern California Permanente Medical Group (2016)
246 Cal.App.4th 1047, 1061.) “The act of the person may be
shown in any manner, including a showing of the efficacy of any
security procedure applied to determine the person to which the electronic
record or electronic signature was attributable.” (Ibid.,
emphasis in original.) In showing the authenticity of a signature on an
electronic document, a party seeking to compel arbitration must “explain how,
or upon what basis, [an inference is made] that the electronic signature” is
that of the non-moving party. (Ibid.)
Where there is a contention that a plaintiff did not electronically sign an
arbitration agreement, the moving defendant has “the burden of proving by a
preponderance of the evidence that the electronic signature was authentic.” (Id. at p. 1059.) 
          Kaiser’s
Evidence in Support of the Petition
          In
support of the Petition, Kaiser presents the declaration of Danny Covarrubio
(“Covarrubio”), who is the Operations Manager, Medicare Membership
Administration and is employed by Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc. (“Health
Plan”). (Covarrubio Decl., ¶ 1.) Health Plan’s membership records show that
Plaintiff was enrolled as an individual Kaiser Permanente Senior Advantage
Member from November 1, 2014, through March 1, 2023 and then from April 1, 2023
through the present time. (Covarrubio Decl., ¶ 4; Ex. B.) According to Mr.
Covarrubio, “KPSA” stands for Kaiser Permanente Senior Advantage, and “SCR”
stands for Southern California Region. (Covarrubio Decl., ¶ 4.) The Centers for
Medicare & Medicaid Services (“CMS”) permits Medicare beneficiaries to
enroll electronically, by telephone, or in writing. (Covarrubio Decl., ¶ 4.)
Plaintiff became Medicare-eligible on September 1, 2014, her KPSA enrollment
was submitted on October 26, 2014, and she became enrolled under the KPSA
effective November 1, 2014 through March 1, 2023. (Covarrubio Decl., ¶ 4; Ex.
C.) On March 9, 2023, Plaintiff re-enrolled telephonically as a Senior
Advantage member effective April 1, 2023, and remains so enrolled through the
present time. (Covarrubio Decl., ¶ 4.) 
          In
support of the Petition, Nancy Garcia (“Garcia”) declares that Health Plan’s
records indicate that Plaintiff enrolled with an effective date of November 1, 2014,
as an individual Senior Advantage Member, which is a plan available to
Medicare-eligible enrollees in the appropriate region. (Garcia Decl., ¶ 5.) Ms.
Garcia attaches a copy of the 2022 Kaiser Permanente Senior Advantage (HMO)
Evidence of Coverage (the “Senior Advantage EOC”) applicable to Plaintiff.
(Garcia Decl., ¶ 5; Ex. A.) The arbitration provision begins on page 253
therein. (Garcia Decl., ¶ 5.) The Senior Advantage EOC remains in effect for a
single contract year and has always contained an arbitration provision. (Garcia
Decl., ¶ 6.) As of January 1, 2008, the arbitration provision was amended to
permit enrollees in the individual Kaiser Permanente Senior Advantage plan to
opt-out of the arbitration provision by submitting a written opt-out notice
within a specified time period. (Garcia Decl., ¶ 7.) Plaintiff was mailed a
copy of the Senior Advantage EOC upon enrollment. (Garcia Decl., ¶ 8.) 
Kaiser presents evidence
that Plaintiff did not opt-out of the arbitration provision in the Senior
Advantage EOC. (McWilliams Decl., ¶¶ 5-6; Arams Decl., ¶ 5.) 
Plaintiff’s Evidence in
Opposition to the Petition
In opposition to the
Petition, Plaintiff presents the declaration of Sherlyn Benois-Green (“Green”)
who states that she is acting as the Power of Attorney for Plaintiff. (Green
Decl., p. 1:26-28.) Ms. Green states that she has reviewed the arbitration
agreement attached to the Petition and she has never received any arbitration
agreement to sign, and she did not sign it electronically on or behalf of
Plaintiff. (Green Decl., ¶ 1.) Plaintiff has been diagnosed with Alzheimer’s
since 2012 and she would not have been unable to sign the arbitration agreement
and would not have had the mental ability to understand or electronically sign
the agreement. (Green Decl., ¶ 2.) Plaintiff is completely unable to take,
receive telephone calls, or to make any telephone calls as a result of the
above-referenced diagnosis. (Green Decl., ¶ 3.) The signature on the arbitration
agreement is not the signature of Plaintiff and Ms. Green states that “any
purported signature on the arbitration agreement was done without [her]
consent, knowledge and/or authorization as her power of attorney, and her
documented lack of mental capacity to be able to do so.” (Green Decl., ¶ 5.) 
Plaintiff also presents
medical records showing that she has been diagnosed with dementia as well as
Alzheimer’s. (Peck Decl., ¶ 3; Ex. 3.) 
 
Analysis
The Court has reviewed the
declarations of Timothy Everett, Danny Covarrubio, Nancy Garcia, Alicia
McWilliams, Judy Tome, and Aura Armas, which were all submitted in support of
the Petition. The Court notes that none of the aforementioned declarations set
forth any facts showing “the efficacy of any security procedure applied to
determine the person to which the electronic record or electronic signature was
attributable.” (Espejo v. Southern California Permanente Medical Group, supra, 246 Cal.App.4th 1047, 1061.) The purported
signature of Plaintiff, which Kaiser alleges is a representation of Plaintiff’s
agreement to the arbitration provision in the Senior Advantage EOC, is a mere
typed signature. (Petition at Ex. C.) 
Kaiser has “met its
initial burden to show an agreement to arbitrate by attaching a copy of the [enrollment
form], which purportedly bears [Plaintiff’s] electronic . . . signature.” (Fabian v. Renovate America, Inc. (2019) 42 Cal.Appp.5th
1062, 1067.) Due to the argument raised in the opposition that Plaintiff did
not sign the enrolment form which purportedly bound her to the Senior Advantage
EOC, Kaiser has the burden of establishing the authenticity of Plaintiff’s
signature on the enrollment form. (Id.
at p. 1068.) None of the declarations offered in support of the Petition states
“how [Plaintiff’s signature was placed on the [enrollment form], who received
the [enrollment form], how the signed [enrollment form] was returned . . . and
how [Plaintiff’s] identification was verified as the person who actually signed
the [enrollment form].” (Id.
at p. 1069.) Moreover, Kaiser did not provide any declarations in support of
the reply, which does not allow Kaiser to show “how, or on what basis” the
purported signature was the act of Plaintiff and could have only been placed on
the enrollment form by Plaintiff. (Ibid.)
The declaration of Mr. Covarrubio, who Kaiser uses to indicate that Plaintiff
enrolled as a KPSA member and therefore is bound by the Senior Advantage EOC, does
not articulate the procedures utilized to determine the veracity of the
signature on the enrollment form. 
While Kaiser did not meet
its burden to authenticate the electronic signature of Plaintiff, the Court
finds that irrespective of such fact an agreement to arbitrate exists between
the parties. Plaintiff is bound by the Senior Advantage EOC as she has accepted
the benefits of such contract. Plaintiff does not argue that she did not
receive healthcare services from Kaiser pursuant to the Senior Advantage EOC. Where
there is a policy “containing a clear and conspicuous arbitration provision” a
court will find that a moving defendant has met its burden to establish the
existence of an arbitration agreement. (Mission Viejo
Emergency Medical Associates v. Beta Healthcare Group (2011)
197 Cal.App.4th 1146, 1156.) Moreover, Plaintiff does not deny that she
accepted policy benefits under the Senior Advantage EOC and therefore she cannot
deny its existence. (Ibid.)
Plaintiff was given notice of the provisions of the Senior Advantage EOC, and accepted
benefits thereunder and therefore can be bound by such an agreement. (Craig v. Brown & Root, Inc. (2000) 84 Cal.App.4th
416, 420.) The Court reminds Plaintiff that an arbitration agreement need not
be signed to be enforceable. (Serafin v. Balco Properties
Ltd., LLC (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 165, 176.) 
As to Plaintiff’s
argument that she lacked capacity to sign the enrollment form or re-enroll
herself in the Senior Advantage EOC via telephone, the Court finds that
Plaintiff has not submitted substantial evidence to support a finding of
incapacity. (Algo-Heyres v. Oxnard Manor
LP (2023) 88 Cal.App.5th 1064, 1072.) Plaintiff
submitted no expert declaration or declaration from a medical professional as
to her purported incapacity. (Ibid.)

Thus, the Court finds
that there is a valid written agreement to arbitrate between Plaintiff and
Kaiser. 
 
B.    The Scope
of the Arbitration Provision 
The arbitration provision in the Senior Advantage
EOC provides that it applies to “[a]ll members enrolled in a Kaiser Permanente
Senior Advantage Individual Plan with an effective date of January 1, 2008 or
after who have not expressly opted out of the binding arbitration process
within 60 calendar days of his or her Senior Advantage effective date.”
(Petition, Ex. A at p. 253.) The arbitration provision covers “any claim for
medical or hospital malpractice . . . or relating to the coverage for, or
delivery of, services or items, irrespective of the legal theories upon which
the claim is asserted.” (Petition, Ex. A at p. 254.) KFH and SCPMG are entities
that are bound to the arbitration provision. (Petition, Ex. A at p. 254.) 
Here, the Complaint arises from Kaiser’s care and
treatment of Plaintiff from April 2022 through August 2022, where she alleges
that she developed infections and Stage IV pressure injuries to her
sacrum/coccyx. (Complaint, ¶¶ 13, 80.) Thus, the causes of action asserted in
the Complaint are covered by the arbitration provision in the Senior Advantage
EOC. 
Accordingly, the Court finds that Plaintiff’s claims
fall within the scope of the arbitration provision. 
 
C.   Health and
Safety Code Section 1363.1
Plaintiff contends that Health and Safety Code
Section 1363.1 precludes enforcement of the arbitration provision in this case.
The Court disagrees. 
“As part of its regulation of health care service
plans, California imposes certain disclosure requirements as a predicate to the
enforcement of arbitration clauses contained in plan subscriber agreements.” (Smith
v. PacifiCare Behavioral Health of California, Inc. (2001) 93 Cal.App.4th
139, 143.) “Health and Safety Code section 1363.1 . . . provides that a binding
arbitration clause in a health care service plan must incorporate various
disclosures, including a clear statement of whether the subscriber or enrollee
is waiving his or her right to a jury trial.” (Ibid.) “The waiver
language . . . must appear immediately before the signature line for the
individual enrolling in the plan.” (Ibid.) 
However, [t]he Medicare Act preempts all state
regulation of Medicare Advantage plans not related to licensing or plan
solvency . . . .” (Clay v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (2007) 540
F.Supp.2d 1101, 1108.) An “EOC is considered marketing material and must be
approved by the CMS.” (Id. at p. 1109.) The regulations promulgated by
the CMS “supersede any state law or regulation with respect to Medicare
Advantage plans . . . .” (Ibid.) “To the extent that California Health
and Safety Code section 1363.1 purports to regulate the adequacy of any
disclosures in [an] EOC, it is superseded by federal law, and its application .
. . is preempted.” (Ibid.) 
Here, Kaiser presents evidence that is uses the
Medicare-approved arbitration opt-out procedure. (Tome Decl., ¶¶ 2-3; Exs. E
and F.) Plaintiff is a Medicare member of Kaiser and its plan documents,
including the Senior Advantage EOC, are issued pursuant to regulations
promulgated by Medicare. (Garcia Decl., ¶¶ 3-4, 7-10; Tome Decl., ¶¶ 2-3.) 
Thus, under Clay, supra, 540 F.Supp.2d
1101, Health and Safety Code section 1363.1 is preempted and has no bearing on
the enforceability of the arbitration provision. 
 
D.   Applicability
of CCP § 1281.2(c)
Plaintiff contends that
the Court should use its absolute discretion under CCP § 
1281.2(c) to deny the Petition to compel
arbitration in this matter to avoid conflicting rulings. Kaiser contends that
CCP § 1281.2(c) does not apply to the arbitration agreement at issue. 
          Initially,
the Court notes that the third cause of action is only asserted against
Defendant CCCM. A court may deny a petition to compel arbitration if it
determines that “[a] party to the arbitration agreement is also a party to a
pending court action or special proceeding with a third party, arising out of
the same transaction or series of transactions and there is a possibility of
conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or fact.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
1281.2(c).) “This subdivision shall not be applicable to an agreement to
arbitrate disputes as to the professional negligence of a health care provider
made pursuant to Section 1295.” (Id.)

While the Court notes that all defendants are
parties to the negligence and elder abuse causes of action, the Court finds
that CCP § 1281.2(c) is inapplicable to the instant action. The Senior
Advantage EOC is not within the scope of CCP § 1281.2(c) as this action
concerns the professional negligence of a healthcare provider. The Petition
states that the Senior Advantage EOC is subject to CCP § 1295(f). (Petition, ¶
12.) 
Moreover, the Court notes that the Senior Advantage
EOC explicitly states that it is governed by the Federal Arbitration Act
(“FAA”). The FAA “does not authorize courts to stay arbitration pending
resolution of litigation, or to refuse to enforce a valid arbitration provision
to avoid duplicative proceedings or conflicting rulings.” (Mastick v. TD
Ameritrade, Inc. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 1258, 1263.) 
The Court therefore DENIES Plaintiff’s request to
deny the Petition under CCP § 1281.2(c). 
The Court GRANTS the Petition and orders this action
STAYED pending the conclusion of arbitration between Kaiser and Plaintiff
pursuant to the Petition. (CCP § 1281.4.) 
 
IV.
    ANALYSIS AS TO THE MOTION TO STAY THE
CIVIL ACTION PENDING ARBITRATION
Defendant Riverside requests that pending the
Court’s order compelling arbitration between Kaiser and Plaintiff, the Court
stays this civil action as to Defendant Riverside until after the conclusion of
arbitration. 
“Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.4 requires a
court to stay an action submitted to arbitration pursuant to an agreement of
the parties.” (Titan/Value Equities Group., Inc. v. Superior Court (1994)
29 Cal.App.4th 482, 487.) 
The Court, pursuant to its discussion above, has
granted the Petition filed by Kaiser. As such, all proceedings in this Court
are stayed pending the completion of arbitration. 
Therefore, the Court GRANTS the Motion for an Order
to Stay the Civil Action Pending Arbitration filed by Defendant Riverside. 
 
V.     
CONCLUSION AND ORDER 
 Based on the foregoing, the Petition to Compel
Arbitration and Stay Action filed by Defendants Kaiser Foundation Hospitals and
Southern California Permanente Medical Group is GRANTED.
The
Court GRANTS the Motion for an Order to Stay the Civil Action Pending
Arbitration filed by Defendant Riverside Healthcare System, L.P.    
          Defendants Kaiser Foundation Hospitals and Southern
California Permanente Medical Group to give notice of this order in its
entirety.
 
          
Dated:  7/31/24                                                    
                                                                          JARED D. MOSES     JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT
                                                       