  Case Number:  22STCV18757    Hearing Date:   January 24, 2024    Dept:  26  
Superior Court of
California
County of Los Angeles
Department 26



 
BARBARA MCGEE,
                        Plaintiffs,
            v. 
 
general
  motors, llc, et
  al.
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.: 
  22STCV18757
 
  Hearing Date:  January 24, 2024
 
[TENTATIVE] order RE:
Plaintiff’s motion to compel defendant’s further responses to request
  for production, set one



 
Procedural
Background
            On June 7,
2022, Plaintiff Barbara McGee (“Plaintiff”) filed the instant action against
Defendant General Motors, LLC (“Defendant”) arising from the purchase of a 2015
Cadillac ATS (“Subject Vehicle”).  The
complaint asserts five causes of action for (1) Violation of Civil Code §
1793.2(d), (2) Violation of Civil Code § 1793.2(b), (3) Violation of Civil Code
§ 1793.2(a)(3), (4) Breach of the Implied Warranty of Merchantability, and (5) Violation
of the Magnuson-Moss Warranty Act.
            On June
30, 2023, Plaintiff filed the instant motion to compel Defendant’s further
responses to Request for Production of Documents, Set One (“RPDs”).  On October 18, 2023, the Court ordered the
parties to further meet and confer and file a joint statement as to any
remaining RPDs at issue.  On January 10,
2024, Defendant filed an opposition.  On January
16, 2024, the parties filed a joint statement. 
On January 18, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply.
 
Evidentiary
Objections
            Plaintiff
has submitted various objections to the declaration in support of the
opposition to the instant motion.  However,
these objections are unnecessary because the Court, when reviewing the evidence
is presumed to ignore material it knows is incompetent, irrelevant, or
inadmissible.  (In re Marriage of Davenport (2011) 194 Cal. App.
4th 1507, 1526.)  Courts are presumed to know and apply the correct
statutory and case law and to be able to distinguish admissible from
inadmissible evidence, relevant from irrelevant facts, and to recognize those
facts which properly may be considered in the judicial decision-making process. 
(People v. Coddington (2000) 23 Cal.4th 529, 644.)  Moreover, there is no statutory basis for
evidentiary objections in connection with the instant motion.
 
Legal
Standard 
Requests
for Production of Documents
Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310
provides, in pertinent part, as follows:
(a) On receipt
of a response to a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, the
demanding party may move for an order compelling further response to the demand
if the demanding party deems that any of the following apply:
(1) A
statement of compliance with the demand is incomplete.
(2) A
representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive.
(3) An
objection in the response is without merit or too general.
(b) A motion under subdivision (a) shall comply with
both of the following:
(1) The motion
shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the discovery
sought by the demand.
(2) The motion
shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.
 
Code
Complaint Response
A
code-compliant response to a request for production consists of any of the
following: (1) a statement that the party will comply, (2) a representation
that the party lacks the ability to comply, or (3) an objection.  (CCP §§ 2031.210.)  A statement that the
party will comply must state that the Request for Production (“RPD”) “will be
allowed either in whole or in part, and that all documents or things in the
demanded category that are in the possession, custody, or control of that party
and to which no objection is being made will be included in the
production.”  (CCP § 2031.220.)  “If only part of an item or category of
item in a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling is
objectionable, the response shall contain a statement of compliance, or a
representation of inability to comply with respect to the remainder of that
item or category.”  (CCP §
2031.240(a).)  If an objection is made
the responding party must “[i]dentify with particularity any document, tangible
thing, land, or electronically stored information falling within any category
of item in the demand to which an objection is being made.”  (CCP § 2031.240(b)(1).)
 
Discussion 
            Pursuant
to the joint statement, Plaintiff seeks to compel Defendant’s further response
to RPDs No. 3, 7, 9, 12, 17, 21, 22, 25, 27, 31, 33, 34, 36, 41, 42, 43, 51,
68, 72, 76, 78, 79, and 82.
 
RPDs No. 12, 17, 21, 22, 25, 27, 31, 33, 34, 41,
42, 43, 51, 68, 72, 78, 79, and 82
            “All
pre-sale or pre-purchase DOCUMENTS that YOU made available to purchasers or
lessees concerning the disclosure of a problem, failures, malfunctions, or
defect(s) regarding the COOLING SYSTEM DEFECT(S) in CADILLAC Vehicles equipped
with the cooling system like the SUBJECT VEHICLE.”  (RPD No. 12.)
            “All
DOCUMENTS, including e-mails, concerning any internal analysis or
investigations by YOU or on YOUR behalf regarding COOLING SYSTEM DEFECT(S) in CADILLAC
VEHICLES equipped with the cooling system like the SUBJECT VEHICLE. [This
request shall be interpreted to include any prerelease or post-release
investigation and analysis to determine the root cause of such COOLING SYSTEM
DEFECT(S), any such investigation for implementing a countermeasure or
permanent repair procedure for such COOLING SYSTEM DEFECT(S), any such
investigation into the failure rates of parts associated with such COOLING
SYSTEM DEFECT(S), any cost analysis for implementing a proposed repair
procedure, any savings analysis for not implementing proposed repair
procedures, etc. Further, this Request requires Defendant to produce all
associated DOCUMENTS, including metadata where applicable, by the Custodian’s
name, job title, and job description.]” 
(RPD No. 17.)
            “All
DOCUMENTS, including ESI and emails, regarding any internal investigation
regarding root cause efforts, problem-solving efforts, or efforts to identify
any actual or potential problems, failures, malfunctions, conditions, and/or
defects regarding the cooling system in the CADILLAC VEHICLESES.”  (RPD No. 21.)
            “All
DOCUMENTS, including ESI and emails, regarding any communications with other
entities involved in root cause efforts, problem-solving efforts or efforts to
identify any actual or potential problem(s), failure(s), malfunction(s),
condition(s) and/or defect(s) regarding the cooling system in CADILLAC,
including with YOUR parent corporation, any subsidiary, any supplier, or any
other third party.”  (RPD No. 22.)
            “All
DOCUMENTS, including ESI and emails, regarding when any member of YOUR Recall
committee or task force or their equivalent first learned, became aware of, or
was notified about, COOLING SYSTEM DEFECT(S) in CADILLAC VEHICLES, or problems
or potential problems with the cooling system in CADILLAC VEHICLES. [This
Request requires Defendant to produce all associated DOCUMENTS where applicable
by the Custodian’s name, job title, and job description.]”  (RPD No. 25.)
            “All
DOCUMENTS, including ESI and emails to or from YOUR agents, representatives,
engineers, employees or part suppliers concerning common parts failures for the
cooling system in CADILLAC VEHICLES.” 
(RPD No. 27.)
            “All
Failure Mode and Effects Analysis reports (or comparable analyses) regarding
the COOLING SYSTEM DEFECT(S) in CADILLAC VEHICLES equipped with the cooling
system like the SUBJECT VEHICLE.”  (RPD
No. 31.)
            “All
vehicle warranty history reports for CADILLAC VEHICLES that YOU repurchased or
replaced with two (2) or more warranty repair attempts to the cooling system.”  (RPD No. 33.)
            “All
vehicle warranty history reports for CADILLAC VEHICLES that YOU repurchased or
replaced that you were unable to repair within 30 days for concerns regarding
the cooling system.”  (RPD No. 34.)
            “All
DOCUMENTS regarding the COOLING SYSTEM DEFECT(S) in CADILLAC VEHICLES equipped
with the cooling system like the SUBJECT VEHICLE. [This request requires
Defendant to search and produce monthly, quarterly or annual reports compiled
from all company sources (e.g., quality, engineering, warrant database, dealer
contacts, customer complaints, parts returned, etc.). This request further
requires Defendant to produce the DOCUMENTS in an organized manner that
identifies the databases from which this information was retrieved and in a
chronological order with a description of all the various columns, codes,
nomenclatures, etc.]”  (RPD No. 41.)
            “All
DOCUMENTS, including ESI and emails, concerning any fixes for the COOLING
SYSTEM DEFECT(S) in CADILLAC VEHICLES equipped with the cooling system like the
SUBJECT VEHICLE.”  (RPD No. 42.)
            “All
DOCUMENTS, including power points, memoranda, reports, warnings,
investigations, assessments, lessons learned summaries or reports, quality
information reports, engineering reviews, summaries, executive reviews,
executive reports, or any equivalent thereof, that were prepared by any of YOUR
engineers or suppliers, concerning the COOLING SYSTEM DEFECT(S) in CADILLAC
VEHICLES equipped with the cooling system like the SUBJECT VEHICLE.”  (RPD No. 43.)
            “All
DOCUMENTS, including emails, regarding software release notes for all software
released for the COOLING SYSTEM DEFECT(S) in CADILLAC VEHICLES equipped with
the cooling system like the SUBJECT VEHICLE.” 
(RPD No. 51.)
            “All
LEMON LAW DOCUMENTS published by YOU and provided to YOUR employees, agents,
and representatives.”  (RPD No. 68.)
            “All
point-of-sale training materials that you provided to your authorized dealers
regarding the sale of CADILLAC Vehicles equipped with the cooling system from
one year prior to Plaintiff purchasing the subject vehicle until the date of
purchase.”  (RPD No. 72.)
            “All
DOCUMENTS, including ESI and emails, regarding any communications between YOU
and any government agency or entity (e.g., the National Highway Traffic Safety
Administration (‘NHTSA’), the Environmental Protection Agency (‘EPA’), or any
other similar government agency) regarding COOLING SYSTEM DEFECT(S) in CADILLAC
VEHICLES.”  (RPD No. 76.)
            “All
Transportation Recall Enhancement, Accountability, and Documentation (‘TREAD’)
reports YOU submitted concerning CADILLAC VEHICLES.”  (RPD No. 79.)
            “All
DOCUMENTS, including analyses and reports, that YOU provided to or received
from part suppliers concerning the COOLING SYSTEM DEFECT(S) in CADILLAC
VEHICLES equipped with the cooling system like the SUBJECT VEHICLE.”  (RPD No. 82.)
 
In a near
identical response, Defendant states that:
“GM objects to this
Request on grounds the terms ‘made available,’ ‘reflecting or referring to,’
‘problem,’ ‘failures,’ ‘malfunctions,’ and ‘defect(s)’ are vague and ambiguous.
GM also objects to this Request on grounds it improperly assumes that there are
alleged defects with respect to the SUBJECT VEHICLE, or GMC VEHICLES,
generally. GM also objects to this Request on grounds it is overbroad and seeks
documents that are irrelevant and not reasonably calculated to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence as it is not limited in scope to Plaintiff’s
alleged concerns with the SUBJECT VEHICLE at issue in this action. GM also
objects to this Request on grounds it is burdensome and oppressive, and that
compliance would be unreasonably difficult and expensive considering the needs
of the case, the amount in controversy, and the importance of the issues at
stake in the litigation. This is a simple, individual lemon law case with
limited issues and this Request violates Calcor Space Facility, Inc. v.
Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216, 61 Cal.Rptr.2d 567. Specifically,
whether Plaintiff is entitled to relief under the Song-Beverly Consumer
Warranty Act is entirely unrelated and incommensurate to the scope and breadth
of this Request. GM also objects to this Request to the extent it seeks
confidential, proprietary and trade secret information. GM further objects to
this Request to the extent it seeks information protected by the
attorney-client privilege and/or work-product doctrine. No documents will be
produced.”  (Response to RPD No. 12.)[1]
 
            Attorney Client Privilege/Work Product
Privilege
“In general, when a party asserts the attorney-client privilege, that
party has the burden of showing the preliminary facts necessary to support the
privilege.”  (Venture Law Group v.
Superior Court (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 96, 102.)  “The party asserting the privilege need only
present facts which ‘support a prima facie claim of privilege.”  (OXY Resources California LLC v. Superior
Court (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th 874, 894.) 
“After this burden is met, or where there is no dispute concerning the
preliminary facts, the burden shifts to the party opposing the privilege to
show either the claimed privilege does not apply, an exception exists, or there
has been an express or implied waiver.” 
(Venture Law Group, supra, 118 Cal.App.4th at p.102.) 
Here, the requests do appear to include
documents that could be protected by attorney client privilege such as communications
with previous counsel about prior lemon law actions.  However, Defendant has failed to provide any
privilege log identifying what if any responsive documents Defendant is
withholding on the basis of attorney client privilege/work product.  Though Defendant may have properly raised
attorney client privilege, there are undoubtedly responsive documents to at
least some of these requests that are not privileged.  Moreover, to the extent that there are
privileged documents, Defendant has not indicated which specific documents are being
withheld on the basis that they are privileged. 
Defendant’s blanket assertion of privilege is insufficient.  Defendant must produce a privilege log
identifying what documents Defendant is withholding and enough factual
information to support a prima facie claim of privilege. (See CCP §
2031.240(b)(1-2), [“b) If the responding party objects to the demand for
inspection, copying, testing, or sampling of an item or category of item, the
response shall do both of the following: (1) Identify with particularity any
document, tangible thing, land, or electronically stored information
falling within any category of item in the demand to which an objection is
being made. (2) Set forth clearly the extent of, and the specific ground for,
the objection. If an objection is based on a claim of privilege, the particular
privilege invoked shall be stated. If an objection is based on a claim that the
information sought is protected work product under Chapter 4 (commencing with
Section 2018.010), that claim shall be expressly asserted.”] [Italics added.].)  
Accordingly, Defendant must provide a
privilege log identifying which, if any, documents Defendant is withholding and
enough information to demonstrate that the attorney client privilege/work
product protects the document(s) identified.
 
Trade Secret Objection
Evidence Code section 1060 provides that
“the owner of a trade secret has a privilege to refuse to disclose the secret,
and to prevent another from disclosing it, if the allowance of the privilege
will not tend to conceal fraud or otherwise work injustice.”  A trade secret is defined as “information,
including a formula, pattern, compilation, program, device, method, technique,
or process, that: (1) Derives independent economic value, actual or potential,
from not being generally known to the public or to other persons who can obtain
economic value from its disclosure or use; and (2) Is the subject of efforts
that are reasonable under the circumstances to maintain its secrecy.”  (Civ. Code, § 3426.1(d).)  In setting forth whether a trade secret
privilege applies, the Court of Appeal has stated that:
 
[T]he party
claiming the privilege has the burden of establishing its existence.
[Citations.] Thereafter, the party seeking discovery must make a prima facie,
particularized showing that the information sought is relevant and necessary to
the proof of, or defense against, a material element of one or more causes of
action presented in the case, and that it is reasonable to conclude that the
information sought is essential to a fair resolution of the lawsuit. It is then
up to the holder of the privilege to demonstrate any claimed disadvantages of a
protective order. Either party may propose or oppose less intrusive
alternatives to disclosure of the trade secret, but the burden is upon the
trade secret claimant to demonstrate that an alternative to disclosure will not
be unduly burdensome to the opposing side and that it will maintain the same
fair balance in the litigation that would have been achieved by
disclosure.  
(Bridgestone/Firestone, Inc. v. Superior
Court (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1384, 1393.)
Here, Defendant fails to substantiate the
claim that the evidence sought is trade secret information.  Nor does Defendant provide authority
demonstrating that a denial of discovery is warranted.  To the extent that Defendant contends that a
protective order is necessary, the parties may simply stipulate and enter into
the standard LASC Stipulation and Protective Order – Confidential Designation.
 
Relevance, Vague, Burdensome, Overbroad,
Oppressive
            As to the overbreadth objection, “any party may obtain discovery
regarding any matters, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter
involved in the pending action or to the determination of any motion made in
that action, if the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears
reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” 
(CCP § 2017.010.)  “[A]n implicit waiver of a party's constitutional
rights encompasses only discovery directly relevant to the plaintiff's claim
and essential to the fair resolution of the lawsuit.”  (Vinson v.
Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 842.)  However, discovery should
not be denied if the information sought has any relevance to the subject
matter. Thus, while relevancy is a possible ground for an objection, it is
difficult to adequately justify it.  (See generally Coy v. Superior Court of
Contra Costa County (1962) 58 Cal.2d 210, 217.)  “These rules are applied liberally in favor
of discovery, and (contrary to popular
belief), fishing expeditions are permissible in some
cases.”  (Gonzalez v. Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th
1539, 1546 [internal citation omitted].)  
Under the
Song-Beverly Act, “[i]f the buyer establishes that the failure to comply was
willful,” the buyer may be entitled to receive a civil penalty, up to two times
the amount of actual damages.  (Civ. Code
§ 1794(c).)  A defendant that did not
replace or refund a vehicle under a “good faith and reasonable belief that the
facts imposing the statutory obligation were not present” is not
willful. (Lukather v. General Motors, LLC (2010) 181
Cal.App.4th 1041, 1051.)  Nor does
willfulness require a showing of malice or wrongdoing towards the other
party.  (Ibrahim v. Ford Motor Co. (1989)
214 Cal.App.3d 878, 894.)  Rather,
willful “amounts to nothing more than this: that the defendant knows what it is
doing and intends to do what it is doing.” 
(Bishop v. Hyundai Motor America (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 750,
759.)  “Whether a manufacturer willfully
violated its obligation to repair the car or refund the purchase price is a
factual question for the jury[.]”  (Oregel
v. American Isuzu Motors, Inc. (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 1094, 1104.)
Accordingly,
“information regarding whether the same defects were reported to [Defendant] in other cars of the same make, model,
and year as Plaintiff's subject vehicle could conceivably be relevant to
whether [Defendant] acted reasonably in denying Plaintiff's warranty claim. A
fact finder may find [Defendant]'s knowledge or lack of knowledge about
the same defects to be a consideration in deciding whether [Defendant]
acted in good faith as to Plaintiff's specific case.”  (Jensen v. BMW of North America, LLC (S.D.
Cal. 2019) 328 F.R.D. 557, 562–563, [italics added]; see also Elsworth v.
Beech Aircraft Corp. (1984) 37 Cal.3d 540, 555 [“Evidence of prior
accidents is admissible to prove a defective condition, knowledge, or the cause
of an accident, provided that the circumstances of the other accidents are
similar and not too remote.”].) 
As to burden,
“burden must be sustained by evidence showing the quantum of work required” and
“to support an objection of oppression there must be some showing either of an
intent to create an unreasonable burden or that the ultimate effect of the
burden is incommensurate with the result sought.”  (West
Pico Furniture Co. of Los Angeles v. Superior Court In and For Los Angeles
County (1961) 56 Cal.2d 407, 417.) 
Moreover, even if [discovery requests] are found to be “burdensome and
oppressive,” the Court should not simply sustain the objection and thereby
excuse any answer. Rather, the Court should limit the question to a reasonable
scope. (Borse v. Superior Court (Southern Pac. Co.) (1970) 7 Cal.App.3d
286, 289.)
            Here,
as to burden objection, Defendant fails to substantiate the quantum of work it
would take to respond to these requests in either the responses or the
opposition.  Moreover, the requests are
relevant to whether Defendant was aware of the alleged defect in the Subject
Defect due to prior incidents and thus was willful in denying Plaintiff
restitution.  
            However,
the Court agrees that the scope of these requests is overbroad.  The complaint alleges defects with the engine
and cooling system.  (Complaint ¶
14.)  Thus, information regarding other
vehicles of the same make, model, and year as the Subject Vehicle with the same
engine and cooling system defects would be relevant.  Accordingly, some relevant information is
sought.  However, the requests are
overbroad as they seek documents beyond those of vehicles with the same make,
model, and year as the Subject Vehicle. 
Therefore, the requests are hereby limited to vehicles in California of
the same make, model, and year as the Subject Vehicle.
            Similarly,
requests regarding policies are relevant to whether the policies show that
Defendant was intentionally violating its Song-Beverly obligations or that
Defendant deviated from policy with regards to Plaintiff’s claims showing that
Defendant willfully did not comply with its Song-Beverly obligations.  However, the requests are overbroad as the
only time period would be when Plaintiff’s issues with the vehicle arose and
when Defendant wrongfully rejected Plaintiff’s claim for restitution.  As noted in the complaint, Plaintiff did not
purchased the Subject Vehicle until August 12, 2018.  (Complaint ¶ 9.)  As such, only the internal policies
applicable from August 12, 2018 to when the complaint was filed on June 7, 2022
would be relevant.  Moreover, the request
is slightly overbroad as it is not limited to California.
 
RPDs No. 3, 7, 9, 36, and 78
            “All
investigations, reports, and/or studies conducted by YOU and/or on YOUR behalf
regarding the root cause or failure analysis of any parts that were repaired or
replaced on the SUBJECT VEHICLE and returned by any of YOUR authorized repair
facilities to YOU/or anyone acting on YOUR behalf for analysis. [This request
also requires the responding party to search for and produce responsive
DOCUMENTS regarding any parts that were removed from the SUBJECT VEHICLE and
returned by the repairing dealer to the responding party for root cause
analysis, failure analysis, and/or any other analysis, and to produce a copy of
such reports, analysis, and/or similar documents. This request also requires GM
to provide any documents showing how the returned part was handled after its
return to GM (e.g., refurbished, returned to supplier for reimbursement,
etc.]”  (RPD No. 3.)
            “All
DOCUMENTS, including recalls, technical service bulletins, special service
messages, dealer alerts, reports, Star Reports, campaigns, extended warranties,
dealer advisories, summaries, etc. that were issued for the SUBJECT VEHICLE.
[This request requires the responding party to produce the entire document. A
production that only lists the name, number, and/or title of the document will
not be responsive to this request. This also requires the responding party to
produce all current, prior, amended, and drafts of such DOCUMENTS, which shall
be produced in their entirety.]”  (RPD
No. 7.)
            “All
Vehicle Data Recovery Reports for the SUBJECT VEHICLE.”  (RPD No. 9.)
            “All
DOCUMENTS, including ESI and emails, concerning any decision to issue any
notices, letters, campaigns, warranty extensions, service messages, technical
service bulletins and recalls, concerning the COOLING SYSTEM DEFECT(S) in
CADILLAC VEHICLES equipped with the cooling system like the SUBJECT VEHICLE.
[This request requires the responding party to provide the underlying
investigation, report, and/or analysis that resulted in the issuance of any
such notice, letter, campaign, warranty extension, technical service bulletin,
and recall, concerning the COOLING SYSTEM DEFECT(S). Thus, such information
shall predate the issuance of any such notice, letter, campaign, warranty
extension, technical service bulletin, and recall.]”  (RPD No. 36.)
            “All
Early Warning Reports (“EWR”) YOU submitted to NHTSA concerning CADILLAC
VEHICLES.”  (RPD No. 78.)
 
            In
addition to objections discussed above, Defendant’s responses to these requests
also include substantive responses as follows:
            “Subject to and without waiving any
objections, GM states that it is not currently aware of any parts from the
SUBJECT VEHICLE that were sent to it by any authorized repair facilities for
analysis. Therefore, no documents will be produced.”  (Substantive Response to RPD No. 3.)
            “Subject
to and without waiving these objections, GM will comply in part and produce the
following documents in its possession, custody and control: a list of technical
service bulletins (“TSBs”) issued for vehicles of the same year, make, and
model as the SUBJECT VEHICLE. After it has produced a list of TSBs, GM will –
at Plaintiff’s request – search for and produce, if located, copies of a
reasonable number of TSBs, if any, that Plaintiff has identified as
specifically regarding the defects alleged in Plaintiff’s complaint. GM will
also produce copies of the bulletins for every field action, including any
recalls, it issued for the SUBJECT VEHICLE as identified in the following image
from the Global Warranty History Report: [Image].”  (Substantive Response to RPD No. 7.)
            “Subject
to and without waiving any objections, GM will comply in part and produce the
following documents in its possession, custody and control: any repair orders
that GM may have obtained from GM-authorized dealerships who may have serviced,
maintained, or repaired the SUBJECT VEHICLE.” 
(Substantive RPD No. 9.)
            “Subject
to and without waiving these objections, GM will comply in part and produce the
following documents in its possession, custody and control: a list of technical
service bulletins (‘TSBs’) and informational service bulletins (‘ISBs’) issued
for vehicles of the same year, make, and model as the SUBJECT VEHICLE. After it
has produced a list of TSBs and ISBs, GM will – at Plaintiff’s request – search
for and produce, if located, copies of a reasonable number of TSBs and ISBs, if
any, that Plaintiff has identified as specifically regarding the defects
alleged in Plaintiff’s complaint. GM will also produce copies of the bulletins
for every field action, including any recalls, it issued for the SUBJECT
VEHICLE as identified in the following image from the Global Warranty History
Report: [Image].”  (Substantive Response
to RPD No. 36.)
            “Subject
to and without waiving any objections, GM responds that EWR for various model
years and vehicles are equally available to all parties and can be obtained at
NHTSA’s website at http//www-odi.nhtsa.dot.gov/ewr/qb/. No documents will be
produced.”  (Substantive Response to RPD
No. 78.)
 
            The Substantive Response are Improper and Unclear
            As
quoted above, each of Defendant’s responses includes an objection and a
substantive response.  The substantive responses
each note that they are “subject to and without waiving any objection”.  These substantive responses are not code
compliant.  
            Defendant
has not waived any objections.  Thus, it
is unclear whether any responsive documents are being withheld based on such
objections.  Defendant was required to
identify the documents being withheld and the basis for the withholding.  (See CCP § 2031.240(b)(1-2), [“b) If
the responding party objects to the demand for inspection, copying, testing, or
sampling of an item or category of item, the response shall do both of the
following: (1) Identify with particularity any document, tangible thing,
land, or electronically stored information falling within any category of item
in the demand to which an objection is being made. (2) Set forth clearly the
extent of, and the specific ground for, the objection. If an objection is based
on a claim of privilege, the particular privilege invoked shall be stated. If
an objection is based on a claim that the information sought is protected work
product under Chapter 4 (commencing with Section 2018.010), that claim shall be
expressly asserted.”] [Italics added.].) 
If all responsive documents are being produced the response must clearly
identify as such stating that Defendant has produced all responsive documents
in its possession, custody, or control and identify the responsive
documents.  
            Accordingly, further code complaint
responses are required. 
 
Sanctions
            Plaintiff requests sanctions against
Defendant for $3,000.00 to compensate Plaintiff for bringing the instant
motion.  Plaintiff’s Counsel claims to
have spent eight hours drafting the instant motion at $375 per hour.  (Sanaia Decl. ¶ 42.)  
            For
a motion to compel further responses, “[t]he court shall impose a monetary
sanction … against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully
makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to [request for
production], unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the
imposition of the sanction unjust.” 
(CCP § 2031.300(c), [italics added].) 
Further, it is an abuse of discovery to make an evasive response or make
unsubstantiated objections to discovery. 
(CCP § 2023.010(e)-(f).)
            Here,
the Court finds that some sanctions are warranted.  However, the requested sanctions are
excessive given that many of the requests were overbroad, and the time claimed
spent on the instant motion is excessive. 
Based on the totality of the
circumstances, the Court finds that sanctions of $1,500.00 are warranted.
            Defendant
General Motors, LLC is ordered to pay monetary sanctions in the amount of $1,500.00 to Plaintiff Barbara McGee,
by and through counsel, within thirty (30) days of notice of this order. 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff Barbara
McGee’s motion to compel further responses to the Request for Production of
Documents, Set One from Defendant General Motors, LLC is GRANTED.
Defendant General Motors is to serve further
code compliant responses to Requests for Production, Set One Nos. 3, 7, 9, 12, 17, 21, 22, 25, 27, 31, 33, 34,
36, 41, 42, 43, 51, 68, 72, 76, 78, 79, and 82 without objection except
as to attorney-client/work product privilege within 25 days of notice of this
order.  To the extent that the requests
seek information regarding other vehicles, said requests are hereby limited to
vehicles purchased or leased in
California for the same year, make and model of the subject vehicle.  To the extent that the requests seek internal
policies, the requests are limited to internal policies applicable to
California and temporarily limited to policies in place between August 12, 2018 to June 7, 2022.
Defendant is to
serve responsive documents – compliant with the further responses – and any
applicable privilege log within 30 days of notice of this order.
Plaintiff’s request for sanctions is
GRANTED AS MODIFIED.
            Defendant
General Motors, LLC is ordered to pay monetary sanctions in the amount of $1,500.00 to Plaintiff Barbara McGee,
by and through counsel, within thirty (30) days of notice of this order. 
Moving Party is to provide notice and file
proof of service of such.
 
 
DATED: January ___, 2024                                                   ___________________________
                                                                                          Elaine
Lu
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court


