  Case Number:  22STCV04376    Hearing Date:   February 1, 2024    Dept:  39 Ellen
Pittleman, et al. v. Spina Organics, LLC, et al.
Case
No. 22STCV04376
Motion
for Further Bill of Particulars
 
Plaintiff Ellen
Pittleman and her company, Hybrid Entertainment, Inc. (collectively,
“Pittleman”) filed a complaint against Mauro Spina and his company, Spina
Organics, LLC (collectively, “Spina”), and Spina filed a cross-complaint
against Pittleman.  Allegedly, Spina
hired Pittleman to update Spina’s website and assist Spina with its social
media presence.  Pittleman alleges that
she is owed $177,000 for her work.  Spina
alleges that it agreed to give Pittleman a commission of 10% on the net profits
from new sales made by Pittleman to Spina’s existing customer Healthy
Spot.  Spina alleges that Pittleman
demanded a 25% interest in the company, and when Spina refused, Pittleman
allegedly shut down its website and removed its products from Spina’s social
media accounts. 
 
In an action on
an account, a plaintiff must itemize the account in a bill of particulars.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 454.)  The bill of particulars precludes the
plaintiff from advancing evidence beyond the items and amounts set forth in the
bill of particulars, unless the Court grants the plaintiff’s motion for leave
to amend the bill of particulars.  (Meredith
v. Marks (1963) 212 Cal.App.2d 265, 269-270.)  The Court previously granted Plaintiff’s
motion to amend her bill of particulars. (See Court’s Minute Order, dated
October 9, 2023.)  Now, Defendants move
for an order requiring Plaintiff to provide a further bill of particulars.  Defendants argue that Plaintiff must set
forth the following: (1) The dates on which Pittleman purportedly provided
services for Spina, (2) The services purportedly provided by Pittleman on those
dates, (3) The amount of time spent by Pittleman on Spina’s business on such
dates, and (4) The value of the services provided by Pittleman on such
dates.  
 
The motion is
granted in part and denied in part.  The
purpose of a bill of particulars is to require the plaintiff to provide the
defendant with “a detailed statement of the items charged against him.”  (McCarthy v. Mt. Tecarte Land & Water
Co. (1896) 110 Cal. 687, 692.)  A
bill of particulars must “at least show[] how much was claimed for each one of
the . . . services alleged.”  (Gilmore
v. Hill (1957) 152 Cal.App.2d 881, 883, internal quotations and citations
omitted.)  Pittleman does not provide
this information.  Instead, she states
that she seeks amounts “at a rate fixed by the trier or fact, and/or subject to
expert opinion.”  Further, Plaintiff
fails to set forth how much time she contends she worked on various tasks for
Defendants with specificity, which is directly related to the amount she is
seeking.  (See Declaration of Steven P,
Krakowsky, Exh. #1.)  Pittleman’s counsel
argues that she produced thousands of pages of discovery on these issues, but
that is not a basis to oppose the motion. 
Defendants’ counsel is entitled to a bill of particulars.  The Court orders Plaintiff to provide a
further bill of particulars on these issues. 

 
The motion is
denied in all other respects, as the bill of particular lists the services
Pittleman performed and the date ranges on which the services were performed.  This information is not essential to
understanding the amount Pittleman seeks in this lawsuit, which is the purpose
of a bill of particulars.  
 
Based upon the
foregoing, the Court orders as follows:
 
1.         Defendants’ motion is granted in part
and denied in part.
 
2.         Pittleman shall provide a further bill
of particular that specifies the number of hours spent on the tasks at issue
and the amount of compensation she is seeking. 
The further bill of particulars shall be served within thirty (30) days.
 
3.         Defendants’ motion is denied in all
other respects.
 
4.         Defendants’ counsel shall provide
notice and file proof of such with the Court. 

 

 
 
 