 Case Number:  22STCV12740    Hearing Date:   October 8, 2024    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



PAMELA BUZZANCO,
  
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
SCOTT D. FISHER, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 22STCV12740
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER CONTINUING MOTION TO APPOINT
  NEUTRAL ARBITRATOR
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
October 8, 2024



 
On August 17, 2022, the Court
granted motions to compel arbitration and stayed this action pending the arbitration
proceedings with Plaintiff Pamela Buzzanco and Defendants Scott D. Fisher; Scott
D. Fisher, A Professional Law Corporation; Michael L. Magasinn; and Law Offices
of Michael L. Magasinn.
On
August 28, 2024, the Magasinn Defendants filed a motion for the Court to appoint
a neutral arbitrator.
If
an arbitration agreement provides a method for appointing an arbitrator, that method
shall be followed.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.6.)  If it does not provide a method or if the agreed
method fails or cannot be followed, a party may petition the Court to appoint an
arbitrator.  (Ibid.)  Upon a petition, the Court shall nominate five
people from a list jointly supplied by the parties, and the parties may jointly
select the arbitrator within five days.  (Ibid.)  If the parties fail to select and arbitrator within
five days, the Court shall appoint an arbitrator from its nominees.  (Ibid.)
The
arbitrator agreement does not contain any process to select an arbitrator.  Defendants proposed multiple arbitrators to Plaintiff,
including some from ADR Services.  (Motion
at p. 6.)  Plaintiff demanded to use JAMS
or Judicate West.  (Ibid.)  Defendants agreed to JAMS, but in October 2022,
Plaintiff wanted to abandon JAMS “as we have NOT been receiving the reasonable accommodations
and services that are expected from an ADR organization.”  (Id. at pp. 6-7.)  Defendants then agreed to proceed with Judicate
West.  (Id. at p. 7.)  Plaintiff rejected all five retired judges proposed
by Defendants, claiming that they “lack[ed] minimum qualifications—[and] they [were]
NOT even qualified to collect garbage in the central park.”  (Id. at pp. 7-8.)
Next,
the parties began a strike and rank procedure with Judicate West, using Judicate
West’s November 28, 2022 strike-and-rank list containing seven retried judges.  (Motion at p. 8.)  Through this process, the Honorable Chris Conway
(Ret.) was selected, but Plaintiff moved to disqualify him based on his non-involvement
in an arbitration that Plaintiff’s counsel had handled for another client.  (Ibid.)  Despite Judicate West confirming that Judge Conway
“was not part of the [other arbitration],” Plaintiff objected and requested a new
strike-and-rank list.  (Ibid.)  On January 19, 2023, Judicate West served a new
strike-and-rank list, which resulted in the appointment of the Honorable John Leo
Wagner (Ret.).  (Ibid.)  Plaintiff moved to disqualify Judge Wagner based
on a single mediation he conducted with Defendants’ counsel.  (Ibid.)  Plaintiff requested another new strike-and-rank
list, demanding no neutrals with a “history” of cases involving the parties’ counsel.  (Ibid.)  Judicate West lacked arbitrators that met this
criteria, so it declined to serve as the ADR organization.  (Ibid.)
Plaintiff
proposed Signature Resolution, and Defendants agreed.  (Motion at p. 9.)  On May 16, 2023, Signature Resolution sent the
parties a strike-and-rank list containing ten retired judges.  (Ibid.)  Plaintiff immediately claimed her counsel had
a conflict of interest with one of the retired judges because he had an arbitration
before her.  (Ibid.)  Plaintiff asked for that judge to be replaced
on the list, but Signature Resolution informed Plaintiff that it was not “uncommon
for a strike and rank list to include arbitrators that counsel has arbitrated with
in the past.  Generally, that is not grounds
to replace an arbitrator on the list.”  (Ibid.)  Through the strike-and-rank process, the Honorable
Richard Stone (Ret.) was appointed on June 5, 2023.  (Ibid.)  Three days later, Signature Resolution emailed
Judge Stone’s disclosures to the parties. 
(Ibid.)  Plaintiff did not object
to the disclosures, and the parties proceeded with Judge Stone as the arbitrator.  (Ibid.)
In
April 2024, Defendants’ counsel began working for a different firm, and in May 2024,
Plaintiff’s counsel served a notice of association of counsel.  (Motion at p. 11.)  Signature Resolution provided updated disclosures
for Judge Stone after each of these events. 
(Ibid.)  Plaintiff did not object
to the April 2024 disclosures, but on May 15, 2024, she moved to disqualify Judge
Stone.  (Ibid.)  According to Plaintiff, “[b]ased on the disclosure
received this date, judge [sic] Stone has significant past relations with the opposition
counsels and their firms, including relations that were not disclosed previously.”  (Ibid.)  On June 24, 2024, Judge Stone rejected Plaintiff’s
arguments for disqualification, but he still disqualified himself because he had
mediated many matters with Defendants’ new firm.  (Id. at pp. 11-12.)
Signature
Resolution appointed the Honorable Clifford L. Klein (Ret.), the second-highest
ranked arbitrator from the parties’ strike-and-rank list.  (Motion at p. 12.)  Judge Klein’s disclosures included a pending mediation
with one Defendant.  (Ibid.)  Plaintiff moved to disqualify him “[b]ased on
disclosure and financial entanglement . . . with opposing parties and their counsels.”  (Ibid.)
Signature
Resolution then appointed the Honorable Lisa Hart Cole (Ret.), the next arbitrator
on the strike-and-rank list.  (Motion at p.
12.)  Judge Cole’s July 5, 2024 disclosures
included six past mediations with Defendants’ counsel’s firms.  (Ibid.)  Plaintiff moved to disqualify her “[b]ased on
disclosure and financial entanglement . . . with opposing parties and their counsels.”  (Id. at p. 13.)
Next,
Signature Resolution appointed the Honorable Michael Latin (Ret.).  (Motion at p. 13.)  Judge Latin’s July 10, 2024 disclosures included
five past mediations with Defendants’ counsel’s firms.  (Ibid.)  Plaintiff moved to disqualify him “[b]ased on
disclosure and financial entanglement . . . with opposing parties and their counsels.”  (Ibid.)
At
Defendants’ request, Signature Resolution agreed to stay the arbitration pending
this motion.  (Motion at pp. 13-14.)
Plaintiff
argues that “this court does NOT have jurisdiction and/or authorities to appoint,
select, choose, or assign an arbitrator and Claimants and Plaintiffs do NOT consent
to the court’s jurisdiction to take any action in this case, as the jurisdiction
of the all matters have been transferred to arbitrator.”  (Opposition at p. 4.)  Plaintiff is wrong.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.6.)  
Plaintiff
argues that she has an absolute right to her disqualifications under Code of Civil
Procedure section 1281.9.  (Opposition at
pp. 4-5.)  The Court’s appointment of an arbitrator
does not eliminate any party’s rights regarding the arbitrator’s disclosures.
Plaintiff
contends that she was “disqualifying arbitrators that are on Respondents, Defendants
and their counsels’ payroll!,” and “Plaintiffs and Claimants WILL NOT ACCEPT ANY
AND ALL ARBITRATORS THAT ARE DEFENDANTS, RESPONDENTS AND THEIR COUNSELS’ PAYROLL.”  (Opposition at p. 4.)  There is no evidence supporting Plaintiff’s counsel’s
repeated assertions that the “proposed arbitrators are on Defendants and their Counsels’
payroll, and they have had extensive financial entanglements.”  (Naghash Decl. ¶ 6; see id. ¶¶ 7-8; see
also Opposition at pp. 2-5.)  
In
the more than two years since the Court ordered the parties to arbitration, the
process to appoint an arbitrator has failed. 
Accordingly, the Court will appoint an arbitrator.
Defendants
provide a list of potential legal malpractice arbitrators from Signature Resolution.  (Lepore Decl., Ex. 32.)  Plaintiff did not propose any arbitrators.
After
reviewing Defendants’ proposed list, the Court nominates Hon. Patricia Garcia (Ret.),
Hon. Lesley C. Green (Ret.), Hon. Marc Marmaro (Ret.), Hon. Benny Osorio (Ret.),
and Hon. Suzanne H. Segal (Ret.).
The
Hearing on Motion for Order for Court to Appoint a Neutral Arbitrator is CONTINUED
to October 15, 2024 at 8:30 a.m. in Department 48 at Stanley Mosk Courthouse.
The
parties are ordered to meet and confer about the nominated arbitrators.  If they can reach an agreement, the parties are
ordered to file a joint stipulation and proposed order, and the Court will take
the continued hearing off calendar.  If there
is no agreement, then the Court will appoint an arbitrator at the continued hearing.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.6.)
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 8th day of October 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 