 Case Number:  22STCV18195    Hearing Date:   October 8, 2024    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



JOSE MENDEZ, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
CALIFORNIA L&M INVESTMENTS, INC., et
  al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 22STCV18195
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING MOTION TO COMPEL
  MENTAL EXAMINATION OF PLAINTIFF
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
October 8, 2024



 
On June 2, 2022, Plaintiff Jose
Mendez filed this action against Defendant California L&M Investments, Inc.
On
September 11, 2024, Defendant filed a motion to compel the medical examination of
Plaintiff.
A
party must obtain leave of court when seeking to obtain discovery by a physical
examination by a mental examination.  (Code
of Civ. Proc., § 2032.310, subd. (a).)  A
motion for an examination shall specify the time, place, manner, conditions, scope,
and nature of the examination, as well as the identity and specialty, if any, of
the person or persons who will perform the examination.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.310, subd. (b).)  The Court shall grant the motion only for good
cause shown.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.320,
subd. (a).)
Plaintiff’s
Complaint alleges emotional distress arising from discrimination, wrongful termination,
and retaliation.  (Complaint ¶ 75; id.
at Prayer ¶ 1.)  Plaintiff’s discovery responses
identify his injuries, including “anxiety/panic attacks – affects whole body,” “inability
to concentrate –affects whole body,” “depression – affects whole body,” “suicidal
ideation – affects whole body,” “loss of interest in personal interaction with others,
self-isolation – affects whole body,” “insomnia – affects whole body,” and “profound
tiredness – affects whole body.”  (Schwartz
Decl., Ex. 1 [Form Rog No. 212.2])  Plaintiff’s
anxiety/panic attacks occur weekly and last several hours; his inability to concentrate
is consistent, daily, and lasts several hours; his inability to carry out daily
functions is consistent, daily, and lasts several hours; his depression is constant;
his suicidal ideation occurs monthly for several hours; and his self-isolation and
profound tiredness is constant.  (Schwartz
Decl., Ex. 1 [Form Rog No. 212.3].)  Plaintiff
also experienced physical injuries arising from the emotional distress.  (See Schwartz Decl., Ex. 1.)
Plaintiff
has refused to stipulate to a mental examination.  (Schwartz Decl. ¶ 3.)  Plaintiff has also failed to stipulate to both
sides foregoing psychiatric experts at trial and Plaintiff testifying to only the
garden variety distress associated with a termination.  (Schwartz Decl. ¶ 3.)
Plaintiff
argues that the proposed examination date is prior to the motion’s hearing date,
so the motion should be denied because Plaintiff is “not capable of traveling backwards
in time.”  (Opposition at p. 1.)  This discrepancy is easily remedied and is not
grounds to deny the motion.
Plaintiff
confirms that his emotional distress is at issue for his damages: he “reserves the
right to present expert testimony regarding how his termination from employment,
as well as his mistreatment as an employee for 17 years – how all of that has affected
him from a psychological standpoint.”  (Opposition
at p. 3.)  Plaintiff contends that “the symptoms
of mental distress he claims to have suffered are akin to those that an ordinary
person would likely experience in similar circumstances, and it constitutes matters
that are within the everyday experience of the average juror.”  (Id. at p. 4.)  However, he also contends that whether he suffered
“garden-variety” emotional distress or severe emotional distress “is a question
not easily resolved.”  (Id. at p. 4.)
Plaintiff
has not received any treatment from health care providers because he is unable to
afford healthcare.  (Schwartz Decl., Ex. 1
[Form Rog No. 212.4].)  Accordingly, the information
sought cannot be alternatively obtained through treatment records or other means.  Plaintiff acknowledges that “[t]here may not be
medical records to substantiate all of [his] symptoms, but that does not mean there
is no evidence available to corroborate Plaintiff’s claims.”  (Opposition at p. 2.)  Plaintiff does not identify any other such evidence
other than his own descriptions.
If
the Court orders a mental examination, Plaintiff asks that the examination occurs
“with appropriate safeguards and clarification as to what is truly intended
by this unknown test that Dr Saint Martin apparently intends to administer.”  (Opposition at p. 4.)  Plaintiff contends that the proposed “Structured
Interview of Malingered Symptoms” is unclear and “may be incredibly intrusive and
lacking in medical soundness.”  (Id.
at p. 3.)  This Interview is one of four listed
psychological tests that Dr. Manuel Saint Martin may use, but not every test on
the list will be utilized.  (Schwartz Decl.,
Ex. 3.)  Plaintiff acknowledges that “[t]here
is a fairly well known test called the Structured Inventory of Malingered Symptomology,”
and “[m]aybe it is a typographical error” on the list of Dr. Manuel Saint Martin’s
tests.  (Opposition at p. 3.)  Plaintiff’s “bottom line is there need to be some
parameters on the level of intrusion that will be permitted during the examinations
Defendant’s proposes to administer.”  (Ibid.)  There are parameters already in place for the
examination.  Plaintiff has not shown why
this single-word discrepancy should prevent an examination.
Defendant’s
motion complies with Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.310, and the Court finds
there is good cause to order the mental examination.
Because
the proposed order identifies an examination date that has already passed, at the
hearing, the parties should be prepared to discuss scheduling a new date.
The
motion to compel a mental examination of Plaintiff is GRANTED.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  Even if all
parties submit, counsel is still ordered to appear at the hearing so they can choose
an examination date.
 
        
Dated this 8th day of October 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 