 Case Number:  EC068660    Hearing Date:   December 1, 2023    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North Central District
Department B
 



 
arthur ambarachyan,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
George plavjian, et al., 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.:  EC068660
 
Hearing Date:  December 1, 2023
  
  [TENTATIVE] order RE:
motion to enforce settlement pursuant to ccp § 664.6 



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations
of the 4AC 
Plaintiff Arthur Ambarachyan (“Ambarachyan”) alleges that he is an
investor who was defrauded by Defendants Sona Chukhyan (“Chukhyan”) and George
Plavjian (“Plavjian”), as well as their co-conspirators KSR Realty, Inc.
(“KSR”), Reta Narkaz, Ruzana Badeer (“Badeer”), Kiane Shabazian (“Shabazian”),
and Mariam Kakoian (“Kakoian”). 
Ambarachyan alleges that Kakoian was the owner of property located at
1737 Bel Aire Dr. in Glendale and that Chukhyan and Kakoian took out loans on
the property to pay off other investors that Chukhyan scammed or defrauded.  In February 2015, Chukhyan and Kakoian
approached Plaintiff for a loan in the amount of $355,000.00.  Plaintiff lent the money and Kakoian signed a
promissory note agreeing to pay the money back with interest, and the note was
secured by a deed of trust against the property.  However, the property was sold for
$935,300.00 in 2017 and Plaintiff was not paid from the proceeds of the sale. 
The fourth amended complaint (“4AC”), filed March
17, 2020, alleges causes of action for: (1) fraud and conspiracy against
Kakoian; (2) negligent misrepresentation against Kakoian; (3) breach of
contract against Kakoian; (4) equitable lien against Kakoian; (5) negligence
against Lawyers Title; (6) equitable indemnity against Chukhyan, Plavjian, KSR,
Badeer, Shabazian, and Narkaz; (7) comparative indemnity against Chukhyan,
Plavjian, KSR, Badeer, Shabazian, and Narkaz; (8) declaratory relief against
Chukhyan, Plavjian, KSR, Badeer, Shabazian, and Narkaz; and (9) declaratory
relief against Petrosian, Baburyan, and Lawyers Title.  
In the 4AC, Ambarachyan notes that the Court previously
sustained the demurrer without leave to amend as to the 1st, 4th,
and 9th causes of action. 
B.     Allegations of Ms. Kakoian’s TAXC
On June 20, 2022, Kakoian filed a third amended cross-complaint (“TAXC”),
alleging causes of action for: (1) fraud – misrepresentation against Chukhyan,
Plavjian, KSR, Badeer, Shabazian, and Narkaz; (2) fraud – concealment against
Ambarachyan, Narkaz, Escrow, and National Properties; (3) breach of contract
against Agakhanyan and Penway; (4) intentional interference with contractual
relations against Chukhyan, Ambarachyan, Narkaz, Escrow, KSR, Shabazian,
Badeer, and Plavjian; (5) breach of fiduciary duty against Chukhyan,
Ambarachyan, Narkaz, Nazarian, Escrow, KSR, Shabazian, Badeer, Plavjian, and
National; (6) constructive fraud against Plavjian, Chukhyan, KSR, Badeer,
Shabazian, Ambarachyan, Narkaz, Escrow, and National Properties; (7) breach of
statutory duty (Bus. & Profs. Code, § 10177(h)) against Ambarahcyan and Narkaz;
(8) conversion against Chukhyan, Plavjian, Badeer, Shabazian, and Ambarachyan;
and (9) IIED against Chukhyan, Plavjian, Badeer, Shabazian, Ambarachyan,
Narkaz, Nazarian, KSR, and Escrow.  
C.    
Relevant
Background
On May 11, 2023, the parties participated in a Mandatory Settlement
Conference with the Court and were able to reach a settlement.    
On May 15, 2023, Ms. Kakoian dismissed the action with prejudice as to
Cross-Defendants Ambarachyan, Escrow on Brand Inc., Sevak Agakhanyan, Arpi
Nazarian, National Properties, Inc., and Penway LLC.  
On August 8, 2023, Ms. Kakoian filed an Acknowledgement of Satisfaction
of Judgment stating that the judgment was fully satisfied by Ambarachyan
(judgment debtor) to Ms. Kakoian (judgment creditor).  
D.   
Motion
on Calendar
On September 11, 2023, Defendant/Cross-Complainant Ms. Kakoian filed a
motion to enforce the settlement pursuant to CCP § 664.6.  
On September 25, 2023, Defendant/Cross-Defendant Sona Chukhyan filed an
opposition brief.
On September 25, 2023, Defendants/Cross-Defendants George Plavjian,
Ruzana Badeer, and Kiane Shabazian filed a joinder to Chukhyan’s opposition
brief.  
The matter was initially scheduled for hearing on October 6, 2023, but
was continued based on the parties’ Stipulation to continue the hearing so that
there would be time to pay off the $60,000 balance following a pending escrow
transaction.  The Court continued the
hearing to November 9, 2023.  
The matter came for hearing on November 9, 2023, and the parties
stipulated to continue the hearing to December 1, 2023 so that escrow can be
completed.  
DISCUSSION  
On November 15, 2023, Ms. Kakoian dismissed the action with prejudice
as to her TAXC.  In light of the
dismissal, it appears that the parties have resolved the issue of the
outstanding settlement payments that was the subject of this motion.  
Accordingly, the motion to enforce the settlement is taken off-calendar
as moot. 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER 
Defendant/Cross-Complainant Mariam
Kakoian’s motion to enforce the settlement agreement and enter judgment is
taken off-calendar as moot in light of Ms. Kakoian’s dismissal of the Third
Amended Cross-Complaint entered on November 15, 2023.  
Defendant/Cross-Complainant shall
provide notice of this order.   
Warning regarding electronic appearances:  All
software for remote or electronic appearances is subject to malfunction based
on system weakness and human error, which can originate from any of the
multiple parties participating each morning. The seamless operation of the
Court’s electronic appearance software is dependent on numerous inconstant and
fluctuating factors that may impact whether you, or other counsel or the Court
itself can be heard in a particular case. Not all these factors are within the
control of the courtroom staff. For example, at times, the system traps
participants in electronic purgatories where they cannot be heard and where the
courtroom staff is not aware of their presence. If you call the courtroom,
please be respectful of the fact that a court hearing is going on, and that the
courtroom staff is doing their best to use an imperfect system. If it is
truly important to you to be heard, please show up to the courtroom in the
normal way. Parking is free or reasonable in Burbank.
 
 