 Case Number:  22BBCV00388    Hearing Date:   December 1, 2023    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
jim cohan,
 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
nationstar
  mortgage, llc, et
  al,
 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.:  22BBCV00388
 
Hearing
  Date:  December 1, 2023
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
Demurrer
 



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations

Plaintiff Jim
Cohan (“Plaintiff,” a self-represented litigant) alleges that he is the owner
of the residential property located at 9823 Edmore Place, Sun Valley, CA
91352.  He alleges that Defendant
Nationstar Mortgage, LLC (“Nationstar”) is the mortgage servicing company and
is an agent for Defendant Bank of New York Mellon (“BONY”) concerning the
mortgage on the property.  
Plaintiff
alleges that on January 9, 2022, he received a Notice of Trustee Sale from
Clear Recon Corp. He alleges that he was being helped by a real estate broker who
should have informed Clear Recon Corp, Nationstar, and BONY that he requested
all ADA assistance.  
Plaintiff
alleges that he filed his first loan modification after January 2020 and
Nationstar promised him and fair and thorough review of his filings, btu the
request was denied on August 28, 2020 without any specific information on how
to cure defects.  Plaintiff alleges he
had a special relationship with Nationstar such that it had a legal duty to
accurately review his application and not mishandle his documents or cause
untimely delays.  Plaintiff alleges
Nationstar falsely represented it would review Plaintiff for foreclosure
alternatives.  
The first amended complaint (“FAC”), filed
August 16, 2023, states in the caption that the alleged causes of action are for:
(1) constructive fraud; (2) statutory violations; (3) promissory estoppel; (4)
intentional misrepresentation; and (5) violation of Business & Professions
Code, § 17200 et seq.  However,
the body of the FAC alleges 10 causes of action: (1) violation of Civil Code, §
2924.17; (2) violation of Civil Code, § 2923.5; (3) violation of Civil Code, §
2923.6; (4) negligence; (5) intentional misrepresentation (Civ. Code, §§ 1709
et seq.); (6) promissory estoppel; (7) breach of the implied warranty of
good faith and fair dealing; (8) unfair competition – unlawful prong; (9)
unfair prong; and (10) fraudulent prong. 
B.    
Demurrer on Calendar 
On October 16, 2023, Defendants Nationstar
LLC d/b/a Mr. Cooper (“Nationstar”) and Bank of New York Mellon FKA The Bank of
New York as Trustee for the Structured Asset Mortgage Investments II Trust,
Mortgage Pass-Through Certificates, Series 2006-AR8 (“BONY”) filed a demurrer
to each cause of action in the FAC.  
On October 30, 2023, Plaintiff filed an
opposition brief.  
On November 22, 2023, Defendants
Nationstar and BONY filed a reply brief. 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
            Nationstar and BONY
request judicial notice of Exhibits: (1) the deed of trust dated September 7,
2006 recorded on September 14, 2006 relating to the subject property; (2) the
grant deed recorded on June 18, 2007; (3) the corporate assignment of deed of
trust recorded on January 5, 2011; (4) the corporate assignment of deed of
trust on April 2, 2014; (5) the substitution of trustee recorded on April 28,
2014; (6) the notice of default recorded on June 18, 2014; (7) a copy of the
docket in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court, California Central, case number 1:21bk11525,
retrieved on October 12, 2023; (8) a copy of the docket in the U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, California Central, case number 1:21bk11884, retrieved on October 12,
2023; (9) a copy of the docket in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court, California
Central, case number 1:22bk10603, retrieved on October 12, 2023; (10) the
orders granting a motion for relief from automatic stay recorded on August 29,
2022 against the property; (11) the notice of trustee’s sale recorded on
October 26, 2012; and (12) the August 28, 2020 correspondence from Nationstar
to Plaintiff referenced in the complaint as Appendix A.  
            The
request is granted as to Exhibits 1-12. 
Exhibits 1-6 and 11 consist of documents pertaining to the subject
property that have been recorded in the Official Records of the Los Angeles
Recorder’s Office.  (Fontenot v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 256,
264-267.)  Exhibits 7-10 include copies
of court dockets with the U.S. Bankruptcy Court.  (Evid. Code, § 452(d).)  Finally, Exhibit 12 includes the August 28,
2020 denial document referenced by Plaintiff in his complaint as “Appendix A”
(Compl., ¶11), but the document was not attached to the complaint.  (Id.) 

DISCUSSION 
            Nationstar and BONY demurs to each
cause of action alleged in the FAC. 
A.   
1st and 2nd causes of action for
Violation of Civil Code, §§ 2924.17 and 2923.5
Civil Code, § 2924.17 provides the
requirements for declarations recorded by a mortgage servicer in connection
with a foreclosure.  Section 2923.5
states the timing and requirements for a mortgage servicer to record a notice
of default. 
In the 1st cause of action,
Plaintiff alleges that Nationstar filed a Notice of Default (“NOD”) on several
occasions with declarations, but that the declarations were not based on facts,
which constitutes a material violation of section 2924.17 by depriving Plaintiff
a meaningful opportunity to pursue loss prevention options to rent
foreclosure.  (FAC, ¶¶31-32.)  He seeks treble or statutory damages of
$50,000.  (Id., ¶33.)  
In the 2nd cause of action,
Plaintiff alleges that Nationstar willfully failed to satisfy the notice
requirements and willfully/recklessly proceeded with the recording of the NOD
despite failing to satisfy requirements, which deprived Plaintiff of a
meaningful opportunity to pursue loss prevention.  (Id., ¶¶34-35.)  Plaintiff alleges this is a material
breach.  (Id., ¶36.)  He seeks treble or statutory damages of
$50,000.  (Id., ¶37.)  
Plaintiff’s 1st cause of action
fails to allege any facts in support of this statutory cause of action showing
how Nationstar violated section 2924.17. 
While Plaintiff argues in a general conclusory fashion that Nationstar’s
declaration was insufficient, Plaintiff has not alleged facts supporting how
the declaration was not based on fact or was insufficient.  
Similarly, the 2nd cause of
action is not supported by facts showing how Nationstar failed to satisfy the
requirements to record an NOD.  Again,
the allegations are conclusory and are not supported by any factual
allegations. 
As such, there is substantive merit to sustaining
the demurrer as to the 1st and 2nd causes of action.  
The Court has reviewed Plaintiff’s
opposition brief.  He argues that the
complaint alleges valid causes of action when the allegations are taken as true
and that there is a special relationship between the parties.  Plaintiff’s opposition does not address the
substantive arguments made by Defendants in their moving papers, nor does
Plaintiff show how, upon amendment, he can cure the defects.  
Essentially, the same defects that existed
in the initial complaint, which the Court discussed in its ruling on
Defendants’ motion for judgment on the pleadings as to the initial complaint,
persist in the FAC.  Thus, the Court is
inclined to sustain the demurrer without leave to amend.  Plaintiff has the
burden of showing the manner in which Plaintiff can amend the pleadings to
correct this defect and how that amendment will change the legal effect of the
pleading.  (Goodman v. Kennedy
(1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.)  It
appears Plaintiff is unable to make this showing, and therefore the demurrer
will be sustained without leave to amend. 
B.    
3rd cause of action for Violation of Civil
Code, § 2923.6
Civil Code, §
2923.6(c) states: 
If a borrower submits a complete application for a
first lien loan modification offered by, or through, the borrower's mortgage
servicer at least five business days before a scheduled foreclosure sale, a
mortgage servicer, mortgagee, trustee, beneficiary, or authorized agent shall
not record a notice of default or notice of sale, or conduct a trustee's sale,
while the complete first lien loan modification application is pending. A
mortgage servicer, mortgagee, trustee, beneficiary, or authorized agent shall
not record a notice of default or notice of sale or conduct a trustee's sale
until any of the following occurs:
(1) The mortgage servicer makes a written determination that the borrower
is not eligible for a first lien loan modification, and any appeal period
pursuant to subdivision (d) has expired.
(2) The borrower does not accept an offered first lien loan modification
within 14 days of the offer.
(3) The borrower accepts a written first lien loan modification, but
defaults on, or otherwise breaches the borrower's obligations under, the first
lien loan modification
(Civ.
Code, § 2923.6(c).)  
In the 3rd cause of action, Plaintiff
alleges that he submitted a complete application more than 5 days prior to the
scheduled foreclosure sale on several occasions.  (FAC, ¶38.) 
He alleges that Nationstar never made a written determination that
Plaintiff was not eligible and did not offer a first lien modification.  (Id., ¶¶39-40.)  Thus, Plaintiff alleges that any attempt to
conduct a trustee’s sale was in violation of section 2923.6.  (Id., ¶41.)  Plaintiff seeks damages. (Id., ¶42.)
Nationstar argues that Plaintiff has not
alleged facts showing that he submitted a “complete” application as required
under section 2923.6(c).  Nationstar
argues that the only allegation in the FAC that support this cause of action
are that he submitted an application in January 2020 and the application was
denied on August 28, 2020.  (FAC, ¶19;
Def.’s RJN Ex. 12.)  The August 28, 2020
letter states that Plaintiff’s request was denied for proprietary modification,
short sale, and deed in lieu.  (Def.’s
RJN, Ex. 12.)  The letter provides
different options for Plaintiff and states the reasons he was not approved for
the three requests – namely because the requests were incomplete, and Plaintiff
had not provided all the documents in the required timeframe.   (See id. at p.2.)  Further, a subsequent application may be
reviewed by Nationstar where “there has been a material
change in the borrower's financial circumstances since the date of the
borrower’s previous application and that change is documented by the borrower
and submitted to the mortgage servicer.” 
(Civ. Code, § 2923.6(g).)  Although
Plaintiff alleges he submitted additional requests, he has not alleged facts alleging
when such documents were submitted and he has not alleged facts showing that
there was a material change in his circumstances that would obligate Nationstar
to evaluate his subsequent applications.
The demurrer to
the 3rd cause of action is sustained.  Again, the same defects that existed in the initial
complaint persist in the FAC.  As such,
the Court is inclined to sustain the demurrer to the 3rd cause of
action without leave to amend. 
C.    
4th cause of action for Negligence
The elements of a negligence cause of
action are “duty, breach of duty, proximate cause, and damages.”  (Carlsen
v. Koivumaki (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 879, 892.)  Under California law, a lender owes no
general duty of care to the borrower.  (Nymark v. Heart Federal Savings & Loan
Ass’n (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 1089, 1096 [“[A]s a general rule, a financial
institution owes no legal duty of care to a borrower when the institution’s
involvement in the loan transaction does not exceed the scope of its
conventional role as a mere lender of money.”].)
As stated by the
California Supreme Court in Sheen v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.
(2022) 12 Cal.5th 905 stated: 
A lender's
handling of a modification application is part of a process by which the lender
decides whether it should adhere to the existing contract or offer a new
agreement (and if so, under what terms). It is a step in the lender's
determination concerning how best to collect the money it had dispersed under
the loan, whether that be by foreclosing (seizing and selling the collateral to
pay back the loan) or offering new terms that are less favorable to the lender
than the original contract but that potentially improve the odds of the
borrower paying. In short, a lender's involvement in the loan modification
process — specifically whether it “process[es], review[s] and respond[s]
carefully and completely to the loan modification applications [a borrower]
submitted” — is part and parcel of its assessment regarding how best to recoup
the money it is owed.
(Sheen v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.
(2022) 12 Cal.5th 905, 928.)  “[W]hen a
borrower requests a loan modification, a lender owes no tort duty sounding in
general negligence principles to ‘process, review and respond carefully and
completely to’ the borrower's application.” 
(Id. at 948.)  
In the 4th cause of action,
Plaintiff alleges that Nationstar owed a duty to Plaintiff to exercise
reasonable care in handling his loan modification.  (FAC at p.8, lines 15-16.)[1]  Plaintiff alleges that Nationstar breached
its duty when it failed to adhere to foreclosure procedures pursuant to
California law, such that he lacked ta meaningful opportunity to pursue
realistic loss prevention options to prevent foreclosure of his home.  (Id. at p.8, lines 17-19.)  He alleges that Nationstar negligently, willfully,
and falsely misrepresented that they would review his completed loan
modification application within the correct time frame and would fairly
evaluate loss mitigation options and inform him of his options, but that
Nationstar failed to do so, which amounted to a breach.  (Id. at p.8, lines 20-24.)  
Plaintiff’s negligence cause of action is
based on duty that Nationstar purportedly owed Plaintiff to review his
application.  However, such a duty is not
generally imposed on mortgage servicers like Nationstar.  (See Nymark, supra, 231 Cal.App.3d at 1096; Sheen, supra, 12 Cal.5th at 928.)  Without this element of duty, the negligence
cause of action fails.  
As such, the demurrer to the 4th
cause of action is sustained without leave to amend. 
D.   
5th cause of action for Intentional
Misrepresentation (Civ. Code, §§ 1709 et seq.)
To allege a cause of action for fraud, the
requisite elements are: (1) a representation,
usually of fact, which is false; (2) knowledge of its falsity; (3) intent to defraud; (4) justifiable reliance upon the misrepresentation;
and (5) damage resulting from that justifiable reliance.  (Stansfield
v. Starkey (1990) 220 Cal. App. 3d 59, 72-73.)  This cause of action is a tort of
deceit and the facts constituting each element must be alleged with
particularity; the claim cannot be saved by referring to the policy favoring
liberal construction of pleadings.  (Committee on Children's Television, Inc. v. General Foods Corp.
(1983) 35 Cal.3d 197, 216.)  Since
the claim must be pleaded with particularity, the cause of action based on
misrepresentations must allege facts showing how, when, where, to whom, and by
what means the misrepresentations were tendered.  (Stansfield v. Starkey (1990) 220 Cal.App.3d 59, 73.)
In the 5th cause of
action, Plaintiff alleges that Nationstar’s promise was clear and unambiguous.  (FAC at p.9.) 
He alleges that based on Nationstar’s promise, it was reasonable and
foreseeable that borrowers apply for a loan modification and not seek out other
loss prevention options for foreclosure. 
(Id.)   He alleges he
relied on Nationstar’s promise and did not seek other loss prevention options.  (Id., ¶46.)  
Plaintiff’s allegations for the
fraud cause of action lack the specificity required to allege such a
claim.  He has not alleged facts showing
how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the misrepresentations were
made.  It is also unclear what the nature
of the representation was in the first place, such that Defendants and the
Court cannot ascertain whether the other elements for fraud.  At most, Plaintiff alleges that the promise
was clear and unambiguous, but it is unclear what the promise was.  A claim for fraud must be plead with
requisite particularity.  As such, this
cause of action has not been adequately pled. 
The demurrer as to the 5th cause of action is sustained.  As Plaintiff has not shown an ability to
amend, leave to amend is not granted. 
E.    
6th cause of action for Promissory Estoppel
“The elements of a promissory estoppel claim
are (1) a promise clear and unambiguous in its terms; (2) reliance by the party
to whom the promise is made; (3) [the] reliance must be both reasonable and
foreseeable; and (4) the party asserting the estoppel must be injured by his
reliance.”  (Aceves v. U.S. Bank, N.A. (2011)
192 Cal.App.4th 218, 225 [internal quotation marks omitted].) The promise need
only be definite enough for the court to determine the scope of the duty and
limits of performance to provide a rational basis for the assessment of
damages.  (Id. at 226.)  “‘Promissory
estoppel applies whenever a promise which the promissor should reasonably
expect to induce action or forbearance on the part of the promisee or a
third person and which does induce such action or forbearance would result in
an “injustice” if the promise were not enforced....”  (Id.
at 227 [internal quotations omitted].) 
In the 6th cause of action,
Plaintiff alleges that Nationstar willfully, falsely, and knowingly
misrepresented that Plaintiff’s application would be reviewed fully and
fairly.  (FAC, ¶47.)  He alleges that Nationstar’s
misrepresentations were communicated to Plaintiff with its loan modification
application.  (Id., ¶48.)  He alleges that after the initial
application, Nationstar knew that it had misrepresented that it would evaluate
loss mitigation options upon receiving a complete application because
Nationstar was also seeking foreclosure. 
(Id., ¶49.)  He alleges
that Nationstar misrepresented that Plaintiff’s application would be fairly and
fully reviewed and that such misrepresentation was made with intent for Plaintiff
to rely upon it.  (Id.,
¶¶50-51.)  Plaintiff alleges that
Nationstar’s misrepresentations were made with knowledge of falsity or in
reckless disregard of the truths thereof. 
(Id., ¶52.)  He alleges
that in actual and reasonable reliance, he did not seek out other loss
prevention options to prevent foreclosure. 
(Id., ¶53.)  
While Plaintiff alleges that Nationstar
misrepresented regarding the evaluation of loss mitigation options, Defendants
argue that Plaintiff has not alleged facts showing that their promise was
false.  Plaintiff alleges in the FAC that
Nationstar did in fact review his application and denied the application by
letter dated August 28, 2020.  (FAC,
¶19.)  Further, Defendants argue that Plaintiff
has not alleged facts showing that he had other loss mitigation options other
than filing the application with Nationstar, such that Plaintiff has not
alleged facts supporting the element of reliance.  Defendants argue that they are not obligated
to provide a loan modification to Plaintiff, who has been in default since
2009.  (See Def.’s RJN, Ex. 6 [6/18/14
Notice of Default showing that Plaintiff has been in default since
7/1/2009].)  
The demurrer to the 6th cause
of action is sustained.  The Court is not
inclined to grant leave to amend. 
F.     
7th cause of action for Breach of the
implied warranty of good faith and fair dealing
“There is an implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing
in every contract that neither party will do anything which will injure the
right of the other to receive the benefits of the agreement.”  (Comunale v. Traders & General Ins. Co. (1958) 50
Cal.2d 654, 658.) “Without a contractual underpinning, there is no independent
claim for breach of the implied covenant.” 
(Fireman's Fund Ins. Co. v.
Maryland Casualty Co. (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th 1586, 1599.) “The prerequisite
for any action for breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair
dealing is the existence of a contractual relationship between the parties,
since the covenant is an implied term in the contract.”  (Smith
v. City & Cnty. of San Francisco (1990) 225 Cal.App.3d 38, 49.)  
In the 7th cause of action, Plaintiff
alleges that in every loan agreement, there is an implied covenant of good
faith and fair dealing.  (FAC, ¶55.)  He alleges that Nationstar unfairly
interfered with his right to receive the benefits of the loan agreement because
Nationstar failed to comply with the HBOR’s foreclosure procedures.  (Id.) 
Plaintiff alleges he was harmed by Nationstar’s conduct and lost the
opportunity to seek foreclosure alternatives. 
(Id., ¶56.)  
            There are several issues with this
cause of action as currently alleged by Plaintiff.  Plaintiff has not alleged the terms of the
contract that Nationstar allegedly interfered with to prevent Plaintiff from
obtaining the benefits of the agreement. 
Defendants argue that the underlying loan contract did not have any
modification terms, such that Defendants could not have interfered with such an
obligation.  (Def.’s RJN, Ex. 1.)  Defendants also argue that Plaintiff cannot
allege that he performed on the underlying contract (i.e., the loan agreement),
which required him to pay back his loan since July 2009.  (Def.’s RJN, Ex. 6.)  
Accordingly, the demurer to the 7th
cause of action is sustained without leave to amend.
G.   
8th to 10th causes of action for
Unfair Competition 
The Unfair Competition Law (“UCL”)
prohibits any unlawful, unfair, or fraudulent business practice.  (Bus. & Profs. Code, § 17200.)  A plaintiff alleging unfair business
practices under these statutes must state with reasonable particularity the
facts supporting the statutory elements of the violation.  (Khoury
v. Maly's of Cal., Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 619.)  The person suing for a UCL claim must allege
that he suffered injury in fact and has lost money or property as a result of
the unfair competition.  (Bus. &
Profs. Code, § 17204.) 
            Plaintiff’s causes of action for
unfair competition under the unlawful, unfair, and fraudulent prongs fail to
allege facts with reasonable particularly required for a statutory claim.  
A violation of the
unfair prong of section 17200 involves an examination of the impact of the
business practice on its alleged victim balanced against the reasons,
justifications and motives of the alleged wrongdoer.  (Searle
v. Wyndham Int'l (2002) 102 Cal.App.4th 1327, 1334.)  An unfair business practice occurs when it
offends an established public policy or when the practice is immoral,
unethical, oppressive, unscrupulous or substantially injurious to
consumers.  (Id.)  In general, the
unfairness prong has been used to enjoin deceptive or sharp practices.  (Id.)  However, the unfairness prong does not give
the Courts a general license to review the fairness of contracts.  (Id.)  In the 9th cause of action for
violation of the unfair prong, Plaintiff alleges that Nationstar’s conduct is
unfair because it violated Plaintiff’s rights under HBOR and it failed to abide
by the foreclosure procedures set forth in the HBOR, such that Nationstar robbed
Plaintiff of the opportunity to pursue alternatives to prevent foreclosure of
the residence.  (FAC, ¶¶64-65.)  A review of the pleadings reveals no
allegations that identify a particular business practice that offends
established public policy or that is immoral, unethical, oppressive,
unscrupulous, or substantially injurious to consumers.  The allegations are highly generalized and
fail to allege facts to support a claim for unfair competition under the unfair
prong with reasonable particularity.  
A violation of the
unlawful prong includes anything that can properly be called a business
practice and that at the same time is forbidden by law.  (Paulus
v. Bob Lynch Ford, Inc. (2006) 139 Cal. App. 4th 659, 676-677.)  In the 8th cause of action, Plaintiff
alleges that Nationstar’s business practices were unlawful because its acts
violated Civil Code, §§ 2935.5, 2923.6, 2924.10, and 2924.17.  (FAC, ¶61.) 
A review of the pleadings reveals no allegations that identify a law,
regulation, or statute and the particular business practices directed at
Plaintiff that violated the identified law, regulation, or statute.  As discussed above, Plaintiff has not alleged
sufficient facts to support his claims based on violation of the Civil
Code.  
A violation of the
fraudulent prong of section 17200 can be shown with allegations that the
fraudulent practice was likely to deceive members of the public.  (Schnall
v. Hertz Corp. (2000) 78 Cal.App.4th 1144, 1167.)  The “fraud” prong “is unlike common law fraud or deception. A
violation can be shown even if no one was actually deceived, relied upon the
fraudulent practice, or sustained any damage. Instead, it is only necessary to
show that members of the public are likely to be deceived.”  (Buller v. Sutter Health (2008)
160 Cal.App.4th 981, 986.)  In the 10th
cause of action, Plaintiff alleges that Nationstar failed to abide by the
foreclosure procedures set forth in the HBOR, thereby preventing Plaintiff from
pursuing foreclosure alternatives.  (FAC at
p.12.)  Plaintiff alleges that despite
substantially or fully complying with Nationstar’s documents request and
deadline, he was unable to pursue foreclosure alternatives and that Nationstar
was able to attempt to sell his residence at a foreclosure sale.  (Id.)  A
review of the pleading reveals no allegations that identify a particular
business practice that was a fraudulent practice likely to deceive the
public.  Further, as discussed above,
Plaintiff’s claims for fraud and promissory estoppel lacked sufficient facts to
constitute claims against Defendants.  
            For
these reasons, the demurrer to the 8th to 10th causes of
action is sustained without leave to amend. 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
            Defendants Nationstar LLC d/b/a Mr.
Cooper and Bank of New York Mellon FKA The Bank of New York as Trustee for the
Structured Asset Mortgage Investments II Trust, Mortgage Pass-Through
Certificates, Series 2006-AR8’s demurrer to the First Amended Complaint is
sustained.  The Court is inclined to
sustain the demurrer without leave to amend. 
Plaintiff has the burden of showing the manner in which Plaintiff can
amend the pleadings to correct this defect and how that amendment will change
the legal effect of the pleading.  (Goodman
v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.) 
Plaintiff appears unable to make this showing.  Defendants shall provide notice of this order. 
Warning regarding
electronic appearances:  All software for remote or electronic
appearances is subject to malfunction based on system weakness and human error,
which can originate from any of the multiple parties participating each
morning. The seamless operation of the Court’s electronic appearance software
is dependent on numerous inconstant and fluctuating factors that may impact
whether you, or other counsel or the Court itself can be heard in a particular
case. Not all these factors are within the control of the courtroom staff. For
example, at times, the system traps participants in electronic purgatories
where they cannot be heard and where the courtroom staff is not aware of their
presence. If you call the courtroom, please be respectful of the fact that a
court hearing is going on, and that the courtroom staff is doing their best to
use an imperfect system. If it is truly important to you to be heard, please
show up to the courtroom in the normal way. Parking is free or reasonable
in Burbank.
           
 



