 Case Number:  23BBCV01226    Hearing Date:   December 1, 2023    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
nicharaporn
  chantraramat, 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
artur
  hovsepyan, et al.,
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.: 
  23BBCV01226
 
  Hearing Date:  December 1, 2023
 
[TENTATIVE] order RE:
motion to compel further responses
 



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations

Plaintiff Nicharaporn Chantraramat
(“Plaintiff”) alleges that on June 17, 2021, Plaintiff was involved in a motor
vehicle accident with Defendant Knarik Margaryan (“Margaryan”) who was
negligently operating a vehicle owned by Defendants Margaryan and Artur
Hovsepyan (“Hovsepyan”).  Plaintiff
alleges that Plaintiff was injured and sustained damages as a result of the incident.
 
             The complaint, filed June 1, 2023, alleges causes
of action for: (1) motor vehicle; and (2) general negligence.
B.    
Motion
on Calendar 
On November 3, 2023, Plaintiff filed a motion
to compel Hovsepyan’s further responses. 
The caption of the motion states that Plaintiff is seeking Hovsepyan’s
further responses to Requests for Production, set one (“RPD”).  However, the notice of the motion states that
Plaintiff is seeking Hovsepyan’s further responses to Form Interrogatories, set
one (“FROG”).  The notice also states
that Plaintiff is seeking sanctions against Margaryan and defense counsel,
though the discovery motion is not directed at Margaryan.  The memorandum of points and authorities
states that Plaintiff is seeking Margaryan’s further responses to RPDs.  (Mot. at p.11.)  
On November 28, 2023, Hovsepyan filed an
untimely opposition brief.  
DISCUSSION

            At this
time, the Court cannot ascertain what Plaintiff’s motion seeks.  As stated above, the notice of motion
includes a caption that Plaintiff is seeking Hovsepyan’s further responses to
RPDs, while the paragraphs in the notice state Plaintiff is seeking Hovsepyan’s
further responses to FROGs.  Differently,
the memorandum of points and authorities states that Plaintiff is seeking
Margaryan’s further responses to the RPD. 
While the notice and the memorandum of points and authorities
consistently seek sanctions against Margaryan, the requests are for different
amounts. 
            The
Court will treat this motion as Plaintiff’s motion to compel Hovsepyan’s
further response to RPD No. 22 and will consider Plaintiff’s separate statement
directed against Hovsepyan
and his response to RPD No. 22.  
            RPD No. 22 asks Hovsepyan
for a copy of all insurance policies, including umbrella and excess coverage,
covering the vehicle driven by Hovsepyan at the time of the incident that was
in effect at the time of the incident. 
Hovsepyan initially responded by referencing FROG No. 4.1 and then
provided an amended unverified response stating: “Following a reasonably
diligent search, Responding Party produces the items attached hereto.”  
            Plaintiff argues that Hovsepyan’s
amended response would be compliant if it was verified.  However, because the response is unverified,
Plaintiff argues that Hovsepyan’s response is tantamount to no response at
all.  Under California law, unsworn responses are tantamount to no
responses at all. (Appleton v. Superior
Court (1988) 206 Cal.App.3d 632, 636.) This applies to responses, which
must be verified under CCP §§ 2030.250, 2031.250 and 2033.240. 
            In
the untimely opposition brief, Hovsepyan argues that he responded to FROG 4.1
by providing insurance information and argues that RPD No. 22 is duplicative
because it seeks a copy of the policy. 
However, providing information in response to a FROG request is not
equivalent to producing a verified document of the policy itself.  
            As
such, the Court grants the motion and orders Hovsepyan to provide a verification
of his response to RPD No. 22.
            According to the notice of motion,
Plaintiff seeks $2,560 in sanctions against Margaryan and defense counsel for a
motion on form interrogatories, set one. 
In the memorandum of points and authorities, Plaintiff seeks $3,185
against Margaryan and defense counsel. 
However, the Court treats this motion as directed against
Hovsepyan.  Thus, the request for
sanctions is improperly brought against Margaryan.  No sanctions shall be awarded on this motion.  
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
Plaintiff’s motion to compel Defendant
Artur Hovsepyan’s further responses to the RPD is granted.  Defendant is ordered to provide a
verification for his amended response to RPD No. 22.  No sanctions shall be awarded. 
Plaintiff shall
provide notice of this order. 
Warning regarding
electronic appearances:  All software for remote or electronic
appearances is subject to malfunction based on system weakness and human error,
which can originate from any of the multiple parties participating each
morning. The seamless operation of the Court’s electronic appearance software
is dependent on numerous inconstant and fluctuating factors that may impact
whether you, or other counsel or the Court itself can be heard in a particular
case. Not all these factors are within the control of the courtroom staff. For
example, at times, the system traps participants in electronic purgatories
where they cannot be heard and where the courtroom staff is not aware of their
presence. If you call the courtroom, please be respectful of the fact that a
court hearing is going on, and that the courtroom staff is doing their best to
use an imperfect system. If it is truly important to you to be heard, please
show up to the courtroom in the normal way. Parking is free or reasonable
in Burbank.
 