 Case Number:  23BBCV00258    Hearing Date:   December 1, 2023    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
coy
  williard, 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
kahala
  franchising, l.l.c. dba the counter custom burger #32014, et
  al.,
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.: 
  23BBCV00258
 
  Hearing Date:  December 1, 2023
 
[TENTATIVE] order RE:
motion to compel further responses
 



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations

Plaintiff Coy Williard (“Plaintiff”) alleges
that he was employed by Defendant Kahala Franchising, LLC dba The Counter
Custom Burger #32014 (“The Counter”) and Defendant Shay Production, Inc.
(“Shay”).  He alleges that on May 9,
2022, Shay hired him to work as an assistant general manager at The Counter and
was offered $60,000 a year upon being hired by general manager Alix Lee and
owner/Defendant Sherri Homayounian (“Homayounian”).  Plaintiff alleges that when he first began
working at The Counter, he got along with Homayounian well, but then her
behavior became erratic in April 2022. 
Plaintiff alleges that he would call him and the other employees
“dumbass” and “fuck head,” would brag about her drunken escapades, and made
sexually charged statements.  
Plaintiff alleges that on May 16, 2022, he
was called early into work by Homayounian to discuss the busy restaurant, but
at the end of the meeting she thanked Plaintiff and kissed him on the
lips.  Plaintiff alleges he was shocked
and distanced himself and told Homayounian that her behavior was not okay.  Plaintiff also alleges incidents where
Homayounian asked Plaintiff to cover her shift on July 19, 2022 because she was
“hung over” and offered to pay him $100 under the table, which he refused.  Plaintiff alleges that Homayounian began to
retaliate against him because he was not willing to cover her shifts.  He alleges that he sent Ms. Lee a letter
reporting Homayounian’s behavior on July 25, 2022.  On July 29, 2022, he was called into a
meeting by Ali Homayounian (Homayounian’s father and part owner of The Counter,
“Mr. Homayounian”) and Ms. Lee, where he was presented with a negative
performance review.  Plaintiff alleges he
was thereafter terminated by Mr. Homayounian on July 29, 2022.  
The complaint, filed February 1, 2023, alleges
causes of action for: (1) harassment in violation of FEHA; (2) retaliation in
violation of FEHA; (3) failure to prevent discrimination, harassment, and
retaliation; (4) retaliation (Labor Code, §§ 98.6, 1102.5); and (5) wrongful
termination. 
On July 26, 2023, Plaintiff dismissed
without prejudice Defendant Kahala Franchising, LLC dba The Counter Custom
Burger #32014. 
B.    
Motion
on Calendar 
On October 10, 2023, Plaintiff filed a
motion to compel Defendant Shay Production, Inc.’s further responses to Special
Interrogatories, set one (“SROG”).  
On November 16, 2023, Shay filed
opposition papers.  
On November 20, 2023, Plaintiff filed a
reply brief. 
DISCUSSION

            Plaintiff
moves to compel Shay’s further response to SROG No. 3.  
            SROG No. 3 asks Shay to
identify each person who worked at the workplace during the same hours and
dates with Plaintiff worked for Shay during his employment with Shay.  (Plaintiff defined “identify” as the address,
phone number, email address, and job title of the person identified.)  Shay objected on the ground that the SROG was
vague, not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence, violates a right of privacy, seeks information protected by the
attorney-client privilege and work product doctrine, seeks trade secret and
confidential/financial information, is overly broad and unduly burdensome, and
cumulative/duplicative.  Without waiving
objections, Shay referred Plaintiff to Plaintiff’s personnel and payroll
records.
             Plaintiff argues that a further response is
warranted because the phone numbers and addresses of the employees who had
worked at the same time as Plaintiff were not provided.  He also argues that the personnel and payroll
records were redacted and did not include a complete list of employees that Plaintiff
worked with or their contact information. 
He argues that the information is necessary because he does not recall
the name of the employees he worked with and he does not know which employees
may have witnessed the harassment he endured. 
In opposition, Shay argues that the SROG is overbroad because it seeks
information about all employees regardless of whether that individual had
knowledge about Plaintiff’s allegations and that doing so would violate their
privacy.  
            While
the Court recognizes Shay’s concerns, the Court will order a further
response.  Plaintiff was employed by Shay
at The Counter from May
9, 2022 to July 29, 2022.  Thus, the SROG
seeks approximately 2-3 months of information regarding the names, contact
information, and job titles of the employees at the time Plaintiff worked at
the restaurant location.  This is a
limited time period for a single location, such that the request is not
overbroad.  The SROG does not seek the
financial information of these employees nor their employee/personnel
files.  At most, it seeks basic contact
information of witnesses.  This
information is relevant to the action and is reasonably calculated to lead to
the discovery of admissible evidence.  Further,
the objections based on the attorney-client
privilege and work product doctrine, trade secret, and confidentiality are
overruled.  
            The
motion is granted as to SROG No. 3. 
            Plaintiff
requests $3,291.55 in sanctions, which Plaintiff’s counsel states was calculated
by taking the sum of 2 hours to meet and confer, 3 hours to prepare the motion,
1 anticipated hour for the reply, and 1 anticipated hour for the hearing at
$275/hour, plus $60 in filing fees. 
However, based on the Court’s calculation, 7 hours multiplied by
$275/hour, plus $60 in filing fees amounts to $1,985.  The Court finds that a reasonable amount of
sanctions for this motion is $610. 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
Plaintiff’s motion to compel Defendant Shay
Production, Inc.’s further responses to SROG No. 3 is granted.  Defendant is ordered to provide a further
response within 20 days of notice of this order.  Defendant and its counsel of record, jointly
and severally, are ordered to pay monetary sanctions in the amount of $610 to
Plaintiff, by and through counsel, within 20 days of notice of this order.
Plaintiff shall
provide notice of this order. 
Warning regarding
electronic appearances:  All software for remote or electronic
appearances is subject to malfunction based on system weakness and human error,
which can originate from any of the multiple parties participating each
morning. The seamless operation of the Court’s electronic appearance software
is dependent on numerous inconstant and fluctuating factors that may impact
whether you, or other counsel or the Court itself can be heard in a particular
case. Not all these factors are within the control of the courtroom staff. For
example, at times, the system traps participants in electronic purgatories
where they cannot be heard and where the courtroom staff is not aware of their
presence. If you call the courtroom, please be respectful of the fact that a
court hearing is going on, and that the courtroom staff is doing their best to
use an imperfect system. If it is truly important to you to be heard, please
show up to the courtroom in the normal way. Parking is free or reasonable
in Burbank.
 
 