 Case Number:  21BBCV00565    Hearing Date:   December 1, 2023    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
christo j.
  halekakis,
  
 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
nico halekakis
  aka nick j. halekakis,
  et al.,  
 
                        Defendants.


 
Case
  No.: 21BBCV00565
 
  Hearing Date:  December 1, 2023
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
motion for leave to file cross-complaint
 



 
BACKGROUND
A.    Allegations

Plaintiff
Christo J. Halekakis (“Plaintiff”) alleges that he and Defendant Nico Halekakis
aka Nick J. Halekakis (“Nico Halekakis”) are brothers and that Nico Halekakis
is married to Defendant Megan T. Lorick Halekakis fka Megan T. Lorick (“Megan
Halekakis”).  The property at issue is
located at 10926 Hartsook Street, North Hollywood, CA 91601.  
Plaintiff
alleges that he purchased the property at an auction sale by making a deposit
of $36,000 and took title solely in his name. 
He alleges that he then opened escrow to purchase the property with
Megan Halekakis as joint 50/50 owners as tenants in common on March 14, 2011,
such that he deposited an additional $17,000, she deposited $35,300, and the
balance was financed.  Plaintiff alleges
that Megan Halekakis deeded her ½ interest to herself, Plaintiff, and Nico
Halekakis equally as tenants in common, such that Plaintiff had 66-2/3%, Megan
Halekakis had 16-2/3%, and Nico Halekakis had 16-2/3% ownership interest in the
property as tenants in common.  Plaintiff
alleges that the parties reached an oral agreement to rent the property and
that they would take equal distribution of profits.  He alleges that they worked together to
renovate the property.  
Plaintiff
alleges that he was listed on several deeds as tenants in common with his
parents John and Sophia Halekakis. 
However, Nico Halekakis threatened Plaintiff with criminal and civil
prosecution if the properties were not moved over to his name.  Plaintiff alleges that he signed deeds moving
the properties jointly owned by him and his parents to Nico Halekakis’s name on
October 11, 2019.  He alleges that Nico
Halekakis also insisted that he transfer the grant deed for the subject
property so that he and Megan Halekakis could refinance the property, but
Plaintiff refused to and did not sign over any documents regarding the subject
property. 
Plaintiff
alleges that he discovered in May 2021 when he was reviewing his property
ownership that a deed was recorded on January 4, 2021 purporting to transfer
Plaintiff’s interest in the subject property to Nico and Megan Halekakis, which
he alleges is a forged deed.  
The complaint,
filed June 18, 2021, alleges causes of action for: (1) cancellation of
instrument and damages (forgery); (2) accounting; (3) money had and received;
and (4) partition of real property. 
B.     Motion
on Calendar 
On October 31,
2023, Defendants Nick J. Halekakis and Megan T. Lorick Halekakis (“Defendants”)
filed a motion for leave to file a cross-complaint.  On November 14, 2023, Defendants filed an
addendum to the motion.  
On November 16,
2023, Plaintiff filed an opposition brief.
On November 21,
2023, Defendants filed a reply brief. 
LEGAL STANDARD
            CCP
§ 426.50 states: 
A party who fails to plead a cause of
action subject to the requirements of this article, whether through oversight,
inadvertence, mistake, neglect, or other cause, may apply to the court for
leave to amend his pleading, or to file a cross-complaint, to assert such cause
at any time during the course of the action. The court, after notice to the
adverse party, shall grant, upon such terms as may be just to the parties,
leave to amend the pleading, or to file the cross-complaint, to assert such
cause if the party who failed to plead the cause acted in good faith. This
subdivision shall be liberally construed to avoid forfeiture of causes of
action.
(CCP § 426.50.) 
DISCUSSION
            Defendants
move for leave to file the proposed cross-complaint.  A copy of the proposed cross-complaint is attached
as Exhibit A to the Addendum to the Motion for Leave to File
Cross-Complaint.  The proposed
cross-complaint is alleged against Plaintiff and alleges a single cause of
action for breach of written contract wherein they seek over $500,000 in
damages. (Proposed Cross-Complaint, ¶8.)
            Defendants
argue that they had difficulty obtaining counsel at the commencement of the
action and then they were represented by ineffectual counsel.  (N. Halekakis Decl., ¶2.)  They argue that their recently withdrawn
counsel (on October 2, 2023) did not complete discovery, engage in any attempts
to resolve the matter, nor file a cross-complaint.  Nick Halekakis states that he and his wife did
not feel qualified to analyze the facts and law to prepare a cross-complaint
and that their prior counsel failed to file a cross-complaint despite their
requests because he “never got around to it.” 
(Id., ¶¶2-3.)  Defendants
argue that Plaintiff has always been aware that Defendants asserted that he was
in breach of the agreement and even stated so in their third affirmative
defense in the answer.[1]  (Id., ¶2.)  Thus, they argue that Plaintiff will not be
prejudiced if the Court were to grant this motion.  
            In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that Defendants have not shown that they have met
the standard for a mandatory cross-complaint and have not shown oversight, inadvertence, mistake, neglect, or other
cause for a compulsory cross-complaint.  Plaintiff
argues that the case was filed 2 years ago on June 18,
2021 and that Defendants were represented by counsel Jared Barry for 15
months.  Plaintiff argues that in order
to accommodate Defendants and Mr. Barry, he agreed to continue trial from
September 6, 2022 to February 2023 and then again to September 2023.  Plaintiff argues that this motion is simply a
delay tactic in light of the upcoming trial date of February 5, 2024.  He argues that Defendants are experienced litigants
who were able to file an answer and respond to discovery. Plaintiff also argues
that discovery could have been conducted at any time by defendants and that the
facts regarding this motion were already in Defendants’ possession.  
            Plaintiff
argues that if this motion is granted, the Court should impose certain
conditions  pursuant to CCP § 426.50 such
that: (1) Defendants pay $50,000-$75,000 as a condition of granting the motion
to cover Plaintiff’s legal fees to defend against the cross-complaint and for
Defendants’ wasted delay; (2) a continuance of trial so that Plaintiff can file
a motion with respect to the cross-complaint and conduct discovery; (3) a
one-way reopening of motion and discovery cut-offs in favor of Plaintiff only
as it would be grossly unfair for Defendants to engage in additional discovery
or motion practice; and (4) an order that Defendants have waived their
attorney-client privilege with their former counsel Mr. Barry such that
Plaintiff would be entitled to all written/oral correspondence between
Defendants and Mr. Barry.  
            The
grounds for denying a motion such as this are narrow. The Court “shall grant”
the motion if the party seeking to assert the mandatory cross-complaint acts in
“good faith.” This is the rare case where a party seeking to assert a late cross-complaint
is acting in bad faith. 
First, there is
no doubt that Defendants have been aware of their claim that the Plaintiff
Christo Halekakis breached an investment contract relating to the subject
property at the time they filed their answer on October 1, 2021. As noted in
the moving papers, Plaintiffs referred to this contract in their Third Amended
Defense of the Answer, and then subsequently in their discovery responses.
Defendants’ answer in this case is extraordinarily professional for pro per
litigants, and goes on for 5 pages; yet Mr. Nico Halekakis asks this court to
believe he was incapable of adding a three-page cross-complaint referencing the
same agreement he had just referenced in his answer. 
Defendant Nico
Halekakis has acted as his own attorney in this case for extended parts of the
case, as has Defendant Megan T. Halekakis. Having observed them and having read
their self-drafted papers the Court is convinced that they were at all times
capable of filing the requested cross-complaint, yet declined to do as part of
strategy to delay and frustrate the case. Mr. Nico Halekakis’ unsupported
statement that he and his wife “did not feel qualified to analyze the facts and
law” regarding this cross-complaint is disingenuous and fails to address their
history as self-represented litigants. At the relevant time when the
cross-complaint should have been filed they obviously felt qualified to assert
the same claim as an affirmative defense. The answer itself speaks in a tone of
complete self-confidence and self-righteousness, as if the author feels
absolutely qualified to make categorical legal proclamations and absolute
factual assertions with certainty.[2]
Whatever his legal qualifications, the author of that document was not
experiencing any doubt as to such qualifications at that time. The Court further
finds that Nico Halekakis’ statement regarding this reasoning to be not credible
as it is not backed by persuasive evidence that would obviously be in
Defendants’ control.[3]

            Mr.
Nico Halekakis’ statement that he requested his former counsel to file the
cross-complaint is likewise not credible. If such a communication had taken
place, it is highly likely that it would have been commemorated in writing or
commemorated by notes.[4]
Yet no writing was produced to support these supposed communications, and the
former counsel has not verified that they took place. If this motion was truly
based on neglect of counsel, a declaration of that counsel should have been
filed.[5]

            The
matter of a cross-complaint was only brought to the Court after Defendants had
fully exhausted their tactic of delaying trial by firing their previous counsel
and then refusing to relieve him of his duties, while also refusing to allow
him to act on their behalf.[6]
Their bad faith behavior towards their own counsel caused a delay of nearly two
months while his status was adjudicated by the Court. Defendants then failed to
bring in new counsel until it became obvious that the Court would tolerate no
further delay on that account. This conduct is further evidence of their bad
faith in connection with this cross-complaint as it shows their calculated
efforts to delay the trial.
            Defendants’
previous failure to make discovery is also evidence of their bad faith. If they
had a $500,000 breach of contract claim that had been placed in issue by their
own pleading, it would have behooved them to produce that contract as well as
all documents showing that breach of contract. Certainly, they would have been
advised to do so by counsel, and there is no evidence that counsel did not so
advise them. Yet Defendants’ motion fails to rebut Plaintiff’s assertion that
they previously verified that they had no documents to produce. (See Opposition
at 4.)  Once again, Defendants’ actions show
a lack of credibility. 
            Finally,
it appears that the cross-complaint itself is without merit and seems
calculated to cause delay while its lack of merit is ferreted out by extensive
discovery and motion practice. It references a written agreement dated March 8,
2011, yet that agreement is not attached, and as noted above, Defendants have
previously verified that documents regarding this transaction do not exist.
Second, while being vague as to precisely when the alleged breach of agreement
took place, it seems that all or most such breaches took place in the 18 months
after the written agreement was allegedly signed in 2011, which would be about
ten years before this litigation was filed. Given that the cross-complaint is
fatally vague and obviously demurrable on statute of limitations grounds, it
seems to be just another delaying tactic. 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER 
Defendants Nick
J. Halekakis and Megan T. Lorick Halekakis’s motion for leave to file the
proposed cross-complaint is denied. Defendants shall provide notice of this order. 
Warning regarding
electronic appearances:  All software for remote or electronic
appearances is subject to malfunction based on system weakness and human error,
which can originate from any of the multiple parties participating each
morning. The seamless operation of the Court’s electronic appearance software
is dependent on numerous inconstant and fluctuating factors that may impact
whether you, or other counsel or the Court itself can be heard in a particular
case. Not all these factors are within the control of the courtroom staff. For
example, at times, the system traps participants in electronic purgatories
where they cannot be heard and where the courtroom staff is not aware of their
presence. If you call the courtroom, please be respectful of the fact that a
court hearing is going on, and that the courtroom staff is doing their best to
use an imperfect system. If it is truly important to you to be heard, please
show up to the courtroom in the normal way. Parking is free or reasonable
in Burbank.

 

 


