 Case Number:  22BBCV00704    Hearing Date:   December 1, 2023    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
Ariella
  lousky,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
douglas
  peter richter, 
                        Defendant. 


 
  Case No.: 
  22BBCV00704
 
  Hearing Date:  December 1, 2023
 
[TENTATIVE] order RE:
motion to seal Court records



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations

Plaintiff Ariella Lousky (“Plaintiff”)
alleges that she (as landlord) entered into a lease agreement with Defendant
Douglas Peter Richter (“Defendant”) as tenant for the property located at 6206
Teesdale Ave., North Hollywood, CA 91606. 
The duration of the lease was from June 1, 2020 to May 31, 2022.  Plaintiff alleges that she delivered
possession of the property pursuant to the lease and Defendant was subsequently
evicted from the property.  Plaintiff
alleges that on December 16, 2021, a stipulated judgment – unlawful detainer was
entered in LASC Case No. 21PDUD00986 in favor of Plaintiff and against
Defendant, to which Defendant was to vacate the property by May 31, 2022.  Plaintiff alleges that upon Defendant’s
eviction, it was discovered that Defendant left the property in great disrepair
in violation of the lease.  Plaintiff
alleges she incurred $28,956 in repairs and that after offset, Defendant owes
Plaintiff $21,496.  
The complaint, filed on October 3, 2022,
alleges causes of action for: (1) breach of written contract; and (2) breach of
the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing. 
B.    
Cross-Complaint

On September 12, 2023, Defendant (a
self-represented litigant) filed a cross-complaint against Ariela Lousky,
Andrew Mazor, Muarice Abikizer, and Milestone Design and Development Inc. for:
(1) breach of contract settlement stipulation; (2) breach of the covenant of
good faith and fair dealing; (3) unfair treatment and unjust eviction; (4)
fraud; (5) breach of implied warranty; (6) breach of express warranty; (7) breach
of duty arising from home inspection report; and (8) declaratory relief. 
C.    
Motion
on Calendar 
On October 17, 2023, Defendant filed a
motion to seal court records.  
The Court is not in receipt of an
opposition brief.  
LEGAL STANDARD
“Unless
confidentiality is required by law, court records are presumed to be open.” 
(CRC Rule 2.550(c).)  “A record must not be filed under seal without a court
order. The court must not permit a record to be filed
under seal based solely on the agreement or stipulation of the parties.”  (CRC Rule 2.551(a).)  
Pursuant to
California Rules of Court, Rule 2.550(d), “The court may order that a record be
filed under seal only if it expressly finds facts that establish:
(1)
There exists an overriding interest that overcomes the right of public access
to the record;
(2)
The overriding interest supports sealing the record;
(3)
A substantial probability exists that the overriding interest will be
prejudiced if the record is not sealed;
(4)
The proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and
(5)
No less restrictive means exist to achieve the overriding interest.” 
            CCP §
1161.2(a)(1) states that the clerk shall allow access to limited civil case
records, including the court file:
(E) Except as provided in subparagraph
(G), to any person by order of the court if judgment is entered for the
plaintiff after trial more than 60 days since the filing of the complaint. The
court shall issue the order upon issuing judgment for the plaintiff.
(F) Except as
provided in subparagraph (G), to any other person 60 days after the complaint
has been filed if judgment against all
defendants has been entered for the plaintiff within 60 days of the
filing of the complaint, in which case the clerk shall allow access to any
court records in the action. If a default or default judgment is set aside more
than 60 days after the complaint has been filed, this section shall apply as if
the complaint had been filed on the date the default or default judgment is set
aside.
(G)(i) In the case
of a complaint involving residential property based on Section 1161a as
indicated in the caption of the complaint, as required in subdivision (c) of
Section 1166, to any other person, if 60 days have elapsed since the complaint
was filed with the court, and, as of that date, judgment against all defendants
has been entered for the plaintiff, after a trial.
(ii) Subparagraphs
(E) and (F) shall not apply if the plaintiff filed the action between March 4,
2020, and September 30, 2021, and the action is based on an alleged default in
the payment of rent.
(CCP § 1161.2(a)(1)(E)-(G).)  
DISCUSSION 
            Defendant
moves to seal this matter, arguing that it arises directly out of a matter
sealed by the courts.  He argues that the
parties resolved their dispute by stipulated agreement and settlement, which
included an agreement to seal the records unconditionally.  
            Defendant
argues that sealing is proper and there is an overriding interest in sealing pursuant
to CCP § 1161.2.  However, this unlawful
detainer action was not filed between March
4, 2020, and September 30, 2021.  The
action was filed on October
3, 2022, such that section 1161.2 does not apply.  
Defendant also argues that there is an
overriding interest in protecting his rental records, the ability to find
affordable housing, and reporting by credit agencies.  While this may be a legitimate concern for
Defendant, landlords too may investigate whether there are any outstanding
actions filed against potential tenants. 
As stated in the CRC rules, there is a presumption of openness of court
records.
            Next, Defendant argues that the
sealing of the records is narrowly tailored and there are no less restrictive
means because sealing will safeguard against credit reporting agencies making
it difficult for Defendant to find decent housing.  However, Defendant’s proposed sealing would
be for the entirety of the court record, which is not narrowly tailored to
specific documents or certain line redactions in documents.  
            Finally, Defendant references a
settlement agreement and a confidentiality provision.  A copy of the stipulation/settlement
agreement is not provided.  However, even
if the document were provided with the motion papers, “[a] record must not be filed under seal without a court
order. The court must not permit a record to be filed
under seal based solely on the agreement or stipulation of the parties.”  (CRC Rule 2.551(a).)  
            Based on the papers presented by
Defendant, the motion to seal is denied. 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
            Defendant
Douglas Peter Richter’s motion to seal is denied.
            Defendant
shall provide notice of this order. 
Warning regarding
electronic appearances:  All software for remote or electronic
appearances is subject to malfunction based on system weakness and human error,
which can originate from any of the multiple parties participating each
morning. The seamless operation of the Court’s electronic appearance software
is dependent on numerous inconstant and fluctuating factors that may impact
whether you, or other counsel or the Court itself can be heard in a particular
case. Not all these factors are within the control of the courtroom staff. For
example, at times, the system traps participants in electronic purgatories
where they cannot be heard and where the courtroom staff is not aware of their
presence. If you call the courtroom, please be respectful of the fact that a
court hearing is going on, and that the courtroom staff is doing their best to
use an imperfect system. If it is truly important to you to be heard, please
show up to the courtroom in the normal way. Parking is free or reasonable
in Burbank.
 