 Case Number:  23BBCV00655    Hearing Date:   December 1, 2023    Dept:  NCB P
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
shahrzad
  alvandian, et al.,
 
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
select produce
  properties, llc, et
  al,
 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.:  23BBCV00655
 
Hearing
  Date:  December 1, 2023
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
Demurrer; motion to strike; and motions to compel 
 



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations

Plaintiff Shahrzad
Alvandian (“Alvandian”) alleges that on July 18, 2023, she entered into a
written lease agreement with lessor Coldwater Court Apartments for the property
located at 4526 Coldwater Canyon Avenue, #205, Los Angeles, CA 91604.  Alvandian alleges that through a series of
transactions, Defendant Select Produce Properties, LLC (“SPP”) and Defendant
SPI, LLC (“SPI”) became the present lessors of the property.  Alvandian alleges that she and her husband
Plaintiff Masoud Ansari currently reside in Unit #205.   
Plaintiffs
allege that commencing November 14, 2021, Defendants have created a nuisance at
Unit #305 by allowing it to be used by others who make excessive noise day and
night.  Plaintiffs allege that Defendants
were repeatedly notified of the excessive noise, but they failed to take action
to reduce the noise and sounds. 
The first amended complaint (“FAC”), filed
June 5, 2023, alleges causes of action for: (1) nuisance; (2) IIED; (3) breach
of lease; (4) breach of implied covenant of quiet enjoyment; and (5) negligence
in the caption of the FAC.  The body of
the FAC alleges causes of action for: (1) nuisance; (2) breach of lease; (3) breach
of implied covenant of quiet enjoyment; (4) IIED; and (5) negligence. 
B.    
Motions on Calendar 
On July 5, 2023, Defendant SPP filed a demurrer
to the 4th cause of action in the FAC and a motion to strike
portions of the FAC.  On November 15,
2023, Plaintiffs filed opposition briefs.  On November 21, 2023, SPP filed reply
briefs.  
On August 11, 2023, Defendant SPP filed 4 motions
to compel discovery.  Two motions are
directed against Plaintiff Alvandian for Form Interrogatories, set one (“FROG”)
and Requests for Production of Documents, set one (“RPD”).  Two motions are directed against Plaintiff
Ansari for FROG and RPDs.  On November
15, 2023, Plaintiffs filed an opposition brief. 
On November 21, 2023, SPP filed a reply brief.
DISCUSSION RE DISCOVERY MOTIONS
            SPP moves to compel
Alvandian and Ansari’s responses to FROGs and RPDs.  
On May 16, 2023,
SPP served
on Plaintiffs the discovery requests.  Defense counsel unilaterally provided an
extension for Plaintiffs when no responses were provided such that responses
were due by July 14, 2023.  As of the
filing of the motions, SPP states that it has not received
responses from Plaintiffs.  
In opposition,
Plaintiffs state that the motions are well taken, but that there are
extenuating circumstances that warrant a continuance of the motions.  Plaintiffs argue that their counsel Jay S.
Bloom, Esq. had a stroke on July 27, 2023 and he was at Providence Tarzana
Medical Center until August 1, 2023 and transferred to Providence Holy Cross
until August 11, 2023.  Plaintiffs argue
that counsel is currently in speech therapy. 
They state that they do not plan to make any objections to discovery and
that counsel has started preparing answers when he had the stroke.  Plaintiffs request that the motion be
continued for 45 days so that Plaintiffs can prepare responses and properly
oppose the motions.  
In reply, SPP
states that it wants an assurance that responses without objection will be
provided within 30 days.  SPP states that
it is amenable to a continuance of the motion and will take the motion
off-calendar if timely responses are received. 

To avoid further
motion practice and delays, and in light of Plaintiffs’ agreement to provide
responses without objection, the Court declines to continue the hearing on the
discovery motions and will grant the motions to compel initial responses to the
FROGs and RPDs.  The Court will provide
sufficient time for Plaintiffs to provide responses in light of Plaintiffs’
counsel’s medical issues and the holidays. 
The Court denies SPP’s request for sanctions.  
DISCUSSION
RE DEMURRER
            SPP demurs to the
4th cause of action for IIED (labeled as to 2nd cause of
action in the caption) on the grounds that it fails to allege sufficient facts
to constitute a cause of action. 
The elements of intentional infliction of
emotional distress are: (1) outrageous conduct by the defendant; (2) the
defendant’s intention of causing or reckless disregard of the probability of
causing emotional distress; (3) the plaintiff suffered severe or extreme
emotional distress; and (4) the plaintiff’s injuries were actually and
proximately caused by the defendant’s outrageous conduct.  (Vasquez
v. Franklin Mgmt. Real Estate Fund, Inc. (2013) 222 Cal.App.4th 819,
832.)  In order to avoid a demurrer, the
plaintiff must allege with great specificity, the acts which she believes are
so extreme as to exceed all bounds of behavior usually tolerated in a civilized
community.  (Id.) 
Conduct to be outrageous must be so
extreme as to exceed all bounds of behavior usually tolerated in a civilized
community.  (Christensen v. Superior Court (1991) 54 Cal.3d 868, 903.)  In addition, the outrageous conduct must be
of a nature which is especially calculated to cause, and does cause, mental
distress of a very serious kind.  (Id.) 
“Although emotional distress may consist of
any highly unpleasant mental reaction such as fright, grief, shame,
humiliation, embarrassment, anger, chagrin, disappointment or worry [citation],
to make out a claim, the plaintiff must prove that emotional distress was
severe and not trivial or transient.”  (Wong v. Tai Jing (2010)
189 Cal.App.4th 1354, 1376.)  Such distress must be “of such
substantial quality or enduring quality that no reasonable person in civilized
society should be expected to endure it.”  (Potter v. Firestone Tire
& Rubber Co. (1993) 6 Cal.4th 965, 1004.)
In the 4th cause of
action for IIED, commencing on November 14, 2021, Defendants intentionally made
excessive noise and sounds and deliberately failed to take action to stop the
excessive noise and sounds and thereby have intentionally acted to cause
Plaintiffs to suffer severe emotional distress. 
(FAC, ¶27.)  Plaintiffs allege
Defendants’ conduct was outrageous.  (Id.)  Plaintiffs allege that as a
proximate result of Defendants’ conduct, Plaintiffs have suffered severe
emotional distress and are entitled to general damages, special damages, and
damages for loss of use and enjoyment of their apartment and overpayment of
rent.  (Id., ¶¶28-31.)  Plaintiffs allege that Defendants’ conduct
was intentionally performed with oppression, fraud, or malice as they were
aware of the excessive noise and sounds Plaintiffs were exposed to and were
aware of Plaintiffs’ damages, but they ignored the complaints and failed to take
any action.  (Id., ¶33.)
SPP demurs to
the IIED cause of action, arguing that there are no specific allegations of
Defendants’ wrongdoing or to show that the conduct is utterly intolerable in a
civilized community.  SPP argues that the
conduct alleged shows, at most, that it was negligent for its failures to
alleviate the noise, but that its failure to do so was not extreme or
outrageous conduct. While Plaintiffs allege that Defendants’ conduct was
“intentional,” the allegations supporting a showing that SPP acted
intentionally or that it engaged in outrageous conduct have not been adequately
pled.  IIED must be pled with a degree of
specificity and this pleading standard has not been met. 
Further, the
allegations regarding Plaintiffs’ severe emotional distress are conclusory and
sparse.  The “mere allegation that the plaintiffs suffered severe
emotional distress, without facts indicating the nature or extent of any mental
suffering incurred as a result of the defendant's alleged outrageous conduct,
fail[s] to state a cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional
distress.”  (Pitman v. City of Oakland (1988)
197 Cal.App.3d 1037, 1047.)  “The allegation that plaintiff suffered shame,
humiliation and embarrassment without further factual explanation does not meet
the requirement of specificity….”  (Id.) 
The FAC alleges that Plaintiffs suffered severe emotional distress in a
conclusory fashion without any further supporting facts.  (See FAC, ¶¶27, 28.)  
The demurrer to the IIED cause of action is sustained with
leave to amend. 
DISCUSSION RE MOTION TO STRIKE
            SPP moves to strike the allegations
for punitive damages (paragraphs 11 and 33, and the prayer for damages at
paragraph 4) and the damages request in connection with the IIED cause of
action (paragraphs 27-33). 
A.   
Punitive Damages
A complaint including a request for
punitive damages must include allegations showing that the plaintiff is
entitled to an award of punitive damages.  (Clauson v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253,
1255.)  A claim for punitive damages cannot be pleaded generally and
allegations that a defendant acted "with oppression, fraud and
malice" toward plaintiff are insufficient legal conclusions to show that
the plaintiff is entitled to an award of punitive damages.  (Brousseau v. Jarrett (1977) 73
Cal.App.3d 864, 872.)  Specific factual allegations are required to
support a claim for punitive damages.  (Id.)
Civil Code § 3294
authorizes a plaintiff to obtain an award of punitive damages when there is
clear and convincing evidence that the defendant engaged in malice, oppression,
or fraud.  Section 3294(c) defines the terms in the following manner:
(1)  
"Malice" means conduct which is
intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others.
(2)  
"Oppression" means despicable
conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious
disregard of that person's rights.
(3)  
"Fraud" means an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury. 
In the FAC,
Plaintiffs seek punitive damages in connection with the 1st cause of
action for nuisance and 4th cause of action for IIED.  The allegations for punitive damages are
similar: that Defendants’ conduct was intentionally
performed with oppression, fraud, or malice as they were aware of the excessive
noise and sounds Plaintiffs were exposed to and were aware of Plaintiffs’
damages, but they ignored the complaints and failed to take any action.  (FAC,
¶¶11, 33.)  As currently alleged, the FAC
fails to allege sufficient facts to rise to the level of warranting punitive
damages.  The conduct alleged to support a
showing of oppression, malice, or fraud essentially rise to negligence.  Further, merely alleging that Defendants
acted with oppression, malice, or fraud is not sufficient to allege punitive
damages with the requisite particularity.  “To support punitive damages, the complaint
asserting one of those causes of action must allege ultimate facts of the
defendant's oppression, fraud, or malice.”  (Cyrus v. Haveson
(1976) 65 Cal.App.3d 306, 316-17.)  For example, the complaint in Brousseau
v. Jarrett, which the court held was “a patently insufficient statement of
‘oppression, fraud, or malice, express or implied’”, as it stated:
Defendant
engaged in the conduct described in the second count ‘intentionally, wilfully,
fraudulently, and with a wanton, reckless disregard for the possible injuries
[sic] consequences ... and as a result of ... said intentional, wilful, wanton,
reckless, oppressive, and fraudulent conduct, plaintiff is entitled to
exemplary damages. . . .
(Brousseau
v. Jarrett (1977) 73 Cal.App.3d 864, 869 & 872.)  Here, the facts fail to meet the requisite
particularity to allege a claim for punitive damages.  At most, they allege the words of the statute
in a conclusory manner.  
Thus,
the motion to strike the allegations for punitive damages is granted with leave
to amend. 
B.    
IIED Damages
Next,
SPP moves to strike the allegations for damages in connection with the IIED
cause of action.  The motion is granted
with leave to amend in light of the ruling on the demurrer to the IIED cause of
action. 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
            Defendant Select Produce
Properties, Inc.’s four motions to compel responses to the FROGs and RPDs
directed against Plaintiffs are granted. 
Plaintiffs are ordered to provide verified responses to Defendant’s
discovery requests, without
objections, within 45 days of notice of this order.  No sanctions will be awarded.  
            Defendant Select Produce Properties,
Inc.’s demurrer to the IIED cause of action is sustained with 45 days leave to
amend. Upon filing an amended pleading, Plaintiffs should make the numbered
causes of action in the caption of their complaint consistent with the numbered
causes of action in the body of the complaint. 
            Defendant Select Produce Properties,
Inc.’s motion to strike is granted with 45 days leave to amend. 
Warning regarding
electronic appearances:  All software for remote or electronic
appearances is subject to malfunction based on system weakness and human error,
which can originate from any of the multiple parties participating each
morning. The seamless operation of the Court’s electronic appearance software
is dependent on numerous inconstant and fluctuating factors that may impact
whether you, or other counsel or the Court itself can be heard in a particular
case. Not all these factors are within the control of the courtroom staff. For
example, at times, the system traps participants in electronic purgatories
where they cannot be heard and where the courtroom staff is not aware of their
presence. If you call the courtroom, please be respectful of the fact that a
court hearing is going on, and that the courtroom staff is doing their best to
use an imperfect system. If it is truly important to you to be heard, please
show up to the courtroom in the normal way. Parking is free or reasonable
in Burbank.
          
 