 Case Number:  23BBCV01862    Hearing Date:   December 1, 2023    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North Central District
Department B
 



 
qin zhou,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
diana gomez, et
  al.,
                        Defendants.
 


 
  Case No.:  23BBCV01862
    
  Hearing
  Date:  December 1, 2023
 
 [TENTATIVE] order RE:
defendants’ special motion to strike plaintiff’s complaint pursuant to
  c.c.p. § 425.16
 



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations 
Plaintiff Qin Zhou (“Plaintiff”) alleges that Defendants Diana Gomez,
Defendant William Antonio Barrera, Jr., and non-party Sadia Gomez-Rosas are
alleged to be the daughters and son of Esperanza Barrera, deceased
(“Decedent”).  Decedent is alleged to be
the trustee of the Barrera Family Trust Agreement Dated October 3rd, 1996
(“Barrera Family Trust”) and Sadia Gomez-Rosas is alleged to be the successor
trustee to Decedent.  
Plaintiff alleges that in her capacity as trustee, Decedent entered
into a contract to sell 2309 N. Naomi Street, Burbank, CA 91504 to
Plaintiff.  (Compl., ¶10.)  Escrow for the sale of the property was
opened on or about May 2, 2022.  (Id.,
¶11.)  Plaintiff alleges that Defendants,
without legal justification, and with full knowledge of the purchase and sale
contract under which Plaintiff was to become the owner of the property in May
2022, recorded a lis pendens against the property and commenced an action
in the Los Angeles Superior Court, Case No. 22BBCV00328 against Decedent in an
attempt to stop the sale and Defendants filed a Notice of Pendency of Action on
May 11, 2022 in LASC Case No. 22BBCV00328 (“First Action”).  (Id., ¶12.) 
Plaintiff alleges that Defendants asserted in the First Action
that they should have been named as beneficiaries of the Trust and that they
were wrongfully disinherited, but that Judge Kralik held that even if
Defendants’ factual allegations were correct about them being beneficiaries,
they had no rights to the property—only rights to a portion of the proceeds of
the sale of the property.  (Id.,
¶13.)  
Decedent died on October 29, 2022. 
(Id., ¶14.)  Sadia
Gomez-Rosas, as successor trustee, defended the First Action filed by Diana
Gomez and William Antonio Barrera, Jr. and after 3 rounds of demurrers, the
trial court granted Sadia Gomez-Rosas’ motion to expunge the lis pendens
on February 17, 2023, finding that Defendants had not and could not state a
real property claim.  (Id., ¶¶15,
17, Ex. 1.)  Plaintiff alleges that the
sale of the property was rescheduled and escrow was to close in August
2023.  (Id., ¶16.)  However, Plaintiff alleges that Defendants
again recorded a lis pendens against the property in August 2023 in an
attempt to stop the sale of the property and that this prevented the closing of
escrow as scheduled.  (Id.,
¶17.)  Plaintiff alleges that Defendants
violated CCP § 405.36 by recording another lis pendens without leave of
court and that they filed a Petition in the Probate Department as LASC Case No.
23STPB08705 (“Probate Action”) on August 7, 2023 in an attempt to evade section
405.36.  (Id., ¶18.)  
The complaint, filed August 11, 2023, alleges causes of action for: (1)
intentional interference with contract; (2) intentional interference with
prospective economic advantage; and (3) negligent interference with prospective
economic advantage.  The Court will refer
to this action in LASC Case No. 23BBCV01862 as the “Second Action.” 
B.    
Motion on Calendar 
On October 12, 2023, Defendants Diana Gomez
and William Antonio Barrera, Jr. filed a special motion to strike Plaintiff’s complaint
pursuant to CCP § 425.16.  
On November 16, 2023, Plaintiff filed an opposition brief. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
CCP § 425.16 permits the Court to strike causes of action arising from
an act in furtherance of the defendant's right of free speech or petition,
unless the plaintiff establishes that there is a probability that the plaintiff
will prevail on the claim.  (Rand
Resources, LLC v. City of Carson (2019) 6 Cal.5th 610, 615.)  In other words, “[a] court may strike a cause of action only if the
cause of action (1) arises from an act in furtherance of the right of petition
or free speech ‘in connection with a public issue,’ and (2) the plaintiff has
not established ‘a probability’ of prevailing on the claim.”  (Id.
at 619-620.)  
The defendant bears the initial burden of
showing that: (1) the claims fall within the class of suits subject to a motion
to strike under CCP § 425.16(e) and (2) the plaintiff’s claims in fact arise from defendant’s conduct in
further of his right to free speech.  (Id. at 620; Fox Searchlight Pictures, Inc. v. Paladino (2001) 89 Cal.App.4th
294, 304.)  Under CCP §425.16(b)(2), the Court may consider the pleadings
and supporting affidavits in making its determination.  Subdivision (e) defines the “act in furtherance
of a person’s right of petition or free speech under the United States or
California Constitution in connection with at public issues” as including:
(1)  
any
written or oral statement or writing made before a legislative, executive, or
judicial proceeding, or any other official proceeding authorized by law; 
(2)  
any written or oral statement or
writing made in connection with an issue under consideration or review by a
legislative, executive, or judicial body, or any other official proceeding
authorized by law;
(3)  
any written or oral statement or
writing made in a place open to the public or a public forum in connection with
an issue of public interest; or
(4)  
any other conduct in furtherance of
the exercise of the constitutional right of petition or the constitutional
right of free speech in connection with a public issue or an issue of public
interest.
            If the defendant meets this initial
burden, the plaintiff then has the burden of demonstrating a probability of
prevailing on the claim.  (Jarrow
Formulas, Inc. v. LaMarche (2003) 31 Cal.4th 728, 741.)  The plaintiff
satisfies this burden by demonstrating that the complaint is both legally
sufficient and supported by a sufficient prima facie showing of facts to
sustain a favorable judgment if the evidence submitted by the plaintiff is
credited.  (Id.)  Under CCP
§4 25.16(b)(2), a plaintiff may use affidavits to meet the plaintiff’s burden.
The evidentiary showing by the plaintiff must be made by competent and
admissible evidence.  (Morrow v. Los
Angeles Unified Sch. Dist. (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1424, 1444; Evans v.
Unkow (1995) 38 Cal.App.4th 1490, 1497-98 [proof cannot be made by
declaration based on information and belief]; Tuchscher Dev. Enters., Inc.
v. San Diego Unified Port Dist. (2003) 106 Cal.App.4th 1219, 1236-38
[documents submitted without proper foundation could not be considered in
determining plaintiff's probability of prevailing on its claim].)
DISCUSSION 
            Defendants
Diana Gomez and William Antonio Barrera, Jr. (“Defendants”) specially move to
strike Plaintiff’s complaint in the Second Action and seek an award of monetary
sanctions against Plaintiff and her attorney of record for attorney’s fees and
costs pursuant to CCP § 425.16.  
A.    
Prong 1 Protected Activity
– Defendants’ Initial Burden 
Defendants argue that they can establish the
first prong of the anti-SLAPP statute because their filing of the First Action,
filing and recording a lis pendens in May 2022 in the First Action, filing the
Probate Action, and filing the second lis pendens in the Probate
Action are protected litigation-related conduct.  CCP § 425.16(e)(1) and (2) define protected
activities as: “(1) any written
or oral statement or writing made before a legislative, executive, or judicial
proceeding, or any other official proceeding authorized by law” and “(2) any
written or oral statement or writing made in connection with an issue under
consideration or review by a legislative, executive, or judicial body, or any
other official proceeding authorized by law.” 
Defendants argue that they filed the First Action in this Department in
order to show that Decedent lacked authority to sell the subject property as a Trust
asset, that the Trust was irrevocable and could not be amended, and that the
beneficiaries were defrauded out of their inheritance in a portion of the
subject property by introducing a “phony” trust (the Amended and Restated
Trust).  Defendants argue that the fact
that they went to the wrong court first by filing the First Action does not
mean that their claims lacked merit, but instead that they mistakenly chose the
wrong forum to hear their dispute.  In
the First Action, the Court granted Sadia Gomez-Rosas’ motion to expunge the lis
pendens on February 17, 2023, finding that Diana Gomez and William Antonio Barrera, Jr.’s pleading did not include a
real property claim because they did not hold any title in the subject property
to support a quiet title cause of action and thereby lacked standing to bring a
quiet title claim.  (Valenzuela Decl.,
Ex. 3 [2/17/23 First Action Order at p.4].) 
Thereafter, on June 16, 2023, the Court ruled on Sadia Gomez-Rosas’s
demurrer to the Third Amended Complaint in the First Action, which included an
order that Diana Gomez and William Antonio Barrera, Jr. file an action in the
Probate Department or relate the First Action with any probate action and
ordered a stay in the First Action pending refiling with the Probate
Department.  (Valenzuela Decl., Ex. 4
[6/16/23 First Action Order].)  Defendants
then filed the Probate Action on August 7, 2023.[1]  (Valenzuela Decl., Ex. 5 [8/7/23 Probate
Action Complaint].)  They argue that
their claims are still pending in the Probate Action and that their conduct in
filing the actions and filing the second lis pendens (which they state
has not been recorded) are protected activities.  (Mot. at p.4, lines 14-16.)  
In opposition,
Plaintiff argues that Defendants’ conduct of recording a notice of lis
pendens in May 2022 is not privileged because this Court already
determined in the First Action that Defendants’ claims were not based upon a
real property claim.  (Opp. at p. 5,
lines 3-5.)  Plaintiff argues that the
recording of a lis pendens is not privileged if it is not based on a
real property claim.  A real property
claim is one that, if meritorious, would affect the title to, or the right of
possession of, specific real property. 
(CCP § 405.4.)  Plaintiff
clarifies that her complaint “does not seek to prevent Defendants from pursuing
their claims in their ongoing trust litigation. Plaintiff’s lawsuit here
concerns only the Defendants’ wrongful interference with her attempt to
purchase the Property, and the damages she is entitled to recover.”  (Opp. at p.4, lines 12-15.)  Plaintiff relies on Civil Code, § 47, which
states in relevant part: 
A privileged publication or broadcast is
one made:
…
(b) In any (1) legislative proceeding, (2) judicial proceeding, (3) in any
other official proceeding authorized by law, or (4) in the initiation or course
of any other proceeding authorized by law and reviewable pursuant to Chapter 2
(commencing with Section 1084) of Title 1 of Part 3 of the Code of
Civil Procedure, except as follows:
…
(4) A recorded lis pendens is not a privileged
publication unless it identifies an action previously filed with a court of
competent jurisdiction which affects the title or right of possession of real
property, as authorized or required by law.
(Civ. Code, § 47(b)(4).)[2]  “Therefore, if the pleading filed by the
claimant in the underlying action does not allege a real property claim, or the
alleged claim lacks evidentiary merit, the lis pendens, in addition to being
subject to expungement, is not privileged. It follows the lis pendens in that
situation may be the basis for an action for slander of title.”  (Palmer v. Zaklama
(2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 1367, 1380, 1381 [“The Zaklamas, in reliance on Albertson,
contend the complaint failed to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action for slander of title because the recordation of a lis pendens is
absolutely privileged. However, as we have explained, the privilege does not
attach unless the underlying action properly alleges a real property claim.”].)
            While the recording of a lis pendens would, at
first glance, appear to be a privileged action, this is not an absolute
privilege.  The litigation privilege does
not apply if the recordation of the lis pendens was not a privileged
publication.  With respect to the May
2022 lis pendens notice filed/recorded in the First Action, the
privilege did not attach because the First Action did not properly allege a valid
real property claim through the quiet title action.  As such, Defendants have not met their burden
on the first prong. 
            In their motion,
Defendants also argue that the filing of the second lis pendens (not
recordation) in the Probate Action is protected litigation-related
conduct.  However, as clarified by
Plaintiff in her opposition brief, her complaint in the Second Action is
regarding Defendants’ conduct in recording the first lis pendens notice
in the First Action.  (Opp. at
pp.4-5.)  While there are allegations in
Plaintiff’s complaint in the Second Action regarding Defendants’ recordation of
a second lis pendens without leave of court[3]
(Pl.’s Compl. in the Second Action, ¶18) or that her attempted purchase was disrupted
a second time in August 2023, the causes of action for interference with
contract, intentional interference with economic advantage, and negligent
interference with prospective economic advantage are regarding the recordation
of the first lis pendens, which disrupted her attempted purchase of the
subject property in May 2022 and her hopes of benefiting from a timely 1031
exchange at that time.  (Id.,
¶¶27, 35 50.)  
            As Defendants have not met
their initial burden on the first prong, the special motion to strike
Plaintiff’s complaint in the Second Action is denied.  As noted above, Plaintiff has conceded that
that her complaint does not seek to prevent Defendants from pursuing their
claims in the Probate Action and focuses on the recordation of the first lis
pendens in May 2022.  (See Opp. at
pp.4-5.)  Based on the papers and the
arguments/evidence present to the Court, the second lis pendens has only
been filed (not recorded) n the Probate Action and no determination has been
made regarding whether the lis pendens is proper or will be expunged.  
B.     
Prong 2 Probability of Prevailing on the Claims –
Plaintiff’s Shifted Burden 
As discussed above, Defendants have not met
their initial burden on the first prong. 
As such, the burden does not shift to Plaintiff to demonstrate the
probability of prevailing on the merits of her claims against Defendants.  
CONCLUSION AND ORDER  
Defendants Diana Gomez and William Antonio
Barrera, Jr.’s special motion to strike Plaintiff Qin Zhou’s complaint is
denied.  Defendants’ request for monetary
sanctions and attorney’s fees is denied. 

Defendants are ordered to file a responsive
pleading to Plaintiff’s complaint pursuant to code. 
Defendants shall provide notice of this order.

Warning regarding electronic appearances:  All
software for remote or electronic appearances is subject to malfunction based
on system weakness and human error, which can originate from any of the
multiple parties participating each morning. The seamless operation of the
Court’s electronic appearance software is dependent on numerous inconstant and
fluctuating factors that may impact whether you, or other counsel or the Court
itself can be heard in a particular case. Not all these factors are within the
control of the courtroom staff. For example, at times, the system traps
participants in electronic purgatories where they cannot be heard and where the
courtroom staff is not aware of their presence. If you call the courtroom,
please be respectful of the fact that a court hearing is going on, and that the
courtroom staff is doing their best to use an imperfect system. If it is
truly important to you to be heard, please show up to the courtroom in the
normal way. Parking is free or reasonable in Burbank.
 
 


