 Case Number:  23BBCV00098    Hearing Date:   December 1, 2023    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
x alexander, 
 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
alpha
  structural, inc.,
  et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


  Case No.: 23BBCV00098
 
  Hearing Date:  December 1, 2023 (cont. from October 27,
  2023) 
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:
motion to set aside/vacate entry of default; and
  motion to strike



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations
Plaintiff X Alexander (“Plaintiff”) alleges
that he manages the real property located at 11365 Ventura Blvd., Studio City,
CA 91604 (“Plaintiff’s Property”).  He
alleges that Defendant Beacon Management, Inc. (“Beacon”) is a property
management company which managed, maintained, and controlled the real property
located at 11331-11337 Ventura Blvd., Studio City, CA 91604 (“Subject
Property”).  Plaintiff alleges that
Defendant Alpha Structural, Inc. (“Alpha”) is a construction contractor that
was contracted by Beacon to perform work at the Subject Property, including
drilling a hole in a pedestrian pathway that was four feet deep and three feet
wide.  Defendant Larry Goldberg
(“Goldberg”) is alleged to be the owner of the Subject Property.  
Plaintiff alleges that he was an invitee
of the Subject Property on February 15, 2022 and that he was escorted by
Goldberg on an inspection regarding a sub-grade water intrusion issue affecting
the Subject Property.  Plaintiff alleges
that the pathway Goldberg was escorting Plaintiff through was only wide enough
for people to walk single-file and that he was at the head of the line, walked
on the pathway, and fell into the condition, suffering severe injuries.  Plaintiff alleges that the condition was
created, left unattended and unmarked (without any warning signs), and covered
up by a sheet of black tar paper.  
The complaint, filed January 17, 2023,
alleges a single cause of action for negligence (premises liability).  
On May 15, 2023, Plaintiff filed an
Amendment to the Complaint naming 11331-11337 Ventura Blvd., LLC as Doe 2.  
B.    
Relevant Background and Motions on Calendar
On March 14, 2023, the default of Beacon
Management, Inc. was entered.  
On March 14, 2023, the default of Larry
Goldberg was entered.  On May 3, 2023,
the Court signed the Order regarding Plaintiff and Goldberg Stipulation to
vacate the default judgment against Goldberg only.  
On May 25, 2023, Beacon filed a motion to
set aside/vacate the entry of default and for leave to defend the action.  On October 16, 2023, Plaintiff filed an
opposition brief.  
On May 25, 2023, Beacon filed a motion to
strike portions of the complaint.  The
Court is not in receipt of an opposition brief. 

The matter initially came for hearing on
October 27, 2023.  The Court heard oral
argument and continued the hearing to December 1, 2023.  The Court ordered Defendant Beacon to file a
supplemental declaration of Beacon’s agent regarding their mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect by November 26, 2023.  
On November 13, 2023, Beacon filed the
declarations of Larry Goldberg and Christy Maxey.  On November 14, 2023, Beacon filed another
declaration of Mr. Goldberg, which included an Exhibit A.
DISCUSSION
RE MOTION TO VACATE DEFAULT
A.   
Request for Judicial Notice
Plaintiff requests judicial notice of: (1)
the Corporate Statement of Information for Beacon filed with the California
Secretary of State; and (2) the Complaint. 
The request is granted.  (Evid.
Code, § 452(c)-(d); Rodas v. Spiegel
(2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 513, 518 [stating that courts are allowed to take
judicial notice of the official records of the California Secretary of State,
an executive department of this state].) 

B.    
Discussion of Merits 
Beacon moves to set aside the default
entered on March 14, 2023 and be given leave to defend itself in the lawsuit.  Beacon moves pursuant to CCP §§ 473(b) and
473.5, as well as upon equitable grounds for extrinsic mistake.  Beacon attaches a copy of the motion to
strike as the proposed responsive pleading. 
(Mot., Ex. A.)  
On January 31, 2023, Plaintiff filed the
Proof of Service of Summons regarding Beacon. 
The proof of service identifies Lawrence Goldberg as the agent for
service of process.  Service was
effectuated by substituted service on January 27, 2023 at 11:00 a.m. on “THELMA
GALANG – BOOKKEEPER” at the business address 6025 Scott Way, Commerce, CA
90040. The documents were thereafter mailed on January 30, 2023.  Service was performed by Eric Wilkins, a
registered California process server.  
Beacon provides the declaration of Eric L.
Anderson, its attorney of record, in support of the motion.  Mr. Anderson states that despite Plaintiff
knowing where Beacon could be found (directly next door to Plaintiff’s place of
employment), Plaintiff chose not to personally serve Beacon but instead chose
to serve Beacon’s bookkeeper via substituted service.  (Anderson Decl., ¶7.)  He states that there were delays in reporting
the suit and filing and answer on behalf of Beacon because Beacon’s agent who
was served via substituted service never sent the summons and complaint to
Beacon’s insurer.  (Id., ¶8.)  Counsel states that he first became aware of
the case on April 14, 2023 when it was assigned to him and he conducted an
investigation into why a responsive pleading had not been filed in a timely
fashion.  (Id., ¶9.)  He states that default had been entered on
March 14, 2023 and that on April 13, 2023, Goldberg inquired to his business’s
insurer about the defense in this matter as it related to Beacon; however, it
became apparent that no responsive pleading had been filed because there was no
record that Beacon had been named in the suit. 
(Id., ¶10.)  Mr. Anderson
states that he emailed Plaintiff’s counsel on May 4, 2023 and May 11, 2023,
requesting that the default be set aside, but Plaintiff’s counsel refused to
set aside the default unless Beacon paid them $1,500.  (Id., ¶11.)  He states that Plaintiff will not suffer any
prejudice by granting this motion, as Plaintiff was willing to stipulate to
withdraw the entry of default upon the payment of $1,500.  (Id., ¶14.)  
Larry Goldberg, the principal of Beacon,
also provides his declaration in support of the motion.  Mr. Goldberg states that he is the owner of
11331-11337 Ventura Blvd, LLC.  (Goldberg
Decl., ¶3.)  He states that he is the
agent for service of process for Beacon and that though Plaintiff was aware of
his whereabouts, he was not personally served with the summons and complaint
and instead the documents were served by substituted service.  (Id., ¶6.)  He states that the summons and complaint were
served on his bookkeeper.  (Id.)  Mr. Goldberg states that when he became aware
of the lawsuit 3 days after service, he immediately contacted his insurance
agent Sergio O’Campo on January 31, 2023 and Mr. O’Campo initiated a claim with
Liberty on February 21, 2023.  (Id.,
¶¶7-8.)  However, he states that a copy
of the summons and complaint was not forwarded nor requested at that time.  (Id., ¶8, Ex. A. [2/21/23 Email].)  Mr. Goldberg states that he mistakenly
believed that Mr. O’Campo had forwarded the summons and complaint to WAIC, but
he did not forward the documents and instead electronically submitted a claim
on behalf of Beacon on February 21, 2023. 
(Id., ¶¶9-10.)  He states
that he was not aware of the entry of default until April 12, 2023, at which
time he contacted WAIC and spoke with Christy Maxey.  (Id., ¶10.)  He states that he learned that WAIC did not
receive a copy of the summons and complaint, which contributed to Beacon’s
inadvertent failure to file a timely responsive pleading and he mistakenly
believed WAIC received the summons and complaint in time to file a responsive
pleading since the claim was made with ample time to do so.  (Id., ¶12.)  
Beacon also provides the declaration of
Christy Maxey, who is the Senior Claims Resolution Specialist with Liberty
Mutual Insurance Company (“Liberty”), of which West American Insurance Company
(“WAIC”) is a subsidiary.  (Maxey Decl.,
¶¶1-2.)  She states that on February 21,
2023, Liberty received a claim notification for insured Beacon and that she was
the adjuster assigned to the handle the claim when submitted.  (Id., ¶¶3-4.)  She states that on that same day, she spoke
with Larry Goldberg about the case and was informed that his agent would
forward the summons and complaint to WAIC. 
(Id., ¶5.)  She states that
she inadvertently failed to follow up with Mr. Goldberg when she did not
receive a copy of the summons and complaint to be forwarded for legal
representation and that this mistake resulted in Beacon’s failure to file a
timely responsive pleading.  (Id.,
¶¶6-7.)  She states that she followed up
with Mr. Goldberg on April 12, 2023 for a copy of the summons and complaint and
became aware of the default (entered on March 14, 2023) on April 13, 2023 when
he forwarded a copy of the pleadings to WAIC. 
(Id., ¶¶8-10.)  She states
that when she became aware of the default, she immediately forwarded the claim
for legal representation and the claim was assigned to attorney Eric
Anderson.  (Id., ¶¶11-12.)  
With respect to relief pursuant to CCP §
473.5, the Court declines to grant the motion on this basis.  Beacon has not provided “an affidavit
showing under oath that the party's lack of
actual notice in time to defend the action was not caused by his or her
avoidance of service or inexcusable neglect.” 
(CCP § 473.5(b).)   CCP § 473.5 may be invoked “[w]hen service of a summons has not resulted in actual notice to a party in time to
defend the action and a default or default judgment has been entered against
him or her
in the
action….”  (CCP § 473.5(a).)  Here, it does not appear that Beacon is
disputing that the substituted service was proper; rather, it argues that its
agent for service of process failed to forward the documents to it in a timely
manner.  According to Plaintiff’s Exhibit
1 in the request for judicial notice (in support of the opposition brief),
Beacon’s business and mailing address are listed as 6025 Scott Way and this is
the same address that is provided for Goldberg as the officer, director, and
agent for service of process.  (Pl.’s
RJN, Ex. 1.)  Thus, while Plaintiff’s
Property at 11365
Ventura Blvd. in Studio City may be next door to the
Subject Property (owned by Goldberg and managed by Beacon), this does not mean
that Plaintiff must serve Beacon at the Subject Property.  Rather, service at the address designated by
Beacon (and Goldberg) on the California Secretary of Statement website was
proper and was the address advertised by Beacon to provide it notice of
documents.  The motion will not be
granted pursuant to CCP § 473.5.  
Next, Beacon argues that relief is proper under CCP § 473(b).  Beacon argues that it did not intend to
disregard or avoid Plaintiff’s complaint, but that its failure to respond to
the complaint was a result of a mistake and/or reliance on its broker to timely
inform Beacon’s insurer regarding service of the complaint.  Beacon argues that once it discovered the
lawsuit, it immediately took action to meet and confer to set aside the default
and defend against the lawsuit.  
The Court grants the motion based on CCP § 473(b).  The declaration of Mr. Anderson establishes
that the default entered against Beacon was a result or inadvertence based on
the office staff’s failure to forward the documents to the appropriate persons
so that responsive pleading could be timely filed.  In addition, the declarations of Mr. Goldberg
and Ms. Maxey show that Mr. Goldberg timely submitted his claim to Liberty/WAIC
and a claim was initiated on his companies’ behalf, but the summons and
complaint documents were not properly forwarded to legal representation.  Further, based on the steps taken once the
lawsuit and default were discovered, defense counsel quickly sought to remedy
the issues, showing that Beacon intended to defend against the action.  Finally, the policy of the law strongly
favors a hearing on the merits, which supports granting this motion.  (Thompson
v. Sutton (1942) 50 Cal.App.2d 272, 276.) 

The Court will impose a penalty of
against Beacon pursuant to CCP § 473(c). 
Subsection (c)(1) states: 
(c)(1) Whenever the court grants relief
from a default, default judgment, or dismissal
based on any of the provisions of this section, the court may do any of the following:
(A) Impose a penalty of no greater than one
thousand dollars ($1,000) upon an offending attorney or party.
(B) Direct that an offending attorney pay an
amount no greater than one thousand dollars ($1,000) to the State Bar Client
Security Fund.
(C) Grant other relief as is appropriate.
(CCP § 473(c)(1).)  Pursuant to CCP § 473(c)(1)(C), Beacon is
directed to pay $1,000 to Plaintiff for Beacon’s neglect and delay in this
action. 
DISCUSSION
RE MOTION TO STRIKE
            Concurrently with the motion to
vacate the default, Beacon filed a motion to strike as its proposed responsive
pleading (as Exhibit A to the motion to vacate) as well as a separately filed
document and motion.  
Whether the motion to strike would go
forward was dependent on whether the motion to set aside the default would be
granted.  At this time, the motion to
strike is not opposed.  As the motion to
strike should have been lodged only as a proposed responsive pleading with the
motion to vacate the default, the Court continues the hearing on the motion to
strike so that there is sufficient opportunity for Plaintiff to file an
opposition brief.  
The motion to strike is continued.  
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
            Defendant Beacon Management, Inc.’s
motion to set aside the default is granted. 
Defendant is directed to
pay $1,000 to Plaintiff within 20 days of this order pursuant to CCP §
473(c)(1)(C).  
            Defendant
Beacon Management, Inc.’s motion to strike portions of the complaint is continued
to January 5, 2024 at 8:30 a.m.  If
Plaintiff intends to file an opposition and Defendant intends to file a reply
brief, the opposition and reply briefs shall be filed pursuant to code.  Defendant shall provide notice of this order.

Warning regarding
electronic appearances:  All software for remote or electronic
appearances is subject to malfunction based on system weakness and human error,
which can originate from any of the multiple parties participating each
morning. The seamless operation of the Court’s electronic appearance software
is dependent on numerous inconstant and fluctuating factors that may impact
whether you, or other counsel or the Court itself can be heard in a particular
case. Not all these factors are within the control of the courtroom staff. For
example, at times, the system traps participants in electronic purgatories
where they cannot be heard and where the courtroom staff is not aware of their
presence. If you call the courtroom, please be respectful of the fact that a
court hearing is going on, and that the courtroom staff is doing their best to
use an imperfect system. If it is truly important to you to be heard, please
show up to the courtroom in the normal way. Parking is free or reasonable
in Burbank.
 