 Case Number:  21STCV27531    Hearing Date:   December 1, 2023    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North Central District
Department B
 



 
sunshine williams, 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
mark mikhael, et al.,  
                        Defendants.
 


 
  Case
  No.:  21STCV27531
    
  Hearing
  Date:  December 1, 2023
 
 [TENTATIVE] order RE:
motion for summary
  judgment



 
 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations 
Plaintiff Sunshine Williams (“Plaintiff”) alleges that on September 14,
2018, she presented to Defendant Orthopedic Surgery Specialists Burbank
(“OSSB”), complaining of a twisting injury to the left foot/ankle, where she
was treated by Defendant Mark Mikhael, M.D. (“Dr. Mikhael”).  Plaintiff alleges that she underwent a series
of tests while confined at the hospital and that she underwent treatment of the
subject injury until August 6, 2019.  Plaintiff
alleges that because the injury to her left ankle never resolved, she sought
treatment at another facility in the area of her new residence in Texas, where
she underwent an MRI on September 18, 2020. It was then revealed that she had injuries
Defendants did not discover.  Plaintiff
alleges that Defendants failed to properly administer, test, diagnose, and/or
treat her medical condition, which resulted in serious, debilitating, and
permanent injuries. 
The complaint, filed July 27, 2021, alleges a single cause of action
for medical malpractice. 
B.    
Motion for Summary Judgment 
On September 13, 2023, Defendants Dr. Mikhael
and OSSB filed a motion for summary judgment against Plaintiff on the grounds
that the complaint has no merit and there are no triable issues of material
fact.  They argue that they have met the
standard of care in the care and treatment of Plaintiff and that no act or
omission by Defendants caused or contributed to Plaintiff’s injuries.  
On November 17, 2023, Plaintiffs filed opposition
papers. 
On November 22, 2023, Defendants filed reply
papers.  
LEGAL STANDARD
A defendant moving for summary judgment has the burden of proving that
one or more elements of a cause of action cannot be established or that there
is a complete defense to a cause of action. 
In a medical malpractice action, the elements are: “(1) the duty of the professional to use such
skill, prudence and diligence as other members of his profession commonly
possess and exercise; (2) breach of that duty; (3) a proximate causal
connection between the negligent conduct and the resulting injury; and (4)
actual loss or damage resulting from
the professional negligence (citations omitted).”  (Banerian
v. O’Malley (1974) 42 Cal.App.3d 604, 612, emphasis in original.)  Additionally, the standard of care against
which doctors are measured is a matter within the knowledge of experts. Breach
of the standard of care may only be proven by expert testimony.  (Landeros
v. Flood (1976) 17 Cal.3d 399, 410.)  

EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
            With the reply brief, Defendants submitted evidentiary
objections to Plaintiff’s evidence submitted with the opposition papers.  The Court rules as follows:
·        
Expert declaration
of Dr. Daniel Kaplan: Objection no. 1 overruled in part and sustained in
part.  Objection no. 1 is directed at
paragraphs 2-5, on the basis that Dr. Kaplan has not provided his
qualifications to render expert opinion and has not reviewed the pertinent
materials (Defendants’ records and Defendants’ expert Dr. Scott Forman’s
declaration, Plaintiff’s discovery responses, etc.).  The Court will sustain the objection to
paragraph 2, which states that a copy of Dr. Kaplan’s curriculum vitae is
attached as Exhibit A as there are no exhibits attached to the declaration.  However, the Court will allow the remainder
of Dr. Kaplan’s declaration to remain. 
He has stated in his declaration that he is an orthopedic surgeon and
that he has reviewed Plaintiff’s medical records, as well as the complaint and
Defendants’ motion for summary judgment papers—meaning, he has reviewed Dr.
Forman’s declaration, Plaintiff’s discovery responses, and Plaintiff’s medical
records.  (Kaplan Decl., ¶¶1, 3, 4.)  
·        
Plaintiff’s
Declaration: Objection no. 2 is overruled. 
·        
Plaintiff’s
counsel’s Declaration: Objection no. 3 is overruled.
·        
Objection 4 to the
“disputed facts” are overruled.  Objecting
to separate statement facts is not proper. 
DISCUSSION 
Defendants for summary judgment, arguing that
there are no triable issues of material fact regarding any breach of the
standard of care and causation. 
In support of their initial
burden, Defendants provide the following facts. 
Plaintiff filed the Complaint against Dr. Mikhael on July 27, 2021.  (Def.’s Fact 1.)  The complaint alleged a single cause of
action for Medical Malpractice.  (Id.
at 2.)  Plaintiff’s complaint alleges
that “Defendants … carelessly and negligently treated, tested, evaluated and
cared for Plaintiff, and so negligently failed to conform to the standards of
care required of them as medical practitioners, surgeons, nurses and
physicians, and that by reason thereof, plaintiff was caused to and did suffer
irreparable, serious personal injuries and damages as described hereinabove.”  (Id. at 3.)  Defendants served Special Interrogatories
(“SROG”) seeking information as to the alleged negligence and Plaintiff
responded as follows: 
“Plaintiff initially presented to Defendants on
September 14, 2018 for treatment of a left foot/ankle injury. Dr. Mikhael of
Orthopaedic Surgery Specialists performed some tests and recommended physical
therapy. . . the physical therapy never made a difference or any improvement to
Plaintiff’s pain and mobility. Plaintiff was treated by Defendants from
September 14, 2018 through August 6, 2019 and throughout Defendants’ medical
care, Plaintiff reported that the pain and mobility was not improving. Plaintiff
even asked Defendants to perform an MRI on the left foot/ankle but Dr. Mikhael
told Plaintiff that an MRI was not needed. . . .Dr. Mikhael only spent a few
minutes with Plaintiff during each visit and simply continued to prescribe more
physical therapy…. Dr. Mikhael simply told Plaintiff that the pain would go
away eventually, even though by the time Defendants released Plaintiff from
their care, it had been approximately 10 months and the pain had not improved.
Thereafter, because of the persistent pain and mobility issues, Plaintiff
consulted with a different provider, who did prescribe an MRI and properly
diagnosed a tendon tear in or around September 2020.” 
(Id.
at 4.) 
            Defendants provide the
expert declaration of Scott K. Forman, a medical doctor who completed his
residency in orthopedics and has a practice specializing in foot and ankle
injuries since 1992.  (Forman Decl., ¶2.)
 Dr. Forman opines that Defendants
complied with the applicable standard of care in the care and treatment of
Plaintiff.  (Def.’s Fact 5.)  He states that when Plaintiff initially
presented to Dr. Mikhael at OSSB, Dr. Mikhael appropriately evaluated Plaintiff
on September 14, 2018, appropriately prescribed X-rays of the left ankle which
showed an avulsion fracture of the navicular, but no dislocation; there was no
dislocation or fracture of the right foot.  (Id. at 6.)  He states that Dr. Mikhael recommended
aggressive range of motion exercises and weight bearing as tolerated; weaning
of the walking boot; referred her to PT to use a stationary bike and swimming
pool exercises; and recommended an MRI of the right foot, and that given the
findings of an ankle sprain, an MRI was not required at this time.  (Id.) 
He states that Plaintiff showed improvement over the next couple of
months; at physical therapy on October 4, 2018, the patient showed minimal
pain, with improved left ankle pain; and she continued to show improvement over
the course of treatment. (Id.) 
Dr. Forman opines that the standard of care does not require an MRI for
an ankle sprain and that Plaintiff ultimately developed tendinosis, which is
due to wear and tear, not due to any negligence of Dr. Mikhael.  (Id.) 
He states that the standard of care included observation which was
provided such that Dr. Mikhael and OSSB complied with the standard of care in
the treatment of Plaintiff.  (Id.)  Dr. Forman opines that no act or omission by Dr.
Mikhael and/or OSSB, caused or contributed to the injuries alleged by Plaintiff.
 (Id. at 7.)  He opines that Defendants complied with the
standard of care in the treatment of Plaintiff. 
(Id. at 8.)  He states that
the September 18, 2020 MRI and the December 14, 2020, surgery performed by Dr.
Chaim confirms Plaintiff did not suffer a complete rupture or tear of the
tendon, instead that she had tendinosis, and there was no evidence of
retraction on MRI or at surgery, which is evidence that she did not suffer a
complete rupture or tear of the tendon.  (Id.) 
Dr. Forman states that as Plaintiff did not have a complete tear, there
was no reason to rush her to surgery because surgery is only required when the
patient has pain, which was improving during the time of Plaintiff’s treatment
with Dr. Mikhael.  (Id.)  Thus, Dr. Forman opines that to a reasonable
degree of medical probability, no act or omission by Defendants, caused or
contributed to the alleged injuries in this case. (Id.) 
Based on the expert opinion of Dr. Forman, the Court finds that Defendants
have upheld their initial burden in summary judgment on the sole cause of
action for medical malpractice.  They
have established in their initial burden that Defendants adhered to the
standard of care when treating Plaintiff’s ankle injury and that their care
(acts and/or omissions thereto) did not cause or contribute to Plaintiff’s injury.  Thus, the burden shifts to Plaintiff to raise
a triable issue of material fact. 
In opposition, Plaintiff provides her own declaration stating that
while she felt some relief from physical therapy during her entire treatment
with Dr. Mikhael and OSSB, she
continually complained about pain in the back of her left ankle and asked
Defendants to perform an MRI, but Dr. Mikhael had told her that an MRI was not
needed.  (Pl.’s Decl., ¶4.)  She states that she was treated by Defendants
from September 14, 2018 to August 6, 2019 and that when she stopped treating
with them, she still had pain in the back of her left ankle.  (Id., ¶¶5-6.)  She states that she was forced to endure the
pain until she moved to Texas and underwent an MRI, which revealed the cause of
her pain: tears in the tendons in the back of her left ankle.  (Id., ¶7.)  She states that she underwent a surgical
procedure to repair the tendon tears in her left ankle, which ultimately
alleviated her pain.  (Id., ¶8;
Pl.’s Additional Material Facts [AMF] 1-3.) 

Plaintiff
also provides the opposing expert declaration of Daniel E. Kaplan, M.D., who is
an orthopedic surgeon.  He states that he
has examined Plaintiff’s medical records and reviewed the complaint and motion
papers.  (Kaplan Decl., ¶¶3-4.)  He opines that if Plaintiff had been
complaining for a period of at least 10 months regarding pain in the back of
her left ankle which remained despite physical therapy treatment, Defendants
should have ordered an MRI examination to determine the cause of the continued
pain, regardless of the degree of that pain; and had an MRI of Plaintiff’s left
ankle been conducted in the case (as it was in Texas), the cause of the pain
would likely have been determined and surgical intervention could have taken
place earlier, reducing the length of time Plaintiff was in pain.  (Id., ¶5; Pl.’s Fact 5-8; Pl.’s AMF
4.)  
At the summary judgment stage, the Court finds that Plaintiff’s
declaration and the opposing expert declaration raise sufficient triable issues
of material fact that warrant denying the motion for summary judgment as to Plaintiff’s
sole cause of action for medical malpractice claim.  (See Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389 [stating
that courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing
summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that
party.”]; Zavala v. Arce (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 915, 935
[liberally construing plaintiff’s expert witness declaration and resolving any
doubts as to the propriety of granting the motion in favor of the plaintiff,
finding that the declaration was sufficient to raise triable issues of material
fact].)  In the reply brief, Defendants
object to the evidence presented by Plaintiff in opposition.  However, the Court has discussed its ruling
on the evidentiary objections above and the Court will consider the evidence
and declaration statements provided by Plaintiff.  After considering the parties’ papers, the
Court finds that Plaintiffs have raised triable issues of material fact in
their shifted burden on Defendants’ summary judgment motion.  
As such, the
motion for summary judgment is denied.  
CONCLUSION AND ORDER 
Defendants Mark Mikhael, M.D. and Orthopedic
Surgery Specialists Burbank’s motion for summary judgment is denied.  
Defendant shall provide
notice of this order.   
Warning regarding electronic appearances:  All
software for remote or electronic appearances is subject to malfunction based
on system weakness and human error, which can originate from any of the
multiple parties participating each morning. The seamless operation of the
Court’s electronic appearance software is dependent on numerous inconstant and
fluctuating factors that may impact whether you, or other counsel or the Court
itself can be heard in a particular case. Not all these factors are within the
control of the courtroom staff. For example, at times, the system traps
participants in electronic purgatories where they cannot be heard and where the
courtroom staff is not aware of their presence. If you call the courtroom,
please be respectful of the fact that a court hearing is going on, and that the
courtroom staff is doing their best to use an imperfect system. If it is
truly important to you to be heard, please show up to the courtroom in the
normal way. Parking is free or reasonable in Burbank.
 
