 Case Number:  23BBCV00072    Hearing Date:   December 1, 2023    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
manuel sibrian, et al.,
 
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
general motors
  LLC,
 
                        Defendant.


 
  Case No.:  23BBCV00072
 
Hearing
  Date:  December 1, 2023
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
demurrer; motion to strike
 



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations 
Plaintiffs Manuel Sibrian and Julia
Michelle Sibrian (“Plaintiffs”) allege that on May 20, 202, she purchased a 2020
GMC Canyon.  Plaintiffs allege that the
vehicle was delivered to them with a defective Hydra-Matic 8L90 transmission
and other defects and nonconformities, including transmission, electrical, and
suspension system defects.  The action
arises out of the warranty and repair obligations of Defendant General Motors
LLC (“Defendant” or “GM”) in connection with the vehicle Plaintiffs purchased
and for which Defendant issued a written warranty.  
The first amended complaint (“FAC”), filed
on July 13, 2023, alleges causes of action for: (1) violation of Song-Beverly
Act – breach of express warranty; (2) violation of Song-Beverly Act – breach of
implied warranty; (3) violation of Song-Beverly Act § 1793.2; and (4) fraud –
fraudulent inducement – concealment. 
B.    
Motions on Calendar 
On August 14, 2023, Defendant filed a
demurrer to the 4th cause of action in the FAC and a motion to
strike portions of the FAC. 
On November 15, 2023, Plaintiffs filed
opposition briefs.
On November 21, 2023, Defendant filed reply
briefs. 
DISCUSSION
RE DEMURRER
            Defendant demurs to the 4th
cause of action for fraudulent inducement – concealment in the FAC, arguing
that it fails to allege sufficient facts against Defendant.   
The elements for fraudulent concealment are the following: (1) the defendant must
have concealed or suppressed a material fact; (2) the defendant must have been
under a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff; (3) the defendant must have
intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the
plaintiff; (4) the plaintiff must have been unaware of the fact and would not
have acted as he did if he had known of the concealed or suppressed fact; and
(5) as a result of the concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff
must have sustained damage.  (Lovejoy v. AT&T Corp. (2004) 119
Cal. App. 4th 151, 157-158.) “As with all fraud claims, the necessary elements of a
concealment/suppression claim consist of (1) misrepresentation (false
representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (2) knowledge of falsity
(scienter); (3) intent to defraud (i.e., to induce reliance); (4) justifiable
reliance; and (5) resulting damage. [Citations.]”  (Hoffman v. 162 North
Wolfe LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 1178, 1185–1186 [internal
quotation marks and citations omitted].) 
This
cause of action is a tort of deceit and the facts constituting each element must be
alleged with particularity; the claims cannot be saved by referring to the
policy favoring liberal construction of pleadings. (Committee on Children's Television, Inc. v. General Foods Corp.
(1983) 35 Cal.3d 197, 216.)  Since the
claim must be pleaded with particularity, the cause of action based on
misrepresentations must allege facts showing how, when, where, to whom, and by
what means the misrepresentations were tendered.  (Stansfield v. Starkey (1990) 220 Cal.App.3d 59, 73.)
In the 4th cause of action, Plaintiffs allege that
Defendant and its agents intentionally concealed and failed to disclose facts
relating to the 8L90 and 8L45 transmission defects.  (FAC, ¶128.) 
Plaintiffs allege that Defendants intentionally concealed the design
defect in the transmissions because of a common architecture of the
transmission that causes “harsh shifts” in lower gears.  (Id., ¶129.)  Plaintiffs allege that Defendant was the only
party with knowledge of the transmission defect, which was never made publicly
available nor was the information disclosed to Plaintiffs.  (Id., ¶133.)  Plaintiffs allege that Defendants were under
a duty to disclose the defective nature of the vehicle, transmission defect,
and repair costs and they were in a superior position to know the true state of
the facts, which Plaintiff could not reasonably have been expected to learn or
discover.  (Id.)  Plaintiffs allege that Defendant actively
concealed information from the public and did not issue a recall, such that Plaintiffs
did not know about the transmission defect at the time of sale.  (Id., ¶¶134-136.)  They allege that Defendant intended to
deceive them by concealing the known issues of the transmission defect in an
effort to sell the vehicle and Defendant fraudulently induced Plaintiffs to
purchase the vehicle.  (Id., ¶¶137,
142.)  
            Defendant
demurs to the 4th cause of action, arguing that the FAC does not allege
fraud with the requisite specificity and there was no duty to disclose facts on
the part of Defendant. 
            Defendant argues
that Plaintiffs have not established a duty to disclose the information
omitted.  There is a duty to disclose: “(1) when the defendant is in a fiduciary relationship with the plaintiff;
(2) when the defendant had exclusive knowledge of material facts not known to
the plaintiff; (3) when the defendant actively conceals a material fact from
the plaintiff; and (4) when the defendant makes partial representations but
also suppresses some material facts.”  (Heliotis v. Schuman (1986) 181 Cal.App.3d 646, 651.)  To establish a duty based on a transactional
relationship, “[s]uch a transaction must necessarily arise from direct dealings
between the plaintiff and the defendant; it cannot arise between the defendant
and the public at large.”  (Bigler-Engler v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 276,
312.)  The Bigler-Engler court
stated that even with respect to half-truths, “a duty to disclose arises in this context only
where there is already a sufficient relationship or transaction between the
parties. [Citations.] Where … a sufficient relationship or transaction does not
exist, no duty to disclose arises even when the defendant speaks.”  (Id.) 

Plaintiffs allege
that the information about the transmission defect was solely in the knowledge
of Defendant and Defendant did not make this knowledge publicly available nor
did it disclose the information to Plaintiff. 
(FAC, ¶133.)  Plaintiffs allege
that Defendant has exclusively known about the transmission defect since 2014-2017
from its internal reports, the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
and its own technical service bulletins, yet it marketed and sold its
eight-speed automatic transmission as having “world-class performance.”   (Id.,
¶¶14-16, 42-68.)  Further, for a duty to
arise from a transactional relationship, Plaintiffs must allege facts
showing that the transaction arose between Plaintiffs and Defendant.  According to the FAC, Plaintiffs purchased
the subject vehicle from Penske Cadillac Buick GMC South Bay, which is alleged
to be an authorized retail dealership, repair facility, agent, and representative
of Defendant.  (FAC, ¶4.)  As currently pled and taking the allegations
of the FAC as true, Plaintiffs have alleged facts that Defendant alone
possessed exclusive knowledge of the material facts and that they were in a
transaction relationship with Defendant through its agent and authorized
dealership.  The Court declines to
sustain the demurrer on this basis.  
            Next,
Defendant argues that Plaintiffs have not pled fraud with specificity, such as
the individuals at Defendant who purportedly concealed material information or
made untrue representations about the subject vehicle (Canyon), their authority
to speak on Defendant’s behalf, Defendant’s knowledge about alleged defects
prior to the time of purchase, any interactions with Defendant before or during
the purchase of the vehicle, or Defendant’s intent to induce reliance by
Plaintiffs to purchase the vehicle.  
            While
not alleged directly in the 4th cause of action, Plaintiffs allege
facts in the FAC that they communicated directly with Penske’s manager and
sales consultant Kwesi Da-Costa Vroom, who represented to Plaintiffs that he
was knowledgeable and authorized to address any pre-sale inquiries and yet failed
to disclose any defects/nonconformities of the transmission.  (FAC, ¶5.) 
Plaintiffs allege they were handed a flyer of the same model of the
subject vehicle, which represented that the vehicle was equipped with a strong
powertrain system and was sufficient for their needs.  (Id.) 
            With
respect to the intent to deceive element, Plaintiffs allege that Defendant
intended to deceive them by concealing known issues regarding the transmission in
an effort to sell the subject vehicle.  (FAC,
¶¶137, 142.)  
Having examined
the pleading, the Court finds that despite its extraordinary length, it does
not present a claim for fraud that is distinguishable from the basic claim of
breach of warranty. As stated in paragraph 11 of the FAC, the alleged defects
in the powertrain “are part of the warrantable nonconformities within
Plaintiffs’ warranty claims against GENERAL MOTORS, LLC. . . .”  Moreover, and this undoubtedly is the
important part, “Plaintiffs’ warranty and fraud claims derive from the same
common nucleus of operative facts[;] they are inextricably interrelated so as
to entitle Plaintiffs to fees for each claim under Civil Code Section 1794,
subdivision (c).”  (FAC ¶11.)
A fraud involves a
concealment or misrepresentation of a cold, hard fact: something that a judge
or jury can discern to be false. The underlying defects with the vehicles here
are vague and subjectively described. In conjunction with the “typical
architecture,” they cause “‘harsh shifts’ in lower gears, which can feel like
jerking, lurching and/or hesitations.”  (FAC
¶4.)  How these subjective complaints
disprove even vaguer statements made by automobile salesmen or glossy
commercials, for example to the effect that a vehicle is “equipped with a
strong powertrain system” are not questions of fact. Moreover, the question is
made vaguer still because GM supposedly knew about “similar defects” from
consumer complaints and service bulletins regarding similar complaints about
other, presumably similar, GM vehicles. These are matters that, if they can be
addressed at all by the law, are best left to a determination of the warranty
that was specifically bargained for and that is co-existent and co-equal with
the representations themselves. 
Here the parties
have bargained for a warranty that the vehicle is free from defects that rise
to the standard described in the warranty and the law. The legislature has
provided extraordinary remedies and procedural advantages to any plaintiff
alleging to have been financially damaged by any breach of such warranty. The
representation and the reliance are fully contained in the contract itself,
which covers the risk of defect that is a known possibility for any
manufactured product. The consumer’s reliance is on the contractual promise.  She has bargained for a specific remedy and
been given additional remedies by statute. 
She has no extra-contractual reliance; indeed any greater reliance is
unreasonable based on the transaction itself, which disclaims other promises.  Here, Plaintiff has suffered no loss that
takes this case out of the ordinary commercial venue in which the parties
specifically bargained for a commercial solution to an economic issue. Common
law fraud is not a coterminous overlay for breach of a commercial warranty. Otherwise,
contracts and torts would be the same class in law school. 
            For
the reasons discussed above, the demurrer to the 2nd cause of action
is sustained. 
DISCUSSION
RE MOTION TO STRIKE
            Defendant
moves to strike the allegations for punitive damages in the prayer for damages at
paragraph 6 (page 29, line 16).   
A complaint including a request for
punitive damages must include allegations showing that the plaintiff is
entitled to an award of punitive damages.  (Clauson v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253,
1255.)  A claim for punitive damages cannot be pleaded generally and
allegations that a defendant acted "with oppression, fraud and
malice" toward plaintiff are insufficient legal conclusions to show that
the plaintiff is entitled to an award of punitive damages.  (Brousseau v. Jarrett (1977) 73
Cal.App.3d 864, 872.)  Specific factual allegations are required to
support a claim for punitive damages.  (Id.)
Civil Code § 3294
authorizes a plaintiff to obtain an award of punitive damages when there is
clear and convincing evidence that the defendant engaged in malice, oppression,
or fraud.  Section 3294(c) defines the terms in the following manner:
(1)  
"Malice" means conduct which is
intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others.
(2)  
"Oppression" means despicable
conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious
disregard of that person's rights.
(3)  
"Fraud" means an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury. 
Further, when the punitive damages are sought against
an employer, Civil Code § 3294(b) requires the plaintiff to establish the
following:
(1)  
the
employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness of the employee and employed
him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others or 
(2)  
the
employer authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct for which the damages are
awarded, or
(3)  
the
employer was personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.
With respect to a corporate employer, section 3294(b)
requires that the advance knowledge and conscious disregard, authorization,
ratification or act of oppression, fraud, or malice must be on the part of an
officer, director, or managing agent of the corporation.
            The
Court has reviewed the allegations of the FAC and finds that it does not reach
the level of particularly required to request punitive damages based on
malicious and/or oppressive behavior.  At
most, Plaintiffs allege that Defendant willfully failed to comply with its
responsibilities under the Act, but this allegation is insufficient to meet the
requisite level of particularity for punitive damages.  (FAC, ¶100 [re 1st cause of action].)
 With respect to the causes of action for
violation of the Act, allegations for punitive damages have not been adequately
pled.  With respect to the 4th
cause of action, the motion to strike is moot. 
            The
motion to strike is granted. 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
            Defendant General Motors LLC’s demurrer
to the 4th cause of action in the FAC is sustained with 20 days
leave to amend.  Defendant’s motion to
strike the allegations for punitive damages is granted with 20 days leave to
amend. 
Warning regarding
electronic appearances:  All software for remote or electronic
appearances is subject to malfunction based on system weakness and human error,
which can originate from any of the multiple parties participating each
morning. The seamless operation of the Court’s electronic appearance software
is dependent on numerous inconstant and fluctuating factors that may impact
whether you, or other counsel or the Court itself can be heard in a particular
case. Not all these factors are within the control of the courtroom staff. For
example, at times, the system traps participants in electronic purgatories
where they cannot be heard and where the courtroom staff is not aware of their
presence. If you call the courtroom, please be respectful of the fact that a
court hearing is going on, and that the courtroom staff is doing their best to
use an imperfect system. If it is truly important to you to be heard, please
show up to the courtroom in the normal way. Parking is free or reasonable
in Burbank.
Defendant
shall
give notice of this order.  
 
