 Case Number:  23STCV08570    Hearing Date:   May 9, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Tracy Hark, et al.,


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23STCV08570 (Related to 23STCV14540)




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Pacific Maritime Association, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: May 9, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion to Sever
Moving Party: Defendant SSA Terminals, LLC 
Responding Party: Plaintiffs Tracy Hark and Al Waller
and Defendant Richard Lomeli
 
T/R:      DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO SEVER TRIAL IS GRANTED.
 
DEFENDANT TO NOTICE. 
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
The Court considers the moving papers,
oppositions, and reply.
 
Under CCP §1048(b), the court, in furtherance of convenience or to avoid
prejudice, or when separate trials will be conducive to expedition and economy,
may order a separate trial of any cause of action, including a cause of action
asserted in a cross-complaint, or of any separate issue or of any number of
causes of action or issues, preserving the right of trial by jury required by
the Constitution or a statute of this state or of the United States.  
 
Defendant moves to sever Plaintiff Tracy Hark’s trial and Plaintiff Al
Waller’s trial. Defendant asserts that Plaintiffs Hark and Waller’s allegations
arise from separate incidents with separate employers. Defendant argues that a
joint trial of both of Plaintiffs’ claims will confuse the jury and the Court.
In opposition, Plaintiffs argue that separate trials are a waste of resources
and time.
 
The Court finds that severance is appropriate. The respective
Plaintiffs’ claims arise from distinct events that occurred over a year and a
half apart and involve different employer entities. Neither Plaintiff witnessed
the incidents giving rise to the other Plaintiff’s causes of action. Trying the
actions together may confuse the jury and prejudice Defendants.
 
Defendant’s motion is GRANTED.


 