    BACKGROUND   On July 27, 2023, Plaintiff Angel  Ortega (“Plaintiff”) filed an action against Defendants Austra Motors, Inc.  (“Austra Motors”), Lentegrity, LLC (“Lentegrity”), and Hudson Insurance Company  (“Hudson Insurance”) (collectively, “Defendants”) for (1) violation of  Consumers Legal Remedies Act (Civil Code §§ 1750, et seq.), (2) violation  of California Business and Professions Code § 17200, et seq., (3) violation  of Civil Code § 1632, and (4) claim against surety.    On March 11, 2024, Plaintiff filed  the instant Motion to Compel Arbitration of Complaint and Stay Proceedings  (“Motion”). Plaintiff also requests the Court to select the arbitration  forum.  On April 3, 2024, Lentegrity  filed a limited opposition.     MOVING PARTY  POSITION               Plaintiff asserts  that he and Austra Motors entered into a contract for the purchase of a used  car, and within this contract, the parties agreed to resolve any dispute by  arbitration. Also, the contract stated that Austra Motors would pay for the  initial arbitration fees. The contract was assigned to Lentegrity. The  controversy is covered by the arbitration provision and an order compelling Austra  Motors and Lentegrity into arbitration should be issued. Plaintiff has the  right to pick the arbitration forum and chooses AAA. In the alternative,  Plaintiff selects JAMS to be the arbitration forum. Under the contract,  Lentegrity is required to be a party to the arbitration as the holder of the  contract.    OPPOSITION               Lentegrity  does not oppose being compelled into arbitration but opposes a referral to  JAMS.    REPLY               No reply  has been filed as of April 25, 2024    ANALYSIS   I.          Motion  to Compel Arbitration A.        Legal Standard  Under California and federal law, public policy favors  arbitration as an efficient and less expensive means of resolving private  disputes.  Moncharsh v. Heily & Blase (1992) 3 Cal.4th 1, 8-9; AT&T  Mobility LLC v. Concepcion (2011) 563 U.S. 333, 339.  Accordingly, whether an agreement is governed  by the California Arbitration Act (“CAA”) or the Federal Arbitration Act  (“FAA”), courts resolve doubts about an arbitration agreement’s scope in favor  of arbitration.   Moncharsh,  supra at 9; Comedy Club,  Inc. v. Improv West Assocs. (9th Cir. 2009) 553 F.3d 1277, 1284; see  also Engalla v. Permanente Med.  Grp., Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 971-972 (“California law  incorporates many of the basic policy objectives contained in the Federal  Arbitration Act, including a presumption in favor of arbitrability [citation]  and a requirement that an arbitration agreement must be enforced on the basis  of state law standards that apply to contracts in general [citation]”]).  “[U]nder both the FAA and California law,  ‘arbitration agreements are valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, save upon such  grounds as exist at law or in equity for the revocation of any contract.’ ”  Higgins  v. Sup. Ct. (2006) 140  Cal.App.4th 1238, 1247.                “Code of Civil Procedure section  1281.2 requires a trial court to grant a petition to compel arbitration ‘if the  court determines that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists.’”  Avery  v. Integrated Healthcare Holdings, Inc. (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 50,  59, quoting Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.  Accordingly, “when presented with a petition  to compel arbitration, the court’s first task is to determine whether the  parties have in fact agreed to arbitrate the dispute.”   Ibid.  A petition to compel arbitration is in essence  a suit in equity to compel specific performance of a contract.  Id.  at 71.  As with any other specific  performance claim, “a party seeking to enforce an arbitration agreement must  show the agreement’s terms are sufficiently definite to enable the court to  know what it is to enforce.”  Ibid. (internal citations omitted).   “Only the valid and binding agreement of  the parties, including all material terms well-defined and clearly expressed,  may be ordered specifically performed.”  Ibid.  An arbitration agreement  “must be so interpreted as to give effect to the mutual intention of the  parties as it existed at the time of contracting, so far as the same is  ascertainable and lawful.”  Civ. Code, §  1636.  The language of the contract  governs its interpretation if it is clear and explicit.  Civ. Code, § 1368.  If uncertainty exists, “the language of a  contract should be interpreted most strongly against the party who caused the  uncertainty to exist.”  Civ. Code, §  1654.                The party seeking to compel  arbitration bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration  agreement by the preponderance of the evidence.  Engalla  v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 972.  It would then be plaintiff’s burden, in  opposing the motion, to prove by a preponderance of the evidence any fact  necessary to her opposition. (See Ibid.)  “In these summary proceedings, the trial court sits as a trier of fact,  weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other documentary evidence, as  well as oral testimony received at the court’s discretion, to reach a final  determination.”  Ibid.   B.        Merits   The moving party bears the initial  burden of showing the existence of an agreement to arbitrate by a preponderance  of the evidence.  Mitri v. Arnel Mgmt. Co. (2007)  157 Cal.App.4th 1164, 1169 (“Because the existence of the agreement is a  statutory prerequisite to granting the petition, the petitioner bears the  burden of proving its existence by a preponderance of the evidence.”).   Here, Plaintiff has met his initial  burden of showing that a signed agreement containing an arbitration provision  exists between the parties. See Sadr Decl. ¶¶ 3,12 Exh. 1.  Pursuant to the Retail Installment Sale  Contract that Plaintiff entered into with Austra Auto, it states:    “Any claim or dispute, whether in  contract, tort, statute or otherwise (including the interpretation and scope of  this Arbitration Provision, and the arbitrability of the claim or dispute),  between you and us or our employees, agents, successors or assigns, which  arises out of or relates to your credit application, purchase or condition of  this vehicle, this contract or any resulting transaction or relationship  (including any such relationship with third parties who do not sign this  contract) shall, at your or our election, be resolved by neutral, binding  arbitration and not by a court decision… You may choose the American  Arbitration Association, 1633 Broadway, Floor 10, New York, NY 10019  (www.adr.org); or any other organization to conduct the arbitration subject to  our approval.”   Id. at pg. 4.                Notably, no  opposition has been filed claiming that there is ground for revocation of this  agreement, and because the claims asserted in the complaint relate to the sale  of the subject vehicle, it is undisputed that those claims are covered by this  arbitration provision. Furthermore, the arbitration provision is equally  applicable to Lentegrity as the holder of the contract for having financed the  sale of the vehicle to Plaintiff.  See  Compl. ¶ 38; Young Seok Suh v. Superior Court (2010) 181 Cal. App. 4th 1504,  1513.               Plaintiff  further requests to the Court to select AAA as the arbitration forum. (Motion  at pp. 5-6.) Pursuant to the contractual language stated above, AAA is the  default arbitration forum choice. Also, Plaintiff has stated that a claim  before AAA has been filed and currently in abeyance due to status of this  case.  See Sadr Decl. ¶ 10, Exh.  5.  Thus, it makes sense for AAA to be  deemed the arbitration forum.    Accordingly, because an arbitration  agreement exists between the parties that encompasses the claims asserted in  the complaint, the motion to compel arbitration is granted.    III.       Conclusion                           Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff Angel Ortega’s  Motion to Compel Arbitration of Complaint Between Plaintiff and Defendants Lentegrity, LLC and Austra Motors, Inc. is GRANTED.  AAA  shall be the proper arbitration forum to adjudicate Plaintiff’s claims.  Thus, the entire action is STAYED pending the completion of the arbitration pursuant to Code  of Civil Procedure § 1281.4.  The Order to Arbitration is directed to Plaintiff and Defendants Lentegrity, LLC and Austra Motors, Inc.   The Court sets a Conference Re:  Status of Arbitration is set for November 6,  2024 at 9:30 a.m. in Department 25 of the Spring Street Courthouse.   Counsel are ordered to electronically file a JOINT Report  Re:  Status of Arbitration Proceedings at least (5) court days prior to 11/06/2024.   The January  23, 2025 Trial date is advanced to this date and hereby taken off  calendar/vacated.   Moving party is  ordered to give notice.   