  Case Number:  23CHCV00493    Hearing Date:   November 20, 2024    Dept:  F47 Dept. F47
Date: 11/20/22
Case #23CHCV00493
 
MOTION TO
CONSOLIDATE
 
Motion filed on 5/17/24.
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant State of California
RESPONDING PARTY: all other parties
NOTICE: 
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: An order consolidating for all
purposes the following cases:
 
Joseph Carnes; Samantha Bibian v. State of California,
acting by and through its Department of Parks and Recreation; Ana Alexis
Garcia; Ana M. Roque Rivas; CVIN, LLC and Does 1-30, inclusive (LASC Case
No. 23CHCV00493) and
 
Christopher Armstrong; Consuelo Pereida v. State of
California, acting by and through its Department of Parks and Recreation; Ana
Alexis Garcia; Ana Roque Rivas; CVIN, LLC (LASC Case No. 23CHCV01454).
 
RULING: The motion is granted.
 
SUMMARY OF FACTS & PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
These actions arise out of a motor vehicle accident that
occurred on 4/3/22.  On that date, Decedents
Brandon Armstrong and Justin Joseph Carnes (Decedents) were riding motorcycles
westbound, uphill on Pipeline Road, a dirt road, in Gorman, California.  At the same time that Decedents approached the
top of the hill going westbound, Defendant Ana Alexis Garcia traveled eastbound
in a 2021 Polaris RZR Pro XP 4 (the Vehicle), uphill on Pipeline Road.  Defendant Ana M. Roque Rivas was the record
owner of the Vehicle driven by Defendant Garcia.  
 
Due to the incline of the hill and Defendant Garcia’s
alleged speed, neither Decedents nor Defendant Garcia could see the respective
vehicles approaching from the opposite direction.  Decedents’ motorcycles and Defendant Garcia’s
vehicle collided head-on resulting in the deaths of Decedents.
 
Pipeline Road is an off-road trail in the Hungry Valley
State Vehicular Recreation Area.  A known
characteristic of Pipeline Road is that a pipeline runs along the right side of
the dirt road. Pipeline Road is characterized as a “more difficult trail.”
 
Plaintiffs in both actions allege that the pipeline in
the road, a buried electrical conduit, is a deformity because it “forced all
traffic to the left side of the road effectively running a two-lane road into a
one lane bottle neck.”  (See Armstrong
Complaint ¶12; Carnes Complaint ¶9). Plaintiffs Armstrong and Pereida allege
that there were no warning signs regarding the blind spot or deformity in the
road.  (Armstrong Complaint ¶12).
 
The parents and successors-in-interest of each Decedent
filed separate actions against the State of California, Garcia, Rivas and CVIN
which have been related.  On 5/17/24, the
State of California filed and served the instant motion seeking an order
consolidating for all purposes the following cases:
 
Joseph Carnes; Samantha Bibian v. State of California,
acting by and through its Department of Parks and Recreation; Ana Alexis
Garcia; Ana M. Roque Rivas; CVIN, LLC and Does 1-30, inclusive (LASC Case
No. 23CHCV00493) and
 
Christopher Armstrong; Consuelo Pereida v. State of
California, acting by and through its Department of Parks and Recreation; Ana
Alexis Garcia; Ana Roque Rivas; CVIN, LLC (LASC Case No. 23CHCV01454).
 
No opposition or other response to the motion has been
filed.  
 
ANALYSIS
 
Since these two cases arise from a common set of facts, present
common questions of law and fact, and the complaints make common allegations,
the Court finds that consolidation for all purposes, including trial, is
warranted and will serve to promote trial convenience and economy by avoiding
duplication of procedure and delay, particularly as to duplication of proof of
issues common to both cases.  See
CCP 1048(a).  Additionally, consolidation
will avoid inconsistent outcomes.  
 
The Court notes that the motion contends that “[t]he only
factual difference between these two cases is that the Carnes Complaint dropped
all claims against Defendant County of Los Angeles while the Armstrong
Complaint retains its claims against Defendant County of Los Angeles.”  (See Motion, p.5:18-20).  However, the County of Los Angeles was
dismissed, without prejudice, from the Armstrong complaint on 11/9/23 and from
the Carnes complaint on 3/14/24.  As
such, the County of Los Angeles is no longer a party in either case.
 
CONCLUSION
 
The motion is granted. 
 
 
Based on the above ruling, the Court finds that the
hearing on the Motion to Consolidate scheduled for 11/22/24 in Armstrong
(23CHCV01454) which seeks the same relief is moot.  Therefore, that hearing is advanced to this date
and placed off calendar.  
 