 Case Number:  23CHCV00898    Hearing Date:   November 20, 2024    Dept:  F47 Dept. F47
Date: 11/20/24
Case #23CHCV00898
 
MOTION TO BE
RELIEVED AS COUNSEL
 
Motion filed on 9/6/24.
 
MOVING ATTORNEY: Dennis Russell
CLIENT: Plaintiffs Nicole A.
Parke; E.O.A. Global Holdings, LLC and E.O.A. Management Group, LLC

 
RELIEF REQUESTED: An order
relieving Dennis Russel as counsel for Plaintiffs Nicole A. Parke; E.O.A.
Global Holdings, LLC and E.O.A. Management Group, LLC in this action.  
 
RULING: 
 
On 9/6/24, attorney Dennis Russell filed and served the
instant motion seeking an order relieving him as counsel for Plaintiffs Nicole
A. Parke; E.O.A. Global Holdings, LLC and E.O.A. Management Group, LLC (collectively,
Plaintiffs) in this action.  
 
No.4 in the notice of motion only indicates that the
client is an individual; however, the motion also seeks to be relieved as
counsel for two clients which are limited liability companies.
 
The proofs of service for the moving papers indicate that
they were served on counsel for Defendant Porter Ranch Development Company by
email, only, and on the clients by email and mail.  However, no email addresses for defense
counsel or the clients are set forth in the proof of service.  Since the motion papers were also served on
the clients by mail, the failure to set forth an email address does not
preclude granting the motion.
 
Additionally, notice of the motion was not served on
claimant River Wuhai LLC.  It is
questionable whether service on the claimant is required since the claimant is
not technically a party to the action.  See
CRC 3.1362(d).
 
Based on the foregoing, if defense counsel appears,
concedes receipt of the motion papers and/or has no objection to the granting
of the motion, the motion will be granted and a copy of the signed order must
also served on the claimant, River Wuhai LLC, along with the clients and all
other parties who have appeared in the case. 
See CRC 3.1362(e).  
 
If defense counsel does not appear and/or objects to the
motion being granted, the matter will be placed off calendar for failure to
properly serve the motion on counsel for defendant.  See CRC 3.1362(d).    
 
 
 