  Case Number:  19STCV35151    Hearing Date:   April 18, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
October 2, 2019, Plaintiffs Amirabbas Rahimi Khoshavaz and Maryam
Gharani (“Gharani”) (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed this action Defendants
Uber Technologies, Inc. (“Uber”), Rasier, LLC (“Rasier”), Rasier-CA, LLC
(“Rasier-CA”), IPO Painter (“Painter”), and Does 1-25 for negligence,
negligence per se, and loss of consortium. 
On
November 6, 2019, Plaintiffs amended the complaint to include Defendant Chris
Solidum as Doe 1. 
Also
on November 6, 2019, Plaintiffs filed a first amended complaint against Defendants Uber, Rasier, Rasier-CA, Painter, Chris
Solidum (“Chris Solidum”), Oberly Solidum, and Does 1-25 for negligence and
loss of consortium. 
On
January 10, 2020, Painter filed an answer. On January 29, 2020, Uber, Rasier-CA,
and Rasier filed answers. 
On June
29, 2020, Chris Solidum filed an answer. On July 29, 2020, Chris Solidum filed
a cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants Painter and Roes 1-10 for
indemnification, apportionment of fault, and declaratory relief. On August 28,
2020, Painter filed an answer. 
On
March 6, 2023, the Court granted Chris Solidum’s motion for terminating
sanctions and dismissed Gharani with prejudice. 
On
March 10, 2023, the Court granted Plaintiffs’ ex parte application to stay the
case pending Gharani’s appeal. 
On
July 19, 2023, the Court granted Plaintiffs’ counsel’s motion to be relieved as
counsel for Gharani. 
On
March 4, 2024, the Court of Appeal dismissed Gharani’s appeal and issued the
remittitur. 
On
March 19, 2024, Chris Solidum’s counsel, Michael E. Gallagher and Anne C.
Gritzer (“counsel”), filed a motion to be relieved as counsel to be heard on
April 18, 2024. 
No
trial date is currently scheduled. 
COUNSEL’S REQUEST 
Chris
Solidum’s counsel, Michael E. Gallagher and Anne C. Gritzer, ask to be relieved
as counsel. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, provides: 
“(a) Notice 
“A notice of motion and motion to be relieved as
counsel under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(2) must be directed to the
client and must be made on the Notice of Motion and Motion to Be Relieved as
Counsel-Civil (form MC-051). 
“(b) Memorandum 
“Notwithstanding any other rule of court, no
memorandum is required to be filed or served with a motion to be relieved as
counsel. 
“(c) Declaration 
“The motion to be relieved as counsel must be
accompanied by a declaration on the Declaration in Support of Attorney's Motion
to Be Relieved as Counsel-Civil (form MC-052). The declaration must state in
general terms and without compromising the confidentiality of the
attorney-client relationship why a motion under Code of Civil Procedure section
284(2) is brought instead of filing a consent under Code of Civil Procedure
section 284(1). 
“(d) Service 
“The notice of motion and motion, the declaration, and
the proposed order must be served on the client and on all other parties who
have appeared in the case. The notice may be by personal service, electronic
service, or mail. 
“(1)  If the
notice is served on the client by mail under Code of Civil Procedure section
1013, it must be accompanied by a declaration stating facts showing that
either: 
“(A)   The
service address is the current residence or business address of the client; or 
“(B)   The
service address is the last known residence or business address of the client
and the attorney has been unable to locate a more current address after making
reasonable efforts to do so within 30 days before the filing of the motion to
be relieved. 
“(2)  If the
notice is served on the client by electronic service under Code of Civil
Procedure section 1010.6 and rule 2.251, it must be accompanied by a
declaration stating that the electronic service address is the client's current
electronic service address. 
“As used in this rule, ‘current’ means that the
address was confirmed within 30 days before the filing of the motion to be
relieved. Merely demonstrating that the notice was sent to the client's last
known address and was not returned or no electronic delivery failure message
was received is not, by itself, sufficient to demonstrate that the address is
current. If the service is by mail, Code of Civil Procedure section 1011(b)
applies. 
“(e) Order 
“The proposed order relieving counsel must be prepared
on the Order Granting Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel-Civil (form
MC-053) and must be lodged with the court with the moving papers. The order
must specify all hearing dates scheduled in the action or proceeding, including
the date of trial, if known. If no hearing date is presently scheduled, the
court may set one and specify the date in the order. After the order is signed,
a copy of the signed order must be served on the client and on all parties that
have appeared in the case. The court may delay the effective date of the order
relieving counsel until proof of service of a copy of the signed order on the
client has been filed with the court.” 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1362.) 
DISCUSSION 
 Counsel have submitted completed
MC-051, MC-052 and MC-053 forms. Counsel have provided a declaration stating
that Chris Solidum has retained new counsel but has refused to sign a substitution of attorney form.  Counsel have complied with the requirements of Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362.
 The Court grants the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS the motion of Michael E. Gallagher and Anne C. Gritzer to be relieved
as counsel for Plaintiff Chris Solidum.  Counsel will be
relieved upon filing proof of service on Plaintiff Chris Solidum of the Order
Granting Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel--Civil (Judicial Council
form MC-053). 
The
Court lifts the stay issued on March 10, 2023. 
Counsel are ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Counsel are ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court within
five days.