  Case Number:  24TRCV00056    Hearing Date:   April 15, 2024    Dept:  P Moving Parties: Defendants Chung Hwang, individually and as trustee of the Hwang Family Trust, Candice Avila, Wense F. Hwang, individually and as trustee of the Hwange Family Trust, and Pinnacle Property ManagementResponding Party: Plaintiffs Julia Marie FarrisMotion to Strike Portions of ComplaintThe court considered the moving and opposition papers. No reply has been received by the court.RULINGThe motion to strike is DENIED, as to the prayer for relief for punitive damages, and GRANTED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND as to Paragraphs 31 and 38 of the complaint.BACKGROUNDOn January 5, 2024, plaintiff Julia Marie Farris (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against defendants Chung Hwang, individually and as trustee of the Hwang Family Trust, Candice Avila, Wense F. Hwang, individually and as trustee of the Hwange Family Trust, and Pinnacle Property Management (collectively, “Defendants”), alleging the following causes of action: (1) breach of contract; (2) breach of the warranty of habitability; (3) breach of the covenant of quiet enjoyment;(4) violation of Civil Code § 1942.2; (5) violation of Business and Professions Code § 17200; (6) negligence; (7) negligent maintenance of premises; and (8) nuisance.The complaint alleges that Plaintiff has been a lawful tenant at the real property located at 505 N. Irena Avenue #101, Redondo Beach, California 90277, which is owned, operated and managed by Defendants. (Compl. ¶ 1.) It is further alleged that, during the tenancy, the subject property was kept in an unsafe, unhealthy, and uninhabitable that violated various state laws. (Id. at ¶¶ 12-14.) Defendants had been notified of these issues but failed to make necessary repairs. (Id. at ¶ 15.)Now, Defendants move to the strike portions of the complaint that support a claim for punitive damages, which consists of Paragraphs 31 and 38 as well as the prayer for punitive and exemplary damages.LEGAL AUTHORITYThe court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc. § 436(a).) The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Code Civ. Proc. § 436(b).) The grounds for a motion to strike are that the pleading has irrelevant, false or improper matter, or has not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws. (Code Civ. Proc. § 436.) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc. § 437.)Code of Civil Procedure § 431.10 states, “(b) An immaterial allegation in a pleading is any of the following: (1) An allegation that is not essential to the statement of a claim or defense. (2) An allegation that is neither pertinent to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense. (3) A demand for judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the complaint or cross-complaint. (c) An “immaterial allegation” means “irrelevant matter” as that term is used in Section 436.”DISCUSSIONDefendants request that the court strike portions of portions of the complaint that seek punitive and exemplary damages, consisting of paragraphs 31 and 38 as well as the prayer forsuch damages. Defendants contend the claim for punitive damages has not been pleaded with the requisite specificity.Civil Code § 3294 authorizes the recovery of punitive damages in non-contract cases where “the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice . . . .” The Court in Taylor v. Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 894-95, found:“Something more than the mere commission of a tort is always required for punitive damages. There must be circumstances of aggravation or outrage, such as spite or ‘malice,’ or a fraudulent or evil motive on the part of the defendant, or such a conscious and deliberate disregard of the interests of others that his conduct may be called willful or wanton.”Indeed, “malice” is defined in Civil Code § 3294 to mean “conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.” Civil Code § 3294(c)(1). As the Court noted in College Hospital v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 713, Section 3294 was amended in 1987 to require that, where malice is based on a defendant’s conscious disregard of a plaintiff’s rights, the conduct must be both despicable and willful. The Court in College Hospital held further that “despicable conduct refers to circumstances that are base, vile, or contemptible.” Id. at 725 (citation omitted).A claim for punitive damages may not be based on conclusory allegations of oppression, fraud or malice, but instead must be based on factual allegations which support such a conclusion. See Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal. App. 4th 1033, 1041-1042 (Court of Appeal issued peremptory writ directing trial court to issue order striking plaintiff’s prayer for punitive damages because “[t]he sole basis for seeking punitive damages are . . . conclusory allegations” which were “devoid of any factual assertions supporting a conclusion [defendants] acted with oppression, fraud or malice”). “The mere allegation an intentional tort was committed is not sufficient to warrant an award of punitive damages.¿¿[Citation.]¿¿Not only must there be circumstances of oppression, fraud or malice, but facts must be alleged in the pleading to support such a claim.” (Grieves v. Superior Court¿(1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 166, fn. omitted.) To succeed on a motion to strike punitive damages allegations, it must be said as a matter of law that the alleged behavior was not so vile, base, or contemptible that it would not be looked down upon and despised by ordinary decent people. (Angie M. v. Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1217, 1228-1229.)Defendants argue that the allegations are insufficient to support punitive damages. They point out that the complaint merely alleges that punitive damages are sought in connection to Plaintiff’s causes of action for tortious breach of implied warranty of habitability and breach of covenant of quiet enjoyment, and the allegations stemming from these causes of action merely state that Defendants were aware of the unsafe conditions and did not repair them to render the subject property safe and habitable. (Motion at pg. 6; Compl. ¶¶ 27. 34.)In opposition, Plaintiff argues that the complaint sufficiently alleges facts to support a claim for punitive damages. In addition to the allegations that Defendants awareness of the uninhabitable conditions and their failure to correct them, the complaint alleges that Defendants retaliated against Plaintiff “through confrontational communication and/or disregard, and hostile intimidating acts and financial conversions.” (Opposition at pg. 5; Compl. ¶ 18.)Under the circumstances, the court finds that sufficient facts have not been alleged to support a claim for punitive damages in connection with the second and third cause of action. Defective conditions of a premises and a failure to correct on their own are not sufficient to sustain a claim for punitive damages. (McDonell v. American Trust Company (1955) 130 Cal.App.2d 296, 297-299.) As noted in McDonell, a landlord’s awareness of a defective condition, his knowledge that it could cause damages, and his refusal to repair it do not establish that the landlord committed an intentional tort. (Id. at 299.) It does not even establish that the landlord acted with consciously with a reckless disregard of the rights of others to constitute malice. (Id.) Also, while Plaintiff alleges that Defendants have acting in a harassing and intimidating manner towards Plaintiff, very few facts are alleged within the complaint to establish for pleading purposes that Defendants acted with oppression or malice. (Lehto v. Underground Constr. Co. (1977) 69 Cal.App.3d 933, 944 [reasoning that a claim for punitive damages must be pleaded with particularity].) Thus, Plaintiff would need to allege additional facts to show that Defendant acted with oppression, malice or fraud.Notably, Defendants do not move to strike the claim for punitive damages under Plaintiff’s fourth cause of action for violation of Civil Code § 1942.4. (Compl. ¶¶ 39-42.) As a result, it would be improper to grant the motion as to the prayer for relief for punitive damages.Based on the foregoing, the motion is GRANTED in as to Paragraphs 31 and 38 of the Complaint and DENIED in part as to the prayer for relief for punitive damages. Plaintiff isGRANTED leave to amend. Plaintiff is instructed to file an amended complaint within 20 days of notice of this order.Moving party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.