  Case Number:  20SMCV00216    Hearing Date:   December 15, 2023    Dept:  I The parties need to tone down the rhetoric.  When the court sees adjectives such as the
ones here, the court’s immediate thought is that the party using the adjective
has to shout loudly because logic and reasoning fail. 
Plaintiff, who obtained a significant judgment against two
defendants, seeks fees.  The judgment was
for about $6 million, but it was trebled pursuant to Penal Code section
496(c).  That statute also allows the
victim of the crime to obtain attorneys’ fees in a civil action.  Plaintiff, having prevailed against two
defendants, asserts $179,729.50 in fees. 
Lead counsel bills at between $950 and $1050/hour and co-counsel bills
at between $605 and $685/hour.  Plaintiff
elected not to submit billing records, but did submit declarations from counsel
going into some detail as to the work done. 
Plaintiff is willing to submit records for in camera review.  Defendant opposed the motion  claiming that there was no competent evidence
to support the request.  Defendants also
asserted that the amount of the bill is unreasonable for a two day trial with
no motion practice and no depositions. 
Defense counsel also claims he was told by plaintiff’s counsel that an
associate did virtually all of the work. 
Defense counsel originally seemed to want a lot of discovery, including
the billing records, resumes, and (most problematic) depositions of
counsel.  The court indicated that it was
not likely to allow counsel to be deposed, but did suggest that other discovery
might be appropriate.  However, once the
court said no depositions, defendant abandoned the discovery effort.
All parties agree that the court begins with a lodestar
analysis, meaning that the court is to take the reasonable hourly rate of the
attorney and multiply it by the number of hours worked.  That number can be adjusted up or down under
appropriate circumstances.
Although the defense suggests that billing records are
required (as is the case in some jurisdictions), counsel is wrong.  California law does not require such records,
although there is ample authority suggesting that such records are the
strongest evidence of work done (at least if the records are
contemporaneous).  Declarations of
counsel are evidence.  And if the request
had been $30,000, the court would have accepted the declarations and called it
a day.  But the amount sought is very
high—higher than the amount sought in many lawsuits.  The court tends to agree with the defense
that more than two declarations are needed. 
This is so for a number of reasons. 
First, for a number like this, the court would like to see
contemporaneous billing records.  Of
course, they may be redacted so as not to disclose privileged material, but
actually very little in a billing record is truly privileged.  The redactions should be as minimal and
targeted as possible, but (again) the court agrees that privileged material can
be redacted so long as it is plain that there was a redaction.  The records should be accompanied by a
detailed declaration (or declarations) explaining how they were generated.  For example, did counsel keep contemporaneous
time sheets and, if so, are those time sheets reflected verbatim in the billing
records (as is the case in most billing systems).  It should set forth the specific process for
recording time from the moment the work is done until the record is
generated.  The declarations should make
plain if there were any changes to the contemporaneous time sheets as they were
processed through the billing system. 
Most especially, was any time entry increased?  The declarations should include a statement
whether the client was actually billed for the amounts in the records and, if
so, whether there reductions and whether the bills paid in full.  It might be that the client is on a contingent
fee basis, in which case the client was not billed.  But counsel should so state.  The court will decide from that whether the
actual time sheets are required—most likely not.  The court assumes from the declarations
either that no associates or other attorneys worked on the case or, if they
did, that plaintiff is willing to waive any fee related to that work.  The court will not allow this to be submitted
in camera.  If plaintiff’s counsel
wants to charge defendants for the fees, defendants are entitled to see the
evidence.
As to the hourly rates, more is needed.  The rates are high, although the court has
seen higher.  What the court needs to
know is whether these are the rates normally charged to paying clients and
whether any paying clients (that is, clients paying on an hourly basis) were
charged more or less than the rates requested and, if they were charged less,
why the higher rate is appropriate here. 
The court is not asking for details as to particular clients—that would
likely be privileged.  The court is
asking on a more general level.  The
court would also like to know whether the rates requested have ever been
approved by any court. 
The court is also concerned because the court is not
convinced that 100% of the time worked is recoverable.  Any time worked relating solely to a
defendant that prevailed in the case is not recoverable.  The same is true as to time worked on an
issue relating only to that defendant. 
Time worked on issues that were different from the PC 496 issue may not
be recoverable.  And the court is not
convinced that all time worked related to the 496 issue.  The court concluded that Rechnitz’s false
statements to gain possession of the jewelry presumably to sell at a trade show
to pay down the debt coupled with Rechnitz’s decision not to return the jewelry
as promised but rather to abscond with it is what led to the 496 finding.  But there was more to the case than
that. 
In short, if it is worth doing, it is worth doing
right.  The showing as it stands is
insufficient.  The court is inclined to
CONTINUE the motion to allow plaintiff to submit the supplemental evidence as
well as a supplemental brief.  Defendant
can then oppose it and plaintiff can reply. 
The court will discuss timing with the parties.