 Case Number:  21SMCV01029    Hearing Date:   December 15, 2023    Dept:  I This is a motion to compel further responses to certain
requests for production.  The requests
were propounded by defendant Cyberline, which brings the motion.  Cross-defendant Safady opposes. 
Initially, the court agrees with Cyberline that it has
justified the requests for production. 
The question, then, is whether the responses are code-compliant.  There are four requests at issue.  RFP 1 asks for documents relating to “efforts
by [Safady] to SOLICIT investments in CYBERLINE.”  RFP 2 seeks communications with any “PERSON
[Safady] SOLICTED to invest in CYBERLINE regarding a potential or actual
investment in CYBERLINE.”  RFP 3 seeks
documents relating to efforts by Safady “to recommend that any PERSON invest in
CYBERLINE.”  RFP 4 seeks communications
relating to Cyberline “with any person to whom [Safady] recommended investing
in CYBERLINE.”
The response to each is the same.  “Objection. 
Responding Party did not ask for or try to obtain something from any
person in connection with Cyberline. 
Subject to and without waiving the foregoing objection, Responding party
states: After a diligent search and reasonable inquiry was made, Responding
Party cannot comply with this Request because responsive documents do not
exist.”  Safady did not supplement this
response following the meet and confer. 
(There is some debate about whether Safady had agreed to
supplement.  Cyberline says he did agree
to supplement, Safady says he only agreed that he “may” supplement.)
Whether or not there was an agreement to supplement, the
court looks to the response as given in light of the fact that all agree no
supplement has been provided.  Cyberline
contends that part of the problem is that Safady is using a cramped definition
of “SOLICIT,” a term that is only used in two of the four requests.  But the court does not see it that way.  Safady states that he never tried to obtain
“something from any person in connection with Cyberline.”  Whether that means a solicitation of money or
a recommendation for an investment, either way it means Safady never tried to
get anyone to participate with Cyberline. 
That said, though, this is oddly worded. 
Further, the substantive statement is in the form of an objection.  But that makes no sense.  It is not an objection; it is a substantive
statement.  The concern is that by
phrasing it as an objection, Safady is not signing on to it under penalty of
perjury.  The court is also a bit worried
because Safady does not parrot the language in the RFP.  The RFP uses the defined term “SOLICIT” or
“recommend” in the context of investing in Cyberline.  If Safady recommended that someone invest in
Cyberline, that would be responsive, whether Safady views that as an effort to
“ask for or try to obtain something from any person.”  Given the level of distrust here, the court
understands why Cyberline would like the responses to be clean and leave no
wiggle room.  Similarly, Cyberline states
that it has an actual document where Safady did try to solicit someone to
invest in Cyberline (among other entities). 
Plainly, Cyberline plans to use the sworn verified response that there
are no responsive documents in conjunction with the document that Cyberline
claims is responsive to impeach Safady—and the impeachment could be
effective.  Cyberline is entitled to do
that, and Safady is not entitled to use odd language and objections to try and
defeat the impeachment.  (Alternatively,
Safady may have a good explanation for the document or, on reflection, Safady
might change the answer.)
The bottom line is that Safady needs to respond (with
verification) without objection to the request as the request is phrased.  Safady will have 15 days to do so and, if the
response leads to the need to produce documents, the documents will be produced
at the same time.  As such, the motion is
GRANTED.  That said, because the court
cannot be sure that this is truly an effort to dodge the discovery as opposed
to a debate as to how many angels can dance on the head of a pin, the court
believes that there was substantial enough justification to oppose the
motion.  The request for sanctions is
DENIED.