  Case Number:  22STCV07639    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2023    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     December 13, 2023                TRIAL DATE: NOT
SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Sharon Rachelle Cano et al. v. Rajendra
Makkar, M.D. et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV07639            
 
DEMURRER
AND MOTION TO STRIKE PORTIONS OF FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants Rajendra Makkar, M.D. and Cedars-Sinai
Medical Center
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Sharon
Rachelle Cano, individually, as successor-in-interest for the Estate of
Lorraine E. Cano, and as trustee for the Lorraine E. Cano Trust
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
03/02/22: Complaint filed.
·        
08/28/23: First Amended Complaint filed. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is a medical malpractice action arising from a cardiac procedure
performed on the decedent, Plaintiff’s grandmother. Plaintiff alleges that
Defendants permitted a medical fellow to perform surgery on the decedent over
the decedent’s express wishes. 
 
Defendants demur to the First
Amended Complaint in its entirety and move to strike portions of the Complaint.

            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendants’ Demurrer to the First Amended
Complaint is SUSTAINED without
leave to amend with respect to
the First, Second and Third Causes of Action, and with leave to amend
as to the Fourth Cause of Action. 
Plaintiff is granted 20 days to file an amended complaint.   
 
Defendants’ Motion to Strike is
MOOT. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Demurrer to First Amended Complaint
 
            Defendants
demur to the First Amended Complaint in its entirety.
 
Legal Standard
 
A demurrer tests whether the
complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations
liberally and in context. (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and
Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.) In a demurrer proceeding, the
defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,
994.) “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other
extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face
of the pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court
(1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing
is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,
states a cause of action.” (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p. 747.) The
ultimate facts alleged in the complaint must be deemed true, as well as all
facts that may be implied or inferred from those expressly alleged. (Marshall
v. Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1397, 1403; see also Shields
v. County of San Diego (1984) 155 Cal.App.3d 103, 133 [stating, “[o]n
demurrer, pleadings are read liberally and allegations contained therein are
assumed to be true”].) “This rule of liberal construction means that the
reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not the
defendant.” (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th
1228, 1238.) 
 
Meet and Confer
 
Before filing a demurrer, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who has filed the pleading subject to the demurrer and file a declaration
detailing their meet and confer efforts.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41(a).)
However, an insufficient meet and confer process is not grounds
to overrule or sustain a demurrer.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41(a)(4).)
 
The Declaration of Lorraine Kim
Hall filed with the demurrer states that the parties met and conferred
telephonically on June 12, 2023, but were unable to resolve the disputes
presented here. (Declaration of Lorraine Kim Hall ISO Demurrer ¶ 2.) Defendants
have therefore satisfied their statutory meet and confer obligations. 
 
Requests for Judicial Notice
 
            Defendants
request that the Court take judicial notice of (1) the Complaint in Lorraine
E. Cano v. Raj Makkar, M.D., et al., LASC Case No. 20STCV23067; (2) the
April 22, 2021 dismissal in the aforementioned action; and (3) the Notice of
Entry of Dismissal filed May 5, 2021 in that action. Defendants’ Requests are
GRANTED pursuant to Evidence Code section 452(d) (court records). 
 
First Cause of Action: Professional Negligence
 
            Defendants
demur to the first cause of action for failure to state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action. Defendants offer numerous arguments for why this
cause of action is defective, but chief among them is the contention that this
cause of action is barred by the doctrine of retraxit.
 
            The
doctrine of retraxit is a “particular application of claim preclusion”
requiring that all claims based on the same cause of action be decided in a
single suit. (Kim v. Reins International California Inc. (2020) 9
Cal.5th 73, 91-92.) Under this doctrine, a party’s voluntary dismissal of a
claim is equivalent to a judgment on the merits, and thus bars any further
litigation of that claim. (See, e.g., Federal Home Loan Bank of San
Francisco v. Countrywide Financial Corp. (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 1520,
1527.) 
 
In determining the validity of a
plea of res judicata, also known as claim preclusion, the questions to be
resolved are (1) whether the cause of action decided in the prior adjudication
is identical to the one in the current action; (2) whether there was a final
judgment on the merits in the previous adjudication; and (3) whether the party
against whom the plea is asserted a party or in privity with a party to the
prior adjudication. (See Bernhard v. Bank of Am. Nat. Tr. & Sav. Ass’n
(1942) 19 Cal.2d 807, 813.) For the purposes of this doctrine, the phrase
“cause of action” means “the right to obtain redress for a harm suffered,
regardless of the specific remedy sought or the legal theory (common law or
statutory) advanced.” (Franceschi v. Franchise Tax Bd. (2016) 1
Cal.App.5th 247, 257 [abrogated on other grounds in Guerrero v. Dep't of
Corr. & Rehab. (2018) 28 Cal. App. 5th 1091].) As our Supreme Court has
explained, this definition arises out of the primary right theory:
 
The primary right theory is a theory of
code pleading that has long been followed in California. It provides that a
“cause of action” is comprised of a “primary right” of the plaintiff, a
corresponding “primary duty” of the defendant, and a wrongful act by the
defendant constituting a breach of that duty. [Citation] The most salient
characteristic of a primary right is that it is indivisible: the violation of a
single primary right gives rise to but a single cause of action. [Citation] A
pleading that states the violation of one primary right in two causes of action
contravenes the rule against “splitting” a cause of action. [Citation] . . . 
 
[T]he primary right is simply the
plaintiff’s right to be free from the particular injury suffered. [Citation] It
must therefore be distinguished from the legal theory on which liability for
that injury is premised: “Even where there are multiple legal theories upon
which recovery might be predicated, one injury gives rise to only one claim for
relief.” . . . The primary right theory . . . is invoked most often when a
plaintiff attempts to divide a primary right and enforce it in two suits. The
theory prevents this result by either of two means: (1) if the first suit is
still pending when the second is filed, the defendant in the second suit may
plead that fact in abatement [citations]; or (2) if the first suit has
terminated in a judgment on the merits adverse to the plaintiff, the defendant
in the second suit may set up that judgment as a bar under the principles of
res judicata.
 
(Crowley v. Katleman (1994) 8 Cal.4th 666, 681-82.)
If a single primary right is invaded, only one cause of action arises, even if
the defendant allegedly breached that right in multiple ways, or under
different legal theories. (Bay Cities Paving & Grading, Inc. v. Lawyers'
Mut. Ins. Co. (1993) 5 Cal.4th 854, 860-61.) Res judicata thus precludes
litigation of claims that could have been brought in a prior action but were
not. (Franceschi, supra, 1 Cal.App.5th at 258.)
 
            Lorraine
Cano, expressly the predecessor-in-interest to Plaintiff, filed a Complaint
against these defendants for professional negligence on June 18, 2020. (RJN
Exh. 1.) The Complaint in that case alleged the same essential facts as here:
that Lorraine Cano was injured in June 2019 by a botched cardiac procedure which
was allegedly performed by a medical fellow rather than the primary attending
physician whom the decedent had requested. (RJN Exh. 1. ¶¶ 9-28; FAC ¶¶ 15-57.)
On its face, the previous Complaint contemplates the same cause of action as
the first cause of action here. The decedent dismissed her prior claim for
professional negligence with prejudice as to all parties and causes of action
on April 22, 2021. (RJN Exh. 2.) Plaintiff does not address this cause of
action in her opposition. The Court thus concludes that here was a final
adjudication on the merits as to this cause of action asserted by the
predecessor party to Plaintiff under the doctrine of retraxit. Plaintiff’s
first cause of action for professional negligence is therefore barred by the
doctrine of res judicata. 
 
            As res
judicata applies to bar Plaintiff’s first cause of action, the Court declines
to address Defendants’ remaining arguments with respect to this cause of
action.
 
            Accordingly,
Defendants’ Demurrer to the first cause of action for professional negligence
is SUSTAINED. 
 
Second Cause of Action: Medical Battery
 
            Defendants
demur to the second cause of action for medical battery for failure to state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. Defendants argue that this
cause of action is deficient because it is barred by the doctrine of retraxit,
and because it is time-barred by the statute of limitations. 
 
1.      Doctrine
of Retraxit
 
As stated above, the doctrine of
retraxit is a “particular application of claim preclusion” requiring that all
claims based on the same cause of action be decided in a single suit. (Kim
v. Reins International California Inc. (2020) 9 Cal.5th 73, 91-92.) Under
this doctrine, a party’s voluntary dismissal of a claim is equivalent to a
judgment on the merits, and thus bars any further litigation of that claim.
(See, e.g., Federal Home Loan Bank of San Francisco v. Countrywide Financial
Corp. (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 1520, 1527.) 
 
Defendants argue that under the
analysis described above with respect to the first cause of action, Plaintiff’s
second cause of action is likewise barred by Lorraine Cano’s dismissal of her
Complaint in April of 2021. However, Defendants presume that a claim for
medical battery is barred by res judicata because the doctrine purportedly
“applies to the same transaction of facts.” (Demurrer p.8:5.) The “same
transaction” test is not the standard in California. The “primary rights” test
is the standard, and under that test, the harm from medical malpractice is the
bodily injury resulting from the operation, while the harm from the battery
tort is a harm to the decedent’s “dignitary and privacy interests
in being touched by a person that she never consented to touch her.” Friedman
Prof. Management Co., Inc. v. Norcal Mutual Ins. Co. (2004) 120 Cal.App.4th
17, 29 [emphasis in original].) Plaintiff’s second cause of action is thus not
barred by the doctrine of res judicata.
 
2.     
Statute of Limitations
 
Defendants also argue that the
second cause of action for medical battery is time-barred by the one-year
statute of limitations. 
 
Defendants argue that this cause of
action is a claim against a healthcare provider for professional negligence
governed by Code of Civil Procedure section 340.5. This statute states, in
relevant part:
 
In an action for injury or death
against a health care provider based upon such person’s alleged professional
negligence, the time for the commencement of action shall be three years after
the date of injury or one year after the plaintiff discovers, or through the
use of reasonable diligence should have discovered, the injury, whichever
occurs first.
 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 340.5.) For the purposes of this statute,
“injury” means both the harm suffered and its wrongful cause. (See Larcher
v. Wanless (1976) 18 Cal.3d 656, 657-58 [interpreting statute as to
wrongful death claims].) “Professional negligence” is “[a] negligent act or
omission to act by a healthcare provider in the rendering of professional
services, which act or omission is the proximate cause of a personal injury.” (Id.)
When a plaintiff asserts a claim against a healthcare provider on a legal theory
other than professional negligence, the Court must determine whether the claim
“is nonetheless based on the health care provider’s professional negligence,” (Larson
v. UHS of Rancho Springs, Inc. (2014) 230 Cal.App.4th 336, 347.) “[T]he
test is whether [the action] flows or originates from a healthcare provider’s
negligent act or omission.” (Preferred Risk Mutual Ins. Co. v Reiswig
(1999) 21 Cal.4th 208. 217.) 
            
            Defendants
argue that, under a straightforward application of Larson, Plaintiff’s
medical battery claim is based on the professional services of a healthcare
provider in that Defendants allegedly permitted an unqualified fellow to perform
surgery on the decedent in violation of her express wishes. (FAC ¶¶ 82-84.) Plaintiff,
in opposition, argues that this claim is governed by the ordinary two-year
statute of limitations for battery. (Code Civ. Proc. § 335.1.) Plaintiff asserts
that Larson is inapplicable because “there was no indica of intent” in Larson.
(Opp. p. 12:28-13:1.) Even a cursory reading of Larson belies that
argument, as a central question of that case was whether a battery cause of
action based on injuries inflicted by an anesthesiologist while putting a mask
on the patient’s face fell within the scope of section 340.5. (Larson, 230
Cal.App.4th at 351-54 [finding that the plaintiff’s intentional tort claims
flowed from professional negligence].) Plaintiff also argues that this cause of
action could not be “against a healthcare provider” because the central
allegation is that the healthcare provider did not perform the surgery. This
argument is specious. Plaintiff has asserted these claims against a medical
practitioner and a hospital. These claims fall under section 340.5’s definition
of professional negligence and are therefore subject to a one-year statute of
limitations.
 
            Defendants
argue that, applying this statute of limitations, Plaintiff’s claim for medical
battery is time-barred because the one-year period elapsed well before the
complaint was filed. Defendants contend that Plaintiff conceded that the injury
occurred on June 19, 2019, when the surgery took place. (FAC ¶ 25.) More
crucially, the undisputed facts show that Plaintiff was aware of both the
injury and its wrongful cause by no later than June 18, 2020, when Lorraine
Cano’s complaint was filed alleging that Defendants allowed a fellow to perform
the procedure. (RJN Exh. 1. ¶ 34.) Since that action was dismissed, it cannot
be used to extend the statute of limitations. (Wood v. Elling Corp. (1977)
20 Cal.3d 353, 359.) Thus, the undisputed facts establish that the absolute
latest that the statute of limitations could have begun to run was June 18,
2020, and thus would have elapsed on June 18, 2021. Plaintiff’s Complaint in
this action was filed on March 2, 2022. As Plaintiff does not address
Defendants’ analysis under section 340.5 in their opposition, the Court is
forced to conclude that Plaintiff’s second cause of action for medical battery
is barred by the one-year statute of limitations under Code of Civil Procedure
section 340.5.
 
            Accordingly,
Defendants’ Demurrer to the second cause of action for medical battery is
SUSTAINED. 
 
Third Cause of Action: Fraud
 
            Defendants
demur to the third cause of action for fraud for failure to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action. 
 
1.     
Res Judicata
 
            Defendants
first argue that this cause of action is barred by res judicata for the reasons
stated above in connection with the first and second causes of action. However,
Defendants make no effort to demonstrate how this claim involves the same
primary right as a claim for professional negligence. Defendants have thus
failed to carry their burden to demonstrate that the doctrine of res judicata
applies. 
 
2.     
Statute of Limitations
 
            Defendants
next argue that this cause of action is also barred by the one-year statute of
limitations under Code of Civil Procedure section 340.5. Plaintiff does not
respond to this argument in her opposition. Under the construction of this
statute set forth above, the Court finds that section 340.5 governs Plaintiff’s
fraud cause of action in this case. 
 
            Applying
this statute, the Court observes that the representations by Defendant Makkar
set forth in the operative pleading giving rise to the third cause of action
were also set forth in the 2020 pleading. For example, both sets of pleadings
allege that Defendants promised that only Dr. Makkar would handle the tools,
and the fellows would be present but merely observing. (FAC ¶¶ 23-24, RJN Exh.
1. ¶ 14.) The pleadings also contain overlapping allegations that Defendants did
not inform the patient or her family of an arterial perforation, instead
stating that the procedure “was going well.” (FAC ¶¶ 34-37, RJN Exh. 1. ¶ 18.)
Thus, as with the battery cause of action, the undisputed facts show that
Plaintiff was aware of the injury no later than June 18, 2020, and that the
statute of limitations elapsed on June 18, 2021. As the Complaint in this
action was filed on March 2, 2022, the Court likewise concludes that
Plaintiff’s third cause of action for fraud is barred by the one-year statute
of limitations under Code of Civil Procedure section 340.5. 
 
            As the
Court has concluded that this cause of action is barred by the statute of
limitations, the Court declines to address Defendants’ challenge to the specificity
of the pleadings as to this claim. 
 
            Accordingly,
Defendants’ Demurrer to the third cause of action for fraud is SUSTAINED.
 
Fourth Cause of Action: Wrongful Death
 
            Defendants
demur to the fourth cause of action for wrongful death for failure to state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. Defendants argue, as with the
other causes of action, that the fourth cause of action for wrongful death is
barred by res judicata and by the statute of limitations. 
 
1.     
Res Judicata
 
            Defendants
first argue that this cause of action is barred by res judicata for the reasons
stated above in connection with the first and second causes of action. However,
Defendants make no effort to demonstrate how this claim involves the same
primary right as a claim for professional negligence. Defendants have thus
failed to carry their burden to demonstrate that the doctrine of res judicata
applies. 
2.     
Statute of Limitations
 
            Claims for
wrongful death against a healthcare provider are governed by Code of Civil
Procedure section 340.5, which states, in relevant part:
 
In an action for injury or death
against a health care provider based upon such person’s alleged professional
negligence, the time for the commencement of action shall be three years after
the date of injury or one year after the plaintiff discovers, or through the
use of reasonable diligence should have discovered, the injury, whichever
occurs first.
 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 340.5.) For the purposes of this statute
as it applies to wrongful death claims, “injury” means both “the death of [the]
decedent and its negligent cause.” (Larcher v. Wanless (1976) 18
Cal.3d 656, 657-58 [emphasis added].)
 
            Defendants
contend that this cause of action is time-barred because the undisputed facts
are that the decedent passed away on February 25, 2021, after the wrongful
nature of her injuries were already known, but the Complaint was not filed
until March 2, 2022. Plaintiff, in opposition, argues that the Complaint was
timely filed on February 25, 2022, but rejected by the clerk for technical
errors. Plaintiff relies principally on
the holding of United Farm Workers of America, AFL-CIO v. Agricultural Labor
Relations Board (1985) 37 Cal.3d 912 (“UFW”). In that case, our Supreme
Court held, in ruling on a petition under the Labor Code:
 
It is indeed arguable
that the omission of a required verification is a technical defect which is
properly within the clerk's scrutiny. Nevertheless, it cannot be the rule that
the timeliness of a petition depends on whether the clerk catches such technical
defects. Accordingly, we conclude that "filing" for purposes of
compliance with the time limits of Labor Code section 1160.8 means what it does
in all other contexts: actual delivery of the petition to the clerk at his
place of business during office hours. (See People v. Slobodion
(1947) 30 Cal. 2d 362, 367 [181 P.2d 868]; Hallett v. Slaughter
(1943) 22 Cal. 2d 552 [140 P.2d 3].) Thus, it is the filer's actions
that are scrutinized in determining whether a petition was timely filed.
Rejection of the petition by the clerk under rule 46 for a technical defect
cannot undo a "filing" that has already occurred. This is not to say,
however, the reviewing court could not later order dismissal if a party has not
undertaken timely correction of defects noted. We hold only that a defective
petition may not be dismissed for untimeliness under Labor Code section 1160.8
when it is delivered to the appropriate clerk's office during office hours
within the time limits set therein.
(United Farm
Workers of America, AFL-CIO v. Agricultural Labor Relations Board, 37
Cal.3d 912, 918 (1985).) UFW expressly distinguished cases involving an
attempt to extend the filing deadline from timely submission of a petition that
is subsequently rejected by the clerk for technical errors. (Id. at
915-18.) 
 
Plaintiff argues that, here, the complaint was initially filed February
25, 2022, the last day permitted by the statute of limitations. Plaintiff
states that the Petition was rejected for technical violations and was refiled
with the technical defects corrected on March 2, 2022. However, although
Plaintiff has provided documents which purport to be receipts from the
electronic filing service, Plaintiff has not provided the Notice of Court
Rejection of Electronic Filing, nor has Plaintiff offered a basis for judicial
notice of the documents provided. Thus, even assuming that UFW is
applicable in contexts outside of a Labor Code petition, Plaintiff has not
demonstrated by judicially noticeable matter that the original Complaint in
this action was timely filed.
 
Accordingly, Defendants’ Demurrer to the fourth cause of action is
SUSTAINED.
 
Uncertainty
 
            Defendants also demur to each cause
of action as uncertain.
 
A demurrer for uncertainty is
strictly construed, even where a pleading is in some respects uncertain,
because ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures. (See Khoury
v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)  A
demurrer for uncertainty will be sustained only where the pleading is so bad
that defendant cannot reasonably respond--i.e., he or she cannot
reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what counts or
claims are directed against him or her.  (See Weil & Brown, Civil
Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group) § 7:85 (emphasis in original).)
"The objection of uncertainty does not go to the failure to allege
sufficient facts."  (Brea v. McGlashan (1934) 3
Cal.App.2d 454, 459.)
 
            As should be apparent from the
Court’s examination of each cause of action and the arguments asserted by
Defendants against them, the pleadings are not so deficient that Defendants
could not be expected to reasonably respond. 
 
Leave to Amend
 
            When a
demurrer is sustained, the Court determines whether there is a reasonable
possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment. (Blank v. Kirwan
(1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) California law imposes the burden on the party
who filed the pleading to demonstrate the manner in which they can amend their
pleadings to state their claims.  (See Goodman v. Kennedy
(1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.) “Denial of leave to amend constitutes an abuse of
discretion unless the [pleading] shows on its face it is incapable of
amendment.  [Citation.]  Liberality in permitting amendment is the
rule, if a fair opportunity to correct any defect has not been given."
(Angie M. v. Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1217, 1227.)
 
            Here, Plaintiff’s First,
Second and Third Causes of Action are plainly barred by the one-year statute of
limitations or by res judicata. Leave to amend as to these claims would thus be
a futile gesture.  As to her wrongful
death claim, however, Plaintiff has demonstrated that she may be able to plead
a timely “filing” of a complaint that was rejected for technical reasons.  Accordingly, Plaintiff is granted leave to
amend only as to her Fourth Cause of Action. 

 
Conclusion
 
            Accordingly, Defendants’ Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint is
SUSTAINED without leave to amend with respect to the First, Second and Third Causes of
Action, and with leave to amend as to the Fourth Cause of
Action.  Plaintiff is granted 20 days to
file an amended complaint.
 
Motion to Strike Portions of First Amended Complaint
 
            Defendants move to
strike portions of the First Amended Complaint. As the Court has sustained the
demurrer in its entirety without leave to amend, Defendants’ Motion to Strike
is MOOT. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly, Defendants’ Demurrer to the
First Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED without leave to
amend with respect to the First, Second and Third Causes of Action, and with leave to amend as to the Fourth Cause of Action.  Plaintiff is granted 20 days to file an
amended complaint.
 
            Defendants’
Motion to Strike is MOOT. 
 
            Moving
Parties to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  December 13,
2023                            ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 