 Case Number:  24STCV05412    Hearing Date:   August 19, 2024    Dept:  34 Defendant Meundies,
Inc. and Jonathan Shokrian’s Motion to Compel Arbitration and Stay Court Action
is DENIED.  
Background[1]  
Plaintiff Meghan Hidalgo
(“Plaintiff”) alleges as follows:
Defendant MeUndies, Inc.
(“Meundies”) denied promotions and pay increases to Plaintiff  throughout the course of her employment
despite her exceptional job performance and director level contributions. Male
employees and white employees were consistently hired for positions senior to
Plaintiff, despite her having more relevant job experience and carrying more
responsibility in her role. During Plaintiff’s employment, MeUndies and Defendant
Jonathan Shokrian (“Shokrian” and collectively with Meundies as “Defendants”),
the Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”), subjected Plaintiff to an onslaught of
harassing conduct including demeaning comments, micromanagement, assignment of
unfavorable job tasks, the denial of promotions and pay raises, and wrongful
termination, all because she is a woman. In response, Plaintiff spoke out. She
complained about the hostile and discriminatory environment at MeUndies, and
asked the company to address the problems that permeated the workplace. In
response, for complaining of and actively resisting the discriminatory and
harassing conduct of Defendants, Ms. Hidalgo was subjected to a campaign of
retaliation culminating in her wrongful termination. 
On March 4, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
complaint, asserting causes of action against Defendants and Does 1-10 for:
1.              
Sex/Gender Harassment;
2.              
Sex/Gender Discrimination;
3.              
Retaliation;
4.              
Failure to Prevent Discrimination, Harassment; 
5.              
Retaliation;
6.              
Unequal Pay;
7.              
Failure to Pay all Wages at Separation;
8.              
Negligent Hiring, Supervision and Retention; and,
9.              
Wrongful Termination. 
A Case Management Conference is set
for August 19, 2024.
Legal Standard 
“On petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging
the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a
party to the agreement refuses to arbitrate that controversy, the court shall
order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it
determines that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists, unless it
determines that: (a) The right to compel arbitration has been waived by the
petitioner; or (b) Grounds exist for rescission of the agreement.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1281.2, subds. (a) and (b).)
The party seeking to compel arbitration bears the burden of
proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by the preponderance of
the evidence. (Hotels Nevada v. L.A.
Pacific Center, Inc. (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 754, 761.) The burden then
shifts to the opposing party to prove by a preponderance of the evidence a
defense to enforcement (e.g., fraud, unconscionability, etc.) (Id.) “In these summary proceedings, the
trial court sits as a trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations,
and other documentary evidence, as well as oral testimony received at the
court’s discretion, to reach a final determination.” (Engalla v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th
951, 972.)
“If a court of competent jurisdiction. . . has ordered
arbitration of a controversy which is an issue involved in an action or
proceeding pending before a court of this State, the court in which such action
or proceeding is pending shall, upon motion of a party to such action or
proceeding, stay the action or proceeding until an arbitration is had in
accordance with the order to arbitrate or until such earlier time as the court
specifies.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.4).
Discussion
Defendants move the court to compel arbitration of all
claims and causes of action between Plaintiff and Defendants, and dismiss or,
alternatively, stay all further judicial proceedings in this action pending
completion of arbitration.
Merits
1.              
Existence of
a Valid Arbitration Agreement
Defendants submit Plaintiff worked
for MeUndies from February of 2020 until February of 2023. (Declaration of
Connie Tong. ¶ 4.) At the time Plaintiff was hired, MeUndies used an electronic
onboarding system for new hires to review and sign certain onboarding
documents. (Id., ¶ 5.) During onboarding, MeUndies provided new
employees with a copy of the Mutual Arbitration Agreement (the “Agreement”). (Id.)
The Agreement reads as follows:
MUTUAL ARBITRATION
AGREEMENT
This Mutual Arbitration Agreement
(“Agreement”) is entered into between MeUndies (“Company”) and the undersigned
employee (“Employee”). In consideration of the mutual agreements to arbitrate
contained herein, and in consideration of the Employee’s employment or
continued employment by the Company, the Company and Employee agree that any
and all disputes, controversies or claims (“Claims”) arising out of or related
to the Employee’s application for employment, employment, or termination of
employment with the Company, or otherwise, shall be submitted to and resolved
through confidential final and binding arbitration under the JAMS Employment
Arbitration Rules and Procedures in effect at the time the claim is made, and
in accordance with the Federal Arbitration Act or the applicable state law
modifying or supplementing the Federal Arbitration Act. A copy of the current
rules and procedures are provided concurrently herewith if the Employee elects
(and Employee hereby acknowledges the opportunity to review the rules prior to
signing this Agreement), and may also be provided in the future by contacting
the Company or visiting http://www.jamsadr.com/rules-employment-arbitration.

 
This Agreement is intended to cover and
includes, but is not limited to, any and all Claims for wage and hour
violations, discrimination, harassment, retaliation, misrepresentation, sexual
harassment or hostile work environment, wrongful termination in violation of
public policy, breach of contract, negligence, tortious interference,
intentional infliction of emotional distress, defamation, misappropriation of
trade secrets, unfair competition or business practices, fraud, and any other
violation of any federal, state or local law, statute, regulation or ordinance.
This Agreement covers Claims against the Company as well as any past or present
affiliates, and against any current and former employees, agents, principals,
shareholders, partners, members, officers and directors of the Company or of
any affiliates, involving matters occurring in the course or scope of the
Company’s business or otherwise. THE COMPANY AND EMPLOYEE AGREE THAT CLAIMS
COVERED UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE SUBJECT TO TRIAL BY JURY OR BY A COURT
OF ANY JURISDICTION. IN ADDITION, EMPLOYEE WAIVES ANY CLAIM TO CLASS OR
COLLECTIVE RELIEF, AND AGREES TO PROCEED INDIVIDUALLY FOR ALL CLAIMS IN
ARBITRATION. EMPLOYEE WAIVES ANY AND ALL RIGHT TO HAVE A CLAIM BROUGHT, HEARD
OR ARBITRATED AS A CLASS OR COLLECTIVE ACTION. 
 
This Agreement shall not include Claims
under the National Labor Relations Act, Private Attorney General Act, Workers’
Compensation claims, Unemployment Insurance and Benefits claims, claims based
upon a pension or benefit plan which contains an arbitration or other dispute
resolution procedure, and any Claims within the jurisdiction of a small claims
court, all of the foregoing if and only to the extent that such Claims cannot
be compelled to be submitted to mandatory arbitration under applicable law. Nothing
in this Agreement constitutes a waiver of the Employee’s right to file a charge
or complaint with the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, the U.S.
Department of Labor, or any other federal, state or local administrative
agency. However, any litigation arising from such administrative charges or
complaints shall be subject to mandatory arbitration under this Agreement.
Nothing in this Agreement precludes either Company or the Employee from seeking
appropriate interim injunctive relief pursuant to applicable federal or state
law before or while arbitration proceedings are pending, or precludes bringing
a claim in a court of competent jurisdiction to compel arbitration under this
Agreement. 
 
The Company or Employee shall initiate
the arbitration process by delivering a written request for arbitration to the
other party within the applicable federal or state statute of limitations that
would apply to the filing of a civil action with the subject claims. Failure to
deliver a timely written request for arbitration within such time limits will
preclude the aggrieved party from instituting any legal action, arbitration or
other proceedings and constitute a complete waiver of all such claims. The Company
and Employee each have the right to representation by counsel with respect to
arbitration of any Claim under this Agreement. A single neutral arbitrator
shall be selected by agreement between the Company and Employee in accordance
with the JAMS rules, and from the JAMS panel of specialists. To the extent
applicable in civil actions (and unless modified by the JAMS rules), all rules
of civil procedure before and during trial shall apply and be observed in the
arbitration, including, but not limited to, all rights to conduct discovery, to
file motions (including a motion for summary judgment), designate expert
witnesses, present evidence, and examine and cross-examine witnesses.
Resolution of the dispute shall be based solely upon the law governing the claims
and defenses pleaded and the applicable statute of limitations, and the
arbitrator may not invoke any basis, including, but not limited to, notions of
“just cause,” other than such controlling law. The arbitrator shall have the
immunity of a judicial officer from civil liability when acting in the capacity
of an arbitrator, which immunity supplements any other existing immunity. The
arbitrator shall conduct a full hearing at which the parties shall be entitled
to present evidence, and examine and cross-examine witnesses. The arbitrator
shall issue a written decision with the essential factual findings and
conclusions of law upon which any award is based within thirty days from the
date that the arbitration hearing concludes or the post-hearing briefs (if
requested) are filed, whichever is later. The arbitrator shall have authority
to award equitable relief, damages, attorneys’ fees, costs, and interest to the
extent permitted by law, including, but not limited to, any remedy or relief
that a governing court could lawfully order. 
 
To the extent otherwise required by
law, any arbitration costs and fees that the Employee would not be required to
bear if the Employee were free to bring an action in court, shall be paid by
the Company. For purposes of clarification, any filing fee or administrative
fee required by JAMS shall be paid by the Employee to the extent such fee does
not exceed the initial filing fee to commence an action in a state court or
United States District Court with jurisdiction over the Claims, whichever is
the lesser (the amount of such fee in excess of that amount will be paid by the
Company); thereafter, the administrative fees required by JAMS and the fees of
the arbitrator for his or her services will be paid by the Company.
Nevertheless, neither party shall be responsible for the other party’s
attorneys’ fees and costs absent an award of such fees by the arbitrator. The
Company and Employee shall be equally bound by any decision of the arbitrator.
Except as otherwise indicated above, the arbitrator shall have sole and
exclusive authority to resolve all claims between the parties, including the
arbitrability of the claims. 
 
The obligations set forth in this
Agreement shall survive the termination of the Employee’s employment with
Company. Should any term or provision, or portion thereof, of this Agreement be
declared void or unenforceable, in whole or in part, it shall be severed to the
extent necessary to bring the provision within the applicable requirements of
the law and the remainder of this Agreement shall be enforceable. This
Agreement shall be binding upon the parties hereto, their heirs, successors and
assigns. This Agreement supersedes any and all prior arbitration agreements
entered into between the Company and Employee, and can only be modified or
revoked by a written agreement signed by both parties hereto which specifically
states that the parties both intend to modify or revoke this Agreement. 
 
Nothing in this Agreement will be
construed to create any express or implied contract of employment, or will
alter, change or modify the at-will nature of the Employee’s employment with
Company.
 
(Id., Exhibit A.)
The foregoing paragraph is
followed by Plaintiff’s purported signature. Defendants contend that on
February 11, 2020, Plaintiff electronically executed the Agreement via a Human
Resources software platform called TriNet. (Id., ¶ 7.) According to Ms.
Tong, Meundies’ employees access the arbitration agreement by using their
unique username and password. (Id., ¶ 8.) Employees agree to use an
electronic signature when signing the document electronically. (Id.) The
date the employee electronically signs the agreement is then recorded in Meundies’
computer system. (Id.) Plaintiff’s Agreement was signed by adhering to
the above-referenced procedures. (Id., ¶ 7.)  Ms. Tong verified that Plaintiff
electronically signed the document. (Id.) Further, Defendants contend the
above arbitration clause encompasses “all workplace disputes, including claims
relating to termination of her employment.” (Id., ¶ 13.)
Plaintiff contends Defendants
offer “no admissible evidence that [Plaintiff] knowingly entered into an
agreement to arbitrate, or electronically signed the agreement.” (Opposition,
at p. 1.) Further, Plaintiff contends she “never saw an arbitration agreement,
was never given any explanation of what she was asked to sign, was never given
any assistance, and did not knowingly waive her right to jury.” (Id.
[without emphasis added].)
Plaintiff contends that she does
not recall seeing the Mutual Arbitration Agreement nor electronically signing
the document. (Hildago Decl., ¶¶ 6, 9.) Moreover, Plaintiff denies that the
signature on the Agreement is her signature. (Id., ¶ 10.) After her
termination, Plaintiff contends she was sent an email with an arbitration
agreement. (Id., Exhibit A.)
The court finds that Defendant has
not met their burden. (Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto Group, Inc. (2014) 232
Cal.App.4th 836, 842. While presumably Defendants met their burden to show an
agreement to arbitrate, here, Plaintiff denies signing the contract, thereby placing
the “burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence that the electronic
signature was authentic.” (Id., at p. 846.) The party seeking to
authentic an electronic signature can do so by “presenting evidence of the
contents of the contract in question and the circumstances surrounding the contract’s
execution.” (Fabian v. Renovate America, Inc. (2019) 42 Cal.App.th 1062,
1067.)
Ms. Tong’s declaration does not
provide sufficient evidence that Plaintiff signed the Agreement. Other than
mentioning TriNet, Ms. Tong does not explain how such a platform is reliable
and does not offer evidence as to how she knew that Plaintiff signed the
Agreement. Plaintiff denies the existence of the signature on the Agreement. (Hildago
Decl., ¶ 10.)
The court finds that Plaintiff’s
reliance on Bannister v. Marinidence Opco, LLC, 64 Cal.App.5th 541, 544,
(2021) is persuasive. In Bannister, the Court held that an employer must
do more than simply recite the login procedure to prove that an employee
actually signed an arbitration agreement:
Where, as here, the
respondent challenges the validity of the signature, however, the petitioner
must ‘establish by a preponderance of the evidence that the signature was
authentic.’ [] In such proceedings, ‘the trial court sits as a trier of fact,
weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other documentary evidence, as
well as oral testimony received at the court’s discretion, to reach a final
determination.
 
(Id.
[citations omitted].)
Here, the court finds that the authentication
evidence lacking. What we have is an electronic signature on a document Tong
did not present to Ms. Hidalgo, did not review with Ms. Hidalgo, did not watch
Ms. Hidalgo sign, and did not confirm Ms. Hidalgo’s review and signature at the
time the document was allegedly signed. Defendants simply cannot meet the
standard to authenticate evidence.
The motion is DENIED.[2]


