  Case Number:  22STCV30740    Hearing Date:   March 25, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



MARCUS WEBSTER, an individual,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, a public
  corporation; SASHA YOUNG, an individual; JASMINE BRIONES, an individual;
  SCOTT KARAS, an individual; BRENDA QUIROGA, an individual; and DOES 1-5-,
  inclusive,
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          22STCV30740
 Hearing Date:   3/25/24
 Trial Date:        9/10/24
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Plaintiff Marcus
  Webster’s Motion to Quash Subpoena to Plaintiff’s Current Employer, Aya
  Healthcare, Inc.



 
I. Background
A. Pleadings
Plaintiff Marcus Webster sues
Defendants the Regents of the University of California (the Regents)—as owner,
operator, and/or entity controlling medical clinics and hospitals that are part
of the UCLA health system, including the Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center
(UCLA Reagan)—and Does 1 through 50 pursuant to a June 22, 2023 Second Amended
Complaint (SAC) alleging claims of (1) Discrimination in Violation of the FEHA
[Fair Employment and Housing Act], (2) Retaliation in Violation of the FEHA,
(3) Harassment in Violation of the FEHA, (4) Failure to Take Steps to Prevent
Discrimination, and Harassment in Violation of FEHA, (5) Retaliation Under Cal.
Health & Safety Code § 1278.5, (6) Declaratory Relief, and (7) Retaliation
under Labor Code § 1102.5.
While the caption of the SAC names
a number of individuals as Defendants in this action, the claims alleged in the
SAC are only directed at the Regents and Does 1 through 50.
On July 21, 2023, the Regents filed
an Answer to the SAC.
B. Motion Before the Court
On or around October 31, 2023, the
Regents served Plaintiff’s counsel with a notice to consumer or employee and
deposition for production of business records from Aya Healthcare, Inc. (Aya),
Plaintiff’s current employer. The subpoena requests “Any and all documents and
records, including but not limited to, payroll, personnel, employment and wage
records, including pre-employment records, physical examinations, work absence
records, incident reports, vacation records, loss of earnings records,
disciplinary records, internal investigation records, employee progress records,
all claims under health, accident or hospitalization insurance coverage
pertaining to: Marcus Webster, D.O.B. : 11/12/1984, S.S.# : Unknown[] from the
first date of employment to the last date of employment or present.”
Between November 8 and 16, 2023,
counsel for the parties met and conferred regarding the propriety of the
subpoena to Aya to produce Plaintiff’s employee records.
On November 13, 2023, the Regents
served the subpoena on Aya.
On November 22, 2023, Plaintiff
Webster filed a motion to quash the subpoena.
On March 12, 2024, the Regents
filed an opposition to Plaintiff’s motion.
On March 18, 2024, Plaintiff
replied to the Regents’ opposition.
Plaintiff’s motion is now before the
Court.
 
II. Motion to Quash Subpoena: GRANTED in part and DENIED
in part.
A. Legal Standard
A motion to quash a deposition
subpoena or deposition notice is used to strike, modify, or impose conditions
on a subpoena or notice that is procedurally or substantively defective. (See
Code Civ. Proc., §§ 1987.1, subd. (a), 2025.410, subd. (c); see, e.g., Catholic
Mut. Relief Soc’y v. Superior Court (2007) 42 Cal.4th 358, 365 [motion
based on ground that subpoenas sought information outside scope of discovery]; John
B. v. Superior Court (2006) 38 Cal.4th 1177, 1186 [motion based in part on
ground that subpoenas violated right of privacy]; McClatchy Newspapers v.
Superior Court (1945) 26 Cal.2d 386, 391 [motion based on ground that
subpoenas were unreasonable and oppressive]; Far W. S&L Assn. v.
McLaughlin (1988) 201 Cal.App.3d 67, 71 [motion based on ground that
subpoena was not properly served]; City of Los Angeles v. Superior Court
(2003) 111 Cal.App.4th 883, 888 [procedural remedy for a defective subpoena is
generally a motion to quash under § 1987.1].) 
Such a motion may be made by:
(1) Any
party to the action (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1, subd. (b)(1)); 
(2)
The subpoenaed witness (e.g., a custodian of another person’s personal records)
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1, subd. (b)(2); Monarch Healthcare v. Superior
Court (2000) 78 Cal.App.4th 1282, 1287-1288); 
(3)
A person (party or nonparty) whose consumer, governmental, or employment
information or records have been subpoenaed (see Code Civ. Proc., §§ 1985.3,
subd. (g) [party consumer], 1985.4 [state or local-agency employee or any other
natural person], 1985.6, subd. (f)(1) [employee], 1987.1, subd. (b)(3)
[consumer], 1987.1, subd. (b)(4) [employee]; see also Code Civ. Proc., §§
1985.3, subd. (g), ¶ 2, 1985.6, subd. (f)(2) [nonparty consumer can make
written objections instead of motion to quash]); 

(4) A person whose “personally
identifying information” within the meaning of Civ. Code § 1798.79.8, subd,
(b), subpoenaed in connection with an action involving that person’s exercise
of free-speech rights; and 
(5) The Court, on its own motion,
after giving the parties notice and the opportunity to be heard (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1987.1, subd. (a).) 
A motion to quash may be based on
various grounds, including that:
The subpoena seeks information that
is not relevant to the issues in the case (see, e.g., Slagle v. Superior
Court (1989) 211 Cal.App.3d 1309, 1314-1315 [motion to quash trial subpoena
because medical records were not relevant was properly overruled]);
The subpoena makes unreasonable or
oppressive demands for information (see Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1, subd. (a);
see, e.g., McClatchy Newspapers v. Superior Court, supra, 26
Cal.2d at p. 391 [motion to quash deposition subpoenas because they were
unreasonable and oppressive]); and
The disclosure of the records
sought will violate the consumer’s constitutional right to privacy (see Cal.
Const., art. I, § 1; see, e.g., Fett v. Medical Bd. (2016) 245
Cal.App.4th 211, 213 [petitions to quash to nonparties’ doctor because of
privacy rights]; Manela v. Superior Court (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 1139,
1150-1151 [motion to quash a subpoena to party’s doctor because of privacy
rights]),
B. Analysis
1. Parties’
Arguments
In his motion, Plaintiff argues
that various reasons exist to quash the Aya subpoena. First, Plaintiff argues
that he has a right to privacy in his employment records and that his right to
privacy outweighs any need for discovery of his employee records where he could
suffer prejudice from the subpoena insofar as this action involves a
whistleblower suit in the field of medicine and Plaintiff is a mere contractor
with Aya at this time hoping for a permanent position that could be jeopardized
by the requested production. Second, Plaintiff adds that Aya may retaliate
against Plaintiff if the subpoena is not quashed by terminating his current contractor
employment. Third, Plaintiff argues that the information is not directly
relevant to this action because it does not tend to reveal how Plaintiff performed
his job for the University of California and because relevance is not the
standard in any case; rather, the right to privacy is. Fourth, Plaintiff argues
that the sought-after evidence is not admissible. Fifth, Plaintiff argues that
the information sought here can be obtained through less obtrusive means such
as depositions and production requests, particularly where Plaintiff has
consented to an ongoing disclosure of pay records from any employers for whom
he works during this litigation, and where Plaintiff has already made past production
of his pay stubs and other employment information for his employment following
his termination with the University of California. (Mot., pp. 5-9.)
Plaintiff’s separate statement
repeats the points and authorities’ arguments. (Compare Mot., Separate
Statement, pp. 1-6, with Mot., pp. 5-9.)
In opposition, the Regents argue
that Plaintiff’s motion should be denied for various reasons. First, the
Regents argue that they are entitled to obtain the requested information
because it is within the proper scope of this action insofar as the subpoena
seeks employment records routinely sought in employment lawsuits and Plaintiff
waived any right to privacy in his employment records by putting them at issue,
e.g., claims for damages. Second, the Regents argue that they have a legitimate
and countervailing interest overcoming Plaintiff’s diminished right to privacy
because Plaintiff seeks “lost income, lost benefits, employment, career
opportunities,” and “severe emotional distress” damages, making the
sought-after production relevant to such damages and Plaintiff’s mitigation
efforts. Third, the Regents argue that the requested documents are also
relevant to claims of severe emotional distress. Fourth, the Regents argue that
the Aya-retaliation arguments are speculative, supported by inapplicable
federal district court cases, and involve a subpoena that has already been
served on Aya (i.e., the bell has been rung), and that the subpoena requests
relevant information from Aya, which Plaintiff may not obstruct based on his
fear of retaliation. Fifth, the Regents argue that admissibility is not the
standard for discovery, but instead, it is whether the requested information
could lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. Sixth, the Regents contend
that the less-intrusive-means argument in the opposition fails because the case
law cited in support is distinguishable, Plaintiff cites no controlling legal
authority mandating that a party must exhaust less intrusive means of discovery
before subpoenaing records from a plaintiff’s current employer in an employment
case where as here the plaintiff is seeking lost wages and severe emotional
distress, and the already-produced employment records should not confine the
Regents’ ability to test the veracity of Plaintiff’s prior production. (Opp’n,
pp. 3-10.)
The Regents’ separate statement
repeats the points and authorities’ arguments. (Compare Opp’n, Separate
Statement, pp. 2-6, with Opp’n, pp. 3-10.)
In reply, Plaintiff argues that the
subpoena is unnecessary because it seeks production that has already been
produced by Plaintiff, making the request duplicative, harassment, and
prejudicial to Plaintiff based on the alleged risk of retaliation from Aya. Second,
Plaintiff argues that the subpoena is irrelevant to emotional distress damages
because the authority cited by the Regents does not impose a blanket waiver of
privacy rights, and here, the Aya records are unlikely to contain mental health
information relevant to the wrongful termination. Third, Plaintiff reiterates
the less-intrusive-means argument, arguing in favor of the use of
interrogatories for the requested information. (Reply, pp. 3-6.)
2. Merits of
Quashing Subpoena
a. Standing
The Court initially determines that
Plaintiff has standing to bring this motion as (1) any party to the action
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1, subd. (b)(1)) and (2) a person (party or nonparty)
whose employment information or records have been subpoenaed (Code Civ. Proc.,
§§ 1985.6, subd. (f)(1), 1987.1, subd. (b)(4)).
b. Determination
on the Merits
The subpoena at issue requests “Any
and all documents and records, including but not limited to, payroll,
personnel, employment and wage records, including pre-employment records,
physical examinations, work absence records, incident reports, vacation
records, loss of earnings records, disciplinary records, internal investigation
records, employee progress records, all claims under health, accident or
hospitalization insurance coverage pertaining to: Marcus Webster, D.O.B. :
11/12/1984, S.S.# : Unknown[] from the first date of employment to the last
date of employment or present.” (Mot., Kalinowski Decl., Ex. 1.)
After review, the Court finds that some
of the information request here is discoverable while other requests are not.
First, the Court notes that the argument
about retaliation from Aya is unavailing. As argued by Defendants, the
proverbial bell has been rung. Aya was served with the subpoena on November 13,
2023. (Opp’n, Pascal Decl., Ex. B, Proof of Service.) The threat that a new
employer may break the law and retaliate against an employee or contractor for
suing a prior employer for unlawful conduct would result in bad public policy
encouraging the imposition a bar on discovery that is not supported by any
cited authority.
Second, the Court determines that some,
but not all, of the information sought here is relevant. As noted by the
opposition (Opp’n, p. 5), Plaintiff seeks “lost income, lost benefits,
employment, career opportunities.” Thus, Plaintiff’s Aya employment records
regarding income relate to “lost wages, lost benefits, employment, [and] career
opportunities” are relevant and likely to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence. Plaintiff’s right to privacy in his employment records with Aya as
they pertain to “lost income, lost benefits, employment, [and] career
opportunities” was diminished when he put these damages at issue. (John B. Superior Court (2006) 38 Cal.4th 1177, 1199
[by putting his own medical condition at issue, defendant substantially lowered expectation of privacy].)
Plaintiff
argues that such documents have already been produced by Plaintiff, but Defendant
may reasonably argue that they are not limited to receiving Plaintiff’s own
production, but may instead obtain such records from the third party. However,
Defendant may not disagree that such records have, in fact, been produced in
their entirety if, for example, W-2 or other presumptively accurate records have
been produced. This may be discussed at oral argument.
However, the remaining request for
Aya’s employment records regarding such things as internal investigations, vacation
requests, discipline, progress records and medical records are overbroad. The
argument that this may relate to alternate stressors for emotional distress is
speculative and not sufficiently supported. While “the filing of a lawsuit may
implicitly bring about a partial waiver of one’s constitutional right of . . .
privacy, the scope of such ‘waiver’ must be narrowly rather than expansively construed,
so that plaintiffs will not be unduly deterred by instituting lawsuits by the
fear of exposure of their private associational affiliations and activities.” (Britt
v. Superior Court (1978) 20 Cal.3d 844, 859; Vinson v. Superior Court
(1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 842.) 
Here, Defendant has not shown that
the documents relate to injuries for which Plaintiff seeks recovery, instead
seeking all potential documents that they believe could relate to such
injuries. This approach has been rejected by the California Supreme Court. (Britt,
supra, 20 Cal.3d at pp. 862-864 “[W]hile [plantiffs] may not withhold
information which relates to any physical or mental condition which they have put
in issue by bringing this lawsuit, they are entitled to retain the
confidentiality of all unrelated medical or psychotherapeutic treatment they
may have undergone in the present.”].)  So too with unrelated treatment in the future,
or other categories of information that Defendants have not tied to the actual
issues in this case. 
Plaintiff’s motion is thus GRANTED
in part and DENIED in part.
 
III. Conclusion
Plaintiff Marcus Webster’s Motion to Quash Subpoena to Plaintiff’s
Current Employer, Aya Healthcare, Inc. GRANTED as to wage and earnings records and
DENIED as to the remainder of the subpoena.