 Case Number:  23STCV05139    Hearing Date:   March 25, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



MARK MARRAS and SHELBY MARRAS,
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
JUSTIN HOUMAN, M.D.; and Does 1 through 100, Inclusive;
                        Cross-Defendants.


 Case No.:          23STCV05139
 Hearing Date:   3/25/24
 Trial Date:        N/A
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Defendant Justin
  Houman, M.D.’s Demurrer to Plaintiffs’ First Amended Complaint; and
Defendant Justin
  Houman, M.D.’s Motion to Strike Portions of Plaintiffs’ First Amended
  Complaint.



 
I. Background
A. Pleadings
Plaintiffs Mark Marras and Shelby
Marras—husband and wife—sue Defendant Justin Houman, M.D. and Does 1 through
100 pursuant to a November 22, 2023, First Amended Complaint (FAC) alleging
claims of (1) Medical Negligence and Detrimental Reliance by Mark Marras
against all Defendants and (2) Medical Negligence by Shelby Marras against all
Defendants.
The claims arise from allegations
that Defendants’ conduct fell below the standard of care for medical
professionals when treating Plaintiff Mark Marras, which led to harm to both
Plaintiffs when Defendants failed to but should have diagnosed a condition in
Mark Marras, with Plaintiffs relying on Defendants’ medical advice to proceed with
In Vitro Fertilization (IVF) and Intrauterine Insemination (IUI) procedures,
which were unsuccessful and caused physical and emotional harm to Shelby
Marras.
B. Motion Before the Court
On February 29, 2024, Defendant
Houman, M.D. filed a demurrer to the FAC’s two causes of action on sufficiency
of pleading, uncertainty in pleading, and duplicativeness grounds.
That same day, Dr. Houman filed a
motion to strike challenging the FAC’s two causes of action on the same grounds
as the demurrer, as well as the prejudgment interest prayer in the FAC.
On March 11, 2024, Plaintiffs filed
a combined opposition to the demurrer.
On March 18, 2024, Dr. Houman filed
a combined reply to the opposition.
Dr. Houman’s demurrer is now before
the Court.

II. Demurrer
A. Legal Standard
1. Sufficiency
A demurrer for sufficiency tests
whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007)
147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747; see Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) This
device can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the
pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially
noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) To sufficiently
allege a cause of action, a complaint must allege all the ultimate facts—that
is, the facts needed to establish each element of the cause of action pleaded.
(Committee on Children’s Television, Inc. v. General Foods Corp. (1983)
35 Cal.3d 197, 212, superseded by statute as stated in Branick v. Downey
Savings & Loan Assn. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 235, 242.) Thus, “[t]o survive a
[general] demurrer, the complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a
cause of action; each evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the
plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.” (C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High
School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.) In testing the sufficiency of the
cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth of all material facts properly
pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962,
966-67.) A demurrer, however, “does not admit contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.” (Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d
695, 713.) When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally
and in context. (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and Power
(2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228, disapproved on other grounds, Jones v.
Lodge at Torrey Pines Partnership (2008) 42 Cal.4th 1158, 1162.) The face
of the complaint includes exhibits attached to the complaint. (Frantz v.
Blackwell (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 91, 94.) If facts appearing in the exhibits
contradict those alleged, the facts in the exhibits take precedence. (Holland
v. Morse Diesel Intern., Inc. (2001) 86 Cal.App.4th 1443, 1447, superseded
by statute on other grounds as stated in White v. Cridlebaugh (2009) 178
Cal.App.4th 506, 521.)
2. Uncertainty
A demurrer to a pleading lies where
the pleading is uncertain, ambiguous, or unintelligible. (Code Civ. Proc. §
430.10, subd. (f).) “A demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed, even
where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be
clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly’s of
California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616, disapproved on other
grounds in Quelimane Co. v. Stewart Title Guar. Co. (1998) 19 Cal.4th
26, 46 [holding claims for unfair business practices need not be pled
specifically, impliedly disapproving Khoury].) As a result, a special
demurrer for uncertainty is not intended to reach failure to incorporate
sufficient facts in the pleading but is directed only at uncertainty existing
in the allegations already made. (People v. Taliaferro (1957) 149
Cal.App.2d 822, 825, disapproved on other grounds in Jefferson v. J.E.
French Co. (1960) 54 Cal.2d 717, 719-720 [statute of limitations
question].) Where complaint is sufficient to state a cause of action and to
apprise defendant of issues he is to meet, it is not properly subject to a
special demurrer for uncertainty. (See ibid.; see also Gressley v.
Williams (1961) 193 Cal.App.2d 636, 643 [“A special demurrer [for
uncertainty] should be overruled where the allegations of the complaint are
sufficiently clear to apprise the defendant of the issues which he is to
meet”].)
B. Analysis
1. Demurrer,
FAC, First Cause of Action, Medical Negligence [Malpractice] and Detrimental
Reliance: OVERRULED.
a. Local
Standard
The elements of medical malpractice
are: “(1) the duty of the professional to use such skill, prudence, and
diligence as other members of his profession commonly possess and exercise; (2)
a breach of that duty; (3) a proximate causal connection between the negligent
conduct and the resulting injury; and (4) actual loss or damage resulting from
the professional’s negligence.” (Simmons v. West Covina Medical Clinic
(1989) 212 Cal.App.3d 696, 701-702, citations omitted.) “Both the standard of
care and defendants’ breach must normally be established by expert testimony in
a medical malpractice case.” (Avivi
v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)
The elements of a promissory
estoppel claim are (1) a promise clear and unambiguous in its terms, (2)
reliance by the party to whom the promise is made, (3) the reliance must be
both reasonable and foreseeable, and (4) the party asserting the estoppel must
be injured by his or her reliance. (Granadino v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.
(2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 411, 416 (Granadino).) “‘Although a promise made
enforceable by a promissory estoppel is similar to a binding contractual
promise, a promissory estoppel claim does not arise out of a contract.’
[Citation.]” (Douglas E. Barnhart, Inc. v. CMC Fabricators, Inc. (2012) 211
Cal.App.4th 230, 244 (Barnhart).)
b. FAC’s
Allegations
The FAC’s first cause of action
alleges as follows. In the course of providing consultation services to
Plaintiff Mark Marras for symptoms, diagnoses, and medical care for the purpose
of subsequently undergoing IVF and IUI procedures, Defendants’ conduct fell
below the standard of care for medical professionals because Defendants failed
to properly diagnose, care, and treat Plaintiffs. More specifically, Defendants
allege that Defendants’ failure to diagnose Plaintiff Mark Harass with
varicocele caused plaintiffs to undertake an unsuccessful course of IVF and IUI
that was not only unsuccessful, costly, and time consumptive, but also caused
Plaintiff Shelby Marras to suffer Ovarian Hyperstimulation Syndrome (OHSS), as
well as physical, emotional, and financial harm. (FAC, ¶¶ 7-14.)
The Court notes that Defendants
here are only alleged to have undertaken an antecedent consultation of
Plaintiff Mark Marras’s symptoms, diagnoses, and medical care for the purposes
of subsequently undergoing IVF and IUI procedures with unnamed medical
professionals. (See, e.g., FAC, ¶ 7.)
Plaintiffs pray for general damages
for each plaintiff, medical and related expenses, damages due to inability to
attend to usual duties, and/or loss of earnings and earning capacity according
to proof, loss of consortium, pre-judgment interest, costs of suit, and such
other and further relief as to the court may deem just and proper. (FAC,
Prayer, ¶¶ 1-7.)
c. Parties’
Arguments
In his demurrer, Dr. Houman argues
that in relevant part: “Here, [Mark Marras] purports to have detrimentally
relied upon a promise by Dr. Houman for certain health outcomes or results.
However, he does not state what the promise was that was made by Dr. Houman
that he relied upon, nor does he plead or attach an express contract to the
FAC. As discussed above, absent an express contract and a guarantee of a
specific result by Dr. Houman, Mr. Marras cannot possibly sustain a cause of
action in contract or obtain equitable relief for any alleged detrimental
reliance. Therefore, the demurrer to the First Cause of Action for Detrimental
Reliance must be sustained without leave to amend.” (Demurrer, p. 5.)
In opposition, Plaintiffs argue in
full, with no elaboration: “Clearly, the [FAC] sets forth commonly used
language sufficient to meet the notice requirements for each of the above
elements required to state a cause of action for Negligence. Medical Negligence
requires no special pleading beyond that needed for a Negligence cause of action.”
(Opp’n, p. 3.)
In reply, Dr. Houman argues that “Plaintiff
Mark Marras has failed to raise any facts to support the elements of a cause of
action for Detrimental Reliance in the Opposition, nor show how the FAC can be
amended to include such facts. As such the Demurrer should be sustained.”
(Reply, p. 3.)
d. Court’s
Determination
The Court finds in favor of
Plaintiffs.
“A demurrer cannot rightfully be
sustained to part of a cause of action or to a particular type of damage or
remedy.” (Kong v. City of Hawaiian Gardens
Redevelopment Agency (2002) 108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1047; see Code Civ.
Proc., § 430.50, subd. (a) [A demurrer can be made to an entire complaint or
individual causes of action therein].)
A motion to strike is generally
used to reach defects in a pleading that are not subject to demurrer. (Pierson
v. Sharp Memorial Hospital, Inc. (1989) 216 Cal.App.3d 340, 342.)
Here, the demurrer and the reply do
not address the medical malpractice component of the first cause of action.
When read liberally, as the Court must, that component of the first cause of
action, among other things, includes allegations of damages to Mark Marras as a
result of Dr. Houman’s failure to diagnose Mark Harras’s varicocele during Dr.
Houman’s treatment of Mark, which the FAC frames as being the reason that the
subsequent IVF and IUI procedures were not successful, and as conduct that
falls below the relevant standard of care—allegations facially pleading medical
malpractice. (Demurrer, pp. FAC, ¶¶ 7-14.)
Dr. Houman’s demurrer to the FAC’s first
cause of action is thus OVERRULED, but the Court notes that the motion to
strike before the Court also challenges the first cause of action insofar as it
arises from promissory estoppel.
2. Demurrer,
FAC, Second Cause of Action, Medical Negligence [Malpractice]: OVERRULED.
a. Local
Standard
See Section II.B.1.a. above.
b. FAC’s
Allegations
The FAC’s second cause of action
alleges medical malpractice against Defendants based on the same allegations
supporting the first cause of action. (Compare FAC, ¶¶ 15-20, with FAC, ¶¶
7-14.)
c. Parties’
Arguments
In his demurrer, Dr. Houman argues
that the FAC fails to allege medical malpractice as it relates to Plaintiff
Shelby Marras because the FAC is specific in alleging that Defendants were only
hired to provide medical services for Mark Marras, for which reason even if
Shelby Marras suffered subsequent harm as a result of the unsuccessful IVF and
IUI procedures, Defendants lacked a physician-patient duty relationship with
Shelby Marras. Dr. Houman cites Rainer v. Grossman (1973) 31 Cal.App.3d
539, 542 in support, where the court of appeal held that a physician who gave
an opinion as to medical images (X-rays) belonging to the plaintiff was not
liable for harm arising from the recommendation because the physician did not
at any time meet, see, or treat the plaintiff for any condition, and had not
been consulted by any doctor concerning the plaintiff’s treatment specifically.
Dr. Houman argues that as with Rainer, here the FAC clearly pleads that
he did not meet, see, or treat Shelby Marras, and that he was not consulted
regarding her health conditions, for which reason no physician-patient
relationship is sufficiently alleged in the FAC. (Demurrer, pp. 5-8.)
In opposition, Plaintiffs argue in
full, with no elaboration: “Clearly, the [FAC] sets forth commonly used
language sufficient to meet the notice requirements for each of the above
elements required to state a cause of action for Negligence. Medical Negligence
requires no special pleading beyond that needed for a Negligence cause of
action.” (Opp’n, p. 3.)
In reply, Dr. Houman reiterates the
lack of allegations of a physician-patient relationship between himself and
Shelby Marras. (Reply, pp. 3-4.)
d. Court’s
Determination
The Court finds in favor of Plaintiff
Shelby Marras.
“‘Where, as here, there is no
privity of contract between the parties, our Supreme Court has “employed a
checklist of factors to consider in assessing legal duty ….’ ([(Bily v.
Arthur Young & Co. (1992) 3 Cal.4th 370,] 397, 11 Cal.Rptr.2d 51, 834
P.2d 745.) In Biakanja v. Irving (1958) 49 Cal.2d 647, 320 P.2d 16 [Biakanja],
the court ‘outlined the factors to be considered in making such a decision: “The
determination whether in a specific case the defendant will be held liable to a
third person not in privity is a matter of policy and involves the balancing of
various factors, among which are the extent to which the transaction was
intended to affect the plaintiff, the foreseeability of harm to him, the degree
of certainty that the plaintiff suffered injury, the closeness of the
connection between the defendant’s conduct and the injury suffered, the moral
blame attached to the defendant’s conduct, and the policy of preventing future
harm.”’ (Bily v. Arthur Young & Co., supra, 3 Cal.4th at p. 397, 11
Cal.Rptr.2d 51, 834 P.2d 745, quoting from Biakanja v. Irving, supra, 49
Cal.2d at p. 650, 320 P.2d 16.)” (Calderon v. Glick (2005) 131
Cal.App.4th 224, 233 (Calderon).)
In Calderon, a
psychotherapist (Glick) was sued by a former girlfriend (Calderon) of one of
the psychotherapist’s patients (Rodriguez) for medical malpractice and failure
to warn in connection with Rodriguez’s shooting of various of Calderon’s family
members, with three dying from their wounds, two sustaining injuries, and a
sixth sustaining non-shooting injuries after jumping out of a second-story
window. (Id. at pp. 227-229.) The lawsuit was premised on a failure to
warn Calderon and her family of the delusional thoughts harbored by Rodriguez, which
related to Rodriguez’s belief that Calderon had given Rodriguez human T-cell
lymphotropic virus under circumstances where Rodriguez had not communicated any
threats of physical violence against Calderon or members of her family and had explicitly
expressed no intent to harm Calderon after being prompted for a response from
Glick. (Ibid.) The trial court granted summary adjudication on both
claims, and as to the medical malpractice claim, determined that Calderon’s
claim failed for failure to present evidence of a physician-patient
relationship. (Id. at pp. 229-230.) The court of appeal affirmed based on
an application of the Biakanja factors, holding that no legal duty arose
from Glick to Calderon because “[t]he transaction between respondents [Glick,
et al.] and [the patient,] Rodriguez[,] was not intended to affect or benefit [Calderon,
et al.] in any way,” but rather “was intended to benefit Rodriguez by providing
him with therapy for his mental problems.” (Ibid.) “It was not
reasonably foreseeable that Rodriguez would harm members of [Calderon’s]
family. They had nothing to do with the blood virus in Rodriguez. Respondents
had no information indicating that Rodriguez had been violent in the past.
Lacking clairvoyant powers, they could not predict future dangerousness.
Rodriguez always insisted that he did not intend to harm [Calderon] or anyone
else.”
Here, the circumstances alleged in
the FAC are distinguishable from Calderon and merit a positive
application of the Biakanja factors in favor of Plaintiff Shelby Marras.
The FAC alleges the extent to which
the transaction was intended to affect Shelby Marras: the failure to accurately
diagnose Mark Marras by Dr. Houman was relied on by Plaintiffs in order to
decide whether to proceed with IVF and IUI procedures, which the FAC alleges as
having failed and caused Shelby physical and emotional harm. (FAC, ¶¶ 17-20;
see FAC, ¶¶ 7-10, 15.)
The FAC alleges sufficient grounds
for the foreseeability of harm to Shelby Marras: Dr. Houman’s non-diagnosis as
to Mark Marras’s varicocele condition resulted in conditions in which it was
reasonably foreseeable that Plaintiffs could undergo procedures for Shelby
Marras to become pregnant and that harm could result from unsuccessful IVF and
IUI procedures, where a lack of success in the IVF and IUI procedures and harm
to Shelby Marras could be foreseen from the FAC’s causal link between the
varicocele’s complications and Plaintiffs’ reliance on the diagnosis to proceed
with IVF and IUI procedures, and where the FAC alleges such conduct as falling
below the relevant standard of care. (FAC, ¶ 17; see FAC, ¶¶ 7-10, 15; Varicocele
(2024) Johns Hopkins Medicine <https://www.hopkinsmedicine.org/health/conditions-and-diseases/varicocele>
[as of. Mar. 25, 2024].) The Court notes that evidentiary allegations
explaining exactly how Mark Marras’s varicocele led to the unsuccessful IVF and
IUI procedures are not included in the FAC but need not be included in the FAC
insofar as only ultimate facts need be alleged. (Doe v. City of Los Angeles
(2007) 42 Cal.4th 531, 551, fn. 5, citation omitted.) The ultimate facts here are
that Dr. Houman’s non-diagnosis of the varicocele led to the unsuccessful IVF
and IUI procedures and had a result of harming Shelby Marras physically and
emotionally. (FAC, ¶¶ 7-10, 17.) The supporting evidentiary facts can be
established in discovery. (See Dahlquist v. State
(1966) 243 Cal.App.2d 208, 212-213 [Because discovery through “depositions,
interrogatories, requests for admission, etc.” is the “modern method of”
“ascertain[ing] every fact known to plaintiffs and their witnesses,” “reason
[exists] for some relaxation of rigidity in application of the rules relating
to the sufficiency of complaints,” citations omitted].)
The FAC alleges the degree of
certainty that Shelby Marras suffered injury: Ovarian Hyperstimulation Syndrome
(OHSS), as well as physical, emotional, and financial harm. (FAC, ¶¶ 17-20; see
FAC, ¶¶ 10, 15.)
And the FAC alleges sufficient
grounds for a determination of closeness between Dr. Houman’s non-diagnosis of
Mark Marras’ varicocele and the injury suffered by Shelby Marras (discussed in
the paragraph before last), the moral blame attached to Dr. Houman’s conduct
(falling below the relevant standard of care with Mark Marras), and the policy
of preventing future harm (e.g., imposition of liability can also serve as
deterrent against future wrongdoing, if it exists). (FAC, ¶¶ 17-20; see FAC, ¶¶
7-10, 15.)
Dr. Houman’s demurrer to the FAC’s
second cause of action is thus OVERRULED.
 
III. Motion to Strike
A. Legal Standard
The court may, upon a motion or at
any time in its discretion and upon terms it deems proper: (a) strike out any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (b) strike
out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the
laws of California, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Code Civ. Proc. §
436, subds. (a), (b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782
[“Matter in a pleading which is not essential to the claim is surplusage;
probative facts are surplusage and may be stricken out or disregarded”].)
For the purposes of a motion to
strike pursuant to Sections 435 to 437 of the Code of Civil Procedure, the term
“pleading” generally means a demurrer, answer, complaint, or cross-complaint,
(Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (a)), and an immaterial allegation or irrelevant
matter in a pleading entails (1) an allegation that is not essential to the
statement of a claim or defense, (2) an allegation that is neither pertinent to
nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense, or (3) a demand for
judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the complaint or
cross-complaint (Code Civ. Proc., § 431.10, subds. (b)(1)-(3), (c)).
B. Analysis
In his motion to strike, Dr. Houman
challenges the propriety of (1) the FAC’s first cause of action insofar it is
premised on promissory estoppel, (2) the FAC’s second cause of action based on
the lack of an alleged physician-patient relationship between Dr. Houman and
Shelby Marras, and (3) the FAC’s prayer for prejudgment interest, which is not
for a calculable sum certain—i.e., is not liquidated—and thus not proper.
(Mot., pp. 2-4.)
1. Motion
to Strike, FAC, First Cause of Action, Medical Negligence [Malpractice] and
Detrimental Reliance: GRANTED, with leave to amend.
a. Local
Standard
The elements of a promissory
estoppel claim are (1) a promise clear and unambiguous in its terms, (2)
reliance by the party to whom the promise is made, (3) the reliance must be
both reasonable and foreseeable, and (4) the party asserting the estoppel must
be injured by his or her reliance. (Granadino, supra, 236
Cal.App.4th at p. 416.) “‘Although a promise made enforceable by a promissory
estoppel is similar to a binding contractual promise, a promissory estoppel
claim does not arise out of a contract.’ [Citation.]” (Barnhart, supra,
211 Cal.App.4th at p. 244.)
b. FAC’s
Allegations
The FAC’s first cause of action
alleges as follows. In the course of providing consultation services to
Plaintiff Mark Marras for symptoms, diagnoses, and medical care for the purpose
of subsequently undergoing IVF and IUI procedures, Defendants’ conduct fell
below the standard of care for medical professionals because Defendants failed
to properly diagnose, care, and treat Plaintiffs. More specifically, Defendants
allege that Defendants’ failure to diagnose Plaintiff Mark Harass with
varicocele caused plaintiffs to undertake an unsuccessful course of IVF and IUI
that was not only unsuccessful, costly, and time consumptive, but also caused
Plaintiff Shelby Marras to suffer Ovarian Hyperstimulation Syndrome (OHSS), as
well as physical, emotional, and financial harm. (FAC, ¶¶ 7-14.)
c. Parties’
Arguments
In his motion, Dr. Houman argues
that in relevant part: “[Mark Marras] does not state what promise was made to
him by Dr. Houman nor does he allege a reasonable reliance on any such promise.
More specifically[—and without citing authority other than to referencing the
arguments made on demurrer—]in an action against a healthcare provider, such as
Dr. Houman, absent an express contract and a guarantee of a specific result by
the physician, Mr. Marras cannot possibly sustain a cause of action in contract
or obtain equitable relief for any alleged detrimental reliance. As such, the
Demurrer to the cause of action for Detrimental Reliance should be sustained
without leave to amend and the said causes of action be struck from the FAC.”
(Mot., p. 6.)
The authority cited in the demurrer
other than the general legal standard for promissory estoppel claims is McKinney
v. Nash (1981) 120 Cal.App.3d 428, 442 (McKinney), cited for the
proposition that claims arising from a breach of warranty or contract in a
medical malpractice case require proof of an express contract with a physician
clearly promising a particular result and that the patient consent to treatment
in reliance on that promise. (Demurrer, p. 4.)
In opposition, Plaintiffs argue in
full, with no elaboration: “Clearly, the [FAC] sets forth commonly used
language sufficient to meet the notice requirements for each of the above
elements required to state a cause of action for Negligence. Medical Negligence
requires no special pleading beyond that needed for a Negligence cause of
action.” (Opp’n, p. 3.)
In reply, Dr. Houman argues that “Plaintiff
Mark Marras has failed to raise any facts to support the elements of a cause of
action for Detrimental Reliance in the Opposition, nor show how the FAC can be
amended to include such facts.” (Reply, p. 3.)
d. Court’s
Determination
The Court finds in favor of Dr.
Houman.
The Court first notes that McKinney
appears distinguishable. McKinney states a rule for, as quoted by the
demurrer, claims “for breach of warranty or contract in a medical malpractice
case.” (Demurrer, p. 4, quotations omitted.) However, as stated above, “[a]lthough
a promise made enforceable by a promissory estoppel is similar to a binding
contractual promise, a promissory estoppel claim does not arise out of a
contract.’ [Citation.]” (Barnhart, supra, 211 Cal.App.4th at p.
244.)
However, the Court determines that
the first cause of action does not sufficiently allege a promise clear and
unambiguous in its terms, without which there can be no determination as to the
sufficiency of the allegations of subsequent reliance by Plaintiffs, whether that
reliance was reasonable and foreseeable, and whether Plaintiffs were injured by
their reliance. (Granadino, supra, 236 Cal.App.4th at p. 416.) Instead,
the first cause of action alleges a failure to adhere to the relevant standard
of care by failing to diagnose varicocele. (FAC, ¶¶ 7-10.) No express
promises—or even implied promises—are alleged in the first cause of action and
even the FAC generally. (See, e.g., FAC, ¶ 8 [“Plaintiff Mark Marras consulted
with [D]efendants, … for the purpose of obtaining [D]efendants’ professional
advice regarding [Mark Marras’s] symptoms, diagnosis[,] and medical care,” and
“Defendants recommended and carried out treatment and diagnosis,” with no specific
promise as to treatment results alleged]; see FAC, ¶¶ 1-20 generally.)
The first element of a promissory
estoppel claim is thus lacking from the body of the FAC. This renders the
promissory estoppel component of the first cause of action defective insofar
as, as alleged, that component does not sufficiently allege the first element
of a promissory estoppel claim. This in turn results in the promissory estoppel
component of the first cause of action not being drawn in conformity with
California law, lending merit to Dr. Houman’s motion to strike.
Dr. Houman’s motion to strike is
thus GRANTED as to the promissory estoppel component of the first cause of
action.
The Court notes that it does not
strike any specific paragraphs from the FAC as the allegations therein contain
background facts relevant to this action. The Court instead STRIKES the
promissory estoppel component of liability for the first cause of action,
leaving the medical malpractice component of the cause of action—more
accurately a count—as the sole operative component of Mark Harras’s claim.
However, given the potential that
Plaintiffs may be able remedy to this defect, and given that Dr. Houman’s
challenge here involved challenges to the initial pleading in this action, the
Court determines that leave to amend is proper. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 435.45,
subd. (e)(1).)
2. Motion
to Strike, FAC, Second Cause of Action, Medical Negligence [Malpractice]: DENIED.
a. Court’s
Determination
Because Dr. Houman’s grounds for an
order striking the second cause of action are identical to those raised in Dr.
Houman’s demurrer (compare Mot., pp. 3-4, with Demurrer, pp. 5-8), the Court
adopts its discussion at Section II.B.2.d. to determine that because the second
cause of action was determined by the Court to be sufficiently alleged, the
claim cannot be irrelevant, improper, or not drawn in conformity with
California law as based on the same arguments raised in the demurrer.
Dr. Houman’s motion to strike is
thus DENIED as to striking the second cause of action from the FAC.
3. Motion to
Strike, Prejudgment Interest: DENIED.
a. Local
Standard
Prejudgment interest compensates a
plaintiff for the loss of the use of property or money during the period before
a judgment is entered. (Segura v. McBride (1992) 5 Cal.App.4th 1028,
1041 (Segura).) “[P]rejudgment interest is not a cost, but an element of
damages.” (North Oakland Medical Clinic v. Rogers (1998) 65 Cal.App.4th
824, 830 (North Oakland).) Prejudgment interest may be awarded even
if it is not specifically authorized by the statute underlying the claims. (County
of Solano v. Lionsgate Corp. (2005) 126 Cal.App.4th 741, 752.)
An award of prejudgment interest
may be made where the claim is liquidated within the meaning of the statute,
i.e., when the underlying damages are “certain” or “capable of being made
certain by calculation” and the right to recover such damages is vested in the
plaintiff on a particular day. (Civ. Code § 3287, subd. (a); Duale v.
Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 718, 728, citing Fireman’s
Fund Ins. Co. v. Allstate Ins. Co. (1991) 234 Cal.App.3d 1154, 1172.) A
right to recover damages becomes vested at the time the damages at issue are
sustained. (See, e.g., Williams v. Graham (1948) 83 Cal.App.2d 649, 653
[Where purchaser relying on fraudulent representations of vendor’s ability to
convey, incurred rental liability for six months and made down payment upon the
property, the right to recoup became vested on the day on which each separate
amount was expended].)
An award of prejudgment interest
may also be made as to unliquidated amounts after judgment, beginning on a date
prior to judgment, provided that such awards are discretionary and, in deciding
whether to exercise its discretion, the court “consider[s] the circumstances,
realizing a party cannot pay the amount due until it is determined what that
amount was.” (Civ. Code § 3287, subd. (b); Union Pacific Railroad Company v.
Santa Fe Pacific Pipelines, Inc. (2014) 231 Cal.App.4th 134, 203 [quoted
language].)
b. FAC’s
Allegations
Here, the FAC prays for
“pre-judgment interest, according to law.” (FAC, Prayer, ¶ 5.)
c. Parties’
Arguments
In his motion, Dr. Houman
essentially argues that prejudgment interest is only proper in pleadings where
it is liquidated, and that here, because damages are not for a calculable sum
certain, the prayer for prejudgment interest is improper and not drawn in
conformity with California law. In support, Dr. Houman cites Civil Code section
3287, subdivision (a), Chesapeake Industries, Inc. v. Togova Enterprises,
Inc. (1983) 149 Cal.App.3d 901, 911 (Chesapeake), and Levy-Zentner
Co. v. Southern Pac. Transportation Co. (1977) 74 Cal.App.3d 762, 798 (Levy-Zentner).
(See Mot., pp. 6-7.)
Plaintiffs’ opposition fails to
address this argument. (Opp’n, p. 1-3 [failing to mention interest].)
Dr. Houman’s reply reiterates his
position in the moving papers. (Reply, p. 4.)
d. Court’s
Determination
The Court finds in favor of
Plaintiffs.
First, the Court notes that
prejudgment interest based on unliquidated damages are available pursuant to
Civil Code section 3287, subdivision (b), not subdivision (a). (See Code Civ.
Proc., § 3287, subds. (a), (b).) Here, however, the authorities cited in the
motion to strike relate to subdivision (a). (Mot., p. 7 [“The certainty
requirement of Civil Code § 3287(a) has been reduced to two tests: …”].) This
difference makes Dr. Houman’s authorities further distinguishable.
Second, the Court notes that
prejudgment interest must be placed at issue in the pleadings. “A general
prayer in the complaint is adequate to support an award of prejudgment
interest. ‘No specific request for interest need be included in the complaint;
a prayer seeking “such other and further relief as may be proper” is sufficient
for the court to invoke its power to award prejudgment interest. [Citations.]’”
(North Oakland, supra, 65 Cal.App.4th at p. 829, citing Wegner,
Fairbank & Epstein, California Practice Guide: Civil Trials and Evidence
(TRG 1997) § 17:194.1, p. 17.40.26, Segura, supra, 5 Cal.App.4th at
p. 1041, and Newby v. Vroman (1992) 11 Cal.App.4th 283, 286.) If
judgment is entered in favor of the plaintiff, a judge then determines whether
unliquidated prejudgment interest—i.e., interest not calculable for a sum
certain—should be awarded on a discretionary basis. (North Oakland, supra,
65 Cal.App.4th at p. 829.)
Here, a general prayer for
prejudgment interest appears in the FAC and is thus proper under North
Oakland. (FAC, Prayer, ¶ 5; North Oakland, supra, 65
Cal.App.4th at p. 829.)
Last, the Court notes that Dr.
Houman’s cited authorities—Chesapeake and Levy-Zentner—are
otherwise distinguishable. Chesapeake involved a determination on
whether prejudgment interest was proper after a jury trial in an action
involving accounting, not whether prejudgment interest may not be alleged in a
pleading at all or prior to judgment or some other similar legal concept. (Chesapeake,
supra, 149 Cal.App.3d at p. 909.) In contrast, here, the claims at issue
are medical malpractice. As for Levy-Zentner, that case merely explained
and applied the rule that, in a case involving a jury trial award, prejudgment
interest could be awarded “where the value of the property destroyed can
readily be calculated by reference to market value or expert testimony,” i.e.,
did not involve medical malpractice and did not hold that prejudgment interest
may not be alleged in a pleading at all or prior to judgment or some other
similar legal concept. (Levy-Zentner, supra, 74 Cal.App.3d at p.
798.)
Dr. Houman’s motion to strike is
thus DENIED as to striking prejudgment interest from the FAC.
 
IV. Conclusion
A. Demurrer
Defendant Justin Houman, M.D.’s Demurrer to Plaintiffs’ First Amended
Complaint is OVERRULED.
B. Motion to Strike
Defendant Justin Houman, M.D.’s
Motion to Strike Portions of Plaintiffs’ First Amended Complaint is GRANTED in
part and DENIED in part as follows:
(1) GRANTED as to STRIKING the
promissory estoppel component of liability for the First Amended Complaint’s
first cause of action; and
(2) DENIED as to striking the First
Amended Complaint’s second cause of action and prejudgment interest prayer.