

 
Petitioner,
Wilshire Gayley, LLC, moves for an order compelling Respondent, Los Angeles
County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (Metro), (1) to provide documents
in compliance with its responses to Petitioner’s Request for Production of
Documents (RFPs) (Set One) and (Set Two); (2) further responses to the RFPs; and
(3) sanctions of $34,748. Metro opposes the motion. 
 
The
motion to compel compliance and further responses is GRANTED. 
 
The
request for monetary sanctions is DENIED. 
 
Petitioner’s
request for judicial notice is GRANTED pursuant to Evidence Code Sections 452,
subdivisions (d), (h) and 453. 
 
Respondent’s
request for judicial notice is GRANTED pursuant to Evidence Code Sections 452,
subdivisions (c), (d), (h) and 453. 
 
APPLICABLE
LAW
 
Motion
to Compel Compliance 
 
“If
a party filing a response to a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or
sampling under Sections 2031.210, 2031.220, 2031.230, 2031.240, and 2031.280
thereafter fails to permit the inspection, copying, testing, or sampling in
accordance with that party’s statement of compliance, the demanding party may
move for an order compelling compliance.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.320, subd.
(a).)
 
Motion
to Compel Further Production
 
Pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310, subdivision (a), parties may move
for a further response to requests for production of documents where an answer
to the requests is evasive or incomplete or where an objection is without merit
or too general. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (a).)
 
ANALYSIS
 
Petitioner
provides four categories for Metro’s alleged discovery deficiencies.
 
Category
1: No production – RFPs 1, 27, 28, 33 through 37, 41, 43 through 46.
Category
2: Incomplete production – RFPs 22, 23, 24 and 30.
Category
3: Improperly narrowed scope of production – RFPs 26, 32, 38, 39, 40 and 42.
Category
4: No production with improper objection – RFP 47.
 
As
an initial matter, Metro advises it intends to provide Petitioner with a
production of documents for RFPs 1, 27, 28, 33 through 46. According to Metro, the
production “will be ready in April” (Opposition 1:27), and Metro believes the
production “should complete Metro’s production as to those requests.”
(Opposition 1:27-28.)
 
Metro
also advises it provided a full production of RFPs 22 through 26, 30 and 32 on
December 12, 2023. Metro considers its production as to those requests as
complete. 
 
Given
Metro’s representation additional documents will be forthcoming, it appears
Categories 1, 2 and 3 have largely been resolved. That said, RFP 47 remains in
dispute as does a production date, and whether Metro’s prior productions are
complete and within the scope of the RFP. 
 
First,
Petitioner requests Metro be compelled to make its production no later than
April 10, two weeks after today’s hearing. The court requests Metro advise of
its ability to comply with such an order.
 
Second,
Petitioner argues Metro “has not completed its production of documents
responsive to” the Category 2 RFPs. (Reply 3:15.) Petitioner reports on
December 12, 2023, Metro’s counsel advised it provided a “partial production”
of RFPs 22, 23, 24 and 30. (See Stromberg Decl., Exh. I p. 59 [“[t]his is a
partial production”].) Petitioner contends given Metro’s counsel’s
representation, only two email communications within 964 produced pages, and
Petitioner’s express request for documents/communications, the “Court should
order Metro to comply with these [Category 2] requests and produce responsive
documents, including emails.” (Reply 3:22-24.) 
 
Given
that Metro’s opposition and separate statement does not address the “this is a
partial production” representation, the court is inclined to compel a further
response. Metro’s separate statement for this category of documents appears
to conflict with the statement in its motion it has fully produced
documents for this category. If Metro had fully produced Category 2 documents,
it would not have advised Petitioner’s counsel on “February 6, Metro is
currently working on its next production of documents, which will include
the remaining documents Metro has agreed to produce in response to RPD#2 . . .
.” (Metro Sep. Stmt. 17:12-14.) Metro’s separate statement response
suggests Petitioner is correct—more communications—other than merely two
emails—exist for production pursuant to Category 2.[1]
 
Third,
as to Category 3, Petitioner contends Metro has improperly unilaterally
narrowed the scope of the RFPs and any limited production made (RFPs 26 and 32)
is incomplete for that reason.[2]
To the extent, Metro has objected to the Category 3 RFPs, the boilerplate
objections are overruled. 
 
The
documents are relevant because they relate to Metro’s design criteria, the
basis of Petitioner’s identified duty under Code of Civil Procedure section
1085. Information related to Metro’s approval of the criteria (RFP 26), how
Metro interprets the criteria (RFP 32), how the city and Metro interpret its
2003 agreement related to design (RFP 38), how the 2003 agreement might apply
here (RFP 39), Metro’s interpretation of ZI No. 1117 (RFP 40) and the
interpretation of a 2018 design manual (RFP 42) are all reasonably calculated
to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence in this writ proceeding. The
applicability and interpretation of various design criteria as well as ZI No.
1117 is directly related to Petitioner’s claims in this proceeding.
 
Metro
has not submitted any evidence to support its claim of overbreadth, burden,
oppression, vagueness, ambiguity or an intent to harass for Category 3
documents. (See generally Antoniou Decl.) There is also nothing unclear about
the RFPs, and Metro does not argue as much except for its conclusion in its
separate statement. Finally, in this early discovery, nothing about the RFPs
seeks “premature disclosure of expert witness opinions.” (Metro Sep. Stmt. 18:10.)
 
To
the extent Metro contends certain responsive documents are privileged
(attorney/client, work product, or otherwise privileged), Metro shall provide a
privilege log. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.240, subd. (c)(1).)
 
The
court finds Petitioner has established good cause to compel a response and further
response to the RFPs contained in Category 3. That is, to the extent Metro has
produced any responsive documents and has done so after limiting the scope of
the RFP, Metro is ordered to supplement its prior production consistent with
the scope of the RFP as drafted by Petitioner. Metro shall also provide a
response to the RFPs to which it has not responded.
 
Finally,
Category 4—RFP 47—seeks documents “related to any Metro proposal or concept for
a future Metro transit project that would utilize” Petitioner’s property.
Petitioner explains the material sought is relevant and will assist it in the
evaluation of its claims. Petitioner reports responsive documents may reveal
Metro did not consider Petitioner’s project when designing the station, or why
it elected to move the station directly next to Petitioner’s project. The
documents also may provide information about any efforts by Metro to delay
Petitioner’s project.
 
Metro
raises boilerplate objections to RFP 47 that are identical to those it asserted
as to the Category 3 RFPs. Again, for its “overbroad, burdensome, oppressive,
vague, ambiguous, and intended to harass” objections, Metro provides no
evidence. (See generally Antoniou Decl.) Accordingly, the objections are
overruled. Further, in this early discovery, nothing about the RFPs seeks
“premature disclosure of expert witness opinions.” (Metro Sep. Stmt. 28:19.)
 
As
to relevance, Metro argues: “The Motion’s contention is without basis, since it
is seeking a writ to order Metro to take certain, nondiscretionary actions
as to the design and construction of the Westwood-UCLA Station. If, assuming
arguendo, Metro is ordered to take certain, nondiscretionary action, Metro’s
intention is irrelevant to that determination, and therefore will not
lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (Opposition 7:26-8:2.)
 
Petitioner
argues a response to RFP 47 would “assist Petitioner in developing its claims
that Metro did not comply with its mandatory duty to design the Station to
withstand the well-defined load from Petitioner’s project.” (Reply 9:4-5.)
Petitioner also posits responsive documents may “shed light on Metro’s
reasoning for its Station design and construction decisions may also lead to
admissible evidence relating to how Metro designed the Station and whether it
complied with mandatory requirements in doing so.” (Reply 9:7-9.)
 
While
the issue in traditional mandate is a mandatory duty and compliance therewith,
Metro’s discretionary decision-making process concerning design issues may be
directly relevant to whether Metro complied with its mandatory duty. Its
decision making may inform on how, if at all, Metro interprets its mandatory
duty. In the context of discovery, Petitioner has demonstrated good cause to
compel a response to RFP 47.
 
Again,
to the extent Metro contends certain responsive documents are privileged
(attorney/client, work product, or otherwise privileged), Metro shall provide a
privilege log. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.240, subd. (c)(1).)
 
Based
on the foregoing, the motion is granted. Metro shall produce response and/or
further responses as described herein. Metro shall do so by April ___, 2023.
 
Request for Monetary Sanctions
 
If
a motion to compel further responses and motion to compel compliance with
demand are filed, the court “shall” impose a monetary sanction against the
losing party unless it finds that party made or opposed the
motion “with substantial justification” or other reasons make the sanction “unjust.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (h); Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.320, subd. (b).)
 
As
to Category 4 documents—RFP 47—the court finds Metro acted with substantial justification
when it opposed Petitioner’s motion. The court agrees that Metro’s intention as
to design is irrelevant in the context of a mandatory duty. That is, Metro
either complied with its mandatory duty or it did not—Metro’s intentions are
therefore irrelevant as to whether a writ should issue. As noted, however,
Metro discounted the notion that Metro’s intentions may, in fact, reveal whether
it complied with its mandatory duty. The discovery sought may inform on whether
Metro complied with its duty.
 
In
large part, as to the remaining documents, Metro agreed to produce them. Metro
claims—in the context of its protracted meet and confer discussions with Petitioner—it
did not anticipate Petitioner’s motion. Metro suggests motion practice would
have altogether been avoided had it understood Petitioner intended to proceed
with a motion. Metro’s concession and agreement to produce the documents as
well as its belief the production will then be complete does not, as a practical
matter, constitute opposition to the motion.
 
Finally,
as to the Category 2 documents, Metro opposed the motion with the understanding
it had provided a complete response to the request by the time Petitioner filed
the motion. Metro’s attorney who had been handling the discovery left the law
firm representing Metro in this matter. The court’s order herein is largely
based on the attorney’s statement Metro was providing a partial distribution.
Whether the attorney erred in that assessment, as apparently claimed today, is
not entirely clear. The court ordered further production based on the conflicting
facts. Under the circumstances, it would be unjust to order sanctions.
 
CONCLUSION
 
Based on the foregoing, the motions to compel compliance
and further responses are GRANTED. The request for monetary sanctions is DENIED.

 
IT IS SO
ORDERED.
 
March
27, 2024
 
                                                                                     ________________________________
                                                                                                                   Hon. Mitchell
Beckloff 
                                                                                                                   Judge of the
Superior Court
 


