

 
Plaintiff, LG Energy Solutions, LTD., seeks a preliminary
injunction restraining Defendants, IT Asset Partners, Inc. (ITAP), ITAP
Operations Panama, Inc. (ITAP Panama), Batteryevo, Inc., Panama Energy
Technologies, S.A. dba Lions Battery, Robert Mullaney, and Rene Garcia (and
their agents) from: 
 
·       modifying,
rewrapping, remanufacturing, repurposing, reselling, and/or distributing in any
form the energy storage system (ESS) products, or causing such modifying,
rewrapping, remanufacturing, repurposing, reselling, and/or distributing; 
·       engaging
in any activity that further violates the terms of the contracts between Plaintiff
and Defendants regarding the disposal and recycling of the ESS products;
·       destroying,
concealing, or altering any documents, electronic records, or other evidence
related to the modification, rewrapping, remanufacturing, repurposing, resale
and/or distribution of the ESS products; and 
·       transporting
the ESS products without the use of United Nations Certified damaged, defective
or recalled (DDR) packaging. 
 
Defendants oppose the motion.
 
The request for a preliminary injunction is GRANTED. 
 
Plaintiff’s unopposed request for judicial notice of Statements of
Information filed with the California Secretary of State (Exhibits A and B) is
granted. (Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (h).)
 
Allegations
in the Complaint
 
Plaintiff is a chemical-based battery manufacturer and
distributor. Plaintiff entered into a Service Agreement, Supplemental
Agreement, and Sales Contract (collectively, the Contracts) with Defendant ITAP
to sell its second-hand or returned residential energy storage unit (RESU) ESS
lithium-ion batteries[1]
for precious metal extraction and recycling purposes only. Defendant ITAP represented
such tasks would be performed at its Panama facility. Plaintiff repeatedly
requested proof of disposal/recycling of the batteries through certificates of
recycling and destruction. Defendant ITAP never provided the requested
certificates.
 
On October 2, 2023, Defendant ITAP’s representative, Defendant Garcia,
notified Plaintiff its “recycling equipment [will be] installed and ready to
shred by end of 2023. Once we start shredding, we will begin supplying the
Certificates of Recycling/Destruction as agreed.” (Comp. ¶ 36.) On information
and belief, however, the recycling equipment still has not been installed at Defendant
ITAP’s Panama facility, and none of the batteries sold and transferred to
Defendant ITAP have been destroyed or recycled according to the contracts. 
 
Defendant ITAP has not provided any evidence or certificate of
disposal of the batteries. To the contrary, on information and belief,
Defendant ITAP and/or one or more of the other Defendants began to modify the
batteries or cause them to be modified and resold them in the United States
through Defendant BatteryEVO, and in Panama through Defendant Lions Battery. On
information and belief, in violation of its contracts with Plaintiff, Defendant
ITAP and/or one or more of the other Defendants is modifying the batteries or
causing them to be modified by removing the wrapper on the products—originally
manufactured by Plaintiff’s predecessor entity— and rewrapping them or
incorporating them into new battery products with “BatteryEVO” and “Lions
Battery” branding to make them appear as if they are BatteryEVO and Lions
Battery’s products. Defendants continue to engage in the unlawful conduct of
modifying, repurposing, and reselling batteries, which were supposed to be
recycled.
 
The complaint alleges causes of action for (1) fraud, (2) breach
of contract, (3) intentional interference with contractual relations, and (4)
unfair competition. 
 
APPLICABLE
LAW
 
“[A] court will deny a preliminary injunction unless there is a
reasonable probability that the plaintiff will be successful on the merits, but
the granting of a preliminary injunction does not amount to an adjudication of
the merits.” (Beehan v. Lido Isle Community Assn. (1977) 70 Cal.App.3d
858, 866.) “The function of a preliminary injunction is the preservation of the
status quo until a final determination of the merits.” (Ibid.)
 
“Trial courts traditionally consider and weigh two factors in
determining whether to issue a preliminary injunction. They are (1) how likely
it is that the moving party will prevail on the merits, and (2) the relative
harm the parties will suffer in the interim due to the issuance or nonissuance
of the injunction.” (Dodge, Warren & Peters Ins. Services, Inc. v. Riley
(2003) 105 Cal.App.4th 1414, 1420.) “[T]he greater the . . . showing on one,
the less must be shown on the other to support an injunction.” (Ibid. [quoting Butt v. State of California, (1992) 4 Cal.4th 668, 678].) The
burden of proof is on the plaintiff as the moving party “to show all elements
necessary to support issuance of a preliminary injunction.” (O'Connell v.
Superior Court (2006) 141 Cal.App.4th 1452, 1481.)
 
Preliminary injunctive relief requires the use of competent
evidence to create a sufficient factual showing on the grounds for relief.
(See, e.g., Ancora-Citronelle Corp. v. Green (1974) 41 Cal.App.3d 146,
150.) A plaintiff seeking injunctive relief must also show the absence of an
adequate damages remedy at law. (Code Civ. Proc., § 526, subd. (a)(4).)
 
A preliminary injunction ordinarily cannot take effect unless and
until the plaintiff provides an undertaking for damages which the enjoined
defendant may sustain by reason of the injunction if the court finally decides
that the plaintiff was not entitled to the injunction. (See id.
at § 529, subd. (a); City of South San
Francisco v. Cypress Lawn Cemetery Assn. (1992) 11 Cal.App.4th 916, 920.)
 
ANALYSIS
 
Likelihood of Success on the Merits:
 
Fraud Alleged Against Defendants
ITAP, Mullaney and Garcia
 
“ ‘The elements of fraud, which give rise to the tort action for
deceit, are (a) misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or
nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity (or ‘scienter’); 
(c) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d) justifiable
reliance; and (e) resulting damage.’ ” (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996)
12 Cal.4th 631, 638.)
 
Plaintiff represents Defendants ITAP, Mullaney, and Garcia made
false and fraudulent representations to induce Plaintiff to enter into the
Contracts. These false representations include, but are not limited to: 
 
(1)  
On July 15, 2022, Defendant Garcia confirmed Defendant ITAP
purchased lithium batteries, ensuring the destruction or recycling of all
faulty, recalled, defective, or otherwise unsuitable cells, accompanied by a
certificate of destruction/recycling. (Jeong Decl. ¶ 5.)
(2)  
On July 26, 2022, Defendant Garcia represented to Plaintiff the
batteries would be recycled and would not enter the secondary or consumer
market. (Jeong Decl. ¶ 9.)
(3)  
On August 11, 2022, Defendant Garcia confirmed Defendant ITAP
would dismantle the recalled battery packs to module level and ship the
dismantled battery packs according to packaging and transportation regulations.
(Joeng Decl. ¶ 12.)
 
Plaintiff presents evidence “a whistleblower email” from Eric
Lundgren on October 13, 2023 first alerted it to Defendants’ alleged illegal
reuse and repurposing of Plaintiff’s recalled batteries. (Joeng Decl. ¶ 18.)
Lundgren is the Chief Executive Officer of BigBattery, Inc., and an original
founder and former owner of Defendant ITAP; Lungren no longer has any role in  Defendant ITAP’s activities.[2]
(Lundgren Decl., ¶ 1.) Lundgren became aware of Defendants’ activities when, in
March 2023, Defendant ITAP approached BigBattery to discuss BigBattery’s
potential interest in a new product line. To that end, Defendant ITAP sent
several sample products to BigBattery for evaluation. (Lundgren Decl. ¶ 6.)
Upon investigation, BigBattery discovered that “these products incorporated
recalled batteries from Plaintiff, including one sample which combusted during
testing.” (Lundgren ¶ 7.) 
 
BigBattery notified Defendant ITAP’s Chief Executive Officer, Defendant
Mullaney, of its discovery and advised him BigBattery would cease doing
business with Defendant ITAP unless it received express assurances Defendant ITAP
would never again try and sell them recalled batteries. (Lundgren Decl. ¶ 7.) Defendant
Mullaney agreed and “signed a written promise in that regard.” (Lundgren Decl.
¶ 7.) 
 
On July 2, 2023, Defendant ITAP sent employees to BigBattery to
retrieve the sample products incorporating Plaintiff’s recalled batteries. (Lundgren
Decl. ¶ 8.) Defendant ITAP did not, however, collect all of the products and
several of the sample products remain in BigBattery’s possession. (Lundgren
Decl. ¶¶ 8, 10.) 
 
On October 13, 2023, Lundgren contacted Plaintiff (and the United
States government) to inform it of Defendant ITAP’s activities with Plaintiff’s
batteries. (Jeong Decl. ¶ 9.) Plaintiff immediately thereafter launched an
active investigation, and by January 11, 2024, verified Lundgren’s claims.
(Jeong Decl., ¶ 19.) Plaintiff examined the serial numbers and quick response (QR)
codes on battery products provided by Defendant ITAP to BigBattery that
remained in BigBattery’s possession. Plaintiff confirming that seven of the
batteries matched the recalled and/or defective batteries sold by Plaintiff to Defendant
ITAP solely for the purpose of recycling. (Jeong Decl. ¶ 19.)
 
Plaintiff also presents evidence of a WeChat message thread which
Lundgren represents reflects the battery development team at Defendants ITAP
and BatteryEVO discussing how to design products incorporating the recalled
batteries.[3]
(Lundgren Decl. ¶¶ 3, 5, Exhs. A, C.) 
 
Plaintiff also presents an email message from Defendant Garcia to Defendant
Mullaney which seemingly shows a strategy to circumvent proper shipping
procedures by fabricating shipping dates, bills of lading, and images of sample
drums after Plaintiff questioned Defendant ITAP about shipping, storage, and
recycling of the batteries. (Lundgren Decl. ¶ 4, Exh. B.) Defendant Garcia wrote:
 
We
told them we were going to dismantle to module level and deliver the modules in
the PG I steel drums (as required by regulation). There is no way to be certain
what they are going to ask for. They may ask for every BOL or just 1 as a
sample. If they ask for a sample load, they may be able to track it and perhaps
see the commodity or if it is correctly categorized as hazardous material.
David, can you check tracking on the trucks you have shipped out and share with
us to see what information is available. So, we should definitely ship out
batteries as un3480 lithium-ion batteries, class 9 and leave the packaging box
empty so we can fill that in with the text ‘drums’ if possible. So we can
provide them to [Plaintiff]. At this point, if we say have already begun
shipping they may likely ask for copies of sent shipments. so I think we should
say we have not shipped yet. The sooner we get a shipment out the better.
Please let me know your thoughts on how best to proceed. It would be ideal if
we started shipping these out as un3480 lithium ion batteries, class 9. I also
wouldn’t be surprised if they ask for photos of their modules in the drums on a
pallet ready to ship or in a container about to be shipped. So let’s keep
enough lg modules to pack into drums in case, would be my suggestion.
 
Plaintiff argues its decision to enter into and sustain the Contracts
was based on Defendant ITAP’s alleged deceptive assurances. Further, Plaintiff
argues the conduct has resulted in direct financial loss due to the
unauthorized sale of the batteries but also ancillary damages, such as
reputational harm in the industry and potential legal and regulatory
consequences due to the sale of batteries which were recalled for safety
concerns. Plaintiff also has been forced to incur substantial legal fees in
connection with investigating Defendants’ misconduct, and interacting with
government regulatory authorities, including the Consumer Product Safety
Commission. (Jeong Decl., ¶ 20.) Plaintiff argues Defendants’ actions also
present an unacceptable risk to the safety of the public.
 
Defendants contend Lundgren has a private vendetta against
Defendants and has deceived Plaintiff. Defendants argue Lundgren refuses to
return the batteries that BigBattery has in its possession, which were being
properly stored by him when they were on better terms. Defendants present the Defendant
Mullaney’s declaration who attests the discussion in Exhibit B to Lundgren’s
declaration—with Defendant Garcia’s representations quoted above—was about how
LG Energy Solution Korea’s batteries can be shipped to Panama for recycling by Defendant
IT Asset Partners, inc. and that Lundgren is taking it out of context.
(Mullaney Decl., ¶¶ 2-3.) 
 
Defendants also present the declaration of Guowei Hu, but the
court finds the evidence entitled to no weight as Hu does not provide any
foundation for his assertions. Hu’s statements are also unclear and difficult
to follow. Hu does attest, however, Defendant “ITAP did not refurbish any [Plaintiff]
batteries.” (Hu Decl. ¶ 15.) As noted by Plaintiff, Hu does not identify who he
is, where he works, what he does, or how he has personal knowledge about the
facts pertinent to this case. He only represents that he is “a person that
knows about IT Asset Partners, Inc. projects with LG Energy Solutions (LG
Korea) and LG Energy Solutions Vertech (LG USA).” (Hu Decl. ¶ 2.)[4]
This is insufficient to establish a foundation for his testimony.[5]

 
Based on the evidence presented, the court finds Plaintiff has
carried its burden to show a likelihood of prevailing on its claim for fraud as
to Defendants ITAP, Garcia, and Mullaney.
 
Breach of Contract Alleged Against
Defendant ITAP
 
Plaintiff presents evidence of the contracts entered into for
recycling and disposal of recalled batteries. (Jeong Decl., ¶¶ 13-15, Exhs. B,
C, D.) As discussed, Plaintiff’s evidence is sufficient to show Defendant ITAP
did not recycle and dispose of all the recalled batteries, and some were found
in products sent to BigBattery by Defendant ITAP. Accordingly, the court finds
that Plaintiff has carried its burden to show a likelihood of prevailing on the
breach of contract claim against Defendant ITAP. 
 
Interference with Contract
Alleged Against Defendants ITAP Panama, Lions Battery, and BatteryEVO
 
“The elements which a plaintiff must plead to state the
cause of action for intentional interference with contractual relations are (1)
a valid contract between plaintiff and a third party; (2) defendant’s knowledge
of this contract; (3) defendant’s intentional acts designed to induce a breach
or disruption of the contractual relationship; (4) actual breach or disruption
of the contractual relationship; and (5) resulting damage.” (Pacific Gas
& Electric Co. v. Bear Stearns & Co. (1990) 50 Cal.3d 1118, 1126.)
 
Plaintiff argues the Contracts with Defendant ITAP
explicitly banned the repurposing or sale of recalled ESS batteries and
required Defendant ITAP to ensure compliance with these terms by any third
parties involved in the batteries’ disposal. Plaintiff asserts despite the
Contract provisions, Defendants ITAP Panama, Lions Battery, and BatteryEVO,
fully cognizant of the contract terms, actively participated in the breach of
the Contracts. Plaintiff argues Defendants’ interconnected operations
underscore their joint enterprise with Defendant ITAP’s breach. For example, Defendants
ITAP and BatteryEVO share leadership and an address, while Defendant Lions
Battery is promoted as “powered by BatteryEVO,” which, in turn, lists Defendant
Lions Battery as a partner. Furthermore, Defendant ITAP Panama operates out of
the same address as a recycling facility to which Defendant ITAP has a majority
ownership. 
 
Given all the connections between Defendants, Plaintiff
argues it is highly probable Defendants ITAP Panama, Lions Battery, and
BatteryEVO had knowledge about the specific terms of the contracts which
explicitly forbade the repurposing or resale of recalled batteries. Despite the
Contract terms, Defendants have been repurposing the recalled batteries for
sale in the United States through Defendant BatteryEVO, and in Panama through Defendants
ITAP Panama and/or Lions Battery.
 
Plaintiff presents evidence Defendant ITAP does not sell
battery products directly but sells them under various affiliated companies and
brand names. One such affiliated brand is Defendant BatteryEVO, which operates
out of the same location as Defendant ITAP. Another brand is Defendant Panama
Energy Technologies, S.A. d/b/a Lions Battery, which advertises itself as being
“powered by BatteryEVO.” Engineers at BigBattery have examined the battery
products on the Defendants BatteryEVO and Lions Battery websites that are
available for purchase. The specifications for certain of their products (e.g.,
capacity, chemistry, voltage, functions, form factor, weight, dimensions,
wiring, cell series) match those from the WeChat development messaging thread,
as well as the samples they have seen in person, and lead them to believe that
they were sold containing Plaintiff’s recalled batteries. (Lundgren Decl.,
¶11.) 
 
Defendants do not dispute Plaintiff’s evidence. (See
generally Opposition.)
 
Based on all the evidence presented thus far, the court
finds Plaintiff has carried its burden of showing some ability to prevail on
the merits of its interference with contract claim as to Defendants ITAP
Panama, Lions Battery and BatteryEVO.
 
              Unfair
Competition Alleged Against All Defendants
 
Unfair competition is any unlawful, unfair, or fraudulent
business practice or act and unfair, deceptive, untrue, or misleading
advertising. (See Bus. & Prof. Code, § 17200.) “An unlawful business
practice or act within the meaning of the UCL is an act or practice, committed
pursuant to business activity, that is at the same time forbidden by
law.” (Bernardo v. Planned Parenthood Federation of America (2004) 115
Cal.App.4th 322, 351.)
 
As discussed, Plaintiff has shown a likelihood of prevailing
on the fraud claim. Further, the evidence shows a likelihood Defendants have
violated section 19 of the Consumer Product Safety Act, which prohibits the
sale, manufacture, or distribution to consumers of a product that is the
subject of a recall of which the Consumer Products Safety Commission has
notified the public. (15 U.S.C. § 2068, subd. (a)(2)(B). Accordingly, the court
finds Plaintiff has carried its burden to show a likelihood of prevailing on
the unfair competition claim as to all Defendants.
 
Balancing the Harms:
 
The court must determine whether the balance of harms favors
issuing the preliminary injunction.
 
In addressing the second part of the preliminary injunction
analysis, the court is required to evaluate the harm the plaintiff is likely to
sustain if the preliminary injunction is denied compared to the harm the
defendant is likely to suffer if the injunction issued. (IT Corp. v. County
of Imperial (1983) 35 Cal.3d 63, 69-70.)
 
Plaintiff argues the sale of these products presents a significant
risk of fire, which poses a serious safety hazard to consumers. Further, this
situation also potentially damages Plaintiff’s reputation and consumer trust in
an industry where safety is of utmost importance. Thus, Plaintiff has made a
strong showing of harm if a preliminary injunction is not issued.
 
Defendants make no argument regarding the balancing of harm. The
court would assume the only harm would be financial to Defendants. That said, the
Contracts do not permit the resale of Plaintiff’s defective and recalled ESS
batteries. Thus, any harm suffered would be illusory—Defendants are not
permitted under the Contracts to rebrand and resell Plaintiff’s defective
products.
 
Based on the foregoing, the court finds that in balancing the
relative harms, the evidence weighs in favor of Plaintiff.
 
Undertaking:
 
For a preliminary injunction to issue, the court must impose a
bond. The court sets bond in the amount of $10,000.
 
CONCLUSION
 
Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s request for a preliminary injunction is granted. The form of order
shall specify the restrictions apply to Plaintiff’s ESS products. 
 
The court does not make an order
requiring Defendants to provide a complete and detailed record of all entities
to whom Plaintiff’s ESS batteries have been sold. Plaintiff may obtain such
information through discovery.
 
IT
IS SO ORDERED.
 
March 27, 2024                                                                      ________________________________
                                                                                                                   Hon. Mitchell
Beckloff 
                                                                                                                   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 


