 Case Number:  23TRCV00031    Hearing Date:   September 28, 2023    Dept:  1 23TRCV00031           CHERIDA
ABRAM vs HECTOR MORENO
Joint Motion to Transfer Venue
TENTATIVE
RULING:  The motion is CONTINUED to October
26, 2023 at 8:30 AM in Department 1 of the Stanley
Mosk Courthouse.  The parties may submit
a supplemental declaration which more specifically identifies the location of
the collision and whether it occurred north or south of Manchester Avenue no
later than October 16, 2023.
 
The
parties seek to transfer this action to the action to the Stanley Mosk
Courthouse in the Central District citing various inapplicable provisions of
the Code of Civil Procedure related to which superior court, not district
therein, is the proper venue. The Los Angeles Superior Court is only one court,
even though it is divided into districts. (See generally Glade v. Glade
(1995) 38 Cal.App.4th 1441, 1449 (“Even though a superior court is divided into
branches or departments, pursuant to California Constitution, article VI,
section 4, there is only one superior court in a county and jurisdiction is
therefore vested in that court, not in any particular judge or department.
Whether sitting separately or together, the judges hold but one and the same
court.”).) Local Rule 2.3 governs the assignment and transfer of cases between
districts of the Los Angeles Superior Court. (Code Civ. Proc. § 402; LASC Local
Rule 2.3.)
 
Pursuant
to Local Rule 2.3(a)(1), “[e]very unlimited civil tort action for bodily
injury, . . . or damage to personal property (hereinafter referred to as
“Personal Injury Action”) must be filed in the judicial district where the
incident arose. The filing court locator on the Los Angeles Superior Court
website (www.lacourt.org) should be used to determine the appropriate filing
location. . . . A ‘Personal Injury Action’ is an unlimited civil case described
on the Civil Case Cover Sheet Addendum and Statement of Location (LACIV 109) as
Motor Vehicle-Personal Injury/Property Damage/Wrongful Death.”
 
The
case is currently assigned to Department 8 in the Inglewood Courthouse, which
sits in the Southwest District of the Los Angeles Superior Court. (LASC Local
Rule 2.2(b).) 
 
In Step 2 of the civil case cover sheet addendum,
Plaintiff selected “A7100 Motor Vehicle-Personal Injury/Property
Damage/Wrongful Death.” In Step 4 of the civil case cover sheet addendum where
the filing party is asked to “[c]heck the appropriate boxes for the
numbers shown under Column C for the type of action that you have selected.
Enter the address, which is the basis for the filing location including zip
code,” Plaintiff selected Reason 11,
which correlates with a mandatory filing location, and listed the
relevant address as “110 Freeway near Manchester Avenue, Los Angeles, CA 90305.”
 
In
Step 5 of the civil case coversheet, where the filing party is asked to certify
the proper filing location, Plaintiff’s counsel indicated the Southwest
District was the appropriate filing location under the applicable Local Rules. 
 
In
support of the motion, Plaintiff’s counsel states “[t]he Parties agree that the
motor vehicle collision occurred as the Parties were traveling in the
northbound direction of the 110 Highway, near Manchester Avenue, Los Angeles,
California 90305” and “[a]fter further examining the exact location where the
motor vehicle collision occurred and using the County of Los Angeles’ Filing
Court Locator online tool, Ms. Messina and [Vulic] determined and agreed that
the location of the Collision revealed the Stanley Mosk Courthouse to be the
appropriate venue to litigate this matter.” (Vulic Decl. ¶¶ 3-4.) The parties have
stipulated to transfer the action to the Stanley Mosk Courthouse. 
 
On
the civil case cover sheet addendum and in the declaration of Plaintiff’s
counsel supporting this motion, the parties state the collision occurred on the
110 Highway (or Freeway) near Manchester Avenue in Los Angeles, California
within the zip code 90305. It appears the parties rely upon the incorrect zip
code for the stated location of the collision.
 
The
Court takes judicial notice that the city of Inglewood and the community of
Morningside Park, not the city of Los Angeles, are within zip code 90305, (Evid
Code §§ 451(f); 452(g); 452(h)), which are the results provided by the Court’s
filing court locator when entering zip code 90305. The Court also takes
judicial notice that the 110 Freeway does not pass through the area within zip
code 90305. (Ibid. See also People v. Hosney (1962) 204 Cal.App.2d 584,
587 (“Courts may take judicial notice of geographical facts.”); Protect
Niles v. City of Fremont (2018) 25 Cal.App.5th 1129, 1149 (“We take
judicial notice of the general geography of the Fremont area.”); People v. Posey (2004) 32 Cal.4th 193,
216 n.9 (taking judicial notice “that (1) Santa Rosa is located within Sonoma
County; (2) Sonoma County, including Santa Rosa, comes within the 707 telephone
area code; and (3) both San Francisco County and Marin County come within the
415 telephone area code.”); People v. Chavarria (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th
1364, 1367 (“We take judicial notice of the facts that (1) the city of Thousand
Oaks is in Ventura County; and (2) 805 is the area code that includes Ventura
County.”).) The Court further takes judicial notice that Manchester Avenue
intersects the 110 Freeway within the zip code 90003. (Ibid.)
 
Accordingly,
if the collision occurred on the 110 Freeway near Manchester Avenue, as the
parties contend, it appears the correct zip code is 90003. Entering the zip
code 90003 into the filing court locator yields two results “Los Angeles (North
of Manchester) (90003) and Los Angeles (South of Manchester) (90003).” As
provided by the filing court locator, the Stanley Mosk Courthouse in the
Central District is the appropriate filing location for an unlimited civil
personal injury case arising from incidents occurring North of Manchester. For
incidents occurring South of Manchester, the Compton Courthouse in the South
Central District is the appropriate filing location for an unlimited civil
personal injury case. 
 
As
noted above, personal injury actions are subject to mandatory filing rules
based upon the location of the incident. (LASC Local Rule 2.3(a)(1)(A).) The
Court finds the parties have not adequately demonstrated the location of the
collision at issue is north of Manchester Avenue. The parties’ use of an
incorrect zip code as well as their description of the accident as occurring on
the northbound 110 Freeway “near” Manchester Avenue, a material dividing line
for purposes of determining the proper filing location, is insufficient to demonstrate
the Stanley Mosk Courthouse is the proper courthouse. 
 
Because
the Court has taken judicial notice of various geographical facts on its own motion,
the Court is obligated to “afford each party reasonable opportunity, . . . before
the cause is submitted for decision by the court, to present to the court
information relevant to (1) the propriety of taking judicial notice of the
matter and (2) the tenor of the matter to be noticed.” (Evid. Code § 455(a).)
Additionally, the Court shall provide the parties with an opportunity to submit
a supplemental declaration which more specifically identifies the location of
the collision and whether it occurred north or south of Manchester Avenue. 
 