  Case Number:  23STCV13323    Hearing Date:   September 28, 2023    Dept:  1 23STCV13323           BARRINGTON
PLAZA TENANT ASSOCIATION vs DOUGLAS EMMETT, INC.
Plaintiff Barrington Plaza Tenant Association’s Unopposed
Motion to Transfer Action to Santa Monica Courthouse
TENTATIVE RULING: Plaintiff’s Motion to Transfer
action to Santa Monica Courthouse is GRANTED and 23STCV13323 is ordered
reassigned to the Santa Monica Courthouse in the West District of the Los
Angeles Superior Court.  Notice of case
reassignment shall issue shortly.  Clerk
to give notice.
On June 12, 2023, Plaintiff
Barrigton Plaza Tenant Association filed this action against Defendants Douglas
Emmett, Inc. and Barrington Pacific, LLC for declarator and injunctive relief.
The complaint alleges Plaintiff is an unincorporated association of tenants
living at the rent stabilized Barrington Plaza Apartments located at 11728,
11734 and 11740 Wilshire Boulevard in the Sawtelle neighborhood of Los Angeles. Plaintiffs allege Defendant served all
tenants with eviction notices on May 8, 2023 without sufficient cause under the
law and made contradictory representations to local and federal authorities
regarding their plans for the building. Plaintiff seeks declaratory and
injunctive relief to stop the evictions and require Defendants to comply with
the applicable provisions of the Los Angeles Municipal Code. 
 
On August 15, 2023, Judge James
C. Chalfant issued an order denying Plaintiff’s motion for preliminary
injunction. The minute order also provided the following instruction:
 
The
court orders that the UD actions all be filed in the Santa Monica Courthouse
where they can be coordinated to ease the burden on the court and parties.
Landlord is directed to file related case notices with the UD actions, and the
notices shall refer to the declaratory relief case and all other UD actions on
file. Both sides are directed to coordinate with Department One to make sure that
the instant case gets transferred to Santa Monica under LASC Rule 2.3(b)(2) so
that the same judge may hear all the cases.
 
The accompanying court order similarly provided “BPTA may
move to transfer the instant case to Santa Monica under LASC Rule 2.3(b)(2).”
 
Standard 
 
The Local Rules of the Los Angeles Superior Court govern
the assignment of cases between its districts and departments. (Code Civ. Proc.
§ 402.) LASC Local Rule 2.3(b)(2) authorizes Department 1 to transfer civil
cases from one judicial district to another via a noticed motion on three
enumerated grounds: (1) when the case was filed in an improper district; (2)
for the convenience of witnesses; or (3) to promote the
ends of justice. (LASC Local Rule 2.3(b)(2).) 
 
The
Parties Stipulated to a Transfer and a Transfer is Warranted
 
During the August 15, 2023 hearing, Judge Chalfant stated: 
 
I
asked Judge Court in Department One, I talked to her today, and she agreed with
me that this case that is the dec relief case, she agreed with me, one, that
the UD cases have to be filed in the Santa Monica courthouse. And she agreed
with me that the Department 78 case should be transferred to the Santa Monica
courthouse. And that the cases should all be in front of the same judge in
Santa Monica, and that that's going to happen. So I guess what I should do, Mr.
Gibson, I didn’t think you were intending to file your UD cases anywhere but
Santa Monica, but I’m going to order you to file them there. And then you need
to -- when I say you, I mean both sides need to coordinate with department one
to make sure that the Department 78 case gets transferred to Santa Monica so
that the same judge will hear all of the cases. That’s what I want to happen.
That’s what Judge Gordon [sic] wants to happen, so you just have to make sure
that it doesn’t fall through the cracks.”
 
(Campbell Decl. Ex. C at 20:16-21:5.) Pursuant to this
instruction, Plaintiff seeks to transfer this action from Department 78 of the
Stanley Mosk Courthouse in the Central District to the Santa Monica Courthouse
in the West District. (LASC Local Rule 2.2(b).) 
 
As noted above, the parties stipulated to the transfer. Pursuant
to the filing rules enumerated in LASC Local Rules 2.3(a)(1)(A) and the filing court locator available on the court’s
website, Plaintiff’s unlimited civil action could have been filed in the Santa
Monica Courthouse in the West District. Accordingly, the parties are seeking a
transfer to a proper district under the Local Rules. Additionally, the Court
agrees with the parties that the convenience of witnesses and ends of justice
warrant a transfer to the West District, where the property is located and
where the unlawful detainer actions involving the property will be filed.
 
Based upon the information provided and the stipulation of
the parties, the unopposed motion is GRANTED. 
 
 