  Case Number:  22STCV29986    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles




 
Alison Oley,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22STCV29986




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
County of Los Angeles, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: October 23, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion for Summary Adjudication
Moving Party: Defendant County of Los Angeles
Responding Party: Plaintiff Alison Oley
 
T/R:     DEFENDANT’S
MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION OF THE SECOND CAUSE OF ACTION IS DENIED.
DEFENDANT’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION OF THE FOURTH AND SIXTH
CAUSES OF ACTION IS GRANTED.
DEFENDANT TO NOTICE.  
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing. 
 
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On May 3, 2024, Plaintiff Alison Oley
filed the operative third amended complaint against Defendants County of Los
Angeles and Mario Rangel, asserting causes of action for (1) sexual harassment;
(2) quid pro quo sexual harassment; (3) failure to prevent harassment; (4)
violation of the Bane Act; (5) intentional infliction of emotional distress;
and (6) distribution of private sexually explicit materials. 
 
Plaintiff alleges her supervisor,
Defendant Mario Rangel, at the Los Angeles Sheriff’s Department sexually
harassed her during a romantic relationship.
ANALYSIS
 
“The purpose of the law of summary
judgment is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties'
pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in
fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Trial judges are required “to grant summary
judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably
deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or
evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that
the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v.
Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)
 
As to each claim as framed by the
complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial
burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to
establish a defense. (CCP § 437c(p)(2).) Once the defendant has met that
burden, “the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable issue of one
or more material facts exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto.”
(Id.)  To establish a triable
issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion must produce “substantial
responsive evidence.” (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151,
166.) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing
summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that
party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384,
389.)
 
A. Second Cause of Action for Quid Pro Quo Sexual
Harassment
Quid pro quo sexual harassment occurs when an
employer conditions a benefit of employment on submission to unwanted sexual
advances. (See Pollock v. Tri-Modal
Distribution Services, Inc. (2021) 11 Cal.5th 918, 932-3.) Defendant
asserts the second cause of action fails because the third amended complaint
and Plaintiff’s discovery responses do not allege any specific instances in
which Defendant Rangel conditioned an employment benefit on submission to his
advances. 
In
opposition, Plaintiff presents evidence that Defendant Rangel showed Plaintiff
favoritism by avoiding placing her in stressful assignments during her recruit
training. (PMDF No. 16.) Defendant Rangel also met Plaintiff at a hotel to help
her improve her physical training and/or provide her with the physical training
curriculum. (PMDF No. 17.) Defendant Rangel purposely would assign himself to
work the same shifts as Plaintiff to keep an eye on her. (PMDF No. 46.)
Defendant Rangel threatened Plaintiff's career with the Los Angeles County
Sheriff's Department if she did not comply with his demands. (PMDF Nos. 35
& 43-45.) Defendant Rangel demanded and accepted money and gifts from
Plaintiff while he was her supervisor. (PMDF No. 33.) Defendant Rangel
threatened Plaintiff that if she applied to or entered the deputy training
academy he would have the academy staff instructors "target" her and
ensure her failure. (PMDF No. 43.) This is sufficient to create a triable issue
of fact as to quid pro quo sexual harassment.
The
motion for summary adjudication of the second cause of action is DENIED.
B. Fourth Cause
of Action for Violation of the Bane Act and Sixth Cause of Action for
Distribution of Private Sexually Explicit Materials
Defendant
moves for summary adjudication of the fourth and fifth causes of action on the
grounds that they do not allow for direct liability against a public entity,
and that Rangel’s alleged violations do not fall within the scope of employment
under the doctrine of respondeat superior. 
The general rule is that where an
employee commits acts of sexual misconduct during his work, such acts are
outside the scope of his employment and no vicarious liability attaches. (See,
e.g., Maria D. v. Westec Residential Sec., Inc. (2000) 85 Cal.App.4th
125, 146-147; Lisa M. v. Henry Mayo Newhall Mem’l Hosp. (1995) 12
Cal.4th 291, 301; Farmers Ins. Group v. County of Santa Clara (1995) 11
Cal.4th 992, 1006-1007.) There are limited exceptions to this general rule when
the perpetrator is in a position of power, and it is reasonably foreseeable
that an abuse of the power may occur. (See e.g. Mary M. v. City of Los
Angeles (1991) 54 Cal.3d 202.)
 
Defendant
asserts that the alleged physical assault on Plaintiff, during which Rangel
strangled her, and the alleged upload of explicit materials to the LASD server
were not within Rangel’s scope of employment. Defendant argues that the assault
occurred outside of work and there is no alleged work-related reason for the
upload of explicit materials. In opposition, Plaintiff asserts that Rangel
acted within the scope of his employment, using his position of authority over
Plaintiff to initiate and sustain their relationship, by using LASD computer
equipment to upload and print the explicit materials. This is insufficient to
show Rangel was acting within the scope of his employment. 
As
stated, courts have held that sexual misconduct is not within the scope of
employment. Plaintiff has not presented evidence showing LASD ratified or
approved of Rangel’s behavior, or that there was a work-related reason for it. 
The
motion for summary adjudication of the fourth and sixth causes of action is
GRANTED.