  Case Number:  21STCV03623    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2024    Dept:  39  
 TENTATIVE RULING
 



DEPT:


39




HEARING DATE:


October 3, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV03623, related to 21STCV03737 and 21STCV02841




MOTION:  


Motion for Leave to File Cross-Complaint




MOVING PARTY:


Defendants Julian Ledesma, Sweatheory LLC, Sweatheory Wellness,
  LLC, and the Sweatheory Group, LLC




OPPOSING PARTY:


None



 
MOTION
Plaintiffs
Yasamine Irvine and Kristin Wright (“Plaintiffs”) sued Defendants Julian
Ledesma, Sweatheory LLC, Sweatheory Wellness, LLC, and the Sweatheory Group,
LLC (“Defendants”), contending Defendants leased a unit in which Plaintiffs
were residing and converted it to a business location.  Along with third-party JPL Ventures, LLC, Defendants
seek leave to file a cross-complaint against Paragon Resources, Inc. and
Royfield, Inc. (“Cross-Defendants”).  Cross-Defendants
are parties to this action and have already filed a cross-complaint against Christopher
Kantrowitz and Media Gobbler Inc.  
DISCUSSION 
Pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure section 428.10, subdivision (b), a party against whom a
cause of action is asserted may file a cross-complaint to assert “[a]ny cause
of action he has against a person alleged to be liable thereon, whether or not
such person is already a party to the action, if the cause of action asserted
in his cross-complaint (1) arises out of the same transaction, occurrence, or
series of transactions or occurrences as the cause brought against him or (2)
asserts a claim, right, or interest in the property or controversy which is the
subject of the cause brought against him.” 
A party must obtain leave of court to file a cross-complaint, if the
party does not file the cross-complaint at the same time as the answer.  The Court may grant leave to file a
cross-complaint in the interests of justice at any time during the course of
the action.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 428.10,
subd. (c).)  
Defendants seek
leave to assert a cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants for breach of
contract, indemnity, and contribution. 
Defendants contend they leased the premises at issue from
Cross-Defendants, without knowledge of Plaintiffs’ presence on the
premises.  Defendants did not file this
cross-complaint in connection with their initial appearance.  However, the Court considers it to be in the
interest of justice to resolve all claims regarding the dispute over Plaintiffs’
right to the premises in this action. 
Accordingly, the Court grants the motion but does not deem the proposed cross-complaint
attached as Exhibit A to the Declaration of Daniel J. Knierim to be filed and
served this date.
Defendants are
ordered to provide notice of this order and to file proof of service of same. 
 