 Case Number:  21STCV27878    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


39




HEARING DATE


October
  3, 2024




CASE NUMBER


21STCV27878




MOTION


Motion
  for Summary Judgment




MOVING PARTIES


Defendant
  Lincoln National Life Insurance Company




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiffs
  Gary Marenzi, Rebecca Prange, Gregory Prange and Wesley Prang



  
BACKGROUND
Plaintiffs Gary
Marenzi, Rebecca Prange (“Prange”), Gregory Prange and Wesley Prang
(collectively, “Plaintiffs”) sued individuals and several insurance company
entities, including Defendant Lincoln National Life Insurance Company
(“Defendant”), based on Plaintiffs financing the premiums for life insurance
policies, including Defendant’s, issued to Prange.  Plaintiffs allege Defendant issued a life
insurance policy to Prange with a death benefit of $20,000,000.  (Complaint, ¶ 30.)  Plaintiffs further allege Defendant caused
Plaintiffs to pay taxes when Plaintiffs terminated the policy.  
Defendant moves
for summary judgment on Plaintiffs’ complaint, or, in the alternative, summary
adjudication of the causes of action therein. 
Plaintiffs oppose the motion.
LEGAL STANDARD – MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
“[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears the
burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue of material fact and that
he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law[.] There is a triable issue of
material fact if, and only if, the evidence would allow a reasonable trier of
fact to find the underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion in
accordance with the applicable standard of proof.”  (Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  “[T]he party
moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of production to make a
prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact;
if he carries his burden of production, he causes a shift, and the opposing
party is then subjected to a burden of production of his
own to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of
material fact.”  (Ibid.)  
DISCUSSION
Defendant moves for summary judgment on all
causes of action pleaded against it on the basis  Plaintiffs suffered no damages because of any
act or omission by Defendant.  Defendant
relies on the declaration of Paul J. Farrell (“Farrell”), who is an assistant
vice president for Defendant.  Farrell
states, based on an application from Prange, Defendant issued a $20,000,000
universal life insurance policy to Prange, which Prange financed through an
agreement with Wintrust Life Finance. 
The policy contained a rider, which permitted Prange to surrender the
policy in exchange for return of all premiums paid.  (Declaration of Paul J. Farrell, ¶¶
5-8.)  Prange elected to surrender the
policy, and Defendant returned all premiums Prange had paid.  (Id., ¶¶ 12-13.) 
In the operative
complaint, Plaintiffs allege Defendant caused Plaintiffs damages because
Plaintiffs incurred “taxes on terminating [Defendant’s] policy . . . .”  (Complaint, ¶ 39.)  The
pleadings set the outer limits of materiality in a summary judgment
proceeding.  (FPI Development, Inc. v.
Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 382.)  Defendant’s evidence shows  Plaintiffs incurred taxes because Defendant
terminated Prange’s policy with Defendant on Prange’s request.  Moreover, when Prange was no longer satisfied
with the premium finance loan used to pay the premiums for Defendant’s policy,
she cancelled Defendant’s policy, Defendant fully refunded her all the premiums
she had paid and, thereby, Range was not penalized for doing so.  In addition, in the complaint, Plaintiffs do
not allege Defendant made any misrepresentations or omitted any material facts that induced Prange
to purchase the policy at issue.  Given
these circumstances, Defendant met its
burden of showing Plaintiffs cannot prevail on their claims against Defendant
because Defendant asserts it did not cause Plaintiffs any damages.  Defendant has then shifted the burden to
Plaintiffs for Plaintiffs to raise triable issues of material fact to defeat
this motion.  
In opposition, Plaintiffs rely on the
declaration of Steven Roth (“Roth”), an expert in selling and servicing life
insurance policies.  Roth states, “As
stated in [Defendant]’s April 22, 2021 [sic], addressed to Mr. Wesley
Prange, trustee, the gross premiums paid were $2,465,062.28, and net surrender
value also $2,465,062.28.  $64,000 of the
premiums paid were not treated as a cost basis due to tax law.  So, [Plaintiffs] were sent a 1099R in 2022 and
had to report and pay tax on the $64,000 they paid to [Defendant]. This caused
them to suffer a loss on the policy of approximately $25,000 (state and federal
tax on the $64,000).”  (Declaration of
Steven Roth, ¶ 10.)  Roth’s
testimony fails to raise triable issues of material fact as to whether, by
issuing the policy to Prange and terminating it at Prange’s request, Defendant
caused damages to Plaintiffs.  Roth does
not dispute Defendant’s policy was terminated at Prange’s request.  As Roth concedes, it is tax law, not anything
Defendant did or failed to do, that caused Plaintiffs’ tax liability.  Therefore, Plaintiffs have not established they
have raised any triable issue of material fact as to Defendant being
responsible for any loss they may have sustained.  
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Plaintiffs have failed to raise a triable
issue of material fact as to whether Plaintiffs can prevail on their causes of
action against Defendant.  Therefore, the
Court grants Defendant’s motion for summary judgment.  
Defendant is ordered to give notice of the
Court’s order and to file proof of service of same.