  Case Number:  21STCV37401    Hearing Date:   September 6, 2024    Dept:  W ROBERT BRAGG vs CITY OF LOS ANGELES, et al. 
 
plaintiff robert bragg’s motion for terminating, issue, or monetary
sanctions in the amount of $2,167.26 from defendant and their counsel for
failure to comply with the courts ordered deposition 
 
Date of Hearing:        September 6, 2024                           Trial Date:       None
set.  
Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        21STCV37401
 
Moving Party:            Plaintiff
Robert Bragg 
Responding Party:     Defendant
City of Los Angeles  
 
BACKGROUND
 
On October 12, 2021, Plaintiff Robert Bragg
(“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants City of Los Angeles and
County of Los Angeles for injuries Plaintiff sustained after tripping and falling
on a sidewalk. On April 7, 2022, Plaintiff dismissed the County of Los Angeles.
The City of Los Angeles (“Defendant”) is the only remaining named
Defendant.   
 
[TENTATIVE]
RULING:
 
Plaintiff Robert Bragg’s Motion for
Terminating, Issue, or Monetary Sanctions in the Amount of $2,167.26 from
Defendant and their Counsel for Failure to Comply with the Courts Ordered
Deposition is DENIED. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff Robert Bragg moves for an order granting terminating
sanctions against Defendant City of Los Angeles for their failure to produce
all records demanded in the request for production at deposition and appear for
another deposition to be questioned about the documents as ordered by the
court. Plaintiff also asks for monetary and issue sanctions for Defendant’s
PMQ’s failure and refusal to appear as ordered, non-compliance with previous
court orders and their failure and refusal to produce documents. 
 
Code of Civil Procedure § 2023.030 gives the court the discretion to
impose sanctions against anyone engaging in a misuse of the discovery
process.  A court may impose terminating sanctions by striking pleadings
of the party engaged in misuse of discovery or entering default judgment. 
(CCP § 2023.030(d).)  “[T]the trial court has broad discretion in
selecting the appropriate sanction, and we must uphold the trial court's
determination absent an abuse of discretion.”  (Dept. of Forestry &
Fire Protection v. Howell (2017) 18 Cal.App.5th 154, 191, overturned on
other grounds in Presbyterian Camp & Conference Centers, Inc. v.
Superior Court (2021) 12 Cal.5th 493, 516 n. 17.)   
 
A violation of a discovery order is sufficient for the imposition of
terminating sanctions.  (Collison & Kaplan v. Hartunian (1994)
21 Cal.App.4th 1611, 1620.)  Terminating sanctions are appropriate when a
party persists in disobeying the court's orders.  (Deyo v. Kilbourne
(1978) 84 Cal.App.3d 771, 795-796.) However, a terminating sanction is a
"drastic measure which should be employed with caution."  (Id.
at p. 793.)  "A decision to order terminating sanctions should not be
made lightly. But where a violation is willful, preceded by a history of abuse,
and the evidence shows that less severe sanctions would not produce compliance
with the discovery rules, the trial court is justified in imposing the ultimate
sanction."  (Mileikowsky v. Tenet Healthsystem (2005) 128
Cal.App.4th 262, 279-280.)  While the court has discretion to impose
terminating sanctions, these sanctions "should be appropriate to the
dereliction and should not exceed that which is required to protect the
interests of the party entitled to but denied discovery."  (Deyo,
supra, 84 Cal.App.3d at p. 793.)  "[A] court is empowered to
apply the ultimate sanction against a litigant who persists in the outright
refusal to comply with his discovery obligations."  (Ibid.) 
Discovery sanctions are not to be imposed for punishment, but instead are used
to encourage fair disclosure of discovery to prevent unfairness resulting for
the lack of information.  (See Midwife v. Bernal (1988) 203
Cal.App.3d 57, 64 [superseded on other grounds as stated in Kohan v. Cohan
(1991) 229 Cal.App.3d 967, 971].) 
 
Plaintiff argues Defendant’s PMQ for the City of Los Angeles failed to
produce documents identified in their deposition and Defendant has refused to
produce records as the court ordered. Plaintiff also avers the court previously
ordered that the Defendant did not have privilege objections as they had been
waived. Specifically, on February 24, 2023, the court ordered Defendant to
produce its PMQ for its Bureau of Street Services and Urban Forestry divisions
for deposition at a date, time, and location to be noticed by Plaintiff, but
denied Plaintiff’s motion as to the request for production of documents included
in the deposition notices served on Defendant. (Min. Order, Feb. 24, 2023.) On
March 10, 2023, only defense counsel appeared for the noticed deposition and
explained that the PMQ informed defense counsel of his unavailability. (Min.
Order, Feb. 24, 2023.) Thereafter, Plaintiff sought terminating sanctions,
which was denied on June 6, 2023. The court found terminating sanctions were
unwarranted at the time but warned Defendant that any future violations of the court’s
discovery orders may result in evidence, issue, or, if warranted, terminating
sanctions. (Min. Order, June 6, 2023.) The court did award monetary sanctions
in connection with the motion. (Min. Order, June 6, 2023.) Eventually, the PMQ
for Department of Urban Forestry was deposed and what remained (and continues
to remain) at issue is the PMQ for the Bureau of Street Services. 
 
After a few more attempts to schedule the deposition for the Bureau of
Street Services PMQ, Plaintiff moved for terminating sanctions again against
Defendant for failing to comply with the court’s February 24, 2023 and June 6,
2023 court orders. Although the deposition eventually took place on November 7,
2023, Plaintiff advised the court that the designated PMQ was “wholly
inadequate” and unprepared for the deposition. The court found terminating
sanctions again were unwarranted at this time but found “that the Defendant, in
producing an unprepared PMQ for deposition, complied with the Court’s order in
form but not substance.” (Min. Order, Nov. 28, 2023.) The court then ordered
Defendant to “to wholly and completely prepare its PMQ as to all of the
categories listed in the previous notices of deposition.” (Min. Order, Nov. 28,
2023.) If Defendant failed to do so, the court concluded that Defendant’s
actions would have been willful and therefore, subject to terminating
sanctions. (Min. Order, Nov. 28, 2023.) As noted above, Plaintiff’s contention
is that when the PMQs appeared at the court ordered deposition on March 28,
2024, June 13, 2024 and July 16, 2024, Defendant did not produce certain
documents in discovery although they were used to prepare for the deposition
and informed plaintiff documents would not be provided based upon a privilege
objection. 
 
Based on this conduct, Plaintiff argues Defendant is willfully
ignoring the court’s orders which warrants sanctions. Plaintiff contends the
court was specific in its order as to how their PMQ was to be produced without
objection, and defendant didn’t comply. To date, there has been multiple court
orders finding against Defendant and continue to willfully ignore them for over
a year now. Accordingly, Defendant has shown no intent to comply at all. 
 
In opposition[1],
Defendant argues it has complied with all of the court’s Orders regarding the
depositions of their PMQ and nothing in the orders mention anything regarding any
production of documents responsive to the document requests in the PMQ notices.
In fact, at the original February 24, 2023 hearing on Plaintiff’s motion to
compel the deposition of Defendant’s PMQ, the court explicitly denied
Plaintiff’s motion as the request for production of documents included in the
deposition notices served on Defendant. (Jung Decl., Exh. 1.) As to each
specific PMQ, Defendant argues Plaintiff never specifies the “employment-level
reports” were even requested with the PMQ deposition notices and even if so,
the court did not order any documents to be produced. Moreover, the deposition
notice for Sescillie Berry, the PMQ of the personnel department, did not ask
for specific numbers of managers versus laborers versus assistants. As for the
deposition of Briam Sam, PMQ for the claims department, Defendant argues again,
Mr. Sam testified to each category and the court never ordered that any
documents be produced including “investigation notes and paragraphs, the incident
report, a weather report and other materials to prepare for the deposition[.]” Lastly,
as for the deposition of Glen LaCoure, PMQ of the Bureau of Street Services, again
the court never ordered any documents be produced and they were specifically
denied.  
 
The court agrees that this issue has gone on for far too long. The
deposition for the PMQ was originally noticed over two years ago. However, due
to Defendant’s conduct and minimal effort to inch this case forward, the
deposition of Defendant’s PMQ did not occur until 2024. Nonetheless, it is not
clear to the court that Defendant has failed to comply with the court’s orders.
Upon review of the court record, there is no indication that Defendant must
produce the documents sought in the deposition notice. Rather, the February 24,
2023 Minute Order categorically denies the production of documents included in
the deposition notices. Plaintiff has not shown good cause why such documents
would be compelled now. Plaintiff also repeatedly argues that the court ordered
that Defendant did not have privilege objections as they had been waived.
However, Plaintiff does not point to any where in the record where the court
waived such objections. 
 
Because it is unclear that Defendant willfully disobeyed the prior
court orders, the court cannot grant the motion for terminating sanctions at
this time. The court also finds Plaintiff has not sufficiently demonstrated
issue or monetary sanctions are warranted given Defendant’s reluctant
compliance with the previous court order. The court also cannot grant any
motion to compel production of documents as Plaintiff has failed to set forth
good cause justifying the production for the inspection of the documents
Plaintiff contends are wrongfully being withheld. 
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff Robert
Bragg’s Motion for Terminating, Issue, or Monetary Sanctions in the Amount of
$2,167.26 from Defendant and their Counsel for Failure to Comply with the
Courts Ordered Deposition is DENIED.
 


