 Case Number:  24VECV01305    Hearing Date:   September 6, 2024    Dept:  W HUMBERTO G
OROZCO vs MONEM CORPORATION, et al.
 
DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER
RESPONSES
 
Date
of Hearing:        September
6, 2024                                        Trial Date:       None
set. 
Department:              W                                                                     Case
No.:        24VECV01305
 
Moving
Party:            Defendants Monen
Corporation and Yohani Agus  
Responding
Party:     Plaintiff Humberto G. Orozco
 
BACKGROUND
 
On March
25, 2024, Plaintiff Humberto G. Orozco filed a complaint against Monen
Corporation and Yohani Agus for 1. Breach of Contract; 2. Breach of Covenant of
Good Faith and Fair Dealing; 3. Breach of Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment of The
Premises; 4. Nuisance [Civil Code § 3479]; 5. Intentional Infliction of Emotional
Distress; 6. Negligence; 7. Wrongful Eviction [Civil Code §789.3]; and 8. Constructive
Eviction. Plaintiff alleges Defendant provided lodging as well as pay Plaintiff
for hours worked in exchange for Plaintiff working as a property manager. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendants Monen Corporation and
Yohani Agus’ Motion to Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories is
GRANTED.
 
discussion
 
Defendants move to
compel further responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One as well as monetary
sanctions in the sum of $3,000.00 plus filing fees for having to bring this
motion. 
 
A motion to compel
further responses to form or specially prepared interrogatories may be brought
if the responses contain: (1) answers that are evasive or incomplete; (2) an
unwarranted or insufficiently specific exercise of an option to produce documents
in lieu of a substantive response; or (3) unmerited or overly generalized
objections.  (CCP § 2030.300(a).)   
 
Defendants argue the
response provided by Plaintiff were extremely vague, ambiguous and full of
objections that do not apply to the interrogatory. Moreover, Plaintiff’s
failure to provide further responses warrants sanctions. Plaintiff seeks
$3,075.11 in sanctions for three hours preparing the motion, another 3 hours
preparing the reply and attending the hearing at counsel’s hourly rate of
$500.00. Defendants also seek $75.11 in electronic filing fees. 
 
In opposition,
Plaintiff argues the meet and confer was insufficient and the request for
sanctions fails to comply with Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.040. 
 
Plaintiff has
submitted a copy of the parties’ meet and confer correspondence for the court’s
review.  The court has reviewed the
submitted correspondence. The correspondence makes clear that the parties have
reached an impasse as to this issue and the court will address the motion on
its merits.  (See Volkswagenwerk
Aktiengesellschaft v. Superior Court (1981) 122 Cal.App.3d 326, 332.) 
 
Next, the court finds
the responses are either incomplete or the objections without merit.
Accordingly, the court GRANTS Defendants’ motion to compel further responses to
Defendants’ Form Interrogatories, Set One. 
 
As for Defendants’
request for sanctions, the court finds sanctions warranted. Sanctions are
mandatory unless the court finds the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust. (CCP §2030.300(d).) 
Although Plaintiff asked for an extension to review and make changes as
needed, Plaintiff failed to do so. Accordingly, the court GRANTS Defendants’
request for sanctions in the reduced amount of $575.11, payable within 30 days.