  Case Number:  23STCV17326    Hearing Date:   August 12, 2024    Dept:  34 Counsel for Defendant Brothers Energy LLC’s (i.e.,
ALDI Law Group) Motion to be Relieved
as Counsel is GRANTED, effective upon the
filing of a proof of
service showing service of the signed
order upon the Client at the Client’s last known address. 
Counsel for Defendant Larry Dodds’ (i.e., ALDI Law
Group) Motion to be Relieved as Counsel
is GRANTED, effective upon the
filing of a proof of
service showing service of the signed
order upon the Client at the Client’s last known address.
Background
Plaintiffs Ross and Rossi Morreale (“Plaintiffs”)
allege that Defendants Brothers Energy LLC and Larry Dodds (“Defendants”) breached
a business loan agreement.
On July 24, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a
complaint, asserting causes of action against Defendants for:
(1)            
Breach of Contract;
(2)            
Specific Performance;
(3)            
Breach of Duty of Good Faith and Fair Dealing;
(4)            
Accounting; and,
(5)            
Unjust Enrichment.
 
A Final Status Conference is
scheduled for October 30, 2024 and a Jury Trial is scheduled for November 12,
2024.
Discussion[1]    
ALDI Law Group PC (“Firm”) seeks to be relieved as counsel of record for Defendants (“Clients”).
The court has discretion to allow an attorney to withdraw,
and such a motion should be granted provided that there is no prejudice to the
client and it does not disrupt the orderly process of justice. (See
Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21
Cal.App.4th 904, 915; People v. Prince
(1968) 268 Cal.App.2d 398.)
California
Rules of Court (“CRC”) Rule 3.1362 requires (1) a notice of motion and motion
directed to the client (made on the Notice
of Motion and Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil form (MC-051)); (2) a
declaration stating in general terms and without compromising the
confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship why a motion under Code of
Civil Procedure § 284(2) is brought instead of filing a consent under section
284(1) (made on the Declaration in
Support of Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil form
(MC-052)); (3) service of the notice of motion and motion, the declaration, and
the proposed order on the client and on all other parties who have appeared in
the case; and (4) a proposed order relieving counsel (prepared on the Order Granting Attorney's Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel—Civil form (MC-053)). The court may delay the effective
date of the order relieving counsel until proof of service of a copy of the
signed order on the client has been filed with the court.
Attorney Dariush Aldi (“Aldi”) represents that “[t]he relationship
of trust and confidence essential to the attorney-client relationship has
ceased to exist and irreconcilable differences have arisen between client and
attorney making it unreasonably difficult to carry out the employment
effectively.”
The court
determines that the requirements of Rules of Court Rule 3.1362 enumerated above have been
sufficiently met.
Accordingly, the
motion is granted, effective upon the filing of a proof
of service showing service of the signed orders upon
the Clients at the Clients’ last known address.


