 Case Number:  23STCP02250    Hearing Date:   July 3, 2024    Dept:  50 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 




CALIFORNIA AUTOMOBILE
  INSURANCE COMPANY, 
                        Petitioner,
            vs.
DANIEL REISBORD, 
                        Respondent.


Case No.:


23STCP02250




Hearing Date:


July 3, 2024




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m.




[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
 
CALIFORNIA
  AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE COMPANY’S PETITION FOR APPOINTMENT OF UMPIRE AND ORDER
  TO COMPEL APPRAISAL
 




 
Background 
On June 27, 2023, Petitioner California Automobile Insurance Company
(“Petitioner”) filed a “Petition to Assign Case Number for Purpose of
Appointing an Umpire” against Respondent Daniel Reisbord (“Respondent”). 
In the Petition, Petitioner alleges that “[g]ood cause exists for the
assignment of a case number since a motion is needed to be heard in this
matter. Petitioner will seek an order from the court appointing an umpire due
to the insured’s lack of cooperation. Petitioner’s insurance policy agreement contains
Condition 2…which requires the appointment of an umpire when both parties
disagree as to the value of a vehicle. Here, Petitioner and Respondent differ
as to the actual cash value of respondent’s vehicle. Therefore, a motion to
appoint an umpire and to compel an Appraisal is necessary.” (Petition at p.
1:19-25.) 
Petitioner previously petitioned the Court for the “Appointment of an
Umpire, pursuant to the terms of the applicable insurance policy, and “for an
Order to Compel an Appraisal.” On October 31, 2023, the Court issued a minute
order denying the motion.   
Petitioner now files another petition in which Petitioner “petitions
the Court for the Appointment of an Umpire, pursuant to the terms of the
applicable insurance policy and Petitions the Court for an Order to Compel an
Appraisal.” No opposition to the petition was filed.
Discussion 
As set forth above, Petitioner “petitions the Court for the
Appointment of an Umpire, pursuant to the terms of the applicable insurance
policy and Petitions the Court for an Order to Compel an Appraisal.” (Petition
at p. 1:21-23.) 
Petitioner’s
counsel’s declaration in support of the instant petition indicates that
Petitioner “issued its auto policy number 040104120285793 to insured Daniel
Reisbord [Respondent] for the policy period April 11, 2022 to October 11,
2022.” (Hillier Decl., ¶ 3.) Respondent made a claim that a tree fell on his
trailer on July 24, 2022. (Hillier Decl., ¶ 4.) Petitioner and Respondent are
in disagreement as to the valuation of the loss. (Hillier Decl., ¶ 5.) Petitioner’s
counsel indicates that the subject policy provides as follows: 
 
“2.
Appraisal––Coverages D, E and L: If the named insured (or his chosen repair
facility) and the company fail to agree as to the amount, cause, or extent of
the loss, each shall, on the written demand of either, select a practicing and
qualified motor vehicle repair appraiser. The appraisers shall first select an
umpire, and failing for fifteen (15) days to agree upon such umpire, then, on
request by the named insured or the company, such umpire shall be selected by a
judge of a court of record in the county and state in which such appraisal is
pending. The appraisers shall then appraise the loss at a reasonable time and
place, stating separately the actual cash value at the time of loss, or as
requested, the amount, cause, or extent of the loss, and failing to agree shall
submit their differences to the umpire. An award in writing of any two shall
determine the amount of the loss and shall be binding on all parties concerned.
The company shall not be held liable for any loss or damages unless the company
has had reasonable opportunity to inspect the damaged vehicle prior to the
commencement of repairs, and in the event of disagreement, a reasonable
opportunity to initiate appraisal proceedings. The named insured and the
company shall each pay their chosen appraiser and shall bear equally the other
expenses of the appraisal and umpire, unless the award is equal to or greater
than the last demand made by the named insured, in which case the company shall
pay all reasonable costs of appraisal but the company will not be responsible
for attorney fees. The company shall not be held to have waived any of its
rights by any act relating to appraisal.” (Hillier Decl., ¶ 5, Ex. C, p. 10.)         
Petitioner’s counsel states that on August 31, 2022, Petitioner sent
Respondent a letter with a market value offer for the 1977 Air Stream Trailer
in the amount of $31,348.09, and that Respondent declined the offer. (Hiller
Decl., ¶ 6, Ex. D.) Petitioner’s counsel further states that “[o]n April 18,
2023, [Petitioner] sent [Respondent] a letter with a settlement offer of
$37,601.68 including tax and title transfer fee, less the $50.00 deductible and
a $2000.00 deductible for the salvage value. The letter also served as a formal
demand of Part III, Condition 2 Appraisal proceedings and a choice of a
practicing and qualified motor vehicle repair appraiser so that the
appraiser…can select an umpire and proceed with the resolution of the claim. [Petitioner]
identified Universal Appraisal Company (UAC) as their appraisal firm and asked [Respondent]
to have his appraiser contact them…” (Hillier Decl., ¶ 7.) 
Petitioner’s counsel states that on April 25, 2023, UAC sent
Respondent’s appraiser Polk Associates, LLC (“Polk”) a letter advising that
Petitioner has initiated an appraisal pursuant to the terms and conditions of
Part III, Condition 02-0 Appraisal of Respondent’s automobile policy of
insurance. (Hillier Decl., ¶ 8.) Petitioner’s counsel further indicates that on
May 21, 2023, UAC sent an email to Petitioner indicating that UAC and Polk were
at an impasse in selecting and appointing the Umpire, and that Petitioner
should consider petitioning the court to have an Umpire appointed in this
matter. (Hillier Decl., ¶ 13, Ex. K.) 
Petitioner’s counsel also states that “[o]n April 19, 2024, Counsel
for [Petitioner] sent a second letter to [Respondent] following up on the names
of potential Umpires for the court’s consideration. Defense counsel for [Petitioner]
again listed the three names proposed by [Petitioner]: Alan Taylor, Dennis
Mitosinka, and Steve Bock…” (Hillier Decl., ¶ 15.) Petitioner’s counsel states
that “[o]n May 3, 2024, [Respondent] sent an email proposing the following two
umpires, Ron Bartlett and Daryl Johnson…” (Hillier Decl., ¶ 16.) 
However, the Cout notes that the only legal authority cited in the
instant petition is Code of Civil Procedure section
1281.6. (See Petition at p. 5:6.) As noted in the Court’s October
31, 2023 minute order on Petitioner’s previous petition, Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.6 provides as
follows: 
 
“If the arbitration agreement provides a method
of appointing an arbitrator, that method shall be followed. If the arbitration
agreement does not provide a method for appointing an arbitrator, the parties
to the agreement who seek arbitration and against whom arbitration is sought
may agree on a method of appointing an arbitrator and that method shall be
followed. In the absence of an agreed method, or if the agreed method fails or
for any reason cannot be followed, or when an arbitrator appointed fails to act
and his or her successor has not been appointed, the court, on petition of a
party to the arbitration agreement, shall appoint the arbitrator.
 
When a petition is made to the court to appoint a neutral
arbitrator, the court shall nominate five persons from lists of persons
supplied jointly by the parties to the arbitration or obtained from a
governmental agency concerned with arbitration or private disinterested
association concerned with arbitration. The parties to the agreement who seek
arbitration and against whom arbitration is sought may within five days of
receipt of notice of the nominees from the court jointly select the arbitrator
whether or not the arbitrator is among the nominees. If the parties fail to select an arbitrator
within the five-day period, the court shall appoint the arbitrator from the
nominees.” 
            As discussed in the Court’s October
31, 2023 minute order, Petitioner does not seek the appointment of an
arbitrator, so the Court does not see how Code of
Civil Procedure section 1281.6 is applicable here. Petitioner does not cite
any legal authority or provide any analysis demonstrating that Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.6 applies to the
instant request for the appointment of an umpire. 
Lastly, as noted in the
Court’s October 31, 2023 minute order, pursuant to California Rules of Court, rule 3.1110,
subdivision (a), “[a] notice of motion must state in the opening
paragraph the nature of the order being sought and the grounds for issuance of
the order.” (See also Code Civ. Proc., § 1010,
“[n]otices must be in writing, and the notice of a motion, other than for a new
trial, must state when, and the grounds upon which it will be made, and the
papers, if any, upon which it is to be based.”)
The Court still does not find that Petitioner
has adequately demonstrated the grounds for the issuance of the requested order
in any notice of motion.
Conclusion 
Based on the foregoing, Petitioner’s instant petition
is denied without prejudice. 
///
Petitioner is ordered to
provide notice of this ruling.
 
DATED:  July 3, 2024                                    ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court
 
 
 
 