 Case Number:  24STCV05292    Hearing Date:   July 3, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department
50
 



JACLYN VORGITCH,

 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
A.K. MADAN, individually, and as trustee of the Madan
  Family 2003 Trust dated March 26, 2003,
  et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


  24STCV05292




Hearing Date:


July 3, 2024




Hearing
  Time:    2:00 p.m. 
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
 
DEFENDANTS’
  DEMURRER TO PLAINTIFF’S COMPLAINT; 
 
DEFENDANTS’
  MOTION TO STRIKE PORTIONS OF PLAINTIFF’S COMPLAINT



            
Background
Plaintiff Jaclyn
Vorgitch (“Plaintiff”) filed this action on March 4, 2024 against Defendants
A.K. Madan, individually and as trustee of the Madan Family 2003 Trust
dated March 26, 2003, and Manju Madan, individually and as trustee of the Madan
Family 2003 Trust dated March 26, 2003 (jointly, “Defendants”). 
The Complaint alleges causes of action for (1) negligence, (2)
constructive eviction, 
(3)
breach of contract, (4) tenant harassment in violation of the Los Angeles
anti-harassment ordinance, (5) nuisance, (6) trespass, (7) violation of Civil Code section 1942.5, (8) violation of Los
Angeles Municipal Code section 152.03, (9)
intentional infliction of emotional distress, 
(10)
unlawful rent increase in violation of the Los Angeles rent stabilization
ordinance,
(11)
unfair business practices, and (12) bad faith retention of security deposit. 
            Defendants now demur to Plaintiff’s
causes of action for breach of contract and intentional infliction of emotional
distress. Defendants also move to strike portions of the Complaint. Plaintiff
opposes both.  
Demurrer
A.    Legal Standard 
A demurrer can be used
only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack
or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318.) “To survive a demurrer, the
complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action; each
evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need
not be alleged.” (C.A. v. William S. Hart
Union High School Dist. (2012) 53
Cal.4th 861, 872.) For the purpose of testing the
sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does not admit contentions, deductions or conclusions
of fact or law.” (Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.) 
A
pleading is uncertain if it is ambiguous or unintelligible. (¿¿Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f)¿¿.) A demurrer
for uncertainty may lie if the failure to label the parties and claims renders
the complaint so confusing defendant cannot tell what he or she is supposed to
respond to.¿ (Williams ¿v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp.
(1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2¿¿.) However, “¿¿[a] demurrer
for uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint is in some
respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery
procedures.¿¿” (¿Khoury ¿v. Maly’s of California, Inc.
(1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616¿¿.)¿¿
B.    Allegations of the Complaint  
In the Complaint, Plaintiff
alleges that from January 2010 to May 31, 2023, she was a residential
tenant at 4621 N. Figueroa Street, Los Angeles, California (the “Subject
Property”). (Compl., ¶ 1.) Plaintiff lived in the garden unit at 4621 1/2 N.
Figueroa Street, Los Angeles, California (the “Subject Unit”). (Compl., ¶ 3.)
Defendants owned and managed the Subject Property. (Compl., ¶¶ 4-5.)
Plaintiff alleges that throughout her tenancy, the Subject Unit was in
substantial disrepair. (Compl., ¶ 11.) “For Plaintiff’s entire tenancy, raw
sewage flooded into the common area courtyard at least three times a year.”
(Compl., ¶ 12.) “Plaintiff reported the sewage floods to Defendants, but they
delayed several days in responding. When Defendants finally sent workers to
address the overflows, they only authorized their workers to flush the sewage
lines, leaving the feces and toilet paper littering the common area for
Plaintiff and the other tenants to clean up…” (Compl., ¶ 12.) “From 2011
through 2018, the roof was old and dilapidated, causing water intrusion into
the Subject Unit every time it rained. During rains, water leaked through the
ceiling and saturated the walls of the Subject Unit. Each time the roof leaked,
Defendants made a piecemeal repair to address the leak. Defendants finally
replaced the roof in 2018. The repetitive leaking caused cracks in Plaintiff’s
ceiling. Defendants never repaired the cracks in the Subject Unit during
Plaintiff’s tenancy.” (Compl., ¶ 13.)
“For Plaintiff’s entire tenancy, the building exterior was peeling and
chipping, allowing water to enter the building walls. On February 28, 2023, the
City issued a Notice of Violation for the peeling paint.” (Compl., ¶ 14.) “Unbeknownst
to Plaintiff, there was a major water leak in the kitchen wall from an open
pipe that was also causing water to saturate the walls in the Subject Unit.”
(Compl., ¶ 16.) “On December 13, 2023, with no plan from Defendants to abate
the substantial water damage, Plaintiff felt she had no choice but to
temporarily vacate her home. Plaintiff was forced to pay thousands of dollars
to live in short-term rentals and eat meals out while she was displaced from
the Subject Unit.” (Compl., ¶ 23.) “From mid-December 2023 through May 31, 2023
[sic], Plaintiff was displaced from her home with no communication from
Defendants about when repairs would be completed or when she would be able to
reoccupy the Subject Unit.” (Compl., ¶ 27.) “As a result of the water
intrusions, water damage, and construction, Plaintiff suffered from tens of
thousands of dollars of property damage to her personal belongings.” (Compl., ¶
29.)
“In February 2023, only after being forced by the City to conduct the
required testing for hazardous materials, Defendants discovered the walls
demolished [sic] by their workers without protecting Plaintiff’s belongings
from asbestos.” (Compl., ¶ 30.) “From March 2023 through May 2023, while
Plaintiff was temporarily displaced from the Subject Unit, there was a rat and
raccoon infestation…Plaintiff told Defendants about the evidence of pests
entering the Subject Unit, but Defendants never made any attempt to close the
points of entry or otherwise eradicate the pests.” (Compl., ¶ 31.) “For
Plaintiff’s entire tenancy, there was a termite infestation at the Subject
Unit. At least once a week, Plaintiff cleaned termite eggs and dust off the
windowsills. Plaintiff complained about the termites, but Defendants never took
any steps to abate the termite infestation during Plaintiff’s tenancy.”
(Compl., ¶ 38.) 
 “For at least the last four
years of Plaintiff’s tenancy, the wood flooring beneath the bathtub was damaged
and soft from water damage. As a result of the compromised framing, the bathtub
and floor were sinking, creating a structural hazard. On February 28, 2023, the
City issued a Notice of Violation for the structural hazard, among other health
and safety hazards.” (Compl., ¶ 32.)
“For Plaintiff’s entire tenancy, her rent included a garage parking
spot. During the last six months of the tenancy, the manual garage door became
waterlogged and no longer opened. Plaintiff told Defendants, but they delayed
in fixing the garage door until two days before Plaintiff moved out. Plaintiff
did not have access to garage parking for six months.” (Compl., ¶ 33.) “For
Plaintiff’s entire thirteen-year tenancy, the windows were old and dilapidated.
The wood frames were water-damaged, stained, and splintering. There were also
gaps around the window frames where the wood framing splintered off. On
February 28, 2023, the City issued a Notice of Violation for the dilapidated
windows.” (Compl., ¶ 35.) In addition, “[f]or at least four years, the bedroom window
glass was broken and missing. On February 28, 2023, the City issued a Notice of
Violation for the missing windowpane.” (Compl., ¶ 36.) 
“For the last year of Plaintiff’s tenancy, there was no lock on the
security gate…in March 2023, while Plaintiff was temporarily displaced, her
security camera recorded a vagrant attempting to break into the Subject Unit
with a crowbar. Despite complaints from Plaintiff and other tenants, Defendants
never fixed the security gate during Plaintiff’s’ tenancy.” (Compl., ¶ 34.)
“For Plaintiff’s entire tenancy, there was no exhaust fan to vent the kitchen,
exacerbating the already wet condition inside the Subject Unit. Plaintiff
complained to Defendants, but they never installed sufficient ventilation in
the kitchen during Plaintiff’s tenancy.” (Compl., ¶ 39.) “For the last three
years of Plaintiff’s tenancy, there was a large, diseased oak tree hanging over
the roof, creating a safety hazard for Plaintiff. Plaintiff asked Defendants to
cut the branches over the roof, but Defendants never did…For Plaintiff’s entire
tenancy, there were no smoke and carbon monoxide detectors in the Subject Unit.
On February 28, 2023, the City issued a Notice of Violation for the missing
smoke and carbon monoxide detectors, but they were not installed during
Plaintiff’s tenancy.” (Compl., ¶¶ 40-41.) 
Plaintiff further alleges that “[f]or her entire tenancy, Plaintiff
was forced to endure harassment every time she complained about the serious
health and safety hazards at the Subject Unit. Defendants belittled Plaintiff
by dismissing her complaints and retaliated against her by demanding she vacate
without just cause.” (Compl., ¶ 43.) “Plaintiff notified Defendant that she
felt she had no choice but to move and would be permanently vacating by the end
of May 2023.” (Compl., ¶ 45.) “In January 2010, Plaintiff paid a security
deposit of $1,500 for the Subject Unit…On May 31, 2023, Plaintiff vacated the
Subject Unit, leaving it in good condition with only normal wear and tear of a
thirteen-year tenancy…Landlord Defendants improperly withheld Plaintiff’s full
security deposit without providing the proper documentation itemizing
deductions.” (Compl., ¶¶ 48-50.)
C.    Third Cause of Action for Breach of Contract 
In the third cause of action for breach of contract, Plaintiff alleges
that “[i]mplied in Plaintiff’s residential lease agreement is an implied
warranty of habitability and an implied covenant of quiet enjoyment, wherein
Landlord Defendants promised to inspect and maintain the Subject Property in a
clean, safe, and habitable condition and to provide Plaintiff quiet enjoyment
of the Subject Property.” (Compl., ¶ 70.) Plaintiff alleges that “Landlord
Defendants breached the implied warranty of habitability and the implied
covenant of quiet enjoyment by failing to inspect and maintain the Subject
Property and Subject Unit in a clean, safe, and habitable condition, failing to
abate habitability defects, nuisances, and trespasses, decreasing housing
services without corresponding rent reduction, harassing and retaliating
against Plaintiff, demanding that Plaintiff vacate without just cause, and
interfering with Plaintiff’s quiet enjoyment, thereby forcing Plaintiff to
vacate without just cause.” (Compl., ¶ 72.) 
In the demurrer, Defendants assert that “Plaintiff has failed to
attach a lease agreement or to properly plead the terms of a contract verbatim
or through its legal effect to give rise to a breach of contract claim.”
(Demurrer at p. 6:25-27.) Defendants cite to McKell v. Washington Mutual,
Inc. (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 1457, 1489, where the Court of Appeal noted that “[a] cause of action for breach of contract requires
pleading of a contract, plaintiff’s performance or excuse for failure to
perform, defendant’s breach and damage to plaintiff resulting therefrom. A
written contract may be pleaded either by its terms—set out verbatim in the
complaint or a copy of the contract attached to the complaint and incorporated
therein by reference—or by its legal effect. In order to plead a contract by
its legal effect, plaintiff must allege the substance of its relevant terms.
This is more difficult, for it requires a careful analysis of the instrument,
comprehensiveness in statement, and avoidance of legal conclusions.”
(Internal quotations and citations omitted.) 
In the opposition, Plaintiff asserts that “the legal effect of the
lease was pled…” (Opp’n at p. 8:3.) Plaintiff notes that the Complaint alleges
that “[f]rom January 2010 to May 31, 2023, Plaintiff…was a residential tenant
at 4621 N. Figueroa Street, Los Angeles, California.” (Compl., ¶ 1.) Plaintiff
points to paragraph 3 of the Complaint, which alleges that “Plaintiff lived in
the garden unit at 4621 1/2 N. Figueroa Street, Los Angeles, California (the
‘Subject Unit’)…Plaintiff’s rent also included two off-street parking spots, a
private front yard, and a shared backyard. Plaintiff rented the Subject Unit
pursuant to a written rental agreement with an attorney fee provision.”
(Compl., ¶ 3.) Plaintiff also points to paragraph 70 of the Complaint, which alleges,
as set forth above, that “[i]mplied in Plaintiff’s residential lease agreement
is an implied warranty of habitability and an implied covenant of quiet
enjoyment, wherein Landlord Defendants promised to inspect and maintain the
Subject Property in a clean, safe, and habitable condition and to provide
Plaintiff quiet enjoyment of the Subject Property.” (Compl., ¶ 70.)
But as noted above, “[i]n order to plead a
contract by its legal effect, plaintiff must allege the substance of its
relevant terms. This is more difficult, for it requires a careful analysis of
the instrument, comprehensiveness in statement, and avoidance of legal
conclusions.” (Ibid. [internal quotations omitted].) Here, Plaintiff alleges that she
“rented the Subject Unit pursuant to a written rental agreement
with an attorney fee provision.” (Compl., ¶ 3.) However, Plaintiff does not
appear to point to any allegations discussing the substance of the relevant
terms of the rental agreement. 
In light of the foregoing, the Court sustains Defendants’ demurrer to
the third cause of action of the Complaint, with leave to amend. 
D.    Ninth Cause of
Action for Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress 
“A cause of action for intentional
infliction of emotional distress exists when there is (1) extreme and
outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless
disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff’s
suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate
causation of the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous conduct. A
defendant’s conduct is outrageous when it is so extreme as to exceed all bounds
of that usually tolerated in a civilized community. And the defendant’s conduct
must be intended to inflict injury or engaged in with the realization that
injury will result.” (Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035, 1050-1051 [internal
quotations and citations omitted].) 
In the
demurrer, Defendants contend that the allegations of the Complaint “amount
to disputes over the tenancy, but do not meet the standard of conduct so
extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized
society.” (Demurrer at p. 7:26-27.) The Court disagrees. As discussed in
further detail above, Complaint alleges that there were a number of
habitability defects at the Subject Unit, including, inter alia, “raw
sewage floods,” improper weatherproofing causing excessive moisture and water
damage, “friable” asbestos, pest infestation, structural hazards, dilapidated
garage door and security gate, dilapidated windows, termite infestation,
insufficient ventilation, and fire and safety hazards. (See Compl., ¶¶
11-42.) Plaintiff alleges that “[t]hroughout Plaintiff’s tenancy, the Subject
Unit was in substantial disrepair. Plaintiff complained about these defects,
and/or Defendants knew or should have known about these defects but failed to
address Plaintiff’s complaints or failed to adequately remedy the defects.”
(Compl., ¶ 11.) The Court finds that Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged “extreme and outrageous conduct” for purposes of her
intentional infliction of emotional distress cause of action. 
Defendants also cite to Girard v. Ball (1981) 125 Cal.App.3d
772, 787-788, where the
Court of Appeal found that “[i]n order for appellant to recover
for intentional infliction of emotional distress, he must have suffered severe
or extreme emotional distress. The trial court properly considered whether any
triable issue of fact existed in this and other regards. The evidence presented
by appellant does not arise to any triable issue. As was stated in Fletcher v. Western National Life Ins. Co. (1970), supra, 10 Cal.App.3d 376, at page 397 ‘. . . ‘severe’
means substantial or enduring as distinguished from trivial or transitory.
Severe emotional distress means, then, emotional distress of such substantial
quantity or enduring quality that no reasonable man in a civilized society
should be expected to endure it.’” The Girard Court noted that “[a]ppellant responded in answers to interrogatories that he
suffered as follows: ‘couldn’t sleep -- anxiety symptoms -- nervous.’ He sought
no medical treatment for his condition. In his opposition declaration, filed
some four months later, after the motion for summary judgment had been made,
appellant then claimed more extensive symptoms. In view of the great weight to
be given appellant’s earlier answers to interrogatories, as discussed
at the outset of this opinion, it cannot be said that his later
declaration raises triable issues. It is not believable. The suggestion that
appellant, an attorney, banker, builder, investor and businessman, suffered
extreme emotional distress from respondent’s two letters and some phone calls
requesting payment is absurd and does not present a triable issue of fact.” (Id. at p. 788.) 
Defendants contend that “[s]imilarly,
here, Plaintiff’s Complaint fails to allege sufficient facts to support an
inference that Plaintiff suffered distress of the ‘substantial quality or
enduring quality’ required for an IIED cause of action.” (Demurrer at p.
8:10-12.) But the Court finds that the
facts of Girard are distinguishable from the facts alleged in the
Complaint here. In addition, Plaintiff alleges that she “suffered
severe emotional distress, including mental anguish, loss of enjoyment of life,
annoyance, sleeplessness, anxiety, worry, fear, discomfort, embarrassment, and
humiliation.” (Compl., ¶ 118.) 
Lastly, Defendants assert that “Plaintiff has
not specifically pled any facts to suggest that Defendants engaged in conduct
with the intention of causing them emotional distress or with conscious
disregard.” (Demurrer at p. 8:16-18.) But Plaintiff alleges that “Defendants
intended to cause Plaintiff emotional distress or acted with reckless disregard
of the probability that Plaintiff would suffer emotional distress.” (Compl., ¶
117.) 
In light of the foregoing, the Court overrules
Defendants’ demurrer to the ninth cause of action of the Complaint.  
            Motion
to Strike
A court may
strike any “¿irrelevant, false, or improper
matter¿inserted in any pleading¿” or any part of
a pleading “¿not drawn or filed in conformity with the
laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.¿” (¿¿Code
Civ. Proc., § 436¿¿.) “¿The grounds for
a motion to strike shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading or from
any matter of which the court is required to take judicial notice.¿” (¿Code Civ. Proc., § 437¿.)¿¿ 
A.    Punitive Damages 
Runway moves to strike Plaintiff’s punitive damages
allegations. Plaintiff seeks punitive damages in connection with the fourth,
fifth, seventh, and ninth causes of action. (Compl., ¶¶ 81, 91, 102, 120.) 
Pursuant to Civil Code section
3294, subdivision (a), “[i]n an action for the breach of an obligation not arising
from contract, where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that the
defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff, in
addition to the actual damages, may recover damages for the sake of example and
by way of punishing the defendant.” As used in Civil
Code section 3294, “‘Malice’ means conduct which is intended by the
defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is
carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others.” (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1).) “‘Oppression’
means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd.
(c)(2).) “‘Fraud’ means an
intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known
to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby
depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.” (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd.
(c)(3).)  
Defendants assert that here, “Plaintiff’s
Complaint does not contain sufficient facts beyond mere conclusory allegations
to state a cause of action for punitive damages under the…standard in Civil Code, Section 3294.” (Mot. at p. 7:6-8.) 
In the opposition,
Plaintiff asserts that the Complaint alleges sufficient facts to support a
claim for punitive damages.[1] As
discussed in further detail above, the Complaint alleges that there were a
number of habitability defects at the Subject Unit, including, inter alia,
raw sewage floods, improper weatherproofing causing excessive moisture and
water damage, “friable” asbestos, pest infestation, structural hazards,
dilapidated garage door and security gate, dilapidated windows, termite
infestation, insufficient ventilation, and fire and safety hazards. (See
Compl., ¶¶ 11-42.) Plaintiff alleges that “[t]hroughout Plaintiff’s tenancy,
the Subject Unit was in substantial disrepair. Plaintiff complained about these
defects, and/or Defendants knew or should have known about these defects but
failed to address Plaintiff’s complaints or failed to adequately remedy the
defects.” (Compl., ¶ 11.) The Court finds that Plaintiff has adequately alleged
“malice” and “oppression” for purposes of her request for punitive damages. Accordingly,
the Court denies Defendants’ motion to strike Plaintiff’s punitive damages allegations.

B.    Request for Expert Witness Fees 
In the
Complaint’s prayer for relief, Plaintiff alleges that she seeks, inter alia,
“expert witness fees.” (Compl., p. 23, ¶ 9.) Defendants contend that “it
is improper and premature to pray for ‘expert witness fees,’ as pled in
Plaintiff’s Complaint.” (Mot. at p. 8:11-12.) Defendants cite to Code of Civil Procedure section 1033.5, which
provides in part that “[t]he following items are
allowable as costs under Section 1032:…(8) Fees of expert
witnesses ordered by the court.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1033.5, subd. (a)(8).)  
In addition, in her
declaration in support of the motion, Defendants’ counsel states that “[o]n
April 23, 2024, Ms. Murphy and I met and conferred telephonically to discuss
Defendants’ arguments in advance of the instant Motion to Strike and
concurrently filed Demurrer. We failed to reach an agreement as to the punitive
damages but agreed to strike any reference to expert witness fees from the
Complaint.” (Buzo Decl., ¶ 9.) In the opposition, Plaintiff
states that she “agrees to strike the prayer for expert witness fees, as
this remedy is premature at this time.” (Opp’n at p. 2:22-23.) 
Based on the foregoing,
the Court grants Defendants’ motion to strike Plaintiff’s request for “expert witness fees.”
(Compl., p. 23, ¶ 9.)
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, Defendants’ demurrer to the third
cause of action of the Complaint is sustained, with leave to amend. Defendants’
demurrer to the ninth cause of action is overruled. 
The Court denies Defendants’ motion to strike
Plaintiff’s punitive damages allegations. The Court grants Defendants’ motion
to strike Plaintiff’s request for “expert
witness fees,” without leave to amend. (Compl., p. 23, ¶ 9.) As discussed,
Plaintiff states that she “agrees to strike the prayer
for expert witness fees, as this remedy is premature at this time.” (Opp’n at
p. 2:22-23.)
Plaintiff is
ordered to file and serve an amended complaint, if any, within 20 days of the
date of this order. If no amended complaint is filed within 20 days, the Court
orders Defendants to file and serve their answer(s) to the Complaint within 30
days of the date of this order.
Defendants are ordered to give notice of this order. 
 
DATED:  July 3, 2024                                    ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court


