  Case Number:  18STCV06807    Hearing Date:   July 3, 2024    Dept:  50  
Superior Court of
California
County of Los
Angeles
Department 50



brian weiner, et al.,
 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
onyx tower group, llc, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


18STCV06807 




Hearing Date:


July 3, 2024




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m.




[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
 
MOTION TO COMPEL
  ONYX TOWER GROUP, LLC FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS AND FURTHER RESPONSES, AND
  SUPPLEMENTAL REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS IN THE AMOUNT OF $55,260 AGAINST
  DEFENDANTS ONYX TOWER, LLC, ONYX TOWER GROUP, LLC, ONYX TOWER HOLDINGS, LLC,
  AND ONYX TOWER MANAGEMENT, LLC AND THEIR COUNSEL OF RECORD LAW OFFICES OF
  DENNIS P. WILSON, AND DENNIS P. WILSON; 
 
MOTION TO COMPEL
  ONYX TOWER HOLDINGS, LLC FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS AND FURTHER RESPONSES,
  AND SUPPLEMENTAL REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS IN THE AMOUNT OF $55,260 AGAINST
  DEFENDANTS ONYX TOWER, LLC, ONYX TOWER GROUP, LLC, ONYX TOWER HOLDINGS, LLC,
  AND ONYX TOWER MANAGEMENT, LLC AND THEIR COUNSEL OF RECORD LAW OFFICES OF
  DENNIS P. WILSON, AND DENNIS P. WILSON; 
 
MOTION TO COMPEL
  ONYX TOWER MANAGEMENT, LLC FOR FPRODUCTION [sic] OF DOCUMENTS AND FURTHER
  RESPONSES, AND SUPPLEMENTAL REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS IN THE AMOUNT OF $55,260
  AGAINST DEFENDANTS ONYX TOWER, LLC, ONYX TOWER GROUP, LLC, ONYX TOWER
  HOLDINGS, LLC, AND ONYX TOWER MANAGEMENT, LLC AND THEIR COUNSEL OF RECORD LAW
  OFFICES OF DENNIS P. WILSON, AND DENNIS P. WILSON; 
 
MOTION TO COMPEL
  ONYX TOWER, LLC FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS AND FURTHER RESPONSES, AND
  SUPPLEMENTAL REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS IN THE AMOUNT OF $55,260 AGAINST
  DEFENDANTS ONYX TOWER, LLC, ONYX TOWER GROUP, LLC, ONYX TOWER HOLDINGS, LLC,
  AND ONYX TOWER MANAGEMENT, LLC AND THEIR COUNSEL OF RECORD LAW OFFICES OF
  DENNIS P. WILSON, AND DENNIS P. WILSON




AND RELATED CROSS-ACTIONS


 



Background
Plaintiff Brian Weiner, individually
and derivatively on behalf of Onyx Tower Management, LLC (“Plaintiff”) filed
this action on November 30, 2018, against a number of defendants. The operative
Third Amended Complaint was filed on October 22, 2020, asserting causes of
action for breach of contract, breach of the covenant of good faith and fair
dealing, constructive trust, accounting, declaratory relief, constructive
fraud, fraud, and appointment of receiver. 
On March 6, 2020, defendant
Michael Hakim filed a Cross-Complaint against a number of cross-defendants,
including Onyx Tower Management, LLC. On April 12, 2023, Michael Hakim filed a
“Cross-Complaint to the Third Amended Complaint.” In addition, on January 19,
2021, a number of defendants filed a Cross-Complaint against Plaintiff.   
Plaintiff now moves for
an order compelling the production of documents within Onyx Tower Group, LLC’s,
Onyx Tower Holdings, LLC’s, Onyx Tower Management, LLC’s, and Onyx Tower, LLC’s
possession, custody, and control; and for further responses. Plaintiff also
seeks sanctions in connection with each of the motions. Onyx Tower Holdings
opposes each of the motions.[1] 
Evidentiary Objections 
The Court rules on Plaintiff’s evidentiary objections as
follows:[2] 
Objection No. 1, p. 1: sustained as to “[t]he
Documents that were identified,” overruled as to the remainder. 
Objection No. 2, p. 2:
overruled
Objection No. 3, p. 2: overruled
(perjury is not a proper evidentiary objection)
Objection No. 2, pp. 2-3:
sustained
Objection No. 3, p. 3: sustained
Objection No. 4: sustained
Objection No. 5: sustained
Objection No. 6:
sustained
Objection No. 7:
sustained as to “provided testimony to the best of his recollection,” overruled
as to the remainder. 
Objection No. 8: sustained
Objection No. 9: sustained
Objection No. 10: sustained
Objection No. 11: sustained
Objection No. 12:
overruled
Objection No. 13:
overruled
Objection No. 14:
overruled
Legal Standard 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310, subdivision (a) provides that
“[o]n receipt of a response to a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or
sampling, the demanding party may move for an order compelling further response
to the demand if the demanding party deems that any of the following apply:
(1)¿A statement of compliance with the demand is incomplete. (2)¿A
representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive.
(3)¿An objection in the response is without merit or too general.” A motion to
compel further responses to a demand for inspection must set forth specific
facts showing good cause for the discovery sought and must be accompanied by a
meet and confer declaration. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.310, subd. (b).)¿ 
Discussion
The Court refers to Onyx
Tower Group, LLC, Onyx Tower Holdings, LLC, Onyx Tower Management, LLC, and
Onyx Tower, LLC collectively herein as the “Onyx Entities.” 
In his declaration in
support of the instant motions, Plaintiff’s counsel states that “on April 28,
2023, Plaintiff properly served requests for production of documents upon the
Onyx Defendants seeking documents related to the Subject Property. Attached to
the Appendix of Exhibits as Exhibit ‘1’ are true and correct copies of
Plaintiffs’ first set of requests for production of documents upon the Onyx
Entities.” (Saltz Decls., ¶ 8, Exs. 1.) Plaintiff’s counsel states that “[o]n
May 28, 2023, Defendants served objections to Plaintiffs’ document requests
only on the basis that written discovery is cut off pursuant to the Minute
Orders dated February 17, 2022 and October 4, 2022.” (Saltz Decls., ¶ 10, Exs.
3.) Thereafter, the parties met and conferred regarding this matter. (Saltz
Decls., ¶¶ 11, 13.) 
Plaintiff notes that on
September 27, 2023, an Informal Discovery Conference (“IDC”) was held in this
action. The Court’s September 27, 2023 minute order provides, inter alia,
“[t]he Informal Discovery Conference is held. According to the agreement by
Counsel Dennis P. Wilson, Responses will be provided by October 30, 2023.”
(September 27, 2023 Minute Order at p. 8.) Plaintiff’s
counsel asserts that the Onyx Entities’ “production…was served two days late on
November 1, 2023, and responses were served three days late on November 2,
2023, in violation of the Court’s September 27, 2023 Minute Order…” (Saltz
Decls., ¶ 20.) Plaintiff’s counsel states that “[a]ttached to the Appendix of
Exhibits as Exhibit ‘5’ are true and correct copies of Defendants’ responses to
Plaintiff’s first set of requests for production of documents upon the Onyx
Entities.” (Saltz Decls., ¶ 20, Exs. 5.) 
Plaintiff’s counsel
asserts that “[s]ubstantively, the Onyx Defendants’ responses were not
compliant with the Code of Civil Procedure…By way of example, and not
limitation, the Onyx Defendants provided the same response to each of the 23
requests in the 4 sets of document requests making it impossible for Plaintiff
to know whether the Onyx Defendants are complying in whole or in part with any
of the requests contained across the 4 sets, or whether the Onyx Defendants
even conducted a diligent search and a reasonable inquiry to comply…” (Saltz
Decls., ¶ 21.) Plaintiff’s counsel contends that “[t]his singular response
referencing the Onyx Defendants’ data dump of over four thousand pages of
documents also renders it impossible to determine which documents are
responsive to which request.” (Saltz Decls., ¶ 22.)
Plaintiff’s counsel notes
that on November 3, 2023, another IDC was held. The Court’s November 3, 2023
minute order provides, inter alia, “[t]he Court suggests for the parties
to meet and confer in order to be in compliance with prior court order(s)
before the next hearing. After the meet and confer, the parties are to file a
response statement 2-court days prior to the next hearing. On the Court’s own
motion, the Informal Discovery Conference (IDC) scheduled for 11/03/2023 is
continued to 12/01/2023…” Plaintiff’s counsel states that “on November 10,
2023, Plaintiff’s Counsel sent a detailed letter asking the Onyx Defendants to
supplement their responses, correct their production of documents, and to
schedule a meet and confer by November 14, 2023.” (Saltz Decls., ¶ 28, Exs. 7.)
Plaintiff’s counsel asserts that “[o]n November 27, 2023, Mr. Wilson sent
Plaintiff’s Counsel a letter attempting to add untimely, improper, and
previously waived objections to the Onyx Defendants’ responses…In said letter,
the Onyx Defendants stood by their position of refusing to modify responses in
any way, and thereby making any further attempt to meet and confer futile.”
(Saltz Decls., ¶ 30, Exs. 8.) 
On December 1, 2023,
another IDC was held. The Court’s December 1, 2023 minute order provides, inter
alia, that “[i]n open court, the Informal Discovery Conference is held. The
Court finds that further Informal Discovery Conferences will be unproductive.
The Court permits plaintiff to file their Motions to Compel.” 
In the motions, Plaintiff
sates that “Plaintiff moves to compel further responses from [the Onyx
Entities] to Plaintiff’s Request for Production of Documents, Set One and a
full and complete production of documents because: (i) [the Onyx Entities’]
purported statement of compliance with the demand is incomplete, (ii) [the Onyx
Entities’] purported representation of its inability to comply because
Plaintiff is allegedly in possession of most documents is inadequate,
incomplete, and evasive, and (iii) [the Onyx Entities’] attempt to preserve
objections in its responses are without merit.” (Mots. at p. 7:10-17.) 
            As
set forth above, the Onyx Entities served further responses to Plaintiff’s
Request for Production of Documents, Set One, on November 2, 2023. (Saltz
Decls., ¶ 20, Exs. 5.) It appears that the Onyx Entities’ further responses to
each of Plaintiff’s 23 requests for production all provide as follows: 
 
“Subject to and
without waiving Preliminary Statement above, Defendant assumes that the request
seeks the production of documents related to this litigation, and - to the
extent that any exist - will produce all non-privileged documents in
Defendant’s possession custody and control responsive to this request that
Defendant does not believe Plaintiffs already have in their possession, custody
and control. Indeed, Plaintiffs have the vast majority of said documents
currently in its possession, custody and control as they have the contracts,
emails, invoices and cancelled checks in their own possession, custody and
control, either through their own means or the accompanying document production
bates stamped WTG00000l through WTG004371.” (Saltz Decls., ¶ 20, Exs. 5.)
Plaintiff
argues that “[t]his singular, impermissibly confusing response by each of the
Onyx Defendants does not comport with any of the prescribed responses according
to the Discovery Act.” (Mots. at p. 8:5-8.) Indeed, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.210, subdivision
(a), “[t]he party to whom a demand for
inspection, copying, testing, or sampling has been directed shall respond
separately to each item or category of item by any of the following: (1) A statement that the party will comply
with the particular demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling by the
date set for the inspection, copying, testing, or sampling pursuant to
paragraph (2) of subdivision (c) of Section 2031.030
and any related activities. (2) A
representation that the party lacks the ability to comply with the demand for
inspection, copying, testing, or sampling of a particular item or category of
item. (3) An objection to the
particular demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling.”  
In the oppositions, Onyx Tower Holdings asserts that “Defendants obviously cannot
do so, but attempted to provide ‘ALL DOCUMENTS’ and ‘ALL COMMUNICATIONS’ in
response to each request in the best attempt to comply. Defendant not only
provided said documents in the order that they were kept, but specifically bates
stamped each and every document page for ease of reference.” (Opp’ns at p. 6:10-14, emphasis
omitted.) 
However, the Court does
not find that the Onyx Entities’ further responses clearly indicate whether
they “will comply with the particular demand for
inspection,” or whether they “lack[] the ability to comply with the demand for
inspection…” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.210, subds. (a)(1)-(2).) Rather, as set forth above, the Onyx
Entities’ further responses to the subject requests each appear to provide, inter
alia, that “…Defendant assumes that the request seeks the
production of documents related to this litigation, and - to the extent that
any exist - will produce all non-privileged documents in Defendant’s possession
custody and control responsive to this request that Defendant does not
believe Plaintiffs already have in their possession, custody and control.”
(Saltz Decls., ¶ 20, Exs. 5, emphasis added.) Onyx Tower Holdings does not
appear to cite legal authority demonstrating that such a response is adequate. Thus,
the Court finds that the “statement of compliance with
the demand is incomplete,” and that the purported “representation
of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.310, subd. (a).) 
            Plaintiff
also cites to Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.280,
subdivision (a), which provides that “[a]ny
documents or category of documents produced in response to a demand for
inspection, copying, testing, or sampling shall be identified with the specific
request number to which the documents respond.” As set forth above, the Onyx Entities’ further responses to the
subject requests each appear to reference “the accompanying
document production bates stamped WTG00000l through WTG004371.” (Saltz Decls.,
¶ 20, Exs. 5.) Plaintiff asserts that “Defendants’
singular response referencing the same document bates range - WTG000001 through
WTG004371 – cannot possibly refer or apply to each Onyx entity, contain
responsive documents to each request, or consist of the entire universe of
documents within Defendant’s possession, custody, or control.” (Mots. at p.
8:14-19.) Onyx Tower Holdings does not
appear to specifically address this point.
            Plaintiff’s counsel also asserts
that “Tanya Hakim…[testified] that there are at least 10,000 pages of
documents in their possession, custody, or control relating to the Subject
Property…Thus, significantly more documents exist than what the Onyx Defendants
produced…” (Saltz Decls., ¶ 26, Exs. 2.) Onyx Tower Holdings also does not
appear to respond to this assertion. 
Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiff has
demonstrated good cause for the Court to compel the Onyx Entities to provide
further responses to Plaintiff’s Request for Production of Documents, Set One
to the Onyx Entities. 
            Request
for Sanctions 
Plaintiff also asserts
that “terminating, issue, and/or monetary sanctions are appropriate against
Defendant and its counsel.” (Mots. at p. 12:15-19.) As an initial matter Plaintiff states that it “incorporates by
reference Plaintiff’s Motion for Sanctions previously filed against
Defendants…on September 21, 2023, and hereby supplements that request as a
request for sanctions may properly be included in a motion to compel
discovery.” (Mots. at p. 12:16-22.) The
Court
finds that Plaintiff’s attempt to incorporate by reference another motion is improper as it violates
page limit rules. Pursuant to ¿Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1113, subd¿. (d) “¿[e]xcept in a
summary judgment or summary adjudication motion, no opening or responding
memorandum may exceed 15 pages.¿” Plaintiff’s
instant motions are each 15 pages. Consequently, the Court declines to consider
any arguments made outside of the moving papers filed by Plaintiff in
connection with the instant motions.
            “Misuses of the
discovery process include, but are not limited to, the following:…(g) Disobeying a court order to provide discovery.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010, subd. (g).)
There are a broad range of sanctions
available against anyone engaging in conduct that is a misuse of the discovery
process. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030.) 
“The
court may impose a terminating sanction by one of the following orders: (1)¿An order striking
out the pleadings or parts of the pleadings of any party engaging in the misuse
of the discovery process. (2)¿An order staying further proceedings by that party until
an order for discovery is obeyed. (3)¿An order dismissing the action, or any part of the action,
of that party. (4)¿An order rendering a judgment by default against that
party.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2023.030, subd. (d).) In addition, “[t]he
court may impose an issue sanction ordering that designated facts shall be
taken as established in the action in accordance with the claim of the party
adversely affected by the misuse of the discovery process. The court may also
impose an issue sanction by an order prohibiting any party engaging in the
misuse of the discovery process from supporting or opposing designated claims
or defenses.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2023.030, subd. (b).)  
            In the motions, Plaintiff asserts
that “terminating sanctions are warranted given Defendant’s and its
Counsel’s intentional, repeated, and willful refusal to produce responsive
documents or code compliant responses over the course of more than six months
in violation of this Court’s numerous orders.” (Mots. at pp. 14:25-15:2.) More
specifically, Plaintiff asserts that 
“Defendant
and its Counsel still violated this Court’s September 27, 2023 and November 3,
2023 orders by producing documents and responses late and in…non-compliance
with the Discovery Act…” (Mots. at p. 14:14-19.) As an initial matter, the Court
notes that the November 3, 2023 minute order does not indicate that the Onyx
Entities were ordered to produce documents. As set forth above, the November 3,
2023 minute order provides, inter alia, that “[t]he Court suggests for
the parties to meet and confer in order to be in compliance with prior court
order(s) before the next hearing. After the meet and confer, the parties are to
file a response statement 2-court days prior to the next hearing.” 
            In
addition, Plaintiff’s argument that “Defendant and its Counsel…violated this
Court’s September 27, 2023…order[] by producing documents and responses late”
(Mots. at p. 14:14-19) acknowledges that responses and documents were produced.
Thus, the Court does not find that Plaintiff has demonstrated that terminating or
issue sanctions are warranted at this time. 
The Court notes that in Lopez v.
Watchtower Bible & Tract Society of New York, Inc. (2016)
246 Cal.App.4th 566, 604, cited by Plaintiff,
the Court of Appeal noted that “the courts
have long recognized that the terminating sanction is a drastic penalty and
should be used sparingly. A trial court must be cautious
when imposing a terminating sanction because the sanction eliminates a party’s
fundamental right to a trial, thus implicating due process rights.” (Internal
citation omitted.) “The discovery statutes…evince an incremental
approach to discovery sanctions, starting with
monetary sanctions and ending with the
ultimate sanction of termination. Although in extreme cases a court has
the authority to order a terminating sanction as a first measure, a terminating
sanction should generally not be imposed until the court has attempted less
severe alternatives and found them to be unsuccessful and/or the record clearly
shows lesser sanctions would be ineffective.” (Id.
at pp. 604-605 [internal
quotations, citations, and emphasis omitted.].)
            Plaintiff
also seeks monetary sanctions against the Onyx Entitles and their counsel. 
Plaintiff
cites to Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310, subdivision (h), which provides that “[e]xcept as provided in subdivision (j), the court shall
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or
attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further
response to a demand, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction
acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust.” 
The
Court finds that Onyx Tower Holdings acted with substantial justification in
presenting its position in the oppositions, and thus declines to award monetary
sanctions against it. In addition, the Court denies Onyx Tower Holdings’s
request for sanctions against Plaintiff.
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s
motions for orders compelling the production of documents and further
responses to Plaintiff’s Requests for
Production of Documents, Set One to the Onyx Entities is granted. 
The
Court orders the Onyx Entities to provide further verified responses and to produce documents
responsive to Plaintiff’s
Request for Production of Documents, Set One, within 30 days
of the date of this Order.¿¿¿¿  
Plaintiff’s motions for terminating,
issue, and/or monetary sanctions is denied. Onyx Tower Holdings’s requests for monetary sanctions is also denied. 
Plaintiff is ordered to provide
notice of this Order. 
 
DATED:  July 3, 2024            
                        ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A. Beaudet
Judge, Los Angeles Superior Court


