 Case Number:  20STCV43795    Hearing Date:   April 11, 2024    Dept:  S27  
1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiffs, Antonio Calderon, Ana
Canchola, and Frank G. Martinez filed this action against Defendant, SCE for
damages arising out of an electrical explosion and fire in an underground
high-voltage vault.  
 
2.     Motion
to Compel Responses to RPDs, Set Eight
Plaintiffs propounded RPDs, set
eight on Defendant on 1/30/24.  Responses
were due on 3/04/24.  On 3/08/24,
Plaintiffs emailed Defense Counsel to ask for responses, without objections, by
3/12/24.  On 3/12/24, Defense Counsel
emailed back apologizing for the oversight and promising responses, without
objection, as quickly as possible, but noting that compliance with the 3/12/24
deadline was not possible.  The same day,
Plaintiffs filed this motion.  
On 3/28/24, Defendant served
verified responses, without objections. 
Plaintiffs, in their reply papers, contend the responses are
deficient.  Plaintiff did not, however,
attach the responses for review, so the Court cannot make any orders concerning
the sufficiency of the responses.  The
motion appears to be substantively moot. 
If the responses are deficient, the parties must meet and confer in good
faith before Plaintiff files an additional discovery motion.  
 
The Court will discuss the issue of
the requested sanctions below.    
 
3.     Motion
to Compel PMQ Depositions
Plaintiffs propounded a PMQ
deposition notice on 9/07/23, and then propounded amended notices in November
of 2023 and again on 1/30/24.  The
1/30/24 notice sought the deposition date for 2/21/24.  Thereafter, the parties met and conferred,
with Defendant providing PMQ dates for some of the categories of
deposition.  On 3/11/24, Plaintiffs
emailed and asked for dates for the remaining categories, which included topics
2, 4, 5, 6, 10, 16, 17, 20, 21, 22, 24, and 25. 
The following day, Plaintiffs filed this motion.
 
In opposition to the motion,
Defendant contends it has been working diligently to ascertain the PMQs for the
25 categories in the notice, and indicates it agrees to produce all PMQs and
indicates numerous depositions have gone forward since Plaintiffs filed the
motion and it is working to schedule dates for any remaining depositions.
 
Plaintiffs, in reply, contend some
of the PMQs Defendant has produced have not been knowledgeable about the issues
they were identified to address, and at least one other deposition has been
canceled by Defendant due to a family obligation.  Plaintiffs’ attorney filed a declaration with
the reply papers wherein he created a chart that lists the PMQ identified by
Defendant for each category and the date the deposition is scheduled to go
forward.  Notably, Defendant has
identified the PMQ for most of the categories, but no dates have been set as to
five deponents; additionally, Defendant has not identified the PMQ for three of
the categories.  
 
Plaintiffs, in reply, make much of
Defendant’s “conflicting statements” concerning whether the case is simple or
complicated.  The statements appear to be
compatible; Defendant can believe the case, overall, is simple, but also
believe that the logistics of producing PMQs for myriad categories on behalf of
a very large entity is complicated.  
 
The case is scheduled for trial on
9/23/24, and Defendant has a pending summary judgment motion on calendar on
8/22/24.  Within reason, time is of the
essence in scheduling the depositions. 
Defense Counsel must provide at least three dates and times for the
deposition of each remaining PMQ within the next week.  The dates and times must be within the next
six weeks.  
 
4.     Sanctions
a.     Issue/Evidentiary
Sanctions
Plaintiffs seek imposition of issue
and/or evidentiary sanctions in connection with each motion.  Plaintiffs contend there have been prior
discovery motions in this case on which they have prevailed, such that
sanctions over and above monetary sanctions are warranted.  
 
It is only in the most egregious of
situations that the Court will consider issue and/or evidentiary sanctions
based sheerly on the volume of discovery motions between the parties.  The Court will typically impose such
sanctions based on a violation of a prior court order concerning the SAME
discovery at issue.  In this case, we
have a failure to timely respond to RPDs that was cured within a couple of
weeks, and we have an ongoing scheduling issue with depositions.  Neither of these failures is the type of
egregious failure that would support imposition of sanctions over and above
monetary sanctions.  
 
By way of example, CCP
§§2023.010(g), 2031.300(c), and 2025.450(h) all permit imposition of sanctions
over and above monetary sanctions when a party fails to obey an order
compelling responses to discovery or compelling a deposition; by contract,
§2031.300(c) and 2025.450(g) contemplate only monetary sanctions in connection
with the first motion to compel.  
 
The Court will not impose issue or
evidentiary sanctions absent the violation of a prior court order, which has
not been shown here.
 
b.     Monetary
Sanctions
The more difficult issue is
imposition of monetary sanctions.  With
respect to the motion to compel responses to RPDs, as noted above, responses
were due on 3/04/24, correspondence was on 3/08/24 with a deadline of 3/12/24,
the motion was filed on 3/12/24, and Defendant responded to the communication
also on 3/12/24.  Defendant ultimately
served responses on 3/28/24.  
 
Plaintiffs correctly note that
there is no meet and confer requirement when filing a motion to compel initial
responses, and Plaintiff could have filed the motion the day after the
responses were due.  That said, it is
customary to reach out to the opposing attorney prior to rushing into court,
especially in cases like this one where we are currently on the eighth set of
production demands.  It is also customary
to provide a deadline of more than four days, especially where the
correspondence at issue is sent on a Friday. 
The Court is not inclined to impose sanctions in connection with the
motion to compel responses to RPDs, and asks Plaintiffs to cooperate prior to
filing future motions in this case.  
 
With respect to the motion to
compel depositions, it does appear the motion was necessary in order to obtain
identification of PMQs and dates for depositions.  The issue has been ongoing since September of
last year, and there remain unidentified PMQs and numerous dates have not been
scheduled.  Plaintiffs seek monetary
sanctions in the amount of $3850, which amount is both reasonable and fully
supported by their attorney’s declaration. 

 
Sanctions are sought and imposed
against Defendant and its attorney of record, jointly and severally.  Sanctions must be paid to Plaintiffs, by and
through their attorney of record, within twenty days.  
 
Plaintiffs are ordered to give
notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   