  Case Number:  19LBCV00356    Hearing Date:   April 11, 2024    Dept:  S27  
1.    
Relevant
Background Facts
Plaintiff proceeded to trial against the only remaining defendant on the
complaint, Veterans Care Coordination, LLC (“VCC”), and on 11/22/23 and
11/28/23, the jury reached a verdict in Plaintiff’s favor in connection with
actual and punitive damages, respectively. 
Plaintiff submitted a judgment, and Defendant objected, contending
entering judgment at this point would violate the one judgment rule because its
cross-complaint against Stacy John Sanchez, Stacys In Home Care, Inc., Another
Successful Venture, Inc., and Lilliana Juliano remains pending.  Trial on the cross-complaint is currently
scheduled for 6/28/24.
 
On 2/01/24, after hearing on the issue of the one judgment rule, the
Court entered judgment in favor of Plaintiff and against VCC.  The judgment, which reflects the jury
verdict, is in the amounts of $19,817.00 (economic damages), $50,000
(non-economic damages), and $375,000 (punitive damages), as well as attorneys’
fees in the amount of $880,082.50.  
 
2.    
Motion
for New Trial
a.     Parties’ Positions
VCC seeks a new trial, contending the damages awarded by the jury are
excessive.  It contends the economic,
non-economic, and punitive damages are all unsupported by the record at trial.  Additionally, it contends the non-economic
damages should be offset by pre-trial settlements.  Plaintiff opposes the motion, arguing all
damages were supported and no new trial is warranted.  
 
b.    
Law
Governing New Trial for Excessive Damages
One ground for a new trial motion is “excessive damages.”   A motion for new trial based on excessive
damages is ground in CCP §657(5).  This
ground in effect asks for a limited new trial—i.e., a new trial limited to the
issues of damages, with findings re liability, etc. to be kept intact.  In deciding a motion for new trial on this
ground, the court has the power (and responsibility) to reweigh the evidence:
“A new trial shall not be granted upon the ground of … excessive or
inadequate damages, unless after weighing the evidence the court is convinced
from the entire record, including reasonable inferences therefrom, that the
court or jury clearly should have reached a different verdict or decision.”  CCP §657(5). 

 
While the Court must weigh the evidence, “the judge is not permitted to
substitute his judgment for that of the jury on the question of damages unless
it appears from the record [that] the jury verdict was improper.”  Bigboy v. County of San Diego (1984) 154 Cal.App.3d
397, 406.  
The following are cases in which new trials have been granted on the
“excessive damages” ground:
·        
Jury
improperly apportioned damages between codefendants.  Marshall v. Brown (1983) 141 Cal.App.3d 408,
415.  
·        
Jury
included nonrecoverable damages in award.  Tramell v. McDonnell Douglas Corp. (1984) 163
Cal.App.3d 157, 172-173.  
·        
Jury
verdict resulted from passion or prejudice or application of improper standard.
 In Gerard v. Ross (1988) 204 Cal.App.3d
968, 978, a new trial for excessive damages was granted because the punitive
damages award was “confiscatory in nature” and did not bear a reasonable
relationship to the compensatory damages or the defendant's total assets or
annual income.
·        
Former
police department recruit officers were injured and then terminated or
constructively discharged from their positions. They sued City alleging that
they were unlawfully discriminated against based on their physical abilities
and were not provided reasonable accommodation, in violation of the FEHA. The
jury awarded plaintiff over $6.5 million based on future lost earnings “through
the time of their hypothetical retirements from the Department as veteran
police officers.” On appeal, the court vacated that portion of the damages
award as unreasonably speculative and reversed the trial court's order denying
a motion for a new trial.  Atkins v. City
of Los Angeles (2017) 8 Cal.App.5th 696, 705, 737, 740-743.  
 
Importantly, when damages are determined to be “excessive,” the court may
grant a new trial conditionally: i.e., upon condition that the motion for new
trial will be denied if the plaintiff consents to a reduction (a “remittitur”)
of damages in an amount determined by the court. CCP §662.5(a)(2).  
 
A trial court's denial of a motion for new trial based on the ground that
a jury's damages award is excessive is “entitled to great weight.” Appellate
courts may interfere on the ground that the judgment is excessive only when
“the verdict is so large that, at first blush, it shocks the conscience and
suggests passion, prejudice or corruption on the part of the jury.”  Bender v. County of Los Angeles (2013) 217 Cal.App.4th
968, 986.  
 
c.    
Economic Damages
The jury awarded economic damages in the amount of $19,817.  Defendant contends the maximum recoverable
economic damages is $5923.06, which consists of $4562.74 in monies VCC took and
kept from Plaintiff’s bank account plus $1360.32 in SSDI payments Plaintiff did
not receive because his Pension with Aid and Assistance (“PAA”) kicked in.
 
With respect to monies taken by VCC, VCC contends the evidence shows
VCC withdrew $19,838 from Plaintiff’s bank account, but paid all but $4562.74
of that amount to the Stacy’s Defendants. 

 
Plaintiff, in opposition to the motion, contends VCC obfuscated
throughout the course of discovery and trial concerning payments made to
Stacy’s.  Plaintiff contends even the
evidence presented at trial was confusing, as VCC contended, at trial, that it
only kept $3815 of the money, but now it contends it kept $4562.74.  Plaintiff contends VCC never presented any
evidence of payments actually made to Stacy’s, and is only relying on a
contract, which may or may not have been performed.  
 
The Court is not sure why the jury awarded $19,817 instead of
$19,838.  The amounts are extremely
similar.  While not directly addressed by
the parties, the Court is not sure that, even if VCC conclusively established
it paid 77% of Plaintiff’s money to Stacy’s, this would preclude Plaintiff from
recovering the entire amount from VCC.  It
appears the jury believed, at trial, that VCC wrongly induced Plaintiff to turn
over monies to VCC in the total amount of $19,838.  Whether VCC ultimately retained the money or
paid the money to a third party seems to be the proper subject of any
cross-complaint between VCC and Stacy’s. 
Trial on that cross-complaint is pending in late June.  
 
At a minimum, VCC failed to meet its moving burden to provide any on
point authority establishing that a defendant who wrongly induces a plaintiff
to pay it monies, but then turns some of those monies over to a third party, is
not liable for the entire amount it induced the plaintiff to pay.  The Court finds VCC failed to establish
economic damages were not properly proved up at trial, and denies the motion
for a new trial on the issue of economic damages.  
 
d.    
Non-Economic
Damages
VCC next argues the award of $50,000 in non-economic damages was
excessive.  VCC contends the evidence
presented at trial, at most, showed Plaintiff suffered mild frustration and
distress, but nothing approaching $50,000 in damages.  VCC contends the evidence showed more of
Plaintiff’s emotional distress was due to his strained relationship with his
brother and his mental health and substance abuse problems.  VCC contends that, if anything, its services
assisted Plaintiff with his mental health and did not cause him additional
distress.
 
Emotional distress and pain and suffering damages are highly
discretionary.  The Court notes that, in
its experience, non-economic damages awards of 3-5x economic damages awards are
typical.  This award falls easily within
that range.  The Court cannot find that
the jury’s non-economic damages award is so grossly excessive as to warrant a
new trial.  
 
VCC also argues that the non-economic damages award must be off-set by
Plaintiff’s pre-trial settlements with other defendants, because the jury
likely considered emotional distress and pain and suffering inflicted by other
defendants when it awarded $50,000 in damages. 
VCC relies on Dell’Oca v. Bank of New York Trust Co., N.A. (2008) 159
Cal.App.4th 531 to support its position.  The Dell’Oca Court was asked to determine
whether the trial court erred in ruling the defendant was not entitled to an
offset for the value of the settlements the plaintiff reached with the other
defendants.  Dell’Oca at 559.  
 
The Dell’Oca opinion does not make clear how the defendant requested the
offset at the trial court stage of the proceedings, and therefore does not
address the procedural mechanism for making this determination.  The lack of discussion on this point is
important, because Plaintiff contends a motion for new trial is not the correct
mechanism for seeking an offset.  
 
Pursuant to Poire v. C.L. Peck/Jones Bros. Const. Corp., Inc. (1995) 39
Cal.App.4th 1832, 1841, a defendant must request a special jury
verdict allocating proportionate liability, and the amounts of economic and
non-economic damages.  If the defendant
fails to do so, it waives any right to an offset for any pretrial settlement
received by the plaintiff.  
 
The motion to reduce the judgment in light of the settlement with the
other defendants is therefore also denied. 

 
e.    
Punitive
Damages
Defendant’s final argument is that
the punitive damages award is excessive. 
In BMW of North America, Inc. v. Gore (1996) 517 U.S. 559, 568, the
Supreme Court held that there are three factors to consider when determining
whether a punitive damages award is excessive. 
Those factors are (1) the reprehensibility of the defendant’s conduct,
(2) the ratio of punitive damages to compensatory damages, and (3) sanctions
for comparable misconduct.  
 
Defendant contends its conduct was
very low on the scale of reprehensibility, if it was even reprehensible at
all.  It contends that, at worst, the
harm was economic and not physical, did not result from a reckless disregard
for the health or safety of others, and did not result from a desire to make
fraudulent profit.  The Court
disagrees.  A jury could reasonably find
that defrauding an elderly veteran with substance abuse and mental health
issues is highly reprehensible.  
 
Defendant also contends the ratio
of compensatory to punitive damages is excessive.  The ratio, however, is approximately five to
one, which is well within the range permitted by the Supreme Court.  The
United States Supreme Court, in State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. v. Campbell
(2003) 538 U.S. 408, 425, considered the issue of whether a punitive damages
award must be proportional to a compensatory damages award.  It held (citations omitted):
Turning to the second Gore guidepost, we have been reluctant to
identify concrete constitutional limits on the ratio between harm, or potential
harm, to the plaintiff and the punitive damages award.  Citation. (“[W]e have consistently rejected
the notion that the constitutional line is marked by a simple mathematical
formula, even one that compares actual and potential damages to the punitive
award”);  Citation. We decline again to
impose a bright-line ratio which a punitive damages award cannot exceed. Our
jurisprudence and the principles it has now established demonstrate, however,
that, in practice, few awards exceeding a single-digit ratio between punitive
and compensatory damages, to a significant degree, will satisfy due process. In
Haslip, in upholding a punitive damages award, we concluded that an award of
more than four times the amount of compensatory damages might be close to the
line of constitutional impropriety.  …
 
Nonetheless, because there are no rigid benchmarks that a punitive
damages award may not surpass, ratios greater than those we have previously
upheld may comport with due process where “a particularly egregious act has
resulted in only a small amount of economic damages.” Ibid.; see also ibid.
(positing that a higher ratio might be necessary where “the injury is hard to
detect or the monetary value of noneconomic harm might have been difficult to
determine”). The converse is also true, however. When compensatory damages are
substantial, then a lesser ratio, perhaps only equal to compensatory damages,
can reach the outermost limit of the due process guarantee. The precise award
in any case, of course, must be based upon the facts and circumstances of the
defendant's conduct and the harm to the plaintiff.
 
In this case, compensatory damages are not particularly high.  A ratio of five to one, therefore, is well
within the range contemplated by Campbell. 

 
Defendant does not meaningfully discuss the third factor, but the Court
finds the jury was likely motivated by a desire to ensure that Defendant does
not engage in the same misconduct with other veterans in the future.  That factor, therefore, also weighs in favor
of affirming the jury’s punitive damages award. 

 
f.      Conclusion
VCC’s motion for a new trial is
denied in its entirety.    
 
VCC is ordered to give notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.  If
the parties do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear
remotely.