 Case Number:  21STCV43926    Hearing Date:   April 11, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.    
Relevant Procedural History 
On 11/22/23, MEK Long Beach, LLC dba Regency Oaks Post Acute Care
Center filed an application for determination of good faith settlement.  It indicated it entered into a confidential
settlement with Plaintiffs for a confidential sum in exchange for a dismissal
of the complaint, and sought a court order finding the settlement to be in good
faith.  Defendant served the application
by certified mail and email on 11/22/23.
 
On 12/14/23, the Court granted the application, which was unopposed at
the time.  
 
On 12/15/23, Carie Matthews filed an opposition to the application and
indicated a hearing date was scheduled for 12/17/23.  On 12/20/23, MEK filed an objection to the
opposition to the application.  No
grounds were stated for the objection.  
 
On 1/31/24, the Court held an OSC re: dismissal (settlement).  The Court specially set a hearing on the
application for determination of good faith settlement and motion for
reconsideration for 4/11/24.
On 3/15/24, Matthews filed a motion for reconsideration of the order
granting the application, contending the Court granted the application
prematurely, three days prior to the statutory time for filing opposition to
the application.  
 
MEK opposes the motion for reconsideration, and also filed reply
documents relating to the opposition to the application for determination of
good faith settlement.  
 
2.    
Analysis

Law Governing Applications for Determination of Good Faith
     Settlement

There are two methods for obtaining court approval of a
settlement.  One is a motion for
determination of good faith settlement, and the other is an application for
determination of good faith settlement. 
If a party anticipates opposition to the settlement, the party files a
motion for determination of good faith settlement and sets the matter for
hearing.  If a party does not anticipate
opposition, the party files an application for determination of good faith
settlement, which is summarily granted by the Court in the absence of a MOTION
to contest the settlement.  
 
Specifically, CCP §877.6(a)(2) requires the application to be served by
certified mail, return receipt requested, or by personal service.  §877.6(a)(2) then goes on to clarify that, if
a nonsettling party contests the good faith determination, the nonsettling
party must file a motion to contest the settlement within 20 days after the
application is personally served or 25 days after the application is served by
certified mail.  
 

Analysis

MEK served its application by certified mail on 11/22/23.  25 days after service fell on Sunday,
12/17/23.  The Court, therefore, acted
prematurely in granting the application on 12/14/23.  It appears, however, that no harm came of the
premature act, because Matthews did not file, either before or after the
granting of the application, a motion to contest the good faith application.  Matthews instead filed an “opposition” to the
application.  There is no statutory
authority for opposition to the application. 

 
To the extent there is a hearing on the application on calendar today,
it is taken off calendar as moot; the application has already been
granted.  
 
The motion for reconsideration is denied.  First and foremost, it was not filed within
ten days after the Court granted the application, as required by CCP
§1008(a).  Second, the Court finds,
again, that there was no prejudicial error in granting the application early,
as Matthews did not timely file a motion to contest the good faith settlement
application.  
 
3.    
CMC
The parties are reminded that there is a CMC on calendar concurrently
with the hearing on the above application and motion.  The Court asks Counsel to make arrangements
to appear remotely at the CMC and hearing on the application and motion.  