 Case Number:  24STCV08647    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2024    Dept:  39  
 TENTATIVE RULING
 



DEPT:


39




HEARING DATE:


October 31, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


24STCV08647




MOTION:  


Demurrer to Complaint




MOVING PARTY:


Defendants Tishbees LLC and Eliot Tishbi




OPPOSING PARTY:


None



 
MOTION
            Plaintiff
Zachary Selvin (“Plaintiff”) sued Defendants Tishbees LLC and Eliot Tishbi
(“Defendants”) regarding a commercial lease dispute.  Plaintiff leased commercial premises from
Defendants and alleges Defendants obtained an unlawful detainer judgment
against Plaintiff’s business (The Living Earth Wellness Center) but agreed to
allow Plaintiff to maintain possession of the premises; The Living Earth
Wellness Center then entered into a lease of the premises with a third party,
to which Defendants consented provided monthly rent was paid; but Defendants
thereafter proceeded to enforce the unlawful detainer judgment obtained against
The Living Earth Wellness Center and locked out Plaintiff and the third party.  (Complaint, ¶¶ 6-10.)  Plaintiff further alleges the sublessee
obtained a temporary restraining order, which prohibited Defendants from
locking the third party and Plaintiff, but Defendant ignored this order and
changed the locks. (Id., ¶¶ 16-17.) 

Defendants demur
to Plaintiff’s complaint.  Plaintiff has
not filed an opposition to the demurrer.
ANALYSIS
“It is black
letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a
complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385,
388.)  In ruling on a demurrer, the court must “liberally construe[]” the
allegations of the complaint.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.)  “This rule of liberal construction means that
the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not the
defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.) 
First Cause of Action:
Conversion
To state a claim
for conversion, Plaintiff must allege he owned personal property, and
Defendants interfered with Plaintiff’s rights to that personal property in a
manner that caused damages.  (Fremont
Indemnity Co. v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119.)  In this regard, Plaintiff alleges Defendants
took “all of Plaintiff’s personal property and load[ed] it into a big white
truck and drove it away.  Millions of
dollars of inventory were stolen, and not returned, thousands of dollars in the
cash registers were stolen and never returned to Plaintiff.”  (Complaint, ¶ 22.)  These allegations state a claim for
conversion.  Therefore, the demurrer to
the first cause of action is overruled.
Second Cause of Action: Negligence
In support of his negligence claim, Plaintiff alleges
Defendants’ “legal duties were to comply to not steal, takeaway, or mishandle
any personal property belonging to the tenant . . . .”  (Complaint, ¶ 26.)  These are not, by themselves and without explanation,
legal duties to use reasonable care “so as not to create an unreasonable risk
of injury to others,” which could support a claim for negligence.  (McGarry v. Sax (2008) 158 Cal.App.4th
983, 994.)  As such, Plaintiff fails to
allege a cause of action for negligence. 
Thus, the Court sustains the demurrer to the second cause of action with
leave to amend.
Third and Fourth Causes
of Action: Violations of Business and Professions Code Sections 17200 and 17204
 
Plaintiff must allege “with reasonable
particularity the facts supporting the statutory elements of the violation” of these
provisions.  (Khoury v. Maly's of
California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 619.)  For example, Plaintiff neither identifies the
particular portions of the statutes which were violated nor describe the manner
in which Defendants’ acts were unlawful, unfair, or fraudulent.  (Ibid.)  In this regard, Plaintiff fails to specify
the particular acts by Defendants which Plaintiff contends support Plaintiff’s
causes of action under Business and Professions Code sections 17200 and
17204.  As such, Plaintiff fails to
allege these causes of action with particularity.  Therefore, the Court sustains the
demurrer to the third and fourth causes of action with leave to amend.
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Defendants’ demurrer to the second, third,
and fourth causes of action in Plaintiff’s complaint is sustained with leave to
amend.  Plaintiff is to file an amended complaint
within 10 days of notice of this order. 
Defendants are ordered to provide notice of
this order and to file proof of service of same.
 