 Case Number:  23STCV26831    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


39




HEARING DATE


October 31, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23STCV26831




MOTION


Motions to Compel Further Discovery Responses




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiff Feria
  Tjhai




OPPOSING PARTY


Defendant Topocean Consolidation Service (Los Angeles)
  Inc.



 
MOTION
Plaintiff Feria
Tjhai (“Plaintiff”) moves to compel further responses from Defendant Topocean
Consolidation Service (Los Angeles) Inc. (“Defendant”) to Requests for
Production of Documents, set one (“RPD”), Form Interrogatories—General, set one
and Form Interrogatories—Employment, set one (“FROG”), and Special
Interrogatories, set two (“SROG”). 
Defendant opposes the motions.
ANALYSIS
If the propounding
party deems responses to interrogatories or requests for production of
documents unsatisfactory, the propounding party may move to compel further
responses. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300, 2031.310.)
After Plaintiff
filed these motions on June 21, 2024, on October 11, 2024 Defendant
supplemented its responses to all the requests at issue.  (See Defendant’s Opposition to Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Request for Document Production , p. 3; Defendant’s
Opposition to Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Interrogatories,
p.3.)  Accordingly, the motions are moot
except with respect to sanctions.  
The Court finds
Defendant’s failure to supplement its discovery responses until after Plaintiff
filed these motions, despite multiple extensions of time to do so, constitutes an
abuse of the discovery process, and assess sanctions against Defendant.  
Therefore, the
Court imposes sanctions against Defendant and its counsel of record, Ballard
Rosenberg Golper(See  & Savitt, LLP,
jointly and severally, in the amount of $3,045, which represents five hours of
attorney time to prepare the motions and attend the hearing at $585 per hour,
plus the $60 filing fees for the motions. 
Defendant and its counsel of record, Ballard Rosenberg Golper &
Savitt, LLP, are to pay sanctions in the amount of $3,045 to Plaintiff, by and
through counsel, within 30 days.
Plaintiff is ordered
to provide notice of this order and to file proof of service of same.
 