  Case Number:  21STCV24483    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


39




HEARING DATE


October
  31, 2024




CASE NUMBER


21STCV24483




MOTION


Motion
  for Summary Adjudication




MOVING PARTIES


Plaintiff
  Aggreko LLC




OPPOSING PARTY


Defendant
  the Little Cottage Caregivers LLC



 
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff Aggreko
LLC (“Plaintiff”) sued Defendant the Little Cottage Caregivers LLC (“Defendant”)
for breach of contract.  Plaintiff
alleges it leased equipment to Defendant and Defendant has failed to pay
$63,740.40 which is the amount outstanding on the lease agreement.  (Complaint, ¶¶ 8-11.)  Plaintiff moves for summary adjudication on
the first cause of action for breach of contract in the complaint, which contains
four causes of action.  Defendant opposes
the motion.
LEGAL STANDARD – MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
“[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears the
burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue of material fact and that
he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law. . . . There is a triable issue
of material fact if, and only if, the evidence would allow a reasonable trier
of fact to find the underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion
in accordance with the applicable standard of proof.”  (Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850 (Aguilar).)
 “[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of
production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable
issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of production, he causes a
shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a burden
of production of his own to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a
triable issue of material fact.”  (Ibid.)  
Where the
plaintiff seeks summary adjudication, the plaintiff bears the burden to produce
admissible evidence on each element of every cause of action at issue.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(1).)  
EVIDENCE
            Plaintiff’s
evidentiary objections to paragraphs 3, 4, and 6 in the declaration of Shlomo
Meiri are sustained.  Plaintiff’s other
evidentiary objections are overruled.
DISCUSSION
Plaintiff
propounded written discovery on Defendant, in which Plaintiff asked Defendant
to state all facts on which Defendant bases its claim Defendant does not owe
Plaintiff the principal sum of $63,740.40. 
In response, Defendant stated it lacked responsive information.  (Declaration of Timothy Carl Aires, Exhibits
H-J.)  Defendant’s factually devoid
discovery responses shift the burden to Defendant to raise triable issues of
material fact as to whether Defendant owes the principal sum Plaintiff demands.
 (See Union Bank v. Superior Court
(1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 573, 590.)
In opposition, Defendant
advances the declaration of Sholmo Meiri (“Meiri”), who owns a 50-percent stake
in Defendant.  Meiri presents an email he
sent that memorializes an agreement between Meiri and Robert Jones, a
salesperson for Plaintiff.  In that
email, Meiri states Plaintiff agreed Defendant owed $41,129 in total, less $22,536
that had already been paid, for an outstanding balance of $18,593.  (Declaration of Shlomo Meiri, Exhibit
C.)  This agreement raises triable issues
of material fact as to the amount Defendant owes Plaintiff.  
            In reply, Plaintiff argues “there is
nothing left to try” because Defendant admits Plaintiff leased equipment to
Defendant and Defendant only partially paid for the lease.  (See Reply, p. 1.)  Plaintiff is incorrect.  The amount of damages Defendant owes to
Plaintiff is a triable issue of material fact, which precludes summary
adjudication.  The motion for summary
adjudication is, therefore, denied.
Plaintiff also
argues Meiri’s declaration is vague and Meiri fails to show any representative
of Plaintiff responded to the email Meiri sent. 
These arguments go to the weight, not the admissibility, of Defendant’s
evidence.  The Court cannot weigh
evidence on summary adjudication.  (Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 856.)
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Plaintiff’s motion for summary adjudication
is denied.
Plaintiff is ordered to give notice of the
Court’s order and to file proof of service of same.