  Case Number:  23PSCV02066    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2024    Dept:  G Defendants Lively Root Technologies
Inc. and Colin Barceloux’s Demurrer to Complaint of Plaintiff Grower Direct
Supply, Inc.
Respondent: Plaintiff Grower
Direct Supply, Inc.
Defendants Lively Root
Technologies Inc. and Colin Barceloux’s Motion to Strike Portions of Complaint
of Plaintiff Grower Direct Supply, Inc.
Respondent:
Plaintiff Grower Direct Supply,
Inc.
TENTATIVE RULING
Defendants Lively Root
Technologies Inc. and Colin Barceloux’s Demurrer to Complaint of Plaintiff
Grower Direct Supply, Inc. is
SUSTAINED with twenty (20) days leave to amend as the second cause of action
and OVERRULED as to the first cause of action.
Defendants Lively Root
Technologies Inc. and Colin Barceloux’s Motion to Strike Portions of Complaint
of Plaintiff Grower Direct Supply, Inc. is deemed MOOT.
BACKGROUND
This
is an action for breach of contract and fraud arising from the sale of
horticulture products. Plaintiff Grower Direct Supply Inc. (GDS) is a
California corporation engaged in the development and sale of horticulture
products. In 2022 and 2023, GDS alleges Defendants Lively Root Technologies
Inc. (LRT) and Colin Barceloux ordered $263,826.38 in horticulture products
from GDS. Subsequently, GDS alleges LRT and Barceloux failed to pay the amount
owed for the products.
On
July 10, 2023, GDS filed a complaint against LRT, Barceloux, and Does 1-10,
alleging (1) breach of contract and (2) fraud.
On December
5, 2023, LRT and Barceloux filed the present demurrer and motion to strike.
Prior to filing on September 11, their counsel met and conferred telephonically
with GDS’s counsel and was unable to reach a resolution. (Park Decl., ¶ 3.)
A hearing
on the demurrer and motion to strike is set for January 22, 2024, along with a
case management conference.
ANALYSIS
LRT
and Barceloux demur to GDS’s entire Complaint. For the following reasons, the
court SUSTAINS LRT and Barceloux’s demurrer to the second cause of action with leave to
amend and OVERRULES their demurrer to the first cause of action.
Legal Standard
A
party may demur to a complaint on the grounds that it “does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd.
(e).) A demurrer tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn
v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747 (Hahn).) When considering
demurrers, courts accept all well pleaded facts as true. (Fox v. JAMDAT
Mobile, Inc. (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1068, 1078.) In a demurrer proceeding,
the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,
994.) “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other
extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face
of the pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court
(1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing
is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,
states a cause of action.” (Hahn, supra, at p. 747.)
Breach of Contract (First Cause of Action)
LRT
and Barceloux argue GDS’s first cause of action for breach of contract fails to
plead sufficient facts to state a claim. The court disagrees.
Legal Standard
To
state a cause of action for breach of contract, a plaintiff must be able to
establish “(1) the existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or
excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting
damages to the plaintiff.” (Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51
Cal.4th 811, 821.) If a breach of contract claim “is based on alleged breach of
a written contract, the terms must be set out verbatim in the body of the
complaint or a copy of the written agreement must be attached and incorporated
by reference.” (Harris v. Rudin, Richman & Appel (1999) 74
Cal.App.4th 299, 307.) In some circumstances, a plaintiff may also “plead the
legal effect of the contract rather than its precise language.” (Construction
Protective Services, Inc. v. TIG Specialty Ins. Co. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 189,
198-199.)Discussion
In
this case, LRT and Barceloux argue the Complaint fails to allege if the alleged
contract was written, oral, or implied. They also argue the Complaint fails to
allege the terms of the contract or provide a copy of it. In opposition, GDS
argues the allegations of the Complaint and exhibits containing invoices
establish the existence of an implied-in-fact contract.
“An
implied contract is one, the existence and terms of which are manifested by
conduct.” (Civ. Code, § 1621.) It “arises from the request of one party . . . and
performance by the other . . ., though the request is often inferred from the
circumstances attending the performance.” (People v. Randono (1973) 32
Cal.App.3d 164, 174 (Randono). “In pleading a cause of action on an
agreement implied from conduct[,] only the facts from which the promise is
implied must be alleged.” (Youngman v. Nevada Irr. Dist. (1969) 70
Cal.2d 240, 246-247.)
Here,
GDS alleges LRT and Barceloux ordered $263,826.38 in horticulture products from
GDS. (Complaint, ¶ 8.) The Complaint also provides four different invoices for these
products that were addressed to LRT. (Complaint, Ex. A.) And the Complaint
alleges GDS fully performed by providing all of the product ordered.
(Complaint, ¶ 9.) “When goods are ordered by one dealer from another in the
ordinary course of business, the law will imply a promise to pay.” (Randono,
supra, 32 Cal.App.3d at p. 174.) Thus, by alleging the above facts, the
Complaint has adequately alleged the existence of an implied contract between
LRT and GDS for the purchase of horticulture products. Last, GDS alleges LRT
breached the contract by refusing to make any payments for the goods purchased.
(Complaint, ¶ 10.)
While
LRT is the only party listed on the invoices, the Complaint alleges LRT is the
alter ego of Barceloux. (Complaint, ¶ 4.) But Barceloux argues the Complaint
fails to adequately plead these alter ego allegations. “Two requirements must
be met to invoke the alter ego doctrine: (1) ‘[T]here must be such a unity of
interest and ownership between¿the corporation and its equitable owner that the
separate personalities of the corporation and the shareholder do not in reality
exist’; and (2) ‘there must be an¿inequitable result¿if the acts in
question are treated as those of the corporation alone.’” (Turman v.
Superior Court of Orange County (2017) 17 Cal.App.5th 969, 980-981, quoting
Sonora Diamond Corp. v. Superior Court (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 523, 538.)
When making alter ego allegations, pleading with particularity is not required
as a Plaintiff need only allege “ultimate rather than evidentiary facts.” (Rutherford
Holdings, LLC v. Plaza del Rey (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 221, 236, quoting Burks
v. Poppy Construction Co. (1962) 57 Cal.2d 463, 474.)
Here,
the Complaint alleges LRT is a “mere shell, instrumentality, and conduit
through which Defendants [Barceloux] and [LRT] carried on their business.”
(Complaint, ¶ 3.) The Complaint also alleges Barceloux exercises “complete
control and dominance” over LRT to the point that any individuality or
separateness between the two does not exist. (Complaint, ¶ 3.) Last, the
Complaint alleges an unjust result would occur if LRT is treated as a distinct
entity. (Complaint, ¶ 4.) Based on these allegations, the Complaint adequately
alleges LRT is Barceloux’s alter ego.
Accordingly,
LRT and Barceloux’s demurrer to this cause of action is OVERRULED.
Fraud (Second Cause of Action)
LRT
and Barceloux contend GDS’s second cause of action for fraud fails to plead
sufficient facts to state a claim. The court agrees.
Legal Standard
“The
elements of fraud, which give rise to the tort action for deceit, are (a)
misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b)
knowledge of falsity (or ‘scienter’); (c) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce
reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.” (Lazar v.
Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 638, quoting 5 Witkin, Summary of
Cal. Law (9th ed. 1988) Torts, § 676, p. 778.) The facts constituting the
alleged fraud must be alleged factually and specifically as to every element of
fraud, as the policy of “liberal construction” of the pleadings will not
ordinarily be invoked. (Id., at p. 645.)
Discussion
In
this case, LRT and Barceloux contend the Complaint fails to allege they made
misrepresentations with the required specificity. In alleging a cause of action
for fraud, “[t]he specificity requirement means a plaintiff must allege facts
showing how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were
made, and, in the case of a corporate defendant, the plaintiff must allege the
names of the persons who made the representations, their authority to speak on
behalf of the corporation, to whom they spoke, what they said or wrote, and
when the representation was made.” (West v. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (2013)
214 Cal.App.4th 780, 793.)
Here,
the Complaint generally alleges that defendants made material
misrepresentations by assuring GDS that GDS would be paid. (Complaint, ¶
14-15.) But the Complaint fails to specify which defendant made these
representations, how these representations were made, where these
representations were made, when these representations were made, and to whom
these representations were made. Furthermore, these alleged assurances
appear to be promises of future conduct which do not qualify as actionable misrepresentations.
(See San Francisco Design Center Associates v. Portman Companies (1995)
41 Cal.App.4th 29, 44 [“[A]n actionable misrepresentation must be made about
past or existing facts; statements regarding future events are merely deemed
opinions.”].) To the extent these assurances could qualify as false promises,
the Complaint fails to specifically allege that LRT and Barceloux had no
intention of fulfilling the promise to pay GDS. (Magpali v. Farmers Group,
Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 481 [“A promise of future conduct is
actionable as fraud only if made without a present intent to perform.”].) While
the Complaint does allege LRT and Barceloux knew they were presently
experiencing financial difficulties, it does not specifically allege they had
no intention of performing their promises in the future.
In
addition to alleging LRT and Barceloux made misrepresentations, the Complaint
also alleges they concealed the fact that they were presently unable to make
payments on purchased product. (Complaint, ¶ 14.) “[T]he elements of a cause of
action for fraud based on concealment are: ‘(1) the defendant must have
concealed or suppressed a material fact, (2) the defendant must have been under
a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff, (3) the defendant must have
intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the
plaintiff, (4) the plaintiff must have been unaware of the fact and would not
have acted as he did if he had known of the concealed or suppressed fact, and
(5) as a result of the concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff
must have sustained damage.’” (Kaldenbach v. Mutual of Omaha Life Ins. Co.
(2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 830, 850, quoting Roddenberry v. Roddenberry
(1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 634, 665-666.)
Here,
the Complaint fails to allege that GDS was unaware LRT and Barceloux were financially
unstable. The Complaint also fails to allege that GDS would not have sold the
horticulture products to LRT and Barceloux had they known their financial
position. Thus, the Complaint fails to adequately allege facts constituting fraud.
Accordingly,
LRT and Barceloux’s demurrer to this cause of action is SUSTAINED with leave to amend.
CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, LRT and Barceloux’s demurrer to GDS’s
Complaint is SUSTAINED with twenty (20) days leave to amend as to the second
cause of action and OVERRULED as to the first cause of action.
Based upon the recommendations made on the
demurrer,
LRT and Barceloux’s motion to strike portions of GDS’s Complaint
is deemed MOOT.