  Case Number:  19STCV45806    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



MAL BIEN BAR LLC,
  
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
RVCC INTERSECT, LLC, et al., 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.:  19STCV45806
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
MOTION FOR LEAVE TO AMEND 
 
Date: October 3, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
BACKGROUND
             This action arises out of a dispute over money
that Defendants RVCC Intersect, LLC, Reserve Vault, LLC, Christopher L. Adams
and Nicolo James Rusconi (collectively, “Defendants”) allegedly owed to
Plaintiff Mal Bien Bar, LLC (“Plaintiff”) under a promissory note.  The currently operative first amended
complaint (“FAC”) alleges: (1) breach of promissory note; (2) breach of oral
contract; and (3) conversion.
 
            On August 20, 2024, Plaintiff filed
the instant Motion for Leave to Amend Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint (the
“Motion”).  No opposition to the Motion
has been filed.
 
DISCUSSION
CCP
§ 473(a)(1) provides, in relevant part:¿ “The court may, in furtherance of
justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading
or proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting
a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may,
upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or demurrer.¿The court may
likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any
terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other
particulars; and may upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time
limited by this code.” 
 
Under
CRC Rule 3.1324(a), a motion to amend a pleading shall (1) include a copy of
the proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to
differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments; (2) state what
allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and
where, by page, paragraph and line number, the deleted allegations are located;
and (3) state what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous
pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the
additional allegations are located. Under CRC Rule 3.1324(b), a separate
declaration must accompany the motion and must specify (1) the effect of the
amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts
giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4) the reasons why
the request for amendment was not made earlier. 
 
Even
if an amendment is proposed in proper form, a long, unwarranted and unexcused
delay in presenting it may be a good reason for denial.¿ In most cases, the
factors for timeliness are: (1) lack of diligence in discovering the facts or
in offering the amendment after knowledge of them; and (2) the effect of the
delay on the adverse party. ¿If the party seeking the amendment has been
dilatory, and the delay has prejudiced the opposing party, the judge has
discretion to deny leave to amend.¿ (Hirsa v. Superior Court (1981) 118
Cal.App.3d 486, 490.)¿ Prejudice exists where the amendment would require
delaying the trial, resulting in loss of critical evidence, or added costs of
preparation such as an increased burden of discovery. (Magpali v. Farmers
Group, Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 486-488.)¿
 
Initially,
the Court notes that the trial for this case is set for November 5, 2024, which
is just a month away.  According to CCP §
583.310, an action must be brought to trial within five years after it is filed
against the defendant. This action was filed in December 2019, and almost five
years have passed since then.  The Court
had previously denied a request to continue the trial in its Order dated
January 18, 2023, pointing out that it was the fourth stipulation to continue the
trial.
 
The Court also notes that the proposed amendments to
the FAC involve the addition of new facts, legal theories, and eleven
additional causes of action. Thus, allowing these amendments would most likely
prejudice Defendants due to additional discovery that the amendments would
entail, and would only delay the trial further.  The Court therefore finds that it is now too
late for Plaintiff to move to amend the FAC.
 
For the foregoing reasons, the Motion is DENIED. 
 
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 3rd day of October 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



