 Case Number:  21STCV36334    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



PATRIOT
  ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICES,
INC., a California corporation, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
ANCHOR MARINA, INC., a California
corporation; BI PROPERTIES, INC., a
Delaware corporation; KEVIN DAVIDSON,
an individual; ALLEN WAGNER, an
individual; and DOES 1 to 20, inclusive,
  
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.:  21STCV36334
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
 
MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO REQUESTS
  FOR PRODUCTION (SET NO. 1) FROM DEFENDANT KEVIN DAVIDSON
 
MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO REQUESTS
  FOR PRODUCTION (SET NO. 1) FROM DEFENDANT ALLEN WAGNER
 
MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO SPECIAL
  INTERROGATORIES (SET 1) AND FORM INTERROGATORIES (SET 1) FROM DEFENDANT KEVIN
  DAVIDSON
 
MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO SPECIAL
  INTERROGATORIES (SET 1) AND FORM INTERROGATORIES (SET 1) FROM DEFENDANT ALLEN
  WAGNER
 
MOTION TO DEEM ALL REQUESTS FOR
  ADMISSION (SET NO. 1) ADMITTED BY DEFENDANT KEVIN DAVIDSON
 
MOTION TO DEEM ALL REQUESTS FOR
  ADMISSION (SET NO. 1) ADMITTED BY DEFENDANT ALLEN WAGNER
 
Date: October 3, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56




 


 


 




 


 

 










MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff
Patriot Environmental Services, Inc. (“Plaintiff”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY: Defendants
Kevin Davidson (“Davidson”) and Allen Wagner (“Wagner”) (collectively,
“Defendants”)
 
            The Court has considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
             This action arises from remediation services allegedly
provided by Plaintiff after a boat fire that occurred at the marina located at
1970 Taylor Road, Bethel Island, CA 94511, known as Anchor Marina. Plaintiff alleges
that Anchor Marina Inc. (“AMI”) failed to pay Patriot’s outstanding invoice of
over $400,000 for services rendered. Plaintiff filed this action against AMI on
October 1, 2021.  On June 28, 2023,
Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”), which named BI Properties,
Inc., Davidson and Wagner as additional defendants. The FAC asserts causes of
action for: 1) Breach of Contract; 2) Common Count: Goods and Services Rendered;
3) Intentional Misrepresentation (Fraud); 4) Promissory Fraud; 5) Negligent
Misrepresentation; 6) Fraudulent Inducement; and 7) Violation of Business &
Professions Code Section 17200.
 
            On July 17, 2024, Plaintiff filed the
following six (6) discovery motions (collectively, “Motions”): (1) Motion to
Compel Responses to Requests for Production of Documents (Set No. 1) from
Defendant Kevin Davidson (“Davidson”) (“Davidson RFPs Motion”); (2) Motion to
Compel Responses to Requests for Production of Documents (Set No. 1) from
Defendant Allen Wagner (“Wagner RFPs Motion”); (3) Motion to Compel Responses
to Special Interrogatories (Set 1) and Form Interrogatories (Set 1) from
Defendant Kevin Davidson (“Davidson SIs/FIs Motion”); (4) Motion to Compel
Responses to Special Interrogatories (Set 1) and Form Interrogatories (Set 1)
from Defendant Allen Wagner (“Wagner SIs/FIs Motion”); (5) Motion to Deem All
Requests for Admission (Set No. 1) Admitted by Defendant Kevin Davidson
(“Davidson RFAs Motion”); and (6) Motion to Deem All Requests for Admission
(Set No. 1) Admitted by Defendant Kevin Allen Wagner (“Wagner RFAs Motion”).
 
            On September 19, 2024, Both Davidson
and Wagner filed their respective oppositions to the Motions.  Plaintiff filed its replies on September 25,
2024.
 
DISCUSSION
Motions to Compel
Responses to Requests for Production of Documents
When a
party fails to serve a timely response to an inspection demand, the party
making the demand may move for an order compelling a response to the inspection
demand.  (CCP § 2031.300, subd. (b).)  A party who fails to provide a timely response
waives any objection, including one based on privilege or work product. (Id.,
§ 2031.300, subd. (a).)  
 
Here, Plaintiff served Defendants with Requests for
Production (Set No. 1) (“RFPs”) on May 28, 2024, via US Mail.  (Declaration of Kaeleen Korenaga in Support
of Davidson RFPs Motion; Declaration of Kaeleen Korenaga in Support of Wagner
RFPs Motion.)  Defendants did not serve responses
to the RFPs as of the date of filing of the Motions on July 17, 2024.  (Id.)
 
Defendants’
counsel declares that on August 28, 2024, his office, Borbely & Associates,
became counsel of record for Davidson and Wagner, and that at the time this discovery
was served, neither Davidson nor Wagner was represented by counsel, nor were they
represented when the motions to compel responses were filed.   (Declaration
of Ronald Berestka in Support of Non-Opposition to the Davidson RFPs Motion;
Declaration of Ronald Berestka in Support of Non-Opposition to the Wagner RFPs
Motion.)  Defendants’ counsel further
states that on September 17, 2024, he served verified substantive responses to
the RFPs on behalf of Davidson and Wagner. 
(Id.)
 
The Court notes, however, that the responses contain
objections, which are deemed waived due to their having been served late.  (Supplemental Declaration of Kaeleen Korenaga
in Support of Davidson RFPs Motion, Exh. A; Supplemental Declaration of Kaeleen
Korenaga in Support of Wagner RFPs Motion, Exh. A.)
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s motions to compel responses
to the RFPs are GRANTED, to the extent that the objections in Defendants’ responses
are stricken.  If the responses are not
otherwise complete or Code-compliant, Plaintiff has forty-five days from the
date of the hearing to file a Motion to Compel Further.
 
Motions to Compel
Responses to Special/Form Interrogatories
Under Code of Civil Procedure (“CCP”) section
2030.290, subdivision (b), when a party directs interrogatories towards a party,
and that party fails to serve a timely response, the party propounding the
interrogatories may move for an order compelling response to the
interrogatories.  (CCP § 2030.290, subd.
(b).)  A party who fails to provide a
timely response waives any objection, including one based on privilege or work
product.  (Id., § 2030.290, subd. (a).)  The moving party need only show that the interrogatories
were served on the opposing party, the time has expired to respond to the
interrogatories and no responses have been served in order for the court to
compel the opposing party to respond.  (Leach
v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902, 906.)  
 
Here, Plaintiff served Defendants with Special
Interrogatories (Set No. 1) (“SIs”) and Form Interrogatories (Set No. 1)
(“FIs”) on May 28, 2024, via US Mail. 
(Declaration of Kaeleen Korenaga in Support of Davidson SIs/FIs Motion;
Declaration of Kaeleen Korenaga in Support of Wagner SIs/FIs Motion.)  Defendants did not serve responses to the SIs and FIs as of the
date of filing of the Motions on July 17, 2024. 
(Id.)
 
Defendants’
counsel declares that on August 28, 2024, his office, Borbely & Associates,
became counsel of record for Davidson and Wagner, and that at the time this discovery
was served, neither Davidson nor Wagner was represented by counsel, nor were they
represented when the motions to compel responses were filed.   (Declaration of Ronald Berestka in Support of
Non-Opposition to the Davidson SIs/FIs Motion; Declaration of Ronald Berestka
in Support of Non-Opposition to the Wagner SIs/FIs Motion.)  Defendants’ counsel further states that on
September 17, 2024, he served verified substantive responses to the SIs and FIs
on behalf of Davidson and Wagner.  (Id.)
 
Accordingly, since responses to the SIs and FIs have
now been served, Plaintiff’s motions to compel responses to the SIs and FIs are
MOOT.  If the responses are not otherwise
complete or Code-compliant, Plaintiff has forty-five days from the date of the
hearing to file a Motion to Compel Further.
 
 
 
Monetary Sanctions
Nevertheless, the question of sanctions still
remains before the Court. “[P]roviding untimely responses does not divest the
trial court of its authority [to hear a motion to compel responses].”  (Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v.
Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 407.) 
 
            “The court shall impose a monetary sanction… against any party, person,
or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response
to interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.”  (CCP § 2030.290, subd. (c)
[emphasis added].)
 
“[T]he court shall impose a
monetary sanction… against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully
makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to a demand for inspection,
copying, testing, or sampling, unless it finds that the
one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Id., § 2031.300,
subd. (c) [emphasis added].)
 
In this
case, the Court recognizes that Defendants did not have legal representation at
the time the discovery motions were served. There was no significant delay
between the time Defendants retained their counsel on August 28, 2024, and the
time they served their responses on September 17, 2024.
 
Thus, the
Court finds that, under the circumstances, there is substantial justification
for the untimely responses and that monetary sanctions are not warranted.  Accordingly, no sanctions are imposed pertaining
to the motions to compel responses to the RFPs, SIs and FIs.
 
Motion to Deem
Requests for Admission Admitted
If
a party to whom requests for admission are served fails to provide a timely
response, the party to whom the request was directed waives any objections,
including based on privilege or the work product doctrine.  (CCP § 2033.280(a).)  The requesting party can move for an order
that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in
the request be deemed admitted.  (CCP §
2033.280(b).)  The court shall issue this
order unless the party to whom the request was made serves a response in substantial
compliance prior to the hearing on the motion. 
It is mandatory that the court impose a monetary
sanction on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure to serve a timely
response to requests for admission necessitated this motion.  (Id., § 2033.280, subd. (c).); Cal.
Rules of Court R. 3.1348(a) (the court can award sanctions under the Discovery
Act in favor of a party seeking to compel discovery even though no opposition
was filed, the opposition was withdrawn, or the requested discovery was
provided to the moving party after the motion was filed).)
 
            Here, Plaintiff served Defendants with Requests for Admissions (Set No.
1) (“RFAs”) on May 28, 2024, via US Mail. 
(Declaration of Kaeleen Korenaga in Support of Davidson RFAs Motion;
Declaration of Kaeleen Korenaga in Support of Wagner RFAs Motion.)  Defendants did not serve responses to the RFAs as of the date of
filing of the Motions on July 17, 2024. 
(Id.)
 
Defendants’
counsel declares that on August 28, 2024, his office, Borbely & Associates,
became counsel of record for Davidson and Wagner, and that at the time this discovery
was served, neither Davidson nor Wagner was represented by counsel, nor were they
represented when the motions to compel responses were filed.   (Declaration of Ronald Berestka in Support of
Non-Opposition to the Davidson RFAs Motion; Declaration of Ronald Berestka in
Support of Non-Opposition to the Wagner RFAs Motion.)  Defendants’ counsel further states that on
September 17, 2024, he served verified substantive responses to the RFAs on
behalf of Davidson and Wagner.  (Id.)
 
Accordingly, since responses to the RFAs have now
been served, Plaintiff’s motions to compel responses to the RFAs are MOOT.  If the responses are not otherwise complete
or Code-compliant, Plaintiff has forty-five days from the date of the hearing
to file a Motion to Compel Further.
 
Monetary Sanctions
Nevertheless,
the question of sanctions still remains before the Court. “[P]roviding untimely
responses does not divest the trial court of its authority [to hear a motion to
compel responses].”  (Sinaiko
Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148
Cal.App.4th 390, 407.)  Even if the
untimely response “does not contain objections [and] substantially resolve[s]
the issues raised by a motion to compel responses…the trial court retains the
authority to hear the motion.”  (Id.,
at pp. 408-409.)  This rule gives “an
important incentive for parties to respond to discovery in a timely fashion.”  (Id., at p. 408.)  If “the propounding party [does not] take the
motion off calendar or narrow its scope to the issue of sanctions,” the trial
court may “deny the motion to compel responses as essentially unnecessary, in
whole or in part, and just impose sanctions.” 
(Id., at p. 409; Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348, subd. (a)  [“The court may award sanctions under the
Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even
though no opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was
withdrawn, or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after
the motion was filed”].)
 
The
Court considers the amount of $1,620 (representing 3 hours at $540/hour) in monetary
sanctions to be reasonable.  Accordingly,
Defendants are ordered to pay, jointly and severally, $1,620 in monetary
sanctions to Plaintiff within 30 days of the date of this Order.
 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If the
department does not receive an email and there are no appearances at the
hearing, the motion will be placed off calendar.
 
Dated this 3rd day of October 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J. Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



