  Case Number:  21STCV30158    Hearing Date:   November 1, 2023    Dept:  15 [TENTATIVE]
ORDER RE MOTIONS TO COMPEL DEPOSITIONS
            On August 12, 2021 Plaintiffs John
D. Fernandez, Chirstina M. Fernandez, and Katherine Panaqua filed this
action.  In July 2023, Defendant Zenith
Electronics LLC emailed Plaintiffs’ counsel about dates for Plaintiffs’
depositions but did not receive an answer. 
On August 29, 2023, Defendant noticed the depositions of the three
Plaintiffs for September 13-15, 2023.  On
August 31, 2023, Plaintiffs’ counsel stated Plaintiffs would not appear for the
depositions.  After the parties
participated in an informal discovery conference, on October 10, 2023,
Defendant filed three motions to compel the depositions of Plaintiffs.  Other defendants joined the motions.  Plaintiffs did not file oppositions.
            Any party may obtain discovery,
subject to restrictions, by taking the oral deposition of any person, including
any party to the action.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.010.)  A properly served
deposition notice is effective to require a party or party-affiliated deponent
to attend and to testify, as well as to produce documents for inspection and
copying.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.280,
subd. (a).)  “If, after service of a
deposition notice, a party . . . without having served a valid objection . . .
fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for
inspection any document . . . described in the deposition notice, the party
giving notice may move for an order compelling deponent’s attendance and
testimony, and the production . . . of any document . . . described in the
deposition notice.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.450, subd. (a).)
            Defendant showed it served valid
depositions for Plaintiffs’ depositions, Plaintiffs did not serve objections to
the notices, and Plaintiffs did not appear for the noticed depositions.  By not filing any opposition, Plaintiffs
failed to show any good reason for failing to appear at the depositions.
Defendant’s motions are GRANTED.  Plaintiffs John D. Fernandez, Chirstina M.
Fernandez, and Katherine Panaqua are each ordered to appear for depositions
within 15 days of the date of this order. 

Defendant requests discovery
sanctions.  Where a motion to compel a
party’s appearance and testimony at deposition is granted, the court shall
impose a monetary sanction in favor of the party who noticed the deposition and
against the deponent, unless the court finds the one subject to sanctions acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (g)(1).)  Defense
counsel requests sanctions for six hours of work on each motion for a total of
eighteen hours.  That is an excessive
amount of time for three identical motions.
Defendant’s requests for sanctions are
GRANTED and imposed against Plaintiff John D. Fernandez in the amount of $480,
against Chirstina M. Fernandez in the amount of $480, and against Katherine
Panaqua in the amount of $480, to be paid with twenty days of the date of this
order.  
            Moving party to give notice.
 