  Case Number:  23STCV13288    Hearing Date:   January 25, 2024    Dept:  14 Maria Carlos vs. General MotorsCase Background
 
Lemon law case involving Plaintiff’s
2015 Chevrolet Cruze. 
 
On July 8, 2021, Plaintiffs filed their
Complaint for (1) Breach of Implied Warranty of Merchantability, (2) Breach of
Express Warranty, (3) Fraudulent Concealment, and (4) Violation of the CLRA against
Defendants General Motors LLC (“GM”) and DOES 1-10.
 
No trial date has yet been set.
 
(1)        Demurrer
 
            Defendant GM
now demurs, per Code of Civil Procedure § 430.10(e) to the third and
fourth causes of action in the Complaint on the grounds that there are no facts
sufficient to support that cause of action against Defendant GM. 
 
Decision
 
The demurrer to the third cause of
action is OVERRULED.
 
The demurrer to the fourth cause of
action is SUSTAINED, with 20 days leave to amend.
 
Third Cause of
Action: Fraudulent Concealment
 
The elements of fraudulent
concealment are:
 

Defendant
     concealed or suppressed a material fact;
defendant
     was under a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff;
defendant
     intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud
     the plaintiff; 
plaintiff
     was unaware of the fact and would not have acted in the same way knowing
     of the concealed or suppressed fact;
causation;  and
the
     plaintiff sustained damage.

 
Blickman Turkus, LP v. MF Downtown Sunnyvale, LLC
(2008) 162 Cal.App.4th 858, 868.
 
The rule of specific pleading for fraud
claims, including how, when, where, to whom, and by what means
misrepresentations were communicated, is intended to apply to affirmative
misrepresentations, and not to concealment. Alfaro v. Community Housing
Improvement System & Planning Assn., Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1356,
1384. Concealment is sufficiently pled when the complaint as a whole provides
sufficient notice of the particular claims against defendants. Jones v.
ConocoPhillips (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 1187, 1200. 
 
“There are “four circumstances in
which nondisclosure or concealment may constitute actionable fraud: (1) when
the defendant is in a fiduciary relationship with the plaintiff; (2) when the
defendant had exclusive knowledge of material facts not known to the plaintiff;
(3) when the defendant actively conceals a material fact from the plaintiff;
and (4) when the defendant makes partial representations but also suppresses
some material facts.”” LiMandri v. Judkins (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 326,
336 (quoting Heliotis v. Schuman (1986) 181 Cal.App.3d 646, 651).
 
Statute of Limitations
 
Based upon the dates included in
the four corners of the complaint, Plaintiffs’ fraud by omission cause of
action is not barred by the applicable statute of limitations. 
 
Code of Civil Procedure § 338
provides in relevant part:
 
“(d) An action for relief on the
ground of fraud or mistake. The cause of action in that case is not deemed to
have accrued until the discovery, by the aggrieved party, of the facts
constituting the fraud or mistake.”
 
Since the statute of limitations is an affirmative defense,
the facts supporting it must appear affirmatively on the face of the complaint.
See Arguello v. Edinger (1858) 10 Cal. 150, 157, Smith v. Hall
(1861) 19 Cal. 85, 86; E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Services (2007)
153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1316.
 
Here, the dates alleged in the
complaint do not affirmatively indicate when the statute started running. Plaintiffs
have alleged that Defendant GM concealed the relevant transmission defect at
the time of the purchase and continued to conceal it throughout various service
visits up to an unspecified date. (Complaint ¶¶ 90-107). None of the other
alleged facts establish that Plaintiff actually discovered (or should have
discovered) the defect on any specific date that is outside the statute of
limitations. There is simply no way to say as a matter of law that the
complaint is time-barred.
 
Substantive Pleading
 
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant GM
failed to disclose that the six-speed transmission installed in Plaintiff’s
vehicle was susceptible to a significant series of malfunctions. (Complaint
¶¶ 15-16, 27-31). Plaintiff alleged that Defendant GM received extensive
and specific prior warnings about the transmission (Complaint ¶¶ 45-67),
but instead continued to advertise it as “smooth” and “crisp.” (Complaint
¶ 68-76).
 
Defendant GM argues that it had no
duty to disclose the alleged defect. For this proposition, Defendant GM relies
on Bigler-Engler v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 276. But Bigler-Engler
is not on-point.
 
            In Bigler-Engler,
the plaintiff rented a medical device from her doctor which she claimed caused
serious injury to her knee. Bigler-Engler, supra, 7 Cal.App.5th at 286-292. Evaluating plaintiff’s
claim against the device manufacturer for fraudulent concealment, the Court of
Appeal referred to the above-quoted language from LiMandri v. Judkins, setting
forth the four circumstances that give rise to a duty to disclose. Bigler-Engler,
supra, 7 Cal.App.5th
286-292 at 311. The panel stated that in the absence of a fiduciary
relationship, only the last three LiMandri categories could apply; but
even those three categories presupposed the existence of some other
relationship between the parties. Id. They ultimately held that because
there was no transactional or other relationship between the plaintiff and the
medical device manufacturer, the underpinning for applying any of the LiMandri
categories was absent. Id. at 312. The Court of Appeal rejected
plaintiff’s invitation to transplant the duty to disclose that exists in a
products liability context into a fraud context. Id.
 
            The
circumstances of buying a car are widely different from renting a medical
device. Doctors are not franchisees of medical device companies, and most
patients do not make physician appointments out of an eager desire to purchase
the latest model of pacemaker. Most patients wouldn’t know any particular
manufacturer from a hole in the ground, whereas auto makers create and operate
huge brands that inspire high levels of loyalty from consumers. People go to a
Chevy dealer to buy a Chevy, and they generally expect that the dealer (like most
franchisees) is significantly under the control of the manufacturer. See Daniel
v. Ford Motor Co. (9th Cir. 2015) 806 F.3d 1217, 1226-27 (auto
manufacturers communicate with their consumers through their dealerships).
While consumers are certainly aware of the difference between the maker and the
dealer, the difference is more theoretical than real. In the circumstances of
this case, there is at least a question of fact as to whether visiting an auto
dealer creates a sufficient relationship between the consumer and the automaker
itself.
 
            Plaintiffs
have pled that Defendant GM had exclusive knowledge of the defect. That puts
this case within the second LiMandri category: a party with exclusive
knowledge has a duty to share that knowledge. See Falk v. General Motors
Corp. (N.D. Cal. 2007) 496 F.Supp.2d 1088, 1096-97 (that duty still exists
even where the ignorant party could have discovered the information by engaging
in pre-transaction research). Therefore, Plaintiffs have pled sufficient facts
to show that Defendant GM had a duty to disclose the defect.
 
Fourth Cause of Action: CLRA
 
            Civil Code
§ 1770 provides in relevant part as follows:
 
“(a) The unfair methods of
competition and unfair or deceptive acts or practices listed in this
subdivision undertaken by any person in a transaction intended to result or
that results in the sale or lease of goods or services to any consumer are
unlawful:
…
(5) Representing that goods or
services have sponsorship, approval, characteristics, ingredients, uses,
benefits, or quantities that they do not have or that a person has a
sponsorship, approval, status, affiliation, or connection that the person does
not have.
…
(7) Representing that goods or
services are of a particular standard, quality, or grade, or that goods are of
a particular style or model, if they are of another.
…
(9) Advertising goods or services
with intent not to sell them as advertised.
…
(14) Representing that a
transaction confers or involves rights, remedies, or obligations that it does
not have or involve, or that are prohibited by law.
 
Civil Code § 1780 provides in
relevant part as follows:
 
“(a) Any consumer who suffers any
damage as a result of the use or employment by any person of a method, act, or
practice declared to be unlawful by Section 1770 may bring an action against
that person to recover or obtain any of the following:
(1) Actual damages, but in no case
shall the total award of damages in a class action be less than one thousand
dollars ($1,000).
(2) An order enjoining the
methods, acts, or practices.
(3) Restitution of property.
(4) Punitive damages.
(5) Any other relief that the
court deems proper.”
 
Statute of Limitations
 
            Civil Code
§ 1783 provides:
 
“Any action brought under the
specific provisions of Section 1770 shall be commenced not more than three
years from the date of the commission of such method, act, or practice.”
 
It is unclear whether the “Discovery Rule” applies to claims
under the CLRA. See Purdum v. Holmes (2010) 187 Cal.App.4th
916, 924. However, neither party addresses this issue – both analyze the
statute of limitations issue as if the exact same period and rules apply to
both the third and fourth causes of action. Therefore, the court does likewise.
For the reasons given above, the CLRA claim is not time-barred.
 
Notice
 
            Civil Code
§ 1782 requires that, before filing a lawsuit, a consumer give notice to
the manufacturer or seller and allow them time to cure the issue. Notice must
be given at least 30 days prior to filing a lawsuit. Civil Code § 1782(a).
If the manufacturer or seller agrees to an “appropriate” curative measure
within that period, the suit is barred. Civil Code § 1782(b). However,
there is no need to comply with the notice procedure if the plaintiff is only
seeking injunctive relief. Civil Code § 1782.
 
            Paragraph
156 of the Complaint admits that Plaintiffs have not complied with the notice
period. That same paragraph simultaneously disavows “damages” and requests “restitution.”
But “restitution” is a separate remedy from injunctive relief, and there is no
meaningful difference between it and damages. Plaintiffs cannot seek an award
of restitution without complying with the notice procedure.
 
Substantive Pleading
 
            As noted
above, the ordinary rules of fraud pleading do not apply to a concealment
claim. It is not entirely clear whether they apply to a claim under the CLRA.
See Gutierrez v. CarMax Auto Superstores California (2018) 19 Cal.App.5th
1234, 1261. However, unlike common law fraud, a claim under the CLRA cannot be based
on the simple failure to disclose; it must identify some specific
representation that was contrary to, or necessarily concealed, the true facts. Daugherty
v. American Honda Motor Co., Inc. (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 824,
833-834; see e.g. Gutierrez, supra, 19 Cal.App.5th at
1261-63 (representation that a car subject to a safety recall for a brake light
part had passed a 125-point inspection which included brake lights). And as a
corollary, it must allege that the Plaintiffs were damaged by that
representation. See Civil Code § 1780(a).
 
            The
Complaint fails on this ground as well. While it lists a long series of
advertising representations that Plaintiffs claim were false, it does not
identify which of them were made to Plaintiffs. (Complaint ¶¶ 152-153).
Nor does it allege which ones the Plaintiffs actually relied upon.
 
Conclusion
 
            Plaintiffs
have properly pled a claim for fraudulent concealment because they have alleged
a defect which Defendant GM did not disclose despite its exclusive knowledge.
The presence or absence of a statute of limitations defense is not evident on
the face of the pleadings. However, Plaintiffs have not properly pled a CLRA
claim because (a) they have sought restitution without complying with the
notice requirement, and (b) they have failed to identify any specific
misrepresentation upon which they relied.
 
            Therefore,
the demurrer to the third cause of action is OVERRULED, and the demurrer to fourth
cause of action is SUSTAINED, with 20 days leave to amend.
 
(2)        Motion to
Strike
 
            Defendant GM
now moves this court, per Code of Civil Procedure §§ 435-436, for an order
striking the punitive damages allegations from the FAC. 
 
Decision
 
The motion is DENIED. 
 
As discussed above, Plaintiffs have properly pled a claim
for fraud by omission, which can form the basis for recovery of punitive
damages. Civil Code § 3294(a) &(c)(3). 