  Case Number:  21STCV37567    Hearing Date:   May 2, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING - NO. 1
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


April
  18, 2024 continued to May 2, 2024




CASE NUMBER


21STCV37567




MOTION


Motion
  for Summary Adjudication




MOVING PARTY


Defendant Dale Prokupek, M.D.




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff
  Pericles Chamis 



 
MOVING PAPERS:
 

Notice
     of Motion and Motion for Summary Adjudication; Memorandum of Points and
     Authorities
Separate
     Statement of Undisputed Material Facts 
Notice
     of Lodging Separate Volume of Documentary Evidence
Compendium
     of Evidence
Declaration
     of Kathleen A. Stosuy

 
OPPOSITION PAPERS:
 

Memorandum of Points and
     Authorities in Opposition to Motion for Summary Adjudication
Separate Statement of Disputed
     Material Facts 
Declaration of Waukeen McCoy
Declaration of Vinay Ginjupalli
Declaration of Philip Bickler,
     M.D.
Declaration of Daniel Brelian M.D.
Declaration of Elena Rubin, M.D.
Declaration
     of Andrew Pham, M.D.

 
REPLY PAPERS:
 

Reply
     to Plaintiff’s Opposition to Motion for Summary Judgment
Objections
     to Evidence

 
SUPPLEMENTAL PAPERS:
 

Plaintiff’s
     Supplemental Briefing
Defendant
     Dale Prokupek, M.D.’s Supplemental Reply 

 
BACKGROUND
 
On or about November 4, 2020, Plaintiff Pericles Chamis (“Plaintiff”)
underwent an upper endoscopy procedure, during which “Plaintiff began vomiting
and convulsing on the operating table.” 
(Fifth Amended Complaint [“5AC”] ¶¶ 26, 72.)  A subsequent MRI revealed that Plaintiff
suffered a stroke, causing central visual impairment, dysphagia, and cognitive
and behavioral issues.  (5AC ¶ 32.)  Plaintiff brought suit against the surgeon,
Defendant Dale Prokupek, M.D. (“Prokupek” or “Defendant”) and Defendant Dale
Prokupek, M.D., Inc. (“Prokupek Inc.”); Dr. Prokupek’s company, Defendant
Millennium Medical Associates, Inc. (“Millennium”); Dr. Prokupek’s employee,
Defendant Andrew Gelis (“Gelis”); anesthesiologist Defendant Michelle Dinh,
M.D. (“Dinh”), Defendant Soma Surgery Center, Inc. (“Soma”), where the
endoscopy was performed; Defendant Sean Ravaei, owner and operator of Soma
(“Ravaei”); nurse practitioner Defendant Jeanne Hershey-Weber (“Hershey-Weber”);
and nurse Defendant Melanie Kerr (“Kerr”); alleging three causes of action: (1)
professional negligence – medical malpractice; (2) breach of fiduciary duty;
and (3) intentional misrepresentation.
 
Defendant Prokupek now moves for summary adjudication, on the
following issues: 
 
(1)  
Plaintiff cannot maintain all required elements of the
second cause of action for Breach of Fiduciary Duty – Lack of Informed Consent
against Defendant Prokupek 
(2)  
Plaintiff cannot maintain all required elements of the
third cause of action for Intentional Misrepresentation on the issue of
informed consent against Defendant Prokupek
 
(3)  
Plaintiff cannot maintain all required elements of the
third cause of action for Intentional Misrepresentation on the issue of changes
to medical records against Defendant Prokupek.
 
Plaintiff opposes the motion and Prokupek
replies.
 
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
 
            The Court rules as follows with
respect to Prokupek’s evidentiary objections:
 
1.    
Overruled
2.    
Overruled
3.    
Overruled
4.    
Overruled
5.    
Overruled
6.    
Overruled
7.    
Overruled
8.    
Sustained
9.    
Sustained
10.  Sustained
 
LEGAL STANDARDS – SUMMARY ADJUDICATION 
 
A party may move for
summary adjudication as to one or more causes of action, affirmative defenses,
claims for damages, or issues of duty if that party contends that there is no
merit to the cause of action, defense, or claim for damages, or if the party
contends that there is no duty owed.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).)  “A motion for summary adjudication shall be
granted only if it completely disposes of a cause of action, an
affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty.”  (Ibid.,
emphasis added)  A cause of action has no merit if: (1) one or
more elements of the cause of action cannot be separately established, even if
that element is separately pleaded, or (2) a defendant establishes an
affirmative defense to that cause of action. 
(See Code Civ. Proc., §
437c, subd. (n); Union Bank v. Superior
Court (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 573, 583.) 
Once the defendant has shown that a cause of action has no merit, the
burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable issue of material fact
exists as to that cause of action.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (o)(2); Union Bank v. Superior Court, supra, 31 Cal.App.4th at p.
583.)  
 
“[T]he party moving for
summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue
of material fact and that he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law[.]
There is a triable issue of material fact if, and only if, the evidence would
allow a reasonable trier of fact to find the underlying fact in favor of the
party opposing the motion in accordance with the applicable standard of proof.”
¿(Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850
(hereafter Aguilar).) ¿“[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears an
initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence
of any triable issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of production,
he causes a shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a burden of
production of his own to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a
triable issue of material fact.” ¿(Ibid.; Smith v. Wells Fargo Bank,
N.A. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 1463, 1474 [summary judgment standards held by Aguilar
apply to summary adjudication motions].)  Further, in line with Aguilar,
“[o]n a motion for summary adjudication, the trial court has no discretion to
exercise.  If a triable issue of material fact exists as to the challenged
causes of action, the motion must be denied. If there is no triable issue of
fact, the motion must be granted.”  (Fisherman's Wharf Bay Cruise Corp.
v. Superior Court (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 309, 320.) 
 
Further, “the trial court
may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a factfinder to determine whose
version is more likely true.  Nor may the
trial court grant summary judgment based on the court's evaluation of credibility.”  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th. at p. 840
[cleaned up]; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of Transportation
(2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or
summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the
light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences
in favor of that party”].)  
 
EXCESS
PAGES OPPOSITION
 
            In Reply, Prokupek objects that
the Opposition brief contains 22 pages, in contravention of California Rules of
Court, rule 3.1113(d), limiting opposition briefs to 20 pages, absent leave of
court.   Therefore, the Court disregards
the excess pages 21 and 22 of the Opposition brief.
 
DISCUSSION
 

BURDEN
     SHIFTING – ISSUES NO. 1 AND 2

 
“A defendant or
cross-defendant has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has
no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of
action, even if not separately pleaded, cannot be established, or that there is
a complete defense to the cause of action. Once the defendant or
cross-defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff or
cross-complainant to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts
exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2);
accord Doe v. Good Samaritan Hosp. (2018) 23 Cal.App.5th 653, 661 [“It
is not until the defendant meets this burden that the burden of production
shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable issue of one or more material
facts exists as to the defense”].)  
 
Furthermore, “[t]he
requirement of a separate statement from the moving party and a responding
statement from the party opposing summary judgment serves two functions: to
give the parties notice of the material facts at issue in the motion and to
permit the trial court to focus on whether those facts are truly
undisputed.”  (Parkview Villas Assn.,
Inc. v. State Farm Fire & Casualty Co. (2005) 133 Cal.App.4th 1197,
1210.)   Stated in a different way,
“[t]he purpose of a summary judgment proceeding is to permit a party to show
that material factual claims arising from the pleadings need not be tried
because they are not in dispute. The purpose is carried out in section 437c,
subdivision (b)(1) by requiring the moving party to include in the moving
papers a separate statement setting forth plainly and concisely all material
facts which the moving party contends are undisputed together with a reference
to the supporting evidence.  The
complaint measures the materiality of the facts tendered in a defendant's challenge
to the plaintiff's cause of action, hence the moving party's separate statement
must address the material facts set forth in the complaint.”  (Teselle v. McLoughlin (2009) 173
Cal.App.4th 156, 168 [cleaned up].)  And
“[w]here the evidence presented by defendant does not support judgment in his
favor, the motion must be denied without looking at the opposing evidence, if
any, submitted by plaintiff.”  (Hawkins
v. Wilton (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 936, 940.) 

 
            Prokupek contends that there are 5
Undisputed Material Facts which support his arguments that Plaintiff cannot
prevail on either the second or third causes of action vis-à-vis Issues Nos. 1
and 2.  To support his arguments, Prokupek
advances in pertinent part the Deposition
Transcript of Plaintiff, 38:6-22, in support of Undisputed Material Fact Nos. 5
and 10 which state:  “Plaintiff knew he
was taking Xarelto to thin his blood to protect him from blood clots.”  
 
            But Undisputed Material Fact Nos. 5 and
10 are not wholly supported by the cited evidence.  In particular, Plaintiff does not testify
that he knew that taking Xarelto protected him from blood clots.  (See Defendant’s Notice of Lodging Separate
Volume of Documentary Evidence, Exh. 2, 38:6-22.)  As such, Prokupek’s Undisputed Material Fact
Nos. 5 and 10 are in part without evidentiary support.  And in the absence of such material facts, Prokupek
will not be able to persuade the Court that there are no triable issues of
material fact concerning Plaintiff’s Second and Third causes of action
vis-à-vis Issues Nos. 1 and 2.   
 
In short, because Prokupek
fails to support all of the facts it claims are material and undisputed with
sufficient, competent evidence, the Court finds that Prokupek has not met his
initial burdens of production and persuasion. 
Consequently, the Court determines that the burden of production does
not shift to Plaintiff to produce evidence that raises triable issues of
material fact vis-à-vis Issues Nos. 1 and 2. 

 

 BREACH OF FIDUCIARY DUTY

 
Notwithstanding the procedural
defect addressed above in Section 1, the Court alternatively addresses
Prokupek’s motion regarding Issue No. 1. 

 
To prevail on a claim of
breach of fiduciary duty, Plaintiff must prove (1) the existence of a fiduciary
duty; (2) breach of the fiduciary duty; and (3) damage proximately caused by
the breach. (Jameson v. Desta (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 1144, 1164.) “A
physician has a fiduciary duty to disclose all information material to the
patient’s decision when soliciting a patient’s consent to a medical procedure.
(Ibid.)
 
Plaintiff alleges Prokupek
breached his fiduciary duty to obtain Plaintiff’s informed consent by failing
to inform Plaintiff of the “inherently dangerous” risks of ceasing his Xarelto
medication when instructing Plaintiff to cease taking that medication 5-7 days
prior to undergoing the upper endoscopy procedure.  (5AC ¶¶ 89-90.)
 
Defendant provides excerpts of
the deposition of Nurse Hershey-Weber, indicating that Nurse Weber was the one
who, on both June 22, 2020 and October 14, 2020, instructed Plaintiff to stop
taking his Xarelto medication five days prior to the upper endoscopy
procedure.  (Ex. B at pp. 79:20-81:12;
Ex. C at pp 92:16-93:10.)  Defendant
further provides excerpts of Plaintiff’s deposition, indicating that Plaintiff
knew he was taking Xarelto to thin his blood. (Ex. D at p. 38:6-22.)
 
Regarding Prokupek’s first
argument that it was Nurse Hershey-Weber, not Prokupek, who gave Plaintiff the
instruction to stop taking his Xarelto medication five days prior to the
procedure, the Court previously noted, in connection with Nurse Hershey-Weber’s
motion for summary judgment:
 
In California, Nurse Practitioners are not
authorized to treat patients without a supervising physician. (See Plaintiff’s
Opposition to Separate Statement of Disputed Material Facts, fn. 1.) Therefore,
to the extent there was a fiduciary duty to disclose the risks of going off his
Xarelto medication and undergoing the endoscopy procedure, that duty attached
to Dr. Prokupek, not Hershey-Weber. (See Moore v. Regents of University of
California (1990) 51 Cal.3d 120, 133.)
 
Therefore, the fact that it
was Nurse Hershey-Weber who gave the instruction to Plaintiff, and not Prokupek,
is not persuasive, because the ultimate fiduciary duty to disclose belongs to
Prokupek, as Nurse Hershey-Weber’s supervising physician, who signed off on the
medical record and progress notes.  (See
Ex. B at p. 80:9-10.)
 
Further, with respect to
Defendant’s argument that Plaintiff was already aware of the inherent dangers
of going off the medication he was taking to thin his blood and prevent blood
clots, the Court disagrees.  Plaintiff
may not have been aware that going off the medication for five days would
increase his risk of blood clots and stroke as much as it did.
 
Therefore, the Court finds
that Prokupek has not met his initial burdens of production and persuasion to
establish that Plaintiff will be unable to establish that Prokupek breached his
fiduciary duty to obtain informed consent when his nursing staff instructed
Plaintiff to stop taking his Xarelto.  
 

INTENTIONAL
     MISREPRESENTATION 

 
“Fraud is an intentional tort; it is the element of fraudulent intent,
or intent to deceive, that distinguishes it from actionable negligent
misrepresentation and from nonactionable innocent misrepresentation. It is the
element of intent which makes fraud actionable, irrespective of any contractual
or fiduciary duty one party might owe to the other.” (City of Atascadero v.
Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc. (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 445,
482.)  And “The well-established common
law elements of fraud which give rise to the tort action for deceit[1]
are: (1) misrepresentation of a material fact (consisting of false
representation, concealment or nondisclosure); (2) knowledge of falsity
(scienter); (3) intent to deceive and induce reliance; (4) justifiable reliance
on the misrepresentation; and (5) resulting damage.” (Id. at p. 481.)[2]
 
Plaintiff alleges Prokupek (1) “falsely advised Plaintiff that it was
safe for him to stop taking Xarelto for one week prior to his procedure” (5AC ¶
108); and (2) altered Plaintiff’s medical records to remove indications that
Plaintiff was advised to stop taking Xarelto to obscure the cause of
Plaintiff’s stroke (5AC ¶ 112.)
 
a.     INFORMED CONSENT 
 
Again, notwithstanding the
procedural defect addressed above in Section 1, the Court alternatively
addresses Prokupek’s motion regarding Issue No. 2.  
 
In support of Issue 2, Prokupek provides the same evidence that it was
Nurse Hershey-Weber, not Prokupek, who gave Plaintiff the instruction to stop
taking his Xarelto, and that Plaintiff was aware of the inherent risks in going
off the medication he took to thin his blood to prevent blood clots.
 
As discussed above, the fact that it was Nurse Hershey-Weber, as
opposed to Prokupek, who instructed Plaintiff to stop taking his Xarelto, does
not change the fact that Prokupek was ultimately the supervising physician, who
signed off on the medical notes for Plaintiff’s visits with Nurse Hershey-Weber.  It also does not change the fact that
Prokupek knew of the risks, yet failed to disclose them, either directly or
through his staff.  And the fact that
Plaintiff knew generally that he took Xarelto to thin his blood does not mean
Plaintiff was aware of the degree of risk of stopping the medication for five
days.
 
Therefore, Prokupek has not met his burdens of production or persuasion
to establish that Plaintiff will be unable to prevail on his third cause of
action for intentional misrepresentation under a theory that Dr. Prokupek
failed to disclose the risks of going off his Xarelto medication.
 
b.     ALTERATIONS TO PLAINTIFF’S MEDICAL RECORDS
 
For the same reasons the Court articulated in
the concurrent tentative ruling on Defendant Gelis’s motion for summary
judgment, Plaintiff’s theory of liability based upon the alleged alterations to
his medical records fails, because Plaintiff has not demonstrated any actual
and justifiable reliance on the altered records.  However, “[a] motion for
summary adjudication shall be granted only if it completely disposes of a cause
of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of
duty.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).)  
 
Because the Court finds Prokupek has not met
his burdens of production and persuasion with respect to Issue 2, Issue 3 would
not completely dispose of the intentional misrepresentation cause of
action.  Therefore, the Court cannot grant summary adjudication as to
Issue 3, notwithstanding Plaintiff’s failure to demonstrate actual and
justifiable reliance.
 
At the hearing, Prokupek’s counsel argued
that pursuant to Lilienthal & Fowler v. Superior Court (1993) 12
Cal.App.4th 1848 (hereafter Lilienthal), the Court could grant summary
adjudication as to the altered medical records issue, even though it does not
dispose of the entire cause of action. 
The Court continued the hearing to allow the parties to file supplemental
briefing regarding the issue.
 
Having now reviewed the parties’ supplemental
briefing and the case law, the Court is still unpersuaded that it may properly
grant summary adjudication as to the altered medical records issue here.
 
In Lilienthal, the plaintiff sought damages for breach of
contract and for negligence.  Each cause of action combined the
defendants’ alleged legal malpractice regarding defendants’ handling of two
separate and unrelated matters.  The defendants filed a motion for summary
adjudication on the basis that one of the underlying matters was barred by the
applicable statute of limitations.  The trial court denied summary adjudication
on the basis that it would not dispose of an entire cause of action, pursuant
to the plain language of Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision
(f).  The appellate court reversed, noting that the intent of the
legislature in enacting subdivision (f) was to eliminate summary adjudication
motions that would not reduce the costs and length of litigation.  It
clarified that “cause of action” in the context of section 437c, subdivision
(f) means “a group of related paragraphs in the complaint reflecting a separate
theory of liability.”  (Lilenthal, supra, 12 Cal.App.4th at
p. 1853.)  Because plaintiffs sought to
recover damages based on two distinct obligations, each obligation created a
separate and distinct claim, and the adjudication of one of the two underlying
legal matters for which malpractice was alleged would function to reduce the cost
and length of trial.  Therefore, Lilienthal held, “a party may
present a motion for summary adjudication challenging a separate and distinct
wrongful act even though combined with other wrongful acts alleged in the same
cause of action.”  (Id. at pp. 1854-1855.)  
 
Seven years later, in Catalano v. Superior Court, the defendant
moved for summary adjudication on the claim for punitive damages, presented as
five separate issues.  The trial court granted summary adjudication as to
the first four, but denied summary adjudication as to the fifth issue. 
The appellate court reversed, finding that the trial court erred in granting
summary adjudication as to only part of the punitive damages claim. 
Specifically, the appellate court held, “Unlike the claims in Lilienthal,
which were completely separate and distinct, having nothing to do with one
another, the claim for punitive damages here is based on an interrelated set of
facts and circumstances. If any one or more of the facts would support a claim
for punitive damages, then summary adjudication is not available to eliminate
from trial other facts relating to the claim for punitive damages.”  (Catalano
v. Superior Court (2000) 82 Cal.App.4th 91, 97–98.)  
 
As an initial matter, “resort to legislative history is appropriate
only where statutory language is ambiguous.” 
(Kaufman & Broad Communities, Inc. v. Performance Plastering, Inc.
(2005) 133 Cal.App.4th 26, 29.)  “In
determining intent, we first look to the words of the statute, giving language
its usual, ordinary meaning.  If there is
no ambiguity in the language, we presume the Legislature meant what it said,
and the plain meaning of the statute governs.” (Ibid.)  “Only when the language of a statute is susceptible
to more than one reasonable construction is it appropriate to turn to extrinsic
aids, including the legislative history of the measure, to ascertain its
meaning.”  (Id. at pp. 29-30.)
 
Here, the plain language of the statute is clear: “[a] motion for summary adjudication shall be
granted only if it completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative
defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
437c, subd. (f)(1).)
 
However, to the extent Lilienthal stands for the proposition
that the legislative intent behind section 437c permits courts to grant summary
adjudication as to separate and distinct wrongful acts alleged in a single
cause of action when doing so would reduce the cost or length of trial, the
Court does not find such a situation presented here.
 
Here, as Plaintiff points out, the issues of
the altered medical records and the improper Xarelto instruction are inexorably
intertwined, because Defendant is alleged to have altered Plaintiff’s medical
records to cover up the improper Xarelto instruction.  Moreover, the issue of the altered medical
records will still inevitably arise at trial because it goes to the veracity of
the evidence that will be used to prove up the Xarelto instruction claim.  As such, the two issues are interrelated to
such a degree that disposing of the altered records claim through summary
adjudication will not substantially reduce the cost or length of trial.
 
Therefore, having denied summary adjudication
as to issue 2, the Court cannot grant summary adjudication as to issue 3, as it
would not dispose of an entire cause of action.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Therefore, Prokupek’s Motion for Summary Adjudication is denied.  Prokupek has not met his burdens of
production and persuasion to show that there are no triable issues of material
facts concerning the Second or Third causes of action.  
 
The Clerk of the Court shall provide notice of the Court’s
ruling.  
 
 
 
DATED:  May 2, 2024                                                           ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 


