


[1] “A deceit, within the meaning of the last section, is
either: 
1.
The suggestion, as a fact, of that which is not true, by one who does not
believe it to be true;
2.
The assertion, as a fact, of that which is not true, by one who has no
reasonable ground for believing it to be true; 
3.
The suppression of a fact, by one who is bound to disclose it, or who gives
information of other facts which are likely to mislead for want of
communication of that fact; or, 
4.
A promise, made without any intention of performing it.” (Civ. Code, § 1710.)
 


[2] “[Name of plaintiff] claims that [name of defendant]
made a false representation that harmed [him/her/nonbinary pronoun/it]. To
establish this claim, [name of plaintiff] must prove all of the following: 
1.
That [name of defendant] represented to [name of plaintiff] that a fact was
true; 
2.
That [name of defendant]'s representation was false; 
3.
That [name of defendant] knew that the representation was false when
[he/she/nonbinary pronoun] made it, or that [he/she/nonbinary pronoun] made the
representation recklessly and without regard for its truth; 
4.
That [name of defendant] intended that [name of plaintiff] rely on the
representation; 
5.
That [name of plaintiff] reasonably relied on [name of defendant]'s
representation; 
6.
That [name of plaintiff] was harmed; and 
7.
That [name of plaintiff]'s reliance on [name of defendant]'s representation was
a substantial factor in causing [his/her/nonbinary pronoun/its] harm.” (CACI
1900 (2022 ed.).)

TENTATIVE
RULING - NO. 2
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


May
  2, 2024




CASE NUMBER


21STCV37567




MOTION


Motion
  for Summary Judgment/Summary Adjudication




MOVING PARTIES


Defendants Sean Ravaei, D.P.M. and Soma
  Surgery Center, Inc.




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff
  Pericles Chamis 



 
MOVING PAPERS:
 

Notice
     of Motion and Motion for Summary Judgment/Summary Adjudication; Memorandum
     of Points and Authorities; Declaration of Rudolph A. Bedford, M.D.;
     Declaration of Sean Ravaei, D.P.M.
Compendium
     of Exhibits (Volumes 1 through 3)
Separate
     Statement of Undisputed Material Facts 
Declaration
     of Sean L. Cooper, Esq.

 
OPPOSITION PAPERS:
 

Opposition to Motion for Summary
     Judgment/Summary Adjudication; Memorandum of Points and Authorities
Separate Statement of Disputed
     Material Facts 
Declaration of Daniel Brelian M.D.
Declaration of Waukeen McCoy 
Declaration of Elena Rubin, M.D.
Declaration
     of Philip Bickler, M.D.
Declaration
     of Marilyn E. McCullum, BSN, RN, CEN

 
REPLY PAPERS:
 

Reply
     to Plaintiff’s Opposition to Motion for Summary Judgment/Summary
     Adjudication
Evidentiary
     Objections
Request
     for Judicial Notice

 
BACKGROUND
 
On or about November 4, 2020, Plaintiff Pericles Chamis (“Plaintiff”)
underwent an upper endoscopy procedure, during which “Plaintiff began vomiting
and convulsing on the operating table.” 
(Fifth Amended Complaint [“5AC”] ¶¶ 20, 26.)  A subsequent MRI revealed that Plaintiff
suffered a stroke, causing central visual impairment, dysphagia, and cognitive
and behavioral issues.  (5AC ¶ 32.)  Plaintiff brought suit against the surgeon,
Defendant Dale Prokupek, M.D. and Defendant Dale Prokupek, M.D., Inc.
(“Prokupek”); Dr. Prokupek’s company, Defendant Millennium Medical Associates,
Inc. (“Millennium”); Dr. Prokupek’s employee Defendant Andrew Gelis (“Gelis”); anesthesiologist
Defendant Michelle Dinh, M.D. (“Dinh”), Defendant Soma Surgery Center, Inc.
(“Soma”), where the endoscopy was performed; Defendant Sean Ravaei, owner and
operator of Soma (“Ravaei”); nurse practitioner Defendant Jeanne Hershey-Weber (“Hershey-Weber”);
and nurse Defendant Melanie Kerr (“Kerr”); alleging three causes of action: (1)
professional negligence – medical malpractice; (2) breach of fiduciary duty;
and (3) intentional misrepresentation.
 
Ravaei and Soma (“Moving Defendants”) now move for summary judgment,
or in the alternative, summary adjudication, on the following issues: 
 
1.    
Defendant Soma Surgery Center, Inc. is entitled to
summary adjudication on the first cause of action for Medical Malpractice as
its care and treatment met the standard of care.
 
2.    
Defendant Soma Surgery Center, Inc. is entitled to
summary adjudication on the first cause of action for Medical Malpractice as it
did not cause or contribute to plaintiff’s alleged injuries.
 
3.    
Plaintiff cannot maintain the second cause of action
for Breach of Fiduciary Duty – Lack Of Informed Consent against defendant Soma
Surgery Center, Inc. as plaintiff was consented for the discontinuance of
Xarelto prior to undergoing his procedure at Soma Surgery Center.
 
4.    
Plaintiff cannot maintain the third cause of action for
Intentional Misrepresentation against Defendant Soma Surgery Center, Inc. as he
cannot prove the necessary elements.
 
5.    
Defendant Sean Ravaei, D.P.M. is entitled to summary
adjudication as he did not treat plaintiff and therefore could not have
violated the standard of care as necessary for plaintiff to prevail on his
Medical Malpractice cause of action.
 
6.    
Defendant Sean Ravaei, D.P.M. is entitled to summary
adjudication on the Medical Malpractice cause of action as he did not cause or
contribute to plaintiff’s alleged injuries.
 
7.    
Plaintiff cannot maintain the second cause of action
for Breach of Fiduciary Duty – Lack of Informed Consent against defendant Sean
Ravaei, D.P.M. as plaintiff was never treated by Dr. Ravaei.
 
8.    
Plaintiff cannot maintain the third cause of action for
INTENTIONAL MISREPRESENTATION against Defendant Sean Ravaei, D.P.M. as he
cannot prove the necessary elements for his INTENTIONAL MISREPRESENTATION cause
of action.
 
Plaintiff opposes the motion and Moving
Defendants reply.
 
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
 
            The Court rules as follows with
respect to the Moving Defendants’ objections to Plaintiff’s evidence:
 

Sustained
Sustained
Sustained
Sustained
Sustained
Sustained
Sustained
Sustained
Sustained
Sustained
Overruled
Overruled
Sustained

 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
Judicial notice may be taken
of records of any court in this state. 
(Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d)(1).) 
Therefore, the Court may take judicial notice of its prior order
regarding Kerr’s MSJ.  (Ibid.)   However, “while courts are free to take
judicial notice of the existence of each document in a court file, including
the truth of results reached, they may not take judicial notice of the truth of
hearsay statements in decisions and court files.  Courts may not take judicial notice of
allegations in affidavits, declarations and probation reports in court records
because such matters are reasonably subject to dispute and therefore require
formal proof.”  (Lockley v. Law Office
of Cantrell, Green, Pekich, Cruz & McCort (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 875,
882 [cleaned up].)  
 
            In
connection with the reply brief, the Moving Defendants request judicial notice
of the Court’s April 5, 2024 Minute Order granting Defendant Kerr’s Motion for
Summary Judgment.
 
            The
Court does not generally consider reply evidence, as such deprives the opposing
party of a fair opportunity to respond. 
(San Diego Watercrafts, Inc. v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2002) 102
Cal.App.4th 308, 316 [“due process requires a party be fully advised of the
issues to be addressed and be given adequate notice of what facts it must rebut
in order to prevail”]; see also Wall Street Network Ltd. v. New York Times
Co. (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 1171.)  
 
            However, because the Moving
Defendants merely request that the Court take judicial notice of one of its
prior orders in this case, the Court is inclined to grant the request, as the
Court is already aware of its own prior rulings.  
 
Accordingly, the Court takes
judicial notice of the existence of its April 5, 2024 Minute Order granting
Defendant Kerr’s Motion for Summary Judgment and the truth of the results
reached, but not the truth of hearsay statements or allegations made in the
underlying evidence or briefing submitted in support of the motion.  
 
LEGAL STANDARDS – MOTION FOR SUMMARY
JUDGMENT/ADJUDICATION
 
“[T]he party moving for
summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue
of material fact and that he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law[.]
There is a triable issue of material fact if, and only if, the evidence would
allow a reasonable trier of fact to find the underlying fact in favor of the
party opposing the motion in accordance with the applicable standard of proof.”
 (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)
 “[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of
production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable
issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of production, he causes a
shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a burden
of production of his own to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a
triable issue of material fact.”  (Ibid.)  
 
“On a summary judgment
motion, the court must therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing
party a factfinder could reasonably draw from the evidence. While viewing the
evidence in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its primary function
is to identify issues rather than to determine issues.  Only when the inferences are indisputable may
the court decide the issues as a matter of law. If the evidence is in conflict,
the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” 
(Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839
[cleaned up].)  Further, “the trial court
may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a factfinder to determine whose
version is more likely true.  Nor may the
trial court grant summary judgment based on the court's evaluation of
credibility.”  (Id. at p. 840
[cleaned up]; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of Transportation
(2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or
summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the
light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences
in favor of that party”].)  
 
A party may move for
summary adjudication as to one or more causes of action, affirmative defenses,
claims for damages, or issues of duty if that party contends that there is no
merit to the cause of action, defense, or claim for damages, or if the party
contends that there is no duty owed.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).)  “A motion for summary adjudication shall be granted
only if it completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a
claim for damages, or an issue of duty.” 
(Ibid.)  A cause of action has no merit if: (1) one or
more elements of the cause of action cannot be separately established, even if
that element is separately pleaded, or (2) a defendant establishes an
affirmative defense to that cause of action. 
(See Code Civ. Proc., §
437c, subd. (n); Union Bank v. Superior
Court (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 573, 583.) 
Once the defendant has shown that a cause of action has no merit, the
burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable issue of material fact
exists as to that cause of action.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (o)(2); Union Bank v. Superior Court, supra, 31 Cal.App.4th at p. 583.)  
 
DISCUSSION
 
1.     ISSUE 1: SOMA’S PROFESSIONAL NEGLIGENCE (BREACH)
 
“Civil Code section 1714,
subdivision (a) establishes the general duty of each person to exercise, in his
or her activities, reasonable care for the safety of others.  When applied to medical professionals, this
duty of care imposes a duty to use such skill, prudence and diligence as other
members of his profession commonly possess and exercise.”  (Flores
v. Liu (2021) 60 Cal.App.5th 278, 290 [cleaned up].)  To prevail on a claim for negligence against
a medical professional, a plaintiff must demonstrate that: (1) a medical
professional had a duty to use the skill, prudence and diligence that members
of the profession commonly possess and exercise; (2) breach of that duty; (3)
an injury that resulted from the breach of that duty; and (4) actual loss or
damage resulting from the breach of that duty. 
(Banerian v. O’Malley (1974)
42 Cal.App.3d 604, 612.)  
 
“[T]he legal standard of care
required by doctors is the standard of practice required by their own
profession.  The courts require only that
physicians and surgeons exercise in diagnosis and treatment that reasonable
degree of skill, knowledge, and care ordinarily possessed and exercised by
members of the medical profession under similar circumstances.  Thus, liability is not found, and the label of
malpractice is not placed upon a physician's actions, unless some deviation by
the physician from the standard of care that his peers consider appropriate in
the situation under review is proven.” (Burgess
v. Superior Court (1992) 2 Cal.4th 1064, 1081 [cleaned up].) 
 
Expert testimony is generally
the only admissible and relevant evidence on whether a medical professional has
breached the standard of care.  (Landeros v. Flood (1976) 17 Cal.3d 399,
410 [“ ‘The standard of care against which the acts of a physician are to be
measured is a matter peculiarly within the knowledge of experts; it presents
the basic issue in a malpractice action and can only be proved by their testimony
(citations), unless the conduct required by the particular circumstances is
within the common knowledge of the layman’ ”].) 
As the Court of Appeal has held, in reversing summary judgments for
medical professionals:  “The standard of
care against which the acts of a physician are to be measured is a matter
peculiarly within the knowledge of experts; it presents the basic issue in a
malpractice action and can only be proved by their testimony.  California courts have incorporated the
expert evidence requirement into their standard for summary judgment in medical
malpractice cases. When a defendant moves for summary judgment and supports his
motion with expert declarations that his conduct fell within the community
standard of care, defendant is
entitled to summary judgment unless the plaintiff comes forward with
conflicting expert evidence.”  (Hanson
v. Grode (1999) 76 Cal.App.4th 601, 606-607 [cleaned up].)  Further, a plaintiff “is entitled to all
favorable inferences that may reasonably be derived from” an expert’s
declaration which must be liberally construed. 
(See Fernandez v. Alexander (2019) 31 Cal.App.5th 770, 782.)   
 
Soma argues Plaintiff cannot
establish that any agent of Soma breached the standard of care in their
treatment and care of Plaintiff.
 
a.     Soma’s Evidence       
 
As alleged in the operative
fifth amended complaint, “Soma Surgery Center, is an Ambulatory Surgical
Center collectively operated by Sean S. Ravaei, DPM, Joseph Naim M.D., Kourosh
Noormand M.D., Behnoush Zarrini M.D., Elazar Sofer, M.D., Kenny Hanna M.D., and
Dale Prokupek, M.D.”  (5AC ¶¶ 2,
17.)  Of these individuals, only Dr.
Prokupek is alleged to have treated Plaintiff. 
(See generally 5AC.)  In addition,
Nurse Kerr is alleged to have been the nurse who treated Plaintiff on behalf of
Soma on the date of Plaintiff’s upper endoscopy procedure.  (5AC ¶ 20.)
 
Soma relies on the Declaration
of Declaration of Rudolph A. Bedford, M.D., who is board certified in internal
medicine with a subspeciality in Gastroenterology, who has been a
gastroenterologist for thirty years, experienced in performing
esophagogastroduodenoscopies (EGD) “and all related pre-procedure,
intra-operative, and post-procedure physician care and treatment.”  (Bedford Decl. ¶ 3.)  Dr. Bedford similarly reviewed (1) the fifth
amended complaint; (2) Mr. Chamis’ medical records from Dr. Prokupek’s office
and Soma Surgery Center; and (3) deposition testimony of Plaintiff, Dr.
Prokupek, and Nurse Kerr.  With respect
to whether Soma’s staff breached the relevant standard of care, Dr. Bedford’s
declaration indicates, in relevant part:
 
8. Nurse Kerr did not see, treat, or care for
Plaintiff on June 22, 2020.
 
9. On October 14, 2020, Plaintiff was evaluated
at Dr. Prokupek’s office for endoscopy follow-up and for the upcoming endoscopy
procedure. The patient denied uncontrolled CAD (coronary artery disease),
asthma, sleep apnea, bleeding disorders, or any other reason to perform the
procedure in the main hospital. The patient was advised to stop Xarelto five
days prior to the endoscopy procedure. 
 
10. The plan was for the patient to undergo an
upper endoscopy at Soma Surgery Center due to his dysphagia.
 
11. Nurse Kerr did not see, treat, or care for
Plaintiff on October 14, 2020. 
 
12. Nurse Kerr never provided any instructions to
Plaintiff regarding the cessation of Xarelto at any time.
 
13. Plaintiff presented to Soma Surgery Center on
November 4, 2020 for the performance of an esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGO).
His surgeon was co-defendant Dale Prokupek, MD; his anesthesiologist was
Michelle Dinh, M.D. 
 
14. This was the only date where Nurse Kerr
provided care and treatment to Plaintiff as his nurse at Soma Surgery Center.
 
15. Pre-operatively, the documentation noted the
patient takes Xarelto, and that the “patient stated that he had not taken this
medication in 4 days as directed.”
 
[…]
 
20. Nurse Kerr verified the patient's identity
and surgery site. She noted the surgery consent form had been signed. She noted
that a history and physical had been completed, the pre-anesthesia assessment
was completed, as well as her nursing assessment.
 
21. Upon completion of the pre-procedure
check-in, Plaintiff’s treating physicians opted to proceed with the EGD
procedure.
 
22. Anesthesia started at 10:33 a.m., and a
Time-Out was completed at 10:43 a.m. 
 
23. The procedure began at 10:44 a.m. and ended
at 11:01 a.m. 
 
24. The anesthesiologist, Dr. Dinh, documented
that upon waking, the patient vomited thick yellow gastric content while laying
left lateral. The bed was placed in Trendelenburg and his mouth was suctioned
to prevent aspiration. 
 
25. Mr. Chamis was noted to be tachypneic
(elevated respirations) and his oxygen saturations diminished to 86% to 87%.
Dr. Dinh placed an oral airway and provided bag/mask ventilations. The patient
was also provide multiple albuterol breathing treatments and small boluses of
epinephrine. Upon receiving these treatments, the patient’s oxygen saturations
increased to 100%
 
26. Nurse Kerr documented that upon being turned
while in Trendelenburg, the patient 11 reported that he felt much better.
 
27. The patient was subsequently transferred to
the Post-Anesthesia Care Unit (PACU). 
 
28. While in the PACU, the patient’s vitals were
recorded as follows: 
 
29. 11:45: BP 99/68; Pulse 82; Resp 14; O2 Sat 90
on room air; Temp 96.6F; 
 
30. 11:50: BP 76/53 (patient put in Trendelenburg
due to hypotensive state); Pulse 80; Resp 15; O2 Sat 96 (2 liters oxygen via
nasal cannula); Temp 96.5F. 
 
31. 11:55: BP 89/59 (patient supine with head of
bed elevated); Pulse 75; Resp 14; O2 Sat 96 on room air; Temp 96.8F. 
 
32. 12:00: BP 82/53; Pulse 72; Resp 14; O2 Sat 98
on room air; Temp 98.9F. 
 
33. 12:15: BP 84/53; Pulse 69; Resp 14; O2 Sat 95
on room air; Temp 98.7F. 
 
34. 12:30: BP 109/69; Pulse 83; Resp 14; O2 Sat
98 on room air. 35. 12:37: An albuterol breathing treatment (2.5mg) was ordered
by Dr. Dinh and
 
35.  12:37:
An albuterol breathing treatment (2.5mg) was ordered by Dr. Dinh and administered
by Nurse Kerr due to the patient having difficulty breathing. Nurse Kerr noted
that she would continue to monitor.
 
36. 12:37: It is also documented that Dr. Dinh
discussed with the patient that he may need to follow up with his primary care
physician or visit the Emergency Department if he is having difficulty
breathing later at home. 
 
37. 12:45: BP 141/63; Pulse 87; Resp 15; O2 Sat
100 on 6 liters of oxygen via nebulizer during albuterol treatment as ordered
by Dr. Dinh. The patient reported feeling “much better” fifteen minutes after
the treatment was finished. 
 
38. 1:30: BP 134/106; Pulse 63; Resp 15; O2 Sat
98 on room air; Temp 98.7F. 
 
39. The patient’s PACU Aldrete recovery score at
the time of discharge was 10/10. The Aldrete Scoring system is valuable for
measuring the physiological recovery from anesthesia; a score of 8/10 or higher
is eligible for discharge from the PACU. 
 
40. The patient’s IV was discontinued at 1:35pm. 
 
41. The patient was discharged at 1:36pm pursuant
to his physician’s orders and after he was evaluated by the anesthesiologist.
 
42. At the time of discharge, the patient's vital
signs had been stable for 30 minutes, he was noted to be alert and oriented,
with no dizziness or vomiting for 30 minutes. The patient did not report any
pain and he was able to ambulate with a steady gait. 
 
43. Discharge instructions were discussed with
the patient, which included instructions from his physicians to go to the ER of
his choice for evaluation and treatment for possible aspiration pneumonia. Mr.
Chamis verbalized understanding and he was discharged to the care of his
friend. 
 
44. Nurse Kerr did not provide any care or
treatment to Plaintiff after he was discharged from Soma Surgery Center on
November 4, 2020.
 
45. Based on the foregoing facts as well as my
background, education, training, and experience, it is my opinion that the
standard of care was met at all times with respect to the care and treatment
that was provided to Plaintiff Pericles Chamis by the staff at Soma Surgery
Center, Inc.
 
46. The pre-operative evaluations, pre-procedure
checklist, documentation, nursing care and treatment, the post-operative
nursing care and treatment, postoperative monitoring of vital signs and
recovery progression, and all related services rendered to Pericles Chamis by
Melanie Kerr, R.N. were well within the standard of care at all times. 
 
47. Mr. Chamis was advised by other healthcare
providers as to when to discontinue his medications (including Xarelto) prior
to November 4, 2020. Nurse Kerr appropriately and within the standard of care
inquired with Mr. Chamis on November 4, 2020 as to whether he had discontinued
his medications, which one(s), and how long before the procedure. All of this information
was properly documented within the medical records and reported to Mr. Chamis’
physicians. 
 
48. The staff at Soma Surgery Center, including
Nurse Kerr, do not perform surgery, and they do not decide whether to proceed
with surgery or not. The staff at Soma Surgery Center, including Nurse Kerr, do
not order a patient’s discharge. 
 
49. Mr. Chamis vomited as he began to wake up
from the procedure. The nursing care and treatment provided in response to this
event was appropriate, which included (but not limited to), monitoring vital
signs, assisting with positioning the patient into Trendelenburg and on his
side, and assisting with oxygen administration and breathing treatments. 
 
50. By approximately 1:30 p.m., Mr. Chamis had
met the parameters for discharge. His vital signs had returned to his relative
pre-procedure baseline and were within normal limits. He did not report any
pain and his Aldrete score at the time of discharge was 10/10. Based upon this
information, Mr. Chamis’ physicians ordered his discharge. 
 
51. Mr. Chamis’ vital signs gradually improving
while in the PACU back to his preprocedure baseline, and his meeting the
parameters for discharge. Neither Nurse Kerr or any of the staff at Soma
Surgery Center was required to call 911 or an ambulance. Rather, Nurse Kerr
appropriately and timely communicated Mr. Chamis’ condition to his physicians
and carried out their orders. 
 
52. Nurse Kerr appropriately acted within the
nursing standard of care in facilitating Mr. Chamis’ discharge from Soma
Surgery Center. She followed the physicians’ orders and reiterated their
instructions to go to the Emergency Department for evaluation and treatment for
possible aspiration pneumonia. Mr. Chamis and his friend (responsible party}
verbalized understanding the discharge instructions and Mr. Chamis was
subsequently discharged the care of his friend.
 
(Bedford Decl. ¶¶ 8-52.)
 
            Soma’s evidence focuses primarily on
the actions of Nurse Kerr and whether Nurse Kerr breached the applicable
standard of care, or whether any of Nurse Kerr’s acts or omissions caused
Plaintiff’s injuries.  In this regard, Soma’s evidence is sufficient to meet Soma’s initial
burdens of persuasion and production of evidence to show that Plaintiff will be
unable to establish that Kerr breached the applicable standard of care with
respect to the treatment and care of Plaintiff, or that Kerr’s acts or
omissions caused or contributed to Plaintiff’s claimed injuries.  
 
            However,
Dr. Prokupek and Dr. Dinh are also alleged to be agents of Soma.  (5AC ¶¶ 2, 12, 17.)  
 
“An agent is one who
represents another, called the principal, in dealings with third persons. Such
representation is called agency. Agency is either actual or ostensible. An
agency is actual when the agent is really employed by the principal. An ostensible
agency is established when a principal intentionally, or by want of ordinary
care, causes a third person to believe another is an agent. A principal is
liable for the acts of an ostensible agent when third parties have justifiably
relied on representations made by the principal. A principal is also liable
when the principal knows the agent holds himself or herself out as clothed with
certain authority and remains silent. A hospital is liable for a physician's
malpractice when the physician is actually employed by or is the ostensible
agent of the hospital. A physician is not an agent of a hospital merely because
he or she is on the medical staff of the hospital.” (Jacoves v. United
Merchandising Corp. (1992) 9 Cal.App.4th 88, 103–104 [cleaned up].)
 
Moreover, “[i]t is well
established in California that a hospital may be liable for the negligence of
physicians on the staff, unless the hospital has clearly notified the patient
that the treating physicians are not hospital employees and there is no reason
to believe the patient was unable to understand or act on the information. This
rule is founded on the theory of ostensible agency.” (Wicks v. Antelope
Valley Healthcare District (2020) 49 Cal.App.5th 866, 882.) “[T]he required
elements of ostensible agency: (1) conduct by the hospital that would cause a
reasonable person to believe there was an agency relationship and (2) reliance
on that apparent agency relationship by the plaintiff.  . . .  California
law has inferred ostensible agency from the
mere fact that the plaintiff sought treatment
at the hospital without being informed that the doctors were independent
contractors. Thus, unless the patient had some reason to know of the true
relationship between the hospital and the physician—i.e., because the hospital
gave the patient actual notice or because the patient was treated by his or her
personal physician—ostensible agency is readily inferred.” (Ibid.; see
also Mejia v. Community Hospital of San Bernardino (2002) 99 Cal.App.4th
1448; Whitlow v. Rideout Memorial Hospital (2015) 237 Cal.App.4th 631,
635 [“A hospital is liable for a physician's malpractice when the physician is
actually employed by or is the ostensible agent of the hospital”].)
 
            In
this regard, the moving Defendants have put forth the Declaration of Sean
Ravaei, D.P.M. establishing that Dr. Prokupek, Dr. Dinh, and Nurse
Hershey-Weber were not employees of Soma:
 
5.  Dale Prokupek, M.D. is not an employee of
Soma Surgery Center, Inc.  Rather, Dr.
Prokupek is an independent contractor who has privileges to perform procedures,
such as the upper endoscopy Mr. Chamis underwent on November 4, 2020.
 
6.  Michelle Dinh, M.D. is not an employee of
Soma Surgery Cetner, Inc. nor has she ever been employed by Soma Surgery
Center, Inc.
 
7.  Jeanne K. Hershey-Weber is not an employee of
Soma Surgery Center, Inc. nor has she ever been employed by Soma Surgery
Center, Inc.
 
(Ravaei Decl. ¶¶ 5-7.)
 
With regard to ostensible
agency, Moving Defendants argue in reply that the November 4, 2020 Financial
Consent signed by Plaintiff, as provided on page 61 of Exhibit 3 of the
compendium of evidence, indicates, ‘Soma Surgery Center's facility fee
does not include the professional fees of your surgeon, anesthesiologist, or
pathologist, each of whom are independent professionals, and none of whom are
employed by Soma Surgery Center.”  
 
But Soma has not indicated in the Separate Statement of Material Facts
that Drs. Prokupek or Dinh are not agents, actual or ostensible, of Soma.  “The separate statement is not merely a
technical requirement, it is an indispensable part of the summary judgment or
adjudication process.  Separate
statements are required not to satisfy a sadistic urge to torment lawyers, but
rather to afford due process to opposing parties and to permit trial courts to
expeditiously review complex motions for summary judgment to determine quickly
and efficiently whether material facts are disputed.”  (Kojababian v. Genuine Home Loans, Inc.
(2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 408, 415–416 [cleaned up].)  
 
“The due process aspect of the separate statement requirement is
self-evident – to inform the opposing party of the evidence to be disputed to
defeat the motion. This is because the trial court is required to determine
whether the facts presented, standing alone and if true, legally require a
favorable ruling on the legal issue presented.” 
(United Community Church v. Garcin (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 327,
337.)  “This is the Golden Rule of
Summary Adjudication: if it is not set forth in the separate statement, it does
not exist.”  (Ibid.)
 
Thus, because the Moving Defendants have not included in the Separate
Statement the material fact that Doctors Prokupek and Dinh are not agents,
actual or ostensible, of Soma, the Moving Defendants have not met their initial
burdens of persuasion and production of evidence that Plaintiff will be unable
to establish that agents of Soma breached the applicable standard of care
(Issue 1).
 
2.     ISSUE 2: SOMA’S PROFESSIONAL NEGLIGENCE
(CAUSATION)
 
Soma also argues that Plaintiff will be unable to establish that the
act or omission of any agent of Soma caused Plaintiff’s injuries.
 
“A motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only if it
completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for
damages, or an issue of duty.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (f)(1).)
 
Because the Court denies summary adjudication as to Issue 1, Issue 2
would not dispose of an entire cause of action. 
Therefore, the Court similarly denies summary adjudication as to Issue
2.
 
3.     ISSUE 3: SOMA’S BERACH OF FIDUCIARY DUTY
 
To prevail on a claim of
breach of fiduciary duty, Plaintiff must prove (1) the existence of a fiduciary
duty; (2) breach of the fiduciary duty; and (3) damage proximately caused by
the breach. (Jameson v. Desta (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 1144, 1164.) “A
physician has a fiduciary duty to disclose all information material to the
patient’s decision when soliciting a patient’s consent to a medical procedure.
(Ibid.)
 
a.     Soma’s Argument and Evidence     
 
Soma argues that Plaintiff
cannot maintain a cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty against Soma
because “No one on behalf of Soma Surgery Center, Inc. engaged in any
discussions with plaintiff concerning the discontinuation of his Xarelto.”  (Motion at p. 13.)  But that is precisely the problem.  Dr. Prokupek, as the treating physician, who
is alleged to have acted as an agent of Soma, owed a duty of care to inform
Plaintiff of the dangers of stopping his Xarelto medication, but failed to do
so.
 
Therefore, Soma has not met
its initial burdens of production and persuasion that Plaintiff will be unable
to prevail on its breach of fiduciary duty claim.
 
4.     ISSUE 4: SOMA’S INTENTIONAL
MISREPRESENTATION
 
“Fraud is an intentional tort; it is the element of fraudulent intent,
or intent to deceive, that distinguishes it from actionable negligent
misrepresentation and from nonactionable innocent misrepresentation. It is the
element of intent which makes fraud actionable, irrespective of any contractual
or fiduciary duty one party might owe to the other.” (City of Atascadero v.
Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc. (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 445,
482.) And “the well-established common law elements of fraud which give rise to
the tort action for deceit[1]
are: (1) misrepresentation of a material fact (consisting of false
representation, concealment or nondisclosure); (2) knowledge of falsity
(scienter); (3) intent to deceive and induce reliance; (4) justifiable reliance
on the misrepresentation; and (5) resulting damage.” (Id. at p. 481.)[2]
 
a.     Soma’s Argument and Evidence     
 
            Soma contends that Plaintiff cannot
prevail on its intentional misrepresentation claim because Plaintiff does not
plead a misrepresentation with requisite specificity.
 
            Soma apparently confuses the
standard for a demurrer with the standard for summary judgment.  Here, the evidence demonstrates that Nurse
Hershey-Weber, under the ultimate supervision of Dr. Prokupek, an alleged agent
of Soma, instructed Plaintiff to go off his Xarelto medication for 5-7 days
prior to the procedure (UMF No. 2), that these instructions were in Plaintiff’s
medical record chart for all treating physicians and nurses to see (Ibid.),
yet as Moving Defendants concede, “No one on behalf of Soma Surgery Center,
Inc. engaged in any discussions with plaintiff concerning the discontinuation
of his Xarelto.”  (Motion at p. 13.)
 
            Therefore, Soma has not met its
initial burdens of production and persuasion that Plaintiff will be unable to
prove that Soma’s agents, including Dr. Prokupek, concealed or failed to
disclose the risks to Plaintiff of going off his Xarelto medication for 5-7
days before undergoing an upper endoscopy procedure.
 
5.     ISSUES 5 & 7: RAVAEI’S PROFESSIONAL
NEGLIGENCE (DUTY) AND BEACH OF FIDUCIARY DUTY
 
Moving Defendants argue that
Ravaei did not owe a duty of care to Plaintiff, as Ravaei did not personally
treat Plaintiff, and none of Ravaei’s acts or omissions caused Plaintiff’s
injuries.
 
a.     Ravaei’s Argument and Evidence   
            
            As discussed above, Ravaei is not
alleged to have personally treated Plaintiff. 
(See generally 5AC.)  Rather,
Ravaei is alleged to be “the mastermind behind the unlawful actions at issue in
the instant actions. Defendant RAVAEI hired all of the Defendants who injured
Plaintiff and operated Defendant Soma Surgery Center without proper
certification” (5AC ¶ 56) and “All of the Defendants were acting in concert
under the directions of Sean Ravaei[….]” (5AC ¶ 86.)
 
There is no professional duty of care in the absence of a
physician-patient relationship.  (Rainer
v. Grossman (1973) 31 Cal.App.3d 539, 543 (hereafter Ranier).)  In Ranier, the Court held that the
physician who advised the treating physician could not be liable for medical
malpractice because there was no direct physician-patient relationship between
the advising physician and the patient like there was between the treating
physician and the patient.  
 
Similarly here, there is no direct physician-patient relationship
between Ravaei and Plaintiff.  (See Moving
Defendants’ Undisputed Material Facts, Nos. 55-56.)  Moving Defendants advance the Declaration of
Ravaei in which he states in relevant part: 
“I have never met, nor have I ever communicated with plaintiff Pericles
Chamis,” and “I have never provided any care and treatment to plaintiff
Pericles Chamis.”  (Ravaei Decl. ¶¶ 3-4.)  
 
Although Ravaei is alleged to be the mastermind who advised Dr.
Prokupek and the other treating physicians and nurses, because no direct
physician-patient relationship between Ravaei and Plaintiff, Ravaei does not
owe a duty of care to Plaintiff.
 
There is also no fiduciary duty to disclose.  “A
physician has a fiduciary duty to disclose all information material to the
patient’s decision when soliciting a patient’s consent to a medical procedure.”
 (Jameson v. Desta (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 1144, 1164.)  But because Ravaei did not perform any
medical procedure on Plaintiff, Ravaei owed no fiduciary duty of disclosure to
Plaintiff.
 
Therefore, Ravaei has met his
initial burdens of production and persuasion that Plaintiff will be unable to
prove Ravaei owed Plaintiff a duty of professional care (Issue 5) or a
fiduciary duty of disclosure (Issue 7).
 
b.     Plaintiff’s Argument and Evidence 
 
Having met their initial
burdens, the burden shifts to Plaintiff to create a triable issue of material
fact that Ravaei owed Plaintiff a professional duty of care or a fiduciary duty
to disclose.  In opposition, Plaintiff
argues Ravaei is liable because (1) Soma is the alter ego of Ravaei; (2) Ravaei
is liable as Dr. Prokupek’s partner; and (3) Ravaei is vicariously liable based
on the Code of Federal Regulations. 
 
Alter Ego
 
To succeed on an alter ego claim, Plaintiff must be able to show (1)
such a unity of interest and ownership between the corporation and its owner
that no separation actually exists, and (2) an inequitable result if the acts
in question are treated as those of the corporation alone.  (Leek v. Cooper (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th
399, 417.)  Several factors are
considered in determining whether the alter ego doctrine applies, including:
 
(1)  
commingling of funds and other assets, failure to
segregate funds of the separate entities, and the unauthorized diversion of
corporate funds or assets to other than corporate uses; 
 
(2)  
the treatment by an individual of the assets of the
corporation as his own; 
 
(3)  
the failure to obtain authority to issue stock or to
subscribe to or issue the same; 
 
(4)  
the holding out by an individual that he is personally
liable for the debts of the corporation; 
 
(5)  
the failure to maintain minutes or adequate corporate
records; 
 
(6)  
sole ownership of all of the stock in a corporation by
one individual or the members of a family; 
 
(7)  
the failure to adequately capitalize a corporation; 
 
(8)  
the total absence of corporate assets, and
undercapitalization; 
 
(9)  
the use of a corporation as a mere shell,
instrumentality or conduit for a single venture or the business of an
individual or another corporation; 
 
(10)        
the concealment and misrepresentation of the identity
of the responsible ownership, management and financial interest, or concealment
of personal business activities; 
 
(11)        
the disregard of legal formalities and the failure to
maintain arm's length relationships among related entities; 
 
(12)        
the use of the corporate entity to procure labor,
services or merchandise for another person or entity; 
 
(13)        
the diversion of assets from a corporation by or to a
stockholder or other person or entity, to the detriment of creditors, or the
manipulation of assets and liabilities between entities so as to concentrate
the assets in one and the liabilities in another; 
 
(14)        
the contracting with another with intent to avoid
performance by use of a corporate entity as a shield against personal
liability, or the use of a corporation as a subterfuge of illegal transactions;
and 
 
(15)        
the formation and use of a corporation to transfer to
it the existing liability of another person or entity.
 
(Id.
at pp. 417–418.)
 
In support of Plaintiff’s
claim that Ravaei is the alter ego of Soma, Plaintiff cites to page 43:19-21 of
the Ravaei deposition transcript, indicating Ravaei stated he is the sole
proprietor of all equipment within Soma. 
Plaintiff contends this admission demonstrates Ravaei’s comingling of
personal property and Soma assets.  
 
As a threshold matter,
Plaintiff cites to the McCoy Decl., Ex. H at p. 43:19-21, but Plaintiff has not
included page 43 of the Ravaei deposition transcript in Exhibit H.
 
Furthermore, the mere fact
that Ravaei purchased the equipment for Soma does not demonstrate Ravaei
comingled personal property and Soma assets.
 
Plaintiff also points to
Ravaei’s deposition testimony indicating Ravaei is solely responsible for
writing the policies and procedures for Soma. 
(McCoy Decl., Ex. H at p. 99:6-8.) 
But Ravaei writing the policies and procedures for Soma does not
implicate any of the factors for alter ego liability.
 
Plaintiff further argues that
Soma failed to maintain adequate corporate records.  Specifically, Plaintiff points to deposition
testimony where Ravaei indicated he and his staff sometimes delete old emails
from Dr. Prokupek’s office regarding scheduling to save storage space once the
emails are no longer needed.  (McCoy
Decl., Ex. H at p: 72:4-73:25.)  Plaintiff also references pages 5-6 of Exhibit
10 to the Soma PMK Deposition (McCoy Decl., Ex. I), which is purportedly a
Department of Health and Human Services report indicating Soma failed to
maintain updated and complete personnel files for staff members and accurate
patient records.  But Plaintiff has not
included Exhibit 10 as part of Exhibit H, as cited.  Plaintiff did include, as Exhibit L to the
McCoy Declaration, a Statement of Deficiencies and Plan of Correction from the
Department of Health and Human Services Centers for Medicare & Medicaid
Services, dated February 25, 2022, which indicates on pages 5-6 that Soma
failed to maintain complete and updated staff personnel files or accurate
patient medical records.
 
But the deletion of old
scheduling emails and other sloppy recordkeeping is not of the type that would
tend to blur the lines between two separate entities or otherwise establish an
alter ego.  For example, there is no
evidence that Soma failed to maintain its own patient and staff records, yet
Ravaei or Prokupek did maintain such records on behalf of Soma, particularly
with respect to other treating physicians or their patients.  
 
Additionally, Plaintiff cites
to page 42:11-13 of the Soma PMK Deposition Transcript as evidence that Soma
was originally established for Ravaei to perform his own medical procedures on
patients.  (McCoy Decl., Ex. I at p.
42:11-13.)  But page 42 does not refer to
Ravaei’s establishment of Soma at all. 
And even if it did, Plaintiff concedes that Soma has since expanded to
encompass procedures performed by other medical professionals, such as Dr.
Prokupek.  Moreover, the mere fact that
Ravaei originally created Soma as the business to conduct his medical practice
does not demonstrate that Soma was a shell.
 
Plaintiff also cites to page
69:8-15 of the Ravaei Deposition transcript as evidence that Soma provides
labor and services (nurses, surgical technicians, receptions [sic] and
anesthesiologists) to other doctors (like Dr. Prokupek).  But again, Plaintiff has not included page 69
of the Ravaei deposition transcript in the evidence.  But even if he had, the fact that Soma
provides labor and services to the doctors who treat patients there does not
establish “blurred lines” between corporate and individual endeavors, as
Plaintiff contends.  (Opp at p. 5.)
 
Therefore, Plaintiff has not established
triable issues of material fact that Ravaei and Soma are alter egos.
 
Partnership
 
Plaintiff next contends that
Ravaei is liable as Dr. Prokupek’s partner. 

 
“The defining characteristic
of a partnership is the combination of two or more persons to jointly conduct
business.”  (Agam v. Gavra (2015)
236 Cal.App.4th 91, 112.)
 
First, Plaintiff has not
provided any evidence that Dr. Prokupek and Ravaei jointly conduct business.
Specifically, Plaintiff has not demonstrated that Dr. Prokupek has any
financial interest in Soma or that Dr. Prokupek or Ravaei have any financial
interest in the other’s medical practice. 

 
Second, Plaintiff cites to Black
v. Sullivan (1975) 48 Cal.App.3d 557, 569 as standing for the proposition
that “The partners of a partnership are jointly and severally liable for the
conduct and torts injuring a third party committed by one of the
partners.”  However, Plaintiff references
the appellate court’s recitation of Corporations Code sections 15013 and 15015
which have since been repealed.
 
Therefore, Plaintiff has not
established that any partnership exists, or that Ravaei would be liable to
Plaintiff for Dr. Prokupek’s alleged torts solely by virtue of the partnership.
 
Vicarious Liability
 
Plaintiff finally contends
Ravaei is vicariously liable for Dr. Prokupek’s alleged malpractice by virtue
of 42 Code of Federal Regulations section 416.41.  That section provides that ambulatory
surgical centers (“ASC”) “must have a governing body that assumes full legal
responsibility for determining, implementing, and monitoring policies governing
the ASC's total operation.”  (42 C.F.R. §
416.41, subd. (a).)  “The governing body
has oversight and accountability for the quality assessment and performance
improvement program, ensures that facility policies and programs are administered
so as to provide quality health care in a safe environment, and develops and
maintains a disaster preparedness plan.” 
(Ibid.)
 
As a threshold matter, this
section of the code pertains to ambulatory surgical centers providing Medicare
and Medicaid services.  Plaintiff has not
produced any evidence demonstrating that Plaintiff’s upper endoscopy procedure
was provided or paid for by Medicare or Medicaid, such that this regulation
would apply here.
 
Moreover, this section of the
code does not establish that the governing body is liable for malpractice
committed by doctors at the surgery center. 
Rather, it simply requires that ambulatory surgical centers providing
services to Medicare and Medicaid patients must have a governing body
responsible for establishing the center’s operation policies.
 
Therefore, Plaintiff has not
established that Ravaei is vicariously liable for Dr. Prokupek’s alleged
medical malpractice by virtue of the Code of Federal Regulations.
 
As such, the Court grants
summary adjudication as to Issues 5 and 7.
 
6.     ISSUE 6: RAVAEI’S PROFESSIONAL NEGLIGENCE
(CAUSATION)
 
Because the Court grants
summary adjudication as to Issue 5, finding that Plaintiff is unable to
establish Ravaei owed any duty of care to Plaintiff, the Court need not reach
Issue 6 (causation).  Therefore, the Court
denies summary adjudication as to Issue 6 for mootness. 
 
7.     ISSUE 8: RAVAEI’S INTENTIONAL
MISREPRESENTATION
 
a.     Ravaei’s Evidence     
 
Ravaei has produced a declaration indicating that Ravaei has never met
or communicated with.  (Ravaei Decl. ¶ 3.) 
Therefore, since Ravaei never made any representation to Plaintiff
at all, he could not have made an affirmative misrepresentation to Plaintiff.
 
Furthermore, as discussed above, Ravaei never personally treated.  (Ravaei Decl. ¶ 4.)  Therefore, Ravaei did not owe a duty to
disclose the risks of Plaintiff’s treatments. 
As such, there can be no liability for Ravaei’s failure to disclose.
 
Therefore, Ravaei has met his initial burdens of production and
persuasion that Plaintiff will be unable to establish a claim for intentional
misrepresentation against Ravaei.
 
b.     Plaintiff’s Argument and Evidence 
 
Plaintiff rests solely on the theory that Ravaei is liable as Soma’s
alter ego.  As discussed above, Plaintiff
has not created a triable issue of material fact that Ravaei is an alter ego of
Soma.
 
Therefore, the Court grants summary adjudication as to Issue 8.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court grants in part and denies in part Moving
Defendants’ Motion for Summary Adjudication. 

 
Having found Ravaei met his initial burdens of production and
persuasion that Ravaei never personally met or treated Plaintiff, such that no
professional or fiduciary duty to disclose attached, and Ravaei made no
misrepresentation to Plaintiff, and finding Plaintiff has not met his burden of
production to create a triable issues of material fact that Ravaei is liable as
Soma’s alter ego, as Dr. Prokupek’s partner, or pursuant to the Code of Federal
Regulations, the Court grants summary adjudication as to Issues 5, 7, and
8.   
 
Furthermore, having granted summary adjudication as to Issue 5, the
Court denies summary adjudication on Issue 6 as moot.  
 
As for the remaining Issues 1,2, 3, and 4, having found that the
Moving Defendants failed to meet their initial burdens of production and
persuasion, the Court denies summary adjudication as to the remaining Issues 1,
2, 3, and 4.  Because the Court denies
summary adjudication as to those issues, the Court similarly denies summary
judgment.
 
Moving Defendants shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling.  
 
 
 
 
 
DATED:  May 2, 2024                                                           ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 


