 Case Number:  BC715755    Hearing Date:   January 25, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  BENJAMIN JOSEPH TRUITT, ET AL., Plaintiff(s),  vs.  SEA SPRITE MOTEL, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: BC715755  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION TO ENFORCE SETTLEMENT  Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  January 25, 2024     Plaintiffs Benjamin Joseph Truitt, Jessica Truitt, and Macy Truitt (“Plaintiffs”) filed this action against Defendants Sea Sprite Motel and James Graham for damages arising from a motor vehicle incident. At this time, Defendants Sea Sprite Limited Partnership (Doe 1), erroneously sued as Sea Sprite Motel, and James Graham (“Defendants”) move to enforce the Settlement Agreement (“Agreement”) pursuant to CCP § 664.6 on the grounds that the settlement is contingent upon Plaintiffs filing a minor’s compromise, and Plaintiffs’ counsel has yet to pursue the minor’s compromise.  On September 25, 2023, Plaintiffs’ counsel filed a declaration declaring his office “is in the middle of preparing the minor’s compromise for this honorable Court to review.” (Janfaza Decl. ¶ 6.) Plaintiff’s counsel acknowledges that, “Since the minor’s compromise has not been finalized and granted by this court, our office has yet to receive the settlement check from defense counsel.”  Defendants’ motion was initially set to be heard on December 5, 2023. However, because the filing of the petition would render the motion moot upon Plaintiffs filing the minor’s compromise, the Court continued the hearing to January 25, 2024. Additionally, the Court set an OSC Re: Status of Minor’s Compromise and Why Plaintiffs’ Counsel Should Not Be Sanctioned $1000 For Failure To File Minor’s Compromise and Failure to Proceed with Reasonable Diligence pursuant to CCP section 583.130 for the same day. However, despite Plaintiffs’ counsel’s representation that their office was preparing a minor’s compromise petition, no such petition has been filed to date. Further, Plaintiffs failed to oppose the motion.  Based on the foregoing, Defendants’ unopposed motion is GRANTED. Plaintiffs are ordered to file a Petition for Approval of Compromise of Claim no later than ________. Failure to do so may result in the imposition of sanctions, including monetary sanctions and/or dismissal. The Court sets an OSC: Re Dismissal for Failure to File Petition for Minor’s Compromise (Settlement) and Dismissal for Failure to Proceed With Reasonable Diligence on __________.  Lastly, because Plaintiffs have still failed to take corrective action despite awareness the issue, the Court hereby imposes against Plaintiff’s counsel monetary sanctions of $250 payable to the Superior Court of California, County of Los Angeles within 30 days.     Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 24th day of January 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   