  Case Number:  22STCV11073    Hearing Date:   March 29, 2024    Dept:  52 Tentative Ruling:
Defendants’ Motion for Summary
Judgment or, in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication 
            Defendants Alliance College-Ready
Public Schools, Alliance For College-Ready Public Schools, and Alliance College
Ready Academy High School 5 move for summary judgment or, in the alternative,
summary adjudication of each cause of action alleged by plaintiff Delaina
Martinez.
Requests
for Judicial Notice
            Defendants request judicial notice
of exhibits A-H.  Plaintiff requests
judicial notice of exhibit A.  All nine
exhibits are subject to judicial notice under Evidence Code section 452,
subdivisions (a), (b), or (c).  The court
grants all requests for judicial notice. 

Evidentiary
Objections
            Plaintiff makes over three pages of
objections to defendants’ evidence. 
Plaintiff did not number the objections. 
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1354(b) requires that “[e]ach written objection must be numbered
consecutively.”  Consecutively numbering
objections is necessary for the court to make clear rulings on them.  All of plaintiff’s objections are overruled.
            Defendants make 30
“objections to plaintiff’s response and supporting evidence in plaintiff’s
separate statement of disputed material facts.” 
These objections also violate California Rules of Court, rule 3.1354.  Evidentiary objections must “(1) Identify the
name of the document in which the specific material objected to is located” and
“(2) State the exhibit, title, page, and line number of the material objected
to.”  (Rule 3.1354(b).)  Identifying the material objected to requires
stating, for example, “Jackson declaration, page 3, lines 7-8.”  (Ibid.)  
Instead of objecting to evidence or
providing the information necessary to locate the evidence to which they
object, defendants object to assertions made in plaintiff’s response to the
separate statement of undisputed material facts.  For example, they object to the statement,
“Renewal Contracts are required to be sent out by March 15, 2019” and cite
“Nos. 3, 50, 102, 157, 213, column 3, pp. 2, 32, 66, 102, 139.”  (Objection 1.)  Objections must concern the underlying
evidence plaintiff uses to support her assertions, not the assertions
themselves.  
Objection 14 further illustrates
the problem.  The basis for the objection
is “misstates testimony.”  That is not a
valid reason to find the underlying evidence inadmissible.  (See Mora v. Big Lots Stores, Inc.
(2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 496, 515 [“Evidence Code section 352 does not authorize
the trial court to sustain an objection to counsel’s characterization of
testimony even if it is inaccurate”].)  
All of defendants’ objections are overruled. 
Legal
Standard
Summary judgment should be granted
where no triable issues of fact exist and the moving party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.  (CCP §
437c(c); Villa v. McFerren (1995) 35
Cal.App.4th 733, 741.)  Courts use a
three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues framed by the pleadings; (2)
determine whether the moving party has negated the opponent’s claims; and (3)
determine whether the opposition has demonstrated the existence of a triable,
material factual issue.”  (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center (2005)
135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.)  Courts “liberally construe the evidence
in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning
the evidence in favor of that party.”  (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006)
39 Cal.4th 384, 389.) 
1st Cause of Action: Whistleblower
Retaliation
Triable
issues of material fact preclude summary adjudication of this cause of
action.  At trial of whistleblower
retaliation claims under Labor Code section 1102.5, plaintiff bears the initial
burden “to establish, by
a preponderance of the evidence, that retaliation for an employee’s protected
activities was a contributing factor in a contested employment action.”  (Lawson v. PPG Architectural Finishes,
Inc. (2022) 12 Cal.5th 703, 718 (Lawson).)  “Once the plaintiff has made the required
showing, the burden shifts to the employer to demonstrate, by clear and
convincing evidence, that it would have taken the action in question for
legitimate, independent reasons even had the plaintiff not engaged in protected
activity.”  (Ibid.)  “[A] plaintiff does not need to show that the
employer’s nonretaliatory reason was pretextual.  Even if the employer had a genuine,
nonretaliatory reason for its adverse action, the plaintiff still carries the
burden assigned by statute if it is shown that the employer also had at least
one retaliatory reason that was a contributing factor in the action.”  (Id. at pp. 715-716.)
On summary judgment, the moving
defendant bears “the initial burden … to either negate an element of the
plaintiff’s claim or establish a complete defense to the claim.”  (Swanson v. Morongo Unified School Dist.
(2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 954, 965–966.)  If
the defendant meets that burden, the plaintiff “need only present evidence
establishing a triable issue on the specific element the [defendant]
challenges.”  (Id. at p. 968.)
Defendants challenge the element of
causation.  They meet their initial
burden of negating that element by presenting evidence that plaintiffs’
protected activity was not “a contributing factor in the alleged prohibited
action against the employee.”  (Lab.
Code, § 1102.6.)  Defendants present
evidence that they did not renew plaintiff’s contract only for legitimate
reasons of poor performance.  Candice
Dagnino was the principal of the school where plaintiff worked.  (Dagnino Decl., ¶ 2.)  She placed plaintiff on a performance
improvement plan (PIP) on March 29, 2019. 
(Id., ¶ 8.)  One of the
performance issues was that plaintiff caused Dagnino to receive an alarming
email “with the subject line: ‘Urgent Student Behavior Manner’ ” stating “that
a student at the school was considering self-harm.”  (Id., ¶ 6.)  Plaintiff later told Dagnino the email “was
just a test of a new system.”  (Ibid.)  Among other issues, Dagnino states plaintiff
“provid[ed] incomplete assessments at the time of IEP meetings” (id., ¶
8), plaintiff “was late or absent 11 times” (id., ¶ 10), and did not consistently
maintain accurate records in the “Welligent” software “used by the school to
track IEP services provided to students” (id., ¶ 9).  Defendants also present evidence that
plaintiff occasionally took “personal phone calls during meetings.”  (Martinez Depo., vol. 2, 87:6-14.)  
Dagnino testifies that, after issuing
the PIP, a student’s parents “complained to” her that “Dr. Martinez never
showed up for” a scheduled meeting with them. 
(Dagnino Decl., ¶ 13.)  She
further testifies, “In early May 2019, Dr. Martinez performed an assessment on
a student without first receiving parental permission.”  (Dagnino Decl., ¶ 13.)
Plaintiff meets her burden of showing
triable issues of material fact on whether her protected activity contributed
to defendants’ decision not to renew her contract.  “Both direct and circumstantial evidence can
be used to show an employer’s intent to retaliate.  ‘Direct evidence of retaliation may consist
of remarks made by decisionmakers displaying a retaliatory motive.’ ”  (Colarossi v. Coty US Inc. (2002)
97 Cal.App.4th 1142, 1153.) 
“Circumstantial evidence typically relates to such factors as the
plaintiff’s job performance, the timing of events, and how the plaintiff was
treated in comparison to other workers.” 
(Ibid.)  A plaintiff may
also provide evidence “that the employer’s proffered reasons were untrue or
pretextual.”  (Loggins v. Kaiser
Permanente Internat. (2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 1102, 1109.)  
Plaintiff provides evidence
undermining defendants’ reasons for its adverse employment actions.  She testified she was late four times, not
late or absent 11 times.  (Martinez
Depo., vol. 2, 81:9-18.)  She testified
she kept proper records but the Welligent software had problems such as counting
minutes as days.  (Id., 84:25-85:20,
106:4-109:9.)  And as for performing an
assessment without parental permission, plaintiff testifies that she relied on other
employees, “either Ms. Ramos or Ms. Garcia,” who told her that the parents approved
the testing.  (Id., 60:7-20.)  
Moreover, the record includes
evidence that defendants chose not to renew plaintiff’s contract soon after her
protected activity.  “ ‘Close proximity
in time of an adverse action to an employee’s resistance or opposition to
unlawful conduct is often strong evidence of a retaliatory motive.’ ”  (Mendoza v. Western Medical Center Santa
Ana (2014) 222 Cal.App.4th 1334, 1344; accord Zirpel v. Alki David
Productions, Inc. (2023) 93 Cal.App.5th 563, 578.)  Plaintiff sent an
email complaining about harassment, discrimination, and harassment on May 4,
2019.  (UMF No. 40.)  On May 15, 2019, Principal Dagnino informed
plaintiff her contract would not be renewed. 
(Martinez Depo., vol. 2, 149:8-13, 151:7-153:12.)  Plaintiff also presents evidence that,
before the decision was made not to renew her contract, she complained about
someone at the school changing her report on a student.  (Dagnino Depo., vol. 2, 311:15-23,
317:23-318:8.)  
After reviewing all evidence in the
record, the court cannot conclude that, as a matter of law, no reasonable trier
of fact could conclude plaintiff’s protected activity contributed to the
decision not to renew her contract.  Nor
can the court conclude that any reasonable trier of fact must find clear and
convincing evidence that defendants would not have renewed plaintiff’s contract
even if she had not engaged in protective activity.  “The central issue is … whether the evidence
as a whole supports a reasoned inference that the challenged action was the
product of discriminatory or retaliatory animus.”  (Mamou v. Trendwest Resorts, Inc. (2008)
165 Cal.App.4th 686, 715 (Mamou).) 
Defendants’ evidence may persuade a jury, but plaintiff presents
sufficient evidence undermining the proffered reasons for her discipline that a
factfinder could make a reasoned inference that defendants retaliated against
her.     
2nd & 3rd Causes of Action: Age and Disability
Discrimination
Triable
issues of material fact preclude summary adjudication of these causes of
action.  As with the first cause of
action, defendants meet their initial burden of negating the element of
causation, but plaintiff meets her burden of demonstrating triable issues of
material fact.  The same evidence
discussed above undermining defendants’ reasons for not renewing plaintiff’s
contract supports an inference of discrimination.  
Plaintiff
also presents evidence of potential age and disability-related bias based on
Principal Dagnino’s comments to her in April 2019.  Plaintiff testified that Dagnino said she “needed
to have the energy and enthusiasm to work with young people.”  (Martinez Depo., vol. 2, 56:25-57-1.)  Martinez explained that Dagnino “was
commenting that I had been sitting in my office, not walking downstairs to get
somebody to help me when I was supporting one of my colleagues.”  (Id., 57:3-6.)  A reasonable trier of fact could infer that
Dagnino’s comment that plaintiff lacked “energy and enthusiasm” was a veiled
reference to the fact that plaintiff was over 50 years old and had a disability
that limited her ability to walk.      
Plaintiff
further testified that Dagnino “said she didn’t trust me because of what I
looked like.”  (Martinez Depo., vol. 2,
62:17-18.)  A reasonable trier of fact
could conclude this reference to plaintiff’s appearance was connected to her
age and not a legitimate performance critique. 

Defendants invoke the “same actor”
inference because Dagnino both hired plaintiff and chose not to renew her
contract.  “ ‘[W]here the same actor is
responsible for both the hiring and the firing of a discrimination plaintiff,
and both actions occur within a short period of time, a strong inference arises
that there was no discriminatory motive.’ ” 
(Horn v. Cushman & Wakefield Western, Inc. (1999) 72
Cal.App.4th 798, 809.)  But “the
same-actor inference has lost some of its persuasive appeal in recent years.”  (Husman v. Toyota Motor Credit Corp.
(2017) 12 Cal.App.5th 1168, 1188.)  The
Court of Appeal has acknowledged scholars concluding that “ ‘reliance on the
same-actor inference to carry the moving party over the hurdle of summary
judgment is legally impermissible, because drawing legitimate inferences from
the facts are jury functions and, at summary judgment, the court must disregard
all evidence favorable to the moving party that the jury is not required to
believe.’ ”  (Id. at p. 1189.)
At this stage, “citing a legitimate reason for
the challenged action will entitle the employer to summary judgment only when
the employee’s showing, while sufficient to invoke the presumption, is too
weak to sustain a reasoned inference in the employee’s favor.  That, and not ‘pretext,’ must be the focus of
the judicial inquiry.”  (Mamou, supra,
165 Cal.App.4th at p .715.)  The court cannot conclude that, as a matter of
law, plaintiff’s showing is too weak to sustain a reasoned inference of
discrimination against her because of her age or disability.  
4th Cause of Action: FEHA Retaliation
Triable issues of material fact
preclude summary adjudication of this cause of action for the same reasons as
the first cause of action for whistleblower retaliation.
5th Cause of Action: Failure to Prevent Discrimination
Triable issues of material fact
preclude summary adjudication of this cause of action.  FEHA requires an employer “to take all
reasonable steps necessary to prevent discrimination and harassment from
occurring.”  (Gov. Code, § 12940(k).)  Defendants rely on authority that this claim
cannot stand on its own without an underlying claim for violating FEHA.  (Dickson
v. Burke Williams, Inc. (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 1307, 1309; Trujillo v.
North County Transit Dist. (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 280, 289.)  Because the court concludes there are triable
issues of material facts relating to plaintiff’s underlying FEHA claims, this
cause of action also survives summary adjudication.
Claim for Punitive Damages
            Triable
issues of material fact preclude summary adjudication of plaintiff’s claim for
punitive damages.  To recover punitive damages, a plaintiff must
prove “by clear
and convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression,
fraud, or malice.”  (Civ. Code, § 3294,
subd. (a).)  “Under the clear and
convincing standard, the evidence must be so clear as to leave no substantial
doubt and sufficiently strong to command the unhesitating assent of every
reasonable mind.”  (Butte Fire Cases
(2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 1150, 1158, internal quotes omitted.)  
On summary
adjudication, “ ‘the judge must view the evidence presented through the prism
of the substantive [clear and convincing] evidentiary burden.”  (American Airlines, Inc. v. Sheppard,
Mullin, Richter & Hampton (2002) 96 Cal.App.4th 1017, 1049.)  “[A]lthough the ‘clear and convincing’
evidentiary standard is a stringent one, it does not impose on a plaintiff the
obligation to ‘prove’ a case for punitive damages at summary judgment.”  (Ibid.)  “Summary judgment or summary adjudication ‘ “
‘on the issue of punitive damages is proper’ only ‘when no reasonable jury
could find the plaintiff’s evidence to be clear and convincing proof of malice,
fraud or oppression.’ ” ’ ”  (Butte
Fire Cases, supra, 24 Cal.App.5th at p. 1159.)  
The same
evidence discussed above raises triable issues of material fact on the issue of
punitive damages.  “[W]illfully and consciously retaliat[ing]
against” employees for exercising their rights can constitute malicious or
oppressive conduct sufficient for punitive damages.  (Colucci
v. T-Mobile USA, Inc. (2020)
48 Cal.App.5th 442, 455.)  Evidence
that an employer “intentionally discriminated against” an employee can establish
malice.  (Cloud v. Casey (1999) 76
Cal.App.4th 895, 911.)  Plaintiff
presents triable issues of material fact on whether defendants willfully
retaliated against her or intentionally discriminated against her due to her
age or disability.  The court cannot
conclude that no reasonable jury could find the evidence to be clear and
convincing proof of malice, fraud, or oppression.
Disposition
            Defendants’ motion for summary
judgment or summary adjudication is denied.