  Case Number:  21PSCV00450    Hearing Date:   November 14, 2023    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
MOTION TO APPROVE SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT PURSUANT TO THE
LABOR CODE PRIVATE ATTORNEYS GENERAL ACT AND ENTER FINAL JUDGMENT is GRANTED.

 
Background
 
This is a PAGA case. Plaintiff contends that Defendant
violated the California Labor Code by, inter alia, failing to pay all wages,
including overtime, provide meal and rest periods, pay all wages owed at
termination, provide accurate itemized wage statements and reimburse for
necessary business expenditures
 
On June 1, 2021, Plaintiff RICARDO REAL filed suit against
Defendant EL SUSHI LOCO, INC.
 
On October 12, 2023, the minute order indicates that there
were no appearances by any party at the Status Conference Re: Settlement.
 
On October 20, 2023, the instant motion was filed. (Proposed
order is provided.)
 
Legal
Standard
 
Labor Code
section 2699, subdivision (l)(2) states: “The superior court shall review and
approve any settlement of any civil action filed pursuant to this part [Labor
Code Private Attorneys General Act of 2004 (“PAGA”)]. The proposed settlement
shall be submitted to the [Labor and Workforce Development Agency (“LDWA”) at
the same time that it is submitted to the court.” Any settlement of a civil
action filed under PAGA must be “fair and adequate in view of the purposes and
policies of the statute.” (O’Connor v.
Uber Technologies, Inc. (N.D. Cal. 2016) 201 F.Supp.3d 1110, 1135.) 
 
Seventy-five
percent of all PAGA penalties must be distributed to the LDWA (See Lab. Code §
2699, subd. (i) [“[e]xcept as provided in subdivision (j), civil penalties
recovered by aggrieved employees shall be distributed as follows: 75 percent to
the Labor and Workforce Development Agency for enforcement of labor laws,
including the administration of this part, and for education of employers and
employees about their rights and responsibilities under this code, to be
continuously appropriated to supplement and not supplant the funding to the
agency for those purposes; and 25 percent to the aggrieved employees”].)
 
Labor Code
section 2699, subdivision (g)(1) provides, in relevant part, that “[a]ny
employee who prevails in any action shall be entitled to an award of reasonable
attorney’s fees and costs . . .”
 
Discussion

 
The motion seeks approval of a settlement of Plaintiff’s
claims for civil penalties under the PAGA for a total settlement amount of one
hundred five thousand dollars $105,000.00. Some of the specifics of the
settlement are as follows: 
 
-       
There are 104 Aggrieved Employees covered by the
Settlement.
-       
The Settlement was reached through formal mediation
with Jill Sperber, Esq.
-       
Attorneys' Fees of up to thirty-five thousand dollars
($35,000.00), which is one-third of the Settlement amount 
-       
Actual litigation costs to Plaintiff’s Counsel not to
exceed eight thousand dollars ($8,500.00)
-       
Settlement Administration Costs not to exceed five
thousand dollars ($5,000.00). 
-       
The Net Settlement Amount is estimated to be
fifty-seven thousand five hundred dollars ($57,000.00). From that, an estimated
fourteen thousand two hundred fifty dollars ($14,250.00) will be distributed to
the PAGA Settlement Group Members on a pro rata basis, in proportion to the
number of weeks that he or she worked for Defendants during the Covered Period.

 
Here, after
having reviewed the motion and declarations, the court finds no defects. 
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the
foregoing, the motion is granted. 