Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 20STCV41299
Plaintiff's Name: Pacific Attorney Group
Defendant's Name: Fred Panahi, Kamelia Jalilvand, Jalilvand Law Corporation
People Names: Kamelia Jalilvand, Fred Panahi
Company Names: Jalilvand Law Corporation
Places: 
Dates: October 28, 2020, December 17, 2020, January 29, 2021, June 15, 2023, October 31, 2023, November 22, 2023, December 22, 2023, January 24, 2024, January 30, 2024, February 6, 2024
Events: Demurrer to First Amended Complaint, Special Motion to Strike, Court Ruling, Appeal, Remittitur
Money: Gross amount recovered from any source, value of services
Intentions: Plaintiff seeks to establish attorney lien, Moving Defendants seek to demur the complaint
Facts: Plaintiff retained Defendant Panahi's office to represent him in a personal injury matter, Defendant Panahi terminated Plaintiff's representation and retained Moving Defendants, Plaintiff alleges Moving Defendants refused to confirm settlement amount and honor attorney lien
Disputes: Plaintiff's claim for declaratory relief, Plaintiff's standing to sue, Ms. Jalilvand's individual liability
Acts: Plaintiff filed a complaint, Moving Defendants filed a demurrer, Plaintiff filed an opposition, Moving Defendants filed a reply
Agreements: Contingency fee agreement
Laws: Code of Civil Procedure (CCP) ยง 430.10(e), CCP ยง 425.16, CCP ยง 430.41
Case Citations: Hahn v. Mirda, Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co., City of Cotati v. Cashman, Connerly v. Schwarzenegger, Ludgate Ins. Co. v. Lockheed Martin Corp., Qualified Patients Ass'n v. City of Anaheim, Travers v. Louden, Hood v. Superior Court, Mojtahedi v. Superior Court
Statutes: Code of Civil Procedure (CCP)
Roles:
  - Judge: Upinder S. Kalra
  - Plaintiff: Pacific Attorney Group
  - Defendant: Fred Panahi, Kamelia Jalilvand, Jalilvand Law Corporation
Significant Statements:
  - Demurrer to the FAC is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.
  - The court SUSTAINS Moving Defendants' demurrer without leave to amend.
  - The court's analysis remains unchanged from the first demurrer.
```

And here is a summary of the judge's tentative ruling in English text:

The judge has issued a tentative ruling on the demurrer to the First Amended Complaint (FAC) filed by the defendants, Kamelia Jalilvand and Jalilvand Law Corporation. The court has sustained the demurrer without leave to amend, meaning that the plaintiff, Pacific Attorney Group, will not be allowed to re-file an amended complaint. The judge has also concluded that the plaintiff has failed to sufficiently allege facts to constitute a cause of action, including a lack of standing to sue and no individual liability on the part of Ms. Jalilvand. The court has also ruled that the plaintiff's claim for declaratory relief is not properly pleaded. The ruling is based on the pleadings alone and does not consider any extrinsic evidence. The court's analysis is identical to its previous ruling on the demurrer to the original complaint.