  Case Number:  21STCV20196    Hearing Date:   May 31, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept.:
F43
Date:
05/31/2024   
Case
#: 21STCV20196
Case
Name: Perrigo, et al. v. Montecristo Trucking LLC, et al.
Trial
Date: 06/24/2024 
 
Plaintiff’s Motion for Summary Adjudication on the
Issue of Defendant Fames Transport, Inc.’s Duty
 
MOVING
PARTY: Plaintiffs Chad Perrigo and Alexa Perrigo 
RESPONDING
PARTY: N/A - Unopposed 
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Moving
party requests that the Court grant their Motion for Summary Adjudication on
the issue of Defendant Fames Transport, Inc.’s duty and hold Defendant Fames
Transport Inc. vicariously liable for the negligent acts of their independent
contractors.
 
RULING: 
GRANTED

 

 
       
I.           
BACKGROUND 
            On May 28, 2021, Chad Perrigo (Chad)
and Alexa Perrigo (collectively, Plaintiffs) filed a Complaint against several
defendants after Chad suffered a head-on collision with a truck driven by Jorge
Edmondo Castaneda Rodriguez (Castaneda). The operative Third Amended Complaint (TAC)
was filed on March 30, 2023.
 
            The TAC alleges five causes of
action against seven different defendants: (1) Montecristo Trucking LLC
(Montecristo); (2) Castaneda; (3) Fames Transport, Inc. (Fames); (4) Thunder
Ridge Transport, Inc.(Thunder); (5) Fernando Escolero (Escolero); (6) County of
Los Angeles (the County); and (7) City of Santa Clarita (the City). The causes
of action are alleged as follows:
 
1.     
Negligence
(as against Montecristo, Castaneda, Fames, Escolero, & Thunder) 
2.     
Negligent
Entrustment (as against Montecristo, Castaneda, Fames, Escolero, & Thunder)
3.     
Negligent
Hiring, Supervision, & Retention (as against Montecristo, Fames, Escolero,
& Thunder)
4.     
Dangerous
Condition of Public Property (as against the County and the City)
5.     
Loss
of Consortium (as against all defendants)
 
            The allegations in the TAC stem from
an incident that took place on April 28, 2021 when Castaneda was driving a
15-ton tractor trailer and collided with Chad. (TAC, ¶ 82.) Chad suffered
numerous serious injuries. (TAC, ¶ 85.) The TAC alleges that Castaneda had made
numerous violations as a driver subject to Federal Motor Carrier Safety
Regulations, including having exceeded his 14-hour service limitation and his
80-hours of service limitations set by federal regulations. (TAC, ¶ 78.)
            As pertinent to the instant motion,
the TAC alleges that the United States Postal Service (USPS) contracted with
Thunder for the delivery of parcels as a federal motor carrier (Prime
Contract). (TAC, ¶¶ 30-31.) On January 14, 2018, Thunder subcontracted the
Prime Contract to Fames (Thunder-Fames Contract). (TAC, ¶ 32.) On October 1,
2020, Fames then subcontracted the Thunder-Fames Contract to Montecristo
(Fames-Montecristo Contract). (TAC, ¶ 35.) Further, the TAC alleges there was a
nondelegable duty as a matter of law to safely operate commercial vehicles on
public highways. (TAC, ¶ 38.)
 
            The motion now before the Court is Plaintiffs’ Motion for Summary Adjudication
on the Issue of Defendant Fames Transport, Inc.’s Duty (the Motion). The Motion
is unopposed.  
          
    
II.           
DISCUSSION
 
Requests
for Judicial Notice (RJN) – 
            Concurrently filed with their
Motion, Plaintiffs’ file a request for judicial notice asking the Court to
judicially notice the following:
 
1.     
Company
Snapshot of Fames Transport, Inc. from the SAFER website database
2.     
Company
Snapshot of Thunder Ridge Transport, Inc. from the SAFER website database
 
            Plaintiffs contend that these
snapshots come directly from the government record maintained by the Federal
Motor Carrier Safety Administration (FMCSA). Pursuant to Evid. Code § 452
judicial notice is granted. 
 
Legal
Standard - 
            “The function of the pleadings in a
motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the function
of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable
issue of fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.” (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12
Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI
Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367, 381-382.)
 
            “First, and generally, from
commencement to conclusion, the party moving for summary judgment bears the
burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue of material fact and that
he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” Therefore, when the moving
party is the plaintiff, “plaintiff bears the burden of persuasion that ‘each
element of’ the ‘cause of action’ in question has been ‘proved,’ and hence that
‘there is no defense’ thereto.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)
 
            “Second, and generally, the party
moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of production to make a
prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact;
if he carries his burden of production, he causes a shift, and the opposing
party is then subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a prima
facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of material fact.” (Aguilar,
supra at 850.) Once the moving party has met that burden, the burden shifts
to the opposing party to show that a triable issue of one or more material
facts exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto. To establish a
triable issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion must produce
substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster
v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)
 
Analysis – 
            The
primary argument movants make on summary judgment is that Fames had a
non-delegable duty to operate its vehicles safely on public highways and roads,
and that although Castaneda was a driver for Montecristo, Fames cannot escape
liability by asserting that Montecristo – and by extension Castaneda – were
independent contractors. The Court agrees and grants the Motion.
 
            Taylor
and Eli
            In
their moving papers, Plaintiffs rely heavily on Taylor v. Oakland Scavenger
Co. (1941) 17 Cal. 2d 594 (Taylor) and Eli v. Murphy (1952)
39 Cal. 2d 598 (Eli). Both these cases from the Supreme Court of
California are analogous to the case here before this Court.
 
            In Taylor
the plaintiff was injured after being hit by a garbage truck driver, plaintiff
then sued both the driver and the garbage disposal company. (Taylor at
598.) The garbage disposal company denied liability and contended that the
owner of the truck was an independent contractor and not an employee. (Id.
at 599.) The Supreme Court of California rejected this argument. The Taylor
Court first acknowledged that “An employer is generally liable for negligent
acts of an employee performed within the scope of employment, but if an
independent contractor rather than master and servant relationship exists, the
independent contractor usually is alone liable for his negligent acts.” (Id.
at 604.) However, if an individual or corporation takes on an activity
involving possible danger to the public under a license granted by public
authority, liability may not be evaded by delegating performance to an
independent contractor. (Ibid.) 
 
            Eleven
years later, the Eli Court echoed the same sentiment. The plaintiffs
there were injured when their automobile was struck from behind by a tractor
and semitrailer driven by the defendant James Murphy, and owned by Murphy’s
father who was also his employer. At the time of the accident, Murphy’s father,
Leo Murphy, was under contract with California Motor Transport Company (CMT).
CMT contended that under the terms of the contract, Leo Murphy was an
independent contractor, and therefore CMT was not liable for the negligence of
Leo Murphy nor any of his employees. (Eli at 598.) The Eli Court
disagreed holding that because CMT was operating as a highway common carrier in
a business that carried very considerable risk, its duties were non-delegable.
(Eli at 599-600.)                 
  
 
            Applicability
to the instant case
            The
similarities of Taylor and Eli are apparent. Here, Fames had been
subcontracted by Thunder to deliver parcels for USPS. There is no dispute
between that parties that both Thunder and Frames are carriers registered with
the Department of Transportation (DOT) and FMCSA with license numbers. (See
Plaintiff’s Separate Statement, UMFs Nos. 8-11. Also see Plaintiff’s RJN.) This
means that both are under a license granted by public authority. Additionally,
Fames is engaging in a business with considerable risk and operates under the
regulatory power of the DOT and FMCSA. Under both Taylor and Eli,
the non-delegable duty doctrine applies, and therefore both companies,
including Fames had a non-delegable duty to safely operate the vehicle on
public roads. Here, Plaintiffs have carried their burden of demonstrating no
triable issue of material fact as to the issue of duty. Defendant Fames submits
no opposition. 
 
 
III.           
CONCLUSION 
            Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion for Summary Adjudication
on the Issue of Defendant Fames Transport, Inc.’s Duty is GRANTED.

 
 
Moving
party to give notice.