  Case Number:  23CHCV00825    Hearing Date:   January 9, 2025    Dept:  F49 


Dept.
  F49




Date:
  1/9/25




Case
  Name: Octagon Construction, Inc. v. R&R Demo and Grading Corp., and
  Does 1 through 20
Case
  No. 23CHCV00825




 



 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH VALLEY DISTRICT
DEPARTMENT F49
 

JANUARY 9, 2025
 

MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO DEMAND
AND INSPECTION; REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS

Los Angeles Superior
Court Case No. 23CHCV00825

 
Motion
filed: 10/1/24
 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff Octagon Construction, Inc.
RESPONDING PARTY: None.
NOTICE: OK.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED: An
order from this Court to compel Defendant R&R Demo and Grading Corp. to
respond to Plaintiff Octagon Construction, Inc.’s Request for Production of
Documents specified in the Notice of Deposition, and to impose monetary
sanctions against Defendant R&R Demo and Grading Corp. in the amount of $1,400.00.
 
TENTATIVE
RULING: The
motion is GRANTED. The request for monetary sanctions is GRANTED IN PART.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This action arises out of alleged contractual disputes.
 
On March 22, 2023, Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
Octagon Construction, Inc. (“Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant” or “Octagon”)
filed a Complaint against Defendant/Cross-Complainant R&R Demo and Grading
Corp. (“Defendant/Cross-Complainant” or “R&R”) and Does 1 through 20, alleging
a single cause of action for Breach of Oral Contract. Subsequently, on
September 20, 2023, Defendant filed its Answer to the Complaint.
 
On September 25, 2023, R&R filed a
Cross-Complaint against Octagon and Roes 1 to 10, alleging breach of contract.
Subsequently, Octagon filed its Answer to the Cross-Complaint on October 23,
2023.
 
On October 1, 2024, Octagon filed the
instant Motion to Compel Response to Demand for Inspection (the “Motion”).
Subsequently, on October 10, 2024, the Court granted Octagon’s ex-parte
application to advance the hearing date on the Motion, setting the new hearing
date for January 9, 2025.
 
No Opposition or Reply papers have been
received by the Court. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
“If a party filing a response to a demand for inspection ... thereafter fails to permit the
inspection ... in accordance with that party’s statement of compliance, the
demanding party may move for an order compelling compliance.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2031.320, subd. (a).)
 
A.   
Motion to Compel
Responses to Request for Production of Documents
 
Octagon moves the Court to
compel R&R’s responses to a demand for production of documents specified in
Octagon’s Amended Notice of Deposition dated January 4, 2024 (the “Notice”),
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure sections 2025.450, subdivision (a), and
2031.320, subdivision (a). (Mot. at p. 3.)
 
Octagon’s counsel, Michael S. Magnuson (“Magnuson”) declares
that on January 30, 2024, he took the deposition of the BAHRAM RABII (“Rabii”) who is the
Responsible Managing Employee ("RME") of R&R. Rabii is also the
owner of the company. The Notice included ten categories of documents directly
related to the allegations in the Complaint, the defenses thereto, and the
Cross-Complaint of R&R. (Magnuson Decl. ¶ 3.) At the deposition, Rabii
acknowledged that he has within his custody or control a number of documents
requested in the Notice. (Id. ¶ 5.) The deposition transcript indicates
that, in response to a question, “What is the process that you need to do to be
able to come up with documents that are connected to this lawsuit?” Rabii
stated, in part, “I’m going to give you all of the documents you are asking.” (Id.
Ex. “2,” at 18:14-20.) At the close of the deposition the parties stipulated
that they would return for the second session of the deposition following the
production of the documents. (Ibid.) Subsequently, Magnuson made several
attempts, including telephone calls and email to counsel on August 3, 2024, to
obtain production of the documents included in the Notice. Despite these
efforts, no responses or documents have been received from R&R’s counsel.
(Magnuson Decl. ¶ 6.)
 
Based on the above records, the Court finds that Rabii’s
acknowledgement of his intent to produce all requested documents constitutes a
statement of compliance by R&R. Consequently, Octagon is justified in seeking
an order compelling compliance.
 
Additionally, R&R has not submitted an Opposition,
effectively waiving any responses to the claims raised in the Motion.
 
Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS the unopposed
Motion.
 
B.    
Monetary
Sanctions
 
“Except
as provided in subdivision (d), the court shall impose a monetary sanction
under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person,
or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel compliance
with a demand, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.320, subd. (b).)
 
Additionally,
California Rules of Court rule 3.1348(a) further provides, “The Court may award
sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a motion to
compel discovery, even though no opposition to the motion was filed, or
opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or the requested discovery was provided
to the moving party after the motion was filed.” (Underlines added.)
 
Here, R&R has neither filed an
Opposition nor separately requested relief from the sanction on the grounds of
substantial justification or other circumstances that would make the imposition
of the sanction unjust. Accordingly, the Court finds that mandatory sanctions are
applicable in this case. Utilizing the lodestar approach, the Court determines
the total and reasonable amount of attorney’s fees and costs incurred for the
work performed in connection with the Motion to be $700.00, calculated based on
a reasonable hourly rate of $350.00 for two hours reasonably spent.
 
Therefore, the Court GRANTS IN PART Octagon’s request for
monetary sanctions.
 
CONCLUSION
 
Plaintiff Octagon Construction, Inc.’s Motion to Compel
Responses to Request for Production of Documents is GRANTED.
 
Defendant
R&R Demo and Grading Corp. is ordered to produce requested documents, specified in the
Amended Notice of Deposition dated January 4, 2024, within 10 days.
 
Plaintiff
Octagon Construction, Inc.’s request for monetary
sanctions is GRANTED IN PART. 
 
Defendant
R&R Demo and Grading Corp is ordered to pay $700.00 to Plaintiff Octagon Construction, Inc. within 10 days.
 
Moving
party to give notice.
 