 Case Number:  24CHCV03204    Hearing Date:   January 9, 2025    Dept:  F49 


Dept.
  F49




Date:
  1/9/25




Case
  Name: Michael R. Shaar, Trustee of the Michael R. Shaar Separate Property
  Trust v. Rocio A. Flamenco & Matthew Flamenco, and Does 1 through 50




Case No.
  24CHCV03204



 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH VALLEY DISTRICT
DEPARTMENT F49
 

JANUARY 9, 2025
 

SPECIAL MOTION TO STRIKE CROSS-COMPLAINT
(CODE CIV. PROC., § 425.16)

Los Angeles Superior
Court Case No. 24CHCV03204

 
Motion
filed: 11/4/24
 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Michael R.
Shaar, Trustee of the Michael R. Shaar Separate Property Trust 
RESPONDING PARTY: Defendant/Cross-Complainant Rocio
A. Flamenco
NOTICE: OK.¿¿¿ 
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED: An order from this Court to strike Defendant/Cross-Complainant
Rocio A. Flamenco’s Cross-Complaint, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 425.16. 
 
TENTATIVE
RULING: The
motion is GRANTED.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This action arises from an alleged landlord-tenant dispute.
 
On September 5, 2024, Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
Michael R. Shaar, Trustee of the Michael R. Shaar
Separate Property Trust, (“Plaintiff” or “Shaar”) filed the Complaint against
Defendant/Cross-Complainant Rocio A. Flamenco (“Rocio”), Defendant Matthew
Flamenco (“Matthew”), and Does 1 through 50, alleging two causes of action: (1)
Breach of Lease & Damages pursuant to Civil Code, and (2) Common Counts.
Subsequently, Rocio filed her Answer to the Complaint on October 3, 2024.
 
On the same day, October 3,
2024, Defendant/Cross-Complainant Rocio filed the Cross-Complaint against
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Shaar, alleging Breach of Contract and Common Counts.
On November 4, 2024, Shaar
filed the instant Special Motion to Strike Cross-Complaint (Code Civ. Proc., §
425.16) (the “Motion”). Subsequently, on November 26, 2024, Rocio filed her
Opposition to the Motion, and Shaar submitted his Reply on January 2, 2025.   
  
ANALYSIS
 
Special motions to strike
pursuant to the California Anti-SLAPP Statute are considered using a
two-pronged approach.  The first prong places the burden on the moving
defendant(s) to prove that the allegations arise from conduct protected by the
constitutional freedoms of speech or petition. If the first prong is
satisfied, then the second prong shifts the burden on the opposing plaintiff to
demonstrate a probability of success on the merits using credited evidence.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (b).)
 
A.   
Request for
Judicial Notice
 
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
Shaar requests the Court take judicial notice of the following document:
 
1.     
Request for Judicial
Notice (“RJN”) No. 1: Unlawful Detainer Stipulation and Judgment, dated August
14, 2024, LASC Case No. 24CHUD00329 (Department 92). (RJN, Ex. “A.”)
 
Evidence Code section 452, subdivision (d) permits the court
in its discretion to take judicial notice of the records of any court in this
state. Upon taking notice of court records, the court accepts as true only that
(1) they were filed and (2) the assertions therein were made; the court does
not take notice of the truth of their contents. (See Joslin v. H.A.S. Ins.
Brokerage (1986) 184 Cal.App.3d 369, 374-375; see also Day v. Sharp
(1975) 50 Cal.App.3d 904, 916.)
 
Accordingly, the court GRANTS Shaar’s request for judicial
notice to the extent consistent with the above cited authorities.
 
B.    
First Prong
–Shaar’s Burden to Prove that Allegations Arise from Conduct Protected by the
Constitutional Freedoms of Speech or Petition 
 
"At
the first step of the [anti-SLAPP] analysis, the defendant must make two
related showings. Comparing its statements and conduct against the statute, it
must demonstrate activity qualifying for protection. [Citation.] And comparing
that protected activity against the complaint, it must also demonstrate that
the activity supplies one or more elements of a plaintiff's claims." (Wilson
v. Cable News Network, Inc. (2019) 7 Cal.5th 871, 887 (Wilson).)
 
Here,
Rocio’s form Cross-Complaint contains two causes of action labeled “Breach of
Contract” and “Common Counts,” respectively. However, the only factual
allegations in the entire Cross-Complaint consists only of a single paragraph:
 
“Wrongly
evicted, discriminated against, retaliation & forced to move out with a
false 3 day notice. Defendant [sic] lie to the courts to falsy [sic] evict me.
Pain & suffering. Harassment & Physical, mental abuse.” 
 
(Cross-Complaint
¶ 9.)
 
Shaar
asserts that based on this allegation, the underlying conduct supporting
Rocio’s gravamen stem from Shaar’s protected free speech and petition
activities – specifically, the service of 3-day notice to quit and filing of an
unlawful detainer action against Rocio. (Mot. at pp. 7-8.)
 
In
Opposition, Rocio contends that she has not filed its Cross-Complaint in
retaliation for Shaar’s right to petition; rather, she seeks to recover actual
damage suffered as a result of Shaar’s violation of her rights as a tenant during
her stay at the Subject Property. (Opp’n. at p. 5.)
 
The
Court recognizes the general principle that pleadings should be liberally
construed for the purpose of determining their effect and allegations. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 452.) However, the Court finds that the single paragraph in the
Cross-Complaint does not substantiate Rocio’s claim that the gravamen is
centered on “her tenant’s right during her stay[.]” 
 
The
allegation is vague and conclusory, stating that Rocio was “wrongly evicted,
discriminated against, relation [and] forced to move out [of the Subject
Property] [due to Shaar’s] false 3 day notice.” Additionally, Rocio asserts
that “[Shaar] lie[d] to the courts to fals[ely] evict Rocio.” Moreover, Rocio
appears to allege that either or both of Shaar’s actions caused her “pain &
suffering.” Lastly, Rocio claims “harassment and physical, mental abuse”
without identifying any factual basis for these allegations. 
 
The Cross-Complaint
is devoid of any claim supporting Rocio’s assertion that the gravamen is
centered on Shaar’s actions related to the claim that “the Subject Property was
generally riddled with habitability violations and SHAAR failed, refused or
neglected to fix the habitability violations despite repeated complaints from
ROCIO.” (Opp’n. at p. 4.)
 
            Accordingly,
the Court finds Rocio’s argument unpersuasive, and concludes, after liberally
construing the factual allegation and looking beyond labels and conclusion of
law or facts, that the basis of Rocio’s Cross-Complaint arise from the alleged
facts that Shaar served Rocio “a false 3 day notice,” and that Shaar “lie[d] to
the courts to falsy [sic] evict [Rocio].”
 
            The
Court will now analyze these two actions under the framework of the Anti-SLAPP
statute (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16.)
 
1)     
Service
of 3-Day Notice
 
Protected
activity includes service of Notices to Quit. In Feldman v. 1100 Park Lane
Associates (2008) 160 Cal.App.4th 1467 (Feldman), the court found
that the service of the notice to quit was protected communicative activity
within the meaning of Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16, reasoning that
“[s]ervice of a three-day notice to quit was a legally required prerequisite to
the filing of the unlawful detainer action…. As such, [the defendant’s] service
of the three-day notice to quit was a communication preparatory to the bringing
of the unlawful detainer action” (Feldman, supra, at p. 1480, see
also, Rohde v. Wolf (2007) 154 Cal.App.4th 28, 35 [“communications
preparatory or in anticipation of bringing an action or other official
proceeding are protected under section 425.16”])
 
Conversely,
California courts have held that a cause of action against the landlord for
disability discrimination in removing its residential units from the rental
market does not warrant the protection under section 425.16, even if it
involves such protected activities as filing and serving preparatory notices to
the tenants. (See DFEH v. 1105 Alta Loma Road Apartments, LLC (2007) 154
Cal. App.4th 1273.) In DFEH, the court denied the landlord’s Anti-SLAPP
Special Motion to Strike, finding that the communications and the actual
eviction itself were not the acts attacked in the complaint; instead, the
gravamen of the complaint was for landlord’s alleged act of failing to
accommodate the tenant’s disability” (DFEH, supra, at pp.
1284-1285.)
 
Here,
it is undisputed that an underlying unlawful detainer action between the
parties was filed and resolved by way of stipulated judgment. (RJN No. 1.)
Therefore, just as the 3-day notice to quit in Feldman, which
constituted a communication preparatory to the unlawful detainer action, the “3
day notice” alleged by Rocio also qualifies as protected communicative activity
within the meaning of Code of Civil Procedure section. Any doubt that the
filing of the preparatory notice would not be included in the wide ambit of the
anti-SLAPP statute is set to rest by Feldman line of cases.
 
Unlike the DFEH case, where the core issue was the
landlord's alleged disability discrimination, which was unrelated to the
landlord’s notices of removal of rental units from the market, Rocio’s claim is
specifically centered on Shaar’s act of issuing a '3-day notice.' Rocio
contends that the '3-day notice' was 'false'; however, this allegation alone
does not automatically negate the protection afforded to the communication. An
assertion of falsity does not, in itself, render the act unprotected, especially
when the notice is part of a legitimate business practice or a procedural step.
 
Well-established
law affirms that the moving party in an anti-SLAPP motion is not required to
prove the lawfulness of their conduct at this early stage. Imposing such a
requirement would improperly shift the burden of proof onto the moving party,
essentially conducting a merits inquiry that should be reserved for later
proceedings. (RGC Gaslamp, LLC v. Ehmcke Sheet Metal Co., Inc. (2020) 56
Cal.App.5th 413, 429; see also Felman, supra, 160 Cal. App.4th at
p. 1484 ["The claim that the eviction was 'illegal'... does not transform
these protected activities into something different or independent."])
 
By
contrast, in Flatley, the court held that when a defendant’s
communications constituted criminal extortion as a matter law, they are
unprotected by constitutional guarantee of free speech or petition. (Id.
at p. 305.)
 
The
present case is distinguishable from Flatley. The allegation against
Shaar – serving a '3-day notice' – does not, as a matter of law, constitute
illegal or criminal conduct. Unlike Flatley, where the defendant’s
actions were indisputably criminal and extortionate, here the legality of the
'3-day notice,' and whether it is indeed false, remains unresolved.
 
Therefore,
the exception outlined in Flatley does not apply. Instead, the general
legal principle holds that the moving party on an anti-SLAPP motion need not
affirmatively demonstrate the lawfulness of their actions at this stage. As
outlined in RGC Gaslamp, supra, the burden rests on Rocio to
prove the illegality of Shaar’s conduct at the second prong of the analysis.
 
            Accordingly, Shaar’s service of 3 day notice remains
within the ambit of protected activities under the anti-SLAPP statute. 
 
2)     
Petition to the Court
 
Rocio
alleges that “[Shaar] lie to the courts to falsy [sic] evict me.”
(Cross-Complaint ¶ 9.)
 
“The constitutional right to
petition ... includes the basic act of filing litigation or otherwise seeking
administrative action.” (Ludwig v. Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 8, 19;
California Motor Transport v. Trucking Unlimited (1972) 404 U.S. 508,
510 [“[t]he right of access to the courts is indeed but one aspect of
the right to petition”].) “The prosecution of an unlawful detainer action
indisputably is protected activity within the meaning of section 425.16.”
(See Jarrow
Formulas, Inc. v. LaMarche (2003) 31 Cal.4th 728, 734–735 (Jarrow).)
 
Here, it is clear that Shaar’s petition to the court, through
prosecuting an unlawful detainer action or engaging in other litigation, to
obtain possession of the Subject Property “indisputably is protected activity
within the meaning of section 425.16.” (Jarrow, supra, 31 Cal.4th
at pp. 734-735.)
 
As the Court previously explained, Rocio’s allegation that Shaar “lie[d]
to the courts” does not automatically strip Shaar of the right to petition unless
the illegality can be conclusively
established as a matter of law. 
 
Here, whether Shaar’s petition involved lying or
misrepresentation remains undetermined, and the burden rests on Rocio to
establish the probability
of prevailing in the second prong of the analysis.
 
Accordingly, the Court finds that Shaar has met the initial burden of
proving that the allegations in the Cross-Complaint arise from protected
activities within the meaning to Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16.  
 
C.   
Second Prong
– Rocio’s Burden of Demonstrating Probability of Prevailing
 
“If the court finds such a showing [moving party’s initial burden] has
been made, it then determines whether the plaintiff [here the
Feldman cross-complainants] has demonstrated a probability of prevailing on the
claim.’” (Taus v. Loftus (2007) 40 Cal.4th 683, 712.)
“Put another way, the
plaintiffs ‘must demonstrate that the complaint is both legally sufficient and
supported by a sufficient prima facie showing of facts to sustain a favorable
judgment if the evidence submitted by the plaintiff is credited.’ [Citation.]”
(Wilson v. Parker, Covert & Chidester (2002) 28 Cal.4th 811, 821.)
“[P]laintiffs' burden as to
the second prong of the anti-SLAPP test is akin to that of a party opposing a
motion for summary judgment.” (Navellier v. Sletten (2003) 106 Cal.App.4th 763, 768.)
“If the plaintiff fails to
carry that burden, the cause of action is “subject to be stricken under the
statute.” (Navellier I, supra, 29
Cal.4th 82, 89.)
 
            Here, the Cross-Complaint contains only conclusions of
law and facts. It is entirely deficient in providing factual allegations to
substantiate the claim that the “3 day notice” was false, or that “[Shaar] lie[d]
to the courts.” 
 
Aside from the
single paragraph containing vague and conclusory statements, the
Cross-Complaint also fails to sufficiently state a cause of action. Here, Rocio
labels her two causes of action as Breach of Contract and Common Counts. However,
the Cross-Complaint does not allege any facts showing the
existence of a contract, breach, or damages related to a contractual
relationship. (See Richman v. Hartley (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1182
[elements of a breach of contract claim]) The "common counts" cause
of action is also entirely unrelated to the allegations in the complaint.
 
Therefore,
the Court concludes that Rocio has failed to meet her burden of demonstrating a
probability of prevailing.   
 
            Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS the Special Motion to Strike Cross-Complaint under Code
of Civil Procedure section 425.16, WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
CONCLUSION
 
The Special Motion to Strike Cross-Complaint under
Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16, filed by Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
Michael R. Shaar, Trustee of the Michael R. Shaar Separate Property Trust, is
GRANTED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
Moving
party to give notice.