 Case Number:  23CHCV01604    Hearing Date:   January 9, 2025    Dept:  F49 


Dept.
  F49




Date:
  1/9/25




Case
  Name: David Reyes v. Manuel Reyes, Janet Cazarez, All Persons Unknown
  Claiming Any Interest in the Property Described in the Complaint, and Does 1
  through 20




Case No.
  23CHCV01604



 
LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH VALLEY
DISTRICT
DEPARTMENT
F49
 

JANUARY 9,
2025
 

MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE FIRST
AMENDED CROSS-COMPLAINT

Los Angeles Superior Court Case No. 23CHCV01604

 
Motion
filed: 8/20/24
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant/Cross-Complainant Janet
Cazarez 
RESPONDING PARTY: None. 
NOTICE: OK.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED: An
order granting Defendant/Cross-Complainant Janet Cazarez leave to file her
First Amended Cross-Complaint.
 
TENTATIVE
RULING: The
motion is GRANTED.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is an action for partition by sale of the real property located at
8900 Geyser Avenue, Northridge, California 91324 (the “Subject Property”).
 
On June 2, 2023, Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant David Reyes (“David”) filed a
Complaint against Defendant/Cross-Defendant/Cross-Complainant Manuel Reyes
(“Manuel”), Defendant/Cross-Complainant Janet Cazarez (“Cazarez”), all persons
unknown claiming any interest in the property described in the Complaint, and
Does 1 through 20, alleging the following causes of action: (1) Partition by
Sale of Real Property (Code Civ. Proc., § 872.210.), (2) Accounting of Rents
and Profits, (3) Breach of Fiduciary Duty, (4) Conversion, (5) Trespass, (6)
Injunctive Relief, and (7) For Appointment of A Receiver. Subsequently, Cazarez
and Manuel filed their respective Answers to the Complaint on July 28 and
August 3, 2023.
 
On July 31, 2023, Defendant/Cross-Complainant Cazarez filed her
Cross-Complaint (“7/31/23 Cross-Complaint”) against Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
David, Defendant/Cross-Defendant/Cross-Complainant Manuel, and Roes 1 through
10, for Declaratory Relief. Subsequently, David and Manuel filed their
respective Answers to the 7/31/23 Cross-Complaint on August 25 and December 6,
2023, respectively.
 
On August 4, 2023, Defendant/Cross-Defendant/Cross-Complainant Manuel
filed his Cross-Complaint (“8/4/23 Cross-Complaint”) against
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant David, and Cross-Defendant Gloria Huizar, both
individually (“Huizar”) and as Trustee for the Gloria Huizar Trust dated
12/20/2011 (“Huizar as Trustee”), all persons unknown claiming any interest in
the property described in the Complaint, and Roes 1 through 20, for Partition
of Real Property by Sale (Code Civ. Proc., § 872.210). Subsequently, David and
Huizar as Trustee filed their respective Answers to the 8/4/23 Cross-Complaint
on September 1, 2023, and March 15, 2024, respectively.
 
On August 20, 2024, Defendant/Cross-Complainant Cazarez filed the
instant Motion for Leave to File First Amended Cross-Complaint (the “Motion”).
 
No Opposition or Reply papers have been received by the Court.
 
ANALYSIS
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 428.50 provides:¿¿ 
¿¿ 
“(a) A party shall file a cross-complaint against any of the
parties who filed the complaint or cross-complaint against him or her before or
at the same time as the answer to the complaint or cross-complaint.¿¿ ¿¿ 
(b) Any other cross-complaint may be filed at any time before
the court has set a date for trial.¿¿ ¿¿ 
(c)¿A
party shall obtain leave of court to file any cross-complaint except one filed¿within¿the time¿specified
in subdivision (a)¿or¿(b).¿ Leave may be granted in the interest of justice
at any time during the course of the action.”¿¿ 
¿¿ 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 428.50.)¿¿¿ 
 
“A party who fails to plead a cause of action subject to the
requirements of this article, whether through oversight, inadvertence,
mistake, neglect, or other cause, may apply to the court for leave to amend
his pleading, or to file a cross-complaint, to assert such cause at any time
during the course of the action. The court, after notice to the adverse party, shall
grant, upon such terms as may be just to the parties, leave to amend the
pleading, or to file the cross-complaint, to assert such cause if the party who
failed to plead the cause acted in good faith.¿ This subdivision shall
be liberally construed to avoid forfeiture of causes of action.”¿ (Code
Civ. Proc., § 426.50.) (Underlines added.)¿¿ 
 
The Court of Appeals has explained: “The legislative mandate
is clear. A policy of liberal construction of section 426.50 to avoid
forfeiture of causes of action is imposed on the trial¿court. A motion to
file a cross-complaint at any time during the course of the action must be
granted unless bad faith of the moving party is demonstrated where
forfeiture would otherwise result. Factors such as oversight, inadvertence,
neglect, mistake or other cause, are insufficient grounds to deny the motion
unless accompanied by bad faith.” (Silver Organizations Ltd. v.
Frank¿(1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 94, 98–99 (Silver Organizations).) “‘Bad faith,’ is
defined as ‘[t]he opposite of ‘good faith,’ generally implying or involving
actual or constructive fraud, or a design to mislead or deceive another, or a
neglect or refusal to fulfill some duty or some contractual obligation, not
prompted by an honest mistake ..., but by some interested or sinister motive[,]
... not simply bad judgment or negligence, but rather ... the conscious doing
of a wrong because of dishonest purpose or moral obliquity; ... it contemplates
a state of mind affirmatively operating with furtive design or ill will.” (Id.
at 100.)¿¿ 
¿ 
A cross-complaint is compulsory when a related cause of
action existed at the time of serving the defendant’s answer to the complaint.¿
(Code Civ. Proc. § 426.30, subd. (a); see also Crocker Nat. Bank v. Emerald
(1990) 221 Cal.App.3d 852, 864.)¿ A related cause of action is “a cause of
action which arises out of the same transaction, occurrence, or series of
transactions or occurrences as the cause of action which the plaintiff alleges
in his complaint.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc. § 426.10, subd. (c).)¿ Leave must be
granted to file a compulsory cross-complaint when the defendant is acting in
good faith.¿ (See Code Civ. Proc. § 426.50.)¿¿ 
 
A.   
Compulsory
Cross-Complaint
 
This action stems from a
family dispute over the ownership and management of the Subject Property. The
Complaint asserts, among other claims, causes of action for Partition by Sale of Real Property and
Accounting of Rents and Profits. (Compl. ¶¶ 7-34.) 
 
Cazarez originally filed her
7/31/23 Cross-Complaint seeking reimbursement for improvements she had made to
the Subject Property during her residence at the Subject Property for about 30
years. (Mot. at p. 5.) Cazarez now moves for the Court’s leave to file the
First Amended Cross-Complaint (“FACC”). The proposed FACC adds a new cause of
action for Quiet Title by Adverse Possession to the Subject Property. (Mot. at
p. 2.) The new cause of action is compulsory because it arises from the same
transaction or occurrence as alleged in the Complaint, pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure section 426.10(c).
 
Here, the proposed FACC
alleges against Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant David,
Defendant/Cross-Defendant/Cross-Complainant Manuel, and Roes 1 through 10,
alleging: (1) Quiet Title based on Adverse Possession, and (2) Declaratory
Relief. (Newman Decl. Ex. “B.”) These causes of action are directly tied to the
ownership interests and the entitlement to the proceeds from the partition by
sale of the Subject Property.
 
 Therefore, the Court determines that the
proposed FACC is compulsory. Consequently, Code of Civil Procedure section
426.50 governs the instant Motion. 
 
B.    
Absent Bad
Faith from the Moving Party
 
Here, Cazarez presents that
the reason that the leave to file the proposed FACC was not sought earlier was
due to the following reasons: initially when this action commenced, Cazarez and
her counsel considered a Cross-Complaint for Adverse Possession as to the
entire Subject Property however they believe that the facts did not support
such a claim. Subsequently, after Cazarez produced documents in discovery in
May 2024 and was able to locate checks showing that she had paid the property
taxes for the Subject Property over a period of time, the claim was reevaluated
resulting in the proposed FACC claiming adverse possession as to David’s 50%
interest alone. (Newman Decl. ¶ 6.)
 
Cazarez further claims that
the FACC will not cause prejudice to David because he was given notice of the
Adverse Possession claim in one of the discovery responses served on May 28,
2024. Specifically, in responding to one of David’s special interrogatories,
Cazarez stated under oath: “Cazarez does not believe she has any claim to the
undivided half interest in the Northridge property held by Manuel Reyes
(“Manuel”), as he allowed her to live there. However, Cazarez believes that the
elements of adverse possession are satisfied as to the undivided half interest
in the Northridge property held by David Reyes (“David”), because (1) her
possession is held as to David under a claim of right; (2) she was actually,
openly, and notoriously occupying the property in such a manner as constituted
reasonable notice to David; (3) her occupation of the property was both
exclusive and hostile to David’s title; (4) she occupied the property
continuously for over 30 years; and (5) she paid the property taxes for the property
for about 20 years straight.” (Newman Decl. ¶ 7.)
 
Based on the information
provided in the above declaration, the Court finds that Cazarez’s Motion is
made in good faith, not motivated by “dishonest purpose” or contemplation of “a
state of mind affirmatively operating with furtive design or ill will.” (See Silver
Organizations, supra, 217 Cal.App.3d at 98-99.)
 
Accordingly, the Court
GRANTS the Motion for Leave to File First Amended Cross-Complaint, pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 426.50.
 
CONCLUSION
 
Defendant/Cross-Complainant
Janet Cazarez’s unopposed Motion for Leave to File First
Amended Cross-Complaint is GRANTED.
 
Defendant/Cross-Complainant
Janet Cazarez is ordered to file her First Amended Cross-Complaint within
15 days of the hearing, and to submit proof of service within the same 15-day
period.
 
Moving
party to provide notice of this order.
 