  Case Number:  22SMCV02781    Hearing Date:   May 8, 2024    Dept:  205  Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles – West District  Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205   3GEN NET LEASE, LP,   Plaintiff, v.  ROEM AUTOMOTIVE INC., et al.,   Defendants.    Case No.:  23SMCV02781     Hearing Date:  May 8, 2024   [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:   DEFENDANTS’ MOTION RE:    ENFORCEMENT OF NONPARTY    SUBPOENA DUCES TECUM SERVED ON    LOS ANGELES COUNTY ASSESSOR’S    OFFICE AND FOR SANCTIONS     BACKGROUND   This case arises from a landlord tenant dispute.  Defendants Roem Automotive Inc., Jeffrey Atkins and Caren Atkins entered into a written commercial lease agreement (the “Lease”) with Jordan Geller, as the trustee of the Jerome H. and Faith Pearlman Trust No. 2 (the “Pearlman Trust”).  The Pearlman Trust agreed to lease to Defendants an industrial building located at 1101 Olympic Blvd, Santa Monica, California (the “Premises”).  Defendants ran an automobile repair shop at the Premises.    Plaintiff 3Gen acquired the Premises from the Pearlman Trust, which assigned to 3Gen all of its rights and benefits under the Initial Lease and amendments thereto.  After Plaintiff acquired the Premises, Defendants allegedly failed to pay to Plaintiff amounts due under the Initial Lease and its amendments (including real estate property taxes), and wrongfully vacated and abandoned the Premises during the term of the Lease.      The operative complaint alleges three claims for: (1) breach of contract, (2) common count, and (3) breach of contract on personal guaranty.    Defendants filed a cross-complaint against Plaintiff and Jordan Geller individually and as successor trustee of the Pearlman Trust, alleging four claims for (1) fraud-concealment, (2) fraud-intentional misrepresentation, (3) fraud-negligent misrepresentation, and (4) rescission.  Defendants allege they were misled into entering the Lease and its amendments because Plaintiff allegedly failed to disclose that Defendants would be liable for a huge tax increase due to the death of Faith Pearlman, the original trustee of the Pearlman Trust.   On February 21, 2024, Defendants served a deposition subpoena (“Subpoena”) on the Los Angeles County Assessor’s Office (“County Assessor”) for 22 categories of documents relating to properties beyond the Premises.  Plaintiff did not move to quash the subpoena.  The County Assessor produced documents responsive to categories 1 through 8, but objected to categories 9 through 22 on grounds of relevance and confidentiality under the Revenue and Taxation Code.  Defendants and the County Assessor met and conferred from March 5 to March 26, 2024.  In the course of the meet and confers, Defendants agreed to narrow their subpoena to categories 9 through 13, which state as follows:    9. All COMMUNICATIONS between the ASSESSOR'S OFFICE and PLAINTIFF, from and after January 1, 2000.   10. All COMMUNICATIONS between the ASSESSOR'S OFFICE and GELLER, from and after January 1, 2000.   11. All COMMUNICATIONS between the ASSESSOR'S OFFICE and the PEARLMAN TRUST, from and after January 1, 2000.   12. All COMMUNICATIONS between the ASSESSOR'S OFFICE and any PERSON from and after January 1, 2000, relating to the PREMISES.   13. All COMMUNICATIONS between the ASSESSOR'S OFFICE and any PERSON from and after January 1, 2000, relating to PREMISES.      This hearing is on Defendants’ motion to enforce the Subpoena and for sanctions.  Defendants argue the Subpoena, as narrowed, seeks relevant information which is not confidential under the Revenue and Taxation Code.  Defendants also seek sanctions as they maintain the County Assessor’s objections to their Subpoena have no substantial justification.   LEGAL STANDARD A party seeking discovery from a person who is not a party to the action may obtain discovery by a deposition subpoena for production of business records. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.010.)  Personal service of any deposition subpoena is effective to require a deponent who is a resident of California to produce any specified documents. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.220, subd. (c).)¿  If a nonparty disobeys a deposition subpoena, the subpoenaing party make seek a court order pursuant to Code Civ. Proc. § 1987.1 compelling the nonparty to comply with the subpoena.  Section 1987.1, subdivision (a)¿states, “[i]f a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the production of books, documents, or other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the court’s own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective orders.” A motion to compel compliance with a deposition subpoena must be made within 60 days after completion of the deposition record, the date objections are served, or the date specified for production, and be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration. (Code Civ. Proc., §2025.480, subd., (b);¿Board of Registered Nursing v. Sup.Ct. (2021) 59 CA5th 1011, 1032-1033.) Code Civ. Proc. § 1987.2, subdivision (a)¿states, in relevant part, “. . . in making an order pursuant to motion made . . . under¿Section 1987.1, the court may in its discretion award the amount of the reasonable expenses incurred in making or opposing the motion, including reasonable attorney's fees, if the court finds the motion was made or opposed in bad faith or without substantial justification.” TIMELINESS OF MOTION The County Assessor served its objections on February 29, 2024.  Sixty days from the date of the objections is April 29, 2024.  This motion was filed on April 10, 2024, well within the 60-day deadline for filing a motion to compel. TIMELINESS OF OPPOSITION The County Assessor’s opposition was due nine court days before the hearing on the motion (or by April 25, 2024).  The County Assessor filed its opposition on April 30, 2024.   The County Assessor did not seek leave to file a late opposition and has made no attempt to show good cause for failing to comply with the deadline.  As the opposition is late, the Court declines to consider it.  ¿See, e.g.,¿Rancho Mirage Country Club Homeowners Ass'n v. Hazelbaker¿(2016) 2 Cal.App.5th 252, 262-63¿(judge properly refused to consider defendants’ late-filed opposition papers, when they made no attempt to seek leave to file their opposition late and no attempt to demonstrate good cause for failing to adhere to applicable deadline).   MEET AND CONFER Defendants submit the Declaration of Glen R. Segal which shows Defendants and the County Assessor met and conferred by letters exchanged on March 5, 2024, March 19, 2024 and March 26, 2024.  Defendants have satisfied their meet and confer requirements.   DISCUSSION Motion to Compel Deposition Subpoena Defendants argue that the documents they seek are relevant.  The Court agrees in part. In discovery, the scope of relevance is broad.  Information is relevant “if it might reasonably assist a party in evaluating its case, preparing for trial, or facilitating a settlement. [citations omitted] Admissibility is not the test and information, unless privileged, is discoverable if it might reasonably lead to admissible evidence.”  (Lipton v. Superior Court¿(1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 1599, 1611-1612.)  Discovery rules are to be “construed liberally in favor of disclosure unless the request is clearly improper by virtue of well-established causes for denial.”  (Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 541.)  This means that “disclosure is a matter of right unless statutory or public policy considerations clearly prohibit it.”  (Id.) Using this broad standard, communications with the County Assessor relating to the Premises (categories 12 and 13) as limited to the period from 2015 are clearly relevant.  Defendants contend that when the Lease was negotiated in September 2016, the Trust, through its principal, Mr. Geller, represented the real property taxes for the Premises would be a “few hundred dollars” per month.  Defendants contend that Mr. Geller knew at the time that the trustee and owner of the Trust, his grandmother (“Mrs. Pearlman”) had died on April 26, 2015 and that this would cause the County Assessor to reassess the value of the Premises.  Defendants contend that Mr. Geller failed to disclose to Defendants that Mrs. Pearlman had died and that hundreds of thousands of dollars in additional property taxes would be sought from Defendants.  Defendants also contend that the more than six year delay in the County Assessor’s re-assessment of the properties (and consequent massive increase in taxes) is because the document informing of Mrs. Pearlman’s death (likely a Change of Ownership Statement) was not filed with the County Assessor until many years after she died, which Defendants contend was not consistent with the requirements imposed by the Revenue and Taxation Code.  Given the foregoing, communications with the County Assessor relating to the Premises on or after the death of Mrs. Pearlman may tend to show Mr. Geller’s knowledge relating to the amount of taxes that would be due after the passing of Mrs. Pearlman and would also bear on the circumstances surrounding the alleged six year delay in the reassessment of taxes, both of which are relevant to Defendants’ cross-complaint.     However, categories 9-11 are overbroad as they seek all communications between the County Assessor and Plaintiff, Geller and the Pearlman Trust for a 24 year period, irrespective of whether the documents relate to the Premises.  As Defendants’ original requests note, Plaintiff owns numerous other properties which are not relevant to this case and would be captured by categories 9-11.  To the extent the categories also capture some relevant documents (relating to the Premises) they would already be covered by categories 12-13.  The time period covered in the requests (spanning a 24 year period) is also unnecessarily broad as it covers communications that happened well before Mrs. Pearlman’s death.  Accordingly, the Court denies the motion to compel as to categories 9-11. The Court next considers whether categories 12-13 seek documents that are confidential and not subject to disclosure under the Revenue and Taxation Code.  During the parties’ meet and confer, the County Assessor relied upon Gallagher v. Boller (1964) 231 Cal.App.2d 482, 492 as well as Revenue and Taxation Code §§ 63.1, 408, 408.2, 451 and 481 to argue that the subpoenaed documents are not subject to disclosure.  None of these authorities support the County Assessor’s position.   In Gallagher, the Court actually required the production of certain records, rejecting the County Assessor’s position they were confidential and barred from disclosure pursuant to § 408.  The Gallagher Court held §408 “does not impose any obligation of secrecy”, and “[d]isclosure in response to a subpoena would not seem to be inconsistent with that section.”  (Id. at 492.)  In other words, while the statute may dictate what items are not made generally available to the public, it does not purport to bar what can be obtained through a subpoena. As to § 451, that statute states that “[a]ll information requested by assessor or furnished in the property statement” is to be held secret “except as provided in section 408.”  Section 408(a) states that records in the Assessor’s Office “not required by law to be kept or prepared … shall not be open to public inspection.”  The County Assessor has not argued it was not required to keep the communications sought in categories 12-13.  As the party asserting confidentiality, the Assessor’s Office bears the burden of proving that the subpoenaed documents are protected from disclosure.  Consequently, the subpoenaed documents are not secret and are required to be produced pursuant to a subpoena.     As to §481, it is also subject to §408(a) exception.  It states “all information requested by the assessor or the board pursuant to this article or furnished in the change in ownership statement shall be held secret by the assessor and the board.  All information furnished in either the preliminary change in ownership statement or the change in ownership statement shall be held secret by those authorized by law to receive or have access to this information.  These statements are not public documents and are not open to inspection, except as provided in Section 408.”  Thus, as with § 451, because there is no dispute that the correspondence with the County Assessor relating to the Premises are required to be kept by the County Assessor, they are required to be produced pursuant to a subpoena.  Section 63.1 is also inapposite.  Section 63.1 deals with change in ownership exemptions when certain family members are involved in a sale transaction.  But no such exemption was applied with respect to the Premises because it was reassessed at a much greater value as a result of Mrs. Pearlman’s passing.   The County Assessor’s reliance on § 408.2 is also misplaced.  That section states that “Except as provided in Section 408.1, an assessee or an assessee’s designated representative, however, shall not be provided or permitted to inspect information and records, other than market data, which also relate to the property or business affairs of another person, unless that disclosure is ordered by a competent court in a proceeding initiated by a taxpayer seeking to challenge the legality of the taxpayer’s assessment.”  This language only prevents the County Assessor from providing information and records to the “assessee” or the “assessee’s designated representative.”  Nothing contained in the section prohibits the County Assessor from complying with a subpoena from a party who is neither the “assessee” or the “assessee’s designated representative.”  Defendants do not fall within either category.   The County Assessor’s reliance on Binder v. Superior Court (1987) 196 Cal.App.3d 893 is likewise unavailing.  Binder, in particular its presumption that there is an invasion of privacy in every request for discovery of private information, was disapproved by the California Supreme Court in Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531.  Williams held that the party asserting a privacy right must establish a legally protected privacy interest, an objectively reasonable expectation of privacy in the given circumstances and a threatened intrusion that is serious.  (Williams, 3 Cal.5th at 552.)  The County Assessor has not stated what or whose privacy interest is being protected.  Moreover, no person would reasonably expect that communications it has with a public agency—the County Assessor’s Office—would be private.   In sum, because the documents are relevant and there is no law preventing their disclosure, the Court grants the motion to enforce categories 12-13 of the deposition subpoena.  Motion for Sanctions Defendants seek sanctions in the amount of $7,200 because they argue the County Assessor has no substantial justification to oppose the motion to enforce subpoena.  While the County Assessor’s position as to some of the categories in the Subpoena ultimately did not prevail, the Court cannot conclude the County Assessor opposed the motion in bad faith or without substantial justification.  The Court ruled in favor of the County Assessor as to categories 9-11 and substantially narrowed the scope of categories 12-13.  Accordingly, the Court denies Defendants’ request for sanctions.     CONCLUSION The Court GRANTS IN PART and DENIES IN PART Defendants’ motions to enforce subpoena and for sanctions.  The Court grants the motion to compel as to categories 12-13, as limited to the period on or after April 26, 2015, when Mrs. Pearlman died.    DATED: May 8, 2024    ___________________________ Edward B. Moreton, Jr. Judge of the Superior Court 