  Case Number:  21STCV47324    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2023    Dept:  74 Raluca Pereira v. Jaguar Land Rover
North America, LLC
 
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further
Responses to Requests for Production of Documents.
 
The
court considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply.
BACKGROUND
            This action arises from a defective
2019 Land Rover Range Rover Sport (Subject Vehicle).
            On
February 8, 2023, Plaintiff Raluca Pereira (Plaintiff) filed a complaint
against Defendant Jaguar Land Rover North America, LLC (Defendant). The
complaint alleges breach of implied warranty of merchantability and breach of
express warranty under the Song-Beverly Act.
            On
April 25, 2023, Plaintiff propounded on Defendant requests for production of
documents (RFPs). 
            On
May 1, 2023, Defendant served Plaintiff with responses. Plaintiff was
dissatisfied with Defendant’s responses and the parties met and conferred
multiple times.
            On
July 21, 2023, Defendant served further responses. However, Plaintiff was still
dissatisfied with Defendant’s responses to RFP Nos. 9 and 37-135.
            On
August 8, 2023, Plaintiff filed this motion to compel further responses to RFP
Nos. 9 and 37-135.
LEGAL STANDARD 
            ¿¿A
propounding party may move for an order compelling a further response to a
demand for inspection if the propounding party deems that an answer or
statement of compliance is evasive or incomplete, or that an objection is
“without merit or too general.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.310, subd. (a).) Such a motion must set forth specific facts showing
good cause for the discovery sought and be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2031.310, subd. (b), 2031.210, subd. (b).) ¿  
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiff argues good cause exists
for discovering the documents sought in RFP Nos. 9 and 37-135. The discovery at
issue is relevant to Plaintiff’s claims that the subject vehicle contains
defects, Defendant knew about those defects, and Defendant was unable to
rectify those defects. In addition, the documents would help Plaintiff address
Defendant’s potential affirmative defenses. Plaintiff also clarifies that the
documents only concern vehicles of the same year, make, and model as the
subject vehicle. Lastly, Plaintiff has met and conferred with Defendant about
the discovery at issue. Because Plaintiff has shown good cause for the
discovery, the burden is on Defendant to justify its objections. (Kirkland
v. Sup.Ct. (Guess?, Inc.) (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 92, 98.)
            Defendant
asks the court to deny Plaintiff’s motion because Defendant has responded to
the “bulk” of Plaintiff’s requests. (Opposition at p. 4.) That Defendant has
responded to some RFPS does not excuse it from providing satisfactory responses
to the others, though.
In
its responses to RFP Nos. 37-135, Defendant has
applied the same boilerplate objections. Such objections are too general. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (a)(3).) First, Defendant argues the requests are
vague because they cover issues unrelated to Plaintiff’s complaints about the
subject vehicle, often involve different vehicles, and seek information
irrelevant to the underlying cause of the subject vehicle’s defects. But
Defendant’s opposition does not attempt to demonstrate how its vagueness
objection applies to any particular request of the nearly 100 at issue; it is
not the court’s obligation to make an objecting party’s arguments for the party
by the court’s teasing from the record which parts of boilerplate objections
apply to a particular request for production and which do not – asking a court
to discern, differentiate, and develop from boilerplate objections an objecting
party’s arguments improperly asks the court to be an advocate for one side of
the discovery dispute. (Opposition pp. 5-7.) Defendant also contends that the
requests are overbroad because they cover all of Defendant’s vehicles “for a
long period of time and an entire state of nearly 40 million people, which is
home to more cars than any other state.” (Opposition, at p. 8.) However,
Defendant has not fleshed out this objection to apply it to any request in
particular. Defendant further asserts the requests are burdensome because they
cover all of California and encompass years of records, compilations,
statistics, policies, and procedures. Once again, though, Defendant has not
shown how this objection applies to particular requests. Defendant also claims
a party is not required to prepare new records in response to a request to
compile or summarize information in a form that does not exist at the time of
the request. But Defendant has not cited any authority in support. Finally,
Defendant contends the requests seek proprietary and confidential information
of Defendant and its customers. But the court notes that the parties have already
stipulated to a protective order.
            But
RFP No. 9 remains. This request seeks all documents related to the subject
vehicle. Defendant responded that it would produce a list of the field actions
and technical bulletins about the subject vehicle, as well as field actions and
technical bulletins identified in the repair history. Defendant also refers
Plaintiff to websites where further information is available. As Plaintiff
notes, though, Defendant’s response is not code-compliant because it does not
state whether the production will be allowed in full or in part. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2031.220.) Nor does the response state that all requested documents in
the possession, custody, or control of Defendant and to which no objection is
being made will be included in the production. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.220.)
Thus, a code-compliant response will be necessary. In addition, Defendant shall
produce any internal analysis or investigation regarding defects alleged in Plaintiff’s
complaint in vehicles for the same year, make, and model of the subject
vehicle.  This includes Recall Notices
and Technical Service Bulletins.
CONCLUSION
                Based on the foregoing, the court
grants Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to RFP Nos. 9 and 37-135.
The court orders Defendant to serve on Plaintiff complete, code-compliant,
further responses to these requests and to
produce all documents in Defendant’s possession, custody, or control which are
responsive to same within 30 days of the date of this order.
                Plaintiff is ordered to give notice
of this ruling.