 Case Number:  22STCV18405    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2023    Dept:  74 Ricardo Torres v. Lancaster Hospital
Corporation
 
Motion to Compel Arbitration
 
The
court considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply papers filed in
connection with this motion. 
TENTATIVE RULING
            The court grants this motion to
compel arbitration of Plaintiff Ricardo Torres’s non-PAGA claims and individual
PAGA claims. In addition, the court will stay Plaintiff’s representative, non-individual
PAGA claims pending the arbitrator’s ruling of his individual PAGA claims and
non-PAGA claims.
BACKGROUND
            This action arises from an
employment dispute.
            On
June 6, 2022, Plaintiff Ricardo Torres (Plaintiff) filed a complaint against
Lancaster Hospital Corporation (Defendant). 
            The
complaint alleges the following causes of action: failure to compensate for all
hours worked; failure to pay minimum wages; failure to pay overtime; failure to
provide accurate itemized wage statements; failure to pay wages owed every pay
period; failure to give rest breaks; failure to give meal breaks; failure to
provide personnel records; Private Attorneys General Act (PAGA); failure to pay
wages when employment ends; and violation of Business and Professions Code
section 17200.
            On
September 2, 2022, Defendant filed this motion to compel arbitration.
DISCUSSION
            In support of its motion, Defendant
provides the arbitration agreement, which Plaintiff signed on November 18,
2019. (Fernandez Decl., ¶ 6; Ex. A.) This evidence
suggests a valid agreement is in place. Defendant further contends that the
court should order Plaintiff’s non-PAGA claims and individual PAGA claims to
arbitration. Additionally, Defendant makes the case that the court should
dismiss Plaintiff’s representative, non-individual PAGA claims for lack of
standing. In Viking River Cruises, Inc. v. Moriana (2022) 142 S.Ct.
1906, 1924-1925 (Viking), the Supreme Court held that private
arbitration agreements cannot effectuate a wholesale waiver of PAGA claims. But
the Supreme Court also held that an employee who has entered an enforceable
arbitration agreement may be compelled to arbitrate his individual PAGA claims.
(Ibid.) 
            Plaintiff
in turn argues the court should deny this motion and find the agreement
unenforceable because the Federal Arbitration Act (FAA) does not apply. As
Defendant notes, though, the agreement states the FAA governs it. (Fernandez
Decl., ¶ 6; Ex. A, § 1; Victrola 89, LLC v. Jaman Properties 8, LLC (2020)
46 Cal.App.5th 337, 347-348 [holding that FAA governed enforcement of
arbitration agreement because agreement expressly provided as much].) Alternatively,
Plaintiff argues the court should not dismiss his representative,
non-individual PAGA claims. Since the parties filed their supporting papers,
the California Supreme Court held that “[A] plaintiff who files a PAGA action
with individual and non-individual claims does not lose standing to litigate
the non-individual claims in court simply because the individual claims have
been ordered to arbitration.” (Adolph v. Uber Technologies, Inc. (2023) 14
Cal.5th 1104, 1128.) Accordingly, the court will stay
Plaintiff’s non-individual PAGA claims pending the arbitrator’s ruling of his
individual PAGA claims and non-PAGA claims.

CONCLUSION
                Based on the foregoing, the court grants
Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration of Plaintiff’s non-PAGA claims and individual
PAGA claims. The court denies Defendant’s request to dismiss Plaintiff’s
non-individual PAGA claims; instead, the court stays the non-individual PAGA
claims pending the arbitration’s outcome.
Defendant
is ordered to give notice of this ruling.