  Case Number:  23STCV02134    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2024    Dept:  78  Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles Department 78 ¿ CHARLES BERNAL, et al., Plaintiff(s), vs. CHRISTOPHER MAGGIORE, et al., Defendant(s). Case No.: 23STCV02134 Hearing Date: September 26, 2024   [TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING MOTION TO COMPEL NON-PARTY PRODUCTION  Plaintiffs Charles Bernal and Artist Worldwide Agency, LLC filed this action against defendants Christopher Maggiore, Artists Worldwide, Jamison Properties, Inc., Force Protection Agency, Inc. (“FPA”), Doe 1, and Does 2-25 premised upon various allegations of interference with AWA’s business, breach of contract, assault, and battery.¿ On July 3, 2024, FPA filed the instant motion to compel its prior counsel Cole Sheridan (“Mr. Sheridan”) to produce his entire client file. FPA argues Mr. Sheridan has not responded to its current counsel’s request for production of the entire client file. FPA cites to California Rules of Professional Conduct, Rule 1.16, which provides that client materials must be promptly returned. However, FPA’s counsel appears to have only informally requested Mr. Sheridan to produce his file. There is no indication or evidence that a deposition subpoena for document production was served on Mr. Sheridan, such that Mr. Sheridan’s refusal to produce would be subject to enforcement. FPA provides no legal support that a court may compel production of a non-party premised solely upon obligations delineated in the Professional Rules without a duly noticed subpoena. Additionally, the Court is unable to locate any proof of service demonstrating that Mr. Sheridan was served with the instant motion as to provide him adequate notice of the order sought against him. (See CRC, Rule 3.1346.) Based on the foregoing, FPA’s motion is DENIED.  Moving Party is ordered to give notice.  DATED: September 25, 2024 __________________________ Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court  PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: • Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. • If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the court at SMCDEPT78@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number. The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting. • Unless all parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument. You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue. • If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court. After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave. 