  Case Number:  23TRCV00503    Hearing Date:   September 29, 2023    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 September 29, 2023¿¿ 
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                  23TRCV00503
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Salvador
Chavez v. American Honda Motors Co., Inc., et al. 
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Defendant, American Honda Motor Co., Inc. 
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff, Salvador Chavez 
¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                        Not
Set. 
 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion for Judgment on the
Pleadings as to the Second Cause of Action for fraudulent concealment
                                                
Tentative Rulings:                  (1)  GRANTED. 
Discuss leave to amend. 
 
 
                                                
 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿ 
¿¿ 
On February 22, 2023, Plaintiff, Salvador Chavez
(“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Defendants, American Honda Motor Co.,
Inc., and DOES 1 through 10. The Complaint alleges causes of action for: (1)
Violation of Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Express Warranty; and 
(2)
Fraudulent Inducement – Concealment.
 
Defendant, American Honda Motor Co., Inc. now files a
Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings. 
 
B. Procedural¿¿ 
¿ 
On August 18,
2023, Defendant filed a Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings. On September 15,
2023, Plaintiff filed an opposition. On September 21, 2023, Defendant filed a
reply brief.  
 
II. MEET AND CONFER 
 
            Defendant
contends that on July 24, 2023 its counsel sent a meet and confer
correspondence to Plaintiff’s counsel detailing the basis for Defendant’s
motion for judgment on the pleading and requesting counsel respond with
availability to meet and confer. Defendant further indicates that on August 9,
2023, counsel for both parties met and conferred telephonically regarding the
grounds in which Defendant intended to file a motion for judgment on the
pleadings. However, Defendant indicates that the parties could not come to an
agreement, which is why Defendant filed this motion. 
 
III. REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL
NOTICE 
 
            The
Court denies Defendant’s request for judicial notice as this request was made
on reply and does not allow Plaintiff to respond to such evidence. 
 
IV. ANALYSIS  
 

A.   
Legal Standard 
 
The
standard for ruling on a motion for judgment on the pleadings is essentially
the same as that applicable to a general demurrer, that is, under the state of
the pleadings, together with matters that may be judicially noticed, it appears
that a party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.  (Bezirdjian v. O'Reilly (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 316, 321-322, citing Schabarum v. California Legislature (1998) 60 Cal.App.4th 1205, 1216.)  Matters which are
subject to mandatory judicial notice may be treated as part of the complaint
and may be considered without notice to the parties. Matters which are subject
to permissive judicial notice must be specified in the notice of motion, the
supporting points and authorities, or as the court otherwise permits. (Id.) 
The motion may not be supported by extrinsic evidence. (Barker v. Hull
(1987) 191 Cal.App.3d 221, 236.)  
 
When the moving party is a
defendant, he must demonstrate either of the following exist: 
 
(i)                
The court has no jurisdiction of the subject of the cause
of action alleged in the complaint. 
(ii)             
The complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute
a cause of action against that defendant. (Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd.
(c)(a)(B)(i)-(ii).)  
 
Additionally, a motion for
judgment on the pleadings must be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration
demonstrating an attempt to meet and confer in person or by telephone, at least
five days before the date a motion for judgment on the pleadings is filed.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 439.)
 
B.    
Discussion  
                 
Defendant asserts that
Plaintiff’s cause of action for Fraudulent Inducement – Concealment failed to
state sufficient facts. “The elements of fraud,” including a
cause of action for fraudulent inducement, “are (a) a misrepresentation (false
representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) scienter or knowledge of
its falsity; (c) intent to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e)
resulting damage.” (Hinesley v. Oakshade
Town Ctr. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) The facts constituting the
alleged fraud must be alleged factually and specifically as to every element of
fraud, as the policy of “liberal construction” of the pleadings will not
ordinarily be invoked. (Lazar v. Superior
Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.) To properly allege fraud against a
corporation, the plaintiffs must plead the names of the persons allegedly
making the false representations, their authority to speak, to whom they spoke,
what they said or wrote, and when it was said or written. (Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153,
157.)
 
“The
elements of a cause of action for fraudulent concealment are: (1) concealment
of a material fact; (2) by a defendant with a duty to disclose; (3) the
defendant intended to defraud by failing to disclose; (4) plaintiff was unaware
of the fact and would not have acted as it did had it known the fact; and (5)
damages.” (Butler America, LLC v. Aviation Assurance Company, LLC (2020)
55 Cal.App.5th 136, 144.) The facts constituting the alleged fraud must be
alleged factually and specifically as to every element of fraud, as the policy
of “liberal construction” of the pleadings will not ordinarily be invoked. (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12
Cal.4th 631, 645.) To properly allege fraud against a corporation, the
plaintiffs must plead the names of the persons allegedly making the false
representations, their authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what they said
or wrote, and when it was said or written. (Tarmann
v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157.) Of
course, a concealment cause of action has a more relaxed specificity
requirement as compared to affirmative misrepresentation because a concealment
claim does not assert that Defendant actively or affirmatively defrauded the
public in general or Plaintiff in particular.
 
Transactional
Relationship 
Here, Defendant argues that Plaintiff does
not adequately allege that Defendant had a duty to disclose. Under
California law, a duty to disclose material facts may arise (1) when the
defendant is in a fiduciary relationship with the plaintiff; (2) when the
defendant has exclusive knowledge of material facts not known to the plaintiff;
(3) when the defendant actively conceals a material fact from the plaintiff; or
(4) when the defendant makes partial representations but also suppresses some
material facts. (Falk v. General Motors Corp. (N.D. Cal. 2007) 496
F.Supp.2d 1088, 1098-1099 citing LiMandri v. Judkins (1997) 52
Cal.App.4th 326.)  Here, Plaintiff seems to
allege in his complaint, and confirms in his opposition, that he has brought
this cause of action under the theory that Defendant had exclusive knowledge of
the alleged material facts, that Defendant actively concealed them, and that
Defendant made partial representations but suppressed some material facts from
Plaintiff. Defendant argues that Plaintiff has not adequately alleged that an
existence of a transactional relationship because Plaintiff did not directly
purchase the vehicle from Defendant, but instead from Defendant’s authorized
dealership. However, this argument alone is insufficient. As LiMandri
made clear, the second, third, and fourth circumstances giving rise to a duty
to disclose “presupposes the existence of some ... relationship between
the plaintiff and defendant.” 52 Cal. App. 4th at 336-37 (emphasis added). 
For
purposes of duties to disclose, the California Supreme Court has defined a
“relationship” as a “transaction” between the parties. Warner Constr. Corp.
v. City of Los Angeles (1970) 2 Cal. 3d 285, 294; see LiMandri, 52
Cal. App. 4th at 337 (“As a matter of common sense, such a relationship can
only come into being as a result of some sort of transaction between the
parties.”) (emphasis in original).  The
Opposition argues that the transactional relationship test can be met
indirectly, i.e., by virtue of the allegation that he purchased the subject
vehicle from an authorized Honda dealer. 
There is some support in published decisions for Plaintiff’s argument.  The Court also recognizes the California
Supreme Court’s granting of review of Dhital v. Nissan North America, Inc.
(2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 828. Although not binding, the decision in Dhital
may be cited to for its persuasive authority. The Court in Dhital found
the allegations sufficient to overcome Nissan’s demurrer there. Because the
applicable standards of a demurrer are similar to those of a motion for
judgment on the pleading, the discussion of Dhital is worth analyzing. 
The Opposition notes that Dhital states: “Plaintiffs
alleged that they bought the car from a Nissan dealership, that
Nissan backed the car with an express warranty, and that Nissan’s
authorized dealerships are its agents for purposes of the sale of Nissan
vehicles to consumers.” (Dhital, supra, 84 Cal.App.5th at
844 [emphasis added].) (Complaint, ¶ 84.) Plaintiff also alleges that Defendant
provided an express written warranty (Complaint, ¶ 9) which undertook to
preserve or maintain the utility or performance of the Subject Vehicle or
provided compensation if there was a failure in such utility or performance.
(Complaint, ¶¶ 9, 98.) Plaintiff also claims that the repairs for the sensing
defect were covered by this written warranty. (Complaint, ¶ 89.) Plaintiff
further asserts that Defendant knew about the sensing defect contained in Honda
vehicles equipped with Honda sensing, along with the attendant safety problems
and associated costs, and concealed the existence of those defects from
Plaintiff and other consumers prior to the time they purchased or leased their
respective Honda vehicles. (Complaint, ¶ 25.) Although the Court views it as a
close question, the persuasive authority in Dhital is more compelling
than some less well reasoned and unpublished federal district court decisions
that have granted motions for judgment on the pleadings or dismissed fraudulent
concealment claims at the pleading stage. 
 
Next, Plaintiff alleges that Defendant had exclusive
knowledge. (Complaint, ¶¶ 27-64, 111.)  However, the Complaint makes reference to
NHTSA, as to which manufacturer-provided TSBs are available to the public.
Given the list of TSBs and other service information referenced in the
Complaint, it at best an inconsistent allegation for Plaintiff to assert that Defendant
had “exclusive” knowledge of the claimed sensing defect since TSBs are publicly
available on the NHTSA website. Further, Honda dealers also are issued TSBs so
the selling dealer also has knowledge of the contents of technical literature
addressing the existing of various subsystem malfunctions including the defect
impeded the systems’ ability to reliably and accurately detect and
appropriately respond to conditions on the roadway, causing malfunctions of the
adaptive cruise control, the lane-departure system, the CMBS. In the Court’s
view, Plaintiff would need to make specific allegations of his efforts to learn
about such pre-existing reported repair issues, e.g., specific questions at the
point of sale and/or Defendant’s active blunting or interference with a buyer’s
independent efforts to discover the content of the NHTSA website, in his
complaint. The Court does not observe any such allegations here. 
 
Instead, the Complaint alleges that a reasonable consumer
would consider the sensing defect as a material fact when deciding whether to
purchase or lease a vehicle equipped with Honda Sensing. (Complaint, ¶ 65.)
Plaintiff further alleges that he would not have purchased the Subject Vehicle,
or would have paid significantly less for it, had he known of the sensing
defect and the safety hazard it creates. (Complaint, ¶ 66.)  The complaint includes a litany of allegations
of the content of NHTSA reports, TSBs, instructions to dealers, etc.. All of
these appear to be -- as they are included in Plaintiff’s complaint --
available to the public. As such, the Court is unsure what undisclosed exclusive
knowledge is being alleged, and therefore what is asserted to have been
concealed.  If it is the content of a TSB
published before the date of Plaintiff’s purchase, as a matter of law that
information could not have been concealed from the public.
 
The Court will allow oral argument as to whether Plaintiff
believes he can amend his Complaint to sufficiently allege this cause of action
to address the Court’s concerns. 
 
            Lastly, Plaintiff alleges that Defendant
actively concealed material facts about quality of the Honda Sensing system.
(Complaint, ¶¶ 23-25, 28-29, 35, 37-39, 49, 69, 71, 87, 110-116, 119-120.)
Plaintiff contends that Defendant committed fraud by knowingly and
intentionally concealing from Plaintiff that the Vehicle and its Sensing were
defective, dangerous, and caused various subsystems within it to malfunction
while the vehicles are being driven. (Complaint, ¶¶ 16, 18, 24, 35, 69.)
However, the very issuance of publicly available TSBs demonstrates an absence
of affirmative concealment. Unless Plaintiff is alleging that the TSBs which
were issued neglected to mention the nature of the sensing defect issues
Plaintiff himself experienced, the Court would be inclined to find that there
could not be active, intentional concealment of repair issues discussed in a
published TSB. The Court does not see any such allegations in the Complaint.
The Court recognizes that Plaintiff does argue that “although these bulletins
[the TSBs] purport to address issues limited to particular vehicles, the Honda
system in all affected vehicles is similarly defective. (Complaint, ¶ 50.)
However, the Court does not find that Plaintiff has alleged that none of the
TSBs fail to mention the nature of the sensing defect in Plaintiff’s vehicle,
the Court does not believe that there are any allegations to suggest the above.
 
 
            Further, the contention in
Plaintiff’s opposition that Defendant has “superior knowledge” to Plaintiff
does not, in the Court’s view, satisfy the “exclusive” knowledge requirement
giving rise to a duty to disclose. Every manufacturer and issuer of repair
instructions has knowledge superior to a retail buyer about technical and
repair issues. The mere existence of knowledge that some prior models have
experienced customer complaints is not, in the court’s view, sufficient by
itself to establish an affirmative duty to disclose the existence of such
complaints for purposes of alleging a punitive damages cause of action for
fraud. Because the allegations for punitive damages are found
within the second cause of action, and the Court has GRANTED the motion as to
this issue, the issue regarding punitive damages is mooted. However, if
Plaintiff chooses to amend his pleading, the above discussion should be taken
into consideration when amending. 
 
IV. CONCLUSION¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
The MJOP is GRANTED.  The Court finds as a matter of law that there
is no duty for a manufacturer to disclose the existence of other customers’
complaints in other models of a new motor vehicle when (before the date of sale
or lease) the manufacturer has made a disclosure to NHTSA of such complaints
and/or repair or diagnostic procedures in a publicly disclosed TSB.  Absent a determination by the Legislature of
such a duty, the Court will not create one in an individual Song-Beverly Act
case.  However, the Court will consider
oral argument as to whether Plaintiff can amend the Complaint in a manner that could
address the Court’s concerns.  