  Case Number:  21STCV26653    Hearing Date:   May 9, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


May
  9, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV26653




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Compel Independent Medical Examination of Plaintiff 




MOVING PARTY:


Defendants Homecare Medical Products, Inc. et
  al. 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Judith Reyes 



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            On July 20, 2021, Plaintiff
Judith Reyes (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants Homecare
Medical Products, Inc., Comfortcare Pharmacy, The Burton Steiger Trust, Burton
Steiger, individually and as trustee of The Burton Steiger Trust, Adrianne
Steiger, and Does 1 to 50 for negligence and premises liability. Plaintiff
alleges she was injured after a door malfunctioned and struck her, causing
injuries. 
 
            Defendants
Homecare Medical Products, Inc., Burton Steiger, individually and as trustee of
The Burton Steiger Trust, and Adrianne Steiger, individually and as trustee of
The First Amended and Restated Adrienne Steiger trust d/t/d 5/21/12 (“Defendants”)
now move to conduct a second physical examination of Plaintiff. Plaintiff
opposes and Defendants reply. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“In any case in
which a plaintiff is seeking recovery for personal injuries, any defendant may
demand one physical examination of the plaintiff, if both of the following
conditions are satisfied: (1) The examination does not include any diagnostic
test or procedure that is painful, protracted, or intrusive. (2) The
examination is conducted at a location within 75 miles of the residence of the
examinee.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.220, subd. (a).)¿¿¿ 
 
“If any
party desires to obtain discovery by a physical examination other than that
described in Article 2 (commencing with Section 2032.210), or by a mental
examination, the party shall obtain leave of court.  A motion for an examination under subdivision
(a) shall specify the time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and nature of the
examination, as well as the identity and the specialty, if any, of the person
or persons who will perform the examination. The motion shall be accompanied by
a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.”  (Civ. Proc., §
2032.310, subds. (a)-(b).)  
 
“The court
shall grant a motion for a physical or mental examination under Section
2032.310 only for good cause shown.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.320, subd.
(a); see also Sporich v. Superior Court (2000) 77 Cal.App.4th 422, 427
[“the good cause which must be shown should be such that will satisfy an
impartial tribunal that the request may be granted without abuse of the
inherent rights of the adversary”].) A showing of good cause generally requires
“that the party produce specific facts justifying discovery and that the
inquiry be relevant to the subject matter of the action or reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (Vinson v.
Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 840.)  And “[a] party who chooses
to allege that he has mental and emotional difficulties can hardly deny his
mental state is in controversy.”  (Id. at p.
839.)   
 
The examination
will be limited to whatever condition is “in controversy” in the action.¿ (Code
Civ. Proc. §2032.020(a).)¿ This means the examination must be directly related
to the specific injury or condition that is the subject of the litigation.¿ (Roberts
v. Superior Court (1973) 9 Cal.3d 330, 337.)¿ Often, a party's pleadings
put his or her mental or physical condition in controversy ... as when a
plaintiff claims continuing mental or physical injury resulting from
defendant's acts: “A party who chooses to allege that he has mental and
emotional difficulties can hardly deny his mental state is in controversy.”¿
(See Vinson v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 837, wherein the
plaintiff claimed ongoing emotional distress from sexual harassment by former
employer.)¿ Discovery responses can also frame the issues regarding the
injuries and damages alleged.¿¿ 
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
The Declaration of Evan Berman states that Defendants’ counsel attempted
to stipulate with Plaintiff’s counsel regarding the subject examination.
Plaintiff’s counsel declined to stipulate. (Berman Decl. ¶ 8.) Therefore, it
appears Defendants’ counsel made a good faith attempt to resolve the issue. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Defendants seek to compel a second
physical examination of Plaintiff on May 15, 2024 at 1:00 p.m. by Thomas
Grogan, M.D., a board-certified orthopedic surgeon. Defendants contend that Plaintiff’s
first examination was with a neurosurgeon in January 2024 due to back pain and
a spinal cord stimulator. However, Plaintiff also claims to have fallen on her
shoulder and received shoulder surgery in June 2023. (Berman Decl. ¶ 5.) She
also claims injuries to her back, leg, arm, and head. (Berman Decl. ¶ 3, Exh.
A.) Since the neurosurgeon could not opine on the other injuries, Defendants argue
there is good cause to compel a second physical examination by an orthopedic
surgeon. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff appears to argue that Defendants should have
selected an examiner who could examine both her spinal and physical injuries. Plaintiff
also argues Defendants have not established good cause and that this
examination is meant to harass Plaintiff. However, according to the notice
provided by Plaintiff, the January 2024 examination consisted of a
neuropsychological exam. (See Fradkin Decl. ¶ 3, Exh. B.) Plaintiff also does
not dispute the injury to her shoulder. Therefore, Plaintiff fails to show that
the instant examination is duplicative or harassing, since it appears to examine
a different portion of Plaintiff’s body.
 
Defendants have provided the time, place, manner, conditions, scope,
and nature of the examination, as well as the identity and the specialty of the
person who will perform the examination. (See Berman Decl. ¶ 9.) Therefore, the
Court finds good cause for Plaintiff to attend a second physical examination. 
 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Defendants’
motion to Compel the Independent Medical Examination of Plaintiff is GRANTED.  
 
Defendants shall provide notice of the Court’s order and file a proof
of service of such. 