 Case Number:  22STCV08410    Hearing Date:   May 9, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


32




HEARING DATE


May
  9, 2024




CASE NUMBER


22STCV08410




MOTION


(1)  
  Demurrer to Complaint 
(2)  
  Motion to Strike Punitive Damages 




MOVING PARTY


Specially
  Appearing Defendant Ethel Wellington-Trawick 




OPPOSING PARTY


None
   



 
MOTION
 
On March 8, 2022, Plaintiff Pamela Jackson, individually and as
successor in interest to Johnny Earl Jackson, (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint
against Michael Wellington and Does 1 to 20 for intentional tort, general
negligence, and premises liability. The complaint alleges Johnny Earl Jackson
(“Decedent”), Plaintiff’s spouse, was shot and killed on December 19, 2020 at
2131 S. Orange Drive, Los Angeles.  
 
On July 19, 2022, Plaintiff filed an amendment to the complaint
substituting Ethel Wellington-Trawick as Doe 3. 
 
Specially Appearing Defendant Ethel Wellington-Trawick (“Defendant”) now
demurs to the complaint for failing to state facts to constitute a cause of
action and for uncertainty. Defendant also moves to strike punitive damages. No
opposition has been filed. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
A demurrer is a pleading used to
test the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. 
It raises issues of law, not fact, regarding the form or content of the
opposing party's pleading (complaint, answer or cross-complaint).  (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 422.10, 589; see Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)  It is not the function of the demurrer to
challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purposes of the ruling on
the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true.  (Donabedian, 116 Cal.App.4th at 994.)
 
The general rule is that the plaintiff need only allege
ultimate facts, not evidentiary facts. (Doe v. City of Los Angeles
(2007) 42 Cal.4th 531, 550.) “All that is required of a plaintiff, as a matter
of pleading, even as against a special demurrer, is that his complaint set
forth the essential facts of the case with reasonable precision and with
sufficient particularity to acquaint the defendant with the nature, source and
extent of his cause of action.” (Rannard v. Lockheed Aircraft Corp. (1945) 26 Cal.2d 149,
156-157.) 
 
On demurrer, a trial court has an independent duty to
“determine whether or not the … complaint alleges facts sufficient to state a
cause of action under any legal theory.” (Das v. Bank of America, N.A.
(2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 727, 734.) Demurrers do not lie as to only parts of
causes of action, where some valid claim is alleged but “must dispose of an
entire cause of action to be sustained.” (Poizner v. Fremont General Corp.
(2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119.)
 
A
demurrer for uncertainty will be sustained only where the pleading is so bad
that the responding party cannot reasonably respond, i.e., he or she cannot
reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what claims are
directed against him or her. (Khoury v. Maly’s of California (1993) 14
Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) Where a demurrer is made upon the ground of uncertainty,
the demurrer must distinctly specify exactly how or why the pleading is
uncertain, and where such uncertainty appears by reference to page and line
numbers. (See Fenton v. Groveland Comm. Services Dist. (1982) 135
Cal.App.3d 797, 809.)
 
            Where a demurrer is sustained, leave
to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful
amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976)
18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is on the plaintiff to show the court that a
pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.;
Lewis v. YouTube, LLC (2015) 244 Cal.App.4th 118, 226.) However, “[i]f
there is any reasonable possibility that the plaintiff can state a good cause
of action, it is error to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend.” (Youngman v. Nevada Irrigation Dist.
(1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245).  
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41 requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this
chapter, the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone
with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the
purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve
the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd.
(a).) The parties are to meet and confer at least five days before the date the
responsive pleading is due. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a)(2).)
Thereafter, the demurring party shall file and serve a declaration detailing
their meet and confer efforts. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a)(3).)
 
The Declaration of Lisa L. Renaud,
Defendant’s counsel, states the following: “On March 11, 2024, I sent a meet
and confer letter to Plaintiff’s Counsel explaining the deficiencies in the
Complaint and that Defendant did not own, possess, or control the Premises on
the date of the Incident, nor was she present at the time of the Incident. I
asked Plaintiff to dismiss Ms. Wellington-Trawick from the case as she was not
a proper defendant. Plaintiff’s counsel and I exchanged additional emails and
spoke on the phone, but to date, Plaintiff has not dismissed her complaint
against Defendant, necessitating the current Demurrer.” (Renaud Decl. ¶ 8.)
Therefore, the meet and confer requirement has been met. 
 
JUDICIAL
NOTICE
 
The
Court denies the request for judicial notice of the Grant Deed in Exhibit A.
The Court finds that the facts within the exhibit are the type that could be
reasonably subject to dispute. (See Evid. Code § 452(h).) 
 
ANALYSIS
As an initial matter, the Court finds that the complaint is
not so vague or ambiguous to warrant sustaining the demurrer based on
uncertainty. The allegations are clear enough for Defendant to ascertain what
legal theories are being asserted. The Court now turns to whether the
allegations state enough facts to constitute causes of action. 
I.
Intentional Tort 
Here, the complaint does not specify exactly which
intentional tort is asserted against defendants. However, “[i]f the complaint
states a cause of action under any theory, regardless of the title under which
the factual basis for relief is stated, that aspect of the complaint is good
against a demurrer.” (Quelimane Co. v. Stewart Title Guaranty Co. (1998)
19 Cal.4th 26, 38 [“ ‘[W]e are not limited to plaintiffs' theory of recovery in
testing the sufficiency of their complaint against a demurrer, but instead must
determine if the factual allegations of the complaint are adequate to state a
cause of action under any legal theory.’”].) 
The complaint asserts an unspecified cause of action
against Defendants Michael Wellington and Does 1 to 20, stating “Defendant
without provocation, intentionally shot (numerous times), Johnny Earl Jackson
who died as a proximate and legal cause thereof. Defendant was aware of the
dangers posed by the discharge of a firearm. After killing Jackson, Defendant
fled his residence, in conscious disregard of what he had done and failed to
render aid." (Complaint, 4.)  
Plaintiff appears to allege that only one defendant shot
Decedent. This specific fact appears to conflict with the more general
allegation that Defendants Michael Wellington
and Does 1 to 20 are liable for directly shooting Decedent. “Where a pleading
includes a general allegation, such as an allegation of an ultimate fact, as
well as specific allegations that add details or explanatory facts, it is
possible that a conflict or inconsistency will exist between the general
allegation and the specific allegations. To handle these contradictions,
California courts have adopted the principle that specific allegations in a
complaint control over an inconsistent general allegation.” (Perez v. Golden
Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 1228, 1235–36.) 
Therefore, because Plaintiff specifically alleges that
Defendant (singular) shot Decedent, it appears there was only one shooter.
Michael Wellington was the only defendant that Plaintiff named in the complaint;
Defendant was added later as Doe 3. Therefore, since the complaint alleges that
Michael Wellington shot Decedent, there are insufficient facts to show that
Defendant also shot Decedent. Therefore, the demurrer on this cause of action
is sustained.  
II.
Negligence 
The elements of a cause of action for negligence are: (1) a
duty on the part of defendant toward plaintiff; (2) defendant’s breach of that
duty; and (3) harm to the plaintiff caused by that breach. (Kesner v.
Superior Court (2016) 1 Cal.5th 1132, 1142.)  
The
negligence cause of action contains the same allegations as the intentional
tort cause of action and appears to relate only to the shooter. Based on the
discussion in the previous section, there are insufficient facts that Defendant
shot Decedent. As a result, the negligence cause of action fails to allege a
duty that Defendant owed to Decedent, how the breach occurred, causation, and
damages. Therefore, the demurrer to the second cause of action is sustained.
III. Premises
Liability 
The elements of a cause of action for premises liability
are the same as those for negligence: duty, breach, causation, and damages. (McIntyre
v. The Colonies-Pacific, LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 664, 671.)  Therefore, to prevail on a
claim for premises liability, Plaintiff must prove: (1) defendant owned or
controlled the subject property; (2) defendant was negligent in the use or
maintenance of the property; (3) plaintiff was harmed; and (4) defendant’s negligence
was a substantial factor in causing plaintiff’s harm. (See Rowland v.
Christian (1968) 69 Cal.2d 108.)
 “While negligence is ordinarily a question of
fact, the existence of a duty is generally a question of law that may be
addressed by demurrer.” (Paul v. Patton (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 1088,
1095.) 
A. Duty  
In general, “[e]veryone is responsible, not only for the
result of his or her willful acts, but also for an injury occasioned to another
by his or her want of ordinary care or skill in the management of his or her
property or person, except so far as the latter has, willfully or by want of
ordinary care, brought the injury upon himself or herself.” (Civ. Code, §
1714.) Section 1714 “establishes the default rule that each person has a duty
to exercise, in his or her activities, reasonable care for the safety of
others.” (Brown v. USA Taekwondo (2021) 11 Cal.5th 204, 214.)¿¿“[T]he
law imposes a general duty of care on a defendant only when it is the defendant
who has created a risk of harm to the plaintiff, including when the defendant
is responsible for making the plaintiff's position worse. [Citation.]” (Id.
[internal quotation marks omitted].) 
Liability in a premises liability action is based not on
responsibility for the conduct of others, but on the failure of the landowner
or occupier to act reasonably under the circumstances when he or she has reason
to anticipate the probability of injury and has an opportunity to prevent the
injury or warn of the peril (Cody F. v. Falleti (2001) 92 Cal.App.4th
1232, 1242, see Ann M. v. Pacific Plaza Shopping Center (1993) 6 Cal.4th
666, 676 [a landowner’s duty to take steps to prevent the wrongful acts of a
third party is imposed only where such conduct can be reasonably anticipated].)
Accordingly, premises liability alleges a defendant property owner either (1)
allowed a dangerous condition on its property or (2) failed to take reasonable
steps to secure its property against criminal acts by third parties. (Delgado
v. American Multi-Cinema, Inc. (1999) 72 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1406.)¿ 
¿ 
Traditionally,
foreseeability of the risk does not necessarily turn on whether the same type
of activity or event already occurred on the premises.¿ Rather, the issue is
whether, in light of all the facts and circumstances (including the nature,
condition and location of the premises, as well as the landlord's prior
experience), the owner had reason to anticipate the general character of the
event or harm, not its precise nature or manner of occurrence.¿ (Isaacs v.
Huntington Memorial Hosp. (1985) 38 Cal.3d 112, 129.)¿ However, where a
“burdensome” duty is to be imposed on the landowner (e.g., requiring private
security guards or other heightened security measures), a “high degree of
foreseeability” is required. And “the requisite degree of foreseeability rarely,
if ever, can be proven in the absence of prior similar incidents of violent
crime on the landowner's premises.”¿ (Ann M. v. Pacific Plaza Shopping Ctr.
(1993) 6 Cal.4th 666, 679.)¿¿
B.
Analysis 
Here, the
complaint alleges: “The acts and omissions of Defendants occurred at Defendants
residence. The wrongful death of decedent, Johnny Earl Jackson occurred and w
(sic), including the foreseeable consequence of pulling out a gun, showed that
Defendant failed to operate their home in a manner to protect their guests.
This action of Defendant was created by the reasonable and foreseeable
consequences of Defendant pulling out a gun in his residence. Defendants’
failure to operate, manage and control their home using reasonable care.”
(Complaint, 6.) 
Here, the
complaint fails to allege facts that Defendant had reason to anticipate that a
person could be shot on her premises. Additionally, the facts fail to allege
that Defendant owed Decedent a duty to protect against third party criminal
conduct. The complaint also does not allege affirmative conduct by Defendant to
give rise to an independent duty. (See Melton v. Boustred (2010) 183
Cal.App.4th 521, 533, 536–41 [affirming the sustaining of a demurrer for
failing to state facts of defendant’s misfeasance, a special relationship, or
whether attack by third-parties was reasonably foreseeable].)
            Therefore, the demurrer to premises liability is sustained.
 
Motion to Strike 
California law authorizes a party’s motion to strike matter from an
opposing party’s pleading if it is irrelevant, false, or improper. (Code Civ.
Proc. §§ 435; 436(a).) Motions may also target pleadings or parts of pleadings
which are not filed or drawn in conformity with applicable laws, rules or
orders. (Code Civ. Proc. § 436(b).) A motion to strike is used to address
defects that appear on the face of a pleading or from judicially noticed matter
but that are not grounds for a demurrer. (Pierson v Sharp Memorial Hospital
(1989) 216 Cal.App.3d 340, 342.)
 
Punitive damages may be imposed where it is proven by clear and
convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).) “Malice” is conduct intended by the
defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is
carried on with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of
others. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1).) “‘Punitive damages are proper only
when the tortious conduct rises to levels of extreme indifference to the
plaintiff’s rights, a level which decent citizens should not have to tolerate.’
[Citation.]” (Lackner v. North (2006) 135 Cal.App.4th 1188, 1210.)
 
“As amended to include [despicable], the [Civil Code section 3294]
plainly indicates that absent an intent to injure the plaintiff, ‘malice’
requires more than a ‘willful and conscious’ disregard of the plaintiffs’
interests. The additional component of ‘despicable conduct’ must be found.” (College
Hospital Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 725.) (emphasis
added.) The statute’s reference to despicable conduct represents a “new
substantive limitation on punitive damage awards.” (Ibid.) Despicable conduct
is “conduct which is so vile, base, contemptible, miserable, wretched or
loathsome that it would be looked down upon and despised by ordinary decent
people. Such conduct has been described as ‘having the character of outrage
frequently associated with crime.’” (Tomaselli v. Transamerica Ins. Co.
(1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 1269, 1287.) Further, “[t]here must be evidence that
defendant acted with knowledge of the probable dangerous consequences to
plaintiff’s interests and deliberately failed to avoid these consequences.” (Flyer’s
Body Shop Profit Sharing Plan v. Ticor Title Ins. Co. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d
1149, 1155.)
 
A motion to strike punitive damages is properly granted where a
plaintiff does not state a prima facie claim for punitive damages, including
allegations that defendant is guilty of oppression, fraud or malice. (Turman
v. Turning Point of Cent. California, Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63.)
“Mere negligence, even gross negligence, is not sufficient to justify such an
award” for punitive damages. (Kendall Yacht Corp. v. United California Bank
(1975) 50 Cal.App.3d 949, 958.) Moreover, conclusory allegations are not
sufficient to support a claim for punitive damages. (Brousseau v. Jarrett
(1977) 73 Cal.App.3d 864, 872.) Lastly, “[t]he mere allegation an intentional tort was committed
is not sufficient to warrant an award of punitive damages.  Not only must
there be circumstances of oppression, fraud, or malice, but facts must be
alleged in the pleading to support such a claim.” (Grieves v. Superior Court
(1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 166.) 
            Here, Defendant moves to strike the prayer for punitive
damages. Since the Court sustained the demurrer, the motion to strike is moot. 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court SUSTAINS Defendant’s demurrer to the complaint with
leave to amend. Any amended complaint must be filed and served within 30 days.
 
Defendant’s motion to strike is DENIED as moot. 
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service of such. 