 Case Number:  23STCV22387    Hearing Date:   October 21, 2024    Dept:  37 HEARING DATE:                 Monday, October 21, 2024
CASE NUMBER:                   23STCV22387
CASE NAME:                        Douglas J. DeNoce, et
al. v. Watergate Property Owners Association, Inc., et al. 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendants Watergate Property Owners
Association, Inc.; S.H. Chavin, Inc. dba Community Property Management
OPPOSING PARTY:             Plaintiffs Douglas J. DeNoce as an individual and Trustee of the Savannah
N. DeNoce Trust
TRIAL DATE:                        Not set.  
PROOF OF SERVICE:           OK

                                                                                                                                                            

PROCEEDING:                      Motion to Strike 
OPPOSITION:                        3 October 2024
SUR. OPPOSITION               15 October 2024
 
REPLY:                                  9
October 2024
 
TENTATIVE:                         Defendants’
motion to strike is granted without leave to amend. 

                                                                                                                                                            

 
Background
 
This action relates to a nuisance case brought by a condominium
tenant. On September 18, 2023, Douglas J. DeNoce, as an individual and Trustee
of the Savannah N. DeNoce Trust, (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against
Watergate Property Owners Association, Inc.; S.H. Chavin, Inc. dba Community
Property Management (collectively “Defendants”) and Does 1 to 25. 
 
The First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) alleges two causes of action: (1)
private nuisance and (2) public nuisance. On March 6, 2024, the court granted
Defendants’ motion to strike punitive damages with leave to amend. 
 
On March 27, 2024, Plaintiff filed the Second Amended Complaint
(“SAC”) alleging the same two causes of action. On June 24, 2024, the court
again granted Defendant’s motion to strike punitive damages with leave to
amend. 
On July 24, 2024, Plaintiff filed the operative Third Amended
Complaint (“TAC”) alleging the same two causes of action. Defendant now again
moves to strike Plaintiff’s request for punitive damages. Plaintiff opposes the
Motion. The matter is now before the court. 
 
Demurrer[1]
 
I.         Legal
Standard
 
Where
pleadings are defective, a party may raise the defect by way of a demurrer. (Coyne
v. Krempels (1950) 36 Cal.2d 257, 262.) A demurrer tests the sufficiency of
a pleading, and the grounds for a demurrer must appear on the face of the
pleading or from judicially noticeable matters.¿ (CCP, § 430.30(a); Blank v.
Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) In evaluating a demurrer, the court
accepts the complainant’s properly pled facts as true and ignores contentions,
deductions, and conclusory statements. (Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1976) 67
Cal.2d 695, 713; Serrano v. Priest (1971) 5 Cal.3d 584, 591.) Moreover,
the court does not consider whether a plaintiff will be able to prove the
allegations or the possible difficulty in making such proof. (Fisher v. San
Pedro Peninsula Hospital (1989) 214 Cal.App.3d 590, 604.) 
Leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable
possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18
Cal.3d 335, 348.)¿ The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a
pleading can be amended successfully. (Ibid.)
 
II.        Discussion
 
A.        Summary of Allegations in TAC
 
Plaintiff owns a townhouse
located in the Watergate community in Westlake Village, CA. (TAC, ¶¶ 1, 8, 15.)
The Watergate community is governed by Defendant Watergate Property Owners
Association (“WPOA”) which hired S.H. Chavin, Inc. dba Community Property
Management (“Community Property Management”) (collectively “Defendants” or
“Association” herein) as the property manager to assist in carrying out the
operations of WPOA. (Id., ¶¶ 10, 11, 16.) Plaintiff’s townhouse “is
located at a congress of driveways, walkways, parking strips, and the service
and delivery area.” (Id., ¶ 18.) 
 
The TAC alleges Plaintiff
suffered an ischemic stroke on or around October 2021 due to the increased
noise and vibrations emitted from the parked vehicles of the community members
that park in the spaces adjacent to his townhouse. (TAC, ¶¶ 1, 5, 17, 19, 47.)
Plaintiff asserts he suffered a stroke due to the “ongoing nuisance from
vehicle engine noise, entertainment system noise, door closure noise, and
associated vehicle activity in the parking strips adjacent to his townhouse.” (Id.,
¶ 17.) Plaintiff asserts that “parking in the parking strips adjacent to
Plaintiff’s townhouse has a particular impact on Mr. DeNoce.” (Id., ¶
18.)
 
While the two lots adjacent to
Plaintiff’s townhouse have been present since Plaintiff acquired the townhouse,
the noise nuisance did not begin until a few years before because there was
minimal parking activity in the two adjacent lots. (TAC, ¶ 26.)  Plaintiff provided notices in writing about
the noise to Defendants, including on August 19, 2019, informing Defendants
“that the vehicle activity was a nuisance[.]” (Id., ¶¶ 3, 27, 35.) The
August 19, 2019 notice as reflected in the meeting notes states: “He is
bothered by the cars parking near his unit. It is a nuisance.” (Id., ¶
27.) On June 18, 2021, he emailed CPM’s CEO and informed him that the nuisance
was caused by “residents who park outside [Plaintiff’s] home overnight” and
expressed concern about his health. (Id., ¶ 40)
 
Defendants WPOA and CPM control
and exercise independent managerial authority of the parking strips next to
Plaintiff’s townhouse. (TAC, ¶ 20.) Plaintiff asserts that the Defendants
encouraged and failed to abate the noise, causing Plaintiff to suffer a stroke.
(Id., 17.) Defendants, either directly or through their agents
instructed other residents, like the Cornelison family and Graham family, to
park in the two adjacent strips to Plaintiff’s townhouse, despite parking
elsewhere prior to Plaintiff’s stroke. (Id., ¶¶ 29-31, 42.) Plaintiff
asserts that after the November 19, 2019 notice, parking activity near the two
parking strips adjacent to Plaintiff’s townhouse increased. (Id., ¶ 32.)
Defendants engaged in this conduct to force Plaintiff to leave the Watergate
community as they did not like that Plaintiff had prevented the implementation
of WPOA and CPM policies. (Id., ¶ 3.) 
 
Plaintiff asserts that WPOA’s
Board and CPM’s management were aware that Plaintiff was diabetic and the
failure to abate the nuisance affected Plaintiff’s sleep and health. (TAC, ¶¶
3, 4, 34, 38.) Plaintiff’s doctor assert that the stroke “is consistent with a
reasonable medical probability of his stroke having been triggered by
hypertension that was caused by chronic disruptions of Mr. DeNoce’s sleep,
stress related to Mr. DeNoce’s efforts to allow him to have regular sleep, and
ultimately the significant emotional upset[.]” (Id., ¶ 36, Ex. B, C.) 
 
Consequently, the WPOA Board,
Dr. Theodore Corwin (Board President), Dana Knudsen (Vice President), Michael
Lawler (Director), Tina Daniels (Director), Don Hoffman (Director), and Linda
Tonkins (Director), and the CEO of CPM (Sheldon H. Chavin) acted with malice,
oppression, and fraud in failing to control and abate the nuisance. (TAC, ¶¶ 4,
35.) Defendant asserts that the notices made Defendants aware that they failed
to control and abate the nuisance and disrupted the Plaintiff’s sleep in the
months and weeks leading up to his stroke. (Id., ¶ 35.) 
 
B.        Pleading Standard for Punitive Damages 
 
Defendants seek to strike the following from Plaintiff’s TAC: 
 
1)    
Page 23, Paragraph 68, request for
punitive and exemplary damages;
2)    
Page 23, Paragraph f., prayer for
punitive damages; and 
3)    
Page 23, Paragraph h., prayer for
exemplary damages. 
 
Defendants assert that Plaintiff fails to plead sufficient
facts to support a prayer for punitive damages. Defendants assert the TAC fails
to state how Defendants increase the noise and vibrations emitted from the two
adjacent parking lots. While the court agrees that Defendants are not
responsible for the noise emitted from ingress and egress of the vehicles or
the noises caused by engine noise, door closing and music being played, the TAC
does allege that Defendants or their agents assisted in creating and worsening
the nuisance by instructing  the Cornelison
and Graham families to park in the two adjacent strips to Plaintiff’s
townhouse, despite parking elsewhere prior to Plaintiff’s stroke. (TAC, ¶¶
29-31, 42.) At the
pleading stage, this is sufficient as Plaintiff is not required to prove or
specify which specific Defendant instructed the Cornelison and Graham families to
park in the adjacent lots to Plaintiff’s townhouse.  Either Defendants possess such information or
it is discoverable through the course of litigation. 
 
The TAC alleges that three days
before Plaintiff suffered his stroke Defendants encouraged the Cornelison and Graham
families and other residents to park their vehicles near Plaintiff despite
being aware of Plaintiff’s health issues. (TAC, ¶¶ 3, 4, 34, 38.) WPOA’s
President, Theodor Corwin, is a doctor and on February 13, 2020, Plaintiff
informed him that he had the “level of hemoglobin A1c was more than double the
level for a diagnosis of diabetes.” Dr. Corwin, as a physician, understood the
serious complications from arising from diabetes. (Id., ¶ 28.) Despite
knowing Plaintiff’s diabetic condition, Defendant failed to abate the nuisance
by stopping vehicles from parking adjacent to Plaintiff’s townhouse and instead
encouraging vehicles to park there. The TAC further asserts that due to a prior
lawsuit involving former members of WPOA filed in 2019, each current member of
WPOA and CPM management knew Plaintiff had “a diabetic syncope episode” in
2019. (Id.,¶ 40.) On September 8, 2021, Plaintiff informed CPM’s CEO,
Sheldon H. Chavin, that he was “battling serious health issues” and he asked
Mr. Chavin and Ms. Tadecki to forward the letter to WPOA’s Board, who later
confirmed receipt of the letter. (Id., ¶ 42.) 
 
Therefore, the TAC sufficiently
alleges facts to show that Defendants had knowledge that Plaintiff was a
diabetic. The TAC, however, fails to show how Defendants obtained
knowledge that Plaintiff suffered emotional stress, sleep deprivation, and
hypertension due to the nuisance. According to Plaintiff’s doctor, in the month
leading up to Plaintiff’s stroke, his diabetes was under control. “Prior to
suffering the lacunar infarct, Mr. DeNoce had achieved meaningful positive
results in his efforts to control his diabetes, hypertension, and to reduce his
weight.” (TAC, Ex. C ¶ 10; see also TAC ¶¶ 36 -37, Ex. B at p. 9.) According to
Plaintiff’s doctor: 
 
The cause of Mr. DeNoce's pontine infarct that he suffered
in October 2021 is consistent with a reasonable medical probability of his
stroke having been triggered by chiefly by hypertension that was caused by
multiple factors of which certainly include: (i) chronic disruptions of Mr.
DeNoce's sleep in the few years prior to the pontine infarct, (ii) stress
related to Mr. DeNoce's efforts to allow him to have regular sleep, and (iii)
stress related to Mr. DeNoce's fractious interactions with his home owners association
as to the noise from the parking strips. Those circumstances are consistent
with a probable causation of Mr. DeNoce's stroke corresponding to hypertensive
events as the primary trigger of the lacunar infarction. 
 
(TAC, Ex. C, ¶ 10.)
 
There are no facts in the TAC
to show that Plaintiff’s stroke was caused by his diabetes or that Defendants
knew or should have known that Plaintiff’s diabetic condition made him
particularly susceptible to a health injury due to the noise nuisance in
comparison to other member of the Westlake community with the same health condition.
“Generally, punitive damages may be awarded only if it is proven that the
defendant engaged in conduct intended to cause injury or engaged in despicable
conduct with a conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (Kransco
v. American Empire Surplus Lines Ins. Co. (2000) 23 Cal.4th 390, 410.) 
 
There are no facts in the TAC
showing how Defendants knew Plaintiff was suffering emotional distress, sleep
deprivation, and hypertension due to the nuisance. There are no facts to
support the allegation that Defendants acted with the intent or incautious
disregard to Plaintiff’s health. The written notices to the Defendants only
stated that the parking was a nuisance, and the TAC fails to state facts to
show that Defendants knew Plaintiff’s health made him particularly vulnerable
to suffering a health injury due to the noise. Therefore, the TAC fails to show
that Defendants in failing to abate the nuisance acted with the intent or in
conscious disregard for Plaintiff’s health. Moreover, the TAC fails to show
that Defendants’ intended to worsen Plaintiff’s known diabetic condition when
the TAC fails to show diabetes was a contributing or substantial factor in causing
Plaintiff’s stroke. 
 
The court grants Defendants’
motion to strike. This is the third time the court grants Defendants’ motion to
strike Plaintiffs’ request for punitive damages. (See CCP, § 435.5 [(e)(1) “In
response to a motion to strike and before the case is at issue, a pleading
shall not be amended more than three times, absent an offer to the trial court
of additional facts to be pleaded that, if pleaded, would result in a
reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured.”].)  Therefore, unless Plaintiff can show that the
pleading can be successfully amended, the leave to amend is denied.
 
The court also strikes
Plaintiff’s sur reply in opposition to Defendants’ Motion on the basis that it
was filed without leave of court. “Points raised for the first time in a reply
brief will not be considered.” (Malmstrom v. Kaiser Aluminum &
Chemical Corp. (1986) 187 Cal.App.3d 299, 320, 231.)
 
Conclusion
 
Defendants’ motion to strike is
granted without leave to amend. 
 


