 Case Number:  22STCV24956    Hearing Date:   January 29, 2024    Dept:  15 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE MOTIONS IN LIMINE
Defendants’ MIL No. 1
            Defendant
Avon Products, Inc. moves to exclude evidence about diseases caused by talc
other than mesothelioma, such as ovarian cancer.  This case is not about ovarian cancer or
diseases other than mesothelioma.  This
is not a case where the plaintiff alleges failure to warn that the product
could cause ovarian cancer.  The evidence
would be more prejudicial than probative, would confuse the jury, and would
consume an undue amount of time in a trial that is already too long.  The motion is granted.
Defendants’ MIL No. 2
Avon moves to exclude
evidence of an article entitled “Asbestos in Commercial Talcum Powder as a
Cause of Mesothelioma in Women.” 
Defendants contend the article is hearsay.  An expert may rely on hearsay and tell the
jury in general terms that he or she did so. 
If an expert testifying in this case establishes that this article is
the type of background information relied upon by experts in the field, the
evidence may be relevant and admissible even if hearsay.  (People v. Veamatahau (2020) 9 Cal.5th
16, 22.)  Defendant did not show that the
article is based on data lacking foundation or an unreliable method.  Defendant can cross-examine any expert who
relies on this article about these points.
            The
motion is granted in part as to the contents of the article unless an expert
establishes a basis for its admissibility. 

Defendants’ MIL No. 2
            Defendants
L’Oreal USA and Maybelline move to exclude all documents from other
entities.  This duplicates No. 4 below
and is denied for the same reasons.
Defendants’ MIL No. 3
            Avon
moves to exclude evidence of industrial talc mines and products as not relevant
because this case involves cosmetic talc. 
This motion is too vague.  The
motion does not identify any specific evidence to exclude.  The court cannot categorically say that
evidence mentioning industrial talc is completely irrelevant.  For example, an expert could rely on studies
about talc that mention multiple kinds of talc.
            The
motion is denied without prejudice to objections at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 4
            Avon
moves to exclude all references to internal documents from Johnson &
Johnson, Imerys, and Cyprus as hearsay and not relevant.  This motion is too vague because it does not
identify the specific evidence to be excluded. 
The motion is denied without prejudice to objections at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 5
Avon moves to exclude all
reference to other lawsuits involving Defendant and its related entities or
illness from use of talc.  This motion is
too vague.  For example, it is common in
asbestos cases to use deposition testimony from prior cases.  To the extent a party seeks to introduce the
amounts of any settlement, judgment, verdict, or award in another litigation,
the motion is deemed made and granted pursuant to the July 8, 2022 CMO.
            The
motion is granted in part and denied in part subject to objections at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 6
Avon moves to exclude
evidence about foreign governmental investigations and proceedings into talcum
powder as irrelevant, prejudicial, confusing and time-consuming.  Plaintiffs did not show that any defendant
was aware of a foreign investigation or proceeding into talcum powder such that
this information is relevant to notice, or that the foreign investigation or
proceeding gave Defendant notice of something it was not previously aware
of.  Allowing that evidence will consume
an undue amount of trial time exploring the reasons for the foreign
investigations.  The evidence would have
little probative value because foreign investigations do not result in
regulations or law in the United States and would be confusing to the
jury.  The motion is granted.
Defendants’ MIL No. 7
Defendant Avon moves to
exclude all references to the IWGACP formed in 2018 and its 2020-2022
recommendations and papers as irrelevant, misleading, and hearsay.  If an expert establishes that this is the
type of background information relied upon by experts, the evidence may be
relevant and admissible even if hearsay. 
Defendants can then cross-examine the expert on the fact that the work
is only preliminary.  The motion is
denied without prejudice to objections at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 8
            Avon
moves to exclude reference to any Avon talcum product not at issue as
irrelevant.  This motion is too
vague.  For example, an expert could rely
on a study that mentions other Avon products not at issue in this case, and the
expert may be able to establish the relevancy of that study.     The
motion is denied without prejudice to objections at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 9
            No
motion was filed.
Defendants’ MIL No. 10
            Defendant
Merle Norman moves to bifurcate punitive damages.  The motion is granted.
Defendants’ MIL No. 11
            Defendant
Merle Norman moves to exclude all photographs and videos of all experiments and
simulations conducted by experts or others pertaining to the use of talcum
powder products as not based on generally accepted scientific methodology.  This is extremely vague and overbroad.  The motion does not identify the specific
expert testimony or documents to be excluded.
            The
motion also seeks to exclude all experiments and simulations involving Tyndall
lighting.  The motion does not identify
the specific experiments, simulations, experts or documents to be
excluded.  It asserts that Tyndall
lighting is not reliable but cites no evidence establishing unreliability.
            The
motion is denied without prejudice to objections a trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 12
            Defendant
Merle Norman Cosmetics, Inc. moves to exclude all references to products not at
issue.  This motion duplicates No. 8
above and is denied for the same reasons.
Defendants’ MIL No. 12
            Merle
Norman seeks to prevent Plaintiffs, Plaintiffs’ counsel, and witnesses from
using the phrases “asbestos-containing” and “asbestos-containing product.”  This motion would prevent Plaintiffs from explaining
their allegations because this entire case is about Plaintiffs’ claims that
Defendants made or sold asbestos-containing products.  And there is little difference between saying
“asbestos-containing product” and “product containing asbestos” or “product
that had asbestos in it” or “product made with ingredients that contained asbestos.”
            The
motion is denied.
Defendants’ MIL Re Disclosure of Witness
and Exhibits 
            Defendant
Merle Norman Cosmetics moves to exclude all evidence not disclosed 72 hours in
advance.  This is not a proper motion in
limine.  The trial court will have rules
about disclosing witnesses and exhibits.
            The
motion is denied. 
            The
moving party is to give notice.