  Case Number:  21STCV23555    Hearing Date:   January 29, 2024    Dept:  15 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE MOTIONS IN LIMINE
Defendants’ MIL Re Bailey
            Defendant
Merle Norman Cosmetics, Inc. filed a motion to exclude Mark Bailey’s testimony
because Plaintiffs produced his report late, citing Code of Civil Procedure
section 2034.260.  (Motion at p. 5.)  That section requires the exchange of (a) the
name and address of the expert, (b) a declaration signed by the attorney
setting out the expert’s qualifications, the general substance of the expected
testimony, and a representation that the expert has agreed to testify and will
be familiar with the action to give a meaningful deposition, and (c)
information about the expert’s fees and costs. 
Section 2034.260 does not say anything about the exchange of expert
reports.  Rather, section 2034.270 states
that if a demand for an exchange of expert information includes a demand for
the production of reports, the parties shall produce reports on the date
specified in the demand.  Defendant did
not attach any demand for exchange of expert information that included a demand
for the production of reports on a specific date.  Therefore, Defendant did not show that
Plaintiffs produced the report late.
            Defendant
also argues Bailey did not establish that the samples he tested were authentic Merle
Norman products because he testified he received the samples from Plaintiffs’
counsel.  (Motion at p. 6.)  Plaintiffs argue that Bailey received
unopened samples in the original packaging labelled “Merle Norman.”  (Opposition at p. 6.)  Evidence that the samples were unopened and
labelled is sufficient for a prima facie showing that the samples he tested
were Merle Norman products.  Defendant
can cross-examine the witness about whether the samples were actually from
Merle Norman, were counterfeit products, were from years outside the time of
exposure, etc., which will go to the weight the jury gives the expert’s
testimony.
            Defendant
further argues the samples were not used by Plaintiff and therefore are
irrelevant.  Pursuant to the July 8, 2022
CMO, motions to exclude irrelevant testimony are deemed made and denied.  Defendant did not show good cause to depart
from that order.  In any event, if
Plaintiffs show Defendant used the same talc for its products over the years
and that talc contained asbestos, then the fact that Plaintiff did not use the
actual container tested is not significant. 
Defendant did not submit evidence that it used different talc over the
years.  
            Defendant
next argues that Bailey’s reliance on the testing of the samples is unreliable because
the samples are not authenticated.  As
discussed above, there is evidence that the samples were unopened and labeled
as from Merle Norman.  And Defendant
argues Bailey’s reliance on the testing is unreliable because Plaintiffs did
not use the actual samples tested.  As
discussed above, Defendant did not show that it used different talc over the
years such that the particular year the samples were made is meaningful.
            Finally,
Defendant argues the tests are hearsay because Bailey did not personally perform
the tests.  Plaintiffs say Bailey was
personally involved in the testing.  The
deposition testimony states that one of Bailey’s analysts did the tests, and he
oversaw the work and reviewed the data. 
He can testify about what he did, and if he can establish that the
testing he oversaw was reliable and accurate, it may be admissible.
            The
motion is DENIED.
Defendant’s MIL to Bifurcate
            Merle
Norman moves to bifurcate punitive damages. 
The motion is granted.
            The moving
party is to give notice.
 