  Case Number:  21STCV10612    Hearing Date:   July 10, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




nancy del socorro diaz
   martinez

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
champion power equipment,
   inc.

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


21STCV10612




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


July
   10, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
(1)  
  joint
  ex parte application to file confidential records under seal
(2)  
  petition
  to approve compromise of claim on behalf of minor claimant nancy del socorro
  martinez
 



 
MOVING PARTIES:              Plaintiff Nancy Del Socorro
Martinez and defendant Champion Power Equipment
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Unopposed
(1)  
Joint
Ex Parte Application to File Confidential Records Under Seal 
MOVING PARTY:                 Petitioner Paloma Denisse
Martinez Flores   
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Unopposed
(2)  
Petition
to Approve Compromise of Claim on Behalf of Minor Claimant Nancy Del Socorro
Martinez
The court considered the moving papers filed in connection with the
joint motion to seal.  No opposition
papers were filed.  
The court considered the moving papers filed in connection with the
petition for approval of compromise of claim. 
No opposition papers were filed. 
EX PARTE APPLICATION TO SEAL
Plaintiff Nancy Del Socorro
Martinez and defendant Champion Power Equipment (together, the “Parties”) filed
the pending ex parte application for an order filing confidential documents
under seal on May 20, 2024.
The Parties seek an order
placing under seal the following documents in order to avoid disclosure of the
dollar amount of the Parties’ settlement, the attorney’s fees, and the planned
use for portions of those funds: (1) the Parties’ settlement agreement and
release, (2) the pending Petition to Approve Compromise of Claim, (3) documents
in support of the Petition, (4) the ex parte application, and (5) the hearing
transcript on the ex parte application and Petition. 
Generally, court records are
presumed to be open unless confidentiality is required by law.¿ (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 2.550, subd. (c).)¿ If the presumption of access applies, the court
may order that a record be filed under seal “if it expressly finds facts that
establish: (1) There exists an overriding interest that overcomes the right of
public access to the record; (2) The overriding interest supports sealing the
record; (3) A substantial probability exists that the overriding interest will
be prejudiced if the record is not sealed; (4) The proposed sealing is narrowly
tailored; and (5) No less restrictive means exist to achieve the overriding
interest.”¿ (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550, subd. (d).)
First, the court finds, as to
the portions of the Petition (and the documents filed in support of it) and the
Order on the Petition that disclose the amount of the Parties’ settlement, the
attorney’s fees to be paid, and the planned use for the portions of those
funds, that the Parties have met their burden to show that (1) there is an
overriding interest that overcomes the right of public access to those records
because (i) the Parties have agreed to keep this information confidential, and
(ii) sealing will protect the interests of minor claimant; (2) the overriding
interest supports sealing the record so that the financial terms of the
Parties’ settlement are not disclosed; (3) a substantial probability exists
that the overriding interest will be prejudiced if the record is not sealed;
(4) the proposed sealing is narrowly tailored, because the Parties have
requested that the court redact only the portions that discuss the monetary
terms of the Parties’ settlement; and (5) no less restrictive means exist to achieve
the overriding interest.  (Cal. Rules of
Ct., rule 2.550, subd. (d); Yoka Decl., ¶ 3; Saldana Decl., ¶ 2.)  The court therefore grants the Parties’ joint
ex parte application to seal as to those documents. 
Second, the court finds, as to
this ex parte application and the hearing transcripts on the ex parte
application and Petition, the Parties have not met their burden to show that
there is an overriding interest that overcomes the right of public access to
the records because (1) the ex parte application itself does not appear to
disclose the financial terms of the Parties’ settlement agreement, and (2) the
court will not disclose the financial terms of the settlement agreement on the
record.  (Cal. Rules of Ct., rule 2.550,
subd. (d)(1).)  The court therefore
denies the Parties’ joint ex parte application to seal the ex parte application
and the hearing transcripts on the ex parte application and Petition. 
The court notes that
petitioner Paloma Denisse Martinez Flores filed, on May 2, 2024, the “Petition
for Approval of Compromise of Claim or Action or Disposition of Proceeds of
Judgment for Minor or Person with a Disability” (MC-350) and the proposed “Order
Approving Compromise of Claim or Action or Disposition of Proceeds of Judgment
for Minor or Person with a Disability” (MC-351), both of which state
“[REDACTED].”  However, covers of
redacted filings must state “Public-Redacts materials from sealed record.”  (Cal. Rules of Ct., rule 2.551, subd.
(b)(5).)  The court will therefore
require petitioner Paloma Denisse Martinez Flores to file  a revised version of the Petition that
includes this language and redacts the information set forth in the order
below. 
PETITION TO APPROVE COMPROMISE OF CLAIM
Petitioner Paloma Denisse
Martinez Flores (“Petitioner”) seeks court approval of the settlement made on
behalf of minor claimant Nancy Del Socorro Martinez (“Minor Claimant”).  
Defendant Champion Power
Equipment, Inc. (“Defendant”) and TCRM LLC (“TCRM”)[1] have agreed to settle this
action with Minor Claimant, Nonna Jean Pena, as next friend of Diego Kaez
Diaz-Martinez, a minor, Juan Jesus Cruz Gamez, as wrongful death beneficiary of
Alejandra Estefania Martinez, a minor, deceased, and Inez Garcia, individually
and as administratrix of the Estate of Alejandro Arellano, deceased.  (MC-350, ¶¶ 10, 11, subd. (b)(5).)  
On June 7, 2024, the court
issued an order on the petition, finding that the settlement was fair and
reasonable and in the best interest of Minor Claimant, but noting that a
certain portion of the settlement is to be paid to the trustee of a special
needs trust established under Probate Code section 3604.  (June 7, 2024 Order, pp. 2:22-23,
3:1-3.)  The court noted that Petitioner
did not provide the court with all the terms of the special needs trust and did
not comply with Local Rule 4.115, subdivision (b), requiring the terms of a
special needs trust to be reviewed by the Probate Division.  (Id. at p. 3:11, 3:12-19.)  The court therefore exercised its discretion
to continue the hearing on the petition and the ex parte application in order
to give Petitioner the opportunity to file an amended Attachment 18b(4) and to
comply with Local Rule 4.115, and ordered Petitioner (1) to file an amended
18b(4) attachment complying with the requirements of Local Rules 4.115 and
4.116, no later than June 10, 2024, and (2) to lodge with the Probate Division
the documents required by Local Rule 4.115, subdivision (b), no later than June
10, 2024.  (Id. at p. 4:17-21.)
On June 7, 2024, Petitioner
filed a “Notice of Lodging Documents with the Probate Division at Stanley Mosk
Courthouse Pursuant to Local Rule 4.115(b),” in which Petitioner stated that
she lodged with the Probate Division at Stanley Mosk Courthouse (1) the face
page of the Petition for Approval of Compromise of Claim or Action and
Attachment 18b(4), and (2) a copy of the proposed order approving the
compromise of claim.  The court notes
that it appears that Petitioner has lodged with the Probate Division a complete
copy of Attachment 18b(4) (i.e., by attaching the terms of the trust agreement
in the form as attached as Exhibit A to the “Order Creating, Establisling [sic],
and Funding a Special Needs Trust for the Benefit of Nancy Del Socorro Diaz
Martinez under §142.005 of the Texas Property Code and 42 U.S.C. §1396p
(d)94)(A)”).  However, Petitioner did not
file a complete copy of Attachment 18b(4) with this court as ordered.  (June 7, 2024 Order, p. 4:17-18.)
            The
Probate Division has reviewed the terms of the proposed special needs trust and
has noted the following defects. 
            First,
Petitioner has not provided notice of the time and the place of the hearing on
this Petition to the State Director of Health Care Services, the Director of
State Hospitals, and the Director of Developmental Services. 
Upon petition of the guardian,
“the court making the order or giving the judgment referred to in Section 3600
may order that all or part of the remaining balance of money not become a part
of the guardianship or conservatorship estate and instead be paid to a special
needs trust established under Section 3604 for the benefit of the minor or
person with a disability.”  (Prob. Code,
§ 3602, subd. (d).)  “Notice of the time
and place of hearing on a petition under subdivision (d), and a copy of the
petition, shall be delivered pursuant to Section 1215 to the State Director of
Health Care Services, the Director of State Hospitals, and the Director of
Developmental Services at the office of each director in Sacramento at least 15
days before the hearing.”  (Prob. Code, §§
3602, subd. (f), 3611, subd. (c).) 
Petitioner has not filed a
proof of service establishing that Petitioner served, at least 15 days before
the hearing and by mail, the State Director of Health Care Services, the
Director of State Hospitals, and the Director of Developmental Service with (1)
notice of the time and place of the hearing on this Petition, or (2) a copy of
this Petition.  (Prob. Code, §§ 3602,
subd. (f), 3611, subd. (c).) 
Second, the proposed trust
instrument does not meet all the requirements set forth in California Rules of
Court, rule 7.903.  (Cal. Rules of Ct.,
rule 7.903, subd. (c) [“trust instruments for trusts funded by court order must”
meet the requirements set forth therein] [emphasis added].)
The proposed trust instrument
does not (1) prohibit modification or revocation without court approval; (2)
prohibit investments by the trustee other than those permitted under Probate
Code section 2574; (3) require the trustee to post bond in the amount required
under Probate Code section 2320 et seq.; (4) require the trustee to file
accounts and reports for court approval in the manner and frequency required by
Probate Code sections 1060 et seq. and 2620 et seq.; (5) require court approval
of changes in trustees and a court order appointing any successor trustee; and
(6) require compensation of the trustee, the members of any advisory committee,
or the attorney for the trustee, to be in just and reasonable amounts that must
be fixed and allowed by the court.  (Cal.
Rules of Ct., rule 7.903, subds. (c)(2), (c)(4), (c)(5), (c)(6), (c)(7),
(c)(8).)  
Third, the proposed trust
instrument does not include all the terms required by Local Rule 4.116.  Specifically, the proposed trust instrument
does not include the following provisions:      (1) “Any purchase of a personal residence
for a beneficiary may be made only if authorized by the court pursuant to the
rules applicable to conservatorships and guardianships.  (See Prob. Code, § 2571.);” (2) “Any
sale of a personal residence of the beneficiary may be made only if authorized
by the court pursuant to the rules applicable to conservatorships and
guardianships.  (Prob. Code, §
2540(b).)  Such sales must be returned to
the court for confirmation.  (See
Prob. Code, § 10300 et seq.);” and (3) “The trustee may not borrow
money, lend money, give security, lease, convey, or exchange any property of
the estate without proper authorization of the court.  (Prob. Code, § 2550.)”  (Local Rules, rule 4.116, subds. (b)(2),
(b)(3), (b)(4).) 
Fourth, the proposed “Order
Approving Compromise of Claim or Action or Disposition of Proceeds of Judgment
for Minor or Person with a Disability” does not include all required orders.  The proposed order must (1) include an order
approving and setting forth the funding of the special needs trust; (2) attach
the terms of the special needs trust as an exhibit; (3) set forth the findings
of Probate Code section 3604, subdivision (b); (4) include an order requiring
the first trust accounting in one year; and (5) require the filing of a “Notice
of Commencement of Proceedings for a Court Supervised Trust” on Los Angeles
Superior Court form PRO-044 within 60 days. 
In addition to the defects set
forth above, the Probate Division has also raised the following concerns with
the proposed trust instrument. 
The proposed trust instrument
provides that the trust may be consolidated with other trusts, and may have
assets transferred to other trusts or trustees for various reasons, which is
highly unusual for a special needs trust and may violate Medicare laws
regarding the validity of special needs trusts. 
(Pet., Attachment 18b(4), Art. III, § E, and Art. VII, § A.)  
The proposed trust instrument
includes provisions for retirement accounts, which is highly unusual for a
special needs trust and may violate Medicare laws regarding the validity of
special needs trusts.  (Pet., Attachment
18b(4), Art. IV, § D.) 
The proposed trust instrument
includes provisions regarding the powers and obligations of the trustee to
visit the beneficiary’s place of residence, to inspect living conditions, and to
evaluate alternatives, which are highly unusual provisions for a special needs
trust.  (Pet., Attachment 18b(4), Art.
IV, § G.) 
The proposed trust instrument
contains estate planning for a minor to the extent it names specific
beneficiaries that would receive trust assets upon the passing of Minor
Claimant.  However, minors lack capacity
to make estate planning.  (Prob. Code, §
6100, subd. (a) [“An individual 18 or more years of age who is of sound mind
may make a will”].)  An attempt to
designate a beneficiary of the settlement fund in the event of a minor’s death
(e.g., to the custodial parent where the parents are divorced) would circumvent
Probate Code section 610, subdivision (a), and would therefore be invalid.  (Sisco v. Cosgrove, Michelizzi,
Schwabacher, Ward & Bianchi (1996) 51 Cal.App.4th 1302, 1307-1311.)  Instead, the designation of remainder
beneficiaries in a special needs trust should be to “heirs at law” if any power
of appointment is not exercised.  (Pet.,
Attachment 18b(4), Art. VI, § B.5.)
The special needs trust sets
forth inconsistent provisions regarding the standard to which the trustee will
be held.  (Pet., Attachment 18b(4), Art.
VII, § B [trustee shall be held to a standard stricter than the morals of the
marketplace], Art. VII, § H [trustee will be liable only for acts of willful
misconduct or gross negligence].) 
The proposed trust instrument
provides that the trustee may purchase life insurance policies for third
parties under certain circumstances, which is highly unusual for a special
needs trust and may violate Medicare laws regarding the validity of special needs
trusts.  (Pet., Attachment 18b(4), Art.
VIII, § B.) 
The court therefore exercises
its discretion to continue the hearing on the Petition in order to give
Petitioner an opportunity (1) to give notice of the hearing date on this
Petition to all required parties and governmental officials, and (2) to correct
the defects with the proposed trust instrument and proposed order on the
Petition set forth above. 
ORDER
            The court grants plaintiff Nancy Del
Socorro Diaz Martinez and defendant Champion Power Equipment’s ex parte
application to seal as follows. 
            The court orders that the unredacted
versions of the (1) “Petition for
Approval of Compromise of Claim or Action or Disposition of Proceeds of
Judgment for Minor or Person with a Disability” (MC-350), lodged with the court
by petitioner Paloma Denisse Martinez Flores on or about May 21, 2024, and (2)
“Order Approving Compromise of Claim or Action or Disposition of Proceeds of
Judgment for Minor or Person with a Disability” (MC-351), lodged with the court
by petitioner Paloma Denisse Martinez Flores on or about May 21, 2024, shall be
filed under seal. 
            Pursuant
to California Rules of Court, rule 2.551, subdivision (e), the court directs
the clerk to file this order, maintain the records ordered sealed in a secure
manner, and clearly identify the records as sealed by this order.  
            The court orders petitioner Paloma Denisse Martinez Flores to
file a revised “Petition for Approval of Compromise of Claim or Action or
Disposition of Proceeds of Judgment for Minor or Person with a Disability”
(MC-350) which identifies it as “Public-Redacts materials from sealed record”
and redacts the following portions of the Petition:
·       The settlement amounts set forth in (1)
sections 10, 11, subdivisions (b)(1) and (b)(5), 16, 18, subdivisions (b)(3)
and (b)(4), and 19; (2) Attachment 10c; (3) Attachment 13(a), pages 3:17-18,
3:20, 3:26, 3:27, 4:4, 4:6-18, 5:8-26, 6:1-26, and 10:19; (4) Exhibit 1; and (5)
Attachment 18a(3).
·       The amounts to be paid for medical expenses,
as set forth in (1) section 12,                            (2) Attachment
12b(3), and (3) Attachment 19.
·       The amounts to be paid to counsel for
attorney’s fees and litigation costs, as set forth in (1) sections 13-16 and
17, subdivision (f); (2) Attachment 13(a), pages 4:26-28, 5:5, and 10:9-10 of
the declaration of Adam K. Shea; and (3) Attachment 13(b).
The court orders that the
hearing on petitioner Paloma Denisse Martinez Flores’s Petition for Approval of
Compromise of Claim is continued to September 9, 2024, at 10:00 a.m., in
Department 53. 
The court orders petitioner Paloma Denisse Martinez Flores (1) to file
with the court and lodge with the Probate Division a revised special needs
trust for the benefit of the minor claimant that (i) complies with California
Rules of Court, rule 7.903, (ii) complies with Local Rules, rule 4.116,
subdivision (b), and (iii) addresses the concerns raised by the Probate
Division set forth in this ruling; (2) to file a proof of service establishing
that (i) all parties that have appeared in this action have been served with
the Petition and supporting documents, including any revised special needs
trust documents, and have been given notice of the new hearing date on this Petition,
and (ii) the State Director of Health Care Services, the Director of State
Hospitals, and the Director of Developmental Services have been served, at the
office of each director in Sacramento, by mail, with notice of the time and
place of the hearing on the Petition and a copy of the Petition; and (3) to
lodge a revised proposed order on the Petition that (i) includes an order approving and setting forth the funding of the special
needs trust; (ii) attaches the terms of the revised special needs trust as an
exhibit; (iii) sets forth the findings of Probate Code section 3604,
subdivision (b); (iv) includes an order requiring the first trust accounting in
one year; and (v) requires the filing of a “Notice of Commencement of
Proceedings for a Court Supervised Trust” on Los Angeles Superior Court form
PRO-044 within 60 days.
The court orders that the
Order to Show Cause re Dismissal (Settlement) is continued from July 10, 2024,
to September 9, 2024, at 10:00 a.m., in Department 53. 
            The court orders plaintiff Nancy Del
Socorro Diaz Martinez to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
DATED:  July 10, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


