 Case Number:  23SMCV00947    Hearing Date:   June 18, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Vickers v. Wallen,
et al.
CASE NO.:                23SMCV00947
MOTION:                  Motion
to Continue Trial 
HEARING DATE:   6/18/2024

 
Legal
Standard
 
Pursuant to
California Rules of Court (“CRC”), rule 3.1332(a), “To ensure the prompt
disposition of civil cases, the dates assigned for a trial are firm.  All parties and their counsel must regard the
date set for trial as certain.” Under CRC Rule 3.1332(b), “A party seeking a
continuance of the date set for trial, whether contested or uncontested or
stipulated to by the parties, must make the request for a continuance by a
noticed motion or an ex parte application under the rules in chapter 4 of this
division, with supporting declarations. The party must make the motion or
application as soon as reasonably practical once the necessity for the
continuance is discovered.” 
            
CRC Rule
3.1332(c) further states that “[a]lthough continuances of trials are
disfavored, each request for a continuance must be considered on its own
merits. The court may grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of
good cause requiring the continuance.  Circumstances
that may include good cause include:   
 
(1) The
unavailability of an essential lay or expert witness because of death, illness,
or other excusable circumstances;  
 
(2) The
unavailability of a party because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances; 
 
(3) The
unavailability of trial counsel because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances; 
 
(4) The
substitution of trial counsel, but only where there is an affirmative showing
that the substitution is required in the interests of justice; 
 
(5) The
addition of a new party if: 
 
(A) The new party has not had a reasonable
opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial; or 
 
(B) The other parties have not had a
reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial in regard to
the new party's involvement in the case; 
 
(6) A
party's excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other
material evidence despite diligent efforts; or 
 
(7) A
significant, unanticipated change in the status of the case as a result of
which the case is not ready for trial.” 
CRC Rule
3.1332(d) also sets forth other factors that are relevant in determining
whether to grant a continuance. 

 
Analysis
 
Plaintiff Rose Vickers moves to continue
the trial date currently set for July 20, 2024, to a date after January 2025
that is convenient with the Court’s calendar. The motion is unopposed, as the
parties have stipulated to a continuance.
 
Plaintiff argues that there has
been a significant, unexpected change which renders this case not ready for
trial. Plaintiff explains that she recently retained new counsel after former
counsel could not continue to represent Plaintiff due to a conflict. This is
the second time this year that Plaintiff has substituted new counsel. First,
Plaintiff provides no evidence in support of the motion, and therefore does not
establish any facts necessary for her motion. (See Hosharian Decl.) Ignoring
this issue, Plaintiff does not explain why she will be prejudiced if the trial
is not continued. For instance, Plaintiff does not explain why new counsel
needs additional time to prepare for trial. If more time is necessary for
counsel to conduct discovery, she fails to explain what necessary discovery is
outstanding, or why such discovery could not have reasonably been obtained
earlier. Therefore, the Court cannot conclude that a continuance is in the
interests of justice.
 
Accordingly, the motion is DENIED.
 