  Case Number:  19SMCV01614    Hearing Date:   June 18, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Singer v. Related
California Urban Housing, et al.
CASE NO.:                19SMCV01614
MOTION:                  Motion
for Summary Adjudication
                                    Motion
to Dismiss Holdco Inc. for Delay in Service
HEARING DATE:   6/18/2024

 
MSA
Legal Standard
 
A party may move for summary judgment in any action or
proceeding if it is contended the action has no merit or that there is no
defense to the action or proceeding. (CCP, § 437c(a).) “The purpose of the law
of summary judgment is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the
parties' pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations,
trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  
 
“A party may move for summary adjudication as to one or
more causes of action within an action, one or more affirmative defenses, one
or more claims for damages, or one or more issues of duty, if the party
contends that the cause of action has no merit, that there is no affirmative
defense to the cause of action, that there is no merit to an affirmative
defense as to any cause of action, that there is no merit to a claim for
damages, as specified in¿Section 3294 of the Civil Code, or that one or more defendants
either owed or did not owe a duty to the plaintiff or plaintiffs.”¿(CCP,¿§
437c(f)(1).)¿If a party seeks summary adjudication as an alternative to a
request for summary judgment, the request must be clearly made in the notice of
the motion. (Gonzales v. Superior Court¿(1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 1542,
1544.)¿ “[A] party may move for summary adjudication of a legal issue or a
claim for damages other than punitive damages that does not completely
dispose of a cause of action, affirmative defense, or issue of duty
pursuant to” subdivision (t). (CCP,¿§ 437c(t).)¿ 
 
To prevail, the evidence submitted must show there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.¿(CCP, §¿437c(c).)¿The motion cannot succeed unless
the evidence leaves no room for conflicting inferences as to material facts;
the court has no power to weigh one inference against another or against other
evidence. (Murillo v. Rite Stuff Food Inc. (1998) 65 Cal.App.4th
833, 841.) In determining whether the facts give rise to a triable issue of
material fact, “[a]ll doubts as to whether any material, triable, issues of
fact exist are to be resolved in favor of the party opposing summary judgment…”
(Gold v. Weissman (2004) 114 Cal.App.4th 1195, 1198-99.) “In other
words, the facts alleged in the evidence of the party opposing summary judgment
and the reasonable inferences there from must be accepted as true.” (Jackson
v. County of Los Angeles (1997) 60 Cal.App.4th 171, 179.) However, if
adjudication is otherwise proper the motion “may not be denied on grounds of
credibility,” except when¿a material fact is the witness’s¿state of mind and
“that fact is sought to be established solely by the [witness’s] affirmation
thereof.” (CCP, § 437c(e).)¿ 
 
Once the moving party has met their burden, the burden
shifts to the opposing party “to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto.” (CCP §
437c(p)(1).) “[T]here¿is no
obligation on the opposing party... to establish anything by affidavit unless
and until the moving party has by affidavit stated facts establishing every
element... necessary to sustain a judgment in his favor.”¿(Consumer Cause,
Inc. v.¿SmileCare¿(2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 454, 468.)¿ 
¿ 
“The pleadings play a key role in a summary judgment
motion. The function of the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to
delimit the scope of the issues and to¿frame¿the outer measure of materiality
in a summary judgment proceeding.” (Hutton v. Fidelity National Title Co.¿(2013)
213 Cal.App.4th 486, 493, quotations and citations omitted.) “Accordingly, the
burden of a defendant moving for summary judgment only requires that he or she
negate plaintiff's theories of liability¿as alleged in the complaint;
that is, a moving party need not refute liability on some theoretical
possibility not included in the pleadings.” (Ibid.)¿ 
 
MSA EVIDENTIARY ISSUES
 
Defendants’ request for judicial notice (RJN) is GRANTED.
Plaintiff’s objections to Defendants’ RJN are overruled. (Evid. Code § 452(d),
(h).)
 
Plaintiff’s request for judicial notice is GRANTED.
 
            The Court notes that Plaintiff made
evidentiary objections in the separate statement but did not provide separate objections.  As such, those objections are waived.  
 
            Defendants’ objections to the Declaration
of Joshua M. Wolff are all OVERRULED.  
 
MSA
Analysis
 
Defendants/Cross-Complainants Santa
Monica Urban Housing A, LLC (“SMUHA”), the Related Companies of California, LLC,
RR Santa Monica Development Company, LLC, the Related Companies, LP, Related
California Urban Housing, LLC, Related California Residential, LLC, the Related
Realty Group, Inc., Related Fund Management, LLC, Related Partners, Inc., RCMP
IV, Inc., Related General IV, LP, Related Sales, Inc., Related Ocean Avenue
Associates, LLC, Nicholas Real Estate Investments, LLC, the Nicholas Company,
Inc., Cardone Real Estate Investments, LLC, and RFM Holdco, LLC (“Defendants”)
move for summary adjudication of Plaintiff Eileen Singer’s claims for punitive
damages in the operative Third Amended Complaint (“TAC”). Defendants assert
that there is no admissible clear and convincing evidence that any of
Defendants acted, or failed to act, maliciously, oppressively, despicably, or
fraudulently, and/or acted with the intent to harm, injure, or deprive
Plaintiff of her property or rights demonstrating intent to vex, injure or
annoy, or with a conscious disregard of Plaintiff’s rights. 
 
Defendants do not dispute that they
had a duty to disclose any known material defects with the property. Instead,
Defendants contend that Plaintiff lacks evidence of fraud, and that the
undisputed record will demonstrate that they have not “intentionally” harmed or
deceived Plaintiff regarding the cited material facts. The Court will address
each factual basis for fraud in turn, as the survival of any one basis would
preclude summary adjudication of this issue.
 
Punitive
Damages Standard
 
Plaintiff’s first cause of action
for fraud supports the claim for punitive damages. (TAC ¶¶ 64-78.) The punitive damages statute defines fraud as “an
intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known
to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby
depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.” (Civil Code §3294(c)(3).) Consistent with this definition, California law recognizes
that a misrepresentation may include a false representation, as well as concealment
or nondisclosure. (Charnay v. Cobert (2006) 145 Cal.App.4th 170, 184;
see Cal. Civ. Code § 1710.) “[T]o establish fraud through nondisclosure or
concealment of facts, it is necessary to show the defendant ‘was under a legal
duty to disclose them.’” (OCM Principal Opportunities Fund v. CIBC World
Markets Corp. (2007) 157 Cal.App.4th 835, 845.) Nondisclosure or
concealment may constitute actionable fraud when: (1) there is a fiduciary
relationship between the parties; (2) the defendant had exclusive knowledge of
material facts not known to the plaintiff; (3) the defendant actively conceals
a material fact from the plaintiff; and (4) the defendant makes partial
representations but also suppresses some material facts. (Los Angeles
Memorial Coliseum Commission v. Insomniac, Inc. (2015) 233 Cal.App.4th 803,
831.) 
 
The Court
must also apply a “clear and convincing” standard of proof as to evidence of
malice, fraud, or oppression. (Civ. Code, § 3294(a).) “While the clear
and convincing evidentiary standard is a stringent one, it does not impose on a
plaintiff the obligation to ‘prove’ a case for punitive damages at summary
judgment. [Citation.] However, where the plaintiff's ultimate burden of proof
will be by clear and convincing evidence, the higher standard of proof must be taken
into account in ruling on a motion for summary judgment or summary
adjudication, since if a plaintiff is to prevail on a claim for punitive
damages, it will be necessary that the evidence presented meet the higher
evidentiary standard. [Citations.] But as with a judgment of nonsuit, summary
judgment on the issue of punitive damages is proper only when no reasonable
jury could find the plaintiff's evidence to be clear and convincing proof of
malice, fraud or oppression.” (Spinks v. Equity Residential Briarwood
Apartments (2009) 171 Cacl.App.4th 1004, 1053 [internal quotations
omitted].) 
 
Allegations
 
Plaintiff’s
fraud cause of action arises from alleged nondisclosure of material facts
concerning the development of The Village at Santa Monica (“TVSM”), including The
Waverly, where Unit 201 is located. (TAC ¶¶ 24-25.) During development and
construction, Defendants experienced persistent and repeated issues with the
fenestration system and became embroiled in multiple lawsuits arising out of
these issues, which were still ongoing when Plaintiff purchased Unit 201. (TAC
¶¶ 37-42.) Defendants did not disclose to Singer the existence of ongoing and
pervasive water intrusion at The Waverly or the related lawsuits. (TAC ¶¶ 43,
57-65.) 
 
Defendants were also aware that the
TVSM development site had a history of soil contamination. (TAC ¶ 43.) In 2013
and again in 2014, Defendants discovered and removed underground storage tanks
(“USTs”) from the property. (TAC ¶¶ 44, 47.) While Defendants made remediation
attempts, recent testing shows still-elevated levels of arsenic in the soil,
including in water samples and friable efflorescence leaching through cracks in
the underground parking garage. (TAC ¶¶ 47-49.) Defendants acknowledged the
existence of these cracks, but did not correct them, as they were engaged in
litigation with two subcontractors regarding allegedly inadequate shoring and
waterproofing of the underground parking garage. (TAC ¶¶ 49-51.) Defendants
failed to disclose any of these issues or related lawsuits to homeowners or
potential homeowners, including Plaintiff. (Id.) 
 
Factually Devoid Discovery Responses
 
Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s
responses to written discovery reveal that she lacks any evidence, much less
the clear and convincing evidence she requires, to establish an intent to
deceive or harm Plaintiff. To meet their burden of production on this argument,
Defendants must show that, despite the opportunity for discovery, Plaintiff does not
possess and cannot reasonably obtain the needed evidence.¿(Union Bank v.
Superior Court (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 573, 590 [factually-devoid
responses to discovery requests may show that one or more elements of their
claim “cannot be established”]; see Casey v. Perini¿(2012) 206
Cal.App.4th¿1222 [interrogatory answers did not demonstrate that the dust and
debris allegedly disturbed by construction on jobsites from 1962 to 1981
contained¿cancer-causing asbestos, since plaintiff failed to identify specific
asbestos-containing products]; Andrews v. Foster Wheeler LLC (2006) 138
Cal.App.4th 96, 107 [initial burden shifted because plaintiff's “all facts”
answers clearly showed that he did not have specific evidence of exposures].) 
 
Defendants cite the Supplemental
Responses to Defendant Related California Residential, LLC’s Special
Interrogatories to Plaintiff Eileen Singer dated May 1, 2023 (“SI”). (UMF 70; Newman
Decl. ¶¶ 6-7; NOL Ex. W.) Defendants do not cite any particular interrogatory
that contains factually devoid responses regarding the punitive damages issues.
Upon independent review, the Court notes SI no. 11 requests that Plaintiff
state “each and every fact” in support of her claim for punitive damages. As
explained by Defendants, Plaintiff responded with substantive facts. Plaintiff
responded that she predicated her punitive damages claim on four specific
non-disclosures, to wit, 1) the existence of contaminated soils; 2) the
discovery of UST during construction; 3) the litigation with the window
supplier, window installer, and other subcontractors; and 4) the water
intrusion issues with the Waverly’s fenestration. (Id.) Defendants present
arguments as to why these stated facts would not support a claim of punitive
damages. For instance, Defendants contend that they remediated the contaminated
soil and they reasonably believed that water intrusion issues were repaired. However,
this would not alter the fact that Plaintiff’s discovery response provided those
facts. Plaintiff’s response did not suggest that she does not possess or
could not obtain evidence of the cited facts. Therefore, Defendants fail to
meet their initial burden of production on this point.
 
Fenestration Issues
 
In support of their motion, Defendants
assert that they reasonably believed they resolved the fenestration leaks at
the time of completion and sale to Plaintiff. SMUHA was the developer of Parcel
A of the TVSM project, which became the Waverly. (UMF 5.) On December 14, 2010,
SMUHA entered into a contract with Simpson Gumpertz & Heger, Inc. (“SGH”)
to provide consulting services on Parcel A for “the building's roofing,
waterproofing, exterior cladding and windows.” (UMF 6.) SGH were to review and
provide recommendations regarding the details of the roof, wall cladding,
window, and waterproofing systems before and during construction. (UMF 7.) SGH
was also responsible for monitoring work in progress for waterproofing at the
Waverly, observing field water testing of the curtain wall and windows, and
performing analysis of the building’s components as required to accommodate
variations in as-built conditions. (Id.) On February 13, 2012, the general
contractor, Charles Pankow Builders Lrd. (“Pankow”), subcontracted with Helou
& Sons Corp. (“Helou”) to provide design assist on the fenestration system,
and perform window and curtain wall fenestration installation at TVSM. (UMF 11.)
On March 28, 2012, Pankow subcontracted with Tesla Wall Systems, LLC (“Tesla”)
to manufacture and supply the fenestration system for the Project. (UMF 12.)
 
Despite the disputes regarding the installation
of the fenestration system, by approximately November 2013, nearly all of the
fenestration work was complete. (UMF 13.) During heavy rains in the winter of
2013/2014, however, many of the windows that Helou had installed leaked. (UMF
14.) After Helou refused to return to the project to correct the leaking
windows, Pankow and its subcontractor, with the involvement of SGH, undertook
to test nearly every window at the Waverly, including all those discovered to
have leaked, and repair all reasonably foreseeable leaks in the project’s
fenestration. (UMF 15.) In June 2014, SMUHA’s Construction Manager, Jeff Lucas,
was notified that Pankow felt it had undertaken all reasonable efforts to
identify and fix leaks in the windows at the Waverly, including those installed
by Helou, and all those that were discovered to have leaked in the 2013/2014
rains. (UMF 16.) After Pankow had assured itself that all reasonably
foreseeable leaks had been addressed, the issuance of the Certificate of
Substantial Completion, and the Certificate Occupancy, on October 14, 2014, SGH
issued a close out letter to SMUHA reflecting that the waterproofing issues,
including the fenestration leaks discovered in early 2014 and repaired
throughout the first half of that year, had been addressed. (UMF 17.) SGH’s
closeout letter goes on to state that, “to the best of [SGH’s] knowledge and
belief, the work we observed is in general conformance with the design intent
and with our recommendations, as documented in project correspondence, field
reports, and verbal communication with ownership.” (Id.) The SGH closeout
letter was the final confirmation Defendants needed to reasonably believe that
the Waverly’s water intrusion issues were behind them. (UMF 18.) 
 
On June 18, 2014, the Project
architect executed a Certificate of Substantial Completion and on August 15,
2014, the City of Santa Monica issued a Certificate of Occupancy. (UMF 31.) Upon
receiving the Certificate of Substantial Completion and Certificate of
Occupancy, along with SGH’s October 14, 2014 closeout letter, SMUHA and Pankow
believed the Waverly generally conformed with the design intent and with SGH’s
recommendations – i.e., that the window leaks that manifested in early 2014 had
all been remediated, and the property was ready to be sold and inhabited. (UMF 32-35.)
Defendants contend that they reasonably believed that at this point, the water
leaks were “behind them.” Defendants admit that there were continuing leaks
with units other than Plaintiff’s Unit 201. (UMF 35-42.) Defendants further
contend that the window leaks following Substantial Completion, and prior to
Plaintiff’s purchase in April 2016, did not suggest to Jeff Lucas that (1)
testing and repairs Pankow performed before Substantial Completion had not
addressed all the then known window leaks, or (2) the existence of a broader
systemic problem with the window system. (UMF 41; Lucas Decl. ¶ 30.)
 
Plaintiff presents multiple
disputes of fact regarding Defendants’ knowledge and beliefs of the window
leaks. First, the closeout letter itself cautions that the consultant “did not
perform continuous or exhaustive inspections and can, therefore, comment only
on those areas we observed” and that its conclusions were expressly based on
Defendants’ confirmation that the windows met field testing. Moreover, Plaintiff
presents evidence that Defendants knew the windows did not meet field testing
requirements. (RUMF 17, 32.) 
 
Plaintiff presents evidence that Defendants
were aware of the systemic issues with the window leaks that could not be
repaired by caulking. (RUMF 13, 16, 32; Wolf Decl., Exs. 35, 36.) Defendants’
internal communications during this time suggest they did not actually believe
the leaks were adequately repaired and that they lacked the equipment to
properly test for leaking. (UMF 15-16; AMF 10-12.) Defendants therefore relied
on “caulk the hell out of it” repairs of questionable quality for the duration
of the 10-year limited warranty that was part of the sale contracts for units
at The Waverly. (Id.) Seventeen days after the closeout letter which gave
Defendants the belief that the window leaks were fixed, Mr. Lucas emailed
Defendants’ onsite employees expressing concern about further imminent water
intrusion. (UMF 17, 32-33.) The following day, on reviewing an email from
homeowner Amanda Rae that included photos of water leaks in her Unit 407,
rather than expressing surprise at water intrusion, Lucas simply responded,
“Pretty bad this one.” (Wolff Decl., Ex. 21.) In November 2014, Lucas also
expected more leaks to crop up, as he told Pankow: “It has been my experience
that when Buyers are not responded to, that is when they get irritated.… Also,
to confirm: Buyer Finds a Leak – They call RMC/HOA.” (Id., Ex. 22.) In a January
21, 2015, email regarding “Warranty Request for multible [sic] unit window
leaks,” Mr. Lucas told Adelino Souza, The Waverly’s residential manager and a
Related Management Company employee: “We are in a multi million dollar lawsuit
with this guy [Helou]. Unfortunately he has been lying from the day we met him
and will do anything to shed his liability. We need to send warranty requests.
It is going to be VERY expensive to fix his work and we want to recover his
cost.” (Id., Ex. 11.) By February 2015, Defendants were aware of Helou’s
contention that the window leaks in late 2014 “most likely result[ed] from the
defective window systems that Tesla manufactured and supplied,” suggesting the
repairs would be ineffective. (UMF 37; Wolff Decl., Ex 36.) Other litigation
documents evidence that Defendants sought recovery “future costs to
investigate, test, correct, repair and replace Helou’s defective and
nonconforming Work” because the leaks in the windows installed by Helou
“continued to manifest at the Project after completion.” (NOL, Ex. Y ¶ 45;
Wolff Decl., Ex. 45 ¶ 39.) Defendants claimed in the Helou Litigation that
ongoing window leaks cost them over $266,000 in 2015 and again in 2016. (Id.) 
 
As to Unit 201, weeks before the
sale, Defendants were specifically aware that the curtain wall shared by Units
301 and 201 leaked. Defendants discovered the top panel of Unit 201/301’s
curtain wall “wasn’t sealed” in February 2015. (Id., Ex. 13.) On April 13, 2016,
repair records show the curtain wall with Unit 301 was not only still leaking
but “2 out of the 3 panels at the top were not sealed at all. … The other 2
longer ones not sealed and the middle one had water in it.” (Id., Ex. 14.)
Repair records dated April 18, 2016, evidence that Defendants were still
addressing leaks at the curtain wall shared by Units 201 and 301. (Id.)
 
Plaintiff thereby presents circumstantial
and direct evidence which, if credited, would be clear and convincing evidence that
Defendants knew that there were still substantial window leaks occurring in the
Units, including Unit 201, and that these issues were concealed from Plaintiff
and others. As there is a dispute of material fact concerning the imposition of
punitive damages for the fraud claim regarding the non-disclosure of the window
leaks, the Court cannot fully adjudicate the claim for punitive damages.
 
Accordingly, the motion for summary
adjudication is DENIED. 
 
 
MOTION TO DISMISS
STANDARD
 
Code of Civil Procedure (“CCP”) section 583.130 provides
that it “is the policy of the state that a plaintiff shall proceed with
reasonable diligence in the prosecution of an action but that all parties shall
cooperate in bringing the action to trial or other disposition. Except as
otherwise provided by statute or by rule of court adopted pursuant to statute,
the policy favoring the right of parties to make stipulations in their own
interests and the policy favoring trial or other disposition of an action on the
merits are generally to be preferred over the policy that requires dismissal
for failure to proceed with reasonable diligence in the prosecution of an
action in construing the provisions of this chapter.” 
 
CCP section 583.210 provides: “(a) The summons and
complaint shall be served upon a defendant within three years after the action
is commenced against the defendant. For the purpose of this subdivision, an
action is commenced at the time the complaint is filed. [¶] (b) Proof of
service of the summons shall be filed within 60 days after the time the summons
and complaint must be served upon a defendant. CCP § 583.250¿provides
that¿“(a)¿[i]f service is not made in an action within the time prescribed in this
article:¿ 
 
(1) The
action shall not be further¿prosecuted,¿and no further proceedings shall be
held in the action.¿ 
 
(2) The
action shall be dismissed by the court on its own motion or on motion of any
person interested in the action, whether named as a party or not, after notice
to the parties.¿ 
 
(b) The
requirements of this article are mandatory and are not subject to extension,
excuse, or exception except as expressly provided by statute.”
 
DISMISS ANALYSIS
 
Cross-Defendant Charles Pankow
Builders Ltd. (“CPBL”) moves for an order that Defendant RFM Holdco, LLC
(“Holdco”) be dismissed from this matter due to Plaintiff’s failure to serve
Holdco within three years of commencement of this action. The Court treats this
as a motion to reconsider its prior order on January 3, 2024, which considered
this same exact issue. 
 
CCP section 1008 provides:
 
(a) When an application for an
order has been made to a judge, or to a court, and refused in whole or in part,
or granted, or granted conditionally, or on terms, any party affected by the
order may, within 10 days after service upon the party of written notice of
entry of the order and based upon new or different facts, circumstances, or
law, make application to the same judge or court that made the order, to reconsider
the matter and modify, amend, or revoke the prior order. The party making
the application shall state by affidavit what application was made before, when
and to what judge, what order or decisions were made, and what new or different
facts, circumstances, or law are claimed to be shown.
 
(Emphasis added.) “The name of a motion is not controlling,
and, regardless of the name, a motion asking the trial court to decide the same
matter previously ruled on is a motion for reconsideration under Code of Civil
Procedure section 1008.” (Powell v. County of Orange (2011) 197
Cal.App.4th 1573, 1577; see CCP § 1008(e) [“No application to reconsider any
order or for the renewal of a previous motion may be considered by any judge or
court unless made according to this section.”].) Pankow is thus required to
comply with CCP section 1008.  
 
Pankow has not met the CCP section 1008
requirements because Pankow did not timely move for reconsideration and has not
identified any grounds for reconsideration. At the January 3, 2024, hearing, the
court concluded that Holdco had waived any objection to Plaintiff’s failure to
serve the complaint within 3 years by first filing a demurrer without
challenging jurisdiction, and months later moving to dismiss. CPBL was given
notice of the underlying motion to dismiss. CPBL could have supported that motion
at any time, but apparently chose not to do so. Further, upon learning of the
outcome of the motion, CPBL could have made a motion for reconsideration on the
same grounds presented here within 10 days. CPBL again chose not to do so until
months after the ruling. Thus, the reconsideration motion is untimely.
 
From a practical perspective, CPBL’s
motion would create an absurdity and permit abuse through successive
re-litigation of settled issues. If CCP section 1008’s 10-day limitation does
not apply to CPBL’s challenge to the ruling on Plaintiff’s failure to serve
Holdco within 3 years, then each of the fifteen other defendants may later
successively and separately move on behalf of Holdco, perhaps years after the
initial ruling on the issue. That cannot be the intent of the statute.  The Court should not be forced to entertain
every single defendant’s separate right to dismiss another defendant in
a piecemeal fashion. CCP section 1008 directs otherwise.
 
Accordingly, the motion to dismiss
is DENIED. 
 