 Case Number:  23SMCV02278    Hearing Date:   June 18, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:             Puerto Rico Potential LLC v. Tallen
& Tyce Development Inc., et al. 
CASE NO.:                   23SMCV02278
MOTION:                     Demurrer to the First Amended
Complaint  
HEARING DATE:   6/18/2024
 
LEGAL STANDARD 
 
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether
the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations
liberally and in context. In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be
apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) A demurrer tests the
pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it
lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are
judicially noticed. (CCP §§ 430.30, 430.70.) At the pleading stage, a plaintiff
need only allege ultimate facts sufficient to apprise the defendant of the
factual basis for the claim against him. (Semole v. Sansoucie (1972) 28
Cal. App. 3d 714, 721.) A “demurrer does not, however, admit contentions,
deductions or conclusions of fact or law alleged in the pleading, or the
construction of instruments pleaded, or facts impossible in law.” (S. Shore
Land Co. v. Petersen (1964) 226 Cal.App.2d 725, 732, internal citations
omitted.) 
 
A special demurrer for uncertainty is
disfavored and will only be sustained where the pleading is so bad that
defendant cannot reasonably respond—i.e., cannot reasonably determine what
issues must be admitted or denied, or what counts or claims are directed
against him/her. (CCP § 430.10(f); Khoury v. Maly’s of Calif., Inc.
(1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) Moreover, even if the pleading is somewhat
vague, “ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Ibid.)  
 
Any party, within the time allowed to
respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole
or any part thereof. (CCP § 435(b)(1); Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1322(b).)
The court may, upon a motion or at any time in its discretion and upon terms it
deems proper: (1) strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted
in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of California, a court rule, or an order of
the court. (CCP §§ 436(a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767,
782 [“Matter in a pleading which is not essential to the claim is surplusage;
probative facts are surplusage and may be stricken out or disregarded”].) 
 
“Liberality in permitting amendment is
the rule, if a fair opportunity to correct any defect has not been given.” (Angie
M. v. Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1217, 1227.) It is an abuse of
discretion for the court to deny leave to amend where there is any reasonable
possibility that plaintiff can state a good cause of action. (Goodman v.
Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.) The burden is on plaintiff to show¿in
what manner¿plaintiff can amend the complaint, and¿how¿that
amendment will change the legal effect of the pleading.¿(Id.) 
 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE 
 
Defendant’s request for judicial notice is GRANTED.
(Evid. Code §452(d).)
 
ANALYSIS 
 
Defendants 1951 Bel Air Road LLC, Tallen & Tyce Development
Inc., Tallen & Tyce Enterprises LLC, and Huntington Estate Homes LLC demur
to the sixth and seventh causes of action. Defendants also move to strike
punitive damages.
 
Fraud
 
Defendants argue that the first
amended complaint (“FAC”) fails to identify any of the “precise” misrepresentations
made by Defendants, and that there are no facts showing scienter or reliance.
 
The tort of fraud requires: “(a)
misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b)
knowledge of falsity (or ‘scienter’); (c) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce
reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and, (e) resulting damage.” (Lazar v.
Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal. 4th 631, 638.) In California, fraud must be pled with specificity. (Small
v. Fritz Companies, Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th 167, 184.) “Fraud must be
pleaded with specificity rather than with “ ‘general and conclusory
allegations.’ The specificity requirement means a plaintiff must allege facts
showing how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were
made, and, in the case of a corporate defendant, the plaintiff must allege the
names of the persons who made the representations, their authority to speak on
behalf of the corporation, to whom they spoke, what they said or wrote, and
when the representation was made.” (West v. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.
(2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 780, 793, internal citations omitted.)  When the fraud claim is based on false or
incomplete statements, the plaintiff “must set forth at least the substance
of those statements.” (Blickman Turkus, LP v. MF Downtown Sunnyvale, LLC
(2008) 162 Cal.App.4th 858, 878.) In addition, damages must be alleged
distinctly and their “causal connection with the reliance on the
representations must be shown.” (Service by Medallion v. Clorox Co.
(1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 1807, 1818.)
 
The FAC contends that Defendants made
multiple misrepresentations and false promises to Plaintiff to forestall
Plaintiff’s attempts to protect its property and causing Plaintiff to undertake
remediation efforts. There are two pled misrepresentations on February 25,
2023, and April 21, 2023. So long as a single misrepresentation is actionable,
the FAC would state a claim for fraud. 
 
The FAC’s allegations detail with
specificity the February 25, 2023, representation. The FAC alleges that “On
February 25, 2023, Plaintiff’s representative, Michael Tennenbaum, spoke on the
telephone with Nosrati, who was acting on behalf of all of the Developer
Defendants, about the erosion issues and other damage caused to Plaintiff’s
Property.” (FAC ¶ 122.) During this call, Nosrati told Tennenbaum that the
Developer Defendants “would pay for all work necessary to remediate Plaintiff’s
Property from the effects of the Developer Defendants’ development activities
at the Bel Air Property, as a ‘good neighbor’ ought to do.” (FAC ¶ 123.) These
allegations establish the substance of the statements, who made the
statements, when the statements were made, and the authority of Nosrati to make
the representations on behalf of the Developer Defendants.  Thus, this representation is pled with
specificity.
 
Defendants also argue that the allegations
do not show reliance on the representations or scienter. However, as a matter
of fact, Nosrati knew this statement was false and had no intention to perform
on it, thereby establishing scienter. (FAC ¶ 123.) Nosrati made the false statements
to induce Plaintiff’s reliance on them and “to placate and stall Plaintiff from
pursuing its remedies” thereby establishing an intent to induce reliance on the
representations. (FAC ¶ 128.) Developer Defendants led Plaintiff to believe
that the Developer Defendants had taken responsibility for the damage caused to
Plaintiff’s Property by the Developer Defendants’ activities. (Id.) Defendants’
intended reliance resulted in alleged damages. In “reasonable reliance” on the
representation, Plaintiff incurred remediation expenses it would not have
otherwise incurred, such as expenses caused by delays in hiring contractors to
complete removing of the soil and other debris from Plaintiff’s Property,
reseeding the hillside, and replacing damaged and destroyed landscaping until after
the Developer Defendants and their representatives had seen this damage, leading
to increased costs for that work and causing Plaintiff to lose beneficial use
of Plaintiff’s Property, and in some cases causing Plaintiff to pay for
contractors to redo work that had already been completed, resulting in
additional expenses; and suffered reputational harms caused by delaying
payments on remediation invoices received from its subcontractors, which
Plaintiff delayed paying because of the Developer Defendants’ agreement to fund
it. (FAC ¶ 129.) 
 
The Court cannot hold, as a matter of
law, that these facts would not support scienter, intent to induce reliance or
justifiable reliance. Generally, such factual questions can only be resolved on
demurrer where reasonable minds can come to only one conclusion based on the
facts. (Guido v. Koopman (1991) 1 Cal.App.4th 837, 843.) While
Defendants may fairly question the reasonableness of Plaintiff’s reliance on
their representations, this issue simply cannot be resolved on demurrer absent
further authority showing that Plaintiffs could not have relied on the subject
misrepresentations as a matter of law.
 
Therefore, even if the April 21, 2023,
misrepresentations are not pled with specificity, or that reasonable reliance
was established, the demurrer would be OVERRRULED as to this cause of action.  
 
UCL
 
Defendants demur to the UCL claim on
the grounds that there is no basis for restitution. The remedies for UCL claims
brought by private individuals are limited to injunctive relief and
restitution. (Prakashpalan v. Engstrom, Lipscomb and Lack (2014) 223
Cal.App.4th 1105, 1133.) “The word ‘restitution’ means the return of money or
other property obtained through an improper means to the person from whom the
property was taken.” (Clark v. Superior Court (2010) 50 Cal.4th 605,
614.) “‘The object of restitution is to restore the status quo by returning to
the plaintiff funds in which he or she has an ownership interest.’” (Id.)
Nonrestitutionary disgorgement of profits is not an available remedy under a
UCL claim brought by a private individual. (Korea Supply Co. v. Lockheed
Martin Corp. (2003) 29 Cal.4th 1134, 1150-52.) 
 
Here, Plaintiff seeks both injunctive
relief and restitution. Plaintiff makes a generic request for restitution,
without factual support. (FAC ¶ 140.) Reviewing the allegations of the FAC,
Plaintiff does not claim that Defendants obtained any money from Plaintiff
through improper means. Thus, there is nothing to restore to Plaintiff. This
would not mean that the claim fails, because Plaintiff also seeks a proper
remedy through an injunction. Plaintiff requests an injunction requiring the
Developer Defendants to properly secure earthwork at the Bel Air Property
during grading activities conducted during the rainy season; an injunction
requiring the Developer Defendants to develop, submit, and implement Municipal
Code-compliant erosion plans for their work at the Bel Air Property; an
injunction prohibiting the Developer Defendants from unlawfully removing ground
cover at the Bel Air Property; and an injunction requiring the Developer Defendants
to protect the hillside between the Bel Air Property and Plaintiff’s Property
from further erosion and to repair the damage caused to that hillside by the
Developer Defendants’ development activities. (FAC ¶ 141.) As such, Plaintiff
requests cognizable relief under the UCL cause. The UCL cause therefore does
not fail as a matter of law. 
 
Accordingly, the demurrer is
OVERRULED.
 
Motion to Strike
 
Defendants argue that the claim for punitive damages is not
well-pled because the fraud allegations are fatally defective. Section 3294 permits recovery of punitive damages in cases of
fraud, defined as “an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of
a material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the
defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or
otherwise causing injury.” (Civ. Code § 3294(c)(3).) In
particular, Defendants assert that the allegations fail to satisfy the strict
pleading requirements for stating particular facts with the required degree of
specificity to satisfy the heightened pleading requirements for alleging fraud.
However, as discussed above, the fraud claim is well-pled and sufficient under
Civil Code section 3294(c)(3) for the punitive damages request.
 
Accordingly,
the motion is DENIED.
 
Defendants
to file an answer within 10 days.