 Case Number:  20SMCV00839    Hearing Date:   June 18, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Ashworth, et
al., v. J. Arthur Greenfield & Co., LLP, et al.
CASE NO.:                20SMCV00839
MOTION:                  Motion
for Summary Judgment 
HEARING DATE:   6/18/2024

 
Legal
Standard
 
A party may move for summary judgment in any action or
proceeding if it is contended the action has no merit or that there is no
defense to the action or proceeding. (CCP, § 437c(a).) “The purpose of the law
of summary judgment is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the
parties' pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations,
trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  
 
“A party may move for summary adjudication as to one or
more causes of action within an action, one or more affirmative defenses, one
or more claims for damages, or one or more issues of duty, if the party
contends that the cause of action has no merit, that there is no affirmative
defense to the cause of action, that there is no merit to an affirmative
defense as to any cause of action, that there is no merit to a claim for
damages, as specified in¿Section 3294 of the Civil Code, or that one or more defendants
either owed or did not owe a duty to the plaintiff or plaintiffs.”¿(CCP,¿§
437c(f)(1).)¿If a party seeks summary adjudication as an alternative to a
request for summary judgment, the request must be clearly made in the notice of
the motion. (Gonzales v. Superior Court¿(1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 1542,
1544.)¿ “[A] party may move for summary adjudication of a legal issue or a
claim for damages other than punitive damages that does not completely
dispose of a cause of action, affirmative defense, or issue of duty
pursuant to” subdivision (t). (CCP,¿§ 437c(t).)¿ 
 
To prevail, the evidence submitted must show there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.¿(CCP, §¿437c(c).)¿The motion cannot succeed unless
the evidence leaves no room for conflicting inferences as to material facts;
the court has no power to weigh one inference against another or against other
evidence. (Murillo v. Rite Stuff Food Inc. (1998) 65 Cal.App.4th
833, 841.) In determining whether the facts give rise to a triable issue of
material fact, “[a]ll doubts as to whether any material, triable, issues of
fact exist are to be resolved in favor of the party opposing summary judgment…”
(Gold v. Weissman (2004) 114 Cal.App.4th 1195, 1198-99.) “In other
words, the facts alleged in the evidence of the party opposing summary judgment
and the reasonable inferences there from must be accepted as true.” (Jackson
v. County of Los Angeles (1997) 60 Cal.App.4th 171, 179.) However, if
adjudication is otherwise proper the motion “may not be denied on grounds of
credibility,” except when¿a material fact is the witness’s¿state of mind and
“that fact is sought to be established solely by the [witness’s] affirmation
thereof.” (CCP, § 437c(e).)¿ 
 
Once the moving party has met their burden, the burden
shifts to the opposing party “to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto.” (CCP §
437c(p)(1).) “[T]here¿is no
obligation on the opposing party... to establish anything by affidavit unless
and until the moving party has by affidavit stated facts establishing every
element... necessary to sustain a judgment in his favor.”¿(Consumer Cause,
Inc. v.¿SmileCare¿(2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 454, 468.)¿ 
¿ 
“The pleadings play a key role in a summary judgment
motion. The function of the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to
delimit the scope of the issues and to¿frame¿the outer measure of materiality
in a summary judgment proceeding.” (Hutton v. Fidelity National Title Co.¿(2013)
213 Cal.App.4th 486, 493, quotations and citations omitted.) “Accordingly, the
burden of a defendant moving for summary judgment only requires that he or she
negate plaintiff's theories of liability¿as alleged in the complaint;
that is, a moving party need not refute liability on some theoretical
possibility not included in the pleadings.” (Ibid.)¿ 
 
EVIDENTIARY ISSUES
 
Plaintiff’s objection is SUSTAINED to the Hromadka
Declaration paragraph 13. The cited paragraph is merely a legal conclusion. 
 
Defendants’ objection to the Krueger declaration is
SUSTAINED.  
 
Analysis
 

Defendants Donald Hromadka and
Hromadka Gaulke & Coutee LLP (the “Hromadka Defendants”) move for summary
judgment against Plaintiffs Virginia Coats Ashworth, Nancy Coats Routh and
Christy Lynn Coats. The Hromadka Defendants assert that the claims for
professional negligence and breach of fiduciary duty against them are meritless
because they never represented Plaintiffs and never served as trust
administration counsel for the trustees of the QTIP Trust at any relevant
period. To the extent that there was a duty, Hromadka claims to have never
“actively participated” in any alleged misconduct. 
 
“To state the obvious, an
attorney’s duty to his or her client depends on the existence of an
attorney-client relationship. If that relationship does not exist, the
fiduciary duty to a client does not arise.” (Fox v. Pollack (1986) 181
Cal.App.3d 954, 959.) “Except for those situations where an attorney is
appointed by the court, the attorney-client relationship is created by some
form of contract, express or implied, formal or informal.” (Id. at 959.)
“The question of whether an attorney-client relationship exists is one of law.”
(Responsible Citizens v. Superior Court (1993) 16 Cal.App.4th 1717, 1733.)
 
Generally, when a cause of action
is prosecuted on behalf of an express trust, the trustee is the real party in
interest. (Pillsbury v. Karmgard (1994) 22 Cal.App.4th 743, 753; Saks
v. Damon Raike & Co. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 419, 427.) Generally, the
beneficiary of a trust, having no legal title or ownership interest in the
trust assets, is not the real party in interest and may not sue in the name of
the trust. (Id. at 427.) A trust beneficiary's “right to sue is
ordinarily limited to the enforcement of the trust, according to its terms.” (Ibid.)

 
Courts have recognized an exception
to this general rule. (Wolf v. Mitchell, Silberberg & Knupp (1999) 76
Cal. App. 4th 1030, 1036-1040 [trial court reversed in granting summary
judgment in favor of defendants on the ground that the trust beneficiary was
not the real party in interest and only the trustee could bring the action].) For
example, there is a “well-established common law rule that a beneficiary of a
trust may bring an action against a third party to recover property transferred
to the third party by the trustee in breach of trust.” (Id. at 1036.) Furthermore,
trust beneficiaries may bring an action where the trustee has failed to bring
suit against a third party on behalf of a trust. (Id., citing Pillsbury
and Saks.) Critically, an attorney may be liable to a trust beneficiary
for the attorney's “active participation in a trustee's breach of duty if the
attorney acted in furtherance of his or her own financial gain, or committed
actual fraud by making express misrepresentations to the beneficiary.” (Id.,
at 1040; Pierce v. Lyman (1991) 1 Cal.App.4th 1093, 1104-1106.)
 
Here, the beneficiaries allege that
the Hromadka Defendants actively participated with the trustee in breaches of
fiduciary duty. (Compl, ¶ 24.) Beginning before 2009, and continuing to at
least December 2019, the Hromadka Defendants were law firms or licensed
attorneys providing legal services to either Laura Coats individually or to her
personal estate after she died in December 2017 (i.e., they were the personal
attorneys for Laura Coats, the QTIP Trust's income beneficiary) and provided
legal services to the QTIP Trust's trustees (i.e., Laura Coats, Nancy Derian,
and Glenna Cadmus). (¶¶ 24-27.) Defendants were allegedly negligent in allowing
trustees to make investments that favored the income beneficiary (Laura) over
the remainder beneficiaries (Plaintiffs), in allowing the trustees to pay
management fees to REC, and in allowing Cadmus and Derian to serve as a
trustees as they had conflicts of interest. (¶29.) When those services were
provided, the complaint alleges that the Hromadka Defendants knew that
Plaintiffs were the remainder beneficiaries of the QTIP Trust who had vested
rights and interests in the related estate, and it was reasonably foreseeable
to said defendants that potential harm could occur to Plaintiffs if those
services were not performed in a proper, legal, and ethical manner. (¶ 28.) In
collaboration with the trustees, the Hromadka Defendants “actively
participated” in breaches of trust that resulted in the improper promotion of the
rights and interests of the QTIP Trust's income beneficiary (Laura) over the
rights and interests of the remainder beneficiaries (Plaintiffs). (Id.) For
instance, Defendants failed to obtain various conflict-of-interests waivers
from Plaintiffs regarding their selection of the co-trustees of the QTIP Trust,
their work as Laura’s personal attorneys, and their employment of REC
Management. (¶29.) As a result, Plaintiffs have been deprived of receiving the
full extent of their rights and interests in the QTIP Trust as the remainder
beneficiaries. (¶30.) 
 
The Hromadka Defendants present
evidence that they did not “actively participate” in any breaches because they
only had limited assignments and duties regarding the administration of
the QTIP trust and therefore had no knowledge of conflicts of interest or other
breaches by the QTIP trustees. The Hromadka Defendants evidence that they began
providing estate planning services related to her personal trust in 2002.
(Hromadka Decl. ¶ 3.) As part of the Hromadka Defendants' representation of
Laura Coats, the QTIP Trust “was reviewed” on July 16, 2002. (Hrornadka Decl.,
¶ 4.) The Hromadka Defendants claim to have not served as trust administration
counsel and Laura did not regularly consult with the Hrornadka Defendants about
administration matters. (UMF 12; Hromadka Decl., ¶ 3.) They represented Laura
Coats in her individual capacity, and not as trustee. (UMF 13.) The Hromadka
Defendants never reviewed the QTIP Trust's investments or fiduciary tax returns.
(UMF 18.) All of the complained-of loans pre-dated any involvement by the
Hromadka Defendants. (UMF 20-21.) Also, the Hromadka Defendants had no
knowledge about the type of services REC Management provided in connection with
the QTIP Trust. (UMF 17.) Hromadka admits to assisting Laura with “limited
mechanical issues” related to the QTIP Trust, such as the appointment of
successor trustees and preparation of documentation relating to loans to
Plaintiffs. (Hromadka Decl., ¶5.) The Hromadka Defendants reason that because
they were not involved with the administration of the QTIP Trust, the Hromadka
Defendants could not have actively participated in the pled breaches or known
about said breaches.
 
            Plaintiffs,
however, submit a dispute of material fact concerning Defendants’ active
participation in the alleged breach of fiduciary duties by showing that
Defendants had far more involvement and knowledge regarding the QTIP trust and
the alleged breaches. Plaintiffs present evidence that the Hromadka Defendants
were counsel for the QTIP Trust and its trustees throughout the entire period
of 2002 to 2017, and that they had regular participation in the trust despite
their representations in their moving papers. For example, Hromadka reviewed
the QTIP Trust instrument and related court documents, reviewed and prepared
documents regarding removal/successor trustees, and reviewed long term loans
made by the trust to Laura. (Donald Hromadka Depo., Ex. 3, at 22:10-25:5,
26:22-27:10, 32:4-17, 34:2-7, 34:11-14, 40:8-42:6, 50:9-24, 57:12-60:2.) The
foregoing evidence directly contradicts Hromadka’s declaration claiming to only
have certain limited interactions with the QTIP trust. 
 
Trustees have also testified that
Hromadka was more involved than he suggests in the motion. Cadmus testified at
deposition that Hromadka replaced Plaintiff’s previous attorney handling her
trust affairs in 2000. Casmus claimed that throughout the entire period, the Hromadka
Defendants were the attorneys for Laura and her personal trust, as well as the
attorneys for the QTIP Trust and its trustees. (Cadmus Depo., at 59:11-17,
61:9-63:10.) During this period, the Hromadka Defendants would attend meetings
with Bessin, Derian, Laura, Schulz and/or Cadmus at least once per year, in
Greenfield's office, to review matters related to the administration of both
Laura Coat's personal trust and the QTIP Trust, including an update of
developments relating to both trusts since the last meeting. (Id. at
63:10-64:23, 65:15-68:18, 70:1-71:17.) The meetings included discussions about
the long-term loans and REC’s fees from the QTIP trust, which are the subject
of the current suit. (Id., at 69:4-8, 69:21-25.) Schulz also testified that
Hromadka was the lawyer for Laura's personal trust and the OTIP Trust and that
Hromadka was hired for both purposes by Laura. (Schulz Depo at 33:19-34:12.) He
also noted that Hromadka was the attorney for REC. (Id., at 34.)
 
Another Hromadka attorney also
testified that the firm had more involvement with the QTIP trust than the
“limited” roles cited by the moving papers. Although he initially testified
that he did not recall having any involvement with the QTIP Trust until the
aftermath of Laura Coat's death, Duncan Hromadka recalled performing services
directly related to the "Coats QTIP Trust Administration" before
Laura's death. (Duncan Hromadka Depo., at 25:15-19.) Specifically, Duncan
assisted Laura, Derian, and Cadmus in preparing a response on their behalf to
Ms. Ashworth's request for information about the QTIP Trust. (Id. at 26-35.)
Donald Hromadka was copied on all communications and aware of billing in
connection with this work. (Id., at 32-34, Ex. 6.) Duncan Hromadka admits that
he reviewed the trust instruments as a part of ensuring the co-trustees were
carrying out their fiduciary responsibilities pursuant to the trust. (Id., at
39.) Ultimately, he drafted a letter asserting that Ms. Ashworth was not
entitled to the sought after information as a remainder beneficiary. (Id.) 
 
            If
credited, the above evidence would put into dispute Hromadka Defendants’ denial
of knowledge of, and participation in, the QTIP trustee’s breach of fiduciary
duties. A reasonable fact finder may conclude that Hromadka Defendants advised
the trustees concerning the long-term loans and REC’s fees from the QTIP trust.
This evidence puts into dispute UMFs 12-18, 20-21. Therefore, there is a
dispute of material fact as to whether Hromadka Defendants actively
participated in the alleged breaches. 
 
Accordingly, the motion is DENIED.