 Case Number:  24SMCV00375    Hearing Date:   April 5, 2024    Dept:  205 Superior Court of California 
County of Los Angeles 
Beverly Hills Courthouse | Department 205 
 
 



Juventino Gonzalez, 
 
Plaintiff, 
v. 
 
Julian Shojaie, 
 
Defendant. 
 
 


  Case No.: 24SMCV00375  
 
  Hearing Date:  4/5/24 
 
  Trial Date: Not Set. 
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  RULING RE: 
DEFENDANT JULIAN
  SHOJAIE’S MOTION TO STRIKE PORTIONS OF THE FAC 



 
BACKGROUND
This case arises from a two-vehicle
accident that occurred on February 18, 2022.  On January 26, 2024, Plaintiff Juventino
Gonzalez filed his Complaint against Defendant Julian Shojaie.  On February 7, 2024, Plaintiff filed his operative
First Amended Complaint against Defendant asserting a single cause of action
for negligence.  
On March 11, 2024, Defendant filed the
instant motion to strike portions of the FAC pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure sections 435 and 436.  Plaintiff
filed his opposition on March 22, 2024, and Plaintiff filed his reply on March
25, 2024.  
 
LEGAL STANDARD
Any party, within the time
allowed to respond to a pleading, may serve and file a notice of motion to
strike the whole or any part thereof.  (Code
of Civ., Proc. § 435, subd. (b)(1); Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1322(b).)  The court may, upon a motion or at any time in
its discretion and upon terms it deems proper: (1) strike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or
any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of
California, a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436; Stafford v. Shultz
(1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782.)  The grounds
for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of
judicial notice.  (Code. Civ. Proc., §
437; Turman v. Turning Point of Central California, Inc. (2010) 191
Cal.App.4th 53, 63 [“judges read allegations of a pleading subject to a motion
to strike as a whole, all parts in their context, and assume their truth”].)
 
DISCUSSION
Defendant seeks an order to
strike the following portions from Plaintiff’s FAC: 
 
(1)  
Paragraph 9 on the grounds that the matter is irrelevant, improper: “Subsequent to the
collision, Defendant JULIAN SHOJAIE fled the scene immediately after the
collision which demonstrates a malicious and willful disregard for the
consequences of his actions, underscoring the necessity for punitive damages in
this case.” 
 
(2)   Paragraph 10,
lines 21-23 up to and including “hit and run felony” on the grounds that the
matter is irrelevant, improper: “As a result of Defendant JULIAN SHOJAIE’S
negligent maneuver, followed by an intentional failure to stop, identify
himself, render aid, or otherwise comply with California Vehicle Code 20001(a)
– Hit and Run Felony.” 
 
(3)   Paragraph 14 on
the grounds that the matter is irrelevant, improper: “At the same time and
place, Defendant JULIAN SHOJAIE fled the scene immediately after the incident.”
 
(4)   Prayer for Relief
– Paragraph 2 at line 15 on the grounds that the matter is irrelevant,
improper, as the facts alleged do not rise to the levels of “malice, fraud,
oppression” as required to support a punitive damages award: “For an award of punitive
and exemplary damages according to proof.”
 
Meet and Confer 
Code of Civil Procedure
Section 435.5(a) states that “[b]efore filing a motion to strike . . . the
moving party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who
filed the pleading that is subject to the motion to strike for the purpose of
determining if an agreement can be reached that resolves the objections to be
raised in the motion to strike. If an amended pleading is filed, the responding
party shall meet and confer again with the party who filed the amended pleading
before filing a motion to strike the amended pleading.” 
As a preliminary matter, the motion to strike is accompanied by the declaration of defense
counsel, Daniel Feldman, which satisfies the meet and confer requirements under
Code of Civil Procedure section 435.5. 
(Declaration of Daniel Feldman, ¶¶ 3-4.)   
 
Motion to Strike Punitive Damages 
A motion to strike punitive
damages allegations may lie where the facts alleged do not rise to the level of
“malice, fraud or oppression” required to support a punitive damages award. (Turman
v. Turning Point of Central Calif., Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63.)
Civil Code Section 3294
authorizes the recovery of punitive damages where it is proved by clear and
convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice.  (Civil Code § 3294(a).)  “Malice” is defined as either conduct which is
intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff, or despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others. (Civil Code § 3294(c)(1).)  “Oppression” means despicable conduct that
subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that
person’s rights.  (Civil Code §
3294(c)(2).)  Despicable conduct is
conduct that is so vile, base, contemptible, miserable, wretched or loathsome
that it would be looked down upon and despised by ordinary decent people.  (Mock v. Michigan Millers Mutual Ins. Co. (1992)
4 Cal.App.4th 306, 331.) 
In Brooks v. E.J. Willig
Truck Transp. Co. (1953) 40 Cal.2d 669, 679 the Supreme Court held that a
hit and run cannot give rise to damages unless the fact that the defendant fled
the scene was “a proximate cause of further injury or death” beyond the
accident itself.  Brooks did not consider
the issue of whether punitive damages can be imposed based on a hit and run.  It did, however, hold that such act only
constitutes a tort if the act itself causes the plaintiff additional injury
above and beyond the damages caused by the collision that precedes fleeing the
scene.  (Id. at 679-680.)
Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s
allegations in the FAC fail to set forth specific facts justifying the prayer
for punitive damages and thus does not meet the Code of Civil Procedure section
3294 requirements of “malice.” 
Specifically, Defendant argues that “Plaintiff’s basis for his claim for
punitive damages is that Defendant allegedly fled the scene of the accident”;
however, “[t]his alleged after-the-fact conduct…does not give rise to the
requisite ‘malice’ nor does it show that Defendant’s conduct was so ‘wanton and
willful’ that injury to Plaintiff was virtually certain.”  (Motion p. 8.)  Further, paragraphs 9, 10, and 14 contain
allegations which are “irrelevant and not essential to Plaintiff’s Negligence
cause of action.”  (Id. p. 9.) 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues that
Defendant’s conduct constitutes malice sufficient to support punitive damages because,
based on the police report, Defendant’ conduct “comprises driving at reckless
speeds, causing a harrowing crash, and subsequently fleeing the scene.”  (Opposition, p. 4.)  In support of Plaintiff’s argument that a hit
and run may qualify for punitive damages where there is an act inflicting
further harm, Plaintiff cites cases including Blake v. Black, 2021 Cal.
Super. LEXIS 76835, Flores v. Steven, 2023 Cal. Super. LEXIS 22946, and Vencebi
v. Trigueros, 2021 Cal. Super. LEXIS 92446. 
(Id. pp. 4-5.)  In the
alternative, Plaintiff seeks leave to amend. 
(Id. p. 5.) 
In reply, Defendant argues Plaintiff’s
opposition should be based on the four corners of the FAC, not on additional
hearsay and unsubstantiated allegations (e.g., witness statements, that
Plaintiff’s vehicle went airborne and flipped multiple time, suspected
intoxication, or that Defendant’s conduct suggest possible driving under the
influence.)  (Reply, p. 2.)  Also, Plaintiff’s cited cases do not appear
to be published cases, and unlike this case, Vencebi dealt with an
emotional distress cause of action.  (Id.
p. 2.)
Here, the FAC merely alleges that Defendant fled the scene of the
accident.  Plaintiff
alleges no facts that fleeing the scene caused or contributed additional damage
to Plaintiff beyond the initial damages incurred from the accident itself.  Therefore, there are no facts to show that
the act of hitting and running was in fact tortious conduct.  If the act of hitting and running, in and of
itself, does not give rise to a tort, then it logically follows that the act
cannot give rise to a claim for punitive damages.  As
Plaintiff’s claim for punitive damages rely solely on the Defendant’s alleged
fleeing the scene and the FAC contains no allegations that Defendant’s fleeing
caused additional damage, the FAC does not allege sufficient facts to support a
claim for punitive damages.
The Court grants the
motion to strike.  The Court will allow
Plaintiff twenty (20) days leave to amend. 
 
CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, Defendant’s motion
to strike is GRANTED, with twenty (20) days leave to amend.  
 
Dated: April 5, 2024