 Case Number:  24STCV17239    Hearing Date:   December 4, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
JANET POGGEMEYER, et
  al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
GENSM LLC, et al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  24STCV17239
  Hearing Date:  December 4, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendants gensm llc’s and the hanover
  insurance company’s motion to compel arbitration 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On July 11, 2024, Plaintiffs Janet
Poggemeyer and Noel Lucio filed this action against Defendants GENSM LLC (GENSM),
LBS Financial Credit Union (LBS), The Hanover Insurance Company (Hanover), and
Toyota Motor Credit Corporation (TMCC). 
            The complaint alleges that
Plaintiffs purchased a 2023 Genesis G70 from the dealership, GENSM. As part of
the purchase, Plaintiffs traded in their Toyota Camry, and GENSM allegedly
agreed to pay off the amount that Plaintiffs owed to TMCC. GENSM allegedly
failed to do this, requiring Plaintiffs to continue making monthly payments to
TMCC. Plaintiffs allege that they would not have purchased the subject vehicle
had they known that GENSM did not intend on paying off the trade-in. 
            LBS is allegedly the holder who
accepted assignment of the sales contract from GENSM. Hanover allegedly issued
a bond to GENSM, payable to a purchaser in the event of fraud by GENSM. The
complaint alleges that Hanover is liable to Plaintiffs under the bond. 
            On August 26, 2024, GENSM and
Hanover filed the instant motion to compel arbitration. Plaintiffs filed their
opposition on November 19, 2024. GENSM and Hanover filed their reply on
November 25, 2024.  
LEGAL STANDARD
“On petition of a party to an arbitration
agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a
controversy and that a party to the agreement refuses to arbitrate that
controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to
arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the
controversy exists….” (Code Civ. Proc, § 1281.2.) “The party seeking
arbitration bears the burden of proving the existence of an arbitration
agreement, and the party opposing arbitration bears the burden of proving any
defense, such as unconscionability.” (Pinnacle Museum Tower Assn. v.
Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223, 236.)
DISCUSSION
I.
Prima Facie Proof of Agreement
            “The moving party ‘can meet its
initial burden by attaching to the motion or petition a copy of the arbitration
agreement purporting to bear the opposing party's signature.’” (Gamboa v.
Northeast Community Clinic (2021) 72 Cal.App.5th 158, 165.) 
            On April 30, 2024, Plaintiffs signed
a Retail Installment Sales Contract (RISC) with GENSM. (Compl., Ex. 1.) The RISC
contains an arbitration provision covering “[a]ny claim or dispute . . . between
you and us or our employees, agents, successors or assigns, which arises out of
or relates to your credit application, purchase or condition of this Vehicle,
this contract or any resulting transaction or relationship.” (Ibid.) 
            Plaintiffs do not dispute the
existence of the RISC or the arbitration provision therein. Plaintiffs concede
that the arbitration clause covers their claims against GENSM. However,
Plaintiffs argue that arbitration should be denied because: (1) the action
contains claims against LBS and TMCC, who have not moved for arbitration; (2)
it would be unconscionable to force Plaintiffs to arbitrate with either the
American Arbitration Association (AAA) or National Arbitration and Mediation
(NAM); and (3) Hanover cannot enforce the arbitration clause. 
II.
Conflicting Rulings

            Plaintiffs argue that the Court
should deny arbitration because the action involves claims between Plaintiffs
and LBS and TMCC which are not subject to arbitration. However, the Court has
discretion to “order arbitration among the parties who have agreed to
arbitration and stay the pending court action or special proceeding pending the
outcome of the arbitration proceeding.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.) Thus, the
claims against LBS and TMCC do not require the Court to deny arbitration
outright. Staying the court action will sufficiently prevent conflicts while
the arbitration is pending. 
III.
Unconscionability 
Unconscionability has both a procedural
and a substantive element. (Aron v. U-Haul Co. of California (2006) 143
Cal.App.4th 796, 808.) Both elements must be present for a court to invalidate
a contract or clause. (Ibid.) However, the two elements need not be
present in the same degree; courts use a sliding scale approach in assessing
the two elements. (Carbajal v. CWPSC, Inc. (2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 227,
242.)
a. Procedural Unconscionability
Procedural unconscionability “focuses on
two factors: ‘oppression’ and ‘surprise.’ ‘Oppression’ arises from an
inequality of bargaining power which results in no real negotiation and ‘an
absence of meaningful choice.’ ‘Surprise’ involves the extent to which the
supposedly agreed-upon terms of the bargain are hidden in the prolix printed
form drafted by the party seeking to enforce the disputed terms.” (Zullo v.
Superior Court (2011) 197 Cal.App.4th 477, 484, internal citations
omitted.) 
            
1. Choice of
Arbitration Provider
The agreement provides that “[y]ou or we
may choose the American Arbitration Association (www.adr.org) or National
Arbitration and Mediation (www.namadr.com) as the arbitration organization to
conduct the arbitration. If you and we agree, you or we may choose a different
arbitration organization.” (Compl., Ex. 1.) 
Plaintiffs argue that “if the Arbitration
Provision were read to authorize the procedure leading up to Dealer’s election
to arbitrate but then allow Dealer to unilaterally select AAA, Plaintiffs would
really have no choice in the matter at all.” (Opp. 9:23-25.) There is no
indication that GENSM intends to unilaterally select AAA and leave Plaintiffs
with no real choice. GENSM acknowledges in its reply that “Plaintiffs can
initiate arbitration as against GENSM, LLC (and Hanover) either via a demand
for arbitration with AAA or NAM, as provided in the contract.” (Reply 3:1-2.)
Plaintiffs otherwise cite no authority for the proposition that limiting the
choice of arbitration providers is unconscionable. Arbitration agreements are
regularly upheld even when they offer no choice of arbitration provider.  
Plaintiffs’ citation to Sanchez v.
Western Pizza Enterprises, Inc. (2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 154 is inapposite.
There, the court found unconscionability because “the arbitration agreement
suggests that there are multiple arbitrators to choose from” by referencing a
“panel” of arbitrators, when in reality “the designated arbitration
provider includes only one arbitrator.” (Id. at pp. 174-75.) This
subjected the employees to “oppression and unfair surprise.” (Ibid.) By
contrast, there is nothing false or deceptive about the arbitration provision
here. The clause states that the parties may initiate arbitration with either
AAA or NAMS, and Plaintiffs have presented no evidence that this is untrue. 
            2.
Contract of Adhesion
Plaintiffs argue that the agreement is
unconscionable because it is adhesive. However, the adhesive nature of a
contract represents only a minimal degree of procedural unconscionability. (Serpa
v. California Surety Investigations, Inc. (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 695, 704.)
Moreover, Plaintiffs have not shown that GENSM “had superior bargaining
strength or that plaintiffs had no real alternatives available to them at the
time they entered into the Agreement.” (See Walnut Producers of California
v. Diamond Foods, Inc. (2010) 187 Cal.App.4th 634, 646.) Plaintiffs were
free to not purchase the vehicle or to purchase from another dealership.  
b. Substantive Unconscionability
Substantive unconscionability focuses on
the actual terms of the agreement and evaluates whether they create overly
harsh or one-sided results as to shock the conscience. (Suh v. Superior
Court (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 1504, 1515.)  
            1.
Minimal Discovery
“[A]rbitration is meant to be a
streamlined procedure. Limitations on discovery . . . is one of the ways
streamlining is achieved.” (Dotson v. Amgen, Inc. (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th
975, 983.) Therefore, an arbitration agreement is only required to “provide[]
for more than minimal discovery.” (Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare
Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 102.) 
Plaintiffs complain that AAA and NAM rules
do not guarantee certain types of discovery or a certain quantity of discovery.
However, Plaintiffs cite no authority for the proposition that this creates
unconscionability. Discovery in arbitration is specifically designed to be more
limited. Plaintiffs cite no authority finding AAA or NAM discovery rules to be
unconscionable. Under both sets of rules, arbitrators may order discovery as
needed to address the claims. There is no indication that AAA or NAM rules allow
an arbitrator to curtail discovery to such an extent that the arbitration could
be considered overly harsh or one-sided as to shock the conscience. The
agreement here satisfies the “more than minimal” standard. 
            
 
2. Unbiased
Arbitrator
Plaintiffs argue that AAA rules allow AAA
to unilaterally appoint an arbitrator from its confidential National Roster
instead of using a rank-and-strike process. However, AAA only resorts to the
National Roster when “the parties have not appointed an arbitrator and have not
agreed to a process for appointing the arbitrator.” (AAA Rule 16(a).)
Furthermore, Plaintiff cites no authority finding AAA Rule 16(a) to be
unconscionable. There is no indication that the National Roster will fail to
provide a neutral arbitrator.  
Plaintiffs also argue that both AAA and
NAM rules only permit, rather than require, the disqualification of an
arbitrator who has a conflict of interest. Plaintiffs cite no authority finding
AAA or NAM rules to be unconscionable in this regard. There is no indication
that AAA and NAM rules allow conflicted arbitrators to unfairly hear cases.
            3.
Disclosure Requirements 
Plaintiffs argue that AAA and NAM have
failed to satisfy the disclosure requirements enumerated in Code of Civil
Procedure section 1281.96. However, Plaintiffs cite no authority finding AAA
and NAM in violation of the requirements, nor any authority suggesting that a
violation of these requirements results in unconscionability that renders an
arbitration agreement unenforceable. 
            4.
Illegal Provision
“No neutral arbitrator or private
arbitration company shall administer a consumer arbitration under any agreement
or rule requiring that a consumer who is a party to the arbitration pay the
fees and costs incurred by an opposing party if the consumer does not prevail
in the arbitration, including, but not limited to, the fees and costs of the
arbitrator, provider organization, attorney, or witnesses.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
1284.3(a).) 
Here, the arbitration provision states
that “[t]he amount we pay may be reimbursed in whole or in part by decision of
the arbitrator if the arbitrator finds that any of your claims is frivolous
under applicable law.” (Compl., Ex. 1.) This essentially requires the losing
party to bear the costs of the arbitration, which contravenes the statute. The
provision is severed, but the arbitration clause otherwise remains enforceable.
(See Armendariz, supra, 24 Cal.4th at p. 124.) 
IV.
Claims Against Hanover
            “Generally speaking, one must be a
party to an arbitration agreement to be bound by it or invoke it.” (Pillar
Project AG v. Payward Ventures, Inc. (2021) 64 Cal.App.5th 671, 675.) One
exception is equitable estoppel, under which “a nonsignatory defendant may
invoke an arbitration clause to compel a signatory plaintiff to arbitrate its
claims when the causes of action against the nonsignatory are ‘intimately
founded in and intertwined’ with the underlying contract obligations.” (Boucher
v. Alliance Title Co., Inc. (2005) 127 Cal.App.4th 262, 271.) “So, if a
plaintiff relies on the terms of an agreement to assert his or her claims
against a nonsignatory defendant, the plaintiff may be equitably estopped from
repudiating the arbitration clause of that very agreement. In other words, a
signatory to an agreement with an arbitration clause cannot ‘have it both ways’;
the signatory ‘cannot, on the one hand, seek to hold the non-signatory liable
pursuant to duties imposed by the agreement, which contains an arbitration
provision, but, on the other hand, deny arbitration's applicability because the
defendant is a non-signatory.’” (Goldman v. KPMG, LLP (2009) 173
Cal.App.4th 209, 220.) 
            However, “a nonsignatory defendant
cannot compel arbitration merely because the scope of the arbitration agreement
extends to the types of claims asserted by the plaintiff.” (Soltero v.
Precise Distribution, Inc. (2024) 102 Cal.App.5th 887, 895.) “Rather, the
critical question is whether the plaintiff's claims against the nonsignatory
defendant actually rely on the terms of the contract containing the
arbitration clause.” (Ibid.) “[I]t is not enough that the plaintiff's
complaint presumes the existence of a contract that contains an arbitration
clause.” (Ibid.) California courts have generally rejected the reasoning
in Felisilda v. FCA US LLC (2020) 53 Cal.App.5th 486 that a
non-signatory manufacturer could enforce an arbitration clause merely because
the claims involved the condition of the vehicle, which made the claims
“intertwined” with the sales contract containing the arbitration clause. (See
Davis v.
Nissan North America, Inc. (2024) 100 Cal.App.5th 825; Ford Motor Warranty
Cases (2023) 89 Cal.App.5th 1324; Montemayor v. Ford Motor Co.
(2023) 92 Cal.App.5th 958; Kielar v. Superior Court (2023) 94
Cal.App.5th 614; Yeh
v. Superior Court
(2023) 95 Cal.App.5th 264.) 
            Here, there are no claims against
Hanover which involve the actual terms of the RISC. Hanover’s alleged liability
is based on a bond covering fraud by the dealership. The mere fact that the
claims against Hanover presume the occurrence of a sale, and therefore imply
the existence of the RISC, is not enough. Thus, Hanover cannot enforce the
arbitration agreement. 
CONCLUSION
            The motion to compel arbitration is
GRANTED as to the claims against GENSM only. The case is stayed in its entirety
pending the outcome of arbitration. 
            The clause, “[t]he amount we pay may
be reimbursed in whole or in part by decision of the arbitrator if the
arbitrator finds that any of your claims is frivolous under applicable law,” is
stricken from the agreement. 
 