 Case Number:  24STCV18629    Hearing Date:   December 4, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
MARIA TERESA SCOTT,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
DI LOGISTICS, LLC, 
                        Defendant.
  


 
  Case No.:  24STCV18629
  Hearing Date:  December 4, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendant’s motion to compel arbitration
  




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On July 23, 2024, Plaintiff Maria
Teresa Scott filed this employment action against Defendant DI Logistics, LLC,
asserting claims for violations of the FEHA, Labor Code, and UCL. 
            On October 17, 2024, Defendant filed
the instant motion to compel arbitration. 
LEGAL STANDARD
“On petition of a party to an arbitration
agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a
controversy and that a party to the agreement refuses to arbitrate that
controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to
arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the
controversy exists….” (Code Civ. Proc, § 1281.2.) “The party seeking
arbitration bears the burden of proving the existence of an arbitration
agreement, and the party opposing arbitration bears the burden of proving any
defense, such as unconscionability.” (Pinnacle Museum Tower Assn. v.
Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223, 236.)
DISCUSSION
I.
Prima Facie Proof of Agreement
            “The moving party ‘can meet its
initial burden by attaching to the motion or petition a copy of the arbitration
agreement purporting to bear the opposing party's signature.’” (Gamboa v.
Northeast Community Clinic (2021) 72 Cal.App.5th 158, 165.)
            Here, Plaintiff hand signed an
employment agreement on April 28, 2017 providing that “[a]ny dispute,
controversy or claim arising out of, involving, affecting or related in any way
to this Agreement or a breach of this Agreement, or in any way arising out of,
involving, affecting or related to Employee's employment . . . shall be
resolved by final and binding arbitration, pursuant to the Federal-Arbitration
Act, in conformity with the procedures and the applicable rules of the American
Arbitration Association.” (Santo Decl., Ex. A.) 
            Plaintiff points out that the
agreement is between herself and DI Overnite, LLC, not defendant DI Logistics.
(See Santo Decl., Ex. A.) “Generally speaking, one must be a party to an
arbitration agreement to be bound by it or invoke it.” (Pillar Project AG v.
Payward Ventures, Inc. (2021) 64 Cal.App.5th 671, 675.) However, DI
Logistics is entitled to enforce the agreement as an agent of DI Overnite. (See
Reply, Ex. A; Keller Construction Co. v. Kashani (1990) 220 Cal.App.3d
222, 227-28.) 
II.
Waiver
            “To establish waiver under generally
applicable contract law, the party opposing enforcement of a contractual
agreement must prove by clear and convincing evidence that the waiving party
knew of the contractual right and intentionally relinquished or abandoned it.” (Quach
v. California Commerce Club, Inc. (2024) 16 Cal.5th 562, 584.) “Its
intentional relinquishment or abandonment of the right may be proved by
evidence of words expressing an intent to relinquish the right or of conduct
that is so inconsistent with an intent to enforce the contractual right as
to lead a reasonable fact finder to conclude that the party had abandoned it.”
(Ibid.) 
            Plaintiff argues that Defendant has
waived its right to arbitrate because it delayed in filing this motion.
Defendant avers that it only discovered the arbitration agreement in September
2024 because it was undergoing a file transfer from Santa Fe Springs to Anaheim
in August 2024, at around the same time this lawsuit was filed. (Santo Decl. ¶
13.) The proof of service of the complaint indicates personal service on August
5, 2024. These facts show that Defendant was not aware of the arbitration
agreement at the time the action was filed but promptly moved for arbitration
upon discovering the agreement. Defendant filed this motion two months after
being served with the lawsuit, while the case was still in its infancy. 
Campbell v. Sunshine Behavioral Health,
LLC
(2024) 105 Cal.App.5th 419, cited by Plaintiff, is distinguishable. There, the
defendant claimed to have discovered the arbitration agreement six months after
the lawsuit had been filed, and then waited another six months to file a motion
to compel. (Id. at p. 430.) The defendant failed to demonstrate that the
plaintiff’s personnel file was inaccessible, much less for six months after the
litigation began. (Ibid.) The court found that the defendant had known
of the arbitration agreement from the outset of the case, meaning the defendant
delayed for one year before filing the motion. (Ibid.) 
By contrast, the facts here demonstrate
that Plaintiff’s personnel file was inaccessible at around the time that the
lawsuit was filed, because Defendant was moving its files from one location to
another. (See Santo Decl. ¶ 13.) Furthermore, even assuming Defendant knew of
the arbitration agreement from the outset of the case, there has only been a
two-month delay. This is nowhere near the delay in Campbell. Plaintiff
attempts to extend the perception of delay by arguing that Defendant has known
of Plaintiff’s legal representation since November 2021. However, Plaintiff
cites no authority attaching any significance to the date that an employer is
notified of an employee’s legal representation. The relevant time period is the
one between the filing of the lawsuit and the filing of the motion to compel,
which in this case was two months. Defendant also propounded some discovery
requests (Chami Decl., Ex. C), but there is no indication of any significant
developments in relation to those requests. Plaintiff has not been deposed.  
Overall, Defendant’s actions are not so
inconsistent with the right to arbitration that the right has been waived. The
Court finds no waiver. 
III.
Unconscionability 
a. Procedural Unconscionability
Procedural unconscionability “focuses on
two factors: ‘oppression’ and ‘surprise.’ ‘Oppression’ arises from an
inequality of bargaining power which results in no real negotiation and ‘an
absence of meaningful choice.’ ‘Surprise’ involves the extent to which the
supposedly agreed-upon terms of the bargain are hidden in the prolix printed
form drafted by the party seeking to enforce the disputed terms.” (Zullo v.
Superior Court (2011) 197 Cal.App.4th 477, 484, internal citations
omitted.) 
            1.
Contract of Adhesion
Plaintiff argues that the agreement is
procedurally unconscionable because she had to sign it as a condition of
employment. (See Scott Decl. ¶¶ 2-3.) However, the adhesive nature of a
contract represents only a minimal degree of procedural unconscionability. (Serpa
v. California Surety Investigations, Inc. (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 695, 704.)
“[A] compulsory predispute arbitration agreement is not rendered unenforceable
just because it is required as a condition of employment.” (Lagatree v.
Luce, Forward, Hamilton & Scripps (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 1105, 1127.) 
            2.
Oppression
Plaintiff argues that the agreement is
oppressive because she was told she needed to sign it in order to continue
working for Defendant, and no one explained arbitration to her or offered to
let her take the documents home. (Scott Decl. ¶ 3.) Plaintiff avers that she
was never informed that she could seek outside advice before signing. (Ibid.)
None of this renders the agreement unenforceable. 
Defendant had no affirmative obligation to
explain the agreement to Plaintiff. (See Brookwood v. Bank of America (1996)
45 Cal.App.4th 1667, 1674 [“No law requires that parties dealing at arm's
length have a duty to explain to each other the terms of a written contract”].)
Plaintiff does not rebut Defendant’s evidence that “[e]mployees were not
provided a time restriction to review the arbitration agreement and they are
free to submit the arbitration agreement to their own personal attorneys for
review.” (See Santo Decl. ¶ 9.) The fact that no one explicitly offered these
options to Plaintiff does not mean Plaintiff was restricted from exercising
these options. 
Although Plaintiff was told that she had
to sign the documents in order to begin employment, there is no indication that
anyone imposed a time limit on Plaintiff’s signature, and no indication that
anyone prevented Plaintiff from leaving with the documents or seeking outside
counsel. Ultimately, “one who signs an instrument which on its face is a
contract is deemed to assent to all its terms.” (Marin Storage &
Trucking, Inc. v. Benco Contracting & Engineering, Inc. (2001) 89
Cal.App.4th 1042, 1049.) “A party cannot use his own lack of diligence to avoid
an arbitration agreement.” (Brookwood, supra, 45 Cal.App.4th at p. 1674.)

            3.
Surprise
Plaintiff argues that she “could not
understand the agreement as it is almost entirely filled with legal terms that
are difficult to understand and hidden within a long document including other
various policies.” (Scott Decl. ¶ 5.) However, the agreement is only two pages
long with clearly delineated provisions. (See Santo Decl., Ex. A.) The
arbitration clause is the third paragraph on the first page. (Ibid.) It
is neither buried nor replete with complex legal jargon. The agreement is not
“visually impenetrable,” nor does it “challenge the limits of legibility.” (See
OTO, L.L.C. v. Kho (2019) 8 Cal.5th 111, 128.)    
Plaintiff also argues that Defendant did
not attach the arbitration rules to the agreement. (See Scott Decl. ¶ 7.)
However, “the failure to attach the [arbitration] rules, standing alone, is
insufficient grounds to support a finding of procedural unconscionability.” (Peng
v. First Republic Bank (2013) 219 Cal.App.4th 1462, 1472.) The agreement
clearly provides that it will proceed under AAA rules. (Santo Decl., Ex. A.)
Plaintiff has no evidence that she was prevented from accessing the applicable
AAA rules. 
In sum, the Court finds a minimal degree
of procedural unconscionability. 
b. Substantive Unconscionability
Substantive unconscionability focuses on
the actual terms of the agreement and evaluates whether they create overly
harsh or one-sided results as to shock the conscience. (Suh v. Superior
Court (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 1504, 1515.)  
Plaintiff argues that the agreement “prohibits
Ms. Scott from participating in any representative proceedings, including one
under PAGA.” (Opp. 12:4-5.) The agreement does no such thing, and Plaintiff
fails to cite or quote any provision of the agreement to support this argument.
Plaintiff fails to explain how the agreement otherwise “precludes relief that
Plaintiff would enjoy under the law.” (See Opp. 11:28-12:1.) Thus, the Court
finds no substantive unconscionability. 
With a minimal degree of procedural
unconscionability and no substantive unconscionability, the agreement remains
enforceable. 
CONCLUSION
            Defendant’s motion to compel
arbitration is GRANTED. The case is stayed in its entirety pending the outcome
of arbitration. 
            