 Case Number:  24STCV11392    Hearing Date:   December 4, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
DUSTIN RIACH, et al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
HERITAGE AUCTIONEERS & GALLERIES,
  INC., et al.,
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  24STCV11392
  Hearing Date:  December 4, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
plaintiffs’ motion for leave to file an
  amended complaint 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On May 7, 2024, Plaintiffs Dustin
Riach and Jason Rivas filed this action against Defendants Heritage Auctioneers
& Galleries, Inc. and Brian Chanes. The complaint asserts causes of action
for declaratory relief, negligence, fraud, and deceptive trade practices. 
Plaintiffs discovered an original Star
Trek starship model and retained Defendant Heritage to sell it. Plaintiffs
allege that Heritage breached its duties to them by selling the starship to Rod
Roddenberry (son of Star Trek creator Gene Roddenberry) at a discount to garner
favor and future business for itself. Plaintiffs allege that Roddenberry
Entertainment, Inc. (REI) asserted a false title claim to the starship. 
            On November 1, 2024, Plaintiffs
filed the instant motion for leave to file an amended complaint. Defendants
filed their opposition on November 13, 2024. Plaintiffs filed their reply on
November 19, 2024.  
 
 
LEGAL STANDARD
The court may, in furtherance of justice,
and on such terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading. (Code
Civ. Proc, §§ 473(a), 576.) Courts must apply a policy of liberality in
permitting amendments at any stage of the proceeding, including during trial,
when no prejudice to the opposing party is shown. (Duchrow v. Forrest
(2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 1359, 1377.) In determining the extent of prejudice to
the opposing party, the court must consider various factors, such as whether
the amendment would delay trial or increase the discovery burden. (Demetriades
v. Yelp, Inc. (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 294, 306.)
A motion for leave to amend a complaint
must be accompanied by a declaration that explains: (1) the effect of the
amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts
giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4) the reasons why
the request for amendment was not made earlier. (Cal. Rules of Ct., Rule
3.1324(b).)
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiff’s counsel describes the
proposed amendment as follows: “There are no new causes of action or parties
just some corrections and presentation of the new wrongdoing in usurping the PR
and Reality Show content and the peculiar value, disgorgement as remedies.”
(Washington Decl. ¶ 15.) The proposed FAC alleges that Joseph Maddalena,
Heritage’s executive, sought to generate publicity for himself as the “hero”
who returned the long-lost starship to Roddenberry. (Id., Ex. A.) This
allegedly deprived Plaintiffs of promotional and reality content opportunities
and resulted in “secret profits” for Defendants which Plaintiffs are entitled
to. (Ibid.)
            Defendants argue that the proposed
FAC has no effect because it does not add new causes of action. However, the
proposed FAC describes usurped publicity and reality content opportunities
resulting in the need to assert disgorgement as a remedy. (Washington Decl. ¶
15, Ex. A.) This is a substantive change justifying amendment. 
            Defendants also argue that the
proposed changes are futile and frivolous because Heritage has already denied
the allegations in its discovery responses. Heritage’s denial of wrongdoing
does not preclude Plaintiffs from making allegations in a complaint. The truth
or merit of the allegations is not presently at issue. 
            Defendants claim that some of the
allegations in the proposed FAC are derived from confidential information
subject to a protective order. However, Defendants fail to specify which
allegations contain confidential information. 
            Lastly, Defendants argue that
Plaintiffs delayed in seeking the amendment. However, given the case was filed
recently, in May 2024, and trial is set for August 2025, the Court does not
find that Plaintiffs acted unreasonably or that Defendants have been prejudiced.
Given the liberal policy in favor of amendment, the Court finds that amendment
is warranted here.  
CONCLUSION
            Plaintiffs’ motion for leave to file
amended complaint is GRANTED. 
 