 Case Number:  24NNCV01990    Hearing Date:   November 27, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



SVETLANA HENDERSON, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
JOHN B.
   FORTNER, et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 24NNCV01990
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANT JOHN B. FORTNER’S DEMURRER TO COMPLAINT
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
November 27,
   2024



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
On May 31, 2024, plaintiff Svetlana
Henderson (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendants John B. Fortner
(“Fortner”) and Jon D. Henderson (“Henderson”) for elder financial abuse, fraud
and deceit by concealment, quiet title, cancellation of instrument, and adverse
possession. Fortner is Plaintiff’s brother and Henderson is Plaintiff’s
ex-husband. (Compl., ¶¶ 2 ,4.) 
Plaintiff alleges she owns the
residential duplex located at 1417 and 1419 Bresee Avenue, Pasadena, CA 91104
(“Subject Property”) after she and her mother, Elizabeth Fortner (“Elizabeth”),
purchased it on March 6, 2007, as joint tenants with rights of survivorship. (Compl.,
¶ 8.) Plaintiff alleges that on March 6, 2015, while Elizabeth was still alive,
Fortner fraudulently transferred Elizabeth’s interest in the Subject Property
to himself without Plaintiff or Elizabeth’s knowledge or approval. (Compl., ¶
10.) A copy of a quitclaim deed is attached to the Complaint as Exhibit A. Elizabeth
passed away on June 9, 2022. (Comp., ¶ 9.) 
On July 31, 2024, Fortner filed a
demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint. Fortner demurs to each cause of action on
the grounds that it does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action and is uncertain.  
On September 10, 2024, the Court granted
Fortner’s motion to strike Plaintiff’s prayer for punitive damages in
connection with the First Cause of Action for financial elder abuse and paragraph
32, which is part of the Complaint’s second cause of action for fraud and
deceit by concealment. The Court deferred any determination of whether
Plaintiff should be given leave to amend the Complaint until the hearing on
Fortner’s demurrer. 
Plaintiff has not opposed Fortner’s
demurrer. 
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD
A demurrer may be brought if
insufficient facts are stated to support the cause of action asserted. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) A demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the
pleadings and will be sustained only where the pleading is defective on its
face. (City of Atascadero v. Merrill
Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc. (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 445, 459.)
“We treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded but not
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law. We accept the factual
allegations of the complaint as true and also consider matters which may be
judicially noticed. [Citation.]” (Mitchell
v. California Department of Public Health (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 1000, 1007; Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials
Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604 [“the facts alleged in the pleading are
deemed to be true, however improbable they may be”].) Allegations are to be
liberally construed. (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) In construing the allegations,
the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that may modify or
limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations. (Financial Corporation of America v. Wilburn (1987) 189 Cal.App.3rd
764, 769.) 
A demurrer may also be brought on the
grounds that it is uncertain. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f).) “A
demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint is in
some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified under modern
discovery procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly’s
of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) Where the complaint
contains substantial factual allegations sufficiently apprising defendant of
the issues it is being asked to meet, a demurrer for uncertainty will be
overruled or plaintiff will be given leave to amend. (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135,
139, fn. 2.) 
III.       
DISCUSSION
With respect to Plaintiff’s First Cause
of Action for financial elder abuse, the Court previously concluded that
Plaintiff lacks standing to bring an elder abuse claim that belongs to her
mother, Elizabeth, and Plaintiff does not allege that she is bringing an action
as Elizabeth’s successor-in-interest. Therefore, the demurrer to the First
Cause of Action is SUSTAINED. 
As for Plaintiff’s second cause of
action for “fraud and deceit by concealment”, the Court previously stated that
Plaintiff fails to allege facts supporting such a claim because Plaintiff fails
to allege the existence of a fiduciary relationship, Fortner’s exclusive
knowledge of any matters, any active concealment or partial misrepresentations.
(See LiMandri v. Judkins (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 326, 336.) The Court adds
that Plaintiff’s fraud claim appears to be barred by the statute of limitations
because the transfer allegedly took place on March 6, 2015, and Plaintiff does
not allege facts showing that the discovery rule would toll the statute of
limitations. Therefore, the demurrer to the Second Cause of Action is
SUSTAINED. 
Fortner demurs to Plaintiff’s remaining
causes of action for quiet title, cancellation of instruments, and adverse
possession on the grounds that they are rooted in fraud and therefore must be
pleaded with specificity. Fortner argues that these three causes of action are
based in fraud because Plaintiff “incorporates by reference” all previous
allegations set forth in the Complaint, and Plaintiff’s second cause of action
for fraudulent concealment precedes the others. Fortner’s position is
persuasive. Insofar as Plaintiff seeks to quiet title, cancel the quitclaim
deed, and establish adverse possession on grounds that the quitclaim deed was
fraudulently obtained, Plaintiff does not plead facts with specificity showing
that any fraud took place, nor does she plead any facts showing that her
fraud-based claims are not time-barred. In addition, while a cause of action
for adverse possession may be based on a claim of right (as opposed to adverse
possession based on color of title), Civil Code section 325 states that land is
only deemed to be adversely possessed by a person claiming title not founded
upon a written instrument, judgment, or decree, if the land has been “protected
by a substantial enclosure” and “usually cultivated or improved.” These
circumstances have not been pleaded as part of Plaintiff’s adverse possession
claim. Accordingly, Fortner’s demurrer to the Third, Fourth, and Fifth Causes
of Action is SUSTAINED. 
IV.       
CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, Fortner’s
demurrer to the First, Second, Third, Fourth, and Fifth Causes of Action is
SUSTAINED for failure to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action. Plaintiff is given 20 days’ leave to amend. 
 
Moving party to give notice.
 
Dated
this 27th
day of November 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A. Crowfoot
  
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 