  Case Number:  24AHCV00344    Hearing Date:   November 27, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



HENRY HUANG, et al., 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
JUNYI
   ZHOU, et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
  )


      CASE NO.: 24AHCV00344
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANT XIAOYAN CHEN’S MOTION TO COMPEL PLAINTIFF HENRY
   HUANG’S RESPONSES TO SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES (SET ONE); REQUEST FOR MONETARY
   SANCTIONS
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
November
   27, 2024



 
On February
 20, 2024, plaintiffs Henry Huang (“Plaintiff”) and Powastar, Inc.
filed this action against defendants Xiaoyan
 Chen (“Defendant”), Junyi Zhou, Shalom K. Braunstein, and Elite Asian
Art Auction, LLC. On July 5, 2024, Defendant
served Special Interrogatories (Set One) on Plaintiff.
No responses were received. On August 14, 2024, Defendant
filed this motion to compel responses and for sanctions. 
Where a party fails to serve timely
responses to discovery requests, the court may make an order compelling
responses. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290.) A party that fails to serve timely
responses waives any objections to the request, including ones based on
privilege or the protection of attorney work product. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2030.290, subd. (a).) 
In opposition, Plaintiff
argues that responses were served on August 21, 2024, as soon as he was aware
that discovery requests had been served. Plaintiff spends most of his 16-page opposition
brief arguing that Defendant acted unfairly because Defendant did not serve her
discovery requests using a new email thread, but instead chose to “reply” to an
existing unrelated thread and attach the new discovery requests to that reply
email. Plaintiff asserts that he did not become aware of the discovery requests
until August 21, 2024, but promptly served responses on that same day. Therefore,
as responses have been served, the motion to compel is DENIED as MOOT. 
The Code of Civil Procedure provides
that the court shall impose a monetary sanction against the party who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel, unless the party acted with
substantial justification or the sanction would otherwise be unjust. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (c), 2031.300, subd. (c).) Sanctions may be awarded
under in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though
the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion was
filed. (CRC 3.1348.)  
Plaintiff expends a great deal of
effort to avoid monetary sanctions by submitting a lengthy discussion of the
appropriate protocols for email service and the definition of the word “reply.”
This effort is unavailing and does not excuse Plaintiff’s counsel’s lack of
diligence in monitoring their email inbox. The body of the “reply” email
clearly announced that Defendant’s discovery requests were attached. (Opp., Ex.
4.) Furthermore, despite emphasizing the purported importance of having
separate email threads, the subject line for the email thread initiated by
Plaintiff’s counsel merely says, “CASE NO. 24AHCV00344” without any mention of Plaintiff’s
attached discovery requests, therefore undercutting any claim that Defendant
somehow acted inappropriately by “replying” to this unspecified thread with her
own discovery requests. (Opp., Exs. 1, 4.) Accordingly, the request for
sanctions is GRANTED and imposed against Plaintiff and counsel of record,
jointly and severally, albeit in the reduced amount of $461.65, consisting of 1
hour at defense counsel’s hourly rate of $400 and a $61.65 filing fee. Sanctions
are to be paid within 20 days of the date of this Order. 
Last, Defendant points out in her reply
brief that Plaintiff cites to two cases which appear to be nonexistent, Johnson
v. City of Shoreline (2010) 240 Cal.App.4th 125, and Martinez v. State
(2013) 222 Cal.App.3d 1026. (Opp., pp. 8-9.) Therefore, the Court schedules an
OSC for December 4, 2024, at 8:30 a.m. and orders Plaintiff’s counsel to show
cause why they should not be reported to the State Bar for violating their duty
of candor (Rules of Professional Conduct, rule 3.3) by citing to manufactured case
law. 
Moving party to give notice.
Dated
this 27th
day of November 2024
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from the parties
indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no appearances at
the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the tentative as the final
order or place the motion off calendar.
 