  Case Number:  23AHCV02079    Hearing Date:   June 18, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING PLAINTIFF’S
MOTIONS TO COMPEL DEFENDANT JULIA YALI ZHU’S RESPONSES TO PLAINTIFF’S FIRST SET
OF REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS, SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES AND FORM
INTERROGATORIES AND GRANTING PLAINTIFF’S REQUEST FOR SANCTIONSI.         INTRODUCTION
            This is a fraud action involving corporate
investment for the acquisition of luxury vehicles to resell in China. The
complaint contains ten causes of action: (1) Fraud and Deceit, (2) Breach of
Fiduciary Duty, (3) Breach of Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing, (4)
Unfair Competition, (5) Equitable Indemnity, (6) Unjust Enrichment, (7)
Imposition of Constructive Trust, (8) Imposition of Resulting Trust, (9)
Willful Misconduct and (10) Declaratory Relief.
            As a preliminary matter, Plaintiff
has identical pending motions to compel discovery responses from Co-Defendants
Fantastic Garden, LLC and UCAR LA, LLC. 
The Court cannot rule on these at the present time. Neither of these
entities are before the Court.  Both
entities filed answers to the complaint. However, these were filed without the involvement
of an attorney. “It is well established in California that a corporation cannot
represent itself in a court of record either in propria persona or through an
officer or agent who is not an attorney.” Caressa Camille, Inc. v. Alcoholic
Beverage Control Appeals Bd. (2002) 99 Cal. App. 4th 1094, 1011. The
entities’ answers, filed in pro se, are legally void. As such, these parties
are not before the Court.
Procedural
Background
On February 1, 2024, Plaintiff Guangyu Zhao’s served Defendant Julia Yali
Zhu, an individual, (“Defendant”) by U.S. mail: (1) an initial set of written
discovery, which included inter alia Form Interrogatories (Set One) and Special
Interrogatories (Set One) (collectively the “Interrogatories”); (2) an initial
set of written discovery, which included inter alia Production Requests of
Documents (Set One) (the “Production Request”) (collectively, the “Discovery
Requests”); and (3) a request to pay sanctions of $1,582.00 in connection with
Plaintiff’s attorneys’ fees and costs of filing of this motion.
(Motion to Compel, p. 2.)
Defendant’s deadline to respond to the Interrogatories and Production
Requests was March 7, 2024. (Motion to Compel, p. 4.)  On March 14, 2024, Plaintiff served the
motion before the court to Defendant by U.S. Mail. (Motion to Compel, p. 6.)
The circumvention of paying proper
filing fees is not allowed. (CCP § 1003, GC § 70617.) Because Plaintiff improperly sought to compel multiple types of discovery
from three distinct defendants in the same motion, the Court continued the
hearing to June 18, 2024. (See 5/30/24 Minute Order.) The Court advised Plaintiff
to refile the motions as to each individual defendant and provide proof of
payment during the hearing. (5/30/24 Minute Order) (CCP § 1003, GC §70617.) On
June 12, 2024, Plaintiff provided such proof of payment. (Martinez Supp. Decl.,
Exh. C.)  The Court notes that as of June
13, 2024, at 5:00 PM, Defendant has not filed any opposition papers to the
three pending motions.
Meet and Confer
Parties were ordered to meet and confer to resolve these motions prior to
the Case Management Conference. (5/30/24 Minute Order.) On June 12, 2024,
Plaintiff’s Counsel, by overnight mail, delivered a request to Defendant to
meet and confer and resolve the requested written responses. (Martinez Supp.
Decl., Exh. A, Exh. B.) The Court notes that as of June 13, 2024, at 5:00 pm
the parties have not met and conferred to resolve the discovery requests.
II.        LEGAL STANDARD
A.    Law
Governing Discovery Motions
“Every direction of a court or
judge, made or entered in writing, and not included in a judgment, is
denominated an order. An application for an order is a motion.” (CCP § 1003.)
Government Code section 70617 requires payment of a $60 filing fee for each
motion filed with the Court. Plaintiff may not circumvent the Government Code
with an omnibus filing. An additional filing fee is required before the Court
may hear the motion.”
“In addition, Plaintiff filed a
single motion for what should have been three separate motions. Combining
discovery motions allows the moving party to avoid paying the requisite filing
fees. Filing fees are not jurisdictional and it is mandatory for court clerks
to demand and receive them.” (See Duran v. St. Luke’s Hospital (2003)
114 Cal.App.4th 457, 460.)
 
B.    Law
Governing Requests for Production
“Any party may obtain discovery by
inspecting, copying, testing, or sampling documents, tangible things, land or
other property, and electronically stored information in the possession,
custody, or control of any other party to the action.” (CCP § 2031.010.) “If a
deponent fails to answer any question or to produce any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing under the deponent’s
control that is specified in the deposition notice or a deposition subpoena,
the party seeking discovery may move the court for an order compelling that
answer or production.” (CCP § 2025.480(a).)
C.    Law
Governing Interrogatories
Code Civ. Proc. Section 2030.290
provides that when a party to whom interrogatories has been propounded fails to
serve a timely response, that party waives any objection to the
interrogatories; it further provides that the propounding party may move for an
order compelling a response to the interrogatory. Subdivision (c) provides for
monetary sanctions in connection with such motion. (CCP § 2030.290.)
 
D.    Mandatory
Sanctions – Interrogatories & Requests for Productions
Sanctions are mandatory in
connection with motions to compel responses to interrogatories and requests for
production of documents against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290(c),
2031.300(c).) However, sanctions are not mandatory if the court “finds that the
one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Id.)
Furthermore, regardless of the
reason for the delay in responding, monetary sanctions are mandatory against a
party or attorney, or both, whose failure to serve a timely response
necessitated the filing of the deemed-admitted motion. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280(c).)
 
III.      ANALYSIS
A.   
Production
Request and Interrogatories
“Any party may obtain discovery by
inspecting, copying, testing, or sampling documents, tangible things, land or
other property, and electronically stored information in the possession,
custody, or control of any other party to the action.” (CCP § 2031.010.) “If a deponent fails to answer any question or
to produce any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing
under the deponent’s control that is specified in the deposition notice or a
deposition subpoena, the party seeking discovery may move the court for an
order compelling that answer or production.” (CCP § 2025.480(a).)
Code Civ. Proc. Section 2030.290 provides that when a party to whom
interrogatories has been propounded fails to serve a timely response, that
party waives any objection to the interrogatories; it further provides that the
propounding party may move for an order compelling a response to the
interrogatory. Subdivision (c) provides for monetary sanctions in connection
with such motion. (CCP § 2030.290.)
 
Here, Plaintiff moves the Court to issue orders compelling the Defendant
to produce responses to Plaintiff’s Production Request and Special and Form Interrogatories.
As discussed above, Defendant’s deadline to respond to the Production Request
and Interrogatories expired on March 7, 2024, at the filing of the instant
motion on May 24, 2024, Defendant had not yet served any responses. (Martinez
Decl., ¶ 2.) As of Plaintiff's June 12, 2024, meet and confer attempt,
Defendant had not served any responses. (Martinez Supp. Decl., Exh. A, Exh. B.)
 
B.   
The
Requests for Monetary Sanctions are Granted in a Reduced Amount
             The
Court may impose a monetary sanction on one engaging in misuse of the discovery
process, including the payment of reasonable expenses and attorney’s fees
incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct. (CCP § 2023.030(a).) Misuse of
the discovery process includes “[f]ailing to respond or to submit to authorized
method of discovery. (CCP §2023.010(d).)
Here, Plaintiff moves the Court to
impose monetary sanctions against Defendant in the total amount of $1,582.00
for attorney’s fees and costs. Specifically, Plaintiff’s Counsel, a
California-licensed attorney, Jose L. Martinez states that the $1,582.00 amount
is based on: (1) his hourly rate of $500.00 being applied to: three hours to
prepare the motion and reply in support of the same and appearing at a hearing;
and (2) the $85.02 filing fee. (Martinez Decl. ¶ 5.) 
As of June 13, 2024, Plaintiff’s
counsel has updated the request for monetary sanctions in the amount of
$2,205.02 in attorney fees and costs. (Supp. Martinez Decl., ¶ 6.) Plaintiff’s
counsel bases this amount on (1) Plaintiff’s $500 hourly rate as applied to
three hours spent on preparing the Motion and one anticipated hour attending
the June 18, 2024, hearing; and (2) $205.02 in filing fees for concurrently
bringing three motions. (Id.)
Plaintiff is entitled to monetary
sanctions for reasonable attorneys’ fees incurred in connection with the
motions.  Defendant failed to serve
timely responses, necessitating the filing of the motions, and Defendant has
still not served responses. In addition, given the non-opposition by
Defendant, there is no evidence suggesting Plaintiff did not act with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanctions unjust. 
However, given the instant motions are unopposed, Plaintiff incurred no
fees in connection with reviewing oppositions, and thus had no purpose to
prepare a reply in support of. Moreover, to the extent Plaintiff requests time
in connection with appearing at a hearing for each of the three motions, such a
request is duplicative as all three motions are scheduled for the same
day.  Utilizing a lodestar approach, and
in view of the totality of the circumstances including Defendant’s lack of
opposition and the similarity of the motions to each other, the Court finds the
total and reasonable amount of attorney’s fees and costs incurred for the work
performed in connection with the pending motions against Defendant is $1,405.06,
reflecting 2 hours incurred at $500 per hour (0.75 hour for drafting one motion
and 1 hour for drafting the remaining two motions at 0.5 hour each, and 0.5
hour for attending the hearing on the three motions) plus $255.06 in filing
fees for three motions filed at $85.02 each. 
The circumvention of paying proper filing fees is not allowed. (CCP §
1003, GC § 70617.)
            Accordingly, the Court grants Plaintiff’s requests for
monetary sanctions against Defendant in the reduced total amount of $1,405.06.  
IV.       CONCLUSION AND ORDER
The Court GRANTS the Plaintiff’s
Motions to Compel Defendant to produce responses for Plaintiff’s Form
Interrogatories – General (Set One), and Special Interrogatories (Set One).
The Court further GRANTS the
Plaintiff’s Motions to Compel Defendant to produce responses for Plaintiff’s
Requests for Production of Documents (Set One)
            Defendant Zhu
is ordered to provide code compliant responses within 30 days of this order. In
addition, the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s Requests for Monetary Sanctions in the
reduced total amount of $1,405.06 against Defendant Zhu.  
 
Plaintiff is to give notice of this ruling.
 
Dated: June 18, 2024
 
                                                                                                   JARED D. MOSES
                                                                                 JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT