  Case Number:  23STCV23071    Hearing Date:   July 1, 2024    Dept:  52 Plaintiff The
People of the State of California’s Motions to Compel Responses to Requests for
Production to (1) Defendant Metro Investments Group, Inc. and (2) Defendant
Anthony Nowaid
Plaintiff The
People of the State of California, acting by and through the Department of
Transportation, moves to compel defendant Metro Investments Group, Inc. (Metro)
to respond to requests for production, sets one and two.  Plaintiff also moves to compel defendant
Anthony Nowaid to respond to requests for production, set one.
When the responding party fails to timely respond to requests for
production, the requesting party may move for an order compelling
responses.  (CCP § 2031.300(b).)  Failing to timely respond waives any
objection to the requests.  (Id.,
subd. (a).)  
Plaintiff is entitled to an order compelling Metro
to respond to requests for production, sets one and two, without objections.  Metro failed to serve a timely response to both
sets of requests for production.  Plaintiff
served set one on Metro on February 23, 2024. 
(Choi Decl., ¶ 6, Ex. 1.)  Plaintiff
served set two on Metro on March 15.  (Id.,
¶ 10, Ex. 3.)  As of April 24, when plaintiff’s
counsel executed his declaration in support of this motion, Metro had not
served any responses to requests for production, sets one or two.  (Id., ¶ 12.)  Any subsequent responses are untimely.    
Plaintiff is also entitled to an order compelling Nowaid
to respond to requests for production, set one, without objections.  Nowaid failed to serve a timely response to the
requests.  Plaintiff served the requests
on Nowaid on February 23, 2024.  (Choi
Decl., ¶ 6, Ex. 1.)  As of April 24,
Nowaid had not served any responses.  (Id.,
¶ 12.)  Any subsequent responses are
untimely.  
Under California Rules of Court, rule 3.1300(d), the court exercises its
discretion not to consider any untimely opposition to plaintiff’s motions.
Sanctions
In each motion, plaintiff moves for sanctions
against defendants and their counsel of record, Mainak D’Attaray.  “Failing to respond or to
submit to an authorized method of discovery” is a misuse of the discovery
process subject to monetary sanctions. 
(CCP § 2023.010(d).)  California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1348(a) provides, “The court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a party
who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no opposition to the motion
was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or the requested
discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion was filed.”
Each defendant failed to respond to requests for
production.  They did not act with
substantial justification.  Sanctions are
just under the circumstances.  Plaintiff reasonably incurred $1,050 in expenses for
the motion as to Metro and $625 for the motion as to Nowaid.
Disposition
Plaintiff The
People of the State of California, acting
by and through the Department of Transportation’s motion to compel defendant Metro
Investments Group, Inc. to respond to requests for production of documents,
sets one and two is granted.
Defendant Metro Investments Group, Inc., is ordered to serve verified responses without objections to
requests for production, sets one and two, within 20 days.  Defendant Metro Investment Group, Inc. and
its counsel Mainak D’Attaray are ordered to pay plaintiff The People of the State of California $1,050
in sanctions within 30 days.  Defendant
and its counsel are jointly and severally liable for the sanctions.
Plaintiff The
People of the State of California, acting
by and through the Department of Transportation’s motion to compel defendant
Anthony Nowaid to respond to requests for production of documents, set one, is granted.
Defendant Anthony Nowaid is ordered to serve verified responses without objections to
requests for production, set one, within 20 days.  Defendant Anthony Nowaid and his counsel Mainak
D’Attaray are ordered to pay plaintiff The People of the State of California $625
in sanctions within 20 days.  Defendant
and his counsel are jointly and severally liable for the sanctions.