  Case Number:  20STCV11534    Hearing Date:   December 5, 2023    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




eric choi

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
elaine kohn

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


20STCV11534




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


December
   5, 2023




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
(1)  
  plaintiff’s
  motion to be relieved from waiver of discovery objections
(2)  
  defendants’
  motion to compel responses to form interrogatories
(3)  
  defendants’
  motion to compel responses to requests for production of documents, set two
(4)  
  DEFENDANT’S
  MOTION TO DEEM ADMITTED MATTERS SPECIFIED IN REQUESTS FOR ADMISSION
(5)  
  defendant’s
  motion to compel responses to special interrogatories
(6)  
  defendant’s
  motion to compel responses to special interrogatories
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                Plaintiff and cross-defendant
Eric Choi
 
RESPONDING PARTIES:    Defendants and cross-complainants Elaine Kohn
and Berndt Lohr-Schmidt
(1)  
Motion
to be Relieved from Waiver of Discovery Objections
 
 
 
MOVING PARTIES:
            Defendants and
cross-complainants Elaine Kohn and Berndt Lohr-Schmidt
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff and cross-defendant Eric Choi
(2)  
Motion
to Compel Responses to Form Interrogatories
(3)  
Motion
to Compel Responses to Requests for Production of Documents, Set Two
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant
and cross-complainant Elaine Kohn
 
RESPONDING PARTY:        Plaintiff and cross-defendant Eric Choi
(4)  
Motion to Deem Admitted Matters Specified
in Requests for Admission
(5)  
Motion to Compel Responses to Special Interrogatories
MOVING PARTY:                Defendant and cross-complainant
Berndt Lohr-Schmidt
 
RESPONDING PARTY:        Plaintiff and cross-defendant Eric Choi
(6)  
Motion to Compel Responses to Special
Interrogatories 
The court considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in
connection with each motion.  
The court denies the request of defendants and cross-complainants
Elaine Kohn and Berndt Lohr-Schmidt to file a sur-reply in connection with the
motion to be relieved from waiver of discovery objections and therefore has not
considered those sur-reply papers.
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
The court rules on the evidentiary
objections filed by defendants and cross-complainants Elaine Kohn (“Kohn”) and
Berndt Lohr-Schmidt (“Lohr-Schmidt”) (“Defendants”) to the declaration of
Jennifer C. Shakouri, filed in support of the motion to be relieved from
waivers of objections, as follows:
Objections Nos. 1-10 are overruled.
Objection No. 11 is sustained. 
The court overrules the
evidentiary objections filed by plaintiff and cross-defendant Eric Choi
(“Plaintiff”) to the declaration of Ernest J. Guadiana, filed in support of
Defendants’ opposition to the motion to be relieved from waivers of objections.

The court overrules the
evidentiary objections filed by Plaintiff to the declaration of Sean M.
McCormick, filed in support of Defendants’ opposition to the motion to be
relieved from waivers of objections. 
The court has not considered the supplemental declaration of Jennifer
C. Shakouri, filed in support of the reply to the motion to be relieved from
waivers of objections, because new evidence is not permitted with reply papers.  (Jay v. Mahaffey (2013) 218
Cal.App.4th 1522, 1537.)  
The court overrules the
evidentiary objections filed by Plaintiff to the declaration of Rebecca
Rodriguez, filed in support of the motion to compel responses to form
interrogatories.
The court overrules the
evidentiary objections filed by Plaintiff to the declaration of Sean
McCormick, filed in support of the motion to compel responses to form
interrogatories.
The court overrules the evidentiary objections filed by Defendants to
the declaration of Jennifer C. Shakouri, filed in support of Plaintiff’s
opposition to the motion to compel responses to form interrogatories.
The court overrules the evidentiary objections filed by Plaintiff to
the declaration of Sean A. McCormick, filed in support of Defendants’ motion to
compel responses to requests for production, set two.
The court overrules the evidentiary objections filed by Plaintiff to
the declaration Rebecca Rodriguez, filed in support of Defendants’ motion to
compel responses to requests for production, set two.
The court overrules the evidentiary objections filed by Plaintiff to
the declaration of Sean A. McCormick, filed in support of Kohn’s motion to deem
admitted the matters specified in the requests for admission. 
The court overrules the evidentiary objections filed by Plaintiff to
the declaration of Rebecca Rodriguez, filed in support of Kohn’s motion to deem
admitted the matters specified in the requests for admission. 
 
The court rules on the evidentiary objections filed by Defendants to
the declaration of Jennifer C. Shakouri, filed in support of Plaintiff’s
opposition to Kohn’s motion to deem admitted the matters specified in the
requests for admission, as follows:
Objections Nos. 1-11 are overruled. 
Objection No. 12 is sustained. 
The court overrules the evidentiary objections filed by Plaintiff to
the declaration of Sean A. McCormick, filed in support of Kohn’s motion to
compel responses to special interrogatories.
The court overrules the evidentiary objections filed by Plaintiff to
the declaration of Rebecca Rodriguez, filed in support of Kohn’s motion to
compel responses to special interrogatories.
The court overrules the evidentiary objections filed by Defendants to
the declaration of Jennifer C. Shakouri, filed in support of Plaintiff’s
opposition to Kohn’s motion to compel responses to special interrogatories.
The court overrules the evidentiary objections filed by Plaintiff to
the declaration of Sean A. McCormick, filed in support of Lohr-Schmidt’s motion
to compel responses to special interrogatories.
The court overrules the evidentiary objections filed by Plaintiff to
the declaration of Rebecca Rodriguez, filed in support of Lohr-Schmidt’s motion
to compel responses to special interrogatories. 
The court overrules the evidentiary objections filed by Defendants to
the declaration of Jennifer C. Shakouri, filed in support of Plaintiff’s
opposition to Lohr-Schmidt’s motion to compel responses to special
interrogatories.
PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO BE RELIEVED FROM
WAIVERS OF DISCOVERY OBJECTIONS
Plaintiff moves the court for an order relieving him from his waiver
of discovery objections and therefore permitting him to respond with objections
to the following sets of discovery: (1) Defendants’ Requests for Production of
Documents, Set Two; (2) Kohn’s Special Interrogatories, Set One; (3)
Lohr-Schmidt’s Special Interrogatories, Set One; (4) Defendants’ Form
Interrogatories, Set One; and (5) defendant Kohn’s Requests for Admission, Set
One.  
Defendants have filed motions to compel Plaintiff’s responses, without
objections, to those sets of discovery or to deem admitted the matters set
forth in Kohn’s Requests for Admission, all of which are pending before the
court.  The court rules on Plaintiff’s
motion first in order to determine (1) whether Plaintiff failed to serve timely
responses to these sets of discovery, and (2) whether Plaintiff has met his
burden to show that he should be relieved from any waiver of his right to
assert discovery objections thereto, such that the court will not order
Plaintiff to serve responses, without objections, to the subject discovery in ruling
on Defendants’ motions. 
If a party to whom interrogatories, requests for admissions, or
requests for production are directed fails to serve a timely response, that
party waives any right to assert objections to the interrogatories and
requests, including those based on privilege. 
(Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290, subd. (a), 2033.280, subd. (a),
2031.300, subd. (a).)  The court, on
motion, may relieve that party from those waivers upon determining that (1) the
party has served responses in substantial compliance with the governing provisions
of the Code of Civil Procedure, and (2) the party’s failure to serve timely
responses to the discovery was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or
excusable neglect.  (Ibid.) 
As a threshold matter, the court notes that Plaintiff denies that his
responses were untimely, contending that the parties agreed to suspend
discovery.  The court disagrees. 
Defendants served the subject discovery requests on Plaintiff on March
16, 2023.  (McCormick Decl.,
¶ 2.)  The parties agreed, in
writing, to extend the parties’ deadlines to respond to discovery on multiple
occasions.  (McCormick Decl., Ex.
B.)  The final written agreement to
extend the deadline to respond was reached on June 16, 2023.  (Id. at p. 1 [June 16, 2023 emails
from Jennifer Shakouri and Ernest Guadiana].) 
However, Plaintiff’s counsel asserts that it was her understanding that,
while settlement discussions were ongoing, there was no further need to keep
requesting extensions to respond to discovery based on the belief that
discovery had been suspended.  (Shakouri
Decl., ¶¶ 5-6.) 
The court
finds that Plaintiff has not presented evidence establishing the existence of an
agreement between the parties that (1) discovery was suspended during
settlement negotiations, or (2) extended the time for Plaintiff to respond
beyond July 17, 2023.  While the court
acknowledges that Plaintiff has submitted an email from Defendants’ counsel
stating “I assume we should restart discovery[,]” the court finds that
this evidence is insufficient to show that the parties had reached an agreement
to suspend discovery.  (Shakouri Decl.,
Ex. 2 [emphasis added]; Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.270, subd. (b) 2033.260,
subd. (b), 2031.270, subd. (b) [stating that agreements to extend the time to
respond to interrogatories, requests for admission, and requests for
production, respectively, “may be informal, but . . . shall be confirmed
in a writing that specifies the extended date for service of a response”]
[emphasis added].) 
Thus, the
court finds that (1) Plaintiff was required to respond to discovery by no later
than July 17, 2023, and (2) Plaintiff’s responses, served on October 10, 2023
and October 17, 2023 were untimely. 
(McCormick Decl., Ex. B, p. 1 [agreeing to a 30-day extension on June
16, 2023]; Shakouri Decl., Exs. 4-8.) 
Plaintiff has therefore waived his right to assert objections.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§§ 2030.290, subd. (a), 2033.280, subd. (a), 2031.300, subd. (a).) 
The court finds that Plaintiff has met his burden to show that he
should be relieved of these waivers. 
As set forth above, in order for the court to relieve Plaintiff of
these waivers, Plaintiff must show that (1) he served substantially compliant
responses, and (2) his failure to serve timely responses was the result of
mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect. 
(Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290, subd. (a), 2033.280, subd. (a),
2031.300, subd. (a).) 
First, the court finds that Plaintiff’s responses to the subject
discovery are in substantial compliance with Code of Civil Procedure sections
2030.210-2030.240 (as to the responses to Defendants’ Form and Special
Interrogatories), 2033.210-2033.230 (as to the responses to Kohn’s Requests for
Admissions), and 2031.210-2031.240 and 2031.280 (as to the responses to
Defendants’ Requests for Production). 
(Shakouri Decl., Exs. 6 [responses to Kohn’s Special Interrogatories], 7
[responses to Lohr-Schmidt’s Special Interrogatories], 8 [responses to
Defendants’ Form Interrogatories], 5 [responses to Requests for Admission], 4
[responses to Defendants’ Requests for Production]; Code Civ. Proc.,
§§ 2030.290, subd. (a)(1), 2033.280, subd. (a)(1), 2031.300, subd.
(a)(1).) 
Second, the court finds that Plaintiff has shown that his failure to
timely respond was the result of his counsel’s mistake and excusable
neglect.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§§ 2030.290, subd. (a)(2), 2033.280, subd. (a)(2), 2031.300, subd.
(a)(2).)  Plaintiff’s counsel has stated,
in her declaration, that she believed that discovery had been suspended and
therefore “had no knowledge of any alleged deadline to respond to past-served
discovery.”  (Shakouri Decl., ¶¶ 5-6,
9.)  While the court has determined, for
the reasons set forth above, that Plaintiff did not show that there was an
agreement to suspend discovery, the court finds that this evidence is
sufficient to show that Plaintiff did not timely serve responses because of
counsel’s mistaken belief that discovery was suspended.  
The court therefore grants Plaintiff’s motion and orders that
Plaintiff is relieved of his waivers of his rights to assert objections to the
following discovery requests: (1) Defendants’ Requests for Production of
Documents, Set Two; (2) Kohn’s Special Interrogatories, Set One; (3)
Lohr-Schmidt’s Special Interrogatories, Set One; (4) Defendants’ Form
Interrogatories, Set One; and (5) Kohn’s Requests for Admission, Set One.  
DEFENDANTS’ MOTION TO COMPEL PLAINTIFF’S
RESPONSES TO FORM INTERROGATORIES
Defendants move the court for an order (1) compelling Plaintiff to
serve responses, without objections, to Defendants’ Form Interrogatories, Set
One, and (2) awarding sanctions in favor of Defendants and against Plaintiff in
the amount of $1,797.27.
If
a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response,
the propounding party may move for an order compelling response to the
interrogatories.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (b).)¿¿¿¿ 
The court
finds that (1) as set forth above, Plaintiff has not presented evidence
establishing either an agreement to suspend discovery during settlement
negotiations or an agreement extending the time for Plaintiff to respond beyond
July 17, 2023, and (2) therefore Plaintiff did not serve timely responses by
failing to serve responses by that date. 
(McCormick Decl., ¶ 6.)  In
opposition, Plaintiff has presented evidence establishing that he served
responses to Defendants’ Form Interrogatories on October 10, 2023.  (Shakouri Decl., Ex. 3.)  
The court
therefore denies Defendants’ motion to compel Plaintiff’s responses to their Form
Interrogatories as moot.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (b).) 
The court
finds that the circumstances presented make the imposition of sanctions unjust
and therefore denies Defendants’ request for an award of monetary sanctions
against Plaintiff.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2030.290, subd. (c).)  
DEFENDANTS’ MOTION TO COMPEL PLAINTIFF’S
RESPONSES TO REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS, SET TWO
Defendants move the court for
an order (1) compelling Plaintiff to serve responses to Defendants’ Requests
for Production of Documents, Set Two,[1] and (2) awarding monetary
sanctions in favor of Defendants and against Plaintiff in the amount of
$1,797.27.
If
a party to whom a demand for inspection is directed fails to serve a timely
response, the party making the demand may move for an order compelling response
to the demand.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §¿2031.300, subd. (b).)¿¿¿¿ 
Defendants
served Plaintiff with their Requests for Production of Documents, Set Two, on
March 16, 2023.  (McCormick Decl., Ex.
A.)  Responses were due, pursuant to the
parties’ agreement to extend the deadline by which to respond, by July 17,
2023.  (McCormick Decl., ¶ 5.)  Plaintiff did not serve timely
responses.  (McCormick Decl.,
¶ 6.)  In opposition, Plaintiff has
submitted evidence showing that he served responses to the Requests for
Production on October 10, 2023. 
(Shakouri Decl., Ex. 3.) 
The court
therefore denies Defendants’ motion to compel Plaintiff’s responses to their Requests
for Production of Documents as moot. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (b).) 
The court
finds that the circumstances presented make the imposition of sanctions unjust
and therefore denies Defendants’ request for an award of monetary sanctions
against Plaintiff.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.300, subd. (c).) 
KOHN’S MOTION TO DEEM ADMITTED MATTERS
SPECIFIED IN REQUESTS FOR ADMISSION
Kohn moves
the court for an order (1) deeming admitted the truth of each matter specified
in Kohn’s Requests for Admission, and (2) awarding sanctions in favor of Kohn
and against Plaintiff in the amount of $4,000.
If
a party to whom requests for admission are directed fails to serve a timely
response, the court shall, upon motion by the propounding party, order that the
matters specified in the requests be deemed admitted unless the court finds
that the party to whom the requests for admission have been directed has served
substantially compliant responses before the hearing on the motion.¿ (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2033.280, subds. (b), (c).)¿¿¿¿ 
Kohn served
Plaintiff with the Requests for Admission on March 16, 2023.  (McCormick Decl., Ex. A.)  Responses were due, pursuant to the parties’
agreement to extend the deadline by which to respond, on July 17, 2023.  (McCormick Decl., ¶¶ 3-5.)  Plaintiff did not serve timely
responses.  (McCormick Decl., ¶ 7.)  However, Plaintiff has presented evidence
establishing that he served responses to Kohn’s Requests for Admission on
October 17, 2023.  (Shakouri Decl., Ex.
3.) 
Thus, the
court (1) finds that Plaintiff has served, before the hearing on Kohn’s motion,
responses to the Requests for Admissions that are in substantial compliance
with section 2033.220, and (2) therefore denies Kohn’s motion to deem admitted
the truth of the matters specified in the Requests for Admission.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subds. (b),
(c).) 
The court
grants Kohn’s request for monetary sanctions. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c) [“It is mandatory that the
court impose a monetary sanction . . . on the party . . . whose failure to
serve a timely response to requests for admission necessitated this
motion”].)  The court finds that
$2,113.77 ((2.5 hours x Rodriguez’s $465 hourly rate) + (1.5 hours x
McCormick’s $585 hourly rate) + $73.77 filing fees) is a reasonable amount of
sanctions to impose against Plaintiff in connection with this motion.  (McCormick Decl., ¶¶ 9-11; Rodriguez
Decl., ¶¶ 2-4.)
KOHN’S MOTION TO COMPEL PLAINTIFF’S RESPONSES
TO SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES
Kohn moves the court for an
order (1) compelling Plaintiff to serve responses, without objections, to
Kohn’s Special Interrogatories, Set One, and (2) awarding sanctions in favor of
Kohn and against Plaintiff in the amount of $1,797.27.
If
a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response,
the propounding party may move for an order compelling response to the
interrogatories.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (b).)¿¿¿¿ 
Kohn served
Plaintiff with the Special Interrogatories, Set One, on March 16, 2023.  (McCormick Decl., Ex. A.)  Pursuant to the agreement of the parties,
responses were due on July 17, 2023. 
(McCormick Decl., ¶ 5.) 
Plaintiff did not serve timely responses.  (McCormick Decl, ¶ 6.)  In opposition, Plaintiff has presented
evidence showing that he served, on October 17, 2023, responses to Kohn’s
Special Interrogatories, Set One. 
(Shakouri Decl., Ex. 3.) 
The court
therefore denies Kohn’s motion to compel Plaintiff’s responses to the Special
Interrogatories as moot.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (b).) 
The court
finds that the circumstances presented make the imposition of sanctions unjust
and therefore denies Kohn’s request for an award of monetary sanctions against
Plaintiff.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300,
subd. (c).) 
LOHR-SCHMIDT’S MOTION TO COMPEL
PLAINTIFF’S RESPONSES TO SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES
Lohr-Schmidt
moves the court for an order (1) compelling Plaintiff to serve responses,
without objections, to Lohr-Schmidt’s Special Interrogatories, Set One, and (2)
awarding sanctions in favor of Lohr-Schmidt and against Plaintiff in the amount
of $1,797.27.
If
a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response,
the propounding party may move for an order compelling response to the
interrogatories.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (b).)¿¿¿¿ 
Lohr-Schmidt
served Plaintiff with the Special Interrogatories on March 16, 2023.  (McCormick Decl., Ex. A.)  Pursuant to the agreement of the parties,
responses were due on July 17, 2023. 
(McCormick Decl., ¶¶ 3-5.) 
Plaintiff did not serve timely responses.  (McCormick Decl, ¶ 6.)  In opposition, Plaintiff has presented
evidence establishing that he served responses to Lohr-Schmidt’s Special
Interrogatories on October 17, 2023. 
(Shakouri Decl., Ex. 3.) 
The court
therefore denies Lohr-Schmidt’s motion to compel Plaintiff’s responses to
Special Interrogatories as moot.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (b).) 
The court
finds that the circumstances presented make the imposition of sanctions unjust
and therefore denies Lohr-Schmidt’s request for an award of monetary sanctions
against Plaintiff.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.300, subd. (c).) 
ORDER
            The court grants plaintiff and
cross-defendant Eric Choi’s motion to be relieved from waiver of discovery
objections. 
            The court orders that plaintiff and
cross-defendant Eric Choi is permitted to serve objections to the following
sets of discovery requests: (1) defendants Elaine Kohn and Berndt
Lohr-Schmidt’s Requests for Production of Documents, Set Two; (2) defendant
Elaine Kohn’s Special Interrogatories, Set One; (3) defendant Berndt
Lohr-Schmidt’s Special Interrogatories, Set One; (4) defendants Elaine Kohn and
Berndt Lohr-Schmidt’s Form Interrogatories, Set One; and       (5) defendant Elaine Kohn’s Requests for
Admission, Set One. 
The court denies defendants and cross-complainants Elaine Kohn and
Berndt Lohr-Schmidt’s motion to compel responses to form interrogatories and
for sanctions. 
The court denies defendants and cross-complainants Elaine Kohn and
Berndt Lohr-Schmidt’s motion to compel responses to requests for production,
set two, and for sanctions. 
The court denies defendant and cross-complainant Elaine Kohn’s motion
to deem admitted the matters specified in the requests for admission.  The court grants defendant and
cross-complainant Elaine Kohn’s request for sanctions on that motion.  The court orders plaintiff Eric Choi to pay
sanctions to defendant and cross-complainant Elaine Kohn in the amount of $2,113.77 within 30 days of
the date of this order. 
The court denies defendant and cross-complainant Elaine Kohn’s motion
to compel responses to special interrogatories and for sanctions. 
The court denies defendant and cross-complainant Berndt Lohr-Schmidt’s
motion to compel responses to special interrogatories and for sanctions. 
The court orders plaintiff Eric Choi to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  December 5, 2023
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


