 Case Number:  23STCV01019    Hearing Date:   December 5, 2023    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




angela brown

   , et al.;
 


   Plaintiffs,
 
 
vs.
 
 
smart resources nursing
   registry

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


23STCV01019




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


December
   5, 2023




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
motion to be relieved as counsel for
  defendant
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                W. Dan Lee
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff Angela Brown
Motion to be Relieved as Counsel for Defendant
The court considered the moving and opposition papers filed in
connection with this motion.  No reply
papers were filed.
DISCUSSION
W. Dan Lee (“Defendant’s Counsel”) moves to be relieved as counsel for
defendant Smart Resources Nursing Registry (“Defendant”). 
“The
question of granting or denying an application of an attorney to withdraw as
counsel (Code Civ. Proc., § 284, subd. 2) is one which lies within the sound
discretion of the trial court ‘having in mind whether such withdrawal might
work an injustice in the handling of the case.’”¿ (People v. Prince
(1968) 268 Cal.App.2d 398, 406 [internal quotations omitted].)¿ The court
should also consider whether the attorney’s “withdrawal can be accomplished
without undue prejudice to the client’s interests.”¿ (Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994)
21 Cal.App.4th 904, 915.)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
For
a motion to be relieved as counsel under Code of Civil Procedure section 284,
subdivision (2), California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362 requires (1) a notice
of motion and motion directed to the client (made on the Notice of Motion and
Motion to be Relieved as Counsel -- Civil form (MC-051)); (2) a declaration
stating in general terms and without compromising the confidentiality of the
attorney-client relationship why a motion under Code of Civil Procedure section
284, subdivision (2) is brought instead of filing a consent under Code of Civil
Procedure section 284, subdivision (1) (made on the Declaration in Support of
Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel -- Civil form (MC-052)); (3)
service of the notice of motion and motion, declaration, and proposed order on
the client and on all other parties who have appeared in the case; and (4) the
proposed order relieving counsel (prepared on the Order Granting Attorney’s
Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel -- Civil form (MC-053)).¿¿  
The court
finds that Defendant’s Counsel has served Defendant with the moving papers by
mail at Defendant’s last known address, which Defendant’s Counsel has confirmed
within the past 30 days is current. 
(MC-052, ¶ 3, subds. (a)(2), (b)(1)(a).)  The court also finds that Defendant’s Counsel
has shown sufficient reasons why the motion should be granted, and why
counsel has brought the motion under Code of Civil Procedure section 284,
subdivision (2) instead of filing a consent under section 284, subdivision
(1).¿ (MC-052, ¶¿2.) 
Plaintiff
Angela Brown (“Plaintiff”) has filed an opposition to Defendant’s Counsel’s
motion, arguing that the court should deny the motion because (1) Plaintiff
filed, on November 20, 2023, two motions to compel Defendant’s further
responses to discovery, both of which seek sanctions against Defendant’s
Counsel, and (2) Defendant’s Counsel did not provide sufficient reasons
explaining why a consent was not filed. 
The court disagrees. 
First,
although the court notes that Plaintiff has two pending motions to compel
further discovery responses, Plaintiff has not cited any authority supporting her
request that the court deny Defendant’s Counsel’s motion to be relieved as
counsel on that ground.  Second, the
court finds that Defendant’s Counsel has provided a sufficient declaration in
support of the motion, in which Defendant’s Counsel has stated that withdrawal
is necessary “due to irreconcilable differences between the attorney and the
client.”  (MC-052, ¶ 2.) 
The court
therefore grants Defendant’s Counsel’s motion to be relieved as counsel for
Defendant. 
The court,
however, notes that the proposed “Order Granting Attorney’s Motion to be
Relieved as Counsel – Civil” is incomplete, because it does not state
Defendant’s current or last known address and telephone number.  The court will require Defendant’s Counsel to
provide Defendant’s current or last known address and telephone number at the
hearing on this motion.
W. Dan Lee
will be relieved as counsel of record for defendant Smart Resources Nursing
Registry effective upon the filing of the signed “Order Granting Attorney’s
Motion to be Relieved as Counsel – Civil” on the client. 
The court
orders W. Dan Lee to give notice of this ruling and the signed “Order Granting
Attorney’s Motion to be Relieved as Counsel – Civil” to defendant Smart
Resources Nursing Registry and to all other parties who have appeared in this
action. 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  December 5, 2023
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court