 Case Number:  24SMCV04108    Hearing Date:   December 10, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


December
  10, 2024




CASE NUMBER


24SMCV04108




MOTION


Demurrer
  to Answer




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiff Nadia Heshmati




OPPOSING PARTY


Defendant
  Michael Carbajal



 
MOTION
 
This case arises from allegations of cyberbullying.  On August 26, 2024, Plaintiff Nadia Heshmati
(“Plaintiff”) filed suit against Defendants Dennis Howard Wilen (“Wilen”) and
Michael Carbajal (“Carbajal”) alleging six causes of action for (1) defamation
per se; (2) defamation per quod libel; (3) intentional infliction of emotional
distress; (4) invasion of privacy (CC 1708.85); (5) intentional interference
with economic advantage; and (6) assault and battery. 
 
On October 11, 2024, Defendant Carbajal (“Defendant” or “Carbajal”)
filed the operative Amended Answer to the Complaint, asserting nine affirmative
defenses.
 
Plaintiff now demurs to affirmative defenses 1 through 5 on the
grounds that they fail to state facts sufficient to constitute a defense and
are uncertain.  Carbajal opposes the
demurrer and Plaintiff replies.
 
ANALYSIS
 

DEMURRER

 
A plaintiff may demur to an answer if: “(a) The
answer does not state facts sufficient to constitute a defense.  [¶]  (b) The answer is uncertain. As used in this
subdivision, ‘uncertain’ includes ambiguous and unintelligible.  [¶]  (c) Where the answer pleads a contract, it
cannot be ascertained from the answer whether the contract is written or oral.”
 (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.20.)  “Code of Civil Procedure section
431.30, subdivision (b) provides that an answer to the complaint shall contain,
in addition to a “general or specific denial” of the complaint's allegations, a
statement of any new matter constituting a defense. It has long been held that
if the onus of proof is thrown upon the defendant, the matter to be proved by
him is new matter.”  (Harris v. City
of Santa Monica (2013) 56 Cal.4th 203, 239 [cleaned up].)  
 
As “[t]o the allegations of
new matter, [n]umerous defenses were purportedly raised by defendants’
allegations of affirmative defense.  Most
of these allegations fail to state a defense even when liberally construed in
defendants’ favor. Some are simply immaterial. 
For example, defendants allege as a conclusion that plaintiff's claim is
barred by laches, an equitable defense that has no application to the
plaintiff's legal claim.  All of the
allegations are proffered in the form of terse legal conclusions, rather than
as facts averred as carefully and with as much detail as the facts which
constitute the cause of action and are alleged in the complaint. The only
affirmative defenses that are mentioned in the summary judgment proceedings,
fraud in the inducement and failure of consideration, are not well pled,
consisting of legal conclusions, and would not have survived a demurrer.”  (FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima
(1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 384 [cleaned up]; see also Quantification
Settlement Agreement Cases (2011) 201 Cal.App.4th 758, 813 [“affirmative
defenses cannot be pled as mere legal conclusions but must instead be alleged
with as much factual detail as the allegations of a complaint”]; Department
of Finance v. City of Merced (2019) 33 Cal.App.5th 286, 294, fn. 6
[boilerplate affirmative defenses without factual support are deficient].)  
 
1.    
First Affirmative Defense
 
Defendant asserts the first
affirmative defense as follows:
 
FIRST AFFIRMATIVE
DEFENSE: 
Failure to State a Cause of
Action 
 
109. Plaintiff’s Complaint
fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against
Defendant Carbajal, as supported by California Code of Civil Procedure § 435. 
 
Defendant need not allege
facts to support any affirmative defenses that negate elements of Plaintiff’s
claims, as Plaintiff will bear the burden of proof on those matters at
trial.  For this reason, the Court overrules
Plaintiff’s demurrer to the first affirmative defense in Defendants’ answer, as
that affirmative defense denies elements that Plaintiff must prove at
trial.  
 
2.    
Second Affirmative Defense
 
Defendant asserts the second
affirmative defense as follows:
 
SECOND AFFIRMATIVE
DEFENSE: 
Statute of Limitations 
 
110. Plaintiff’s claims are
barred in whole or in part by the applicable statutes of limitations, including
California Civil Code § 342. 
 
Civil Code section 342
pertains to the claim presentation requirement for actions against a public
entity.  This action is not made against
a public entity, and section 342 does not appear to apply.  Nor does Defendant provide any other facts
supporting a statute of limitations defense. 
Therefore, the Court sustains the demurrer to the second affirmative
defense.
 
3.    
Third through Fifth Affirmative Defenses
 
Defendant asserts the third
through fifth affirmative defenses as follows:
 
THIRD AFFIRMATIVE
DEFENSE: 
Unclean Hands 
 
111. Plaintiff’s claims are
barred by its unclean hands. 
 
FOURTH AFFIRMATIVE
DEFENSE: 
Failure to Mitigate Damages

 
112. Plaintiff failed to
mitigate damages, if any, claimed to have been suffered by her, and therefore,
Plaintiff is barred from this answering Defendant. 
 
FIFTH AFFIRMATIVE
DEFENSE: 
Limitation of Liabilities

 
113. Plaintiff’s claimed damages under Paragraph(s) 56 through 105 of
the Complaint are limited by the absence of cognizable damages, the applicable
statutes of limitations, and mitigating circumstances.
 
Defendant similarly fails to state any facts to support these
affirmative defenses.  As such, the Court
sustains the demurrer to the third, fourth, and fifth affirmative defenses. 
 

LEAVE TO AMEND

 
The drafter of the challenged pleading has the
burden of showing in what manner the pleading could be amended and how the
amendment would change the legal effect of the pleading, i.e., state an
affirmative defense. (See The Inland Oversight Committee v. City of San
Bernardino (2018) 27 Cal.App.5th 771, 779; PGA West Residential Assn.,
Inc. v. Hulven Int'l, Inc. (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 156, 189.) They must not
only state the legal basis for the amendment, but also the factual allegations
sufficient to state a cause of action or claim. (See PGA West Residential
Assn., Inc. v. Hulven Int'l, Inc., supra, 14 Cal.App.5th at p. 189.)
This burden is not met by merely stating in the opposition to a demurrer or
motion to strike that “if the Court finds the operative complaint deficient,
plaintiff [or defendant] respectfully requests leave to amend.” (See Major
Clients Agency v Diemer (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1116, 1133; Graham v. Bank
of America (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 594, 618 [asserting an abstract right to
amend does not satisfy the burden].)
 
            Here, Defendant fails to meet this
burden, as Defendant merely states in the opposition, “Defendant will
undoubtedly have a reasonable possibility of successful amendment upon
conducting the necessary discovery.”  Thus,
Defendant concedes that he does not currently have the requisite facts to plead
to support these affirmative defenses. 
Should Defendant subsequently discover additional information in
discovery that supports these affirmative defenses, the parties may stipulate,
or Defendant may move for leave to amend the answer at that time.  
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court overrules Plaintiff’s demurrer to the first
affirmative defense but sustains Plaintiff’s demurrer to Defendant’s second
through fifth affirmative defenses asserted in the operative answer without
leave to amend.  
 
Plaintiff shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file the
notice with a proof of service forthwith. 
 
 
DATED:  December 10, 2024                                                ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 