  Case Number:  20SMUD00869    Hearing Date:   December 10, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


December
  10, 2024




CASE NUMBER


20SMUD00869




MOTIONS


Motion
  to Compel Defendant and Cross-Complainant Birgitta Lauren’s Deposition and Production
  of Documents; Sanctions




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiff
  American Financial Center, Inc.




OPPOSING PARTIES


none



 
MOTIONS
 
This case arises from a dispute over real property.  Plaintiff American Financial Center alleges
Defendants Birgitta Lauren (“Lauren”) and Erik K. Yohan AKA Eric Knipe
(“Knipe”) (collectively, “Defendants”) unlawfully continued to occupy the
subject condominium following foreclosure and sale of the property.  With possession no longer at issue,
Plaintiff’s operative complaint seeks damages.
 
Defendants have also brought a cross-complaint against Plaintiff and
Mark Crittenden aka Mark Afincen (“Cross-Defendant”), alleging that they
fraudulently acquired an interest in the subject property upon which they
initiated the foreclosure proceedings.  
 
Plaintiff now moves to compel Lauren’s deposition and for monetary
sanctions.  The motion is unopposed.
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.     Deposition
 
“If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action or an
officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party, or a person
designated by an organization that is a party under Section 2025.230, without
having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for
examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling
the deponent's attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in
the deposition notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).)
 
Here, on December 21, 2023, Plaintiff electronically served Lauren’s
then-counsel a Notice of Deposition, scheduled for January 30, 2024, to which
Plaintiff was to produce seven categories of documents.  (Exs. A-B to Domenico Decl.)  That same day, counsel replied that she was
unavailable that day, but she would be available in February.  (Ex. B to Domenico Decl.)
 
The following day, on December 22, the parties agreed to hold the
deposition on February 12, 2024.  (Ex. C
to Domenico Decl.)  On December 28, Plaintiff
served counsel an amended notice of deposition, reflecting the February 12
deposition date.  (Ex. D to Domenico
Decl.)
 
On February 12, 2024, neither Lauren nor Lauren’s then-counsel
appeared for the scheduled deposition. 
(Domenico Decl. at ¶ 8.)  When
Plaintiff’s counsel emailed Lauren’s counsel to follow up, Lauren’s counsel
indicated they had sent an objection to the notice of deposition on the grounds
that Lauren’s counsel had a pending motion to be relieved as counsel due to a
conflict of interest and counsel could not proceed with the deposition.  (Ex. F to Domenico Decl.)
 
Lauren’s counsel subsequently emailed the referenced Objection to
Plaintiff’s Notice of Deposition, dated February 5, 2024.  (Ex. G to Domenico Decl.)  The Objection also finally arrived by mail on
February 17, 2024.  (Domenico Decl. at ¶
13.)
 
Lauren’s counsel’s motion to be relieved was granted on April 4,
2024.  The parties attended an informal
discovery conference (“IDC”) on April 9, 2024. 
Subsequently, the parties mutually agreed to a new deposition date of
May 15, 2024.  (Domenico Decl. ¶
15.)  At 9:50 p.m. on the evening of May
14, Lauren sent Plaintiff’s counsel an email indicating she was unable to
attend the deposition due to an unforeseen illness.  (Domenico Decl. at ¶ 16 and Ex. J.)
 
On May 23, 2024, Lauren sent Plaintiff’s counsel a doctor’s letter
excusing Lauren from any work for 90 days due to her spinal health.  (Domenico Decl. at ¶ 18 and Ex. K.)
 
Although Plaintiff has demonstrated that Lauren did not attend the
deposition as scheduled, either on February 12 or on May 15, Lauren did provide
compelling reasons why the depositions could not proceed.  
 
For the February 12th date, Lauren’s counsel apparently served
objections regarding the conflict of interest between counsel and client,
preventing counsel from being able to effectively represent Lauren at the
deposition.  Although Plaintiff’s counsel
did not actually receive that objection in advance of the scheduled deposition,
there is no indication that Lauren’s counsel did not send it on or about
February 5, as dated.
 
Regarding the May 15 date, Lauren herself apparently became ill, as
confirmed by a doctor’s note dated May 14. 
Although Lauren did not notify counsel of the illness until the evening
of May 14, Lauren herself did not apparently have the diagnosis until May 14th.  Further, Lauren presented a doctor’s note
excusing her from work for 90 days to protect her spinal health.  
 
Plaintiff has not produced any subsequent attempted communications or
scheduled depositions that were not properly objected to or excused.  Therefore, the Court finds Plaintiff’s motion
to compel premature.
 
2.    
Monetary Sanctions
Plaintiff
also requests monetary sanctions in connection with the motion to compel
deposition.  Because the Court denies
Plaintiff’s motion as premature, the Court similarly denies Plaintiff’s request
for monetary sanctions.     
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the foregoing reasons, the
Court denies without prejudice Plaintiff’s motion to compel Lauren’s deposition
as premature.  
 
Plaintiff shall provide notice
of the Court’s order and file the notice with a proof of service forthwith.  
 
 
DATED:  December 10, 2024                                                ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 
 