 Case Number:  23SMCV01097    Hearing Date:   December 10, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


December
  10, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV01097




MOTION


Motion
  for Summary Judgment




MOVING PARTY


Cross-Complainant Dalton Barnes




OPPOSING PARTIES


Cross-Defendants
  Alpha Real Estate Advisors, LLC and Braden Crocket



 
MOVING PAPERS:
 

Notice
     of Motion and Motion for Summary Adjudication; Memorandum of Points and
     Authorities
Separate
     Statement of Undisputed Material Facts and Supporting Evidence
Declaration
     of Stephanie R. Perez
Declaration
     of Dalton Barnes

 
OPPOSITION PAPERS:
1.     Opposition to Motion for Summary Adjudication
2.     Response to Separate Statement of
Undisputed Material Facts
3.     Evidentiary Objections to the Declaration
of Dalton Barnes
REPLY PAPERS:
1.     Reply in support of Motion for Summary Adjudication
BACKGROUND
 
On October 5, 2023, Plaintiff Sixth Street Realty, L.P. (“Plaintiff”) filed
the operative Second Amended Complaint alleging two causes of action for (1) breach
of lease (unpaid rents) against Defendant Alpha Real Estate Advisors, LLC
(“Alpha”) and (2) breach of written guarantee against Defendants Braden Crocket
(“Crocket”) and Dalton Barnes (“Barnes”). 

 
On August 27, 2024, the Court granted Plaintiff’s motion for summary
judgment with respect to the operative Complaint, finding no triable issue of
material fact that Alpha had breached the lease and Crocket and Barnes had
breached the guaranty by failing to pay the agreed upon rent.
 
On June 21, 2024, Barnes filed the operative Cross-Complaint against
Alpha and Crocket, alleging five causes of action for (1) breach of contract;
(2) declaratory judgment; (3) indemnity; (4) express indemnity; and (5) implied
indemnity.
 
Barnes now moves for summary adjudication on his claims of breach of
contract, express indemnification, and declaratory relief.  Alpha and Crocket (“Cross-Defendants”)
oppose, and Barnes replies.
 
EVIDENCE
 
            The
Court rules as follows with respect to Cross-Defendants’ Evidentiary Objections
to the Declaration of Dalton Barnes:
 
1.     Overruled
2.     Overruled
3.     Overruled
4.     Overruled
 
LEGAL STANDARDS – MOTION FOR ADJUDICATION
 
“[T]he party moving for
summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue
of material fact and that he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law[.] There
is a triable issue of material fact if, and only if, the evidence would allow a
reasonable trier of fact to find the underlying fact in favor of the party
opposing the motion in accordance with the applicable standard of proof.” ¿(Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850 (hereafter Aguilar).)
¿“[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of production
to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of
material fact; if he carries his burden of production, he causes a shift, and
the opposing party is then subjected to a burden of production of his own to
make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of material
fact.” ¿(Ibid.; Smith v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2005) 135
Cal.App.4th 1463, 1474 [summary judgment standards held by Aguilar apply
to summary adjudication motions].)  
 
Further, “the trial court
may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a factfinder to determine whose
version is more likely true.  Nor may the
trial court grant summary judgment based on the court's evaluation of credibility.”  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th. at p. 840
[cleaned up]; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of Transportation
(2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or
summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the
light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences
in favor of that party”].)  
 
A party may move for
summary adjudication as to one or more causes of action, affirmative defenses,
claims for damages, or issues of duty if that party contends that there is no
merit to the cause of action, defense, or claim for damages, or if the party
contends that there is no duty owed.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).)  “A motion for summary adjudication shall be
granted only if it completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative
defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty.”  (Ibid.)  A cause of action has no merit if: (1) one or
more elements of the cause of action cannot be separately established, even if
that element is separately pleaded, or (2) a defendant establishes an
affirmative defense to that cause of action. 
(See Code Civ. Proc., §
437c, subd. (n); Union Bank v. Superior
Court (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 573, 583.) 
Once the defendant has shown that a cause of action has no merit, the
burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable issue of material fact
exists as to that cause of action.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (o)(2); Union Bank v. Superior Court, supra, 31 Cal.App.4th at p.
583.)  Additionally, in line with Aguilar,
“[o]n a motion for summary adjudication, the trial court has no discretion to
exercise.  If a triable issue of material fact exists as to the challenged
causes of action, the motion must be denied. If there is no triable issue of
fact, the motion must be granted.”  (Fisherman's Wharf Bay Cruise Corp.
v. Superior Court (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 309, 320.) 
 
DISCUSSION

            
“To prevail on a cause of
action for breach of contract, the plaintiff must prove (1) the contract, (2)
the plaintiff's performance of the contract or excuse for nonperformance, (3)
the defendant's breach, and (4) the resulting damage to the plaintiff.”  (Richman v. Hartley (2014) 224
Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186.)  
 
The Cross-Complaint alleges Barnes
and Cross-Defendants are parties to an Operating Agreement that requires the Alpha
to indemnify its members, which Cross-Defendants breached by failing to
indemnify Barnes for the damages alleged in Plaintiff’s complaint.
 
Barnes’ Evidence
 
In support of the motion,
Barnes has provided a copy of the Operating Agreement for Alpha Real Estate
Investors, LLC.  (Ex. 1 to Perez Decl.)  The members are listed as Crockett and Barnes.  (Ibid.)  Section 4.6 of that Agreement provides:
 
4.6 Indemnity. No Member is liable
or accountable in damages or otherwise to the Company or the other Members for
any act or omission done or omitted in good faith, unless such act or omission
constitutes gross negligence, willful misconduct, breach of fiduciary duties,
or a breach of this Agreement. The Company must indemnify each Member against
any loss, damage, judgment, or claim incurred by or asserted against the Member
(including reasonable attorneys’ fees incurred in the defense thereof) arising
out of any act or omission of the Member in connection with the Company, unless
such act or omission constitutes gross negligence, willful misconduct, breach
of fiduciary duties, or a breach of this Agreement on the part of the Member.
 
            Further,
Barnes has provided the Declaration of Dalton Barnes, which provides:
 
7. On March 26, 2022, I executed the Lease
Agreement with Plaintiff as a Member of Defendant Alpha Real Estate Advisors
LLC, for the benefit of Defendant Alpha Real Estate Advisors LLC. Attached
herein is a true and correct copy of the signature line of the lease agreement,
where I am identified as a member.
 
8. Defendant Crockett was responsible for making
the rent payments, and Alpha’s financial responsibilities. On occasion, I
administratively make the rent payments with Defendant Crockett’s permission. 
 
9. Initially, Defendant ALPHA provided a joint
defense for Defendants Alpha, myself and Defendant Crockett, whom were jointly
represented by Casper Yen, Esq. 
 
10. I learned through our joint attorney Casper
Yen, Esq. ALPHA disclosed its refusal to honor the indemnification provision. 
 
11. I immediately retained separate counsel and
substituted out Casper Yen, Esq. on May 15, 2024. Defendant ALPHA refused to
pay for my reasonable attorneys (sic) fees incurred after the conflict interest
arose.
 
(Barnes Decl. ¶¶ 7-11.)
 
Thus, as to Alpha, Barnes has
provided prima facie evidence of the contract (Operating Agreement), Barnes’
performance under the contract (executing the lease agreement and making
administrative rent payments as a Member of Alpha), Alpha’s breach (refusal to
honor the indemnification provision or pay Barnes’ reasonable attorneys’ fees),
and damages (the attorneys’ fees he incurred.)  Similarly, Barnes has provided prima facie
evidence of Alpha’s breach of the express indemnity provision.
 
As to Crockett, however, pursuant
to the indemnity provision, Crockett is not liable to Barnes, as a fellow
Member, unless Crockett’s act or omission constitutes gross negligence, willful
misconduct, breach of fiduciary duties, or a breach of the Operating
Agreement.  But Barnes has not presented
any evidence of Crockett’s gross negligence, willful misconduct, or breach of
fiduciary duties.  Furthermore, the only
alleged breach of the Operating Agreement is the failure to indemnify
Barnes.  But in the absence of gross
negligence, willful misconduct, breach of fiduciary duties, or some other
breach of the Operating Agreement, only Alpha had an obligation to indemnify Barnes
as a Member.  
 
Further, as for declaratory
relief, a plaintiff must show their action presents two essential elements:
“(1) a proper subject of declaratory relief, and (2) an actual controversy
involving justiciable questions relating to the rights or obligations of a
party.”  (Lee v. Silveira (2016) 6
Cal.App.5th 527, 546.)  
 
Here, Barnes “seeks a judicial
declaration that Cross-Defendants shall defend and indemnify DALTON BARNES for
all damages alleged by Plaintiff and all attorneys’ fees and costs relating to
the defense and now prosecution of this cross-complaint.”  (Cross-Complaint ¶ 19.)  The Court finds the facts presented do not
support the requested declaratory relief for several reasons.
 
First, pursuant to the
indemnification provision, Alpha would be responsible to indemnify Barnes for damages
actually incurred, not “all damages alleged” by Plaintiff.  
 
Second, to the extent Barnes
has already retained separate counsel and litigated the original complaint to
judgment, declaratory relief requiring Alpha to defend Barnes appears moot.  
 
Third, Barnes’ request for
attorneys’ fees incurred in prosecuting the cross-complaint go beyond the
indemnity provision, which only requires indemnity of claims “incurred
by or asserted against the Member (including reasonable attorneys’ fees
incurred in the defense thereof)[.]”  As
cross-complainant, the claims in the cross-complaint were neither incurred
by/asserted against Barnes, nor do Barnes’ legal fees pertain to “the defense
thereof.”  
 
Moreover, the requested
Declaratory Relief is also wholly inappropriate as to Crockett because, as
discussed above, there is no evidence that Crockett engaged in gross
negligence, willful misconduct, breach of fiduciary duties, or breach of the
Operating Agreement such that Crockett is personally liable to Barnes, as
fellow Members.  
 
Therefore, Barnes has met his
initial burdens of production and persuasion that Alpha breached the express
indemnity provision of the Operating Agreement, for purposes of the breach of
contract and express indemnity claims against Alpha, but Barnes has not met his
initial burdens of production and persuasion that Crockett has breached the
Operating Agreement or express indemnity provision therein, or that the
requested declaratory relief is warranted as to either Alpha or Crockett.
 
Cross-Defendants’ Evidence
 
Cross-Defendants do not proffer
any evidence in opposition.  Instead,
they argue (1) Barnes has not produced any evidence that Crockett’s act or
omission constituted gross negligence, willful misconduct, breach of fiduciary
duty or breach of agreement; and (2) Barnes has not established which came
first – his decision to get a different lawyer or his decision to move to Texas.
 
As for the first argument, the
Court agrees, and as discussed above, denies summary adjudication on all claims
as to Defendant Crockett.
 
As for Cross-Defendants’
second argument, it does not matter whether Barnes first moved to Texas or
retained a separate attorney, because either way, Barnes has presented evidence
that Alpha refused to indemnify him in violation of the agreement.
 
Therefore, Cross-Defendants
have not met their burden of production to create a triable issue of material
fact as to whether Alpha breached the agreement by failing to indemnify Barnes.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court grants in part and denies in part Barnes’ motion
for summary adjudication.  Having found
Barnes met his initial burdens of production and persuasion that Alpha breached
the Operating Agreement by failing to indemnify Barnes, the Court grants
summary adjudication as to Barnes’ first cause of action for breach of contract
and fourth cause of action for express indemnity against Alpha.  
 
However, having found Barnes failed to meet his initial burdens of
production and persuasion that Crockett committed an act or omission that
constituted gross negligence, willful misconduct, breach of fiduciary duties,
or breach of the Operating Agreement, the Court denies summary adjudication as
to Crockett.  
 
Further, having found Barnes failed to meet his initial burdens of
production and persuasion that the requested declaratory relief is warranted,
the Court similarly denies summary adjudication as to the second cause of
action for declaratory relief against all Cross-Defendants. 
 
Barnes shall file and serve a proposed Order in conformance with the
Court’s ruling on or before December 27, 2024. 
Further, Barnes shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file the
notice with a proof of service forthwith.   
 
 
 
 
 
DATED:  December 10, 2024                                                ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 