Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 24STCV09643
Plaintiff's Name: SAS Investment Management, LLC and EJS Enterprises Corp.
Defendant's Name: Mona Ghadiriforoushani, Mike Kyser Gooch dba MKG Realty & Property Management, and Professional Property Managers, Inc.
People-Names: Mona Ghadiriforoushani, Mike Kyser Gooch
Company-Names: SAS Investment Management, LLC, EJS Enterprises Corp., MKG Realty & Property Management, Professional Property Managers, Inc.
Places: Hobart, Hayworth, Ave 53, Occidental, Clark, Jasmine, Newcastle, La Mirada
Dates: April 17, 2024, July 23, 2024, August 26, 2024, September 9, 2024
Events: Filing of complaint, filing of demurrer, opposition to demurrer, meet and confer
Money: None mentioned
Intentions: Defendants intend to demur in that the property management agreement was not attached to the complaint
Facts: Mona managed the properties for Plaintiffs from 2018 to 2022, Defendants allegedly breached their duties to Plaintiffs and violated the law
Disputes: Whether the complaint states a cause of action or defense
Acts: Filing of complaint, filing of demurrer, opposition to demurrer, meet and confer
Agreements: Property management agreement
Laws: Code of Civil Procedure, California Civil Code, Hahn v. Mirda, Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and Power, SKF Farms v. Superior Court, Miles v. Deutsche Bank National Trust Co.
Case Citations: Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747, Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228, SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905, Miles v. Deutsche Bank National Trust Co. (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 394, 402
Statutes: Code of Civil Procedure, Code of Civil Procedure, ยง 430.30, subd. (a)
Roles: Judge, Plaintiff, Defendant
Significant Statements: "Defendants intend to demur in that the property management agreement was not attached to the complaint", "Plaintiffs have not asserted a breach of contract claim, and even if they had, attaching the contract would not be required", "The Court cannot consider extrinsic evidence of the purported agreement on a demurrer"
```

As for the English-text summary:

The Judge has issued a tentative ruling on the defendants' demurrer to the complaint. The complaint alleges causes of action for professional negligence, breach of fiduciary duty, constructive fraud, statutory violations, and negligence per se against the defendants, Mona Ghadiriforoushani, Mike Kyser Gooch dba MKG Realty & Property Management, and Professional Property Managers, Inc. The defendants argue that the property management agreement was not attached to the complaint and that there was no mediation before filing the lawsuit. However, the Judge finds that the failure to attach the agreement is not grounds for a demurrer and that the alleged breaches of duty and violations of law are sufficient to state a cause of action. The Judge also rejects the defendants' argument that the complaint is insufficient because it does not include extraneous facts. As a result, the Judge overrules the defendants' demurrer.