 Case Number:  23STCV31867    Hearing Date:   September 9, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
ODILE MADDEN,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
GETTY CONSERVATION
  INSTITUTE, et al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  23STCV31867
  Hearing Date:  September 9, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendant j. paul getty trust’s motions
  to compel further responses 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On December 29, 2023, Plaintiff
Odile Madden filed this employment discrimination action against Defendants
Getty Conservation Institute and J. Paul Getty Trust.  
            On August 1, 2024, Defendant J. Paul
Getty Trust filed the instant two motions to compel further responses to its
Form Interrogatories and Requests for Production. Plaintiff filed her
oppositions on August 12, 2024. Defendant filed its replies on August 16, 2024.

LEGAL STANDARD
Upon receiving responses to its discovery
requests, the propounding party may move for an order compelling further
responses if the responses are incomplete or evasive, or objections are without
merit or too general. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300(a), 2031.310(a),
2033.290(a).) The party seeking production of documents
bears the initial burden of showing good cause through a fact-specific showing
of relevance. (Kirkland v. Superior Court (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 92, 98.)
Once this showing is made, the burden shifts to the responding party to justify
any objections. (Ibid.) 
MEET AND CONFER
A motion to compel further must be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration demonstrating an attempt to
resolve the matter informally. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300(b)(1),
2031.310(b), 2033.290(b).) The Court finds that Defendant has satisfied the meet
and confer requirement. (See Espinoza Decl.)
DISCUSSION
I.
Notice Period
            Plaintiff argues, and Defendant
concedes, that the motions were set for hearing too soon after service of the
notices of motion. (See Code Civ. Proc., §§ 1005(b), 1010.6(a)(2)(B).) However,
the difference was only two court days, and Plaintiff articulates no prejudice
as a result. The scheduling was inadvertent, and Defendant has continued the
hearing and offered to allow Plaintiff to file a supplemental opposition.
(Espinoza Reply Decl. ¶¶ 2-3.) Plaintiff declined to file an amended
opposition. (Id., ¶ 3.) 
The Court does not find the scheduling
error to be a sufficient reason to deny the motions and therefore proceeds on
the merits. 
II.
Form Interrogatories
FROG No. 9.1 asked Plaintiff to identify
her damages. FROG No. 9.2 asked: “Do any DOCUMENTS support the existence or
amount of any items of damages claimed in interrogatory 9.1? If so, describe
each document and state the name, ADDRESS, and telephone number of the PERSON
who has each DOCUMENT.” Plaintiff responded: “Yes, financial records, including
bank records and W2s.” 
            Plaintiff’s response is not “as
complete and straightforward as the information reasonably available to the
responding party permits.” (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.220(a).) The response
fails to describe each document and fails to state the name, address, and phone
number of each person who has each document. This is basic information
requested by the plain language of the interrogatory. Plaintiff provides no
explanation for her failure to fully answer the request. 
            The motion is GRANTED as to FROG No.
9.2.
III.
Requests for Production
            RFP Nos. 19 and 20 seek all entries
or comments that Plaintiff made in any journal, diary, social media post, or
correspondence concerning the allegations or damages in the complaint. RFP Nos.
59-61 seek communications between Plaintiff and specific third parties
concerning the allegations in the complaint. 
            a. Good Cause
Defendant has established good cause for
production because the information sought concerns Plaintiff’s own allegations
and purported damages. The third parties identified in RFP Nos. 59-61 are
individuals who Plaintiff identified in self-assessments of her job
performance. Therefore, those individuals are pertinent witnesses regarding the
issues raised in the complaint, even if they are not named in the complaint. 
            b. Reasonable Particularity
Plaintiff argues that the requests seek
information in an omnibus manner and are not reasonably particularized. The
Court disagrees. The RFPs are sufficiently narrow and specific to inform
Plaintiff of the nature of the documents sought. They are not “blanket
demand[s]” like the ones in Calcor Space Facility, Inc. v. Superior Court
(1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216, 222. Plaintiff does not explain how reformulating
the requests to separately demand each category of communication (texts,
emails, social media posts, etc.) would improve her understanding of the RFPs
or make the them less burdensome. Plaintiff also fails to explain how the
requests, as written, are overly burdensome. 
 
 
c. Privacy
“The party asserting a privacy right must
establish a legally protected privacy interest, an objectively reasonable
expectation of privacy in the given circumstances, and a threatened intrusion
that is serious.” (Williams v. Sup. Ct. (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 552.) If
the court finds a privacy interest, the court must balance the privacy concerns
against the need for the information. (Id. at p. 552.) Discovery of
private information is governed by the more stringent standard of direct
relevance in order to prevent a fishing expedition of “tangentially pertinent
sensitive information.” (Boler v. Sup. Ct. (1987) 201 Cal.App.3d 467,
472.) 
Plaintiff has not articulated a reasonable
expectation of privacy in the information sought, nor has Plaintiff
demonstrated that the RFPs represent a serious intrusion on that privacy
interest. The information pertains to Plaintiff’s own allegations and matters
that Plaintiff herself placed at issue. Even assuming a privacy interest
existed, the information is directly relevant for the reasons discussed above,
and Defendant’s need for the information would outweigh the privacy interest.
Furthermore, a protective order will assuage the privacy concerns. (See Hill
v. National Collegiate Athletic Assn. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 1, 38.)  
CONCLUSION
            Defendant J. Paul Getty Trust’s
motions to compel further responses are GRANTED. Plaintiff shall provide further
responses to FROG No. 9.2 and RFP Nos. 19-20 and 59-61 within 20 days of this
order. Production shall be subject to a protective order. Sanctions are denied.
 
 