 Case Number:  24STCV09643    Hearing Date:   September 9, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
SAS INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT, LLC, et al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
MONA GHADIRIFOROUSHANI,
  et al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  24STCV09643
  Hearing Date:  September 9, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendants’ demurrer to complaint 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On April 17, 2024, Plaintiffs SAS
Investment Management, LLC and EJS Enterprises Corp. filed this action against
Defendants Mona Ghadiriforoushani (Mona); Mike Kyser Gooch dba MKG Realty &
Property Management (MKG); and Professional Property Managers, Inc. (PPMI). The
complaint asserts causes of action for (1) professional negligence, (2) breach
of fiduciary duty, (3) constructive fraud, (4) statutory violations, and (5)
negligence per se. 
            The action concerns eight investment
properties owned or controlled by Plaintiffs: Hobart, Hayworth, Ave 53,
Occidental, Clark, Jasmine, Newcastle, and La Mirada (collectively, the
Properties). Mona allegedly managed the properties for Plaintiffs from 2018 to
2022, first as an agent for MKG, then as an agent for PPMI. 
Defendants allegedly breached their duties
to Plaintiffs and violated the law in the following ways: (i) Mona leased a
unit on the Hobart property to her son without properly tying that tenancy to
his tenure as resident manager; (ii) Defendants fraudulently included Mona as
one of the Hobart tenants without Plaintiffs’ knowledge; (iii) Defendants
failed to provide Plaintiffs with copies of the Hobart leases and resident
manager agreement; (iv) Defendants failed to submit paperwork to the Housing
Authority to obtain reimbursement for certain retrofit costs for the Hobart and
Hayworth properties; (v) Defendants failed to implement a certain program
(RUBS) to allow the passthrough of certain utility costs to tenants of the
Properties; and (vi) Defendants lied to Plaintiffs about the above
matters.        
On July 23, 2024, Defendants filed the
instant demurrer to the complaint. Plaintiffs filed their opposition on August
26, 2024. 
LEGAL STANDARD
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether a
pleading states a cause of action or defense. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in
context. (Taylor v. City of Los
Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.)
In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the
pleading or by proper judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd.
(a).) A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other
extrinsic matters. (SKF Farms v. Superior
Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) Therefore, it lies only where the
defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (Ibid.) The only issue involved in a
demurrer hearing is whether the pleading, as it stands, unconnected with
extraneous matters, states a cause of action or defense. (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.)
MEET AND CONFER
Before filing a demurrer or a motion to
strike, the demurring or moving party is required to meet and confer with the
party who filed the pleading demurred to or the pleading that is subject to the
motion to strike for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be
reached through a filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the
objections to be raised in the demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.41, 435.5.)
The Court notes that Defendants have complied with the meet and confer
requirement. (See Bakhos Decl.)
DISCUSSION
I.
Property Management Agreement
Defendants begin their demurrer argument
by stating: “Defendants intend to demur in that the property management
agreement was not attached to the complaint. In regard to Defendant MGK, the
property management agreement states Agent assumes no liability for prior
management or agent acts . . . Also, per the management agreement, there must
be mediation prior to filing a lawsuit, therefore Defendant MGK also intends to
demur generally to the complaint for failure to conduct mediation.” (Dem.
3:6-13.) 
Defendants cite no authority suggesting
that the failure to attach the purported management agreement is grounds for a
demurrer. Plaintiffs have not asserted a breach of contract claim, and even if
they had, attaching the contract would not be required. (See Miles v.
Deutsche Bank National Trust Co. (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 394, 402.) Whether
a contract exists which absolves MGK of liability is a factual issue not suited
for resolution on a demurrer. The Court cannot consider extrinsic evidence of
the purported agreement on a demurrer. Lastly, Defendants cite no authority
supporting their contention that the failure to mediate is grounds for
demurrer. 
II.
Extraneous Facts
            The remainder of Defendants’
demurrer is a narrative of extraneous facts beyond the four corners of the
complaint. Defendants cite no authority and make no legal argument about the
sufficiency of the allegations that are actually in the complaint. Defendants
simply attempt to rebut the allegations through their own version of events, even
though Plaintiff’s allegations are assumed true on a demurrer. Because no valid
argument has been made about the sufficiency of the complaint, there is no
basis for sustaining the demurrer. 
CONCLUSION
            Defendants’ demurrer is OVERRULED.