 Case Number:  22STCV30559    Hearing Date:   March 27, 2024    Dept:  27 Complaint Filed: 9/19/22 ¿ Hon. Lee S. Arian Department 27 Tentative Ruling ¿¿¿¿¿¿ Hearing Date:  3/27/2024 at 1:30 p.m. Case No./Name: 22STCV30559 MARYAM SHAHBAZI vs CITY OF BEVERLY HILLS Motion: MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT¿ Moving Party: Defendant City of Beverly Hills Responding Party: Plaintiff Notice:   Sufficient  Ruling: MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT IS DENIED.  Background¿ ¿ On September 19, 2022, Plaintiff filed this lawsuit against Defendant City of Beverly Hills ("City"), asserting a single cause of action for Dangerous Condition of Public Property, under Government Code § 835. Plaintiff alleges that on December 9, 2021, around 1:00 p.m., she tripped and fell on a 7/8-inch uneven gap/displacement between two sidewalk concrete slabs while walking on a sidewalk near the Beverly Hills Courthouse. Defendant now moves the Court for summary judgment on the basis that a vertical displacement of 7/8 inches is trivial and that the City did not have notice of the purported dangerous condition. Plaintiff argues that the City's own policy deems any displacement over ¾ of an inch as a non-trivial and the City had known about the defect for several months but failed to remedy it according to its own policy.  Evidentiary Ruling¿ ¿ The Parties did not make any objections to evidence that was material to Court’s ruling on the Motion for Summary Judgment.¿(CCP § 437c(q).)¿¿ ¿ ¿ Legal Standard¿¿ ¿ The purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite its allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve its dispute.” Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal. 4th 826, 843. “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal. App. 4th 1110, 1119.¿¿¿¿ ¿¿¿ A “defendant moving for summary judgment must show the plaintiff’s causes of action have¿no merit.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.¿(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 849, emphasis added.) In other words, summary judgment is not to be granted simply because a case is “weak” or because a “weak” showing was made in opposition. (Hagen v. Hickenbottom¿(1995) 41 Cal.App.4th 168, 187-188, superseded by statute on another point as recognized in¿Rice v. Clark¿(2002) 28 Cal.4th 89, 96;¿Mamou v. Trendwest Resorts, Inc.¿(2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 589, 722. [“to avoid summary judgment a showing need not be strong; it need only be sufficient to raise a triable issue of fact.”].)¿¿¿ ¿¿ “On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material fact.” Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal. App. 4th 1510, 1519. A defendant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action.” CCP § 437c(p)(2). “Once the defendant . . . has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” CCP § 437c(p)(2).¿¿¿  Government Code Section 835 ¿  Government Code section 835 sets out the exclusive conditions under which a public entity is liable for injuries caused by a dangerous condition of public property.¿ (Metcalf v. County of San Joaquin (2008) 42 Cal.4th 1121, 1129, citing Brown v. Poway Unified Sch. Dist. (1993) 4 Cal.4th 820, 829; see also Zelig v. County of Los Angeles (2002) 27 Cal.4th 1112.)¿ Per Government Code section 835, “a public entity is liable for injury caused by a dangerous condition of its property if the plaintiff establishes that the property was in a dangerous condition at the time of the injury, that the injury was proximately caused by the dangerous condition, that the dangerous condition created a reasonably foreseeable risk of the kind of injury which was incurred, and that either: [¶] (a) A negligent or wrongful act or omission of an employee of the public entity within the scope of his employment created the dangerous condition; or [¶] (b) The public entity had actual or constructive notice of the dangerous condition . . . a sufficient time prior to the injury to have taken measures to protect against the dangerous condition.”¿ (Gov. Code, § 835.)¿¿¿ ¿ A “dangerous condition” is a condition of public property that “create[s] a substantial (as distinguished from a minor, trivial or insignificant) risk of injury when such property or adjacent property is used with due care in a manner in which it was reasonably foreseeable that it would be used.” (Gov. Code, § 830.2.)¿¿¿ ¿ Trivial Defect Doctrine¿¿  In Kasparian v. AvalonBay Communities, Inc. (2007) 56 Cal.App.4th XX, 26-28, the Court explained the trivial defect doctrine as follows:   “In summary, persons who maintain walkways,  whether public or private, are not required to  maintain them in an absolutely perfect    condition.¿ The duty of care imposed on a   property owner with actual notice, does not   require the repair of minor defects.”¿ Although sometimes referred to as the trivial defect defense, the trivial defect doctrine is “not an affirmative defense but rather an aspect of duty ... plaintiff must plead and prove.”¿¿ ¿ The trivial defect doctrine originated to shield public entities from liability where conditions on public property create a risk “of such a minor, trivial or insignificant nature in view of the surrounding circumstances ... no reasonable person would conclude that the condition created a substantial risk of injury when such property or adjacent property was used with due care in a manner in which it was reasonably foreseeable that it would be used.” This doctrine “permits a court to determine ‘triviality’ as a matter of law rather than always submitting the issue to a jury [and] provides a check valve for the elimination from the court system of unwarranted litigation which attempts to impose upon a property owner what amounts to absolute liability for injury to persons who come upon the property.” The trivial defect doctrine has been expanded to embrace actions against private landowners.¿ ¿ “[W]hen a court determines whether a given defect is trivial, as a matter of law, the court should not rely merely upon the size of the depression. While size may be one of the most relevant factors to the decision, it is not always the sole criteria. Instead, the court should determine whether there existed any circumstances surrounding the accident which might have rendered the defect more dangerous than its mere abstract depth would indicate. As such, the court should view the intrinsic nature and quality of the defect to see if, for example, it consists of the mere nonalignment of two horizontal slabs or whether it consists of a jagged and deep hole. The court should also look at other factors such as whether the accident occurred at night in an unlighted area. Furthermore, the court should see if there is any evidence that other persons have been injured on this same defect.”¿ ¿ If the “court determines ... sufficient evidence has been presented so that reasonable minds may differ as to whether the defect is dangerous, the court may not rule ... the defect is not dangerous as a matter of law.” Conversely, where “the only evidence available on the issue of dangerousness does not lead to the conclusion ... reasonable minds may differ, then it is proper for the court to find ... the defect was trivial as a matter of law.”¿ ¿ Moreover, “‘[a]s to what constitutes a dangerous or defective condition no hard and fast rule can be laid down, but each case must depend upon its own facts.’ (Citation.)”¿ ¿ (Kasparian, (citations omitted & emphasis added)).¿¿¿ ¿ In Huckey v. City of Temecula, 37 Cal.App.5th 1092, 1104 the Court of Appeal, in affirming summary judgment for the city, stated in part:¿ “[a] condition is ‘not dangerous,’ if ‘the trial or appellate court, viewing the evidence most favorably to the plaintiff, determines as a matter of law that the risk created by the condition was of such a minor, trivial or insignificant nature in view of the surrounding circumstances that no reasonable person would conclude that the condition created a substantial risk of injury when such property ... was used with due care ...’ in a reasonably foreseeable manner.”¿ (Citation omitted & emphasis added.)¿ ¿ The Huckey court explained:  In determining whether a given walkway defect is trivial as a matter of law, the court should not rely solely upon the size of the defect—in this case, on the depth or height of the walkway depression or elevation—although the defect's size “may be one of the most relevant factors” to the court's decision.¿ The court should consider other circumstances which might have rendered the defect a dangerous condition at the time of the accident.¿¿ ¿ These other circumstances or factors include whether there were any broken pieces or jagged edges in the area of the defect, whether any dirt, debris or other material obscured a pedestrian's view of the defect, the plaintiff's knowledge of the area, whether the accident occurred at night or in an unlighted area, the weather at the time of the accident, and whether the defect has caused any other accidents. In sum, “[a] court should decide whether a defect may be dangerous only after considering all of the circumstances surrounding the accident that might make the defect more dangerous than its size alone would suggest.”¿¿ ¿ The court's analysis of whether a walkway defect is trivial involves as a matter of law two essential steps. “First, the court reviews evidence regarding type and size of the defect. If that preliminary analysis reveals a trivial defect, the court considers evidence of any additional factors [bearing on whether the defect presented a substantial risk of injury]. If these additional factors do not indicate the defect was sufficiently dangerous to a reasonably careful person, the court should deem the defect trivial as a matter of law ....”¿¿ ¿ (Huckey, supra, at 1105 (citations omitted & emphasis added)). ¿¿¿ Size of Defect ¿ The initial step in the two-step analysis under Huckey involves the size of the defect. When the size of the depression begins to stretch beyond one inch, courts have been reluctant to find that the defect is not dangerous as a matter of law." (Fielder v. City of Glendale, (1977), 71 Cal.App.3d 719, 726.) Courts have been more likely to consider the defect to be trivial when it is under ½ inch. (See, e.g., Caloroso v. Hathaway (2004) 122 Cal.App.4th 922, 927 [elevation difference of under half an inch]; Fielder, supra, 71 Cal.App.3d at p. 724, fn. 4 [same]; Whiting v. City of National City (1937) 9 Cal.2d 163, 165-166 [ 69 P.2d 990] [elevation difference of a maximum of three-fourths of an inch]; Nunez v. City of Redondo Beach (2022) 81 Cal.App.5th 749, 753 [elevation difference of 3/4 of an inch to 11/16 of an inch]   Defendant presented evidence showing that the condition in question was an offset measuring 0.875 inches, or 7/8 of an inch. (Sahagun Declaration, 3-4:25-3.) While this does not fall below the ½ inch threshold, which the court routinely considers a trivial defect, it remains under 1 inch, where the courts have been reluctant to find that the defect is not dangerous as a matter of law.  Plaintiff does not dispute that the vertical displacement is less than one inch, approximately 7/8 of an inch. However, Plaintiff argues that 7/8 of an inch is not trivial and points to City’s Sidewalk Inspection and Repair Policy, which was applicable as of the date of the Incident. (Sahagun Declaration, ¶ 6, Def’s Ex. D.) The Policy states:  The severity of the defect is important in prioritizing repairs. An average vertical displacement between sidewalk abutments that is used to evaluate a “trivial defect” is ¾ inch. Deficiencies greater than ¾ inch will be mitigated by grinding, patching, ramping or removal and replacement. The location of the hazard is also important. It is important to eliminate hazards in areas with high levels of pedestrian activity (e.g., business or tourist activity, schools, civic buildings, etc.).  Vertical displacement is between 3/4 inch and 1 inch” are to be “Mitigate within 7 days.”  If the defect cannot be mitigated in this timeframe, the defect will be marked with a conspicuous color paint to serve as a warning to the public. The defect will then be mitigated within 60 days.”   (Def’s Ex. D, City’s Sidewalk Inspection and Repair Policy) The City was aware of the defect at issue as of March 2021, nine months prior to the incident when the area was inspected by Precision, City’s inspectors. Precision’s report identified a 7/8 of an inch defect. (Sahagun Depo. 37:23-38:3 and Def’s Ex. F)  According to the City's own policies, such defects should be repaired within 7 days. (Sahagun Depo. 37:23-38:3.)   The City argues that in Nunez, supra, the appellate court held that meeting the city's criteria for repair did not suffice to demonstrate the offset posed a non-trivial risk. The court reasoned that the city's policy mandating repair of the offset, in part because it’s a tripping hazard, merely indicates some risk of injury but not enough to meet the threshold required for the condition to be considered non-trivial. (81 Cal.App.5th at 758.)  The present case is different from Nunez. The policy not only mandates repair for defects over ¾ inch. The policy, when read in the light most favorable to the Responding Party, arguably indicates that even the City itself does not consider a ¾ inch displacement trivial. (Def’s Ex. D.) Even if, as City argues, the policy only requires evaluation at that measurement, it still demonstrates that the City deems the measurement significant.  Summary judgment is appropriate only when minds do not differ on the triviality of the defect. When the City itself, who is more intimately acquainted with the sidewalk and its surrounding conditions within its jurisdiction than the Court, deems a displacement over ¾ of an inch significant, the Court is hard-pressed to find as a matter of law that the subject defect is trivial. Thus, Plaintiff raised a triable issue of fact regarding the triviality of the displacement.  Aggravating Factors  Given the Court’s finding regarding size of the defect and, most significantly, the City’s own policy, the issue of aggravating factors is essentially unnecessary to consider.  In any event, Plaintiff presented photographs taken approximately 15 minutes after the incident, displaying leaves and debris around the displacement's edges, possibly concealing and obscuring one's view of the displacement. (Plf’s Ex. B.) That further weighs in denying the summary judgment motion.  Notice  The issue of notice centers on the defect's triviality. Defendant concedes it had actual notice of the displacement from Precision’s March 2021 inspection and its accompanying report. However, Defendant contends it lacked notice of a dangerous condition, because the displacement is trivial. Yet, as demonstrated above, the defect cannot be deemed trivial as a matter of law.  After receiving Precision’s report, the city issued no work orders to correct the defect from March 2021 to December 9, 2021, date of the Incident.  (Sahagun Declaration, 4:19-28.) Furthermore, the photograph taken 15 minutes after the Incident showed that the city did not grind, patch, ramp, remove or replace the displacement nor was the displacement marked with conspicuous color paint to warn the public, as mandated by the city's own policy. (Def's Ex. D.) This presents a triable issue of fact regarding whether the city's omission, its failure to adhere to its policies, created the dangerous condition and whether the city had actual knowledge of such a dangerous condition.  Conclusion  Accordingly, Plaintiff’s motion for summary judgment is DENIED.   PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:  If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting. Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿¿¿¿  If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.  