  Case Number:  21STCV02330    Hearing Date:   October 1, 2024    Dept:  52 Tentative Ruling:    
Defendants’ Motions for Summary
Judgment or Summary Adjudication
Defendants Lockheed Martin
Corporation (Lockheed), Mark Marino, and Dorian Racey each move for summary
judgment or for summary adjudication of issues in this action by plaintiff
Jimmy Guzman.
Evidentiary Objections
            Plaintiff
makes 60 objections to the evidence submitted in defendants’ opening
papers.  All 60 objections are overruled.
            Defendants
make 91 objections to plaintiff’s evidence. 
Objection Nos. 24, 25, 37-39, 42-46, 49, 52-54, and 56 are sustained.  The remaining objections are overruled.  
            Finally,
plaintiff makes 11 objections to the supplemental declaration of Nicky Jatana
submitted with Lockheed’s reply brief. 
All 11 objections are sustained. 

Legal Standard for Summary Judgment or
Adjudication
Summary judgment should be
granted where no triable issues of fact exist and the moving party is entitled
to judgment as a matter of law.  (CCP §
437c(c); Villa v. McFerren (1995) 35
Cal.App.4th 733, 741.)  Courts use a
three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues framed by the pleadings; (2)
determine whether the moving party has negated the opponent’s claims; and (3)
determine whether the opposition has demonstrated the existence of a triable,
material factual issue.”  (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center (2005)
135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.)  Courts
“liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary
judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.”  (Dore
v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.) 
1st, 3rd, 8th,
& 9th Causes of Action: Disability Discrimination, FEHA Retaliation, CFRA
Retaliation, and Wrongful Termination 
            An employer may be liable for disability
discrimination even if the employee is not actually disabled.  If an employer takes an adverse employment
action against the employee because of his “perceived” disability, the employer
may be liable.  (See Moore v. Rents of
University of California (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 216, 235; Gov. Code, § 12926, subd. (m)(3)(4).)
            Plaintiff’s
first, third, eight, and ninth causes of action are based on plaintiff’s claim
that defendant terminated him because of his disability or perceived disability
or in retaliation for seeking accommodations for his disability or perceived
disability.  (See Complaint, ¶ 45
[“Plaintiff was an employee with an actual and/or perceived disability”].)
            Triable issues of material fact
preclude summary adjudication of plaintiff’s causes of action arising from his
termination.  The typical burden-shifting
framework used in most discrimination and retaliation cases does “not apply in
discrimination cases where … the plaintiff presents direct evidence of the
employer’s motivation for the adverse employment action.”  (Wallace v. County of Stanislaus
(2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 109, 123.)  “[D]isability
discrimination cases often involve direct evidence of the role of the employee’s
actual or perceived disability in the employer’s decision to implement an
adverse employment action.”  (Ibid.)
Lockheed
presents evidence it terminated plaintiff for unexcused absences.  It contends that, though plaintiff made
multiple requests for medical leave to excuse some of his absences, he never
submitted the required medical documentation by the applicable deadlines.  
Lockheed
presents evidence that its leave administrator, Sedgwick, sent plaintiff a
letter on January 4, 2019, stating, “On January 3, 2019, the LMLDC [Lockheed Martin Leave and Disability
Center] was notified of your request to take leave beginning January 3, 2019
due to a serious health condition that makes you unable to perform the
essential functions of your job.” 
(Motion, Ex. 14, p. LM000314.) 
Sedgwick wrote that plaintiff must have his medical provider “complete
and return the enclosed Medical Certification Form no later than January 29,
2019.”  (Ibid.)  
Lockheed terminated plaintiff on
January 24, 2019—before his deadline to submit documents to Sedgwick.  Plaintiff presents evidence he submitted
medical certification paperwork to Sedgwick by January 28, 2019.  (Opp. Ex. O, p. LM000401.)  A letter dated January 28, 2019, states, “On
October 28, 2018, my wife had been suffering from extreme pain in which I had
to take the day off to care for her.”  (Ibid.)  “I am requesting you to review this closed
case and approve under intermittent FMLA as this absence is due to my wife’s
health condition and I am being reprimanded at work for taking this day
off.”  (Ibid.)  
            The
documents plaintiff submitted also describe his own alleged disability, a knee injury.  He wrote, “Mid November 2018, I could no
longer handle the pain.  Due to the pain
and inflammation in my knee, I was unable to work 11/26/18.”  (Opp. Ex. O, p. LM000420.)  “While at work on 12/5/18, my knee was in
extreme pain so I visited Lockheed’s on campus medical/wellness center towards
the end of my shift.”  (Ibid.)  He further wrote, “Since this is ongoing, I
am requesting protection under FMLA as my absences since November 2018 have
been due to my work related injury and I am being reprimanded at work for
taking time off to deal with my sprained knee.” 
(Id., p. LM000421.)  
            Because
Lockheed had fired plaintiff days earlier, Sedgwick never determined whether
plaintiff qualified for protected leave. 
But on the date Lockheed terminated plaintiff—January 24, 2019—it knew
that plaintiff claimed he had a disability. 

Plaintiff also presents other evidence
raising a triable issue on whether Lockheed knew or should have known he had a
disability.  “The employee must initiate
the [interactive] process unless the disability and resulting limitations are
obvious.”  (Scotch v. Art Institute of
California (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 986, 1013.)  There is evidence Lockheed knew plaintiff
went to the medical/wellness center in December 2018.  Plaintiff testified that, on that day, he
“was limping around everywhere.”  (Opp.
Ex. B, Guzman Depo., vol. 2, 472:17-18.) 
A reasonable factfinder could determine it was obvious to Lockheed that
an employee who was “limping around everywhere” and saw a doctor at the
workplace’s onsite medical center had a disability and needed an
accommodation.  
A jury could conclude that at the
time, at a minimum, Lockheed perceived plaintiff to be disabled or knew
plaintiff claimed he had a disability and was seeking accommodations.  Moreover, a jury could find that Lockheed
should have waited for Sedgwick to complete its inquiry and that Sedgwick
should have concluded plaintiff was eligible for CFRA/FMLA for the absences
that led to his termination.  Plaintiff
thus presents evidence that Lockheed fired him for unexcused absences despite a
pending request to have those absences excused due to his disability or
protected medical leave for his own or his wife’s health condition.  A reasonable factfinder could conclude that
firing plaintiff in these circumstances meets plaintiff’s burden of proving
disability discrimination, retaliation under FEHA or CFRA, and wrongful
termination.  
Lockheed argues plaintiff’s final
FMLA request only applied to absences beginning January 3, 2019, making it was
too late to excuse the absences for which he was fired.  Plaintiff’s letter to Sedgwick dated January
28, 2019, expressly asked to excuse absences dating back to October 2018.  (Opp. Ex. O, pp. LM000401, LM000420-421.)  Plaintiff’s wife, Elvira Guzman, also
testifies she spoke to a Sedgwick agent who confirmed that the final FMLA
request, if approved, would also apply to the past applications that had been
denied.  (E. Guzman Decl., ¶¶ 3-6.)  Plaintiff’s evidence suffices to demonstrate
a triable issue of material fact on his termination claims.
2nd
Cause of Action: Harassment
            Plaintiff’s second cause of action
alleges defendants Lockheed, Marino, and Racey harassed him because of his
disability.  “To prevail on a harassment claim under
FEHA, a plaintiff must produce evidence they were subjected to ‘offensive
comments or other abusive conduct’ that is (1) based on a ‘protected
characteristic’ … and (2) ‘sufficiently severe or pervasive as to alter the
conditions of [his] employment.’ ”  (Doe v. Department of Corrections
& Rehabilitation (2019) 43 Cal.App.5th 721, 736.)  “To constitute harassment, the conduct must
be so objectively severe or pervasive as ‘ “to create a hostile or abusive
working environment.” ’  [Citation.]  Factors to consider in this context include
the frequency of the conduct, its severity, whether it is physically
threatening or humiliating, and whether it unreasonably interferes with the
employee’s work performance.’ ”  (Ibid.)  
In contrast with
discrimination, which concerns unequal
terms and conditions of employment, “harassment focuses on situations in
which the social environment of the workplace becomes
intolerable because the harassment (whether verbal, physical, or visual)
communicates an offensive message to the harassed employee.”  (Roby v. McKesson Corp. (2009) 47
Cal.4th 686, 706 (Roby).)  “Harassment claims are based on a type of
conduct that is avoidable and unnecessary to job performance.”  (Reno v. Baird (1998) 18 Cal.4th 640,
646.)  There is a
“fundamental distinction between harassment as a type of conduct not necessary
to a supervisor’s job performance, and business or personnel management
decisions—which might later be considered discriminatory—as inherently
necessary to performance of a supervisor’s job.”  (Janken v. GM Hughes Electronics
(1996) 46 Cal.App.4th 55, 63.)
A. Harassment
Against Marino
            Marino does not meet his burden of
showing he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law on this cause of action.  Plaintiff presents sufficient evidence to
permit a factfinder to conclude, based on the totality of the circumstances, that
Marino engaged in severe or pervasive abusive conduct because of plaintiff’s
disability.  Plaintiff testified he “overheard” Marino “on
the phone saying that I was useless because of my knee injury.”  (Ex. B?, plaintiff Depo., vol. 1,
84:13-15.)  He stated, “[T]hey were
talking about me, about me taking days off, and he just – I overheard him
saying that I was useless.”  (Id.,
85:8-10.)  “I just heard him say that I
was useless to him because of my knee injury.” 
(Id., 85:14-15.)  Plaintiff
further testified that “Marino hid behind machines and stared at Plaintiff for
approximately (15) to twenty (20) minutes at a time.”  (UMF 46.) 
He also testified that Marino “accused Plaintiff of smoking, or
smelling, like marijuana in front of others” (UMF 48) and “accused Plaintiff of
‘smoking titanium’ ” (UMF 50).  
Marino and Lockheed argue that, of
the alleged harassing conduct, the only incident that was not personnel
management and was related to plaintiff’s disability was Marino calling him
“useless.”  Harassment does not require
that each incident or comment was facially connected to the plaintiff’s
protected class.  FEHA prohibits
harassing employees “because of” their protected status.  (Gov. Code, § 12940, subd. (j)(1).)  In Roby, the California Supreme Court noted
that conduct not directly tied to a protected class, such as “shunning of
[plaintiff] during weekly staff meetings”, “belittling of [plaintiff’s] job”
and “reprimands” in front of the plaintiff’s coworkers could suffice as
evidence of harassment so long as the supervisor’s “hostility was ‘because
of’ ” the employee’s protected status. 
(Roby, supra, 47 Cal.4th at p. 710.)  Even if several of the harassing acts were
not directly related to plaintiff’s disability, a trier of fact could find
Marino harassed plaintiff because of his disability. 
B. Harassment
Against Racey
            Racey meets his burden of showing he
is entitled to judgment as a matter of law on this cause of action.  Racey’s separate statement asserts, “Racey
allegedly ‘harassed’ Plaintiff because he was following orders from Marino to
issue an EPN [Employee Performance Notice] to Plaintiff on September 13, 2018
for an allegedly ‘falsified’ unexcused absence.”  (UMF 46.) 
“This is the only incident Plaintiff believed was considered harassment
by Racey.”  (UMF 47.)  Racey meets his initial burden of producing
evidence to that effect via plaintiff’s deposition testimony.  
            To UMF 46, plaintiff responded,
“Disputed in part.  Plaintiff requested
that the EPN dated September 13th, 2018 for unsatisfactory attendance be
removed from his personnel file because it was discriminatory and prejudiced to
him.”  The reasons plaintiff complained
about the EPN are irrelevant to whether Racey can be liable for harassment.  Even if they were, plaintiff’s grievance
provides no evidence that would permit a reasonable factfinder to infer Racey
was motivated by plaintiff’s disability. 
Plaintiff’s grievance stated, “The attendance policy … is discriminatory
and prejudice[d] to me.  The EPN is not
justified because on Sept. 5, 2018 I was on time to work but forgot my badge
when I came to gate 12 entrance.  I
explained to management why I was late and what happened.”  (Opp. Ex. N, p. LM000288.)  Plaintiff thus admitted he was late but thought
his lateness should have been excused because he forgot his ID badge.  No reasonable trier of fact could conclude
that had anything to do with plaintiff’s disability.  In contrast with Marino, who called plaintiff
“useless”, the record includes no evidence Racey made any offensive comments
about plaintiff’s disability.
            To UMF 47, plaintiff responded,
“Disputed.  Plaintiff believed not only
that incident was considered by Racey but also others – there were other write
ups and conduct that he considered harassment.” 
That other people considered a disciplinary writeup “harassing” does not
transform a personnel management action into abusive conduct that communicates
an offensive message.  As supporting
evidence, plaintiff cites five items. 
Three of them (plaintiff’s deposition testimony, the grievance forms,
and the declaration of Luke Giangrande) concern only the write-ups—which were
personnel management actions.  The
fourth, the declaration of plaintiff’s wife, exclusively concerns
correspondence with Sedgwick about plaintiff’s FMLA requests.  (E. Guzman Decl.)   
The
fifth piece of evidence plaintiff cites is the declaration of Adrian
Martinez.  Martinez states, “I witnessed
Mark [Marino] and Dorian Racey constantly target and harass Jimmy with write
ups (given by Racey) based on discipline that was not applied to other
employees, like write-up for being late to start time on overtime work days
that were later grieved.  Both [Marino]
and Racey would give Jimmy strange glares, like they were watching him and
treating him differently than the other employees were treated.  These two supervisors would assign him to
machines that did not run well, but Jimmy would not complain and he just did
his work.”  (Martinez Decl., ¶ 7.)  
Martinez’s
testimony also primarily concerns personnel management actions: disciplining
plaintiff or his work assignments, not abusive conduct in the workplace’s
social environment.  In some
circumstances, giving plaintiff “strange glares” could be considered
harassment.  On this record, however,
that evidence is insufficient for three reasons.  First, plaintiff provides no evidence
permitting a reasonable factfinder to infer that Racey glared at plaintiff because
of his disability.  Second, plaintiff
does not provide evidence permitting a factfinder to conclude those “glares”
were severe or pervasive enough to alter the conditions of plaintiff’s
employment.  Third, plaintiff provides no
evidence that he—rather than his co-worker, Adrian Martinez—was aware of Racey’s
“strange glares” or that plaintiff subjectively considered them offensive.  “Unless
plaintiff witnesses the” offensive conduct “or is otherwise aware of it, that
conduct cannot alter the conditions of [his or] her employment and create an
abusive working environment.  Stated
another way, a reasonable person in plaintiff’s position would not find the
environment hostile or abusive unless that person had knowledge of the
objectionable conduct.”  (Beyda v.
City of Los Angeles (1998) 65 Cal.App.4th 511, 520.)
Plaintiff
alleges no other causes of action against Racey.  Racey is therefore entitled to summary
judgment.  
C. Harassment
Against Lockheed
            Triable issues of material fact
preclude summary adjudication of this cause of action against Lockheed.  An employer is strictly liable for harassment by a supervisor.  (State Dept. of Health Services v.
Superior Court (2003) 31 Cal.4th 1026, 1041.)  Lockheed does not argue Marino was not a
supervisor.  The record includes ample
evidence that he was.  
4th, 5th, & 7th
Causes of Action: Failure to Engage in Interactive Process, Failure to Provide
Reasonable Accommodation, and Violation of CFRA
Triable
issues of material fact preclude summary adjudication of these causes of
action.  Generally, whether the employer satisfied its duty to “engage[] in an
interactive process is a question of fact.” 
(Salgado v. Iqvia, Inc. (S.D. Cal. 2020) 459 F.Supp.3d 1318,
1333, citing Wilson v. County of Orange (2009) 169 Cal.App.4th 1185,
1193.)  “ ‘Liability hinges on the
objective circumstances surrounding the parties’ breakdown in communication,
and responsibility for the breakdown lies with the party who fails to
participate in good faith.’ ”  (Swanson v.
Morongo Unified School Dist. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 954, 972.)  “ ‘[T]he fact that an employer took
some steps to work with an employee to identify reasonable accommodations does
not absolve the employer of liability… .  If the employer is responsible for a later
breakdown in the process, it may be held liable.’ ”  (Ibid.)
Lockheed
relies on the argument that plaintiff was responsible for the breakdown in the
interactive process because he repeatedly failed to submit his medical
certification forms by the deadline. 
Lockheed contends it was therefore not required to provide reasonable
accommodation or CFRA leave.  As
discussed above, Lockheed fired plaintiff before his deadline to submit medical
certification for his final FMLA request. 
A reasonable trier of fact could conclude Lockheed was responsible for
the breakdown in the interactive process and, had it not done that, would have
been required to provide plaintiff a reasonable accommodation and CFRA leave.
6th Cause of Action:
Failure to Prevent FEHA Violations
            Lockheed is not entitled to summary adjudication of this cause of action.  It argues only that this cause of action cannot
stand on its own without an underlying claim for violating FEHA.  (Trujillo v. North County Transit Dist.
(1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 280, 289.)  Triable
issues of material fact preclude summary adjudication of some of plaintiff’s
FEHA claims.  The same therefore applies
to this claim.
Claim for Punitive Damages
            A
defendant may move for summary adjudication of a “claim for damages, as
specified in Section 3294 of the Civil Code” regarding punitive damages.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).)  To recover punitive damages, a plaintiff must
prove “by clear and convincing evidence that the
defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.”  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).)  
On summary adjudication, “ ‘the
judge must view the evidence presented through the prism of the substantive
[clear and convincing] evidentiary burden.’ ” 
(American Airlines, Inc. v. Sheppard, Mullin, Richter & Hampton
(2002) 96 Cal.App.4th 1017, 1049.)  “[A]lthough
the ‘clear and convincing’ evidentiary standard is a stringent one, it does not
impose on a plaintiff the obligation to ‘prove’ a case for punitive damages at
summary judgment.”  (Ibid.)  “Summary judgment or summary adjudication ‘ “
‘on the issue of punitive damages is proper’ only ‘when no reasonable jury
could find the plaintiff’s evidence to be clear and convincing proof of malice,
fraud or oppression.’ ” ’ ”  (Butte
Fire Cases (2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 1150, 1159.)  
A. Managing Agent
            Lockheed
does not meet its initial burden of showing no managing agent committed,
ratified, or authorized any oppression, fraud, or malice.  The law “limit[s] corporate punitive damage
liability to those employees who exercise substantial independent authority and
judgment over decisions that ultimately determine corporate policy.”  (White v.
Ultramar, Inc. (1999) 21 Cal.4th 563, 573 (White).)  
A defendant “cannot satisfy its
initial burden of production of evidence by making a conclusory statement of
law, whether directly or through a declaration of one of its employees.”  (Davis v. Kiewit Pacific Co. (2013)
220 Cal.App.4th 358, 372 (Davis).) 
In Davis, an employee’s declaration stated, “I am not an officer
or a director of Kiewit.  As a Kiewit
employee, I have never drafted corporate policy or had substantial
discretionary authority over decisions that ultimately determine Kiewit’s
corporate policy.  The only role that I
play with respect to Kiewit’s anti-harassment and EEO policies is to ensure
that they are followed on the job.”  (Id.
at p. 367.)  The court concluded the
“declaration did not contain a sufficient description of his job duties and
responsibilities and the nature and extent of his authority and discretion … ,
as well as his exercise of that authority and discretion, to support a
reasonable inference that he did not ‘exercise[ ] substantial
discretionary authority over [significant] aspects of [Kiewit’s]
business.’ ”  (Id. at pp.
369-370.)  
Marino’s declaration similarly makes
conclusory statements that deny he meets the legal standard established in White.  He states that “from October 2017 to January
2019,” he “was the Multifunctional Manager of Metallics and Machine Shop in the
Palmdale, California location.”  (Marino
Decl., ¶ 1.)  He gives no specific
testimony about his duties in that position, which he held during the relevant
period.  Regarding his current position,
he states, “As the Senior Manager for Fabrication and Tooling, I am responsible
for the daily execution of Lockheed Martin's manufacturing plan supporting
several build team schedules along with safety, quality, and cost of my areas.”  (Id., ¶ 2.)  
Marino further testifies, “During
my tenure with Lockheed Martin, either in my prior capacity as the
Multifunctional Manager of Metallics and Machine Shop or Senior Manager for
F-35 Edges and Ray Domes, or my current title of Senior Manager for the
Fabrication and Tooling Department, I have never been an officer or director of
Lockheed Martin.”  (Marino Decl., ¶ 3.)  Being an officer or director would be
sufficient—but is not necessary to impose punitive damages against Lockheed.  Lockheed must show Marino was not a managing
agent.  
Marino also states, “While I am,
and was previously, authorized to make day-to-day managerial decisions
concerning certain employees, at all times while I was employed by Lockheed
Martin, I have never had any authority to independently hire or fire any
employees.”  (Marino Decl., ¶ 4.)  “At no time during my tenure with Lockheed
Martin have I engaged in corporate policy making for Lockheed Martin.  I also have never had any independent
authority and judgment to affect any corporate policy.”  (Id., ¶ 5.)
As in Davis, Marino’s
conclusory statements do little more than say he does not meet the legal
standard for managing agents.  His
declaration is far less thorough than, for example, the one by the employe in CRST,
Inc. v. Superior Court (2017) 11 Cal.App.5th 1255, 1273.
B. Oppression, Fraud, or Malice
            Defendants
Lockheed and Marino also argue they are entitled to summary adjudication on the
basis that plaintiff cannot show, by clear and convincing evidence, that Marino
(or anyone else acting for Lockheed) acted with oppression, fraud, or
malice.  Based on the evidence discussed
above, the court cannot conclude that no reasonable trier of fact could find
clear and convincing evidence of malice, oppression, or fraud.  “[W]illfully
and consciously retaliat[ing] against” employees for exercising their rights
can constitute malicious or oppressive conduct sufficient for punitive
damages.  (Colucci v. T-Mobile USA, Inc. (2020)
48 Cal.App.5th 442, 455 (Colucci).)
            In Colucci, the court held
that “the jury could consider it despicable of [a supervisor] to allow Colucci,
who was suffering severe back pain, to leave [his workplace] under the belief
that he was permitted to go on medical leave, and then turn around and use
Colucci’s inability to complete an interview that day as a basis for firing
him.”  (Colucci,
supra, 48 Cal.App.5th at p. 455.) 
Here, a jury could reach the same conclusion about Lockheed telling
plaintiff he had until January 29, 2019, to submit medical certification for
FMLA leave, then firing him on January 24. 
  
Disposition
Defendant Lockheed Martin Corporation’s motion for summary
judgment or summary adjudication is denied.  Defendant Mark Marino’s motion for summary
judgment or summary adjudication is denied.  Defendant Dorian Racey’s motion for summary
judgment is granted.