 Case Number:  21NWCV00421    Hearing Date:   May 15, 2024    Dept:  C ERIC CLEVELAND v. FAN
SHIN INVESTMENT, LLC, et al.
CASE NO.:  21NWCV00421
HEARING:  05/15/24
 
#5
TENTATIVE ORDER
 
Plaintiff Eric Cleveland’s Motion to Compel Deposition
Testimony of Alfredo Ponce, Gonzalo Ponce, and Defendant’s Person Most
Knowledgeable is GRANTED in part.  
 
Moving party to give notice. 
 
On June 28, 2021, Plaintiff Eric Cleveland (“Plaintiff”)
filed a Complaint against Defendants Fan Shin Investment, LLC (“Fan Shin”) and
DOES 1-10, alleging a sole cause of action for Violations of the Unruh Civil
Rights Act. 
 
After default was entered against Defendant Fan Shin, and
the parties subsequently stipulated to set aside such default, Plaintiff filed
a First Amended Complaint against Defendant Fan Shin and Ponce’s Bakery (“PB”)
on December 14, 2022.
 
On June 15, 2023, after hearing oral argument, the Court
sustained the demurrer of Defendant Fan Shin to the FAC with leave to amend.  
 
On June 30, 2023, Plaintiff filed the operative Second
Amended Complaint (“SAC”) against Defendants Fan Shin and PB alleging causes of
action for: (1) Violation of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990; and
(2) Violations of the Unruh Civil Rights Act. Plaintiff alleges in the SAC that
he suffers from osteoarthritis in his hip and in his knees. (SAC, ¶ 1.)
Plaintiff is a “high frequency litigant” as defined by CCP § 425.55(g)(1).
(SAC, ¶ 2.) Plaintiff desired to access Defendants’ business in order to
purchase the cookies the business offers. (SAC, ¶ 5.) Defendant Fan Shin owns
the property located at 7368 Stewart and Gray Road, Downey, CA 90241 (the
“Property”). (SAC, ¶ 6.) Defendant PB runs a business on the Property and is a
lessee of the Property. (SAC, ¶¶ 7-8) Plaintiff encountered barriers to access.
(SAC, ¶ 10.) 
 
On March 27, 2024, Plaintiff filed and served the instant
Motion to Compel Attendance and Testimony of Alfredo Ponce, Gonzalo Ponce, and
Defendant PB’s Person Most Knowledgeable (“PMK”) for Deposition (the “Motion”).

 
Plaintiff moves to compel the depositions of Alfredo Ponce
on behalf of Defendant PB, Gonzalo Ponce on behalf of Defendant PB, and
Defendant PB’s PMK. The Motion is made pursuant to CCP § 2025.450(a). Plaintiff
also seeks to compel the production of documents at the depositions. (Memorandum
of Points and Authorities at p. 6:14-17.) Plaintiff also requests monetary
sanctions in the amount of $2,925.50 against Defendant PB and its counsel of
record. 
 
On May 1, 2024, Defendant PB filed an opposition to the
Motion. On May 2, 2024, Defendant PB filed a Notice of Errata as to its
opposition, which attaches an amended opposition thereto. Thus, the Court will
treat the amended opposition as the operative opposition brief. 
 
On May 6, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply brief. 
 
Initially, the Court notes that Plaintiff seeks to compel
three separate depositions pursuant to the Motion. Plaintiff should have filed
three separate motions but, instead, filed one motion seeking multiple forms of
relief. Plaintiff cannot seek to avoid the filing fee by combining separate
forms of relief in one motion. Irrespective of such fact, the Court will
consider the motion on its merits. 
 
Moreover, the Court notes that the opposition makes
arguments as to the merits of the action and the parties’ attempts to settle
this matter. (Opp’n at pp. 5-9.) The Court finds that such arguments are
irrelevant to the instant motion. 
 
Analysis
 
For discovery purposes, information is relevant if it might
reasonably assist a party in evaluating the case, preparing for trial, or
facilitating settlement.  (Gonzalez v. Superior Court (1995) 33
Cal.App.4th 1539, 1546.)  Generally, all unprivileged information that is
relevant to the subject matter of the action is discoverable if it would itself
be admissible evidence at trial or if it appears reasonably calculated to lead
to the discovery of admissible evidence.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.010; Schnabel
v. Superior Court (1993) 5 Cal.4th 704, 711.) Any party may obtain
discovery by taking in California the oral deposition of any person including
any party to the action.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.010.) The person deposed
may be a natural person, an organization such as a public or private
corporation, a partnership, an association, or a governmental agency. (Id.) 

  
“The service of a deposition notice under Section 2025.240
is effective to require any deponent who is a party to the action or an
officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party to attend and to
testify, as well as produce any document, electronically stored information, or
tangible thing for inspection and copying.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
2025.280(a).)  
 
“If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the
action or an officer, director, or managing agent, or employee of a party . . .
without having served a valid objection . . . fails to appear for examination,
or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling
the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of any
document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.450(a).) 
 
If a motion under Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.450(a) is granted
“the court shall impose a monetary sanction . . . in favor of the party who
noticed the deposition and against the deponent or party with whom the deponent
is affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction
acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the
imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
2025.450(g)(1).)  
 
A motion made pursuant to Section 2025.450(a) must set forth
specific facts showing good cause justifying the production for inspection of
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in
the deposition notice. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.450(b)(1).) In law and motion
practice, factual evidence is supplied to the court by way of declarations. (Calcor
Space Facility, Inc. v. Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216,
224.)  
 
Issue No. 1: The Meet and Confer Requirement
 
Where a party seeks to compel a deposition under Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.450, “[t]he motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to attend the
deposition and produce the documents, electronically stored information, or
things described in the deposition notice, by a declaration stating that the
petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (b)(2).) “A meet and confer declaration in
support of a motion shall state facts showing a reasonable and good faith
attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented by the motion.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2016.040.)  
 
On March 19, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel’s office served
Plaintiff’s Notice of Deposition of Defendant PB’s PMK, Gonzalo Ponce, and
Alfredo Ponce (collectively the “Deposition Notices”) on Defendants’ counsel.
(Chernoff Decl., ¶ 16; Exhs. 2-4.) On March 20, 2024, Defendants’ counsel
emailed Plaintiff’s counsel’s office requesting an offer of proof for the
Deposition Notices. (Chernoff Decl., ¶ 17.) On March 21, 2024, Plaintiff’s
counsel responded to Defendants’ counsel and provided a justification for the
depositions. (Chernoff Decl., ¶ 18; Exh. 5.) The parties engaged in further
meet and confer discussions on March 22, 2024. (Chernoff Decl., ¶¶ 20-22; Exhs.
6-8.) Defendants’ counsel has not responded to Plaintiff’s counsel’s requests
for confirmation of deposition dates and has not served a valid objection to
the Deposition Notices. (Chernoff Decl., ¶¶ 26-27.) 
 
The deposition of Defendant PB’s PMK was noticed for April
25, 2024. (Chernoff Decl., ¶ 16; Exh. 2.) The deposition of Gonzalo Ponce on
behalf of Defendant PB was set for April 12, 2024. (Chernoff Decl., ¶ 16; Exh.
3.) The deposition of Alberto Ponce on behalf of Defendant PB was set for April
24, 2024. (Chernoff Decl., ¶ 16; Exh. 4.) All the Deposition Notices seek the
production of documents. (Chernoff Decl., ¶ 16; Exhs. 2-4.)  
 
Counsel for Defendant PB, Ara Sahelian (“Sahelian”),
declares that she has proactively offered the testimonies of the PMK from
Defendant PB and Gonzalo Ponce. (Sahelian Decl., ¶ 2.) Counsel provides an
objection that was served as to the deposition of Gonzalo Ponce. (Sahelian
Decl., ¶ 6; Exh. A.) 
 
In support of the reply, Plaintiff’s counsel declares that
the Motion was filed after counsel refused to submit Alfredo Ponce, Gonzalo
Ponce, and the PMK for Defendant PB for deposition. (Chernof Reply Decl., ¶ 3.)
On April 8, 2024, counsel for Defendant PB emailed Mr. Chernoff stating that they
agreed to Gonzalo Ponce’s deposition being taken on April 25, 2024, rather than
on the noticed date of April 12, 2024, and stated that such declaration should
be set remotely. (Chernoff Reply Decl., ¶ 5.) Plaintiff’s counsel responded
stating that they intended for the deposition of Gonzalo Ponce to occur at
Plaintiff’s counsel’s office. (Chernoff Reply Decl., ¶ 5.) 
 
The Court finds that Plaintiff did not sufficiently meet and
confer as to the production of documents in the Deposition Notices prior to
filing the instant motion. The Motion was filed on March 27, 2024, which is
prior to any of the purported depositions taking place on various dates in
April 2024. Crucially, the Deposition Notices seek the production of documents
and testimony. Plaintiff has not provided “a declaration stating that . . .
[plaintiff] has contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.”
(CCP § 2025.450(b)(2).) Plaintiff filed the instant motion prior to the
scheduled depositions and, although requesting the production of documents,
does not provide a meet and confer declaration inquiring about the
nonappearance. 
 
Issue No. 2: Compelling the Production of Documents at
Deposition 
 
Where a party seeks to compel the production of documents at
deposition, a motion seeking to compel a deposition must “set forth specific
facts showing good cause justifying the production for inspection of any
document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (b)(1).) “In law and
motion practice, factual evidence is supplied to the court by way of
declarations.” (Calcor Space Facility, Inc. v. Superior Court, supra,
53 Cal.App.4th 216, 224.)  
 
Here, Plaintiff seeks to compel the depositions of the PMK
for Defendant PB, Alfredo Ponce, and Gonzalo Ponce, along with the production
of documents. The declaration of Mr. Chernoff, however, merely states that
“Plaintiff cannot proceed adequately to trial without the deposition testimony
of Defendant Ponce’s Bakery’s PMQ, Gonzalo Ponce or Alfredo Ponce.” (Chernoff
Decl., ¶ 28.) The declaration of counsel does not state any facts showing good
cause for the production of documents. Counsel’s declaration is mostly a
recitation of the parties’ attempts to settle this matter. (Chernoff Decl., ¶¶ 3-15.)
In the memorandum of points and authorities, Plaintiff also does not articulate
good cause for the production of documents at deposition. 
 
The Court therefore DENIES Plaintiff’s request to compel the
production of documents at deposition as to the PMK for Defendant PB, Alfredo
Ponce, or Gonzalo Ponce. The Court will now address whether Defendant PB’s PMK,
Alfredo Ponce, or Gonzalo Ponce should be compelled to testify at deposition. 
 
Issue No. 3: Compelling Testimony at Deposition 
 
Initially, Defendant PB contends that Alfredo Ponce is not a
party litigant and that Defendant PB’s counsel does not represent Alfredo
Ponce. (Sahelian Decl., ¶ 5.) Defendant PB argues that Plaintiff will have to
secure the deposition of Alfredo Ponce through a subpoena. (Opp’n at p.
5:7-10.) The Court rejects such contention as Alfredo Ponce is an employee of
Defendant PB. (Chernoff Reply Decl., ¶ 8; Exh. 13.) Alfredo Ponce is an
employee of a party to this action—Defendant PB—and therefore a deposition notice
is sufficient to compel the deposition of Alfredo Ponce pursuant to CCP §
2025.450(a). Moreover, the Court finds Defendant PB’s contention is puzzling
when its counsel requested Plaintiff to provide justification for depositing
Alfredo Ponce, who Defendant PB’s counsel stated is an employee of Defendant
PB. (Chernoff Decl., ¶ 19.) 
 
The Court finds that the Deposition Notices each seek
identical topics of testimony pertaining to matters such as: ownership of the
Property and business, policies and procedures of Defendant PB for compliance
with accessibility laws, policies for updating, designing, and/or maintaining
the interior and exterior spaces of the Property and/or the business, the past
and present accessibility barriers at the Property and/or the business, and Defendants’
financial ability to comply with accessibility laws, among other topics.
(Chernoff Decl. at Exhs. 2-4.) Plaintiff has shown that the deposition
testimony is relevant so that Plaintiff can prepare for trial. (Chernoff Decl.,
¶28.) 
 
The Court therefore GRANTS Plaintiff’s request to compel the
deposition testimony of the PMK for Defendant PB, Gonzalo Ponce, and Alfredo
Ponce. 
 
Issue No. 4: Monetary Sanctions 
 
Counsel for Plaintiff declares that his hourly rate is $495.00
per hour and that Plaintiff is seeking monetary sanctions in the total sum of
$2,925.00. (Chernoff Decl., ¶ 29.) Counsel declares that it took him 2.9 hours
and Anoush Hakimi 2.0 hours to draft the Motion. (Chernoff Decl., ¶ 29.)
Counsel anticipates it taking him 2.0 hours to review and respond to any
opposition papers and to attend the hearing on the Motion. (Chernoff Decl., ¶
29.)
 
The Court finds that Plaintiff’s notice of motion is
defective as it does not specifically identify who is Defendant PB’s counsel of
record. Where sanctions are sought, a notice of motion must “identify every person,
party, and attorney against whom the sanction is sought, and specify the type
of sanction sought.” (Sole Energy Co. v. Hodges (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th
199, 207.) The Court therefore will not impose monetary sanctions against
counsel for Defendant PB.  
 
Given that Plaintiff did not show good cause for the
production of documents, the Court will reduce the amount of monetary
sanctions. The Court GRANTS IN PART Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions
and AWARDS Plaintiff monetary sanctions in the amount of $495.00, which
represents one (1) hour of work on the Motion. 
 
Monetary sanctions in the amount of $495.00 are to be paid
to Plaintiff by Defendant PB within 30 days of the date of notice of this
order. 
 
Conclusion
 
In sum, the Motion is GRANTED IN PART. 
 
The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s request to compel the
production of documents at deposition as to the PMK for Defendant PB, Alfredo
Ponce, or Gonzalo Ponce.
 
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s request to compel the
deposition testimony of the PMK for Defendant PB, Gonzalo Ponce, and Alfredo
Ponce. 
 
The Court GRANTS IN PART Plaintiff’s request for monetary
sanctions and AWARDS Plaintiff monetary sanctions in the amount of $495.00. Monetary
sanctions in the amount of $495.00 are to be paid to Plaintiff by Defendant PB
within 30 days of the date of notice of this order. 
 