  Case Number:  19NWCV00820    Hearing Date:   May 15, 2024    Dept:  C BLAINE HOLDING
& DEVELOPMENT, LLC v. VIVERA PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. ET AL.
CASE NO.:  19NWCV00820
(related case: 19NWCV00244)
HEARING:  05/15/24 @
9:30 a.m.
 
#1
TENTATIVE ORDER
 
I.            
Judgment Creditor’s Motion to Compel Further Responses
Request for Production of Documents (Set One) is GRANTED. Judgment
Debtor is ordered to produce code-compliant, responsive documents to these
requests without objections within 30 days of this order.
II.           
Judgment Creditor’s Motion to Compel Further Responses
to Special Interrogatories (Set One) is GRANTED. Judgment Debtor is
ordered to provide verified, code-compliant, supplemental responses without
objections within 30 days of this order.
III.         
No sanctions are imposed.
 
Moving party to give notice. 
 
The Motions are unopposed as of May 14, 2024.  
 
 
This unlawful detainer action was filed by Plaintiff BLAINE
HOLDINGS & DEVELOPMENT, LLC (Plaintiff/Judgment Creditor) on October 25,
2019 against Defendant VIVERA PHARMCEUTICALS, INC. (Defendant/Judgment Debtor).

 
Judgment Creditor moves to compel further discovery responses
and requests monetary sanctions in the amount of $5,400.00. 
 
Meet and Confer
 
The Code of Civil Procedure (CCP) section 2031.310 provides,
in pertinent part, the moving party shall include a meet and confer declaration
as provided in section 2016.040. (CCP § 2031.310(b).) The meet and confer
declaration “shall state facts showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at
an informal resolution of each issue presented by the motion.” (CCP §
2016.040.) 
 
Here, Judgment Creditor states that its counsel emailed
Judgment Debtor’s counsel on December 21, 2023, requesting a meet and confer on
all issues related to Judgment Debtor’s tardy and incomplete discovery
responses. (Yost Decl., ¶ 25, Ex. 5.) Judgment Debtor agreed to meet and confer
on January 4, 2024 and to extend the deadline for filing any motion to compel
further responses to January 15, 2024. (Id. at ¶ 26.) During the meet
and confer session, Judgment Debtor’s counsel represented that by January 11,
2024, the documents related to bank accounts at Wells Fargo and Umpqua Bank, as
well as its QuickBook records would be produced. (Id. at ¶ 27.) Judgment
Debtor produced 86 pages of documents and agreed in writing to extend Judgment
Creditor’s deadline to file a motion to compel further responses. (Id.
at ¶ 28.) The documents produced were inaccurately marked with the words
“subject to protective order,” where Judgment Debtor’s counsel conceded no
protective order was currently in place in this instant matter. (Id. at
¶ 30.) Judgment Debtor’s counsel also confirmed that Judgment Debtor did have
QuickBook accounting records but that Judgment Debtor did not send those
records to him. (Id. at ¶ 31). On January 15, 2024, Judgment Creditor’s
counsel emailed Judgment Debtor’s counsel detailing deficiencies in the
production and responses, asking for supplemental production and responses, and
offering another chance to meet and confer. (Id. at ¶ 32.) Judgment
Debtor’s counsel agreed to meet and confer on January 18, 2024. (Id. at
¶ 33.) The parties met and conferred and Judgment Debtor’s counsel represented
that the responses and production would be supplemented by February 1, 2024 and
extended Judgment Creditor’s deadline to file a motion to compel further
responses to February 15, 2024. (Id. at ¶¶ 34-35, Ex. 6.) Judgment
Debtor failed to supplement the responses and production and asked for a meet
and confer on February 8, 2024. (Id. at ¶¶ 36-38.) Judgment Debtor’s
counsel did not call or respond to Judgment Creditor’s counsel’s email on
February 8, 2024 and did not supplement the responses or documents. (Id.
at ¶¶ 38-41.)
 
Therefore, the Court finds that Judgment Creditor’s meet and
confer efforts were sufficient per CCP section 2031.310(b) and shall consider
the motion on the merits. 
 
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Request for
Production of Documents (Set One)
 
Under CCP section 2031.310(a), parties may move for a
further response to requests for production of documents where documents
produced in response to the requests are evasive or incomplete or where an
objection is without merit or too general.¿¿
 
Judgment Creditor moves for an order compelling further
responses to its request for production (set one) (RPD) Nos. 1-6, 8-9, 10-14.
The discovery at issue seeks financial records including: (1) internal
accounting records; (2) credit applications; (3) bank account statements; (4) tax
returns; asset-related documents; documents sufficient to identify all of the
Judgment Debtor’s customers, investors, and payors, vendors and service
providers and distributors; documents related to the lease of real property;
documents related to the settlement in Vivera Pharmaceuticals, Inc. v. GD
Laboratory Consulting, Case No. 30-2021-01207052 (Orange County Superior
Court); documents related to patent licensing agreements; documents related to
payments to employees or independent contractors; documents and communications
related to the appraisal of Pala Diagnostics LLC in Vivera Pharmaceuticals,
Inc. v. Dalrada Financial Corporation, Case No. 30-2021-01238083 (Orange
County Superior Court); and documents related to funds raised from investors. 
The Court notes that Judgment Debtor has not opposed the
instant motion to refute the contentions raised by Judgment Creditor despite
notice of the motion. Nevertheless, the merits of the motion has been
considered below. 
 
RPD Nos. 1, 2, and 14
 
Judgment Debtor responded as follows: “Defendant
lacks the ability to comply with this demand. A diligent search and a
reasonable inquiry has been made in an effort to comply with this demand.
Defendant’s inability to comply is because the particular items requested have
either never existed or have been destroyed lost or misplaced.”
 
RPD Nos. 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 10, 11, 12, and 13
 
Judgment Debtor responded as follows: “Defendant will
comply with this request. The production demanded will be allowed in whole and
all documents in the demanded category that are in the possession, custody, or
control of Defendant and to which no objection is being made will be included
in the production.”
 
RPD No. 9 
 
Judgment Debtor responded as follows: “To the extent
this Request seeks documents concerning the ownership of real property by
Defendant, Defendant lacks the ability to comply with this demand. A diligent
search and a reasonable inquiry has been made in an effort to comply with this
demand. Defendant’s inability to comply is because the particular items
requested have never existed…To the extent this Request seeks the production of
documents concerning the lease of real property by Defendant, Defendant will
comply with this request. The production demanded will be allowed in whole and
all documents in the demanded category that are in the possession, custody, or
control of Defendant and to which no objection is being made will be included
in the production.”
 
Here, Judgment Creditor argues these documents are critical
to identifying Judgment Debtor’s assets and to confirm whether Judgment Debtor
is fraudulently transferring assets to third party nominees or using alter egos
to conceal assets. Furthermore, Judgment Creditor asserts that Judgment Debtor
represented that it would comply “in whole” with RPD Nos. 3-13 but has failed
to produce any documents in response to RPD Nos. 5, 6, 8, 9, 10, 11, or 12.
Similarly, Judgment Creditor contends RPD Nos. 3, 4, and 7 are incomplete
because Judgment Creditor has identified an additional account that Judgment
Debtor used to hold or transfer assets between 2021 and the present but
Judgment Debtor did not produce any records for 2021, 2022, the balance of
2023, or 2024. Moreover, Judgment Creditor asserts Judgment Debtor produced
only its federal tax return for 2021 and a single, heavily redacted two-page
document that does not identify vendors or service providers responsive to RPD
Nos. 4 and 7. Likewise, Judgment Creditor contends Judgment Debtor’s response
that it is unable to comply with RPD Nos. 1, 2, and 14 are inadequate,
incomplete, and evasive because Judgment Debtor’s counsel later confirmed
Judgment Debtor has documents responsive to these requests and would be
producing; Judgment Creditor has confirmed Judgment Debtor has secured loans;
and bank records obtained from third parties have confirmed Judgment Debtor
raised funds from investors in 2022 and deposited those funds in its bank
accounts. Finally, Judgment Creditor argues Judgment Debtor redacted
significant portions of the production on the basis of the attorney client
privilege and trade secrets despite waiving its right to assert any objections
including those based on attorney client privilege because it failed to timely
respond to the requests for production. 
 
The Court finds that Judgment Debtor failed to substantially
produce documents responsive to these requests and waived the right to any
objections. Therefore, the Motion to Compel Further Responses to Request for
Production of Documents (Set One) is GRANTED. Judgment Debtor is ordered to
produce code-compliant, responsive documents to these requests without
objections within 30 days of this order.
 
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories
(Set One)
 
Under CCP section 2030.300(a), parties may move for a
further response to interrogatories where an answer to the requests are evasive
or incomplete or where an objection is without merit or too general.¿¿
 
Judgment Creditor moves for an order compelling further responses
to its special interrogatories (set one) (SROGs) Nos. 1-7, 9-11, 13-19. As
discussed above, Judgment Creditor contends the information related to third
parties that have received payments or held funds on behalf of the Judgment
Debtor is critical for Judgment Creditor to identify alter egos, fraudulent
transferees, and all other third parties (in addition to Vivera Bio) who may be
holding assets on behalf of the Judgment Debtor. 
 
SROG Nos. 1-4, 13-19
 
Judgment Debtor responded as follows: “The answer to
this interrogatory would necessitate the preparation or the making of a
compilation, abstract, audit, or summary of or from Defendant’s documents The
burden or expense of preparing or making such a compilation, abstract, audit,
or summary would be substantially the same for Plaintiff as for Defendant.
Defendant refers Plaintiff to Defendant’s Quickbook accounting records.
Defendant is prepared to make such records available to Plaintiff at a mutually
convenient time and place.”
 
SROG Nos. 5 and 8
 
Judgment Debtor responded as follows: “Wells Fargo
Bank, NA.”
 
SROG No. 6 
 
Judgment Debtor responded as follows: “Plaintiff has
account number from documents previously produced.”
 
SROG No. 7 and 11
 
Judgment Debtor responded as follows: “Vivera
Pharmaceuticals, Inc.”
 
SROG No. 9
 
Judgment Debtor responded as follows: “None.”
 
SROG No. 10
 
Judgment Debtor responded as follows: “See responses
above.”
 
Judgment Creditor argues the responses provided by Judgment
Debtor are deficient because they reference production of documents in lieu of
substantive answers despite Judgment Debtor’s waiver of any right to exercise
an option to produce writings under CCP section 2030.230 by failing to timely
respond to discovery requests. Furthermore, Judgment Creditor contends the
responses are evasive and incomplete because they are limited to information
pertaining to Vivera Pharmaceuticals, Inc., despite no objection being made to
the request for information related to all other entities owned or controlled
by Vivera Pharmaceuticals, Inc. In fact, Judgment Creditor asserts there is
substantial evidence that Vivera Bio, Inc. received payments to its Umpqua Bank
account on behalf of Vivera Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and used those funds to pay
Vivera Pharmaceuticals, Inc.’s payroll and other expenses. 
 
The Court finds that Judgment Debtor has failed to
substantively respond to the interrogatories and waived any objection to produce
any writings in lieu of answers. Therefore, the Motion to Compel Further
Responses to Special Interrogatories (Set One) is GRANTED.  Judgment Debtor is ordered to provide
verified, code-compliant, supplemental responses without objections within 30
days of this order.
 
Sanctions 
 
Monetary sanctions may be imposed against a party or
attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further
responses. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310(h).) However, sanctions are not
required if the Court finds that the party subjected to the sanctions acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances exist that make the
imposition of the sanction unjust. (Id.)
 
Here, Judgment Creditor’s counsel seek s monetary sanctions
in the amount of $5,400 at an hourly rate of $450.00 for 12.0 hours spent on
these two motions to compel further responses. Because the motions are
unopposed, no sanctions may be imposed.  
 
Accordingly, the request for sanctions is DENIED.  