 Case Number:  21NWCV00633    Hearing Date:   May 15, 2024    Dept:  C OLAES v. KIM, ET  AL. CASE NO.:  21NWCV00633 HEARING:  05/15/24   #2 TENTATIVE ORDER   I.              Defendant’s motion for judgment on the pleadings  is DENIED.   Moving party(s) to give notice.    This lawsuit was filed by Plaintiff PRISCILLA OLAES  (Plaintiff) on September 27, 2021 against Defendants DAVID KIM, an individual;  RD RESTAURANT GROUP, INC. aka RDR GROUP, INC., a California corporation; GOLDEN  DEN CORP., a Nevada corporation (Defendants); and DOES 1 through 20 inclusive,  for (1) Breach of Contract and (2) Common Counts.    Defendant DAVID KIM (Defendant Kim) moves for judgment on  the pleadings on Plaintiff’s Complaint on the grounds that the Complaint does  not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against him.    The Court has considered the moving, opposition, and reply  papers.    Meet and Confer    Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure (CCP) section 439, a  motion for judgment on the pleadings must be accompanied by a meet and confer  declaration demonstrating an attempt to meet and confer in person or by  telephone, at least five days before the date a motion for judgment on the  pleadings is filed. (CCP § 439.)¿¿    Here, Defendant Kim’s counsel states that he called  Plaintiff’s counsel, Kit Gardner on April 11, 2024 to meet and confer about the  grounds for bringing the instant motion for judgment on the pleadings. (Pipal  Decl., ¶ 3.) Mr. Gardner never returned the phone call. (Id.) Defense  counsel sent an email to Mr. Gardner in an attempt to meet and confer. (Id.  at ¶ 4.) The parties exchanged email correspondence regarding the motion for  judgment on the pleadings and did not reach an agreement. (Id., Ex. A.)   Therefore, the Court finds that Defendant Kim’s meet and  confers efforts were sufficient per CCP section 439 and it shall consider the  motion on the merits.      Request for Judicial Notice   In support of the moving and reply papers, Defendant Kim  request the court take judicial notice of the following matters filed in this  instant action (1) Plaintiff’s Complaint; (2) October 3, 2023 Order Denying  Defendant’s Motion for Summary Judgment; (3) July 31, 2023 Ruling on Submitted  Matter, Denying Plaintiff’s Motion for Summary Judgment; (4) Plaintiff’s  Separate Statement in Support of MSJ; (5) Plaintiff’s Notice of Lodgment of  Exhibits in Support of MSJ; (6) October 11, 2023 Order Denying Motion for Leave  to Amend; (7) Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to First Amended Complaint; and (8)  Defendant’s Reply to Plaintiff’s Opposition to Defendant’s MSJ.    Pursuant to Evidence Code section 452(d), the request for  judicial notice is granted (except as to the truth of the matters).      Legal Standard   The standard for ruling on a motion for judgment on the  pleadings is essentially the same as that applicable to a general demurrer,  that is, under the state of the pleadings, together with matters that may be  judicially noticed, it appears that a party is entitled to judgment as a matter  of law.¿(Bezirdjian v. O'Reilly (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 316, 321-322,  citing Schabarum v. California Legislature (1998) 60 Cal.App.4th 1205,  1216.)¿Matters which are subject to mandatory judicial notice may be treated as  part of the complaint and may be considered without notice to the parties.  Matters which are subject to permissive judicial notice must be specified in  the notice of motion, the supporting points and authorities, or as the court  otherwise permits. (Id.)¿The motion may not be supported by extrinsic  evidence. (Barker v. Hull (1987) 191 Cal.App.3d 221, 236.)¿    When the moving party is a defendant, he or she must  demonstrate that “The court has no jurisdiction of the subject of the cause of  action alleged in the complaint” or “The complaint does not state facts  sufficient to constitute a cause of action against that defendant.” (CCP §§  438(c)(1)(B)(i)-(ii).)¿¿   Statute of Limitations    “In order for the bar of the statute of limitations to be  raised by demurrer, the defect must clearly and affirmatively appear on the  face of the complaint; it is not enough that the complaint shows merely that  the action may be barred.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Services  (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315-16.)   Commercial Code section 3118(a), states in pertinent part,  “[e]xcept as provided in subdivision (e), an action to enforce the obligation  of a party to pay a note payable at a definite time shall be commenced within  six years after the due date or dates stated in the note or, if a due date is  accelerated, within six years after the accelerated due date.” (Com. Code §  3118(a).)   Here, the parties do not dispute that the statute of  limitations for an action on a promissory note is six-years. However, the  parties disagree on whether Plaintiff must plead around the statute of  limitations to assert causes of action against Defendant Kim. Defendant Kim argues  that Plaintiff’s Complaint fails to state any legal or factual basis for  tolling the statute of limitations as to Defendant Kim in his capacity as  Guarantor.  More specifically, the  Complaint fails to allege that the statute of limitations was tolled/waived  based upon Defendant Kim’s August 26, 2020 letter to Plaintiff acknowledging  the debt.  The Court determines that the face  of the complaint does not clearly and affirmatively establish that the causes  of action are barred by the statute of limitations.  The Defendant raises factual issues which are  not appropriately resolved in a motion for judgment on the pleadings.     Therefore, Defendant Kim’s motion for judgment on the  pleadings is denied as to the statute of limitations issue.               Breach of Contract    To state a cause of action for breach of contract, plaintiff  must plead: “(1) the existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff's performance or  excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant's breach, and (4) the resulting  damages to the plaintiff.” (D’Arrigo Bros. of California v. United  Farmworkers of America (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 790, 800.)    Here, the Court finds that the Complaint states sufficient  facts to support a cause of action for breach of contract. The Complaint  alleges Plaintiff made several loans to the Obligors that were evidenced by ten  (10) different promissory notes. (Compl., ¶¶ 8-17.) The Complaint further  alleges Defendant Kim personally guaranteed the obligations of the Obligors  under each of these notes. (Id.) The Complaint further alleges the  Obligors and Defendant Kim made monthly payments towards satisfaction of these  notes. (Compl., ¶ 18.) The Complaint also alleges the last payment made to  Plaintiff was on or about August 18, 2020. (Id.) The Complaint also  alleges written notice of defaults were sent to the Obligors and Defendant Kim  on June 16, 2021. (Compl., ¶ 19.) Finally, the Complaint alleges Plaintiff has  performed under the promissory notes, Defendant Kim has breached the terms of  his guaranty by failing to make full and timely payments to Plaintiff, and  Plaintiff has suffered damages in the amount of at least $2,998,814.00 as  direct and proximate result of Defendant Kim’s breach. (Compl., ¶¶ 21, 23-24. )   Therefore, Defendant Kim’s motion or judgment on the  pleadings is denied as to the First Cause of Action for Breach of Contract.              Common  Counts   “A common count for reasonable value has the following  elements: (1) plaintiff performed certain services for the defendant; (2) the  reasonable value of those services; (3) the services were rendered at the  request of the defendant; and (4) the services were unpaid” (State  Compensation Insurance Fund v. ReadyLink Healthcare, Inc. (2020) 50  Cal.App.5th 422, 449.)   Here, the Court finds that the Complaint states sufficient  facts to support a cause of action for common counts. The Complaint alleges  Plaintiff made several loans to the Obligors at their request. (Compl., ¶¶  8-17.) The Complaint further alleges Defendant Kim guaranteed the promissory  notes executed for those loans. (Id.) The Complaint also alleges the  Obligors and Defendant Kim defaulted on the payments and owe no less that  $2,998,814.00 to Plaintiff. (Compl., ¶¶ 19, 26-27.)   Therefore, Defendant Kim’s motion or judgment on the  pleadings is denied as to the Second Cause of Action for Common Counts.     Olaes v. RD Restaurant
Group, Inc. 21NWCV00633

 

Defendants' Ex Parte Application to Compel the
Depositions of Plaintiff's Successors in Interest, or in the alternative, an
Order Shortening Time is DENIED. Trial is scheduled to begin on May 21,
2024 (next week). The discovery cut-off date has passed. No motion to reopen
discovery under CCP 2024.050 has been filed. Defendants' Application is
untimely and must be denied. Opposing Party to give notice. 

 