 Case Number:  23NWCV01259    Hearing Date:   May 15, 2024    Dept:  C BRIAN PHAPORNCHAI,
et al. v. ENSIGN WHITTIER WEST, et al.
CASE NO.:  23NWCV01259
HEARING:  05/15/24
 
#4
TENTATIVE ORDER
 
Defendant PIH Health Whittier Hospital’s Demurrer as to
the Third Cause of Action is SUSTAINED with 30 days leave to amend.  The Motion to Strike is MOOT.  
 
Moving party to give notice. 
 
This action arises from an alleged wrongful death. On April
25, 2023, Plaintiff Brian Phapornchai, individually and in his capacity as
successor in interest to Chuleeporn Phapornchai (“Decedent”) filed a Complaint
against Defendants Ensign Whittier West (“Ensign”) and PIH Health Whittier (“PIH”)
alleging causes of action for: (1) Negligence; (2) Professional Negligence; (3)
Elder Abuse; and (4) Wrongful Death. 
 
On November 28, 2023, after hearing oral argument, the Court
sustained the demurrer of Defendant PIH to the first cause of action in the
Complaint without leave to amend and sustained the demurrer of Defendant PIH to
the third cause of action in the Complaint with leave to amend. (11/28/23
Minute Order.) Also, on such date, the Court deemed the motion to strike by
Defendant PIH as moot given that the Court sustained the demurrer. (11/28/23
Minute Order.) 
 
On December 18, 2023, Plaintiff filed the operative First
Amended Complaint (“FAC) against Defendants alleging causes of action for: (1) Ordinary
Negligence; (2) Professional Negligence; (3) Elder Abuse; and (4) Wrongful
Death. The first cause of action is solely alleged against Defendant Ensign. 
 
Plaintiff alleges the following in the FAC: Defendant Ensign
operates the Orchard Post Acute Care Facility (“OPAC”) in the City of Whittier,
where the Decedent was being cared for prior to her death. (FAC, ¶ 2.)
Defendant PIH operates the PIH Hospital, where the Decedent received medical
care and from where the Decedent was transferred to the Orchard Post Acute Care
Facility in the City of Whittier. (FAC, ¶ 3.) In or around October 2021,
Decedent, who was over the age of 65 at the time, enrolled at OPAC for skilled
nursing care. (FAC, ¶ 7.) Following her enrolment, Decedent, who suffered from ambulatory
issues and frequent falls, was left completely unattended on numerous
occasions, which led to her inevitably falling down and injuring herself. (FAC,
¶ 7.) Despite notice from Decedent’s family regarding Decedent’s need for
supervision while ambulated, as well as notice to and knowledge of the staff of
the Defendants pertaining to Decedent’s repeated falls and injures requiring,
in some cases, emergency medical care at the hospital operated by Defendant
PIH, Defendant Ensign continued to leave the Decedent unattended in
circumstances where the Decedent was likely to fall and injure herself. (FAC, ¶
7.) 
 
Each time Decedent was treated at the hospital operated by
Defendant PIH after falling at the OPAC, Defendant PIH subsequently discharged
Decedent to OPAC over the objections of Decedent’s family and despite notice
that Decedent was being left unattended to injure herself at OPAC. (FAC, ¶ 8.) Staff
at Defendant PIH took no action to report the incidents of elder abuse at OPAC.
(FAC, ¶ 8.) On each occasion that Decedent presented to Defendant PIH for
emergency treatment in connection with a fall at OPAC, the officers and
directors of Defendant PIH, including, without limitation, the Medical
Director, knew that Decedent had fallen and injured herself due to elder abuse
and neglect at OPAC. (FAC, ¶ 8.) The FAC alleges that, nevertheless, Decedent
was discharged by Defendant PIH to OPAC with the authorization, permission, and
ratification of Defendant PIH’s officers and directors, including, without
limitation, its Medical Director. (FAC, ¶ 8.) 
 
Subsequently, on or about October 10, 2022, Decedent
suffered yet another fall at OPAC. (FAC, ¶ 9.) As a result of the last fall,
Decedent suffered a severe brain injury involving swelling and bleeding of the
brain and had to undergo a craniotomy. (FAC, ¶ 9.) Following the craniotomy,
Decedent passed away on November 6, 2022. (FAC, ¶ 9.) 
 
On February 23, 2024, Defendant PIH filed the instant
demurrer to the third cause of action in the FAC, as well as a motion to strike
portions of the FAC. On May 2, 2024, Plaintiff filed respective opposition
briefs as to the demurrer and motion to strike, to which Defendant PIH replied
on May 8, 2024. 
 
DEMURRER 
 
Meet and Confer 
 
The Court finds that the meet and confer requirement has
been met pursuant to CCP § 430.41. (Normandie Decl., ¶¶ 10-11.)  
 
Legal Standard
 
“A demurrer tests the sufficiency of a complaint as a matter
of law.”  (Durell v. Sharp Healthcare
(2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 1350, 1358.) “[T]he court gives the complaint a
reasonable interpretation, and treats the demurrer as admitting all material
facts properly pleaded.”  (Ibid.)
“[A] demurrer accepts as true all well pleaded facts and those facts of which
the court can take judicial notice but not deductions, contentions, or
conclusions of law or fact.” (Fox v. JAMDAT Mobile, Inc. (2010) 185
Cal.App.4th 1068, 1078.) Although courts construe pleadings liberally,
sufficient facts must be alleged to support the allegations plead to survive a
demurrer. (Rakestraw v. California Physicians' Serv. (2000) 81
Cal.App.4th 39, 43.)  
 
Where a demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be
allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman
v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is on the plaintiff to
show the court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Ibid.) “If
there is any reasonable possibility that the plaintiff can state a good cause
of action, it is error to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend.” (Youngman
v. Nevada Irrigation Dist. (1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245).  
 
Analysis
 
A.  
Uncertainty
 
Defendant PIH contends that the third cause of action in the
FAC is uncertain and fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action. 
 
Initially, the Court will address the contention of
Defendant PIH that the third cause of action is uncertain. A demurrer for
uncertainty will “not be sustained if the allegations are sufficiently clear to
apprise the defendant of the issues that must be met, even if the allegations
of the complaint may not be as clear and detailed as might be desired.” (Bacon
v. Wahrhaftig (1950) 97 Cal.App.2d 599, 606.) “A demurrer for uncertainty
will not lie where the ambiguous facts alleged are presumptively within the
knowledge of the demurring party.” (Ibid.) 
 
Pursuant to the third cause of action, Plaintiff alleges the
following: Defendants engaged in neglect and abandonment of the Decedent
leading to physical harm or mental suffering of the Decedent as well as the
deprivation of goods or services necessary to avoid physical harm or mental
suffering. (FAC, ¶ 23.) 
 
The third cause of action incorporates the preceding
allegations of the FAC. (FAC, ¶ 22.) The Court finds that the third cause of
action is not uncertain as Defendant PIH is apprised of the issues that must be
met. The Court therefore OVERRULES the demurrer of Defendant PIH on the grounds
of uncertainty. 
 
 
 
 
B.  
Legal Sufficiency of the Third Cause of Action 
 
The Elder Abuse and Dependent Adult Civil Protection Act
(Welf. & Inst. Code, § 15600 et seq.) provides for steep penalties against
those who abuse an elder or a dependent adult. Dependent adult abuse includes
physical abuse, neglect, isolation, deprivation by a care custodian of
necessary goods or services, and financial abuse. (Welf. & Inst. Code, §
15610.07, subd. (a).) Neglect includes the negligent failure of any person
having the care or custody of an elder or a dependent adult to exercise that
degree of care that a reasonable person in a like position would exercise.
(Welf. & Inst. Code, § 15610.57, subd. (a)(1).) Neglect includes failure to
assist in personal hygiene, failure to provide medical care for physical and
mental health needs, and failure to protect from health and safety hazards.
(Welf. & Inst. Code, § 15610.57, subd. (b).) Abandonment is defined as
“the desertion or willful forsaking of an elder or a
dependent adult by anyone having care or custody of that person under
circumstances in which a reasonable person would continue to provide care and
custody.” (Welf. & Inst. Code, § 15610.05.) Goods and services necessary to
avoid physical harm or mental suffering include protection from health and
safety hazards. (Welf. & Inst. Code, § 15610.35, subd. (e).) 
 
[S]everal factors [] must be
present for conduct to constitute neglect within the meaning of the Elder Abuse
Act and thereby trigger the enhanced remedies available under the Act. The
plaintiff must allege (and ultimately prove by clear and convincing evidence)
facts establishing that the defendant: (1) had responsibility for meeting the
basic needs of the elder or dependent adult, such as nutrition, hydration,
hygiene or medical care; (2) knew of conditions that made the elder or
dependent adult unable to provide for his or her own basic needs; and (3)
denied or withheld goods or services necessary to meet the elder or
dependent adult’s basic needs, either with knowledge that injury was
substantially certain to befall the elder or dependent adult (if the plaintiff
alleges oppression, fraud or malice) or with conscious disregard of the high
probability of such injury (if the plaintiff alleges recklessness). The
plaintiff must also allege (and ultimately prove by clear and convincing
evidence) that the neglect caused the elder or dependent adult to suffer
physical harm, pain or mental suffering. Finally, the facts constituting the
neglect and establishing the causal link between the neglect and the injury
“must be pleaded with particularity,” in accordance with the pleading rules
governing statutory claims.
 
(Carter v. Prime
Healthcare Paradise Valley LLC (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 396, 406-407,
citations omitted.) 
 
To support a cause of action for elder abuse, “[f]acts, not
conclusions, must be pleaded.” (Id. at p. 410.) “[W]here . . . statutory
remedies are invoked, the facts must be pleaded with particularity.” (Ibid.)

 
The Court finds that the third cause of action in the FAC
against Defendant PIH is insufficiently alleged as it is much too conclusory. Plaintiff
does not allege which officers or directors of Defendant PIH repeatedly
discharged Decedent back to OPAC. Pursuant to the third cause of action, Plaintiff
does not articulate specifically how Defendant PIH engaged in neglect,
abandonment, or deprivation of goods or services necessary to avoid physical
harm or mental suffering. (FAC, ¶¶ 23-25.) Moreover, Plaintiff has failed to
allege specific facts showing that Defendant PIH acted with recklessness,
oppression, fraud, or malice. (Covenant Care, supra, 32 Cal.4th
771, 779.) Plaintiff has also failed to allege sufficient facts showing that a managing
agent, officer, or director of Defendant PIH either: (1) had advance knowledge
of the unfitness of an employee and employed such employee with a conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others; or (2) authorized or ratified the
wrongful conduct of Defendant Ensign. (WIC § 15657(c); Civ. Code § 3294(b).) 
 
The Court therefore SUSTAINS the demurrer of Defendant PIH
to the third cause of action in the FAC with leave to amend. 
 
 
MOTION TO STRIKE 
          
Meet and Confer 
 
The Court finds that the meet and confer requirement has
been met pursuant to CCP § 435.5. (Normandie Decl., ¶¶ 10-11.)  
 
Legal Standard
 
 “Any party, within the time allowed to
respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole
or any part thereof.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1).) A court may
“[s]trike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any
pleading.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 436, subd. (a).) 
A court may “[s]trike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of
the court.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (b).) 
 
 
 
 
Analysis
 
Defendant PIH moves to strike portions of the FAC related to
the third cause of action seeking punitive damages and attorney’s fees. 
 
Defendant PIH seeks to strike the following allegations: 
 
1.   
FAC at page 3 through 4, ¶ 8, lines 22-28, 1-9; 
2.   
FAC, Third Cause of Action, Page 6, ¶ 22 through
¶ 26, in its entirety;
3.   
FAC, Prayer, Page 7, No. 3: “Punitive damages”;
and 
4.   
FAC, Prayer, Page 7, No. 4: “Attorney’s fees.” 
 
As indicated above, the Court has sustained the demurrer of
Defendant PIH to the third cause of action in the FAC with leave to amend. 
 
As such, the Motion to Strike is MOOT. 