 Case Number:  23STCV23088    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


October
  23, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


23STCV23088




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Compel Independent Medical Examination




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Yvonne Rabiee




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Jonathan Hernandez



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            On September 25, 2023, Plaintiff Jonathan
Hernandez (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendant Yvonne Rabiee
(“Defendant”) and Does 1 through 50 for negligence regarding an alleged motor
vehicle collision. 
 
            Defendant
now moves to compel Plaintiff to submit to an independent medical examination. Defendant
also seeks monetary sanctions. An opposition was filed on October 14, 2024.[1] On
October 16, 2024, Defendant filed her reply. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“In any case in which a plaintiff is seeking recovery for
personal injuries, any defendant may demand one physical examination of the
plaintiff, if both of the following conditions are satisfied: (1) The
examination does not include any diagnostic test or procedure that is painful,
protracted, or intrusive. (2) The examination is conducted at a location within
75 miles of the residence of the examinee.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.220, subd.
(a).)¿¿¿ 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.250 provides that,
when a plaintiff fails to respond to a demand, or refuses to submit to the
physical examination, the defendant may move for an order compelling a response
to the demand and compelling compliance with the request for an exam. The
motion must be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration. 
 
The court shall impose a monetary sanction against any
party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to
compel compliance with a demand for a physical examination, unless it finds
that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or
that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ.
Proc. § 2032.250 (b).) 
 
“The court
shall grant a motion for a physical or mental examination under Section
2032.310 only for good cause shown.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.320, subd.
(a); see also Sporich v. Superior Court (2000) 77 Cal.App.4th 422, 427
[“the good cause which must be shown should be such that will satisfy an
impartial tribunal that the request may be granted without abuse of the
inherent rights of the adversary”].) A showing of good cause generally requires
“that the party produce specific facts justifying discovery and that the
inquiry be relevant to the subject matter of the action or reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (Vinson v.
Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 840.)  And “[a] party who chooses
to allege that he has mental and emotional difficulties can hardly deny his
mental state is in controversy.”  (Id. at p.
839.)   
 
The examination
will be limited to whatever condition is “in controversy” in the action.¿ (Code
Civ. Proc. §2032.020(a).)¿ This means the examination must be directly related
to the specific injury or condition that is the subject of the litigation.¿ (Roberts
v. Superior Court (1973) 9 Cal.3d 330, 337.)¿ Often, a party's pleadings
put his or her mental or physical condition in controversy ... as when a
plaintiff claims continuing mental or physical injury resulting from
defendant's acts: “A party who chooses to allege that he has mental and
emotional difficulties can hardly deny his mental state is in controversy.”¿
(See Vinson v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 837, wherein the
plaintiff claimed ongoing emotional distress from sexual harassment by former
employer.)¿ Discovery responses can also frame the issues regarding the
injuries and damages alleged.¿¿ 
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
The Declaration of Dwayne S. Beck, counsel for Defendant, states the
following: “In fact, Defense Counsel’s office contacted Plaintiff’s Counsel on
June 5th advising them that Plaintiff failed to appear at Dr.
Kramer’s office. Defense Counsel then emailed correspondence to Plaintiff’s
Counsel on June 6, 2024, with Dr. Kramer’s W-9 and no-show invoice and
requested payment be forwarded to Dr. Kramer’s office as soon as possible. On
June 6, 2024, Plaintiff’s Counsel responded that no payment would be forthcoming
from his firm, and he would provide alternate dates as soon as he heard from
his client. Defense Counsel advised that Plaintiff Counsel’s office confirmed
their client’s appearance at the IME and unless Dr. Kramer’s no-show was paid,
Defense Counsel would seek Court intervention. However, as of the date of this
Motion, Plaintiff’s Counsel has not paid Dr. Kramer’s no-show fee nor has he
provided any alternate date(s) for the client’s IME.” (Beck Decl. ¶¶ 7- 10.) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendant seeks to have Plaintiff examined by orthopedic physician, Dr.
Sten Erik Kramer, a board-certified in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation and
Pain Management. 
 
Here, Defendant has shown good cause for the medical examination.
First, on April 29, 2024, Defendant served a Notice for an Independent Medical
Examination (“IME”) for Plaintiff to take place on June 5, 2024, at 1:30 p.m.,
with Dr. Sten Erik Kramer in Newport Beach. (Beck Decl. ¶ 3.) On May 30, 2024,
Plaintiff Counsel’s office confirmed Plaintiff attendance at the June 5th
IME. (Id. at ¶ 4.) However, Plaintiff failed to appear to the IME. (Id.
at ¶ 5.) 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues that this motion is moot because
Plaintiff is ready, willing, and able to perform Defendant’s IME and awaits new
dates from Defendant. (Opp. at p. 5.) Plaintiff’s counsel states that counsel
did not hear from Plaintiff until October 8 and was informed that Plaintiff was
ill on the day of the examination and did not have a ride. No explanation is
given regarding why Plaintiff did not communicate with counsel or the doctor regarding
the IME and no declaration is provided from Plaintiff that Plaintiff became ill
that day. No timely objection was filed. Accordingly, the Court grants the
motion.
 
Monetary
Sanctions 
 
            Since Plaintiff unsuccessfully
opposed the Motion and provided no justification for not contacting counsel
prior to the IME to reschedule, sanctions are warranted. However, it does not
appear that Plaintiff’s attorney counseled the discovery abuse, and therefore
the Court awards sanctions as to Plaintiff only. Moreover, the amount requested
is excessive in light of the nature of the motion and because counsel can
appear remotely at the hearing. Accordingly, the Court orders monetary
sanctions in the amount of $3,361.65 (4 hours of attorney time, the filing fee,
and the cancellation fee).
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s
Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Attendance of a Medical Examination is GRANTED. Plaintiff
is to appear for his IME within 30 days. 
 
Plaintiff is ordered to pay monetary sanctions in the total amount of
$3,361.65 to counsel for Defendant within 30 days of the date of this Court’s
ruling. 
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s order and file a proof
of service of such. 


