 Case Number:  23STCV10975    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


October
  23 2024




CASE NUMBER:


23STCV10975




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Compel Deposition of Plaintiff Maria Vela-Zuniga




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Los Angeles County Metropolitan
  Transportation Authority




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Maria Vela-Zuniga



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            Defendant
Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (“Defendant”) moves to
compel Plaintiff Maria Vela-Zuniga’s (“Plaintiff”) deposition. Defendant also
seeks monetary sanctions. Plaintiff opposes and Defendant replies. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the
action . . . , without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410,
fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for
inspection any document . . . described in the deposition notice, the party
giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance
and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document . . .
described in the deposition notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).) 
 
“A motion under subdivision (a) [above] shall comply with
both of the following: 
 
1. The motion
shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the production for
inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice. 
2. The motion
shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040,
or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the documents,
electronically stored information, or things described in the deposition
notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent
to inquire about the nonappearance.” 
 
(Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (b).) 
 
If a motion is granted, the court shall impose a monetary
sanction in favor of that party unless the court finds that the one subject to
the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances
make the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.450 (g).)
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
The Declaration of Arthur C. Preciado, Defendant’s counsel, shows that
Defendant’s counsel initially agreed to reschedule Plaintiff’s deposition if
Plaintiff paid the late cancellation fee that was incurred after Plaintiff canceled
the deposition on Friday September 13, 2024. (Preciado Decl. ¶ 9, Exh. 7.) In
response, Plaintiff rejected this offer and stated intentions to move for a
protective order. Therefore, it appears Defendant reasonably attempted to meet
and confer, in light of the nature of Plaintiff’s counsel’s response.
 
DISCUSSION
 
As an initial matter, in opposition, Plaintiff argues this motion
cannot be heard because it is past the discovery cut-off. (Opp., 3; Vera Decl.
¶ 14.) On October 17, 2024, the Court granted Plaintiff’s ex parte application
and continued trial from November 12, 2024 to December 4, 2024. The discovery
and motion cut-off dates are associated with the prior trial date.[1]
(Min. Order, 10/17/24.) Motions concerning discovery must be heard at least 15
days prior to trial. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.020, subd. (a).) Therefore, based
on the November 12, 2024 trial date, the discovery motion cut-off date in this
case is October 28, 2024. Since this motion is being heard on October 23, 2024,
it is timely. 
 
Turning to the merits, Plaintiff’s deposition originally took place on
February 8, 2024, but because it ran late, was suspended by mutual agreement
from both parties. (Preciado Decl. ¶ 3, Exh. 1.) On May 29, 2024, Defendant
inquired about scheduling part two of the deposition, but Plaintiff denied the
request, believing the deposition to be complete.  (Id. ¶ 4.) When Defendant showed
Plaintiff’s counsel evidence of the agreement to reconvene the deposition on a
mutually agreeable date, Plaintiff did not respond. Defendant then inquired two
more times requesting additional dates, but Plaintiff did not respond. As a
result, on June 5, 2024, Defendant noticed Plaintiff’s Volume II deposition for
August 20, 2024. Plaintiff did not object. (Id. ¶ 5.) However, on August
16, 2024, Defendant cancelled the deposition and then re-served an amended
notice on August 30, 2024, setting the deposition for Monday September 16,
2024. 
 
On the afternoon of Friday September 13, 2024, Plaintiff emailed
Defendant’s counsel stating Plaintiff could not attend Monday’s deposition. No
explanation has been given for the inability to appear. Defendant’s counsel
agreed to take the deposition off calendar if Plaintiff paid the late
cancellation fee from the court reporter. (Id. ¶ 9.) Plaintiff refused
and filed a motion for protective order. Plaintiff failed to appear for the
September 16, 2024 deposition and a certificate of non-appearance was obtained.
(Id. ¶ 10, Exh. 8.) 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues that deposition notice stated that
Plaintiff needed to notify Defendant in writing no later than 48 hours before
the deposition if she was unable to attend. (Vera Decl. ¶ 11, Exh. A.) Plaintiff
argues that since she gave over 48 hours of notice, the demand to pay for the
late cancellation fee was meritless. 
 
In reply, Defendant points out that Plaintiff emailed her intention
not to appear on Friday at 3:07 p.m., when the deposition was scheduled for the
following Monday at 10:00 a.m. (Reply, 3.) Defendant further notes that because
Defendant’s law office is not open on the weekends, Defendant has already
incurred the late cancellation fees. 
 
Therefore, it appears the request to pay the late cancellation was
reasonable due to the fact the cancellation was made late afternoon on a Friday,
without explanation, before the deposition on Monday morning. Furthermore, because
it does not appear that Plaintiff timely served an objection to the deposition
and failed to provide a reason for the last-minute cancellation despite
receiving notice of the deposition on August 30, 2024, the motion to compel is
granted. 
 
Defendant requests $1,625 in monetary sanctions against Plaintiff and
Plaintiff’s counsel, representing a $250 hourly rate. (Preciado Decl. ¶ 11.) The
Court finds that sanctions are warranted but the amount requested is excessive
given the type of motion and fact counsel can appear at the hearing remotely. Therefore,
the Court grants monetary sanctions in the amount of $1,000 (4 hours of
attorney time). 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s
motion to compel Plaintiff’s deposition is GRANTED. Plaintiff Maria Vela-Zuniga
shall appear within 10 days’ notice of this order for a deposition.
 
The Court further grants Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions in
the reduced amount of $1,000 against Plaintiff and her counsel of record,
jointly and severally. Said monetary sanctions shall be paid to counsel for
Defendant within 30 days of this order. 
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service of such. 
 


