 Case Number:  23STCV24766    Hearing Date:   July 19, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     July 19, 2024                                      TRIAL DATE: NOT SET
                                                           
CASE:                         David Oday, et al. v. 118 Wadsworth
Avenue Homeowners Association, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV24766            
 
MOTION TO DISSOLVE
PRELIMINARY INJUNCTION

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant 118 Wadsworth Avenue Homeowners Association
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiffs David
Oday and Lakota Patrick Ford
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
10/11/23: Complaint filed. 
·        
01/10/24: First Amended Complaint filed.
·        
03/01/24: Cross-Complaint filed. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is a breach of contract and habitability defect action. Plaintiffs
allege that Defendants refused to replace the roof of Plaintiff’s condominium,
causing extensive water damage and mold throughout the unit. Plaintiffs allege
that Defendants improperly issued special assessments in violation of the
operative covenants, conditions, and restrictions on the property, and
retaliated against Plaintiffs for raising these issues. 
 
Defendant 118 Wadsworth Avenue
Homeowner’s Association moves to dissolve the preliminary injunction entered on
February 22, 2024 because of Plaintiffs’ failure to post the bond required. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendant’s Motion to Dissolve
Preliminary Injunction is DENIED on the condition that Plaintiffs serve and
file an agreement authorizing the deposit to be applied to enforce the
liability of the principal, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 995.710(c),
within 10 days of this order. 
 
If the above condition is not
satisfied, Defendant’s Motion to Dissolve Preliminary Injunction is GRANTED. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Defendant 118 Wadsworth Avenue
Homeowner’s Association moves to dissolve the preliminary injunction entered on
February 22, 2024 because of Plaintiffs’ failure to post the bond required. 
 
Legal Standard
 
            Code of
Civil Procedure section 533 states:
 
In any action, the court may on notice
modify or dissolve an injunction or temporary restraining order upon a showing
that there has been a material change in the facts upon which the injunction or
temporary restraining order was granted, that the law upon which the injunction
or temporary restraining order was granted has changed, or that the ends of
justice would be served by the modification or dissolution of the injunction or
temporary restraining order.
 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 533.) Modification of a preliminary
injunction “rests in the sound discretion of the trial court upon a
consideration of all the particular circumstances of each individual case.” (Union
Interchange, Inc. v. Savage (1959) 52 Cal.2d 601, 606.) The party seeking
modification has the burden of proving that the request is justified. (See Loeffler
v. Medina (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 1495, 1504.) 
 
Analysis
 
Defendant 118 Wadsworth Avenue
Homeowner’s Association moves to dissolve the preliminary injunction entered on
February 22, 2024 on the grounds that Plaintiffs failed to post the undertaking
of $70,416.09 ordered by the Court. (See February 22, 2024 Minute Order.) 
 
Plaintiffs, in opposition, state
that payment in the amount specified by the Court’s order was deposited with
the Court on June 26, 2024, with notice given to Defendant the next day. (Declaration
of Scott J. Kalter ISO Opp. Exhs. 1-2.) In reply, Defendant contends that
Plaintiffs’ deposit of the funds to the Court is effective as a posting of a
bond under Code of Civil Procedure section 995.710, but only if the deposit is
accompanied “by an agreement executed by the principal authorizing the officer
to collect, sell, or otherwise apply the deposit to enforce the liability of
the principal on the deposit.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 995.710(c).) Defendant
contends that Plaintiffs have not executed such an agreement, and, therefore,
that the injunction should be dissolved. 
 
The Court concurs with Defendant
that an authorization to dispose of the funds to satisfy liability is required
for Plaintiffs’ deposit to be considered posting of the bond under section
995.710. However, because Plaintiffs have demonstrated an attempt to comply
with the spirit of the Court’s order, the Court is not inclined to dissolve the
injunction for a procedural violation without first providing an opportunity to
cure the violation. The Court will therefore order Plaintiffs to serve and file
an agreement authorizing the deposit to be applied to enforce the liability of
the principal, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 995.710(c), within
10 days of this order. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
Accordingly, Defendant’s Motion to
Dissolve Preliminary Injunction is DENIED on the condition that Plaintiffs
serve and file an agreement authorizing the deposit to be applied to enforce
the liability of the principal, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
995.710(c), within 10 days of this order. 
 
If the above condition is not
satisfied, Defendant’s Motion to Dissolve Preliminary Injunction is GRANTED. 
 
Moving party to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated: July 19, 2024                           ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 