 Case Number:  23STCV05902    Hearing Date:   July 19, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     July 19, 2024              TRIAL DATE: NOT
SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Jose Vallerivas v. Staffmark Investment
LLC, et al. 
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV05902            
 
(1)  
MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO INTERROGATORIES
(2)  
MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO REQUESTS
FOR PRODUCTION

 
MOVING PARTY:               (1)(2) Plaintiff Plaintiff Jose Vallerivas 
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): (1)(2) Defendant CEVA
Logistics LLC. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an employment discrimination and wage and hour action that was
filed on March 16, 2023. Plaintiff alleges that he was discriminated against
and ultimately terminated because he took medical leave to recuperate from a
back injury.  
 
Plaintiff moves to compel further
responses to form interrogatories, special interrogatories, and requests for
production propounded to Defendant CEVA Logistics LLC. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel
Further Responses to Interrogatories from Defendant CEVA Logistics, LLC is
DENIED. This ruling is conditioned on Plaintiff’s payment of $60 in filing fees
to the Court within 5 days of this order. 
 
            Plaintiff’s Motion to
Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production from Defendant CEVA
Logistics, LLC is DENIED. 
 
            Defendant’s
requests for sanctions are DENIED. 
 
// 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Form and Special
Interrogatories
 
            Plaintiff
moves to compel further responses to form and special interrogatories
propounded to Defendant CEVA Logistics LLC. 
 
Two Motions in One
 
            Multiple
motions should not be combined into a single filing.¿(See¿Govt. Code,¿§
70617(a)(4) [setting forth the required filing fee for each motion,
application, or any other paper or request requiring a hearing];¿see¿also¿Weil
& Brown, Civil Procedure Before Trial, [8:1140.1] at 8F-60 (The Rutter
Group 2011)¿[“Motions to compel compliance with separate discovery requests
ordinarily should be filed separately.”].) 
 
Here, Plaintiff improperly combined
two Motions to Compel Further Responses to Interrogatories into a single
filing. Combining multiple motions under the guise of one motion with one
hearing reservation manipulates the Court Reservation System and unfairly jumps
ahead of other litigants. Moreover, combining motions to avoid payment of
separate filing fees deprives the Court of filing fees it is otherwise entitled
to collect. The Court therefore conditions its ruling on this motion on the
payment of an additional $60 in filing fees within 5 calendar days of this
order.
 
Legal Standard
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.300, subdivision (a), a court
may order a party to serve a further response to an interrogatory when the
court finds that: “(1) An answer to a particular interrogatory is evasive or
incomplete[;] (2) An exercise of the option to produce documents under Section
2030.230 is unwarranted or the required specification of those documents is
inadequate[; or] (3) An objection to an interrogatory is without merit or too
general.”
 
The burden is on the responding party to justify any objection or failure
to fully answer the interrogatories. (Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Superior Court
(2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255.)
 
Timing:
 
            A motion to
compel further responses to interrogatories must be served “within 45 days of
the service of the verified response, or any supplemental verified response, or
on or before any specific later date to which the propounding party and the
responding party have agreed in writing.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
2030.300(c).) The 45-day requirement is mandatory and jurisdictional. (Sexton
v. Superior Court¿(1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410.) 
 
            Plaintiff
served Defendant with the interrogatories at issue on this motion on January
15, 2024. (Declaration of Melad N. Haddad ISO Mot. ¶ 4.) Defendant served
responses on March 15, 2024. (Id. ¶ 7.) During the parties’ attempts to
informally resolve this dispute, the parties agreed to several extensions of
the deadline to bring this motion, with the final deadline being May 30, 2024. (¶¶
8-13, Exhs. 11-12.) Plaintiff’s counsel states that the motion was filed on May
30, 2024, but was rejected. Defendant’s counsel concedes that a motion to
compel further responses was served on May 30, 2024 as part of a set of
discovery motions, but the notice of motion at that time set hearings for July
8 and July 15, 2024. (Declaration of Orlando Arrellano ISO Opp. ¶ 12.) Because
the motions were not filed, those hearings were not set and did not take place.
Defendant thus argues that the motion before the Court is untimely because the
original notice was invalid and the current motion was served on June 18, well
after the agreed-upon deadline. 
 
In reply, Plaintiff asks the Court to
exercise its inherent authority to control its processes to permit this motion
to be heard. The Court lacks jurisdiction to grant such leave if the motion was
not timely filed.  A failure to comply
with the 45-day notice requirement robs the Court of jurisdiction to hear a
motion to compel further responses. (Sexton v. Superior Court¿(1997) 58
Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410.) Moreover, even if the Court could hear the motion
under its inherent authority, nothing in this record demonstrates that such
relief should be granted. Plaintiff offers no explanation for a three-week
delay in re-serving the motion with a corrected notice of hearing, nor does
Plaintiff account for the additional week’s delay in filing the motion. Plaintiff’s
motion was not timely filed nor served and must therefore be denied. 
 
Sanctions
 
            Defendant
requests sanctions against Plaintiff and his counsel for bringing an untimely
motion to compel further responses. 
 
            Failing to respond or to submit to an
authorized method of discovery is a misuse of the discovery process.  (Code of Civ. Proc. § 2023.010.) Under
California Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030, subd. (a), “[t]he court
may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the
discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the
reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result
of that conduct. . . . If a monetary sanction is authorized by any provision of
this title, the court shall impose that sanction unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”
 
            Sanctions
are mandatory in connection with motions to compel responses to interrogatories
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel. (Code Civ. Proc. §2030.300(d).) However, sanctions are
not mandatory if the court “finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust.”  (Id.)
 
            Here,
Defendant seeks sanctions in the amount of $2,000 for fees incurred opposing
both this motion and the accompanying motion to compel further responses to
requests for production, discussed below. Defendant does not provide any
explanation of how this amount was reached beyond a bare assertion that
Attorney Arrellano incurred 5 hours at $400 per hour opposing Plaintiff’s
motions. (Arellano Decl. ¶ 17.) This statement is not sufficient to meet
Defendant’s burden to demonstrate the reasonableness of the fees sought. The
Court therefore declines to award sanctions. 
 
Conclusion
 
            Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Form Interrogatories from
Defendant CEVA Logistics, LLC is DENIED. 
 
            Defendant’s
request for sanctions is also DENIED.
 
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for
Production
 
Legal Standards
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310, subdivision (a), a court
may order a party to serve a further response to a demand for inspection when
the court finds that: “(1) A statement of compliance with the demand is
incomplete[;] (2) A representation of inability to comply is inadequate,
incomplete, or evasive[; or] (3) An objection in the response is without merit
or too general.”
 
The burden is on the moving party to “set forth specific facts showing
good cause justifying the discovery sought by the demand.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.310, subd. (b)(1).) These facts must also be set forth in a separate
statement filed by the moving party. (Cal. Rules of Court Rule 3.1345(c).) This
burden “is met simply by a fact-specific showing of relevance.” (TBG Ins.
Servs. Corp. v. Superior Court (2002) 96 Cal.App.4th 443, 448.)
 
Timeliness
 
A motion to compel further
responses to requests for production must be served “within 45 days of the
service of the verified response, or any supplemental verified response, or on
or before any specific later date to which the propounding party and the responding
party have agreed in writing.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.310(c).) The 45-day
requirement is mandatory and jurisdictional. (Sexton v. Superior Court¿(1997)
58 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410.)  The timeline
for service of and response to the discovery, extensions of the deadline for
moving to compel, and the service and filing of this motion are the same as for
the motion to compel further responses to interrogatories.  For the reasons explained above, the Court
rules Plaintiff’s motion was neither timely filed nor served and must therefore
be denied. 
 
Sanctions
 
            Defendant
requests sanctions against Plaintiff and his counsel for bringing an untimely
motion to compel further responses. 
 
            Failing to respond or to submit to an
authorized method of discovery is a misuse of the discovery process.  (Code of Civ. Proc. § 2023.010.) Under
California Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030, subd. (a), “[t]he court
may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the
discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the
reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result
of that conduct. . . . If a monetary sanction is authorized by any provision of
this title, the court shall impose that sanction unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”
 
Sanctions are mandatory in
connection with motions to compel responses to requests for production against
any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to
compel. (Code Civ. Proc. §2030.310(h).) However, sanctions are not
mandatory if the court “finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust.”  (Id.)
 
Here, Defendant seeks sanctions in
the amount of $2,000 for fees incurred opposing both this motion and the
accompanying motion to compel further responses to interrogatories, discussed
above. Defendant does not provide any explanation of how this amount was
reached beyond a bare assertion that Attorney Arrellano incurred 5 hours at
$400 per hour opposing Plaintiff’s motions. (Arellano Decl. ¶ 17.) This
statement is not sufficient to meet Defendant’s burden to demonstrate the
reasonableness of the fees sought. The Court therefore declines to award
sanctions. 
 
Conclusion
 
            Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production from
Defendant CEVA Logistics, LLC is DENIED. 

 
            Defendant’s
request for sanctions is also DENIED. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel
Further Responses to Interrogatories from Defendant CEVA Logistics, LLC is
DENIED. This ruling is conditioned on Plaintiff’s payment of $60 in filing fees
to the Court within 5 days of this order. 
 
            Plaintiff’s Motion to
Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production from Defendant CEVA
Logistics, LLC is DENIED. 
 
            Defendant’s
requests for sanctions are DENIED. 
 
            Moving
party to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  July 19, 2024                          ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 