 Case Number:  24STCV04340    Hearing Date:   May 29, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
ZACHARY URBINA,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
KENDRA ROWE, 
                        Defendant.
  


 
  Case No.:  24STCV04340
  Hearing Date:  May 29, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendant’s motion to quash service of
  process 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On February 21, 2024, Plaintiff
Zachary Urbina filed this action against Kendra Rowe, asserting a single cause
of action for breach of contract. Plaintiff filed various prior lawsuits
against Defendant based on business disputes, which resolved in a settlement
agreement dated October 25, 2022. Plaintiff brings this action for breach of
the settlement agreement. 
            On April 26, 2024, Defendant filed
the instant motion to quash service of process. Plaintiff filed his opposition
on May 15, 2024. Defendant filed her reply on May 21, 2024.
LEGAL STANDARD
“[T]he court in which an action is pending
has jurisdiction over a party from the time summons is served on him as
provided by Chapter 4 (commencing with Section 413.10).” (Code Civ. Proc, §
410.50(a).) “[A] court acquires jurisdiction over a party by proper service of
process or by that party's general appearance.” (In re Jennifer O.
(2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 539, 547.) Actual notice of a lawsuit is not a
substitute for proper service of process. (Abers v. Rohrs (2013) 217
Cal.App.4th 1199, 1206.) A defendant may serve and file a notice of motion to
quash service of summons on the ground that the court lacks jurisdiction. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 418.10(a).) 
DISCUSSION 
I.
Hague Service Convention
Service outside the United States is “subject
to the provisions of the Convention on the ‘Service Abroad of Judicial and
Extrajudicial Documents’ in Civil or Commercial Matters (Hague Service
Convention).” (Code Civ. Proc., § 413.10(c).) “Failure to comply with the Hague
Service Convention procedures voids the service even though it was made in
compliance with California law.” (Kott v. Superior Court (1996) 45
Cal.App.4th 1126, 1136.) 
According to a proof of substitute service
filed April 4, 2024, the documents were left with Defendant’s mother, Lori
Rowe, at 622 Cranford Court, Calgary, Alberta, and then subsequently mailed to
the same address. Because the location is outside the U.S., the service is
subject to the Hague Service Convention. 
a. Waiver
Plaintiff argues that the parties waived
compliance with the Hague Convention through the settlement agreement. “[T]he
Convention does not apply when parties have agreed to waive formal service of
process in favor of a specified type of notification.” (Rockefeller
Technology Investments (Asia) VII v. Changzhou SinoType Technology Co., Ltd.
(2020) 9 Cal.5th 125, 145.) In Rockefeller, the parties’ agreement
stated that “[t]he Parties shall provide notice in the English language to each
other at the addresses set forth in the Agreement via Federal Express or
similar courier” and that “[t]he Parties hereby . . . consent to service of
process in accord with the notice provisions above.” (Id. at p. 133.) 
By contrast, the contractual provisions
that Plaintiff relies on are choice-of-law and forum selection clauses. (See
Baldwin Decl., Ex. A, §§ 21, 24.) While those clauses require the agreement to
be interpreted under California law and for litigation to occur in California
Superior Court, they say nothing about service of process. Rockefeller
does not stand for the proposition that choice-of-law and forum selection
clauses constitute waivers of formal service requirements or the Hague
Convention. In fact, the court in Rockefeller specifically distinguished
between consenting to California jurisdiction and agreeing to alternative
service requirements. (See Rockefeller, supra, 9 Cal.5th at pp. 144-45.)
They are not one and the same. Therefore, the parties here did not waive formal
compliance with the Hague Convention. 
b. Service by Mail
            Nonetheless, “in cases governed by
the Hague Service Convention, service by mail is permissible if two conditions
are met: first, the receiving state has not objected to service by mail;
and second, service by mail is authorized under otherwise-applicable law.” (Rockefeller,
supra, 9 Cal.5th at p. 137.) Article 10(a) of the Convention provides that
“as long as the receiving state does not object, the Convention does not ‘interfere
with … the freedom’ to serve documents through postal channels.” (Ibid.)

            Canada does not object to Article
10(a) or service through postal channels. However, the applicable Canadian law
requires service by mail to occur “by recorded mail addressed to the Defendant”
with “the original recorded mail receipt (red and white tag if using Canada
Post) as well as a signed acknowledgment of receipt in your Affidavit of
Service.” (Mtn. 5:18-23.) Additionally, for service by mail outside of
California, the proof of service “shall include evidence satisfactory to the
court establishing actual delivery to the person to be served, by a signed
return receipt or other evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 417.20(a).) 
Plaintiff does not dispute that these are
the requirements for service by mail to Alberta, nor does Plaintiff provide
evidence that these requirements were met. Plaintiff argues that because the
process server declared that he mailed a copy of the documents to Defendant’s
address, he “presumably” used a local Canadian mail service. (Opp. 3:16-18.)
This is insufficient to demonstrate that the documents were served according to
applicable law as required under Rockefeller. 
            Because the parties did not waive
compliance with the Hague Convention, and Plaintiff has not demonstrated
service in compliance with the Convention and applicable law, the Court finds
that service was improper. 
II.
Substitute Service
            Under California law, substitute
service is effectuated by leaving a copy of the summons and complaint at the
person’s dwelling house, usual place of abode, usual place of business, or
usual mailing address, in the presence of a competent member of the household
or a person apparently in charge, at least 18 years of age, who shall be
informed of the contents thereof, and by thereafter mailing a copy of the
summons and complaint to the same location. (Code Civ. Proc., § 415.20(b).)
However, this only applies “[i]f a copy of the summons and complaint cannot
with reasonable diligence be personally delivered to the person to be served.”
(Ibid.) This requires “a good faith effort at personal service.” (American
Express Centurion Bank v. Zara (2011) 199 Cal.App.4th 383, 389.) “Two or
three attempts to personally serve a defendant at a proper place ordinarily
qualifies as “‘reasonable diligence.’” (Ibid.) 
            Here, the proof of service at issue
does not contain a declaration of diligence demonstrating a good faith effort
at personal service. The affidavit of service attached to Plaintiff’s
opposition shows that the process server resorted to substitute service in the
first instance, handing the documents to Defendant’s mother immediately upon
being informed that Defendant was not present. This does not demonstrate
diligence in attempting personal service. Additionally, the subsequent mailing
must be by “first-class mail, postage prepaid” (Code Civ. Proc., § 415.20(b),
which is also not demonstrated by the proof of service or opposition materials.
Therefore, even under California law, Plaintiff has not complied with the
applicable requirements for proper service. 
            In sum, because the parties did not
waive compliance with formal service requirements, and Plaintiff has not
demonstrated service in compliance with applicable law, the Court finds that
service was improper. 
CONCLUSION
            Defendant’s motion to quash is
GRANTED. 
 