 Case Number:  23STCV22561    Hearing Date:   May 29, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
JONATHAN MARTIN, et
  al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
CURATIVE, INC., et al.,
  
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  23STCV22561
  Hearing Date:  May 29, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
plaintiffs’ motions to compel further
  responses 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On September 18, 2023, Plaintiffs
Jonathan Martin and Paul Scott filed this action against Defendant Curative,
Inc. Plaintiffs filed the operative First Amended Complaint (FAC) on November
16, 2023, adding Defendant Fred Turner. The FAC asserts causes of action for
(1) fraudulent inducement, (2) breach of contract, and (3) breach of the
implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing. The third cause of action was
stricken on demurrer.
            The dispute stems from a joint
venture to distribute COVID tests in 2020. Plaintiffs owned KorvaLabs, Inc., a
laboratory with the capability and infrastructure to develop and distribute
COVID tests. Defendant Curative, whose CEO is Defendant Turner, partnered with
KorvaLabs, and the two formed the joint venture known as Curative-Korva LLC.
Plaintiffs allege that after Turner visited Washington, D.C. to discuss a
potential billion-dollar deal with the U.S. military, Defendants sought to reap
the profits for themselves and proposed to amend the joint venture accordingly.
Because Defendants’ interests no longer aligned with Plaintiffs’, the parties
agreed for Curative to buy out Plaintiffs’ interest in KorvaLabs. Defendants
allegedly proposed a reduction in the sales price in exchange for providing
Plaintiffs with shares or stock options. These representations were allegedly
false and induced Plaintiffs into signing the Stock Purchase Agreement (SPA) containing
a lower sales price. Plaintiffs further allege that Defendants breached the agreement
by failing to issue shares or stock options. 
            On March 15, 2024, Curative filed a
cross-complaint against Martin and Scott, asserting causes of action for (1)
breach of contract – representations and warranties, (2) breach of contract –
non-compete clause, (3) breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair
dealing, (4) fraudulent concealment, (5) promissory fraud, and (6) civil
conspiracy. 
The Cross-Complaint alleges that Martin
and Scott led Curative to believe they were selling 100% of KorvaLabs because
they were the only shareholders, when in reality, they hid the fact that Anton
Toutov was a 20% owner. Martin and Scott allegedly pocketed the sales proceeds
for themselves and deprived Toutov of his share. Toutov sued Martin, Scott, and
Curative in federal court. Curative settled with Toutov, while Martin and Scott
were found liable to Toutov at trial. Curative alleges that Martin and Scott
fraudulently represented they were selling 100% of KorvaLabs when they were
actually selling 80%. Curative alleges it would have paid a lower purchase
price had it known it was only buying 80% of KorvaLabs. Curative also alleges
that Martin and Scott breached the noncompete clause in the SPA by forming a
new laboratory business to compete with KorvaLabs and then partnering with
Avricore, Curative’s competitor. 
            Between April 26, 2024 and May 2,
2024, Plaintiffs filed the instant 14 motions to compel further responses from
Defendants. Defendants filed an omnibus opposition on May 15, 2024, and
Plaintiffs filed their omnibus reply on May 21, 2024. 
 
 
 
LEGAL STANDARD
Upon receiving responses to its discovery
requests, the propounding party may move for an order compelling further
responses if the responses are incomplete or evasive, or objections are without
merit or too general. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300(a), 2031.310(a),
2033.290(a).) 
MEET AND CONFER
A motion to compel further must be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration demonstrating an attempt to
resolve the matter informally. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300(b)(1),
2031.310(b), 2033.290(b).) The Court finds that Plaintiffs have satisfied the meet
and confer requirement. (See Green Decl.)
DISCUSSION
I. General
Objections
            Plaintiffs
assert in all of the motions that Defendants’ general objections are per se
improper, citing Korea Data Systems Co. v. Superior Court (1997) 51
Cal.App.4th 1513. The court in that case did not hold that general objections
are per se improper. Rather, the court found that “the code calls for
more specific responses than were originally provided” in that particular case.
(Id. at p. 1516.) The court also held that boilerplate objections “may”
be sanctionable. (Ibid.) Here, Defendants provided specific responses to
each discovery request after asserting general objections. Plaintiffs cite no
authority suggesting that this is improper. Therefore, Defendants are not
required to retract their general objections. 
 
II. Form
Interrogatories
            FROG
No. 17.1 seeks specific information in four discrete subparts. Defendants provided
an omnibus response without addressing each subpart. This response is not “as
complete and straightforward as the information reasonably available to the
responding party permits.” (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.220(a).) Therefore, the
motions are GRANTED as to FROG No. 17.1.
            FROG
Nos. 2.3 and 2.5 seek Defendant Turner’s driver’s license information and
residential address. Defendant objected to the requests as irrelevant.
Plaintiff points out that “[a] party may use interrogatories to request the
identity and location of those with knowledge of discoverable matters.” (Williams
v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 552.) However, Turner has indicated
that he may be contacted through his counsel. Thus, Turner has provided
sufficient information for Plaintiffs to contact him to obtain discovery. The
motions are DENIED as to FROG Nos. 2.3 and 2.5. 
 
            FROG
Nos. 12.2 and 12.3 seek information on potential witnesses who were
interviewed or submitted statements regarding the events in question.
Defendants simply responded that they are “willing to meet and confer regarding
this Interrogatory,” which is nonresponsive and incomplete. Therefore, the
motions are GRANTED as to FROG Nos. 12.2 and 12.3. 
III. Special
Interrogatories
            SROG
Nos. 3 and 5 ask why Curative did not issue any stock options to Plaintiffs
until October 2020, which is a proper and relevant question to ask in the
context of this action. Defendants responded that they are “willing to meet and
confer regarding this Interrogatory,” which is nonresponsive and incomplete.
Defendants’ supplemental responses are not at issue in this motion. Therefore,
the motions are GRANTED as to SROG Nos. 3 and 5.   
IV. Requests for
Admission
            RFA
Nos. 9 and 16 ask Curative to admit that Plaintiffs never signed the Stock
Option Agreement of October 13, 2020. Curative responded with the following: “Curative
admits that [Martin/Scott] did not need to sign the Stock Option Agreement, as
he was already bound by it when he signed the SPA on May 8, 2020.” This is
nonresponsive. The RFAs ask whether Plaintiffs signed the Stock Option
Agreement, not whether they were required to sign it or whether they were bound
by it for some other reason. Defendants are free to argue that Plaintiffs were
bound by the Stock Option Agreement regardless of whether they signed it, but
that is separate from establishing the basic fact of whether Plaintiffs signed
it. Therefore, the motions are GRANTED as to RFA Nos. 9 and 16. 
V. Requests for
Production 
            RFP Nos. 1-3 seek communications that Defendants had with
Plaintiffs and with nonparty Robert Tsai. These communications are relevant to
the issues raised in the action. In particular, Curative alleges that Robert
Tsai was the third owner of KorvaLabs, thus making communications with Tsai
relevant even if he is not a named party. Defendants responded that they are
“willing to meet and confer regarding this Request,” which is nonresponsive and
incomplete. Therefore, the motions are GRANTED as to RFP Nos. 1-3. 
            RFP
No. 15 seeks documents evidencing that the transactions contemplated in the
SPA “have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate and other action on
the part of the Buyer,” as represented in Section 4.2 of the SPA. Turner
responded that he “is willing to meet and confer regarding this Request,” which
is nonresponsive and incomplete. Therefore, the motion is GRANTED as to RFP No.
15. 
Curative
responded to Scott’s RFP Nos. 3, 17, and 19 by stating that it was “willing
to meet and confer regarding this Request,” which is nonresponsive and
incomplete. Therefore, the motions are GRANTED as to RFP Nos. 3, 17, and 19. 
CONCLUSION
            Plaintiffs’
motions to compel further responses are GRANTED in part as set forth above.
Sanctions are denied as the parties acted with substantial justification. 


   