  Case Number:  23STCV05811    Hearing Date:   May 29, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
BFF CONSTRUCTION, INC.,
  et al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
R&M BRO’S
  CONSTRUCTION INC., et al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  23STCV05811
  Hearing Date:  May 29, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendants’ demurrer and motion to
  strike 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On March 15, 2023, Plaintiffs BFF
Construction, Inc. (BFF) and RB Realty Management, LLC (RB) filed this action
against Defendants R&M Bro’s Construction Inc. (R&M) and Miguel Duarte
Olmos (Duarte). Plaintiffs filed the operative First Amended Complaint on March
5, 2024, alleging (1) breach of contract, (2) implied indemnity, (3)
negligence, (4) conversion, (5) fraud, (6) money had and received, (7) breach
of contract, (8) conversion, and (9) money had and received.  
            The case involves a construction
project that took place in Ventura County. The property is owned by RB. BFF was
the general contractor on the project, and R&M was the subcontractor.
Duarte owns and operates R&M. The complaint alleges that R&M performed
its work negligently, causing multiple shutdowns and delays. BFF terminated
R&M from the project, and Duarte allegedly retaliated by vandalizing the
property and destroying or stealing certain materials. R&M also allegedly
absconded with money meant for paying BFF’s vendors. 
            On April 26, 2023, R&M and
Duarte filed a lawsuit in Ventura Superior Court (Case No. 2023CUBC008227).
R&M and Duarte filed the first amended complaint in that action on July 11,
2023 (R&M Complaint). The R&M Complaint was asserted against RB, BFF,
Arixa Enhanced Income Fund, Hudson Insurance Company, and Bahram Fata. The
R&M Complaint alleged that R&M was not paid for the work it performed
on the project and sought, among other things, to foreclose on a mechanics
lien. The R&M Complaint also alleged that Duarte suffered physical injuries
while working on the project. 
            R&M and Duarte thereafter filed a
motion to transfer this case to Ventura Superior Court. The Court denied this
motion on September 1, 2023. On November 28, 2023, R&M and Duarte filed a
cross-complaint in this Court, essentially mirroring the R&M Complaint that
was filed in Ventura, with a few added causes of action. 
On December 20, 2023, Hudson Insurance
Company filed a cross-complaint against R&M, Duarte, and BFF, asserting
declaratory relief and interpleader. 
            On April 9, 2024, Defendants filed
the instant demurrer and motion to strike against the FAC. Plaintiffs filed
their opposition on May 15, 2024. Defendants filed their reply on May 21, 2024.
LEGAL STANDARD
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether
the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in
context. (Taylor v. City of Los
Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.)
In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the
pleading or by proper judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd.
(a).) A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other
extrinsic matters. (SKF Farms v. Superior
Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) Therefore, it lies only where the
defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (Ibid.) The only issue involved in a
demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with
extraneous matters, states a cause of action. (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.)
Any party, within the time allowed to
respond to a pleading, may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the
whole or any part of that pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b).) The
court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it
deems proper, strike (1) any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in
any pleading and (2) all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.
(Id., § 436.) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face
of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Id., § 437.)
MEET AND CONFER
Before filing a demurrer or a motion to
strike, the demurring or moving party is required to meet and confer with the
party who filed the pleading demurred to or the pleading that is subject to the
motion to strike for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be
reached through a filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the
objections to be raised in the demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.41, 435.5.)
The Court notes that Defendants have complied with the meet and confer
requirement. (See Herrera Decl.)
DISCUSSION
I.
Demurrer
            a. Breach of Contract (First
Cause of Action)
            To establish breach of contract, a plaintiff must show: (1) the contract
existed, (2) the plaintiff’s performance of the contract or excuse for
nonperformance, (3) the defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damage to the
plaintiff. (Richman v. Hartley (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186.) 
            The
first cause of action alleges that “BFF and R&M entered into a valid
agreement for R&M to perform concrete subcontractor work, as shown in
Exhibit A.” (FAC ¶ 23.) The FAC further alleges that “R&M did not perform
all of its duties under the agreement and failed to perform the duties as
contracted, specifically by failing to create a safe environment on the work
site.” (Id., ¶ 24.) “As a result, BFF incurred substantial and otherwise
unnecessary expense, including because of the lengthy delays for which it was
issued a stop work order.” (Ibid.) BFF allegedly performed its duties
under the agreement. (Id., ¶ 25.) These facts satisfy the elements for
breach of contract. 
            Defendants
argue that Plaintiffs failed to plead the terms of the contract. However,
Plaintiffs did so by incorporating a copy of the contract to the FAC. The
written contract naturally contains all of the contract terms verbatim.
Defendants cite no authority that would require Plaintiffs to additionally recite
the terms verbatim in the body of the complaint. 
Defendants argue
that the FAC fails to plead actions that constitute a breach of contract. The
FAC alleges that Defendants breached the contract “by failing to create a safe
environment on the work site.” (FAC ¶ 24.) Specifically, R&M allowed a hole
to open up on the site, which Duarte fell into. (Id., ¶ 10.) Then,
R&M attempted to complete the work with an insufficient number of workers,
resulting in falling rocks and boulders that caused the work site to be shut
down. (Id., ¶¶ 11-12.) These incidents allegedly delayed the project by
about four months. (Id., ¶ 13.) Whether this alleged conduct constitutes
a breach of the agreement is a factual matter not suited for demurrer. (See Aragon-Haas
v. Family Security Ins. Services, Inc. (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 232, 239 [“While
plaintiff's interpretation of the contract ultimately may prove invalid, it was
improper to resolve the issue against her solely on her own pleading”].)
Defendants have not established as a matter of law that the alleged conduct
cannot constitute a breach of contract. 
Defendants argue
without legal support that an unsigned contract cannot form the basis of a
contract claim. “The fact the contracts are not signed . . . is not
determinative of whether a joint cause of action is stated . . . A plaintiff
need allege only the ultimate fact of the making of the contract . . . .” (Vincent
v. Grayson (1973) 30 Cal.App.3d 899, 906.) The contract itself states that
consent may be indicated by an act other than signing, “such as verbally
requesting us to commence work.” (FAC, Ex. A, p. 6.) 
Lastly,
Defendants argue that Plaintiffs fail to plead their damages. Plaintiffs allege
that they incurred expenses due to the delays, with damages in excess of
$25,000. (FAC ¶¶ 24, 30.) This is sufficient for pleading purposes. 
Ultimately, the
facts alleged sufficiently apprise Defendants of the nature of the breach of
contract claim. Therefore, the first cause of action is sufficiently pled. 
            b. Negligence (Third Cause of Action)
            The
elements of negligence are: (1) a duty to exercise ordinary care; (2) breach of
that duty; (3) causation; and (4) damages. (Ladd v. County of San Mateo
(1996) 12 Cal.4th 913, 917.)
            Plaintiffs
allege that Defendants “assumed a duty to BFF and RB to perform the work
related to the Flintlock Property according to plans and specifications and in
a good and workmanlike manner.” (FAC ¶ 32.) “R&M and Duarte breached this
duty because they did not fully complete the scope of work and did not preform
the work in a safe manner.” (Id., ¶ 33.) “R&M’s failure to perform
work with reasonable care was the substantial cause of BFF and RB’s damages.” (Id.,
¶ 34.) In conjunction with the facts discussed above, this sufficiently meets
the elements for negligence. 
            Defendants
argue that the negligence claim is barred by the economic loss rule. Economic loss
consists of “damages for inadequate value, costs of repair and replacement of
the defective product or consequent loss of profits—without any claim of
personal injury or damages to other property.” (Robinson Helicopter Co.,
Inc. v. Dana Corp. (2004) 34 Cal.4th 979, 988.) The economic loss rule
requires a purchaser to recover in contract for purely economic loss due to
disappointed expectations, unless the purchaser “can demonstrate harm above and
beyond a broken contractual promise,” such as some form of personal injury or
damage to property other than the defective product itself. (Ibid.) The
economic loss rule exists to prevent “the law of contract and the law of tort
from dissolving one into the other.” (Ibid.) “An omission to perform a contract obligation is never a tort, unless that
omission is also an omission of a legal duty.” (Erlich v. Menezes (1999)
21 Cal.4th 543, 551.) 
            However,
at the pleading stage, Plaintiffs may allege contradictory or inconsistent
causes of action, as well as alternative theories of recovery arising from the
same facts. (See Klein v. Chevron U.S.A., Inc. (2012) 202 Cal.App.4th
1342, 1388; Mendoza v. Continental Sales Co., Inc. (2006) 140
Cal.App.4th 1395, 1402.) In the event Plaintiffs are unable to prove a breach
of contract, they may be entitled to recover under a negligence theory.
Defendants rely on Butler-Rupp v. Lourdeaux (2005) 134 Cal.App.4th 1220,
1228-30, where the court reversed damages on the plaintiff’s negligence claim
and limited recovery to breach of contract. However, this was following a trial
wherein the jury already found the defendant liable on breach of contract. (Id.
at p. 1222.) The court did not strike the negligence claim at the pleading
stage. Therefore, the negligence claim is adequately pled. 
            c. Conversion (Fourth and Eighth Causes of
Action)
            The elements of conversion are: (1) the
plaintiff’s ownership or right to possession of the personal property; (2) the
defendant’s conversion by a wrongful act or disposition of property rights; and
(3) damages. (Welco Electronics, Inc. v. Mora (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th
202, 208.)
            The
fourth cause of action alleges that Defendants destroyed or stole Plaintiffs’
rebar, steel, and safety barriers. (FAC ¶ 37.) The eighth cause of action
alleges that Defendants stole R&M’s money that was meant for paying
vendors. (Id., ¶ 61.) 
            Defendants
argue that Plaintiffs fail to allege their right to ownership or possession of
the property, or Defendants wrongful dispossession of such. However, these
ultimate facts are alleged in the complaint. (See FAC ¶¶ 36-37, 60-61.) It
is a question of fact whether Plaintiffs or Defendants had an ownership or
possessory right in the property. At the pleading stage, it may be reasonably
inferred that Plaintiffs rightfully owned the property and Defendants did not.
The conversion claim is not barred by the economic loss rule for the same
reasons discussed above. Therefore, the conversion claim is adequately pled.  
            d. Fraud (Fifth Cause of Action)
            “The
elements of fraud that will give rise to a tort action for deceit are: ‘(a)
misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b)
knowledge of falsity (or ‘scienter’); (c) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce
reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.’” (Engalla v.
Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 974, quoting Lazar
v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 638.) 
            In
January 2023, Plaintiffs sent a letter to Defendants terminating Defendants
from the project. (FAC ¶ 43.) The fraud claim is premised on Defendants’ reply
letter purporting to acknowledge that they were terminated. (Id., ¶ 44.)
Defendants allegedly intended this correspondence to mislead Plaintiffs into
believing that Defendants would cease acting as the subcontractors and would
not represent to others that they were the subcontractors on the project. (Id.,
¶ 45.) This was allegedly false because Defendants continued purchasing
materials from third party vendors under the guise of still being the
subcontractors. (Id., ¶ 47.) This allegedly resulted in Plaintiffs being
charged for the materials, while Defendants absconded with the materials. (Id.,
¶ 48.) Plaintiffs allege that if they had known of Defendants’ true intent,
they would have informed the vendors that Defendants were not authorized to
make the purchases. (Id., ¶ 47.)  

            This
satisfies the elements of fraud: (a) Defendants implied in their letter that
they would not hold themselves out as the subcontractors (FAC ¶ 44); (b)
Defendants knew this was false and (c) intended for Plaintiffs to rely on it,
because Defendants actually intended to purchase materials while acting as the
subcontractors (id., ¶¶ 45, 47); (d) Plaintiffs justifiably relied on
the misrepresentation by not informing the vendors that Defendants were not
authorized to make purchases (id., ¶ 47); and (e) Plaintiffs were
damaged because they were ultimately charged for the materials (id., ¶
48). Defendants’ intent and knowledge of falsity are ultimate facts that do not
need to be supported by evidentiary facts at the pleading stage. (See Universal
By-Products, Inc. v. City of Modesto (1974) 43 Cal.App.3d 145, 151.)      
Defendants argue
that the fraud claim is barred by the economic loss rule. However, the alleged
conduct is separate from the breach of contract claim. The contract claim is
based on Defendants’ alleged failure to complete the project in a proper manner,
while the fraud claim is based on conduct after Defendants were terminated from
the project. Therefore, the fraud claim is adequately pled. 
II. Motion to
Strike
            “In
an action for the breach of an obligation not arising from contract, where it
is proven by clear and convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty
of oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual
damages, may recover damages for the sake of example and by way of punishing
the defendant.” (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).) “‘Malice’ means conduct
which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or
despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (Id., subd.
(c)(1).) “‘Oppression’ means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel
and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” (Id.,
subd. (c)(2).) Fraud is “intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment
of a material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the
defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or
otherwise causing injury.” (Id., subd. (c)(3).)
            As
discussed above, Plaintiffs have adequately pled a cause of action for fraud.
Fraud is an independent basis for punitive damages. (Civ. Code, § 3294(c)(3).)
Therefore, the complaint contains a sufficient basis for punitive damages. 
 
CONCLUSION
            Defendants’
demurrer is OVERRULED. The motion to strike is DENIED. 
 