 Case Number:  BC454901    Hearing Date:   May 29, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
LEONARD W. BORISOFF,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
THE PULLMAN GROUP, LLC,
  et al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  BC454901
  Hearing Date:  May 29, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
plaintiff’s motion for judgment on the
  pleadings




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On February 10, 2011, plaintiff
Leonard W. Borisoff (“Borisoff”), a composer, filed a complaint against
defendants the Pullman Group, LLC; Wertheim, LLC; David Pullman; and Broadcast
Music, Inc. Defendants prevailed in the compelled arbitration proceeding and
were awarded ownership of Borisoff’s past and future royalties and attorney
fees of $67,866.13. On October 3, 2013, Defendants petitioned the Court to
confirm the award, which the Court did on January 15, 2014, with a final
judgment entered on August 27, 2014. Borisoff appealed the judgment. The Court
of Appeal reversed the judgment. On February 4, 2021, the Currency Corp
(“Plaintiff”) was substituted as Borisoff’s successor in interest after he
passed away in 2020.
            On February 9, 2023, Plaintiff filed
the operative Second Amended Complaint, alleging (1) fraud, (2) intentional
interference with contract, and (3) declaratory relief against Defendants
Pullman Group, David Pullman, and Wertheim LLC. Plaintiff has since dismissed
the first two causes of action, leaving only declaratory relief.       
On February 14, 2024, the Court denied
Defendants’ motion for summary judgment, finding that there was a present
controversy notwithstanding the appellate finding that the contracts at issue
were invalid. The Court held that although the Court of Appeal’s opinion is the
law of the case, there has been no final judgment to that effect, and thus the
controversy is ongoing. In fact, given that both parties acknowledge the
contracts are void, the Court suggested that judgment be entered in favor of
Plaintiff. On March 20, 2024, the Court denied Defendants’ motion for
reconsideration of the MSJ ruling, noting again that Defendants’ concessions
were essentially admissions that Plaintiff was entitled to declaratory relief.  
On May 2, 2024, Plaintiff filed the
instant motion for judgment on the pleadings on the basis of the Court’s
rulings and Defendants’ admissions. Defendants filed their opposition on May
15, 2024. Plaintiff filed its reply on May 21, 2024.
REQUEST FOR
JUDICIAL NOTICE
Plaintiff’s request for judicial notice is
GRANTED.  
Defendant’s request for judicial notice is
GRANTED.
LEGAL STANDARD
A motion for judgment on the pleadings may
be made on the same grounds as those supporting a general demurrer, i.e., that
the pleading fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a legally cognizable
claim or defense. (Stoops v. Abbassi (2002) 100 Cal.App.4th 644, 650.) A
motion for judgment on the pleadings performs the same function as a general
demurrer, and hence attacks only defects disclosed on the face of the pleadings
or by matters that can be judicially noticed. (Cloud v. Northrop Grumman
Corp. (1999) 67 Cal.App.4th 995, 999.) Judgment on the pleadings must be
denied where there are material factual issues that require evidentiary
resolution. (Schabarum v. Calif. Legislature (1998) 60 Cal.App.4th 1205,
1216.)  
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiff seeks declaratory relief
that “the Contract and Assignment are void or voidable by Plaintiff and,
therefore, Defendants have no rights thereunder or to any royalties from the
Compositions.” (SAC ¶ 42.) Based on Defendants’ concessions that the contracts
are void and that they have no rights to the royalties, judgment may be granted
for Plaintiff as a matter of law.
            Defendants argue that the denials
and affirmative defenses in their answer raise a factual dispute which cannot
be resolved on this motion. However, Defendants’ denials and defenses do not
raise any factual issues pertinent to the remaining claim for declaratory
relief. Defendants concede the only relevant facts that would be included in
the declaratory judgment: the purported contacts are unenforceable, and they
have no right to Borisoff’s royalties. Additionally, the Court of Appeal
opinions finding the contracts void and illegal constitute the law of the case,
precluding a triable issue over the validity of the contracts. In turn, this
necessarily precludes a triable issue over Defendants’ entitlement to the
royalties, because Defendants’ only possible claim to the royalties is through
the invalidated contracts.    
            Defendants argue that there is a
misjoinder of parties because Structured Assets, LLC, the assignee of
Borisoff’s royalties, is an indispensable party. A party is indispensable if “(1) in
his absence complete relief cannot be accorded among those already parties or
(2) he claims an interest relating to the subject of the action and is so
situated that the disposition of the action in his absence may (i) as a
practical matter impair or impede his ability to protect that interest or
(ii) leave any of the persons already parties subject to a substantial
risk of incurring double, multiple, or otherwise inconsistent obligations by
reason of his claimed interest.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 389(a).)  
The present dispute is between Plaintiff
and the named Defendants regarding whether those Defendants are entitled to
Borisoff’s royalties under the pertinent agreements. Declaratory relief on this
question can be accorded among the existing parties without the presence of
Structured Assets, thus it is not an indispensable party. Nor has Structured
Assets claimed an interest in the case. (See Hartenstine v. Superior Court
(1987) 196 Cal.App.3d 206, 222 [appellant could not claim misjoinder by
asserting interest on behalf of the missing party].) Defendants are the proper
parties because they are the ones who have claimed entitlement to Borisoff’s
royalties under the pertinent contracts, and they are the ones who contested
Plaintiff’s assertion that the contracts were void. Whether Structured Assets is
an assignee to the royalties has no bearing on the fact that the named
Defendants are the proper parties to this particular dispute. 
Lastly, Defendants argue once more that
there is no present controversy. The Court has repeatedly rejected this
argument in its prior rulings, holding that the Court of Appeal decisions did
not finally resolve the issue of Defendants’ right to Borisoff’s royalties and
that Defendants’ admissions merely confirm Plaintiff’s entitlement to declaratory
relief in its favor. Defendants have cited no authority suggesting otherwise. 
            In sum, Defendants’ admissions that
the contracts are void and that they have no rights to Borisoff’s royalties
demonstrate as a matter of law that Plaintiff is entitled to declaratory relief
in its favor.  
//
//
//
//
CONCLUSION
            Plaintiff’s motion for judgment on
the pleadings is GRANTED. 
 