 Case Number:  23STCV07883    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2023    Dept:  51 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Upinder S.
Kalra, Department 51
 
HEARING DATE:   December
6, 2023                                           
 
CASE NAME:           Stepan Hovhannisyan v. Mercedes-Bens
USA, LLC, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                23STCV07883

 
MOTION
TO COMPEL ARBITRATION

 
MOVING PARTY:  Defendants
Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC and Sonic Santa Monica M, Inc. dba W.I. Simonson / Plaintiff
Stepan Hovhannisyan 
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Stepan Hovhannisyan / Defendants
Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC and Sonic Santa Monica M, Inc. dba W.I. Simonson
 
REQUESTED RELIEF: 
 
1.      Each
party has separately moved for an order compelling arbitration;
2.      An
Order appointing an Arbitrator.
 
TENTATIVE RULING: 
 
1.      Motion
to Compel Arbitration is GRANTED;
2.      Within
10 days of this order, Plaintiff and Defendants are to lodge with the court
lists of three arbitrators who handle Song-Beverly actions in the Los Angeles
area.
STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: 
 
On April 10, 2023, Plaintiff Stepan Hovhannisyan (Plaintiff)
filed a Complaint against Defendants Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC and Sonic Santa
Monica M, Inc., d/b/a W.I. Simonson (Defendants) with two causes of action for:
(1) breach of implied warranty of merchantability under the Song-Beverly
Warranty Act; and (2) breach of express warranty under the Song-Beverly
Warranty Act.
 
According to the Complaint, this action concerns a new 2021
Mercedes Benz S580, VIN #W1K6G7GB7MA054228 that Plaintiff leased on September
21, 2021. Plaintiff alleges he returned the vehicle for service concerning the
steering/suspension, safety systems, and other defects resulting in an excess
of 100 days down during the presumption period. Plaintiff alleges Defendants
failed to conform the vehicle. 
 
On May 11, 2023, Defendant Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC filed an Answer.
 
On June 5, 2023, Defendant Sonic Santa Monica M, Inc. d/b/a
W.I. Somonson filed an Answer.
 
On August 1, 2023, Defendants filed a Motion to Compel
Arbitration. 
 
On August 10, 2023, Plaintiff filed a Motion to Compel
Arbitration.
 
On August 28, 2023, Plaintiff filed a Notice of Acceptance
of Defendants’ CCP 998 Offer. Accordingly, the court vacated the pending
hearings for Motions to Compel Arbitration.
 
On October 26, 2023, the court re-calendared the two Motions
to Compel Arbitration for December 6, 2023 at 9:00 a.m.
 
On November 16, 2023, Plaintiff filed another Motion to
Compel Arbitration that is set for hearing on January 2, 2024.
 
On November 21, 2023, Defendants filed a Response to
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Arbitration (to be heard on December 6, 2023). As
of November 29, 2023, Plaintiff has not filed an Opposition. 
 
On November 29, 2023, Defendants filed a Notice of
Plaintiff’s Non-Opposition to Defendants’ Motion to Compel Arbitration.
Plaintiffs filed a Reply in support of their Motion to Compel Arbitration.
 
LEGAL STANDARD: 
 
The Federal Arbitration Act and California Arbitration Act
both require that arbitrator selection clauses be enforced according to their
terms. (9 U.S.C. § 5 [“If in the agreement provision be made for a method of
naming or appointing an arbitrator ... such method shall be followed.”];
Code¿Civ. Proc., (CCP) §¿1281.6 [“If an arbitration agreement provides a method
for appointing an arbitrator, that method shall be followed.”].) Section 1281.6
further provides that if the arbitration agreement does not provide a method or
if the agreed method fails or cannot be followed, the court, on petition of a
party to the arbitration agreement, shall appoint the arbitrator.
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
Upon reviewing the two pending motions to compel arbitration
and Defendants’ Response to Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Arbitration, the only
dispute at issue is who should be the arbitrator. Defendants wish to proceed
with AAA. Plaintiffs wish to proceed with any organization other than AAA due
to Plaintiff’s counsel’s “less positive experiences” with AAA administration,
the AAA rules are less favorable to consumers, AAA has a reputation for
hostility to consumers, and AAA emphasizes speed and frugality over procedural
fairness.[1]
 
Contrary to both parties’ assertions, the agreement does provide for a method to select the
arbitrator. First, the agreement provides that “[w]however first demands
arbitration may choose to proceed under the applicable rules of, and be
administered by, the American Arbitration Association (www.adr.org) or any
other organization that you may choose subject to our approval.” (Declaration
of Guadalupe Arroyo (Arroyo Decl.), Exhibit 1.) According to the filings,
Defendants moved to compel arbitration first since they filed their papers on
August 1, 2023 and Plaintiff filed his motion to compel arbitration on August
10, 2023. However, upon reviewing the Defendants’ moving papers, Defendants did
not “choose to proceed” with the AAA. On the other hand, Plaintiff’s motion
indicates they would be willing to proceed with JAMS. But, it is clear from the
filings that Defendants did not agree to proceed with JAMS. 
 
As the parties have been unable to agree on a method to
select the arbitrator, the court must appoint an arbitrator. (CCP § 1281.6.) Within
10 days of this order, both Plaintiff and Defendants are to lodge with the court
lists of at least four arbitrators who handle Song-Beverly actions arbitration
in the Los Angeles area. The court will nominate five arbitrators from the
parties list. Thereafter, if the parties cannot agree on an arbitrator, whether
or not on the list provided by the court, within five days of notice of the
Court’s proposed arbitrators, the court will select an arbitrator from the nominees.
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            For
the foregoing reasons, the Court decides the pending motion as follows: 
 
1.      Motion
to Compel Arbitration is GRANTED;
2.      Within
10 days of this order, Plaintiff and Defendants are to lodge with the court
lists of arbitrators who handle Song-Beverly actions in the Los Angeles area.
Defendants to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
Dated:             December
6, 2023                   __________________________________                                                                                                                Upinder
S. Kalra
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 


