 Case Number:  23STCV21455    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2023    Dept:  51 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Upinder S.
Kalra, Department 51
 
HEARING DATE:   December
6, 2023                                           
 
CASE NAME:           Anthony Sabillon, et al. v. Marcelo
Arturo Garcia, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                23STCV21455

 
MOTION
TO STRIKE COMPLAINT AND REQUEST FOR DISMISSAL OF DEFENDANT

 
MOVING PARTY:  Defendant
Marco Antonio Garcia
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiffs Anthony Sabillon,
Justin Kemp, and Jaime Hernandez
 
REQUESTED RELIEF: 
 
1.      
An
Order striking the entire Complaint;
2.      
An
Order dismissing Moving Defendant from the Complaint.
 
TENTATIVE RULING: 
 
1.      Motion
to Strike is DENIED.
2.      Moving
Defendant to file an Answer within 10 days of notice of this ruling.
STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: 
 
On September 6, 2023, Plaintiffs Anthony Sabillon, Justin
Kemp, and Jaime Hernandez (Plaintiffs) filed a Complaint against Defendants
Marcelo Arturo Garcia, Enrique Garcia aka Rick Garcia, and Marco Antonio Garcia
(Defendants) with five causes of action for: (1) breach of contract, (2) breach
of implied warranty of habitability, (3) negligence, (4) nuisance, and (5)
violation of Civil Code Section 1942.4.
 
According to the Complaint, Plaintiffs were tenants at real
property located at 8468 Evergreen Avenue, South Gate, Los Angeles, California
90280 (the Property). Defendants owned, managed, and/or maintained the
Property. Plaintiffs allege various problems with the Property including pest
infestations, electrical defects, pollution, lack of weather proofing, damaged
flooring, inoperable smoke alarms, lack of sanitary plumbing, mold, leaks,
deteriorated window sills, excessive trash and debris in common areas, and
building code and safety code violations. Plaintiffs assert Defendants were
cited by city officials related to these violations. 
 
On September 29, 2023, Defendants Marcelo Arturo Garcia and
Enrique Garcia filed an Answer.
 
On October 30, 2023, Defendant Marco Antonio Garcia (Moving
Defendant) filed the instant motion to strike and request for dismissal. On
November 21, 2021, Plaintiffs timely filed an opposition. Reply briefs were due
on or before November 29, 2023. As of December 1, 2023, no reply brief was
filed. 
 
LEGAL STANDARD: 
 
Motion to Strike 
 
The court may,
upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems
proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any
pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436(a).) The court may also strike all or any
part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this
state, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Id., § 436(b).) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the
face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Id.¿§¿437.)¿“When the defect which justifies striking a complaint
is capable of cure, the court should allow leave to amend.” (Vaccaro v. Kaiman¿(1998) 63 Cal.App.4th
761, 768.)¿ 
 
Meet and Confer 
 
A moving party
is required to meet and confer prior to filing a motion to strike and to submit
a declaration demonstrated they satisfied this requirement. (CCP § 435.5.)
Here, the Declaration of Marco Antonio Garcia submitted in support of the
motion does not indicate that he met and conferred prior to filing the motion.
Accordingly, the meet and confer requirement is not met. Still, failure to meet and confer is not grounds to overrule or
sustain a demurrer, or grant or deny a motion to strike.[1] (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.41, subd. (a)(4); 435.5 subd.
(a)(4).)
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
Moving Defendant contends he is not involved with this case
as he did not have any contact with Plaintiffs, does not manage the Property,
and did not sign as a witness the lease agreements attached to the Complaint. Moving
Defendant also challenge various allegations of the Complaint as false. Plaintiffs
argue that Moving Defendant’s motion to strike is procedurally improper as it
seeks summary adjudication in his favor. 
 
The court agrees with Plaintiffs. Moving Defendant seeks an
evidentiary finding from the court, which is not appropriate at the pleading
stage.
 
Accordingly, the court DENIES the motion to strike and
request for dismissal.
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            For
the foregoing reasons, the Court decides the pending motion as follows: 
 
1.      Motion
to Strike is DENIED.
2.      Moving
Defendant to file an Answer within 10 days of notice of this ruling.
Plaintiffs are ordered to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
Dated:             December
6, 2023                   __________________________________                                                                                                                Upinder
S. Kalra
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 


