 Case Number:  22STCV02427    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2023    Dept:  51 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Upinder S.
Kalra, Department 51
 
HEARING DATE:   December
6, 2023                                           
 
CASE NAME:           Timed Out, LLC v. Chippewa d/b/a Much
and House Public Relations and Marketing Management
 
CASE NO.:                22STCV02427

 
MOTION
TO CONTINUE TRIAL PENDING APPEAL

 
MOVING PARTY:  Defendant
Chippewa dba Much and House Public Relations and Marketing Management
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Timed Out, LLC
 
REQUESTED RELIEF: 
 
1.      An
Order continuing the February 13, 2024 trial date pending appeal on dismissal
of the cross-claims dismissed on Anti-SLAPP grounds.
 
TENTATIVE RULING: 
 
1.      Motion
to Continue Trial Pending Appeal is DENIED.
STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: 
 
On January 20, 2022, Plaintiff Timed Out, LLC (Plaintiff)
filed a Complaint against Defendant Chippewa d/b/a Much and House Public
Relations and Marketing Management (Defendant) with two causes of action for:
(1) Implied Contractual Indemnity, and (2) Equitable Indemnity or Contribution.

 
According to the Complaint, various models assigned their
claims against Prisma for posting their images to social media without consent
to Timed Out. Chippewa had an agreement with Prisma to perform marketing
services and posted the models’ images. Timed Out filed a previous claim
against Prisma on June 1, 2017. Prisma filed a Cross-Complaint against Chippewa
on August 24, 2017. On January 21, 2020, Timed Out and Prisma partially settled.
Prisma dismissed its Cross-Complaint and assigned any claims it had against
Chippewa to Timed Out as part of this settlement agreement. After verdict,
Chippewa moved for new trial, which the court denied. Chippewa appealed this
decision. Timed Out seeks to enforce Prisma’s assigned claims against Chippewa.
 
On September 2, 2022, Chippewa filed a Cross-Complaint
against Timed Out and Prisma with seven causes of action for: (1) breach of
contract (against Prisma), (2) tortious interference with contract and inducing
breach of contract (against Timed Out), (3) breach of implied covenant of good
faith and fair dealing (against Prisma), (4) fraud (against Prisma), (5)
equitable indemnity (against Prisma), (6) tort of another (against Prisma), and
(7) declaratory relief that agreement is void (against Prisma and Timed Out).
 
According to the Cross-Complaint, Timed Out and Prisma
schemed to secretly transfer a full range of supposed rights of recovery
against Chippewa to Timed Out. Chippewa alleges that prior to Timed Out’s
agreement with Prisma, Prisma and Chippewa had been working together to defend
against Timed Out’s case. Chippewa further alleges that the settlement
agreement allowed Prisma to transfer Chippewa’s privileged information to Timed
Out so that Timed Out would “win” at trial and then pursue claims against
Chippewa. Finally, Chippewa claims that Prisma violated their inferred joint
defense agreement. 
 
On January 31, 2023, the court GRANTED Cross-Defendant’s
Special Motion to Strike (Anti-SLAPP) Cross-Complainant’s Cross-Complaint with
prejudice. 
 
On November 6, 2023, Defendant filed the instant motion. On November
21, 2023, Plaintiff timely filed an opposition. Defendant timely filed a reply
on November 29, 2023.
 
LEGAL STANDARD: 
 
Request for Judicial
Notice
 
The court grants Plaintiff’s request
for judicial notice as to Exhibits A and B. (Evid. Code § 452(c), (d); See Kalnoki v. First American Trustee Servicing
Solutions, LLC (2017) 8 Cal.App.5th 23,37.) However, the court only takes
judicial notice of the foregoing documents only as to “the existence, content
and authenticity of public records and other specified documents”; it does not
take judicial notice of the truth of the factual matters asserted in those
documents. (Dominguez v. Bonta (2022)
87 Cal. App. 5th 389, 400.)¿ 
 
Stay Pending Appeal
– CCP 916
 
“Except as provided in Sections 917.1 to
917.9, inclusive, and in Section 116.810, the perfecting of an appeal stays
proceedings in the trial court upon the judgment or order appealed from or upon
the matters embraced therein or affected thereby, including enforcement of the
judgment or order, but the trial court may proceed upon any other matter
embraced in the action and not affected by the judgment or order.” (Cal. Code
Civ. Proc. (CCP) § 916(a).)  The purpose
of the automatic stay of trial court proceedings after appeal is perfected is
to protect the appellate court's jurisdiction by preserving the status quo
until the appeal is decided; the automatic stay prevents the trial court from
rendering an appeal futile by altering the appealed judgment or order by
conducting other proceedings that may affect it. (Royals v. Lu (2022) 81 Cal.App.5th 328, 343 [probate case where
decedent’s daughter and wife pursued competing claims against each other].) “The
court has the power to determine as a matter of procedure whether it should try
the issues raised by the complaint and answer, and leave the issues formed by
the cross-complaint to be determined later, or to await the action of a
reviewing court to determine whether or not the cross-complaint was well
founded, before proceeding with trial.” (Hayes
v. Pierce (1940) 15 Cal.2d 662, 666-667 [commenting on an order striking a
cross-complaint that “merely realleged the matters arising out of the dispute .
. . already the subject of litigation.”]) 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
Defendant contends that the court should continue the
current trial date pending appeal on the dismissed cross-claims because the
cross-claims and Plaintiff’s claims arise from the same matters, the same
transactions and agreements, and involve the same witnesses. As such, Defendant
contends that proceeding to trial may lead to irreconcilable outcomes that
render their pending appeal futile.[1]
Plaintiff argues the claims are not related and linked because it’s not an
action to enforce a settlement agreement, but an indemnity action. Additionally,
Plaintiff argues that Defendant makes the same arguments in its Cross-Complaint
as it did in the first matter which the Appellate Court rejected, so, they are
bound by that decision. Defendant replies that the cross-claims and Complaint
are intertwined because Plaintiff served substantially similar discovery in
this case as in the previous case, attached the Settlement Agreement and
Assignment agreement to its Complaint, inaccurately cites trial court and
appellate language, it raised affirmative defenses to these claims in its
Answer, and indemnity does not bar claims challenging enforceability.
 
The court agrees with Plaintiff that continuing the trial
pending the appeal is inappropriate.[2]
First, the court is not persuaded by Defendant’s argument, albeit an implied
argument, that it cannot challenge the Assignment by Prisma to Plaintiff
without its Cross-Complaint. Indeed, several of Defendant’s affirmative
defenses in its Answer encompass the causes of action in its Cross-Complaint. (RJN,
Exhibit B, page 16 [“To the extent the indemnity issue might arise in a future
proceeding, nothing in the settlement or assignment restricts Chippewa’s
ability to defend itself.”] Therefore, Defendant’s claim that issues would need
to be relitigated fully is unavailing. 
 
The court is also persuaded by Plaintiff’s argument that
Defendant has already presented its Cross-Complaint claims in the first
lawsuit. (RJN, Exhibit A, Page 7 [“Based on this authority, and the evidence
presented by Timed Out, the court concludes that the judgment entered in this
action was not the product of collusion.” and “The outcome of the trial and the
mode of Prisma’s participation within it underscores that the settlement
agreement at issue here is not like those found to be collusive in the cases
above.”]) 
 
Accordingly, the court DENIES Defendant’s motion to
continue trial pending appeal.
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            For
the foregoing reasons, the Court decides the pending motion as follows: 
 
1.      Motion
to Continue Trial Pending Appeal is DENIED.
Moving party is to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
Dated:             December
6, 2023                   __________________________________                                                                                                                Upinder
S. Kalra
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court


