Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 21STCV20196
Plaintiff's Name: Chad Perrigo, et al.
Defendant's Name: Jorge Edmondo Castaneda Rodriguez, Thunder Ridge Transport, Inc., Fames Transport, Inc.
People-Names: Chad Perrigo, Alexa Perrigo, Jorge Edmondo Castaneda Rodriguez
Company-Names: Thunder Ridge Transport, Inc., Fames Transport, Inc., USPS
Places: Los Angeles, California, Missouri
Dates: August 10, 2023, February 5, 2024, March 26, 2024, June 24, 2024, May 29, 2024, May 17, 2024
Events: Accident, filing of complaint, filing of answer, filing of cross-complaint
Money: Not specified
Intentions: Thunder Ridge seeks to file a cross-complaint against Fames Transport, Inc. for breach of contract, equitable indemnity, contribution, and declaratory relief
Facts: The accident occurred while Jorge Edmondo Castaneda Rodriguez was delivering packages for the USPS. Thunder Ridge Transport, Inc. had subcontracted with Fames Transport, Inc.
Disputes: The dispute is between Thunder Ridge Transport, Inc. and Fames Transport, Inc. regarding the subcontract agreement between the parties
Acts: The parties filed their answers and cross-complaints
Agreements: The subcontract between Thunder Ridge Transport, Inc. and Fames Transport, Inc. includes a choice of law provision and a forum selection clause
Laws: California Code of Civil Procedure (CCP) sections 426.30, 426.50, 428.10(a), 428.50(c), 1-800-Got-Junk? LLC v. Superior Court, Fageol Truck & Coach Co. v. Pacific Intdem. Co., Ury v. Jewelers Acceptance Corp., Net2Phone, Inc. v. Superior Court
Statutes: CCP sections 426.30, 426.50, 428.10(a), 428.50(c)
Roles: Judge, Plaintiffs (Chad Perrigo and Alexa Perrigo), Defendant (Thunder Ridge Transport, Inc.), Responding Party (Fames Transport, Inc.)
Significant Statements:
* The court grants Thunder Ridge Transport, Inc.'s motion for leave to file a cross-complaint against Fames Transport, Inc.
* The cross-complaint is deemed filed as of the date of the hearing on this matter.
* The court rejects the argument that Thunder Ridge Transport, Inc.'s cross-complaint should be severed.
* The court finds that Thunder Ridge Transport, Inc.'s cross-complaint is permissive rather than compulsory.
* The court grants the motion in the interest of justice.
```

Here is a summary of the judge's tentative ruling in English text:

The judge has granted Thunder Ridge Transport, Inc.'s motion for leave to file a cross-complaint against Fames Transport, Inc. The cross-complaint alleges four causes of action against Fames Transport, Inc. for breach of contract, equitable indemnity, contribution, and declaratory relief. The judge rejected the argument that Thunder Ridge Transport, Inc.'s cross-complaint should be severed from the rest of the case. The judge also found that the cross-complaint is permissive rather than compulsory and granted the motion in the interest of justice. The proposed cross-complaint is deemed filed as of the date of the hearing on this matter.