  Case Number:  21STCV20196    Hearing Date:   March 26, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43
Date: 3-26-24
Case #21STCV20196,
Chad Perrigo, et al. vs. Jorge Edmondo Castaneda Rodriguez
Trial Date: 6-24-24
 
MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE CROSS-COMPLAINT
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant
Thunder Ridge Transport, Inc.
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiffs Chad Perrigo and Alexa Perrigo
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Defendant
Thunder Ridge requests that it be allowed to file a cross-complaint against
fellow Defendant Fames
 
RULING: Motion
for leave to file cross-complaint is granted.
 
SUMMARY OF
ACTION
Plaintiff Chad
Perrigo (Plaintiff) filed this action after being in an accident with Defendant
Jorge Edmondo Castaneda Rodriguez. Rodriguez was delivering packages for the
USPS as the time of the accident. The USPS has contracted with Defendant
Thunder Ridge Transport, Inc. (Thunder Ridge), which had subcontracted with Defendant
Fames Transport, Inc. (Fames). Thunder Ridge is now seeking to file a
cross-complaint against Fames based on the subcontract agreement between the
parties.
 
Thunder Ridge
filed its answer to Plaintiff’s complaint on August 10, 2023. Thunder Ridge did
not file a cross-complaint at that time. Thunder Ridge filed its motion for
leave to file cross-complaint on February 5, 2024. It seeks to allege four
causes of action against Fames for breach of contract, equitable indemnity,
contribution, and declaratory relief.
 
Plaintiffs Chad
Perrigo and Alexa Perrigo (Plaintiff) oppose Thunder Ridge’s motion. Plaintiffs
argue that Thunder Ridge’s motion should be denied because the subcontract upon
which Thunder Ridge’s proposed cross-complaint is based has Missouri choice of
law and forum selection provisions. Next, Plaintiffs argue that Thunder Ridge’s
motion is untimely as both a compulsory and permissive cross-complaint.
Finally, Plaintiffs argue that, alternatively, the Court should sever Thunder
Ridge’s cross-complaint.
 
Thunder Ridge’s
reply argues that there is no evidence that it intends to pursue the
cross-complaint in the state of Missouri. Next, Thunder Ridge argues that its
proposed cross-complaint is related to the subject matter of Plaintiffs’
complaint, is compulsory, and will not prejudice any party. Finally, Thunder
Ridge argues that severance would be premature.
 
ANALYSIS
First, the subcontract
between Thunder Ridge and Fames included a choice of law provision that
indicated that disputes between the parties related to that agreement would be
tried in Missouri state court under Missouri state law. (TAC, Ex. 3, ¶ 20.)
 
The parties to
a contract may expressly agree on what law is to control their contract. (Fageol
Truck & Coach Co. v. Pacific Intdem. Co. (1941) 18 Cal.2d 731, 731.)
When the place of making a contract and the place of performance are in foreign
jurisdictions, a contractual provision that the contract is to be construed
pursuant to the laws of the foreign state amounts to a selection by the parties
of the laws of the state to govern the contract. (Ury v. Jewelers Acceptance
Corp. (1964) 227 Cal.App.2d 11, 17.) There is a strong policy favoring the
enforcement of choice of law provisions agreed to by parties to a contract,
particularly in contracts involving commercial entities. (1-800-Got-Junk?
LLC v. Superior Court (2010) 189 Cal.App.4th 500, 512.) The same is true of
forum selection clauses.  (Net2Phone,
Inc. v. Superior Court (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 583, 588.)
 
While it is
clear that the parties chose Missouri state court to adjudicate matters related
to their agreement, it is not clear whether that is a sufficient reason to deny
Thunder Ridge’s motion for leave to file a cross-complaint. The case with the
current parties is already pending in Los Angeles Superior Court. In order to
send it to Missouri, Thunder Ridge’s cross-complaint against Fames would likely
first have to be severed, and then a change of venue filed. As discussed below,
the Court rejects the argument that Thunder Ridge’s cross-complaint should be
severed. Thunder Ridge’s cross-complaint is also directly related to Plaintiffs’
action against it and Fames. Additionally, Thunder Ridge is the Missouri
corporation and the choice of law and forum selection provisions were for its
benefit.  Arguably it has waived these
provisions by filing this cross-complaint in California. Fames has also not
objected to the filing of the cross-complaint in California, and it too may
have waived, or be willing to waive these provisions. The Court will not deny
Thunder Ridge’s motion based on the choice of law and forum selection provisions
in the parties’ agreement, at least absent an indication that one or both
parties decline to waive them.
 
If a
cross-complaint is not filed at the time of an answer, leave of court must be
obtained to file a cross-complaint. (Brown & Wiel, CAL.PRAC. GUIDE:
CIV.PRO.BEFORE TRIAL (The Rutter Group 2004), at § 6:555.) 
 
If the proposed
cross-complaint is compulsory, i.e., “related” to the subject matter of the
complaint. leave of court must be granted so long as the defendant is acting in
“good faith.” (CCP §§ 426.30 and 426.50; Silver Organizations Ltd. v. Frank
(1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 94, 98-99; AL Holding Co. v. O’Brien & Hicks, Inc.
(1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 1310, 1313-1314.] 
 
On the other
hand, if the proposed cross-complaint is permissive – i.e., not necessarily
“related” to the subject matter of plaintiff’s complaint – leave of court may
be granted “in the interest of justice” at any time during the action. (CCP §§
428.10(a) and 428.50(c).) Nonetheless, unless it would interfere with the trial
date or otherwise prejudice the actions, courts are generally inclined to grant
leave to file any cross-complaint against the plaintiff, reflecting the
judicial policy of settling all disputes between the plaintiff and the
defendant(s) in the same lawsuit if possible. (Brown & Weil, CAL. PRAC.
GUIDE: CIV. PRO. BEFORE TRIAL (The Rutter Group 2004), at §§ 6:508 and 6:564.)
 
Thunder Ridge
argues that its cross-complaint is compulsory because it is related to the
subject matter of Plaintiff’s complaint. Thunder Ridge’s cross-complaint is
directly tied to Plaintiffs’ complaint because Thunder Ridge filed the
cross-complaint in order to require Fames to indemnify it in Plaintiff’s action.
(Proposed Cross-Comp., ¶¶ 9-10.) However, because the cross-complaint is not
against Plaintiffs, and instead is against another Defendant, it is more likely
to be permissive rather than compulsory. Furthermore, cross-complaints for
indemnity are transactionally related to the main action and are therefore
permissive cross-complaints under CCP § 428 et seq. (Time for Living, Inc.
v. Guy Hatfield Homes (1991) 230 Cal.App.3d 30, 38-39.)
 
Plaintiffs argue
that Thunder Ridge’s cross-complaint was untimely because it was not filed at
the same time as the answer pursuant to CCP § 426.30. However, this section
deals exclusively with compulsory cross-complaints that are filed against a
plaintiff. The proper section to look at is CCP § 428.50, which provides:
“(a) A party shall file a
cross-complaint against any of the parties who filed the complaint or
cross-complaint against him or her before or at the same time as the answer to
the complaint or cross-complaint.
(b) Any other cross-complaint may be
filed at any time before the court has set a date for trial.
(c) A party shall obtain leave of
court to file any cross-complaint except one filed within the time specified in
subdivision (a) or (b). Leave may be granted in the interest of justice at any
time during the course of the action.”
 
Based on
Section 428.50(c), leave to file a cross-complaint may be granted in the
interest of justice at any time during the course of the action. Section
428.50(a) would not apply because Thunder Ridge has not filed a cross-complaint
against Plaintiffs. Section 428.50(b) would not apply because the Court has set
a date for trial. That leaves subdivision (c), which authorizes the filing of a
cross-complaint at any time with leave of the court if it is in the interest of
justice.
 
The trial in
this matter begins in June 2024. There is a chance that granting leave to file
the cross-complaint may affect that trial date. However, it is unlikely that it
would prejudice Plaintiffs or other parties in this matter, as the dispute in
Thunder Ridge’s cross-complaint hinges on whether Fames will indemnify it. Furthermore,
plaintiffs are reminded that when they and the other parties stipulated to the
June 24, 2024, trial date they also stipulated to continue the court’s OSC re:
referral to a long cause court until May 29, 2024, with their long cause trial
documents submitted by May 17, 2024.  By
doing so, all parties must have been aware that the long cause referral process
would likely cause a trial delay.
 
The Court is
also not persuaded by Plaintiffs’ arguments that Thunder Ridge waited too long
to file the cross-complaint. It was a matter of months between Thunder Ridge filing
its answer to Plaintiff’s complaint and filing its cross-complaint against
Fames. The case that Plaintiffs cite in which a court used its discretion to
deny a motion for leave to file a cross-complaint, Crocker Nat. Bank v.
Emerald (1990) 221 Cal.App.3d 852, involved a party that waited years into
a case to file the cross-complaint. That is not so in this instance.
 
Finally, Plaintiffs
argue that Thunder Ridge’s cross-complaint should be severed from the rest of
the case so that Plaintiffs are not prejudiced. The opposition to a motion for
leave to file a cross-complaint is not the proper place to make this argument.
Plaintiffs should file a motion for severance of the cross-complaint if they
wish to seek severance.
 
Thunder Ridge’s
motion for leave to file cross-complaint is granted. The proposed
cross-complaint is deemed filed as of the date of the hearing on this matter.
 
Moving party to
give notice.
 