  Case Number:  23STCV14562    Hearing Date:   February 15, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




aysia rowe

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
artem gerashchenkov

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


23STCV14562




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


February
   15, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
(1)  
  defendant’s
  demurrer to first amended complaint
(2)  
  defendant’s
  demurrer to first amended complaint
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant NewRez LLC, d/b/a
Shellpoint Mortgage Servicing (on behalf of itself and as erroneously sued as
Shellpoint Mortgage Servicing)         
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff Aysia Rowe
(1)  
Demurrer
to First Amended Complaint
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant Artem Gerashchenkov      
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Unopposed
(2)  
Demurrer
to First Amended Complaint
The court considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in
connection with the demurrer filed by defendant NewRez LLC, d/b/a Shellpoint
Mortgage Servicing.  
The court considered the moving papers filed in connection with the
demurrer filed by defendant Artem Gerashchenkov.  No opposition papers were filed in connection
with that demurrer. 
 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
The court grants defendant NewRez
LLC, d/b/a Shellpoint Mortgage Servicing’s requests for judicial notice.  (Evid. Code, § 452, subds. (c), (d); Yvanova
v. New Century Mortgage Corp. (2016) 62 Cal.4th 919, 924, n. 1 [existence
and facial contents of recorded deed of trust was properly noticed by the trial
court].)  The court notes that, although
it has taken judicial notice of documents filed in court, it does not “take
judicial notice of hearsay allegations” therein.  (Starr v. Ashbrook (2023) 87 Cal.App.5th
999, 1014 [“Although a court cannot take judicial notice of hearsay allegations
in a court record, it can take judicial notice of the truth of facts asserted
in documents such as orders, findings of fact and conclusions of law, and
judgments”].) 
The court grants defendant Artem Gerashchenkov’s request for judicial
notice.  (Evid. Code, § 452, subd.
(d).)
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff Aysia Rowe (“Plaintiff”) filed the operative First Amended
Complaint in this action on July 14, 2023 against, inter alia,
defendants Artem Gerashchenkov, Shellpoint Mortgage Servicing, and NewRez
LLC.  The First Amended Complaint alleges
13 causes of action for (1) quiet title; (2) wrongful foreclosure; (3)
cancellation of instruments; (4) breach of contract; (5) promissory estoppel;
(6) breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing; (7)
violation of RESPA; (8) negligence; (9) fraud; (10) accounting; (11) unfair
competition; (12) violation of the California Homeowners Bill of Rights; and
(13) violation of the California Homeowners Bill of Rights. 
Now pending before the court are two demurrers filed by two sets of
defendants.  
First, defendant NewRez LLC, d/b/a Shellpoint Mortgage Servicing (on
behalf of itself and as erroneously sued as Shellpoint Mortgage Servicing)
(“Shellpoint”) moves the court for an order sustaining its demurrer to
Plaintiff’s first through 13th causes of action.  
Second, defendant Artem Gerashchenkov (“Gerashchenkov”) moves the
court for an order sustaining his demurrer to Plaintiff’s first through third,
10th, and 11th causes of action. 
 
 
DEMURRER FILED BY SHELLPOINT
The court sustains Shellpoint’s demurrer to the first, second, third,
and eighth causes of action because they do not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action since (1) the allegations of the First Amended
Complaint show that Plaintiff does not have standing to assert those claims
because (i) she has alleged that she obtained ownership interests and rights of
administration over the subject property only “in her capacity as Executor of
the Estate, as Trustee of the Trust, and as a beneficiary under both” but (ii)
has not filed this action in those capacities and has instead only filed this
action as an individual, and (2) Plaintiff has conceded, in opposition, that
she does not have standing to bring these causes of action in her individual
capacity.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§§ 430.10, subd. (e), 367 [“Every action must be prosecuted in the name of
the real party in interest, except as otherwise provided by statute”]; FAC ¶
22; FAC p. 1:10 [naming as plaintiff “Aysia A. Rowe, an individual”]; City
of Brentwood v. Campbell (2015) 237 Cal.App.4th 488, 504 [“anyone other
than a real party in interest lacks standing and is subject to a demurrer for
the failure to state a cause of action”]; Opp., p. 1:5-16.) 
The court sustains Shellpoint’s demurrer to the fourth, fifth, sixth,
seventh, ninth, 10th, 11th, 12th, and 13th causes of action because they do not
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action since Plaintiff does not
have standing to assert these causes of action. 
(Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.10, subd. (e), 367.)
The fourth through seventh, 10th, and 11th causes of action are based
on (1) the allegation that Plaintiff was harmed as a result of the loss of
ownership of, or loss of equity in, the subject property, or (2) the alleged
failure to honor and execute the loan modification agreements or to deprive
Plaintiff of the benefits of those agreements. 
(FAC ¶¶ 45 [“all harms suffered in this matter stem back to” the
alleged breach of the loan modification agreement by Ditech], 123, 125, 135,
137, 141, 143, 156, 161.)  Although the
ninth cause of action for fraud does not include specific allegations of harm,
it appears that it is also based on the allegations that Shellpoint and the
other defendants failed to honor the loan modification agreement.  (FAC ¶¶ 149-150.) Similarly, the 12th
and 13th causes of action, alleging violations of the California Homeowners
Bill of Rights, are based on (1) the alleged failure to comply with the
statutory scheme regarding the default process on the subject property, or (2)
injury caused by the loss of equity in and wrongful foreclosure on the subject
property.  (FAC ¶¶ 174-175.) 
The court finds that, as pleaded, Plaintiff does not have standing to
allege causes of action based on the loan modification agreements or ownership
of the subject property.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 367.) 
First, Plaintiff has not alleged that she, in her individual capacity,
had an ownership interest in the subject property.
As to ownership of the property, Plaintiff has alleged the
following.  Tonja T. Taylor (“Taylor”)
purchased the property that is the subject of this action in 1999.  (FAC ¶ 16.) 
The subject property was thereafter transferred from Taylor to Tonja T.
Taylor, as Trustee of the Nubian Village Trust on August 8, 2008.  (FAC ¶¶
20, 84 [“the SUBJECT PROPERTY was owned by the TRUST”]; FAC Ex. D [Transfer
Deed].)  Taylor passed away on August 27, 2017.  (FAC ¶ 22.)  Plaintiff obtained ownership interest and
rights of administration over the property upon Taylor’s death in Plaintiff’s
“capacity as the Executor of the Estate, as Trustee of the Trust, and as a
beneficiary under both.”  (FAC ¶ 22.)   
Thus, Plaintiff has alleged that she obtained an ownership interest in
the subject property only “in her capacity as Executor of the Estate, as
Trustee of the Trust, and as a beneficiary under both.”  (FAC
¶ 22.)  However, Plaintiff has not filed this action in those
capacities and has instead filed this action as an individual.  (FAC p.
1:10 [naming as plaintiff “Aysia A. Rowe, an individual”].)  The court
therefore finds that Plaintiff does not have standing to assert causes of
action on the ground that she was harmed by the loss of ownership of the
property.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 367.)
Second, Plaintiff has not alleged that she was a party to the loan
modification agreements described in the First Amended Complaint. 
Plaintiff has alleged the existence of two loan modification
agreements.  On May 21, 2010, Taylor
executed the first loan modification agreement with BAC Loans Servicing LP,
which modified the terms of the December 2007 mortgage loan.  (FAC
¶ 21.)  Plaintiff has not alleged that she was a party to this
modification agreement.  Thereafter, on December
11, 2018, Ditech presented, and Plaintiff signed as “‘Aysia Rowe Executor of
the Estate of Tonja T. Taylor,’” the second loan modification agreement. 
(FAC ¶¶ 34-35.)  Plaintiff was later
informed by Ditech that the inscription on the loan modification was defective,
and a representative of Ditech instructed Plaintiff to re-execute the agreement
by adding the term “Estate Executor” next to Plaintiff’s signature.  (FAC ¶ 47.)  Plaintiff did not allege that she signed the
second loan modification agreement in her individual capacity.  
Thus, as pleaded, Plaintiff has not alleged facts establishing that
she entered into a loan modification agreement in her individual capacity and
therefore does not have standing to assert causes of action on the ground that
she was harmed by the alleged failure to honor or execute the loan modification
agreements to which she was not a party. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 367.)
The court also sustains Shellpoint’s demurrer to the ninth cause of
action for fraud because it does not state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action since Plaintiff has not alleged each element of fraud with the
particularity required by California law. 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 430.10, subd. (e); Lauckhart v. El Macero
Homeowners Assn. (2023) 92 Cal.App.5th 889, 903 [“Fraud must be pleaded
with particularity”].)
DEMURRER FILED BY GERASHCHENKOV
The court sustains
Gerashchenkov’s demurrer to the first, second, third, 10th, and 11th causes of
action because they do not state facts sufficient to constitute causes of
action since Plaintiff does not have standing to assert these claims for the
same reasons set forth in the court’s ruling on Shellpoint’s demurrer discussed
above.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.10,
subd. (e), 367; City of Brentwood, supra, 237 Cal.App.4th at p.
504.)
The court also sustains
Gerashchenkov’s demurrer to the 10th cause of action for accounting because it
does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action since (1) this
cause of action is based on the allegation that there is a controversy between
Plaintiff and the defendants with respect to the amount of money that was owed
to the defendants, but (2) Plaintiff has not alleged facts establishing that
there existed a relationship between Plaintiff and Gerashchenkov that requires
an accounting.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.10, subd. (e); FAC ¶¶ 155-156; Sass v. Cohen (2020) 10
Cal.5th 861, 869 [elements of action for accounting].) 
ORDER
            The court sustains defendant NewRez
LLC, d/b/a Shellpoint Mortgage Servicing (for itself and erroneously sued as
Shellpoint Mortgage Servicing)’s demurrer to plaintiff Aysia A. Rowe’s First
Amended Complaint. 
The
court sustains defendant Artem Gerashchenkov’s demurrer to plaintiff
Aysia A. Rowe’s first through third, 10th, and 11th causes of action in plaintiff’s
First Amended Complaint. 
The court grants plaintiff
Aysia A. Rowe 20 days leave to file a Second Amended Complaint that cures the
defects set forth in this ruling.
            The court orders defendant
NewRez LLC, d/b/a Shellpoint Mortgage Servicing (for itself and erroneously
sued as Shellpoint Mortgage Servicing) to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
DATED:  February 15, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court