 Case Number:  SC125609    Hearing Date:   July 11, 2024    Dept:  I The court is in receipt of the ex parte
application.  It involves plaintiffs’ request
for terminating or other sanctions due to alleged discovery abuse by the
defense.  The referee has already issued
orders concerning the discovery at issue, although the referee has not
considered the most recent responses by defendants.  Given the referee’s familiarity with the
discovery in this case and, more specifically, the specific discovery at issue,
it makes sense for the referee to resolve the question.  The court anticipates that defendants will
argue that the referee’s jurisdiction has terminated and that the motion cannot
be heard by anyone for procedural reasons, as well as arguing that the motion
is not well taken on the merits.  On the
referee’s jurisdiction, the court disagrees with the defense.  The reference order does not (to the court’s
recollection) have an end date attached to it. 
It is a reference for discovery matters, of which this is unquestionably
one.  It belongs with the referee.  However, that does not answer other
procedural questions, such as whether the motion is out of time.  The court believes that the referee will be
in the best situation to address that question in the first instance given the
referee’s close involvement in many aspects of discovery in this case.  Of course, the referee’s determination is not
dispositive, but a recommendation would be helpful to the court if only to help
encapsulate the history of this and any related disputes.  And as to the merits, as stated before, the
referee is in the best position to make the first cut at an answer.  The referee has suggested that he may lack
jurisdiction and therefore did not want to act until the court specifically
authorized it.  This is that
authorization.
 
True, right now the hearing is set for after the trial is
set to begin.  But that is because it had
to be set on this court’s calendar (although the court is not sure why) rather
than the referee’s calendar.  If the
referee can hear it sooner—and plaintiffs say the referee does have that
availability—then the current hearing date is without meaning.
 
But we are tight. 
Trial is set for July 22, 2024—less than two weeks from now.  And the court notes that it has multiple
cases on its trial docket, although this is far and away the oldest.
 
What the court will do is the following.  First, the court will, and hereby
does, GRANT the motion confirming the referee’s jurisdiction to hear the
matter.  If the referee cannot hear the
matter quickly, defendants may seek an order recalling the matter from the
reference.  The court anticipates that
whatever the schedule, defendants will want (and should be afforded) the
opportunity to oppose the motion in writing. 
Second, the FSC will go forward as scheduled.  The FSC materials are due in any event, so the
court is confident that the parties are ready to submit them.  And the court is aware of the 26 in limine
motions (less those that have been withdrawn), all of which are fully
briefed.  That will help the court
because it will give the court a good feel for the case and its length assuming
that no non-monetary sanctions are issued. 
The court assumes that if any non-monetary sanctions are issued, that
will only have the effect of shortening the case.  Third, the court believes that it is
likely that the trial will need to be continued a week to allow the referee to
rule, the court to review any objections to the ruling, and the parties to
re-tool their cases if necessary.  It
could be longer than a week.  The court
will therefore, on its own motion, CONTINUE the trial for one week to July 29,
2024.  If more time is needed, the court
will discuss that with the parties but will try to be more flexible than
usual.  That said, though, this case is
extremely old.  As they say, all good
things must come to an end—even litigation. 
That time is fast approaching.
 