  Case Number:  22STCV41098    Hearing Date:   April 9, 2024    Dept:  76 TENTATIVE RULING RE: PLAINTIFF CYNTHIA BECK'S MOTION FOR PROTECTIVE ORDER            Plaintiff  alleges that a grant deed was forged conveying Plaintiff’s properties, which  was then encumbered, all without Plaintiff’s authorization. Plaintiff brings a  quiet title action.             Plaintiff  moves for a protective order regarding an inspection of the subject property. TENTATIVE RULING Plaintiff  Cynthia Beck’s motion for a protective order regarding an inspection of the  subject property is DENIED. ANALYSIS Motion For  Protective Order Plaintiff  moves for a protective order regarding an inspection of the subject property  pursuant to Civ. Proc. Code, § 2031.060, which states in pertinent part: (a) When an inspection, copying, testing, or sampling of documents,  tangible things, places, or electronically stored information has been  demanded, the party to whom the demand has been directed, and any other party  or affected person, may promptly move for a protective order. This motion shall  be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.   (b) The court, for good cause shown, may make any order that justice  requires to protect any party or other person from unwarranted annoyance,  embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and expense. This protective  order may include, but is not limited to, one or more of the following  directions:   (1) That all or some of the items or categories of items in the demand  need not be produced or made available at all.. . .      (Civ.  Proc. Code, § 2031.060(a) & (b).)              The  Declaration of Peter K. Pritchard arguably reflects that Plaintiff’s counsel engaged  in meet and confer efforts as required by Civ. Proc. Code, § 2031.060(a).             Defendants  argue that this motion for protective order is untimely relative to the demand  for inspection. The Court need not address the timeliness argument because, on  the merits, Plaintiff has not demonstrated good cause for the requested  protective order.             Plaintiff  argues that Defendants wish to conduct the inspection on the property on a  fishing trip and to harass Plaintiff. Plaintiff argues that if the subject  property has a granite surface, this is not probative of whether the photograph  was taken at those locations. Plaintiff also pays lip service to privacy  rights, where by the property is co-owned by a non-party             First:     A request for  discovery is not subject to the objection that the proponent is engaged in a  "fishing expedition." In our discovery statutes the Legislature has  authorized "fishing expeditions" and thus "the claim that a  party is engaged upon a fishing expedition is not, and under no circumstances  can be, a valid objection to an otherwise proper attempt to utilize the  provisions of the discovery statutes." (Citation omitted.)  (Irvington-Moore,  Inc. v. Superior Court (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 733, 739 n.4.)             Second,  whether or not the existence of granite countertops on the subject property is  “probative” or “dispositive” of a material fact is for the jury to decide. Except as otherwise provided by law, where the trial is by  jury:   (a) All questions of fact are to be decided  by the jury.   (b) Subject to the control of the court, the  jury is to determine the effect and value of the evidence addressed to it,  including the credibility of witnesses and hearsay declarants.       (Evid.  Code § 312.)             Third, Plaintiff did not engage in  the balancing test required relative to right of privacy objections to  discovery. As such, the Court does not engage in the balancing of interest  analysis. The California Supreme Court has held that a  compelling interest or compelling need is not always required in order to discover private information—the  Court must consider the factors articulated in Hill v. National Collegiate  Athletic Assn. (1994)  7 Cal.4th  1 to determine the seriousness of the privacy invasion and the strength of the  countervailing interest required to overcome that invasion. (Williams v.  Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531.) In ruling upon a  privacy objection in the contact of discovery, the party asserting a privacy  right must establish a legally protected privacy interest. (Williams, supra, 3 Cal.5th at 552.) The  party asserting a privacy right must also establish an objectively reasonable  expectation of privacy in the given circumstances. (Id.) Further, the party asserting a privacy right must establish a  threatened intrusion that is serious. (Id.)  The Court need not proceed to the fourth step  of balancing competing interests if all three of the above are not satisfied. (Id. at 555.) If the Court reaches the  fourth step, the Court must balance these competing considerations: The party  seeking information may raise whatever legitimate and important countervailing  interests disclosure serves.  (Id. at 552.) The party seeking  protection may identify feasible alternatives that serve the same interests or  protective measures that would diminish the loss of privacy.  (Id.)  Courts may not require the party seeking discovery to demonstrate a “compelling  state interest” or “compelling need[1]” simply because discovery of any facially private  information is sought.  (Id. at 556-57.)              As such, Plaintiff has not  demonstrated good cause for the requested protective order. The motion for a  protective order is DENIED.      