 Case Number:  22STCV10003    Hearing Date:   October 5, 2023    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
March 22, 2022, Plaintiff Abdi Manavi filed a complaint against Defendants Jan’s Towing, Inc. (“Jan’s”), Ritter Lien
Sales, Inc., Abdulla Yaghi, and Does 1 to 20 alleging claims for general negligence, motor vehicle tort, and intentional tort. The
complaint arises from the alleged wrongful towing of Plaintiff Abdi Manavi’s
1981 Mercedes Benz. 
On
May 12, 2022, Jan's and Abdalla Yaghi, erroneously sued as Abdulla Yaghi (“Yaghi”),
filed an answer. 
Also
on May 12, 2022, Cross-Complainant Jan’s and purported Cross-Complainant Route
66 Car Wash, Inc.[1]
(“Route 66”) filed a cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants Abdi Manavi, Auto Care, Inc., Eric Raymond Fascia (“Fascia”),
and Roes 1-20 for apportionment of fault, indemnification, third party tort of
another, breach of contract, and common counts. 
On
May 27, 2022, the Court dismissed Ritter Lien Sales, Inc. without prejudice at
Plaintiff’s request. 
On June
16, 2022, Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Abdi Manavi filed an answer to the
cross-complaint. 
On
August 14, 2023, the Court entered Fascia’s default on the cross-complaint. 
On
September 12, 2023, Jan's, Yaghi, and Route 66 (“Moving Parties”) moved for a
change in venue to the East District of the Los Angeles Superior Court.  No opposition has been filed.  
Trial
is currently scheduled for January 9, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUEST 
Moving
Parties ask the Court to transfer this case to the East District of the Los
Angeles Superior Court. 
DISCUSSION 
As
Moving Parties point out, even though this case is pending in the Los Angeles
Superior Court’s Personal Injury Hub, it is not a personal case.  Instead, it involves the alleged towing and
auctioning of Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Abdi Manavi’s car while it was being
stored at a garage which had allegedly stopped paying rent to Defendant Abdalla
Yaghi. 
Local
Rule 2.3(b)(2) provides: 
"The Supervising Judge of the Civil Division may,
for the convenience of witnesses or to promote the ends of justice, transfer a
civil case from one district to another. Except for proceedings concerning
transfer of a Personal Injury Action, as defined in subsection (a)(1)(A), motions
to transfer a civil action from one district to another, including motions
based upon a failure to file the case in accordance with the requirements set
forth in this Chapter must be made in Department 1 in the Central District.
Proceedings concerning transfer of a Personal Injury Action shall be determined
in the Central District or in the North District in one of the departments
designated to hear those matters (“Personal Injury Court”)." 
(Los Angeles Superior Court,
Local Rule 2.3(b)(2).) 
          Based on Local Rule 2.3(b)(2), the Court denies the motion
for a change in venue without prejudice to filing a motion in Department 1 in
the Central District. 
CONCLUSION 
          The Court DENIES the motion for a change in venue filed by
Defendant/Cross-Complainant Jan’s Towing, Inc.,
Defendant Abdalla Yaghi, erroneously sued
as Abdulla Yaghi, and purported Cross-Complainant Route 66 Car Wash, Inc., without prejudice to filing a
motion in Department 1 in the Central District of the Los Angeles Superior
Court. 
          Moving parties are ordered to give notice of this ruling.

