 Case Number:  20STCV37505    Hearing Date:   October 5, 2023    Dept:  28 Having
considered the petitioning papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
          On September 30, 2020, Plaintiffs
Aiden Daniels and Sequoia Wiley filed this action against Defendants Evelin
Barragan-Hernandez (“Hernandez”), Manchester Bargain, Inc. (“Manchester”), and
Does 1-25 for motor vehicle negligence, premises liability and negligent
infliction of emotional distress. 
On
February 4, 2022, Manchester filed an answer and a cross-complaint against
Cross-Defendants Hernandez and Roes 1-10 for implied indemnity, apportionment,
contribution and declaratory relief. 
On
November 4, 2022, Plaintiffs filed a notice of settlement. 
On
December 12, 2022, the Court dismissed Cross-Defendants Hernandez and Roes 1-10
from Manchester’s cross-complaint with prejudice at Manchester's request. 
On
July 14, 2023, Petitioner Sequoia Wiley filed a petition to approve the compromise
of the claim of Plaintiff Aiden Daniels (“Claimant”).   
No
trial date is currently scheduled. 
PETITIONER’S REQUEST 
Petitioner
Sequoia Wiley (“Petitioner”) asks the Court to approve the compromise of Plaintiff Aiden
Daniels’ claim. 
DISCUSSION 
Petitioner
has not provided an original or a photocopy of a doctor’s report containing a
diagnosis of Claimant’s injuries or a prognosis for Claimant’s recovery and a
report of the claimant’s current condition, as instructed by Section 8 of the petition. 
The
petition states that Petitioner is Claimant’s guardian ad litem but the Court is
not aware of an order appointing Petitioner as Claimant’s guardian ad
litem.  According to Section 1 of the
petition, Petitioner is not Claimant’s parent. 
Attachment 12, however, states that Petitioner is Claimant’s mother. 
Section
12a of the petition states that total medical expenses were $53,361.32 and negotiated, statutory, and contractual
reductions came to $40,938.16.  Based on these figures, $12,423.16 in medical expenses
should be reimbursed from the settlement proceeds.  However, section 12a(4) states that only $9,565.44
will be reimbursed from the settlement proceeds while section 12a(5) states
that statutory or contractual liens come to $14,023.16.  These figures are inconsistent with each
other.  The
Court cannot approve a minor’s compromise unless it reimburses all medical
expenses that have not been reduced or waived. 
Petitioner should revise the petition to address the inconsistencies and to make sure that all liens are resolved prior to seeking Court
approval. 
 The petition requests
attorney’s fees that amount to 38% of the settlement amount.  The Court typically does not award attorney’s
fees in excess of 25% of the settlement amount in cases involving minors absent extraordinary efforts,
described with particularity, by counsel. 
For
the reasons stated above, the Court denies the petition. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court
DENIES the petition to approve the compromise of Plaintiff Aiden Daniels’ pending
action filed by Petitioner Sequoia Wiley without prejudice. 
Petitioner
is ordered to give notice of this ruling.