 Case Number:  20STCV48417    Hearing Date:   October 5, 2023    Dept:  28      DEPARTMENT   28     HEARING DATE   October    5, 2023     CASE NUMBER   20STCV48417     MOTION   Motion to compel further responses to form interrogatories,    set one, propounded to Plaintiff Robert Wayne Elie, and motion to compel    further responses to request for production of documents, set one, propounded    to Plaintiff Angie Marie Elie, and requests for sanctions     MOVING PARTY   Defendant Estate of William Berger, Deceased     OPPOSING PARTIES   Plaintiff Angie Marie Elie and Robert Wayne Elie      On  December 18, 2020, Plaintiffs Angie Marie Elie and Robert Wayne Elie III (“Plaintiffs”) filed a complaint  against Defendants William Berger and Does 1-50 for negligence, negligence per  se, and statutory liability. On August 10, 2021, Plaintiffs amended the  complaint to add Defendant Estate of William Berger, Deceased, as Doe 1  (“Defendant”). On December 16, 2022, Plaintiffs filed a first amended  complaint. On February 3, 2023, Defendant filed an answer. On March 17, 2023,  Plaintiffs filed a second amended complaint.  Defendant  moves the Court for orders compelling Plaintiffs Angie Marie Elie and Robert  Wayne Elie to provide further responses to the following discovery requests:  Motion  A:  Form interrogatories, set one, propounded to Plaintiff Robert Wayne ElieNos. 8.1-8.8, 9.1-9.2 and 10.1-10.3  a.     Propounded:     March 1, 2023  b.    Responded:       April 3 and June 29, 2023  c.     Motion Filed:    July 14, 2023  Motion  B:  Request for production of documents, set one,  propounded to Plaintiff Angie Marie Elie  Nos.  9-11; 14, 17-18, 20 and 22  a.     Propounded:     March 1, 2023  b.    Responded:       April 3, 2023  c.     Motion filed:     July 14, 2023  PROCEDURAL REQUIREMENTS  A.              Informal  Discovery Conference  The  Eighth Amended Standing Order for Procedures in the Personal Injury Hub Courts  Effective October 10, 2022 (Filed September 20, 2022), ¶ 9E, provides: “PI Hub  Courts will not hear Motions to Compel Further Discovery Responses to Discovery  until the parties have engaged in an Informal Discovery Conference (IDC).  PI Hub Courts may deny or continue a Motion  to Compel Further Responses to Discovery if parties fail to schedule and  complete an IDC before the scheduled hearing on a Motion to Compel Further Responses  to Discovery.”  The  parties participated in an IDC on June 20, 2023.  B.              Timeliness  of Motions  A  notice of motion to compel further responses must be given within 45 days of  the service of the responses, or any supplemental responses, or on or before  any specific later date to which the parties have agreed in writing. (Code Civ.  Proc., §§ 2030.300, subd. (c), 2031.310, subd. (c).)  Failure to file a motion within this time  period constitutes a waiver of any right to compel further responses to  interrogatories.  Defendant  filed its motions on the dates set forth above.   Plaintiff does not dispute the timeliness of the motions.  C.   Meet and Confer  “A  motion to compel must be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under  Code of Civil Procedure section 2016.040.”   (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300, subd. (b)(1); 2031.310, subd. (b)(2).)  “A meet and confer declaration must state  facts showing a reasonable and good-faith attempt at an informal resolution of  each issue presented by the motion.”   (Code Civ. Proc., § 2016.040.)   Plaintiff  argues Defendant did not meet and confer (or schedule and attend another IDC)  after Plaintiff provided supplemental discovery responses on June 29, 2023.  The Court finds that Defendant’s meet and  confer efforts (and participation in an IDC) prior to June 29, 2023 satisfied  Defendant’s obligations.  D.      Separate Statement  With  exceptions that do not apply here, California Rules of Court, rule 3.1345,  requires that any motion involving the content of discovery contain a separate  statement with the text of each request, the response, and a statement of  factual and legal reasons for why an order compelling further responses is  warranted.   Defendant  has filed separate statements for each motion.   Plaintiff argues the separate statements are defective because they do  not include the definitions of terms and instructions.  However, Plaintiff does not show how this  omission prevents the parties or the Court from understanding any relevant  information contained in the separate statement.  The Court finds the separate statements are  adequate.  APPLICABLE LAW A.  Motion to compel further discovery responses  “The purpose of the discovery rules  is to enhance the truth-seeking function of the litigation process and  eliminate trial strategies that focus on gamesmanship and surprise.  In other words, the discovery process is  designed to make a trial less a game of blindman’s bluff and more a fair  contest with the basic issues and facts disclosed to the fullest practicable  extent.”  (Juarez v. Boy Scouts of  America, Inc. (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 377, 389.)  1.    Interrogatories  Code  of Civil Procedure section 2030.300, subdivision (a) provides:          “On receipt of a response to interrogatories, the  propounding party may move for an order compelling a further response if the  propounding party deems that any of the following apply:  “(1) An answer to a particular interrogatory is  evasive or incomplete.  “(2) An exercise of the option to produce documents  under Section 2030.230 is unwarranted or the required specification of those  documents is inadequate.  “(3) An objection to an interrogatory is without merit  or too general.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300,  subd. (a).)  2.       Inspection demand  “(a)  On receipt of a response to a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or  sampling, the demanding party may move for an order compelling further response  to the demand if the demanding party deems that any of the following apply:  “(1)  A statement of compliance with the demand is incomplete.  “(2)  A representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive.  “(3)  An objection in the response is without merit or too general.  “(b)  A motion under subdivision (a) shall comply with each of the following:  “(1)  The motion shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the  discovery sought by the demand.  “(2)  The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section  2016.040.  “(3)  In lieu of a separate statement required under the California Rules of Court,  the court may allow the moving party to submit a concise outline of the  discovery request and each response in dispute.  “(c)  Unless notice of this motion is given within 45 days of the service of the  verified response, or any supplemental verified response, or on or before any  specific later date to which the demanding party and the responding party have  agreed in writing, the demanding party waives any right to compel a further  response to the demand.  * * *  “(h)  Except as provided in subdivision (j), the court shall impose a monetary  sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party,  person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel  further response to a demand, unless it finds that the one subject to the  sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make  the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310,  subds. (a), (b), (c), (h).)  B.  Discovery sanctions  “The  court may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse  of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay  the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a  result of that conduct. The court may also impose this sanction on one  unsuccessfully asserting that another has engaged in the misuse of the  discovery process, or on any attorney who advised that assertion, or on both.  If a monetary sanction is authorized by any provision of this title, the court  shall impose that sanction unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction  acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the  imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Code  Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subd. (a).)  “Misuses  of the discovery process include . . .   “(d)  Failing to respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §  2023.010.)  I.                Motion A:  Defendant’s motion to compel further responses  to form interrogatories, set one, propounded to Plaintiff Robert Wayne Elie  A.   Discussion  “In  response to a motion to compel answers [citation], the burden is on the party  claiming a privilege to establish whatever preliminary facts are essential to  the claim.”  (L. Edmon & C. Karnow, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil  Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2023) ¶ 8:192, p. 8C-61, emphasis omitted (Cal.  Practice Guide).)  “For example, upon  asserting the attorney-client privilege, the client, or the attorney in the  client’s absence, must prove that the attorney-client relationship existed when  the communication was made.  Once this  showing is made (typically through declarations), the communication between the  lawyer and client are presumed to have been made in confidence.”  (Ibid., emphasis omitted.)  “Upon such showing, the burden shifts to the  party seeking discovery to disprove those facts or to prove some applicable  statutory exception . . . .”  (Ibid.)  Plaintiff  has not carried his initial burden of proving the existence of the  attorney-client privilege, work product protection, right of privacy, or other  privileges asserted in response to the discovery requests. Plaintiff, however, answered five of Defendant’s form  interrogatories “subject to” Plaintiff’s assertion of a privilege.  For these answers, listed below, Plaintiff is  ordered to provide a new response if his answer would be different absent the  assertion of a privilege.  At  the hearing on these motions on October 3, 2023, Plaintiff’s counsel argued  that Defendant’s separate statement did not accurately reflect Plaintiff’s  responses to form interrogatories 10.1 and 10.2.   Form  interrogatory 10.1 states: “At any time before the INCIDENT did you have  complaints or injuries that involved the same part of your body claimed to have  been injured in the INCIDENT? If so, for each state: (a) A description of the  complaint or injury; (b) The dates it began and ended; and (c) The name,  ADDRESS, and telephone number of each HEALTHCARE PROVIDER whom you consulted or  who examined or treated you.”  Defendant’s  separate statement contained the following response by Plaintiff to form  interrogatory 10.1: “Objection. This interrogatory calls for speculation and  seeks the premature disclosure of expert witness information and opinion.  Further, this request seeks information protected by the attorney work-product  doctrine and the attorney-client privilege. Finally, this request seeks  information in violation of Responding Party’s right to privacy and the right  of privacy of third parties.”  Defendant’s  separate statement did not contain Plaintiff’s further response to form  interrogatory 10.1: “Objection. This interrogatory calls for speculation and  seeks the premature disclosure of expert witness information and opinion.  Further, this request seeks information protected by the attorney work-product  doctrine and the attorney-client privilege. Finally, this request seeks  information in violation of Responding Party’s right to privacy and the right  of privacy of third parties. Subject to these objections: No.”  Form  interrogatory 10.2 states: “List all physical, mental, and emotional  disabilities you had immediately before the INCIDENT.”  Defendant’s  separate statement contained the following response by Plaintiff to form interrogatory  10.2: “Objection. This interrogatory calls for speculation and seeks the  premature disclosure of expert witness information and opinion. Further, this  request seeks information protected by the attorney work-product doctrine.”  Defendant’s  separate statement did not contain Plaintiff’s further response to form interrogatory  10.2: “Objection. This interrogatory calls for speculation and seeks the  premature disclosure of expert witness information and opinion. Further, this  request seeks information protected by the attorney work-product doctrine.  Subject to these objections: None.”  B.   Ruling on motion to compel further responses to interrogatories  New answers are required for the following requests answered “subject  to” privilege: 9.1, 9.2, 10.1, 10.2, 10.3            Motion granted: form interrogatories 8.1, 8.2, 8.3, 8.4, 8.5, 8.6, 8.7, 8.8  C.   Sanctions  Defendant  requests $810 in sanctions based on three hours of attorney time consisting of two  hours to prepare the moving papers and one hour to appear at the hearing at  counsel’s billing rate of $250 per hour plus one $60 filing fee.  The Court grants sanctions of $310 based on  one hour of attorney time and one filing fee.   The Court denies Plaintiff’s request for sanctions.  II.             Motion B:  Defendant’s motion to compel further responses to request for production of  documents, set one, propounded to Plaintiff Angie Marie Elie  Motion granted:  requests for production of documents 9, 10, 11, 14,  17, 18, 20, 22  Defendant  requests $810 in sanctions based on three hours of attorney time consisting of  two hours to prepare the moving papers and one hour to appear at the hearing at  counsel’s billing rate of $250 per hour plus one $60 filing fee.  The Court grants sanctions of $560 based on  two hours of attorney time and one filing fee.   The Court denies Plaintiff’s request for sanctions.  CONCLUSION  Motion A  The Court GRANTS Defendant Estate of William Berger,  Deceased’s motion to compel further responses to form interrogatories, set one  (Motion A), as follows:  (1) Plaintiff Robert Wayne Elie  is ordered to produce further verified and code-compliant responses, consistent with this order, to Defendant  Estate of William Berger, Deceased’s form interrogatory numbers 8.1, 8.2, 8.3,  8.4, 8.5, 8.6, 8.7, and 8.8 by November 8, 2023.  (2) Plaintiff Robert Wayne Elie is ordered to provide  new answers, consistent with this order, to form interrogatory numbers 9.1, 9.2, 10.1, 10.2 and 10.3, by  November 8, 2023, if his answers would be different from his previous answers absent  the assertion of a privilege.  The Court GRANTS Defendant Estate of William Berger,  Deceased’s request for sanctions on Motion A.   Plaintiff Robert Wayne  Elie and his counsel are ordered to pay Defendant  sanctions of $310 on Motion A no later than November 8, 2023.  The Court DENIES Plaintiff Robert Wayne Elie’s request  for sanctions on Motion A.  Motion B  The Court GRANTS Defendant  Estate of William Berger, Deceased’s motion to compel further responses to request  for production of documents, set one (Motion B).  Plaintiff Angie Marie Elie is ordered to  produce further verified and code-compliant responses, consistent with this order, to Defendant Estate of  William Berger, Deceased’s request for production of documents, set one,  numbers 9, 10, 11, 14, 17, 18, 20, and 22 by November 8, 2023.  The Court GRANTS Defendant Estate of William Berger,  Deceased’s request for sanctions on Motion B.   Plaintiff Angie Marie Elie and her counsel are ordered to pay  Defendant sanctions of $560 on Motion B no later than November 8, 2023.  The Court DENIES Plaintiff Angie Marie Elie’s requests  for sanctions on Motion B.  Moving  party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.  Moving  party is ordered to file a proof of service of this ruling with the Court  within five days.    DEPARTMENT   28     HEARING DATE   October    5, 2023     CASE NUMBER   20STCV48417     MOTION   Motion to compel further responses to request for    production, set one, propounded to Plaintiff Robert Wayne Elie, and motion to    compel further responses to requests for admission, set one, propounded to Plaintiff    Robert Wayne Elie, and requests for sanctions     MOVING PARTY   Defendant Estate of William Berger, Deceased     OPPOSING PARTIES   Plaintiff Robert Wayne Elie    On  December 18, 2020, Plaintiffs Angie Marie Elie and Robert Wayne Elie III (“Plaintiffs”) filed a complaint  against Defendants William Berger and Does 1-50 for negligence, negligence per  se, and statutory liability. On August 10, 2021, Plaintiffs amended the  complaint to add Defendant Estate of William Berger, Deceased, as Doe 1  (“Defendant”). On December 16, 2022, Plaintiffs filed a first amended  complaint. On February 3, 2023, Defendant filed an answer. On March 17, 2023,  Plaintiffs filed a second amended complaint. Defendant  moves the Court for orders compelling Plaintiff Robert Wayne Elie to provide  further responses to the following discovery requests: Motion  A: Request for production of documents, set one,  propounded to Plaintiff Robert Wayne Eliea.     Propounded:     March 1, 2023 b.    Responded:       April 3 and June 29, 2023 c.     Motion Filed:    July 14, 2023 Motion  B: Requests for admission, set one, propounded to Plaintiff  Robert Wayne Elie a.     Propounded:     March 1, 2023 b.    Responded:       April 3, 2023 c.     Motion filed:     July 14, 2023 PROCEDURAL REQUIREMENTS A.              Informal  Discovery Conference The  Eighth Amended Standing Order for Procedures in the Personal Injury Hub Courts  Effective October 10, 2022 (Filed September 20, 2022), ¶ 9E, provides: “PI Hub  Courts will not hear Motions to Compel Further Discovery Responses to Discovery  until the parties have engaged in an Informal Discovery Conference (IDC).  PI Hub Courts may deny or continue a Motion  to Compel Further Responses to Discovery if parties fail to schedule and  complete an IDC before the scheduled hearing on a Motion to Compel Further Responses  to Discovery.” The  parties participated in an IDC on June 20, 2023. B.              Timeliness  of Motions A  notice of motion to compel further responses must be given within 45 days of  the service of the responses, or any supplemental responses, or on or before  any specific later date to which the parties have agreed in writing. (Code Civ.  Proc., §§ 2030.300, subd. (c), 2031.310, subd. (c).)  Failure to file a motion within this time  period constitutes a waiver of any right to compel further responses to  interrogatories. Defendant  filed its motions on the dates set forth above.   Plaintiff does not dispute the timeliness of the motions. C.   Meet and Confer “A  motion to compel must be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under  Code of Civil Procedure section 2016.040.”   (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300, subd. (b)(1); 2031.310, subd. (b)(2).)  “A meet and confer declaration must state  facts showing a reasonable and good-faith attempt at an informal resolution of  each issue presented by the motion.”   (Code Civ. Proc., § 2016.040.)  Plaintiff  argues Defendant did not meet and confer (or schedule and attend another IDC)  after Plaintiff provided supplemental discovery responses on June 29, 2023.  The Court finds that Defendant’s meet and  confer efforts (and participation in an IDC) prior to June 29, 2023 satisfied  Defendant’s obligations. D.      Separate Statement With  exceptions that do not apply here, California Rules of Court, rule 3.1345,  requires that any motion involving the content of discovery contain a separate  statement with the text of each request, the response, and a statement of  factual and legal reasons for why an order compelling further responses is  warranted.  Defendant  has filed separate statements for each motion.   Plaintiff argues the separate statements are defective because they do  not include the definitions of terms and instructions.  However, Plaintiff does not show how this  omission prevents the parties or the Court from understanding any relevant  information contained in the separate statement.  The Court finds the separate statements are  adequate. APPLICABLE LAW A.  Motion to compel further discovery responses           “The purpose of the discovery rules  is to enhance the truth-seeking function of the litigation process and  eliminate trial strategies that focus on gamesmanship and surprise.  In other words, the discovery process is  designed to make a trial less a game of blindman’s bluff and more a fair  contest with the basic issues and facts disclosed to the fullest practicable  extent.”  (Juarez v. Boy Scouts of  America, Inc. (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 377, 389.) 1.       Inspection demand “(a)  On receipt of a response to a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or  sampling, the demanding party may move for an order compelling further response  to the demand if the demanding party deems that any of the following apply: “(1)  A statement of compliance with the demand is incomplete. “(2)  A representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive. “(3)  An objection in the response is without merit or too general. “(b)  A motion under subdivision (a) shall comply with each of the following: “(1)  The motion shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the  discovery sought by the demand. “(2)  The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section  2016.040. “(3)  In lieu of a separate statement required under the California Rules of Court,  the court may allow the moving party to submit a concise outline of the  discovery request and each response in dispute. “(c)  Unless notice of this motion is given within 45 days of the service of the  verified response, or any supplemental verified response, or on or before any  specific later date to which the demanding party and the responding party have  agreed in writing, the demanding party waives any right to compel a further  response to the demand. * * * “(h)  Except as provided in subdivision (j), the court shall impose a monetary  sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party,  person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel  further response to a demand, unless it finds that the one subject to the  sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make  the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310,  subds. (a), (b), (c), (h).) 2.       Requests for admissions Code  of Civil Procedure section 2033.290 provides:   “(a) On receipt of a response to requests for  admissions, the party requesting admissions may move for an order compelling a  further response if that party deems that either or both of the following  apply: “(1) An answer to a particular request is evasive or  incomplete. “(2) An objection to a particular request is without  merit or too general. “(b) (1) A motion under subdivision (a) shall be  accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040. “(2) In lieu of a separate statement required under  the California Rules of Court, the court may allow the moving party to submit a  concise outline of the discovery request and each response in dispute. “(c) Unless notice of this motion is given within 45  days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental verified  response, or any specific later date to which the requesting party and the  responding party have agreed in writing, the requesting party waives any right  to compel further response to the requests for admission. “(d) The court shall impose a monetary sanction under  Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or  attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further  response, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with  substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of  the sanction unjust. “(e) If a party then fails to obey an order compelling  further response to requests for admission, the court may order that the  matters involved in the requests be deemed admitted. In lieu of, or in addition  to, this order, the court may impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7  (commencing with Section 2023.010).” (Code Civ. Proc., §  2033.290.) B.  Discovery sanctions “The  court may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse  of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay  the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a  result of that conduct. The court may also impose this sanction on one  unsuccessfully asserting that another has engaged in the misuse of the  discovery process, or on any attorney who advised that assertion, or on both.  If a monetary sanction is authorized by any provision of this title, the court  shall impose that sanction unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction  acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the  imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Code  Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subd. (a).) “Misuses  of the discovery process include . . .  “(d)  Failing to respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery.” (Code Civ. Proc., §  2023.010.) I.                Motion A:  Defendant’s motion to compel further responses  to requests for production, set one, propounded to Plaintiff Robert Wayne Elie Granted:  9, 10, 11, 14, 17, 18, 20, 22 Defendant  requests $810 in sanctions based on three hours of attorney time consisting of  two hours to prepare the moving papers and one hour to appear at the hearing at  counsel’s billing rate of $250 per hour plus one $60 filing fee.  The Court grants sanctions of $560 based on  two hours of attorney time and one filing fee.   The Court denies Plaintiff’s request for sanctions. II.             Motion B:  Defendant’s motion to compel further responses to requests for admission, set  one, propounded to Plaintiff Robert Wayne Elie Plaintiff  has not carried his initial burden of proving the existence of the  attorney-client privilege, work product protection, right of privacy, or other  privileges asserted in response to the discovery requests.  Plaintiff, however, denied several of  Defendant’s requests for admission “subject to” Plaintiff’s assertion of a  privilege.  For these denials, listed  below, Plaintiff is ordered to provide a new response if his answer would be  different absent the assertion of a privilege. New  answers required for requests denied “subject to” privilege: 1,  2, 6, 13, 23, 25 Granted:  4, 11, 14, 15, 16, 22, 24, 27, 28, 29, 30 Denied:  3, 5, 7, 8, 9, 10, 12, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 26 Sanctions:  Defendant requests $810 in sanctions.  Plaintiff requests $1,200 in sanctions.  The Court declines to award sanctions to  either party in light of the mixed outcome of this motion. CONCLUSION Motion A The Court GRANTS Defendant Estate of William Berger,  Deceased’s motion to compel further responses to request for production of  documents, set one (Motion A).  Plaintiff  Robert Wayne Elie is ordered to produce further verified and code-compliant  responses to Defendant Estate of William Berger, Deceased’s request for  production of documents, set one, numbers 9, 10, 11, 14, 17, 18, 20, and 22 and  to produce the documents, electronically stored information, and/or other  things requested by November 8, 2023. The Court GRANTS Defendant Estate of William Berger,  Deceased’s request for sanctions on Motion A.   Plaintiff Robert Wayne  Elie and his counsel are ordered to pay Defendant  sanctions of $560 on Motion A no later than November 8, 2023. The Court DENIES Plaintiff Robert Wayne Elie’s request  for sanctions on Motion A. Motion B The Court GRANTS Defendant Estate of William Berger,  Deceased’s motion to compel further responses to requests for  admission, set one (Motion B) as follows: New answers are required for the following requests  denied “subject to” privilege: 1, 2, 6, 13, 23, 25 Requests for admission granted:  4, 11, 14, 15, 16, 22, 24, 27, 28, 29, 30 Requests for admission denied: 3, 5, 7, 8, 9, 10, 12,  17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 26 The Court DENIES Defendant Estate of William Berger,  Deceased’s requests for sanctions on Motion B. Moving  party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. Moving  party is ordered to file a proof of service of this ruling with the Court  within five days.