  Case Number:  22PSCV00430    Hearing Date:   February 7, 2024    Dept:  K Plaintiffs Zia
Abhari’s and Amir Shamloo’s Motion to Vacate a Null and Void Disposition
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure Section 473(d) is DENIED.
Background   
Plaintiffs Zia Abhari (“Abhari”) and Amir Shamloo
(“Shamloo” and collectively with Abhari as the “Plaintiffs”) allege as follows:
 
On
May 2, 2020, Gordes Hospitality, Inc. (“Gordes”), through Ganyu Huang aka Gary Huang (“Huang”), and Shamloo, with Abhari serving as a silent partner, entered into an
“Asset Purchase Agreement” and a “Security Agreement” with Gordes for the transfer of ownership of
Hamilton’s Steakhouse (“Hamilton”) from Gordes, as seller, to Plaintiffs, as
buyers. On June 18, 2020, LVGEM Hotel Corporation (“LVGEM”), through Huang, and Shamloo, with Abhari
serving as a silent partner of Shamloo, entered into a “Lease Agreement” for the lease of the property upon which
Hamilton is located. Gordes, LVGEM and Huang have refused to transfer the
existing liquor license for Hamilton to Plaintiffs, failed to provide
Plaintiffs with the insurance information and have undertaken efforts to
deprive Plaintiffs of their real estate leasehold possessory interest in the
premises upon which the Hamilton is located. 
On January 30, 2023,
Plaintiffs filed two “Amendment[s] to Complaint,”
wherein Jing Qiu Kwok (“Kwok”) was named in lieu of Doe 1 and Winsome CPA, Inc. (“Winsome”) was named in lieu of
Doe 2.
On May 3, 2023, the court
sustained Gordes, LVGEM and Huang’s demurrer to the First Amended Complaint
with leave to amend.
On June 1, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a Second Amended
Complaint, asserting causes of action against Gordes, LVGEM, Huang, Kwok,
Winsome, Marshall Brubacher (“Brubacher”), Mundell Odlum & Haws LLP
(“MO&H” and collectively with the others as “Defendants”), and Does 5-100
for:
1.                 
Breach of the
“Asset Purchase Agreement” Contract
2.                 
Breach of the “Security
Agreement” Contract
3.                 
Breach of the
“Lease Agreement” Contract
4.                 
Tortious
Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing as to the “Asset
Purchase Agreement” Contract
5.                 
Tortious
Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing as to the
“Security Agreement” Contract
6.                 
Tortious
Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing as to the “Lease
Agreement” Contract
7.                 
Fraud in the
Inducement of Forming at Least the “Asset Purchase Agreement” Contract
8.                 
Negligent
Misrepresentation 
9.                 
Inducing
Breach of Contract
10.             
Fraud by False
Promise
On August 28, 2023, the court sustained, without leave to
amend, the demurrer to the fourth, fifth, sixth, and tenth causes of action.
The court also granted Gordes, LVGEM and Huang’s motion to strike as to the
request for punitive damages. On December 18, 2024, the court sustained without
leave to amend, the demurrer to the seventh, eighth and ninth causes of action.
A Case Management Conference is set for March 12, 2024.
Legal Standard
“The court may, upon motion of the injured party,
or its own motion, correct clerical mistakes in its judgment or orders as
entered, so as to conform to the judgment or order directed, and may, on motion
of either party after notice to the other party, set aside any void judgment or
order.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (d).)
Discussion
Plaintiffs move the
court to “vacate several Null and Void dispositions” which they contend have
been issued by the court “upon extrinsic fraud.”
Plaintiffs have
failed to specifically identify which court orders they contend must be
vacated; however, it appears from a review of the moving papers that they are
referring to the “Order Granting Defendant LVGEM Hotel Corporation’s Motion for
Preliminary Injunction” entered April 19, 2023 and the “Order Granting in Part
Defendants Gordes Hospitality Inc. and LVGEM Hotel Corporation’s Application
for Temporary Restraining Order Re: Preliminary Injunction” entered June 16,
2023.
Plaintiffs assert
that Huang’s March 30, 2023 and June 15, 2023 declarations, as well as a
“General Power of Attorney” signed by Huang attached to the first declaration,
are fraudulent, inasmuch as there is no indication that an English-Mandarin
Chinese translator was used, even though on May 5, 2023 Huang signed a
verification to discovery responses wherein he asserted that he cannot speak,
read or write the English language easily. (Vafaei Decl., 5:9-17). Huang’s
discovery responses were likewise unaccompanied by any indicia that a
translator was used. Huang also sent a letter to Plaintiffs on October 25,
2023, which was written in English, wherein he demanded that Plaintiffs comply
with the lease that Huang earlier represented to the court did not exist. (Id.,
5:18-20).
Plaintiffs’ motion
is denied. Huang identified in his discovery responses that he cannot speak,
read and write English “with ease,” not that he cannot speak, read and write
English whatsoever. Further, attorney Caixing Ma (“Ma”) attests that he is
fluent in both Chinese and English (Ma Decl., ¶ 2); that, throughout this
litigation, Huang signed some declarations and verifications of discovery
responses (Id., ¶ 3); that Ma translated and explained these
declarations, discovery responses and the Notice of Belief of Abandonment dated
October 23, 2023 for Huang before Huang signed these documents (Id.) and
that such documents include (1) Additional Declaration of Ganyu Huang in
support of Defendant LVGEM Hotel Corporation’s Motion for Preliminary
Injunction (2) Declaration of Ganyu Huang in support of Gordes Hospitality Inc.
and LVGEM Hotel Corporation’s Ex-Parte Application for Temporary Restraining
Order and Order to Show Cause re: Preliminary Injunction, (3) Huang’s Responses
to Plaintiff’s Form Interrogatories – General, Set One, (4) Huang’s Responses
to Plaintiff’s Request for Admissions, Set One, (5) Gordes Hospitality, Inc.’s
Responses to Plaintiff’s Form Interrogatories – General, Set One, (6) Gordes
Hospitality, Inc.’s Responses to Plaintiff’s Request for Admissions, Set One,
(7) LVGEM Hotel Corporation’s Responses to Plaintiff’s Form Interrogatories –
General, Set One, (8) LVGEM Hotel Corporation’s Responses to Plaintiff’s
Request for Admissions, Set One and (9) Notice of Belief of Abandonment dated
October 25, 2023 (Id.).
Further, Plaintiffs do not point to any evidence wherein
Huang disavows the existence of any lease agreement. Huang’s March 30,
2023 declaration merely disavows that any written lease agreement
existed. (Vafaei Decl., 5:9-17).
Huang’s October 25, 2023 letter does not contradict his March 30, 2023
declaration.