


[1] CDFW
correctly asserts that less experienced lawyers with lower rates could have
performed a significant portion of the work Cardiff performed and therefore his
rate should be reduced.  Save Our
Uniquely Rural Community Environment v. County of San Bernardino, (“SOURCE”)
(2015) 235 Cal. App. 4th 1179, 1186-87 (run of the mill fees need not be
awarded where motion fails to show that hours were reasonable and
necessary).  Opp. at 10.  This is an issue better addressed in reducing
Cardiff’s billed hours.


[2] Cardiff
spent 30.7 hours to review the record, FEIR, and other evidence.  Cardiff Decl., ¶29, Ex. 3, pp. 4, 19-20, 23,
28.  As an example, Cardiff describes the
search for Corps requirements that prevent burrowing animals from living on the
levees.  Cardiff Decl., ¶22.  To find this, Cardiff had to locate a draft
Operation and Maintenance Plan that the AR’s index only identified as part of
the “project description.”  Cardiff
Decl., ¶22.  The Operation and
Maintenance Plan cited the Guidelines, which Cardiff had to find online.
Cardiff Decl., ¶22.  These Guidelines are
what require and describe the removal of various burrowing animals on “earthen
dams” like levees. Cardiff Decl., ¶22.  An outdated copy of the Guidelines was also in
the AR, but it would not have been available to any members of the public who
wanted to comment on the EIR.  Cardiff
Decl., ¶22.
            CDFW
argues that this process should have been straightforward.  Opp. at 8. 
Longcore cited the Corps during the public comment period.  Id.  Cardiff also could have just searched the administrative
record’s index for the word “guidelines” and found the document within
minutes.  Opp. at 8, n. 1.  After Cardiff found the applicable
Guidelines, the court granted judicial notice thereof without any objection
from CDFW.  Opp. at 8-9.  
            The
court need not address this argument in detail. 
Longcore’s citation to the Corps did not inform Cardiff what part of
Corps standards was relevant.  Cardiff
still had to find them in the Draft Operations and Maintenance Plan, which the
administrative record index does not list. 
Reply at 4.  This effort was
reasonable.

