 Case Number:  24TRCV00859    Hearing Date:   July 1, 2024    Dept:  B Superior Court of CaliforniaCounty of Los AngelesSouthwest DistrictTorrance Dept. B RUC14 PLAYA LLC on its own behalf and derivatively on behalf of TA PARTNERS APARTMENT FUND II, LLC,    Plaintiff, Case No.:  24TRCV00859 vs.  [Tentative] RULING  TA PARTNERS LLC, et al.,   Defendants.       Hearing Date:                         July 1, 2024 Moving Parties:                      Plaintiff RUC 14 Playa LLCResponding Party:                  Defendant Hankey Capital, LLCMotion to Terminate Bond and Authorize Release of Collateral            The Court considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers.RULING            The motion is DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE.BACKGROUND            On March 14, 2024, plaintiff RUC14 Playa LLC, on its own behalf and derivatively on behalf of TA Partners Apartment Fund II, LLC filed a complaint against defendants TA Partners LLC, TA Partners Apartment Fund II, LLC, Johnny Lu, Alfa IDG LLC, Yaojun Liu, Thriving Future LLC, Greenwell HHC LLC, Zhongjun Zheng, LCS Consulting Group LLC, Caiying Chang, Hankey Capital, LLC, Chicago Title Insurance Company, Partners Capital Solutions Fund, Preferred Bank, Varde Partners, Inc., and VP Irvine Lender LLC for (1) injunctive relief, (2) intentional misrepresentation, (3) concealment, (4) false promise, (5) negligent misrepresentation, (6) breach of contract, (7) breach of covenant of good faith and fair dealing, (8) breach of fiduciary duty, (9) aiding and abetting breach of fiduciary duty, (10) accounting and inspection, (11) judicial order to expel manager, and (12) declaratory judgment.            On March 15, 2024, the Court granted plaintiff’s ex parte application for a TRO and OSC regarding preliminary injunction to stay trustee’s sale and ordered a bond of $100,000.            On March 18, 2024, plaintiff filed a notice of posting surety bond.            On March 21, 2024, the Court granted defendant Hankey Capital, LLC, f/k/a HIC Acceptance LLC’s ex parte application to increase bond attached to the TRO to $500,000.            On March 22, 2024, at the hearing on plaintiff’s ex parte application for leave to serve discovery and third-party subpoenas and to shorten time for responses, the Court granted a protective order and ordered that Hankey Capital produce a copy of the loan file by the end of business on March 27, 2024.            On April 2, 2024, Hankey Capital, LLC filed a notice of plaintiff’s failure to post bond required by modified TRO and resulting expiration of legal effect of TRO to enjoin trustee’s sale of subject real property.            On April 15, 2024, the Court denied Hankey Capital’s ex parte application to award plaintiff’s bond to defendant Hankey Capital, finding lack of exigency.  The Court discharged the OSC re preliminary injunction.            On May 23, 2024, dismissals were entered against Partners Capital Solutions Fund and Preferred Bank.            On June 10, 2024, defendant TA Partners LLC filed a notice of bankruptcy stay of proceedings.DISCUSSION            Plaintiff RUC14 Playa, LLC requests an order (1) terminating the bond required in connection with its request for a TRO, (2) authorizing Markel/SureTec Insurance Company to release any and all collateral deposited with it in connection with plaintiff’s request for a TRO, and (3) granting plaintiff such other and further relief as this Court deems just and appropriate.            The complaint alleges that this action relates to plaintiff’s investment and membership interest in TA Partners Apartment Fund II LLC, an investment vehicle managed by TA Partners LLC and its two ultimate principals, Johnny Chien Sheng Lu and Yaojun (Larry) Liu.  Complaint, ¶1.  Lu and Liu promised that TA Fund II, utilizing plaintiff’s and others’ capital contributions, would be the owner of and develop real property located at 6055 West Center Drive, Los Angeles.  Alongside their purported development of the property, Lu and Liu have engaged in serial acts of fraud, forgery, breaches of fiduciary duties, illicit fraudulent transfers, commingling and misuse of funds, conversion of plaintiff’s contribution, and other serious misconduct, all to enrich themselves and others at the extreme detriment of plaintiff.  Id., ¶2.  Plaintiff’s investigation of Lu and Liu’s tortious and fraudulent conduct is still underway, and plaintiff “brings this action at this time for two important reasons.  First, although Lu and Liu have proved snippets of information, they refuse to comply with their affirmative obligations to provide plaintiff with books and records and accurate financial information.  Id., ¶3.  Second, Lu and Liu previously encumbered the property in exchange for loans from certain third-party lenders.  They obtained these loans without proper corporate consent, and they have allegedly defaulted on these loans.  As a result, certain lenders have sought to exercise remedies, including a foreclosure, against the property and plaintiff’s ownership interests in the property.  Id., ¶4.            The complaint further alleges that defendant Hankey Capital, LLC is a commercial lender and a party to that “certain Deed of Trust, Security Agreement and Fixture Filing with Assignment of Rents, dated December 14, 2021.”  Id., ¶12.  The prayer requests a stay, TRO, preliminary injunction, and permanent injunction enjoining Hankey Capital and other defendants from enforcing any purported security interest against foreclosing on, and/or otherwise exercising any rights or remedies with respect to the property.  Prayer, at 2.            As noted above, the Court had granted plaintiff a TRO to stay trustee’s sale and ordered that plaintiff post a bond in the amount of $100,000.  On defendant Hankey Capital’s ex parte application, the Court increased the bond to $500,000.              Plaintiff explains that it deposited $100,000 in cash with the surety company who issued the original bond but chose not to place the additional $400,000 in cash and thus did not post the increased bond.  Plaintiff further explains that as a result of the increased bond not being posted, on March 26, 2024, the TRO was terminated, and Hankey Capital rescheduled its trustee sale for April 3, 2024.  On April 3, 2024, TA Fund II filed a voluntary petition for relief under Ch. 11.              Plaintiff contends that the TRO was only in effect between March 15 and March 26, 2024, and thus Hankey Capital did not suffer any damage from the TRO during that time frame.  Plaintiff asserts that Hankey Capital admitted in the application to increase the bond that it is owed $27.5 million plus $13,750 in interest per day.  Thus, plaintiff concludes, “the total interest Hankey Capital could claim as damages from the eleven days which the [TRO] was in effect is only $151,250.”  Plaintiff contends that when TA Fund II filed its bankruptcy petition, it listed the property as worth $124 million and that the last appraisal from June 2021 put the value at $55 million.  Thus, plaintiff argues, Hankey Capital is “oversecured” and will be entitled to recover the principal plus any and all interest that has accrued, and the effectiveness of the TRO caused “absolutely no damage” to Hankey Capital.            In opposition, Hankey Capital argues that exoneration of a bond prior to final adjudication of plaintiff’s right to injunctive relief is not permitted and that “the main action has to be terminated before an action to recover an undertaking may be brought,” citing to Satinover v. Dean (1988) 202 Cal. App. 3d 1298, 1301.  Hankey Capital contends that its right to recover on the bond cannot be determined until after plaintiff’s claim against Hankey Capital is finally determined.              Hankey Capital also argues that plaintiff has not submitted any admissible evidence in support of its conclusory property valuations.  In any event, Hankey Capital contends, the property value is less than the amount owed on the loan and that plaintiff’s assertion that Hankey Capital is “oversecured” is untrue.  See Patricia Hankey decl. filed on March 20, 2024.Hankey Capital further argues that the motion should be denied because the amount of damages proximately caused by the TRO is not yet certain, and that a party asserting a claim against a surety on an injunction bond is not limited to damages during the time the injunction was operative but is entitled to damages flowing directly from the injunction.  See ABBA Rubber Co. v. Seaquist (1991) 235 Cal. App. 3d 1, 14 (“The sole limit imposed by the statute is that the harm must have been proximately caused by the wrongfully issued injunction.”).In reply, plaintiff argues that it is authorized to seek the termination of the original bond at this time because the superior court case is “effectively complete” in light of the bankruptcy stay and the proposed trustee sale, which formed the basis of the TRO, is also an impossibility at this point.  Plaintiff also asserts that the Court may take judicial notice of the debtor’s schedules in the bankruptcy cases.  Moreover, plaintiff argues, Hankey Capital is not entitled to any damages because it has not shown that the TRO was unjustified or wrongful.  Further, the bankruptcy filing was an act of the debtor TA Fund II and not an act of plaintiff.  Thus, any damages it suffered after March 26, 2024 could not be “proximately caused” by the TRO and thus not recoverable from the bond because of Hankey Capital’s inability to conduct its trustee sale.The Court rules as follows:  The Court notes that plaintiff does not cite to any statutory or case law in support of the motion to terminate the bond at this stage of the proceedings.  While the TRO is no longer in effect there has not been any determination on the question of whether or not Defendant suffered any compensable damage as a result of the issuance of the TRO.Under CCP §529(a), “On granting an injunction, the court or judge must require an undertaking on the part of the applicant to the effect that the applicant will pay to the party enjoined any damages, not exceeding an amount to be specified, the party may sustain by reason of the injunction, if the court finally decides that the applicant was not entitled to the injunction. . . .”  “It is well settled the damage recoverable under an injunction bond . . . is for all loss proximately resulting from the injunction; the factors to be considered in determining the loss depend upon the circumstances of the case; the measure of damage will vary with those circumstances; arbitrary rules do not govern; equitable principles are applied; and the allowance, although often difficult to measure accurately, should furnish just and reasonable compensation for the loss sustained.”  Surety Sav. & Loan Assn. v. National Automobile Cas. Ins. Co. (1970) 8 Cal. App. 3d 752, 757 (citations omitted).Here, the Court required an undertaking in the amount of $100,000 and then in the amount of $500,000—which is to the effect that which plaintiff would pay to defendant in damages that defendant may sustain by reason of the injunction (stay of trustee’s sale) “if the court finally decides that the applicant was not entitled to the injunction.”At this stage of the proceedings, the Court has not “finally” determined the issues that would justify it releasing the bond.The motion is DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE as premature.ORDER            The motion is DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE.            Plaintiff is ordered to give notice of ruling.