 Case Number:  23STCV22910    Hearing Date:   January 15, 2025    Dept:  52 Defendant
ABF Freight System, Inc.’s Motion to Compel Further Discovery Responses
Defendant
ABF Freight System, Inc. moves to compel further responses to: requests for
production Nos. 7 and 31; special interrogatories Nos. 2, 7, and 8; form
interrogatories - general Nos. 6.7(b), 10.1, 10.2, and 12.1; and form
interrogatories – employment Nos. 204.2 and 212.7(b).
Plaintiff
Harold J. Wright contends this motion is moot because he served further
responses after defendant filed it.  The
court has discretion to consider the merits of the latest responses.  (Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v.
Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 409.)
Plaintiff
also argues the motion is procedurally improper because defendant combined the
papers for multiple separate motions: a motion to compel further responses to
interrogatories (CCP § 2030.300) and a motion to compel further responses to
requests for production (CCP § 2031.310). 
Neither the Code of Civil Procedure nor the California Rules of Court
prohibit joining motions as defendant did.  Combining the motions did not prejudice
plaintiff in any way.
Requests
for Production
            Defendant is entitled to further
responses to requests for production Nos. 7 and 31.  A party propounding requests for production
may move to compel further responses if “[a] statement of compliance with the
demand is incomplete,” “[a] representation of inability to comply is
inadequate, incomplete, or evasive,” or “[a]n objection in the response is
without merit or too general.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (a).) 
Plaintiff’s
further response to each request makes numerous objections, then states, “Subject
to and without waiving the foregoing objections, and to the extent Plaintiff
understands this Request, Plaintiff responds as follows: all documents or
things in the demanded category that are in the Plaintiff’s possession, custody
or control will be produced.  Discovery
is ongoing and Plaintiff reserves his right to supplement this response.”  (Demerjian Decl., Ex. 9.)  
These
responses are inadequate.  By stating
plaintiff will produce all documents in his possession, but “subject to and
without waiving” his objections, it is not clear whether he is withholding any
documents.  When a response includes an
objection, “the response shall … [i]dentify with particularity any document …
to which an objection is being made.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.240, subd.
(b)(1).)  “If an objection is based on a claim of privilege, the
particular privilege invoked shall be stated.”  (Id., subd.
(b)(2).)  “If an objection is based on a claim of privilege or a claim
that the information sought is protected work product, the response shall
provide sufficient factual information for other parties to evaluate the merits
of that claim, including, if necessary, a privilege log.”  (Id.,
subd. (c)(1).)   Plaintiff did not
clearly state whether he is withholding any responsive documents and, if he is,
he did not identify them or provide adequate factual information to evaluate
the claim of privilege.  
Plaintiff
did not substantiate any of his objections. 
“[I]f a timely motion to compel has been filed, the burden is on
responding party to justify any objection.”  (Fairmont Ins. Co. v.
Superior Court (2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255.) 
Plaintiff’s objections to requests for production Nos. 7 and 31 are overruled.    
Interrogatories
            Defendant is entitled to further
responses to the disputed interrogatories. 
A party propounding interrogatories may move to compel further responses
when an answer “is evasive or incomplete,” “[a]n exercise of the option to
produce documents under Section 2030.230 is unwarranted or the required
specification of those documents is inadequate,” or “[a]n objection to an
interrogatory is without merit or too general.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2030.300, subd. (a).)
            Plaintiff did not supplement his
response to form interrogatory – general No. 10.2, which asks: “List all
physical, mental, and emotional disabilities you had immediately before the
INCIDENT.”  The interrogatories defined
INCIDENT as “the
allegations in the Complaint, including without limit, alleged harassment,
discrimination, retaliation, wrongful termination in violation of public
policy, intentional infliction of emotional distress, and any other cause of
action asserted or intended to be asserted.” 
Plaintiff responded, “Plaintiff had orthopedic and vascular conditions
that qualified him as disabled within the meaning of the FEHA at the time of
his termination.  Plaintiff also suffered
from anxiety, stress, depression, and hypertension as a result of Defendant
Hopkins’ harassment and discrimination and Defendant ABF’s failure to prevent
it.  This conditions also qualify as ‘disabilities’
under the FEHA.”  
This
answer is evasive because it only answers about his conditions “at the time of
his termination.”  The question asked
about conditions “immediately before the INCIDENT,” which was defined to begin
before his termination.  Hostile work
environment harassment, for example, necessarily occurs before termination.  
Plaintiff’s
further responses are also evasive or incomplete.  Plaintiff’s further response to special
interrogatory No. 7, for example, is far from “complete and straightforward.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.220, subd. (a).)  The question asks, “IDENTIFY all PERSONS,
including but not limited to employees and former employees of DEFENDANT, to
whom YOU have spoken or otherwise communicated with regard to any of the
allegations in the COMPLAINT.”  A
complete and straightforward answer would be a list of people’s names and
contact information.  
Instead,
plaintiff’s further response begins by stating, “Plaintiff’s Complaint with his
allegations was filed on September 21, 2023.  He does not recall having spoken to any of
Defendant’s current or former employees about the allegations in his Complaint
since that time.”  (Demerjian Decl., Ex. 8,
p. 19.)  The question does not ask about
people he has spoken to since filing the complaint; it asks about people he has
spoken to about the underlying events. 
Plaintiff’s response then continues to give a 10-page narrative that
primarily repeats portions of the complaint’s allegations.  (Id. at pp. 19-29.)  Plaintiff’s responses to other disputed
interrogatories similarly include lengthy, irrelevant copied sections of the
complaint.  (E.g., Demerjian Decl., Ex. 7,
No. 204.2.)  For the reasons stated in
defendant’s reply brief, plaintiff must supplement his responses again.  
Again,
plaintiff did not substantiate any objections. 
Plaintiff’s objections to special interrogatories Nos. 2, 7, and 8; form
interrogatories - general Nos. 6.7(b), 10.1, 10.2, and 12.1; and form
interrogatories – employment Nos. 204.2 and 212.7(b) are overruled.
Sanctions
            Defendant moves for monetary
sanctions from plaintiff.  The court
finds that, though plaintiff unsuccessfully opposed this motion, he acted in
good faith and with substantial justification. 
Plaintiff explains significant difficulties that impeded his ability to
provide further responses earlier, including plaintiff’s serious health
condition in December 2024.  (Demerjian
Decl., ¶¶ 39-43.)  The record shows
plaintiff made a legitimate effort to provide valid responses.  The court therefore will not impose sanctions.
Disposition
Defendants ABF Freight System, Inc.’s motion
to compel further discovery responses is granted.  Plaintiff Harold J. Wright is ordered to
serve further verified responses without objections to: requests
for production Nos. 7 and 31; special interrogatories Nos. 2, 7, and 8; form
interrogatories - general Nos. 6.7(b), 10.1, 10.2, and 12.1; and form
interrogatories – employment Nos. 204.2 and 212.7(b), within 30 days.  Plaintiff shall produce any additional
responsive documents in his possession, custody, or control concurrently with
his written responses.