  Case Number:  20STCV44178    Hearing Date:   March 5, 2024    Dept:  F49    Dept.    F49      Date:    3/5/24     Case    Name: T.M. v. St. Nicholas Greek Orthodox Church, et al.     Case    # 20STCV44178      LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT NORTH VALLEY DISTRICT DEPARTMENT F49    MARCH 5, 2024    MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT OR  SUMMARY ADJUDICATION OF ISSUES  Los Angeles Superior  Court Case # 20STCV44178    Motion  filed: 12/7/23   MOVING PARTY: Greek Orthodox Archdiocese of America (the  “Archdiocese” or the “moving Defendant”)  RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Timothy Mullen (“Plaintiff”)  NOTICE: ok    RELIEF  REQUESTED: An  order granting the moving Defendant’s Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the  alternative, granting Summary Adjudication as to the Third and Sixth Causes of  Action.    TENTATIVE  RULING: The  motion is GRANTED.   BACKGROUND   This  action arises out of Plaintiff’s claim that in 1982, he was sexually assaulted  by Father Stanley Adamakis (“Adamakis”) (now deceased), a Greek Orthodox priest  in Northridge, CA, when Plaintiff was approximately 15 years old. (SAC 2:8–9.)    On  November 18, 2020, Plaintiff filed this action. Subsequently, following a  stipulation and order, Plaintiff filed the operative Second Amended Complaint  (“SAC”) on April 1, 2021, alleging the following causes of action: (1)  Negligence (Against Saint Nicholas Greek Orthodox Church); (2) Negligence  (Against Greek Orthodox Metropolis of San Francisco); (3) Negligence (Against  Greek Orthodox Archdiocese of America); (4) Negligent Hiring, Retention and  Supervision (Against Saint Nicholas Greek Orthodox Church); (5) Negligent  Hiring, Retention and Supervision (Against Greek Orthodox Metropolis of San  Francisco) and (6) Negligent Hiring, Retention and Supervision (Against Greek  Orthodox Archdiocese of America).   On  July 29, 2021, Defendants Saint Nicholas Greek Orthodox Church (“St. Nicholas”),  Greek Orthodox Metropolis of San Francisco (the “Metropolis”), and the  Archdiocese (collectively, “Defendants”) filed their Answer to the SAC.   On  December 7, 2023, the Archdiocese filed the instant Motion for Summary Judgment  (the “Motion”).    On  February 20, 2024, Plaintiff opposed the Motion. Subsequently, on February 29,  2024, the Archdiocese filed its Reply.   ANALYSIS   The function of a motion for summary judgment or adjudication is to  allow a determination as to whether an opposing party cannot show evidentiary  support for a pleading or claim and to enable an order of summary dismissal  without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25  Cal.4th 826, 843(Aguilar).) In analyzing motions for summary judgment,  courts must apply a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues framed by the  pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has negated the opponent's  claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated the existence  of a triable, material factual issue.” (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center  (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.)  Thus,  summary judgment is granted when, after the court’s consideration of the  evidence set forth in the papers and all reasonable inferences accordingly, no  triable issues of fact exist and the moving party is entitled to judgment as a  matter of law. (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (c); Villa v. McFarren (1995)  35 Cal.App.4th 733, 741.)   As to each claim as framed by the Complaint, the  defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial burden of proof  by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to establish a defense.  (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Courts “liberally construe the  evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts  concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide,  Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.) A motion for summary judgment must  be denied where the moving party's evidence does not prove all material facts,  even in the absence of any opposition (Leyva v. Sup. Ct. (1985) 164  Cal.App.3d 462, 475), or where the opposition is weak. (Salesguevara v.  Wyeth Labs., Inc. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 379, 384, 387.)     A  defendant has satisfied its burden of showing that a cause of action has no  merit if it demonstrates the absence of any single essential element of  plaintiff’s case or a complete defense to plaintiff’s action. (Code Civ. Proc.  § 437c, subd. (o)(2); Bacon v. Southern Cal. Edison Co. (1997) 53  Cal.App.4th 854, 858.) Once the defendant moving party has met the burden, the  burden shifts to the plaintiff to show via specific facts that a triable issue  of material facts exists as to a cause of action or a defense thereto. (Code of  Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (o)(2).) A.     Casuse of  Action - Negligence A plaintiff suing for negligence must prove: “duty, breach,  causation, and damages.” (Regents of University of California v.  Superior Court (2018) 4 Cal.5th 607, 618 (Regents).)  Whether a duty of care existed is a question of law, and thus  “particularly amenable to resolution by summary judgment.” (Parsons v. Crown Disposal Co. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 456,  465.) Absent such a duty, there is no liability, no matter  how easily the injury might have been prevented. (J.L. v. Children’s  Institute, Inc. (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 388, 396.)   Generally,  one owes no duty to control or warn of the conduct of another, but such a duty  may arise if a special relationship exists with either the victim or the person  who created the harm. (Brown v. USA Taekwondo, (2021) 11 Cal.5th 204,  215 (USA Taekwondo).) A special  relationship between the defendant and the victim is one that “gives the victim  a right to expect” protection from the defendant, while a special relationship  between the defendant and the dangerous third party is one that “entails an  ability to control [the third party's] conduct.” (Id., at 216; Regents,  supra, 4 Cal.5th at 619.) “Relationships between  parents and children, colleges and students, employers and employees, common  carriers and passengers, and innkeepers and guests, are all examples of special  relationships that give rise to an affirmative duty to protect.” (Regents,  supra, 4 Cal.5th at 619.) “To reach the  conclusion that a special relationship exists, it must be assumed that the harm  to be prevented by the defendant is one that the defendant is in a position to  protect against and should be expected to protect against.” (Barenborg v.  Sigma Alpha Epsilon Fraternity (2019) 33 Cal.App.5th 70, 78 (Barenborg),  citing Donaldson v. Young Women’s Christian Assn. of Duluth (Minn. 1995)  539 N.W.2d 789, 792.) Thus, the defendant's ability to control the person who  caused the harm must be such that “if exercised, [it] would meaningfully reduce  the risk of the harm that actually occurred.” (Barenborg, at 78.)  1. Special Relationship Between the Archdiocese and Adamakis   Here, the Archdiocese argues that no special  relationship exists, as there was neither an employment nor an agency  relationship between it and the alleged tortfeasor, Adamakis.  (Mot., at 10, 13.)                a.) Employment Relationship   To support the assertion that there was no employment  relationship, the Archdiocese has presented Adamakis’s employment records,  which confirm that Adamakis was not employed by the Archdiocese during the  period of alleged abuse (1982 through 1985) nor was assigned by the Archdiocese  to any parish after 1979. (Def’s SOE, Ex. “3.”) Moreover, the Archdiocese introduces  a letter from Adamakis, dated March 31, 1981, indicating that he was secularly  employed in California, rather than by any of Defendants. (Mot., at 10-11,  Def.’s SOE, Ex. “4.”)   “[Under the] summary judgment statute, a moving defendant needs  not to support his motion with affirmative evidence negating an essential  element of the responding party's case. Instead, the moving defendant may  (through factually vague discovery responses or otherwise) point to the absence of evidence to support the plaintiff's case. When  that is done, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to present evidence showing  there is a triable issue of material fact. If the plaintiff is unable to meet  her burden of proof regarding an essential element of her case, all other facts  are rendered immaterial.” (Leslie G. v. Perry & Associates (1996) 43  Cal.App.4th 472, 482 (Leslie).) (Emphasis in original.)   Here, the Archdiocese  presented affirmative evidence, specifically Adamakis’s employment records, to demonstrate  the absence of an employment relationship. Mirroring the reasoning of the Leslie  court, the Court concludes that the Archdiocese has satisfied its burden on  this issue, and the burden shifts to Plaintiff to present evidence that there  is a triable issue regarding the employment relationship between Adamakis and  the Archdiocese, or between him and St. Nicholas, which was allegedly under the  Archdiocese’s control.   In  response, Plaintiff’s argument for an employment relationship begins with a  definition of an employee. Plaintiff first cites Labor Code section 2750, claiming  that an employee is one “engage[d] ... to do something for the benefit of the  employer or a third person.” (Opp’n., at 11.) Furthermore, Plaintiff relies on  the “control-of-work” test from common law, as adopted by the Supreme Court in  S.G. Borello & Sons, Inc. v. Department of Industrial Relations (1989)  48 Cal.3d 341 (S.G. Borello).    The Court acknowledges  that the “control-of-work” test, as outlined in S.G. Borello, is  utilized to ascertain whether a person rendering service to another is classified  as an “employee” or an “independent contractor.” (S.G. Borello, supra,  48 Cal.3d at 350.) This classification is important in finding the vicarious  liability of an employer. However, Plaintiff appears to have overlooked a more fundamental  definition of “employee” in the S.G. Borello decision. “‘Employee[s]’  include most persons ‘in the service of an employer under any ... contract  of hire,’ but do not include independent contractors.” (Id., at  349.) This definition underscores the necessity of “a contract of hire,” aligning  with the Labor Code section referenced by Plaintiff. The complete text of Labor  Code section 2750 states, “The contract of employment is a contract by which  one, who is called the employer, engages another, who is called the employee,  to do something for the benefit of the employer or a third person.” (Underlines  added.)    Here, Adamakis’s employment records, which were uncontested  by Plaintiff, reveal the absence of any employment contract, paystub, or Human  Resources records that could suggest an employment relationship between  Adamakis and any Defendants.    The Court underlines the standard for Plaintiff to  demonstrate the existence of a triable issue of fact when opposing a motion for  summary judgment: “the plaintiff must produce substantial evidence sufficient  to establish a triable issue of material fact on the merits of the defendant’s  showing.... [R]esponsive evidence that gives rise to no more than mere speculation  cannot be regarded as substantial and is insufficient to establish a triable  issue of material fact.” (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151,  162-163.)   In response, Plaintiff disputes Defendants’ claim that  Adamakis was not an employee nor agent of the Archdiocese (Opp’n., at 4) by relying  on deposition excerpts from Plaintiff himself, who witnessed Adamakis  performing the liturgy services and acting as a priest before the congregation  at Saint Nicholas Greek Orthodox Church. (Ibid., Pl.’s SOE, Ex.  “1,” at 139:25, 140:1-25, 141:1-25, 142:1-6.) To support this position,  Plaintiff further references testimony from Candace Andreno (Andreo Dep. at  25:15-26:12), a parishioner of St. Nicholas between approximately 1977 and  1995.    Nonetheless, the Court concludes that Candace Andreno’s (“Andreno”)  deposition, even assuming its contents to be true, does not imply that  Adamakis’s involvement in church activities necessarily indicates his  employment by St. Nicholas.    Q: ... Can you explain that? A: Yes, absolutely... I remember, I think it was the first  festival I ever saw, he [Adamakis] tried to say a prayer with all of us before  we were going to dance[.] ... And I remembered this actually the other day, my  grandmother at the festival going up to him and saying, ... “What are you doing  here around the these kids? You need to go away you’re not even a priest here.” (Andreno Dep., at 25:19-26:12.) (Underlines added.)               Andreno’s testimony, as cited by  Plaintiff, indicates Adamakis’s involvement in specific church activities, but it  falls short of substantiating an employment relationship. This leaves  Plaintiff’s own deposition testimony as the sole piece of evidence contesting  the lack of an employment relationship.                Considering the unequivocal employment  records and Adamakis's own admission of secular employment outside the church,  the Court concludes that Plaintiff’s evidence does not meet the threshold of  “substantial evidence sufficient to establish a triable issue of material fact”  as required to counter the merits of Defendant’s showing.               Therefore, the Court finds that  there is no triable issue regarding the absence of an employment relationship  between Adamakis and St. Nicholas, leading to the conclusion that the Motion  for Summary Judgment on this point is warranted.                b.) Agency Relationship “An agent is one who represents another,  called the principal, in dealings with third persons.” (Civ. Code, § 2295.) “In  California agency is either actual or ostensible. (Civ. Code, § 2298.) An  agency is actual when the agent is really employed by the principal. (Civ. Code,  § 2299.) An agency is ostensible when a principal causes a third person to  believe another to be his agent, who is really not employed by him. (Civ. Code,  § 2300.)             As the Court has concluded that  there are no triable issues as to the employment relationship between Adamakis  and any of the Defendants, the Court first dismisses the issue of actual agency  and proceeds to examine the potential existence of ostensible agency. Although the presence of an agency relationship is  typically a question of fact, it “becomes a question of law when the facts can  be viewed in only one way.” (Metropolitan Life Ins. Co. v. State Bd. of  Equalization (1982) 32 Cal.3d 649, 658.)             “‘It is elementary that there are three  requirements necessary before recovery may be had against a principal for the  act of an ostensible agent. The person dealing with the agent must do so with  belief in the agent's authority and this belief must be a reasonable  one; such belief must be generated by some act or neglect of the principal  sought to be charged; and the third person in relying on the agent's apparent  authority must not be guilty of negligence. (Citation.)’” (Associated  Creditors’ Agency v. Davis (1975) 13 Cal.3d 374, 400.) (Underlines added.)  An Ostensible agency cannot be established by the representations or conduct  of the purported agent; the statements or acts of the principal must be  such as to cause the belief the agency exists. (Dill v. Berquist  Construction Co. (1994) 24 Cal.App.4th 1426, 1438, fn. 11.) (Underlines  added.)             Here,  the undisputed evidence does not establish any triable issue of fact suggesting  that the alleged principal – any of the Defendants – made statements or engaged  in any conduct that would tend to generate a reasonable belief in Plaintiff.  Although Plaintiff argues that Adamakis was an agent of the Archdioceses  because he told Plaintiff that he was a priest at St. Nicholas and took  Plaintiff to St. Nicholas approximately 50-100 times, and that Adamakis had  keys to the church (Opp’n., at 2), the mere fact that Adamakis presented  himself as an agent of St. Nicholas does not establish such relationship.  Furthermore, for Plaintiff to establish an agency relationship, there must be a  reasonable belief in the purported agent’s authority. Here, it is evident that any  alleged sexual abuse by Adamakis falls outside the scope of a priest’s  authority, and any assertion to the contrary is unreasonable.               Accordingly, the Court concludes  that Plaintiff has failed to establish any triable issue of facts supporting an  ostensible agency relationship between Adamakis and any Defendants.                2. Special Relationship Between  the Archdiocese and Plaintiff   “No special relationship between a church and its minor  parishioners unless the church had ‘actual custody or control’ of the child,  such as where the child attended a church school.” (Doe v. Roman Catholic  Archbishop of Los Angeles (2021) 70 Cal.App.5th 657, 672, citing Roman  Catholic Bishop v. Superior Court (1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 1556, 1567.)    Here, the Archdiocese asserts that there is no special  relationship between it and Plaintiff, as Plaintiff was never under the care of  the Archdiocese. (Mot., at 15.) It contends that without such a special  relationship, Plaintiff fails to establish the essential element of the cause  of action that the Archdiocese owes a duty to Plaintiff. (Id., at 6.)   The Court notes that it is undisputed that Plaintiff never  enrolled in any of the Archdiocese’s youth programs, or as a student in St.  Nicholas school. (UMF No. 29, Ex. “11.”) Moreover, Plaintiff admits he never  attended any Sunday School program in any of Defendants’ churches. (UMF No. 25,  Def.’s SOE, Ex. “11.”) Furthermore, Plaintiff admits he never participated in  the Greek Orthodox Youth Association. (UMF No. 27, Def.’s SOE, Ex. “11.”)     Based on this, the Court concludes that there is no  evidence of a special relationship between St. Nicholas and Plaintiff as St. Nicholas,  or the Archdiocese, never had “actual custody or control” over Plaintiff.    Therefore, the Court concludes that St. Nicholas and the Archdiocese  do not owe a duty to Plaintiff based on a special relationship between Plaintiff  and Defendants.   3. Plaintiff’s Other Argument   Plaintiff contends that the Archdioceses is directly liable  for negligence because it had reason to know the foreseeable risk posed by  Adamakis to harm others, and despite this knowledge, it only limited his  priestly functions while allowing him to maintain his title as a priest and did  not prohibit him from attending churches within its jurisdiction (Opp’n., at 14.)     The Court observes that Plaintiff’s argument does not  attempt to establish a special relationship. Therefore, the Court explores  Plaintiff’s application of an alternative source of duty for the Archdiocese.  The California Supreme Court has  addressed a similar application in USA Taekwondo. “Without denying the  gravity of the injuries these plaintiffs suffered, nor the broader problem of  sexual abuse of minors in organized youth sports and other activities, we  decline Brown's invitation to take that step [for finding a duty even if there  was no special relationship]. The requirement of an affirmative duty to protect  itself embodies a policy judgment of considerable standing: A defendant cannot  be held liable in negligence for harms it did not cause unless there are  special circumstances — such as a special relationship to the parties — that  give the defendant a special obligation to offer protection or assistance. This  rule reflects a long-standing balance between several competing interests.” (USA  Taekwondo, supra, 11 Cal.5th at 220.) Given this precedent, the Court concludes that the Archdiocese’s  duty must be considered within the context of a special relationship, as set  forth in the previous discussion. Consequently, the Court finds Plaintiff’s  argument for direct liability under a negligence theory to lack merits.    Accordingly, the Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED as  to the negligence cause of action.   B.      Cause of  Action - Negligent Hiring, Retention, and Supervision To  prevail a cause of action for negligent hiring, retention and supervision the  plaintiff will be required to prove: (1) the employer’s hiring, retention, or  supervision of an employee; (2) the employee is incompetent or unfit; (3) that employer  had reason to believe undue risk of harm would exist because of the employment;  and (4) that the harm occurs. (Federico v. Superior Court (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 1207, 1213-1214.) This cause of  action is one of direct liability for negligence, not vicarious liability.  (Delfino v. Agilent Technologies, Inc. (2006) 145 Cal.App.4th 790, 815.)  (Underlines added.) (See CACI 426.)              The CACI Jury Instruction No. 426 provides, in relevant  part, that: “To  establish this claim, [name of plaintiff] must prove all of the following: 1.       That [name of employer defendant] hired [name of  employee]; 2.       That [name of employee] [[was/became] [unfit [or]  incompetent] to perform the work for which [he/she/nonbinary pronoun] was hired  /[specify other particular risk]]; ...” (Underlines added.)               As detailed previously, Plaintiff has failed to present sufficient evidence to establish a triable issue of  material fact as to Defendant’s affirmative evidence showing an absence of an  employment relationship between Adamakis and St. Nicholas, or, the moving  Defendant. Consequently, Plaintiff is deemed unable to establish the first and  second elements required for a claim of negligent hiring, retention, and supervision,  specifically, the absence of proof that Adamakis was hired by any of  Defendants.                 Therefore, the Motion for Summary Judgment is  GRANTED concerning the cause of action for negligent hiring, retention, and  supervision against the moving Defendant.   CONCLUSION   Defendant Greek Orthodox Archdiocese of America’s Motion for  Summary Judgment is GRANTED as to all causes of action against the moving  Defendant.   Moving  party is ordered to provide notice of this order.-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------   Dept.    F49      Date:    3/5/24     Case    Name: T.M. v. St. Nicholas Greek Orthodox Church, et al.     Case    # 20STCV44178      LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT NORTH VALLEY DISTRICT DEPARTMENT F49    MARCH 5, 2024    MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT OR  SUMMARY ADJUDICATION OF ISSUES  Los Angeles Superior  Court Case # 20STCV44178    Motion  filed: 11/21/23   MOVING PARTY: Defendant Greek Orthodox Metropolis of  San Francisco (“Metropolis” or the “moving Defendant”)  RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Timothy Mullen (“Plaintiff”)  NOTICE: ok    RELIEF  REQUESTED: An  order granting the moving Defendant’s Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the  alternative, granting Summary Adjudication as to the Second and Fifth Causes of  Action.    TENTATIVE  RULING: The  motion is GRANTED.   BACKGROUND   This  action arises out of Plaintiff’s claim that in 1982, he was sexually assaulted  by Father Stanley Adamakis (“Adamakis”) (now deceased), a Greek Orthodox priest  in Northridge, CA, when Plaintiff was approximately 15 years old. (SAC 2:8–9.)    On  November 18, 2020, Plaintiff filed this action. Subsequently, following a  stipulation and order, Plaintiff filed the operative Second Amended Complaint  (“SAC”) on April 1, 2021, alleging the following causes of action: (1)  Negligence (Against Saint Nicholas Greek Orthodox Church); (2) Negligence  (Against Greek Orthodox Metropolis of San Francisco); (3) Negligence (Against  Greek Orthodox Archdiocese of America); (4) Negligent Hiring, Retention and  Supervision (Against Saint Nicholas Greek Orthodox Church); (5) Negligent  Hiring, Retention and Supervision (Against Greek Orthodox Metropolis of San  Francisco) and (6) Negligent Hiring, Retention and Supervision (Against Greek  Orthodox Archdiocese of America).   On  July 29, 2021, Defendants Saint Nicholas Greek Orthodox Church (“St. Nicholas”),  the Metropolis, and Greek Orthodox Archdiocese of America (collectively,  “Defendants”) filed their Answer to the SAC.   On  November 21, 2023, Metropolis filed the instant Motion for Summary Judgment  (the “Motion”).    On  January 25, 2024, Plaintiff opposed the Motion. Subsequently, on February 2,  2024, Metropolis filed its Reply.   ANALYSIS   The function of a motion for summary judgment or adjudication is to  allow a determination as to whether an opposing party cannot show evidentiary  support for a pleading or claim and to enable an order of summary dismissal  without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25  Cal.4th 826, 843(Aguilar).) In analyzing motions for summary judgment,  courts must apply a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues framed by the  pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has negated the opponent's  claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated the existence  of a triable, material factual issue.” (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center  (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.)  Thus,  summary judgment is granted when, after the court’s consideration of the  evidence set forth in the papers and all reasonable inferences accordingly, no  triable issues of fact exist and the moving party is entitled to judgment as a  matter of law. (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (c); Villa v. McFarren (1995)  35 Cal.App.4th 733, 741.)   As to each claim as framed by the Complaint, the  defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial burden of proof  by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to establish a defense.  (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Courts “liberally construe the  evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts  concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide,  Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.) A motion for summary judgment must  be denied where the moving party's evidence does not prove all material facts,  even in the absence of any opposition (Leyva v. Sup. Ct. (1985) 164  Cal.App.3d 462, 475), or where the opposition is weak. (Salesguevara v.  Wyeth Labs., Inc. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 379, 384, 387.)     A  defendant has satisfied its burden of showing that a cause of action has no  merit if it demonstrates the absence of any single essential element of  plaintiff’s case or a complete defense to plaintiff’s action. (Code Civ. Proc.  § 437c, subd. (o)(2); Bacon v. Southern Cal. Edison Co. (1997) 53  Cal.App.4th 854, 858.) Once the defendant moving party has met the burden, the  burden shifts to the plaintiff to show via specific facts that a triable issue  of material facts exists as to a cause of action or a defense thereto. (Code of  Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (o)(2).) A.     Judicial  Notice   The moving Defendant requests the Court take judicial  notice of the following documents: (1) Plaintiff’s SAC, and (2) Defendants’  Answer filed on July 29, 2021.   Evidence Code section 452, subdivision (d) permits the  court, in its discretion, to take judicial notice of the records of any court  in this state. Upon taking notice of court records, the court accepts as true  only that (1) they were filed and (2) the assertions therein were made; the  court does not take notice of the truth of their contents. (See Joslin v.  H.A.S. Ins. Brokerage (1986) 184 Cal.App.3d 369, 374-375; see also Day  v. Sharp (1975) 50 Cal.App.3d 904, 916.)    The Court GRANTS Defendants’ request for judicial notice to  the extent that aligns with the above rulings.     B.      First Casuse  of Action - Negligence A plaintiff suing for negligence must prove: “duty, breach,  causation, and damages.” (Regents of University of California v.  Superior Court (2018) 4 Cal.5th 607, 618 (Regents).)  Whether a duty of care existed is a question of law, and thus  “particularly amenable to resolution by summary judgment.” (Parsons v. Crown Disposal Co. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 456,  465.) Absent such a duty, there is no liability, no matter  how easily the injury might have been prevented. (J.L. v. Children’s  Institute, Inc. (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 388, 396.)   Generally,  one owes no duty to control or warn of the conduct of another, but such a duty  may arise if a special relationship exists with either the victim or the person  who created the harm. (Brown v. USA Taekwondo, (2021) 11 Cal.5th 204,  215 (USA Taekwondo).) A special  relationship between the defendant and the victim is one that “gives the victim  a right to expect” protection from the defendant, while a special relationship  between the defendant and the dangerous third party is one that “entails an  ability to control [the third party's] conduct.” (Id., at 216; Regents,  supra, 4 Cal.5th at 619.) “Relationships between parents and children,  colleges and students, employers and employees, common carriers and passengers,  and innkeepers and guests, are all examples of special relationships that give  rise to an affirmative duty to protect.” (Regents, supra, 4  Cal.5th at 619.) “To reach the  conclusion that a special relationship exists, it must be assumed that the harm  to be prevented by the defendant is one that the defendant is in a position to  protect against and should be expected to protect against.” (Barenborg v.  Sigma Alpha Epsilon Fraternity (2019) 33 Cal.App.5th 70, 78 (Barenborg),  citing Donaldson v. Young Women’s Christian Assn. of Duluth (Minn. 1995)  539 N.W.2d 789, 792.) Thus, the defendant's ability to control the person who  caused the harm must be such that “if exercised, [it] would meaningfully reduce  the risk of the harm that actually occurred.” (Barenborg, at 78.)  1. Special Relationship Between the Metropolis and Adamakis   Here, the Metropolis argues that no special  relationship exists, as there was neither an employment relationship between it and the alleged tortfeasor, Adamakis, nor  did it have the ability to control Adamakis. (Mot.,  at 10.)                a). Employment Relationship   To support the assertion that there was no employment  relationship, the Metropolis has presented Adamakis’s employment records, which  confirm that Adamakis was neither employed by nor assigned to St. Nicholas  (Def’s SOE, Ex. “3.”) Moreover, the Metropolis introduces a letter from Adamakis,  dated March 31, 1981, indicating that he was secularly employed in California,  rather than by Defendant St. Nicholas. (Mot., at 10-11, Def.’s SOE, Ex. “4.”)   “[Under the] summary judgment statute, a moving defendant needs  not to support his motion with affirmative evidence negating an essential  element of the responding party's case. Instead, the moving defendant may  (through factually vague discovery responses or otherwise) point to the absence of evidence to support the plaintiff's case. When  that is done, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to present evidence showing  there is a triable issue of material fact. If the plaintiff is unable to meet  her burden of proof regarding an essential element of her case, all other facts  are rendered immaterial.” (Leslie G. v. Perry & Associates (1996) 43  Cal.App.4th 472, 482 (Leslie).) (Emphasis in original.)   Here, the  Metropolis presented affirmative evidence, specifically Adamakis’s employment  records, to demonstrate the absence of an employment relationship. Mirroring  the reasoning of the Leslie court, the Court concludes that the  Metropolis has satisfied its burden on this issue, and the burden shifts to  Plaintiff to present evidence that there is a triable issue regarding the  employment relationship between Adamakis and St. Nicholas, which was allegedly  under Metropolis’s control.   In  response, Plaintiff’s argument for an employment relationship begins with a  definition of an employee. Plaintiff first cites Labor Code section 2750, claiming  that an employee is one “engage[d] ... to do something for the benefit of the  employer or a third person.” (Opp’n., at 11.) Furthermore, Plaintiff relies on  the “control-of-work” test from common law, as adopted by the Supreme Court in  S.G. Borello & Sons, Inc. v. Department of Industrial Relations (1989)  48 Cal.3d 341 (S.G. Borello).    The Court acknowledges  that the “control-of-work” test, as outlined in S.G. Borello, is  utilized to ascertain whether a person rendering service to another is classified  as an “employee” or an “independent contractor.” (S.G. Borello, supra,  48 Cal.3d at 350.) This classification is important in finding the vicarious  liability of an employer. However, Plaintiff appears to have overlooked a more fundamental  definition of “employee” in the S.G. Borello decision. “‘Employee[s]’  include most persons ‘in the service of an employer under any ... contract  of hire,’ but do not include independent contractors.” (Id., at  349.) This definition underscores the necessity of “a contract of hire,” aligning  with the Labor Code section referenced by Plaintiff. The complete text of Labor  Code section 2750 states, “The contract of employment is a contract by which  one, who is called the employer, engages another, who is called the employee,  to do something for the benefit of the employer or a third person.” (Underlines  added.)    Here, Adamakis’s employment records, which were uncontested  by Plaintiff, reveal the absence of any employment contract, paystub, or Human  Resources records that could suggest an employment relationship between  Adamakis and St. Nicholas or the Metropolis.    The Court underlines the standard for Plaintiff to  demonstrate the existence of a triable issue of fact when opposing a motion for  summary judgment: “the plaintiff must produce substantial evidence sufficient  to establish a triable issue of material fact on the merits of the defendant’s  showing.... [R]esponsive evidence that gives rise to no more than mere speculation  cannot be regarded as substantial and is insufficient to establish a triable  issue of material fact.” (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151,  162-163.)   In response, Plaintiff disputes that Adamakis was not an  employee nor agent of the Metropolis (Opp’n., at 4), relying on deposition  excerpts from Plaintiff himself, who witnessed Adamakis performing the liturgy services  and acting as a priest before the congregation at Saint Nicholas Greek  Orthodox Church. (Ibid., Pl.’s SOE, Ex. “1,” at 139:25, 140:1-25,  141:1-25, 142:1-6.) To support this position, Plaintiff further references testimony  from Candace Andreno (Andreo Dep. at 25:15-26:12), a parishioner of St.  Nicholas between approximately 1977 and 1995.    Nonetheless, the Court concludes that Candace Andreno’s (“Andreno”)  deposition, even assuming tis contents to be true, does not imply that  Adamakis’s involvement in church activities necessarily indicates his  employment by St. Nicolas.    Q: ... Can you explain that? A: Yes, absolutely... I remember, I think it was the first  festival I ever saw, he tried to say a prayer with all of us before we were  going to dance[.] ... And I remembered this actually the other day, my  grandmother at the festival going up to him and saying, ... “What are you doing  here around the these kids? You need to go away you’re not even a priest here.” (Andreno Dep., at 25:19-26:12.) (Underlines added.)               Andreno’s testimony, as cited by  Plaintiff, indicates Adamakis’s involvement in specific church activities, but it  falls short of substantiating an employment relationship. This leaves  Plaintiff’s own deposition testimony as the sole piece of evidence contesting  the lack of an employment relationship.                Considering the unequivocal employment  records and Adamakis's own admission of secular employment outside the church,  the Court concludes that Plaintiff’s evidence does not meet the threshold of  “substantial evidence sufficient to establish a triable issue of material fact”  as required to counter the merits of Defendant’s showing.               Therefore, the Court finds that  there is no triable issue regarding the absence of an employment relationship  between Adamakis and St. Nicholas, leading to the conclusion that the Motion  for Summary Judgment on this point is warranted.                b). The Metropolis’s Ability to  Control Third-party Adamakis To establish a  duty of care based on a special relationship, the defendant's ability to  control the person who caused the harm must be such that if exercised, it  would meaningfully reduce the risk of the harm that actually occurred. (Barenborg,  supra, 33 Cal.App.5th at 78.) (Underlines added.)             In Zelig v. County of Los Angeles  (20002) 27 Cal.4th 1112 (Zelig), the plaintiff, the child of the victim  who was fatally shot by her ex-husband in the courthouse, sued the county and  sheriff’s department for negligence. The California Supreme Court held, in  part, that officers had no duty to protect victims of assailants where officers  had not increased the risk of harm to the victim. (Id., at 1134.) The  Court noted that “[i]ndeed, the risk of injury to Eileen [the victim] at the  hands of her ex-husband was at least as great outside the courthouse.” (Id.,  at 1137.)               Here, the Metropolis contends that it  lacked a special relationship with Adamakis, citing his noncompliance with  summons to the Ecclesiastical Tribunal as evidence of its inability to control  Adamakis’s conduct. (Mot., at 21, UMF No. 33, Def.’s SOE, Ex. “6.”)                Conversely, Plaintiff asserts the  Metropolis’s control over Adamakis, arguing the archbishop and the metropolitan  bishops’ authority to ordain, assign, transfer, and if necessary, defrock the  priest. (Opp’n., at 18.) Further, Plaintiff argues that the Metropolis’s  ability to control is also evident by pointing out Adamakis’s suspension, his  summons to the Spiritual Court, and a letter from the Chancellor of the  Metropolis restricting his service. (Opp’n., at 19, Def.’s SOE Ex. “8.”) Plaintiff  suggests that the Metropolis “could have” precluded Adamakis from gaining  unsupervised access to the Church premises or misusing his position to abuse  Plaintiff. (Opp’n., at 8.)   The Court observes that Plaintiff’s argument of what the  Metropolis “could have done” does not equate to any affirmative action taken by  the Metropolis. Additionally, echoing the rationale in Zelig, the Court finds  Plaintiff’s line of reasoning unconvincing. In Zelig, the court states  that the risk of injury was not increased by the officers in the courthouse  because the “risk of injury to the victim at the hands of her ex-husband was at  least as great outside the courthouse premises. For example, he could just as  readily have shot [the victim] as she picked up one of her children from a  public or private school.” (Zelig, supra, 27 Cal.4th at 1137.) Similarly,  in this case, the undisputed facts indicate that Plaintiff was allegedly abused  by Adamakis on multiple occasions, including at Adamakis’ home, in his car, and  at St. Nicholas. (UMF No. 31, Def.’s SOE, Ex. “2.”) This distribution of  incidents indicates that the risk of injury to Plaintiff at the hands of Adamakis  was just as significant outside the church. Therefore, it cannot be argued that  the Metropolitan’s actions, such as suspending, summoning Adamakis, announcing  his disqualification from service, and recommending his defrocking, could have  increased Plaintiff’s risk of harm within St. Nicolas.     Therefore, the Court concludes that there is insufficient  evidence to establish that triable issues of fact exist regarding a  special relationship between Adamakis and the Metropolis, grounded on the assertion  that the Metropolis had control over Adamakis that would meaningfully reduce the risk  of the harm that actually occurred.                  c.) Plaintiff’s Other Argument   Plaintiff contends that Metropolis is directly liable for  negligence because it had reason to know the foreseeable risk posed by Adamakis  to harm others, and despite this knowledge, it only limited his priestly  functions while allowing him to maintain his title as a priest and did not  prohibit him from attending churches within (Opp’n., at 16.)    The Court observes that Plaintiff’s argument does not attempt  to establish a special relationship. Therefore, the Court explores Plaintiff’s  application of an alternative source of duty for the Metropolis.  The California Supreme Court has  addressed a similar application in USA Taekwondo. “Without denying the  gravity of the injuries these plaintiffs suffered, nor the broader problem of  sexual abuse of minors in organized youth sports and other activities, we  decline Brown's invitation to take that step [for finding a duty even if there  was no special relationship]. The requirement of an affirmative duty to protect  itself embodies a policy judgment of considerable standing: A defendant cannot  be held liable in negligence for harms it did not cause unless there are  special circumstances — such as a special relationship to the parties — that  give the defendant a special obligation to offer protection or assistance. This  rule reflects a long-standing balance between several competing interests.” (USA  Taekwondo, supra, 11 Cal.5th at 220.) Given this precedent, the Court concludes that the  Metropolis’s duty must be considered within the context of a special  relationship, as set forth in the previous discussion. Consequently, the Court finds  Plaintiff’s argument for direct liability under a negligence theory to lack  merits.    2. Special Relationship Between the Metropolis and Plaintiff   “No special relationship between a church and its minor  parishioners unless the church had ‘actual custody or control’ of the child,  such as where the child attended a church school.” (Doe v. Roman Catholic  Archbishop of Los Angeles (2021) 70 Cal.App.5th 657, 672, citing Roman  Catholic Bishop v. Superior Court (1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 1556, 1567.)    Here, the Metropolis asserts that there is no special  relationship between it and Plaintiff, as Plaintiff was never under the care of  the Metropolis. (Id., at 16.) It contends that without such a special  relationship, Plaintiff fails to establish the essential element of the cause  of action that the Metropolis owes a duty to Plaintiff. (Id., at 6.)   The Court notes that it is undisputed that Plaintiff never  enrolled in any of the Metropolis’s youth programs, or as a student in St.  Nicholas school. (UMF No. 29, Ex. “11.”) Moreover, Plaintiff admits he never  attended any Sunday School program in any of Defendants’ churches. (UMF No. 25,  Def.’s SOE, Ex. “11.”) Furthermore, Plaintiff admits he never participated in  the Greek Orthodox Youth Association. (UMF No. 27, Def.’s SOE, Ex. “11.”)     Based on this, the Court concludes that there is no  evidence of a special relationship between St. Nicolas and Plaintiff as St.  Nicolas never had “actual custody or control” over Plaintiff.    Therefore, St. Nicolas and the Metropolis do not owe a duty  to Plaintiff based on a special relationship between Plaintiff and Defendants.   Accordingly, the Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED as  to the negligence cause of action.   C.     Second Cause  of Action - Negligent Hiring, Retention, and Supervision To  prevail a cause of action for negligent hiring, retention and supervision the  plaintiff will be required to prove: (1) the employer’s hiring, retention, or  supervision of an employee; (2) the employee is incompetent or unfit; (3) that employer  had reason to believe undue risk of harm would exist because of the employment;  and (4) that the harm occurs. (Federico v. Superior Court (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 1207, 1213-1214.) This cause of  action is one of direct liability for negligence, not vicarious liability.  (Delfino v. Agilent Technologies, Inc. (2006) 145 Cal.App.4th 790, 815.)  (Underlines added.) (See CACI 426.)              The CACI Jury Instruction No. 426 provides, in relevant  part, that: “To  establish this claim, [name of plaintiff] must prove all of the following: 1.       That [name of employer defendant] hired [name of  employee]; 2.       That [name of employee] [[was/became] [unfit [or]  incompetent] to perform the work for which [he/she/nonbinary pronoun] was hired  /[specify other particular risk]]; ...” (Underlines added.)               As detailed previously, Plaintiff has failed to present sufficient evidence to establish a triable issue of  material fact as to Defendant’s affirmative evidence showing an absence of an  employment relationship between Adamakis and St. Nicholas, or, the moving  Defendant. Consequently, Plaintiff is deemed unable to establish the first and  second elements required for a claim of Negligent Hiring, Retention and  Supervision, specifically, the absence of proof that Adamakis was hired by any  of Defendants.                 Therefore, the Motion for Summary Judgment is  GRANTED concerning the second cause of action.   CONCLUSION   Defendant Greek Orthodox Metropolis of San Francisco’s  Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED.   Moving  party is ordered to provide notice of this order.-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------   Dept.    F49      Date:    3/5/24     Case    Name: T.M. v. St. Nicholas Greek Orthodox Church, et al.     Case    # 20STCV44178      LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT NORTH VALLEY DISTRICT DEPARTMENT F49    MARCH 5, 2024    MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT OR  SUMMARY ADJUDICATION OF ISSUES  Los Angeles Superior  Court Case # 20STCV44178    Motion  filed: 11/8/23   MOVING PARTY: Defendant Saint Nicholas Greek  Orthodox Church (“St. Nicholas” or the “moving Defendant”)  RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Timothy Mullen (“Plaintiff”)  NOTICE: ok    RELIEF  REQUESTED: An  order granting the moving Defendant’s Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the  alternative, granting Summary Adjudication as to the First and Fourth Causes of  Action.    TENTATIVE  RULING: The  motion is GRANTED.   BACKGROUND   This  action arises out of Plaintiff’s claim that in 1982, he was sexually assaulted  by Father Stanley Adamakis (“Adamakis”) (now deceased), a Greek Orthodox priest  in Northridge, CA, when Plaintiff was approximately 15 years old. (SAC 2:8–9.)    On  November 18, 2020, Plaintiff filed this action. Subsequently, following a  stipulation and order, Plaintiff filed the operative Second Amended Complaint  (“SAC”) on April 1, 2021, alleging the following causes of action: (1)  Negligence (Against Saint Nicholas Greek Orthodox Church); (2) Negligence  (Against Greek Orthodox Metropolis of San Francisco); (3) Negligence (Against  Greek Orthodox Archdiocese of America); (4) Negligent Hiring, Retention and  Supervision (Against Saint Nicholas Greek Orthodox Church); (5) Negligent  Hiring, Retention and Supervision (Against Greek Orthodox Metropolis of San  Francisco) and (6) Negligent Hiring, Retention and Supervision (Against Greek  Orthodox Archdiocese of America).   On  July 29, 2021, Defendants Saint Nicholas Greek Orthodox Church (“St. Nicholas”),  Greek Orthodox Metropolis of San Francisco (the “Metropolis”), and the  Archdiocese (collectively, “Defendants”) filed their Answer to the SAC.   On  November 8, 2023, St. Nicholas filed the instant Motion for Summary Judgment  (the “Motion”).    On  January 1, 2024, Plaintiff opposed the Motion. Subsequently, on January 19,  2024, St. Nicholas filed its Reply.   ANALYSIS   The function of a motion for summary judgment or adjudication is to  allow a determination as to whether an opposing party cannot show evidentiary  support for a pleading or claim and to enable an order of summary dismissal  without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25  Cal.4th 826, 843(Aguilar).) In analyzing motions for summary judgment,  courts must apply a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues framed by the  pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has negated the opponent's  claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated the existence  of a triable, material factual issue.” (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center  (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.)  Thus,  summary judgment is granted when, after the court’s consideration of the  evidence set forth in the papers and all reasonable inferences accordingly, no  triable issues of fact exist and the moving party is entitled to judgment as a  matter of law. (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (c); Villa v. McFarren (1995)  35 Cal.App.4th 733, 741.)   As to each claim as framed by the Complaint, the  defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial burden of proof  by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to establish a defense.  (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Courts “liberally construe the  evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts  concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide,  Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.) A motion for summary judgment must  be denied where the moving party's evidence does not prove all material facts,  even in the absence of any opposition (Leyva v. Sup. Ct. (1985) 164  Cal.App.3d 462, 475), or where the opposition is weak. (Salesguevara v.  Wyeth Labs., Inc. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 379, 384, 387.)     A  defendant has satisfied its burden of showing that a cause of action has no  merit if it demonstrates the absence of any single essential element of  plaintiff’s case or a complete defense to plaintiff’s action. (Code Civ. Proc.  § 437c, subd. (o)(2); Bacon v. Southern Cal. Edison Co. (1997) 53  Cal.App.4th 854, 858.) Once the defendant moving party has met the burden, the  burden shifts to the plaintiff to show via specific facts that a triable issue  of material facts exists as to a cause of action or a defense thereto. (Code of  Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (o)(2).) A.     Judicial  Notice   The moving Defendant requests the Court take judicial  notice of the following documents: (1) Plaintiff’s SAC, (2) Defendants’ Answer  filed on July 29, 2021, and (3) the Certified Driver Record Information for  Vasilios Thanos.   Evidence Code section 452, subdivision (d) permits the  court, in its discretion, to take judicial notice of the records of any court  in this state. Upon taking notice of court records, the court accepts as true  only that (1) they were filed and (2) the assertions therein were made; the  court does not take notice of the truth of their contents. (See Joslin v.  H.A.S. Ins. Brokerage (1986) 184 Cal.App.3d 369, 374-375; see also Day  v. Sharp (1975) 50 Cal.App.3d 904, 916.)    The Court GRANTS the moving Defendants’ request for  judicial notice for (1) Plaintiff’s SAC and (2) Defendants’ Answer to the  extent that aligns with the above rulings.     However, the Court DENIES the moving Defendant’s request for judicial  notice for Vasilios Thanos’ driver record information.    Evidence Code section 452, subdivision (h) permits the court, in its  discretion, to take judicial notice of the “[f]acts and propositions that are  not reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of immediate and accurate  determination by resort to sources of reasonably indisputable accuracy.”   Although the issuance of a valid government-issued driver's license  may fall within the justification of being “capable of immediate and accurate  determination by resort to sources of reasonably  indisputable accuracy,” the specific driver’s information, such as weight and  height, does not. Here, the request targets explicitly the information  contained therein, rather than the issuance or validity of the driver’s license  itself. Therefore, this request for judicial notice for driver record  information is DENIED.    B.      Casuse of  Action - Negligence A plaintiff suing for negligence must prove: “duty, breach,  causation, and damages.” (Regents of University of California v.  Superior Court (2018) 4 Cal.5th 607, 618 (Regents).)  Whether a duty of care existed is a question of law, and thus  “particularly amenable to resolution by summary judgment.” (Parsons v. Crown Disposal Co. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 456,  465.) Absent such a duty, there is no liability, no matter  how easily the injury might have been prevented. (J.L. v. Children’s  Institute, Inc. (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 388, 396.)   Generally,  one owes no duty to control or warn of the conduct of another, but such a duty  may arise if a special relationship exists with either the victim or the person  who created the harm. (Brown v. USA Taekwondo, (2021) 11 Cal.5th 204,  215 (USA Taekwondo).) A special  relationship between the defendant and the victim is one that “gives the victim  a right to expect” protection from the defendant, while a special relationship  between the defendant and the dangerous third party is one that “entails an  ability to control [the third party's] conduct.” (Id., at 216; Regents,  supra, 4 Cal.5th at 619.) “Relationships between  parents and children, colleges and students, employers and employees, common  carriers and passengers, and innkeepers and guests, are all examples of special  relationships that give rise to an affirmative duty to protect.” (Regents,  supra, 4 Cal.5th at 619.) “To reach the  conclusion that a special relationship exists, it must be assumed that the harm  to be prevented by the defendant is one that the defendant is in a position to  protect against and should be expected to protect against.” (Barenborg v.  Sigma Alpha Epsilon Fraternity (2019) 33 Cal.App.5th 70, 78 (Barenborg),  citing Donaldson v. Young Women’s Christian Assn. of Duluth (Minn. 1995)  539 N.W.2d 789, 792.) Thus, the defendant's ability to control the person who  caused the harm must be such that “if exercised, [it] would meaningfully reduce  the risk of the harm that actually occurred.” (Barenborg, at 78.)  1. Special Relationship Between St. Nicholas and Adamakis   Here, St. Nicholas contends that no special  relationship exists because there was neither an employment nor an agency relationship between it and the alleged tortfeasor, Adamakis. (Mot., at 10, 13.)                a) Employment Relationship   To support the assertion that there was no employment  relationship, St. Nicholas has presented Adamakis’s employment records, which confirm  that Adamakis was neither employed by nor assigned to St. Nicholas during the  period of alleged abuse (1982 through 1985). (Def’s SOE, Ex. “3.”) Moreover, St.  Nicholas introduces a letter from Adamakis, dated March 31, 1981, indicating  that he was secularly employed in California, rather than by any of Defendants.  (Mot., at 10-11, Def.’s SOE, Ex. “4.”)   “[Under the] summary judgment statute, a moving defendant needs  not to support his motion with affirmative evidence negating an essential  element of the responding party's case. Instead, the moving defendant may  (through factually vague discovery responses or otherwise) point to the absence of evidence to support the plaintiff's case. When  that is done, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to present evidence showing  there is a triable issue of material fact. If the plaintiff is unable to meet  her burden of proof regarding an essential element of her case, all other facts  are rendered immaterial.” (Leslie G. v. Perry & Associates (1996) 43  Cal.App.4th 472, 482 (Leslie).) (Emphasis in original.)   Here, St.  Nicholas presented affirmative evidence, specifically Adamakis’s employment  records, to demonstrate the absence of an employment relationship. Mirroring  the reasoning of the Leslie court, the Court concludes that St. Nicholas  has satisfied its burden on this issue, and the burden shifts to Plaintiff to present  evidence that there is a triable issue regarding the employment relationship  between Adamakis and St. Nicholas.   In  response, Plaintiff’s argument for an employment relationship begins with a  definition of an employee. Plaintiff first cites Labor Code section 2750, claiming  that an employee is one “engage[d] ... to do something for the benefit of the  employer or a third person.” (Opp’n., at 11.) Furthermore, Plaintiff relies on  the “control-of-work” test from common law, as adopted by the Supreme Court in  S.G. Borello & Sons, Inc. v. Department of Industrial Relations (1989)  48 Cal.3d 341 (S.G. Borello).    The Court acknowledges  that the “control-of-work” test, as outlined in S.G. Borello, is  utilized to ascertain whether a person rendering service to another is classified  as an “employee” or an “independent contractor.” (S.G. Borello, supra,  48 Cal.3d at 350.) This classification is important in finding the vicarious  liability of an employer. However, Plaintiff appears to have overlooked a more fundamental  definition of “employee” in the S.G. Borello decision. “‘Employee[s]’  include most persons ‘in the service of an employer under any ... contract  of hire,’ but do not include independent contractors.” (Id., at  349.) This definition underscores the necessity of “a contract of hire,” aligning  with the Labor Code section referenced by Plaintiff. The complete text of Labor  Code section 2750 states, “The contract of employment is a contract by which  one, who is called the employer, engages another, who is called the employee,  to do something for the benefit of the employer or a third person.” (Underlines  added.)    Here, Adamakis’s employment records, which were uncontested  by Plaintiff, reveal the absence of any employment contract, paystub, or Human  Resources records that could suggest an employment relationship between  Adamakis and any Defendants.    The Court underlines the standard for Plaintiff to  demonstrate the existence of a triable issue of fact when opposing a motion for  summary judgment: “the plaintiff must produce substantial evidence sufficient  to establish a triable issue of material fact on the merits of the defendant’s  showing.... [R]esponsive evidence that gives rise to no more than mere speculation  cannot be regarded as substantial and is insufficient to establish a triable  issue of material fact.” (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151,  162-163.)   In response, Plaintiff disputes Defendants’ claim that  Adamakis was not an employee nor agent of St. Nicholas (Opp’n., at 4) by relying  on deposition excerpts from Plaintiff himself, who witnessed Adamakis  performing the liturgy services and acting as a priest before the congregation  at Saint Nicholas Greek Orthodox Church. (Ibid., Pl.’s SOE, Ex.  “1,” at 139:25, 140:1-25, 141:1-25, 142:1-6.) To support this position,  Plaintiff further references testimony from Candace Andreno (Andreo Dep. at  25:15-26:12), a parishioner of St. Nicholas between approximately 1977 and  1995.    Nonetheless, the Court concludes that Candace Andreno’s (“Andreno”)  deposition, even assuming its contents to be true, does not imply that  Adamakis’s involvement in church activities necessarily indicates his  employment by St. Nicholas.    Q: ... Can you explain that? A: Yes, absolutely... I remember, I think it was the first  festival I ever saw, he [Adamakis] tried to say a prayer with all of us before  we were going to dance[.] ... And I remembered this actually the other day, my  grandmother at the festival going up to him and saying, ... “What are you doing  here around the these kids? You need to go away you’re not even a priest here.” (Andreno Dep., at 25:19-26:12.) (Underlines added.)               Andreno’s testimony, as cited by  Plaintiff, indicates Adamakis’s involvement in specific church activities, but it  falls short of substantiating an employment relationship. This leaves  Plaintiff’s own deposition testimony as the sole piece of evidence contesting  the lack of an employment relationship.                Considering the unequivocal employment  records and Adamakis's own admission of secular employment outside the church,  the Court concludes that Plaintiff’s evidence does not meet the threshold of  “substantial evidence sufficient to establish a triable issue of material fact”  as required to counter the merits of Defendant’s showing.               Therefore, the Court finds that  there is no triable issue regarding the absence of an employment relationship  between Adamakis and St. Nicholas, leading to the conclusion that the Motion  for Summary Judgment on this point is warranted.                b.) Agency Relationship “An agent is one who represents another,  called the principal, in dealings with third persons.” (Civ. Code, § 2295.) “In  California agency is either actual or ostensible. (Civ. Code, § 2298.) An  agency is actual when the agent is really employed by the principal. (Civ. Code,  § 2299.) An agency is ostensible when a principal causes a third person to  believe another to be his agent, who is really not employed by him. (Civ. Code,  § 2300.)             As the Court has concluded that  there are no triable issues as to the employment relationship between Adamakis  and any of the Defendants, the Court first dismisses the issue of actual agency  and proceeds to examine the potential existence of ostensible agency. Although the presence of an agency relationship is typically  a question of fact, it “becomes a question of law when the facts can be viewed  in only one way.” (Metropolitan Life Ins. Co. v. State Bd. of Equalization (1982)  32 Cal.3d 649, 658.)             “‘It is elementary that there are three  requirements necessary before recovery may be had against a principal for the  act of an ostensible agent. The person dealing with the agent must do so with  belief in the agent's authority and this belief must be a reasonable  one; such belief must be generated by some act or neglect of the principal  sought to be charged; and the third person in relying on the agent's apparent  authority must not be guilty of negligence. (Citation.)’” (Associated  Creditors’ Agency v. Davis (1975) 13 Cal.3d 374, 400.) (Underlines added.)  An Ostensible agency cannot be established by the representations or conduct  of the purported agent; the statements or acts of the principal must be  such as to cause the belief the agency exists. (Dill v. Berquist  Construction Co. (1994) 24 Cal.App.4th 1426, 1438, fn. 11.) (Underlines  added.)             Here,  the undisputed evidence does not establish any triable issue of fact suggesting  that the alleged principal – any of the Defendants – made statements or engaged  in any conduct that would tend to generate a reasonable belief in Plaintiff. Although  Plaintiff argues that Adamakis was an agent of St. Nicholas because he told  Plaintiff that he was a priest at St. Nicholas and took Plaintiff to St.  Nicholas approximately 50-100 times, and that Adamakis had keys to the church (Opp’n.,  at 1), the mere fact that Adamakis presented himself as an agent of St.  Nicholas does not establish such relationship. Furthermore, for Plaintiff to  establish an agency relationship, there must be a reasonable belief in the  purported agent’s authority. Here, it is evident that any alleged sexual abuse  by Adamakis falls outside the scope of a priest’s authority, and any assertion  to the contrary is unreasonable.               Accordingly, the Court concludes  that Plaintiff has failed to establish any triable issue of facts supporting an  ostensible agency relationship between Adamakis and any Defendants.                2. Special Relationship Between St.  Nicholas and Plaintiff   “No special relationship between a church and its minor  parishioners unless the church had ‘actual custody or control’ of the child,  such as where the child attended a church school.” (Doe v. Roman Catholic  Archbishop of Los Angeles (2021) 70 Cal.App.5th 657, 672, citing Roman  Catholic Bishop v. Superior Court (1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 1556, 1567.)    Here, St. Nicholas asserts that there is no special  relationship between it and Plaintiff, as Plaintiff was never under the care of  St. Nicholas. (Mot., at 16.) It contends that without such a special  relationship, Plaintiff fails to establish the essential element of the cause  of action that St. Nicholas owes a duty to Plaintiff. (Id., at 6.)   The Court notes that it is undisputed that Plaintiff never  enrolled in any of youth programs, or as a student in St. Nicholas school. (UMF  No. 29, Ex. “11.”) Moreover, Plaintiff admits he never attended any Sunday  School program in any of Defendants’ churches. (UMF No. 25, Def.’s SOE, Ex.  “11.”) Furthermore, Plaintiff admits he never participated in the Greek  Orthodox Youth Association. (UMF No. 27, Def.’s SOE, Ex. “11.”)     Based on this, the Court concludes that there is no  evidence of a special relationship between St. Nicholas and Plaintiff as St. Nicholas  never had “actual custody or control” over Plaintiff.    Therefore, the Court concludes that St. Nicholas does not  owe a duty to Plaintiff based on a special relationship between Plaintiff and  Defendants.   3. Plaintiff’s Other Argument   Plaintiff contends that St. Nicholas is directly liable for  negligence because it had reason to know the foreseeable risk posed by Adamakis  to harm others, and despite this knowledge, it only limited his priestly  functions while allowing him to maintain his title as a priest and did not prohibit  him from attending churches within its jurisdiction (Opp’n., at 14.)    The Court observes that Plaintiff’s argument does not  attempt to establish a special relationship. Therefore, the Court explores  Plaintiff’s application of an alternative source of duty for St. Nicholas.  The California Supreme Court has  addressed a similar application in USA Taekwondo. “Without denying the  gravity of the injuries these plaintiffs suffered, nor the broader problem of  sexual abuse of minors in organized youth sports and other activities, we  decline Brown's invitation to take that step [for finding a duty even if there was  no special relationship]. The requirement of an affirmative duty to protect  itself embodies a policy judgment of considerable standing: A defendant cannot  be held liable in negligence for harms it did not cause unless there are  special circumstances — such as a special relationship to the parties — that  give the defendant a special obligation to offer protection or assistance. This  rule reflects a long-standing balance between several competing interests.” (USA  Taekwondo, supra, 11 Cal.5th at 220.) Given this precedent, the Court concludes that St.  Nicholas’s duty must be considered within the context of a special  relationship, as set forth in the previous discussion. Consequently, the Court  finds Plaintiff’s argument for direct liability under a negligence theory to  lack merits.    Accordingly, the Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED as  to the negligence cause of action.   C.     Cause of  Action - Negligent Hiring, Retention, and Supervision To  prevail a cause of action for negligent hiring, retention and supervision the  plaintiff will be required to prove: (1) the employer’s hiring, retention, or  supervision of an employee; (2) the employee is incompetent or unfit; (3) that employer  had reason to believe undue risk of harm would exist because of the employment;  and (4) that the harm occurs. (Federico v. Superior Court (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 1207, 1213-1214.) This cause of  action is one of direct liability for negligence, not vicarious liability.  (Delfino v. Agilent Technologies, Inc. (2006) 145 Cal.App.4th 790, 815.)  (Underlines added.) (See CACI 426.)              The CACI Jury Instruction No. 426 provides, in relevant  part, that: “To  establish this claim, [name of plaintiff] must prove all of the following: 1.       That [name of employer defendant] hired [name of  employee]; 2.       That [name of employee] [[was/became] [unfit [or]  incompetent] to perform the work for which [he/she/nonbinary pronoun] was hired  /[specify other particular risk]]; ...” (Underlines added.)               As detailed previously, Plaintiff has failed to present sufficient evidence to establish a triable issue of  material fact as to Defendant’s affirmative evidence showing an absence of an  employment relationship between Adamakis and St. Nicholas, or, the moving  Defendant. Consequently, Plaintiff is deemed unable to establish the first and  second elements required for a claim of negligent hiring, retention, and supervision,  specifically, the absence of proof that Adamakis was hired by any of  Defendants.                 Therefore, the Motion for Summary Judgment is  GRANTED concerning the cause of action for negligent hiring, retention, and  supervision against the moving Defendant.   CONCLUSION   Defendant Saint Nicholas Greek Orthodox Church’s Motion for  Summary Judgment is GRANTED as to all causes of action against the moving  Defendant.   Moving  party is ordered to provide notice of this order.