  Case Number:  21CHCV00189    Hearing Date:   September 21, 2023    Dept:  F49 Dept. F-49
Date:
4-13-23
Case:
21CHCV00189
 
DEMURRER
 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendant, GG&C 1, LLC, et al.
RESPONDING
PARTY: Unopposed/ Plaintiff, Duda Adams
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Demurrer
to the Second Amended Complaint
·        
8th
Cause of Action: Quiet Title
·        
11th
Cause of Action: Adverse Possession
 
BACKGROUND
On
March 10, 2021, Plaintiff/Judgment Creditor Duda Adams filed a complaint for
forcible detainer, wrongful eviction, intentional infliction of emotional
distress, and negligent infliction of emotional distress. On August 16, 2021,
Adams filed a verified first amended complaint for forcible detainer, wrongful
eviction, intentional infliction of emotional distress, negligent infliction of
emotional distress, restitution, conversion, loss of prospective economic
advantage, quiet, declaratory relief, constructive trust, and adverse
possession. Adams filed a notice of lis pendens on August 16, 2021 as well. 
 
On
March 15, 2022, the court entered a default judgment in favor of Adams for
$1,830,723. The court also entered judgment “Quieting Title in the property
located at 18834 Devonshire St., Northridge…in Plaintiff’s name...” On December
30, 2022, the court vacated the default judgment in its entirety. On April 13,
2023, the court sustained the unopposed demurrer to the first amended complaint
with leave to amend. On the same date, Plaintiff filed a second amended
complaint for forcible detainer, wrongful eviction, intentional infliction of
emotional distress, and negligent infliction of emotional distress. On August
16, 2021, Adams filed a verified first amended complaint for forcible detainer,
wrongful eviction, intentional infliction of emotional distress, negligent
infliction of emotional distress, restitution, conversion, loss of prospective
economic advantage, quiet, declaratory relief, constructive trust, and adverse
possession.
 
RULING: Sustained with
Leave to Amend.
Defendants
GG&C 1, LLC, and David Adams submit a demurrer to the eighth and eleventh causes
of action in the second amended complaint for quiet title and adverse
possession. Defendants challenge the lack of a specified basis for the quiet
title claim---legal or equity. To the extent Plaintiff relies on the adverse
possession claim, Defendants challenge the later alleged cause of action in
that the quiet title claim in no way incorporates said adverse possession
claim. On the adverse possession claim, Defendants challenge the failure to
explicitly allege the payment of taxes element, as required under California
law, and instead only relies on an allegation of contributing to payment.
 
Plaintiff
in opposition maintains both claims are properly pled, with an equitable basis
for quiet title. Notwithstanding, Plaintiff requests leave to amend in order to
allege certain cultural underpinnings of the Romani (Gypsy) culture
underpinning the claim to title. Plaintiff otherwise offers no specific
opposition to the adverse possession challenge, and instead alternatively
requests leave to substitute the eleventh cause of action for one of resulting
trust and equitable mortgage.
 
Defendant
in reply reiterates the lacking factual basis for equitable title, and the
failure to pay taxes for at least five years—a required element for adverse
possession in California law.
 
The
court declines to consider the merits of the argument given admittedly omitted
allegations of cultural context in support of the equitable title basis of the
claim, and requested leave to substitute the adverse possession claim. 
 
The
court therefore sustains the demurer to the second amended complaint with 20
days leave to amend. The court grants Plaintiff leave to substitute the
eleventh cause of action for resulting trust and equitable mortgage only.
Plaintiff may not substitute any new causes of action other than the eleventh
cause of action for adverse possession.
 
The subject action commenced on March 21, 2021, and still
remains in the pleading stage. The court has now twice considered challenges to
the first amended complaint and second amended complaint, with requests for
leave to amend both times. “In response to a demurrer and prior to the case
being at issue, a complaint or cross-complaint shall not be amended more than
three times, absent an offer to the trial court as to such additional facts to
be pleaded that there is a reasonable possibility the defect can be cured to
state a cause of action. The three-amendment limit shall not include an
amendment made without leave of the court pursuant to Section 472, provided the amendment is
made before a demurrer to the original complaint or cross-complaint is filed.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (e)(1).) 
 
Should a demurrer to the third amended complaint be filed,
the court will consider the applicable standard in determining whether
Plaintiff can properly allege the challenged claim(s). In other words, the
court will review any potential challenges to the third amended complaint with
the intention of rendering the case at issue by either sustaining any and all
previously challenged causes of action without leave to amend, or determining
Plaintiff finally states a valid claim. Any further requests for leave to amend
will constitute a concession to the inability to bring the claim. If plaintiff
foregoes filing a third amended complaint, Defendants are ordered to answer the
remaining cause of action within the second amended complaint no later than ten
(10) days after the lapsed amendment deadline. 
 
Defendants to provide notice of the order.
 