  Case Number:  18STCV10177    Hearing Date:   June 27, 2024    Dept:  1 18STCV10177 YOUNG CHOW DAI vs PAUL P. CHENG &
ASSOCIATES, et al.
Plaintiff’s Request to File New Litigation by Vexatious
Litigant
RULING: Young Chow Dai’s Motion for Order: Request to
File New Litigation by Vexatious Litigant Form VL-110 is DENIED.  Clerk to give notice.
On December 31, 2018, Young Chow Dai
filed 18STCV10177 against Paul P. Cheng & Associates, Paul Cheng, and
Marsha S. Mao. On June 2, 2022, the court entered a minute order dismissing
Defendant Mao. On June 22, 2022, the court entered an order of dismissal as to
Defendant Paul P. Cheng & Associates. 
 
On
August 8, 2023, the court entered the order for entry of summary judgment in
favor of the remaining defendant, Paul P. Cheng.
 
On April 8, 2024, Commissioner Latrice A. G.
Byrdsong formally declared Young Chow Dai a vexatious litigant in Los Angeles
Superior Court case 18STCV10154 Dai v. Feldman & Rothstein, P.C.
Under this order, Dai became subject to a Code of Civil Procedure section 391.7
prefiling requirement that requires Dai to obtain the permission of the
presiding judge to file new litigation. Permission is granted only if it
appears the litigation has merit and is not being filed for purposes of
harassment or delay. (Code Civ. Proc. § 391.7(b).) In the Los Angeles Superior
Court, the Presiding Judge has designated the Supervising Judge of the Civil
Division (sitting in Dept. 1) to exercise this authority and responsibility.
(See Code Civ. Proc. 391.7(e).) 
 
Discussion 
 
Plaintiff’s motion is procedurally improper. A
request to file new litigation by a vexatious litigant is not made pursuant to
a noticed motion and Dai is not entitled to a hearing on the request. (Code
Civ. Proc. § 391.7.) 
 
Additionally, a request to file new litigation
should not be filed in an existing case. In the Los Angeles Superior Court,
vexatious litigants should submit their requests to file new litigation at the
filing window in the Stanley Mosk Courthouse. The documents will then be
forwarded to Department 1 and be addressed in due course. 
 
Moreover, Dai’s request is insufficient to
demonstrate any proposed new litigation has merit and has not been filed for
the purposes of harassment or delay. (Code Civ. Proc. § 391.7(b).) When
requesting leave to file new litigation, the litigant must provide a copy of
the proposed pleading to be filed as well as evidence supporting the claims
asserted therein. Though Dai’s submission refers to a “formal complaint and
supporting exhibit evidence,” (Mot. at 4), Dai’s submission is not accompanied
by a proposed complaint or evidence supporting the claims asserted. 
 
Accordingly, the motion and request are DENIED.
 