  Case Number:  24SMCV00316    Hearing Date:   September 13, 2024    Dept:  O   Case
Name:  Planet 13 Holdings, Inc. v. El
Capitan Advisors, Inc, et al. 



Case No.:


24SMCV00316


Complaint Filed:


1-22-24           




Hearing Date:


9-13-24 


Discovery C/O:


N/A




Calendar No.:


27


Discovery Motion C/O:


N/A




POS:


OK


 Trial Date:


None



SUBJECT:                 SPECIAL MOTION TO STRIKE
PURUSANT TO CCP 425.16 (ANTI-SLAPP)
MOVING
PARTY:   Defendants Casa Verde
Capital, L.P., Casa Verde Capital EF, L.P., and Karan Wadhera
RESP.
PARTY:         Plaintiff Planet 13
Holdings, Inc 
  
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
Defendants Casa Verde Capital, L.P., Casa Verde Capital EF,
L.P., and Karan Wadhera Special Motion To Strike Pursuant to CCP 425.16 (anti-SLAPP)
is DENIED.*   
 
            Defendants
do not meet their burden to show the claims asserted by Planet 13 arise from
protected activity. While Defendants have identified the alleged actions of
Casa Verdi it argues is protected CCP §426.16 subd. Defendants fail to meet their
first step burden to persuasively show how that conduct supplies the elements of
the claims that form the of Casa Verde’s liability. 
 
            Defendants
RJNs are GRANTED as to the existence of articles, court documents, and the
administrative ruling documents, but not to the “truth of the hearsay
statements in the documents.” (In re Vicks (2013) 56 Cal.4th 274, 314.)
 
REASONING
            

Anti-SLAPP
     First Step – Defendants Burden of Establishing Claims Arise From Protected
     Activity. 

 
            Defendants Casa Verde Capital, L.P., Casa Verde Capital
EF, L.P., and Karan Wadhera (“Casa Verde”) argue that all of Plaintiff Planet
13 Holdings, Inc (“Planet 13”) claims in their Complaint directed towards Casa
Verde arise from protected litigation activity under CCP § 425.16(e),
presumably subd. (e)(2) [‘any written or oral statement or writing made in
connection with an issue under consideration or review by a legislative,
executive, or judicial body, or any other official proceeding authorized by law.”).  In its notice of motion Casa Verde identifies
the specific allegations it argues are protect conduct, and from those argues the
1st, 2nd, 4th–11th, 14th
and 15th causes of action should be stricken. 
 
a.     1st
cause of action for fraud and deceit and 9th causes of action for
negligent misrepresentation
 
"A complaint for fraud must allege the following
elements: (1) a knowingly false representation by the defendant; (2) an intent
to deceive or induce reliance; (3) justifiable reliance by the plaintiff; and
(4) resulting damages. Every element must be specifically pleaded. [citations
omitted]" (Service by Medallion,
Inc. v. Clorox Co. (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 1807, 1816.)
 
“[T]he facts constituting the fraud must
be alleged with sufficient specificity to allow defendant to understand fully
the nature of the charge made.” (Roberts v. Ball, Hunt, Hart, Brown &
Baerwitz (1976) 57 Cal.App.3d 104, 109.) Fraud actions against corporations
require the plaintiff “to allege the names of the persons who made the
allegedly fraudulent representations, their authority to speak, to whom they
spoke, what they said or wrote, and when it was said or written.” (Tarmann
v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157.) However,
the specificity requirement is “relaxed when the allegations indicate that the
defendant must necessarily possess full information concerning the facts of the
controversy or when the facts lie more in the knowledge of the opposite party.”
(Ibid., citations omitted.)
 
“The elements
of negligent misrepresentation are (1) the misrepresentation of a past or
existing material fact, (2) without reasonable ground for believing it to be
true, (3) with intent to induce another's reliance on the fact misrepresented,
(4) justifiable reliance on the misrepresentation, and (5) resulting damage.” (Wells
Fargo Bank, N.A. v. FSI, Financial Solutions, Inc. (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th
1559, 1573.)
 
            The protected litigation activity Casa Verde argues
Planet 13’s 1st and 9th fraud cause of action arises
under the alleged entering into a Stock Repurchase Agreement (“SRA”) (See
Compl. ¶¶ 84–89), and the “post-judgment collection activities, which allegedly
harmed” Planet 13. (Motion, p. 24; Compl. ¶¶ 91–98.) Casa Verde provides no
authority as to how or why entering into an SRA (i.e. a contract) is considered
protected litigation activity under the SLAPP statute. The SRA is not protected
activity, as entering into a contract normally has nothing to do with
protecting activities “in furtherance of a person’s right of petition or free
speech” concerning a “public issue” or “issue of public interest.” (Code Civ.
Proc. § 426.16, subd., (b)(1).) Nothing in the Complaint shows that the SRA was
entered into as part of a Court order, or in any furtherance of litigation
activities. The Court is not persuaded by Casa Verde’s belated argument that the
inclusion of a release in the SRA a protected communication. settlement
agreement.  
 
            Casa Verde argues that both the causation and damages
elements of the fraud claims are predicated on the post-judgment collection
activities.  The Court finds the
causation and damages elements of the fraud causes of action do not arise out
of protected activity.  Any incorporated
alleged facts within the fraud causes of action can be viewed as background
facts or context and are not directly related to any elements of the fraud
causes of action. (see Baral, supra, Cal.5th at p. 394
[allegations of protected activity that merely provide context, without supporting
a claim for recovery, cannot be stricken under the anti-SLAPP statute].) Thus,
Casa Verde fails to meet their burden on the first step of the SLAPP analysis
for the 1st and 9th Fraud causes of action. The Court
need not address Plaintiff’s burden to show the claim has minimal merit.
 
b.    
4th and 6th causes of
action for Breach of Fiduciary Duty
 
            “The elements of a cause of action for breach of
fiduciary duty are the existence of a fiduciary relationship, its breach, and
damage proximately caused by that breach. Whether a fiduciary duty exists is
generally a question of law.” (Hodges v.
County of Placer (2019) 41 Cal.App.5th 537, 546.)
 
            “Our Supreme Court has acknowledged that it is difficult
to enunciate the precise elements required to show the existence of a fiduciary
relationship.  But the high court has noted that before a person can be
charged with a fiduciary obligation, he must either knowingly undertake to act
on behalf and for the benefit of another, or must enter into a relationship
which imposes that undertaking as a matter of law.”  (Oakland Raiders v. National Football League (2005) 131 Cal.App.4th
621, 631–632.)  “A fiduciary duty undertaken by agreement arises when one
person enters into a confidential relationship with another.”  (Das v. Bank of America, N.A.
(2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 727, 742.)   
 
            “A fiduciary relationship is any relation existing
between parties to a transaction wherein one of the parties is in duty bound to
act with the utmost good faith for the benefit of the other party. Such a
relation ordinarily arises where a confidence is reposed by one person in the
integrity of another, and in such a relation the party in whom the confidence
is reposed, if he voluntarily accepts or assumes to accept the confidence, can
take no advantage from his acts relating to the interest of the other party
without the latter's knowledge or consent.”  (Hodges, supra, 41
Cal.App.5th at 546–547.)  “Traditional examples of fiduciary relationships
in the commercial context include trustee/beneficiary, directors and majority
shareholders of a corporation, business partners, joint adventurers, and
agent/principal.”  (Id. at 547.)
 
            Casa Verde argues the damages element of the 4th
and 6th causes of action arise out of the protected activity of “extracting
Money from El Capitan through its post-judgment collection efforts.” (Motion,
p. 25:1–11; see Compl., ¶ 265.) The Court disagrees. The damages sought by
Planet 13 are for the roughly $16.5 million allegedly stolen from Planet 13 due
to fraud and a breach of fiduciary duty.  Planet 13 alleges the fiduciary duty arise from
El Capitan’s position as a manager of Planet 13’s funds, with Casa Verde as an
alleged alter ego of El Capitan. (Compl., ¶¶ 233, 236–245.) The damages that
from the basis of these causes of action relate directly to the $16.5 million
that is included in ¶ 234 and the prayer, which are damages that allegedly
occurred prior to any litigation. (See id., ¶¶ 234(c).) Additionally, the
6th cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty appears to be
brought as a derivative action for the El Capitan Creditors, alleging that by
Casa Verde forcing the SRA, Casa Verde breached its fiduciary duty. (Id.,
¶¶ 268–272.) There are no allegations in the 6th cause of action
that arise from protected speech, since the allegations arise from the SRA
which is not protected speech as analyzed above. 
 
            Thus, Casa Verde does not meet their burden on the first
step of the SLAPP analysis as to the 4th and 6th causes
of action for breach of fiduciary duty.  
 
c.     
7th cause of action for Conversion
 
            “Conversion
is the wrongful exercise of dominion over the property of another.  The
elements of a conversion are: (1) the plaintiff's ownership or right to
possession of the property at the time of the conversion; (2) the defendant's
conversion by a wrongful act or disposition of property rights; and (3)
damages.  It is not necessary that there be a manual taking of the
property; it is only necessary to show an assumption of control or ownership
over the property, or that the alleged converter has applied the property to
his own use.”  (Farmers Ins. Exchange v. Zerin (1997) 53
Cal.App.4th 441, 451-452.)
 
            Casa Verde argues that the allegations within the 7th
cause of action for conversion arise out of post-judgment collection
activities, without pointing to a specific element of conversion other than
referencing Planet 13’s allegations regarding Casa Verde’s “interference” SRA
with Planet 13’s right to its “fiduciary accounts.” (Motion, p. 25:12–18.)  The Court is not persuaded. 
 
            The cause of action relates back to the fraud and breach
of fiduciary causes of action, incorporates all previous paragraphs, and only
mentions other litigation to provide background and context. (Id., ¶¶
273, 275, 280–281.). Again, the money alleged stolen is the $16.5 million which
was allegedly stolen prior to any litigation or other protected activity.  Planet 13 has alleged Casa Verde is an alter
ego of El Capitan, El Capitan held $16.5 million for Planet 13’s benefit, that
money was allegedly stolen by El Capitan, and as El Capitan’s alleged alter
ego, Casa Verde is liable. (Compl., ¶¶ 280–281.) 
 
            Thus, Casa Verde fails to meet its burden on the first
step of the SLAPP analysis for the 7th cause of action for
Conversion. 
 
d.    
2nd, 5th, and 8th
causes of action for Aiding and Abetting
 
"California imposes liability on one
who aids and abets the commission of an intentional tort if the person (a)
knows the other's conduct constitutes a breach of duty and gives substantial
assistance or encouragement to the other to so act or (b) gives substantial
assistance to the other in accomplishing a tortious result and the person's own
conduct, separately considered, constitutes a breach of duty to the third
person." (Berger v.
Varum (2019) 35
Cal.App.5th 1013, 1025.)
 
            Casa Verde argues the aiding and abetting causes of
action arise out of the SRA, and cites to paragraphs 257 and 294 of the
Complaint which state: “In its Complaint filed in the SRA Action, Casa Verde
boasts that ‘El Capitan’s business has flourished by orders of magnitude’ since
Casa Verde’s investment, and has touted El Capitan’s $7.4 billion in assets
under management.” (Compl., ¶¶ 257, 294.) As analyzed above, the SRA is not
protected activity, and the allegations mentioning prior litigation do not connect
to any elements of aiding and abetting, other than providing context and
background information. (see Baral, supra, Cal.5th at
p. 394 [allegations of protected activity that merely provide context, without
supporting a claim for recovery, cannot be stricken under the anti-SLAPP
statute]; Optional Capital, Inc. v. DAS Corp. (2014) 222 Cal.App.4th
1388, 1400 [“conduct is not automatically protected merely because it is
related to pending litigation; the conduct must arise from the litigation”].)
The aiding and abetting causes of action related to the  fraud, breach of fiduciary duty, and
conversion causes of action which all survived as claims related to, and
arising out of, unprotected activity. 
 
            Thus, Casa Verde does not meet its burden on the first
step of the SLAPP analysis for the 2nd, 5th, and 8th
causes of action for aiding and abetting. 
 
e.     
10th, 11th, 14th
and 15th causes of action 
 
            The protected litigation activity Casa Verde argues for  Planet 13’s 10th, 11th,
14th, and 15th 
causes of action arise under either the  “levying [of] Planet 13’s funds” or Casa
Verde’s “allegedly wrongful collection efforts and the funds it obtained
through those efforts.” (Motion, p. 23:16–25; see Complaint, ¶¶ 311, 313 [“Casa
Verde diverted money that should have been in Planet 13’s accounts and has
attempted to prevent, and has prevented, Planet 13 from utilizing its own
funds”] 318–319 [“Casa Verde then extracted as much money as possible from El
Capitan’s fiduciaries, before Planet 13, and other similarly situated, could
retrieve their money. Casa Verde and Mr. Wadhera also continue to pursue
additional funds that do not belong to them or El Capitan”].)
 
*** [TO BE ADDRESSED FURTHER AT THE HEARING, INCLUDING THE
APPLICATION OF THE LITIGATION PRIVILEGE TOGETHER WITH THE DEMURRER.
 
================================================================

 