  Case Number:  20STCV22758    Hearing Date:   November 12, 2024    Dept:  29 Conley v.
Thornton
20STCV22758
Defendants’ Motion for an Order Directing Nonparty Witness Rockpoint Funding, LLC
to Comply With a Deposition Subpoena 
 
Tentative
 
The motion
is denied.
 
Rockpoint’s
request for sanctions is denied.
 
Background 
On June 16,
2020, Tilton Conley II (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Latoya Lynn
Tarver Thornton, J.B. Hunt Transport, Inc. (collectively “Defendants”), and
Does 1 through 100, asserting causes of action for negligence, negligent
hiring, supervision, and retention, negligent entrustment, and punitive damages
arising out of an alleged automobile accident on July 30, 2018.  
On May 14,
2021, Defendants filed an answer.
On
September 5, 2024, Defendants issued a deposition subpoena for both testimony
and the production of documents to nonparty witness Rockpoint Funding, LLC (“Rockpoint”).  (Wu Decl., Exh. B.)  The subpoena was served on September 10.  (Id., Exh. D.)  Plaintiff served written objections to the
subpoena on September 9.  (Id., Exh.
E.)  Rockpoint served written objections
to the subpoena on September 25.  (Id.,
Exh. F.)  Defendants’ counsel met and
conferred with Rockpoint’s counsel about the objections, but the dispute was
not resolved.  (Id., ¶ 15.)
On October 15, 2024, Defendants filed this motion for an order
directing nonparty witness Rockpoint to comply with a subpoena. 
 
Plaintiff and Rockpoint each filed an opposition on October 29,
2024. In its opposition, Rockpoint also seeks monetary sanctions.
 
Defendants filed a reply on November 4, 2024.
 
The date of trial in this matter has been continued on a number of
occasions.  As is relevant here, on
August 1, 2024, the Court, based on the written stipulation of the parties and
for good cause shown, continued the trial date from August 29, 2024, to October
29, 2024.  The Court extended and reset
the motion and discovery deadlines based on the new trial date.  
 
On October 22, 2024, the Court, at the Final Status Conference,
continued the trial date to December 3, 2024. 
As set forth in the Minute Order, the Court ordered: “All discovery
remains closed except for expert discovery that was previously stipulated by
the parties.”
 
Legal
Authority
 
“Any party may obtain discovery … by taking in California the oral
deposition of any person, including any party to the action.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.010.)  The process by which a party may obtain discovery from a
person who is not a party to the action is through a deposition subpoena.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.010, subd.
(b).)  
“A deposition subpoena
may command any of the following: (a) Only the attendance and testimony of the
deponent …. (b) Only the production of business records for copying …. (c) The
attendance and the testimony of the deponent, as well as the production of
business records, other documents, electronically stored information, and
tangible things.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.020.)
A nonparty must be personally served with
a deposition subpoena.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2020.220, subd. (b).)  Service
must be completed “a reasonable time” in advance of the deposition and, when
documents are requested, “a sufficient time in advance of the deposition to
provide the deponent a reasonable opportunity to locate and produce” the
documents.  (Id., subd. (a).)
“If a deponent on whom a
deposition subpoena has been served fails to attend a deposition or refuses to
be sworn as a witness, the court may impose on the deponent the sanctions
described in Section 2020.240 [contempt and an action for civil damages under
section 1992].” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.440, subd. (b).)
“If a deponent fails to
answer any question or to produce any document, electronically stored
information, or tangible thing under the deponent’s control that is specified
in the deposition notice or a deposition subpoena, the party seeking discovery
may move the court for an order compelling that answer or
production.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480, subd.
(a).)  “This motion shall be made no later than 60 days after the
completion of the record of the deposition, and shall be accompanied by a meet
and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.” (Id., subd. (b).)
“If the court determines that the answer or
production sought is subject to discovery, it shall order that the answer be
given or the production be made on the resumption of the
deposition.  (Id., subd. (i).)
“[T]he
court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section
2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to compel an answer or production, unless it finds that the
one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Id.,
subd. (j).)  
 
In Chapter 7 of the Civil Discovery Act, section 2023.010,
subdivision (d), defines “[m]isuses of the discovery process” to include
“[f]ailing to respond to or to submit to an authorized method of
discovery.”  Where a party or attorney
has engaged in misuse of the discovery process, the court may impose a monetary
sanction in the amount of “the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees,
incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct.”  (Id., § 2023.030, subd. (a).)
 
Except as specifically modified by the Civil Discovery Act,
the provisions of Code of Civil Procedure sections 1985 through 1997 apply to
deposition subpoenas.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2020.030.)¿ 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section
1987.1, subdivision (a), provides: “If a subpoena requires the attendance of a
witness or the production of books, documents, or other things before a court,
or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the
court, upon motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision (b),
or upon the court’s own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity
to be heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or
directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall
declare, including protective orders. In addition, the court may make any other
order as may be appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or
oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy
of the person.”
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.2, subdivision (a),
states, in relevant part, that in connection with an order directing compliance
with a subpoena, quashing it, or modifying it, “the court may in its discretion
award the amount of the reasonable expenses incurred in making or opposing the
motion, including reasonable attorney’s fees, if the court finds the motion was
made or opposed in bad faith or without substantial justification.”¿ 
A motion to compel a nonparty to answer questions or produce documents
pursuant to a deposition subpoena “must be personally served on the nonparty
deponent unless the nonparty deponent agrees to accept service by mail or
electronic service.”  (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1346.)
Motions relating to fact discovery must be heard “on or before the
15th day, before the date initially set for the trial of the action.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.020, subd.
(a).)  A continuance of the trial date does
not extend this deadline unless the Court expressly orders the deadline
extended.  (Id., subd. (b).)
Request for Judicial Notice
 
Plaintiff
requests Judicial Notice of (1) Code of Civil Procedure section 2024.020, (2) the
Stipulation and Order in the Court file dated August 2, 2024, and (3) the
Minute Order dated October 22, 2024, in this matter.  Although almost certainly unnecessary, the
Court grants the request.
 
Discussion
 
Defendants
seek an order under Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.1 directing nonparty Rockpoint
to comply with a deposition subpoena for testimony and the production of
documents.
 
As
a threshold matter, Plaintiff argues that Defendants’ motion is untimely.  
 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2024.020, subdivision (a), states that each party “shall
be entitled as a matter of right … to have motions concerning discovery heard
on or before the 15th day, before the date initially set for the trial of the
action.”  The initial trial date in this
action was continued several times, and each time the Court also reset the
discovery deadlines based on the new trial date.  
 
On August 1, 2024, the Court continued the trial date from August
29, 2024, to October 29, 2024, and reset the motion and discovery deadlines based
on the new trial date.  (Stipulation and
Order filed August 1, 2024.)  
 
On October 22, 2024, the Court continued the
trial date to December 3, 2024.  But, with
an exception not applicable here, the Court did not reset the motion and
discovery deadlines; to the contrary, the Court stated that discovery “remains
closed.”  (Minute Order dated October 22,
2024.)
 
Accordingly, the deadline for the Court to
hear discovery motions in this matter was on October 14, 2024, 15 days before
the October 29 trial date.  That was
approximately four weeks ago.  
 
Defendants did not address the discovery
motion deadline in their moving papers. 
In reply, Defendants argue that the Court may in its discretion extend
the discovery deadlines under Code of Civil Procedure section 2024.050.  (Reply, at p. 2.)  That is of course true, but the Court may do
so only on a motion of a party, supported by a meet and confer declaration.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.050, subd.
(a).)  Defendants have filed no such
motion and have not filed a declaration showing a meet and confer with
Plaintiff on this issue.  Thus, this
motion is untimely and is denied on that basis.
 
Moreover, and independently, even if the Court
were to disregard the dispositive procedural defects in Defendants’ request to
allow the motion to be heard after the deadline, the Court would still deny the
request.  Considering each of the factors
in section 2024.050, subdivision (b), the Court would decline to exercise its
discretion to allow the motion to be heard at this point; among other things,
Defendants, who appeared in this action in May 2021, have not shown sufficient
diligence in seeking this discovery.
 
For these reasons, the motion is denied as
untimely.  The Court need not reach, and does
not reach, the merits or otherwise state any view as to whether the requested
information is within the scope of discovery under the Civil Discovery Act.
 
Finally, the request of Rockpoint for monetary
sanctions is denied.  Although Defendants’
motion is denied, the Court finds that Defendants did not act “in bad faith or
without substantial justification.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.2, subd. (a).)
Conclusion
The Court DENIES as
untimely Defendants’ motion for an order directing nonparty Rockpoint Funding,
LLC to comply with a deposition subpoena.
 
The Court DENIES
Rockpoint’s request for sanctions.
 
Moving party to
provide notice.