  Case Number:  20STCV26736    Hearing Date:   April 3, 2024    Dept:  76 Plaintiff alleges that Defendant
landlord entered Plaintiff’s apartment for an inspection of water leakage and
mold, and called an officer he knew to facilitate an unauthorized inspection of
the upstairs of the apartment by Defendant. The officer assaulted and battered
Plaintiff, throwing him to the ground, and conducted an unlawful search of the
upstairs bedrooms.
            Defendant
Dazhi Chen moves for reconsideration of the Court’s ruling on the trial.
TENTATIVE RULING
Defendant Dazhi Chen’s motion for reconsideration is DENIED.
            Plaintiff’s
request for sanctions pursuant to Civ. Proc. Code, § 128.7 in the amount of
$1,500 is DENIED—Plaintiff prevailed at trial, and the interests of justice are not served by further punitive measures against Defendant.
ANALYSIS
Motion For Reconsideration
Discussion          
Defendant Dazhi Chen moves for
reconsideration of the Court’s July 13, 2023 Order re: the trial. The Court
found in favor of Plaintiff.
            First,
Plaintiff does not demonstrate new or different facts, law or circumstances to
justify reconsideration of the July 13, 2023 ruling, as required by Civ. Proc.
Code § 1008(a), which provides:
(a) When an application for an order has been made to
a judge, or to a court, and refused in whole or in part, or granted, or granted
conditionally, or on terms, any party affected by the order may, within 10 days
after service upon the party of written notice of entry of the order and based
upon new or different facts, circumstances, or law, make application to the
same judge or court that made the order, to reconsider the matter and modify,
amend, or revoke the prior order. The party making the application shall state
by affidavit what application was made before, when and to what judge, what order
or decisions were made, and what new or different facts, circumstances, or law
are claimed to be shown.
 
     (Civ. Proc. Code,
§ 1008(a).)
            Defendant
basically argues that he cannot afford to pay the judgment and that the trial
was not fair because he could not afford to hire an attorney. Defendant
continues to argue the merits of the case but did not move for a new trial. Defendant
also disputes the truth of the matters deemed admitted, but did not
successfully move to have the order deeming those matters set aside.
More fundamentally, a motion for
reconsideration cannot be used to correct judicial error. (Crotty v. Trader (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 765, 770-71; Global Protein
Products, Inc. v. Le (2019)
42 Cal.App.5th 352, 364.) Plaintiff’s relief, if any, lies with the appellate
court.
Defendant’s motion for reconsideration is DENIED.
            Plaintiff’s
request for sanctions pursuant to Civ. Proc. Code, § 128.7 in the amount of
$1,500 is DENIED—Plaintiff prevailed at trial, and the interests of justice are not served by further punitive measures against Defendant.