 Case Number:  21STCV24070    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2024    Dept:  45 Superior Court of
California
County
of Los Angeles
 



 
HOI
  YING EUGENIE LAI,
 
                             Plaintiff,
 
                              vs.
 
IRENE CHAN,
  et al.,
 
                              Defendants.
 


Case No.:  21STCV24070
DEPARTMENT
  45
 
 
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER
 
 
 
Action
  Filed:  06/29/2021
Trial
  Date:      11/12/2024
 



 
Hearing date:              September 25, 2024
Moving Party:             Defendant
Irene Chan
Responding
Party:      Plaintiff Eugenie Lai
 
Motion to Continue Trial
 
The court has
considered the moving, response, and reply papers. 
The court GRANTS Defendant’s motion to continue trial. The trial date is
ordered to be CONTINUED to Fall
2025, specific date to be determined.
 
Background
Factual 
On or about
September 3, 2019, Plaintiff, Defendant Chan, and Defendant Chan’s son Albert
Choi (The Parties) agreed to purchase real property in Temple City (The
Property). (Second Am. Compl., ¶ 7.) Because Plaintiff lacked sufficient credit
to obtain The Property on her own, The Parties agreed that 1) Defendant Chan
would obtain a purchase money mortgage to acquire The Property on behalf of
Plaintiff, 2) each party would provide the necessary funds for the down
payment, 3) half of all expenses relating to The Property were to be paid by
Plaintiff with the other half paid by Defendant Chan and Choi. (Ibid. ¶
8.) The Parties co-owned a bank account to pay the loan payments, where
Plaintiff “regularly deposited funds” while Defendant Chan and Choi did not. (Ibid.
¶ 11.) According to Plaintiff, Defendant Chan and Choi did not pay their
half of expenses relating to The Property. (Ibid.) 
The Parties
modified the initial oral agreement to state that Defendant Chan and Choi would
transfer 100% ownership title to The Property if Plaintiff paid off the
mortgage within three years and repaid all funds used toward the purchase of
The Property by Defendant Chan and Choi. (Ibid.) On June 10, 2020, The
Parties executed this modification through a Quitclaim Deed that was not
recorded. (Ibid. ¶ 12; Compl., Exhibit A.) Plaintiff paid off the
mortgage within the three-year time frame. (Second Am. Compl., ¶ 13.) Choi
performed his promise and transferred his 50% title ownership in The Property
to Plaintiff. (Ibid.) Defendant Chan did not and transferred his 50%
title ownership to Defendant Irene Chan as Trustee of the Irene Chan Living
Trust. (Ibid. ¶ 13-14.)
 
Procedural 
            On
June 29, 2021, Plaintiff Eugenie Lai filed the initial complaint against
Defendants Irene Chan and Does 1 through 5. 
            On
May 28, 2023, Plaintiff filed her first amended complaint against Defendants
Irene Chan and Does 1 through 5.
            On
August 26, 2024, Plaintiff filed her second amended complaint, the operative
complaint, against Defendants Irene Chan, Irene Chan as Trustee of the Irene
Chan Living Trust, and Does 1 through 5, alleging causes of action for (1)
Quiet Title, (2) Specific Performance, (3) Breach of Contract, (4) Breach of
Quasi-Contract/Unjust Enrichment, (5) Promissory Estoppel, (6) Intentional
Misrepresentation, (7) Negligent Misrepresentation, (8) Fraudulent Transfer,
and (9) Injunctive and Declaratory Relief. 
            On
August 30, 2024, Defendant Chan filed a Motion to Continue Mandatory Status
Conference and Trial Date. 
            On
September 11, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Response to Defendant Chan’s Motion. 
            On
September 13, 2023, Defendant Chain filed her reply. 
 
Legal
Standard
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1332
subdivision (c) states, in relevant part: “Although continuances of trials are
disfavored, each request for a continuance must be considered on its own
merits. The court may grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of
good cause requiring the continuance. California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1332
subdivision (c) lists several circumstances that may indicate good cause,
including the unavailability of witnesses, the unavailability of parties, the
unavailability or substitution of trial counsel, the addition of new parties, a
party’s excused inability to obtain material evidence, or a significant,
unanticipated change in the case’s status. (CRC 3.1332(c)(1)-(7).)
Further, Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1332
subdivision (d) states: “In ruling on a motion or application for continuance,
the court must consider all the facts and circumstances that are relevant to
the determination. These may include: (1) The proximity of the trial date; (2)
Whether there was any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of
trial due to any party; (3) The length of the continuance requested; (4) The
availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the
motion or application for continuance; (5) The prejudice that parties or
witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance; (6) If the case is
entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status and
whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; (7) the
court’s calendar and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending
trials; (8) Whether trial counsel is engaged in another trial; (9) Whether all
parties have stipulated to a continuance; (10) Whether the interests of justice
are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by imposing
conditions; and (11) Any other fact or circumstance relevant to the fair
determination of the motion or application.”
 
Discussion
Defendant Chan
moves to continue trial until nine months after the current trial date, from November
12, 2024, to fall of 2025. 
The Court finds
that under the factors set forth in California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1332,
there is good cause for a trial continuance. Defendant Chan’s counsel explains
that the current trial date is set for November 12, 2024, around two months
from now, with necessary discovery not having yet been completed given that a
Motion to Compel is currently scheduled for February 2025. (Motion, page 4.)
This would be grounds to continue trial under Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1332
subdivision (c)(6) and (d)(1). Plaintiff filed the second amended complaint on
August 20, 2024, which stated new causes of action against Defendant Chan,
supporting the assertion that further discovery is required. (Hsu Decl. ¶ 3.) Additionally,
Defendant’s Counsel will be unavailable because he is scheduled for trial in
mid-November 2024 in the case of Eric Hsing Shou Huang, et al. v. Chyan-Wen
Jan, et al., Case No. VC067069, which would be grounds to continue trial
under Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1332 subdivision (c)(3) and (d)(8). (Motion,
page 7.) More importantly, Plaintiff and Defendant Chan already had stipulated
to continue the November 12, 2024 trial date until mid-2025, which Plaintiff
attempted to renounce. (Motion, Exhibit A.) This would be grounds to continue
trial under Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1332 subdivision (d)(9). 
Plaintiff also does not oppose a
continuance nor suggests that she will suffer prejudice. (Response, page 3.)
Plaintiff even states that the Court should continue the trial until
mid-to-late 2026 because of the scheduled hearings on the various Motions to
Compel and necessity for additional discovery. (Response, page 3.) However,
Defendant Chan explains that she would like to resolve the matter as soon as
possible, as she is 80 years old and in poor health, and is willing “to work
with Plaintiff to move up all relevant hearing dates to accommodate [a] new
trial date.” (Reply, page 2.) The Court finds that continuing the trial until
fall of 2025 to be appropriate at this time. 
Thus, the court
finds that Defendant Chan establishes good cause for a continuance of the trial
date and that the interests of justice are best served by a continuance. The Court will
continue trial until fall of 2025, as requested by Defendant Chan, and will
adjust the date accordingly as is subsequently needed by the parties.
 
The Court therefore GRANTS Defendant’s
motion to continue trial and all related dates. The trial date is ordered to be
CONTINUED to what is set forth above.

It is so
ordered.
 
Dated:
September 25, 2024
 
_______________________
MEL RED RECANA
Judge of the
Superior Court
 