 Case Number:  23SMCV02896    Hearing Date:   February 7, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


February 7, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV02896




MOTION


Motion to be Relieved as Counsel




MOVING PARTY


Baruch Kreiman, Esq.




OPPOSING PARTY


(none)



 
MOTION
 
            Baruch Kreiman of Abramson Labor
Group, counsel for Plaintiff Francisco Becerra (“Counsel”) moves to be relived
as counsel, citing a “breakdown in communication with Plaintiff.”  No opposition has been filed.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 284 provides “[t]he attorney in an action
or special proceeding may be changed at any time before or after judgment or
final determination as follows: 1. Upon the consent of both client and
attorney, filed with the clerk, or entered in the minutes; 2. Upon the order of
the court, upon the application of either client or attorney, after notice from
one to the other.”
 
Procedural Requirements
 
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, requires:
 
(1) the motion must be made on
form MC-051; (subd. (a)); 
 
(2) it must be accompanied by
a declaration on form MC-052 stating why the motion is brought under Code of
Civil Procedure section 284(2) instead of a consent brought under section
284(1); (subd. (c));
 
(3) a proposed order on form
MC-053 must be lodged with the court, specifying all hearing dates scheduled in
the action or proceeding, including the date of trial, if known; (subd. (e));
and 
 
(4) The documents must be
served on the client and on all parties that have appeared in the case. (subd.
(d).)
 
If
the notice is served by mail or electronic service, it must be accompanied by a
declaration indicating that the address served is the current address, or in
the case of service by mail, that it was served on the last known address and a
more current address could not be located after reasonable efforts within 30
days before filing the motion.  (Ibid.)  The court may delay the effective date of the
order relieving counsel until proof of service of a copy of the signed order on
the client has been filed with the court.” 
(Ibid.)  
 
Substantive Requirements
 
Rules of Professional Conduct, rule 1.16(a) outlines the reasons a
lawyer must withdraw from representation of a client:
 
(1)   the
client is bringing an action, conducting a defense, asserting a position in
litigation, or taking an appeal, without probable cause and for the purpose of
harassing or maliciously injuring any person;
 
(2)   the
representation will result in violation of the Rules of Professional Conduct or
the State Bar Act;
 
(3)   the
lawyer’s mental or physical condition renders it unreasonably difficult to
carry out the representation effectively; or
 
(4)   the
client discharges the lawyer.
 
Rules of Professional Conduct, rule 1.16(b) outlines the reasons a
lawyer may withdraw from representation of a client:
 
(1)   the
client insists upon presenting a claim or defense in litigation, or asserting a
position or making a demand in a non-litigation matter, that is not warranted
under existing law and cannot be supported by good faith argument for an
extension, modification, or reversal of existing law;
 
(2)   the
client either seeks to pursue a criminal or fraudulent course of conduct or has
used the lawyer’s services to advance a course of conduct that the lawyer
reasonably believes was a crime or fraud;
 
(3)   the
client insists that the lawyer pursue a course of conduct that is criminal or
fraudulent;
 
(4)   the
client by other conduct renders it unreasonably difficult for the lawyer to
carry out the representation effectively;
 
(5)   the
client breaches a material term of an agreement with, or obligation, to the lawyer
relating to the representation, and the lawyer has given the client a
reasonable warning after the breach that the lawyer will withdraw unless the
client fulfills the agreement or performs the obligation;
 
(6)   the
client knowingly and freely assents to termination of the representation;
 
(7)   the
inability to work with co-counsel indicates that the best interests of the
client likely will be served by withdrawal;
 
(8)   the
lawyer’s mental or physical condition renders it difficult for the lawyer to
carry out the representation effectively;
 
(9)   a
continuation of the representation is likely to result in a violation of these
rules or the State Bar Act; or
 
(10)          
the lawyer believes in good faith in a proceeding
pending before a tribunal that the tribunal will find the existence of other
good cause for withdrawal.
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Counsel has filed forms MC-051,
MC-052, and MC-053 and a proof of service. 
The attorney declaration (MC-052) indicates that the motion was filed instead
of filing a consent because “There has been a breakdown in communication with
Plaintiff.  Our office has made diligent
efforts to reestablish communications with Plaintiff using multiple mediums,
including telephone, text message, email, and U.S. mail, but was unable to
reestablish contact with Plaintiff.”  As
such, the Court finds that the motion is substantively proper.  (See Rules Prof. Conduct, rule 1.16(b)(4).)  
 
            The proof of service indicates that
all parties and client were served by U.S. mail, and that the client was
additionally served by email, in compliance with California Rules of Court,
Rule 3.1362, subd. (d) [“The notice may be by personal service, electronic
service, or mail.”]  Paragraph 3(b) of
the attorney declaration (MC-052) confirms that Counsel has been unable to
confirm that the address is current or to locate a more current address for the
client after mailing the motion papers to the client’s last known address,
return receipt requested and calling the client’s last known telephone number
or numbers, in conformance with California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1362,
subd.(d)(1)(B).  Therefore, the motion is
procedurally proper.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
            Therefore, the Court grants the
Motion to be Relieved as Counsel.  
 
Counsel must serve the signed order (form MC-053), which shall include
information about all future hearings and proceedings noticed by any party, or
ordered by the Court, on all parties who have appeared in the action,[1]
within 10 days of the date of this Order, and file a proof of service of
such.  Counsel will remain the attorney
of record for Plaintiff until Counsel files the requisite proof of
service.  (See Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1362(e).)  
 
 
            
 
 
DATED:  February 7, 2024                                        ___________________________
                                                                              Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                              Judge
of the Superior Court
 


