  Case Number:  20STCV06506    Hearing Date:   January 29, 2024    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



ALEX LIVSHETZ, et al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
FEDERAL INSURANCE COMPANY,
 
                        Defendant.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 20STCV06506
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING IN PART AND DENYING
  IN PART PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION; DENYING DEFENDANT’S
  MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
January 29, 2024



 
On
February 14, 2020, Plaintiffs Alex Livshetz and Regina Livshetz filed this action
against Defendant Federal Insurance Company.
On
July 14, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a second amended complaint (“SAC”).  The SAC alleges (1) breach of insurance contract;
(2) breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing; (3) unfair business
practices in violation of the Unfair Competition Law (“UCL”); and (4) breach of
contract.
On
July 20, 2023, Defendant filed an answer to the SAC and a first amended cross-complaint
(“FACC”).  The FACC alleges (1) breach of
contract; (2) breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing; (3)
intentional misrepresentation; (4) concealment; (5) rescission of contract; (6)
declaratory relief; and (7) unfair business practices in violation of the UCL.
On
July 24, 2023, the Court set a schedule for the parties’ motions for summary
adjudication.  On October 23, 2023, the
parties timely filed their motions.
Plaintiffs
seek summary adjudication of their SAC’s fourth cause of action.  Plaintiffs also seek summary adjudication of
Defendant’s FACC’s second, third, fourth, fifth, and seventh causes of action.
Defendant
seeks summary adjudication of the SAC’s second, third, and fourth causes of
action, the claim for punitive damages, and Defendant’s sixth and nineteenth
affirmative defenses.  Defendant also
seeks summary adjudication of its FACC’s fifth cause of action.
PROCEDURAL
CONCERNS
The
documents filed in connection with these motions contain numerous deficiencies.
A.        The Documents Do Not All Comply with
Electronic Filing Requirements.
Under
the Court’s First Amended General Order for electronic filing, the table of
contents and all attachments, including exhibits, must be bookmarked.  (General Order No. 2019-GEN-014-00, at ¶¶
6(b)-(d); California Rules of Court, rule 3.1110(f)(4).)
The
parties’ pleadings do not comply with these requirements.  For example, Defendant’s Motion and Opposition
exhibits are each a single document with no bookmarks, making it incredibly
difficult to navigate the 871 pages of 74 exhibits for each motion.
B.        The Separate Statements Are Not
Compliant.
“Separate
statements are required not to satisfy a sadistic urge to torment lawyers, but rather
to afford due process to opposing parties and to permit trial courts to expeditiously
review complex motions for [summary adjudication] and summary judgment to determine
quickly and efficiently whether material facts are undisputed.”  ((United
Community Church v. Garcin (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 327, 335 (United Community Church).)  “The separate statement ‘provides a convenient
and expeditious vehicle permitting the trial court to hone in on the truly disputed
facts.’ [Citation.]”  (Nazir v. United Airlines, Inc. (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 243, 252 (Nazir).)  “[I]t is no answer to
say the facts set out in the supporting evidence and memorandum of points and authorities
are sufficient.  ‘Such an argument does not
aid the trial court at all since it then has to cull through often discursive argument
to determine what is admitted, what is contested, and where the evidence on each
side of the issue is located.’”  (United Community Church, supra, 231 Cal.App.3d at p. 335.)  “The due process aspect of the separate statement
requirement is self-evident—to inform the opposing party of the evidence to be disputed
to defeat the motion.”  (Id. at p. 337.)
Of the unique facts in Plaintiffs’ separate statement
for their MSA, many are unnecessary and are not, in fact, material to the claims
or defenses.  Additionally, what a party said
or perceived is not a “material fact”; rather, it is evidence of a fact.  (Reeves
v. Safeway Stores, Inc. (2004) 121
Cal.App.4th 95, 106 (Reeves).)  “The separate
statement should include only material facts and not any facts that are not pertinent
to the disposition of the motion.”  (California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1350(d)(2).)  “[T]rial
courts have the inherent power to strike proposed ‘undisputed facts’ that fail to
comply with the statutory requirements and that are formulated so as to impede rather
than aid an orderly determination whether the case presents triable material issues
of fact.  If such an order leaves the required
separate statement insufficient to support the motion, the court is justified in
denying the motion on that basis.”  (Reeves, supra, 121 Cal.App.4th at p. 106.)
Although
the Court will not strike non-material portions of Plaintiffs’ separate statement
here, counsel is cautioned to include only facts that are truly material to the
motion.  And when including facts, counsel
should include all material facts.  As demonstrated
by this order’s Factual Background section, the separate statement is a disjointed
and incomplete presentation of the facts. 
The Court will rely only on the separate statement’s material facts to determine
whether Plaintiffs meet their moving burdens.
In
response to Plaintiffs’ MSA’s separate statement, Defendant inappropriately
rewrote the facts that it admitted were undisputed.  For example, in response to P-UMF 28
(“Slutsky had been remodeling his home for some time, which included
substantial changes.”), Defendant responded, “Undisputed that Dr. Slutsky’s
home was an uninhabitable construction zone at the time that Plaintiffs’ lease
began on May 1, 2019.”  A fact is either
disputed (with citations to the contrary evidence) or undisputed.  The Court will ignore Defendant’s qualified
responses when Defendant conceded that the facts are undisputed.
With
their replies, Plaintiffs filed a 161-page Reply to Defendant’s Separate
Statement, and Defendant filed a 178-page Reply to Plaintiffs’ Separate
Statement.  “There is no provision in the
statute for this.”  (Nazir, supra,
178 Cal.App.4th at p. 252.)
C.        Defendant Exceeded Page Limits.
Defendant’s
20-page Opposition to Plaintiffs’ Motion states, “Federal incorporates by reference
the background section of its Memorandum of Points and Authorities in Support of
Federal’s October 23, 2023 Motion for Summary Adjudication (Fed. Mot.) at pages
3 through 12.”  (Opposition to Plaintiffs
at p. 3.)  Supporting memoranda must contain
a statement of facts.  (California Rules of
Court, rule 3.1113(b).)  An opposition to
a motion for summary adjudication may not exceed 20 pages.  (California Rules of Court, rule 3.1113(d).)  Defendant’s omission of a standalone statement
of facts and its incorporation by reference of 10 additional pages is therefore
an improper method of exceeding the 20-page limit.
Similarly,
Defendant improperly exceeded the 10-page limit for its Reply to its MSA.  (See California Rules of Court, rule
3.1113(d).)  The reply is a full ten
pages, but it includes many arguments within 19 footnotes in tiny font size,
resulting in a reply that contains more than 28 lines per page and exceeds the substantive
page limit.  (See California Rules of
Court, rule 2.104 [font size must not be smaller than 12 points].)
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
Plaintiffs’
request for judicial notice of the SACC, Defendant’s answer, and Defendant’s FACC
is denied as unnecessary.  These documents
are already part of this case’s record.
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
Defendant’s
Objection Nos. 1-2 are sustained for lack of personal knowledge/foundation.
Defendant’s
Objection No. 3 is sustained as an improper legal conclusion.
Defendant’s
Objection Nos. 4-5 are overruled.
Plaintiffs’
Objection No. 1 (Defendant’s Exhibit 86) is sustained as hearsay.
Plaintiffs’
Objection No. 2 (Defendant’s Exhibit 88) is sustained.  A responding party cannot use their own interrogatory
responses as evidence.  (See Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2030.410.)
Plaintiffs’
Objection No. 3 is sustained as hearsay, to the extent that it is confirming
and incorporating by reference Defendant’s interrogatory responses.
Plaintiffs’
Objection No. 4 is overruled.
FACTUAL
BACKGROUND
On
May 9, 2018, a fire occurred at Plaintiffs’ home.  (Plaintiffs’ Undisputed Material Facts “P-UMF”
1.)  Defendant’s expert hygienist confirmed
that Plaintiffs’ home suffered smoke damage and recommended cleaning.  (P-UMF 2.) 
Plaintiffs’ friends, the Leonovs, lived nearby, and Plaintiffs elected to
rent from them.  (P-UMF 4.)  Plaintiffs represented to Defendant that they
had agreed to pay $1,000 per night to rent the property at Hercules Drive beginning
May 15, 2018 while their house was being cleaned and remediated.  (Defendant’s Undisputed Material Facts “D-UMF”
3.)  The Leonovs continued to live at the
Hercules Drive property while Plaintiffs stayed there.  (D-UMF 8.)
  The Leonovs never cashed the $44,000 in checks
that Plaintiffs wrote to Julia Leonov, and Plaintiffs never gave the Leonovs any
check for the other $8,000 that Defendant paid Plaintiffs.  (D-UMF 6.) 
At the time, Defendant had no reason to believe that Plaintiffs did not give
rent checks to the Leonovs.  (P-UMF 66.)
Defendant’s
adjuster Vincent Van Meter was responsible for Plaintiffs’ claim until his departure
from the company in October 2018.  (P-UMF
5.)  During Van Meter’s handling of the claim,
Plaintiffs submitted an estimate for contents cleaning.  (P-UMF 10.)
Plaintiffs’
public adjuster submitted one check to Defendant for the Hercules Drive house.  (P-UMF 12.) 
At the time the check was submitted to Defendant, Plaintiffs did not know
the check would not be cashed.  (P-UMF 13.)  When Mrs. Livshetz learned the checks were not
cashed, she gave her friend a diamond tennis bracelet valued in excess of the rental
amount.  (P-UMF 14.)  Thereafter, a dispute arose regarding the scope
and amount of dwelling repairs needed and the main issue was whether matching floor
tile was available.  (P-UMF 16.)
In
February 2019, Defendant’s building consultant prepared a repair estimate for the
home, which included a repair time of twelve months.  (P-UMF 17.) 
At this point, rather than pay the undisputed amount for repairs and continue
to adjust the claim, the parties’ adjusters considered a global settlement.  (P-UMF 18.) 
On February 20, 2019, Defendant began negotiations with Plaintiffs for a
global resolution of all claims, both on the policy and in tort, related to Plaintiffs’
fire loss.  (P-UMF 19.)  Defendant requested additional documentation,
including Plaintiffs’ lease, to support a settlement payment.  (P-UMF 20.) 
Defendant agrees the solicited documentation reflects “forward-looking information.”  (P-UMF 21.) 
Defendant’s adjuster also advised that Defendant “will need a signed release”
when an agreement is reached.  (P-UMF 22.)
On
March 12, 2019, Echterling and the PA met in person in Los Angeles.  (P-UMF 23.) 
The purpose of the meeting was to discuss the specific dollar amounts Plaintiffs
claimed and the documentation that Defendant needed to support the amounts claimed.  (P-UMF 24.) 
They agreed during this meeting that the PA would provide a written lease
to give an idea of where the insureds would stay and how much it would cost.  (P-UMF 25.) 
Echterling knew that Plaintiffs could not begin process of beginning repairs
until they received money from Defendant and reached an agreement with Defendant.  (P-UMF 26.)
In
response, Plaintiffs provided a signed one-year lease for a home owned by a friend,
Dr. Jacob Slutsky.  (P-UMF 27.)  Plaintiffs represented that they had leased a
luxury house in Bel Air on Linda Flora Drive from Slutsky starting May 1, 2019
for $80,000 per month for a total of $1 million, and they had paid $80,000 for
first month’s rent and $40,000 for the security deposit.  (D-UMF 10.) 
Slutsky had been remodeling his home for some time, which included substantial
changes.  (P-UMF 28.)  Defendant acknowledges the Linda Flora lease includes
a provision that allows Plaintiffs to move in at a later date if the house is not
ready.  (P-UMF 60.)  Plaintiffs asked Slutsky to wait to cash the checks
until Defendant issued payment.  (P-UMF 31.)
On
March 4, 2019, Plaintiffs submitted a list of contents and advised the contents
were in the home and available for inspection. 
(P-UMF 32.)  On March 14, 2019, Plaintiffs
submitted the same list of contents with estimated purchase information and corresponding
photographs.  (P-UMF 33.)
Plaintiffs
demanded $4.5 million to settle, and Defendant advised it needed time to review.  (P-UMF 34.) 
Defendant sent the list of contents to its contents expert, Enservio, for
evaluation “for discussion purposes only.” 
(P-UMF 36.)  Defendant later noted
that Enservio’s evaluation supported the negotiated settlement payment.  (P-UMF 37.)
On
April 16, 2019, Defendant obtained up to $4 million in settlement authority.  (P-UMF 38.) 
On April 17, 2019, Defendant’s adjuster and Plaintiffs’ representative agreed
to a gross payment of $3.1 million in exchange for Plaintiffs executing a written
release of all claims against Defendant. 
(P-UMF 40.)  On April 22, 2019, Defendant
reiterated these terms in writing: if Plaintiffs agreed to execute a full release,
Defendant would issue a net payment of $2,595,892.70, representing the $3.1 million
lump sum less prior payments on their claim. 
(P-UMF 42.)  Plaintiffs accepted these
terms in writing and asked Defendant to forward the conditional release for execution
“per our agreement.”  (P-UMF 45.)  Plaintiffs’ public adjuster repeatedly reminded
Defendant about Plaintiffs’ acceptance and asked again that the release be sent
for Plaintiffs’ signatures.  (P-UMF 49.)
Defendant
admits that once an agreement was reached, Plaintiffs would not be obligated to
incur any of the expenses submitted for payment.  (P-UMF 59.)
Defendant’s
denial letter set forth all fraud that Defendant believed Plaintiffs committed at
that time, after conducting a full and thorough investigation.  (P-UMF 52.)
Plaintiffs’
policy with Defendant contained a “Concealment or fraud” provision that stated:
“We do not provide coverage if you or any covered person has intentionally concealed
or misrepresented any material fact relating to this policy before or after a loss.”  (D-UMF 1.) 
The ALE provision in Plaintiffs’ policy covered only the “reasonable” “increase
in [Plaintiffs’] normal living expenses” while their own home was uninhabitable.  (D-UMF 2.)
DEFENDANT’S
FIRST AMENDED CROSS-COMPLAINT
Plaintiffs
move for summary adjudication of Defendant’s FACC’s second, third, fourth, fifth,
and seventh causes of action.  Defendant
also seeks summary adjudication of the fifth cause of action.
For
each claim in the complaint, the defendant moving for adjudication must satisfy
the initial burden of proof by showing that one or more elements of a cause of action
cannot be established or that there is a complete defense to a cause of action.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); Scalf
v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520 (Scalf).)  Then the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show
that a triable issue of material fact exists as to that cause of action or a defense.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); Scalf,
supra, 128 Cal.App.4th at p. 1520.)  To establish a triable issue of material fact,
the party opposing the motion must produce “substantial responsive evidence.”  (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th
151, 162-163.)
A.        Defendant Cannot Bring a Claim for Breach
of the Implied Covenant Against Plaintiffs (Second Cause of Action).
Defendant’s
second cause of action alleges that Plaintiffs breached the implied covenant of
good faith and fair dealing by submitting false and inaccurate information for their
claim, breaching the insurance contract. 
(FACC ¶ 85; see FACC ¶¶ 78, 82.)
Plaintiffs
argue that an insurer may not bring a tort cause of action for its insured’s alleged
breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing, and this claim is duplicative
of the first cause of action for breach of contract.  (Plaintiffs Motion at pp. 10-11.)
The
scope of the insured’s duty of good faith and fair dealing is confined by the express
contractual provisions of the policy.  (Kransco
v. American Empire Surplus Lines Ins. Co. (2000) 23 Cal.4th 390, 405.)  “Because an insured’s breach of the covenant does
not sound in tort, the insured’s contractual breach of an express policy
provision cannot be raised by the insurer as a defense in a bad faith action brought
against it by the insured.  It would be illogical
to allow the insurer in such a suit to instead interpose as a defense the insured’s
contractual breach of an implied policy provision (i.e., the covenant of
good faith and fair dealing) based on those same express policy terms.”  (Ibid.)
Plaintiffs
have met their initial burden of showing that Defendant cannot establish the requirements
of this cause of action.
In
opposition, Defendant argues about the general ability to bring concurrent claims
for breach of contract and breach of the implied covenant.  (Opposition to Plaintiffs at pp. 16-17.)  However, Defendant does not address Plaintiffs’
argument and authority regarding the insurer’s inability to assert this cause of
action against the insured.
Summary
adjudication of the FACC’s second cause of action is granted in favor of
Plaintiffs.
B.        Defendant Cannot Bring Its Fraud Claims
Against Plaintiffs (Third and Fourth Causes of Action).
Defendant’s
third cause of action alleges intentional misrepresentation, and the fourth cause
of action alleges concealment.  (See FACC
¶¶ 89, 97-98.)
Plaintiffs
argue that these causes of action are duplicative of the first cause of action for
breach of contract.  (Plaintiffs Motion at
pp. 11-12.)  Defendant alleges that Plaintiffs
“breached the contract by submitting false and inaccurate information as part of
the Claim.”  (FACC ¶ 78.)  The fraud causes of action are similarly based
on this submission of allegedly false information or withholding of material information.
“A
person may not ordinarily recover in tort for the breach of duties that merely restate
contractual obligations.  Instead, ‘“‘[c]ourts
will generally enforce the breach of a contractual promise through contract law,
except when the actions that constitute the breach violate a social policy that
merits the imposition of tort remedies.”’ 
[Citation.]”  (Aas v. Superior Court
(2000) 24 Cal.4th 627, 643.)
Plaintiffs
have met their initial burden of showing that Defendant cannot establish the requirements
of this cause of action.
Defendant’s
opposition argument is combined with its argument for the second cause of action.  (Opposition to Plaintiffs at pp. 16-17.)  Defendant does not show any triable issue about
the third and fourth causes of action being solely based on contractual obligations
and breaches, which are not recoverable in tort.
Summary
adjudication of the FACC’s third and fourth causes of action is granted in
favor of Plaintiffs.
C.        There Are Triable Issues for Recission
of Contract (Fifth Cause of Action).
Defendant’s
fifth cause of action seeks recission of the settlement agreement due to Plaintiffs’
misrepresentations that induced Defendant into the settlement.  (FACC ¶¶ 106-112.)
“‘“[A]
party to a contract cannot rescind at his pleasure, but only for some one or more
of the causes enumerated in section 1689 of the Civil Code.”’  [Citation.]” 
(Nmsbpcsldhb v. County of Fresno (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 954, 959.)  One of these grounds is fraud that induces consent
to the agreement.  (Civ. Code, § 1689, subd.
(b)(1).)  “One seeking rescission on account
of fraud must be actually deceived by misrepresentation of a material fact and the
other party must have intended to deceive by a misrepresentation of such material
fact.  Further, the party seeking to rescind
must rely upon the fraudulent representation to his injury and damage before he
can have the contract rescinded.”  (Contra
Costa County Title Co. v. Waloff (1960) 184 Cal.App.2d 59, 65.)
            1.         Plaintiffs Have Not Met Their Moving Burden for All
Alleged Misrepresentations, and There Are Triable Issues.
Defendant
alleges eight misrepresentations: (1) Plaintiffs paid the Leonovs $52,000 to
rent the Hercules Drive house; (2) Plaintiffs had in fact stayed at the
Leonovs’ house for 52 days; (3) Plaintiffs entered into an agreement that
obligated them to pay $40,000 as a security deposit and $80,000 in first
month’s rent to live at the Linda Flora house beginning on May 1, 2019; (4) the
Linda Flora house was ready to move in at the beginning of the lease on May 1,
2019; (5) Plaintiffs paid, and Dr. Slutsky received, $40,000 for the security
deposit at the Linda Flora house; (6) Plaintiffs paid, and Dr. Slutsky
received, $80,000 for the first month’s rent; (7) the Linda Flora house was a
habitable dwelling worth $80,000 per month as of May 1, 2019; (8) Plaintiffs had
incurred $63,693.70 to clean certain contents and that $756,212 worth of
contents was a total loss.  (FACC ¶ 107.)
Plaintiffs
argue that there were no misrepresentations and Defendant did not justifiably rely
on any representations because the solicited documentation reflects
“forward-looking information.  (See
Plaintiffs Motion at pp. 13-17.)
For
Misrepresentation Nos. 1-2, Plaintiffs contend that Defendant has no evidence, and
cannot reasonably obtain evidence, to show that those representations were
false.  (Plaintiffs Motion at pp. 14-15.)  Under California law, the moving party may
not simply point out that the opponent “does not possess, and cannot reasonably
obtain, evidence that would allow such a trier of fact to find any underlying
material fact more likely than not.”  (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 845 [distinguishing the
California standard from the federal standard under Celotex Corp. v. Catrett
(1986) 477 U.S. 317].)  Our summary
judgment law “continues to require a [party] moving for summary judgment to present
evidence, and not simply point out that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot
reasonably obtain, needed evidence.”  (Id.
at p. 854, footnote omitted.)  Here, Plaintiffs
must “present evidence that [Defendant] does not possess, and cannot reasonably
obtain, needed evidence—as through admissions by [Defendant] following extensive
discovery to the effect that he has discovered nothing.”  (Id. at p. 855.)  Plaintiffs have not done so.
For
Misrepresentation Nos. 3-4 and 7, Plaintiffs provide evidence that they did not
make the alleged misrepresentations. 
(See Plaintiffs Motion at pp. 15-16.) 
Defendant’s adjuster knew that the Linda Flora home needed repairs.  (P-UMF 64; Plaintiffs Motion, Ex. 1 at pp.
49-50.)  He was told that Plaintiffs “needed
to fully prepare when it was going to start, when the lease would have to
begin, and when it would end.”  (P-UMF
64; Plaintiffs Motion, Ex. 1 at p. 50.) 
However, these alleged misrepresentations do not resolve the entire
cause of action.
For
Misrepresentation Nos. 5-6 and 8, Plaintiffs argue that Defendant requested
only estimates of expenditures, but this fact is disputed.  (Plaintiffs Motion at pp. 15-17; P-UMF 20.)
Additionally,
Defendant presents evidence that some of Plaintiffs’ representations and omissions
may have been false.  For example, even if
the documentation reflected “forward-looking information,” Defendant provides evidence
that Plaintiffs still live in the house with the same contents, Plaintiffs offer
the house as a vacation rental, and Plaintiffs have not repaired or disposed of
the claimed damaged items.  (P-UMF 21; Response
to P-UMF 21; D-UMF 17-19.)  A trier of fact
could therefore find that the claimed losses were not accurate and that Plaintiffs
inflated their estimates, which could have affected Defendant’s settlement value.
Summary
adjudication of the FACC’s fifth cause of action is denied for Plaintiffs.
            2.         Defendant
Has Not Met Its Moving Burden.
Defendant
argues that Plaintiffs committed fraud during the claims process and settlement
negotiations, and this fraud rendered unenforceable the policy and any alleged
settlement.  (Defendant Motion at p. 12.)
According
to Defendant, Plaintiffs represented that they agreed to pay $1,000 per night
to rent the entire Hercules property.  (Defendant
Motion at p. 13.)  Defendant cites the
lease, but no specific provision—and the Court cannot ascertain any provision
that makes this representation.  Additionally,
the lease identifies the Hercules Drive address as the place for making rent
payments and serving notices on Julia Leonov. 
(Defendant Motion, Ex. 21 at p. 2-002, ¶ 5; id. at p. 2-005, ¶
28.)  With respect to the cited
deposition testimony (D-UMF 3), this testimony confirms the $1,000 per day for
the rental, but it does not state that Plaintiffs were renting the entire
property.
Defendant
argues that Plaintiffs represented that they incurred $52,000 in rent to stay
at the Hercules property, but they never incurred the costs because the checks
were not cashed.  (Defendant Motion at
pp. 13-14.)  In addition to citing the
lease, Defendant cites a June 7, 2018 letter from Defendant’s adjuster about a
payment of approximately $31,000 for May 15 to June 15.  (D-UMF 4; Defendant Motion, Ex. 22.)  Defendant also cites emails dated August 8
and 9, 2018 from Plaintiffs’ adjuster to Defendant’s adjuster.  (D-UMF 4; Defendant Motion, Ex. 24.)  The emails confirm that “[t]he $21,000.00
check covers 21 days that were incurred by the customer for the remainder of
their stay and is the final payoff, per Lease Contract you have on file.”  These exhibits do not contain any
representation from Plaintiffs.  Defendant
cites only the checks, Plaintiffs’ testimony that they knew that the Leonovs
did not cash the checks, and Plaintiffs’ testimony that they did not inform
Defendant about the uncashed checks. 
(D-UMF 6-7.)  It may be that, with
more evidence, this nondisclosure could be viewed as fraudulent.  But at this stage, Defendant cites no
evidence showing that Plaintiffs intended to deceive Defendant about the rent
payments.
Defendant
also argues that “Linda Flora was an uninhabitable construction site when
Plaintiffs said they were going to be living there.  The habitability of the property and whether
Plaintiffs would actually be paying to live there was fundamental to whether
$80,000 per month was a reasonable rent and whether it was reasonable to pay $1
million.”  (Defendant Motion at p. 14.)  Defendant cites partial deposition testimony
from Luke Echterling, its adjuster, confirming that he “understood that this
lease that is being submitted was being submitted in order for the parties to
reach a global settlement.”  (D-UMF 10; Defendant
Motion, Ex. 71 at p. 161.)  Echterling
was further asked if he “expect[ed] the Livshetzes to move into the property on
May 1st.”  (Defendant Motion, Ex. 71 at
p. 161.)  Defendant omits the next pages
with Echterling’s response, but Plaintiffs submit a more complete transcript.  After some clarification, Echterling was asked,
“So when you received it, you looked at it; right? . . . Okay.  At that point, did you have a belief that a
global settlement would be reached sufficiently in advance of May 1st so that the
insurance [sic, possibly insured?] could hire a contractor and move into a new
property?”  (Plaintiffs Motion, Ex. A at
p. 162.)  Echterling responded that Yuri
Adeshelidze, Plaintiffs’ adjuster, “explained to me that they would have enough
time to bring the materials, start the work, and . . . they were out of the
country—or they would be traveling out of the country and then coming back.  I don’t know if they were going to move in
there on May 1st.  He didn’t tell me that
they would move in on May 1st.” 
(Plaintiffs Motion, Ex. A at p. 162.) 
Therefore, even if Defendant could meet its burden, there are triable
issues about whether Plaintiffs would actually be moving into the Linda Flora
property on May 1 and whether the amount of rent is reasonable.
For
Plaintiffs’ contents claim, Defendant argues that “[t]he entire justification
for the contents claim—Ms. Livshetz’s supposedly uncontrolled ‘Reactive Airway
disease’ and asthma—was false.” 
(Defendant Motion at p. 16.)  Plaintiffs
provided a doctor’s letter to Defendant on January 18, 2019.  (Defendant Motion, Ex. 30; D-UMF 14.)  In the letter, the doctor noted that Regina’s
Reactive Airway disease had been in remission for several years, but in 2018
her symptoms returned, with asthma exacerbation following the fire.
Defendants
contend that this was a misrepresentation because Plaintiffs’ interrogatory
responses did not identify any physical injuries or medical treatment.  (Defendant Motion at pp. 16-17; see D-UMF
15.)  But as Plaintiffs note (Response to
D-UMF 15), the interrogatory responses objected to the term “incident” and
responded “with the understanding that the phrase ‘incident’ is intended to
refer to all facts and allegations which form the basis of this
litigation.”  (Defendant Motion, Ex. 59.)  Defendants also contend that Plaintiffs
“fail[ed] to identify asthma or Reactive Airways disease when describing how
Plaintiffs determined contents were damaged beyond repair” and “fail[ed] to
identify doctor’s note when identifying documents showing contents were damaged
beyond repair.”  (Defendant Motion at pp.
16-17; see D-UMF 15.)  However, Defendant
clearly received this information through other discovery.  (See Defendant Motion, Ex. 30.)  Defendant does not explain how Plaintiffs’
identification (or lack thereof) of documents in interrogatory responses
demonstrates that Regina did not suffer from Reactive Airway disease or that it
was not a true reason for Plaintiffs’ contents claim.
Summary
adjudication of the FACC’s fifth cause of action is denied for Defendant.
D.        Defendant Cannot Bring Its Unfair Competition
Claim Against Plaintiffs (Seventh Cause of Action).
Defendant’s
seventh cause of action alleges that Plaintiffs violated the UCL through their misrepresentations.  (FACC ¶¶ 120-132.)
Plaintiffs
argue that they were not engaged in a business or business practice.  (Plaintiffs Motion at pp. 18-19.)  The UCL includes any unlawful, unfair, or fraudulent
business act or practice and unfair, deceptive, untrue, or misleading advertising.  (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 17200.)  The UCL embraces “anything that can properly be
called a business practice and that at the same time is forbidden by law.”  (Cel-Tech Communications, Inc. v. Los Angeles
Cellular Telephone Co. (1999) 20 Cal.4th 163, 180.)  “By proscribing any unlawful business practice,
section 17200 borrows violations of other laws and treats them as unlawful practices
that the unfair competition law makes independently actionable.”  (Ibid.)
Plaintiffs
have met their initial burden of showing that Defendant cannot establish the requirements
of this cause of action.
Defendant
argues that it can bring a UCL claim against individuals, and making and settling
insurance claims are business acts and practices.  (Opposition to Plaintiffs at p. 18.)  According to Defendant, “there is ample evidence
that Plaintiffs use insurance fraud as a business.”  (Ibid.)  Defendant provides no admissible evidence or relevant
authority to show that Plaintiffs are engaged in a business.
Summary
adjudication of the FACC’s seventh cause of action is granted in favor of
Plaintiffs.
PLAINTIFFS’
SECOND AMENDED COMPLAINT
Plaintiffs
and Defendant move for summary adjudication of the SAC’s fourth cause of action
for breach of contract arising from the alleged April 2019 settlement agreement
and Defendant’s January 31, 2020 refusal to pay.  (See SAC ¶¶ 47-53.)  Defendant also moves for summary adjudication
of the second cause of action for breach of the implied covenant of good faith
and fair dealing, third cause of action for unfair business practices, prayer
for punitive damages, and its sixth and nineteenth affirmative defenses.
A.        There are Triable Issues for Breach
of Contract (Fourth Cause of Action).
A
plaintiff moving for summary adjudication must satisfy the initial burden of proof
by proving each element of a cause of action. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(1).) 
Then the burden shifts to the defendant to show that a triable issue of material
fact exists as to the cause of action or a defense.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(1).)
The
standard elements of a claim for breach of contract are (1) the contract, (2) plaintiff’s
performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) damage
to plaintiff therefrom.  (Wall Street Network,
Ltd. v. New York Times Co. (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 1171, 1178.)
Defendant
argues that no settlement was formed because there was no meeting of the minds as
to the release and the condition precedent of a signed release never occurred.  (Opposition to Plaintiffs at p. 15.)  Plaintiffs argue that the failure to formalize
the settlement and its release does not make the settlement unenforceable, relying
on a case with facts that “are virtually identical to the instant case.”  (Plaintiffs Motion at pp. 6-7.)
In
CSAA Ins. Exchange v. Hodroj (2021) 72 Cal.App.5th 272 (Hodroj), the
plaintiff proposed a settlement “as long as certain conditions were fulfilled,”
including that the defendant could condition its acceptance on the plaintiff signing
a written release of all bodily injury claims. 
(Id. at pp. 274-275.)  The defendant
accepted and sent a written release of all claims for the plaintiff to sign.  (Id. at p. 275.)  The next day, the plaintiff reneged on the settlement
because the release “introduces significant and material new, additional and different
terms and conditions.”  (Ibid.)  The Court of Appeal was “confident that an objective
observer would conclude from those communications that the parties intended to settle
[the plaintiff’s] bodily injury claim for the amount of the insurance policy limits
($100,000) and to later memorialize those terms in a formal document.  That the proposed document contained terms materially
different from what had been agreed to does not change the binding effect of the
initial agreement.  [The plaintiff] was under
no obligation to sign a release that was inconsistent what he agreed to.  But a proposed writing that does not accurately
reflect the terms of an agreement does not unwind the entire deal.  The contract formed by the parties’ offer, acceptance,
and consideration is still enforceable.” 
(Id. at p. 277.)
That
is what happened here.  Plaintiffs have provided
evidence of an offer, acceptance, and consideration.  Echterling, Defendant’s adjuster, testified that
as of February 20, 2019, it was Defendant’s intent to reach a global settlement
with Plaintiffs.  (Plaintiff Motion, Ex. 1
at pp. 138-139.)  Echterling “requested information
on reasonable settlement amounts so that we can discuss,” because Defendant “would
have to have all amounts in order to have that global amount discussed.”  (Id. at p. 140.)  On April 22, 2019, Echterling sent an email to
Yuri Adeshelidze.  (Plaintiff Motion, Ex.
25.)  He “put together a document under our
letterhead to assist in reviewing settlement under release with [Plaintiffs].  [¶]  This
is being discussed under the terms and conditions of the signed waiver.”  (Ibid.)  The email also stated, “The payment with signed
release will break down as follows,” and it set forth the amount of payment for
each category.  (Ibid.)  The email also attached a PDF showing a summary
of the financials.  Later that night, Adeshelidze
emailed Echterling, stating that the “proposed settlement has been approved and
accepted” by Plaintiffs.  (Plaintiff Motion,
Ex. 19.)  Although the exact terms of the
release were not yet presented, the parties understood the release to be a global
release.  Similar to the parties in Hodroj,
Plaintiffs and Defendants had agreed on the material terms, although the exact language
of the release was not yet memorialized.
However,
even if Plaintiffs have met their initial burden as to the existence of the settlement
agreement and all other required elements, Defendant presents triable issues
regarding its defenses.  (See Code Civ.
Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(1).)
                        1.         There Are Triable Issues Regarding Defendant’s
Defense Based on Plaintiffs’ Fraud.
Defendant
argues that Plaintiffs committed fraud that rendered the settlement void, unenforceable,
and rescinded.  (Defendant Motion at pp.
12-18; Opposition to Plaintiffs at pp. 4-12.) 
Defendant’s argument is the same in its opposition to Plaintiffs’ motion,
in support of its own request for adjudication of the SAC’s fourth cause of
action, and in support of its request for adjudication of the FACC’s fifth
cause of action for rescission of contract. 
(Defendant Motion at p. 12 [“The Court should grant summary adjudication
to Federal on Plaintiffs’ claim for breach of the alleged settlement agreement
and Federal’s crossclaim and defenses of rescission and breach of the policy’s
anti-fraud provision.”].)
For
the reasons discussed with the FACC’s fifth cause of action, there are triable issues
regarding the settlement agreement’s enforceability and ability to be rescinded
due to fraud.  Those factual disputes
prevented adjudication of the FACC’s fifth cause of action in favor of either
party, and they equally raise triable issues to preclude adjudication of the
SAC’s fourth cause of action.
Summary
adjudication of the SAC’s fourth cause of action is denied for Plaintiffs
because Defendant raises a triable issue of one or more material facts for a
complete defense to Plaintiffs’ cause of action.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(1).).
Summary
adjudication of the SAC’s fourth cause of action is denied for Defendant because
it did not establish that Plaintiffs’ fraud and Defendant’s claim for rescission
are “a complete defense to the cause of action.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)
                        2.         There
Are Triable Issues Regarding Defendant’s Defense Based on Statute of
Limitations.
Plaintiffs
argue that Defendant’s affirmative defense of statute of limitations has no
merit.  (Plaintiff Motion at pp.
9-10.)  Defendant argues that there are triable
issues of fact regarding its affirmative defense, and “the factual dispute over
when Plaintiffs’ breach of contract claim accrued precludes summary
adjudication.”  (Opposition to Plaintiffs
at p. 13.)
The
statute of limitations for breach of written contract is four years.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 337, subd. (a).)  Defendant argues that the statute of limitations
began to run in April 2019, when a settlement was not finalized—more than four years
before Plaintiffs first asserted this claim. 
(Opposition to Plaintiffs at p. 13; see Response to P-UMF 44-45.)
Plaintiffs’
February 14, 2020 complaint and March 12, 2020 first amended complaint did not contain
a cause of action for breach of contract based on the settlement agreement, nor
do they mention a settlement at all. 
(See Complaint ¶ 21 [“Federal failed to fully indemnify Plaintiffs for
the losses suffered as required under the terms of the Policy.”]; FAC ¶ 23 [“Federal
failed to fully indemnify Plaintiffs for the losses suffered as required under
the terms of the Policy.”].)  This cause of
action for breach of the settlement agreement was added only with the SAC, filed
on July 14, 2023.  Plaintiffs do not
argue that the amendment relates back to the original filing date, and it appears
that there is no basis to do so.
Plaintiffs
argue that they “had no reason to file suit until after January 30, 2020,” when
Defendant repudiated the contract.  (Plaintiffs
Motion at p. 10; Plaintiffs Reply at p. 6.) 
However, on April 27, 2019, Adeshelidze emailed Echterling, stating that
“[t]he settlement offer as stated below has been approved and confirmed with the
insureds Mr/Mrs. Livshetz.  [¶]  Please send the release based on the summary received
that you emailed as attached below . . . in view of the 1 year claim statute of
limitation approaching on the 8th of May, 2019 for the lawsuit filing. . . . The
insured otherwise will have no choice but to file a lawsuit next week to protect
the file status . . . .”  (Plaintiffs Motion,
Ex. 25; see Response to P-UMF 45.)  Additionally,
on April 30, 2019, Adeshelidze emailed Echterling indicating that Plaintiffs
had not received the release and “there is no real claim closure as of
today.”  (Plaintiffs Motion, Ex. 26.)  Plaintiffs’ adjuster continued: “[B]ased on
the above at this time I am left with no choice but to refer your insureds to
an attorney of their choice so that a lawsuit could be initiated and filed in
order to protect this claim . . . . Also, if Chubb is unwilling to follow
through with the Chubb proposed settlement offer and claim closure, please
advise.  Based on absence of
communication it looks like it.”  (Plaintiffs
Motion, Ex. 26; see Response to P-UMF 45.)
These
communications raise triable issues about whether Plaintiffs, or their adjuster
as their representative, knew or should have known that the settlement agreement
had been breached by April 2019 and that a lawsuit may be necessary at that
time—thus starting the clock on the limitations period.
Therefore,
Defendant has raised triable issues of one or more material facts for its
statute of limitations defense, precluding adjudication of the SAC’s fourth
cause of action in Plaintiffs’ favor.[1]  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(1).)
B.        There Are Triable Issues for
Defendant’s Sixth and Nineteenth Affirmative Defenses.
Defendant
moves for adjudication of its sixth affirmative defense (Violation of
Concealment or Fraud Condition) and nineteenth affirmative defense (Recission),
but it does not cite authority for such a motion.  (See Defendant Motion at pp. 12-18.)
Under
section 437c, subdivision (f)(1), “A party may move for summary adjudication as
to one or more causes of action within an action, one or more affirmative
defenses, one or more claims for damages, or one or more issues of duty, if the
party contends that the cause of action has no merit, that there is no
affirmative defense to the cause of action, that there is no merit to an
affirmative defense as to any cause of action, that there is no merit to a
claim for damages, as specified in Section 3294 of the Civil Code, or that one
or more defendants either owed or did not owe a duty to the plaintiff or
plaintiffs.”
Defendant
is not asking the Court to determine that “there is no affirmative defense to
the cause of action” or “that there is no merit to an affirmative
defense.”  Rather, Defendant argues that
Plaintiffs’ cause of action for breach of contract “has no merit” because it is
barred by affirmative defenses.
For
the reasons set forth above, there are triable issues of fact for Defendant’s
affirmative defenses of Violation of Concealment or Fraud Condition and Recission.
Summary
adjudication of Defendant’s sixth and nineteenth affirmative defenses to the
SAC is denied.
C.        There Are Triable Issues Regarding
Causation for Bad Faith (Second Cause of Action).
The
SAC’s second cause of action alleges breach of the implied covenant of good
faith and fair dealing through its investigation, handling, and denial of
Plaintiffs’ insurance claim.  (See SAC ¶
35.)
To
establish a claim for bad faith investigation and denial of an insurance claim,
a plaintiff must prove, inter alia, that the defendant’s failure to properly
investigate the claim was a substantial factor in causing the plaintiff’s
harm.  (CACI 2332.)
Defendant
argues that Plaintiffs cannot prove causation because they cannot prove that a
reasonable investigation would have eliminated any reasonable basis or proper
cause to deny the claim.  (Defendant
Motion at pp. 19-20.)  According to
Defendant, “Plaintiffs cannot establish causation as a matter of law, as the
undisputed facts establish that further investigation into Plaintiffs’ claim
would not have exonerated Plaintiffs, nor would it have otherwise eliminated
any reasonable basis or proper cause for Federal’s determination that
Plaintiffs committed fraud.”  (Id.
at p. 19.)  Defendant contends that
discovery “confirms that further investigation into Plaintiffs’ claim would
have only uncovered more evidence of Plaintiffs’ fraud during the claims
process—this time in connection with Plaintiffs’ contents claim,” which “would
have only reinforced the reasonableness of Federal’s decision to deny coverage.”  (Id. at pp. 19-20.)
For
all the reasons set forth above, there are triable issues of fact regarding
whether Plaintiffs committed fraud or made material misrepresentations to
Defendant.  Because that remains
unresolved, there are triable issues about the reasonableness of Defendant’s
denial based on fraud and whether proper handling of the claim would have
changed the result.
Summary
adjudication of the SAC’s second cause of action is denied for Defendant.
D.        The Third Cause of Action and Punitive
Damages Derive from a Claim that Is Still at Issue.
Defendant
argues that both the third cause of action for violation of the UCL and the
claim for punitive damages fail because they are entirely based on the second
cause of action.  (Defendant Motion at p.
20.)
Because
the Court denies summary adjudication of the second cause of action, summary
adjudication of the SAC’s third cause of action and punitive damages is also
denied for Defendant.
CONCLUSION
Plaintiffs’
motion for summary adjudication of the FACC’s second, third, fourth, and seventh
causes of action is GRANTED.  Plaintiffs’
motion for summary adjudication of the FACC’s fifth cause of action is DENIED.
Plaintiffs’
motion for summary adjudication of the SAC’s fourth cause of action is DENIED.
Defendant’s
motion for summary adjudication of the FACC’s fifth cause of action is DENIED.
Defendant’s
motion for summary adjudication of the SAC’s second, third, and fourth causes
of action; punitive damages; and sixth and nineteenth affirmative defenses is
DENIED.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit.  If all parties in the case submit on the
tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are required unless a
companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference) is also on
calendar.
 
        
Dated this 29th day of January 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D.
  Long
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 




 


