 Case Number:  24STLC04931    Hearing Date:   December 9, 2024    Dept:  26 Starnet Ins. Co. et al., v. Fred Loya Casualty, et al.,TENTATIVE RULING:Defendant Fred Loya Casualty’s Motion for Order Discharging Stakeholder and for Related Orders is GRANTED. DEFENDANT FRED LOYA CASUALTY IS TO DEPOSIT FUNDS OF $14,565.5 WITH THE COURT WITHIN 20 DAYS OF THIS ORDER. NO EARLIER THAN 20 DAYS AFTER DEPOSIT OF THE FUNDS, DEFENDANT FRED LOYA CASUALTY IS TO FILE A PROPOSED JUDGMENT OF DISMISSAL.ANALYSIS:On July 10, 2024, Plaintiffs Starnet Insurance Company, Texas Utility Solutions, and Newcomer & Associates, Inc. (“Plaintiffs”) filed the instant action for “recovery on unpaid workers’ compensation lien from personal injury settlement” against Defendants Fred Loya Casualty, Edward Love, Robert Pearman, and Law Offices Of Robert Pearman (“Defendants”). Defendant Love filed an answer on July 26, 2024; Defendant Fred Loya filed an answer on August 23, 2024.Defendant Fred Loya filed the instant Motion for Order Discharging Stakeholder and for Related Orders on October 22, 2024. Plaintiffs filed an opposition on November 25, 2024 and Defendant Fred Loya replied on November 27, 2024.DiscussionDefendant Fred Loya moves for an order (1) that Defendant Fred Loya deposit with the Court the property that is the subject matter of this action ($15,000.00), less the costs incurred in this action ($434.50.); (2) that Defendant Fred Loya be disharged from liability to any party in relation to the money deposited; and (3) entering a judgment of dismissal in favor or Defendant Fred Loya. The Motion is made on the grounds that Defendant Fred Loya is facing conflicting demands to the money, in which it has no interest. In support, the Motion cites Code of Civil Procedure section 386.5: Where the only relief sought against one of the defendants is the payment of a stated amount of money alleged to be  wrongfully withheld, such defendant may, upon affidavit that he is a mere stakeholder with no interest in the amount  or any portion thereof and that conflicting demands have been made upon him for the amount by parties to the  action, upon notice to such parties, apply to the court for an order discharging him from liability and dismissing him  from the action on his depositing with the clerk of the court the amount in dispute and the court may, in its  discretion, make such order.(Code Civ. Proc., § 386.5.) The Motion also points to relevant case law regarding the interpleader procedure:  “Interpleader is an equitable proceeding by which an obligor who is a mere stakeholder may compel conflicting  claimants to money or property to interplead and litigate the claims among themselves instead of separately against  the obligor.... After admitting liability and depositing the money or property with the court, the obligor is discharged  from liability and freed from the necessity of participating in the litigation between the claimants.” (4 Witkin, Cal.  Procedure (5th ed. 2008) Pleading, § 237, p. 317; see Code Civ. Proc., § 386.) Under section 386, subdivision (b),  any person or entity “against whom double or multiple claims are made, or may be made, by two or more persons  which are such that they may give rise to double or multiple liability, may bring an action against the claimants to  compel them to interplead and litigate their several claims.” “The true test of suitability for interpleader is the  stakeholder's disavowal of interest in the property sought to be interpleaded, coupled with the perceived ability of the  court to resolve the entire controversy as to entitlement to that property without need for the stakeholder to be a party  to the suit. ‘ “[I]f the relations of the parties are such that the court's decision would determine the responsibility of  the [interpleader plaintiff], he is for the purposes and within the scope of the code section authorizing interpleader a  mere stake-holder.” ’ [Citations.]” (Pacific Loan Management Corp. v. Superior Court (1987) 196 Cal.App.3d 1485,  1489–1490 [242 Cal.Rptr. 547].)(Southern California Gas Co. v. Flannery (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 477, 486-487.) Defendant Fred Loya contends it is subject to multiple liability regarding the $15,000.00 from Defendant Love and Plaintiffs Starnet and Texas. (Notice of Motion, p. 5:1-4; Motion, p. 2:18-21.) This is evidenced by the Complaint filed by Plaintiff in this action against Defendant Fred Loya, and two different settlement agreements purportedly between Defendant Love and Defendant Fred Loya, and Plaintiff Texas Utility and Defendant Fred Loya. (Compl., ¶10; Motion, Exhs. A-B.) Also, Defendant Fred Loya has shown that a party moving for discharge under the interpleader statute may include “a request for allowance of his costs and reasonable attorney fees incurred in such action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 386.6, subd. (a).) Defendant Fred Loya incurred filing costs of $434.50 in this action. (Motion, Konczul Decl., ¶7.)In opposition, Plaintiffs argue that they are entitled to costs and attorney’s fees pursuant to their settlement with Defendant Fred Loya, which was achieved through arbitration. The opposition cites the arbitration statute at Code of Civil Procedure section 1281, but points to no language therein regarding an award of attorney’s fees and costs. That statute only provides the following: “A written agreement to submit to arbitration an existing controversy or a controversy thereafter arising is valid, enforceable and irrevocable, save upon such grounds as exist for the revocation of any contract.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.)Therefore, the Court finds that Defendant Fred Loya may deposit the interpleader funds of $15,000.00, less its costs of $434.50, and be discharged from liability with respect to those funds.ConclusionDefendant Fred Loya Casualty’s Motion for Order Discharging Stakeholder and for Related Orders is GRANTED. DEFENDANT FRE LOYA CASUALTY IS TO DEPOSIT FUNDS OF $14,565.5 WITH THE COURT WITHIN 20 DAYS OF THIS ORDER. NO EARLIER THAN 20 DAYS AFTER DEPOSIT OF THE FUNDS, DEFENDANT FRE LOYA CASUALTY IS TO FILE A PROPOSED JUDGMENT OF DISMISSAL.Moving party to give notice.