 Case Number:  24STCV03427    Hearing Date:   January 7, 2025    Dept:  52 Defendants
Jeffrey C. Mayes and Druven, PC’s Demurrer and Motion to Strike Portions of Second
Amended Complaint 
Requests
for Judicial Notice
Defendants
Jeffrey C. Mayes and Druven, PC request judicial notice of one exhibit: the
docket of a federal action in the Central District of California and a “notice
of change of attorney business or contact information” filed in that action.  (Horton Decl., Ex. E.)  The request for judicial notice is granted.
Demurrer
to Second Amended Complaint
Defendants
Jeffrey C. Mayes and Druven, PC demur to all 13 causes of action alleged in the
second amended complaint by plaintiff Radcliff Fairman LLP.  
Summary
of Allegations
            The second amended complaint’s
claims all arise from a limited liability law partnership operated by Jules G.
Radcliff and Jeffrey C. Mayes.  Plaintiff
alleges the partnership began in 2020 as Radcliff, Mayes & Aldstadt LLP and
was governed by a written partnership agreement.  (SAC, ¶ 7, Ex. 1.)  Stacey R. Aldstadt withdrew from the
partnership “immediately upon its formation,” leaving Radcliff and Mayes as the
only partners.  (Id., ¶ 7.)  They “renamed” the firm Radcliff Mayes
LLP.  (Ibid.)  
The
second amended complaint alleges that, on March 23, 2023, Mayes told Jules Radcliff
“that effective March 31, 2023 he is withdrawing as a Partner of” Radcliff
Mayes LLP.  (SAC, ¶ 7.)  On March 24, 2023, Jules Radcliff recruited a
new partner, Robert Fairman.  (Ibid.)  Fairman agreed to join Radcliff Mayes LLP
that day.  (Ibid.)  
The
second amended complaint further alleges that, the same day Fairman agreed to
join the firm, Jules Radcliff “approached Mayes … and notified Mayes of the
intention of [Jules Radcliff], as Managing Partner of [Radcliff Mayes LLP] to
add Robert Fairman as a Partner to the Partnership.”  (SAC, ¶ 7.) 
“Mayes unconditionally, unequivocally and voluntarily, free from
coercion or duress, wholeheartedly consented and agreed that Robert Fairman
could and should become a Partner in [Radcliff Mayes LLP], soon to be named” Radcliff
Fairman LLP.  (Ibid.)  “Mayes confirmed his consent in an email to
JGR dated March 27, 2023.”  (Ibid.)
The
second amended complaint alleges Mayes and Druven, PC then engaged in various
forms of wrongful conduct that harmed Radcliff Fairman LLP.
Analysis
Defendants’
demurrer contends all causes of action fail because Radcliff Fairman LLP is not
the real party in interest.  Defendants
argue that Radcliff Mayes LLP automatically dissolved when Mayes, one of only
two partners, withdrew in March 2023.  As
a result, rather than simply renaming the existing partnership, Radcliff
Fairman LLP is a new and separate entity with no standing to bring these claims.  Defendants rely on the following rule: “If a
partnership consists of only two persons, the partnership dissolves by
operation of law when one of them departs.” 
(Corrales v. Corrales (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 221, 224.)  The court sustained defendants’ demurrer to
the first amended complaint on this basis.
The
second amended complaint cured this defect. 
“A person may become a partner only with the consent of all of the
partners.”  (Corp. Code, § 16401, subd. (i).)  Assuming the partnership agreement of
Radcliff, Mayes & Aldstadt LLP applied, it permitted adding new partners “upon
majority vote of the Management Committee.” 
(SAC, Ex. 1, § 4.01.)  The second
amended complaint alleges the only two partners unanimously agreed to admit
Fairman as a partner.  Plaintiff alleges
Jules Radcliff proposed adding Fairman (¶ 7, p. 4:20-26), then Mayes “consented
and agreed that Robert Fairman could and should become a Partner in” Radcliff
Mayes LLP (¶ 7, p. 4:26-28).  
Based
on these allegations, Radcliff Mayes LLP had three partners when Mayes left the
partnership on March 31, 2023.  Two
partners then remained, so the partnership did not automatically dissolve.  Radcliff Mayes LLP thus continued to exist
and could change its name to Radcliff Fairman LLP, which is the real party in
interest.
Claims
by Jules G. Radcliff
            Plaintiff’s
opposition to the demurrer asserts, “It is noteworthy that Defendants did not
file a Demurrer to the SAC as to Plaintiff Jules Radcliff, and no response to
the Jules Radcliff SAC has been filed or served.”  (Opp., p. 2.) 
Jules Radcliff no longer brings any claims in this action.  Unlike the first amended complaint, the
second amended complaint identifies “Radcliff Fairman LLP” as the
plaintiff.  The second amended complaint
exclusively refers to the singular “Plaintiff” instead of “Plaintiffs.”  The second amended complaint only refers to
Jules Radcliff when identifying the partners of Radcliff Fairman LLP (¶ 1) and
of Radcliff, Mayes & Aldstadt LLP (¶ 7). 
Defendants need not respond to the nonexistent “Jules Radcliff SAC.”
Motion
to Strike
            Defendants Jeffrey C. Mayes and
Druven, PC move to strike several portions of the second amended
complaint.  They move to strike paragraphs
1-2 and 7-17 and the entire prayer for relief on the basis that Radcliff
Fairman LLP is not the real party in interest and is not a continuation of
Radcliff Mayes LLP.  The court rejected
that argument above. 
            Defendants further move to strike the
following portion of the second amended complaint: “One such client matter
known as Humbled Hustle, Inc. vs. Humble Hustle Masters, Inc., etc., et al.,
pending in the United States District Court for the Central District of
California as Case No. 2:23-cv01209-ODW continues to reflect Plaintiff as
counsel of record for approximately 13 Defendants therein, even though
Plaintiff does not have any access to those clients nor their legal files.”   
Defendants
establish that portion of the second amended complaint constitutes “irrelevant,
false, or improper matter” subject to a motion to strike.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a).)  The documents subject to judicial notice show
that, on June 1, 2023, Jeffrey C. Mayes filed a “notice of change of attorney
business or contact information” identifying the “Name of new firm” as “Druven
PC.”  (Decl., Ex. E, notice of change,
pp. 1-2.)  The docket in that case further
shows the case was terminated on January 19, 2024 (Ex. E, docket, p. 1), almost
eight months before plaintiff filed the second amended complaint.  The docket also lists the attorneys who
represented each of the numerous parties. 
(Id., pp. 1-17.)  It does
not identify Radcliff Mayes LLP, Radcliff Fairman LLP, Jules Radcliff, or
Robert Fairman as an attorney for any of the parties.  It states that several defendants and counter
claimants are “represented by Jeffrey Clayton Mayes [¶] Druven PC.”  (Id., p. 2.)  The allegation that this federal matter is
“pending” and “continues to reflect Plaintiff as counsel of record” (SAC, ¶ 9)
is false and improper.      
Plaintiff
opposes this portion of the motion only on the basis that it is a factual issue
and requires interpreting the contents of federal court filings, which cannot
be done by judicial notice.  A court may
not take judicial notice “of the truth” of findings of fact in court
records.  (Steed v. Department of
Consumer Affairs (2012) 204 Cal.App.4th 112, 120.)  But a “court may deduce and rely upon the
legal effect of” a document subject to judicial notice “when that effect is
clear from its face.”  (Fontenot v.
Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 256, 265.)  From its face, filing the notice of change of
attorney business or contact information had the clear legal effect of making
Druven PC counsel of record in that case. 
The portion of the second amended complaint regarding the Humbled
Hustle, Inc. case is false.  The
court will therefore strike it.   
Even
if this allegation could not be stricken as “false”, it is “irrelevant.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a).)  At most, it constitutes an example or
evidentiary fact.  Including it in the
second amended complaint is unnecessary. 

Disposition
Defendants
Jeffrey C. Mayes and Druven, PC’s demurrer to the second amended complaint is overruled.  
Defendants’
motion to strike portions of the second amended complaint is granted in part.  The court hereby strikes the following
portion of the second amended complaint without leave to amend: “One
such client matter known as Humbled Hustle, Inc. vs. Humble Hustle Masters,
Inc., etc., et al., pending in the United States District Court for the Central
District of California as Case No. 2:23-cv-01209-ODW continues to reflect
Plaintiff as counsel of record for approximately 13 Defendants therein, even
though Plaintiff does not have any access to those clients nor their legal
files.”  (SAC, ¶ 9, pages 7, lines
16-20.)  
Defendants
shall answer the second amended complaint within 15 days.