  Case Number:  22STCV34344    Hearing Date:   January 7, 2025    Dept:  52 Defendant Gallery Department LLC’s
Motion to Compel Production of Documents
Defendant
Gallery Department LLC moves to compel plaintiff Jennifer Ann Pelletier to
serve further responses to requests for production Nos. 2, 10, and 48.  
Plaintiff
contends the motion is untimely as to Nos. 2 and 10.  The court will deny the motion on the merits
and therefore does not reach the issue.  
No. 2
Request No. 2
demands “DOCUMENTS sufficient to reflect the identity of any attorneys retained
for the COMPLAINT, including but not limited to retainer agreements and/or
engagement letters entered into between PLAINTIFF and any such attorneys.”  Plaintiff made numerous objections, including
based on attorney-client privilege.  “Among
those communications subject to the duty of confidentiality and the
attorney-client privilege, is a written fee contract between an attorney and a client.”  (Dietz v. Meisenheimer & Herron
(2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 771, 786.) 
Plaintiff’s objection is valid. 
Defendant’s
reliance on Byers v. Superior Court (2024) 101 Cal.App.5th 1003 is
misplaced.  Defendant misinterprets the
issue in that opinion, which is apparent from its first sentence: “When a party
seeks attorney fees as damages caused by an insurer’s breach of the
covenant of good faith and fair dealing under Brandt v. Superior Court
(1985) 37 Cal.3d 813, 819, 210 Cal.Rptr. 211, 693 P.2d 796 (Brandt), it
impliedly waives the attorney–client privilege with respect to” various
documents “that evidence the amount of its damages.”  (Id. at p. 1006, italics added.)  Brandt fees are an element of
compensatory damages, not an element of the costs of suit recovered by a
prevailing party.  Defendant presents no
authority that requesting attorney fees under a fee-shifting statute implicitly
waives attorney-client privilege.    
Moreover, the
retainer agreement will have little relevance to any fee recovery.  “In determining a reasonable attorney fee
award under fee-shifting statutes such as FEHA,” courts use the lodestar
method.  (Nichols v. City of Taft
(2007) 155 Cal.App.4th 1233, 1240.)  “
‘The reasonable market value of the attorney’s services is the measure of a
reasonable hourly rate … regardless of whether the attorneys claiming fees
charge nothing for their services, charge at below-market or discounted rates,
represent the client on a straight contingent fee basis, or are in-house
counsel.’ ”  (Chacon v. Litke
(2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 1234, 1260.)  The
lodestar method’s “objective standard is necessary because the litigation
adversary is not a party to the prevailing party’s attorney fee
agreement.”  (Pech v. Morgan
(2021) 61 Cal.App.5th 841, 854.)  
Defendant also
cites inapposite cases reviewing attorney fee awards and not addressing
discovery or attorney-client privilege. 
(Vines v. O’Reilly Auto Enterprises, LLC (2022) 74 Cal.App.5th
174, 184; Hanna v. Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC (2019) 36 Cal.App.5th 493, 509,
fn. 12 [not addressing issue because plaintiff “forfeited her argument that the
retainer agreement is privileged”]; Glaviano v Sacramento City Unified
School Dist. (2018) 22 Cal.App.5th 744.)
As for the
identity of the attorneys, defendant offers no explanation for how that is
reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.  Discovery must be “relevant to the subject
matter involved in the pending action or to the determination of any motion
made in that action, if the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or
appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2017.010.)  The subject matter of this action is
plaintiff’s employment, not her litigation of the action itself.  She has not moved for attorney fees.  She can only do so if and after she prevails
in this action.  Doing so would then require
her to present evidence identifying the attorneys who represented her.  
No. 10
            Defendant’s request No. 10 demands:
“DOCUMENTS and COMMUNICATIONS sufficient to show PLAINTIFF’S location while she
was working from home until the date she was terminated, including but not
limited to GPS data, location data from PLAINTIFF’S cell phone and all other
electronic devices, and video and audio from any security cameras PLAINTIFF
installed in her house.”  
Plaintiff made a
valid privacy objection.  “The party
asserting a privacy right must establish a legally protected privacy interest,
an objectively reasonable expectation of privacy in the given circumstances,
and a threatened intrusion that is serious.” 
(Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 552 (Williams).)  If the objecting party shows
all three elements, then the court must balance the need for disclosure against
the right to privacy.  (Ibid.)  The court must also consider “the
availability of alternatives and protective measures.”  (Id. at p. 556.)
First, plaintiff
establishes a protected privacy interest. 
“The state Constitution expressly grants Californians a right of
privacy.  [Citation.]  Protection of informational privacy is the
provision’s central concern.”  (Williams,
supra, 3 Cal.5th at p. 552.)  “ ‘Courts have frequently recognized that
individuals have a substantial interest in the privacy of their home.’ ”  (Life Technologies Corp. v. Superior Court
(2011) 197 Cal.App.4th 640, 653, disapproved on other grounds by Williams,
supra, 3 Cal.5th at p. 557, fn. 8.)  Request
No. 10 seeks extensive information about where plaintiff was for several
months, including video or audio recordings of her at her own home.  It invades her interest in informational
privacy.
Second, plaintiff has an objectively reasonable
expectation of privacy in these documents. 
That an employer permits an employee to work from home (or otherwise
work offsite) does not mean the employee gives up all expectations of privacy
in her whereabouts or in her home.    
Third, the threatened intrusion is extreme.  Defendant seeks extensive information about
plaintiff’s whereabouts, including “GPS data”, for several months.  This request amounts to retroactively tracking
plaintiff’s every move during working hours.
Defendant’s need for disclosure does not outweigh
plaintiff’s privacy rights.  Defendant contends
it needs this discovery to investigate the defense that it terminated plaintiff
for poor performance.  Plaintiff’s
physical location, however, is not directly related to her work
performance.  An employee who, while
working from home, never leaves the house can still perform badly.  And an employee who frequently leaves the
house can still perform well.  The issue
turns on whether she accomplished her job duties regardless of her physical
location.  If defendant terminated
plaintiff for poor performance, it must have had information reflecting her
performance at the time.  Accordingly, unless
defendant already knew plaintiff was not at home when she was supposed to be
working there, any after-acquired evidence of plaintiff’s absence from home would
be relevant only to limiting the appropriate period for plaintiff’s damages.  (Horne v. District Council 16 Internat.
Union of Painters & Allied Trades (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 524, 539-540.)  
Defendant relies on district court cases about
discovery of phone records.  Those cases
concerned only information about the timing of phone calls and messages, cell data
use, and cell site information (i.e., records available from a cell service
provider).  (Gallegos v. Atria
Management Company, LLC (C.D. Cal., Nov. 14, 2016, No. EDCV16888JGBSPX)
2016 WL 11824850, at *7; Kamalu v. Walmart Stores, Inc. (E.D. Cal., Aug.
15, 2013, No. 1:13-CV-00627-SAB) 2013 WL 4403903, at *2; Mintz v. Mark
Bartelstein & Associates, Inc. (C.D. Cal. 2012) 885 F.Supp.2d 987, 999.)  GPS data, among the other things requested in
No. 10, is far more detailed and private than the records considered in those
cases.   
Defendant proposes no method of mitigating the
intrusion other than the protective order entered in this case.  That is insufficient.  
This request is also objectionable for an additional
reason.  The request does not describe
the category of documents to be produced with reasonable particularity.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.030, subd.
(c)(1).)  Documents “sufficient to show”
plaintiff’s location could include a very broad range of documents, including,
for example, receipts from retailers, credit card bills, phone records, and
many other documents.  
No. 48
Request No. 48 demands: “Any and all COMMUNICATIONS
by PLAINTIFF on one hand and any PERSON from the time period beginning on and
including August 18, 2022 and ending on and including October 24, 2022.”  
Plaintiff made a valid privacy objection.  As with request No. 10, this request intrudes
on plaintiff’s right to informational privacy. 
Plaintiff has a reasonable expectation of privacy in her
communications.  The threatened intrusion
is serious.  Defendant does not just seek
records of when plaintiff made phone calls or sent text messages.  It seeks the content of all communications
for three months.  This request would require
producing, for example, every text message and voicemail plaintiff received
from friends and family, regardless of their content.  
As to its need for disclosure, defendant makes
arguments like those for request No. 10. 
The court rejects them for the same reasons.  Defendant has little need for these records.  Its interests do not outweigh plaintiff’s
interest in the privacy of her communications. 
Defendant again does not identify a sufficient way to mitigate the
intrusion.    
Plaintiff’s objections to requests for production
Nos. 2, 10, and 48 are sustained.
Sanctions
In her
opposition, plaintiff requests $4,500 in sanctions against defendant and its
counsel.  Code of Civil Procedure section
2031.310, subdivision (h) provides, “[T]he court shall impose a monetary
sanction … against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes” a motion to compel further responses to requests for production
“unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.”  
Defendant
unsuccessfully moved to compel further responses to requests for production.  It did not act with substantial
justification.  Requesting the documents
in Nos. 10 and 48 and filing this motion represents a substantial effort to
invade plaintiff’s privacy without a good enough reason.  Sanctions are just under the circumstances.   
Disposition
Defendant Gallery Department LLC’s motion to compel
further responses to requests for production is denied.  Defendant
Gallery Department LLC and its counsel of record, Sarah M. Matz, are ordered to pay plaintiff $4,500 in sanctions within 20
days.  Defendant and Matz are jointly and
severally liable for the sanctions.