  Case Number:  21STCV08319    Hearing Date:   April 26, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


April
  26, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV08319




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Strike




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Sandi Korsen 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Bailey Moore 



 
BACKGROUND
 
Defendant Sandi Korsen (“Defendant”) moves to strike Plaintiff Bailey
Moore’s (“Plaintiff”) request for punitive damages in the complaint. Plaintiff
alleges that Defendant struck Plaintiff with a motor vehicle while Plaintiff
was riding a bike. Plaintiff opposes and Defendant replies.
 
Defendant moves to strike the following portions of the complaint:
 
(1)
Paragraph 14a(2), found on page 3, in its entirety, including the words:
“punitive damages”; and (2) Any and all other allegations regarding and/or
referencing punitive and/or exemplary damages.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading may serve
and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1); Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1322, subd. (b).) “A
motion to strike any pleading must be filed ‘within the time allowed to respond
to a pleading’ –e.g., 30 days after service of the complaint or cross-complaint
unless extended by court order or stipulation.” (Weil & Brown, Cal.
Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2021) ¶ 7:159,
p. 7(I)-73; Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1); see also Fireman's Fund Ins.
Co. v. Sparks Construction, Inc. (2004) 114 Cal.App.4th 1135, 1147 [“motion to
strike must be filed within time to respond to pleading”].) “Unless extended by
stipulation or court order, defendant’s answer is due within 30 days after
service of the complaint.” (Weil & Brown, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil
Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2021) ¶ 6:386, p. 6-121; Code Civ.
Proc., § 412.20, subd. (a)(3); see also Sarracino v. Superior Court (1974) 13
Cal.3d 1, 8 [reasoning under Code of Civil Procedure section 412.20 subdivision
(a)(3), “[defendant] had 30 days after service in which to file a responsive
pleading”].)
 
California law authorizes a party’s motion to strike matter from an
opposing party’s pleading if it is irrelevant, false, or improper.  (Code
Civ. Proc. §§ 435; 436(a).)  Motions may also target pleadings or parts of
pleadings which are not filed or drawn in conformity with applicable laws,
rules or orders.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 436(b).)  A motion to strike is
used to address defects that appear on the face of a pleading or from
judicially noticed matter but that are not grounds for a demurrer.  (Pierson
v Sharp Memorial Hospital (1989) 216 Cal.App.3d 340, 342; see also City
& County of San Francisco v Strahlendorf (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1911,
1913 (motion may not be based on a party's declaration or factual
representations made by counsel in the motion papers).)  In particular, a
motion to strike can be used to attack the entire pleading or any part thereof
– in other words, a motion may target single words or phrases, unlike
demurrers.  (Warren v. Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Railway Co.
(1971) 19 Cal.App.3d 24, 40.)  
The
Code of Civil Procedure also authorizes the Court to act on its own initiative
to strike matters, empowering the Court to enter orders striking matter “at any
time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper.”  (Code Civ. Proc.
§ 436.) 
 
MEET AND
CONFER 
 
“Before filing a motion to strike . . .
the moving party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who filed the pleading that is subject to the motion to strike for the purpose
of determining if an agreement can be reached that resolves the objections to
be raised in the motion to strike.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd.
(a).)  If no agreement is reached, the moving party shall file and serve
with the motion to strike a declaration stating either: (1) the means by which
the parties met and conferred and that the parties did not reach an agreement,
or (2) that the party who filed the pleading failed to respond to the meet and
confer request or otherwise failed to meet and confer in good faith. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd. (a)(3).)  
 
Counsel for Defendant has provided the
proper declaration and exhibits describing her effort to meet and confer. (McNulty
Decl. ¶ 5.)    
 
OBJECTIONS
 
The Court declines to rule on Defendant’s evidentiary objections as
they have no effect on the ruling herein.
 
DISCUSSION
 
The complaint, which seeks punitive
damages, was filed on March 3, 2021. Defendant’s answer was filed on May 28,
2021. The instant motion to strike was not filed until March 29, 2024. The
Final Status Conference is May 6, 2024.
 
The Court agrees with Plaintiff
that the motion is untimely. Although Defendant argues that the Court should
exercise its discretion to rule on an untimely motion to strike sua sponte,
the Court declines to address the merits of this motion.
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court denies Defendant’s motion to strike.
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s order and file a proof
of service of such.
 