 Case Number:  21STCV36494    Hearing Date:   April 26, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


April
  26, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV36494




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Summary Judgment, or Alternatively, Summary Adjudication




MOVING PARTY:


Defendants Boulevard Investment Group, Inc. and Roscoe Etiwanda Medical, LLC




OPPOSING PARTY:


None



 
MOVING PAPERS
 
1.      Notice of Motion and Motion for Summary
Judgment or in the alternative, Summary Adjudication; Memorandum of Points and Authorities 
2.      Separate Statement of Undisputed Material
Facts
3.      Declaration of Randall Clement in Support 
4.      Compendium of Evidence in Support of Motion
 
OPPOSITION PAPERS
1.      None filed.
 
REPLY PAPERS
1.      None filed.
 
BACKGROUND
 
On October 4, 2021, Plaintiff
Nasrin A. Sarabi (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants Boulevard
Investment Group, Inc., City of Los Angeles, and Does 1 to 50 for negligence
and premises liability after allegedly falling on a lifted portion of sidewalk.
Plaintiff alleges this fall took place on February 16, 2020, at 18250 Roscoe
Boulevard, Northridge, California. (Complaint, 4.) On October 18, 2021,
Plaintiff filed an amendment to the complaint, substituting Roscoe Etiwanda
Medical, LLC, as Doe 1. On November 29, 2021, Boulevard Investment Group, Inc.
and Roscoe Etiwanda Medical, LLC (“Defendants”) filed an answer. Defendants
then filed a cross-complaint against City of Los Angeles (“City”). On December
8, 2021, City filed an answer and cross-complaint against Defendants. 
 
Defendants now move for
summary judgment, or in the alternative, summary adjudication, against
Plaintiff’s complaint and City’s cross-complaint, arguing they owed no duty to
Plaintiff since they did not own, control, or possess the sidewalk where the
injury occurred, and did not cause the injury. No opposition has been filed. 
 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
“[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion
that there is no triable issue of material fact and that he is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law[.] There is a triable issue of material fact if,
and only if, the evidence would allow a reasonable trier of fact to find the
underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion in accordance with
the applicable standard of proof.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  “[T]he party moving for summary judgment
bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the
nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of
production, he causes a shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a prima facie
showing of the existence of a triable issue of material fact.” (Ibid.;
Smith v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 1463, 1474
[summary judgment standards held by Aguilar apply to summary
adjudication motions].)  Further, in line
with Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co., “[o]n a motion for summary
adjudication, the trial court has no discretion to exercise.  If a triable issue of material fact exists as
to the challenged causes of action, the motion must be denied. If there is no triable
issue of fact, the motion must be granted.” (Fisherman's Wharf Bay Cruise
Corp. v. Superior Court (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 309, 320.)
 
“On a summary judgment motion, the
court must therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a
factfinder could reasonably draw from the evidence. While viewing the evidence
in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its primary function is to
identify issues rather than to determine issues.  Only when the inferences are indisputable may
the court decide the issues as a matter of law. If the evidence is in conflict,
the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” (Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co.
(1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839 [cleaned up].) 
Further, “the trial court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a
factfinder to determine whose version is more likely true.  Nor may the trial court grant summary
judgment based on the court's evaluation of credibility.” (Id. at p. 840
[cleaned up]; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of Transportation
(2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or
summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the
light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences
in favor of that party”].)            
 
DISCUSSION
 
Negligence and Premises Liability
The
elements of a cause of action for negligence are: (1) a duty on the part of
defendant toward plaintiff; (2) defendant’s breach of that duty; and (3) harm
to the plaintiff caused by that breach. (Kesner v. Superior Court (2016) 1 Cal.5th 1132, 1142.) The
elements of a cause of action for premises liability are the same as those for
negligence: duty, breach, causation, and damages. (McIntyre v. The Colonies-Pacific,
LLC (2014) 228
Cal.App.4th 664, 671.) 
Therefore,
to prevail on a claim for premises liability, Plaintiff must prove: (1)
defendant owned or controlled the subject property; (2) defendant was negligent
in the use or maintenance of the property; (3) plaintiff was harmed; and (4)
defendant’s negligence was a substantial factor in causing plaintiff’s harm.
(See Rowland v.
Christian (1968)
69 Cal.2d 108.) Liability in a premises liability action is based not on
responsibility for the conduct of others, but on the failure of the landowner
or occupier to act reasonably under the circumstances when he or she has reason
to anticipate the probability of injury and has an opportunity to prevent the
injury or warn of the peril. (Cody
F. v. Falleti (2001)
92 Cal.App.4th 1232, 1242.) 
a.      Duty
of Due Care
A
“general duty to maintain the property one owns or occupies [generally does not]
extend to abutting property that is owned by others – and, in particular, to
abutting property owned by public entities.” (Lopez v. City of Los
Angeles (2020) 55 Cal.App.5th 244, 255.) “That is because, for more than
150 years, the ‘general rule’ has been that, ‘in the absence of a statute[,] a
landowner is under no duty to maintain in a safe condition a public street’ or
‘sidewalk’ ‘abutting upon his property.’” (Id.)
“This general rule has one notable exception: A
person who owns or occupies land will owe a duty to maintain abutting, publicly
owned property in a reasonably safe condition if that person has ‘exercise[d]
control over th[at] property.’” (Lopez, 55 Cal.App.5th at 255.) An owner
of private property exerts control of abutting, publicly owned property either
“(1) when the owner or occupier has created that hazard [citation
omitted], or (2) if the hazard was created by a third party, when the owner or
occupier has ‘dramatically asserted’ dominion and control over the abutting
publicly owned property by effectively treating the property as its own.” (Id.
at 256 [emphasis in original, alteration omitted].)
Defendants argue they did not own, control, or
possess the sidewalk where Plaintiff fell. Defendants set forth the following facts:
-         
Defendant Roscoe Etiwanda Medical, LLC (“Etiwanda
Medical”) owns the building located at 18250 Roscoe Boulevard, Northridge,
California 91325 (“Property”). (UMF 1.) 
-         
Defendant Boulevard Investment Group, Inc. (“Boulevard
Investment”) has been the property manager for the Property from March 1, 2018
to the present. Hereinafter, Etiwanda Medical and Boulevard Investment may
sometimes be referred to collectively as “Defendant Moving Parties.” (UMF 3.) 
-         
There is a concrete sidewalk adjacent to the Property
on Roscoe Boulevard (“Subject Sidewalk”). (UMF 4.) 
-         
Plaintiff was shown [a photograph of the site of the
fall] and testified that the Black Asphalt that she tripped on is marked with
the yellow X. (See UMF 9.)
-         
Plaintiff further testified that the bad Black Asphalt
appeared the same on the day of the Incident as it does in the photographs
below. (UMF 10.) 
-         
Defendant Moving Parties retained the services of Chris
Nelson of Chris Nelson & Associates, Inc., a professional land surveyor
licensed in the State of California, who performed a land survey to establish
the City of Los Angeles right of way line and the boundary line of the Property
in order to determine the location of the Subject Sidewalk in relation to the
southerly right of way line of Roscoe Boulevard being the northerly boundary
line of the Property. (UMF 11.) 
-         
On August 16, 2022, Mr. Nelson conducted the land
survey and subsequently prepared the below map delineating the northerly
boundary line of the Property in relation to the Subject Sidewalk which
illustrates that the Subject Sidewalk and the location of the Incident occurred
within the City of Los Angeles right of way line, not within the boundary line
of the Property. (UMF 13.) 
-         
Defendant Moving Parties did not install the Black
Asphalt and did not maintain, repair, or otherwise exert any control over the
Subject Sidewalk owned by the City of Los Angeles at any time. (UMF 14.)
Here, Defendants have met their initial burden of
establishing no triable issue of fact. The facts presented show that
Plaintiff’s fall did not occur on Defendants’ property, but on abutting public
property. Defendants present evidence they did not create the alleged dangerous
condition (i.e. the asphalt on the sidewalk) and did not exert control over the
sidewalk. Therefore, the burden shifts to Plaintiff and/or City to establish a
triable issue of fact. Since no oppositions have been filed, they fail to meet
their burden. 
Therefore, the motion for summary judgment is granted.
Because the motion is granted, the Court declines to address Defendants’
argument surrounding causation.  
Defendants also seek summary judgment against
City’s cross-complaint. The cross-complaint contains causes of action for
indemnification, apportionment of fault, and declaratory relief. These causes
of action seek to hold Defendants responsible in whole or in part, for any
liability that may be imposed on City for Plaintiff’s injury. In light of the
Court’s ruling on the motion for summary judgment of Plaintiff’s underlying
complaint and the nature of the claims in the cross-complaint, Defendants have
met their burden in establishing no triable issue of fact on the
cross-complaint. (See Children's Hospital v. Sedgwick (1996) 45
Cal.App.4th 1780, 1787 [“As against the indemnitee, the indemnitor may invoke
any substantive defense to liability that is available against the injured
party. . . . ‘[I]f the evidence establishes that a defendant is not a
concurrent tortfeasor responsible in any way for the plaintiff's injuries,
another defendant may not pursue a claim for indemnity against that defendant.’
[Citation.]”].) City does not oppose this motion and fails to meet its burden.
Therefore, the motion for summary judgment as to City’s cross-complaint, is
granted.[1] 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Based on the foregoing, Defendants Boulevard Investment Group, Inc. and Roscoe Etiwanda Medical, LLC’s
Motion for Summary Judgment of Plaintiff’s complaint and City of Los Angeles’
cross-complaint is GRANTED. Defendants shall file and serve proposed judgments
within 10 days. 
 
            Defendants
shall give notice of this ruling and file a proof of service of such.
 
 


