 Case Number:  21STCV35489    Hearing Date:   April 26, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


April
  26, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV35489




MOTIONS:  


Petition
  for Minors Compromise 




MOVING PARTY:


Petitioner Karen Flores




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed
  



 
 
The Court has reviewed the petition
filed on February 15, 2024 by Petitioner Karen Flores  (Petitioner) on behalf of Claimant M.P., age 6. The Court denies the petition without
prejudice for the following reasons: 
 
Petitioner should label/organize all attachments using
the numbers specified in the petition. 
 
Petitioner must provide more details of the incident in
item 5. 
 
Petitioner asserts Claimant suffered an allergic
reaction. However, the declaration of counsel states that Claimant suffered
emotional injuries stemming from his mother’s hospitalization. (Hayden Decl. ¶
11.) Petitioner also indicates Claimant was not treated. This is contradicted
by counsel’s declaration stating that Claimant was treated by Kaiser
Permanente. (Id. ¶ 12.) Therefore, items and 6 and 7 must be amended. 
 
Also, since Petitioner asserts Claimant was injured and
is now recovered, Petitioner must provide medical records, a report, or other
evidence of Claimant’s injury and current condition in attachment 8.
 
Item 10c shows that the gross sum of $80,000 is offered
to all three plaintiffs. Petitioner must only provide the gross amount that
will be apportioned to Claimant. According to item 16a, the gross amount
appears to be $16,000. 
 
Petitioner must complete item 10b. 
 
Petitioner must not include Claimant’s settlement in item
11b(1) and 11b(5). These values should only reflect the gross settlement of
people other than Claimant. Also, the sum of the values in 11b(5) must equal
the value in 11b(1).  
 
 
Petitioner must include attachment 11b(6) explaining the reasons
for the apportionment between all three plaintiffs. 
 
Petitioner must provide a copy of the fee agreement with
Claimant in attachment 17a.
 
Petitioner must provide attachment 17e. 
 
Petitioner must include attachment 18b(3) with a
document form Pacific Life and Annuity Services containing the terms of the
annuity.  
 
Accordingly, the Court denies the petition without
prejudice.
 
Petitioner shall give notice and file a
proof of service of such.
 