 Case Number:  22STCV17326    Hearing Date:   April 26, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


April
  26, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV17326




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Judgment on the Pleadings   




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Long Beach Unified School
  District 




OPPOSING PARTY:


None
  



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On
May 25, 2022, Plaintiff Kysean Ferreira (“Plaintiff”), a minor through his
guardian ad litem, filed a complaint against Long Beach Unified School
District, Shayon Stamper Virginia Divers, Jason Heesch, Saul Hernandez, and
Does 1 to 20. 
 
On
June 1, 2022, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint (“FAC”). 
 
On
July 28, 2022, Long Beach Unified School District filed a notice
of removal to federal court. According to the federal court docket for this
case, the parties stipulated to dismiss Plaintiff’s federal cause of action and
Judge Josephine L. Staton ordered Plaintiff to file an amended pleading. (See
(Notice of Remand, filed 3/6/23, page 6.) On February 24, 2023, Plaintiff filed
a second amended complaint (“SAC”). 
 
On February 27, 2023, the action was remanded to the Superior Court.
(Notice of Remand, filed 3/6/23.) 
 
Long Beach Unified School District (“District”) now moves for judgment
on the pleadings against the third cause of action for a violation of the Unruh
Civil Rights Act. No opposition has been filed. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
The standard for ruling on a motion for judgment on the
pleadings is essentially the same as that applicable to a general demurrer,
that is, under the state of the pleadings, together with matters that may be
judicially noticed, it appears that a party is entitled to judgment as a matter
of law.  (Bezirdjian v. O'Reilly (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 316, 321-322,
citing Schabarum v. California Legislature (1998) 60 Cal.App.4th 1205, 1216.) 
Matters which are subject to mandatory judicial notice may be treated as part
of the complaint and may be considered without notice to the parties. Matters
which are subject to permissive judicial notice must be specified in the notice
of motion, the supporting points and authorities, or as the court otherwise
permits. (Id.) The motion may not be supported by extrinsic evidence. (Barker
v. Hull (1987) 191 Cal.App.3d 221, 236.) 
 
When the moving party is a defendant, he must demonstrate
either of the following exist:  
                                           
i.The court has no jurisdiction of the subject of the cause of
action alleged in the complaint.  
 
                                         
ii.The complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action against that defendant. (Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd.
(c)(1)(B)(i)-(ii).)   
 
“[I]n order for judicial
notice to support a motion for judgment on the pleadings by negating an express
allegation of the pleading, the notice must be of something that cannot
reasonably be controverted…The same is true of evidentiary admissions or
concessions.” (Columbia Casualty Co. v. Northwestern Nat. Ins. Co.
(1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 457, 468.)   
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
A
motion for judgment on the pleadings must be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration demonstrating an attempt to meet and confer in person or by
telephone, at least five days before the date a motion for judgment on the
pleadings is filed. (Code Civ. Proc., § 439.) Here, the Declaration of Amy A.
Evenstad states that she attempted to discuss this matter over the telephone
with Plaintiff’s counsel but was unable to do so. (Evenstad Decl. ¶ 5.)
District’s counsel also sent a meet and confer email but does not indicate if
Plaintiff responded. Nevertheless, “[a] determination by the court that the
meet and confer process was insufficient shall not be grounds to grant or deny
the motion for judgment on the pleadings.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 439(a)(4).) 
 
PRELIMINARY
MATTERS
 
As an initial matter, even though this motion was brought after 30
days from the initial trial date of November 22, 2023, the Court will permit
the motion.[1] 
 
Second, the Court notes that the operative SAC is not contained in the
instant Court’s record since it was filed when this action was in federal
court. Nevertheless, District provides a copy of the purported SAC attached to
this motion. Additionally, the case number located on the SAC matches the
federal court case number.  
 
JUDICIAL
NOTICE
 
The Court on its own takes judicial notice of Plaintiff’s second
amended complaint attached as Exhibit A, filed in federal court on February 24,
2023. (Evid. Code § 452(d).) 
 
DISCUSSION

 
            Here, District argues that third cause of action for a violation of the
Unruh Civil Rights Act fails to state a cause of action as a matter of law. 
 
The
Unruh Civil Rights Act states: “All
persons within the jurisdiction of this state are free and equal, and no matter
what their sex, race, color, religion, ancestry, national origin, disability,
medical condition, genetic information, marital status, sexual orientation, citizenship,
primary language, or immigration status are entitled to the full and equal
accommodations, advantages, facilities, privileges, or services in all business
establishments of every kind whatsoever.”  (Civ. Code, § 51, subd. (b);
see Civ. Code, § 52.).)  The essential elements of a cause of action for
the violation of the Unruh Act are: (1)
defendant denied, aided or incited a denial of, discriminated, or made a
distinction that denied full and equal accommodations, advantages, facilities,
privileges, or services to plaintiff; (2) a substantial motivating reason for
defendant’s conduct was its perception of plaintiff’s sex, race, color,
religion, ancestry, national origin, disability, medical condition, or other
actionable characteristic; (3) plaintiff was harmed; and (4) the defendant’s
conduct was a substantial factor in causing plaintiff’s harm.  (CACI
3060.) 
 
In
Brennon B. v. Superior Court, the Supreme Court of California reasoned
that “[t]he purpose and legislative history of the Unruh Civil Rights Act—and
its predecessor statute—make clear that the focus of the Act is the conduct of¿private
business establishments.” (Brennon B. v. Superior Court (2022) 13
Cal.5th 662, 675 [emphasis in original].) Therefore, the Unruh Civil Rights Act
only applies where an entity’s “activities reasonably could be found to
constitute a business establishment.” (Brennon B., supra, 13
Cal.5th at 678 [quoting Warfield v. Peninsula Golf & Country Club (1995)
10 Cal.4th 594, 615].) In Brennan B., the Court determined that a public
school district was not a “business establishment” under section 51(b). (Brennon
B., supra, 13 Cal.5th at 678, 684 [“While the phrase ‘all
business establishments of every kind whatsoever’ must be interpreted as
broadly as reasonably possible, its scope remains limited to entities acting as
private business establishments.”].)[2]
 
Here,
the SAC alleges that District “is a governmental entity, that
formed, controlled and administered the schools, administrators, teachers,
community services officers and other employees within the City of Long Beach,
California.” (SAC ¶ 2.) The SAC also alleges District is liable as a public
entity under Government Code section 815.6. (Id. ¶ 13.) Plaintiff does
not allege facts that District is a “business establishment” under the Unruh
Civil Rights Act. Given these allegations, and the holding of Brennan B.
discussed above, the third cause of action fails to state sufficient facts. 
 
Plaintiff has the burden to show that the pleading can be amended.
Since Plaintiff does not oppose, the motion for judgment on the pleadings is
granted without leave to amend. 
 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Defendant Long
Beach Unified School District’s motion
for judgment on the pleadings on Plaintiff’s third cause of action, is GRANTED
without leave to amend. 
 
Long Beach Unified School District shall give notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of service of
such.


