  Case Number:  20STCV08189    Hearing Date:   June 3, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
February 26, 2020, Plaintiff Jessica Darlene Navarro (“Plaintiff”) filed this
action against Defendants Honorio Orozco Trucking Inc. (“Trucking”), Percy
Maximo Rojas Huaraca (“Rojas”), and Does 1-50 for
negligence. 
On
August 20, 2020, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint against the same
defendants for negligence–common carrier. 
On
June 16, 2022, Plaintiff filed a second amended complaint against the same
defendants for negligence. 
On
July 18, 2022, Rojas filed an answer. On August 5, 2022, Trucking filed an
answer. 
On
December 22, 2023, Trucking filed a motion for summary judgment and/or summary
adjudication to be heard on March 15, 2024. 
On March 1, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition.  On March 8, 2024, Trucking filed a
reply.  The Court continued the hearing
to June 3, 2024. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for August 30, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Trucking
asks the Court to grant summary judgment and/or summary adjudication. 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to deny the motion. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.   Summary judgment and summary adjudication 
          “‘[F]rom commencement to conclusion, the party moving for
summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue
of material fact and that he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.’”  (LAOSD Asbestos Cases (2023) 87
Cal.App.5th 949, 945, quoting Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001)
25 Cal.4th 826, 850 (Aguilar).) “[T]he party moving for summary judgment
bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the
nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of
production, he causes a shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a
burden of production of his own to make a prima facie showing of the existence
of a triable issue of material fact.”  (Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 850.)  
          When the moving party is a defendant, it must show that the
plaintiff cannot establish at least one element of the cause of action.  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at
p. 853.) “The defendant has shown that the plaintiff cannot establish at least
one element of the cause of action by showing that the plaintiff does not
possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence.”  (Id. at p. 854.) The defendant must
“present evidence, and not simply point out that the plaintiff does not
possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence.”  (Ibid.) Thus, “the defendant must
‘support[ ]’ the ‘motion’ with evidence including ‘affidavits, declarations,
admissions, answers to interrogatories, depositions, and matters of which
judicial notice’ must or may ‘be taken.’ [Citation.] The defendant may, but
need not, present evidence that conclusively negates an element of the
plaintiff’s cause of action. The defendant may also present evidence that the
plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence—as
through admissions by the plaintiff following extensive discovery to the effect
that he has discovered nothing.”  (Id.
at p. 855, original emphasis.)  
          “Supporting and opposing affidavits or declarations . . .
shall set forth admissible evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (d).)
“Matters which would be excluded under the rules of evidence if proffered by a
witness in a trial as hearsay, conclusions or impermissible opinions, must be
disregarded in supporting affidavits.”  (Hayman
v. Block (1986) 176 Cal.App.3d 629, 639.) 
          In addition, a party moving for summary judgment or summary
adjudication must support the motion with “a separate statement setting forth
plainly and concisely all material facts which the moving party contends are
undisputed. Each of the material facts stated shall be followed by a reference
to the supporting evidence.” (Parkview Villas Assn. v. State Farm Fire &
Casualty Co. (2006) 133 Cal.App.4th 1197, 1209 (Parkview Villas),
quoting Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (b)(1) [motion for summary judgment];
see Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(2) [motion for summary adjudication
“shall proceed in all procedural respects as a motion for summary judgment”].)
The party opposing the motion must file with the opposition papers “a separate
statement that responds to each of the material facts contended by the moving
party to be undisputed, indicating whether the opposing party agrees or
disagrees that those facts are undisputed. The statement also shall set forth
plainly and concisely any other material facts that the opposing party contends
are disputed. Each material fact contended by the opposing party to be disputed
shall be followed by a reference to the supporting evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c, subd. (b)(3).)  If either party
fails to comply with the applicable separate statement requirement, that
failure may in the court’s discretion constitute a sufficient ground to decide
the motion adversely to the offending party. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subds.
(b)(1), (3).)   
          In ruling on the motion, the court must consider all the
evidence and all the inferences reasonably drawn from it and must view such
evidence and inferences in the light most favorable to the opposing party.  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at
p. 843.)  
B.   Negligent hiring and retention 
“‘An
employer may be liable to a third person for the employer's negligence in
hiring or retaining an employee who is incompetent or unfit. [Citation.]’”  (Phillips v. TLC Plumbing, Inc. (2009)
172 Cal.App.4th 1133, 1139, quoting Roman Catholic Bishop v. Superior Court (1996)
42 Cal.App.4th 1556, 1564–1565.) “‘Liability for negligent hiring . . . is
based upon the reasoning that if an enterprise hires individuals with
characteristics which might pose a danger to customers or other employees, the
enterprise should bear the loss caused by the wrongdoing of its incompetent or
unfit employees.’” (Ibid.) “Negligence liability will be imposed on an
employer if it “‘knew or should have known that hiring the employee created a
particular risk or hazard and that particular harm materializes.’” (Ibid.,
quoting Doe v. Capital Cities (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 1038, 1054.)  “‘Liability for negligent . . . retention of
an employee is one of direct liability for negligence, not vicarious liability.
[Citation.]’” (Id. at pp. 1139-1130, quoting Delfino v. Agilent
Technologies, Inc. (2006) 145 Cal.App.4th 790, 815.) 
C.   Negligent entrustment 
“A
claim that an employer was negligent in hiring or retaining an employee-driver
rarely differs in substance from a claim that an employer was negligent in
entrusting a vehicle to the employee. Awareness, constructive or actual, that a
person is unfit or incompetent to drive underlies a claim that an employer was
negligent in hiring or retaining that person as a driver. [Citation.] That same
awareness underlies a claim for negligent entrustment. [Citation.] In a typical
case . . . the two claims are functionally identical.”  (Diaz v. Carcamo (2011) 51 Cal.4th
1148, 1157.) 
D.   Vicarious liability 
“[A]
principal who personally engages in no misconduct may be vicariously liable for
the tortious act committed by an agent within the course and scope of the
agency. [Citation.] Agency is the relationship which results from the
manifestation of consent by one person to another that the other shall act on
his behalf and subject to his control, and consent by the other so to act . . .
.[Citation.]” (Barenborg v. Sigma Alpha Epsilon Fraternity (2019) 33
Cal.App.5th 70, 85.) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   Second amended complaint 
The second
amended complaint alleges the following facts: 
On
or about March 14, 2018, on the Interstate 5 freeway approximately 200 feet
south of Olympic Boulevard in Los Angeles County, Defendants negligently owned,
entrusted, managed, maintained, drove, and operated a 2012 Peterbilt tractor (“Defendants’
vehicle”) and a 2012 Mark Tanker (“Defendants’ trailer”), causing them to
collide with Plaintiff’s 2005 Chevrolet Cavalier (“Plaintiff’s vehicle”), injuring
and damaging Plaintiff. 
Defendants
were each others’ employees and agents or were acting at each others’
directions and acted within the scope of the employment or agency. 
Trucking
negligently hired, trained, supervised, and retained its employee and agent
Rojas and negligently provided and entrusted Defendants' vehicle and trailer to him, knowing that he
lacked the skill, training, experience, expertise and temperament to safely
operate the vehicle and trailer on a public roadway and was unfit to do so,
directly and proximately resulting in severe injuries and damages to Plaintiff. 
B.   Undisputed facts 
The accident
occurred on March 14, 2018, at or near I-5 Northbound near Olympic Boulevard in
Los Angeles County.  Plaintiff was
operating a passenger vehicle and Rojas was operating a tractor trailer on the
highway. 
Rojas
was paid by the trip, not on an hourly basis. 
He was paid only for completing a delivery.  Rojas was not paid for his drive home. 
C.   Vicarious liability 
Trucking
argues that it is entitled to summary judgment because Plaintiff does not possess,
and cannot reasonably obtain, evidence needed to establish that Trucking is vicariously
liability for Rojas’s alleged negligence. 
According to Trucking, it cannot be vicariously liable for Rojas’s
alleged negligence because the accident occurred after Rojas had completed a
delivery, stopped working for the day, and begun driving home.  As a result, Trucking contends, under the “coming
and going” rule, Rojas was not acting in the course and scope of his employment
when the accident took place.  To support
this argument, Trucking relies on evidence that Rojas was paid by the trip (not on an hourly basis), was paid only for
completing a delivery, and was not paid for his drive home.  Trucking has carried its initial burden on
summary judgment on the issue of vicarious liability, shifting the burden to
Plaintiff. 
Plaintiff
responds that three exceptions to the “coming and going” rule support her vicarious liability claim.  
1.    “Incidental benefit” 
First,
Plaintiff cites what she calls the “incidental benefit” exception, asserting
that Trucking derived incidental benefits from having Rojas drive Defendants’ vehicle
and trailer home.  In Savaikie v. Kaiser Foundation Hospitals (2020) 52 Cal.App.5th 223, 232, the Court of Appeal questioned
whether an incidental benefit to the employer provides an independent exception
to the going-and-coming rule or is merely a factor in determining whether the “required
vehicle” exception applies.  The required
vehicle exception involves the employer's requirement that the employee use the employee's own vehicle at work. 
Plaintiff asserts that several decisions “have
applied the required use exception to the going and coming rule, noting the
justification for the imposition of respondeat superior liability as the
incidental benefit the employer receives by requiring the employee to have
his or her own vehicle available at work
[citations].  Though these authorities
apply, it must be noted again that [Rojas] was not even using his own personal
vehicle for a trip home, but was rather transporting [Trucking’s] milk tanker
back to Tipton for use the following morning.” 
(Opposition pp. 8-9.) 
The
Court finds that what Plaintiff calls the “incidental benefit” exception is not
an independent exception to the coming and going rule.  It is part of the “required vehicle” (or "required use") exception, which does not apply here.  It
does not raise a triable issue of fact. 
2.    The “extraordinary transit” exception 
Plaintiff
argues that Rojas’s commute was not “the ordinary, local commute that marks the
daily transit of the mass of workers to and from their jobs,” which falls within
the coming and going rule.  (Opposition
p. 4, citing Zhu v. Workers’ Comp. Appeals Bd. (2017) 12 Cal.App.5th
1031, 1037.)  Instead, Plaintiff asserts,
“Rojas’ transit was an extraordinary transit that varies from the norm because
the employer requires a special, different transit insofar as the necessitation
for a specific vehicle, here, a milk tanker, to transport dairy products from
Tipton to Artesia.”  (Opposition p. 5.) 
Plaintiff
has presented no evidence to show that Rojas drove anything other than a
routine, if lengthy, commute from Tipton to Artesia.  He then took the vehicle back to Corcoran so
he could pick up the milk in Tipton, 20 minutes east of Corcoran, the next morning.  (See Rojas depo. pp. 59-60 [Plaintiff’s exh.
5].)  Plaintiff’s argument does not raise
a triable issue of fact. 
3.    The “enterprise liability” exception 
Plaintiff
argues that “where the question is one of vicarious liability, the inquiry
should be whether the risk was one ‘that may fairly be regarded as typical of
or broadly incidental’ to the enterprise undertaken by the employer.” (Opposition
p. 7, citing Farmers Ins. Group v. County of Santa Clara (1995) 11 Cal.4th
992, 1003.) 
Plaintiff’s
argument does not address the existence of an exception to the coming and going rule.  Plaintiff has not raised a triable issue of fact concerning that rule or concerning her vicarious liability claim.  
D.   Direct liability theories 
1.   
Negligent
hiring, retention, and entrustment 
Trucking
has presented evidence that Rojas applied to Trucking for a job, interviewed
with Trucking’s owner, and passed a drug and alcohol test.  (Orozco depo pp. 36, 38; Rojas depo pp. 32-33.)  Simplex ran Rojas’s background and license to
make sure there were no alerts.  (Orozco
depo pp. 37-38.)  Trucking knew that
Rojas was working as a driver for a competing company and “took that as his
driver’s test.”  (Orozco depo. p. 37.)  When Rojas began to work for Trucking,
Trucking’s foreman or owner initially rode along with Rojas.  (Rojas depo. pp. 32-33; Orozco depo pp. 36-37.)
 Trucking was not aware of Rojas being involved
in any collisions prior to the collision at issue in this case.  (Orozco depo p. 41.)  Rojas received one speeding ticket while he
worked for Trucking.  (Rojas depo. p.
34.) 
Based
on this evidence, Trucking has carried its initial burden of showing that
Plaintiff cannot prove that Trucking knew or should have known that hiring or
retaining Rojas or entrusting a vehicle to him created a particular risk of
harm to others, shifting the burden to Plaintiff. 
Plaintiff
has not responded to Trucking’s argument on this issue and has presented no
evidence showing that Trucking knew or should have known that hiring or
retaining Rojas or entrusting a vehicle to him created a particular risk of
harm to others.  Plaintiff has not
carried her burden of raising a triable issue of fact concerning her claims for
negligent hiring, retention, and entrustment. 
2.    Liability based on “driving” and “operating”
Defendants’ vehicle and trailer 
Trucking
has presented evidence that it was not driving or operating Defendants’ vehicle
or trailer at the time of the accident. 
(See UMF 4.)  Trucking has carried
its initial burden on summary judgment of showing it cannot be liable for
negligently driving or operating the vehicle and trailer, shifting the burden
to Plaintiff. 
Plaintiff
has not responded to Trucking’s argument on this issue and has presented no
evidence showing that Trucking drove or operated the vehicle or trailer.  Plaintiff has not raised a triable issue of
fact concerning her claims against Trucking based on negligent driving and operation of Defendant’s
vehicle and trailer. 
CONCLUSION 
          The Court GRANTS Defendant Honorio Orozco Trucking Inc.’s
motion for summary judgment. 
          Moving party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
          Moving party is ordered to file the proof of service of
this ruling with the Court within five days.