 Case Number:  23STCV07402    Hearing Date:   June 3, 2024    Dept:  28 Having  considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows.  BACKGROUND  A.   Previous proceedings  On  April 4, 2023, Plaintiffs Walter Cornejo, Marleny Cornejo, Rodolfo Escobar, and  Walden Cornejo, a minor by and through his guardian ad litem Jose Roberto  Cornejo, filed this action against Defendants Maria Elizabeth Beaucage, Gregory  Beaucage, and Does 1-10 for motor vehicle tort and general negligence.  On  August 7, 2023, Plaintiffs Walter Cornejo, Marleny Cornejo, Rodolfo Escobar,  and Walden Cornejo, a minor by and through his guardian ad litem Walter  Cornejo, filed a first amended complaint against Defendants Maria Elizabeth  Beaucage, Gregory Beaucage, and Does 1-10 for motor vehicle tort and general  negligence.  On  August 24, 2024, the Court appointed Walter Cornejo to serve as the guardian ad  litem of Plaintiff Walden Cornejo.  On  October 17, 2023, Defendants Maria Elizabeth Beaucage and Gregory Beaucage (“Defendants”)  filed a general denial to the original complaint.  On  May 31, 2024, the Court granted Ledezma Law, APLC’s motions to be relieved as  counsel for Plaintiffs Walter Cornejo, Rodolfo Escobar, and Walden Cornejo by  and through his guardian ad litem Walter Cornejo.  B.   This motion  On  May 9, 2024, Defendants filed a motion to  continue trial, to be heard on June 3, 2024.   Plaintiffs did not file an opposition.  However, Plaintiff Walter Cornejo appeared at the June 3, 2024 hearing and informed the Court that he wished to have the Court grant the motion. Trial  is currently scheduled for October 1, 2024.  PARTIES’ REQUESTS  Defendants  ask the Court to continue the trial to April 2025 and to order that related  dates be based on the new trial date.  LEGAL STANDARD  A.   Motion to continue trial  California  Rules of Court, rule 3.1332 provides:  “(a) Trial dates are firm  “To ensure the prompt disposition of civil cases, the  dates assigned for a trial are firm. All parties and their counsel must regard  the date set for trial as certain.  “(b) Motion or application  “A party seeking a continuance of the date set for  trial, whether contested or uncontested or stipulated to by the parties, must  make the request for a continuance by a noticed motion or an ex parte  application under the rules in chapter 4 of this division, with supporting  declarations. The party must make the motion or application as soon as  reasonably practical once the necessity for the continuance is discovered.  “(c) Grounds for continuance  “Although continuances of trials are disfavored, each  request for a continuance must be considered on its own merits. The court may  grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the  continuance. Circumstances that may indicate good cause include:  “(1)  The  unavailability of an essential lay or expert witness because of death, illness,  or other excusable circumstances;  “(2)  The  unavailability of a party because of death, illness, or other excusable  circumstances;  “(3)  The  unavailability of trial counsel because of death, illness, or other excusable  circumstances;  “(4)  The  substitution of trial counsel, but only where there is an affirmative showing  that the substitution is required in the interests of justice;  “(5)  The  addition of a new party if:  “(A)  The new  party has not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for  trial; or  “(B)  The other  parties have not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare  for trial in regard to the new party's involvement in the case;  “(6)  A party's  excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material  evidence despite diligent efforts; or  “(7)  A  significant, unanticipated change in the status of the case as a result of  which the case is not ready for trial.  “(d) Other factors to be considered  “In ruling on a motion or application for continuance,  the court must consider all the facts and circumstances that are relevant to  the determination. These may include:  “(1)  The  proximity of the trial date;  “(2)  Whether  there was any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to  any party;  “(3)  The length  of the continuance requested;  “(4)  The  availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the  motion or application for a continuance;  “(5)  The  prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance;  “(6)  If the  case is entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status  and whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay;  “(7)  The  court's calendar and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending  trials;  “(8)  Whether  trial counsel is engaged in another trial;  “(9)  Whether  all parties have stipulated to a continuance;  “(10)  Whether  the interests of justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the  matter, or by imposing conditions on the continuance; and  “(11)  Any other  fact or circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or  application.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule  3.1332.)  B.       Request  to continue or reopen discovery  Code of Civil Procedure section 2024.020 provides:  “(a) Except  as otherwise provided in this chapter, any party shall be entitled as a matter  of right to complete discovery proceedings on or before the 30th day, and to  have motions concerning discovery heard on or before the 15th day, before the  date initially set for the trial of the action.  “(b) Except  as provided in Section 2024.050, a continuance or postponement of the trial  date does not operate to reopen discovery proceedings.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.020.)  Code of Civil Procedure section 2024.050 provides:  “(a) On  motion of any party, the court may grant leave to complete discovery  proceedings, or to have a motion concerning discovery heard, closer to the  initial trial date, or to reopen discovery after a new trial date has been set.  This motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section  2016.040.  “(b) In  exercising its discretion to grant or deny this motion, the court shall take  into consideration any matter relevant to the leave requested, including, but  not limited to, the following:  “(1) The  necessity and the reasons for the discovery.  “(2) The  diligence or lack of diligence of the party seeking the discovery or the  hearing of a discovery motion, and the reasons that the discovery was not  completed or that the discovery motion was not heard earlier.  “(3) Any  likelihood that permitting the discovery or hearing the discovery motion will  prevent the case from going to trial on the date set, or otherwise interfere  with the trial calendar, or result in prejudice to any other party.  “(4) The  length of time that has elapsed between any date previously set, and the date  presently set, for the trial of the action.  “(c) The  court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section  2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or  opposes a motion to extend or to reopen discovery, unless it finds that the one  subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other  circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.050.)  Code of Civil Procedure section 2016.040 provides: “A  meet and confer declaration in support of a motion shall state facts showing a  reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue  presented by the motion.”  DISCUSSION  Defendants  ask the Court to continue the trial because (1) Plaintiffs did not appear for  their April 17, 2024 depositions, (2) Plaintiffs’ counsel did not respond to Defendants’  attempts to reschedule the depositions or propose new deposition dates, and (3)  Plaintiffs’ counsel has filed motions to be relieved as counsel.  As a result, Defendants do not expect the  case to be ready for trial on October 1, 2024.  As noted, Plaintiff Walter Cornejo appeared at the June 3, 2024 hearing and informed the Court that he wished to have the Court grant the motion. The Court finds good cause and grants the motion. CONCLUSION  The  Court GRANTS the motion to continue the trial filed by Defendants Maria  Elizabeth Beaucage and Gregory Beaucage.  The Court continues the trial to April 3, 2025 at 8:30 a.m. in Department 28 of the Spring Street Courthouse.  The Final Status Conference is March 20, 2025 at 10:00 a.m. in Department 28 of the Spring Street Courthouse.  Discovery and related dates will be based on the new trial date.  Moving  parties are ordered to give notice of this ruling.  Moving  parties are ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court  within five days.