 Case Number:  21STCV44260    Hearing Date:   June 3, 2024    Dept:  28 Having  considered the moving and opposition papers, the Court rules as follows.  BACKGROUND  On  December 3, 2021, Plaintiff Brionna Dreer (“Brionna Dreer”) filed this action  against Defendants Behrooz Rostam (“Rostam”), Black & White Car Rental, Burton  Way Investments LLC, and Does 1-100 for negligence and negligence per se.  On  February 25, 2022, Defendants Burton Way Investments, LLC, and Camzam Investments,  Inc., d.b.a. Black & White Car Rental, erroneously named and sued as Black  & White Car Rental, filed an answer and a cross-complaint against  Cross-Defendants Rostam and Roes 1-100 for breach of rental agreement, breach  of bailment, and negligence (property damage).   On September 26, 2022, Rostam filed an answer to the cross-complaint.  On  March 10, 2022, Rostam filed an answer to the complaint.  On September 26, 2022, Rostam filed a  cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants Burton Way Investments, LLC, Camzam  Investments, Inc., dba Black & White Car Rental, and Moes 1-100 for implied  indemnity, comparative contribution, total equitable indemnity, and declaratory  relief.  On  January 9, 2024, Plaintiff Michelle Dreer (“Plaintiff”), in her capacity as  personal representative of the Estate of Brionna Dreer, filed a first amended  complaint.  On  February 15, 2024, Rostam filed an answer to Plaintiff’s first amended  complaint.  On  March 13, 2024, Defendants Burton Way Investments, LLC, and Camzam Investments,  Inc., d.b.a. Black & White Car Rental, erroneously named and sued as Black &  White Car Rental (“Moving Defendants”) filed a demurrer to Plaintiff’s first  amended complaint and a motion to strike portions of the first amended  complaint.  The motions were set to be  heard on May 2, 2024.  On April 19, 2024,  Plaintiff filed oppositions.  The Court  continued the hearing to June 3, 2024.   Trial  is scheduled for November 22, 2024.  PARTIES’ REQUESTS  Moving  Defendants ask the Court (1) to sustain the demurrer to the second cause of  action for negligence per se and (2) to strike portions of the first amended  complaint.  Plaintiff agrees to strike the second cause of action for negligence per se and portions of the first amended complaint but objects to some of Moving Defendants' requests.  LEGAL STANDARD  A.   Demurrer  “The party against whom a complaint or cross-complaint  has been filed may object, by demurrer or answer as provided in Section 430.30,  to the pleading on any one or more of the following grounds:  “(a) The court has no jurisdiction of the subject  of the cause of action alleged in the pleading.  “(b) The person who filed the pleading does not  have the legal capacity to sue.  “(c) There is another action pending between the  same parties on the same cause of action.  “(d) There is a defect or misjoinder of parties.  “(e) The pleading does not state facts sufficient  to constitute a cause of action.  “(f) The pleading is uncertain. As used in this  subdivision, “uncertain” includes ambiguous and unintelligible.  “(g) In an action founded upon a contract, it  cannot be ascertained from the pleading whether the contract is written, is  oral, or is implied by conduct.  “(h) No certificate was filed as required by  Section 411.35.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10.)  In a  demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading  or by judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a) [“When any  ground for objection to a complaint, cross-complaint, or answer appears on the  face thereof, or from any matter of which the court is required to or may take  judicial notice, the objection on that ground may be taken by a demurrer to the  pleading”].)  B.   Motion to strike  “Any  party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading may serve and file a  notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof . . . .”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1).)  The Court may “[s]trike out any irrelevant,  false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 436,  subd. (a).)  “The grounds for a motion to  strike shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading of from any matter  of which the court is required to take judicial notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437, subd. (a).)  “In  order to survive a motion to strike an allegation of punitive damages, the  ultimate facts showing an entitlement to such relief must be pled by a  plaintiff.” Clauson v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.)   “In passing on the correctness of a  ruling on a motion to strike, judges read allegations of a pleading subject to  a motion to strike as a whole, all parts in their context, and assume their  truth.”  (Ibid.)  “In ruling on a motion to strike, courts do  not read allegations in isolation.”  (Ibid.)  C.   Code of Civil Procedure section 377.34  Code  of Civil Procedure section 377.34 provides in part:  “(a) In an action or proceeding by a decedent’s  personal representative or successor in interest on the decedent’s cause of  action, the damages recoverable are limited to the loss or damage that the  decedent sustained or incurred before death, including any penalties or  punitive or exemplary damages that the decedent would have been entitled to  recover had the decedent lived, and do not include damages for pain, suffering,  or disfigurement.  “(b) Notwithstanding subdivision (a), in an action or  proceeding by a decedent’s personal representative or successor in interest on  the decedent’s cause of action, the damages recoverable may include damages for  pain, suffering, or disfigurement if the action or proceeding was granted a  preference pursuant to Section 36 before January 1, 2022, or was filed on or  after January 1, 2022, and before January 1, 2026. . . .”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.34,  subds. (a), (b).)            “All decedent’s pecuniary damages incurred prior to death  (e.g., medical expenses and lost earnings), as well as punitive damages, are  recoverable; but the estate generally is not entitled to an award for decedent’s  pain, suffering or disfigurement” under Code of Civil Procedure section 377.34,  subdivision (a).  (Z. Haning et al., Cal.  Practice Guide: Personal Injury (Rutter 2023) ¶ 3:286, p. 3-52.)  DISCUSSION  A.   The first amended complaint  The  first amended complaint alleges the following:  On  or about December 7, 2019, Rostam was driving a 2018 Ferrari 360 Spider Ferrari  (“vehicle”) that he had rented from Defendant Black & White Car  Rental.  Defendant Burton Way  Investments, LLC, owned the vehicle.   Brionna Dreer was a passenger in the vehicle.  While  driving northbound on Pacific Coast Highway, near the intersection of Pacific  Coast Highway and Sunset Boulevard, Rostam drove at an excessive speed and lost  control of the vehicle, causing it to veer to the right, crash, flip and/or  roll over.  Brionna Dreer “was thrown  violently about and as a further result, sustained severe and permanent  personal injuries.”  Plaintiff  Michele Dreer brings the first amended complaint “in her capacity as the  personal representative of the Estate of Brionna Dreer . . . .”  (First amended complaint p. 1.)  B.   The motion to strike  Moving  Defendants ask the Court to strike from the first amended complaint allegations  concerning bodily injuries, pain, suffering, emotional distress, permanent  disabilities, and loss of future earnings and the prayer for general damages.  According to Moving Defendants, these damages  are no longer recoverable under Code of Civil Procedure section 377.34,  subdivision (a), which permits a decedent’s personal representative to recover damages  for “the loss or damage that the decedent sustained or incurred before death” but  bars the decedent’s personal representative from recovering “damages for pain,  suffering, or disfigurement.”  (See Code  Civ. Proc., § 377.34, subd. (a).)    Moving  Defendants also ask the Court to strike Plaintiff’s second cause of action for  negligence per se because it is not a separate cause of action.  In  response, Plaintiff agrees to strike the following portions of the first  amended complaint:  “1. Page 6-7, Paragraph 26, the portions that read: ‘and  Plaintiff alleges that she will thereby be prevented from attending said usual  occupation for a period in the future.’  “2. Pages 7-8, Paragraphs 27-33 (Plaintiff’s second  cause of action for negligence per se) in its entirety.  “3. Page 7 [sic], Paragraph 1 of the prayer for  relief, in its entirety, which states: ‘For general damages, according to  proof.’  “4. Page 7 [sic], Paragraph 6, the words ‘general  and’ ”  (Opposition p. 2.)  Plaintiff also agrees to strike the phrase “all  of which said injuries have caused and continue to cause Brionna great mental,  physical and emotional distress, pain and suffering” from paragraph 24 on page  6 of the first amended complaint.   (Opposition p. 3.)  Plaintiff objects to striking the sentence "As a direct and proximate result of the crash, BRIONNA suffered and sustained bodily injuries."  (Page 8, paragraph 33.)  However, this sentence is part of Plaintiff's second cause of action for negligence per se, which Plaintiff has agreed to strike.           Based on Code of Civil Procedure section 377.34 and the  parties’ contentions and admissions, and the Court strikes the following portions  of the first amended complaint:  1.     The phrase “all  of which said injuries have caused and continue to cause Brionna great mental,  physical and emotional distress, pain and suffering,” (Page 6, paragraph 24) 2.     The phrase “and  Plaintiff alleges that she will thereby be prevented from attending said usual  occupation for a period in the future” (Pages 6-7,  paragraph 26) 3.     Paragraphs 27-33  (the second cause of action for negligence per se) 4.     The phrase “For  general damages, according to proof” (Prayer for Relief, paragraph 1) 5.     The phrase “general  and” (Prayer for Relief, paragraph 6)  C.   The demurrer  In  light of the Court’s ruling on the motion to strike, Moving Defendants’  demurrer to the second cause of action for negligence per se is moot.  CONCLUSION  The Court GRANTS in part the motion to strike filed by  Defendants Burton Way Investments, LLC, and Camzam Investments,  Inc., d.b.a. Black & White Car Rental, erroneously named and sued as Black  & White Car Rental.  The Court  strikes the following portions of the first amended complaint without leave to  amend:  1.       The  phrase “all of which said injuries have caused and continue to cause Brionna  great mental, physical and emotional distress, pain and suffering,” (Page 6,  paragraph 24) 2.       The  phrase “and Plaintiff alleges that she will thereby be prevented from  attending said usual occupation for a period in the future” (Pages 6-7, paragraph 26) 3.       Paragraphs  27-33 (the second cause of action for negligence per se) 4.       The  phrase “For general damages, according to proof” (Prayer for Relief, paragraph  1) 5.       The  phrase “general and” (Prayer for Relief, paragraph 6)  In all other respects, the Court DENIES the motion to  strike.  The Court OVERRULES the demurrer as moot.  Moving  parties are ordered to give notice of this ruling.  Moving  parties are ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court  within five days.