  Case Number:  22STCV20267    Hearing Date:   January 23, 2024    Dept:  15 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE MOTION TO COMPEL
            On
December 26, 2023, Plaintiffs Nauricio Jesus Gonzalez Perez, Jaqueline Stefania
Gonzalez Perez, and Daniela Ossiris Gonzalez Perez filed a motion to compel
further responses to special interrogatories, requests for admission, and form
interrogatories from Defendant Jafra Cosmetics International, Inc..  The court rules as follows:
Special Interrogatories
            No.
1:  Granted.  This interrogatory asks who manufactured
Defendant’s talc products from 1970 to 2000. 
Defendant responded with a preliminary statement, which is not
permissible.  The preliminary statement
is stricken.  It also responded that it
does not know the identity of all of the manufacturers and named only two.  The response does not state that Defendant
made “a reasonable and good faith effort to obtain the information by inquiry
to other natural persons or organizations” as required by Code of Civil Procedure
section 2030.220, subdivision (c). 
Defendant is to provide an amended response without the preliminary
statement and confirming it made the efforts required under the CCP to obtain
the information.
Requests for Admissions
            Nos.
12, 16:  Denied.  These request for admission asked Defendant
to admit that its Adorisse Dusting Powder was designed to contain talc in 1970
through 2000, and there was no recall of that product.  Defendant responded with an improper
preliminary statement, which is stricken. 
Defendant stated it made a reasonable inquiry and does not have
information to admit or deny the requests. 
This response is proper.  If
Plaintiffs do not believe that Defendant conducted a reasonable inquiry, they
can take the deposition of the person verifying the response.
Form Interrogatory No. 17.1
            Responses
re RFA Nos. 3, 4, 10:  Granted.  These RFAs asked Defendant to admit it was never
informed the talc it used was free of asbestos, it does not know if the talc it
used contained asbestos, and it never tested Adorisse Dusting Powder for
asbestos.  Defendant responded with an
improper preliminary statement, which is stricken.  Defendant also responded that it used
manufacturers to make the products it sold, and it required the ingredients be
tested in accordance with regulatory standards including any talc for asbestos.  It did not identify any specific people with
knowledge of those facts, and it did not identify any specific documents, only
generic documents.  This answer is
deficient.  It does not identify specific
witnesses or specific documents.  Further,
the response does not state that Defendant made “a reasonable and good faith
effort to obtain the information by inquiry to other natural persons or
organizations.”
            Response
re RFA No. 12:  Granted.  This RFA asked Defendant to admit Adorisse
was designed to contain talc.  Defendant
responded with an improper preliminary statement, which is stricken.  Defendant also responded that it used
manufacturers to make the products it sold, the manufacturers chose the
ingredients, and it thinks talc was an ingredient.  It did not identify any specific people with
knowledge of those facts.  Regarding
documents, it stated “not applicable.” 
This answer is deficient.  It does
not identify specific witnesses.  If
there are no documents, Defendant needs to say so.  “Not applicable” is an improper
response.  Further, the response does not
state that Defendant made “a reasonable and good faith effort to obtain the
information by inquiry to other natural persons or organizations.”
            Response
re RFA No. 16:  Granted.  This RFA asked Defendant to admit Defendant
never recalled Adorisse.  Defendant
responded with an improper preliminary statement, which is stricken.  Defendant also responded that is not aware of
any recall.  It did not identify any
specific people with knowledge of those facts. 
Regarding documents, it stated “not applicable.”  This answer is deficient.  It does not identify specific witnesses.  If there are no documents, Defendant needs to
say so.  “Not applicable” is an improper
response.  Further, the response does not
state that Defendant made “a reasonable and good faith effort to obtain the
information by inquiry to other natural persons or organizations.”
            The
motion is GRANTED in part and DENIED in part Defendant is to serve supplemental
responses, as identified above, within thirty days of the date of this order.
            The
moving party is to give notice.