 Case Number:  22STCV22651    Hearing Date:   January 23, 2024    Dept:  15 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE MOTION TO QUASH
Plaintiff Marque Routh
alleges Mark Routh developed mesothelioma as a result of exposure to asbestos.  Defendant Chattem, Inc. filed a motion to
quash service of summons for lack of personal jurisdiction.  Plaintiff asked for jurisdictional discovery,
and so the court continued the hearing. 
Plaintiff and Defendant filed supplemental briefs.
A defendant may move to quash
service of summons on the ground of lack of jurisdiction of the court over the
defendant.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 418.10, subd.
(a)(1).)  The court may dismiss without prejudice
the complaint in whole, or as to that defendant, when dismissal is made pursuant
to Section 418.10.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 581,
subd. (h).)  “A court of this state may exercise
jurisdiction on any basis not inconsistent with the Constitution of this state or
of the United States.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 410.10.)  “The Due Process Clause protects
an individual’s liberty interest in not being subject to the binding judgments of
a forum with which he has established no meaningful ‘contacts, ties, or relations.’”  (Burger
King Corp. v. Rudzewicz (1985) 471 U.S. 462, 471-472.)  A state court may not exercise personal jurisdiction
over a party under circumstances that would offend “traditional notions of fair
play and substantial justice.”  (Asahi Metal Industry Co., Ltd., v. Superior Court
of California, Solano County (1987) 480 U.S. 102, 113.)  
When a defendant moves to
quash service of process on jurisdictional grounds, the plaintiff has the initial
burden of demonstrating facts justifying the exercise of jurisdiction.  (Jayone
Foods, Inc. v. Aekyung Industrial Co. Ltd. (2019) 31 Cal.App.5th 543, 553.)  Once facts showing minimum contacts with the forum
state are established, the defendant has the burden to demonstrate that the exercise
of jurisdiction would be unreasonable.  (Ibid.) 
“The plaintiff must provide specific evidentiary facts, through affidavits
and other authenticated documents, sufficient to allow the court to independently
conclude whether jurisdiction is appropriate. 
[Citation.]  The plaintiff cannot rely
on allegations in an unverified complaint or vague and conclusory assertions of
ultimate facts.  [Citation.]”  (Strasner
v. Touchstone Wireless Repair & Logistics, LP (2016) 5 Cal.App.5th 215,
222.)
A defendant is subject to
a state’s general jurisdiction if its contacts “are so continuance and
systematic as to render [it] essentially at home in the forum State.”  (Daimler AG v. Bauman (2014) 571 U.S.
117, 127.)  A nonresident defendant may be
subject to the specific jurisdiction of the forum “if the defendant has purposefully
availed himself or herself of forum benefits [citation], and the ‘controversy is
related to or “arises out of” a defendant’s contacts with the forum.’  [Citations.]” 
(Vons Companies, Inc. v. Seabest Foods,
Inc. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 434, 446.) 
This test does not require a “causal relationship between the
defendant’s in-state activity and the litigation.”  (Ford Motor Co. v. Montana Eighth Judicial
District Court (2021) 141 S.Ct. 1017, 1026.)  The “arise out” of standard “asks about
causation,” but “relate to” does not.  (Ibid.)  “[W]hen a corporation has ‘continuously and
deliberately exploited [a State’s] market, it must reasonably anticipate being
haled into [that State’s] court[s]’ to defend actions ‘based on’ products
causing injury there.”  (Id. at p.
1027.)  
Defendant provided
evidence that it is incorporated and headquartered in New Jersey.  (Zwarg Decl., ¶ 5.)  This evidence establishes California has no
general jurisdiction over Defendant.
            Regarding
specific jurisdiction, Defendant argues it has owned Gold Bond since April 10,
1996 and there are no allegations Routh used Gold Bond or any product from Defendant.  (Motion at p. 10.)  Defendant is correct that the complaint and
first amended complaint do not allege the product from Defendant that
supposedly exposed Routh to asbestos.
In opposition, Plaintiff
argues Routh used Gold Bond in California from the 1990s into the 2000s, when
Defendant owned the product.  (Opposition
at p. 1.)  Plaintiff filed a declaration stating she lived in the
same home as her father and she remembers her father using Gold Bond in
California from 1985 until 2011.  (Eyerly
Decl., Ex. 1 at ¶¶ 5-6.) 
            Defendant
says it has been trying to take Plaintiff’s deposition since November, but Plaintiff
refused to provide dates.  Defendant says
it needs to take Plaintiff’s deposition because her declaration conflicts with
the pleadings.              However, Defendant never noticed Plaintiff’s deposition.  A party has no obligation to appear for a
deposition unless the party has been served with a deposition notice.  And even if Defendant did serve a deposition
notice, Defendant did not file a motion to compel the deposition, even though
it had months to do so.  
            Defendant
says Plaintiff’s supplemental opposition was late because it was filed at 5:28
p.m. instead of by 5:00 p.m.  Defendant did
not show any prejudice caused by the missing 28 minutes.
            Defendant
argues that Plaintiff’s declaration is based on speculation.  That is not correct.  The declaration she remembers seeing her
father using God Bond in the home they shared. 
That is not based on speculation but her percipient knowledge.
            Defendant
states there is no connection between Plaintiff’s claims and Defendant’s
conduct in California.  Plaintiff has
shown that her father purchased and used Gold Bond in California during the
time Defendant owned Gold Bond.  Her
claims arise out of Defendant’s sales of Gold Bond in California.
            Defendant
did not show the exercise of jurisdiction is unreasonable.
            The
motion to quash is DENIED.
            The moving
parties are to give notice.