




            Defendant
Mi In Fashion, Inc.’s counsel – Chan Young Jeong – seeks to be relieved as
counsel of record. No opposition was filed.
 
            The
motion to be relieved is granted.   
 
Applicable Law 
 
            An attorney is entitled to withdraw
upon the consent of the client, or without that consent if approved by the
court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 284; Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21
Cal.App.4th 904, 915.) In the latter case, counsel must make a motion to be
relieved as attorney of record.  The
motion must be made using mandatory forms: Notice of Motion and Motion to be
Relieved as Counsel – Civil (MC-051), Declaration (MC-052), and Proposed Order
(MC-053). (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, subd. (a), (b), (e).) 
 
            The declaration accompanying the
motion to be relieved as counsel must state “in general terms and without
compromising the confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship why a
motion under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(2) is brought instead of
filing a consent under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(1).” (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1362, subd. (b).)
 
            The notice to the client must be
done by personal service, electronically, or mail. If it is done via mail under
Code of Civil Procedure section 1013, it must be accompanied by a declaration
confirming the service address to be the most current residence or that it is
the client’s last known address, and the attorney has been unable to locate a
more current address. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, subd. (d)(1)(A)-(B).) 
 
Discussion
 
            Here, Attorney Jeong has complied with the Rules of Court by filing all the
appropriate forms (MC-051, MC-052, and MC-053) for Defendant. He has also
submitted a supporting declaration providing an adequate explanation for why he
is moving to be relieved as counsel; he asserts that there are
irreconcilable differences as to the case strategies. Additionally, Form MC-052 indicates that notice was
provided to Defendant via mail and his client’s address was confirmed by email.
 
Lastly, trial in this matter has not yet been set, and the
next hearing is for a Case Management Conference, set for January 26, 2024. Further,
Attorney Jeong
represents that Defendant is
currently in the process of retaining new counsel. Thus, no prejudice will
result from granting this motion.      
 
Accordingly, the Court will grant the motion to be relieved
as counsel.  