

 
            This is principally
a Song-Beverly action. In July 2019, Plaintiffs
Raul Reyes, Sr. and Raul Reyes, Jr.
(Plaintiffs) purchased a 2019 Chevrolet Silverado (Vehicle). On January 23, 2023,
Plaintiffs sued Defendant General Motors, LLC (GM) alleging two breach of
warranty claims under Song-Beverly, and a cause of action for fraudulent
concealment. The Complaint alleged that GM was aware of and concealed a known
defect with the Vehicle’s 8-Speed Hydra-Matic transmission (Defective Transmission).

 
On April 21, 2023, Defendant GM demurred
to the third cause of action for fraudulent concealment in the Complaint. Defendant
GM also moved to strike the request for punitive damages in the Complaint. The
Court sustained the demurrer with leave to amend and determined the motion to
strike was moot. 
 
On July 14, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a
First Amended Complaint (FAC) alleging causes of action for breach of warranty
claims under Song-Beverly and a violation of the Consumers Legal Remedies Act
(CLRA; Civ. Code, § 1750, et seq.). 
 
Defendant GM now demurs to the third
cause of action for violation of the CLRA. GM also moves to strike the request
for punitive damages in the FAC. Plaintiffs filed an opposition to both the
demurrer and the motion to strike.[1]

 
            The Court sustains the demurrer without leave to amend. The motion to
strike is granted. 
 
Legal Standard for
Demurrers
 
A demurrer is an objection to a
pleading, the grounds for which are apparent from either the face of the
complaint or a matter of which the court may take judicial notice. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39
Cal.3d 311, 318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the
sufficiency of a pleading “by raising questions of law.” (Postley v.
Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a
pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be
liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) The court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as
admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions
or conclusions of fact or law . . . .” ’ ”  (Berkley v. Dowds
(2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) In applying these standards, the court
liberally construes the complaint to determine whether a cause of action has
been stated. (Picton v. Anderson Union High School Dist. (1996) 50
Cal.App.4th 726, 733.)
 
Meet and Confer Efforts:
 
            In opposition, Plaintiffs
argue that Defendant GM failed to comply with its meet and confer obligations under Code
of Civil Procedure section 430.41. 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section
430.41(a) provides as follows: “Before filing a demurrer pursuant to this
chapter, the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone
with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the
purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve
the objections to be raised in the demurrer.”
 
In its moving papers, GM submits the
declaration of Attorney Kay who states: 
 
“Before filing GM’s Demurrer and
Motion to Strike, this office attempted to meet and confer telephonically with
Plaintiffs’ counsel in an attempt to discuss the issues we had with Plaintiffs’
First Amended Complaint, but unfortunately, were unsuccessful in our attempts.
However, in my experience with Plaintiffs’ Counsel, the parties have never come
to an agreement on the issues outlined in GM’s moving papers and Counsel has
accordingly never dismissed a CLRA cause of action prior to hearing on GM’s
demurrer.” (Kay Decl., ¶ 2.) 
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs’ counsel
disputes this evidence and contends that no effort was made by GM to meet and
confer at all. (Norris Decl., ¶ 4.) 
 
The language in the Kay declaration
is notably vague. Further, no documentary evidence was submitted to
substantiate this declaration and demonstrate that some meet and confer effect
was made by GM. Finally, the reply does not address Plaintiffs’ opposition
challenge to GM’s meet and confer efforts. 
 
The evidence indicates Defendant GM
did not comply with its obligations under Code of Civil Procedure section
430.41. However,
contrary to the opposition, this failure does not provide a basis for the Court
to overrule the demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a)(4) [“A
determination by the court that the meet and confer process was insufficient
shall not be grounds to overrule or sustain a demurrer.”].) Rather, the Court
continued this matter for GM to comply with its statutory obligations under Code of
Civil Procedure section 430.41.  GM,
however, disregarded the Court’s order. 
GM failed to file a supplemental declaration demonstrating compliance
with Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41. The Court cautions GM against
further violations of court orders.  
 
Third
Cause of Action – Violation of the CLRA
 
            Defendant
GM argues the violation of the CLRA claim is barred by the applicable statute
of limitations and the FAC fails to allege facts sufficient to state a claim under
the CLRA.
 
            The CLRA
defines as unlawful certain “unfair methods of competition and unfair or
deceptive acts ... undertaken by any person in a transaction intended to result
or that results in the sale ... of goods or services to any consumer.” (Civ.
Code, § 1770, subd. (a).)
 
Although Plaintiffs have alleged a different
cause of action on the FAC than the fraudulent concealment claim that the Court
previously found barred under the statute of limitations and defectively pled,
the new claim for a violation of CLRA is based on identical fraud allegations and
suffers from similar defects. 
 
            The CLRA
claim is barred by the statute of limitations.
 
The Court first addresses the
statute of limitations argument. Defendant GM contends the Code of Civil
Procedure section 338, subdivision (d), applies to Plaintiffs’ statutory claim
for violation of the CLRA. (Code of Civ. Proc. § 338, subd. (d).) Based on this
three-year statute of limitations, Defendant argues the claim was complete and
the statute began to run on July 18, 2019 – the date Plaintiffs purchased the
Vehicle. (FAC ¶ 5.) Thus, to assert a CLRA claim based upon a fraudulent representations
and omissions (FAC ¶ 149), Plaintiffs had to file their claim no later than
July 18, 2022. Plaintiffs did not file their Complaint until January 23, 2023.
 
Defendant is correct that the CLRA claim
was complete as of the date of the purchase. That is, all the elements of the cause
of action were satisfied when Defendant’s alleged representations/omissions
resulted in Plaintiffs’ detrimental reliance and injury, caused by the purchase
of an allegedly defective vehicle. (FAC ¶ 5.) 
 
However, Plaintiffs allege that the statute
of limitations has been tolled because Plaintiffs could not have discovered the
existence of the Defective Transmission until shortly before this litigation
was commenced. (FAC ¶ 108; see also Compl., ¶ 84.) In support of this delayed discovery/tolling,
Plaintiffs allege that they presented the Vehicle to Defendant for repairs for,
among other things, the allegedly Defective Transmission, beginning less than
two weeks after purchase, on July 30, 2019. (FAC ¶ 35.) Another repair involving
the Defective Transmission occurred on September 19, 2022. (FAC ¶ 36.) After
this repair, Plaintiffs were told by “repair facility
authorized by Defendants” the issued had been corrected and the Vehicle was safe to
drive. (FAC ¶ 36.) Plaintiffs encountered another repair issue regarding the
Defective Transmission on November 21, 2022. (FAC ¶ 37.) After this repair,
Plaintiffs were told by “Defendants’ authorized service technician” that the
“Vehicle was then operating as intended and was safe to drive.” (FAC ¶ 37.) The
FAC alleges that the Plaintiffs continued to experience “the same” issues
caused by the Defective Transmission. (FAC ¶ 38.) 
 
Plaintiffs have failed adequately to
allege delayed discovery to overcome the statute of limitations. 
 
Plaintiffs
have the burden to allege facts showing delayed discovery. (Fox v. Ethicon
Endo-Surgery, Inc. (2005) 35 Cal.4th 797, 808 [“Where a claim alleged in a
complaint appears on its face to be barred by the applicable statute of
limitations, a plaintiff relying on the theory of delayed accrual must plead
facts supporting that theory.”]; see also Cansino v. Bank of America
(2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1462, 1472 [“The discovery-related facts should be
pleaded in detail to allow the court to determine whether the fraud should have
been discovered sooner”].)“As for the belated discovery, the complaint must
allege (1) when the fraud was discovered; (2) the circumstances under which it
was discovered; and (3) that the plaintiff was not at fault for failing to
discover it or had no actual or presumptive knowledge of facts sufficient to
put him on inquiry.” (Community Cause v. Boatwright (1981) 124
Cal.App.3d 888, 900–901 [applied to a fraudulent concealment cause of action].)
 
Here, Plaintiffs
argue that their new allegations in the FAC demonstrate that Plaintiffs
reasonably believed representations from authorized dealers that the Vehicle
had been repaired and “had no reason to doubt” the representations of repair.
(FAC ¶¶ 86, 102-103.) This argument is not well-taken. As noted above, days
after its purchase, the Vehicle began to experience transmission problems that
continued unabated throughout Plaintiffs’ ownership of the Vehicle. Plaintiff
cannot now allege around these facts by stating, in a conclusory manner, that
it was reasonable to believe the Vehicle had been repaired. Moreover, Plaintiffs had a duty to
investigate further once they were aware of facts that would make a
reasonably prudent person suspicious. (McCoy v. Gustafson (2009) 180
Cal.App.4th 56, 108.)
 
Plaintiffs
further argue that the date of discovery of their claim was delayed by GM’s “conceal[ment] from
Plaintiffs of the material fact that defective transmission had been plagued by
a dangerous defect that GM had knowledge of years before Plaintiffs purchased
the Vehicle.” (Opp. 8:26-28 [citing FAC ¶¶ 14-31, 32-40, 41-70.)
 
With respect to this argument, Plaintiffs
conflate the concealment allegations that support their CLRA claim – which
occurred before the injury – with their delayed discovery argument. This
argument fails for two reasons. First, this concealment argument fails in the
face of the numerous allegations regarding the Vehicle’s defective transmission
repair attempts; these allegations are adequate to put Plaintiffs on notice of
an issue to investigate. Second, as discussed below, GM had no duty to disclose
the alleged defect under the circumstances here. 
 
Based on the foregoing, Plaintiffs have
failed to allege facts showing the third cause of action is not barred by the
statute of limitations. Thus, the demurrer is sustained on this ground. 
 
            The FAC
also fails to allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action.
 
            Defendant
GM argues that the FAC does not state a claim because it does not allege fraud underlying
the CLRA with the requisite specificity and the allegations are insufficient to
demonstrate a duty to disclose. GM also argues that Plaintiffs failed to allege
compliance with the notice requirement under the CLRA. 
 
            First, with
respect to the notice requirement, the demurrer does not analyze this issue;
instead, the demurrer merely concludes that the third cause of action for violation
of the CLRA is barred by Plaintiff’s failure to provide proper notice, citing Civil
Code section 1782. The demurrer devotes exactly one sentence to this argument.
(Dem., 6:6-7.)
 
Strangely, the Opposition argues
that “GM has spent the entirety of its demurrer attacking Plaintiffs’ Third
cause of action for violation of the Consumer Legal Remedies Act (CLRA) on the
basis of Plaintiffs' alleged failure to comply with the notice requirement of
Civil Code § 1782(a).” 
 
In any case, the opposition argues Plaintiffs
are only seeking injunctive relief in the FAC – which does not require
compliance with the notice requirement – and points to an allegation that
notice was provided at the time of filing the FAC. (FAC ¶¶ 154-155.) Now,
having provided notice, Plaintiffs indicate they intend to file a second
amended complaint seeking damages under the CLRA. (Opp., 5:25.) As the reply
does not address notice, the Court deems the notice issue waived.
 
            Second with
respect to fraudulent representations underlying the CLRA claim, GM argues that
Plaintiffs did not identify when, where, or how GM misrepresented the source,
sponsorship, approval, or certification of Plaintiffs’ Vehicle; nor did
Plaintiffs allege facts showing that GM misrepresented anything about the
source, sponsorship, approval, or certification of the Silverado. 
 
            As a
preliminary matter, GM argues that fraud must be pled with the same particularity
as common law fraud but does not cite any legal authority on point. The reply
simply asserts the same without legal support. 
 
            In fact,
the law is to the contrary. A CLRA cause of action is subject to a pleading
standard that is “more lenient ... than [that] applied to common law fraud
claims” but more demanding than the “general rule” requiring that the complaint
merely “ ‘set forth the ultimate facts constituting the cause of action ....’
[Citation.]” (Gutierrez v. Carmax Auto Superstores California (2018) 19
Cal.App.5th 1234, 1260–1261.)
 
            Based on
the foregoing legal authority, Plaintiffs’ claim lacks the reasonable
particularity required to plead a cause of action for a violation of the CLRA.
That is, while the fraudulent misrepresentation underlying the CLRA claim need
not be pled as to the “who, what where, when, on what authority was the
representation made” level of specificity for fraud – some heightened specificity
is required. 
 
Plaintiffs apparently rely on the express
warranties as the fraudulent representation. (Opp., 10:19-22 [citing FAC ¶
152].) The express warranty may support a cause of action for breach of
contract, but it does not support a claim for fraud. (See Robinson
Helicopter Co., Inc. v. Dana Corp. (2004) 34 Cal.4th 979, 988 [“[T]he
economic loss rule provides: ‘ “ ‘[W]here a purchaser's expectations in a sale
are frustrated because the product he bought is not working properly, his
remedy is said to be in contract alone, for he has suffered only “economic”
losses.’ ” ' ... The economic loss rule requires a purchaser to recover in
contract for purely economic loss due to disappointed expectations, unless he
can demonstrate harm above and beyond a broken contractual promise. [Citation.]
Quite simply, the economic loss rule ‘prevent[s] the law of contract and the
law of tort from dissolving one into the other.’ [Citation.]”]; Food Safety
Net Services v. Eco Safe Systems USA, Inc. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 1118,
1130.)
 
            Further, the
FAC does not identify any specific representation by GM to Plaintiff as to the
Vehicle and/or the Vehicle’s Transmission that would support fraudulent conduct
by GM; the allegations are entirely vague. (FAC ¶ 150.)  Moreover, the allegations concerning subdivisions (a)(5), (7), (9),
and (14) of Civil Code section 1770 are mere conclusions of law that do not
survive demurrer: Plaintiffs simply restate the statutory provisions in their FAC
and provide no supporting allegations concerning the supposed representations
at issue. (FAC ¶ 149.) 
 
            Nor have Plaintiffs
alleged facts demonstrating a fraudulent omission to support the CLRA claim. 
 
In Gutierrez v. Carmax Auto Superstores
California (2018) 19 Cal.App.5th 1234, the court set forth the principles that (1) a failure to
disclose material facts can be actionable under the CRLA; (2) not every
omission or nondisclosure is actionable; and (3) in general terms, an omission
is actionable under the statute if the omitted fact (a) is contrary to a
material representation actually made by the defendant or (b) is a fact the
defendant was obligated to disclose. (Gutierrez, supra, at p. 1258.) 
 
In Gutierrez, the issue
presented was whether the defendant was obligated to disclose (i.e., had a duty
to disclose) a fact not known to the plaintiff. (Ibid.) The Gutierrez
court explained that prior case law had recognized four situations where a
failure to disclose a material fact constituted a deceptive practice actionable
under the CLRA: (1) the defendant has a fiduciary relationship with the
plaintiff; (2) “the defendant has exclusive knowledge of material facts not
known or reasonably accessible to the plaintiff”; (3) the defendant actively
conceals a material fact; and (4) “ ‘the defendant makes partial
representations that are misleading because some other material fact has not
been disclosed.’ ” (Gutierrez, supra, 19 Cal.App.5th at p. 1258.) 
 
Further, the California Supreme
Court “has described the necessary relationship giving rise to a duty to
disclose as a ‘transaction’ between the plaintiff and defendant ….” (Bigler-Engler
v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 276, 311; Warner Construction Corp. v.
City of Los Angeles (1970) 2 Cal.3d 285, 294 [“In transactions which do not
involve fiduciary or confidential relations”]; Hoffman v. 162 North Wolfe
LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 1178, 1187–89 [rejecting concealment claim where
plaintiffs “were not involved in a transaction with the parties they claim
defrauded them”]; LiMandri v. Judkins (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 326, 337 [“such a relationship can only
come into being as a result of some sort of transaction between the parties”].)
 
As the Court previously found on the
demurrer to the Complaint, the FAC fails to allege a transaction between GM and
Plaintiffs that gave rise to a duty to disclose assertedly unstated facts. Moreover,
the Opposition does not even address the duty to disclose. Thus, the demurrer
is also sustained for insufficiently pleaded facts.
 
Legal Standard for
Motions to Strike
 
            “The court may, upon a
motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon
terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter
inserted in any pleading. (b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an
order of the court.”¿(Code Civ. Proc., § 436.) “Immaterial” or “irrelevant”
matters include allegations not essential to the claim, allegations neither
pertinent to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or a demand for
judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the complaint.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 431.10, subds. (b)(1)-(3).)
 
Punitive Damages Allegations 
 
            Defendant
GM moves to strike the request for punitive damages in the FAC. Defendant
argues, based on its demurrer arguments, Plaintiffs lack a
viable claim to support the punitive damage request. Further, even with the CLRA
claim, GM argues the allegations in the FAC do not satisfy the statutory
standards required to seek punitive damages.
 
Punitive
damages are recoverable where the defendant has been guilty of oppression,
fraud, or malice, express or implied. (Civ. Code § 3294.) “Something more than
the mere commission of a tort is always required for punitive damages. There
must be circumstances of aggravation our outrage, such as spite or malice, or a
fraudulent or evil motive on the part of the defendant, or such a conscious and
deliberate disregard of the interests of others that his conduct may be called
willful or wanton.” (Taylor v. Superior
Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 894.) Specific intent to injure is not
necessary for a showing of malice—it is sufficient that the defendant’s conduct
was so “wanton or so reckless as to evince malice or conscious disregard of
others’ rights.” (McConnell v. Quinn (1925)
71 Cal. App. 671, 682.) 
 
A request
for punitive damages that is not supported with specific allegations of
oppression, fraud, or malice is subject to a motion to strike. Conclusory
allegations that defendants acted “willfully,” “maliciously,” or with
“oppression, fraud, or malice” are not, without more, sufficient to give rise
to a claim for punitive damages, but such language is permissible where the
complaint contains sufficient factual support for the conclusions. (Perkins v. Superior Court (1981) 117 Cal.App.3d
1, 6-7.) 
 
Based on the Court’s ruling on the demurrer
to the CLRA cause of action, there is no longer a cause of action in the FAC to
support a request for punitive damages. The motion to strike is granted. 
 
Plaintiffs’ Request for a Stay:
 
Finally, Plaintiffs request the
Court stay the hearing on the demurrer and all other proceedings in this action
while the California Supreme Court's decision in Rodriguez, et al. v. FCA
(2022) 77 Cal.App.5th 209, 215 remains pending. Plaintiffs describe the crucial
issue in Rodriguez as whether
“ ... a used vehicle that is still covered by the manufacturer's express
warranty a ‘new motor vehicle’ within the meaning of Civil Code section
1793.22, subdivision (e)(2).” (Opp., 14:22-24.) Plaintiff argues that a California
Supreme Court ruling in Rodriguez
may necessitate an amendment to Plaintiffs’ pleadings. 
 
The
Court declines to stay this matter. As this case does not involve the purchase
of used vehicle (FAC ¶ 6), it is unclear how a stay based on Rodriguez
furthers any interest in this case. Moreover,
the Court is not inclined to stay the matter where the timing of the resolution
of the California Supreme Court decision is unknown, and the Court is able to
rely on current case precedent to resolve the issues relevant to this case. 
 
Conclusion
 
The demurrer is sustained. The
motion to strike is granted.  Plaintiff
shall not have leave to amend. 


