  Case Number:  21STCV47266    Hearing Date:   September 17, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior
Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
71
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



TYRONE
  MURPHY,  
  
         vs.
 
MR. AND
  MRS. AMELIA SOROTRO, et al.


 Case No.: 
  21STCV47266
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  September 17, 2024



 
Plaintiff
Tyrone Murphy’s unopposed motion for
leave to amend his second amended complaint is denied, without prejudice.
 
Plaintiff Tyrone Murphy (“Murphy”) (“Plaintiff”)
moves unopposed to amend his second amended complaint (“SAC”).
 
Background
Plaintiff filed his initial Complaint on
December 29, 2021, against Mr. and Mrs. Amelia Sorotro (“Sorortro”) and AAA Car
Insurance. CA (“AAA”) (collectively, “Defendants”).  Plaintiff filed his first amended complaint
(“FAC”) on October 7, 2022.  Plaintiff
filed the operative SAC on November 2, 2022. 
Plaintiff filed an amendment to the SAC on November 7, 2022, correcting
the name of Defendant Sorotro to Mrs. Rosa Sortro (“Sortro”).
Plaintiff has attempted to file multiple
documents with this Court that have been rejected by the clerk on the basis the
filings are not written in the proper format required by California Rules of
Court, Rule 2.100.  Therefore,
Plaintiff’s rejected filings are not available to this Court.
 
Legal Standard
The California Rules of Court require documents
filed with the Court to be in the following format:
Rule
2.102. One-sided paper: When papers are not filed electronically, only one side
of each page may be used.
Rule
2.104. Font size; printing: Unless otherwise specified in these rules, all
papers filed must be prepared using a font size not smaller than 12 points. All
papers not filed electronically must be printed or typewritten or be prepared
by a photocopying or other duplication process that will produce clear and
permanent copies equally as legible as printing. 
Rule
2.111. Format of first page:
The
first page of each paper must be in the following form: 
(1)    In the space commencing 1 inch from the top
of the page with line 1, to the left of the center of the page, the name, office
address or, if none, residence address or mailing address (if different),
telephone number, fax number and e-mail address . . . of the party if he or she
is appearing in person. The inclusion of a fax number or e-mail address on any
document does not constitute consent to service by fax or e-mail unless
otherwise provided by law. 
(2)    In the first 2 inches of space between lines
1 and 7 to the right of the center of the page, a blank space for the use of
the clerk. 
(3)    On line 8, at or below 3 1/3 inches from the
top of the page, the title of the court. 
(4)    Below the title of the court, in the space to
the left of the center of the page, the title of the case. In the title of the
case on each initial complaint or cross-complaint, the name of each party must
commence on a separate line beginning at the left margin of the page. On any
subsequent pleading or paper, it is sufficient to provide a short title of the
case (1) stating the name of the first party on each side, with appropriate
indication of other parties . . .. 
(5)    To the right of and opposite the title, the
number of the case. 
(6)    Below the number of the case, the nature of
the paper and, on all complaints and petitions, the character of the action or
proceeding. In a case having multiple parties, any answer, response, or
opposition must specifically identify the complaining, propounding, or moving
party and the complaint, motion, or other matter being answered or opposed. 
(7)    Below the nature of the paper or the
character of the action or proceeding, the name of the judge and department, if
any, to which the case is assigned.  
 
Discussion
Plaintiff’s request before the Court was not
filed with the Court because the document Plaintiff attempted to file did not
meet the requirements stated in the California Rules of Court.  Plaintiff cannot submit to this Court
handwritten documents; Rule 2.104
requires all documents to be typed, not handwritten.  Additionally, this Court cannot accept
filings in the format of a letter.  
Plaintiff
is directed to Rule 2.111 for instructions on the format of the first page of a
filing with this Court.  Rule 2.111
requires the first page to include in the upper lefthand corner the name,
address, telephone number, fax number and e-mail address of the party.  Beneath this information, Plaintiff is
directed to include a case caption as described in Rule 2.111 subsections (3)
to (7).
Plaintiff’s
motion at issue today failed to include these requirements and was rejected by
the clerk.  Therefore, the Court cannot
rule on Plaintiff’s request and any such request must be denied, without
prejudice.
 
Conclusion
Plaintiff’s unopposed motion for leave
to file a second amended complaint is denied, without prejudice.   
Moving Party to give notice.
 
Dated: 
September _____, 2024
                                                                                     





  