 Case Number:  23NWCV00971    Hearing Date:   September 17, 2024    Dept:  C Maria Garcia vs Los Angeles
County Metropolitan Transportation Authority et al.
Case No.: 23NWCV00971
Hearing Date: September 17, 2024 @ 9:30 a.m. 
 
#3
Tentative Ruling 
I.            
Plaintiff Maria Garcia’s Motion to Compel
Deposition of Defendant Ronnie Crockett is DENIED. 
II.           
Plaintiff Maria Garcia’s Motion to Compel
Deposition of Defendant Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation
Authority is GRANTED.
III.         
Sanctions are awarded in the reduced
amount of $1,500.00. 
Plaintiff to give notice. 
 
Background 
This lawsuit involves an accident in which Plaintiff, a
pedestrian, lost consciousness while attempting to board a city bus. Maria
Garcia (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Defendant Los Angeles County
Metropolitan Transportation Authority (LACMTA) and Defendant Ronnie Crockett (“Crockett”)
for General Negligence. 
Plaintiff moves to compel the depositions of Crockett and
LACMTA’s person most qualified, and responses to request for production of
documents pursuant to CCP § 2025.450.
Legal Standard 
Any party may obtain discovery, subject to restrictions, by taking
the oral deposition of any person, including any party to the action. (Code
Civ. Proc., section 2025.010.) If the deponent named in a deposition notice is
not a natural person, the deponent shall designate and produce at the
deposition those of its officers, directors, managing agents, employees, or
agents who are most qualified to testify on its behalf as to those matters to
the extent of any information known or reasonably available to the deponent.
(Code Civ. Proc., section 2025.230.)“If, after service of a deposition notice,
a party to the action … without having served a valid objection … fails to
appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any
document, … described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may
move for an order compelling the deponent's attendance and testimony, and the
production for inspection of any document … described in the deposition
notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., section 2025.450, subd. (a).)   
 
Discussion 
On May
2, 2023, Plaintiff noticed the deposition of LACMTA’s person most qualified. (Benji
Decl., ¶ 5.) The deposition was to take place on June 7, 2023. (Ibid.) On June 6, 2023,
Defense Counsel responded to the Notice of Deposition via email and requested
new deposition dates “at least two months from now.” (Id., ¶ 6.) The same day,
Plaintiff’s Counsel requested Defendant’s availability for depositions, but
received no dates in response. (Ibid.) Plaintiff sent another notice of deposition on
December 6, 2023, with a proposed deposition date of January 26, 2024. (Id., ¶ 6.) On January 23,
2024, Defendant’s Counsel objected to Plaintiff’s notice of deposition, stating
that Plaintiff scheduled the deposition without conferring with Defendant’s
Counsel. (Id., ¶
7.) On January 31, 2024, Plaintiff’s Counsel sent a meet and confer letter
requesting deposition dates by February 12, 2024, but received no response. (Id., ¶ 8.) On March 5, 2024,
Plaintiff’s Counsel requested deposition dates by March 15, 2024, but received
no response. (Benji Decl, ¶ 9.) Plaintiff filed the instant motions on April
19, 2024.  
Defendant Ronnie Crockett
Crockett argues that the motion to compel his deposition is
unfounded because he already appeared for deposition on June 26, 2024. (Wyatt
Decl., ¶ 4, Separate Statement in Opposition pg. 2:17-18.) Plaintiff does not
contend otherwise.
In her Request for Production of Documents at Deposition,
Plaintiff requested, “ALL DOCUMENTS DEFENDANT reviewed in preparation for this
deposition.” Crockett responded, “Defendant Crockett will comply with this
demand by producing any document which he reviewed in preparation for his
deposition.”  Crockett asserts he did not
review any documents in preparation for his deposition, therefore there were no
documents to produce. (Crockett Depo., pp. 25:13-26:4.) 
The Court does not consider Plaintiff’s arguments
pertaining to her other requests for discovery because they are not at issue
here.  
The motion to compel deposition of Defendant Ronne Crocket
and Responses to Request for Production of Documents is DENIED.
LACMTA’s Person Most
Qualified 
LACMTA concedes that it has not responded to attempts to
depose LACMTA’s person most knowledgeable.  LACMTA contends that the communications were
overlooked, and that Plaintiff should have done more to put them on notice of
the pending deposition.  The Court finds
that Plaintiff’s counsel acted diligently in attempting to schedule the
deposition.  
The motion to compel the deposition of LACMTA’s Person Most
Qualified is GRANTED.  The deposition shall
occur within 45 days absent an agreement by the parties to a longer
period.  
If a motion to compel deposition is granted, sanctions are
mandatory in favor of the party who noticed the deposition and against the
deponent or the party with whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the court
finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification
or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code
Civ. Proc., section 2025.450, subd. (g)(1).) 
Plaintiff requests sanctions in the amount of $6,810.00
(calculated at 9.0 hours at a rate of $750.00 per hour.) The Court finds the
$750.00 hourly rate to be excessive and the motion to be non-complex.  Sanctions are awarded in the reasonable sum
of amount of $1,500.00 against Defendant LACMTA and Counsel, jointly and
severally, payable within 60 days.  