  Case Number:  22NWCV00876    Hearing Date:   September 17, 2024    Dept:  C ROMO v. SOTO, ET AL.
CASE NO.: 22NWCV00876
HEARING: 9/17/24 @ 9:30 A.M.
 
#1
Tentative Ruling
Defendant Juan Soto’s motion to dismiss is
DENIED.
Plaintiff to give notice.
 
This is a trademark infringement action filed by Plaintiff
John A. Romo (“Plaintiff”) on September 26, 2022.  Defendant in Pro Per Juan Soto (“Defendant”) moves
to dismiss the action on various grounds, including delayed prosecution,
violation of the Rules of Professional Conduct, and lack of personal service of
summons.  
The Court denied Defendant’s first motion to dismiss on
April 17, 2024.  
CCP § 583.410
Defendant moves to dismiss for delayed prosecution under
CCP § 583.410, which states in relevant part:
“The court may in its
discretion dismiss an action for delay in prosecution pursuant to this article
on its own motion or on motion of the defendant if to do so appears to the
court appropriate under the circumstances of the case.” (CCP § 583.410, subd.
(a).)
Furthermore, “[t]he summons and complaint shall be served
upon a defendant within three years after the action is commenced against the
defendant. For the purpose of this subdivision, an action is commenced at the
time the complaint is filed.” (CCP § 583.210.)
This lawsuit was filed on September 26, 2022.  The First Amended Complaint was filed on
August 8, 2023.  Defendant filed an
Answer on February 16, 2024.  Because the
Answer does not raise a jurisdictional objection, it constitutes a general
appearance. (Fireman’s Fund Ins. Co. v. Sparks Const. Inc. (2004) 114
Cal.App.4th 1135, 1145.) “A general appearance by a party is
equivalent to personal service of summons on such party.” (CCP § 410.50, subd.
(a).)  Thus, Defendant’s delayed
prosecution argument fails because he is deemed to have made a general
appearance within the time period set forth in CCP § 583.210.
 
The motion to dismiss is not granted on this basis of
delayed prosecution.  
CCP § 128.7
In his moving papers, Defendant cites CCP § 128.7, subd.
(b), which states:
“(b) By presenting to the court, whether by signing,
filing, submitting, or later advocating, a pleading, petition, written notice
of motion, or other similar paper, an attorney or unrepresented party is
certifying that to the best of the person’s knowledge, information, and belief,
formed after an inquiry reasonable under the circumstances, all of the
following conditions are met: (1) It is not being presented primarily for an
improper purpose, such as to harass or to cause unnecessary delay or needless
increase in the cost of litigation; (2) The claims, defenses, and other legal
contentions therein are warranted by existing law or by a nonfrivolous argument
for the extension, modification, or reversal of existing law or the
establishment of new law; (3) The allegations and other factual contentions
have evidentiary support or, if specifically so identified, are likely to have
evidentiary support after a reasonable opportunity for further investigation or
discovery; (4) The denials of factual contentions are warranted on the evidence
or, if specifically so identified, are reasonably based on a lack of
information or belief.”
Here, Defendant fails to demonstrate how CCP § 128.7(b)
supports his motion to dismiss.  “Where a
point is merely asserted by counsel without any argument of or authority for
its proposition, it is deemed to be without foundation and requires no
discussion.'" (People v. Dougherty (1982) 138 Cal.App.3d 278, 282.)

Thus, the motion to dismiss is not granted on this basis.
Rules of Professional Conduct, Rule 3.1
Defendant also cites the Rules of Professional Conduct,
Rule 3.1, (Meritorious Claims and Contentions) which states in relevant part:
“(a) A lawyer shall not: (1) bring or continue an action,
conduct a defense, assert a position in litigation, or take an appeal, without
probable cause and for the purpose of harassing or maliciously injuring any
person; or (2) present a claim or defense in litigation that is not warranted
under existing law, unless it can be supported by a good faith argument for an
extension, modification, or reversal of the existing law.”
However, Defendant fails to demonstrate how Rule 3.1 was
violated, or that Rule 3.1 an independent basis for dismissing a lawsuit.  
Thus, the motion to dismiss is not granted on this basis.
CCP § 583.420
Defendant argues he has never been served in this matter,
so it should be dismissed under CCP § 583.420, subd. (a)(1).  This section states: “(a) The court may not
dismiss an action pursuant to this article for delay in prosecution except
after one of the following conditions has occurred: (1) Service is not made
within two years after the action is commenced against the defendant.” 
For the reasons stated above, Defendant’s argument fails
because he has made a general appearance. 
Thus, the motion to dismiss is not granted on this basis.
Defendant’s remaining contentions are not supported by any
legal authority.  As such, the Court does
not consider them.
 
Accordingly, the Motion to Dismiss is DENIED.  