 Case Number:  23NWCV01508    Hearing Date:   September 17, 2024    Dept:  C Daniel Decker vs Ford Motor
Company, et al.
Case No.: 23NWCV01508
Hearing Date: September 17, 2024 @ 9:30 a.m. 
 
#4
Tentative Ruling 
Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to file a First
Amended Complaint is GRANTED.  The First
Amended Complaint submitted with the motion is not deemed filed as of this
date.  Plaintiff to file and serve the
First Amended Complaint within 5 days.  
Plaintiff to give notice. 
 
Background 
This lemon law action involves the purchase of a 2019 Ford
F-150.  On May 16, 2023, Plaintiff Daniel
Decker (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Defendants Ford Motor Company
and DWWVF, Inc. dba Villa Ford of Orange (collectively “Defendants”) alleging
causes of action for: (1) Violation of the Song-Beverly Act—Breach of Express
Warranty; and (2) Negligent Repair. 
Plaintiff moves to amend the complaint to add a cause of
action for fraudulent concealment and a prayer for punitive damages. Plaintiff
has attached a corrected copy of the proposed First Amended Complaint. 
Legal
Standard 
 
CRC, rule 3.1324(a) provides: 
(a) Contents of motion 
 
A motion to amend a
pleading before trial must: 
 
(1) Include a copy of
the proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to
differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments; 
(2) State what
allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and
where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the deleted allegations are
located; and 
(3) State what
allegations are proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if any, and
where, by page, paragraph, and line number, 
the additional
allegations are located.
 
(b) Supporting declaration 
 
A separate declaration
must accompany the motion and must specify: 
(1) The effect of the
amendment; 
(2) Why the amendment
is necessary and proper; 
(3) When the facts
giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and 
(4) The reasons why the
request for amendment was not made earlier. 
 
“While
a motion to permit an amendment to a pleading to be filed is one addressed to
the discretion of the court, the exercise of this discretion must be sound and
reasonable and not arbitrary or capricious. (Citation.) And it is a rare case
in which ‘a court will be justified in refusing a party leave to amend his
pleadings so that he may properly present his case.’ (Citation.) If the motion
to amend is timely made and the granting of the motion will not prejudice the
opposing party, it is error to refuse permission to amend and where the refusal
also results in a party being deprived of the right to assert a meritorious
cause of action or a meritorious defense, it is not only error but an abuse of
discretion.” (Morgan v. Superior Court of Cal. In and For Los Angeles County
(1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530.)  
 
Discussion 
Defendants argue that Plaintiff has failed to fulfil the
procedural requirements of Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(a), because
Plaintiff has not specified when the facts giving rise to the amended
allegations were discovered and the reason why the request for amendment was
not made earlier.  Defendants point out
that the original Complaint was filed on May 16, 2023, but the instant motion
was not filed until April 19, 2024, eleven months later.  
Given that only one deposition has taken place to date
(Defendant’s PMK on July 31, 2024), the case was filed less than 1 ½ years ago,
and the liberality in allowing amendments, the Court will allow the
amendment.  
The motion for leave to file a First Amended Complaint is
GRANTED.  Plaintiff to file and serve the
First Amended Complaint within 5 days.  
 