  Case Number:  23CMCV01878    Hearing Date:   April 9, 2024    Dept:  A 
23CMCV01878
 Donyeal Griffin-Ware v. Ford Motor Company, et al.
Tuesday,
 April 9, 2024 at 8:30 a.m.
 
[TENTATIVE]
ORDER OVERRULING DEMURRER TO PLAINTIFF’S COMPLAINT IN PART AND SUSTAINING IN
PART 
 
I.       
BACKGROUND
       The complaint alleges that Defendant, Ford
Motor Company (“Ford” or “Defendant”) issued a written warranty in connection
with Plaintiff’s purchase of a 2018 Lincoln Navigator from Defendant, Santa
Monica Ford Lincoln (“Santa Monica”). The vehicle allegedly developed
transmission and other defects, of which Ford had exclusive knowledge. Ford
allegedly failed to repair or replace the vehicle. Among other causes of
action, Plaintiff alleges claims for violations under the Song-Beverly Consumer
Warranty Act (“SBA”), violation of the Magnuson-Moss Warranty Act, negligent
repair against Santa Monica (fifth cause of action), and fraudulent inducement --concealment
against Ford (seventh cause of action).
I.       
ARGUMENTS
       Defendants, Ford and Santa Monica,
collectively demurrer to the fifth cause of action for negligent repair against
Santa Monica and the seventh cause of action for fraudulent inducement -- concealment
against Ford. Defendants contend that both claims are barred by the economic
loss rule. The fraud claim requires a duty owed by Ford not to disclose and
must be alleged with specificity. The complaint does not allege facts to support
the elements of each claim. Plaintiff did not allege direct dealings with Ford that
would give rise to a duty to disclose. The claim is not alleged with
specificity. The parties have not resolved their differences despite efforts to
meet and confer.
       In opposition, Plaintiff argues that the
specificity ordinarily required in alleging a claim for fraudulent
misrepresentation does not apply to a claim for concealment. The alleged facts
exceed the requirements for specificity. Plaintiff alleged a transactional
relationship with Ford since Ford issued a warranty contract to Plaintiff. The
exact nature of this relationship is a matter of proof, not pleading. The
economic loss rule does not apply to bar either claim. 
       In reply, Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s
opposition relies on “dubious authority,” and fails to address the multiple
deficiencies identified. The alleged facts are insufficient to support both
claims.
II.      LEGAL
STANDARDS
       A
demurrer tests the sufficiency of a complaint as a matter of law and raises
only questions of law. (Schmidt
v. Foundation Health (1995) 35
Cal.App.4th 1702, 1706.) The court must assume the truth of (1) the properly
pleaded factual allegations; (2) facts that can be reasonably inferred from
those expressly pleaded; and (3) judicially noticed matters. (Blank v. Kirwan
(1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) The court may not consider contentions, deductions, or conclusions of
fact or law. (Moore
v. Conliffe (1994) 7 Cal.4th
634, 638.)
       Plaintiff
must allege facts sufficient to establish every element of each cause of
action. (Rakestraw
v. California Physicians Service
(2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 39, 43.) Where the complaint fails to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action, courts should sustain the demurrer.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10(e); Zelig
v. County of Los Angeles (2002)
27 Cal.4th 1112, 1126.) The Plaintiff is required to allege facts "with
reasonable precision and with particularity sufficiently specific to acquaint
the defendant with the nature, source, and extent of his cause of action.” (Gressley
v. Williams (1961) 193
Cal.App.2d 636, 643-644.) Whether the Plaintiff will be able to prove the
pleaded facts is irrelevant. (Stevens
v. Superior Court (1986)
180 Cal.App.3d 605, 609–610.)
       A
demurrer may also be sustained if a complaint is “uncertain.” Uncertainty
exists where a complaint’s factual allegations are so confusing, they do not
sufficiently apprise a defendant of the issues it is being asked to meet. (Williams
v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2; Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10 subd.
(f).)
III.    DISCUSSION
       Plaintiff alleges that Defendant Ford was
aware that the transmission system was defective but failed to disclose this
fact. (Complaint, ¶¶ 76-77.) Ford had exclusive knowledge of the 10-speed
transmission’s defects causing hesitation, delayed acceleration, harsh and/or
hard shifting, and jerking and shuddering. (Id.)
Ford allegedly obtained this information from its testing data, data provided
by its dealers, and early customer complaints, none of which were made
available to consumers. (Complaint, ¶¶ 78-79, 82.a through d.)  
 
A.     
The defect at issue is specifically alleged. 
       Contrary to Ford’s argument, Plaintiff alleges
the defects that Ford allegedly concealed. (Complaint, ¶¶ 82.a.-d.) Plaintiff
specifically describes and incorporates at least three technical service
bulletins (“TSB”) associated with the defective 10-speed transmission at issue
in Plaintiff’s vehicle. (Complaint, ¶¶ 28-35.) Whether these alleged defects
are identical to other defects alleged in other vehicles is irrelevant. (Dem.
11:17-19.) The TSBs concern the same 10R80 automatic transmission in
Plaintiff’s vehicle. (Complaint, ¶¶ 28, 30, 32.) 
 
B.     
The allegations support Ford’s duty to disclose.
       The seventh cause of action for
fraudulent inducement-concealment is alleged only against Ford. The elements of
a fraud claim based on concealment are: “(1) the defendant must have concealed
or suppressed a material fact, (2) the defendant must have been under a
duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff, (3) the defendant must have
intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the
plaintiff, (4) the plaintiff must have been unaware of the fact and would not
have acted as he did if he had known of the concealed or suppressed fact, and
(5) as a result of the concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff
must have sustained damage.” (Bigler-Engler
v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 276, 310–311.) 
       There are “four circumstances in which
nondisclosure or concealment may constitute actionable fraud: (1) when the
defendant is in a fiduciary relationship with the plaintiff; (2) when the
defendant had exclusive knowledge of material facts not known to the plaintiff;
(3) when the defendant actively conceals a material fact from the plaintiff;
and (4) when the defendant makes partial representations but also suppresses
some material facts.” (Id.
at 311.) If a fiduciary relationship does not exist, but the latter three
circumstances are present, plaintiff must still show “the existence of some
other relationship between the plaintiff and defendant from which a duty to
disclose can arise.” (Id. at 311.) 
       Ford argues that Plaintiff must allege
“direct contact” or a “transactional relationship” with Ford that gives rise to
a duty to disclose. (Dem 12:16-25.).  Such
a duty may arise as a result of a transaction between the parties which “necessarily
arise[s] from direct dealings between the plaintiff and the defendant; it
cannot arise between the defendant and the public at large." (Bigler-Engler
at 312 [noting that the duty of a manufacturer to warn consumers of a
product’s hazards and faults applies in the context of strict products
liability actions but does not apply in a suit for intentional
misrepresentation.].)
       Plaintiff alleges that Ford’s direct contact with Plaintiff
arose from the warranty contract that Ford issued to Plaintiff. (Complaint, ¶¶
9-10.) Plaintiff cites Dhital
v. Nissan North America, Inc. (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 828, on which
the Court relies for persuasive value given the case is pending review by the
California Supreme Court although it has not been depublished. (Cal
Rules of Court, Rule 8.1115 (e)(1).) Dhital determined that the
allegations were sufficient to support the existence of a buyer-seller
relationship between the plaintiff and the manufacturer in support of the claim
for fraudulent concealment since “Plaintiffs alleged that they bought the car
from a Nissan dealership, that Nissan backed the car with an express warranty,
and that Nissan's authorized dealerships are [the manufacturer’s] agents for
purposes of the sale of Nissan vehicles to consumers. In light of these
allegations, we decline to hold plaintiffs’ claim is barred on the ground there
was no relationship requiring Nissan to disclose known defects." (Dhital,
at 844.) 
       Moreover, Plaintiff alleges that Ford had exclusive knowledge
of the specifically described defects obtained from its internal testing data,
data provided by its dealers, and early customer complaints, none of which were
made available to Plaintiff. (Complaint, ¶¶ 78-79, 82.a through d.)  Ford argues that Plaintiff does not allege
what the purported testing revealed. (Dem. 14:12-15.) Ford relies on a federal
district court opinion granting a motion to dismiss because allegations similar
to those alleged here were either legal conclusions or were insufficient to
infer that Ford knew or should have known of the defect at issue. (Roe
v. Ford Motor Company (E.D. Mich., Aug. 6, 2019, No. 218CV12528LJMAPP) 2019
WL 3564589, at *7 [“Plaintiffs' amended complaint does not include factual
allegations that make it reasonable to infer that complaints about and repairs
of the water pumps were anything more than a blip on Ford's
complaints-and-repairs radar.”].)  
       The Court does not find the opinion persuasive as it is
distinguishable from the allegations made in this case. Plaintiff incorporates
specific TSBs concerning the transmission defect and the specific symptoms
exhibited that are identical to that experienced by Plaintiff. (Complaint, ¶ 28.)
Plaintiff alleges that Ford’s internal testing resulted in the issuance of
these TSBs from which it is reasonable to infer that the testing results were
“more than a blip on Ford’s” radar. (Complaint, ¶ 27.)
       Active concealment of these facts are also alleged. Plaintiff
alleges that Ford allowed the vehicle to be sold without disclosing that the
subject vehicle and its transmission were defective. (Complaint, ¶ 76.) Defendant
concealed and failed to disclose the defective nature of the vehicle.
(Complaint, ¶ ¶ 80.) Despite its knowledge, Defendant “actively concealed the
existence and nature of defects from Plaintiff. (Complaint, ¶ ¶ 36.)
Accordingly, the concealment claim is adequately alleged. 
       Ford correctly argues that fraud claims
are subject to strict requirements of particularity in pleading which
necessitate pleading facts showing “how, when, where, to whom, and by what
means the representations were tendered." (Stansfield
v. Starkey (1990) 220 Cal.App.3d 59, 73.)  Although the allegations meet specificity
requirements, the specificity rule is intended to apply to affirmative
misrepresentations and not to concealment. (Alfaro
v. Community Housing Improvement System & Planning Assn., Inc. (2009)
89 Cal.Rptr.3d 659.) 
 
C.     
Defendant Ford has not established that the fraud
claim is barred by the economic loss rule.
       The economic loss rule bars tort recovery
in a transaction where the plaintiff suffers only economic losses. (Robinson
Helicopter Co., Inc. v. Dana Corp. (2004) 34 Cal.4th 979, 988.) Such
losses consist of “damages for inadequate value, costs of repair and
replacement of the defective product or consequent loss of profits—without any
claim of personal injury or damages to other property. (Robinson
at 988.) Ford argues that since Plaintiff’s claim is based on a breach of
warranty resulting only in economic loss, Plaintiff cannot recover in tort for
fraud. The Robinson court held that the plaintiffs claims for
affirmative, intentional misrepresentations of fact were not barred by the
economic loss rule because the tort claims were independent of the plaintiff’s
breach of contract. (Robinson
Helicopter Co., Inc. v. Dana Corp. (2004) 34 Cal.4th 979, 991.)
       Ford construes Robinson as
limiting the exception to the economic loss rule to claims for affirmative
fraud as opposed to concealment, relying on federal trial court opinions
reaching similar conclusions. (Dem. 16:22-17:13.) Dhital considered Robinson
and observed other instances where tort damages were permitted in contract
cases where the tort liability is “either completely independent of the
contract or arises from conduct which is both intentional and intended to cause
harm.” (Dhital
v. Nissan North America at 838.) [1]
 Thus, in Dhital, the economic
loss rule did not apply because the duty arose from liability independent of
contract such as intentionally concealing facts about the defective
transmission and fraudulently inducing plaintiffs to purchase the car. (Dhital
at 838.) 
       Dhital also acknowledged that
despite the differing views taken by various federal district courts, the
plaintiff’s fraudulent inducement by concealment was exempt from the economic
loss doctrine (Dhital
at 843.) 
D.    
Plaintiff has not alleged facts to establish that
the economic loss rule does not apply to the claim for negligent repair.
       The fifth cause of action of action for
negligent repair is alleged only against Santa Monica. (Complaint, ¶ 56-60.)
The complaint alleges that Plaintiff delivered the vehicle to Santa Monica for
substantial repair on more than one occasion, and Santa Monica breached its
duty to use ordinary care and skill in storage, preparation, and repair of the
vehicle in accordance with industry standards, resulting in damage to
Plaintiff. (Complaint, ¶ 58-60.)
       To the extent the repairs were made
pursuant to a service contract, the claim for negligence is barred by the
economic loss rule. Plaintiff may recover in tort in a contract case in cases
where "breach of duty directly causes physical injury [citations omitted];
for breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing in insurance
contracts [citations omitted]; for wrongful discharge in violation of
fundamental public policy [citations omitted]; or where the contract was
fraudulently induced [citations omitted]. In each of these cases, the duty that
gives rise to tort liability is either completely independent of the contract
or arises from conduct which is both intentional and intended to harm." (Erlich
v. Menezes 21 Cal.4th 543, 551-552.)
       Plaintiff does not allege a duty independent
of contract that gives rise to tort liability for negligent repair. Instead,
Plaintiff argues that “the economic loss rule allows a plaintiff to recover in
strict products liability in tort when a product defect causes damage to ‘other
property,’ that is, property other than the product itself. (KB
Home v. Superior Court (2003) 112 Cal.App.4th 1076, 1079.) The rule
applies in “component-to-component” cases, where the defective component causes
damage to the larger product, or “component.” (KB
Home v. Superior Court at 1087.) This requires a determination of “whether
the defective part is a sufficiently discrete element of the larger product
that it is not reasonable to expect its failure invariably to damage other
portions of the finished product.” (KB Home at 1087.)
        In
KB Home, whether the defective rods in a furnace could be considered a
separate component apart from the furnace itself to permit KB Home to recover
in tort for the cost of replacing the furnace, was a matter for the jury not
the court. (Id.) Here, Plaintiff does not allege damage to
“other property” purportedly caused by the defective transmission.  The complaint does not allege facts to assert
a component-to-component exception to the economic-loss rule.
IV.    CONCLUSION
       Accordingly, Ford’s demurrer to the seventh
cause of action for fraudulent inducement-concealment is OVERRULED. Santa
Monica’s demurrer to the fifth cause of action for negligent repair is
SUSTAINED with 10 days leave to amend. (Colvig v. RKO General, Inc. (1965)
232 Cal.App.2d 56, 69–70
[noting the “well-established rule that, even where the defect is one of
substance, a demurrer should not be sustained without leave to amend if there
is a possibility that subsequent amendments will supply omitted allegations and
the plaintiff has not had a fair opportunity to so amend."].) 


