 Case Number:  24NNCV01246    Hearing Date:   October 17, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
OCTOBER 17,
2024

DEMURRER
TO ANSWER

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 24NNCV01246 

 



MP:  


Christoff Antoun
  (Plaintiff)




RP:  


Kelsey Carter (Defendant)
  [No Response Rendered]



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Christoff
Antoun (Plaintiff) brings this action against Kelsey Carter (Defendant).
Plaintiff alleges that his vehicle was struck from behind by Defendant’s
vehicle while Plaintiff was stopped at a red light. Plaintiff further alleges
that he sustained injuries as the result of Defendant’s negligent operation of
her own vehicle. Plaintiff’s Complaint presents causes of action for (1) Motor
Vehicle and (2) General Negligence. 
 
Before
the Court is a demurrer to Defendant’s Answer. Plaintiff demurs to Defendant’s first
through fifth, seventh, and ninth affirmative defenses. Defendant has filed no
opposition. The Court notes that, pursuant to C.R.C. Rule 8.54(c), a failure to
oppose a motion may be deemed consent to its being granted.  
  
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
The grounds for a demurrer must appear on the
face of the pleading or from judicially noticeable matters. (C.C.P. §
430.30(a); Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal. 3d 311, 318.) A demurrer for
sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) The only issue involved in a
demurrer hearing is whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Id.)
 
A demurrer assumes the truth of all factual,
material allegations properly pled in the challenged pleading. (Blank v.
Kirwan, supra, 39 Cal. 3d at p. 318.) No matter how unlikely or improbable,
the plaintiff’s allegations must be accepted as true for the purpose of ruling
on the demurrer. (Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981)
123 Cal.  App. 3d 593, 604.) But this does not include contentions;
deductions; conclusions of fact or law alleged in the complaint; facts
impossible in law; or allegations contrary to facts of which a court may take
judicial notice. (Blank, supra, 39 Cal. 3d at p. 318.)
 
A general
demurrer may be made on the ground that an answer does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a defense. (Timberidge Enterprises, Inc. v.
City of Santa Rosa (1978) 86 Cal. App. 3d 873, 880.) The answer to a
complaint must contain the “general or specific denial of the material
allegations of the complaint controverted by the defendant” and a “statement of
any new matter constituting a defense.”  (C.C.P. § 431.30(b)(1) & (2).)  
 
The same
pleading of “ultimate facts” rather than evidentiary matter or legal
conclusions is required as in pleading a complaint. The answer must aver facts
as carefully and with as much detail as the facts which constitute the cause of
action and which are alleged in the complaint. (FPI Development, Inc. v.
Nakashimi (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 384.) Defenses must be pleaded in the
nature of “yes, the allegations [of the complaint] are true, but . . .”  (Id.
at 383.) 
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Meet and Confer 
 
C.C.P.
§ 430.41(a) requires that the moving party meet and confer with the party who
filed the pleading that is subject to the demurrer. Upon review the Court finds
the meet and confer requirements were met. (Perez Decl. ¶ 4.) 
 
First Affirmative Defense – Sustained with Leave to Amend 
 
Defendant’s
first affirmative defense is as follows: 
 
At the time and place
of the accident referred to and alleged in plaintiff's Complaint, the
plaintiff, Christoff Antoun, did so negligently and carelessly entrust, manage,
operate, control and drive said motor vehicle so as to proximately cause and
contribute to the accident and resulting injuries and damages, if any.
 
Plaintiff
argues that Defendant does not sufficiently allege facts in support of this
affirmative defense. The Court finds this argument persuasive. 
 
Generally, a defendant bears the burden of
proving “new matter,” which must be specifically pleaded in the answer. (California
Academy of Sciences v. County of Fresno (1987) 192 Cal.App.3d 1436,
1442.) “The phrase ‘new matter’ refers to something relied on by a
defendant which is not put in issue by the plaintiff.” (Walsh v. West Valley
Mission Community College District (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 1532,
1546.) Where the answer sets forth facts showing some essential allegation
of the complaint is not true, such facts are not new matter but are
denials. (Id.) 
 
Here, Defendant’s affirmative defense alleges
that Plaintiff was in some way contributorily negligent. As Plaintiff’s
Complaint contains no facts speaking to his own negligence, Defendant’s
affirmative defense necessarily qualifies as new matter. As stated above, such
new matter must be supported by sufficient facts, just like a cause of action
in a Complaint. Affirmative defenses consisting only of legal conclusions are
subject to demurrer. (FPI supra, 231 Cal.App.3d at 384 [holding that
affirmative defenses "proffered in the form of terse legal conclusions,
rather than as facts averred as carefully and with as much detail as the facts
which constitute the cause of action and are alleged in the complaint" are
subject to demurrer.] [internal quotation marks omitted].) Here, Defendant’s
affirmative defense of contributory negligence is supported only by a short
conclusory statement. 
 
Accordingly, the demurrer to this is
SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend. Leave to amend is granted as the Court
finds it possible that additional facts upon amendment could cure this
deficiency. 
 
Second Affirmative Defense – Sustained with Leave to Amend 
 
Defendant’s
second affirmative defense reads as follows: 
 
This answering
defendant(s) alleges that the accident, and any or all injuries and/or damages
caused therefrom, were due to the negligence of plaintiff and persons other
than this answering defendant(s). 
 
Plaintiff
argues that this affirmative defense also suffers from a lack of any factual
allegation in support. The Court agrees. Defendant’s second affirmative dense
again asserts Plaintiff’s contributory negligence with no facts pled in
support. Further, the defense states that Plaintiff’s injuries were
attributable to “persons other than this answering defendant” but makes no
aversion to who these persons are or how they contributed to Plaintiff’s
injuries. 
 
Accordingly,
the demurrer to this affirmative defense is SUSTAINED with 20 days’ leave to
amend.   
 
Third Affirmative Defense – Sustained without Leave to
Amend 
 
Defendant’s third
affirmative defense reads: 
 
Plaintiff's complaint,
and each cause of action thereof, fails to state sufficient facts to constitute
a cause of action against this answering defendant(s).
 
Plaintiff
argues that this affirmative defense is procedurally improper because it
essentially functions as a demurrer under C.C.P. § 430.10(e). Plaintiff argues
that Defendant must choose between filing a demurrer and an answer. The Court
agrees, though the procedural rationale requires some clarification. 
 
C.C.P.
§ 430.10 authorizes a responding party to object to a complaint either through
demurrer or an answer. C.C.P. § 430.10(e) establishes that a party may object
to a pleading on grounds that it fails to state sufficient facts. C.C.P. §
430.30 serves as the section which distinguishes when objections are properly
addressed in an answer as opposed to a demurrer. Where a responding party’s
objections appear on the face of the complaint, such objections are to be taken
by a demurrer. (C.C.P. § 430.30(a).) When the responding party’s objections do
not appear on the face of the pleading, they are to be taken by answer. (C.C.P.
§ 430.30(b).) 
 
Here,
Defendant’s objection on grounds that Plaintiff’s Complaint fails to state
sufficient facts is one that must necessarily appear on the face of the
Complaint. C.C.P. § 430.30 makes clear that such objections are to be presented
on demurrer, not in an answer. Plaintiff is correct that Defendant cannot
assert this objection in her answer, but it is not because an answer and a
demurrer are always mutually exclusive. C.C.P. §430.30(c). Situations exist in
which the simultaneous filing of an Answer and Demurrer are appropriate, but no
authority authorizes the use of this defense.  
 
Accordingly,
the demurrer to this affirmative defense is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.
Leave to amend is denied as no amendment would render this affirmative defense
proper under C.C.P. § 430.30. 
 
Fourth Affirmative Defense – Sustained with Leave to Amend 
 
Defendant’s fourth
affirmative defense is as follows: 
 
Plaintiff's complaint,
and each cause of action thereof, is barred by the Statute of Limitations since
the events alleged causing personal injuries to the plaintiff, occurred more
than two (2) year prior to the filing of said complaint, and said complaint was
not filed within two (2) year of the occurrence of said event as is required by
Statute.
 
Plaintiff
argues that this defense does not adhere to the procedure for pleading a
defense of statute of limitations established by C.C.P. § 458. 
 
In
pleading the statute of limitations, “it is not necessary to state the facts
showing the defense, but it may be stated generally that the cause of action is
barred by the provisions of Section _____(giving the number of the section and
subdivision thereof, if it is so divided, relied upon) of the Code of Civil
Procedure.” (C.C.P. § 458.) “There are two ways to properly plead a statute of
limitations: (1) allege facts showing that the action is barred and indicating
that the lateness of the action is being urged as a defense and (2) plead the
specific section and subdivision.” (Martin v. Van Bergen (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 84, 91, citing Brown v. World Church (1969) 272 Cal.App.2d
684, 691.) 
 
Here,
Defendant has neither alleged facts regarding the statute of limitations nor
cited to the relevant code sections. 
 
Accordingly,
the demurrer to this affirmative defense is SUSTAINED with 20 days’ leave to
amend. 
 
Fifth Affirmative Defense – Sustained with Leave to Amend 
 
Defendant’s
fifth affirmative defense reads as follows: 
 
This answering
defendant(s) alleges that if plaintiff was injured and/or damaged, as set forth
in plaintiff's complaint, or in any other way, sum or manner, or at all, then
said injuries and/or damages, and the whole thereof, proximately and
concurrently resulted from and were caused, in whole or in part, by plaintiff's
failure to exercise ordinary care for the protection of his person and/or
property at the time and place mentioned in plaintiff's complaint.
 
Plaintiff
contends that Defendant has alleged insufficient facts as to this affirmative
defense. The Court agrees. Defendant’s fifth affirmative defense is almost
indistinguishable from her first affirmative defense alleging contributory
negligence. The Court does not see how Plaintiff’s injuries in a motor vehicle
incident could result from any negligence other than the negligent operation of
a motor vehicle, which is the gravamen of Defendant’s first affirmative
defense. Regardless, Defendant has pled no facts to support her allegations
that Plaintiff was negligent, either in the operation of his vehicle or
otherwise. 
 
Accordingly,
the demurrer to this affirmative defense is SUSTAINED with 20 days’ leave to
amend. 
 
Seventh Affirmative Defense – Sustained without Leave to
Amend
 
Defendant’s
seventh affirmative defense reads as follows: 
 
Plaintiff’s claims are
barred in whole, or in part, by the doctrine of Accord and Satisfaction.
 
As
with the previous affirmative defenses, Plaintiff argues that Defendant fails
to state sufficient facts as to the defense of Accord and Satisfaction. The
Court agrees. 
 
“An
accord and satisfaction is the substitution of a new agreement for and in
satisfaction of a preexisting agreement between the same parties. The usual
purpose is to settle a claim at a lesser amount. The elements of an accord and
satisfaction are: (1) a bona fide dispute between the parties, (2) the debtor
sends a certain sum on the express condition that acceptance of it will
constitute full payment, and (3) the creditor so understands the transaction
and accepts the sum.” (In re Marriage of Thompson (1996) 41
Cal.App.4th 1049, 1058.) 
 
Here,
Plaintiff’s action is based in common law negligence, not contract. Defendant
has alleged no facts in her answer which would indicate that the doctrine of
Accord and Satisfaction is even applicable to this action. Nor does the Court
find it reasonably possible that she could do so upon amendment. 
 
Accordingly,
the demurrer to this affirmative defense is SUSTAINED without leave to amend. 
 
Ninth Affirmative Defense- Sustained with Leave to Amend 
 
Defenant’s
ninth affirmative defense reads as follows: 
 
This answering
defendant(s) alleges that plaintiff was capable of and failed to mitigate
damages. Therefore, any amount awarded to plaintiff for damages suffered should
be reduced by that amount which plaintiff would have avoided by taking
reasonable steps to do so. 
 
Plaintiff
argues that this affirmative defense is also unsupported by any factual
allegations. The Court agrees. Defendant’s affirmative defense provides no
factual allegations as to how Plaintiff failed to mitigate his damages. In its
current state, Defendant’s Answer reveals no grounds for why she would claim
that Plaintiff could have, and thereafter failed to, mitigate his damages. 
 
Accordingly,
the demurrer to this affirmative defense is SUSTAINED with 20 days’ leave to
amend. 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Christoff
Antoun’s Demurrer
came on regularly for hearing on October 17, 2024, with appearances/submissions
as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully
advised in the premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE DEMURRER TO THE FIRST, SECOND, FOURTH,
FIFTH, AND NINTH AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES IS SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS’ LEAVE TO
AMEND.
 
THE DEMURRER TO THE THIRD AND FIFTH AFFIRMATIVE
DEFENSES IS SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
PLAINTIFF TO GIVE NOTICE.
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
October 17, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 