  Case Number:  23STLC02832    Hearing Date:   October 17, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
OCTOBER 17,
2024

MOTION FOR
JUDGMENT ON THE PLEADINGS 

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23STLC02832

 



MP:  


Hudson Insurance Company (Defendant)




RP:  


Lida Kohansameh (Plaintiff) [No
  Response Rendered]



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
On April 28, 2023, Lida
Kohansameh (Plaintiff) filed the Complaint in this action against Serob
Habesyan (Habesyan), Arch Stone Design Showroom Inc., Noho Tile Center, and
Does 1-10. Plaintiff thereafter added Hudson Insurance Company (Hudson) as a
defendant via Doe Amendment. 
 
Plaintiff alleges that Defendants improperly performed the
renovation of her kitchen, for which she paid $25,000. Plaintiff states three
causes of action for (1) Breach of Contract (as against all Defendants), (2)
Fraud (as against Habesyan), and (3) Common Count/ Money Had and Received (as
against all Defendants). 
 
Before the Court is motion for judgment on the pleadings
brought by Hudson. Hudson demurs to each cause of action asserted against them
on grounds that the pleadings are uncertain, and that Plaintiff has pled
insufficient facts. 
 
Plaintiff has filed no opposition to this motion. The Court notes that, pursuant to C.R.C. Rule
8.54(c), a failure to oppose a motion may be deemed consent to its being
granted.  
  
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
A
defendant may bring a statutory motion for judgment on the pleadings where the
court has no jurisdiction over the subject of the cause of action alleged in
the complaint or the complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action against that defendant. (C.C.P. § 438(c)(1)(B).) A
non-statutory motion for judgment on the pleadings may be made any time before
or during trial. (Stoops v. Abbassi (2002) 100 Cal.App.4th 644, 650.)
“Such motion may be made on the same ground as those supporting a general
demurrer, i.e., that the pleading at issue fails to state facts sufficient to
constitute a legally cognizable claim or defense.” (Id.)
 
“In the
construction of a pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its
allegations must be liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice
between the parties.” (C.C.P. § 452; see also Stevens v. Superior Court
(1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 594, 601.) “When a court evaluates a complaint, the
plaintiff is entitled to reasonable inferences from the facts pled.” (Duval
v. Board of Tr. (2001) 93 Cal.App.4th 902, 906.) “In deciding or reviewing
a judgment on the pleadings, all properly pleaded material facts are deemed to
be true, as well as all facts that may be implied or inferred from those
expressly alleged.” (Fire Ins. Exch. v. Superior Court (2004) 116
Cal.App.4th 446, 452.) 
 
“In the
case of either a demurrer or a motion for judgment on the pleadings, leave to
amend should be granted if there is any reasonable possibility that the
plaintiff can state a good cause of action.” (Gami v. Mullikin Medical Ctr.
(1993) 18 Cal.App.4th 870, 876.)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Meet and Confer 
 
C.C.P. §§ 430.41(a) requires that the moving party meet
and confer with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to the
demurrer. Upon review the Court finds the meet and confer requirements were
met. (Safarti Decl. ¶¶ 5-10.) 
 
Facts 
 
Plaintiff
alleges that she entered into an oral contract in which she and “defendants
entered into an oral contract in which defendant Habesyan agreed to provide all
labor and materials: in order to remodel her kitchen. (Compl. ¶ 6.)
Plaintiff further allege that she agreed to pay “defendant Habesyan as charged
by the defendant, and each of them, the sum of $25,000.00.” (Compl. ¶ 6.) 
 
Plaintiff
alleges that during the oral agreement, she “clearly and decisively provided
the defendants, and each of them, with photographs of the materials…desired.”
(Compl. ¶ 7.) Plaintiff alleges that several months after the agreement,
“the defendants, and each of them, 13 delivered and installed cabinets at the
plaintiff s residence.” (Compl. ¶ 9.) Plaintiff alleges the materials used
were not those discussed during the oral agreement. (Id.) 
 
It
is unclear from the Complaint if Unknown Business Entity is different from Does
1-10, as the Complaint contains no factual allegations regarding that party.
Nor does the Complaint contain any factual allegations as to Does 1-10.
 
First COA - Breach of Contract - Granted with Leave to
Amend 
 
To
state a cause of action for breach of contract, Plaintiff must be able to
establish “(1) the existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or
excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting
damages to the plaintiff.” (Oasis West
Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811, 821.)
 
Here,
Plaintiff has specifically pled that the contract between herself and
Defendants was oral. An oral contract may be pled generally as to its effect
because it is rarely possible to allege the exact wording. (Khoury v. Maly's
of Calif. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) Even given this more lenient
standard, the Court finds Plaintiff’s pleading is insufficient as the result of
uncertainty. 
 
As noted above, “In deciding or reviewing a judgment on the pleadings, all
properly pleaded material facts are deemed to be true, as well as all facts
that may be implied or inferred from those expressly alleged.” (Fire Ins.
Exch. v. Superior Court, supra, 116 Cal.App.4th 446, 452.) A
demurrer to a pleading lies where the pleading is uncertain, ambiguous, or
unintelligible. (C.C.P. § 430.10(f).) "A demurrer for uncertainty is
strictly construed, even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain,
because ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures." (Khoury
supra, 14 Cal.App.4th at 616.) As a result, a special demurrer for
uncertainty is not intended to reach failure to incorporate sufficient facts in
the pleading but is directed only at uncertainty existing in the allegations
already made. (People v. Taliaferro (1957) 149 Cal.App.2d 822, 825.)
Where a complaint is sufficient to state a cause of action and to apprise
defendant of issues he is to meet, it is not properly subject to a special
demurrer for uncertainty. (See id.; see also Gressley v. Williams
(1961) 193 Cal.App.2d 636, 643 ["A special demurrer [for uncertainty]
should be overruled where the allegations of the complaint are sufficiently
clear to apprise the defendant of the issues which he is to meet"].)
 
Here,
Plaintiff’s allegations as to the formation of the oral contract are fatally
uncertain. Plaintiff alleges that she and “defendants” entered into the oral
contract, but then only alleges facts as to Habesyan. Plaintiff also only
alleges rights and obligations of the contract as to Habesyan and herself.
Plaintiff appears to allege that Habesyan was to perform the remodel and that
Plaintiff was to pay him $25,000. It is entirely unclear from these allegations
how Hudson is involved. 
 
Plaintiff
use of “defendants” as a catchall when alleging the formation of the contract
does not mitigate this uncertainty. As concerns Noho Tile Center, Plaintiff at
least alleges that it is “affiliated in some way with the other defendants
named in this action.” (Compl. ¶ 2.) Plaintiff’s Complaint contains no
similar allegations as to Doe Defendants or Unknown Business Entity Defendant. 
 
In
short, Plaintiff’s Complaint is insufficient to put Hudson on notice of the
allegations against which they must defend. Accordingly, the motion for
judgment on the pleadings is GRANTED with 20 days’ leave to amend. (C.C.P.
§438.)
 
Third COA - Common Count - Sustained with Leave to Amend 
 
The
required elements of a common count claim are “(1) the statement of
indebtedness in a certain sum, (2) the consideration, i.e., goods sold, work
done, etc., and (3) nonpayment. A cause of action for money had and received is
stated if it is alleged the defendant is indebted to the plaintiff in a certain
sum for money had and received by the defendant for the use of the plaintiff.”
(Farmers Insurance Exchange v. Zerin
(1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 445, 460 [citation and quotation marks omitted])
 
As
concerns this cause of action, Plaintiff’s factual allegations are as follows: 
 
Within the last two
years, at Los Angeles, California, defendants became indebted to Plaintiff in
the sum of $25,000.00 for money had and received the use and benefit of
plaintiff. Plaintiff has repeatedly demanded payment from defendants. The last
demand was made on November 8, 2022. 
 
(Compl.
¶¶ 19-20.) 
 
For
many of the same reasons enumerated above, the Court finds these allegations
are so uncertain as to be insufficient. Plaintiff’s again uses “defendants” in
the aggregate when alleging indebtedness. As previously discussed, Plaintiff’s
failure to allege any facts as to Doe Defendants or Unknown Business Entity
means that her complaint lacks any factual allegations as to Hudson. Plaintiff
cannot merely use the collective term “defendants” to state of cause of action
against Hudson where she has alleged no factual basis for Hudson’s inclusion as
a party. 
 
Further,
the Court expresses doubt that this cause of action would be properly pled even
with factual allegations speaking to Hudson. This is because Plaintiff’s cause
of action for Breach of Contract and her cause of action for Common Count are
based on the same operative facts. This is evident from the fact that the
Complaint contains no factual allegations regarding the exchange of money
outside of the alleged contract. This is reinforced by the fact that the amount
claimed to be owed in contract and quasi-contract, $25,000, is the same. 
 
It
is true that a party may plead inconsistent theories of liability. (See Newport
Harbor Ventures, LLC v. Morris Cerullo World Evangelism (2016) 6
Cal.App.5th 1207, 1223.) Regardless, where a party has pled the existence of an
enforceable contract, they may not state a claim for money had and received in
quasi-contract. (Klein v. Chevron U.S.A., Inc. (2012) 202 Cal.App.4th
1342, 1389.) 
 
Here,
Plaintiff has pled the existence of an enforceable oral contract. Plaintiff has
pled no facts as to the contract being unenforceable against Hudson such that
her two causes of action would be consistent. If Plaintiff wishes to state this
cause of action against Hudson, she must allege reasons why the contract made
with Hudson is unenforceable. In the alternative Plaintiff could recant her
Breach of Contract cause of action and add factual allegations as to Hudson
improperly receiving funds. This is not to be construed as the Court’s
endorsement of either approach. 
 
Accordingly,
the motion for judgment on the pleadings is GRANTED with 20 days’ leave to
amend. 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Hudson Insurance
Company’s Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings came
on regularly for hearing on October 17, 2024, with appearances/submissions as
noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised
in the premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION FOR JUDGMENT ON THE PLEADINGS AS TO
THE FIRST AND THIRD CAUSES OF ACTION IS SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS’ LEAVE TO AMEND.

 
HUDSON TO GIVE NOTICE.  
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
October 17, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 