 Case Number:  22STCV19827    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2023    Dept:  32 


 
LATINA YOUNG,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
NANCY WATSON, 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  22STCV19827
  Hearing Date:  December 13, 2023
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
Plaintiff’s motion to compel further
  responses 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On June 17, 2022, Plaintiff Latina
Young initiated this action against Defendant Nancy Watson. The Court
previously sustained Defendant’s demurrers to the original complaint and First
Amended Complaint, finding that the pleadings failed to plead sufficient facts
and were uncertain. Plaintiff filed the operative Second Amended Complaint on
February 21, 2023, alleging (1) breach of contract, (2) general negligence, (3)
intentional tort, and (4) premises liability. On April 28, 2023, the Court
sustained Defendant’s demurrer without leave to amend as to every cause of
action except premises liability. Plaintiff’s remaining claim is based on allegations
of premises liability that Defendant knowingly allowed Plaintiff to be sexually
assaulted by other tenants.   
            On November 20, 2023, Plaintiff
filed the instant motion to compel further responses to form interrogatories.
Defendant filed her opposition on December 1, 2023.
LEGAL STANDARD
 On
receipt of a response to interrogatories, the propounding party may move for an
order compelling a further response if the propounding party deems that any of
the following apply: (1) An answer to a particular interrogatory is evasive or incomplete;
(2) An exercise of the option to produce documents under Section 2030.230 is
unwarranted or the required specification of those documents is inadequate; (3)
An objection to an interrogatory is without merit or too general. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (a).)  
DISCUSSION 
Plaintiff’s motion does not contain
coherent arguments and fails to articulate justification for further responses.
The separate statement does not properly include “all the information necessary
to understand each discovery request and all the responses to it that are at
issue.” (See Cal. Rules of Ct., Rule 3.1345(c).) To the extent the separate
statement sets forth Defendant’s responses to the form interrogatories, it
demonstrates that Defendant’s responses were complete and proper. Defendant
answered each subpart to the extent applicable with responsive information. Plaintiff’s
skepticism as to the truth of Defendant’s answers is not a reason to compel
further responses. 
CONCLUSION
            Plaintiff’s motion to compel further
responses is DENIED. Defendant’s request for monetary, issue, and evidentiary sanctions
is denied. 
             