 Case Number:  22STCV36899    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2023    Dept:  32 


 
PHUONG LE THAI, et al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
DIANA LEE, et al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  22STCV36899
  Hearing Date: December 13, 2023
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendants’ motion to uphold highly
  confidential designation 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            This quiet title action was
initiated in November 22, 2022. On December 28, 2022, Plaintiffs Phuong Le Thai
and Edward Lee filed the operative First Amended Complaint against Defendants
Diana Lee, William Truong, and all persons claiming interest in the subject
property located in El Monte (the Property). The FAC asserts causes of action
for declaratory relief, quiet title, fraud, conversion, elder abuse, and
accounting. 
            According to the FAC, Plaintiff
Phuong Le Thai (Phuong) wished to purchase the Property but failed to qualify
for a loan. (FAC ¶ 11.) Around July or August 2017, Phuong proposed that her
daughter, Defendant Diana Lee (Diana) purchase the Property in her name and
hold legal title without assuming any obligations such as down payment, maintenance
expenses, property taxes, and loan payments. (Id., ¶ 12.) Diana
allegedly agreed to this arrangement and promised to convey title to Phuong
once Phuong had paid all expenses related to the maintenance and preservation
of the Property for a period of time sufficient to demonstrate her credit worthiness.
(Id., ¶ 13.) Diana obtained title to the Property on September 14, 2017.
(Id., ¶ 15.) The down payment was made using loans and gifts belonging
to Phuong. (Ibid.) In June 2021, after Phuong had possessed the Property
and paid the associated expenses for several years, Phuong demanded that Diana
convey title to the Property to her in accordance with their agreement, but Diana
refused. (Id., ¶¶ 16-17.) 
Phuong was married to John Shing Lee (John
Lee or Decedent), who died in September 2022. Decedent’s son, Plaintiff Edward
Lee, pursues this action as Decedent’s successor-in-interest. The FAC alleges
that Diana stole the following property: (1) Decedent’s portion of proceeds
from the sale of Plaintiffs’ other residences in Nevada and California; (2) Decedent’s
cash; (3) proceeds from Decedent’s life insurance policy; (4) and a 2006 Honda
Pilot. (FAC ¶¶ 18-31.) Defendant William Truong, Diana’s husband, allegedly
participated in the fraud and conversion. 
On November 15, 2023, Defendants filed the
instant motion to uphold the highly confidential designation of certain bank
records. Plaintiffs filed their opposition on November 30, 2023. 
LEGAL STANDARD
            The recipient of a document demand may
move for a protective order. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.060(a).) “The court, for
good cause shown, may make any order that justice requires to protect any party
or other person from unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or
undue burden and expense.” (Id., subd. (b).) “The issuance and
formulation of protective orders are to a large extent discretionary.” (Nativi
v. Deutsche Bank National Trust Co. (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 261, 316.) “[T]he
burden is on the party seeking the protective order to show good cause for
whatever order is sought.” (Id. at p. 318.)
DISCUSSION
According to the Protective Order entered
on March 7, 2023, the parties may designate as “Confidential” any information
believed in good faith “to contain non-public information that is entitled to
confidential treatment under applicable law.” (Protective Order ¶ 2.) The
parties may designate as “Highly Confidential” any information believed in good
faith to “create a substantial risk of serious financial or other injury, if
disclosed to another Party or non-Party, and that such risk cannot be avoided
by less restrictive means.” (Id., ¶ 3.) In other words, Confidential
information is shielded from public disclosure, while Highly Confidential
information is additionally shielded from the opposing party. 
Defendants seek to uphold a Highly
Confidential designation on financial records that are produced pursuant to subpoenas
Plaintiffs have issued to various banks. (See Fok Decl. ¶ 4, Ex. A.) So far,
only Bank of America, NA has produced documents in response to the subpoenas. (Id.,
¶ 8.) Of the documents produced, Defendants seek to uphold a Highly
Confidential designation for documents pertaining to a joint account held by
Defendants and their minor son. (Id., ¶ 9.) Plaintiffs argue that the
records should be designated Confidential but not Highly Confidential. 
As discussed above, the protective order
allows a Highly Confidential designation if supported by a good faith belief that
disclosure to a party would create a substantial risk of serious injury that
cannot be avoided by less restrictive means. Defendants, as the Designating
Parties, bear the burden of proof on this issue. (Protective Order ¶ 7.) To
this end, Defendant Diana Lee avers that she is aware of at least one occasion where
Plaintiffs attempted to impersonate her to access her mortgage accounts. (Diana
Lee Decl. ¶ 16.) Lee further avers that the bank records consist of “my
personal and business accounts that provide my confidential financial
information about my assets, earnings, expenditures, savings, and transactions
with unrelated third parties, among other highly personal and confidential
information.” (Id., ¶ 19.) Lee avers that disclosure of the information “could
potentially harm my reputation and compromise my privacy.” (Id., ¶ 20.)
Plaintiffs aver that they will not use the
information to harass Defendants, but only to assist their counsel in examining
the bank statements to determine whether any fraud, conversion, or forgery was
committed by Defendants. (Phuong Decl. ¶ 12; Edward Lee Decl. ¶ 16.) Plaintiffs
deny that they attempted to impersonate Diana Lee. Instead, Edward Lee avers
that Plaintiffs have been paying the mortgage on the El Monte property from 2017
to 2022. (Edward Lee Decl. ¶ 13.) Although Diana’s name was on the mortgage
account, Edward had access to the account to make payments via auto payment. (Ibid.)
Edward avers that in January 2023, he noticed that the auto pay was not working
because Diana had deleted his name from the account to remove his access. (Id.,
¶ 14.) Edward avers that he called the mortgage company and made payments over
the phone, accurately identifying himself as Diana’s brother. (Ibid.) 
Based on the evidence, the Court does not
find a substantial risk of serious injury if the bank records are disclosed to
Plaintiffs. The evidence indicates that Plaintiffs have not attempted to
impersonate Diana Lee. Edward Lee’s phone call to make a mortgage payment does
not demonstrate that he will abuse financial records obtained in discovery. Defendants’
speculation about what Plaintiffs may do with the records is insufficient to
preclude Plaintiffs from reviewing discovery in their own case. There is no indication
that Plaintiffs intend to use the financial information to harass Defendants. A
Confidential designation, combined with the threat of penalties for breaching
the Protective Order (see ¶ 21), constitute less restrictive means that are
sufficient to protect Defendants’ privacy. 
The remainder of Defendants’ motion argues
that Plaintiffs’ discovery requests are overbroad, invade privacy, and disallowed
under Civil Code section 3295. However, the discovery requests are not at issue
in this motion. The parties have already agreed “to allow the Plaintiffs to
move forward with certain subpoenas in an effort to reduce the cost and
uncertainty of litigation by entering into a Stipulate Protective Order.”
(Diana Lee Decl. ¶ 17.) The only issue to be resolved on this motion is what
designation to place on the subpoenaed documents. 
CONCLUSION
            Defendants’ motion to uphold highly
confidential designation is DENIED. 