  Case Number:  23SMCV01967    Hearing Date:   September 18, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Osborn v. Maroja,
et al.
CASE NO.:                23SMCV01967
MOTION:                  Motion
for Judgment on the Pleadings
HEARING DATE:   9/18/2024

 
Legal
Standard
 
A defendant’s motion for judgment
on the pleadings may be made after the time to demur has expired and an answer
has been filed. (CCP § 438(f).) A motion by a defendant may be made on the
grounds that (1) the court “lacks jurisdiction of the subject of one or more of
the causes of action alleged” or (2) the complaint or cross-complaint “does not
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against that defendant.”
(CCP § 438(c).) 
 
A motion for judgment on the
pleadings has the same function as a general demurrer but is made after the
time for demurrer has expired. Except as provided by statute, the rules
governing demurrers apply. (Cloud v. Northrop Grumman Corp. (1998) 67
Cal.App.4th 995, 999.) “A motion for judgment on the pleadings is akin to a
general demurrer; it tests the sufficiency of the complaint to state a cause of
action. The court must assume the truth of all factual allegations in the
complaint, along with matters subject to judicial notice.” (Wise v. Pacific
Gas and Elec. Co. (2005) 132 Cal.App.4th 725, 738, citations omitted.)
Further, like a general demurrer, a motion for judgment on the pleadings “does
not lie as to a portion of a cause of action, and if any part of a cause of
action is properly pleaded, the [motion] will be overruled.” (Fire Ins.
Exchange v. Superior Court (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 446, 452.)  
 
MEET AND CONFER
            
Before filing a statutory motion
for judgment on the pleadings, a moving party's counsel must meet and confer,
in person or by telephone, with counsel for the party who filed the pleading
subject to the judgment on the pleadings motion “for the purpose of determining
if an agreement can be reached that resolves the claims to be raised in the
motion for judgment on the pleadings.” (CCP § 439(a).) 
 
REQUEST FOR
JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
Defendant’s request for judicial
notice is GRANTED. (Evid. Code § 452(c), (d).) The Court only takes notice of
the existence of such documents, and not necessarily the truth of the
statements or conclusions asserted therein. (Steed v. Department of Consumer
Affairs (2012) 204 Cal.App.4th 112, 120-121.)  
 
ANALYSIS
 
Defendant Camila Maroja moves for
judgment on the pleadings against each cause of action asserted in Plaintiff’s complaint,
including causes of action for breach of oral contract, quiet title, and
cancellation of written instrument.
 
Defendant argues that the Breach of
Oral Contract cause of action is barred by the statute of limitations. A
plaintiff must bring a claim for breach of oral contract within two years of the
breach. (CCP § 339(1); Barton v. New United Motor Manufacturing, Inc.
(1996) 43 Cal.App.4th 1200, 1206.) 
 
This dispute arises from an alleged
loan by Plaintiff to Defendant and her late husband Dustin F. Osborn for
payment of property taxes, monthly homeowner association fees, monthly payments
on a secured purchase money loan, and lump sum payments toward the same secured
purchase money loan for the purchase of real property located at 5831 Seawalk
Drive, unit 217 Los Angeles, CA (Subject Property). (Compl., ¶ 7.) The
complaint alleges that on March 15, 2020, Plaintiff entered into an oral contract
with Defendant and D. Osborn wherein Plaintiff agreed to loan Defendant and D.
Osborn monies sufficient to pay the down payment, monthly note service, homeowners’
association assessments, lump sum payments and property taxes for the Subject
Property. (Compl., ¶¶ 13-14.) The total loan amount was $861,750.00. (Id.)
Defendant and D. Osborn agreed to repay the entire amount of the loan on or
before March 14, 2021. (¶ 14.) The parties to the agreement agreed the loan
would carry no interest if repaid on time and pursuant to the terms of the
agreement and would otherwise be subject to California’s legal rate of
interest. (Id.)
 
Plaintiff performed all of her
obligations with respect to the agreement. (¶ 15.) Plaintiff either paid
Defendant/D. Osborn the monies or made payments directly. (¶ 14.) On March 20,
2020, Plaintiff purchased the subject property for $1.149 million. (¶ 9.)
Plaintiff paid the $287,250.00 as a down payment. (Id.) Plaintiff borrowed the
down-payment money from her mother’s trust. (¶ 10.) Plaintiff borrowed
$861,750.00 from First Republic Bank as a purchase money loan for the
residence, with title taken in the name of a trust created by Plaintiff named
Mary Ann Osborn, Trustee of the Mary Ann Osborn Trust dated April 2, 2007.
(Id.) Plaintiff paid the down payment, all monthly payments on the Note, all
monthly payments on the HOA assessments, additional lump sum pre-payments on
the Note, and all property taxes on the subject property. (Compl., ¶¶ 11, 15.) Defendant
and D. Osborn breached the contract by failing to repay the loaned funds on time,
i.e., by March 14, 2021. (¶ 16.) Plaintiff was thereby damaged in the amount of
$528,250.00, plus her attorney’s fees and costs. (¶ 17.) 
 
The complaint reveals that the
breach of contract occurred more than two years prior to the filing of this
action on May 4, 2023. Defendants allegedly breached the oral contract on March
14, 2021, by failing to repay the loan in its entirety. Plaintiff pleads no
other facts which might toll the statute of limitations period. Thus, the
demurrer must be sustained as to the first cause of action without leave to
amend. 
 
Second and Third Causes
 
Plaintiff’s claimed interest in the
property underlying the second and third causes of action for quiet
title/cancellation of instrument apparently rely on the validity of the oral
loan agreement. Thus, the causes are subject to demurrer for the same reasons
discussed above. 
 
A complaint for quiet title shall
be verified and include: (1) a description of the property that is the subject
of the action, including both the legal description and its street address or
common designation if the subject property is real property; (2) the
plaintiff’s title as to which determination is sought and basis of the title;
(3) the adverse claims to the plaintiff’s title against which determination is
sought; (4) the date of which the determination is sought; and (5) a prayer for
the determination of the title of the plaintiff against the adverse claims. (CCP.,
§ 761.020.) “[T]he general rule is that the holder of equitable title
cannot maintain a quiet title action against the holder of legal title.” (Liberty
National Enterprises, L.P. v. Chicago Title Insurance Company (2013) 217
Cal.App.4th 62, 81.) “But an exception exists ‘when legal title has been
acquired through fraud. [Citations.] In that case, available ‘remedies include
quieting title in the defrauded equitable title holder’s name and making the
legal title holder the constructive trustee of the property for the benefit of
the defrauded equitable titleholder.’” (Id.) Civil Code
section 3412 provides that a written instrument may be canceled if it is
adjudged to be void or voidable, either by being obtained by fraud or
otherwise. 
 
Plaintiff claims an interest in the
Subject Property, though she does not clearly state how she acquired this
interest. The complaint alleges the conclusion that Plaintiff owns the
property. (Compl., ¶19.) Plaintiff apparently relies on the oral contract.
Plaintiff alleges Defendant’s adverse interest in the Subject Property by
claiming that the loan(s) were gifts. (¶ 20.) As the alleged gifts were never
made by Plaintiff, but instead were made pursuant to the loan agreement with
Defendants, Plaintiff reasons that Defendants lack any title to the property.
(¶ 24.) Plaintiff further seeks to cancel the Grant Deed for the Property
because Defendants never received the “gift” of the Down Payment, Monthly Note
Service, HAA Payments, Lump Sum Payments and Property Taxes for the Residence
and are thus not entitled to ownership of the Residence. (¶¶ 26-27.) Plaintiff
further provides the conclusion that Defendants procured the deed as a result
of coercion, fraud and/or deceit. (¶ 26.) However, the oral agreement also cannot
be enforced due to the expiration of the statute of limitations. Even if the
oral loan agreement were valid, Plaintiff also fails to explain how default on
the loan agreement gave her any right to foreclose on the property, as opposed
a right to recover the loaned monies. 
 
Moreover, the noticeable grant deed
shows that the deed was granted by Plaintiff to Defendants, as “Husband and
Wife as Joint Tenants,” which Plaintiff does not dispute. (RJN, Ex. 3.) Thus,
Maroja automatically became the sole owner of the Property through survivorship
upon D. Osborn’s death. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff fails to
address the statute of limitations entirely, and only suggests leave to amend
to add an entirely new statutory cause of action of fraudulent transfer.  In California, a fraudulent conveyance under
the Uniform Fraudulent Transfer Act (“UFTA”) involves “a transfer by the debtor
of property to a third person undertaken with the intent to prevent a creditor
from reaching that interest to satisfy its claim.” (Filip v. Bucurenciu
(2005) 129 Cal.App.4th 825, 829.) A transfer under the UFTA is fraudulent as to
a creditor if the debtor made the transfer with actual intent to hinder, delay,
or defraud any creditor of the debtor. (Civ. Code, § 3439.04(a).) Some factors
that may be considered in determining actual intent are: (1) whether the
transfer or obligation was to an insider; (2) whether the debtor retained
possession or control of the property transferred after the transfer; (3)
whether the transfer or obligation was disclosed or concealed; (4) whether
before the transfer was made or obligation was incurred, the debtor had been
sued or threatened with suit; (5) whether the transfer was of substantially all
the debtor’s assets; (6) whether the debtor absconded; (7) whether the debtor
removed or concealed assets; (8) whether the value of the consideration
received by the debtor was reasonably equivalent to the value of the asset
transferred or the amount of the obligation incurred; (9) whether the debtor
was insolvent or became insolvent shortly after the transfer was made or the
obligation was incurred; (10) whether the transfer occurred shortly before or
shortly after a substantial debt was incurred; and (11) whether the debtor
transferred the essential assets of the business to a lienor that transferred
the assets to an insider of the debtor. (Id., §
3439.04(b).)  “Fraudulent conveyances typically involve ‘a transfer
to a close relative, a secret transfer, a transfer of title without transfer of
possession, or grossly inadequate consideration.’” (Husky International
Electronics, Inc. v. Ritz (2016) 136 S.Ct. 1581, 1587.)
 
Plaintiff proffers no facts to
explain how this transfer could be considered fraudulent under the statute.
Plaintiff does not allege that the Grant Deed was procured by fraud or
coercion. Critically, Plaintiff does not explain how Defendants could have
intended to hinder Plaintiff’s collection on the loan agreement by accepting Plaintiff’s
transfer of the Property to them as joint tenants. Fundamentally, the subject
Grant Deed is not a transfer to a third party. Additionally,
Civil Code Section 3439.09(b), provides a four-year statute of limitations. The
deed was granted on May 7, 2020, more than four years have passed since
Plaintiff first raised this cause of action. To the extent that Plaintiff attempts
to target the “transfer” of the Property upon the death of a joint tenant,
Plaintiff does not explain how Maroja could have intended to hinder collection
by an automatic transfer. 
 
Accordingly, the motion is GRANTED.
The Court will not permit leave to amend unless Plaintiff makes an offer of
proof showing a reasonable probability of successful amendment in light of the
above discussion.