 Case Number:  22STCV21054    Hearing Date:   May 6, 2024    Dept:  49 Antonina Prestigiacomo v. Oscar Health Plan of CaliforniaDEFENDANT OSCAR HEALTH PLAN OF CALIFORNIA’S MOTION FOR JUDGMENT ON THE PLEADINGS MOVING PARTY: Defendant Oscar Health Plan of CaliforniaRESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Antonina PrestigiacomoSTATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: Plaintiff Antonina Prestigiacomo brings this action against her health insurer, Defendant Oscar Health Plan of California, for (1) breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, (2) breach of contract, and (3) violation of Business and Professions Code section 17200. Plaintiff alleges Defendant has failed to provide coverage for medically necessary emergency services despite a contractual obligation to do so.Defendant Oscar Health Plan of California now moves for judgment on the pleadings of the third cause of action for violation of section 17200. Plaintiff opposed.TENTATIVE RULING:Defendant’s Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings is DENIED.Plaintiff is ordered to give notice, unless waived. DISCUSSION:Motion for Judgment on the PleadingsA. Judicial NoticePlaintiff asks the court to take judicial notice of six exhibits from or relating to the California Department of Managed Health Care’s report on Defendant Oscar Health Care. (See Plaintiff’s Exhibits 1-6.) Defendant objects to the request, arguing the exhibits are not the proper subject of judicial notice. The court agrees and declines to take judicial notice of the documents requested. The “[p]resentation of extrinsic evidence is ... not proper on a motion for judgment on the pleadings.” (Cloud v. Northrop Grumman Corp. (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 995, 999.) The exhibits are therefore not relevant to the disposition of this motion. (See Arce v. Kaiser Found. Health Plan, Inc. (2010) 181 Cal. App. 4th 471, 482 [declining to take judicial notice of irrelevant matters].)B. Legal StandardThe rules applicable to demurrers also apply to motions for judgment on the pleadings.    (County of Orange v. Association of Orange County Deputy Sheriffs (2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 21, 32.) The trial court must accept as true all material facts properly pleaded, but does not consider conclusions of law or fact, opinions, speculation, or allegations contrary to law or facts that are judicially noticed.  (Stevenson Real Estate Services, Inc. v. CB Richard Ellis Real Estate Services, Inc. (2006) 138 Cal.App.4th 1215, 1219-20.) “A motion for judgment on the pleadings may be made at any time either prior to the trial or at the trial itself.” (Stoops v. Abbassi (2002) 100 Cal.App.4th 644, 650.)C. AnalysisDefendant moves for judgment on the pleadings of the third cause of action for violation of the UCL. In support of the motion, Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s UCL claim fails (1) because Plaintiff has an adequate remedy at law; (2) because Plaintiff has not pled facts to support restitution; and (3) because injunctive relief is unavailable. Business and Professions Code section 17200 defines “unfair competition” to include “any unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business act or practice....” “The scope of section 17200 is broad, encompassing ‘anything that can properly be called a business practice and that at the same time is forbidden by law.’ ... It governs ‘anti-competitive business practices’ as well as injuries to consumers, and has as a major purpose ‘the preservation of fair business competition.’” [Citations.] (Linear Tech. Corp. v. Applied Materials, Inc., (2007) 152 Cal. App. 4th 115, 133).  Whether a practice violates the section “is generally a question of fact which requires ‘consideration and weighing of evidence from both sides’ and which usually cannot be made on demurrer.” [Citation].  (Id.)Despite its broad applicability, “[i]njunctive relief and restitution are the only remedies available under the UCL.”  (Esparza v. Safeway, Inc. (2019) 36 Cal. App. 5th 42, 53.)  Thus, “[a] UCL claim must be based on the existence of harm supporting injunctive relief or restitution.”  (Id.)Plaintiff alleges she suffered traumatic injuries in a head-on collision while she was nine months pregnant. (Compl. ¶¶ 1, 9.) After being admitted for treatment at Desert Regional Medical Center, Defendant Oscar Health Plan of California—Plaintiff’s health insurer—denied coverage for Plaintiff’s emergency services. (Id. ¶¶ 1, 2, 8, 9, 12, 13.) As a result, Plaintiff was “left saddled with tens thousands of dollars in medical bills for the emergency care that Oscar refused to cover.” (Id. ¶ 2.) Plaintiff further alleges that Defendant operates a “utilization review system in which it systemically fails to conduct full, fair, and thorough investigations before denying coverage.” (Id. ¶ 3.) This is consistent with Defendant’s “widespread and pervasive practice of denying coverage requests for emergency services regardless of medical necessity, without conducting a thorough investigation, to increase its profits at the expense of its members.” (Id. ¶ 14.) On these common allegations, Plaintiff asserts causes of action for (1) breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, (2) breach of contract, and (3) violation of Business & Professions Code section 17200.In support of her third cause of action for violation of the UCL, Plaintiff alleges that Oscar’s conduct “in 1) denying coverage for emergency medical services including, without limitation, for the treatment of ankle fractures, pregnancy complications, and abdominal and chest pains; 2) denying emergency medical treatment without conducting a thorough investigation, and 3) using software interfaces for utilization review nurses and utilization review physicians that ensure that its reviewers will not conduct full, fair, and thorough investigations, constitutes acts of unfair, unlawful, misleading, and fraudulent business practices as set forth in Business & Professions Code section 17200 et seq.” (Id. ¶ 36.) Plaintiff seeks restitution and injunctive relief. (Id. ¶ 38.) First, the court agrees that restitution is unavailable based on the facts alleged. Plaintiff apparently concedes as much, stating in her opposition that she is “seeking an injunction,” not restitution. The court therefore focuses the analysis on injunctive relief.Plaintiff asks for injunctive relief to stop Oscar’s “widespread and pervasive” practice of “1) denying coverage for emergency medical services including, without limitation, for the treatment of ankle fractures, pregnancy complications, and abdominal and chest pains; 2) denying emergency medical treatment without conducting a thorough investigation, and 3) using software interfaces for utilization review nurses and utilization review physicians that ensure that its reviewers will not conduct full, fair, and thorough investigations.” (Compl. ¶¶ 36, 38.) Next, because Plaintiff is seeking injunctive relief to “stop” Defendant’s lawful conduct—i.e. a future harm—she does not necessarily have an adequate remedy at law through damages. (See Syngenta Crop Protection, Inc. v. Helliker (2006) 138 Cal.App.4th 1135, 1158 [“an injunction operates prospectively”].)As to the availability of injunctive relief, while the precise scope of the injunctive relief Plaintiff seeks is not clear, this is not grounds to grant the MJOP. (See Ghazarian v. Magellan Health, Inc. (2020) 53 Cal. App. 5th 171, 195 [where “there are questions of fact as the specific scope of injunctive relief sought by plaintiffs, summary adjudication [of UCL claim] is not warranted.”].) Accepting the facts alleged as true, and construing the Complaint liberally and in context, Plaintiff has stated a claim under the UCL. (See Linear Tech. Corp., supra, 152 Cal. App. 4th at 133 [noting resolution of UCL claim “is generally a question of fact which requires ‘consideration and weighing of evidence from both sides’ and which usually cannot be made on demurrer”].)  [FN 1]Accordingly, Defendant’s Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings is DENIED.However, as generally discussed above, it is the intention of this Court, on its own sua sponte motion, to bifurcate the UCL cause of action, and to hear that matter, without a jury, first, and moreover, within the near future.  Counsel should be prepared to discuss that issue at the hearing on this MJOP.   [FN 2]IT IS SO ORDERED.Dated:  May 6, 2024 ___________________________________ Randolph M. Hammock Judge of the Superior CourtFN 1 - Be this as it may, Plaintiff should be mindful that she has no right to a jury trial for a claim under the UCL, which is equitable in nature. (See Nationwide Biweekly Admin., Inc. v. Superior Ct. of Alameda Cnty. (2020) 9 Cal. 5th 279, 327.) In these “mixed actions with equitable and legal issues,” the preferred practice is for “the trial court [to] determine the equitable issues before submitting the legal ones to the jury.” (Hoopes v. Dolan (2008) 168 Cal. App. 4th 146, 156–57.) This can be of “great significance,” because the findings in a bench trial “may bind the second when determining factual issues common to the equitable and legal issues.” (Id.; see also Nwosu v. Uba (2004) 122 Cal.App.4th 1229, 1244 [“[t]he court may decide the equitable issues first, and this decision may result in factual and legal findings that effectively dispose of the legal claims”].) FN 2 - Of course, Plaintiff may simply choose to voluntarily dismiss the UCL cause of action.  If she chooses not to do so, then depending on how this Court rules on the injunctive relief request, that could be a decision she may ultimately regret.  In other words:  Be careful for what you ask.  (See footnote No. 1, supra.)