  Case Number:  20STCV41207    Hearing Date:   February 14, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Gerald Whitt, et al.,


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
20STCV41207




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




Vinco Ventures, Inc., et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: February 14, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice Leiter
Demurrer to First Amended Complaint and
Motion to Strike
Moving Party: Defendants Richard Brenner and Jeff
Johnson
Responding Party: Plaintiffs Gerald Whitt, Alexander
Whitt, Matthew Whitt, Christopher Whitt and Deborah Milam
 
T/R:     DEFENDANTS’ DEMURRER IS OVERRULED.
 
THE MOTION TO STRIKE IS DENIED.
 
DEFENDANTS TO FILE AND SERVE ANSWERS TO
THE FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT WITHIN 30 DAYS OF NOTICE OF RULING.
 
DEFENDANT TO NOTICE
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please email
the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On July 5, 2023, Plaintiffs filed the
operative first amended complaint against Defendants, asserting causes of
action for intentional and negligent misrepresentation, breach of fiduciary
duty, breach of contract, conspiracy, malicious prosecution, and abuse of
process. Plaintiffs were minority shareholders of Cloud B. Plaintiffs allege
the Defendant majority shareholders conspired with the takeover Defendants to
sell Cloud B and loot Cloud B’s assets, making Plaintiffs’ shares worthless. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
A demurrer to a complaint may be taken to the whole complaint or to any
of the causes of action in it.  (CCP §
430.50(a).)  A demurrer challenges only
the legal sufficiency of the complaint, not the truth of its factual
allegations or the plaintiff's ability to prove those allegations.  (Picton v. Anderson Union High Sch. Dist. (1996)
50 Cal. App. 4th 726, 732.)  The court
must treat as true the complaint's material factual allegations, but not
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.  (Id. at 732-33.)  The complaint is to be construed liberally to
determine whether a cause of action has been stated.  (Id. at 733.)
 
A. Third, Fifth
and Seventh Causes of Action
 
Defendants Johnson and Brenner demur to the third, fifth, and seventh
causes of action for intentional misrepresentation and breach of fiduciary duty
on the grounds that they are improperly pleaded derivative claims, they were
released by a settlement, they are barred by res judicata, and they are barred
by the statute of limitations. 
 
Defendants assert the causes of action should have been derivative
claims because the harm allegedly was suffered by Cloud B, not Plaintiffs as
individual shareholders. Defendants also argue the claims are barred because
Cloud B released all derivative claims in its bankruptcy action. As noted, Plaintiffs
allege that Defendants, as majority shareholders and officers, conspired to
make Plaintiffs’ minority shares worthless. This is a recognized exception to
mandatory derivative actions. (See Jones v. H.F. Ahmanson (1969) 1
Cal.3d 93, 106.)
 
Defendants contend the claims are barred by the statute of limitations and
do not relate back to the original complaint, filed on October 27, 2020,
because the claims have been changed from derivative claims in the original
complaint to direct in this FAC. Defendants do not cite authority stating this
specific amendment prohibits relation back. The demurrer cannot be sustained on
this basis.
 
The demurrer to the third, fifth and seventh causes of action is
OVERRULED.
 
B. Fourth Cause
of Action for Civil Conspiracy
 
“The elements of a civil conspiracy are the formation and operation of
the conspiracy and damage resulting to plaintiff from an act done in
furtherance of the common design.” (Stueve Bros. Farms, LLC v. Berger Kahn
(2013) 222 Cal.App.4th 303, 323.) 
 
Defendants assert Plaintiffs cannot state a claim for civil conspiracy
because Plaintiffs have not alleged facts showing a conspiracy, and Defendants
acts are protected by agent immunity. Plaintiffs allege Defendants engaged in a
conspiracy by, among other things, engaging in covert negotiations to take over
Cloud B, and divulging Cloud B’s proprietary and confidential information to
the takeover Defendants. Plaintiffs assert these allegations establish a
conspiracy and fall outside of the normal agent relationship to Cloud B. The Court
agrees.
 
The demurrer to the fourth cause of action is OVERRULED.
 
C. Motion to
Strike
 
Defendants move to strike the allegations against them. As discussed,
Plaintiffs have sufficiently alleged claims against moving Defendants. The
motion to strike is DENIED.
 
 
 
 
 