 Case Number:  23STCV26910    Hearing Date:   February 14, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Marcelo Rodriguez,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23STCV26910




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Arakelian Enterprises, Inc., et al., 


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: February 14, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion to Compel Arbitration 
Moving Party: Defendant Arakelian Enterprises, Inc.
Responding Party: None
 
T/R:     DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO COMPEL
ARBITRATION IS GRANTED.
 
THE ACTION IS STAYED.
 
DEFENDANT TO NOTICE.
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers
and reply. No opposition has been received. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On November 2, 2023, Plaintiff filed
the complaint against Defendants, asserting 13 causes of action for FEHA and
Labor Code violations. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
“On petition of a party to an
arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to
arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses to arbitrate a
controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to
arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the
controversy exists….”  (CCP §
1281.2.)  The right to compel arbitration
exists unless the court finds that the right has been waived by a party’s
conduct, other grounds exist for revocation of the agreement, or where a
pending court action arising out of the same transaction creates the
possibility of conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or fact.   (CCP § 1281.2(a)-(c).)  “The party seeking arbitration bears the
burden of proving the existence of an arbitration agreement, and the party
opposing arbitration bears the burden of proving any defense, such as
unconscionability.”  (Pinnacle Museum
Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223,
236.) 
 
A.           Existence of
Arbitration Agreement 
 
Defendant moves to compel arbitration
based on the Arbitration Agreement executed by Plaintiff on June 26, 2023.
(Decl. Ortiz, Exh. A.) The agreement provides, “This
Agreement to arbitrate covers all grievances, claims, complaints, disputes or
causes of action (collectively, ‘Covered Disputes’) under applicable federal,
state or local laws, arising out of Employee’s employment with the Employer and
the termination thereof, including disputes Employee may have against the
Employer or against its officers, directors, supervisors, managers, employees,
or agents in their capacity as such or otherwise, or that the Employer may have
against Employee.” (Id.) This
action arises out of Plaintiff’s employment with Defendant.
 
Defendant has met its burden to
establish the existence of an agreement to arbitrate. Plaintiff has not opposed
this motion to establish any defenses to enforcement.
 
Defendant’s motion to compel
arbitration is GRANTED. The action is STAYED.


 