On October 18, 2021, Plaintiff Christopher Brown filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) for discrimination and retaliation under the Unruh Act.On November 28, 2023, the Court granted a summary judgment motion (“MSJ”) filed by Defendants City of Compton, Compton Housing Authority, and Delmonsha Green.  The Court’s ruling was because “there is no opposition . . . .”  On December 20, 2023, the Court entered judgment in favor of Defendants based on the MSJ.Plaintiff Brown now seeks a new trial because (1) the MSJ was not served on Plaintiff’s attorney of record, Darren Richie, at his Santa Ana office and (2) the Court’s ruling failed to “specify the reasons for its determination. The order shall specifically refer to the evidence proffered in support of and, if applicable, in opposition to the motion that indicates no triable issue exists. The court shall also state its reasons for any other determination.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(g).)Plaintiff moves for relief on the basis “of (i) irregularity in the proceedings of the court or adverse party, or order of the court or abuse of discretion by which Plaintiff was prevented from having a fair trial (Code Civ. Proc., § 657(1)); (ii) accident or surprise, which ordinary prudence could not have guarded against (Code Civ. Proc., § 657(3)); (iii) newly discovered evidence, material for the Plaintiff, that Plaintiff could not, with reasonable diligence, have discovered and produced at the trial (Code Civ. Proc., § 657(4)); (iv) insufficiency of the evidence to justify the verdict or other decision, or the verdict or other decision is against law (Code Civ. Proc., § 657(6)); and (v) error in law, occurring at trial and excepted to by the Plaintiff (Code Civ. Proc., § 657(7)).”Code of Civil Procedure section 657 provides the following grounds for granting a new trial motion: (1) “Irregularity in the proceedings”; (2) “ Misconduct of the jury”; (3) “Accident or surprise”; (4) “Newly discovered evidence”; (5) “Excessive or inadequate damages”; (6) “Insufficiency of the evidence”; and (7) “Error in law.”Plaintiff’s second argument lacks merit because the Court stated that the MSJ would be granted because there was no opposition, which is consistent with Plaintiff’s cited authority.  Indeed, “Failure to comply with this requirement of a separate statement may constitute a sufficient ground, in the court's discretion, for granting the motion.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(b)(3).)The issue of service is more complicated.  Richie’s firm, Dre Law, has locations at multiple offices, including, as relevant here, Santa Ana and Beverly Hills.  Richie is present in Santa Ana.  The attorney of record for Plaintiff is Richie and his Santa Ana office is listed as his address.  On February 3, 2022, Antonio Castillo III filed a case management statement on behalf of Plaintiff that listed the Beverly Hills office as his address.Defense counsel has had several conversations with individuals and attorneys at Richie’s firm.  One such person is Hilda Valdez, who is not an attorney but rather a law clerk.  On June 7, 2022, Valdez stated to defense counsel that “I have cc'ed Mr. Daniel Infuso to this correspondence as he is now the handling attorney and can respond to your email. Please update your service list by removing Ms. Boshra Garzedin and Mr. Darren Richie and include Mr. Daniel Infuso, Ms. Michelle Ferguson and myself.”  Daniel Infuso and Michelle Ferguson were cc’d, and there was no objection by either person.  Subsequently, defense counsel communicated about this action with Infuso.  Infuso’s address was the Beverly Hills office.On February 13, 2023, Valdez wrote to defense counsel that: “Please take note that Ms. Alexis King will be the new handling attorney on the above referenced matter moving forward. Kindly update your service list by removing Mr. Daniel Infuso, Ms. Megan Worsley and Ms. Youmee Kim. Instead, include Ms. Alexis King, Ms. May Nachum and me.”  Antonio Castillo, Alexis King, and May Nachum were CC’d, but there were no objections.On September 12, 2023, the MSJ was served on “Alexis King, Esq. Email: alexis@dre.law May Nachum, Esq. Email: may@dre.law Hilda Valdez Email: hilda@dre.law DRE LAW, A.P.C. 222 N. Canon Dr., Ste. 201 Beverly Hills, CA 90210”.  Richie was not listed for service on the MSJ.  Service was not rendered at the Santa Office.  There has never been a change to the attorney of record information on the Court’s docket as it relates to Richie.  At the MSJ hearing, there was an appearance by “Antonio Castillo and Jonathan Borsuk for Darren M. Richie via LA CourtConnect”.  As mentioned, it is true that the attorney of record information as to Richie has never changed.  Further, Richie argues that Valdez, a law clerk, had no authority to change the attorney information for this case through an email.  Defense counsel, however, had been communicating, seemingly exclusively, with the Beverly Hills office after he filed a demurrer to the FAC.  There were several communications with that office as to discovery matters.  It is not clear how Richie was involved thereafter, and none of the other attorneys that were cc’d to Valdez’s emails, including Castillo, objected that Richie should be served.Thus, the Court concludes that Dre Law’s actions and omissions led Defendants to believe that service was proper at the Beverly Hills office, and, therefore, service at that location only does not warrant a new trial.  The Motion is denied.The Court notes that the result might be different if a motion were filed under the mandatory provision of Code Civ. Proc. § 473(b).Moving party to give notice. If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic.