  Case Number:  21STCV01774    Hearing Date:   November 5, 2024    Dept:  T Motion for Leave to AmendCase Name: Bertha Valdez v. O’Reilly Automotive Inc., et al.Moving Parties: Defendants Storopack, Inc. and Thana VongResponding Party: N/A Tentative Ruling: GRANTBACKGROUNDThis case arises from a motor vehicle accident.  Plaintiff was a pedestrian and was allegedly struck by a tire following a collision of two vehicles.  Defendant Thana Vong (“Vong”) was driving one of the two vehicles involved in the collision and was in the course and scope of her employment with Defendant Storopack, Inc. (“Storopack”). (Motion for Leave to Amend, p. 3.) MOVING PARTY POSITIONStoropack and Vong seek to amend their Answers to include the affirmative defense of “Sudden Emergency Doctrine”. Defendants argue that discovery in the case has revealed that Vong was presented with an unexpected and sudden danger when the Ford pickup truck rolled into the street, and that due to these additional facts revealed in the discovery phase, Defendants must amend their Answers to assert all possible defenses that support their positions. (Id. at 4.)OPPOSITIONNo opposition has been filed.ANALYSISCCP §473(a)(1) states: “The court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or demurrer. The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time limited by this code.”    Judicial policy favors resolution of all disputed matters between the parties and, therefore, the courts have held that “there is a strong policy in favor of liberal allowance of amendments.” (Mesler v. Bragg Management Co. (1985) 39 Cal.3d 290, 296–297; see also Ventura v. ABM Industries, Inc. (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 258, 268) [“Trial courts are bound to apply a policy of great liberality in permitting amendments to the complaint at any stage of the proceedings, up to and including trial where the adverse party will not be prejudiced.”].) “If the motion to amend is timely made and the granting of the motion will not prejudice the opposing party, it is error to refuse permission to amend and where the refusal also results in a party being deprived of the right to assert a meritorious cause of action or a meritorious defense, it is not only error but an abuse of discretion.” (Morgan v. Superior Court (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 543; see also Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048 [“[I]t is an abuse of discretion to deny leave to amend where the opposing party was not misled or prejudiced by the amendment.”] Granting leave to amend is appropriate in this case. Judicial policy strongly favors granting leave to amend, absent exceptional circumstances not present in this case. Granting leave to amend will not significantly prejudice remaining parties to this action, whereas denying the motion may deprive Defendants of the right to assert a meritorious affirmative defense under the Sudden Emergency Doctrine. (See Morgan v. Sup. Ct. (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530.)  The relatively distant trial date in July 2025, in addition to the nature of the newly discovered facts relating to this case, establishes diligence and no prejudice to Plaintiff. .RULINGDefendants Storopack’s and Vong’s motions for leave to amend their Answers to Plaintiff’s Complaint are GRANTED.  Defendants to file their amended answers within seven days.  