  Case Number:  21STCV13141    Hearing Date:   April 11, 2024    Dept:  86 MOTIONS (2) FOR APPROVAL OF RECEIVER’S
SIXTH AND SEVENTH INTERIM REQUEST FOR FEES
  
Date:               4/11/24
(1:30 PM)
Case:                           Sound Equity High Income Debt
Fund v. Top Flight Investments LLC et al. (21STCV13141)
  
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
I.                  
MOTION FOR APPROVAL OF SIXTH INTERIM REQUEST FOR
FEES
 
Receiver Pacific Crest Realty Advisors, LLC’s UNOPPOSED Motion
for Approval of Receiver’s Sixth Interim Request for Fees is GRANTED. 
 
On February 20, 2024, the Court continued the motion because
service by email was untimely. In addition, service on lien holders (1) City of
Los Angeles, Department of Building and Safety, Financial Services Division and
(2) County of Los Angeles, Department of the Treasurer and Tax Collector, Tax
Collections Branch Secured Property Tax Division was not effectuated.  On February 23, 2024, Receiver filed an
Amended Proof of Service indicating that the two aforementioned lien holders
were served with the moving papers. All parties and non-parties of interest were
served with notice of continuance of the hearing. 
 
Service having been properly effectuated, the Court rules as
follows: 
 
Receiver Pacific Crest Realty Advisors, LLC moves for
approval of its interim fees incurred in the performance of its duties. 
 
Pursuant to the Order Appointing Equity Receiver and
Preliminary Injunction entered on 3/17/22, Receiver is authorized to prepare
“periodic interim statements reflecting the Receiver’s fees and administration
of the Receivership Estate.” (3/17/22 Receiver Order ¶ 11.) Receiver is
obligated to submit its fees and expenses to the Court for approval and
confirmation by way of a noticed interim request for fees, a stipulation among
the parties, or the Receiver’s final account and report. (3/17/22 Receiver
Order ¶ 11.)
 
Receiver seeks approval of $57,889.50 incurred between March
2023 and June 2023. 
 
“Interim fees are subject to final review and approval by
the court. The court retains jurisdiction to award a greater or lesser amount
as the full, fair, and final value of the services rendered.” (Cal. Rule of
Court 3.1183(a).) “Unless good cause is shown, objections to a receiver’s
interim report and accounting must be made within 10 days of notice of the
report and accounting, must be specific, and must be delivered to the receiver
and all parties entitled to service of the interim report and accounting.” (Cal.
Rule of Court 3.1183(b).) No objections were received. 
 
A review of the invoices received in support of the motions
reveals that Receiver paid utilities and vendors; continued property management
activities, including collecting rents, preserving and cleaning the sites, and
tending to security measures; marketed the properties for sale; assisted in the
preparation of sale motions; reviewed and responded to objections to sale of
properties; managed transactions and escrow logistics; prepared financial
statements; and advanced the eviction of an unlawful occupant from one of the
properties. (Constantinescu Decl. ¶¶ 7-10 & Exs. 1-4; 3/17/22 Receiver
Order ¶ 3(b) [“The Receiver is granted the following powers and duties…[t]o
operate, manage, maintain, preserve, market, and sell the Property, and to
collect revenues, security deposits, storage fees, income, issues, and profits
thereof….”].) Receiver billed $295 per hour for Sidney Constantinescu, $160 per
hour for accounting tasks, and $50 per hour for administrative tasks—ratees permitted
in the March 17, 2022 order appointing Receiver. (3/17/22 Receiver Order ¶
2(d).) Having reviewed the supporting declaration and invoices, the Court finds
that the fees claimed by Receiver are reasonably related to the administration
of the Receivership Estate. 
 
The motion is GRANTED. The Court strikes the words “and
costs” from paragraph 3 of the proposed order lodged on 1/25/24, as Receiver is
not seeking costs. (Mtn. at 10, fn. 2.) The Court will sign the proposed order electronically
received on 1/25/24. 
 
II.               
MOTION FOR APPROVAL OF SEVENTH INTERIM REQUEST
FOR FEES
 
Receiver Pacific Crest Realty Advisors, LLC’s UNOPPOSED
Motion for Approval of Receiver’s Seventh Interim Request for Fees is GRANTED.
 
Receiver seeks approval of $65,988.50 incurred between July
2023 and December 2023. No objections were received to this request.
 
A review of the invoices received in support of the motions
reveals that Receiver paid utilities and vendors; continued property management
activities, including collecting rents, conducing site inspections, preventing
and mitigating vandalism, and supervising progress related to deferred
maintenance; negotiated voluntary vacating of property and concurrently began
legal process to force vacancy to enhance marketability of property; marketed
the properties for sale; assisted in the preparation of sale motions; managed
transactions and escrow logistics; prepared financial statements; and completed
the eviction of an unlawful occupant from one of the properties.
(Constantinescu Decl. ¶¶ 5-12 & Exs. 1-6; 3/17/22 Receiver Order ¶ 3(b)
[“The Receiver is granted the following powers and duties…[t]o operate, manage,
maintain, preserve, market, and sell the Property, and to collect revenues,
security deposits, storage fees, income, issues, and profits thereof….”].)
Receiver billed $295 per hour for Sidney Constantinescu, $160 per hour for
accounting tasks, and $50 per hour for administrative tasks—rates permitted in
the March 17, 2022 order appointing Receiver. (3/17/22 Receiver Order ¶ 2(d).)
Having reviewed the supporting declaration and invoices, the Court finds that
the fees claimed by Receiver are reasonably related to the administration of
the Receivership Estate. 
 
The motion is GRANTED. The Court strikes the words “and
costs” from paragraph 3 of the proposed order lodged on 2/28/24, as Receiver is
not seeking costs. (Motion at 8, fn. 2.) The Court will sign the proposed order
electronically received on 2/28/24.