 Case Number:  23PSCV01001    Hearing Date:   February 26, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE NAME:  Clyde Donald  Atkinson v. MJB Partners, LLC dba Pomona Vista Care Center Plaintiff’s  Motion to Compel Further Response from MJB Partners, LLC dba Pomona Vista Care  Center to Special Interrogatories, Set One, Nos. 14, 15, and 16  TENTATIVE  RULING  The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses as  to Special Interrogatory No. 14, but DENIES as to Special Interrogatory Nos. 15  and 16. Defendant MJB must provide a further responses to Special Interrogatory  No. 14 within 30 days of the Court’s order.  The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions.               Plaintiff is ordered to give notice  of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.  BACKGROUND  This is an elder abuse and wrongful death case. On April 6, 2023, plaintiff  Clyde Donald Atkinson, by and through his Personal Representative, Monica Davis,  and Monica Davis, as Personal Representative of the Estate and on Behalf of the  Heirs of Clyde Donald Atkinson (collectively, Plaintiff) filed this action  against defendants MJB Partners, LLC dba Pomona Vista Care Center (MJB), Sun  Mar Management Services (collectively, Defendants) and Does 1 through 100, alleging  causes of action for elder abuse and neglect (Welfare & Institutions Code,  § 15600 et seq.), violation of residents’ Bill of Rights (Health and Safety  Code, § 1430(b)), negligence, and wrongful death.  Following an unsuccessful informal discovery conference on January  10, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant motion to compel further responses to  Special Interrogatories, Set One, Nos. 14, 15, and 16 on February 1, 2024. On  February 9, 2024, MJB filed an opposition. Plaintiff did not file a reply.  LEGAL  STANDARD  (a) On receipt of a response to interrogatories, the  propounding party may move for an order compelling a further response if the  propounding party deems that any of the following apply:  (1) An answer to a particular  interrogatory is evasive or incomplete.  (2) An exercise of the option to produce documents  under Section 2030.230 is unwarranted or the required specification of those  documents is inadequate.  (3) An objection to an interrogatory is  without merit or too general.  (b)(1) A  motion under subdivision (a) shall be accompanied by a meet and confer  declaration under Section 2016.040.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subds. (a), (b)(1).)  PRELIMINARY  ISSUES              Plaintiff  filed the moving papers for this motion on February 1, 2024. Based on the  February 26, 2024 hearing date, the deadline for Plaintiff to file the moving  papers was January 31, 2024. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 1005, subd. (b).)  Nevertheless, the proof of service indicates Plaintiff served the moving papers  on January 29, 2024. Also, MJB did not raise this issue in its opposition. The Court therefore exercises its  discretion to still consider the motion, but admonishes Plaintiff to comply  with the requirements of the Code of Civil Procedure going forward. (See Cal.  Rules of Court, rule 3.1300, subd. (d); Juarez v. Wash Depot Holdings, Inc. (2018)  24 Cal.App.5th 1197, 1202.)  DISCUSSION  Meet and Confer  A motion to compel further responses requires the parties to meet  and confer before bringing such a motion. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd.  (b)(1).) Counsel for Plaintiff provided a declaration indicating Plaintiff’s  efforts to meet and confer. (Voas Decl., ¶¶ 4-6.) Unable to resolve their disagreement,  the parties proceeded to an Informal Discovery Conference on January 10, 2024,  wherein the parties were still unable to resolve their disagreement. (Minute  Order (1/10/24).) The Court finds Plaintiff’s meet-and-confer efforts satisfactory.  Summary of Arguments  Plaintiff seeks an order compelling MJB to provide further  responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One, Nos. 14, 15, and 16. These  interrogatories seek the disclosure of the identities and contact information  of Mr. Atkinson’s roommates while he was a resident at MJB’s facility, plus the  identities and contact information of any Responsible Party and Resident  Representatives, as those terms are purportedly defined in the Health and  Safety Code.[1] Plaintiff contends MJB’s objections to these interrogatories are without merit,  as the identities and locations of percipient witnesses are discoverable  matters.  Plaintiff also contends that such witnesses are likely to have witnessed  the conditions and operations of MJB’s facility. Plaintiff then argues that MJB  bears the burden of showing that the requested information is privileged.  Plaintiff further contends that the identities and contact information of any  such percipient witnesses is not medical information under HIPAA and the  California Medical Information Act (CMIA).  In opposition, MJB argues that the identities and contact information  Plaintiff seeks is protected health information under HIPAA because it relates  to health care treatment that residents received at MJB’s facility, and may not  be disclosed per Smith v. Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 136, 140.  MJB contends this information also constitutes individually identifiable health  information under HIPAA, and that MJB is prohibited from disclosing such  information under the CMIA absent an authorization, of which none has been  requested or provided.  MJB further argues that privacy protections extend to third  parties’ medical records, and that Plaintiff must show a compelling need for  the disclosure of such third party information. MJB contends Plaintiff has not  demonstrated a compelling need for such information, as this lawsuit arises out  of a single incident, not a pattern of neglect, and that the events potentially  witnessed by third parties does not rise to the level of a compelling need. MJB  then argues if the disclosure of the identities of residents’ responsible  parties is compelled, notice must be given by MJB before any such disclosure.  Finally, MJB contends disclosure of the requested information would violate  HIPAA and the CMIA absent a court order.  Analysis  The Court finds that Plaintiff is entitled to the  disclosure of the identities and addresses of the roommates of Mr. Atkinson, but  not the identities and address of all of the residents’ Responsible Parties or  Resident Representatives. The roommates are the most likely to be percipient  witnesses to the events surrounding Mr. Atkinson’s injury, and Plaintiff is  generally entitled to the disclosure of the identities and locations of such  persons, notwithstanding their having been residents in a health care facility.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2017.010 [“Discovery may be obtained of the identity  and location of persons having knowledge of any discoverable matter…”]) The  Court finds MJB’s citation to Smith unpersuasive, as that case was  decided specifically in the context of the psychotherapist-patient privilege,  not that of a healthcare facility and its residents. (See Smith, supra, 118  Cal.App.3d 136, 141 [“We… therefore hold that the identity of [psychologist’s]  clients is protected under the psychotherapist-client privilege.”])  Moreover, even though the Court agrees with MJB that the  disclosure of Mr. Atkinson’s roommates’ identities and contact information necessarily  would divulge the fact of their receiving health care treatment at MJB’s  facility, such privacy interests must be balanced against the Plaintiff’s right  to obtain discovery. (John B. v. Superior Court (2006) 38 Cal.4th 1177,  1199 [“The right to privacy, however, is not absolute. In appropriate  circumstances, this right must be balanced against other important interests.  [Citation.]”) The Court finds that the disclosure of Mr. Atkinson’s roommates’  identities and contact information outweighs the roommates’ privacy concerns here.  To rule otherwise would unduly curtail Plaintiff’s right to seek discovery of  percipient witnesses. (See Id.; Code Civ. Proc., § 2017.010.)  This is especially important given that Mr. Atkinson is dead and unable to  identify who his roommates were. Additionally, as noted in the parties’  respective briefs, the Court does have the discretion to order medical  information disclosed. (Civ. Code, § 56.10, subd. (b)(1); 45 C.F.R. § 164.512,  subd. (e).)  However, with respect to the Responsible Parties and  Resident Representatives of all of MJB’s residents, the Court finds this to be  excessive and outweighed by privacy concerns. (See Evid. Code § 352; John  B., supra, 38 Cal.4th at p. 1199.) The Court agrees with MJB that the scope  of this case revolves primarily around an incident that shorty preceded Mr.  Atkinson’s death, not necessarily a pattern of neglect or misconduct over an  extended period of time. (See Compl., ¶¶ 12-25.)  Moreover, whereas Special Interrogatory No. 14 is limited  to Mr. Atkinson’s roommates, Special Interrogatory Nos. 15 and 16 extend to all  residents and their respective Responsible Parties and Resident Representatives.  The Court finds the scope of the latter interrogatories to be excessive and  largely speculative as to their probative value compared to the invasion of  privacy interests here. (See Evid. Code § 352; John B., supra, 38  Cal.4th at p. 1199.) It stands to reason that Mr. Atkinson’s roommates would  have percipient witness information regarding the events surrounding his injury  and subsequent death. But, it does not stand to reason that all of the  other residents and their Responsible Parties or Resident Representatives would  be percipient witnesses to those events. Accordingly, the Court finds that the  privacy interests of the residents at MJB’s facility and their respective  Responsible Parties and Resident Representatives outweigh Plaintiff’s right to  obtain discovery. (See John B., supra, 38 Cal.4th at p. 1199.)  Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s  motion to compel further responses as to Special Interrogatory No. 14, but  DENIES as to Special Interrogatory Nos. 15 and 16.  Monetary Sanctions  “The court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter  7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who  unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a further response to  interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted  with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition  of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (d).)  Plaintiff seeks monetary sanctions against MJB in the  amount of $1,400.00 for having brought this motion. Given the Court’s denial of  the majority of Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses, the Court finds  that MJB acted with substantial justification in maintaining their objections  and opposing Plaintiff’s motion. Accordingly, the Court DENIES Plaintiff’s  request for monetary sanctions.  CONCLUSION  The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses as  to Special Interrogatory No. 14, but DENIES as to Special Interrogatory Nos. 15  and 16. Defendant MJB must provide a further responses to Special Interrogatory  No. 14 within 30 days of the Court’s order.  The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions.               Plaintiff is ordered to give notice  of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.    