  Case Number:  19SMCV00935    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2023    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling 
Murrey v.
Cheaterreport.com et al., Case No. 19SMCV00935
Hearing Date December
12, 2023
Plaintiff Murrey’s
Motion to Compel Production of Further Documents from Third Party Meta
Platforms, Inc.  
 
Plaintiff alleges
the website www.Cheaterreport.com published
defamatory statements about him. On March 22, 2022 the court granted Dr. Murrey
leave to conduct limited third-party discovery to identify the person who
created the website. Dr. Murrey served subpoenas duces tecum on third parties
Amazon, Facebook/Instagram (both owned by Meta Platforms, Inc.), Yahoo and
Cloudflare, seeking production of business records. 
 
On January 31, 2023
the court heard plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to his subpoenas.
The court denied as to all requests directed at Meta except requests 15 and 16,
which sought documents related to a contractual relationship between Facebook
and Cheaterreport and documents demonstrating payments from Cheaterreport to
Facebook. 
 
On July 31, 2023
the court held an Informal Discovery Conference. The court issued a minute
order stating “[p]laintiff may file a discovery motion if needed.” Upon a
party’s motion, a court may make an order directing compliance with a subpoena
duces tecum for production of documents. Cal. Code of Civ. Proc. §2016.010. 
 
Plaintiff requests
the complete unredacted VISA credit card number an entity called “Cheatersrus”
used to pay for advertising on Facebook. While Dr. Murrey’s separate statement
seeks further responses to all requests in the original subpoena, those requests
are not addressed in the memorandum of points and authorities, so are not
addressed. Additionally, the majority of the requests – except for nos. 15 and
16 – were outside the scope of third-party discovery contemplated in the
court’s January 31, 2023 order. The court confines its analysis to the
Cheatersus credit card information. 
 
Personal financial
information falls within the zone of privacy protected by the California constitution.
E.g., Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 552. When a party
to litigation seeks to discover information subject to the constitutional right
to privacy, the party bears the burden of establishing a compelling need for
the discovery. Davis v. Superior Court (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1008, 1014. 
 
Plaintiff states
he uncovered evidence linking Cheatersus to Cheaterreport. He presents account
information produced in response to his Cloudflare subpoena, which indicates
the creator of the Cheaterreport website used the email address liarscheatersrus@protonmail.com. Murrey
declaration, exhibit 9. 
 
Next, he quotes a
purported Cheaterreport Facebook post which allegedly stated “Cheatersrus is
not Cheatersareus.com. Also, liarscheatersrus is not cheaterland.com. We are
always the same.” Motion at pg. 4. Since this alleged post is not reproduced or
verified, the court cannot rely upon Dr. Murreys’ quotation. Even if the post
were verified, it is an out-of-court statement Dr. Murrey seeks to admit for
the truth of the matter stated. Absent an exception, it is inadmissible hearsay.

 
Dr. Murrey
presented evidence linking the Cheaterreport website to the Cheatersrus Facebook
page—the “liarscheatersrus@protomail.com” email address associated with
Cheaterreport. This is not strong enough. Ordering production of an unredacted
credit card number would be a substantial intrusion into an unidentified nonparty’s
constitutionally protected financial affairs. Dr. Murrey has not shown there is
no other way to uncover the identity of the website’s creators, and he has not
adequately proven a connection between the Cheaterreport and the Cheatersrus
Facebook page. DENIED. No sanctions will issue. 