 Case Number:  22SMCV01418    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2023    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling 
Roth v. Arakelian
Enterprises, Inc., et al., Case No. 22SMCV01418
Hearing Date
December 12, 2023 
Plaintiff Karl
Roth’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production of
Documents 
 
Plaintiff Roth
alleges a sanitation vehicle driven by an employee of defendant Arakelian
Enterprises, Inc. struck and damaged his car. On June 13, 2023 Roth served requests
for production of documents. He argues Arakelian’s responses were insufficient
and their objections meritless and moves for further responses. 
 
Timeliness 
Under Cal. Code of
Civ. Proc. §2031(c), “[u]nless notice of this motion is given within 45 days of
the service of the verified response, or any supplemental verified response, or
on or before any specific later date to which the demanding party and the responding
party have agreed in writing, the demanding party waives any right to compel a
further response to the demand.” 
 
Arakelian argues Roth
waived the right to file this motion, since initial responses were served on
July 17, 2023 and the motion was not filed until November 15, 2023. On October
9, 2023 at an informal discovery conference, the court reserved a hearing date
of December 12, 2023 for discovery motions. See 10/9/2023 minute order
at pg. 1. Neither party objected. The motion is compliant with the court’s
October 9 order, not untimely. 
 
Service 
Arakelian argues
Roth’s motion did not comply with the service of process requirements because
the proof of service was not signed. Arakelian received notice of the motion
and filed an opposition. The court will consider the merits of the motion.
 
Request 1
This request seeks
production of Arakelian’s contract or contracts with the City of Los Angeles.
Roth’s breach of contract claim is based on Arakelina’s contract with the City.
The contracts are relevant and discoverable. Arakelian’s boilerplate objections
are without merit—the request identifies the agreement(s) it seeks, and
Arakelian does not identify any third parties whose rights would be infringed
by production. GRANTED. 
 
Request 2 
This request seeks
production of emails by various Arakelian employees referencing Karl Roth or
the alleged accident. The request is relevant, since they could contain
information related to the identity of the driver and/or further facts
regarding the circumstances surrounding the accident that were discussed
internally.
 
The request is
narrowly tailored, seeking only emails directly relevant to the accident. To
the extent the privacy rights of Arakelian employees are implicated, defendant
can propose a protective order preventing the disclosure of these documents
outside the scope of the case. GRANTED to the extent unproduced responsive
emails exist. 
 
 
Requests 4-6 
These requests
seek materials in effect in August 2020 for Arakelian’s drivers regarding
reporting of accidents, driver safety, accident reporting and training. The
materials are relevant to Roth’s negligence claim, as they may show whether
Arakelian had adequate training procedures in place or whether it failed to
implement them. The phrase “instructions and procedures” is not so ambiguous as
to prevent Arakelian from making a good faith attempt to answer, and the probative
value of the materials far outweighs any potential privacy concerns. To the
extent Arakelian argues any of these materials are work product or protected by
the attorney-client privilege, it must produce a privilege log. GRANTED. 
 
Requests 7-8
This request seeks
the employment contract between Mariangela Caraballo and Arakelian and the job
description for her role as Senior Claims Manager. Caraballo is no longer a
defendant since the court sustained a demurrer to all causes of action against
her. This request is irrelevant to Roth’s remaining claims and would violate
Caraballo’s right to privacy in her private financial affairs. DENIED. 
 
Request 9
This request seeks
GPS tracking data of Arakelian’s vehicles in the vicinity of the alleged
accident on the date and time it occurred. This request is relevant, since the
identity of the driver who allegedly struck Roth’s car is still unknown, and
this GPS data could help narrow down the possibilities. Arakelian states it
performed a diligent search and reasonable inquiry but found no responsive
documents. Roth does not present sufficient evidence for the court to conclude
that the requested materials exist but are being withheld. DENIED.  
 
Request 10 
This request seeks
all DMV accident forms filed by Arakelian in the year 2020. The request is
overbroad. Accident reports regarding other incidents are irrelevant and
invasive of third-party privacy rights. The court will order production only of
reports that reference the August 25, 2020 accident. GRANTED in part, DENIED in
part. 
 
Request 11
This request seeks
reports of all property damage accidents by Arakelian to the City from
initiation of services in 2017 through May 2023. This request is overbroad. The
court will limit its scope similarly—Arakelian is required to produce only
reports related to the August 25, 2020 accident. GRANTED in part, DENIED in
part. 
 
Request 12 
This request seeks
copies of all civil complaints filed against Arakelian for property damage.
Again, this request is overbroad as to time and subject matter. DENIED. 
 
Requests 13 and 14

This request seeks
vehicle assignment numbers and service addresses for truck drivers servicing
the 90291 zip code, limited to August 25, 2020. This request is relevant to
Roth’s attempts to determine the identity of the driver who allegedly struck
his car, and it is reasonably limited in terms of time and scope. To the extent
that it implicates the privacy rights of third parties, the court is open to a
proposed protective order preventing the disclosure of materials outside the
litigation. GRANTED.
 
Request No. 15 
This request seeks
training materials provided to Arakelian customer service employees and/or drivers.
The request is relevant as to the drivers, since it may tend to show whether
Arakelian trained them negligently, but irrelevant as to the customer service
employees, since the claim against Caraballo has been dismissed. GRANTED in
part and DENIED in part. 
 
Request No. 16, 17
This request seeks
the employment contract of Mariangela Caraballo, her job description and
notes/records related to her investigation of plaintiff’s claim. The cause of
action against Caraballo has been dismissed, so her employment contract and job
description are irrelevant and seek protected information regarding a third
party. Records of her inspection of Roth’s complaint are relevant and
discoverable. GRANTED in part and DENIED in part.
 
Request No. 18
This request is
essentially duplicative of request No. 9. DENIED for the same reason. 
 
Request No. 19
This request seeks
Arakelian’s business contracts at the address where the accident took place. It
is narrowly tailored and relevant to show whether Arakelian acted negligently
and to determine the identity of the driver. To the extent it implicates
third-party privacy rights, as stated above the court is open to issuing a
protective order. GRANTED.
 
Request 20 
This request seeks
customer pickup documents and schedules for the vicinity of the accident,
limited to the date of August 25, 2020. This request is narrowly tailored and
relevant to plaintiff’s attempt to identify the driver. GRANTED. 
 
Requests 21 and 22

These requests
seek all documents related to property damage claims directed at Arakelian in
the year of 2020. The requests are overbroad, seeking materials not related to
the accident underlying Roth’s complaint. DENIED.
 
Request 23 
This request seeks
insurance contracts covering Arakelian from 2020 through 20203. Under
California Evidence Code §1155, evidence of a party’s whole or part ownership
of liability insurance is inadmissible (1) negligence or (2) other wrongdoing.
Arakelian’s insurance status is irrelevant and inadmissible. DENIED.
 
Request 24 
Roth seeks
stop/idle time data at each service vehicle stop in the vicinity of the
accident. This is relevant to determine the identity of the driver and/or
whether Arakelian acted negligently. The request is narrowly tailored, and not
overbroad. GRANTED.
 
Defendants to
produce further documents in accordance with the rulings above within 20 days or,
if no further documents exist, provide a verified statement that a diligent
search has been conducted. No sanctions will issue as there is no evidence that
Arakelian’s objections were made in bad faith. 