 Case Number:  24LBCV00200    Hearing Date:   September 24, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiffs, Kenyeta Thompson, et
al. filed this action against Defendants, Tony Huy Lim and Margaret Chung for
breach of contract and related claims arising out of the parties’
landlord-tenant relationship.  The crux
of the complaint is that Plaintiffs rented an illegal and unpermitted unit from
Defendants.  The unit was inspected by
the City, which noted various violations. 
Specifically, the City noted that the unit had undergone various
improvements without permits and/or inspections, and the City ordered the
defendants to obtain the necessary permits and allow the required
inspections.  After the inspections,
Defendants terminated Plaintiffs’ tenancy with no stated reason for the
termination.  
 
The original complaint is the
operative complaint, and it includes causes of action for:
·        
breach of contract 
·        
breach of the covenant of quiet enjoyment 
·        
wrongful eviction 
·        
violation of Civil Code §1940.2 
·        
violation of Municipal Code §8.101.030 
·        
violation of Civil Code §1946.2.    
 
2.     Demurrer
to Complaint
a.     Legal
Standard on Demurrer
A demurrer is a pleading used to
test the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not
fact, regarding the form or content of the opposing party’s pleading.  It is not the function of the demurrer to
challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purpose of the ruling on
the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true,
however improbable they may be.
 
A demurrer can be used only to
challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or from
matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. Blank v. Kirwan 39
Cal.3d 311 (1985). No other extrinsic evidence can be considered (i.e., no
“speaking demurrers”). A demurrer is brought under CCP § 430.10 [grounds], §
430.30 [as to any matter on its face or from which judicial notice may be
taken], and § 430.50(a) [can be taken to the entire complaint or any cause of
action within].  Specifically, a demurrer
may be brought per CCP § 430.10(e) if insufficient facts are stated to support
the cause of action asserted.  Per CCP
§430.10(a) a demurrer may be brought where the court has no jurisdiction of the
subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading.  Furthermore, demurrer for uncertainty will be
sustained only where the complaint is so bad that the defendant cannot
reasonably respond.  CCP §
430.10(f).  
 
However, in construing the
allegations, the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that
may modify or limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations. Financial
Corporation of America v. Wilburn, 189 Cal.App.3rd 764, 769 (1987). And, if the
facts pled in the complaint are inconsistent with facts which are incorporated
by reference from exhibits attached to the complaint, the facts in the
incorporated exhibits control. Further, irrespective of the name or label given
to a cause of action by the plaintiff, a general demurrer must be overruled if
the facts as pled in the body of the complaint state some valid claim for
relief. Special demurrers are not allowed in limited jurisdiction courts. (CCP
§ 92(c).)
 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. Goodman v.
Kennedy, 18 Cal.3d 335, 348 (1976). The burden is on the complainant to show
the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.) 
 
Finally, CCP section 430.41
requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer.” (CCP §430.41(a).) The parties are to meet and confer
at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (CCP
§430.41(a)(2).) Thereafter, the demurring party shall file and serve a
declaration detailing their meet and confer efforts. (CCP §430.41(a)(3).)
 

Meet and Confer

Defense Counsel, Jennifer Volcy, declares she and Plaintiff’s attorney
met and conferred, but were unable to resolve the issues presented by way of
the demurrer and motion to strike.   The meet and confer requirement is therefore
satisfied, and the Court will rule on the matter on its merits.  
 

Initial Note

Any opposition to the demurrer was
due on or before 9/11/24.  CCP
§1005(b).  Any amended complaint in lieu
of opposition was also due on or before 9/11/24.  §472. 
Plaintiffs have not filed an amended complaint or opposition to the
demurrer.  The Court asks Plaintiffs to
ensure they dismiss any uncontested claims, amend any claims amenable to
amendment, and/or oppose any future pleading challenge substantively and
timely.  
 

Analysis

Defendants demur to the first,
third, fourth, and fifth causes of action. 
They do not demur to the second or sixth causes of action.  
 
As to the first cause of action,
they correctly note that, to the extent the claims are premised on breach of
contract, Plaintiffs have not attached a copy of the contract and have not pled
which term of the contract was breached. 

 
As to the third cause of action,
they also correctly note that Plaintiffs have not pled a claim for wrongful
termination, as they have neither pled that their tenancy was terminated while
a lease was in place nor that they were terminated for an illegal or unlawful
reason; they plead only that they do not know why their lease was terminated,
but they do not plead that the termination was illegal.  
 
As to the fourth cause of action,
they correctly note that §1940.2 precludes a landlord to use force, threats, or
menacing conduct to terminated a lease, but no such acts are pled in the
complaint.  
 
Finally, as to the fifth cause of
action, Long Beach Municipal Code §8.101.030 prohibits tenant harassment, but
Plaintiffs have not pled tenant harassment. 

The demurrer is sustained in its
entirety on the stated grounds.  
 
It is not up to the Court to figure
out how the complaint can be amended to state a cause of action.  Rather, the burden is on the plaintiff to
show in what manner he or she can amend the complaint, and how that amendment
will change the legal effect of the pleading. 
Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349; Hendy v. Losse (1991) 54
Cal.3d 723, 742.  In light of the lack of
opposition to the demurrer, leave to amend is denied.   
 
3.     Motion
to Strike
Plaintiffs seek punitive damages in
connection with their second, third, and fourth causes of action.  Defendants move to strike the prayer for
punitive damages, correctly noting that the complaint lacks facts supporting
the claims of fraud, malice, and/or oppression. 
Notably, the motion is moot as it relates to the third and fourth causes
of action in light of the ruling on the demurrer, above.  The motion to strike remains ripe as to the
second cause of action.  The motion to
strike is granted.  Again, in light of
the lack of opposition, leave to amend is denied.
 
Defendants’ notice of motion also
indicates Defendants move to strike the prayer for attorneys’ fees.  Plaintiffs seek to recover attorneys’ fees in
connection with their third and fifth causes of action.  The motion is therefore moot in light of the
ruling on the demurrer above.  Notably,
Defendants failed to brief the attorneys’ fees issue in their points and
authorities.  Thus, if the motion were
not moot, it would be denied.  
 
4.     Conclusion
Defendants’ demurrer is sustained
without leave to amend.  Defendants’
motion to strike is granted without leave to amend to the extent it is not
moot.  Defendants are ordered to file an
answer to the complaint, with the subject causes of action and prayers for
damages deemed stricken, within twenty days. 

 
5.     Case
Management Conference
The parties are reminded that there
is a CMC on calendar concurrently with the hearing on the demurrer and motion
to strike.  The Court asks the parties to
make arrangements to appear remotely at the CMC and hearing on the
demurrer/motion to strike.