 Case Number:  24LBCV00775    Hearing Date:   September 24, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Stephanie Hernandez
filed this action against Defendant, Kia Motors America, Inc. for lemon law
violations.  
 
2.     Motion
for Relief from Waiver of Discovery Objections and OSC re: Appointment of
Discovery Referee
Defendant propounded discovery on
Plaintiff on 5/20/24.  Plaintiff
attempted to serve timely responses on 6/21/24, but Plaintiff’s attorney’s
automated folder service was down and therefore the responses were served by
zip file.  Plaintiff did not realize the
responses did not go through until Plaintiff received Defendant’s motions to
compel, which Defendant filed on 7/01/24. 

 
On 8/20/24, Plaintiff filed this
motion, seeking relief from waiver of discovery objections.  The Discovery Act requires the Court to grant
a motion for relief from waiver of discovery objections if the party shows that
(a) the party has served responses, in substantial compliance with the code,
and (b) the failure to timely respond was the result of mistake, inadvertence,
or excusable neglect.  
 
On 9/11/24, Defendant filed timely
opposition to the motion.  Defendant
concedes Plaintiff has met the second component of the test.  Defendant argues, however, that Plaintiff’s responses
are not “in substantial compliance with the Code” because (a) Plaintiff
improperly inserted “general objections” into the responses, (b) Plaintiff
failed to answer basic FROGs, and (c) Plaintiff failed to provide substantive
responses to relevant and critical SROGs. 
 
On 9/16/24, the Court held a Case
Management Conference.  The Court noted
that the parties have today’s discovery motion on calendar, Defendant has a
motion to deem RFAs admitted scheduled for 10/03/24, Plaintiff has an MTCF
scheduled for 10/08/24, and Defendant has three motions to compel scheduled for
10/10/24.  The Court, in light of the
volume of discovery disputes, scheduled an OSC re: appointment of a discovery
referee for 9/24/24, to be heard contemporaneously with the hearing on today’s
motion.  
 
Any reply to the opposition was due
on or before 9/17/24.  The Court has not
received timely reply papers.  The Court
is hopeful the parties have resolved their issues because they wish to avoid
appointment of a discovery referee.  
 
If the parties submit on this
ruling, the Court will presume the parties resolved their issues, will
discharge the OSC, and will take this motion, as well as all future discovery
motion hearings, off calendar. If the parties have not resolved their discovery
issues, they must appear and be ready to discuss the remaining issues and the
possibility of appointment of a referee.
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give
notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   