  Case Number:  24NNCV01639    Hearing Date:   December 4, 2024    Dept:  V SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES –
NORTHEAST DISTRICT
DEPARTMENT V
SUMAKU H. ALI, 
Plaintiff, 
vs. 
FIRSTGROUP AMERICA, INC. AND DOES
1 TO 50, inclusive, 
Defendants. 
Case No.: 24NNCV01639 
Hearing Date: December 4, 2024 
Time: 8:30 a.m. 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION TO
BE RELIEVED AS COUNSEL
MOVING PARTY: Counsel for
plaintiff SUMAKU H. ALI, Nina Minassian from Dordulian Law Group
RESPONDING PARTY: Unopposed
The court considered the moving
papers.
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff Sumaku H. Ali
(plaintiff) alleges that she was injured when the doors of a bus operated by
defendants closed on her. Plaintiff filed the complaint against defendant
FirstGroup America, Inc. (defendant) on May 15, 2024, alleging general negligence.
Plaintiff’s counsel Nina
Minassian (Ms. Minassian) from Dordulian Law Group filed the instant motion on
November 4, 2024. No opposition has been received.
LEGAL STANDARD
Code of Civil Procedure section
284(1) allows for a change or substitution of attorney “[u]pon the consent of
both client and attorney, filed with the clerk, or entered upon the minutes.”
If both parties do not consent to a substitution of attorney, Code of Civil
Procedure section 284(2) allows for a substitution “[u]pon the order of the
court, upon the application of either client or attorney, after notice from one
to the other.” California Rules of Court Rule 3.1362 sets forth procedures for
relieving counsel without the mutual consent of both parties.
Under California Rules of Court
Rule 3.1362, an attorney seeking to withdraw by motion rather than by consent
of the client, as here, is required to make that motion using approved Judicial
Council forms. The motion also requires a declaration stating “in general
terms, and without compromising the confidentiality of the attorney-client
relationship why a motion under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(2) is
brought instead of filing a consent under Code of Civil Procedure section
284(1).” (Cal. Rules of Ct., Rule 3.1362(c).) Judicial Council form MC-052, the
attorney’s declaration, requires that the client be provided no less than five
days’ notice before hearing on the motion. A proposed order prepared on form
MC-053 must also be lodged with the court with the moving papers.
California Rules of Court Rule
3.1362(d) also requires that the motion, notice of motion, the declaration, and
the proposed order must be served on the client and all other parties who have
appeared in the case.
DISCUSSION
Ms. Minassian moves to be
relieved as counsel of record for plaintiff Sumaku H. Ali. Ms. Minassian brings
this motion under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(2) on the grounds that
there has been an irreconcilable breakdown of the attorney-client relationship.
She states that she cannot continue to represent plaintiff in the manner in
which plaintiff wishes. Ms. Minassian offers additional information to the
court during an in camera hearing. She states that she has been unsuccessful in
seeking a substitution of attorney.
Ms. Minassian attests that she
served plaintiff by mail at plaintiff's last known address and that she
confirmed by conversation within the past 30 days. The proof of service shows
plaintiff was served on November 4, 2024. The notice was sufficient.
On January 28, 2025, the court
will hold a Case Management Conference, and an OSC hearing re: order striking
defendant’s answer and/or imposing monetary sanctions. No trial date has been
set.
Based on the foregoing, the
court GRANTS the motion to be relieved as counsel.