 Case Number:  23TRCV03893    Hearing Date:   August 20, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
THOMAS
  REED,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV03893




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
JOHN
  COLE,


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          August 20,
2024
 
Moving Parties:                      Attorney Haleh Shekarchian,
Esq., for plaintiff Thomas Reed
Responding
Party:                  None
Motion to Be Relieved
as Counsel
 
The Court considered the moving
papers.
RULING
The motion is GRANTED.  The Court orders that the attorney is relieved
as counsel of record for plaintiff Thomas Reed, effective upon the filing of
the proof of service of the signed “Order Granting Attorney’s Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel – Civil” (Judicial Council form MC-053) upon the client.
BACKGROUND
On November 21, 2023, plaintiff
Thomas Reed filed a complaint against defendant John Cole for motor vehicle
negligence and general negligence based on an incident that occurred on
December 3, 2021, at Hardin Drive and Glenway Drive, in Inglewood.
On July 9, 2024, defendant filed an
answer.
Trial is set for February 9, 2026.
LEGAL STANDARD
The court has discretion to allow
an attorney to withdraw, and such a motion should be granted provided that
there is no prejudice to the client and it does not disrupt the orderly process
of justice.  See Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21 Cal. App. 4th 904, 915; People v. Prince (1968) 268 Cal. App. 2d
398.
CRC Rule 3.1362 (Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel) requires (1) notice of motion and motion to be directed to
the client (made on the Notice of Motion and Motion to be Relieved as
Counsel—Civil form (MC-051)); (2) a declaration stating in general terms and
without compromising the confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship
why a motion under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(2) is brought instead of
filing a consent under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(1) (made on the
Declaration in Support of Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil
form (MC-052)); (3) service of the notice of motion and motion and declaration
on all other parties who have appeared in the case; and (4) the proposed order
relieving counsel (prepared on the Order Granting Attorney's Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel—Civil form (MC-053)).
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiff Thomas Reed’s attorney Haleh
Shekarchian, Esq. seeks to be relieved as counsel.
            Counsel states in his declaration that
the client has made it difficult for attorney Shekarchian to continue
representing him any further.  He states
that the attorney-client relationship has completely broken down and cannot be
reestablished.  Counsel states that he
attempted to locate plaintiff by retaining the services of a private
investigator resulting in no success.  He
also states that “[d]ue to the lack of interest, communication and cooperation”
from plaintiff, plaintiff has made it extremely difficult for counsel to
continue representing him.  Several
attempts were made to contact plaintiff but none of the telephone numbers that
counsel has for plaintiff are working. 
Counsel also attempted to contact plaintiff by mail and email and via a
request for change of address to the U.S. Post Office but such request was
returned with no change of address order on file.  Counsel further declares that he has
exhausted any and all efforts to establish communication with plaintiff, all to
no avail.
The Court finds that the attorney
submitted a declaration establishing that the service requirements of
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1362, have been satisfied in that he has been
unable to confirm that the address is current or to locate a more current
address for the client after making the following efforts:  mailing the motion papers to the client’s
last known address, return receipt requested and calling the client’s last
known telephone numbers and hiring a private investigator.  The Court also finds that the attorney has
shown sufficient reason why the motion to be relieved as counsel should be
granted.
            The motion is GRANTED.
ORDER
The motion is GRANTED. The Court
orders that the attorney is relieved as counsel of record for plaintiff Thomas
Reed, effective upon the filing of the proof of service of the signed “Order
Granting Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel – Civil” (Judicial Council
form MC-053) upon the client.
Moving counsel is ordered to give
notice of this ruling.