  Case Number:  23TRCV03380    Hearing Date:   August 20, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
LILLIAN
  SMITH SR., 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV03380




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative
  RULING
 




 
RICARDO
  HERNANDEZ,


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          August 20,
2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Defendant Ricardo Hernandez
Responding
Party:                  None
(1)  
Demurrer
(2)  
Motion to Strike
 
            The Court considered the moving papers.  No opposition was filed.
RULING
            The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH
TWENTY DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND as to the complaint and each of the causes of
action.  The motion to strike is GRANTED
WITH TWENTY DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND as to the prayer for punitive damages.
BACKGROUND
            On September 18, 2023, plaintiff
Lillian Smith Sr. (self-represented) filed a complaint against Ricardo
Hernandez.  
LEGAL AUTHORITY
Demurrer
When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context. 
Taylor v. City of Los Angeles
Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters. 
Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the
pleading or are judicially noticed.”  SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153
Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.  “The only issue
involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.
Strike
“The court may, upon a motion . .
., or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper:  (a) Strike any irrelevant, false, or improper
matter inserted in any pleading.  (b)
Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity
with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.”  CCP §436(b).
            CCP §431.10 states:  “(a) A material allegation in a pleading is
one essential to the claim or defense and which could not be stricken from the
pleading without leaving it insufficient as to that claim or defense.  
(b) An immaterial allegation in a
pleading is any of the following:  (1) An
allegation that is not essential to the statement of a claim or defense.  (2) An allegation that is neither pertinent
to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense.  (3) A demand for judgment requesting relief
not supported by the allegations of the complaint or cross-complaint.  
(c) An ‘immaterial allegation’
means ‘irrelevant matter’ as that term is used in Section 436.”
The grounds for moving to strike
must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.  CCP §437.
DISCUSSION
Demurrer
Defendant Ricardo Hernandez demurs
to the complaint and each of the causes of action on the grounds that they fail
to state sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action and are uncertain.
On the form complaint, at paragraph
10, plaintiff marked the following causes of action:  general negligence, intentional tort,
premises liability, and other (breach of contract, breach intentional
misconduct, emotional distress, breach of warranty, breach of the implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing, negligence, conversion, gross
negligence, fraudulent business practices). 
The complaint alleges that plaintiff relied on statements that items
would be secure at the storage facility rental site.  Plaintiff alleges that the locks at plaintiff’s
storage space were “cut off against my consent and knowledge and forced entry
without sending me a notice beforehand.”  The complaint alleges that plaintiff searched
the contract and did not find any section stating that it was against the law
or contract to place a second lock for extra protection of plaintiff’s
antiques.  “In writing to take the issue
to a higher level I sent letter” to Ricardo Hernandez and the contract
information as to why would Hernandez “discriminate against me and purposely
single my unit out and break into my unit” to gain entry and “remove what he
could keep himself and what could be later auctioned off.”  The complaint alleges that plaintiff was
viciously attacked on the premises from behind and that defendant defamed and
slandered plaintiff that plaintiff was behind on payments.
Defendant argues that the complaint
is uncertain as to what specific causes of action plaintiff is actually
alleging.  Defendant explains that
plaintiff references several causes of action at paragraph 10 and includes
several handwritten pages but does not attach the causes of action as
required.  Further, defendant argues, as
to negligence, plaintiff has not alleged facts to support duty, breach,
causation, and damages.  As to a cause of
action for “intentional tort,” defendant argues that it is uncertain, and the
allegations do not support such a cause of action.  As for breach of contract, defendant points
out that plaintiff does not allege the existence of a contract between
plaintiff and defendant Hernandez.  As to
purported causes of action for premises liability, gross negligence, breach of
warranty, breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing,
conversion, fraudulent business practices, and intentional misconduct, there
are no allegations to meet the elements and are uncertain.  
The Court rules as follows:  The complaint is procedurally defective and
uncertain.  Plaintiff fails to identify
each of the causes of action by number and attach a “cause of action” as
required for each one.  See Complaint, ¶10
(“each complaint must have one or more causes of action attached).  See also Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 2.112,
which requires that “[e]ach separately stated cause of action . . . must
specifically state:  (1) Its number
(e.g., ‘first cause of action’); (2) Its nature (e.g., ‘for fraud’) . . . .”
Further, the allegations are
insufficient as to all the purported causes of action.  Plaintiff has not pled facts to meet the
elements of any of them, for the reasons argued by defendant.
The demurrer to the complaint and
each of the purported causes of action is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
Strike  
Defendant requests that the Court
strike plaintiff’s request for punitive damages at para. 14.a.2.
Civil Code §3294 authorizes the
recovery of punitive damages in non-contract cases where “the defendant has
been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice . . . .”  The Court in Taylor v. Superior Court
(1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 894-95, found that “[s]omething more than the mere
commission of a tort is always required for punitive damages.  There must be circumstances of aggravation or
outrage, such as spite or ‘malice,’ or a fraudulent or evil motive on the part
of the defendant, or such a conscious and deliberate disregard of the interests
of others that his conduct may be called willful or wanton.” 
“’Malice’ means conduct which is
intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others.” 
Civil Code §3294(c)(1).   
As the Court noted in College
Hospital v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 713, Section 3294 was
amended in 1987 to require that, where malice is based on a defendant’s
conscious disregard of a plaintiff’s rights, the conduct must be both
despicable and willful.  The Court in
College Hospital held further that “despicable conduct refers to circumstances
that are base, vile, or contemptible.”  Id.
at 725 (citation omitted).  Also,
“[i]nasmuch as Civil Code section 3294 requires as a prerequisite to the recovery
of punitive damages that the defendant ‘has been guilty of oppression, fraud,
or malice,’ the cases have uniformly recognized that proof of negligence, even
gross negligence, or recklessness is insufficient to warrant an award of
punitive damages.”  Dawes v. Superior
Court (1980) 111 Cal. App. 3d 82, 87 (citations omitted).
The allegations are insufficient to
show oppression, fraud, or malice.
The motion to strike is GRANTED
WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
ORDER
The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH
TWENTY DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND as to the complaint and each of the purported causes
of action.  
The motion to strike is GRANTED WITH
TWENTY DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND as to the prayer for punitive damages.
Defendant is ordered to give notice
of ruling.