 Case Number:  23VECV00091    Hearing Date:   November 9, 2023    Dept:  W ROBIN LA DUE vs SHAHE BOYADIJAN, et al.
 
defendants’
demurrer to the amended complaint 
 
Date
of Hearing:        November 9, 2023                            Trial
Date:       None Set  
Department:              W                                                        Case
No.:        23VECV00091
 
Moving Party:            Defendants Shahe Boyadjian and Maral
Boyadjian  
Responding Party:     No opposition.  
 
BACKGROUND
 
On
January 9, 2023, Plaintiff Robin La Due filed a complaint against Defendants
Shahe Boyadjian and Maral Boyadjian. Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint
on August 24, 2023 for Breach of Contract, Stolen Property, and Malicious
Sabotage. 
 
The parties have a history of litigation between them that began
prior to Plaintiffs filing the instant action. In January 2022, Boyadjian filed
a small claims action against Robin La Due to recover unpaid rent. Judgment was
ultimately entered in favor of Boyadjian, against La Due. On June 21, 2022,
Boyadjian filed an unlawful detainer action against Robin La Due stemming from
his longstanding unjustified failure to pay rent at the subject property, in
direct violation of the lease agreement. That matter was also fully litigated
and resulted in another judgment in favor of Boyadjian, against La Due.
Following those two actions by Boyadjian, Plaintiff subsequently brought two
civil actions against the Boyadjians. In
this action, Plaintiff alleges Defendants did not properly give Plaintiff
enough time to vacate the premises upon the Sheriffs arrival and left their
personal property at the unit, which Defendants have refused to return.
Plaintiff also alleges Defendant withheld Plaintiff’s security deposit. 
 
[Tentative]
Ruling
 
Defendants Shahe Boyadjian and Maral Boyadjian’s
Demurrer to the Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
Defendants request this court take judicial notice
of Judgment in Case Number 22VEUD00858 (Exh. A) and Return on
Attachment/Execution in Case Number 22VEUD00858 (Exh. B). The court grants
Defendants’ request for judicial notice. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendants demur to the amended complaint on
the grounds the claims are uncertain and fails to allege facts sufficient to
state a cause of action against Defendants. 
 
First Cause of Action
 
Defendants demur to the first cause of action
on the grounds it cannot be ascertained what are the material terms of the
"rental agreement” and no such “rental agreement” is attached to the
complaint. 
 
The court agrees. To recover damages for a breach of contract, the plaintiff must prove (1)
the existence of the contract; (2) plaintiff’s performance of the contract or
excuse for non-performance; (3) the defendant’s breach; and (4) the resulting
damage to the plaintiff. (Richman v.
Hartley (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186.) The pleadings must specify that
the contract is written, oral, or implied by conduct. (CCP § 430.10(g).)
Further, “[a] written contract may be pleaded by its terms—set out verbatim in
the complaint or a copy of the contract attached to the complaint and
incorporated therein by reference—or by its legal effect. [Citation.] In order
to plead a contract by its legal effect, plaintiff must ‘allege the substance
of its relevant terms. This is more difficult, for it requires a careful
analysis of the instrument, comprehensiveness in statement, and avoidance of
legal conclusions.’  [Citation.]” (McKell v. Washington Mutual, Inc. (2006)
142 Cal.App.4th 1457, 1489 [citing 4 Witkin, Cal. Proc. (4th ed. 1997)
Pleading, §§ 479-480, pp. 572-73].)
 
Here, the written
agreement is not attached to the complaint nor are the terms alleged. Moreover,
as noted by Defendants, it is unclear from the allegations how Defendants
breached the security deposit agreement when it withheld the money. 
 
Accordingly,
Defendants’ demurrer to the first cause of action is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO
AMEND. 
 
Second Cause of
Action
 
Defendants demur to
the second cause of action on the grounds the property is not identified and
moreover, after the lockout, unless and until Plaintiff paid storage costs,
Plaintiff had no right to possession. 
 
To plead a cause of
action for conversion, one must allege (1) the plaintiff’s ownership or right
to possession of personal property; (2) defendant’s disposition of the property
inconsistent with plaintiff’s rights; and (3) resulting damages. (Fremont
Indemnity Co. v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119.)
 
The court finds
Plaintiffs fail to allege facts sufficient to support a claim for ‘stolen
property’. The complaint alleges Defendants caused damages to Plaintiffs in the
amount of $252,726 or alternatively, Plaintiff will take the personal property
back instead of the money. It is unclear whether this is the security deposit
amount. Additionally, Civil Code section 1950.5 applies to security deposits
for residential property used as a tenant’s dwelling.  (Civ. Code §
1950.5(a).)  “The elements of an action for wrongful retention of a
security deposit under Civil Code §¿1950.5 are: (1) the plaintiff paid a
security deposit; (2) the security deposit was for a residential property; (3)
the plaintiff used the property as a dwelling; and (4) the amounts deducted by
the defendant were not reasonably necessary. If the plaintiff is seeking
punitive damages, then it must also be shown that the defendant made the
deductions in bad faith.”  (Peviani v. Arbors at California Oaks
Property Owner, LLC (2021) 62 Cal.App.5th 874, 899.)  The bad faith
retention of a security deposit may subject the landlord to statutory damages
of up to twice the amount of the security deposit in addition to actual
damages.  (Civ. Code, § 1950.5(l).) The complaint fails to allege any
facts supporting a claim under Civil Code section 1950.5. 
 
Accordingly,
Defendants’ demurrer to the second cause of action is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO
AMEND. 
 
Third Cause of
Action
 
Defendants demur to
the third cause of action for ‘malicious sabotage’ on the grounds it is unclear
what the cause of action is actually alleged against Defendants and moreover, Defendants
committed no act which was wrongful independent of the interference in that
Defendants was lawfully permitted to store Plaintiffs personal property once Plaintiff
was locked out. 
 
The court agrees.
There is no cause of action for ‘malicious sabotage’. Looking at the complaint,
it is uncertain whether the cause of action is for interference with economic
advantage. If Plaintiff is claiming Defendants knowingly destroyed Plaintiff’s
business, Plaintiff has not alleged sufficient facts to show an (1) an economic
relationship between the plaintiff and a third party which contained a
reasonably probable future economic benefit or advantage to plaintiff; (2)
defendant knew of the existence of the relationship and was aware or should
have been aware that if it did not act with due care its actions would
interfere with this relationship and cause plaintiff to lose in whole or in
part the probable future economic benefit or advantage of the relationship; (3)
defendant was negligent; and (4) such negligence caused damage to plaintiff in
that the relationship was actually interfered with or disrupted and plaintiff
lost in whole or in part the economic benefits or advantage reasonably expected
from the relationship. (North American Chemical Co. v. Superior Court
(1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 764, 786.)
 
Accordingly,
Defendants’ demurrer to the third cause of action is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO
AMEND. 
 