  Case Number:  22VECV00438    Hearing Date:   November 9, 2023    Dept:  W ESPOSITO
V. YOUSEF, ET AL. 
 
DEFENDANTS’
MOTION FOR AN AWARD OF ATTORNEY FEES TO THE PREVAILING PARTY UPON CONTRACT AND
STATUTE
 
Date
of Hearing:        November 9, 2023                            Trial Date:       None set. 

Department:
             W                                                        Case No.:        22VECV00438
 
Moving
Party:            Defendants Samir Yousif
and Yousif Family Trust
Responding
Party:     None
 
BACKGROUND
 
This
action arises out of a landlord-tenant dispute concerning a Porsche restoration
business, ran by Plaintiff. Plaintiff alleges that she and Defendants Samir
Yousef (“Yousef”) and Yousef Family Trust (“Trust”) (collectively,
“Defendants”) entered into a written lease permitting Plaintiff to rent the
property located at 14520 Delano Street, Van Nuys, California in order to
conduct her business operations. It is further alleged that, due to Covid-19,
Plaintiff fell behind on her monthly rent payments. As a result, Defendants
pursued an unlawful detainer action against her and achieved a default judgment
against Plaintiff, despite her willingness to start resume rental payments and
to cover past dues. Plaintiff was locked out from the subject property on
February 15, 2022 and was improperly prevented from recovering her personal
property in a reasonable manner. Consequently, Plaintiff claims that she is
incurring lost business because she is unable to access her tools and equipment.
 
Plaintiff
filed a Complaint on March 25, 2022 alleging: (1) Conversion; (2) Trespass to
Chattels; (3) Interference with Contract; (4) Interference with Perspective
Economic Advantage; (5) Negligent Interference with Prospective Economic
Advantage; and (6) Infliction of Emotional Distress. 
 
On June 27, 2023, the Court issued a tentative
Statement of Decision, entering judgment for Defendants against Plaintiffs.
Defendants now move for attorney fees. 
 
[TENTATIVE]
RULING:
 
Defendants’ Motion for an Award of Attorney Fees to
the Prevailing Party upon Contract and Statute’s is GRANTED. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendants Samir Yousif and Yousif Family Trust, move
the court, for a Court Order awarding reasonable attorney’s fees in the sum of
$53,079.15, against Plaintiffs Laurina Esposito and Gustavo Flores, jointly and
severally. Defendants make the motion on the grounds that Defendants are
entitled to recover their attorney’s fees which they have incurred as the prevailing
party in this action, based on an attorney’s fees provision in the written
agreement between the parties.  
 
As a general rule, each party to litigation must bear
its own attorney fees, unless otherwise provided by statute or contract. (CCP
§1021.) However, Civil Code section 1717, subdivision (a) provides in pertinent
part: “In any action on a contract, where the contract specifically provides
that attorney's fees and costs, which are incurred to enforce that contract,
shall be awarded either to one of the parties or to the prevailing party, then
the party who is determined to be the party prevailing on the contract, whether
he or she is the party specified in the contract or not, shall be entitled to
reasonable attorney's fees in addition to other costs.” Contractual attorney's
fees must ordinarily be sought by noticed motion, unless the parties stipulate
otherwise. (See CCP § 1033.5(c)(5); Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1702(a).) A
motion is necessary to determine both entitlement to, and the amount of, any
fees. (See Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1702(a) [motion procedure applies when
court determines entitlement to fees, amount of fees, or both]; P R Burke
Corp. v Victor Valley Wastewater Reclamation Auth. (2002) 98 Cal.App.4th
1047, 1052.)
 
Defendants seek $53,079.15 in attorney fees. First,
the court notes Defendants are entitled to attorney fees as the prevailing
party. On June 27, 2023, the court issued a tentative Statement of Decision.
(Kim Decl. ¶4, Exh. 2.) On July 18, 2023, the court issued an order adopting
the proposed Statement of Decision with no objections made by the parties and
on August 1, 2023, a judgment for Defendants was entered against Plaintiffs. (Kim
Decl., ¶¶5-6, Exhs. 3-4.) The court issued Notice of Entry of Judgment on
August 7, 2023. (Kim Decl. ¶5, Exh. 5.) Plaintiffs’ claims arose out of a
commercial lease agreement between the parties. Paragraph 31 of the agreement
provided a broad fees provision for “full[] reimbursement” of actual reasonable
attorney’s fees incurred without limitation by any court fee schedule, for any
actions, founded in tort, contract or equity. (Kim Decl. ¶3, Exh. 1.) 
 
Next, the court finds the fees reasonable and proper
excluding the $6,000.00 in fees with predecessor counsel. Defendants contend
defense counsel incurred 137.9 hours successfully defending the entirety of
Plaintiffs’ complaints that only came to a resolution after a trial, despite
Defendants’ pretrial attempts to settle the matter without a trial. Defendants
provide itemized invoices, breaking down the hours as follows: 61.4 hours for
Mr. Obagi, 31 hours for Mr. Kim, and 45.5 hours for administrative staff, prior
to the instant motion. (Kim Decl. ¶12.) Defendants also request 6 hours, for a
total of $2,975, as reasonable fees associated with this motion. (Kim Decl. ¶¶
14-17.) However, upon review of the invoices and case at hand, Defendants have
not substantiated the $6,000 in fees incurred by Defendants’ former counsel,
Nader. (Obagi Decl. ¶19.) 
 
Accordingly, the court grants Defendants’ request for
attorneys’ fees in the total, reduced amount of $ 47,079.15
 