 Case Number:  24VECV01747    Hearing Date:   November 22, 2024    Dept:  O  
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHWEST DISTRICT
 



rolando morados, an individual, and EVELYN MORADOS, an individual
                    Plaintiffs,
          vs.
 
ARNEL GACUSAN, an
  individual, EAST VALLEY ADHC INC., California Corporation, and DOES 1 to 50
 
                    Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.: 24VECV01747
 
ORDER
  GRANTING DEFENDANTS’ MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE CROSS-COMPLAINT
 
 



 
I.              
INTRODUCTION
This case
stems from an incident where Plaintiff Rolando Morados (“Rolando”) allegedly
sustained bodily injuries. On or about August 02, 2024, while Rolando was
entering the Toyota Sienna (“Vehicle”) owned and operated by Defendant Arnel
Gacuson (“Gacuson”), the strap affixed to the Vehicle, which Rolando was
holding for support, broke, resulting in injuries to him. (See generally
Complaint). At the time of the incident, Gacuson was functioning as a
common carrier, and acting as an agent, employee or contractor for Defendant
East Valley ADHC, Inc. (See id.) On April 16, 2024, Rolando and
Plaintiff Evelyn Morados (“Evelyn”) (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed the
complaint in this instant matter, alleging negligence. (See id.)
Plaintiffs further contend that, as a result of the incident, Evelyn has
suffered a loss of consortium, including deprivation of sexual relations,
affection, companionship, and other forms of support from Morados. (See id.)      
II.      PROCEDURAL
HISTORY
On April 16,
2024, Plaintiffs filed their Complaint alleging (1) Motor Vehicle Negligence;
(2) General Negligence. 
On June 28,
2024, Defendants filed their Answer to the Complaint. 
On October 9,
2024, Defendants filed this instant motion
Plaintiffs
have not filed an opposition to this motion. 
III.     LEGAL
STANDARD
As a general rule, “if a party against
whom a complaint has been filed and served fails to allege in a cross-complaint
any related cause of action which (at the time of serving his answer to the
complaint) he has against the plaintiff,” that party is barred from asserting
against the plaintiff “the related cause of action not pleaded.” (Code of Civ.
Proc. § 426.30(a)[1].)
If a party fails to plead a cause of action when otherwise required to do so, “whether
through oversight, inadvertence, mistake, neglect, or other cause, [they] may
apply to the court for leave to amend his pleading, or to file a
cross-complaint, to assert such cause at any time during the course of the
action.” (Code of Civ. Proc. § 426.50.) So long as the adverse party has
received notice and the party who failed to plead the cause “acted in good
faith,” “the court shall grant … leave to amend the pleading, or to file the
cross-complaint …. This subdivision shall be liberally construed to avoid
forfeiture of causes of action. (Code of Civ. Proc. § 426.50.) Parties must
file their cross-complaints “against any of the parties who filed the complaint
or cross-complaint against him or her before or at the same time as the answer
to the complaint or cross-complaint.” (Code of Civ. Proc. § 428.50(a).) “Any
other cross-complaint may be filed at any time before the court has set a date
for trial.” (Code of Civ. Proc. § 428.50(b).) Leave of court is required for any
cross-complaint except one filed within the time specified in subdivision (a) or
(b). (See Code of Civ. Proc. § 428.50(c).) In addition, “[l]eave may be
granted in the interest of justice at any time during the course of the action.”
(Id.)
A cross-complaint is compulsory if it
is transactionally related to the subject matter of the complaint. (See Code
of Civ. Proc. § 426.10.) “To be considered a compulsory cross-complaint, a
related cause of action must have existed at the time of the service of [the]
answer to [the] complaint.” (Crocker
National Bank v. Emerald (1990) 221 Cal.App.3d 852, 864.) The late filing
of a motion for leave to file a compulsory cross-complaint “absent some
evidence of bad faith is insufficient evidence to support denial of the
motion.” (Silver Organizations, Ltd. v.
Frank (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 94, 101.) “Permission to file a permissive
cross-complaint is solely within the trial court’s discretion.” (Crocker, 221 Cal.App.3d at 864.) Finally, under the Rules of Court
“[a] failure to oppose a motion may be deemed a consent to the granting of the
motion.” (Rules of Ct., rule 8.54 (c).)
IV.     ANALYSIS
A.            
Defendants’ Motion for Leave to File Cross-Complaint is
Granted 
          Defendants’
proposed verified Cross-Complaint is a compulsory cross-complaint. (Motion, Ex.
A, ¶¶ 1-27.) The proposed Cross-Complaint stems from the same “transaction,
occurrence, or series of transactions or occurrences” as the causes of action
in Plaintiffs’ complaint, specifically relating to the circumstances under
which Rolando sustained injuries due to the detachment of the strap affixed to
the Vehicle. (Id.; see
also Code of Civ. Proc. § 426.10.)
In the proposed cross-complaint, Defendants assert the following causes of
action against Toyota Motor North America, Inc., Toyota Motor Engineering &
Manufacturing North America, Inc., and Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A., Inc.
(“Cross-Defendants”): (1) Equitable Indemnification and Contribution; (2)
Apportionment of Fault; (3) Negligence; (4) Products Liability – Design and Manufacture; (5) Products
Liability –Failure to Warn; (6) Declaratory Relief. (Motion, Ex. A, ¶¶ 1-27.) Defendants
allege Cross-Defendants were responsible for designing and manufacturing the
Vehicle in its entirety and failed to adequately warn consumers of the risks
and/or dangers associated with its use. (See id., ¶¶ 19-22.)
Furthermore, Defendants contend that, in the event they are found liable for Rolando’s
injuries, Defendants seek indemnification, either wholly or partially, from
Cross-Defendants. Defendants also require Cross-Defendants bear a proportionate
share of any judgment rendered against Defendants, consistent with the degree
of comparative negligence attributed to Cross-Defendants. (See id., ¶¶
1-16.)
          Here,
Defendants did not file a cross-complaint at the time they filed their Answer
on June 28, 2024. As such, in accordance with Code
of Civ. Proc. § 426.30(a), Defendants may be precluded from asserting any
claims that should have been filed with their initial Answer. However, since Defendants
are not seeking to file their Cross-Complaint against Plaintiffs, pursuant to Code
of Civ. Proc. § 428.50(b), they are permitted to file their Cross-Complaint at
any time before the trial date is set. As no trial date has been set and the
case remains in its early stages, the Court is inclined to grant Defendants
leave to file their Cross-Complaint. 
Furthermore, Defendants have
demonstrated their intent to file the Cross-Complaint in good faith. As
detailed in Defense counsel’s Declaration and supported by email communications
attached as Exhibit B to the Motion, Plaintiffs were notified of Defendants’
intention to file the Cross-Complaint. (Declaration ¶5.) The Court finds this
proactive communication to be evidence of Defendants’ diligence and good faith
efforts in this matter. 
Additionally, as Plaintiffs have not
filed an opposition to Defendants’ Motion, the Court finds no basis to deny the
request for leave to file the Cross-Complaint. Pursuant to California Rules of
Court, rule 8.54(c), and given the absence of prejudice to Plaintiffs, the
Court finds Defendants’ motion well taken.
IV.     CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing analysis, the Court
GRANTS Defendant’s Motion for Leave to file a cross-complaint. Defendant shall
file their Cross-Complaint on or before December 2, 2024.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
DATED:      November 19, 2024



Hon. Michael R. Amerian
Judge,
  Superior Court



 
 


