  Case Number:  22VECV02302    Hearing Date:   November 22, 2024    Dept:  O  
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHWEST DISTRICT
 



ZINA HUSEYNOVA, an
  Individual, 
                    Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
SAADE NOWYHED, an Individual; YASMIN
  NOWYHED, an Individual and DOES 1 TO 20, Inclusive,
 
                    Defendants.
 


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
 
)
)


     CASE NO.: 22VECV02302
 
ORDER
  GRANTING DEFENDANTS’ MOTION TO COMPEL THE DEPOSITION OF KEVORK VORPERIAN,
  M.D.
 
 



 
I.              
BACKGROUND 
This is a
personal injury case between Plaintiff Zina Huseynova (“Plaintiff”), and Defendants
Saade Nowyhed (“Saade”) and Yasmin Nowyhed (“Yasmin”)(collectively,
“Defendants”). Plaintiff alleges Defendants negligently drove their vehicle and
injured Plaintiff because of their negligence and reckless driving, which
thereby caused the collision. (See Complaint, pp. 4-5, ¶¶ MV-1-2, GN-1.)
 Defendants now seek to compel the deposition of Kevork Vorperian, M.D., (“Dr.
Vorperian”) and monetary sanctions in the amount of $2,086.65 against Dr.
Vorperian in a filed motion.
II.           
PROCEDURAL
HISTORY
On December 9,
2022, Plaintiff filed a Complaint, alleging (1) Motor Vehicle; and (2) General
Negligence.
On April 4,
2023, Defendants filed their Answer. 
On October
15, 2024, Defendants filed the instant Motion to Compel (“Motion”) the
Deposition of Dr. Vorperian.[1] 
Plaintiff has
not filed any Opposition. 
III.        
LEGAL STANDARD
Code of Civil Procedure § 2025.450(a)[2]
provides that, “[i]f, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the
action… without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails
to appear for examination, or to proceed with it…, the party giving the notice
may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and
the production for inspection of any document, electronically stored
information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.”  
Code of Civil Procedure § 2025.410(a),
provides that, “[a]ny party served with a deposition notice that does not
comply with [the notice requirements in Code of Civil Procedure §§ 2025.210
through 2025.290] waives any error or irregularity unless that party promptly
serves a written objection specifying that error or irregularity at least three
calendar days prior to the date for which the deposition is scheduled, on the
party seeking to take the deposition and any other attorney or party on whom
the deposition notice was served.”
Code of Civil Procedure § 2025.450(b)(2)
requires the motion to compel deposition be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration, or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition, by a
declaration stating the moving party has contacted the deponent to inquire
about the nonappearance.
Finally, Code of Civil Procedure § 2025.290,
which provides for a limit of seven hours of total testimony of a witness, does
not apply to the deposition of a person designated as the person most qualified
to be deposed. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.290(b)(5).)  
IV.         
MEET AND CONFER
A motion set forth under Code of Civil Procedure § 2025.450 must be accompanied by a
meet and confer declaration or, when the deponent does not attend the
deposition, a “declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the
deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.” (See Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.450(b)(2).)

Here, Defendants’ counsel has noted Dr.
Vorperian’s failure to meet and confer, which has resulted in delays in
relevant discovery completion and necessary law and motion work. (See Motion, pg. 6:14-16.)
Defendants’ counsel filed a meet and
confer declaration, reflecting their meet and confer efforts. (See Declaration of Alan P. Trafton
filed October 15, 2024 (“Trafton Decl.”), ¶ 10, Ex. G.) Defendants’ counsel details the inadequacy
of record receival from Dr. Vorperian following the subpoena for production of
records. (See Trafton Decl., ¶¶ 6-7.) Defendants’ counsel also further details the attempt
to retrieve Plaintiff’s full file from Dr. Vorperian’s office. (See Trafton
Decl., ¶ 8.) Unsuccessful,
Defendants’ counsel served notice of deposition and request for production of
documents from Dr. Vorperian. (See Trafton Decl., ¶ 9.) Demonstrating
their efforts, Defendants’ counsel also detailed their mailed and emailed
correspondence reminding Dr. Vorperian of such deposition and even provided Dr.
Vorperian with an option of rescheduling at a mutually convenient date. (See Trafton
Decl., pg. 10, ¶ 10.) Defendants’ counsel even informed Dr. Vorperian of the
consequences if he failed to attend his deposition. (See Trafton
Decl., pg. 10, ¶ 11.)
The Court finds this
meet and confer effort inadequate. A handful of emails and letters reflects a
disingenuous and nominal effort to avoid this Court’s involvement. Defendants’
counsel could have made further attempts by contacting Plaintiff’s counsel. The
Court will discuss this failure to properly meet and confer in its sanctions
section, below. 
V.            
ANALYSIS
          Defendants argue
they first noticed Dr. Vorperian’s deposition on September 9, 2024, for a
deposition of October 4, 2024. (See Trafton Decl., ¶ 9, Ex. F.) 
Defendants also mailed and emailed correspondence to Dr.
Vorperian to remind him of his deposition and further offered to reschedule if
needed to a date that is mutually convenient. (See id., ¶ 10, Ex. G.) Further, Defendants ensured they informed Dr.
Vorperian of the consequences, that being, filing of Motion to Compel with
sanctions, of his failure to appear for the deposition. (See id.,
¶ 11.) 
          Dr. Vorperian
did not respond to the letter. (See id.) Further, Dr. Vorperian did not serve written objections to
the deposition, or the documents requested either. (See id.,
¶ 12.) Dr. Vorperian
failed to appear for his deposition leading to a Non-Appearance. (See id.,
¶ 13, Ex. H.) Defendant
then brought the instant Motion, which is unopposed.
          Defendant is
entitled to an order compelling Dr. Vorperian’s deposition. It is undisputed
that Dr. Vorperian was served with a valid deposition subpoena compelling his
deposition attendance and production of requested documents. (See
Motion, p. 5:22-25.) Similarly, there is no dispute that Dr. Vorperian never objected to
the deposition or the requested documents. (See Motion, p. 5:25-27.) Since the deposition
would lead to discoverable information regarding plaintiff’s claimed injuries
and Dr. Vorperian has failed to identify any irregularity or defect in the
subpoena, there is no justification for his refusal to respond or appear for
the deposition.
Accordingly, the
Court GRANTS Defendants’ Motion to Compel Dr. Vorperian’s deposition. The Court
orders Dr. Vorperian to comply with Defendants’ subpoena on or before December 12,
2024.
VI.         
SANCTIONS
Code of Civil
Procedure § 2025.450(g)(1) provides: “[i]f a motion under subdivision (a) is
granted, the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing
with Section 2023.010) in favor of the party who noticed the deposition
and against the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is affiliated,
unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust.”
Defendants
seek $2,086.65 in sanctions against Dr. Vorperian, accounting for 
Defendants’ Preparation of Motion, declaration, and
assembling of relevant exhibits (5 hrs) and anticipation of Appearance for
Hearing on Motion (1 hr). (See Trafton Decl., pg. 11, ¶ 15.) Defendants
counsel hourly rate is $225 with the cost of filing this Motion $61.65. In
total, Defendants seek $2,086.65 in sanctions, which the Court finds reasonable under the
totality of the circumstances. 
          Plaintiff
has not filed an opposition. 
          The
Court agrees with Defendants. Defendants made attempts to retrieve the
production of records from Dr. Vorperian prior to serving the notice of
deposition. (See Trafton Decl., ¶¶ 8-9.) Only after being unsuccessful and receiving partial
records did Defendants resort to serving notice of the deposition. (See Trafton
Decl., ¶¶ 8-9.) Acting in good
faith to maintain cordial communication with Dr. Vorperian, Defendants did
their efforts in trying to ensure Dr. Vorperian’s appearance by reminding him
of the scheduled deposition and stating their willingness to accommodate the
date. In response, Dr. Vorperian has maintained complete radio silence, which
is unacceptable. 
Accordingly,
the Court orders Dr. Vorperian to pay Defendants’ counsel reasonable attorneys fees
in the amount of $2,086.65 as a discovery sanction on or before December 12,
2024.
VII.    CONCLUSION
Based on the
foregoing, the Court GRANTS Defendants Motions to Compel Dr. Vorperian’s
deposition. The Court orders Dr. Vorperian to comply with Defendants’ subpoena
on or before December 12, 2024. Similarly, the Court orders Dr. Vorperian to
pay Defendants’ counsel their reasonable attorneys fees of $2,086.65 as a discovery
sanction on or before December 12, 2024.
          IT
IS SO ORDERED.
DATED:      November 19, 2024



Hon. Michael R. Amerian
Judge,
  Superior Court



 


