  Case Number:  23SMCV04030    Hearing Date:   August 8, 2024    Dept:  205    Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles – West District  Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205  ADAM J. TENSER,    Plaintiff, v.  CITY NATIONAL BANK, et al.,   Defendants.    Case No.:  23SMCV04030     Hearing Date:  August 8, 2024   [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:   DEFENDANT PHILIP HOSP V AND THE    LOS ANGELES COUNTY DEFENDANTS’    JOINT MOTION TO DECLARE PLAINTIFF    A VEXATIOUS LITIGANT     BACKGROUND In May 2016, Hollywood director and graphic novelist, Blake Leibel, brutally murdered his then-girlfriend, Iana Kasian.  Plaintiff Adam J. Tenser is Leibel’s entertainment lawyer and friend.  Leibel was tried and convicted of murder, torture and aggravated mayhem.   Tenser attended the trial and was admonished by the trial judge to “not have contact with attorneys, witnesses or jurors in the case.”  (Ex. 83.)  Tenser then purportedly followed a juror to his car and after the juror expressed discomfort and was excused, the Court cited Tenser for contempt and ordered him to “leave the building and stay away from the trial and the courthouse.” (Ex. 84.)   Following the Leibel trial, Tenser filed a series of lawsuits and related appeals in pro per in federal and state courts, almost all of which resulted in early dismissals either because they violate the anti-SLAPP statute or because they were without merit as a matter of law.   Tenser v. Ryan, No. 2:19-cv-05496 (C.D. Cal. June 24, 2019) (“Ryan I”).  On June 14, 2019, Tenser in pro per sued County prosecutors and police officers alleging violations of due process, equal protection, and 42 U.S.C. § 1983 (“Section 1983”) based in part on the prosecutors allegedly calling Tenser a “stalker” in a courtroom hallway during the Leibel Trial.  (Ex. 87 to Dunkerly Decl.)  The district court dismissed Tenser’s Section 1983 claims with prejudice and his state-law claims without prejudice. (Ex. 88 to Dunkerly Decl.) Tenser appealed the dismissal order. (Ex. 89 to Dunkerly Decl.) The Ninth Circuit affirmed the district court’s order, noting that Tenser’s 100-page complaint is comprised of “long, dense, rambling sentences. The unfortunate result is that Tenser, by his prolixity, has taken ‘a great deal of time away from more deserving litigants waiting in line.’” (Ex. 90 to Dunkerly Decl. (quotations omitted).) Following the Ninth Circuit’s order, Tenser filed a petition for a writ of certiorari and a motion for leave to proceed in pro per in the U.S. Supreme Court. (Ex. 91 to Dunkerly Decl.)  The Supreme Court denied both motions.  Tenser v. Ryan, No. 20SMCV01690 (LA Super. Nov. 6, 2020) (“Ryan II”).  On the same day that Tenser appealed to the Ninth Circuit after losing in the district court in Ryan I, Tenser filed Ryan II, asserting nearly identical claims against the County and six County employees for alleged violations of California’s unfair competition law, defamation, and negligence. (Ex. 92 to Dunkerly Decl.)  Ruling that Tenser failed to present a timely claim under the Government Claims Act (Gov. Code, § 810 et seq.), the trial court sustained the County’s demurrer to Tenser’s first amended complaint without leave to amend. (Ex. 93 to Dunkerly Decl.) Tenser appealed. (Ex. 94 to Dunkerly Decl.) The trial court then sustained without leave to amend the individual County employees’ demurrer on the same ground. (Ex. 95 to Dunkerly Decl.) Tenser appealed that ruling as well. (Ex. 96 to Dunkerly Decl.) The Court of Appeal addressed both appeals in one consolidated opinion and affirmed in full the judgment as to both dismissals. (Ex. 97 to Dunkerly Decl.)  Tenser petitioned for rehearing, which was denied.  Tenser v. Ryan, No. 23SMCV04014 (LA Super. Aug. 8, 2023) (“Ryan III”).  Undeterred, on August 28, 2023, Tenser filed substantially similar claims against the County and individual County employees in Ryan III.  (Ex. 98 to Dunkerly Decl.) After early pleading motions, Tenser amended his complaint and brought claims against a podcaster and a podcasting company for a public statement in a podcast discussing Tenser’s role at the Leibel Trial.  (Id.) The podcasting company, Audiochuck, LLC, has already been dismissed. (Id.) However, the podcaster, the County, and the County defendants remain in the case and, currently, there is a demurrer and special motions to strike Tenser’s operative complaint. (Id.)  City National Bank v. Law Office of Jeremy Tenser Limited, No. 19SMCV01709 (LA Super. Sept. 26, 2019) (“City National I”).  On September 26, 2019, City National Bank (“CNB”) filed a lawsuit against Tenser and the now-defunct Law Office of Jeremy Tenser Limited (“Law Firm”) seeking repayment of $49,761.00 owed under a business line of credit that CNB had issued to the Law Firm, and which Tenser guaranteed.  (Ex. 1 to Gross Decl.)  Tenser filed an Anti-SLAPP motion to strike CNB’s complaint, which the Court denied. (Ex. 2 to Gross Decl.) The next day, Tenser filed an appeal (No. B308866) that was dismissed for failure to pay the filing fee. (Ex. 3 to Gross Decl.)  Tenser then filed a motion to vacate the dismissal and reinstate the appeal, which were denied. (Id.) On March 8, 2022, Tenser filed a second Anti-SLAPP motion to strike CNB’s complaint. (Ex. 4 to Gross Decl.) The court again denied Tenser’s motion on the ground that it was untimely, and Tenser appealed the denial. (Id.) After the Court of Appeal dismissed that appeal too, Tenser filed a petition for rehearing, which the Court of Appeal denied the next day. (Id.)  In response to CNB’s claims seeking repayment, on December 26, 2019, July 8, 2022, and February 16, 2023, Tenser filed several iterations of cross-claims against CNB, individual employees of CNB, CNB’s in-house counsel Amy Lerner-Hill (“Lerner-Hill”), CNB’s outside counsel ECJ, and three attorneys at ECJ who appeared as attorneys of record for CNB (“ECJ Attorneys”). (Ex. 6 to Gross Decl.) Tenser also filed claims on behalf of the Law Office even though it was suspended with the Franchise Tax Board and legally barred from prosecuting claims. (Id.) Nearly all of Tenser’s alleged cross-claims, including Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organization (“RICO”) charges, arose from his claim that CNB failed to extend sufficient credit for him to repay an American Express card expense stemming from the fees he paid to defend himself against contempt charges at the Leibel Trial.  (Id.)  CNB’s various counsel filed a demurrer and Anti-SLAPP motion to strike Tenser’s second amended cross-complaint, which the trial court granted. (Ex. 7 to Gross Decl.) Tenser filed an untimely appeal as to Lerner Hill only, and after Lerner-Hill moved to dismiss the appeal, Tenser abandoned it. (Gross Decl. ¶ 11.) Tenser then filed a motion seeking to disqualify CNB’s attorneys.  (Id. ¶ 12.) The Court denied Tenser’s motion. Adam J. Tenser v. City National Bank, No. 23SMCV04030 (LA Super. Aug. 29, 2023) (“City National II”).  On August 29, 2023, Tenser filed this action (City National II), against CNB and its attorneys, asserting claims for defamation and negligence. (Id. ¶ 13.) Tenser alleged that attorneys at ECJ called Tenser a “stalker” during a private conversion with CNB and “doxed” Tenser by accidentally publicly filing a document containing his personal information. (Id.) This Court granted the defendants’ Anti-SLAPP motions to strike and dismissed Tenser’s complaint against those defendants with prejudice and without leave to amend. (Ex. 9 to Gross Decl.)  Tenser subsequently filed a motion to vacate the judgment. (Ex. 61 to Gross Decl.) After defendants’ oppositions to Tenser’s motion to vacate were filed, Tenser then filed an amended motion to vacate the judgment. (Ex. 62 to Gross Decl.)  The Court denied the motion to vacate.  Tenser then filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) again alleging defamation based on defendants calling Tenser a “stalker” and purportedly disclosing his personal information—claims nearly identical to those that had already been dismissed by this Court and others— this time against another CNB attorney, Hosp of Foley & Lardner LLP, and, again, against the County Defendants.  (Ex. 10 to Gross Decl.)  Tenser v. GNH Prods., Inc., No. 22SMCV01153 (LA Super. Jul. 18, 2022).  On July 18, 2022, Tenser filed litigation against defendants GNH Productions, Inc. (“GNH”), Jay Levine, Telepictures Productions, Inc. (“Telepictures”), Warner Bros. Home Entertainment, Inc. (“Warner Bros.”), and Warner Horizon Television, Inc. (Exs. 74–75 to Gross Decl.)  Like the other cases, Tenser sued these media companies for reporting on his role in the Leibel Trial. (Id.) This Court granted special motions to strike. (Ex. 76 to Gross Decl.)  Tenser moved to reconsider, which was denied. (Exs. 77–78 to Gross Decl.)  He also filed a motion to vacate the order granting the special motion to strike, which was also denied. (Ex. 79 to Gross Decl.) This hearing is on Phillip Hop V and the Los Angeles County Defendants’1 (the “Moving Defendants’”) motion to declare Tenser a vexatious litigant.  Moving Defendants argue that the Court should declare Tenser a vexatious litigant for three reasons: (1) Tenser has filed in pro per eight litigations in the last five years that have been finally determined adversely to him; (2) Tenser repeatedly sues the same parties for the same claims, all of them essentially arising from the Leibel Trial; and (3) Tenser has repeatedly filed papers without merit and engaged in tactics that are frivolous or solely intended to cause unnecessary delay.  Moving Defendants ask the Court to stay all pending litigation brought by Tenser; impose security requirements on Tenser for the reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs incurred by parties in defending actions he has brought (including this one); enter a pre-filing order prohibiting Tenser from filing any new in pro per litigation in the courts of this state without first obtaining leave of court; and impose a security requirement as a condition precedent to Tenser filing any new litigation.  There was no timely opposition filed to this motion.  Tenser did file an opposition brief on August 7, 2024, the day before the hearing on this motion, but that opposition is untimely and therefore was not considered by the Court.    LEGAL STANDARD The¿vexatious litigant statutory scheme, codified at Code Civ. Proc. § 391 et seq., is “designed to curb misuse of the court system by those¿. . . litigants who, repeatedly litigating the same issues through groundless actions, waste the time and resources of the court system and other litigants.” (Shalant v. Girardi¿(2011) 51 Cal.4th 1164, 1169.)  Under¿Code Civ. Proc. § 391, a “vexatious litigant” is someone who has done any of the following: 1. In the immediately preceding seven-year period has commenced, prosecuted, or maintained in propria persona at least five litigations other than in a small claims court that have been (i) finally determined adversely to the person or (ii) unjustifiably permitted to remain pending at least two years without having been brought to trial or hearing. 2.¿After a litigation has been finally determined against the person, repeatedly relitigates or attempts to relitigate, in propria persona, either (i) the validity of the determination against the same defendant or defendants as to whom the litigation was finally determined or (ii) the cause of action, claim, controversy, or any of the issues of fact or law, determined or concluded by the final determination against the same defendant or defendants as to whom the litigation was finally determined. 3. In any litigation while acting in propria persona, repeatedly files unmeritorious motions, pleadings, or other papers, conducts unnecessary discovery, or engages in other tactics that are frivolous or solely intended to cause unnecessary delay. 4. Has previously been declared to be a vexatious litigant by any state or federal court of record in any action or proceeding based upon the same or substantially similar facts, transaction, or occurrence. “Litigation” for purposes of determining vexatious litigant status, means “any civil action or proceeding, commenced, maintained or pending in any state or federal court.” ¿(Code Civ. Proc. § 391(a).)  The term includes appeals and writ petitions.  (McColm v. Westwood Park Assn. (1998) 62¿Cal.App.4th¿1211.)  Any actions the pro per¿plaintiff has filed and dismissed counts for the purpose of the vexatious litigant statute, even if the dismissal is voluntary and without prejudice, as they still burden the judicial system and the target of the litigation.  (Tokerud v. Capitol Bank Sacramento (1995) 38¿Cal.App.4th¿775, 779.) “Once a person has been declared a vexatious litigant, the court, on its own or a party's motion, may ‘enter a prefiling order which prohibits [the person] from filing any new litigation in the courts of this state in propria persona without first obtaining leave of the presiding judge of the court where the litigation is proposed to be filed.’” (Shalant, 51 Cal.4th at 1170; § 391.7.) Moreover, “a defendant may move the court, upon notice and hearing, for an order requiring the plaintiff to furnish security . . . based upon the ground, and supported by a showing, that the plaintiff is a vexatious litigant and that there is not a reasonable probability that they will prevail in the litigation against the moving defendant.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 391.1.)  The purpose for the security requirement is “to minimize the number of frivolous filings.”  (Devereaux v. Latham & Watkins¿(1995) 32 Cal.App.4th 1571, 1582, disapproved on another ground by¿Moran v. Murtaugh Miller Meyer & Nelson, LLP¿(2007) 40 Cal.4th 780, 785, fn. 7.)  A plaintiff's failure to furnish security is grounds for dismissal.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 391.4.) DISCUSSION Thirteen “Litigations”.  A “vexatious litigant” includes a person who, in the past seven years, commenced, prosecuted, or maintained in pro per at least five litigations resulting in final adverse determinations. (Code Civ. Proc. § 391(b)(1).)  “Litigation” broadly includes “any civil action or proceeding, commenced, maintained or pending in any state or federal court.” Code Civ. Proc. § 391(a).  A litigation is “finally determined adversely” if the plaintiff loses.  (See Garcia v. Lacey (2014) 231 Cal.App.4th 402, 406.)  If a pro per litigant loses in the trial court and on appeal, those two losses count as two “litigations” resulting in “final adverse determinations,” even if they both stem from the same underlying case.  (In re Whitaker (1992) 6 Cal.App.4th 54, 56 (treating 16 appeals as separate litigations).)  “Litigation” also includes voluntarily dismissed or abandoned appeals and the U.S. Supreme Court’s denial of certiorari.  (Garcia, 231 Cal. App. 4th at 406 (final adverse determination includes voluntary dismissal); Fink v. Shemtov (2010) 180 Cal. App. 4th 1160, 1173–74 (denial of writ petition constitutes final adverse determination).)   Here, Tenser commenced in pro per thirteen separate “litigations” in the past five years, all of which he lost:  the district court dismissed Tenser’s claims and entered judgment in Ryan I;  the Ninth Circuit affirmed the district court’s judgment against Tenser in Ryan I;  the Supreme Court denied Tenser’s petition for certiorari in Ryan I;  this Court dismissed Tenser’s claims against the County in Ryan II; the Court of Appeal affirmed this Court’s dismissal of Tenser’s claims against the County in Ryan II;  this Court dismissed Tenser’s claims against the County Defendants in Ryan II; the Court of Appeal affirmed this Court’s dismissal of Tenser’s claims against the County Employees in Ryan II; this Court denied Tenser’s special motion to strike CNB’s complaint in City National Bank I; the Court of Appeal affirmed this Court’s denial of Tenser’s special motion to strike CNB’s complaint in City National Bank I;  this Court denied Tenser’s second special motion to strike in City National Bank I; the Court of Appeal affirmed this Court’s denial of Tenser’s second special motion to strike in City National Bank I,  this Court granted Lerner Hill’s special motion to strike Tenser’s complaint in City National Bank II; Tenser appealed this Court’s grant of Lerner-Hill’s special motion to strike, but then abandoned that appeal. These thirteen losing litigations alone are sufficient for this Court to deem Tenser a “vexatious litigant” under Code Civ. Proc. § 391(b)(1).   Re-litigation of Same Claims.  Tenser meets another definition of “vexatious litigant.”  Section 391(b)(2) defines a vexatious litigant as someone who repeatedly re-litigates the validity of final determinations, causes of actions, claims, controversy, or any issues of fact and law against the same defendant(s) as to whom the litigation was finally determined.  This definition targets a plaintiff who—after losing—repeatedly harasses the same defendants based on the same losing allegations or arguments.  In First Western Development Corp. v. Superior Court (Andrisani) (1989) 212 Cal.App.3d 860, 869, after losing an unlawful detainer action, the plaintiff filed five lawsuits against the defendant, its officers, and its attorneys.  The Court declared the plaintiff a vexatious litigant pursuant to § 391(b)(2) because he repeatedly attempted to re-litigate issues that had been finally determined against him, filed a multiplicity of new actions based upon the same facts and issues and appealed practically every order of the trial court.  (Id.)   So it is here.  Tenser continuously filed lawsuits against the County and its employees and CNB and its lawyers. (Dunkerly Decl. ¶¶ 3–15.) The focus of these suits is roughly the same: claims and allegations related to his participation in the Leibel Trial and parties allegedly calling him a “stalker” or “doxing” him.  (Id.)  Tenser’s pursuit of nearly identical claims against the same defendants qualifies him as a “vexatious litigant” under Code Civ. Proc. § 391(b)(2).  Frivolous Motions.  A “vexatious litigant” also includes someone who “files unmeritorious motions, pleadings, or other papers, conducts unnecessary discovery, or engages in other tactics that are frivolous or solely intended to cause unnecessary delay.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 391(b)(3).)  Tenser has repeatedly burdened the court and opposing parties with unwarranted ex parte applications, motions for reconsideration, and motions to vacate.  In just over four years, Tenser has filed twenty-four ex parte applications, sixteen of which were denied. (Exs. 11-44 to Gross Decl.; Exs. 99-111 to Dunkerly Decl.)  Just as one example, Tenser sought an order “to determine substitution or withdrawal of counsel Erin Dunkerly.”  (Ex. 104 to Dunkerly Decl.) Tenser filed this application because Ms. Dunkerly, counsel for the County Defendants, had informed Tenser and the Court of her impending maternity leave through a Notice of Unavailability.  (Id. ¶ 17.)  Despite this notice, Tenser continued to harass Ms. Dunkerly by serving her during her leave, baselessly insisting that no other lawyers at Ms. Dunkerly’s firm were authorized to accept service during her absence.  (Id. ¶ 17.)  The Court denied Tenser’s application.  (Ex. 105 to Dunkerly Decl.)  Tenser has likewise forced parties and their counsel to continuously re-litigate the same issues through frivolous motions for reconsideration. (Exs. 45-54 to Gross Decl.; Exs. 112-123 to Dunkerly Decl.)  Over the last three years, Tenser has filed eleven motions for reconsideration or petitions for rehearing, nine of which have been denied and two of which have been withdrawn. (Id.)  Not one of these motions has been granted.  (Id.)  Tenser also repeatedly attempts to re-litigate the courts’ determinations against him by filing frivolous motions to vacate. (Exs. 55-62 to Gross Decl.)  In the past three years, Tenser has filed four motions to vacate and two amended motions to vacate, four of which have been denied, and two of which are still awaiting review by the courts. (Id.)   His motions and ex parte applications are quintessential frivolous filings, often full of rambling, incoherent conspiracy theories.  (See Malek Media Grp. LLC v. AXQG Corp. (2020) 58 Cal. App. 5th 817, 837.)  The repeated motions are devoid of merit, have no reasonable probability of success, and are clearly meant to “abuse the processes of the courts and to harass the adverse party”.  (Morton v. Wagner (2007) 156 Cal.App.4th 963, 972.)  Tenser is the paradigm of a vexatious litigant.  By clogging court calendars with unmeritorious motions, he causes a real detriment to those who have legitimate controversies to be determined and to the taxpayers who subsidize the courts.  (Taliaferro v. Hoogs (1965) 237 Cal.App.2d 73, 74.)  Abusive Conduct.  Tenser also routinely uses vulgar language and levels ad hominem attacks against opposing parties and their counsel, telling them to “fuck off” or that he will “fucking get you all.”  As one example, Tenser e-mailed CNB personnel directly: “YOU WANTED TO GET PERSONAL TO MAKE ME CRAZY, guess what it worked. NOW IT IS PERSONAL. I AM AN IRATE LUNATIC AND I AM GOING TO FUCKING GET YOU ALL.” (Ex. 69 to Gross Decl.)  These threats and emails to a represented party, over the objection of counsel, are highly improper and reprehensible.   Pre-Filing and Security Order.  This Court may order Tenser to furnish security if there is not a reasonable probability that he will prevail. (Code Civ. Proc. § 391.1(a).)  The Court concludes there is no reasonable probability that Tenser will prevail on his claims, most of which have already been rejected.   Tenser’s claims against CNB and its prior outside counsel, ECJ, already failed when this Court granted those parties’ respective anti-SLAPP motions in City National I and City National II. (Exs. 7, 9 to Gross Decl.)  In City National II, Tenser’s complaint repurposes previously-rejected arguments from City National I.  Tenser asserts a cause of action for “invasion of privacy,” alleging a violation of Civ. Code § 1798.85 based on various attorneys’ inadvertent disclosure of his private information in pleadings filed with the courts. (FAC ¶¶ 80–82.)  The attorneys’ conduct is absolutely privileged by the litigation privilege.  (Jacob B. v. Cnty. of Shasta (2007) 40 Cal. 4th 948, 960 (litigation privilege “bars causes of action for invasion of privacy”).  In granting the anti-SLAPP motions in City National II, the Court ruled that Tenser has essentially no likelihood of success.  (Exs. 7, 9 to Gross Decl.)  It also ruled on the inadvertent disclosure issue, concluding that “as to the unredacted document, the court views that as more of an error than extortion.... Accordingly, the improper inclusion of private information is not enough to defeat section 47’s absolute privilege.” (Ex. 7 to Gross Decl., at 13.) As for the County Defendants, Tenser’s complaint includes the same core allegations as in Ryan I, Ryan II, and Ryan III: that in June 2018, Los Angeles County prosecutors Silverman and Mokayef called Tenser a “stalker” in a courtroom hallway, that detectives ran Tenser’s plates, and that District Attorney Gascón failed to “repudiate” members of the District Attorney’s office and Sheriff’s Department.  These include many of the same allegations that were dismissed in Ryan II due to Tenser’s failure to comply with long-established requirements of the Government Claims Act.  (Exs. 93, 95 to Dunkerly Decl.)   The facts demonstrate that Tenser will continue to file a barrage of frivolous motions and appeals, undeterred by any award of sanctions against him (as he is judgment proof).  The Court therefore concludes that a security requirement is necessary.  The County has already incurred approximately $268,000 in attorney fees and over $1,000 in costs for defending against Tenser’s claims (Dunkerly Decl. ¶ 32), and Hosp expects to incur approximately $250,000 in attorney fees and costs if forced to defend this action (Gross Decl. ¶ 43).  Based on these fees and costs, the Court orders Tenser to post a $500,000 security.  The Court stays any pending actions before it until the security is posted.   CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS the motion to declare Plaintiff a vexatious litigant.  The Court orders Tenser to post $500,000 in security as a condition to pursuing all pending actions, claims, cross-claims and actions of any kind commenced, maintained and/or prosecuted by Tenser (not including affirmative claims against Tenser or cases against Tenser initiated by other parties), that are before this Court.  Tenser must post the security within 30 days of this Order.  Any pending actions before this Court are stayed until the posting of the security.  In the event Tenser fails to post the security, the Court will dismiss his claims.  The Court also enters a pre-filing order prohibiting Tenser from filing any new in pro per litigation in the courts of this state without first obtaining leave of court and to post a security prior to filing any new in pro per litigation.  IT IS SO ORDERED.  DATED: August 8, 2024    ___________________________ Edward B. Moreton, Jr. Judge of the Superior Court  