  Case Number:  23STCV23948    Hearing Date:   January 11, 2024    Dept:  51 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Upinder S.
Kalra, Department 51
 
HEARING DATE:   January
11, 2024                                             
 
CASE NAME:           Anita Ogletree v. A-Sha Foods USA Co.
Inc. d/b/a Ashadrynoodle.com 
 
CASE NO.:                23STCV23948

 
DEMURRER TO COMPLAINT

 
MOVING PARTY:  Defendant
A-Sha Foods USA Co. Inc.
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Anita Ogletree
 
REQUESTED RELIEF: 
 
1.      Demurrer
to the Complaint for failure to state sufficient facts to constitute a cause of
action.
TENTATIVE RULING: 
 
1.      Demurrer
to the Complaint is OVERRULED.
STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: 
 
On October 2, 2023, Plaintiff Anita Ogletree (Plaintiff)
filed a Complaint against Defendant A-Sha Foods USA Co. Inc. d/b/a
Ashandrynoodle.com with one cause of action for Violations of the Unruh Civil
Rights Act.
 
According to the Complaint, Plaintiff is a blind individual
who utilizes screen reading software to read website content and access the
internet. Plaintiff alleges that she attempted to access Defendant’s website in
connection with her desire to access Defendant’s brick and mortar location but
encountered access barriers. Plaintiff is also a “tester” who visits places of
public accommodation to determine compliance with Title III of the ADA. Plaintiff
alleges that Defendant failed and refused to remove access barriers on their
website. 
 
On November 9, 2023, Defendant filed the instant demurrer.
On December 28, 2023, Plaintiff filed an opposition. Defendant’s reply was due
on or before January 4, 2024. As of January 8, 2024, there is no reply on file
with the court.
 
LEGAL STANDARD: 
 
Request for
Judicial Notice
 
The court grants Plaintiff’s request for judicial notice as
to Exhibits 1, 2, and 3. (Evid. Code § 452(c), (d); See Kalnoki v. First American Trustee Servicing
Solutions, LLC (2017) 8
Cal.App.5th 23,37.) However, the court only takes judicial notice of the
foregoing documents only as to “the existence, content and authenticity of
public records and other specified documents”; it does not take judicial notice
of the truth of the factual matters asserted in those documents. (Dominguez v. Bonta (2022) 87 Cal. App.
5th 389, 400.)¿¿ 
 
Meet and Confer
 
Prior to filing a demurrer, the demurring party is required
to satisfy their meet and confer obligations pursuant to Code of Civ. Proc. §430.41, and demonstrate that they so satisfied their
meet and confer obligation by submitting a declaration pursuant to Code of Civ.
Proc. §430.41(a)(2) & (3). According to the Declaration of Edward Lu, the
parties met and conferred telephonically on October 25, 2023 but were unable to
resolve the issues. (Lu Decl. ¶¶ 2-3.) Accordingly, the meet and confer
requirement is met.
 
Demurrer
 
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint
states a cause of action.¿(Hahn v. Mirda¿(2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering
demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context.¿In a demurrer
proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via
proper judicial notice.¿(Donabedian v.
Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)¿“A demurrer tests the
pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. …. The only
issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”¿(Hahn¿147 Cal.App.4th at 747.)¿ 
 
When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations
liberally and in context, accepting the alleged facts as true. (Nolte v. Cedars-Sinai Medical Center
(2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 1401, 1406.) Courts also consider exhibits attached to
the complaint and incorporated by reference. (See Frantz v. Blackwell (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 91, 94 (Frantz).) 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
Defendant contends that Plaintiff failed to allege
sufficient facts showing intentional discrimination or violation of the ADA.
Specifically, Defendant contends that the Complaint concludes Defendant
violated the ADA and does not allege specific intent to discriminate against
Plaintiff because of her protected trait. Plaintiff argues the alleged
inability to access Defendant’s website violates the ADA and that Defendant
intentionally discriminated against Plaintiff by knowing of Plaintiff’s
accessibility problems and failing to address them.
 
“California’s Unruh Civil Rights Act provides: ‘All persons
within the jurisdiction of this state are free and equal and no matter what
their….disability… are entitled to the full and equal accommodations,
advantages, facilities, privileges, or services in all business establishments
of every kind whatsoever. (Civ. Code, § 51, subd. (b).) A violation of any
individual right under the Federal Americans with Disabilities Act (“ADA”) is
also a violation of California’s Unruh Act. (Civ. Code § 51, subd. (f).) Under
the ADA, “[n]o individual shall be discriminated against on the basis of
disability in the full and equal enjoyment of the goods, services, facilities,
privileges, advantages, or accommodations of any place of public accommodation
by any person who owns, leases (or leases to), or operates a place of public
accommodation.” (42 U.S.C. § 12182(a).) Under the ADA, a place of public
accommodation expressly includes establishments that serve food or drink. (42
U.S.C. § 12181(7)(B).)   
 
A plaintiff can recover under the Unruh Act on two alternate
theories: (1) a violation of the ADA; or (2) denial of access to a business
establishment based on intentional discrimination. (See Martinez v. Cot’n Wash Inc. (2022) 81 Cal.App.5th 1026, 1035 (Cot’n Wash).)
 
i.                   
ADA
Violation
Under the nexus theory recently adopted by California courts
of appeal, “websites are covered by the ADA only if there is a nexus between
the websites and access to a physical place of public accommodation.
[Citation.]” (Thurston v. Midvale Corp. (2019)
39 Cal.App.5th 634, 640-41.) “[D]iscrimination occurring
‘offsite’ violates the ADA if it prevents disabled individuals from enjoying
services a defendant offers from a physical place of public accommodation.” (Id.; see
also Martinez v. San Diego County
Credit Union, supra, 50 Cal.App.5th at p. 1067 [agreeing with the nexus
theory standard and stating it “requires a court to focus on the connection
between the website and the goods and services offered by the
defendant”].)  
 
Upon reviewing the Complaint, Plaintiff has sufficiently
alleged an ADA violation. First, Plaintiff alleges she is a blind individual
who requires screen reading software to read website content and access the
internet, she attempted to access Defendant’s website in connection with a
desire to visit their store and could not access the website effectively.
(Compl. ¶¶ 5, 9.) Second, Plaintiff alleges that Defendant’s website provides
access to Defendant’s array of services, description of products, amenities and
services, and other benefits connected to its brick and mortar location.
(Compl. ¶¶ 11, 12.) Third, Plaintiff alleges that Defendant failed and refused
to remove access barriers on their website. (Compl. ¶¶ 16, 21.) Finally,
Plaintiff alleges that the website’s inaccessibility denied visually impaired
patrons, like Plaintiff, full and equal access to Defendant’s facilities and
services that are available to the non-disabled public, which violates the
Unruh Civil Rights Act. (Compl. ¶ 20.) 
 
Thus, Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged an ADA violation.
 
ii.                 
Intentional
Discrimination
Upon reviewing the Complaint, Plaintiff has not sufficiently
alleged intentional discrimination. A claimant may not rely on the effects of a
facially neutral policy on a particular group to infer a discriminatory intent.
(See Cot’n Wash, supra, at p. 1036.)
Failure to take affirmative action to correct an alleged barrier to access
after being notified of it is insufficient to demonstrate intentional
discrimination in violation of the Unruh Act. (Id. at pp. 1036-1038.) Plaintiff’s reliance on Hankins v. El Torito Restaurants Inc. (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 510,
516 is misplaced because it involved a company policy that denied all patrons
access to a restroom on the restaurant’s first floor. (Id. at pp. 517-520.) Here, Plaintiff’s claim is based not on a
company policy, but on the structure of Defendant’s website, which is a
facially neutral action.[1]
(See Cot’n Wash, supra, at p. 1038.)
 
Thus, Plaintiff failed to sufficiently allege intentional
discrimination.
 
However, because the court may not split a cause of action,
Plaintiff has sufficiently plead facts supporting her cause of action for
Violation of the Unruh Civil Rights Act. (Fire
Ins. Exchange v. Superior Court (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 446, 452.)
 
Accordingly, the court OVERRULES Defendant’s demurrer.
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            For
the foregoing reasons, the Court decides the pending motion as follows: 
 
2.      Demurrer
to the Complaint is OVERRULED.
Moving party is to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
Dated:              January 11, 2024                     __________________________________                                                                                                                Upinder
S. Kalra
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 


