 Case Number:  23STCV09436    Hearing Date:   April 29, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



DANIEL STEVENSON, an individual,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
LOUISE VOYAZIS DBA LOUISE VOYAZIS INTERIOR DESIGN, an individual,
  LOUISE VOYAZIS INTERIOR DESIGN, LLC, a California Corporation, and DOES 1
  through 30
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          23STCV09436
 Hearing Date:   4/29/24
 Trial Date:        N/A
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Defendants Louise Voyazis and Louise
  Voyazis Interior Design, LLC’s Motion to Strike Portions of Plaintiff’s First
  Amended Complaint.



 
I. Background
A. Pleadings
Plaintiff Daniel
Stevenson sues Defendants Louise Voyazis dba Louise Voyazis Interior Design
(Voyazis), Louise Voyazis Interior Design (LVID), and Does 1 through 30
pursuant to an August 9, 2023, First Amended Complaint (FAC) alleging claims of
(1) Breach of Contract, (2) Fraudulent Inducement, (3) Fraud/Intentional
Misrepresentation, (4) Negligent Misrepresentation, (5) Violation of Bus. &
Prof. Code, § 7031(b), (6) Unjust Enrichment – Constructive/Resulting Trust,
(7) Negligence, (8) Rescission, (9) Money Had and Received, and (10)
Accounting.
The claims arise from
the following allegations. Defendants were hired to perform design and project
management services in Plaintiff Stevenson’s new home, which Defendants either
performed sub-standardly or did not perform at all. Defendants’ renovations have
run more than $330,000 over budget and caused move-in delays of more than 1.5
years. Moreover, renovation work is ongoing at Plaintiff’s home to rectify Defendants’
mistakes and negligence.
B. Motion Before the
Court
On September 25, 2023,
Defendants filed a motion to strike (1) the FAC’s second and third causes of
action, (2) allegations and prayers in the FAC related to punitive damages, and
(3) the FAC’s prayer for attorney’s fees.
On April 9, 2024,
Plaintiff Steven filed an opposition to Defendants’ motion to strike.
On April 22, 2024,
Defendants filed a reply to Plaintiff’s opposition.
Defendants’ motion to
strike is now before the Court.
 
II. Motion to Strike
A.
Legal Standard
The
court may, upon a motion or at any time in its discretion and upon terms it
deems proper: (a) strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted
in any pleading; or (b) strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of California, a court rule, or an order of
the court. (Code Civ. Proc. § 436, subds. (a), (b); Stafford v. Shultz
(1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782 [“Matter in a pleading which is not essential to the
claim is surplusage; probative facts are surplusage and may be stricken out or
disregarded”].)
For
the purposes of a motion to strike pursuant to Sections 435 to 437 of the Code
of Civil Procedure, the term “pleading” generally means a demurrer, answer,
complaint, or cross-complaint, (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (a)), and an
immaterial allegation or irrelevant matter in a pleading entails (1) an
allegation that is not essential to the statement of a claim or defense, (2) an
allegation that is neither pertinent to nor supported by an otherwise
sufficient claim or defense, or (3) a demand for judgment requesting relief not
supported by the allegations of the complaint or cross-complaint (Code Civ.
Proc., § 431.10, subds. (b)(1)-(3), (c)).
B.
Analysis
1. Motion to Strike, FAC, Second and
Third Causes of Action, Fraudulent Inducement and Fraud/Intentional
Misrepresentation: DENIED.
a. Relevant
Law
“Fraud in the inducement is a
subset of the tort of fraud. It occurs when [1] the promisor knows what he is
signing but [2] his consent is induced by fraud, mutual assent is present[,]
and a contract is formed, which, by reason of the fraud, is voidable.” (Hinesley
v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294-295, quotations and
citations omitted.)
Intentional misrepresentation
involves “(1) a knowingly false representation by the defendant; (2) an intent
to deceive or induce reliance; (3) justifiable reliance by the plaintiff; and
(4) resulting damages.” (Service by Medallion, Inc. v. Clorox Co. (1996)
44 Cal.App.4th 1807, 1816.)
Allegations of fraud “must be pled
with more detail than other causes of action.” (Apollo Capital Fund, LLC v.
Roth Capital Partners, LLC (2007) 158 Cal.App.4th 226, 240 (Apollo).)
“Every element of the cause of action for fraud must be alleged … factually and
specifically[,] and the policy of liberal construction of the pleadings … will
not ordinarily be invoked to sustain a pleading defective in any material
respect. [Citations.]” (Committee on Children’s Television, Inc. v. General
Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197, 216 (Children’s Television),
superseded by statute as stated in Branick v. Downey Savings & Loan
Assn. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 235, 242.) A plaintiff pleading fraud must plead
facts showing “how, when, where, to whom, and by what means” the allegedly
fraudulent representations were tendered. (Lazar v. Superior Court
(1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645 (Lazar).) “[G]eneral and conclusory
allegations do not suffice.” (Small v. Fritz Cos., Inc. (2003) 30
Cal.4th 167, 184 (Fritz), citations omitted.)
b. Court’s
Determination
The Court finds in favor of
Plaintiff Stevenson.
Defendants raise two challenges to these
claims: (1) the second and third causes of action are duplicative, where only
one of these claims can be stated based on a single primary right for fraud;
and (2) the FAC insufficiently alleges facts supporting the misrepresentation
(falsity) and knowledge of falsity elements of fraud. (Mot., pp. 2-4 at §§
III-IV.)
The Court disagrees on both points.
A defendant may demur to a
duplicative cause of action that adds nothing by way of recovery. (Rodrigues
v. Campbell Industries (1978) 87 Cal.App.3d 494, 501; accord Award
Metals, Inc. v. Superior Court (1991) 228 Cal.App.3d 1128, 1135, opn. mod.
Apr. 10, 1991.) However, the Court determines that the second and third causes
of action are not duplicative.
The second cause of action is premised
on representations by Defendants related to project management questions, the
necessary qualifications to perform work in Plaintiff’s home, the completion
date for the work, budget confirmation, and budget reconfirmation, as well as
misrepresentations by non-party agents Tomas Chihuahua and Alex (last name
unknown). (FAC, ¶¶ 136-175; see also FAC, ¶¶ 19 [project management misrepresentations
occurred around August 27, 2020, and November 23, 2020; qualification misrepresentations
occurred around November 23, 2020], 22 [completion misrepresentation occurred
around November 11, 2020], 24 [budget confirmation misrepresentation occurred
around December 7, 2020], 26, 28 [budget reconfirmation representation occurred
around November 23, 2020], 54 [Tomas and Alex misrepresentations occurred
around October 29, 2021].)
In contrast, the third cause of
action is premised on ongoing budget reconfirmation representations by
Defendants, which were made at a time differing from the misrepresentations
discussed in the preceding paragraph. (FAC, ¶¶ 176-185; see FAC, ¶ 49 at page
22 [ongoing budget confirmation misrepresentations occurred on March 10-11,
2022].)
Based on these facts, the second
causes of action and third causes are premised on different factual grounds,
thus offering different avenues to recovery. It follows that these claims are
not duplicative.
Second, the Court determines that Defendants’
falsity and knowledge arguments are unavailing.
To begin with, Defendants hardly
elaborate either of these points. (See Mot., 4.) Without that elaboration,
Defendants essentially ask that the Court determine whether those allegations
are sufficiently stated as to each element of fraud in relation to at least
seven sets of Defendants’ alleged misrepresentations. 
Turning to the pleadings, the FAC
alleges bases for falsity and knowledge relating to Defendants’ alleged
misrepresentations. For example, in relation to the qualification
misrepresentations, the FAC alleges that Defendants knew they were not properly
licensed or otherwise capable to perform the work in Plaintiff’s home but
nevertheless make representations to the contrary to Plaintiff to induce
Plaintiff to hire them. (FAC, ¶¶ 146.) A review of the FAC shows that there are
numerous and detailed assertions alleging knowledge of falsity to sufficiently
state these fraud claims at this pleading stage. (For example, FAC, ¶¶ 28, 51, 57,
67, 68, 92.)
Defendants’ motion to strike the
FAC’s second and third causes of action is thus DENIED.
2. Motion
to Strike, FAC, Punitive Damages: DENIED.
a. Relevant
Law
Claims for punitive damages are
disfavored in California. (Las
Palmas Assocs. v. Las Palmas Center Assocs. (1991) 235 Cal.App.3d
1220, 1258).
“In an action for the breach of an
obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and
convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages
for the sake of example and by way of punishing the defendant.” (Civ. Code, §
3294, subd. (a).) 
When the defendant is a
corporation, ‘[a]n award of punitive damages … must rest on the malice of the
corporation’s employees’” specifically, “the oppression, fraud, or malice
perpetrated, authorized, or knowingly ratified by an officer, director, or
managing agent of the corporation,” where a managing agent “include[s] only
those corporate employees who exercise substantial independent authority and
judgment in their corporate decisionmaking so that their decisions ultimately
determine corporate policy.’” (Wilson v. Southern California Edison Co.
(2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 123, 164, citations omitted.)
b. Court’s
Determination
The Court adopts its discussion in
II.B.1.b. to determine that the alleged misrepresentations in the FAC’s second
and third causes of action supports a prayer for punitive damages because the
same conduct alleged in those claims, if taken as true, amounts to fraud for
punitive damages purposes. The vast majority of the alleged fraudulent misrepresentations
were alleged to be by Voyazis herself, who is both a defendant and alleged to
be the founder of LVID, the other defendant; moreover, there are agency and
alter ego allegations. Thus, the alleged conduct of Voyazis easily meets the managing
agent requirement.
Defendants’ motion to strike the
FAC’s allegations and prayer for punitive damages is thus DENIED.
3. Motion
to Strike, FAC, Attorney’s Fees: GRANTED, with leave to
amend.
a. Relevant
Law
 “With regard to an award of attorney fees in
litigation, California generally follows what is commonly referred to as the
‘American Rule,’ which provides that each party to a lawsuit must ordinarily
pay his or her own attorney fees. The American Rule is codified in Code of
Civil Procedure section 1021, which states in relevant part: ‘Except as
attorney’s fees are specifically provided for by statute, the measure and mode
of compensation of attorneys and counselors at law is left to the agreement, express
or implied, of the parties ….’”  (Tract 19051 Homeowners Assn. v. Kemp
(2015) 60 Cal.4th 1135, 1142.) California law requires express authorization,
by statute or contract, for an attorney fees award to the prevailing party.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1021.) 
b. Court’s
Determination
In their motion to strike,
Defendants argue that the FAC fails to allege or show a contract between the
parties supporting an award of fees.
The Court disagrees but
nevertheless grants relief based on Plaintiff’s stipulation to relief.
The FAC specifically alleges that a
contract exists between the parties, quoting the contract’s attorney’s fees
clause verbatim in the body of the FAC. (TAC, ¶ 30.) This is sufficient for
pleading purposes. (Heritage Pacific Financial, LLC v. Monroy (2013) 215
Cal.App.4th 972, 993 [contract must be pled verbatim in the body of the
complaint, be attached to the complaint and incorporated by reference, or be
pled according to its legal effect].)
Moreover, while a copy of this
contract was not attached as Exhibit B to the FAC, as alleged in paragraph 30,
the original Complaint attaches the contract as Exhibit B to that pleading. A
review of the Payment Terms section of the contract at page two shows that the
parties agreed that the “[d]esigner[, here, Defendants] shall indemnify …
client [etc.] … against … loss[es] … [or] expenses, including, but not limited
to attorneys’ fees and costs, arising out of, resulting from or in connection
with … (c) any noncompliance … attributable to the work.” (Complaint, Ex. B.)
However, in his opposition,
Plaintiff Stevenson stated that he “does not oppose this portion of
Defendant[]s[’] motion.” (Opp’n, p. 10.)
Defendants’ motion to strike the
FAC’s prayer for attorney’s fees is thus GRANTED, with leave to amend. 
III. Conclusion
Defendants Louise
Voyazis and Louise Voyazis Interior Design, LLC’s Motion to Strike Portions of
Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint is DENIED in part and GRANTED in part as
follows:
(1) DENIED as to
striking the First Amended Complaint’s second and third causes of action and
the First Amended Complaint’s punitive damages allegations and prayer;
(2) GRANTED as to striking the
FAC’s prayer for attorney’s fees, with leave to amend.