 Case Number:  23PSCV00922    Hearing Date:   November 2, 2023    Dept:  G Defendant Philip Chatalos’s Motion for Leave to File  Cross-Complaint Respondent: NO OPPOSITION TENTATIVE RULING Defendant Philip Chatalos’s Motion for Leave to File  Cross-Complaint is GRANTED and Defendant is ordered to file the proposed Cross-Complaint  in Defendant’s motion separately with the court forthwith. BACKGROUND This  is an action for breach of contract and fraud. In August 2019, Plaintiff Trinhnology  Enterprise, Corp. (Trinhnology) entered into an alleged oral agreement with Defendant  Philip Chatalos in which Trinhnology agreed to pay a monthly design fee and  sales commissions to Chatalos in exchange for Chatalos’s sale of Trinhnology’s  clothing products. In September 2022, Trinhnology ended its business  relationship with Chatalos. Trinhnology alleges Chatalos breached their  agreement by failing to repay advances on Chatalos’s commission that  Trinhnology had paid. Trinhnology also alleges Chatalos overcharged Trinhnology  for product samples or requested reimbursement for samples that had not been  purchased. Last, Trinhnology alleges Trinhnology alleges Chatalos failed to  follow up with a client to ensure they made payments for previous orders and reinstated  orders that had been cancelled. On March  29, 2023, Trinhnology filed a complaint against Chatalos and Does 1-30,  alleging the following causes of action: (1) breach of oral contract, (2)  common counts, (3) breach of oral contract, (4) common counts, (5) fraud, (6)  negligence, (7) common counts, (8) negligence, and (9) negligence. On  April 21, 2023, Chatalos filed a cross-complaint against Trinhnology, Howard  Quoc Trinh, Cloud & Sky Enterprises (Cloud & Sky), and Does 1-50,  alleging (1) breach of contract and (2) a violation of the California  Independent Wholesale Sales Representative Contractual Relations Act. On July  11, Chatalos dismissed the cross-complaint without prejudice. On  August 28, 2023, Chatalos filed the present motion. A hearing on Chatalos’s  motion and a case management conference are set for November 2. ANALYSIS Chatalos  seeks leave to file another cross-complaint against Trinhnology, Trinh, Cloud  & Sky, and Does 1-50 that alleged (1) breach of contract and (2) a  violation of the California Independent Wholesale Sales Representative  Contractual Relations Act. For the following reasons, the court GRANTS Chatalos’s  motion. Legal  Standard Pursuant  to Code of Civil Procedure section 428.50, subdivision (a), a party is entitled  to “file a cross-complaint against any of the parties who filed the complaint  or cross-complaint against him or her before or at the same time as the answer  to the complaint or cross-complaint.” Furthermore, “[a]ny other cross-complaint  may be filed at any time before the court has set a date for trial.” (Code Civ.  Proc., § 428.50, subd. (b).) If a cross-compliant is not filed within these  guidelines, it may only be filed with leave of the court, who may grant it “in  the interest of justice at any time during the course of the action.” (Code  Civ. Proc., § 428.50, subd. (c).) A  cross-complaint is compulsory when a related cause of action existed at the  time of serving the defendant’s answer to the complaint. (Code Civ. Proc., §  426.30, subd. (a); see also Crocker Nat. Bank v. Emerald (1990)  221 Cal.App.3d 852, 864.) A “‘[r]elated cause of action’ means a cause of  action which arises out of the same transaction, occurrence, or series of  transactions or occurrences as the cause of action which the plaintiff alleges  in his complaint.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 426.10, subd. (c).) Leave must be  granted to file a compulsory cross-complaint when the defendant is acting in  good faith. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 426.50.) “[W]hat  constitutes ‘good faith’—or lack of it—under Code of Civil Procedure Section  426.50 must be determined in light of and in conformity with the liberality  conferred upon the trial courts by the section and by prior law. … [T]his  principle of liberality requires that a strong showing of bad faith be made in  order to support a denial of the right to file a cross-complaint under this  section.”  (Foot’s Transfer & Storage Co. v. Superior Court (1980)  114 Cal.App.3d 897, 902.) A determination of bad faith may be premised on  “substantial injustice or prejudice” to the opposing party.  (Id., at  p. 903; see also Gherman v. Colburn (1977) 72 Cal.App.3d 544, 560, fn. 9  [stating leave was properly denied where defendant’s motion “was merely a  tactical strategic maneuver to deprive plaintiffs of a right to a jury  trial”].) Discussion Chatalos  argues this motion has been brought in good faith because it seeks to rectify  Chatalos’s earlier error in failing to file the cross-compliant when Chatalos  filed the answer on April 13, 2023. (Motion, p. 6:19-24.) Chatalos also notes  that a trial date has not yet been set in this matter. Furthermore, Chatalos’s  counsel states that Trinhnology had not yet propounded any discovery on  Chatalos at the time the present motion was submitted. (Bollinger Decl., ¶ 6.) The  court is not in receipt of any timely opposition from Trinhnology. As  discussed above, Code of Civil Procedure section 426.50 is liberally construed  in favor of granting a motion to file a cross-complaint and such a motion should  be granted unless the moving party acts in bad faith. Accordingly, because the court  discerns no bad faith on Chatalos’s part, the court GRANTS Chatalos’s motion. CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, Chatalos’s motion for  leave to file a cross-complaint is GRANTED and Chatalos is ordered to file  the proposed cross-complaint in Chatalos’s motion separately with the court  forthwith. 