 Case Number:  23PSCV00561    Hearing Date:   November 2, 2023    Dept:  G Defendant Satish Mahajan’s Demurrer to Plaintiffs’ First
Amended Complaint
 
Respondent: Plaintiffs Rajesh Thakkar and Nidhi MittalDefendant
Humble Retailers, Inc.’s Demurrer to Plaintiffs’ First Amended Complaint
 
Respondent: Plaintiffs Rajesh Thakkar and Nidhi Mittal
 
Defendant Mennu Mahajan’s Demurrer to Plaintiffs’ First Amended
Complaint
 
Respondent: Plaintiffs Rajesh Thakkar and Nidhi Mittal
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
Defendants Satish Mahajan, Humble Retailers, Inc., and Mennu Mahajan’s Demurrers
to Plaintiffs’ First Amended Complaint¿are CONTINUED to a date to be determined at the hearing in
Department G (Pomona).
 
Counsel for Defendants Satish Mahajan, Humble Retailers,
Inc., and Mennu Mahajan is ordered to meet and confer with counsel for Plaintiffs
Rajesh Thakkar and Nidhi Mittal regarding these demurrers and to file a
supplemental declaration describing such meet and confer efforts at least nine (9)
court days before the next scheduled hearing.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a contractual fraud action. In early 2022,
Defendants Humble Retailers, Inc. (Humble Retailers), Satish Mahajan[1], Deepak Gosain, Narayan Singh, Mennu Mahajan, and Nikki
Sachdeva sought to sell their liquor store in Azusa to Plaintiffs Rajesh
Thakkar and Nidhi Mittal. After Defendants allegedly promised Thakkar and
Mittal a turnkey business and failed to disclose the material risks, Thakkar
and Mittal signed a business purchase contract on August 30, 2022, and agreed
to purchase the liquor store for $375,000. They then made a $55,000 down
payment prior to the opening of escrow.
 
Subsequently, when Thakkar and Mittal inspected the liquor
store, they found twenty-two different issues that they communicated to
Defendants including a defective walk-in cooler, a defective air conditioning
system, defective exhaust and ventilation systems, an inadequate electrical
load, fire safety violations, food safety violations, dilapidated building
conditions, obscured security cameras, and pest infestations. Thakkar and
Mittal allege Defendants also failed to transfer the liquor store’s ABC license,
commercial lease, or business title. While Thakkar and Mittal did not take
possession of the business, Defendants allegedly refused to return their down
payments.
 
On February 27, 2023, Thakkar and Mittal filed a complaint
against Defendants and Does 1-20, alleging the following causes of action: (1)
fraud in the inducement, (2) conversion, (3) intentional misrepresentation, (4)
negligent misrepresentation, and (5) breach of contract.
On July 19, the court sustained a demurrer to the Complaint by Humble Retailers
with leave to amend. The court also struck a demurrer by Mennu and overruled a
demurrer by Satish.
 
On August 8, 2023, Thakkar and Mittal filed a First Amended
Complaint (FAC) against the same defendants alleging the same causes of action.
 
On September 7,
2023, Humble Retailers, Satish, and Mennu filed the present demurrers. Prior to
filing, their counsel allegedly met and conferred with Thakkar and Mittal’s
counsel. (Khanmohamed Decl., ¶ 4.)
 
ANALYSIS
 
Satish demurs to Thakkar and Mittal’s first
four causes of action while Humble Retailers and Mennu demur to the entire FAC.
For the following reasons, the court finds
parties did not adequately meet and confer.
 
Legal Standard
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41,
subdivision (a), prior to filing a demurrer, “the demurring party shall meet
and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that
is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can
be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.”
This section further provides that “the demurring party shall identify all of
the specific causes of action that it believes are subject to demurrer and
identify with legal support the basis of the deficiencies.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41, subd. (a)(1).)
 
While Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision
(a)(4) makes clear failing to meet and confer is not grounds to overrule a
demurrer, courts “are not required to ignore defects in the meet and confer
process” and if the court determines “no meet and confer has taken place, or
concludes further conferences between counsel would likely be productive, it
retains discretion to order counsel to meaningfully discuss the pleadings with
an eye toward reducing the number of issues or eliminating the need for a
demurrer, and to continue the hearing date to facilitate that effort.” (Dumas
v. Los Angeles County Bd. of Supervisors (2020) 45 Cal.App.5th 348, 355
& fn. 3.)
 
Discussion
 
In this case, counsel
for Humble Retailers, Satish, and Mennu filed a declaration stating counsel met
and conferred with Thakkar and Mittal’s counsel. (Khanmohamed
Decl., ¶ 4.) But a meet-and-confer declaration must state “[t]he means by which the
demurring party met and conferred with the party who filed the pleading subject
to demurrer, and that the parties did not reach an agreement resolving the
objections raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd.
(a)(3)(A).) Here, counsel’s declaration does not meet the requirements of Code
of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision (a) as it does not state how
parties met and conferred. Thus, the court finds a continuance to further meet
and confer is appropriate.
 
CONCLUSION
 
Based on the foregoing, Humble Retailers, Satish, and
Mennu’s demurrers are CONTINUED to a date to be determined at the hearing in
Department G (Pomona). Humble
Retailers, Satish, and Mennu’s counsel is also ordered to meet and confer with Thakkar
and Mittal’s counsel regarding these demurrers and to file a supplemental
declaration describing such meet and confer efforts at least nine (9) court
days before the next scheduled hearing.

