  Case Number:  23PSCP00412    Hearing Date:   November 2, 2023    Dept:  G Petitioner City of West Covina’s Petition for Order to
Abate Substandard Building and Appointment of Receiver
Respondent: NO OPPOSITION
TENTATIVE RULING
Petitioner City of West Covina’s Petition for Order to
Abate Substandard Building and Appointment of Receiver is GRANTED.
BACKGROUND
This is an action brought by
the City of West Covina (the City) to abate a substandard building and appoint
a receiver. The subject of this action is a single-family residence in West
Covina that has allegedly fallen into disrepair and out of compliance with numerous
state, county, and municipal codes. Starting in July 2020, the City first mailed
notices of violation to the West Covina property. After the owners or occupants
of the West Covina property failed to remedy the alleged violations, the City
continued to send notices of violation until November 2022 when the matter was
referred to the City’s prosecutor. In June 2023, the City’s inspector made
entrance into the West Covina property pursuant to an inspection warrant and
noted additional violations.
On September 14, 2023, the
City filed a petition for an order to abate substandard building and
appointment of receiver against Respondents Mary A. Packard, Cynthia Calderon,
all persons claiming any interest in the West Covina property, and Does 1-25.
On October 2, 2023, the City
amended the petition to replace Doe 1 with Linda Jean Packard, as successor
trustee of the Trust of Mary A. Packard dated August 29, 1988.
A hearing on the present
petition is set for November 2, 2023, with a status conference.
ANALYSIS
The
City petitions the court for the appointment of Richardson C. Griswold as
receiver. For the following reasons, the court GRANTS the City’s petition.
Legal Standard
In
relevant part, Health and Safety Code section 17980.6 provides as follows:
“If any building is maintained in a manner that
violates any provisions of this part, the building standards published in the
State Building Standards Code relating to the provisions of this part, any
other rule or regulation adopted pursuant to the provisions of this part, or
any provision in a local ordinance that is similar to a provision in this part,
and the violations are so extensive and of such a nature that the health and
safety of residents or the public is substantially endangered, the enforcement
agency may issue an order or notice to repair or abate pursuant to this part.
Any order or notice pursuant to this subdivision shall be provided either by
both posting a copy of the order or notice in a conspicuous place on the
property and by first-class mail to each affected residential unit, or by
posting a copy of the order or notice in a conspicuous place on the property
and in a prominent place on each affected residential unit. The order or notice
shall include, but is not limited to, all of the following:
(a) The name, address, and telephone number of the
agency that issued the notice or order.
(b) The date, time, and location of any public
hearing or proceeding concerning the order or notice.
(c) Information that the lessor cannot retaliate
against a lessee pursuant to Section 1942.5 of the Civil Code.” (Health &
Safety Code, § 17980.6.)
Upon
the owner’s failure to comply with a notice or order issued to pursuant to
Health and Safety Code section 17980.6 within a “reasonable time,” “The
enforcement agency . . . may seek and the court may order, the appointment of a
receiver for the substandard building pursuant to this subdivision. In its
petition to the court, the enforcement agency . . . shall include proof that
notice of the petition was posted in a prominent place on the substandard
building and mailed first-class mail to all persons with a recorded interest in
the real property upon which the substandard building exists not less than
three days prior to filing the petition. The petition shall be served on the
owner pursuant to Article 3 (commencing with Section 415.10) of Chapter 4 of
Title 5 of Part 2 of the Code of Civil Procedure.” (Health & Safety Code, §
17980.7, subd. (c).)
The
appointment of a receiver lies within the trial court’s discretion. (City of
Desert Hot Springs v. Valenti (2019) 43 Cal.App.5th 788, 793.) “[B]ecause
the remedy of receivership is so drastic in character, ‘[o]rdinarily, if there
is any other remedy, less severe in its results, which will adequately protect
the rights of the parties, a court should not take property out of the hands of
its owners.’ [Citations.]” (Alhambra-Shumway Mines, Inc. (1953) 116
Cal.App.2d 869, 873, quoting Golden State Glass Corp. v. Superior Court (1939)
13 Cal.2d 384, 393.) But in the context of a request for appointment of a
receiver pursuant to Health and Safety Code section 17980.7, subdivision (c),
the court is not required to consider whether less drastic remedies are
available. (See City of Crescent City v. Reddy (2017) 9 Cal.App.5th 458,
467.)
Discussion
In
this case, the court first considers whether the City gave proper notice as
required by statute. On August 22, 2023, the City posted a notice of its intent
to file the present petition at the West Covina property and mailed copies of
the notice to the West Covina property on the same day. (Pope Ex Parte Decl., ¶
12, Ex. A.) Because these notices were made more than three days before the
petition was filed on September 14, the court finds the City complied with the
notice requirements in Health and Safety Code section 17980.7, subdivision (c).
The court also finds the City properly served the present petition on the
alleged owner, Mary A. Packard, pursuant to the court’s order directing service
on October 6.
The
court next considers whether Respondents failed to comply with the City’s
violation notices within a reasonable period of time. In support of its
petition, the City provided a declaration by Matthew Araiza, its code
enforcement supervisor. According to Araiza, the City issued the following
notices of violation for the West Covina property. July 7, 2020: Notice of violation issued for damaged roofing,
trash cans in the public view, and an inoperable vehicle in the public view. (Araiza
Decl., ¶ 10, Ex. A.)
·       July 1, 2021: Administrative citation issued for damaged
roofing, an inoperable vehicle in the public view, and maintaining a structure
in violation. (Araiza Decl., ¶ 12, Ex. A.)
·       August 16, 2021: Administrative citation issued for damaged
roofing, an inoperable vehicle in the public view, and maintaining a structure
in violation. (Araiza Decl., ¶ 12, Ex. A.)
·       September 14, 2021: Administrative citation issued for damaged
roofing, an inoperable vehicle in the public view, and maintaining a structure
in violation. (Araiza Decl., ¶ 12, Ex. A.)
·       October 14, 2021: Administrative citation issued for damaged
roofing and maintaining a structure in violation. (Araiza Decl., ¶ 12, Ex. A.)
On
August 23, 2022, Araiza spoke with Linda Jean Packard over the telephone and
Linda Jean Packard promised to remove a tarp covering the West Covina
property’s roof by August 30 and also promised to seek financial assistance for
the roof repairs. (Araiza Decl., ¶13.) On September 2, Araiza inspected the
West Covina property and noted the tarp had been removed. (Araiza Decl., ¶ 15.)
But when Araiza conducted another inspection on November 9, Araiza noticed a
new tarp had been placed over the roof. (Araiza Decl., ¶ 16.)
On
June 27, 2023, Araiza conducted an inspection of the West Covina property pursuant
to an inspection warrant. (Araiza Decl., ¶ 20.) During the inspection, Araiza
confirmed the roof remained in a deteriorating condition. (Araiza Decl., ¶ 20.)
On July 25, the City issued a notice to abate for general dilapidation and
improper maintenance, accumulation of junk and debris that creates a fire
hazard, damaged roofing, damaged exteriors, a missing supporting column,
improper storage of items that creates a fire hazard, missing and broken walls,
a hole in the ceiling that exposes ceiling joists, missing floorboards,
hazardous and unsanitary kitchen conditions, hazardous and unsanitary
bathrooms, presence of animal feces, blocked and inadequate egress, manifestly
unsafe building conditions, existence of attractive and public nuisance, and
numerous building code violations. (Araiza Decl., ¶ 25; Moy Decl., Ex. 3.)
The
notice to abate required the conditions be remedied by August 8, 2023. (Araiza
Decl., ¶ 25; Moy Decl., Ex. 3.) At the time Araiza completed the declaration on
September 12, there has been no action to remedy the issues noted in the notice
to abate. (Araiza Decl., ¶ 25.) While Respondents only had fourteen days to
remedy the issues in the notice to abate, the court finds this time was
reasonable as Respondents were on notice of issues with the damaged roof since July
2020 and failed to make any repairs. Thus, the court finds Respondents failed
to comply with the City’s violation notices in a reasonable time.
Last,
the court determines whether Griswold is qualified to be appointed as receiver.
An applicant qualifies for appointment as a receiver if they have “demonstrated
to the court their capacity and expertise to develop and supervise a viable
financial and construction plan for the satisfactory rehabilitation of the
building.” (Health & Safety Code, § 17980.7, subd. (c)(2).) In this case,
Griswold provided a declaration stating he has sixteen years of experience as a
licensed attorney and thirteen years of experience as a licensed real estate
broker. (Griswold Decl., ¶ 1.) Griswold has also been appointed as a receiver
for more than one hundred eighty properties in more than one hundred civil
actions in California. (Griswold Decl., ¶ 2.) Based on these averments, the
court finds Griswold is more than qualified to be appointed as a receiver in
this action.
Accordingly,
the City’s petition is GRANTED.
CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, the
City’s petition is GRANTED.