 Case Number:  23VECV02140    Hearing Date:   February 5, 2024    Dept:  T 23VECV02140 SHARON LODIN vs
PETER J BRUGETTI 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendant Tarzana Health Systems, LLC and
Peter Brugetti’s Demurrer to the Second Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED WITHOUT
LEAVE TO AMEND.
Introduction 
Defendants Tarzana Health
Systems, LLC (THS) and  Peter Brugetti
(Brugetti) (collectively, Defendants) demurred to Plaintiff Sharon Lodin’s
(Plaintiff) Second Amended Complaint (SAC). 
The demurrer placed into issue the first cause of action (COA) for
negligence, the second COA for premise liability, and the third COA for
“business proprietor’s or property owner’s liability for the criminal conduct
of others”.  
Discussion  
At the prior demurrer to the
First Amended Complaint (FAC), the Court identified two pleading defects that
needed to be cured.  Plaintiff
sufficiently clarified that the attack occurred on the sidewalk and two dogs (Pit
Bulls) came from Defendants’ property/parking lot wherein one dog bit
Plaintiff.  Plaintiff cured the
uncertainty as to the location of the attack.
With the above clarification in
the allegations, Defendants argued that they did not own or control the
property upon which the attack occurred (i.e., the public sidewalk).  However, the argument ignores or discounts
the factual allegation that the dangerous condition/the dogs came from
Defendants’ property.  Because the dogs
are alleged to have come from Defendants’ property, the SAC sufficiently
alleged a dangerous condition occurring on Defendants’ property.  The argument is not persuasive.
Even if the location of the
actual attack is considered, the argument is insufficient to sustain the
demurrer because it only addressed part of the allegations: ownership and
control.  Plaintiff additionally alleged that
Defendants failed in their maintenance and inspection of their own
premise.   Defendants’ demurrer argument
did not address the allegations of maintenance and inspection.  Defendants’ first argument is unpersuasive on
this defect.
The second pleading defect
involved knowledge of the danger as to the duty element.  Defendants again argued that the SAC’s first
two COAs insufficiently pled supportive facts as to knowledge and asserted the
argument against the third COA for liability for third party criminal
conduct.  The Court noted that all three
COAs are based upon negligence and all three require sufficient supportive fact
pleading as to duty/knowledge of the danger (i.e., the dogs’ dangerous
propensity.)  As was the pleading defect in
the FAC, Plaintiff conclusory alleged that Defendants either “knew or should
have known that the dog that bit Plaintiff was of a vicious temperament and
disposition, possessed dangerous propensities and was likely to attack and
injure human beings.”  (SAC par. GN-1
under the first COA; Attachment 2 on Judicial Council Form MC-025, first
paragraph, last sentence of the second COA; and par. 6 on Attachment #1 of the
third COA.)  The SAC failed to plead supportive
facts to allege the dangerous propensity of the dogs and Defendants’ knowledge
of the dangerous propensity of the dogs. 

Plaintiff argued that the
knowledge element is sufficiently pled because of the allegation that
Defendants had knowledge of the homeless person and his/her dogs staying on the
property for an extended period of time and based upon surveillance video.  However, the factual allegations regarding
the homeless person and his/her extended stay and surveillance footage without
more is insufficient to plead supportive facts to show the dogs’ dangerous
propensity and Defendants’ prior knowledge of the dogs’ dangerous
propensity.  The dogs’ alleged dangerous
propensity and Defendants’ knowledge of the same are not readily apparent based
upon these two allegations.  A plain
reading of the allegations as to the homeless person’s extended stay and
Defendants’ surveillance video is only sufficient to plead supportive facts as
to Defendants’ knowledge of the existence of the homeless person and dogs.  Without facts alleging the dogs’ dangerous
propensity and Defendants’ prior knowledge of the same, the pleading is still
insufficiently alleged as to the duty element.
There was nothing pleaded to show
that the dogs had previously snapped at pedestrians/customers or
chased/growled/menaced prior pedestrians/customers or that she had seen the
dogs menace other pedestrians/customers and that Defendants had knowledge of these
incidents. No facts were pleaded to show a dangerous propensity and Defendants’
knowledge.   In Yuzon v. Collins (2004)
116 Cal.App.4th 149 (cited by Defendants), the relationship between the
defendant property owner and the defendant dog owner is a landlord-tenant
relationship.  It can be reasonably
inferred without more facts other than pleading the landlord-tenant
relationship that a landlord would maintain/inspect the property and come
across the tenant’s dog and have some knowledge of the dog’s propensity.  Here, there is no nexus or facts showing that
they dealt with each other so that Defendants would have known of the dogs’
propensities.  
Plaintiff argued that knowledge
is a factual inquiry not proper for demurrer and that all material facts in the
pleading are admitted.  However, the
issue raised by the demurrer is not whether Defendants had knowledge or did not
have knowledge of the dangerous propensity of the dogs, but whether sufficient
facts are alleged to support that the dogs had a dangerous propensity and how
Defendants had knowledge of the dogs’ dangerous propensity.  As reviewed above, the allegation of
knowledge is conclusory, lacked any supportive fact pleading, and is not
readily apparent when considering the relationship, if any, between the
business and the homeless person/owner of the dogs.  Plaintiff’s argument as to the impropriety of
the issue at the demurrer stage is unpersuasive.  
Specific to the third COA,
Plaintiff alleged that the alleged criminal conduct involved the homeless
person’s trespass upon Defendants’ premise and the homeless person’s failure to
leash/control the dogs.  (SAC par. 10 on
Attachment #1 of the third COA.) 
Plaintiff argued that facts to allege foreseeability are sufficiently
pled and that a lesser degree of foreseeability is required to be pled when a
strong public policy reason exists for preventing the harm or the harm can be
prevented by simple means.  (Melton v.
Boustred (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 521, 532.) 
Plaintiff argued that there are “strong public policy reasons to ensure
that members of the general public not be attacked by unhoused persons with
violent dogs.”  (Oppo. pg. 5:20-23.)  However, the argument failed to recognize
that there are no factual allegations to support the contention that the dogs
were violent or had any dangerous propensity. 
Plaintiff alleged that she was walking her dog on the public sidewalk
and two dogs owned by a homeless person came from Defendants’ property wherein
one of the dogs bit her.  Plaintiff
further alleged that the homeless person was on the property for an extended
period of time and surveillance video of the homeless person’s presence at
Defendants’ property.  However, none of
these allegations provide fact pleading to show a dangerous propensity of the
dog that bit Plaintiff or Defendants’ knowledge of the same.  Because Plaintiff did not plead facts to
allege the dangerous propensity of the dog and Defendants’ knowledge of the
same, the demurrer arguments are persuasive. 

The demurrer to the SAC is
SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.  
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE
NOTICE.