 Case Number:  23VECV02505    Hearing Date:   February 5, 2024    Dept:  T  
23VECV02505 LIEL LEVI vs
KEYES HYUNDAI OF VAN NUYS
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendants Hyundai Motor America and Van
Nuys-H, Inc. dba Keyes Hyundai of Van Nuys’s Demurrer to the Complaint is
OVERRULED as to the eighth cause of action; SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS LEAVE TO
AMEND as to the second cause of action; and SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND as
to the fourth, fifth, seventh, tenth, twelfth, and thirteenth causes of
action.  Leave to amend is limited to
curing the pleading defects identified and not to add new causes of
action.  
Introduction 
Defendants Hyundai Motor America
(HMA) and Van Nuys-H, Inc. dba Keyes Hyundai of Van Nuys (Keyes) (collectively,
Defendants) demurred to Plaintiff Liel Levi’s 
(Plaintiff) Complaint.  The
demurrer placed into issue the second cause of action (COA) for negligent
misrepresentation, fourth COA for strict liability, fifth COA for production
liability, seventh COA for breach of implied warranty of fitness, eighth COA
for breach of contract, tenth COA for breach of implied duty to perform with
reasonable care, twelfth COA for negligence, and thirteenth COA for
negligence.  
Procedure 
Plaintiff argued that the
demurrer is untimely because an Answer was previously filed on July 24,
2023.  However, the Answer was
subsequently stricken at Plaintiff’s request on his motion to strike the
answer, heard on October 11, 2023.  The
demurrer is timely based upon the Court’s December 13, 2023 ruling on
Defendants’ motion to compel arbitration. 
The Court ordered Defendants to file their response to the Complaint
within 20 days, which is January 2, 2024. 
The demurrer being filed/served on December 28, 2023 makes it timely
filed/served.  
Discussion  
Plaintiff’s second COA for
negligent misrepresentation alleged that the misrepresentation was that the
vehicle “was in good, working condition when the Plaintiff purchased the
vehicle” and that the representation was made to Plaintiff  (Compl. par. 59.)  Plaintiff sufficiently alleged “to whom” the
representation was made.  Plaintiff
alleged that the representation was both oral and in writing, which is
sufficient to allege how the representation was made.  (Compl. par. 60.)  The vehicle was purchased on December 9, 2021
which sufficiently alleged when the representation was made.  (Compl. par. 16.)  However, there are no facts to show where and
by what means the representations were tendered.  It could be presumed that the representation
was made at Keyes’ dealership and made in-person.  Further, it could be presumed that the
representation was made by the person selling Plaintiff the vehicle.  However, presumptions are not proper when the
pleading requirement requires specific and particular facts.  Plaintiff expressly alleged the Keyes’
location but there are no express facts alleged to provide a nexus between the
dealership location and the misrepresentation. 
Further, allegations as to agency/employment between Defendants is
inconsequential regarding the “where and by what means” requirement in pleading
negligent misrepresentation.  For these
pleading defects, the second COA is not plead with sufficient fact allegations.
Defendants argued that the
allegations as to damages/harm are conclusory. 
The Court disagrees with Defendants’ contention and Defendants’ argument
ignores the allegation that Plaintiff continued to pay for the defective
vehicle.  (Compl. par. 64.)  The argument as to the element of damages is
unpersuasive. 
The demurrer to the second COA is
SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.
Defendants argued that the fourth
COA for strict liability, the fifth COA for production liability, the tenth COA
for breach of implied duty to perform with reasonable care, the twelfth COA for
negligence, and the thirteenth COA for negligence are barred by the economic
loss rule.  (KB Home v. Superior Court
(2003) 112 Cal.App.4th 1076, 1085 (KB Home).) 
The argument is persuasive. 
Plaintiff argued that liability may be imposed where a defective product
causes physical damage to property. 
(Seely v. White Motor Co. (1965) 63 Cal.2d 9, 19.)  However, the Supreme Court opined that the
damage to property required damage to “other property”, that is, property other
than the product itself.  (Jiminez v.
Superior Court (2002) 29 Cal.4th 473, 483.) 
Plaintiff has not alleged or provided any additional facts to allege
that there was damage to “other property.” 
The contention is unsupported. 
Plaintiff also argued that economic loss can be recovered when a special
relationship exists.  However, Plaintiff
failed to present any legal authority to show that the relationship between a
seller and buyer of a vehicle is considered a “special” relationship.  The Court does not find that a “special”
relationship is alleged.  Lastly,
Plaintiff argued that the car stalled on the freeway and that such event almost
killed Plaintiff and/or Plaintiff experienced trauma from the near-death
experiences.  However, the KB Home Court
expressly provided that the California Supreme Court expressly rejected a
“life-safety exception.”  (KB Home,
supra, 112 Cal.App.4th at pp. 1087-1088.) 
Plaintiff must plead the occurrence of property damage or personal
injury and the “possible gravity of damages that have not yet occurred” is
insufficient.  (Id.)  Plaintiff’s arguments to dispute the economic
loss rule are unpersuasive.  
The demurrer to the fourth,
fifth, tenth, twelfth, and thirteenth COAs is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO
AMEND.  
Defendants argued that the
seventh COA for breach of implied warranty of fitness (Civ. Code, sec. 1792.2)
failed to allege that the vehicle was purchased for a “particular
purpose.”  “A “particular purpose”
differs from the ordinary purpose for which the goods are used in that it
envisages a specific use by the buyer which is peculiar to the nature of his
business whereas the ordinary purposes for which goods are used are those
envisaged in the concept of merchantability and go to uses which are
customarily made of the goods in question.” (American Suzuki Motor Corp. v.
Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1291, 1295, fn. 2.)  Plaintiff did not plead any facts to allege
that the vehicle was to be used in a specific way which is peculiar to the
nature of Plaintiff’s business. 
Plaintiff expressly alleged that the vehicle was “for personal, family,
and household purpose.”  (Compl. par.
45.)  Because Plaintiff did not allege
facts to show a “particular purposes,” the seventh COA is insufficiently
supported with factual allegations.  
The demurrer to the seventh COA
is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.
Despite Defendants’ argument that
the eighth COA for breach of contract failed to attach a copy of the contract
or allege the terms verbatim, it is noted that the contract terms can be pled
to allege their legal effect.  Plaintiff
sufficiently alleged that the contract entered with both Defendants included an
express warranty.  (Compl. par.
117.)  Further Plaintiff expressly
pleaded that he performed his contractual obligation by making the monthly
payments, caring for the vehicle, and bringing the vehicle in for repairs.  (Compl. par. 118.)  For demurrer purposes, the allegations are
deemed true and Defendants’ argument to dispute the veracity of the allegations
is improper.  Plaintiff sufficiently pled
facts to show the legal effect of the contract terms and Plaintiff’s
performance.  Defendants then argued that
the contract COA is duplicative of the warranty COA.  However, the two COAs are not shown to be
duplicative in that one COA is based upon an express contract and the other is
based upon statute.  The fact that the
two COAs are grounded on two separate legal theories makes Defendants’ argument
unpersuasive.
The demurrer to the eighth COA is
OVERRULED.  
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE NOTICE.