  Case Number:  22VECV02442    Hearing Date:   February 5, 2024    Dept:  T 22VECV02442 AIDA GALSTIAN
NORHADIAN, et al. vs ARTHUR MINASSIAN
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendants Arthur Minassian, as Special
Administrator and Trustee, and Madelene Minassian’s Motion to Set Aside
Defaults is GRANTED.  Defendants Arthur
Minassian, as Special Administrator and Trustee, and Madelene Minassian are ORDERED
to file their Proposed Answer attached to the Declaration of Lee David Lubin as
Exhibit P WITHIN 20 DAYS.
Ruling on Evidentiary Objections
As the ruling on the objections
does not affect the outcome in this matter, the objections are overruled.
Introduction 
Defendants Arthur Minassian, as
Special Administrator and Trustee (Arthur ), and Madelene Minassian (Madelene)
(collectively, Defendants) moved to set aside their defaults in this action
filed by Plaintiffs Aida Galstian Norhadian (Norhadian) and Seda Galstian
Aghaian (Aghaian), as individuals and as trustees (collectively,
Plaintiffs).  Madelene’s default was
entered on April 17, 2023 and Arthur’s default was entered on October 19, 2023
(Arthur).
Discussion  
The proof of service (POS) as to
Arthur provided that sub-service was made on February 2, 2023 at 13830 Cumpston
St. (Cumpston Property).  The POS as to
Madelene showed that sub-service was made on February 2, 2023 at 5411 Tyrone
Ave., Apt. 207 (Tyrone Property).  
Defendants argued that they did
not have actual notice of the action (Code Civ. Proc., sec. 473.5 – lack of
actual notice) and that the order entering default was void (Code Civ. Proc.,
sec. 473(d) – void).  As to the alleged
lack of actual notice argument, Arthur failed to present express testimony in
his declaration specifically stating that he lacked notice of the action.  In direct contravention to Arthur’s
contention of lack of actual notice, Plaintiff submitted copies of emails dated
March 3, 2023 from Arthur directly referencing the instant civil action filed
in December 2022 and attaching copies of the instant summons and
complaint.  (Gregory Aldisert Decl. pars.
5, Exh. 3.)  The email from Arthur is
definitive proof that Arthur had actual notice of the action.  Arthur’s contention of lack of actual notice
is unpersuasive.
As to Madelene’s argument of lack
of actual notice, Madelene attested that she “did not know anything about this
lawsuit” prior to the “first week of December 2023.”  (Madelene Decl. par. 11, pg. 4:15-17.)  However, Madelene’s declaration failed to
present sufficient facts to show that her lack of actual notice “was not caused
by … her … inexcusable neglect.”  (Code
Civ. Proc., sec. 473.5(b).)  Although
Madelene provided evidence to show that the Tyrone Property was not her
dwelling house or usual place of abode, Madelene admits that she owned the
Tyrone Property at the time of service, that no one resided at the Tyrone
Property at the time of service, that Arthur watched over the Tyrone Property;
and that she received mail (i.e., utility bills) at the Tyrone Property, which
showed that the Tyrone Property was her usual mailing address at the time of
service.  (Madelene Decl. par. 9, pg.
3:10-12 and 17-18; par. 10, pg. 3:25-26; and par. 11, pg. 4:5-6.)  Arthur testified that Madelene was the title
owner of the Tyrone Property; that he managed and monitored the Tyrone Property
for Madelene; that Arthur had keys to the Tyrone Property; and that no one
resided at the Tyrone Property.  (Arthur
Decl. pars. 8, pg. 3:20-21 and 14, pg. 6:2-5.) 
These facts show that Madelene received mail at the Tyrone Property,
which included the instant summons and complaint, and Arthur would have
collected the summons and complaint from the Tyrone Property because he managed
and monitored the Tyrone Property.  As
the manager of the Tyrone Property, Arthur would have notified his sister,
Madelene, of the instant summons and complaint at or near the time of
mailing.  Madelene’s lack of actual
notice is seen to be a product of her own inexcusable neglect in allegedly not
keeping current with the mail she received at the Tyrone Property or at worst
ignoring the mail she received at the Tyrone Property.  Because Madelene failed to show that her lack
of actual notice was not caused by inexcusable neglect, Madelene’s motion based
upon Code of Civil Procedure section 473.5 is unpersuasive.
Defendants argued that the entry
of default was void due to improper service. 
Proper sub-service requires: 1) leaving a copy of the summons and
complaint at the individual’s dwelling house, usual place of business, or usual
mailing address; 2) leaving it with a competent member of the household or
person apparently in charge of the office, place of business, or usual mailing
address at least 18 years old, who must be told what the papers are; 3) mailing
other copies to the defendant at the place where the copies were left; and 4)
for individual defendants, a declaration of attempted personal service using
reasonable diligence must be submitted. 
(Code Civ. Proc. sec 415.20(b).) 
As to Arthur, the POS failed to submit a declaration of attempted
personal service or any facts to show reasonable diligence in any attempt at
personal service.  On this defect alone,
substitute service upon Arthur is defective and substantial compliance is not
shown.  For Plaintiffs’ failure to submit
the declaration of attempted personal service, the POS is defective and the
resulting entry of default is void.  
Arthur’s motion to set aside is
GRANTED per Code of Civil Procedure section 473(d).  Arthur’s arguments as to Code of Civil
Procedure section 473(b) is moot and not considered.
As to Madelene’s argument as to a
void order, the declaration of attempted personal service is properly submitted
with the POS.  As reviewed above, the
location of substitute service is found to be proper.  Madelene used the Tyrone Property as her
usual mailing address.  Madelene disputed
that she received the mailed copies of the summons and complaint.  However, as reviewed above, the Court does
not find the argument persuasive.  At
issue is whether the process server left copies of the summons and complaint
with a person apparently in charge of the mailing address.  The POS stated that the summons and complaint
were left with: Narine M.; age: over 60; weight: 161-180 lbs.; hair: brown;
sex: female; height 5’1”-5’6”; eyes: brown; race: Middle Eastern.  The parties submit that the person is or
could be the ex-wife of Arthur’s brother, Armen.  However, Madelene disputes that Narine was at
the property because Madelene attested to the fact that no one resided at the
property.  The Court does not find the
POS to be persuasive and finds Madelene’s testimony as to no one residing at
the Tyrone Property to be credible because Madelene attested to receiving
utility bills at the Tyrone Property. 
Because it is sufficiently shown that the process server failed to leave
copies of the summons and complaint with a person apparently in charge of the
usual mailing address, or even a competent member of the household, the Court
finds that substitute service upon Madelene is defective and substantial
compliance is not shown.  For Plaintiffs’
failure to show proper substitute service, the POS is defective and the
resulting entry of default is void.  
Madelene’s motion to set aside is
GRANTED per Code of Civil Procedure section 473(d).  Madelene’s arguments as to Code of Civil
Procedure section 473(b) is moot and not considered.
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE
NOTICE.