 Case Number:  23AHCV01742    Hearing Date:   June 14, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE]
ORDER DENYING PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION FOR RECONSIDERATIONI.        INTRODUCTION
          This action arises from an automobile accident that
occurred on or about April 30, 2020. On July 31, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a
Complaint against Defendant State Farm Insurance alleging causes of action for:
(1) Breach of Contract; (2) Breach of Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing;
and (3) Fraud. 
          On August 16, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a Motion to Compel
Arbitration.
          On December 5, 2023, Plaintiffs filed the operative First
Amended Complaint against Defendants State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance and
State Farm General Insurance Company alleging causes of action for: (1) Breach
of Contract; (2) Breach of Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; and (3)
Fraud.
          On December 14, 2023, pursuant to a Request for Dismissal,
Defendant State Farm General Insurance Company was dismissed from this action
without prejudice. 
          On January 4, 2024, Defendant State Farm Mutual Automobile
Insurance Company (“State Farm”) filed an Answer to the First Amended
Complaint. 
          On March 29, 2024, after hearing oral argument, the Honorable
Margaret L. Oldendorf, sitting in this department, denied Plaintiffs’ Motion to
Compel Arbitration. (03/29/24 Minute Order.) 
          On April 4, 2024, Defendant State Farm filed and served a
Notice of Ruling as to the Court’s March 29, 2024 order. The Notice of Ruling
provides that “[t]he Court denied the motion and specifically indicated that in
determining the motions ruling did not accept or consider the declarations of
Barry Zelner and Lidia Ramirez because they were not properly filed.” (04/04/24
Notice of Ruling at p. 1:21-23.) 
          On April 5, 2024, Plaintiffs filed the instant Motion for
Reconsideration and moved the Court for an order reconsidering its ruling of
March 29, 2024, where it denied Plaintiffs’ motion to compel arbitration. The
motion is made on the grounds “that the Court did not allow the declarations of
Barry Zelner and Lidia Ramirez to be considered which clearly establish new
facts that plaintiff’s counsel believe should have granted the motion to compel
arbitration.” (Not. of Mot. at p. 1:25-27.)  
          On May 31, 2024, Defendant State Farm filed an opposition
to the motion for reconsideration, to which Plaintiffs replied on June 4, 2024.

II.      LEGAL
STANDARD       
          Code Civ. Proc. § 1008(a) “requires that a motion for
reconsideration be based on new or different facts, circumstances, or law.” (New
York Times Co. v. Superior Court (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 206, 212.) “A party
seeking reconsideration must also provide a satisfactory explanation for the
failure to produce the evidence at an earlier time.” (Ibid.) “A trial
court’s ruling on a motion for reconsideration is reviewed under the abuse of
discretion standard.”  (Ibid.,
citation omitted.) 
California
Code of Civil Procedure, Section 1008(a) provides that “[w]hen an application
for an order has been made to a judge, or to a court, and refused in whole or
in part, or granted, or granted conditionally, or on terms, any party affected
by the order may, within 10 days after service upon the party of written notice
of entry of the order . . . [may] make application to the same judge or court
that made the order, to reconsider the matter and modify, amend, or revoke the
prior order.” “The party making the application shall state by affidavit what
application was made before, when and to what judge, what order or decisions
were made, and what new or different facts, circumstances, or law are claimed
to be shown.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1008, subd. (a).) A trial court has
discretion with respect to granting a motion for reconsideration. (New York
Times Co. v. Superior Court, supra, 135 Cal.App.4th 206, 212.)
“The
burden under section 1008 is comparable to that of a party seeking a new trial
on the ground of newly discovered evidence: the information must be such that
the moving party could not, with reasonable diligence, have discovered or
produced it at the trial.” (New York
Times Co. v. Superior Court, supra, 135 Cal.App.4th 206, 212-13, citation
omitted.) A “party seeking reconsideration must provide not only new evidence
but also a satisfactory explanation for the failure to produce that evidence at
an earlier time.” (Mink v. Superior Court
(1992) 2 Cal.App.4th 1338, 1342.) “If the trial court believes
reconsideration is warranted, it can amend, modify or revoke its previous
order.” (Glade v. Glade (1995) 38
Cal.App.4th 1441, 1457, citation omitted.) In the context of motions for
reconsideration, there is “a strict requirement of diligence.” (Garcia v.
Hejmadi (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 674, 690.)  

III.     ANALYSIS
A.
Evidence in Support of Reconsideration 
In support of the instant motion, Plaintiffs’
counsel, Barry Zelner (“Zelner”), declares that Plaintiffs’ motion to compel
arbitration was specifically based on the fact that Plaintiffs’ counsel
believed there was clearly an open extension over the two-year statute of
limitations to compel arbitration. (Zelner Decl., ¶ 2.) In response to the opposition,
Plaintiff filed reply declarations. (Zelner Decl., ¶ 3.) Unfortunately,
Plaintiffs’ counsel’s legal secretary, Lidia Ramirez, was out sick with COVID
and was unable to file the declarations. (Zelner Decl., ¶ 4.) Another secretary
in Plaintiffs’ counsel’s office, who had never filed legal papers before, filed
the paperwork and Mr. Zelner was not in the office when they were filed.
(Zelner Decl., ¶ 4.) 
Mr. Zelner further states that: during the hearing
on the motion, defense counsel argued that Mr. Knapp, the handling attorney for
the underlying action, told Mr. Zelner that the two-year statute was going to
run before it actually ran, which was a lie. (Zelner Decl., ¶ 5.) The
responding declarations that were attached in response to the opposition
clearly indicates that it was one hundred percent false and a lie and that
there was an open extension in ongoing conversations about the two-year statute
of limitations to compel arbitration. (Zelner Decl., ¶ 5.) The facts are there
was a letter regarding the open extension with defense counsel and State Farm.
(Zelner Decl., ¶ 5.) Mr. Zelner states that it was agreed by counsel Mr. Knapp
and State Farm that there was an ongoing investigation of the claims and to
continue examinations under oath beyond two years after the statute of
limitations. (Zelner Decl., ¶ 5.) 
          B.
Evidence in Opposition to Reconsideration
          In opposition, counsel for Defendant
State Farm, Tod M. Castronovo (“Castronovo”), provides a declaration. Mr.
Castronovo relevantly declares that: as a recorded note to his office’s file in
this mater, Judge Oldendorf advised that she had in fact reviewed the subject
declarations and she was not considering them in her ruling; however, Judge
Oldendorf also advised that even if she were to have considered the
declarations, this would not have caused her to grant Plaintiffs’ motion.
(Castronovo Decl., ¶ 11.) Mr. Castronovo states that Judge Oldendorf advised
the parties that she read the declarations. (Castronovo Decl., ¶ 11.) 
          C. Appropriateness of Setting Aside
the Court’s March 29, 2024 Order
          Initially, the Court notes that on
reply Plaintiffs argue, for the first time, that the Court’s March 29, 2024
order should be set aside under CCP § 473(b). CCP § 473(b) allows the Court to “relieve
a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, or
order, or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.” (CCP § 473(b).) 
          Here, Plaintiffs move for
reconsideration under CCP § 1008 seeking to set aside the order denying their
motion to compel arbitration based on the grounds of mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or excusable neglect. The Court finds that neither the declaration of
Mr. Zelner submitted in support of the moving nor Defendants’ reply papers make
a showing of mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Additionally,
the act at issue—the improper filing of declarations—was not done by Mr. Zelner
or Plaintiffs but instead was done by an unnamed legal secretary. 
          As to Plaintiffs’ request for
reconsideration, the Court finds that Plaintiffs have not made the required
showing to warrant reconsideration. The declarations of Mr. Zelner in support
of the motion do not state what new or different facts, law, or circumstances
are claimed to be shown. Plaintiffs were required to state, by affidavit, “what
new or different facts, circumstances, or law are claimed to be shown” pursuant
to CCP § 1008(a). Additionally, Plaintiffs have not made any showing of
diligence as they have failed to state, by affidavit, why the declarations at
issue were not filed at an earlier point in time or present a satisfactory
explanation for the failure present the declarations at an earlier point in
time. Moreover, the purported declarations are not “new” evidence as such
declarations were previously presented to the Court but were deemed improperly
filed.  
          IV.     
CONCLUSION AND ORDER 
 Based on the foregoing, Plaintiffs’ Motion for
Reconsideration is DENIED. 
          Defendant State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Company to
give notice of this order.
 
          
Dated:  June 12, 2024                                                                                                                          JARED D. MOSES
                                                                     JUDGE
OF THE SUPERIOR COURT