 Case Number:  22STCV18501    Hearing Date:   May 1, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



HUGO VILLASENOR,
 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
ROBERTO D. BANUELOS, JR., et al.,
 
                        Defendant.


 


     
  CASE NO.:  22STCV18501
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION TO QUASH
  PLAINTIFF’S DEPOSITION SUBPOENA SERVED ON LANCE L. LATHROP, CPA AND NAUTILUS
  TAX & WEALTH SOLUTIONS, INC.; AND REQUEST FOR MONETARY SANCTIONS
 
Date: 
  May 1, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
Judge: Holly J. Fujie
Jury Trial: June 14, 2024



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendants Roberto D. Banuelos and Revel Management
Group, LLC
 
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Hugo Villasenor individually and
derivatively on behalf of Revel Management Group, LLC
 
The Court has reviewed the moving, opposition and reply papers.  
 
BACKGROUND
This action arises
out of a claim by Plaintiff that he has an ownership interest in Defendants’
business. The currently operative first amended complaint (the “FAC”) alleges:
(1) breach of oral/implied operating agreement; (2) breach of implied covenant
of good faith and fair dealing; (3) breach of fiduciary duty; (4) judicial
dissolution by manager; (5) judicial dissolution by member; (6) accounting; (7)
breach of oral contract; (8) breach of implied-in-fact contract; (9) violation
of Corporations Code section 17704.10, subdivision (g); (10) unjust enrichment;
(11) quantum meruit; (12) willful misclassification; (13) willful refusal to
pay wages earned; (14) failure to indemnify employee for costs and
expenditures; (15) declaratory relief; (16) injunctive relief; (17)
constructive trust; and (18) Business and Professions Code section 17200.  
 
On March
18, 2024, Defendants filed two motions to quash (the “Motions”) regarding two
deposition subpoenas, one served on Lance L. Lathrop, CPA (“Lathrop”) and the
other served on Nautilus Tax & Wealth Solutions (“Nautilus”).   The Court will consider both Motions in one
ruling, as the subpoenas appear to be identical.  On April 16, 2024, Plaintiff filed an
opposition to the Motions and on April 19, 2024, Defendants filed a reply to
the opposition. 
 
DISCUSSION
            On February 21, 2024,  Plaintiff issued deposition subpoenas for the
production of business records to Lathrop and Nautilus (the “Subpoenas”).  (Diba Decl. ¶ 8, Exh. D.)  On March 12, 2024, Defendants served
objections to the Subpoenas.  (Id.
¶ 11, Exh. E.)  
 
Defendants move to quash the Subpoenas on the ground that they seek
highly sensitive and personal financial records that are irrelevant and violate
Plaintiff’s privacy rights.  Defendants
accuse Plaintiff of attempting to get the same information from a third party
subpoena that he initially sought directly from Defendants.  Defendants state that on February 8, 2023,
the parties stipulated to a court order to limit the very same written
discovery propounded on Plaintiff (among many other information sought but not
related to the subpoena at hand), to production of documents to support claim
of independent contractor status, checks and evidence of payments to plaintiff,
expenses, payroll and commission records, and financial statements.  (Diba Dec. ¶ 6, Exh. B.)  
 
Initially, the Court notes that the order issued by stipulation
specifically states that it is “limited at this time” (Order, emphasis
added) to certain categories of documents and does not constitute an order
against seeking other documents in this case.
 
            Code of Civil Procedure section
1987.1 authorizes courts to quash a subpoena entirely, modify it, or direct
compliance with it upon the court’s own terms and conditions, including
protective orders. In addition, the court may take other appropriate means to
protect parties or nonparties “from unreasonable or oppressive demands,
including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 1987.1(a).) Discovery
devices are meant to facilitate litigation, not wage it.  (Calcor
Space Facility, Inc. v. Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216, 221.)
 
Where privacy rights are at stake, “[t]he party asserting a privacy
right must establish a legally protected privacy interest, an objectively
reasonable expectation of privacy in the given circumstances, and a threatened
intrusion that is serious. The party seeking information may raise in response
whatever legitimate and important countervailing interests disclosure serves,
while the party seeking protection may identify feasible alternatives that
serve the same interests or protective measures that would diminish the loss of
privacy. A court must then balance these competing considerations. . . . Courts
must instead place the burden on the party asserting a privacy interest to
establish its extent and the seriousness of the prospective invasion, and against
that showing must weigh the countervailing interests the opposing party
identifies. . . . What suffices to justify an invasion will . . . vary
according to the context. Only obvious invasions of interests fundamental to
personal autonomy must be supported by a compelling interest.”    (Williams
v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal. 5th 531, 552-557 (internal citations
omitted).)  In instances in which the
interests at stake are fundamental to personal autonomy, the party seeking
discovery must demonstrate that the information is directly relevant to the
issues in the action, and that there is a compelling public interest in the
disclosure of the information that outweighs the right to privacy.  (Board
of Trustees v. Superior Court (1981) 119 Cal.App.3d 516, 525.) 
 
The Subpoenas at issue request the following:
1.    
All DOCUMENTS prepared by YOU for REVEL MANAGEMENT
GROUP, LLC from January 1, 2015 to the present date
 
2.    
All DOCUMENTS prepared by YOU for ROBERTO BANUELOS,
JR., from January 1, 2015 to the present date
 
 
3.    
All DOCUMENTS PERTAINING TO any distributions made to
the owners of REVEL MANAGEMENT GROUP, LLC.
 
4.    
All Schedule K-1 Tax forms PERTAINING TO any
distributions made to the owners of REVEL MANAGEMENT GROUP, LLC
 
 
5.    
All COMMUNICATIONS between YOU and ROBERTO D. BANUELOS,
JR from January 1, 2015 to the present date
 
6.   All COMMUNICATIONS YOU received or sent with
the email extension @revel-  mgmt.com
from January 1, 2015 to the present date
7. All
COMMUNICATIONS YOU received or sent with the email extension @kstalent.com from
January 1, 2015 to the present date
 
8. All
COMMUNICATIONS between YOU and REVEL MANAGEMENT GROUP, LLC from January 1, 2015
to the present date
 
9. All
LEDGERS PERTAINING TO REVEL MANAGEMENT GROUP, LLC from January 1, 2015 to the
present date
 
10. All
DOCUMENTS used by YOU to provide professional accounting services to REVEL
MANAGEMENT GROUP, LLC
 
11. All
DOCUMENTS prepared by YOU on behalf of REVEL MANAGEMENT GROUP, LLC
 
12. All
DOCUMENTS issued to third parties by YOU on behalf of REVEL MANAGEMENT GROUP,
LLC
 
13. All
DOCUMENTS concerning ownership stake in REVEL MANAGEMENT GROUP, LLC
 
14. All
1099 Tax Forms prepared by YOU on behalf of REVEL MANAGEMENT GROUP, LLC
 
15. All
1099 Tax Forms issued by YOU on behalf of REVEL MANAGEMENT GROUP, LLC
 
16. All FINANCIAL RECORDS related to
REVEL MANAGEMENT GROUP, LLC.
 
Defendants assert that the subpoenaed documents, which include tax
returns, W-2s, 1099s, and other financial records, are privileged under
California law.  They cite  to Webb v. Standard Oil Co. (1957) 49
Cal.2d 509, 513 and its progeny to assert that tax records, including the
information they contain, are privileged from disclosure.  Defendants also claim that the Subpoenas
violate their constitutional right to privacy concerning their financial
records.  They argue that even if the
information might be relevant to litigation, there exists a significant privacy
right that needs to be balanced against the need for discovery.  They state that the intrusion on their
financial privacy, especially given a prior court order regarding the same
information, further supports their motion to quash the subpoena.  
 
            In opposition, Plaintiff argues that
the tax return privilege is narrow, protecting only the tax returns themselves
and information directly acquired from those tax returns.  Plaintiff cites several cases to assert that
other financial records used to prepare tax returns do not fall under this
privilege.  Plaintiff also states that only
one out of the sixteen items requested in the subpoena explicitly asks for tax
returns.  Additionally, Plaintiff
contends that Defendants have waived any privilege concerning these records by
putting them at issue in the litigation.  Plaintiff argues that disclosure of tax
returns can be justified where Defendants themselves have placed their
financial information at issue, as they have done by filing a cross-action
claiming financial harm due to Plaintiff’s alleged misconduct. 
 
In reply, Defendants argue that the privilege covers not only tax returns
but also extends to other tax-related documents such as K-1s, 1099s, and other
financial records, which are all protected from disclosure.  Defendants also assert that they have not
waived their right to claim tax privilege.  They contend that Plaintiff’s reliance on federal
authority outside the jurisdiction is misplaced.  Defendants state that their legal claims in
the cross-complaint do not directly implicate their tax returns, as their
claims do not depend on the content of their tax documents.  Defendants also challenge Plaintiff’s
assertion of a compelling need for the subpoenaed documents.  They assert that Plaintiff already possesses
the necessary information through less intrusive means and that Plaintiff has
not demonstrated a legitimate need that would override their privacy rights and
the protections afforded by tax privilege. 
Finally, Defendants highlight the February 8, 2023 court ruling, which
limited the disclosure of certain records based on the claims then asserted.  They argue that this ruling should continue to
protect them against unwarranted intrusions into their financial privacy, and
that Plaintiff’s current request for documents contains protected records that
should not be disclosed.  The Court
disagrees.
 
The Court finds that the requests appear to be relevant to the issues in
this case for the reasons proffered by Plaintiff.  The allegations of the Complaint and the
Cross-Complaint render the categories of documents sought reasonably calculated
to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.  The fact that Plaintiff may already possess certain
of the information sought does not prevent Plaintiff from seeking those same
documents in discovery from other sources. 
The Court also notes that
a protective order is in place to protect against the disclosure of
confidential information. 
 
The Court does, however, recognize that income tax returns and documents
attached thereto and filed therewith are protected from disclosure under
California law and orders that such documents, regardless of the category to
which they might otherwise respond, are not ordered to be produced. 
 
Defendants also request
monetary sanctions; however, given that the Motions are only granted in part,
the Court finds that Plaintiff was substantially justified in serving the Subpoenas
and is entitled to much of the information sought.  Thus, the Court DENIES Defendants’ request
for sanctions.
 
Moving party is
ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to
the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the instructions provided on
the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive
an email and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed
off calendar. 
 
 
  Dated
this May 1, 2024
 



  






Hon. Holly J. Fujie 
Judge of the Superior Court 
 



 