 Case Number:  22STCV36603    Hearing Date:   May 1, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



CITY OF MONTEREY PARK,  
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
CENTER INT’L INVESTMENTS, INC., et al.,  
 
                        Defendants.
 





      CASE NO.: 22STCV36603 (r/w 22STCV14135)
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION FOR SUMMARY
  ADJUDICATION
 
Date:  May 1, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
Jury Trial: January 13, 2020



 
MOVING PARTIES: Plaintiff
City of Monterey Park (“Plaintiff”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY: None
 
            The Court has considered the moving papers. No opposition
has been received. 
 
BACKGROUND
            Plaintiff initiated this eminent domain action on
November 18, 2022 against Defendants Center Int’l Investments Inc. (“CII”),
S.B.S. Trust Deed Network, County of Los Angeles, and all persons unknown
claiming any right, title, estate, lien, or interest in or to the property
sought to be condemned. As alleged in the complaint, Plaintiff seeks to acquire
the real property located at 1688 Garvey Avenue belonging to Defendant CII. The
purpose of the acquisition is to stabilize the site as part of the “Goodviews
Abatement Project.”
 
            On January 6, 2023, CII filed its answer to the
complaint, asserting seven affirmative defenses that include the following: (1)
failure to state sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action; (2)
unreasonable pre-condemnation conduct; (3) failure to deposit adequate deposit;
(4) improper use of eminent domain; (5) cost of an independent appraisal; (6)
failure to plan in manner most compatible with greatest public good and least
private injury; and (7) violation of CEQA. On March 24, 2023, CII voluntarily
dismissed its third and seventh affirmative defenses. 
 
            On February 14, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant motion
for summary adjudication (the “Motion”), on the ground that there are no
triable issues of material fact concerning CII’s first, fourth and sixth
affirmative defenses because they are meritless as a matter of law.
 
            As of April 26, 2024, the Court has not received any
opposition from CII. 
 
REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
            Plaintiff requests the Court to take
judicial notice of this Court’s ruling issued on February 21, 2023 of
Plaintiff’s Motion for Prejudgment Possession of the Property in this case.
(See RJN.) The Court grants this request pursuant to Evidence Code § 452(d). 
 


 
DISCUSSION
The purpose of a motion for summary judgment or
summary adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the
parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations,
trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atl.
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) “Code of Civil Procedure section
437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if
all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the
evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there
is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is
entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp.
(1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)
 
“On a motion for summary
judgment, the initial burden is always on the moving party to make a prima
facie showing that there are no triable issues of material fact.” (Scalf v.
D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.) A plaintiff
moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication must prove each element of
the cause of action.  (Code Civ Proc.,
§¿437c, subd. (p)(1).)  When moving for
summary adjudication of an affirmative defense, a plaintiff has the initial
burden to make a prima facie showing that that the affirmative defense is
without merit.  (Continental Ins. Co.
v. Columbus Line, Inc. (2003) 107 Cal. App. 4th 1190, 1199-1200.)  After the plaintiff meets this burden, the
burden shifts to the defendant to show that a triable issue of material fact
exists.  (Code Civ Proc., §¿437c, subd.
(p)(1).)
 
“When
deciding whether to grant summary judgment, the court must consider all of the
evidence set forth in the papers (except evidence to which the court has
sustained an objection), as well as all reasonable inferences that may be drawn
from that evidence, in the light most favorable to the party opposing summary
judgment.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Med. Ctr. (2008) 159
Cal.App.4th 463, 467; see also Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)
 
Issue
No. 1: First Affirmative Defense 
            Plaintiff asserts
that CII’s first affirmative defense entitled “Does Not State Sufficient Facts
to Constitute a Cause of Action” is meritless as a matter of law because CII
has conceded in its response to one of Plaintiff’s requests for admissions that
the pleadings sufficiently state a cause of action for eminent domain. (UMF
Nos. 4-6.)  The trial court “give[s] great weight to admissions made
in discovery and disregard[s] contradictory and self-serving affidavits of the
party.”  (Whitmire v. Ingersoll-Rand
Co. (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1078 at 1087.) Furthermore, a party is bound to
their clear and unequivocal admissions made during discovery. (D’Amico
v. Board of Med. Exam’rs (1974) 11 Cal.3d. 1, 21.) Thus,
because CII has admitted through discovery that Plaintiff’s complaint has been
sufficiently pleaded, Plaintiff has met its burden in showing that CII’s first
affirmative defense lacks merits.
 
            Because Plaintiff has met its burden, the burden now
shifts to CII to show that there is a triable issue of material fact regarding
its first affirmative defense. Because no opposition has been filed, CII has
failed to meet this burden. Accordingly, Plaintiff’s motion for summary
adjudication of the first affirmative defense is granted. 
            


 
Issue
No. 2: Fourth Affirmative Defense
            Plaintiff asserts
that CII’s fourth affirmative defense entitled “Improper Use of Eminent Domain”
is meritless as a matter of law because it is devoid of any facts and discovery
has not uncovered any facts to support this affirmative defense. 
 
             A party is
entitled to exercise the power of eminent domain if it is authorized by statute
to do so, and if the proposed project for which the property is sought meets
certain statutory requirements. (See Code Civ. Proc., §§ 1240.020, 1240.030.) “The power of eminent domain may be
exercised to acquire property for a proposed project only if all of the
following are established: (a) The public interest and necessity require the
project. (b) The project is planned or located in the manner that will be most
compatible with the greatest public good and the least private injury. (c) The
property sought to be acquired is necessary for the project.” (Code Civ. Proc.
§ 1240.030.)  “Except as otherwise provided by statute,
a resolution of necessity adopted by the governing body of the public entity
pursuant to this article conclusively establishes the matters referred to in
Section 1240.030.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1245.250(a).) 
 
            Here, Plaintiff presents the following evidence in
support of its motion for summary adjudication of the fourth affirmative
defense. Prior to initiating this action, Plaintiff’s City Council adopted
Resolution of Necessity No. 2022-R80 on October 5, 2022 after a noticed public
hearing. (UMF No. 17.) The Resolution declared that it was a public interest to
acquire the subject property under Articles I, §19 and XI, § 7, of the
California Constitution and related statutes in order to complete the Goodviews
Abatement Project, and this project is compatible with the greatest public good
and least private injury. (Ibid.) Plaintiff further asserts that, during
the course of discovery, CII has failed to identify any facts that would
undermine the findings made in the Resolution. (UMF Nos. 10-14.)
 
            Upon review of Plaintiff’s evidence, the Court finds that
Plaintiff has met its burden in showing that CII’s fourth affirmative defense
lacks merit. Based on CII’s discovery responses, it is clear that it lacks any
evidence to show Plaintiff’s City Council abused its discretion in adopting the
Resolution. (City of Stockton v. Marina Towers LLC (“Marina Towers”)
(2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 93, 114 [reasoning that abuse of discretion “occurs
[only] where the public agency acts arbitrarily or capriciously, renders
findings that are lacking in evidentiary support, or fails to follow the
required procedures and give the required notices before condemning the
property.”].) Instead, CII merely claims that Plaintiff has no legitimate
reason to take the subject property pursuant to the doctrine of eminent domain
and that Plaintiff has pursued a foreclosure action to acquire the property.
(UMF No. 11.) Thus, there is no evidence to undermine the presumption that the
Resolution was supported by substantial evidence. 
            
            Because Plaintiff has met its burden, the burden now
shifts to CII to show that there is a triable issue of material fact that the
adoption of the Resolution was an abuse of discretion. Because no opposition
has been filed, CII has failed to meet this burden. Accordingly, Plaintiff’s
motion for summary adjudication of the fourth affirmative defense is granted.
In the interest of judicial economy, the Court declines to address Plaintiff’s
alternative argument for summary adjudication of this affirmative defense. 
 


 
Issue
No. 3: Sixth Affirmative Defense
            Plaintiff also asserts that CII’s sixth affirmative
defense, entitled “Failure to Plan in Manner Most Compatible with Greatest
Public Good and Least Private Injury,” is meritless as a matter of law because
it is devoid of any facts and discovery has not uncovered any facts to support
this affirmative defense. As stated above, the Resolution provides Plaintiff
with a presumption of entitlement to take the subject property by eminent
domain entitled. (Santa Cruz County Redevelopment Agency v. Izant (1995)
37 Cal.App.4th 141, 149.) Moreover, CII has failed to submit any evidence to
show that there is a triable issue of material fact that the Resolution was
adopted without substantial evidence to support its findings. Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s motion for summary adjudication of the sixth affirmative defense is
granted.  In the interest of judicial
economy, the Court declines to address Plaintiff’s alternative argument for
summary adjudication of this affirmative defense.
             
            Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s
motion for summary adjudication. 
 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.
 


 