  Case Number:  22STCV35653    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2024    Dept:  74 Wizmann v.
Izek Shomof et al. 
Defendants Izek Shomof, Aline Shomof
and Aline Shomof as Trustee’s Demurrer.
 
BACKGROUND 
            On
November 10, 2022, plaintiff Patrick Wizmann (Plaintiff) filed a complaint
alleging contractual fraud relating to two properties, the Wheatland Property
and the Nichols Property. 
            On
July 26, 2024, Plaintiff filed the operative Third Amended Complaint (TAC)
against defendants Izek Shomof (Izek), Aline Shomof (Aline), Aline Shomof as
Trustee (Trustee), Eric Shomof (Eric), Jonathan Shomof (Jonathan), Jimmy Shomof
(Jimmy), Shadow Hills Homes, LLC (SHH), Grand Pacific 7-28, LLC (GP), Roberto Saldaña
(Saldaña), Diony Rebuta (Rebuta) and Does 1-100 (collectively Defendants).  
            Plaintiff
alleges eight causes of action, three related to the “Wheatland Property” (1)
Fraud, (2) Negligent Misrepresentation and (3) Breach of Contract, four related
to the “Nichols Property” (4) Fraud, (5) Negligent Misrepresentation, (6)
Breach of Contract and (7) Common Court for Goods and Services Rendered and one
general cause for (8) Defamation. Defendants demur to the First, Second, Third,
Fourth, Fifth and Sixth Causes of Action in the Third Amended Complaint. 
 
JUDICIAL NOTICE
Granted. 
 
DISCUSSION
            Defendants
demur to the TAC on the grounds that it fails to state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action against Aline, Trustee, Jonathan, Jimmy (the
Shomof Defendants), SHH and GP. 
Additionally, Defendants demur to the third cause of action that it
fails to allege whether the contract is written, oral, or implied by conduct. 
 
Wheatland Property
Plaintiff
alleges that Izek and Plaintiff entered into a business agreement, including
several Conditions.  (TAC, ¶ 26.)  Roberto Saldaña and Izek represented that Saldaña
would be representing both Izek and Plaintiff in the deal.  (TAC, ¶¶ 29, 30.)  Plaintiff was presented the Purchase and Sale
Agreement (Wheatland PSA) and given very little time to read and review the
document.  (TAC, ¶ 32.)  Based on representations and assurances made
by Saldaña and Izek, Plaintiff executed the Wheatland PSA, believing that it
included the requirement that Izek pay for and perform the Conditions.  (TAC, ¶ 33.) 
In fact, however, the Wheatland PSA did not contain the Conditions. 
            Fraud
– First Cause of Action
The
elements of fraud are (1) misrepresentation (false representation, concealment
or nondisclosure); (2) knowledge of falsity (scienter); (3) intent to defraud;
(4) justifiable reliance; and (5) resulting damage.  (Conroy v. Regents of Univ. of Cal. (2009) 45 Cal.4th 1244, 1255.)  Additionally, fraud must be pleaded with
particularity, specifically, showing “how, when, where, to whom, and by what
means that representations were tendered.” 
(Stansfield v. Starkey (1990)
220 Cal.App.3d 59, 73.)  A plaintiff need
not, however, specifically plead how, when, to whom, and by what means when
alleging fraudulent concealment.  (Alfaro v. Community Housing Improvement
System & Planning Assn., Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1356, 1384.)  Nevertheless, allegations that the defendants
concealed information and the plaintiff relied on the allegations are
insufficient without a duty to disclose the information.  (Linear
Technology Corp. v. Applied Materials, Inc. (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 115, 132.)
Defendants
argue that Plaintiff fails to satisfy the specificity required for defendants other
than Izek and Saldaña.
Plaintiff
alleges that (1) Izak and Saldaña represented that the Wheatland PSA contained
the Conditions that Plaintiff and Izak had verbally agreed to and gave him very
little time to review the PSA.  (TAC, ¶ 33.)  Additionally, SHH and GP knew about the
Conditions because Izek controls both entities and the Shomof defendants knew
about the conditions because they are close family members and business
partners.  (TAC, ¶¶ 27, 28.) Finally,
Diony Rebuta knew about the conditions as a long-term employee and account
manager for Izek’s real estate company. 
(TAC ¶ 28.)  Plaintiff also
alleges that Izek, Saldaña, GP, SHH, and the Shomof Defendants were all aware
that the Wheatland PSA did not contain the Conditions.  (TAC, ¶ 36.) 
Plaintiff also alleges that the parties met at various times to discuss
the Wheatland Property.  (TAC, ¶ 28.) 
 This sufficiently alleges that all defendants
had knowledge of the falsity. 
Plaintiff
then alleges that each defendant specifically intended to conceal the fact that
the PSA did not contain the Conditions.  (TAC,
¶ 37.)  Plaintiff does not allege that
any defendants, except Izek and Saldaña owed him a duty to disclose. Thus, Plaintiff fail to state a cause of action for
concealment against Aline, Trustee, Jonathan, Jimmy, SHH, and GP. 
Additionally, Plaintiff alleges that
Izek and the Shomof Defendants assured Plaintiff that they would comply with
the Conditions notwithstanding their omission, but they never intended to.  (TAC, ¶ 39.) 
This allegation successfully pleads that the Shomof Defendants engaged
in misrepresentation.  Plaintiff still
fails to plead that he justifiably relied on these misrepresentations after the
Wheatland PSA was signed, or that there was additional damage from the failure
to comply with the conditions.  Rather,
Plaintiff alleges that these assurances occurred after Izek had already failed
to comply with many of the Conditions and that failure to perform was
commonplace for Izek.  (TAC, ¶¶ 39, 40.) 
Therefore, Defendants demurrer to
the first cause of action to all defendants except Izek and Saldaña is
sustained. 

Negligent
Misrepresentation – Second Cause of Action
The
elements of negligent misrepresentation are (1) assertion of an untrue fact;
(2) believed by defendant to be true; (3) lack of reasonable ground for the
belief; (4) defendant’s intent to induce plaintiff’s reliance upon the
representation; (5) plaintiff’s justifiable reliance upon the representation;
and (6) resulting damage.  (Melican v.
Regents of Univ. of Cal. (2007) 151
Cal.App.4th 168, 182.)  A negligent
misrepresentation claim must be specifically pleaded as to the causal elements,
particularly reliance.  (National Union Fire Ins. Co. of Pittsburgh,
PA v. Cambridge Integrated Services Group, Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 35,
50.)  The tort of negligent
misrepresentation extends only to affirmative statements or positive
assertions.  (Wilson v. Century 21
Great Western Realty (1993) 15 Cal.App.4th 298, 306.) 
Defendants demur on the bases that the second cause of
action fails to state a cause of action against all defendants except Izek and
Roberto. 
Plaintiff alleges that Diony, SHH, GP and the Shomof
Defendants, concealed the lack of Conditions in the Wheatland PSA, not any
specific assertions made by the defendants. 
(TAC, ¶ 46.)  Thus, Plaintiff fails
to state a cause of action against Aline, Trustee, Jonathan, Jimmy, SHH, and
GP. 
Therefore,
Defendants demurer to the second cause of action to all defendants except Izek
and Saldaña is sustained. 
Breach
of Contract – Third Cause of Action
The
elements of breach of contract are (1) existence of a contract; (2) plaintiff’s
performance or excuse for nonperformance; (3) defendant’s breach; and (4)
resulting damage.  (Wall Street Network, Ltd. v. N. Y.
Times Co. (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th
1171, 1178.)
Defendants
demur on the basis that Plaintiff fails to state a claim because he fails to
allege that defendants SHH, GP, and the Shomof Defendants were parties to the
contract and that Plaintiff fails to allege the contract was written or
oral.  
As
a preliminary matter, Plaintiff alleges that the contract at issue is the
written contract formed by the Wheatland PSA, which is referred to as “a very
large stack of documents” that Plaintiff signed and initialed.  (TAC, ¶ 31.) 
In addition, Plaintiff refers to the Conditions, which can be inferred
that they were made via oral agreement. 
(TAC, ¶¶ 25, 26.)  Therefore,
Plaintiff sufficiently identifies the contract as oral or written.  
Plaintiff
alleges that he entered a written and oral contract with Izek. As part of this
contract, Plaintiff believed the oral contract to perform the Conditions was
included.  (FAC, ¶¶ 33, 49.)   Plaintiff does not allege any other
defendants were parties to the contract. 
Thus, Plaintiff fails to state a cause of action against Aline, Trustee,
Jonathan, Jimmy, SHH, and GP. 
Therefore,
Defendants demurrer to the third cause of action to all defendants except Izek
and Roberto is sustained. 
 
Nichols Property
Plaintiff
alleges that Izek and Plaintiff entered an oral contract for the title of the
Nichols Property.  (TAC, ¶ 72.)  Izek and Plaintiff agreed that Izek would
make the equity investment and pay for the improvement costs while Plaintiff
would oversee the acquisition and renovation work for a 50/50 split of the
profits upon sale.  (TAC, ¶ 57.)  Prior to opening escrow, Izek required that
Plaintiff partner with the Shomof Trust, and that Izek would only provide
financial backing with an interest rate. 
(TAC, ¶ 60.)  Plaintiff still
performed his portion of the agreement. 
(TAC, ¶ 62.)  The property was
sold for $3,350,000 and Plaintiff was paid $153,000.  (TAC, ¶ 62.)
Fraud
and Negligent Misrepresentation – Fourth and Fifth Cause of Action
            Plaintiff
alleges fraudulent misrepresentation and negligent misrepresentation.  The elements of fraud, including fraudulent
misrepresentation are above.  When
alleging fraudulent misrepresentation, Plaintiff must allege facts as to “how,
when, where, to whom and by what means the representations were tendered.”  (Stansfield, supra, 220 Cal.App.3d at 73.)  
Defendants
argue that Plaintiff fails to meet the specificity required in pleading a cause
of action against all defendants except Izek and Saldaña.
Plaintiff
alleges that Izek and Plaintiff entered into a verbal agreement and that the
other defendants were aware of this agreement. 
(TAC, ¶ 27.)  Plaintiff alleges
that Aline, Jonathan and Jimmy all encouraged Plaintiff to make the deal.  (TAC, ¶ 57.)  
Plaintiff does not allege any factual misrepresentations made SHH, GP or
the Shomof Defendants.  Thus, Plaintiff
fails to allege either a fraudulent or negligent representation cause of
action. 
Therefore,
Defendants’ demurrer to the fourth and fifth cause of action to all defendants
except Izek and Saldaña is sustained. 
            Breach of Oral Contract – Sixth
Cause of Action
As above, Plaintiff alleges that Izek and Plaintiff entered
an oral contract.  (TAC, ¶ 73.)  Plaintiff does not allege that any other
defendants were a party to the contract. Thus, Plaintiff fails to state a cause
of action against Aline, Trustee, Jonathan, Jimmy, SHH, and GP. 
Therefore,
Defendants’ demurrer to the sixth cause of action to all defendants except Izek
and Saldaña is sustained. 
Leave to Amend
            Leave
to amend should be liberally granted. Defendants allege that leave to amend
would be futile but it is not clear by the nature of the defect that Plaintiff
could not state a cause of action. 
Therefore, the Court grants leave to amend. 
 
CONCLUSION
            The court sustains Defendants’ demurrer
to the first, second, third, fourth, fifth and sixth cause of action to
defendants Aline Shomof, Aline Shomof as Trustee, Jonathan Shomof, Jimmy
Shomof, Sara Shomof, Shadow Hills Homes, LLC, and Grand Pacific 7-28 with leave
to amend.            
            Defendants to give notice.