  Case Number:  23VECV01030    Hearing Date:   April 15, 2024    Dept:  T 23VECV01030  HART V LASALLE [TENTATIVE]  ORDER:  Plaintiff Shelly Hart’s Demurrer to Defendants’ LPF Triana LLC  (converted from LPF Triana, Inc.), LaSalle Investment Management, Inc., and  Kyle Dupree’s Verified Amended Answer is OVERRULED. Plaintiff  Shelly Hart’s Motion to Strike Portions of Defendants’ LPF Triana LLC  (converted from LPF Triana, Inc.), LaSalle Investment Management, Inc., and  Kyle Dupree’s Verified Amended Answer is DENIED. Plaintiff  Shelly Hart’s Request for Judicial Notice is GRANTED but only as to the  existence of the documents and not as to hearsay and facts in dispute. Introduction Plaintiff  Shelly Hart (Plaintiff) demurred to Defendants LPF Triana LLC (converted from  LPF Triana, Inc. (Triana Inc.)) (Triana LLC), LaSalle Investment Management,  Inc. (LIMI), and Kyle Dupree’s (Dupree) (collectively, Defendants) Verified  Amended Answer (Answer) filed on October 6, 2023.  The demurrer placed  into issue all 28 Affirmative Defenses (AD).  The motion to strike placed  into issue allegations as Triana LLC, the general denial, all 28 affirmative  defenses, and the prayer request. Discussion A demurrer and  motion to strike against an answer is required to be filed within 10 days of  service of the answer.  (Code Civ. Proc., secs. 430.40(b) and  435(b).)  The Amended Answer was filed on October 6, 2023 and served  electronically on the same day.  The demurrer and motion to strike were  required to be filed no later than October 18, 2023 (including two court days  due to electronic service (Code Civ. Proc., sec. 1010.6)).  The instant  demurrer and motion to strike were filed and served on November 6, 2023, which  is 30 days after service of the Amended Answer.  The demurrer and motion  to strike are untimely.  On this defect, the Demurrer and the Motion to  Strike are unpersuasive and grounds to deny both exist. Plaintiff  argued that the two motions were timely filed due to her filing of a Notice of  Unavailability on September 26, 2023, which asserted unavailability between  September 29, 2023 through October 11, 2023.  However, notices of  unavailability have no effect on law and motion calendars and does not affect  applicable time requirements.  (Carl v. Superior Court (2007) 157  Cal.App.4th 73, 75.)  Plaintiff’s argument as to the notice of  unavailability is unpersuasive. Plaintiff  argued that her unavailability prohibited her from timely meeting and  conferring within the 5 day time-limit for both the demurrer and motion to  strike.  However, the meet and confer statutes expressly provide for  relief when the parties are unable to timely meet and confer.  Plaintiff  did not take advantage of the statutory allowed extensions of time.  (Code  Civ. Proc., secs. 430.41(a)(2) and 435.5(a)(2).)  Because Plaintiff did  not request an extension of time, Plaintiff’s argument as to her unavailability  and inability to timely meet and confer are unpersuasive.  Even when  Plaintiff’s notice of unavailability is considered, her unavailability expired  on October 11, 2023 and her deadline to timely meet and confer expired on  October 13, 2023.  Plaintiff had two days to meet and confer.  The Demurrer  to the Amended Answer is OVERRULED. The Motion to  Strike the Amended Answer is DENIED. The issue of  whether the designation of defendant “LPF Triana LLC (converted from LPF  Triana, Inc.)” is a proper appearance of LPF Triana, Inc. is not considered by  the court at this time but may become an issue for the court’s consideration at  a hearing in which evidence is to be considered by the court.        [TENTATIVE]  ORDER:  Defendants LPF Triana, LLC and LaSalle Investment Management,  Inc.’s Motion to Set Aside the Default as to Defendant Maryland LaSalle  Investment Management, Inc. is MOOT. Defendants LPF  Triana, LLC and LaSalle Investment Management, Inc.’s Motion to Set Aside the  Default as to Defendant LaSalle Property Fund REIT, Inc. is DENIED. Introduction Defendants LPF  Triana, LLC (Triana LLC) and LaSalle Investment Management, Inc. (LIMI)  (collectively, Defendants) moved to set aside the defaults entered against  Defendants “LaSalle Property Fund REIT, Inc. dba LPF Triana, Inc.” (REIT) and  Maryland LaSalle Investment Management, Inc. (Maryland) and in favor of  Plaintiff Shelly Hart (Plaintiff).  REIT’s default was entered on November  1, 2023.  The Court file does not reflect that a default was entered  against Maryland, making the instant motion as to Maryland moot. The Court  noted that there were two separate filings of the motion to set aside using the  exact same reservation number (ending in  x8527).  The first motion  was filed on December 19, 2023, which identified a February 2, 2024 hearing  date.  From the Court record, the February 2, 2024 hearing on the motion  was not completed.  The second motion was filed on March 21, 2024, which  identified the current hearing date.  The Court reviewed both  motions.  The Court also reviewed Plaintiff’s opposition filed on March  21, 2024, as well as her declaration filed on March 29, 2024.  Procedure The Court  noted that moving parties Triana LLC and LIMI are not shown to be the same  corporate entity/legal person as REIT.  It is unclear how Triana LLC and  LIMI can appear on behalf of REIT.  It is even asserted by the moving  parties that REIT and Triana Inc. are two separate corporations.  (Motion,  pg. 4:6-7.)  REIT, being a separate corporate entity/legal person, must  appear on its own behalf to seek the requested relief.  Triana LLC and  LIMI are not shown to have standing to request relief on behalf of REIT.   On this defect, the motion is unpersuasive and there are grounds to deny the  motion as to REIT.   As to  Maryland, LIMI argued that Maryland is its former business name.  (Motion,  pg. 4:13-14.)   Without ruling on this alleged contention, the Court  noted that the instant motion as to Maryland is a non-sequitur, as stated  above.   Discussion As to  Maryland, the Court reviewed all the filings that are either allegedly directly  or allegedly tangentially related to Maryland.  On March 8, 2023,  Plaintiff’s Complaint named, as a defendant, LIMI.  The Complaint did not  reference Maryland.  On March 16, 2023, Plaintiff filed an Amendment to  the Complaint correcting the name of LIMI to Maryland.  On April 7, 2023,  Plaintiff filed a Proof of Service (POS) showing personal service of the  Summons and Complaint (S&C) upon Maryland.  The Court file does not  contain any POS showing service of the S&C being made upon LIMI.   Despite the lack of a POS as to LIMI, on May 11, 2023, LIMI (without any  reference to Maryland) filed a demurrer and a motion to strike (i.e., LIMI made  a general appearance in the action.).  On September 7, 2023, LIMI (without  any reference to Maryland) filed an Answer to the Complaint and filed a  Cross-Complaint.  As stated above, a default was never entered against  Maryland.  As it stands, Maryland has not appeared in this action despite  being served with the S&C.  Without any general appearance by Maryland  and without any default being entered against Maryland, the motion to set aside  a default as to Maryland is MOOT, if it is assumed that LIMI is merely the  current name of Maryland.  As to REIT, on  April 7, 2023, Plaintiff filed a POS showing substituted service of the S&C  upon REIT.  “LPF Triana, Inc. (erroneously named herein as LaSalle  Property Fund REIT, Inc. dba LPF Triana, Inc.)” (Triana Inc.) filed a motion to  strike on April 14, 2023 and a demurrer on April 24, 2023.  On September  7, 2023, Tiana Inc., with a reference to the erroneous designation as REIT,  filed an Answer to the Complaint and filed a Cross-Complaint.  However,  these alleged “erroneous designations” are not recognized by the Court.   As stated above, REIT is seen to be a separate entity from Triana Inc. and  Triana LLC.  Erroneous designations are limited to incorrect spelling of  names under the doctrine of idem sonans.  (Orr v. Byers (1988) 198 Cal.App.3d  666, 669 [Eliot, Elliot and Elliott are idem sonans.]; Earl W. Schott, Inc. v.  Kalar (1993) 20 Cal.App.4th 943, 947 [“Seaver” and “Seavers” substantially the  same, but “Gary Kalar dba Kalar Const. Co.” not the same as “Kalar  Construction, Inc.”]; Sakaguchi v. Sakaguchi (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 852, 857  [defendant's first name, Takeshi, incorrectly spelled “Takechi” in summons and  complaint, not a material deviation].)  The alleged erroneous designations  at issue in this action do not involve misspellings but completely different  legal persons.  Triana Inc.,  Triana LLC, and LIMI are not recognized as the same legal person as REIT and  thus cannot seek the requested relief on behalf of REIT.  Further, any  appearances by Triana Inc. or Triana LLC based upon an “erroneous designation”  for REIT is not seen as a general appearance for REIT.   REIT is seen  as its own separate legal person. Because Triana  LLC and LIMI are not seen as the same person as REIT, Triana LLC and LIMI do  not have standing to appear for REIT. Triana LLC and  LIMI’s motion to set aside the default of REIT is DENIED.        Tentative  ruling: Plaintiff’s motion filed 2/26/2024 to deem Admitted or further respond  to RFAs Set 2 and Int. 17.1 to defendant Dupree: See below as to each RFA. The court  addresses plaintiff’s motion to seem Requests for Admissions as set forth in  the Notice of Motion.  If the Separate Statement refers to other RFA’s  which are not mentioned in the Notice of Motion, then they are not  considered.  The court will  not deem the RFA’s Admitted but will order that further verified responses be  served within 30 days.  Monetary  sanctions are assessed against defendant Kyle Dupree in the sum of $88.24  pursuant to CCP section 2023.010 (discovery abuse without substantial  justification) payable to Shelly Hart at P.O. Box 488, Woodland Hills, CA 91365  by 5/15/2024. For any  further ordered responses which are not an unequivocal Admit in whole or in  part, then defendant Dupree is ordered to provide a verified answer to Form.  Int. 17.1 as to each within 30 days. 88           Grant: Objections are overruled.  Either Admit in whole or in part in  whole or in part or Deny without objection 89           Grant: Objections are overruled.  Either Admit in whole or in part in  whole or in part or Deny without objection. 92           Grant: Objections are overruled.  Either Admit in whole or in part in  whole or in part or Deny without objection. 93           Grant: Objections are overruled. Either Admit in whole or in part or Deny  without objection. 94           Grant: Objections are overruled. Either Admit in whole or in part or Deny  without objection. 95           Grant: Objections are overruled. Either Admit in whole or in part or Deny  without objection. 96           Grant: Objections are overruled. Either Admit in whole or in part or Deny  without objection. 97           Grant: Objections are overruled. Either Admit in whole or in part or Deny  without objection. 98           Grant: Objections are overruled. Either Admit in whole or in part or Deny  without objection. 99           Grant: Objections are overruled. Either Admit in whole or in part or Deny  without objection. 100        Grant: Objections are overruled. Either Admit in whole or in part or Deny  without objection. 101        Grant: Objections are overruled. Either Admit in whole or in part or Deny  without objection. 103        Grant: Objections are overruled. Either Admit in whole or in part or Deny  without objection. 104        Grant: Objections are overruled. Either Admit in whole or in part or Deny  without objection. 106        NOT IN THE NOTICE OF MOTION 105        Grant: Objections are overruled. Either Admit in whole or in part or Deny  without objection. 107        Grant: Objections are overruled. Either Admit in whole or in part or Deny  without objection. 108        Grant: Objections are overruled. Either Admit in whole or in part or Deny  without objection. 109        Grant: Objections are overruled. Either Admit in whole or in part or Deny  without objection. 110        Grant: Objections are overruled. Either Admit in whole or in part or Deny  without objection. 111        Deny.  The court sustains the objections as to vague, ambiguous and overly  broad in scope. 112        Deny.  The answer will stand.  It is not up to the court to determine  whether than fact is true and order defendant to answer accordingly.   Defendant is allowed to take his own litigation positions. 113        Deny.  The answer will stand.  It is not up to the court to determine  whether than fact is true and order defendant to answer accordingly.   Defendant is allowed to take his own litigation positions. 114        Grant: Objections are overruled. Either Admit in whole or in part or Deny  without objection. 115        Grant: Objections are overruled. Either Admit in whole or in part or Deny  without objection. 116        Grant: Objections are overruled. Either Admit in whole or in part or Deny  without objection. 117        Deny.  The court sustains the objections as to vague, ambiguous and overly  broad in scope. 118        Deny.  The court sustains the objections as to vague, ambiguous and overly  broad in scope. 119        Grant: Objections are overruled. Either Admit in whole or in part or Deny  without objection. 120        Grant: Objections are overruled. Either Admit in whole or in part or Deny  without objection. 121        Deny.  The court sustains the objections as to vague, ambiguous and overly  broad in scope. 122        Deny.  The court sustains the objections as to vague, ambiguous and overly  broad in scope. 123        Grant: Objections are overruled. Either Admit in whole or in part or Deny  without objection. 124        Grant: Objections are overruled. Either Admit in whole or in part or Deny each  sentence of para. 21 without objection. 125        Deny.  The court sustains the objections as to vague, ambiguous and overly  broad in scope. 126        Grant: Objections are overruled. Either Admit in whole or in part or Deny each  sentence of para. 24 without objection. 127        Grant: Objections are overruled. Either Admit in whole or in part or Deny each  sentence of para. 31 without objection. 128        Grant: Objections are overruled. Either Admit in whole or in part or Deny each  sentence of para. 32 without objection. 129        Grant: Objections are overruled. Either Admit in whole or in part or Deny each  sentence of para. 25 without objection. 130        Grant: Objections are overruled. Either Admit in whole or in part or Deny each  sentence of para. 37 without objection. 131        Deny. 132        Grant: Objections are overruled. Either Admit in whole or in part or Deny each  sentence of para. 48 without objection. 133        Grant: Objections are overruled. Either Admit in whole or in part or Deny each  sentence of para. 50 without objection. 134        Grant: Objections are overruled. Either Admit in whole or in part or Deny each  sentence of para. 57 without objection. 135        Grant: Objections are overruled. Either Admit in  whole or in part or Deny each sentence of para. 67 without objection. 136        Grant: Objections are overruled. Either Admit in whole or in part or Deny each  sentence of para. 80 without objection. 137        Grant: Objections are overruled. Either Admit in whole or in part or Deny each  sentence of para. 92 without objection. 138        Deny.  The court sustains the objections as to vague, ambiguous and overly  broad in scope. 139        Grant: Objections are overruled. Either Admit in whole or in part or Deny each  sentence of para.116-119 without objection. 140        Grant: Objections are overruled. Either Admit in whole or in part or Deny. 141        Grant: Objections are overruled. Either Admit in whole or in part or Deny. 142        Grant: Objections are overruled. Either Admit in whole or in part or Deny. 143        Grant: Objections are overruled. Either Admit in whole or in part or Deny. 144        Grant: Objections are overruled. Either Admit in whole or in part or Deny. 145        Grant: Objections are overruled. Either Admit in whole or in part or Deny. 146        Deny.  The court sustains the objections as to vague, ambiguous and overly  broad in scope. 147        Grant: Objections are overruled. Either Admit in whole or in part or Deny. 148        Grant: Objections are overruled. Either Admit in whole or in part or Deny. 149        Grant: Objections are overruled. Either Admit in whole or in part or Deny.       Tentative  ruling: Defendant Dupree’s Motion for Protective Order filed 2/16/2024  regarding Special Interrogatories, Set 1, served by plaintiff. Deny with  prejudice for failure to meet and confer in good faith.  The  interrogatories were served on 1/16/2024.  Despite that, defendant waited  almost a month later on 2/12/2024 at 3:24 pm to send a meet and confer with a  deadline by 2/16/2024 at 5 p.m.  Then, without explanation, another email  was sent on 2/14/2024 at 2:44 p.m. setting a new deadline for 2/14/2024 close  of business.  Plaintiff responded on 2/14/2024 at 4:53 p.m. indicating  that she would have a response by the original deadline, to which there was no  response.  The motion was then filed on 2/16/2024 at 1:43 p.m.  This  is not meet and confer in good faith.  Even if the  court had considered the matter on the merits, the court would have denied the  motion as to all except 4, 7, 8 and 19.  Verified  responses to the discovery subject to the motion shall be served within 10  days.      Tentative  ruling on LPF Triana, LLC, LaSalle Investment Management, Inc., and Kyle  Dupree’s Motion filed on 2/6/2024 to Quash Subpoenas from Bank of America and  Wells Fargo: See below. The court  previously ruled on portions of the subpenas allowing the production of the  fronts and backs of Ms. Hart’s own checks.  These were Nos.1-4 to Bank of  America and Nos. 1-3 and 6 to Wells Fargo.  The court now  rules on the remainder of the requests: “GRANT” means  there will be no production and the subpoena is quashed. “DENY” means  the documents are to be produced. WELLS FARGO 4         Grant.  It is irrelevant to plaintiff’s claims what documents were used to  open LaSalle Property Fund REIT, Inc.’s account and the information is subject  to privacy rights. 5         Grant.  It is irrelevant to plaintiff’s claims what documents were used to  open LaSalle Property Fund REIT, Inc.’s account and the information is subject  to privacy rights. 7         Grant.  It is irrelevant to plaintiff’s claims what documents were used to  open LaSalle Property Fund REIT, Inc.’s account and the information is subject  to privacy rights. 8         Grant.  It is irrelevant to plaintiff’s claims what documents were used to  open LaSalle Property Fund REIT, Inc.’s account and the information is subject  to privacy rights. 9         Deny as to the date the account was opened. 10       Deny only as to Ms. Hart’s checks. 11       Deny only as to Ms. Hart’s checks. 12       Deny only as to Ms. Hart’s checks. BANK OF  AMERICA 5         Grant.  It is irrelevant to plaintiff’s claims what documents were used to  open LaSalle Property Fund REIT, Inc.’s account and the information is subject  to privacy rights. 6         Deny. 7         Deny as to evidence of change of name on account. 8         Deny as to the date the account was opened. 9         Deny.ON ALL ORDERS, CLERK TO GIVE NOTICE