  Case Number:  19STCV20803    Hearing Date:   March 5, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



ELVA ZALDIVAR, et al., 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
STEVE
   LEE, et al.,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
  )
  )
  )


     CASE NO.:  19STCV20803
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANTS STEVE LEE AND TRACY LEE’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY
   JUDGMENT OR, IN THE ALTERNATIVE, SUMMARY ADJUDICATION 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.

March
   5, 2023




 


)


 



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
Defendants Steve Lee and Tracy Lee
(collectively, “Defendants”) move for summary judgment or, in the alternative,
summary adjudication as to plaintiffs Elva Zaldivar, Stephanie Zaldivar, and
Marina Zaldivar’s First Amended Complaint. This is Defendants’ second motion
for summary judgment/summary adjudication; the first one was heard and
partially granted by the Court, with the Honorable Colin P. Leis presiding, in
May 2022. 
Defendants argue that summary judgment
or summary adjudication is proper because they did not owe Jose Zaldivar (“Zaldivar”)
a duty of care at the time of his death on March 4, 2018. Defendants argue that
Plaintiffs’ claims are barred by the doctrine expressed in Privette v.
Superior Court (1993) 5 Cal.4th 689 (“Privette”) and its progeny. 
Plaintiffs allege that Defendants are
responsible for Zaldivar’s death, which occurred while Zaldivar was repairing ceiling
insulation. It is undisputed that Defendants are shareholders and officers of
Sweety Novelty, Inc. (“Sweety Novelty”) and between March 2017 and February
2018, Sweety Novelty pursued Safe Quality Food (“SQF”) certification, which
required an inspection of its factory. John Woods (“Woods”), a maintenance
mechanic for Sweety Novelty, was authorized and appointed to prepare the
factory for this upcoming inspection. One of required tasks included
reattaching insulation on the ceiling. Zaldivar was involved in this repair and
stood inside of a metal safety cage attached to a forklift; when the cage was
being lowered, it fell off the forklift with Zaldivar inside and Zaldivar
suffered fatal injuries. 
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD
In reviewing a motion for summary
judgment, courts must apply a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues
framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has negated the
opponent’s claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated
the existence of a triable, material factual issue.” (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) “[T]he
initial burden is always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that
there are no triable issues of material fact.” (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.)
A defendant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or
her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has
shown that one or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be
established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) “Once the defendant . . . has met that
burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue
of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense
thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) 
III.       
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
The Court exercises its discretion to
rule only on those objections to evidence deemed material to its disposition of
the motion. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (q).) 
Objections to Declaration of Gary White,
Paragraph 20(B)-(C): Sustained, improper legal conclusion. 
Objections to Declaration of Mark
Burns, Paragraph 16: Sustained, improper legal conclusion. 
IV.        
DISCUSSION
A.  
Whether
Defendants’ Motion Is Barred by CCP § 437c(f)(2)
“A party shall not move for summary
judgment based on issues asserted in a prior motion for summary adjudication
and denied by the court unless that party establishes, to the satisfaction of
the court, newly discovered facts or circumstances or a change of law
supporting the issues reasserted in the summary judgment motion.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(2).)
Plaintiffs argue that Defendants’
motion for summary judgment is an improper motion for reconsideration. In the
summary judgment/summary adjudication motion filed on March 1, 2022 (the “First
MSJ”), Defendants asked for summary judgment or, in the alternative, summary
adjudication. Two of the grounds for their motion were that Plaintiffs’ claims
for premises liability and wrongful death failed because Defendants owed no
duty to Decedent – either as officers or shareholders of Sweety Novelty, or as
landlord or owners of the premises where the incident took place. (See Notice
of Motion, pp. 2-3, Issues 1 and 2.) Now, Defendants argue they are entitled to
judgment as a matter of law on Plaintiffs’ causes of action for premises liability
and wrongful death because they did not owe Decedent a duty under the Privette
doctrine. 
Defendants cite to several cases
imploring the Court to exercise its discretion to consider their present motion
because it concerns a “new issue.” The Court recognizes that the Privette doctrine
was not a legal theory previously raised by Defendants as a ground for summary
judgment/adjudication (nor was it addressed by Judge Leis), therefore, this
motion is based on a “new issue.” (Patterson v. Sacramento City Unified
School Dist. (2007) 155 Cal.App.4th 821, 827.) Plaintiffs argued in their
opposition brief to the earlier motion that the Privette doctrine did
not apply because Defendants furnished unsafe equipment. However, the order did
not address the Privette doctrine or liability based on providing unsafe
equipment. Rather, Judge Leis found that Defendants failed to meet their
initial burden to show that they were not liable as officers or directors
because it could reasonably be inferred that their authorization of Zaldivar’s
one-week transfer included authorizing the particular projects to which Woods
had assigned Zaldivar, including the allegedly tortious conduct of using the
defective forklift and cage. The emphasis of the previous order was on whether
Defendants authorized Woods’s use of the faulty equipment, not whether
Defendants provided the equipment. 
Before the last hearing on December 5,
2023, the Court issued a prior tentative ruling stating that the motion did not
fall within the ambit of section 437c(f)(2) as a renewed motion and cited to Marshall
v. County of San Diego (2015) 237 Cal.App.4th 1095, 1107. At oral argument
and in their supplemental brief filed on January 31, 2024, Plaintiffs argued
that section 437c, subdivision (f)(2) prohibits a subsequent summary judgment
motion without new facts or new law. Section 437c(f)(2) states, in relevant
part, that “[a] party shall not move for summary judgment based on issues
asserted in a prior motion for summary adjudication and denied by the court
unless that party establishes, to the satisfaction of the court, newly
discovered facts or circumstances or a change of law supporting the issues
reasserted in the summary judgment motion.” Plaintiffs emphasize that the
Legislature added the phrase “shall not” to the statute in 2017, which is after
Patterson and Marshall were decided. However, as Defendants point
out in their own supplemental brief filed on January 31, 2024, this emphasis
ignores that the prohibition on a subsequent summary judgment motion only
applies when it is “based on issues asserted in a prior motion for summary
adjudication.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(f)(2).) Therefore, the Court proceeds
to evaluate the motion on its merits. 
B.  
Applicability
of Privette 
Generally, a non-negligent party cannot
be liable for tort to its independent contractor’s employees. (Privette v. Superior Court (1993) 5
Cal.4th 689, 702.) Privette “renders
the hirer of an independent contractor immune from liability to the independent
contractor’s employee even when the basis for liability was that the hirer
failed to provide in the contract that the contractor must take special
precautions to avert the risks of work. [Citation.] Privette also bars liability when the injured employee’s theory is
that the hirer negligently hired the independent contractor. [Citation.]
Finally, Privette applies when the
injured employee’s cause of action against the hirer of the independent
contractor is based on the hirer’s failure to comply with statutory or
regulatory workplace safety requirements. [Citation.]” (Johnson v. Raytheon Company, Inc. (2019) 33 Cal.App.5th 617, 628.)
“By hiring an independent contractor,
the hirer implicitly delegates to the contractor any tort duty it owes to the contractor’s employees to ensure
the safety of the specific workplace that is the subject of the contract. That
implicit delegation includes any tort law duty the hirer owes to the
contractor’s employees to comply with applicable statutory or regulatory
requirements.” (SeaBright Ins. Co. v. US
Airways, Inc. (2011) 52 Cal.4th 590, 594.) The California Supreme Court has
held that the duty to ensure a safe workplace may be delegated, based largely
on the policy rationale that because workers’ compensation limits the liability
of an independent contractor to its employees, “it would be unfair to permit
the injured employee to obtain full tort damages from the hirer of the independent contractor—damages that would be
unavailable to employees who did not happen to work for a hired contractor.
This inequity would be even greater when, as is true here, the independent
contractor had sole control over the means of performing the work.” (Id. at p. 603.) 
A threshold question governing the
applicability of Privette is whether Woods was Defendants’ employee or
an independent contractor. “Whether a common law employer-employee relationship
exists turns foremost on the degree of a hirer’s right to control how the end
result is achieved.” (Ayala v. Antelope Valley Newspapers, Inc. (2014)
59 Cal.4th 522, 528.) Factors to be considered include the nature of the work, the
overall arrangement between the parties. (S. G. Borello & Sons, Inc. v.
Dept. of Indus. Rel. (1989) 48 Cal.3d 341, 353 (Borello).) Other
factors considered include 
(a)         
whether the one performing services is
engaged in a distinct occupation or business; 

(b)         
 the kind of occupation, with reference to
whether, in the locality, the work is usually done under the direction of the
principal or by a specialist without supervision; 
(c)         
the skill required in the particular
occupation; 
(d)         
whether the principal or the worker
supplies the instrumentalities, tools, and the place of work for the person
doing the work;
(e)         
the length of time for which the
services are to be performed; 
(f)          
 the method of payment, whether by the time or
by the job; 
(g)         
whether or not the work is a part of
the regular business of the principal; and 
(h)         
whether or not the parties believe they
are creating the relationship of employer-employee. 
 
(Ayala, 59 Cal.4th at p. 532.) “Generally, . . . the
individual factors cannot be applied mechanically as separate tests; they are
intertwined and their weight depends often on particular combinations.” (Borello,
48 Cal.3d at p. 351 (internal citations omitted).) 
Plaintiffs allege in their complaint
that Woods was not an independent contractor because Woods did not possess a
license. (FAC, ¶ 51.) Indeed, Labor Code section 2750.5 provides “a rebuttable
presumption affecting the burden of proof that a worker performing services for
which a license is required pursuant to Chapter 9 (commencing with Section
7000) of Division 3 of the Business and Professions Code, or who is performing
such services for a person who is required to obtain such a license[,] is an
employee rather than an independent contractor.” 
Defendants argue that Zaldivar was
injured as an employee of Woods, who was an independent contractor hired by
Sweety Novelty. Defendants contend that Woods was never their employee or an
employee of Sweety Novelty, and they never supervised, directed, or instructed Woods
regarding his maintenance work for Sweety Novelty. (UMF Nos. 16, 21-23.) Woods
declares that he provided his services to Sweety Novelty under his business,
Acme Mechanical Supply, and that Defendants were not involved in retaining him.
(Woods Decl., ¶ 4.) Woods also states that he never reported to either of them
and did not discuss any details of the SQF inspection or a budget. (Woods
Decl., ¶ 3.) Defendants also submit declarations stating that they were not
involved in hiring Woods for Sweety Novelty and did not provide any
supervision, direction, or instruction to him. (T. Lee Decl., ¶ 9; S. Lee
Decl., ¶ 9.) 
Notably, Defendants in their motion did
not address whether Woods was required to be licensed, as Plaintiffs allege. Rather,
Defendants state in their supplemental brief filed on January 31, 2024, that
Woods was not required to be licensed because Business and Professions Code
section 7048 (the “Minor Work Exemption”) states that a license is not required
where “the aggregate contract price for which labor, materials and all other
items is less than five hundred dollars ($500), that work or operations being
considered of casual, minor, or inconsequential nature.” Defendants refer to
Woods’ declaration, submitted in support of co-defendant Sean Lee’s summary
judgment motion, in which he states that the total cost for the labor and
materials for the work performed at the time of the incident was less than
$500. (Woods Decl., ¶ 10.) Defendants also refer to Exhibit S to the exhibit
list filed in support of Sean Lee’s summary judgment motion, which is a copy of
an invoice showing that the cost of labor for March 4, 2018, was $240 total for
3 individuals at a rate of $15 to $30 dollars an hour. Defendants also argue
that the work being performed was of a “casual, minor, or inconsequential
nature” because Woods characterized the repairs as involving “simple
reattachment of ceiling insulation.” (Ibid.) Defendants also cite to
Zaldivar’s coworker, Jose Godinez, who testified in his deposition that he and
Zaldivar were supposed “[t]o put paper on the ceiling.” (Defs.’ Ex. I, 29:8-13;
69:16-22.) Another coworker, Sacramento Valdez, testified that Zaldivar and Mr.
Godinez were “put[ting] some aluminum on the ceiling of the factory. (Ex. J at
23:15-21; Ex. H at 32:1-6, 33:2-6.) To the extent that Defendants rely on the
declaration of Bruce D. Rudman as an expert opinion concluding that Zaldivar’s
work falls within the “Minor Work Exemption”, the Court disregards this
testimony as an improper expert opinion on an issue of law. 
Defendants fail to meet their moving
burden. Their evidence raises conflicting inferences about the nature of
Woods’s relationship with Sweety. Although Woods claims that the work Zaldivar
was involved in on the day of the accident was minor, the evidence also shows
that the work performed by Zaldivar that day was part of a significantly larger
project; Woods was entrusted with a renovation project for the facility
intended to secure regulatory approval, the aggregate contract price of which
more than likely exceeded $500. Zaldivar was only one worker out of several
hired by Woods. Furthermore, Judge Leis previously held that it could be
reasonably inferred that Defendants authorized Woods’ assignment of Zaldivar to
specific projects spanning a period of more than one day. Such authorization raises
triable issues of fact regarding Woods’ status as an independent contractor. Triable
issues of fact also exist regarding the nature of the work that Woods and
Zaldivar were engaging in as casual, minor or inconsequential, because it
involved use of heavy equipment, i.e., the forklift and safety cage, and no
other equipment was available or used to reach the ceiling. 
Moreover, even if Defendants met their
moving burden, the Court finds that Plaintiffs submit sufficient evidence to
demonstrate a triable issue of material fact with respect to the licensing
requirement, and, therefore Woods’ independent contractor status. Plaintiffs attach
a copy of an invoice for labor spanning the week of February 26, 2018, to March
14, 2018, totaling $4,956 at a rate of $28 an hour. (Flores Decl., filed 11/21/2023,
Ex. 26, SNI000444.) A 2-page long summary for work performed on February 28 and
March 1, 2018, also raises triable issues of fact regarding the “aggregate
contract price” of the work Woods was retained to perform during this period. (Id.,
Ex. 27.) 
V. CONCLUSION
In light of the foregoing, Defendants’
motion for summary judgment/summary adjudication is DENIED. 
Dated
this 5th
day of March, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



ELVA SALDIVAR, et al.,
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
STEVE
   LEE, et al., 
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 19STCV20803
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANT SEAN LEE’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
  OR, IN THE ALTERNATIVE, SUMMARY ADJUDICATION AS TO PLAINTIFFS’ FIRST AMENDED
  COMPLAINT
 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
March 5,
   2024



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION 
On June 14,
2019, plaintiffs Elva Zaldivar, Stephanie Zaldivar, and Marina Zaldivar
(collectively, “Plaintiffs”), individually and as successors in interest to
Jose Zaldivar (“Zaldivar”) filed this action against Steve Lee and Tracy Lee
for negligence (pursuant to Labor Code section 3706), premises liability, and
wrongful death. 
On December
6, 2021, Plaintiffs filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”).
Plaintiffs amended the FAC on December 8, 2021, to add Sean Lee (“Defendant”)
as a Doe defendant. 
The action
arises out of Zaldivar’s death while performing improvements at a frozen
desserts factory owned by non-party Sweety Novelty, Inc. (“Sweety”) on March 4,
2018 (the “Incident”). The factory is located on property owned by Steve Lee
and Tracy Lee (the “Subject Premises”) and was leased to Sweety. 
Defendant
filed this motion for summary judgment or, in the alternative, summary
adjudication on the grounds that: (1) he owed no duty of care to Zaldivar, (2)
Plaintiffs’ claims were barred by the Privette doctrine, and (3) he was
not Zaldivar’s statutory employer. 
On December
15, 2023, the Court continued the hearing to allow for supplemental briefing. Defendant
and Plaintiffs both filed supplemental briefs on December 29, 2023. Plaintiffs
also filed two supplemental declarations. On January 2, 2024, Defendant filed
objections to the supplemental declarations. Defendant also filed a
supplemental reply brief on February 22, 2024. 
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD
In reviewing a motion for summary
judgment, courts must apply a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues
framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has negated the
opponent’s claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated
the existence of a triable, material factual issue.” (Hinesley v. Oakshade
Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) “[T]he initial burden is
always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no
triable issues of material fact.”  (Scalf
v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.) A defendant
moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or her burden
of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one
or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that
there is a complete defense to the cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c,
subd. (p)(2).) “Once the defendant . . . has met that burden, the burden shifts
to the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue of one or more material
facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c, subd. (p)(2).)  The plaintiff may
not merely rely on allegations or denials of its pleadings to show that a
triable issue of material fact exists, but instead, “shall set forth the
specific facts showing that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the
cause of action.” (Ibid.) “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary
judgment should be granted.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center
(2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)
“A party may move for summary
adjudication as to one or more causes of action within an action, one or more
affirmative defenses, one or more claims for damages, or one or more issues of
duty, if that party contends that the cause of action has no merit or that
there is no affirmative defense thereto, or that there is no merit to an
affirmative defense as to any cause of action, or both, or that there is no
merit to a claim for damages . . . or that one or more defendants either owed
or did not owe a duty to the plaintiff or plaintiffs. A motion for summary
adjudication shall be granted only if it completely disposes of a cause of
action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).) 
 
III.       
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS 
Plaintiffs “object”
to paragraphs 2, 7, 8, 9, 11, 12, 14 of the Declaration of Sean Lee on the
grounds that they contradict his prior testimony at his deposition. These
contradictions do not eliminate the evidentiary value of the declaration and the
rule expressed in D’Amico v. Board of Medical Examiners (1974) 11 Cal.3d
1 does not involve the admissibility of evidence, but whether evidence is
sufficient to create a triable issue of material fact. Accordingly, Plaintiffs’
objections are OVERRULED. 
IV.        
REQUESTS FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
Defendant’s
request for the Court to take judicial notice of the FAC is GRANTED. 
V.          
DISCUSSION
A.  
Defendant’s Duty of Care 
To prevail on a cause of action
for negligence, a plaintiff must establish that the defendant owed a duty of
care, the defendant breached that duty of care, the breach proximately caused
injury to the plaintiff, and the plaintiff suffered damages. (Ladd v. Cty of
San Mateo (1996) 12 Cal.4th 913, 917- 918.) Generally speaking, all persons
have a duty to take reasonable care in their activities to avoid causing
injury, though particular policy considerations may weigh in favor of limiting
that duty in certain circumstances. (Civ. Code, § 1714; Rowland v. Christian
(1968) 69 Cal.2d 108.) If it is found that the defendant owed no duty of care
to the plaintiff, negligence cannot be established. (Hamilton v. Gage Bowl,
Inc. (1992) 6 Cal.App.4th 1706, 1711 [citation omitted].) 
Plaintiffs allege that Defendant
had a “duty to safeguard [Zaldivar]’s safety and use ordinary care when
requesting their employee perform work on the [Subject Premises].” (FAC, ¶ 18.)
Plaintiffs allege Defendant “had the supervision, control, and ownership of the
subject property and had hired [Zaldivar] to perform repair on the insulative
ceiling tiles.” (FAC, ¶ 18.) Plaintiffs also allege that Defendant had a “duty
to exercise reasonable care when hiring and requesting work be performed by
[Zaldivar] on the [Subject Premises].” (FAC, ¶ 51.) 
Defendant argues he did not owe
a duty of care to Zaldivar because he did not own or control the Subject
Premises or the equipment used by Zaldivar at the time of the Incident.
(Motion, p. 6.) Defendant also argues that he cannot be liable as an officer,
director, or shareholder of Sweety because he is only Sweety’s general manager.
(Motion, p. 7.) Defendant declares that in his role as General Manager, he was
“generally responsible for overseeing Sweety’s business operations” and would
visit Sweety’s facility betweeen 3 to 7 times a month. (Declaration of Sean Lee
(“S. Lee Decl.”), ¶ 2; Exhibit List, Ex. C-1, p. 36:1-2.) In March 2017, he
decided that the business would benefit from a Safe Quality Food (SQF)
certification. (Id., ¶• 6.) He understood that as part of the
certification process, the Subject Premises needed to meet a certain standard and
would require certain general maintenance and repairs. (Ibid.) In
February 2018, Defendant “instructed, appointed and authorized Sweety’s
maintenance mechanic John Woods (“Woods”) to prepare the Subject Premises for
its upcomng SQF inspection. (Id., ¶ 7.) They did not discuss the
specifics of any repairs or the individuals that would be working. (Id.,
¶ 8.) Defendant further declares that he never owned the forklift or safety
cage used by Zaldivar and was not involved in Sweety’s purchase of those items.
(Id., ¶ 13.) He had also never inspected, assessed, or evaluated the
forklift and metal safety cage at any time “because [he] had no reason to” and
had no understanding prior to the Incident whether they were operational or in
good repair. (Id., ¶ 14.) 
In Defendant’s supplemental
brief, Defendant cites to Towt v. Pope (1959) 168 Cal.App.2d 520, in
which the court refused to hold a defendant vice president of a corporation
liable for failure to instruct the plaintiff employee on safety or provide a
safe place of employment. The Towt court noted that the vice president
was an officer in a large corporation, “particularly one whose duties require
him to be often absent from the plant”, and “could not and did not personally
supervise, or give any orders or instructions to, any employee of the 230 working
in the steel division.” (Id. at pp. 527-528.) The court stated, “In the
absence of active participation in an act of misfeasance, generally an officer
of a corporation is not personally liable to a third person for nonfeasance.” (Id.
at p. 530.) The court emphasized the need to distinguish executive officials,
presidents, vice-presidents, and managing agents, from superintendents,
foremen, and “those immediately in control and management of the particular
employee, his work and his place of employment.” (Id. at pp. 528-529.) 
In opposition, Plaintiffs argue
that Defendant oversaw all of Sweety’s operations, including the decision to
pursue the SQF certification, and that Defendant was aware that work would need
to be done to the ceiling. (AMF Nos. 21-22.) Plaintiffs also contend that
Defendant decided the scope of the facilities’ improvements, including ceiling
insulation. (AMF Nos. 31-32.) Plaintiffs also emphasize that Sweety was a small
corporation with only 14 to 15 workers and the building was only 12,000 square
feet. (AMF No. 40.) Plaintiff further argues that Defendant knew or should have
known that workers would need to use the forklift and cage to complete any work
in high places because this was the only forklift and cage available on the
premises. (AMF Nos. 46-48.) 
Based on this additional
evidence, the Court finds Towt factually inapposite and concludes that
Defendant has not shown, as a matter of law, that he owed no duty to Zaldivar. 
B.  
Applicability of the Privette Doctrine
Alternatively, Defendant argues
that he is not liable for Zaldivar’s death because of the Privette doctrine.
In Privette v. Superior Court (1993) 5 Cal.4th 689, the California Supreme Court held
that the hirer of an independent contractor automatically delegates to that
independent contractor the responsibility to perform that work safely. Here, Plaintiffs allege in their
complaint that Woods was not an independent contractor because Woods did not
possess a license as required by Division 3 of the Business and Professions
Code. (FAC, ¶ 51.) Labor Code section 2750.5 provides “a rebuttable presumption
affecting the burden of proof that a worker performing services for which a
license is required pursuant to Chapter 9 (commencing with Section 7000) of
Division 3 of the Business and Professions Code, or who is performing such
services for a person who is required to obtain such a license[,] is an
employee rather than an independent contractor.” “[A]ny person performing any
function or activity for which a license is required pursuant to Chapter 9
(commencing with Section 7000) of Division 3 of the Business and Professions
Code shall hold a valid contractors’ license as a condition of having
independent contractor status.” Therefore, as a threshold matter, Defendant
must show that Woods did not need to be licensed as part of showing that Woods
was an independent contractor. 
Defendant argues that Woods was
not required to be licensed because of  Business
and Professions Code section 7048, which states that a contractor’s license is
not required where “the aggregate contract price for which labor, materials and
all other items is less than five hundred dollars ($500), that work or
operations being considered of casual, minor, or inconsequential nature.”
Defendant refers to Woods’s declaration, in which he declared that the total
cost of labor and materials for the work performed at the time of the incident
was less than $500. (Woods Decl., ¶ 10.) An invoice attached as Exhibit S of
Defendant’s exhibit list also shows that the cost of labor for March 4, 2018,
was $240 total for 3 individuals at a rate of $15 to $30 dollars an hour.
However, Defendant’s evidence
raises conflicting inferences about the nature of Woods’s relationship with
Sweety. Although Woods claims that the work Zaldivar was involved in on the day
of the accident was minor, the evidence also shows that Woods was entrusted
with a significant renovation project of the facility for regulatory compliance
purposes, the aggregate contract of which more than likely exceeded $500, and
that Zaldivar was only one worker out of several hired by Woods. Furthermore,
Judge Leis previously held that it could be reasonably inferred that Defendants
authorized Woods’ assignment of Zaldivar to specific projects over a period of
more than one day. Such authorization raises triable issues of fact regarding
Woods’ status as an independent contractor. Triable issues of fact also exist
regarding the consequential nature of the work that Woods and Zaldivar were
engaging in because it involved use of heavy equipment, i.e., the forklift and
safety cage. 
Moreover, even if Defendant met his
moving burden with respect to factors supporting Woods’ status as an
independent contractor, the Court finds that Plaintiffs’ submit sufficient
evidence to demonstrate a triable issue of material fact with respect to the
licensing requirement. Plaintiffs attach a copy of an invoice for labor
spanning the week of February 26, 2018, to March 14, 2018, totaling $4,956 at a
rate of $28 an hour. (Flores Decl., filed 11/3/2023, Ex. 45, SNI000444.) A
2-page long summary for work performed on February 28 and March 1, 2018 also
raises triable issues of fact regarding the “aggregate contract price” of the
work Woods was retained to perform during this period. (Id., Ex. 44.) Accordingly,
the Court finds that triable issues of material fact preclude a finding that
the Privette doctrine shields Defendant from liability. 
VI.     CONCLUSION
          In light of
the foregoing, Defendant’s motion for summary judgment/summary adjudication is DENIED.

 
Moving party to give notice.  
Dated
this 5th
day of March
2024 
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 