 Case Number:  23AHCV01863    Hearing Date:   March 5, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



JESSICA AUSTIN, 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
CITY OF
   PASADENA,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  23AHCV01863
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO SET ASIDE/VACATE ENTRY OF DEFAULT 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
March 5,
  2024




 


 


 



 
          On December
22, 2023, defendant City of Pasadena (“City”) filed this motion for orders
setting aside the entry of default against it and co-defendant Pasadena Police
Department (“PPD”). City argues that the defaults were improperly entered
because the time for it and PPD to file a responsive pleading had not yet
expired due to the automatic 30-day extension provided by CCP 430.41(a)(2). In
the alternative, City seeks relief under section 473(b) due to counsel’s
mistaken belief that the extension applied. 
          This action
was filed on August 15, 2023. City was served with the Complaint on October 5,
2023. On November 2, 2023, notice of association of counsel was filed
indicating that Hanson Bridgett LLP (“Hanson Bridgett”) was associated with the
City’s Attorney Office. The same day, counsel for City called Plaintiff’s
counsel and sent an email to request an extension to respond to the Complaint. On
November 3, 2023, Plaintiff’s counsel stated that an extension would only be
extended if Defendant intended to file an answer. 
City asserts that because the parties
were unable to meet and confer at least 5 days before a responsive pleading was
due, City was entitled to an automatic 30-day extension of time of the time to
respond. City filed a declaration on November 6, 2023, which City incorrectly characterizes
as timely, stating that a good faith attempt to meet and confer was made, but
could not be completed because of counsel’s recent association and the need to
review the matter before responding. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41.) On
November 30, 2023, City filed a demurrer and motion to strike. 
          In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that there was no automatic extension in effect
because there were no timely attempts to meet and confer in good faith.
Plaintiff argues that any such attempt should have been made on or before
October 30, 2023. The Court agrees. Neither the late hiring of outside counsel,
nor the late filing by counsel of the notice of association on November 2, 2023,
relieve the City of its timeliness requirement in meeting and conferring; they may
not create their own obstacle to timely performance and nonetheless claim the right
to the automatic extension. Therefore, the automatic extension did not go into
effect on November 6, 2023. 
Nevertheless, the Court vacates the
entry of default based on Code of Civil Procedure section 473(b). Counsel for
City, David Casarubias, declares that at the time of filing City’s declaration
of necessity, he believed that the 30-day extension was in effect. (Cassarubias
Decl., ¶ 12.) As discussed above, this belief is mistaken. Although Plaintiff
complains that no copy of a proposed responsive pleading is attached, the Court
notes that City already filed a demurrer and motion to strike on November 30,
2023. Furthermore, to the extent that Plaintiff argues that the declaration was
only filed by City and not by PPD, the Court rejects this argument because the
PPD is a subdivision of the City and the proper defendant is City. (See
Thompson v. City of Petaluma (2014) 231 Cal.App.4th 101, 103, n.1.) Last,
the Court does not find that City unreasonably delayed in filing this motion
for relief because it was filed on December 22, 2023, which is shortly after
City filed its demurrer and motion to strike on November 30, 2023. 
City’s motion is GRANTED and the
defaults entered against City and PPD are vacated. 
City requests sanctions in the amount
of $2,722.50 representing the fees and costs associated with bringing this
motion because Plaintiff improperly requested the entry of default even after
the City had filed a declaration which triggered the 30-day extension.
Plaintiff also requests $3,500 in sanctions for the cost incurred opposing this
motion. Both parties’ requests for sanctions are DENIED. 
Dated
this 5th
day of March, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 