 Case Number:  23AHCV01678    Hearing Date:   March 5, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



EMILIO ANTONIO, et al., 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
GENERAL
   MOTORS, LLC, et al.,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  23AHCV01678
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANT GENERAL MOTORS, LLC’S MOTION FOR JUDGMENT ON THE
   PLEADINGS 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
March 5,
  2024




 


 


 



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
On July 24, 2023, plaintiffs Emilio
Antonio and Zayra Santiago (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed this action
against defendant General Motors LLC (“Defendant”). Plaintiffs allege that on February
27, 2021, they acquired a 2020 Chevrolet Bolt (the “Subject Vehicle”). (Compl.,
¶¶ 7, 9.) Plaintiff alleges that the Subject Vehicle was represented as safe
and functional for normal use which is false because “the batteries may ignite
when they are either fully charged or fall below seventy (70) miles remaining
mileage” and the car “cannot be parked inside overnight due to fire risk.”
(Compl., ¶ 16.) In 2021, Defendant issued a recall notice for the Subject
Vehicle stating that the vehicle’s charge should not exceed 90%, the battery
should not fall below 70 miles remaining, and the vehicle should not be parked
indoors overnight. (Compl., ¶ 18.) 
On January 16, 2024, Defendant moved
for judgment on the pleadings as to Plaintiffs’ Fourth and Fifth Cause of
Action for fraudulent concealment and violation of Business and Professions
Code section 17200 (“UCL claim”). 
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD
Under Code of Civil Procedure section
438, the court may grant a defendant’s motion for judgment on a pleading on
several grounds, including the ground that the pleading “does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action against that defendant.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 438, subd. (c)(1)(B)(ii).) “The grounds for motion provided for in
this section shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading or from any
matter of which the court is required to take judicial notice.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 438, subd. (d).) "The standard for granting a motion for judgment
on the pleadings is essentially the same as that applicable to a general
demurrer, that is, under the state of the pleadings, together with matters that
may be judicially noticed, it appears that a party is entitled to judgment as a
matter of law.” (Schabarum v. California Legislature (1998) 60
Cal.App.4th 1205, 1216.) The court treats the complaint as “admitting all
material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions
of fact or law.” (Schonfeldt v. State of California (1998) 61
Cal.App.4th 1462, 1465.) 
III.       
DISCUSSION
A.  
Plaintiffs’
Fourth Cause of Action for Fraud
The elements of fraud are: (1)
misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (2)
knowledge of falsity (scienter); (3) intent to defraud or induce reliance; (4)
justifiable reliance; and (5) damages. (See Civil Code §1709.) “In California,
fraud must be pled specifically; general and conclusory allegations do not
suffice.” (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.) “[E]very
element of a cause of action for fraud must be alleged both factually and
specifically[.]” (Cooper v. Equity Gen. Insurance (1990) 219 Cal.App.3d
1252, 1262.) However, an exception exists, by which less specificity is
required when, due to the nature of the allegations, the defendant possesses
more facts of the fraudulent act than the plaintiff. (Committee On
Children's Television, Inc. v. General Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197,
217.)
Here, Plaintiffs’ fraud claim is based
on: (1) affirmative misrepresentations regarding the Subject Vehicle’s range
capability as well as (2) concealment of facts relating to the mileage range
and battery safety. With respect to Plaintiffs’ claim for affirmative
misrepresentations of the Subject Vehicle’s range capability, Plaintiffs allege
that Defendant affirmatively misrepresented that the Subject Vehicle was
environmentally friendly and capable of long-range use, which was false because
the lithium-ion battery caused the vehicle to overheat during prolonged use,
resulting in a substantial reduction in the range capability of the vehicle.
(Compl., ¶ 69.) With respect to Plaintiffs’ claim for fraudulent concealment,
Plaintiffs allege that Defendant concealed the fact that the Bolt could not
achieve its expected range of 259 miles and that Plaintiffs would only be able
to charge the vehicle to 90% and use the vehicle only if the use did not exceed
70 miles remaining. (Compl., ¶ 75.) 
Defendant argues that Plaintiffs’ claim
for affirmative misrepresentation fails because they did not plead fraud with
the requisite level of particularity. The Court agrees. Plaintiffs did not identify
any specific GM employee or any interactions they had, the authority of that
employee to speak on Defendant’s behalf, nor did they allege what
representations were reviewed or relied upon by Plaintiffs, or to whom those
representations were made. (Motion, p. 8.) Plaintiffs fail to allege facts
supporting the allegation that Defendant intended to defraud Plaintiffs. 
Defendant also argues that a
misrepresentation cannot be based on an advertisement of EPA range estimates.
Defendant relies on Gray v. Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A., Inc. (9th Circ.
2014) 554 Fed. Appx. 608, 609, in which the Ninth Circuit affirmed a district
court’s dismissal of a complaint, stating that “California law does not
recognize a cause of action for publicizing EPA fuel economy estimates and
omitting explanation” and that the manufacturer had no duty to “disclose
certain information known to it which conflicted with the EPA estimates.” However,
the holding in Gray was limited because the plaintiff only asserted a
UCL claim and a fraudulent concealment claim; it did not involve claims of
affirmative misrepresentation; nevertheless, the theory of affirmative
misrepresentation fails for lack of specificity as discussed above. 
In opposition, Plaintiffs argue that
the claim about the long-range capabilities of the Subject Vehicle were made
independently of the EPA’s estimated mileage range and involves issues of
safety due to representations about charging the battery to full capacity. (Opp.,
p. 2.) Moreover, Plaintiffs argue in their opposition brief that a claim for
affirmative misrepresentation can be pleaded with particularity and that leave
to amend should be granted. Plaintiffs argue that Defendant first became aware
of issues with the battery in the Bolt vehicles in December 2016 and
implemented a “Bolt EV High Voltage Battery Exchange and Internal Parts
Process” to replace defective batteries. (Opp., p. 2.) Plaintiffs claim that Defendant
became aware of a battery fire in March 2019 and in October 2019, its employee,
Adam Piper, was made available to answer questions stating that the maximum
range of the Bolt was available on a 100% charge despite knowing that charging
the battery to full capacity posed a fire risk. (Opp., p. 2.) Plaintiffs
contend that by August 2020, Defendant was aware of at least 12 fires involving
the Bolt and in October 2020, the National Highway Safety Administration
(“NHTSA”) opened an investigation into the Bolt. Plaintiffs argue that
Defendant’s continued marketing of the Bolt as an affordable, safe, long-range
vehicle, constituted affirmative misrepresentations. 
However, Plaintiffs fail to show that
they individually relied on those marketing statements or any specific affirmative
misrepresentations, thus failing to show how amendment is possible. Plaintiffs
only generally state that they relied on Defendant’s website and
representations from the dealership, without identifying those particular
representations. The Court also notes that Plaintiffs’ opposition brief refers
to a letter received by “Plaintiff” from Defendant’s vice-president, Steve Hill,
which promised “her” a replacement a battery and “duped” her into keeping the
vehicle. (Opp., p. 3.) The next two paragraphs refer to “Plaintiff” in the
singular and with “she/her” pronouns, even though there are two plaintiffs in
this case. Therefore, it appears that this part of the brief does not address
the facts of this particular case and the Court disregards this portion of the
opposition brief. 
Based on the foregoing, the motion for
judgment on the pleadings with respect to the Fourth Cause of Action is
GRANTED. 
B.  
Plaintiffs’
Fifth Cause of Action for Violation of the UCL 
Defendant argues that Plaintiffs fail
to identify any underlying statutory violation or unfair conduct. Plaintiffs do
not address this argument and the Court concludes that Plaintiffs have conceded
the matter. Accordingly, the motion for judgment on the pleadings on the Fifth
Cause of Action is GRANTED. 
IV.        
CONCLUSION
Defendant’s motion for judgment on the
pleadings is granted in its entirety without leave to amend. 
Dated
this 5th
day of March, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 