  Case Number:  22VECV01431    Hearing Date:   October 5, 2023    Dept:  W -JANE DOE V. LOS ANGELES UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT, ET AL.
 
DEFENDANT LOS ANGELES UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT’S MOTION
TO COMPEL PRODUCTION OF RECORDS, PURSUANT TO SUBPOENA, TO AMY TIERNEY, LSCW
 
Date of Hearing:        October
5, 2023                                Trial
Date:       May 6, 2024
Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        22VECV01431
 
Moving Party:            Defendant
Los Angeles Unified School District 
Responding
Party:     Plaintiff
Jane Doe  
 
BACKGROUND
 
This action arises out of allegations by Plaintiff Jane Doe that
she was sexually abused by a former employee of Defendant Los Angeles Unified
School District (“LAUSD”), Defendant William Paden, while he was employed by LAUSD.
On September 28, 2022, Plaintiff filed a complaint against LAUSD and Paden for
(1) sexual abuse of a minor, (2) intentional infliction of emotional distress,
(3) sexual harassment, (4) negligent hiring, supervision, and retention of an
unfit employee, (5) breach of mandatory duty: failure to report suspected child
abuse (Government Code section 815.6), (6) negligent failure to warn, train, or
educate, (7) negligent supervision of a minor, and (8) negligence. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendant Los Angeles Unified School District’s Motion to Compel
Production of Records, Pursuant to Subpoena, to Amy Tierney, LSCW is GRANTED. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendant Los Angeles Unified School District moves for an order
compelling nonparty, Amy Tierney, LSCW, to comply with the Subpoena for
Production of Business Records served on Amy Tierney pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure sections 1985.3, 1987.1, 2020.010(a)(3) and 2020.410. 
 
 
A party seeking discovery from a person who is not a party to the
action may obtain discovery by oral deposition, written deposition, or
deposition subpoena for production of business records.¿ (CCP § 2020.010.)¿ A
deposition subpoena may command: (1) only the attendance and testimony of the
deponent, (2) only the production of business records for copying, or (3) the
attendance and testimony of the deponent, as well as the production of business
records, other documents, electronically stored information, and tangible
things.¿ (CCP § 2020.020.)¿  
 
California Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.1, subdivision (a)
states, “[i]f a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the production
of books, documents, or other things before a court, or at the trial of an
issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion
reasonably made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the court’s
own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make
an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance
with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including
protective orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as may be appropriate
to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including
unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the person.” “[U]pon motion
reasonably made by the party, judges may rule upon motions for quashing,
modifying or compelling compliance with, subpoenas.” (Lee v. Swansboro
Country Property Owners Ass'n (2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 575, 582-583.) 
 
On May 23, 2023, Defendant LAUSD served on Amy Tierney, LCSW, a
subpoena for production of business records. (Ahmed Decl. ¶5.) On June 15,
2023, Defendant received a letter from attorneys on behalf of Amy Tierney, LCSW
stating that the subpoena was received, but that Amy Tierney, LCSW would not produce
the records absent a court order. (Ahmed Decl. ¶7.) Defendant LAUSD met and
conferred with attorneys on behalf of Amy Tierney, LCSW who again stated the
position that Plaintiff had not authorized release of documents and a court
order would be necessary. (Ahmed Decl. ¶8.) Defendant LAUSD requested Plaintiff’s
authorization for the referenced psychological records from her provider.
(Ahmed Decl. ¶ 3). However, Plaintiff has refused to provide authorization for
release of her records. (Ahmed Decl. ¶ 3.) Defendant LAUSD contends Defendant
cannot adequately prepare the matter for Trial or evaluate Plaintiffs’ claims
without information to determine the extent of Plaintiff’s alleged claimed psychological
damages. Defendant LAUSD further contends the right to privacy is not absolute.
Plaintiff has certainly put her mental health history at issue in this
litigation by claiming that she has suffered, and is suffering, from emotional
injuries. Accordingly, Defendant LAUSD contends Plaintiff’s psychological
records are directly relevant to the issues raised by Plaintiff. 
 
Plaintiff first objects to the motion on the grounds it is
untimely. Plaintiff argues Defendant LAUSD improperly issued a second
deposition subpoena on Ms. Tierney in order to reset the clock on the 60-day
time limit in Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.1. In the instant matter,
Defendant LAUSD originally issued a subpoena to Ms. Tierney on March 2, 2023
and received her objection on March 15, 2023. According to Plaintiff, however,
Defendant LAUSD realized it blew through the 60 day deadline (i.e., May 14,
2023) and issued an identical subpoena to Ms. Tierney on May 31, 2023 to
attempt to "reset the clock”. 
 
A motion to compel compliance with a deposition subpoena must be
made within 60 days after completion of the deposition record, the date
objections are served, or the date specified for production. (CCP §2025.480(b);
Board of Registered Nursing v. Sup.Ct. (Johnson & Johnson)
(2021) 59 Cal.App.5th 1011, 1032-1033.)¿ As noted above, Ms. Tierney objected
to the production absent a court order on March 15, 2023. Accordingly, the
record was complete when Defendant LAUSD received Ms. Tierney’s objection and
LAUSD had 60 days thereafter to file its motion. This deadline was mandatory.
(See Unzipped Apparel, LLC v. Bader (2007) 156 Cal. App. 4th 123, 137.) 
 
The court disagrees that the
deadline has passed. Although Plaintiff correctly points out that a party is
not allowed to reset the clock for bringing a motion to compel response to
certain types of discovery by sending out duplicative discovery requests at a
later date, there is no authority—to the court’s knowledge – that a party may
not direct a subsequent deposition subpoena for documents to a third party when
its initial deposition subpoena was met with objection.  The court further finds that it would be
contrary to public policy and common practice if a party needed to immediately
file a motion to compel with the court in the face of objections to a third
party deposition subpoena or forever relinquish the right to obtain such
records.  It is common practice to issue
multiple subpoenas to a single entity over the course of litigation, but not to
pursue every one of those to final resolution in court.  
 
Next, Plaintiff argues the plain
language of the subpoena at issue is way too overbroad as it amounts to seeking
the proverbial kitchen sink in terms of records related to Plaintiff. Plaintiff
further contends it is not only Plaintiff’s privacy rights impacted by the
requested information, but also potentially the privacy rights of third parties
who Plaintiff may have discussed during her treatment with Ms. Tierney.
 
The court disagrees. Although
Plaintiff has a legally protected privacy interest in her medical records,
psychotherapist-patient communications are discoverable if the issue of the
patient's mental or emotional condition is raised by the patient. (Evid. Code
1016.) Here, Plaintiff alleges she has suffered emotional harm, humiliation,
mental anguish, and emotional distress.  Defendant has established a compelling need to
discover these records so as to evaluate the source and magnitude of that
emotional distress.  With respect to
third party privacy rights, the court agrees that Ms. Tierney may redact the
names of any third parties who appear in the records, but may not redact the
substance of any information provided.  
 
Accordingly, Defendant Los Angeles
Unified School District’s Motion to Compel Production of Records, Pursuant to
Subpoena, to Amy Tierney, LSCW is GRANTED. 