 Case Number:  24BBCV00233    Hearing Date:   December 20, 2024    Dept:  A MOTION FOR
TERMINATING SANCTIONS

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 24BBCV00233

 



MP:  


Los Angeles County Metropolitan
  Transport Authority (Defendant)




RP:  


Alex Avi (Plaintiff) [No Response
  Rendered]



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Alex Avi (Plaintiff)
brings this action against Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
(Defendant). Plaintiff alleges that he was injured while he was a passenger in
a bus operated by Defendant. Plaintiff alleges that Defendant’s employee
negligently operated the bus such that Plaintiff was thrown to the ground and
sustained significant injury. 
 
Before
the Court is a motion by Defendant to dismiss the Complaint for Plaintiff’s failure
to comply with an order of the Court. On September 6, 2024, the Court granted
Defendant’s motion to compel Plaintiff’s responses to Defendant’s Form
Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, and Request for the Production of
Documents. The Court additionally assessed $1,680 in sanctions to be paid
within 30 days. Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s failure to comply with this
order warrants the Court’s issuance of terminating sanctions. 
 
On November 22, 2024, this motion came on for hearing. The
Court continued the motion to December 20, 2024 and ordered Defendant “to serve Plaintiff who is now in pro per.” Defendant
subsequently filed a proof of service. 
 
  
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Where a party fails
to obey an order compelling answers to discovery, “the court may make those
orders that are just, including the imposition of an issue sanction, an
evidence sanction, or a terminating sanction.” (C.C.P. §§ 2030.290(c),
2023.010(c); R.S. Creative, Inc. v. Creative Cotton, Ltd. (1999) 75 Cal.
App. 4th 486, 495.) Terminating sanctions are appropriate when a party persists
in disobeying the court’s orders. (Deyo v. Kilbourne (1978) 84
Cal.App.3d 771, 795-796.) 
 
A terminating
sanction is a “drastic measure which should be employed with caution.” (Id.
at 793.) “A decision to order terminating sanctions should not be made lightly.
But where a violation is willful, preceded by a history of abuse, and the
evidence shows that less severe sanctions would not produce compliance with the
discovery rules, the trial court is justified in imposing the ultimate
sanction.” (Mileikowsky v. Tenet Healthsystem (2005) 128 Cal. App. 4th
262, 279-280.) 
 
While the court has
discretion to impose terminating sanctions, these sanctions “should be
appropriate to the dereliction and should not exceed that which is required to
protect the interests of the party entitled to but denied discovery.” (Deyo
supra, 84 Cal. App. 3d at 793.) 
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
The Court finds Defendant’s
supplemental submissions are insufficient to warrant the granting of
terminating sanctions. 
 
Defendant appears to
have served Plaintiff via U.S. Mail at the address listed on his change of
attorney filing, 3300 Foothill Blvd., Unit 12243, La Crecenta, CA 91214.
(Wainfeld Decl. Exh. A.) Defendant’s counsel states that he confirmed this
address with Plaintiff over a phone call on December 4, 2024. (Wainfeld Decl.
¶ 3.) Defendant’s counsel also stated that Plaintiff refused to provide an
email address. (Id.) On December 10, 2024, Defendant’s notice of the
motion addressed to Plaintiff was returned labeled “Return to Sender -
Attempted- Not Known - Unable to Forward" (Wainfeld Decl. ¶ 5, Exh. B.).  The Court, sua sponte, takes judicial
notice of the Order Granting Attorney’s Moton to be Relieved as Counsel granted
November 1, 2024 after hearing.   In that
order, prior counsel indicated that Plaintiff’s address was the same as that
provided by Plaintiff to Defendant. 
 
Exhibit B indicates
the same address that is on the relief of counsel order; however, the return to
sender notice Defendant received from the U.S. Postal Service is dated 12/8/24,
and since that time Defendant has not reached out again to Defendant to confirm
the address or to attempt personal service or substituted service.  Without those efforts, the Court is unable to
determine whether the Plaintiff’s actions were intentional.  
 
Despite Defendants
compliance with the Court’s order to serve Plaintiff with notice, the Court
still finds terminating sanctions are premature. As the Court previously
observed, the granting of terminating sanctions is an extreme remedy which
requires the moving party to demonstrate willful noncompliance. (See Mileikowsky,
supra, 128 Cal. App. 4th at 279-280.) While circumstances exist
where a lack of diligence in complying with a court order may constitute
willful noncompliance, the Court finds Defendant’s supplemental declaration
indicates an uncertainty whether that is the case here. 
 
“Lack of diligence
may be deemed willful in the sense that the party understood his obligation,
had the ability to comply, and failed to comply.” (Deyo supra, at 787.)
Defendant’s counsel states, “I asked Mr.
Avi about the discovery responses and he knew nothing about it and did not
receive any file.” (Wainfeld Decl. ¶ 3.) This indicates to the Court that
Plaintiff’s noncompliance may not have been the result of willful behavior,
rather it is the result of unknowing neglect. However, the fact that Plaintiff
provided an invalid address to counsel may be indicative of a more direct acton
not to comply.  
 
The Court also
understands that without the basic discovery it may be impossible for Defenant
to defend the case.   Without
interrogatories or documents Defendants would likely be deprived of fundamental
due process which could justify terminating sanctions, especially since
monetary sanctions may have been ineffective. 
The relief Defendant seeks may only be granted in the narrowest of
circumstances, but the Court will need a supplemental declaration as to why
other relief is impractical.  
 
Given the
extreme nature of terminating sanctions, the Court notes that prior Plaintiff’s
counsel advised Plaintiff of the next court dates when counsel was relieved.  As such, the Court will continue this matter
to that date in hopes that Plaintiff attends the hearing to address discovery
noncompliance.
 
Accordingly, the
Motion for Terminating Sanctions is continued to January 29, 2025 at 9:00.  This is the same date as existing hearings on
this case and the same dates in which former Plaintiff’s counsel provided proof
of service of the notice for those hearings to Plaintiff.   In
order to effect service, Plaintiff will need to provide defense counsel a
proper mailing address and out of an abundance of caution a valid email address
as well.
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Los Angeles County
Metropolitan Transport Authority’s Motion for Terminating Sanctions came on regularly for hearing on December 20, 2024, with
appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the Court,
being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION FOR
TERMINATING SANCTIONS IS CONTINUED TO JANUARY
29, 2025 AT 9:00. 
 
PLAINTIFF
IS ORDERED TO PROVIDE A VALID MAILING AND EMAIL ADDRESS TO DEFENSE COUNSEL
WITHIN TWO COURT DAYS OF NOTICE PROVIDED BY DEFENSE.
 
DEFENSE
IS TO PROVIDE A SUPPLEMENTAL DECLARATION THAT TELEPHONIC NOTICE WAS PROVIDED TO
PLAINTIFF, PLAINTIFF WAS ADVISED OF THE COURT’S ORDER CONCERNING CONTACT
INFORMATION AND WHETHER PLAINTIFF PROVIDED THAT INFORMATION.
 
DEFENSE
IS TO PROVIDE AN ADDITIONAL DECLARATION CONCERNING ANY PREJUDICE IF LESSER
SANCTIONS ARE IMPOSED, SUCH AS EVIDENTIARY SANCTIONS.
 
DEFENDANT
TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
December 20, 2024                          _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 