 Case Number:  24NNCV04360    Hearing Date:   December 20, 2024    Dept:  A PETITION TO
COMPEL ARBITRATION

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 24NNCV04360

 



MP:  


Tesla Motors, Inc. (Defendant)




RP:  


Linda Perez Torrez (Plaintiff) [No
  Response Rendered]



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Linda Perez Torrez (Plaintiff)
brings this action against Tesla, Inc. (Tesla) alleging violation of certain
provisions of Civil Code § 1791.2, commonly known as the Song Beverly Act.
 
Before the Court is a
motion by Tesla to compel Plaintiff’s claims to arbitration. Plaintiff has
rendered no opposition to the motion. Pursuant to
C.R.C. Rule 8.54(c), a failure to oppose a motion may be deemed consent to its
being granted.
  
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
C.C.P. §
1281.2 states: “[o]n petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging
the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a
party thereto refuses to arbitrate such controversy, the court shall order the
petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines
that an agreement arbitrate the controversy exists.” 
 
A party
seeking to compel arbitration has the initial burden to prove, by a
preponderance of the evidence, the existence of a valid and enforceable
arbitration agreement. (Engalla v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997)
15 Cal.4th 951, 972.) If the moving party has met its initial burden, then the
burden shifts to respondents to prove the falsity or unenforceability of the
arbitration agreement. (Id.) 
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Judicial
Notice 
 
Tesla
requests judicial notice be granted of the Complaint in this matter. As the
Complaint in this matter is a record of the Court within the meaning of
Evidence Code § 452, it is subject to judicial notice. Accordingly, Tesla’s
request is GRANTED. 
 
Motion to
Compel
 
As
evidence of a valid arbitration agreement between the parties, Tesla produces
two separate agreements containing arbitration clauses. The first arbitration
agreement is contained in the Motor Vehicle Order Agreement (MVOA). Tesla
states that Plaintiff, as with everyone else who purchases a vehicle from Tesla
online, signed and submitted an MVOA as part of the online ordering process.
(Kim Decl. ¶ 4, Exh. 1.) The arbitration provision in the MVOA reads as
follows: 
 
Please carefully read this provision, which
applies to any dispute between you and Tesla, Inc. and its affiliates,
(together “Tesla”). If you have a concern or dispute, please send a written
notice describing it and your desired resolution to resolutions@tesla.com. If
not resolved within 60 days, you agree that any dispute arising out of or
relating to any aspect of the relationship between you and Tesla will not be
decided by a judge or jury but instead by a single arbitrator in an arbitration
administered by the American Arbitration Association (AAA) under its Consumer
Arbitration Rules. This includes claims arising before this Agreement, such as
claims related to statements about our products. We will pay all AAA fees for
any arbitration, which will be held in the city or county of your residence. To
learn more about the Rules and how to begin an arbitration, you may call any
AAA office or go to www.adr.org. The arbitrator may only resolve disputes
between you and Tesla, and may not consolidate claims without the consent of
all parties. The arbitrator cannot hear class or representative claims or
requests for relief on behalf of others purchasing or leasing Tesla vehicles.
In other words, you and Tesla may bring claims against the other only in your
or its individual capacity and not as a plaintiffs or class member in any class
or representative action. If a court or arbitrator decides that any part of
this agreement to arbitrate cannot be enforced as to a particular claim for
relief or remedy, then that claim or remedy (and only that claim or remedy)
must be brought in court and any other claims must be arbitrated. 
 
If you prefer, you may instead take an
individual dispute to small claims court. You may opt out of arbitration within
30 days after signing this Agreement by sending a letter to: Tesla, Inc.; P.O.
Box 15430; Fremont, CA 94539-7970, stating your name, Vehicle Identification
Number, and intent to opt out of the arbitration provision. If you do not opt
out, this agreement to arbitrate overrides any different arbitration agreement
between us, including any arbitration agreement in a lease or finance contract.
 
Plaintiff
also appears to have executed a Retail Installment Sale Contract (RISC) shortly
before delivery of the vehicle. (Kim Decl. ¶ 8, Exh. 2.) The RISC contains an
arbitration agreement which appears to be identical to that in the MVOA. (Kim
Decl. ¶ 12.) 
 
The Court
must first determine whether either the MVOA or RISC constitute a valid
arbitration agreement. “The existence of a valid agreement to arbitrate is
determined by reference to state law principles regarding the formation,
revocation and enforceability of contracts generally.” (Bolter v. Superior
Court (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 900, 906.) Here, both the MVOA and RISC
evidence the formation of an agreement to arbitrate. The MVOA was conspicuously
presented to Plaintiff and required her affirmative assent to its terms to
proceed with the transaction. The RISC appears to have been signed by Plaintiff
on September 27, 2021. (Kim Decl.  Exh. 2
at p. 6.) 
 
The
arbitration agreement must also relate to the action before the Court. “In
determining whether an arbitration agreement applies to a specific dispute, the
court may examine only the agreement itself and the complaint filed by the
party refusing arbitration [citation]. The court should attempt to give effect
to the parties' intentions, in light of the usual and ordinary meaning of the
contractual language and the circumstances under which the agreement was made.”
(Weeks v. Crow (1980) 113 Cal.App.3d 350, 353). 
 
Here, the
Court finds the arbitration clauses in the MVOA and the RISC clearly apply to
Plaintiff’s claims under Song Beverly. The language that “any dispute arising
out of or relating to any aspect of the relationship between you and Tesla”
certainly covers claims arising from the allegedly defective Tesla vehicle
provided to Plaintiff. 
 
The Court
finds Tesla has demonstrated the existence of a valid arbitration agreement
between the parties. As such, Tesla has upheld its initial burden and the
burden shifts to Plaintiff to show falsity or unenforceability. As Plaintiff
has rendered no opposition to this motion, the Court finds her burden has not
been met. Accordingly, the motion to compel arbitration is GRANTED. 
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Tesla Motors, Inc.’s
Motion to Compel Arbitration came on regularly for
hearing on December 20, 2024, with appearances/submissions as noted in the minute
order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the premises, did
then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION IS GRANTED.
CASE MANAGEMENT CONFERENCE SET FOR FEBRUARY 20,
2025 IS ADVANCED AND VACATED.
 
THE COURT SETS A STATUS CONFERENCE RE
ARBITRATION FOR DECEMBER 18, 2025 AT 9:00 A.M.
 
TESLA TO GIVE NOTICE.  
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
December 20, 2024                          _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 