 Case Number:  24NNCV00996    Hearing Date:   December 20, 2024    Dept:  A MOTION TO
COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSE

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 24NNCV00996

 



MP:  


Cuong Truong (Plaintiff)




RP:  


Richard Huang (Defendant)



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Cuong Truong
(Plaintiff) brings this action against Richard Huang (Defendant) for injuries
he allegedly sustained in an April 22, 2023 car collision. Plaintiff alleges
Defendant negligently operated his motor vehicle in such as way that it came
into contact with Defendant’s vehicle and caused significant injury. 

Before the Court is a
motion by Plaintiff to compel Defendant’s further responses to Special
Interrogatory No. 26. Defendant opposes the motion and Plaintiff replies. 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
On
receipt of a response to interrogatories, the propounding party may move for an
order compelling a further response if the propounding party deems that the
responses contain: (1) answers that are evasive or incomplete, (2)¿an
unwarranted or insufficiently specific exercise of an option to produce
documents in lieu of a substantive response, or (3) unmerited or overly
generalized objections.  (C.C.P.
§¿2030.300(a).) The responding party has the burden of justifying the
objections thereto. (Coy v. Sup.Ct. (1962) 58 Cal.2d 210, 220-21.)
 
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Special Interrogatory No.
26
 
Plaintiff’s Special
Interrogatory No. 26 is as follows: 
 
State DEFENDANT'S cellular telephone number and provider at the
time of the INCIDENT
 
(Zurita-Cruz Decl. Exh. 2.)

 
On August 23, 2024,
Defendant interposed the following response: 
 
Defendant objects on the grounds of privacy as protected by the
California and Federal Constitutions as to persons not involved or present at
the time of the subject incident, the interrogatory is compound, harassing,
burdensome and seeks information irrelevant to the subject matter of the
litigation nor intended to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.
Without waiving the aforementioned objections, defendant would produce this
information upon request that plaintiff seeks phone records for the half hour
preceding the subject incident, and the half hour following the subject
incident if received without further request. 
 
(Korff Decl. Exh. A.)
 
The Court notes that
Defendant’s objection does not appear to be absolute. While Defendant objects
on privacy grounds to the production of his telephone number and provider, he
has actively offered to produce his phone records for the half hour preceding
and following the incident. 
 
Meet and Confer Efforts 
 
On September 15, 2024,
Plaintiff’s counsel sent a letter outlining the perceived deficiencies in
Defendants responses to SPROG. (Zurita-Cruz Decl. ¶ 7, Exh. 4.) On September
20, 2024, the parties agreed to extend the deadline for Defendant to provide
further verified responses to October 4, 2024 and to extend Plaintiffs deadline
to file a motion to compel further responses to November 4, 2024. (Zurita-Cruz
Decl. ¶ 8, Exh. 5.) 
 
On October 7, 2024, counsel
for the parties met and conferred telephonically. (Zurita-Cruz Decl. ¶ 9.)
The contents of that meeting were memorialized in an email from Plaintiff’s
counsel that same day. (Zurita-Cruz Decl. Exh. 6.) Relevant to this motion, Plaintiff’s
counsel stated: 
 
Regarding Special Interrogatory 26, you relayed Defendant will not
be providing a further verified response that provides the Defendant's cell
phone number and provider. I relayed I will be filing a motion to compel this
information.
 
In reviewing the met and
confer correspondence the Court observes that a miscommunication likely
occurred somewhere. It appears to the Court that Plaintiff’s counsel is
discussing one thing and Defendant’s counsel another. Plaintiff’s counsel seems
to believe that Defendant is outright refusing that his phone usage could ever
be relevant to this litigation, when in fact Defendant has offered to produce
records which would appear to display exactly that. In any event, it does not
appear to the Court that either party engaged in these communications in bad
faith. It appears more likely that the parties came to an impasse as the result
of a miscommunication and the Court is more than willing to provide a
resolution to the issue. 
 
Discussion 
 
The party asserting the
right of privacy, bears the initial burden of demonstrating (1) a “legally
protected privacy interest”; (2) an “objectively reasonable expectation of
privacy in the given circumstances”; and (3) a “threatened intrusion that is
serious.” (Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 552.) The
party seeking information may raise in response whatever legitimate and
important countervailing interests disclosure serves, while the party seeking
protection may identify feasible alternatives that serve the same interests or
protective measures that would diminish the loss of privacy. A court must then
balance these competing considerations.” (Williams supra, 3
Cal.5th at 552 [internal citations omitted].) 
 
Under Williams, a
party objecting to discovery must establish a legally protected privacy
interest and a reasonable expectation of privacy. Here, Defendant has done so.
Defendant’s cell phone number and provider are protected by his right to
privacy, and he has an objectively reasonable expectation of privacy in these
records. Compelled disclosure of the requested information would pose the
threat of serious intrusion into Plaintiff's right to privacy. 
 
As Defendant has made the
showing of protected privacy interest, the burden shifts to Plaintiff to show
that the discovery is "directly relevant" to the claims or defenses
in dispute and is "essential to the fair resolution of the lawsuit."
(Lantz v. Super. Ct. (1994) 28 Cal.App.4th 1839, 1854.)
 
Here, Plaintiff argues that
whether Defendant was on his phone at the time of the incident directly bears
on Defendant’s potential contributory negligence and on Defendant’s reliability
as a witness of the incident. However, Plaintiff ignores the second prong of
the privacy analysis wherein the requested information must be shown to be
“essential” to the fair resolution of the lawsuit. 
 
Plaintiff has made clear
that his intent in propounding this interrogatory is to, “conduct his own
investigation” and “confirm the veracity” of Defendant’s statement at his
deposition that he was not on his phone at the time of the incident (Reply p.
4.) Presumably Plaintiff means he intends to use this information to subpoena
Defendant’s phone records from around the time of the incident. The problem
then arises that Plaintiff’s request is far broader in scope than what is
needed to verify Defendant’s statement. Plaintiff has not demonstrated the need
for Defendant’s phone number and provider, so much as he has demonstrated the
need for Defendant’s phone records immediately before and after the incident.
The Court notes once more that Defendant has already explicitly offered to give
Plaintiff his phone records so that Defendant’s statement may be verified.  
 
In short, the Court finds
that Plaintiff has not demonstrated the broad scope of information requested by
SPROG No. 26 is essential to the fair resolution of this lawsuit. Plaintiff has
demonstrated the need for Defendant’s phone records for the time around the
incident and nothing further. Accordingly, the motion to compel further
responses is GRANTED subject to the condition that Defendant is only required
to produce his cell phone records for the period thirty minutes before and
after incident. 
 
Sanctions 
 
The court shall impose a
monetary sanction against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully
makes or opposes a motion to compel a further response, unless it finds that
the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that
other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (C.C.P. §
2031.310(h).) 
 
Here, the Court finds that
neither party acted without substantial justification. As previously stated,
the Court believes this motion resulted from a miscommunication and not from
any bad faith actions of counsel. Accordingly, the Court declines to award
sanctions. 
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Cuong Truong’s Motion
to Compel Further Responses came on regularly for
hearing on December 20, 2024, with appearances/submissions as noted in the
minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the
premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE
MOTION IS GRANTED SUBJECT TO THE FOLLOWING CONDITION:
 
DEFENDANT
IS ORDERED TO PROVIDE FURTHER RESPONSE TO SPECIAL INTERROGATORY NO. 26 IN THE
FORM OF HIS PHONE RECORDS FOR THE PERIOD THIRTY MINUTES BEFORE AND AFTER THE INCIDENT
OR IN THE ALTERNATIVE TO PROVIDE THE TELEPHONE NUMBER AND CARRIER WITH THE LIMITATION
THAT PLAINTIFF SHALL ONLY SEEK RECORDS THIRTY MINUTES BEFORE AND AFTER THE
INCIDENT.
 
THE COURT
DECLINES TO AWARD SANCTIONS 
 
PLAINTIFF
TO GIVE NOTICE.
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: December
20, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 