 Case Number:  24NNCV01110    Hearing Date:   December 20, 2024    Dept:  A DEMURRER &
MOTION TO STRIKE

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 24NNCV01110

 
MP:     The
Estate of Desiree Marie Meguerditchian, Hovig Meguerditchian, Nilda Meg (Defendants)     
RP:     Karen
S. Darling (Plaintiff) 

 
NOTICE:
 

The Court
is not requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice
may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818)
260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Karen S.
Darling (Plaintiff) brings this action against the Estate of Desiree
Marie Meguerditchian (Decedent) (hereinafter the Estate), Hovig Meguerditchian
(Hovig), individually and in his capacity as administrator of Decedent’s estate,
and Nilda Meg (Meg) (collectively Defendants). 
 
Plaintiff’s FAC states causes of action for (1)
Breach of Contract (as to the Estate), (2) Conversion (as to all Defendants),
(3) Unjust Enrichment (as to all Defendants), (4) Intentional Infliction of
Emotional Distress (as to all Defendants), (5) Breach of Fiduciary Duty (as to
the Estate and Hovig), (6) Promissory Estoppel (as to all Defendants), (7)
Quantum Meruit (as to all Defendants), (8) Fraud (as to all Defendants), (9)
Accounting (as to Hovig), (10) Constructive Fraud (as to Hovig), and (11) Failure
to Pay Wages (as to the Estate and Hovig). 
 
Before the Court is a demurrer
brought by the Estate, Hovig (as administrator), Hovig (as an individual), and
Nilda. The Estate and Hovig (as administrator) demur to the entire FAC on
grounds that any claims against them are barred by the statute of limitations.
Hovig (an individual) and Nilda demur to causes of action two, three, four,
six, seven, eight, nine, and ten on grounds that the FAC fails to state
sufficient facts. Defendants also move to strike Plaintiff’s request for
attorney’s fees and punitive damages. 
 
Plaintiff opposes the
demurrer/motion to strike and Defendants collectively reply. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARDS
 
Demurrer
 
The grounds for a demurrer must appear on the
face of the pleading or from judicially noticeable matters. (C.C.P. §
430.30(a); Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal. 3d 311, 318.) A demurrer for
sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) The only issue involved in a
demurrer hearing is whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Id.)
 
A demurrer assumes the truth of all factual,
material allegations properly pled in the challenged pleading. (Blank v.
Kirwan, supra, 39 Cal. 3d at p. 318.) No matter how unlikely or improbable,
the plaintiff’s allegations must be accepted as true for the purpose of ruling
on the demurrer. (Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981)
123 Cal.  App. 3d 593, 604.) But this does not include contentions;
deductions; conclusions of fact or law alleged in the complaint; facts
impossible in law; or allegations contrary to facts of which a court may take
judicial notice.  (Blank, supra, 39 Cal. 3d at 318.)
 
Pursuant to C.C.P. §§ 430.10(e) and (f), the
party against whom a complaint has been filed may demur to the pleading on the
grounds that the pleading does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause
of action, or that the pleading is uncertain, ambiguous and/or unintelligible.
It is an abuse of discretion to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if
there is a reasonable probability that the defect can be cured by amendment. (Schifando
v. City of Los Angeles (2003) 31 Cal. 4th 1074, 1082.)
 
Motion
to Strike 
 
Motions
to strike are used to reach defects or objections to pleadings that are not
challengeable by demurrer, such as words, phrases, and prayers for damages.
(See C.C.P. §§ 435, 436, and 437.) The proper procedure to attack false
allegations in a pleading is a motion to strike. (C.C.P. § 436(a).) In granting
a motion to strike made under C.C.P. § 435, “[t]he court may, upon a motion
made pursuant to Section 435 [notice of motion to strike whole or part of
complaint], or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper:
(a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any
pleading.” (C.C.P. § 436(a).) Irrelevant matters include immaterial allegations
that are not essential to the claim or those not pertinent to or supported by
an otherwise sufficient claim. (C.C.P. § 431.10.) 
 
The court
may also “[s]trike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.”
(C.C.P. § 436 (b).)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Meet and Confer 
 
C.C.P. §§
430.41(a) and 435.5(a) requires that the moving party meet and confer with the
party who filed the pleading that is subject to the demurrer and/or motion to
strike. Upon review, the Court finds the meet and confer requirements were met.
(Lo Decl. ¶ 4.) 
 
Request for
Judicial Notice 
 
Hovig and the
Estate request judicial notice of the following: 
 
1.     
Allowance/Rejection of
Plaintiff’s Creditor’s Claim filed January 26, 2024 in the probate action
bearing the LASC case number 22STPB0697. (Exh. 1.)
 
2.     
Substitution of
Attorney filed February 14, 2024 in the above probate action. (Exh. 2.)
 
As the above are records of the
Court within the meaning of Evidence Code § 452, the request is GRANTED. 
 
Facts
Alleged 
 
Plaintiff alleges that she was an attorney for
Foothill Law Group (FLG) from 2017 to 2022. (FAC ¶ 2.) Plaintiff alleges that FLG
failed to pay her for legal services rendered from March 2020 to March 2022.
(FAC ¶ 16.) Plaintiff alleges she was eventually paid $32,000 in 2022 but
maintains that she is owed in excess of $250,000 for her billed hours. (FAC ¶¶ 18,
40.)  
 
The Court notes that Plaintiff’s does not
allege who owned/operated FLG during her tenure. Plaintiff only alleges that
during this time, “the attorneys included the Decedent, Plaintiff,
another senior attorney, and a paralegal.” (FAC ¶ 10.) To be clear, Plaintiff’s
FAC states no facts as to the ownership of FLG or the nature of Decedent’s
position within it. Though it can be inferred that Plaintiff believes Decedent
to have been the owner/operator of FLG, this fact has not been alleged in
either the Complaint or the FAC. 
 
On June 1, 2022, Decedent passed away. (FAC
¶ 19.) On July 18, 2022, a probate matter was opened for the
Decedent, identified by Case No. 22STPB06987. (FAC ¶ 20.) Hovig, Decedent’s
husband, appointed himself as the administrator of the estate. (FAC ¶ 21.)

 
On September 12, 2022, Plaintiff
submitted a creditor’s claim in the administration of Decedent’s Estate which
was denied. (FAC ¶ 23.) Plaintiff alleges that this rejection occurred on
November 28, 2023, but was not filed until January 16, 2024. (Id.) Plaintiff
alleges this rejection was outside the 30-day time limit provided by Probate
Code § 9256. (Id.)
 
Plaintiff alleges that on October
15, 2021, the property located at 230 E. Foothill St., Arcadia, CA 91106 (the
Arcadia Property), was transferred to both Decedent and Hovig Meguerditchian.
(FAC ¶ 25.) Plaintiff alleges that this transfer was coerced because the
deed was not filed until January 30, 2023, after Decedent’s passing. (Id.)
Plaintiff further alleges this property was sold in July 2023 for $975,000.00.
(FAC ¶ 26.) 
 
Plaintiff states that while
Decedent was on medical leave, funds were withdrawn to acquire personal assets.
(FAC ¶ 27.) Plaintiff does not allege who withdrew these funds.
 
Plaintiff alleges that she
believes FLG funds were used to purchase a home located at 665 Plaza Laredo,
Lake Havasu City, AZ 86406 (the Havasu Property). (FAC ¶ 29.) This property was
allegedly purchased on October 10, 2021. (FAC ¶ 30.) The property was
allegedly sold on October 11, 2022 for $912,500.00. (FAC ¶ 30.) Plaintiff
believes that these withdrawals were made with the expectation of replacing the
funds once Decedent returned to work. (FAC ¶31.) 
 
Lastly, Plaintiff alleges that Hovig has
impeded the proceedings in the probate matter by refusing to produce FLG’s
QuickBooks record. (FAC ¶ 34.) 
 
Claims Against
the Estate & Administrator
 
The Court begins by addressing the demur brought
by the Estate and Hovig (as administrator) on grounds that the entire FAC is
barred by the statute of limitations under C.C.P.
§ 366.2 and Probate Code § 9353. Analysis of this demurrer requires a brief
overview of these statutes.
 
C.C.P. § 366.2
provides, in pertinent part, as follows:
 
(a)
If a person against whom an action may be brought on a liability of the person,
whether arising in contract, tort, or otherwise, and whether accrued or not
accrued, dies before the expiration of the applicable limitations period, and
the cause of action survives, an action may be commenced within one year after
the date of death, and the limitations period that would have been applicable
does not apply.
 
Where a decedent
has died more than a year prior to filing this action the statute of
limitations would bar any causes of action filed more than one year after their
death, absent allegations supporting statutory or equitable tolling. (See Dacey
v. Taraday (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 962, 979-986; Battuello v. Battuello
(1998) 64 Cal.App.4th 842, 847-48.) This statute furthers the strong public
policy of expeditious and final estate administration. (Bradley v. Breen
(1999) 73 Cal.App.4th 798, 805 [plaintiff’s right of indemnity against a
defendant is lost if not claimed within one year of the defendant’s death, even
if the right of indemnity could not have been claimed sooner].)
 
In consideration
of C.C.P. § 366.2, Probate Code § 9352 states that the filing of a claim in a
probate matter tolls the one year statute of limitations for actions against a
deceased person. Probate Code § 9353 builds off this, providing in pertinent
part, 
 
(a)
Regardless of whether the statute of limitations otherwise applicable to a
claim will expire before or after the following times, a claim rejected in
whole or in part is barred as to the part rejected unless, within the following
times, the creditor commences an action on the claim or the matter is referred
to a referee or to arbitration: (1) If the claim is due at the time the notice
of rejection is given, 90 days after the notice is given.
 
Lastly, Probate
Code § 9351 provides that an action may not be commenced against a decedent's
personal representative unless the claim is first filed and rejected. 
 
Here, Plaintiff’s claims are well outside the
statute of limitations established by C.C.P. § 366.2. While this time limit may
be tolled by the filing of a creditor’s claim in a probate action, Plaintiff’s
creditors claim was not submitted until after the year had passed. Plaintiff
presents no authority, which allows an expired statutory time limit to be
retroactively tolled. 
 
Even assuming that the creditor’s claim was filed
such that the limitation of C.C.P. § 366.2 was tolled, Plaintiff still failed
to timely bring her action within the time limit described by Probate Code §
9353. The Court explains further. 
 
Probate Code § 9351 required Plaintiff to bring a
claim in Decedent’s probate matter prior to filing this action. It is
undisputed that Plaintiff in fact did so on September 12, 2022. (FAC
¶ 22, RJN Exh. 1.) Per Probate Code § 9352, Plaintiff’s filing of this
claim would have tolled any active statute of limitations for her action
against the Estate and Hovig as its representative while her claim was pending.
Probate Code
§ 9256 required the administrator, Hovig, to accept or reject this claim within
30 days. It is clear from the judicially noticed Exhibit 1 that on November 28,
2023, Hovig provided notice that Plaintiff’s claim was rejected. (RJN Exh. 1.) 
 
Once having received notice of the rejection,
Probate Code § 9351 required Plaintiff to bring her action within 90 days.
Plaintiff did not file this action until April 19, 2024, by which time the 90
days from rejection has long since elapsed. Thus, Plaintiff’s claims against
Decedent, the Estate, and Hovig (as administrator) are necessarily time barred.

 
The Court notes that Plaintiff does not dispute
having received notice of the rejection. Instead, Plaintiff has now pled that
the rejection was not filed until well after the 30 days provided by Probate
Code § 9352. (FAC ¶ 23.) This allegation is of no consequence to whether
Plaintiff’s Complaint was timely filed. Probate Code § 9352 requires the
administrator to serve notice of the rejection and makes no mention of a filing
date. Further, Probate Code § 9353
is clear that the time for filing an action is 90 days “after the notice is given.” As Plaintiff has not
disputed timely receipt of notice, she cannot hope to avoid the statute of
limitations on the technical argument that the rejection was not filed until a
later date. 
 
Plaintiff presents several arguments as to why
her claims should not be time barred. The Court finds these unpersuasive and
addresses each of them in turn. 
 
Plaintiff first argues that her claims are not
barred because C.C.P. § 366.2 does not bar her ability to state a claim against
Hovig for torts allegedly committed independently of his role as administrator.
Plaintiff cites to Ferraro v. Camarlinghi (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th
509 in support of this contention. The Court finds this argument to be
misplaced. Whether Plaintiff can maintain an action against Hovig for
independent torts has no bearing on her claims against him as an administrator,
and even less bearing on her claims against the Estate. As concerns the claims
against Hovig individually, the Court will address these in greater detail
below. 
 
Plaintiff next argues that the relevant statute
of limitations should be tolled by virtue of a continuing wrong. Plaintiff
cites to Aryeh v. Canon Business Solutions, Inc. (2013) 55 Cal.4th
1185 in asserting that the continuing violation doctrine applies where repeated
acts cause distinct injuries. This argument is unpersuasive for two reasons. 
 
First, Plaintiff has alleged no continuing tort
in her FAC. Plaintiff’s allegations in the FAC all occurred within Decedent’s
lifetime. The Foothill and Havasu properties were alleged to have been
purchased with misappropriated FLG funds during Decedent’s lifetime. 
 
Second, Plaintiff has alleged no “distinct
injury” from a continuing tort. Even if Plaintiff had pled an ongoing wrong,
the alleged harm would still be the misappropriation of funds she believes are
otherwise owed to her for her legal services. As the court in Aryeh observed,
the continuing violation doctrine is inapplicable where a pleading identifies “discrete,
independently actionable alleged wrongs. (Aryeh, supra, 55 Cal.4th
at 1198.) 
 
Third, the alleged facts relied upon by Plaintiff
to support the existence of a continuing violation are not present in the FAC.
Plaintiff argues that:  
 
After June 1, 2022,
Defendants continued diverting firm funds, transferring approximately $200,000
from the firm’s accounts into personal accounts. Moreover, Hovig was taking
$1,700 each month from March 2021- June 2022. Lastly, roughly $4,500,00 was taken
out of FLG account each month and was used to pay a mortgage each month which
Defendants Hovig and Nilda benefited from. 
 
(Opp. p. 6.)
 
None of the above information appears in the FAC.
Even if these allegations were present, they are insufficiently detailed.
Plaintiff fails to allege who has taken these funds out, when they took them
out. 
 
Plaintiff’s final argument is that her cause of
action for Fraud should not be barred because of the delayed discovery rule is
similarly unpersuasive. Plaintiff cites to McCoy v. Gustafson
(2009) 180 Cal.App.4th 56 in stating that the fraud statute of limitations only
runs from discovery of the fraud. The issue here is that Plaintiff has not alleged
delayed discovery in her FAC and has only presented these arguments outside the
scope of the pleadings. 
 
In summary, the Court finds the
claims against the Estate and Hovig (as administrator) are barred by the
applicable statute of limitations. The demurrer to each cause of action stated
against these parties is SUSTAINED without leave to amend, with the exception of
the causes of action for Fraud and Constructive Fraud to which the demurrer is
SUSTAINED with 20 days’ leave to amend. Leave to amend is granted as concerns
these causes of action insofar as Plaintiff may plead facts supporting her
delayed discovery of the fraud such that the statute of limitations was
tolled.  
 
Claims Against Hovig and Nilda Individually  
 
Having sustained the demurrer as to the Estate
and Hovig (as administrator), the Court turns to the demurrer of individual
Defendants Hovig and Nilda. Hovig and Nilda demur to each cause of action
stated against them on grounds that the FAC fails to allege sufficient facts to
support each cause of action. Hovig and Nilda argue at great length about the
sufficiency of each cause of action, and Plaintiff opposes each of these
arguments. In the Court’s view, such a granular approach is not necessary at
this time. 
 
Plaintiff’s factual allegations in the FAC
address the actions of Defendants as a whole. Plaintiff’s allegations of
misappropriating funds, refusal to pay her for legal services, and engaging in
fraudulent billing practices all state that these actions were taken by
“Defendants”. This creates an issue in the clarity of the pleading. No one
Defendant can look at the FAC and conclusively determine what acts they are
alleged to have taken. 
 
Hovig and Nilda, as individual Defendants, are
only mentioned a handful of times in the FAC. The allegations as to Hovig,
individually, are as follows: 
 
·        
Hovig is responsible for the administration of
the estate and is alleged to have engaged in wrongful conduct affecting
Plaintiff’s compensation and other financial matters related to the estate.
(FAC ¶ 4.)
 
·        
Plaintiff’s request for payment from the
Decedent and Defendant Hovig Meguerditchian were ignored. (FAC ¶ 17, 67.) 
 
·        
Hovig appointed himself administrator of the
Estate and rejected Plaintiff’s claim. (FAC ¶¶ 21, 23.) 
 
·        
The Arcadia Property was transferred to Hovig
and Decedent in October 2021. (FAC ¶ 25.) 
 
·        
Hovig has failed to provided critical financial
records for FLG to the Court Appointed Practice Administrator. (FAC ¶33.) 
 
·        
Hovig repeatedly assured Plaintiff she would be
paid for her legal services. (FAC ¶ 79.) 
 
None of these allegations are sufficiently
detailed to allow Hovig to determine whether the cause of action is being
leveled against him as administrator or as an individual defendant. Many of the
allegations. Furthering this confusion is the fact that the causes of action
specifically naming Hovig (the fifth, ninth, tenth, and eleventh) do not
specifically state whether he is being named as an individual or as
administrator. The factual allegations in these causes of action do little to
alleviate this confusion. 
 
In short, Plaintiff’s failure to distinguish
between allegations against Hovig the administrator and her allegations against
Hovig the individual has resulted in her failure to sufficiently plead her
causes of action. This insufficiency appears to the Court to be reasonably curable
upon amendment. Thus, the demurrer of Hovig (an individual) to each cause of
action is SUSTAINED with 20 days’ leave to amend. 
 
As concerns Nilda, the FAC alleges the following:

 
·        
Nilda is Decedent’s mother, was involved in
handling FLG funds, preparing 1099 forms, and is believed to have participated
in the misappropriation of funds and fraudulent activities at FLG. (FAC ¶ 5.)
 
·        
Payments to Plaintiff for her services were made
via checks from FLG’s Bank of America account, and 1099 forms were prepared by
Defendant Nilda Meg. (FAC ¶ 14.) 
 
The Court finds these allegations too vague to
support the causes of action leveled at Nilda. The FAC is practically silent as
to any actions she has allegedly taken, save for the act of preparing
Plaintiff’s 1099 form. Accordingly, the demur of Nilda to each cause of action
is SUSTAINED with 20 days’ leave to amend. 
 
Motion to Strike 
 
As the Court has granted leave to amend as to at
least one of the causes of action upon which Plaintiff’s claims for attorney’s
fees and punitive damages are predicated, the motion to strike those
allegations is MOOT. 
---
 
RULING:
 
In the event the parties submit on this
tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed order or the Court in its
discretion elects to sign a formal order, the following form will be either
electronically signed or signed in hard copy and entered into the Court’s
records. 
 
ORDER
 
The Estate of Desiree Marie Meguerditchian,
Hovig Meguerditchian, and Nilda Meg’s Demurrer and
Motion to Strike came on regularly for hearing on December 20, 2024,
with appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and
the Court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as
follows:
 
THE DEMURRER
OF THE ESTATE AND HOVIG, AS ADMINISTRATOR, TO CAUSES OF ACTION ONE, TWO, THREE,
FOUR, FIVE, SIX, SEVEN, AND ELEVEN IS SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
THE
DEMURRER OF THE ESTATE AND HOVIG, AS ADMINISTRATOR, TO CAUSES OF ACTION EIGHT
AND TEN IS SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS’ LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
THE
DEMURRER OF HOVIG, AN INDIVIDUAL, TO CAUSES OF ACTION TWO, THREE, FOUR,
SIX, SEVEN, EIGHT, NINE, AND TEN IS SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS’ LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
THE DEMURRER OF NILDA TO CAUSES OF ACTION TWO, THREE, FOUR, SIX, SEVEN, EIGHT, NINE, AND
TEN IS SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS’ LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
THE
MOTION TO STRIKE IS MOOT.
 
THE
CASE MANAGEMENT CONFERENCE IS CONTINUED TO APRIL 3, 2025 AT 9:00 AM. 
 
THE ESTATE TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATE:  December
20, 2024                           _______________________________
                                                                   
    F.M. Tavelman, Judge
                                                                        Superior
Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 