  Case Number:  23CHCV02332    Hearing Date:   May 31, 2024    Dept:  F51 
MAY 30, 2024
 

MOTIONS TO COMPEL FURTHER
DISCOVERY RESPONSES

(Form
Interrogatories, Requests for Production, and Special Interrogatories, Set One)
Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23CHCV02332

 
Motions
filed: 2/8/24
 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendant
Adam Schwartz (“Defendant”)
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiff
Samvel Aram Palchyants (“Plaintiff”)
NOTICE: ok
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED: An
order compelling Plaintiff’s further responses to the following discovery
requests within 10 days:
·        
Defendant’s
Form Interrogatories, Set One, Nos. 4.1, 6.2, 6.3, 6.7, and 17.1;
·        
Defendant’s
Requests for Production (“RFPs”), Set One, Nos. 2, 10, 11, and 27; and
·        
Defendant’s
Special Interrogatories, Set One, Nos. 2 and 5.
Defendant
also requests monetary sanctions against Plaintiff and his counsel in the total
amount of $2,215.00.
 
TENTATIVE
RULING: The
unopposed motions are granted. Plaintiff is ordered to serve further code-compliant
responses to the subject discovery requests, within 20 days. The Court imposes
sanctions against Plaintiff or his counsel in the amount of $1355.00 payable within 30 days.
 
 
A.    Form
Interrogatory Nos. 4.1, 6.2, 6.3, 6.7 and 17.1
 
Form Interrogatory No. 4.1 seeks information about
Plaintiff’s insurance policy limits; No. 6.2 seeks areas of the body where
Plaintiff was injured in the subject incident; No. 6.3 seeks information about
any of Plaintiff’s ongoing injuries; No. 6.7 seeks information about any future
treatment Plaintiff will be required to undergo; and No 17.1 seeks supporting
documentation for any of Plaintiff’s denials to Defendant’s requests for
admission. (Def.’s Sep. Stmt.)
 
Here, Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s responses to
the subject Form Interrogatories are evasive and incomplete, making reference
to Plaintiff’s document production without providing straightforward answers to
each interrogatory and corresponding subsections.  The Court agrees, and further notes that
Plaintiff has failed to oppose the instant motions. Accordingly, the Court
grants Defendant’s motion to compel Plaintiff’s further responses to
Defendant’s Form Interrogatories, Set One, Nos. 4.1, 6.2, 6.3, 6.7, and 17.1.
 
B.     RFP
Nos. 2, 10, 11, and 27
 
RFP No. 2 seeks reports prepared by any of Plaintiff’s
healthcare providers during a 5-year period preceding the subject incident; RFP
No. 10 seeks estimates Plaintiff obtained for damage to personal property; RFP
No. 11 seeks documents reflecting any repairs made for damage to Plaintiff’s
personal property; and RFP No. 27 seeks documents pertaining to cell phone
calls made by Plaintiff on the date of the incident. (Def.’s Sep. Stmt.)
 
In response to RFP Nos. 2, 10, and 11, Plaintiff
stated that he would “produce non-privileged responsive documents in his
possession, custody, or control,” but ultimately failed to produce such
documents.  As to RFP No. 27, Plaintiff responded
that “after a diligent search and reasonable inquiry, Responding Party is
unable to comply with the request because the particular category of documents
never existed, have been destroyed, have been lost, misplaced, or stolen, or
have never been, or are no longer, in the possession, custody, or control of
the Responding Party.” (Id. at 6:17–20.)
 
Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that further
responses to the subject RFPs are warranted, particularly where Plaintiff
agreed to produce responsive documents, yet failed to do so. As to RFP No. 27,
the Court finds that Plaintiff’s response fails to identify “the name and
address of any natural person or organization known or believed by that party
to have possession, custody, or control of that item or category of item.”
(Code Civ. Proc. §  2031.230.)
Accordingly, the Court grants Defendant’s motion to compel Plaintiff’s further
responses to Defendant’s RFPs, Set One, Nos. 2, 10, 11, and 27.
 
The Court acknowledges that its 5/22/24 Minute Order
incorrectly states that Defendant’s motion to compel plaintiff Samvel Aram
Palchyant’s further responses to Defendant’s first set of RFPs is granted,
where the 5/22/24 hearing date was set for Defendant’s motions to compel
plaintiff Samvel Palchyant’s further responses to Defendant’s first set of
discovery requests. The hearing on Defendant’s motion to compel plaintiff
Samvel Aram Palchyant’s further responses to Defendant’s first set of
RFPs is set for this date, 5/31/24.
 
C.    Special
Interrogatory Nos. 2 and 5
 
Special Interrogatory No. 2 seeks the identity of
Plaintiff’s primary treating physician/family doctor at the time of the subject
incident; and No. 5 seeks Plaintiff’s subscriber number for any medical care
provided by a Health Management Organization during the 2-year period prior to
the date of the interrogatories. (Def.’s Sep. Stmt.)
 
Here, Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s responses to
the subject Form Interrogatories are evasive and incomplete, failing to address
the call of the question. (Ibid.) The Court agrees, and again notes that
Plaintiff has failed to oppose the instant motions. Accordingly, the Court
grants Defendant’s motion to compel Plaintiff’s further responses to
Defendant’s Special Interrogatories, Set One, Nos. 2 and 5.
 
D.    Monetary
Sanctions
 
“The court shall impose a monetary sanction … against
any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to
compel a response to interrogatories [or RFPs], unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
2030.290, subd. (c); Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.310, subd. (h).) Additionally, “the
court may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse
of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay
the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result
of that conduct.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.030, subd. (a).)
 
Here, Defendant requests a total combined sum of $2,215.00
in monetary sanctions against Plaintiff and his counsel,
which encompasses 11 hours of Defendant’s attorney’s time spent across all
three motions, at counsel’s hourly billing rate of $185.00 per hour. Defendant
also seeks to recover $60.00 in filing fees per motion. In granting the instant
motions, the Court finds it reasonable to award Defendant monetary sanctions in
the amount of $1355.00.against Plaintiff and his
counsel.
CONCLUSION
 
The unopposed motions are granted. Plaintiff is ordered to
serve further code-compliant responses to the subject discovery requests,
within 20 days. The Court imposes sanctions against Plaintiff and his counsel
in the amount of $1355.00 payable within 30 days. 
 