 Case Number:  24TRCV03332    Hearing Date:   January 6, 2025    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                            Friday, January 3, 2025
Department M                                                                                                            Calendar No. 13
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Portofino Hotel Partners, LP v. Alaisen
Reed, et al. 
            24TRCV03332
1.      Portofino Hotel Partners, LP’s Motion to Compel Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One, and Request
for Sanctions
2.      Portofino Hotel Partners, LP’s Motion to Compel
Responses to Request for Production of Documents, Set One, and Request for
Sanctions
3.      Portofino Hotel Partners, LP’s Motion to Deem Admitted
Requests for Admissions, Set One, and Request for Sanctions  
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Portofino Hotel Partners, LP’s Motions
to Compel Responses to Form Interrogatories, and Request for Production of
Documents, Set One, and Requests for Sanctions are granted. 
 
Portofino Hotel Partners, LP’s Motion to Deem Admitted
Requests for Admissions, Set One, and Request for Sanctions is granted.   
 
Background 
            
            Plaintiff filed the Complaint on
October 7, 2024. This is a residential unlawful detainer action.  
 
            Motions to Compel/Deem Admitted
 
CCP § 2030.290 states: “If a party to whom
interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response, the following
rules apply…The party propounding the interrogatories may move for an order
compelling response to the interrogatories.” (CCP § 2030.290(b).)  
 
CCP § 2031.300 states: “If a party to whom a demand
for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling is directed fails to serve a
timely response to it, the following rules shall apply: The party making the
demand may move for an order compelling response to the demand.”  (CCP § 2031.300(b)).
 
Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280 states:
“If a party to whom requests for admission are
directed fails to serve a timely response, the following rules apply:
(a) The party to whom the requests for admission are
directed waives any objection to the requests, including one based on privilege
or on the protection for work product under Chapter 4 (commencing with Section
2018.010). The court, on motion, may relieve that party from this waiver on its
determination that both of the following conditions are satisfied:
(1) The party has subsequently served a response that
is in substantial compliance with Sections 2033.210, 2033.220, and 2033.230.
(2) The party's failure to serve a timely response was
the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect.
(b) The requesting party may move for an order that
the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in the
requests be deemed admitted, as well as for a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010).
(c) The court shall make this order, unless it finds
that the party to whom the requests for admission have been directed has
served, before the hearing on the motion, a proposed response to the requests
for admission that is in substantial compliance with Section 2033.220. It is
mandatory that the court impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing
with Section 2023.010) on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure to
serve a timely response to requests for admission necessitated this motion.”
 
First, the Court notes that in the notice of ruling of
the ex parte application filed on December 11, 2024, Plaintiff refers to a
motion to compel responses special interrogatories. However, no such motion was
ever filed with the Court. Instead, Plaintiff filed a duplicate copy of the
motion to compel responses to form interrogatories. Thus, no ruling can be made
to a non-filed motion to compel responses to special interrogatories.
 
            Plaintiff served upon Defendant Form
Interrogatories, Set One, Request for Production of Documents, Set One, and
Requests for Admissions, Set One, on October 21, 2024. (Decls., Scott Spinrad).
Plaintiff contends that no responses were served to the discovery requests.
(Id.) 
 
            Plaintiff’s Motions to Compel
Responses to Form Interrogatories, and Request for Production of Documents, Set
One, and Requests for Sanctions are granted. Defendant is ordered to serve
responses, without objections, within 10 days of this date.
 
            Plaintiff’s Motion to Deem Admitted
Requests for Admissions, Set One, and Request for Sanctions is granted. Plaintiff’s
requests for admissions, set one, are deemed admitted.
 
            The Court notes that recently
Defendant filed a motion to vacate the Court’s ruling on the ex parte
application to advance the hearing date of the instant motions. However,
Defendant filed no written oppositions to the instant motions. Defendant’s own
motion to vacate is supported solely by her self-serving contention that she
did not receive notice of the ex parte application. As of this date, Defendant
has not shown that she has responded to the discovery items at issue with these
motions.
 
            Sanctions
 
Plaintiff’s requests for monetary sanctions are
granted. 
 
Defendants is sanctioned the total amount of $1,280.00
which is the amount requested by moving party. The amount requested is
reasonable.  
 
Sanctions are payable within 30 days of this date.
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.
 