  Case Number:  24TRCV00196    Hearing Date:   January 6, 2025    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                       Friday,
January 3, 2025
Department M                                                                                                         Calendar No. 9
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
            Think 5 Entertainment, Inc., et al. v. Game Cloud
Network, Inc., et al. 
            24TRCV00196
1.      Nixon
Peabody LLP’s, Counsel for Defendants Game Cloud Network, Inc., GameCloud
Studios, Inc., and Aaron Baker, Motion to be Relieved as Counsel     
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Nixon Peabody LLP’s, Counsel for Defendants
Game Cloud Network, Inc., GameCloud Studios, Inc., and Aaron Baker, Motion to
be Relieved as Counsel is granted.       
 
            Background
 
            Plaintiffs
filed the Complaint on January 19, 2024. Plaintiffs’ First Amended Complaint
was filed on June 4, 2024. Plaintiffs allege the following facts. Plaintiffs’
attempt to launch a virtual gaming and entertainment concept was thwarted by
the conduct of Defendants. Defendants stole intellectual property and breached
contracts. Plaintiffs allege numerous causes of action. 
 
            Motion to be Relieved as Counsel
 
            Counsel states, in the declaration,
valid reasons for withdrawal. Counsel states that there has been a breakdown in
the relationship and irreconcilable differences. The Court finds that the
attorney has filed the required declaration. 
The Court also finds that the attorney has shown sufficient reasons why
the motion to be relieved as counsel should be granted and why the attorney
brought a motion under Code of Civil Procedure § 284(2) instead of filing a
consent under section 284(1). 
 
            Therefore, the motion to be relieved as counsel is granted.
 
            The attorney is relieved
as counsel of record for the clients effective upon the filing of the proof of
service of the signed order upon the client. 
 
            The Court orders that
the demurrers/motions to strike and CMC currently scheduled for January 16,
2025 are continued to February 27, 2025 to be heard on the same date as the
demurrer and motion to strike which is scheduled for that date. Judicial
economy and efficiency support the hearing of all the demurrers/motions to
strike on the same date. 
 
              Nixon Peabody LLP is ordered to give
notice of the Court’s ruling.