 Case Number:  24TRCV03805    Hearing Date:   January 6, 2025    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                   Monday,
January 6, 2025
Department M                                                                                                      Calendar No. 10 
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Donald Baxter, et al. v. Prime
Healthcare Services, Inc., et al.
            24TRCV03805
1.      Donald Baxter’s Motion for Trial Preference 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Donald Baxter’s Motion for Trial
Preference is denied without prejudice.  
 
Background 
            
            Plaintiffs filed the Complaint on November
12, 2024. Plaintiffs allege the following facts. Plaintiff Donald Baxter
suffered injuries while in the care of Defendants.  Plaintiffs set forth the following causes of
action: 1. Medical Malpractice; 2. Loss of Consortium; 3. Medical Battery; 4.
NIED; 5. Vicarious Liability; 6. Negligent Hiring, Supervision, Retention; 7.
Violation of Patient Bill of Rights; 8. Custodial Neglect.    
 
            Motion for Preferential Trial
Date
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 36 states, in relevant
part:
“(d) In its discretion, the court may also grant a
motion for preference that is accompanied by clear and convincing
medical documentation that concludes that one of the parties suffers
from an illness or condition raising substantial medical doubt of survival of
that party beyond six months, and that satisfies the court that the
interests of justice will be served by granting the preference.
(e) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the
court may in its discretion grant a motion for preference that is supported
by a showing that satisfies the court that the interests of justice will
be served by granting this preference.
            (f) Upon the granting of such a
motion for preference, the court shall set the matter for trial not more than
120 days from that date and there shall be no continuance beyond 120 days from
the granting of the motion for preference except for physical disability of a
party or a party's attorney, or upon a showing of good cause stated in the
record. Any continuance shall be for no more than 15 days and no more than one
continuance for physical disability may be granted to any party.”
 
“[T]he decision to grant or deny a preferential trial
setting rests at all times in the sound discretion of the trial court in light
of the totality of the circumstances.” Salas
v. Sears, Roebuck & Co. (1986) 42 Cal.3d 342, 344. 
 
Plaintiffs move for a trial preference pursuant to CCP
§ 36(d) and (e), based on Plaintiff Donald Baxter’s health condition. Plaintiffs
submitted no competent evidence with clear and convincing medical documentation
which concludes that Donald Baxter suffers from an illness or condition raising
substantial medical doubt of his survival beyond six months. Plaintiffs
submitted no competent evidence that the interests of justice will be served by
granting a trial preference. The motion is supported only by the declaration of
counsel who attached the following: excerpts from the Patient Health Summary of
Donald Baxter from UCLA Medical Center and Orthopedic Hospital; California
Department of Aging’s webpage discussing hospice care; California Department of
Aging webpage related to Hospice Care as it appeared on November 22, 2024. (Decl.,
Kenneth J. Melrose, ¶¶ 4-6, Exs. A-C.) Counsel provides no competent evidence
to establish personal knowledge to adequately provide the requisite foundation
for these documents. 
 
The motion is specifically not brought under
Section 36(a) which can be supported by the conclusory declaration of counsel.
“An affidavit submitted in support of a motion for preference under subdivision
(a) of Section 36 may be signed by the attorney for the party seeking
preference based upon information and belief as to the medical diagnosis and
prognosis of any party. The affidavit is not admissible for any purpose other
than a motion for preference under subdivision (a) of Section 36.” Code Civ.
Proc., § 36.5. “The standard under [Code of Civil Procedure Section 36]
subdivision (a), unlike under subdivision (d), which is more specific and more
rigorous, includes no requirement of a doctor’s declaration.” Fox v. Superior Court (2018) 21
Cal.App.5th 529, 534. Unlike other areas of the law, a declaration setting
forth the health of the party in support of a motion for preference under CCP §
36(a) may be made by a conclusory and hearsay declaration from counsel.  Here, the motion is brought under Sections 36(d)
and (e) which requires the submission of competent first-hand evidence rather
than conclusory statements from the attorney and documents to which the
attorney has not provided the proper foundation for its authenticity.
 
Therefore, Plaintiffs’ Motion for Preferential Trial
Setting is denied without prejudice. 
 
Plaintiffs are ordered to give notice of this ruling.