 Case Number:  21STCV27051    Hearing Date:   December 9, 2024    Dept:  50 Superior Court of
California
County of Los Angeles
Department 50
 



 
A
  TO Z TEXTILES, INC., a California corporation, ,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
MASON
  BRAND, INC., a California corporation, KEVIN OMRANI, an individual, and DOES
  1 through 10, inclusive, 
                        Defendants.
 


 
  Case No.:  21STCV27051
   
   
[TENTATIVE AND PROPOSED] STATEMENT OF DECISION BY THE COURT AFTER TRIAL 
 



 
 
[TENTATIVE
AND PROPOSED] STATEMENT OF DECISION BY
THE COURT AFTER TRIAL     
This
matter came on for trial on April 19 through 21, 2023 and August 7, 2023, in
Department 50 of the above-entitled Court before the Hon. Teresa A. Beaudet,
sitting without a jury. The Court, having considered the evidence and read the
trial briefs and closing arguments of counsel, issues this tentative and
proposed Statement of Decision. This tentative and proposed Statement of
Decision will become the Statement of Decision unless, within 15 days
hereafter, a party serves and files objections to the proposed Statement of
Decision. 
I.                
STIPULATED FACTS 
On March 30, 2023, the parties signed a document
entitled “Stipulated Facts.”[1]  As a result, the following facts were
stipulated for trial:
1.       The foregoing action was filed by Plaintiff
against the Defendants on July 22, 2021.
2.      Plaintiff
[A to Z Textiles, Inc.] is a California corporation and is in the fabric and
garment manufacturing business. 
3.      [Defendant]
Mason Brand [Inc.] (“Mason Brand”) is a California corporation and is in the
retail sales business.
4.      [Kevin]
Omrani (“Omrani”) is the sole shareholder, director and officer of Mason Brand
and has a financial interest in Mason Brand.
5.      An
individual named Raymond Arrehbori introduced Plaintiff to the Defendants.
6.      Mason
Brand[] first placed an order with Plaintiff for face masks (“First Order”).
Plaintiff delivered the First Order to Mason Brand. Plaintiff received payment
in full for the First Order.
7.      At
some time after the First Order, Mason Brand then requested that Plaintiff
manufacture certain garments (“Garments”).
8.      The
prevailing party in this lawsuit shall be entitled [to] an award of court costs
and reasonable attorneys fees. 
 
II.              
THE
MATERIAL ISSUES TO BE DETERMINED
The
following are the material issues to be determined by the Court:
·       
 Does
the California Commercial Code (the “Commercial Code”) Apply to this Dispute?
·       
Under
the Commercial Code, Did Defendant Mason Brand, Inc. (“Mason Brand”) Accept Some
or All of the Garments and Masks that Plaintiff Delivered to Mason Brand or Did
Mason Brand Seasonably Reject Some or All of the Garments and Masks?
 
·       
Is
Mason Brand Entitled to a Setoff Pursuant to the Ninth Affirmative Defense in
the Answer?
 
·       
Did Defendant Kevin Omrani (“Omrani”) Guaranty
Payment for the Masks?
A.   
Does the California
Commercial Code Apply to this Dispute? 
Both
parties agree that the dispute in this case is governed by the Commercial 
Code
 because Plaintiff and Mason Brand are “merchants”
under Commercial Code § 2104(1), and the subject sales
are “between merchants” within the scope of Commercial Code
§ 2104 (3); the Court agrees. 
B.    
Under the Commercial Code, Did Mason Brand
Accept Some or All of the Garments and Masks that Plaintiff Delivered to Mason Brand
or Did Mason Brand Seasonably Reject Some or All of the Garments? 
 
“Acceptance
of goods” occurs under § 2606 of the Commercial Code when, inter alia, 
the
buyer (a) [a]fter reasonable opportunity to inspect the goods signifies to the
seller that the goods are conforming or that he will take or retain them in
spite of their nonconformity….” 
     Under Commercial Code § 2601, “if the
goods or the tender of delivery fail in any respect to conform to the contract,
the buyer may (a) [r]eject the whole; or (b) [a]ccept the whole; or
(c) [a]ccept
any commercial unit or units and reject the rest.” 
     Commercial Code § 2602 provides that (1) [r]ejection
of goods must be within a reasonable time after their delivery or tender. It is
ineffective unless the buyer seasonably notifies the seller.
(2) …
(b) If the buyer has before rejection taken physical possession of goods in
which he does not have a security interest  … he is under a duty after
rejection to hold them with reasonable care at the seller’s disposition for a
time sufficient to permit the seller to remove them; but (c) [t]he buyer
has no further obligations with regard to goods rightfully rejected.”
     Under Commercial Code § 2604, “if the
seller gives no instructions within a reasonable time after notification of
rejection the buyer may store the rejected goods for the seller’s account or
reship them to him or resell them for the seller’s account with reimbursement…
Such action is not acceptance or conversion.”
     The evidence at trial established that
Plaintiff delivered both garments and masks to Mason Brand. The evidence conflicted
as to whether Mason Brand had prepaid for some or all of the garments delivered
and the evidence also conflicted as to whether Mason Brand ever ordered the
large order of masks. Nevertheless, the evidence did support Defendants’
contention that the garments and masks that were delivered were nonconforming
and that Defendants so informed Plaintiff and seasonably demanded that
Plaintiff retrieve them. Although Mr. Asherian (“Asherian”), on behalf of Plaintiff,
demanded that Mason Brand retain the nonconforming masks and garments and sell
them for salvage value, Mason Brand was not required to do so. Under Commercial
Code § 2601(a), a buyer has the right to “reject the whole,” which is what Mason
Brand did. Mason Brand not only held the goods with reasonable care as required
by Commercial Code §2602, Mason Brand continues to hold the goods and they remain
available to Plaintiff to retrieve.
     Under the provisions of the Commercial
Code, Plaintiff may not recover on his claims against Mason Brand for failure
to pay for the nonconforming goods.
     With regard to the masks identified in
Exhibits 7, 8 and 11, Omrani testified that he never ordered or received those
masks. Additionally, Omrani testified that, although the signature on those exhibits
is his signature, he did not actually sign those exhibits. He speculated that
the signatures may have been photoshopped onto the invoices, though he did not
explain how it would be that Asherian or someone acting on Plaintiff’s behalf would
have access to so many varying versions of his signature to photoshop onto the
documents. Somewhat surprisingly, at no point during the trial did Asherian or
any other witness on behalf of Plaintiff, refute this contention. Moreover, Asherian,
the only witness called by Plaintiff, acknowledged that he had no direct
knowledge of Exhibits 7, 8 or 11 because the orders were placed with “Raymond,”
and a private company delivered the face masks except for the large order reflected
in Exhibit 13; he only delivered garments (not masks) to Mason Brand.[2]
Consequently, Asherian was not able to explain how it was that Omrani’s
signature came to be on Exhibits 7, 8 and 11. It is also worth noting that when
garments rather than masks were delivered to Mason Brand, an employee of Mason Brand
signed the packing slips (see Exhibits 16-22). There was no evidence presented
that any Mason Brand employee signed packing slips that correlated with
Exhibits 7, 8 or 11.[3]
Plaintiff did not provide any testimony by a representative of the company that
delivered the masks identified in Exhibits 7, 8 and 11, nor did Raymond testify
regarding the ordering and delivery of the items identified in Exhibit 7;
consequently, Omrani’s testimony went unrefuted. As a result, the Court finds
that Plaintiff has not met its burden as to the amounts claimed pursuant to Exhibits
7, 8 and 11.
     With regard to the masks identified in
Exhibit 5, Omrani did not deny that he ordered the masks identified in that
Exhibit or that he had made a payment of $4,999.50 that was credited to the
original amount owed of $24,200. Additionally, Omrani did not testify that the
goods identified in Exhibit 5 were nonconforming. Consequently, Mason Brand
owes Plaintiff $19,100.50 for that invoice. 
C.   
Is Mason Brand Entitled to a Setoff
Pursuant to the Ninth Affirmative Defense in the Answer?
 
     The issue of a setoff came up during the
last day of trial. Counsel for Mason Brand and Omrani pointed out that the
Ninth Affirmative Defense in the Answer is for setoff based upon the nonconforming
goods that resulted in Mason Brand’s loss of the Forever 21 business. Exhibit
31 was admitted at trial showing that Omrani demanded that Plaintiff reimburse
Mason Brand for the amount he had paid for the Forever 21 order (i.e., $31,000,
plus $3,000 for checking each item, plus the $9,900 cancellation fee he had to
pay on his Forever 21 order of $220,000.) He demanded payment of $43,900. There
was no evidence presented that Plaintiff paid this amount or credited Mason
Brand with this amount. Consequently, Mason Brand is entitled to a setoff
pursuant to its Ninth Affirmative Defense in the amount of $43,900. Because the
amount of the offset is greater than the amount owed for Exhibit 5, no damages
are due to Plaintiff for nonpayment of Exhibit 5. 
D.   
Did Omrani Guaranty Payment
to Plaintiff for the Masks?
    The
guaranty of Omrani was only for the large order of masks. Consequently, Omrani
is not liable to Plaintiff on the guaranty since Plaintiff is not entitled to
recover on the invoices for the nonconforming large order of masks (Exhibit 13).

III.           
CONCLUSION
     For the reasons discussed above, the Court
finds for Mason Brand and Omrani and against Plaintiff. Pursuant to the
stipulation of the parties, Mason Brand and Omrani are entitled to recover their
costs and reasonable attorney fees which may be established either by
stipulation or a memorandum of costs and regularly noticed motion for fees. 
     Within ten days after this Statement of
Decision becomes final, Mason Brand and Omrani are ordered to file and serve a
proposed judgment as to Plaintiff in accordance with this Statement of Decision
(with a courtesy copy delivered to Dept. 50). The Court hereby dismisses the
Doe defendants if not dismissed previously. 
     Mason Brand and Omrani are ordered to give
notice of this tentative and proposed Statement of Decision.
DATED:  December 9, 2024
                                                                                    ___________________________
                                                                  
HONORABLE TERESA A. BEAUDET
                                                                        Judge, Los Angeles Superior
Court
 
 


