 Case Number:  24STCV15037    Hearing Date:   December 9, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 



GUILLERMO ORTIZ,
 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
AREAS USA LAX, LLC,
et al.
 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


24STCV15037




Hearing Date:


December 9, 2024




Hearing Time:


  2:00
  a.m.




 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:
 
DEFENDANT CARLOS
  BERNAL’S MOTION TO QUASH SERVICE OF SUMMONS FOR LACK OF JURISDICTION



 
Background
Plaintiff Guillermo Ortiz (“Plaintiff”) filed this action on June 17,
2024 against Defendants Areas USA LAX, LLC and Carlos Bernal (jointly,
“Defendants”). 
On August 23, 2024, Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended
Individual and Representative Complaint for Damages (“FAC”) in this action. The
FAC alleges causes of action for (1) failure to pay all minimum wages earned,
(2) failure to pay all overtime wages earned, 
(3)
failure to provide meal periods, (4) failure to provide rest periods, (5)
failure to pay all wages upon discharge, (6) failure to furnish accurate wage
statements, (7) failure to keep accurate payroll records, (8) failure to
provide employment records, (9) unlawful business practices, 
(10)
harassment, (11) retaliation, (12) failure to prevent discrimination, harassment
or retaliation, and (13) civil penalties under PAGA.[1] 
            On July 1, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
proof of service indicating that the Summons and Complaint were served on
Carlos Bernal by substituted service on June 28, 2024.  
Carlos Bernal, specially appearing (“Bernal”) now moves to quash the
summons on the grounds that the Court lacks personal jurisdiction over him.
Plaintiff opposes. 
Request for Judicial
Notice 
The Court grants Plaintiff’s request for
judicial notice. 
Evidentiary Objections 
The Court rules on Bernal’s evidentiary
objections to the Declaration of Kasey Diba as follows: 
Objection to Diba Declaration, ¶ 3: sustained 
Objection to Diba Declaration, ¶ 4: sustained 
Objection to Diba Declaration ¶ 10: sustained 
Objection to Diba Declaration ¶ 11: sustained 
Objection to Diba Declaration ¶ 12: sustained 
Objection to Diba Declaration ¶ 13: sustained 
Objection to Diba Declaration ¶ 14: sustained 
Objection to Diba Declaration ¶ 15: sustained 
Objection to Diba Declaration ¶ 16: sustained 
Objection to Diba Declaration ¶ 17: sustained 
Objection to Diba Declaration ¶ 18: sustained 
Objection to Diba Declaration ¶ 19: sustained 
Discussion
A.    Legal Standard 
Code of Civil Procedure section 418.10 provides in part: “A defendant, on
or before the last day of his or her time to plead or within any further time
that the court may for good cause allow, may serve and file a notice of motion…(1)
To quash service of summons on the ground of lack of jurisdiction of the court
over him or her.” ((Id.,
§ 418.10, subd. (a).) 
“California
courts may exercise jurisdiction on any basis that is not inconsistent with the
state and federal Constitutions. Thus, the inquiry in California is whether the
assertion of personal jurisdiction comports with the limits imposed by federal
due process.” ((Young v. Daimler AG (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 855, 865 [internal quotations and citations
omitted].) Due process
permits courts to exercise personal jurisdiction over nonresidents who have
“minimum contact” with the forum state such that the exercise of jurisdiction
does not offend “traditional notions of fair play and substantial justice.” (Int’l Shoe Co. v. Wash. (1945) 326 U.S. 310, 316.)
“Personal jurisdiction may be either general or specific.” ((Vons Companies, Inc. v. Seabest Foods, Inc. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 434, 445.) “A
defendant that has substantial, continuous, and systematic contacts with the
forum state is subject to general jurisdiction in the state, meaning
jurisdiction on any cause of action.” ((HealthMarkets,
Inc. v. Superior Court (2009) 171
Cal.App.4th 1160, 1167.) “General
jurisdiction, as its name implies, extends to any and all claims brought
against a defendant. Those claims need not relate to the forum State or the
defendant’s activity there; they may concern events and conduct anywhere in the
world. But that breadth imposes a correlative limit: Only a select set of
affiliations with a forum will expose a defendant to such sweeping
jurisdiction. In what [the Supreme Court]
ha[s] called the paradigm case, an individual is subject to general
jurisdiction in her place of domicile. And the equivalent forums for a
corporation are its place of incorporation and principal place of business.” (Preciado
v. Freightliner Custom Chassis Corp. (2023) 87 Cal.App.5th 964, 976 [internal
quotations and references to [Citation.] omitted].)
A nonresident may be subject to specific jurisdiction if a three-prong
test is met. “First, the defendant must have purposefully availed itself of the
state’s benefits. Second, the controversy must be related to or arise out of
the defendant’s contacts with the state. Third, considering the defendant’s
contacts with the state and other factors, California’s exercise of
jurisdiction over the defendant must comport with fair play and substantial
justice.” ((Gilmore Bank v. AsiaTrust New Zealand Ltd. (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 1558, 1568 [internal
citations and emphasis omitted].) “When a defendant moves to quash
service of process on jurisdictional grounds, the plaintiff has the initial
burden of demonstrating facts justifying the exercise of
jurisdiction. Once facts showing minimum contacts with the forum state are
established, however, it becomes the defendant’s burden to demonstrate that the
exercise of jurisdiction would be unreasonable.” (Vons Companies, Inc. v. Seabest Foods, Inc.,
supra, 14 Cal.4th at p. 449 [internal citations omitted].) 
B.    General
Jurisdiction 
First, Bernal asserts
that he is not subject to general jurisdiction in California. In his supporting
declaration, Bernal states that he is the CEO of Areas USA LAX, Inc., and that
Areas USA LAX, LLC is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Areas USA, Inc. (Bernal
Decl., ¶¶ 2-3.) In his declaration, Bernal states that “I am a citizen and
resident of Florida. I am also registered to vote in Florida and hold a Florida
driver’s license. I do not maintain a residence or own any property in
California, and I do not intend to reside in California. I primarily work out
of Areas USA LAX, LLC’s headquarters in Miami, Florida.” (Bernal Decl., ¶ 4.)
Bernal asserts that accordingly, his “contacts with California are nearly
non-existent and cannot meet the high burden of establishing general
jurisdiction.” (Mot. at p. 11:25-26.) 
Plaintiff does not appear to dispute that Bernal is not subject to
general jurisdiction in California. Rather, Plaintiff argues that Bernal is
“subject to the Court’s jurisdiction pursuant to Labor Code [sections 558 and 558.1] as the owner and/or managing
member of the entity defendant.” (Opp’n at p. 4:18-19.) These Code sections are
discussed below.
C.   
Labor Code Sections 558 and 558.1 
Labor Code section 558, subdivision (a)
provides that “[a]ny employer or other person
acting on behalf of an employer who violates, or causes to be violated, a
section of this chapter or any provision regulating hours and days of work in
any order of the Industrial Welfare Commission shall be subject to a civil
penalty…” In addition, Labor Code section 558.1, subdivision (a) provides that “[a]ny employer or
other person acting on behalf of an employer, who violates, or causes to be
violated, any provision regulating minimum wages or hours and days of work in
any order of the Industrial Welfare Commission, or violates, or causes to be
violated, Sections 203, 226, 226.7, 1193.6, 1194,
or 2802, may be held liable as the employer for such violation.” 
Plaintiff argues that “Bernal is subject to individual liability as
the member manager of AREAS, under the unambiguous language of Labor law
statute [sic], for causing, authorizing, or committing any labor law violations
of AREAS against its employees including Plaintiff, as alleged.” (Opp’n at p.
5:8-11.)[2] But
as noted by Bernal, Plaintiff appears to conflate the issues of liability and
personal jurisdiction. As Bernal notes, “for a court to hold a defendant liable
under Section 558.1, the Court must first have
jurisdiction over them. These are separate inquiries.” (Mot. at pp.
14:26-15:1.) Further, Bernal points out that Plaintiff “offers no legal
citations or authority…for the proposition that the potential liability of a
defendant on the plaintiff’s claims establishes or otherwise supports the
exercise of personal jurisdiction over that defendant.” (Reply at pp. 5:21-6:1
[emphasis omitted].) 
Based on the foregoing, the Court does not find that Plaintiff has
shown that the Court has jurisdiction over Bernal pursuant to Labor Code section 558 or
Labor Code section 558.1. 
D.    Specific
Jurisdiction 
            As set forth above, a nonresident
may be subject to specific jurisdiction if a three-prong test is met. “First,
the defendant must have purposefully availed itself of the state’s benefits.
Second, the controversy must be related to or arise out of the defendant’s
contacts with the state. Third, considering the defendant’s contacts with the
state and other factors, California’s exercise of jurisdiction over the
defendant must comport with fair play and substantial justice.” ((Ibid. [internal citations and emphasis omitted].)

Bernal asserts that he is not subject to specific jurisdiction in
California. As to the first prong, Bernal asserts that “Plaintiff makes no
allegations in the FAC, nor can he provide any
 evidentiary support” to establish purposeful
availment. (Mot. at p. 12:19-20.) As set forth above, Bernal states in his
supporting declaration that he is a “citizen and resident of Florida” and that
he is “registered to vote in Florida and hold[s] a Florida driver’s license.”
(Bernal Decl., ¶ 4.) Bernal also states that he does “not maintain a residence
or own any property in California, and [does] not intend to reside in
California.” (Bernal Decl., ¶ 4.) Bernal “primarily work[s] out of Areas USA
LAX, LLC’s headquarters in Miami, Florida.” (Bernal Decl., ¶ 4.)
            As
to the second prong, Bernal asserts that “Plaintiff’s purported causes of
action do not ‘arise out of’ the (negligible) contacts of Mr. Bernal. Put
differently, Mr. Bernal’s contacts with California are not the ‘but-for cause’
leading to Plaintiff’s alleged Labor Code violations.” (Mot. at p. 13:18-20.) In
his supporting declaration, Bernal states that “I do not supervise any
California employees, and Areas USA LAX, LLC’s operations are directly overseen
on a day-to-day basis by company employees other than myself. I did not develop
or implement employee policies or practices related to the payment of wages,
the provision of meal and rest periods, the timing of wage payments upon
termination, wage statement formats, or any other wage and hour requirements.”
(Bernal Decl., ¶ 5.) Bernal also states that “I have never met Guillermo Ortiz,
the plaintiff in the above-captioned action. I did not, or have any reason to,
supervise Mr. Ortiz’s employment – a former server at one of Areas USA LAX,
LLC’s many restaurants. I did not hire Mr. Ortiz, or have any control over his
wages, hours, and/or working conditions.” (Bernal Decl., ¶ 6.) 
            In the opposition, Plaintiff asserts
that Bernal is subject to the Court’s specific jurisdiction. Plaintiff contends
that “Bernal purposefully and intentionally established contacts with
California by establishing no less than six different corporate entities in the
State of California for profit, with none other than Bernal serving as the
member-manager of the businesses, inclusive of AREAS.” (Opp’n at p. 8:23-25.)
As set forth above, Exhibit “B” to Plaintiff’s RJN includes a Statement of
Information for Areas USA LAX, LLC, filed on September 27, 2024 with California
Office of the Secretary of State. This Statement of Information lists “Carlos
Bernal” below “Manager or Member Name.” (Plaintiff’s RJN, Ex. B.) Plaintiff’s
request for judicial notice also attaches Statements of Information filed with
the California Secretary of State for the entities Areas USA LAX II, LLC; Areas
USA SNA, LLC; Areas USA SAN, LLC; Areas USA OAK, LLC; and Areas USA SFO, LLC;
which list “Carlos Bernal” below “Manager or Member Name” and “Manager(s) or
Member(s).” (Plaintiff’s RJN, Exs. G, I, K, M, O.)[3] 
            Plaintiff contends that his causes
of action “arise out of” or are “related to” these purported contacts with
California. Plaintiff contends
that “Bernal reached out to California to avail himself of the
benefits and privileges of doing business here by managing six different
corporate entities, five of which are currently active, one of which is
Defendant AREAS. While working for AREAS, Plaintiff was subjected to various
Labor Code violations which are now the subject of the instant lawsuit.” (Opp’n
at p. 10:3-6.) But the Court
does not see how Plaintiff’s causes of action in this case are related to or
arise out of Bernal’s purported contacts with California. In the reply, Bernal
asserts that “Plaintiff alleges violations of the California
Labor Code, Fair Employment and Housing Act, and Unfair Competition Law, and,
as against Mr. Bernal individually, solely alleges violations of the California
Labor Code…these claims do not arise out of or relate to Areas’ Statement of
Information filing, nor has Plaintiff submitted any competent evidence to the
contrary.” (Reply at
p. 9:17-21.) The Court agrees.
In addition,
Bernal notes that “[i]t is the defendant’s intentional conduct…directed at the
forum that creates the necessary contacts to assert jurisdiction, not the mere
fact that an officer of the foreign corporation also exercised director duties
in-forum. Personal jurisdiction must be based on forum-related acts that
were personally committed by each nonresident defendant.” ((Rivelli v. Hemm (2021) 67 Cal.App.5th 380, 395-396 [internal
quotations, citations, and emphasis omitted].) As noted by Bernal, “[h]ere,
Plaintiff does not…allege Mr. Bernal committed any intentional torts, nor does
he provide any competent evidence that any were committed or directed at
Plaintiff and/or California.” (Reply at p. 8:21-23.) 
Based on the foregoing, the Court does not find that Plaintiff has met
his burden to show that “the controversy [is] related to or arise[s] out of the [Bernal’s]
contacts with the state.” ((Gilmore Bank v.
AsiaTrust New Zealand Ltd., supra,
223 Cal.App.4th at p. 1568 [emphasis omitted].) 
E.    
Request to Conduct Jurisdictional Discovery 
Lastly, Plaintiff asserts that “in the event the Court does
not find specific jurisdiction over Bernal, Plaintiff requests a continuance of
the hearing on Bernal’s motion to quash to engage in discovery to gather
evidence supporting jurisdiction.” (Opp’n at p. 11:17-19.) 
            “¿A trial court has discretion to continue
the hearing on a motion to quash service of summons for lack of personal
jurisdiction to allow the plaintiff to conduct discovery on jurisdictional
issues.¿” (Burdick v. Superior Court (2015) 233 Cal.App.4th 8, 30¿; ¿see also Magnecomp Corp. v.
Athene Co. (1989) 209
Cal.App.3d 526, 533¿, “¿[When]
jurisdiction is challenged by a nonresident defendant, the burden of proof is
upon the plaintiff to demonstrate that minimum contacts exist between defendant
and the forum state to justify imposition of personal jurisdiction. The
plaintiff has the right to conduct discovery with regard to the issue of
jurisdiction to develop the facts necessary to sustain this burden.”¿ [internal quotations and citations omitted].) 
            Plaintiff
asserts that “[i]f a continuance is granted to conduct discovery,
Plaintiff intends to inquire into, inter alia, Bernal’s job duties, fiduciary
duties owed to AREAS, the organization chart of AREAS, Bernal’s points of
contact regarding AREAS business operations, and reporting obligations to
Bernal, to determine the Bernal’s [sic] involvement as the sole managing and
operating member of AREAS.” (Opp’n at p. 12:2-5.) Plaintiff states that he
“will notice the remote deposition of Bernal, propound written discovery
seeking admissions and explanations, identification of how AREAS operates on a
corporate level, request a copy of AREAS’ operating agreement, etc…” (Opp’n at
p. 12:5-8.) 
In the reply, Bernal
asserts that the Court should deny Plaintiff’s request for a continuance to
conduct jurisdictional discovery. Bernal cites to In re Automobile Antitrust Cases I & II (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 100, 127, where the Court of Appeal noted that “[a] plaintiff
attempting to assert jurisdiction over a nonresident defendant is entitled to
an opportunity to conduct discovery of the jurisdictional facts necessary to
sustain its burden of proof. In order to prevail on a motion for a
continuance for jurisdictional discovery, the plaintiff should demonstrate that
discovery is likely to lead to the production of evidence of facts establishing
jurisdiction.” (Internal citation omitted.) Bernal asserts that “[h]ere,
Plaintiff offered no evidence or argument whatsoever that discovery could even
potentially lead to evidence supporting personal jurisdiction over Mr. Bernal,
much less that it would ‘likely’ lead to any such evidence.” (Reply at p.
11:11-13.) 
However, the Court notes that “¿[a] plaintiff attempting to assert jurisdiction over a
nonresident defendant is entitled to an opportunity to conduct discovery
of the jurisdictional facts necessary to sustain its burden of proof.¿In order
to prevail on a motion for a continuance for jurisdictional discovery, the
plaintiff should demonstrate that discovery is likely to lead to the production
of evidence of facts establishing jurisdiction.¿” (¿In re Automobile Antitrust Cases I & II, supra, 135 Cal.App.4th at p. 127 [internal
citation omitted, emphasis added]¿.) In the FAC in this case, Plaintiff alleges that “CARLOS
BERNAL…is an individual and at all times material herein owns and operates
AREAS, a commercial enterprise in the City of Los Angeles, in the County of Los
Angeles, California and was at all times Plaintiff’s employer in control of
Plaintiff’s wages, hours, and/or working conditions as the Managing Member of
AREAS, and an alter ego of AREAS.” (FAC, ¶ 3.) Plaintiff
should have an opportunity to conduct discovery on such allegations that may
affect the question of personal jurisdiction over Bernal. 
Bernal
also cites to Preciado v. Freightliner Custom Chassis Corp., supra, 87 Cal.App.5th at pages 972-973, where the Court of Appeal
noted that “there were 85 days
between the April 1, 2021 filing of FCCC’s motion to quash and the June
25, 2021 filing of Plaintiffs’ opposition to that motion, and 99 days between
the filing of the motion and the hearing date. However, Plaintiffs did not
use that time period to propound any discovery
targeted to the issue of personal jurisdiction. On the contrary, on June 10,
2021, Plaintiffs propounded lengthy discovery requests on FCCC, but Plaintiffs
did not design that discovery to lead to evidence relevant to issues of
personal jurisdiction.” (Internal emphasis
omitted.) Bernal’s counsel submitted a supplemental declaration with the reply
indicating that “[s]ince Plaintiff initiated this action on June 17,
2024, and since the filing of Mr. Bernal’s Motion to Quash on September 24,
2024, Plaintiff has not propounded any discovery relating to personal
jurisdiction over Mr. Bernal.” (Suppl. Peralta Decl., ¶ 2.) However, as this
evidence was submitted with the reply, Plaintiff has not had the opportunity to
address it. The Court notes that “¿[t]he general
rule of motion practice…is that new evidence is not permitted with reply
papers.¿” (¿Jay v. Mahaffey¿(2013) 218
Cal.App.4th 1522, 1537¿.) In
addition, as discussed, “[a] plaintiff attempting to assert
jurisdiction over a nonresident defendant is entitled to an opportunity to
conduct discovery of the jurisdictional facts necessary to sustain its burden
of proof.” (In re Automobile Antitrust Cases I
& II, supra, 135
Cal.App.4th at p. 127.) 
In light of the foregoing, the Court will continue the
hearing on the instant motion to allow
Plaintiff to conduct discovery on jurisdictional issues.  
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, the Court continues the hearing on Bernal’s motion to quash to ________________, 2025 at 2:00 p.m. 
Plaintiff may conduct discovery on jurisdictional issues only. Plaintiff may file and serve a
supplemental opposition to the instant motion and Bernal may file and serve a supplemental reply. Any supplemental opposition and reply papers must be filed
and served pursuant to ¿Code of Civil Procedure section
1005, subdivision (b)¿ based on the new hearing date. 
Bernal is ordered
to give notice of this Order. 
 
DATED:  December 9, 2024                                                                          
________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court


