 Case Number:  23STCV03455    Hearing Date:   March 19, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




kristin davidkhanian

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
advanced skin care center
   inc.

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


23STCV03455




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


March
   19, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
(1)  
  plaintiff’s
  motion to compel responses to requests for production of documents
(2)  
  plaintiff’s
  motion to compel responses to form interrogatories
(3)  
  plaintiff’s
  motion to compel responses to special interrogatories
(4)  
  PLAINTIFF’S
  MOTION TO DEEM REQUESTS FOR ADMISSIONS ADMITTED
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Plaintiff Kristin Davidkhanian           
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Unopposed
(1)  
Motion
to Compel Responses to Requests for Production of Documents
(2)  
Motion
to Compel Responses to Form Interrogatories
(3)  
Motion
to Compel Responses to Special Interrogatories
(4)  
Motion
to Deem Requests for Admissions Admitted
The court
considered the moving papers filed in connection with each motion.  No opposition papers were filed.
 
MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO REQUESTS
FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS
Plaintiff Kristin Davidkhanian (“Plaintiff”) moves the court for an
order (1) compelling defendant Advanced Skin Care Center Inc. (“Defendant”) to serve
responses to Plaintiff’s Requests for Production of Documents, Set One, and (2)
awarding sanctions in favor of Plaintiff and against Defendant in the amount of
$2,720.
If
a party to whom a demand for inspection is directed fails to serve a timely
response, the party making the demand may move for an order compelling response
to the demand.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (b).)¿
Plaintiff asserts
that she served Defendant with the Requests for Production of Documents (1)
directly, by mail, on March 29, 2023, and (2) on April 20, 2023, by email to
Defendant’s counsel.  (Banayan Decl., ¶¶ 2-3;
Banayan Decl., Exs. A, B.)  The court
finds that Plaintiff has not shown that she properly served this discovery on
Defendant. 
First,
Plaintiff was required to serve discovery on Defendant in the same manner as
service of summons before Defendant made an appearance in this action.  Thus, service of the Requests for Production
of Documents by mail on March 29, 2023 was invalid.  (Banayan Decl., Ex. A.) 
Second, the
court acknowledges that Plaintiff has also attached a copy of an email to
Defendant’s counsel.  (Banayan Decl., Ex.
B [April 20, 2023 email to Defendant’s counsel stating “Please find attached, a
courtesy copy of the discovery that was previously propounded on your clients
prior to the answer being filed”].) 
However, Plaintiff did not attach a proof of electronic service of the
Requests for Production on Defendant’s counsel. 
Thus, the court finds that a copy of this email, alone, is insufficient
to establish service. 
The court
therefore denies Plaintiff’s motion to compel Defendant’s responses to
Plaintiff’s Requests for Production of Documents and for monetary sanctions,
without prejudice to Plaintiff’s filing a new motion establishing service of
the discovery on Defendant.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2031.300, subds. (b), (c).) 
 
MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO FORM
INTERROGATORIES
Plaintiff moves the court for an order (1) compelling Defendant to
serve responses to Plaintiff’s Form Interrogatories, Set One, and (2) awarding monetary
sanctions in favor of Plaintiff and against Defendant in the amount of $2,720.
If
a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response,
the propounding party may move for an order compelling response to the
interrogatories.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (b).)¿¿
The
court finds that Plaintiff has not established service of her Form
Interrogatories, Set One on Defendant because (1) Plaintiff was not permitted,
as set forth above, to serve Defendant with the Form Interrogatories by mail
before Defendant appeared in this action, and (2) Plaintiff did not submit a
proof of electronic service on Defendant’s counsel.  (Banayan Decl., Ex. A [proof of service of
Form Interrogatories by mail], Ex. B [email to Defendant’s counsel].)
The court
therefore denies Plaintiff’s motion to compel Defendant’s responses to
Plaintiff’s Form Interrogatories, Set One, and for monetary sanctions, without
prejudice to Plaintiff’s filing a new motion establishing service of the
discovery on Defendant.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2030.290, subds. (b), (c).) 
MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO SPECIAL
INTERROGATORIES
Plaintiff moves the court for an order (1) compelling Defendant to
serve responses to Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatories, Set One, and (2)
awarding monetary sanctions in favor of Plaintiff and against Defendant in the
amount of $2,720.
The
court finds that Plaintiff has not established service of her Special
Interrogatories, Set One on Defendant because (1) Plaintiff was not permitted,
as set forth above, to serve Defendant with the Special Interrogatories by mail
before Defendant made an appearance in this action, and (2) Plaintiff did not
submit a proof of electronic service on Defendant’s counsel.  (Banayan Decl., Ex. A [proof of service of
Special Interrogatories by mail], Ex. B [email to Defendant’s counsel].) 
The court
therefore denies Plaintiff’s motion to compel Defendant’s responses to
Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatories, Set One, and for monetary sanctions,
without prejudice to Plaintiff’s filing a new motion establishing service of
the discovery on Defendant.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2030.290, subds. (b), (c).) 
MOTION TO DEEM REQUESTS FOR ADMISSIONS
ADMITTED
Plaintiff filed the pending
motion to deem requests for admissions admitted on June 21, 2023, requesting
that the court order that the genuineness of the documents and the truth of the
matters “specified in Plaintiff’s Requests for Admissions served on March 29,
2023 be deemed admitted.”  (Notice of
Mot., pp. 1:28-2:2.)  Plaintiff has
further requested an award of monetary sanctions against “Defendant and its
counsel[.]”  (Notice of Mot., p. 2:2-5.)
First, court finds that
Plaintiff’s notice of motion and motion do not sufficiently set forth the order
being sought.  (Cal. Rules of Ct., rule
3.1110, subd. (a); Code Civ. Proc., §§ 1010, 2023.040 [request for sanctions
must identify every person against whom the sanction is sought].) 
Specifically, the court finds
that Plaintiff has not sufficiently identified the defendant against whom
relief is sought.  In the notice of
motion, Plaintiff has instead, as set forth above, requested an order deeming
admitted the genuineness of the documents and the truth of the matters set
forth in the Requests for Admissions that she served on March 29, 2023.  (Notice of Mot., pp. 1:27-2:2.)  Plaintiff has not stated on which defendant
those Requests for Admissions were served. 
(Ibid.)  Moreover, although
Plaintiff has asserted that “Defendant” has not served responses to that
discovery, Plaintiff does not define “Defendant” in the motion and therefore
has not made clear which of the three named defendants are the subject of this
motion.  (Mot., pp. 3:4, 3:10-11, 3:13-20,
4:15-18, 5:8-1 [referencing “Defendant”].) 
Thus, the court finds that
Plaintiff’s notice of motion and motion, in omitting the name of the defendant
that is the subject of this motion, are incomplete, do not sufficiently apprise
the named defendants of the order being sought (i.e., against whom Plaintiff is
moving to have admissions admitted), and are therefore deficient.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 1010, 2023.040; Golf
& Tennis Pro Shop, Inc. v. Superior Court (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 127,
137-138 [“Section 1010’s requirement is for the benefit of the party upon whom
the notice is served, to make him or her aware of the issues to be raised in
the motion’” and “to cause the moving party to sufficiently define the issues
for the information and attention of the adverse party and the court”]
[internal quotations omitted].)  
Second, to the extent that
Plaintiff has moved to deem admitted the matters set forth in the Requests for
Admission directed to Defendant, the court finds that Plaintiff has not
established service of the Requests for Admission on Defendant because (1)
Plaintiff was not permitted, as set forth above, to serve Defendant with the
Requests for Admissions by mail before Defendant appeared in this action, and
(2) Plaintiff did not submit a proof of electronic service of the Requests for
Admissions on Defendant’s counsel.  (Banayan
Decl., Exs. A-B.) 
The court therefore denies
Plaintiff’s motion to deem admitted the genuineness of the documents and truth
of the matters specified in the requests for admission, without prejudice to
Plaintiff’s filing a new motion that (1) provides sufficient notice to the
parties of the relief being sought, and (2) establishes service of the
discovery on Defendant. 
ORDER

The court denies plaintiff Kristin Davidkhanian’s motion to compel
responses to requests for production of documents, without prejudice. 
The court denies plaintiff Kristin Davidkhanian’s motion to compel
responses to form interrogatories, without prejudice. 
The court denies plaintiff Kristin Davidkhanian’s motion to compel
responses to special interrogatories, without prejudice. 
The court denies plaintiff Kristin Davidkhanian’s motion to deem
requests for admissions admitted, without prejudice.  
The court orders plaintiff Kristin Davidkhanian to give notice of this
ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  March 19, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court