 Case Number:  23STCV31854    Hearing Date:   May 20, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department
50
 



GLK EXPRESS, INC.,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
WELLS FARGO BANK, N.A., et al.,
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


23STCV31854




Hearing Date:


May 20, 2024




Hearing Time:


2:00 p.m.




[TENTATIVE] ORDER
  RE:
 
DEMURRER TO
  COMPLAINT



 
Background
Plaintiff GLK Express, Inc. (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against
Defendant Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (“Defendant”) on December 29, 2023. The
Complaint alleges causes of action for (1) breach of contract, (2) negligence,
(3) conversion, (4) money had and received, and (5) unfair and deceptive
business practices. 
Defendant now demurs to each of the causes of action of the Complaint.
The demurrer is unopposed.  
Discussion
A.   
Legal Standard 
A demurrer can be used only to challenge
defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters
outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. ((Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) “To
survive a demurrer, the complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a
cause of action; each evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the
plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.” ((C.A.
v. William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.) For
the purpose of testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer
admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded. ((Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does not admit contentions, deductions
or conclusions of fact or law.” ((Daar
v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d
695, 713.) 
B.    Allegations of the Complaint 
In the Complaint, Plaintiff alleges that “[w]hen Plaintiff originally
applied for and deposited money into his account at [Defendant], [Defendant]
agreed to safeguard and protect his private information and funds deposited and
to timely and accurately notify Plaintiff if his data had been breached and
compromised.” (Compl., ¶ 5.) “Upon accepting and storing Plaintiff’s Private
Information in their computer database systems, [Defendant]…undertook and owed
a duty to Plaintiff to exercise reasonable care to secure and safeguard that
information and to utilize commercially reasonable methods to do so.
[Defendant] further agreed with Plaintiff, that it would not transfer
substantial funds from his account without first notifying Plaintiff of
suspicious or other activity that was outside the normal range of transactions
that Plaintiff conducted through [Defendant].” (Compl., ¶ 6.)
Plaintiff alleges that “[o]n or about January 20, 2023, Defendant
Bank, without Plaintiff’s knowledge, consent or authorization, electronically
transferred the sum of $24,500 to person or persons unknown out of Plaintiff’s
account.” (Compl., ¶ 7.) “Plaintiff immediately, upon discovering the
unauthorized electronic transfer of money from his account, notified Defendant
Bank, orally and in writing that he disputed the transfer and had not
authorized said transfer. Defendant Bank refused to resolve the issue and
allowed the charge to remain against his account.” (Compl., ¶ 8.) Plaintiff
alleges that Defendant “breached the implied covenant of good faith and fair
dealing implied, if not expressed, in every contract by failing to safeguard
and protect Plaintiff’s private information and funds in its account.” (Compl.,
¶ 13.) 
 
 
C.    First Cause of
Action for Breach of Contract
Defendant asserts that the first cause of action does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action. Defendant cites to Chazen v.
Centennial Bank (1998) 61 Cal.App.4th 532, 537, where the Court of Appeal noted that “[t]he relationship of bank and depositor is founded on contract,
which is ordinarily memorialized by a signature card that the depositor signs
upon opening the account.” (Internal quotations and citation omitted.)
Defendant also notes that “[t]o state a cause of action for breach of contract,
a party must plead the existence of a contract, his or her performance of the
contract or excuse for nonperformance, the defendant’s breach and resulting
damage. If the action is based on alleged breach of a written contract,
the terms must be set out verbatim in the body of the complaint or a copy of
the written agreement must be attached and incorporated by reference.” ((Harris v. Rudin,
Richman & Appel (1999) 74
Cal.App.4th 299, 307 [internal citation omitted].) 
Defendant asserts that here, “Plaintiff fails to attach the deposit
agreement (or any other contract between the parties), or allege its material
terms.” (Demurrer at p. 2:11-12.) Plaintiff does not oppose the instant
demurrer, and thus does not respond to this point or dispute that the first
cause of action is based on an alleged written contract. 
As discussed, to the extent Plaintiff is alleging the breach of a
written contract, “the terms must be set out verbatim
in the body of the complaint or a copy of the written agreement must be
attached and incorporated by reference.” ((Ibid.) The
Complaint here does not do so. 
Based on the
foregoing, the Court sustains Defendant’s demurrer to the first cause of action,
with leave to amend. 
D.    Second Cause of
Action for Negligence
In the second cause of action for negligence, Plaintiff alleges, inter
alia, that “Defendants, Bank and Does 1 through 25, owed a duty to
Plaintiff to protect it against digital fraud and to stop and prevent further
dissipation of its financial property and identity theft; and, knew or should
have known that their computer systems and data security practices were
inadequate to safeguard Plaintiff’s Private Financial Information and account
and that the risk of a data breach or theft was highly likely. Defendants’
actions in engaging in the above-named unlawful practices and acts were
negligent and reckless with respect to Plaintiff’s rights.” (Compl., ¶ 17.)
In the demurrer, Defendant asserts that it “owed no duty to Plaintiff
to protect against fraud or identify theft.” (Demurrer at p. 3:23-24.)
Defendant cites to Chazen v. Centennial Bank, supra, 61
Cal.App.4th at page 537, where the Court of Appeal noted that “[t]he relationship of bank and depositor is founded on contract,
which is ordinarily memorialized by a signature card that the depositor signs
upon opening the account. This contractual relationship does not involve any
implied duty to supervise account activity or to inquire into the purpose for
which the funds are being used and entails no contractual obligation to persons
other than the account holder. It follows that [c]ommercial banks have no duty to police their fiduciary
accounts and are not liable for the misappropriation of trust funds by the
trustee.” (Internal quotations and citations omitted.) 
Defendant also cites to Software
Design & Application v. Hoefer & Arnett (1996) 49 Cal.App.4th 472, 481, where the Court of Appeal noted that “[a]ppellants
suggest that the frequency with which the McDonalds deposited and
simultaneously withdrew hundreds of thousands of dollars from the Phony LP
accounts was a sharp indicator of money laundering or other illegal activity.
They cite no authority for the proposition that, in the absence of
suspicious instruments, a
bank has a duty to supervise account activity or otherwise track frequent
and/or large dollar transactions in deposit accounts, nor are we aware of any
such duty.” (Internal quotations and emphasis omitted.) As discussed, Plaintiff
does not oppose the demurrer. Thus, Plaintiff does not dispute Defendant’s
assertion that it owes no duty of care to Plaintiff. 
Based on the foregoing, the Court sustains
Defendant’s demurrer to the second cause of action, with leave to amend. 
///
///
E.     Third
Cause of Action for Conversion 
In the third cause of action, Plaintiff
alleges, inter alia, that “Defendants, and each of them,
wrongfully took, misappropriated and converted plaintiff’s money in the sum of $24,500
and converted it to their own use or the use by others.” (Compl., ¶ 23.) “Conversion is the wrongful exercise of dominion over the
property of another. The elements of a conversion claim are: (1) the
plaintiff’s ownership or right to possession of the property; (2) the defendant’s
conversion by a wrongful act or disposition of property rights; and (3)
damages.” ((Los
Angeles Federal Credit Union v. Madatyan (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 1383, 1387 [internal quotations omitted].)

Defendant asserts that “[Defendant] a
depository institution; once funds are deposited into it, it has title over
those funds and therefore may not be charged with conversion.” (Demurrer at p.
5:4-5.) Defendant cites to Morse v. Crocker Nat’l Bank (1983) 142 Cal.App.3d 228, 232, where the Court of Appeal
noted that “[i]t
is axiomatic that the relationship between a bank and its depositor arising out
of a general deposit is that of a debtor and creditor. Such a deposit is
in effect a loan to the bank. Title to the deposited funds passes
immediately to the bank which may use the funds for its own business
purposes. The bank does not thereby act as trustee and cannot be charged with
converting the deposit to its own use. It is, however, obligated to
pay the debt reflected by the balance of the deposited funds upon its depositor’s
demand.” (Internal citations omitted.) Plaintiff does not oppose the instant
demurrer and thus does not address this point.
Based
on the foregoing, the Court sustains Defendant’s
demurrer to the third cause of action, with leave to amend. 
F.     Fourth
Cause of Action for Money Had and Received 
Defendant asserts that the fourth cause of
action also fails. Defendant cites to Avidor v. Sutter’s Place, Inc. (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 1439, 1454, where the Court of Appeal noted that “[a]
cause of action for money had and received is stated if it is alleged [that]
the defendant is indebted to the plaintiff in a certain sum for money had and
received by the defendant for the use of the plaintiff. The claim is viable
wherever one person has received money which belongs to another, and which in
equity and good conscience should be paid over to the latter.” (Internal
quotations and citations omitted.) 
In the demurrer, Defendant asserts that “there
are no facts that indicate [Defendant] received any money on the Plaintiff’s
behalf that Plaintiff is entitled to.” (Demurrer at p. 5:23-24.) But in the fourth cause of action, Plaintiff alleges that “[w]ithin
the last two years at Los Angeles County, California, [Defendant]…became
indebted to Plaintiff in the sum of $24,500.00, for money had and received by
said defendants for Plaintiff’s use and benefit.”
(Compl., ¶ 28.) Plaintiff alleges that it has “demanded…payment of said
sum, but said Defendants, and each of them, have refused and failed to pay said
sum, or any portion thereof, and there is presently due, owing and unpaid from
said defendants, and each of them, to Plaintiff, the sum of $24,500, plus interest
thereon at the legal rate from in or about January 20, 2023.” (Compl., ¶ 29.)
The Court does not find that Defendant has demonstrated that the
fourth cause of action fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action. Thus, the Court overrules Defendant’s demurrer to the fourth cause of
action. 
G.    Fifth
Cause of Action for Unfair and Deceptive Business Practices 
In the fifth cause of
action, Plaintiff alleges, inter alia, that “[t]he conduct and
practices of Defendants, and each of them, as herein alleged, were and are
unlawful, unfair and/or fraudulent and constitute unfair business practices
within the meaning of said statutes.”
(Compl., ¶ 32.)
“The UCL defines ‘unfair
competition’ as ‘any unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business act or practice
and unfair, deceptive, untrue or misleading advertising.’ By proscribing ‘any
unlawful’ business act or practice, the UCL ‘borrows’ rules set out in other
laws and makes violations of those rules independently actionable. However, a practice may violate the UCL even if it is not
prohibited by another statute. Unfair and fraudulent practices are alternate
grounds for relief.” ((Zhang v. Superior Court (2013) 57 Cal.4th 364, 370 [internal citations omitted].) The Court notes that “[b]ecause¿¿Business
and Professions Code section 17200¿¿is written
in¿the disjunctive, it establishes three varieties of unfair
competition—acts or practices which are unlawful, or unfair, or fraudulent. An
act can be alleged to violate any or all of the three prongs of the
UCL—unlawful, unfair, or fraudulent.” (¿Berryman v.
Merit Property Management, Inc.
(2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 1544, 1554 [internal quotations and citation
omitted].)
 Defendant asserts that “Plaintiff’s
failure to allege any sufficient cause of action dooms its claim under the
UCL’s unlawful prong.” (Demurrer at
p. 6:14-15.) However, as set forth above, the Court overrules Defendant’s
demurrer to the fourth cause of action of the Complaint. 
Defendant also asserts that
the fifth cause of action fails because Plaintiff is not entitled to any
relief. Defendant cites to Madrid v. Perot Systems Corp. (2005) 130 Cal.App.4th
440, 452, where the
Court of Appeal noted that “[t]he UCL
limits the remedies available for UCL violations to restitution and injunctive
relief (and civil penalties, which are not at issue in this appeal)…[T]he UCL
is not an all-purpose substitute for a tort or contract action…Instead, the act
provides an equitable means through which both public prosecutors and private
individuals can bring suit to prevent unfair business practices and restore
money or property to victims of these practices…[T]he overarching legislative
concern [was] to provide a streamlined procedure for the prevention of ongoing
or threatened acts of unfair competition…Because of this objective, the
remedies provided are limited. While any member of the public can bring suit under the act to
enjoin a business from engaging in unfair competition, it is well established
that individuals may not recover damages.” (Internal
quotations and citations omitted.) 
Defendant asserts that Plaintiff is not entitled to injunctive relief
because “there is no ongoing misconduct to enjoin. The disputed transfer
already occurred.” (Demurrer at p. 7:6-8.) However, in the fifth cause of
action, Plaintiff alleges that “[a]s a direct and proximate result of the
unfair and unlawful act or business practices of Defendants, and each of them,
Plaintiff seek [sic] injunctive relief to prohibit Defendants from such actions
in the future which might in any manner effect [sic] Defendants’ customers and
to compel Defendants, and each of them, to impose standards and practices that
will prevent and stop future unauthorized use of a person’s identity and theft
of property.” (Compl., ¶ 33.) Defendant does not appear to address this
allegation in the demurrer. 
In addition, in the prayer for relief as to the fifth cause of action,
Plaintiff alleges that it seeks, inter alia, “[r]estitution of
Plaintiffs’ funds that were wrongfully, fraudulently and illegally transferred
out of his bank account which occurred through the Defendants’ failure to act
as impliedly and expressly provided by law and contract…” (Compl., p. 7:11-14.)
Defendant asserts that “Plaintiff is not entitled to restitution because
[Defendant] did not receive any money that it was not entitled to (Plaintiff
does not allege that [Defendant] is in receipt of the disputed transfer).”
(Demurrer at p. 7:4-6.) The Court notes that Defendant does not cite any legal
authority to support this assertion. In addition, the Court notes that ¿¿“a demurrer
cannot rightfully be sustained to part of a cause of action or to a particular
type of damage or remedy.¿¿” (¿Kong ¿v. City of Hawaiian Gardens Redevelopment Agency (2002)
108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1047¿¿; ¿see also
¿PH II, Inc. v.
Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1680, 1682 [“A demurrer does not lie to a portion of a cause of
action.”]¿¿.)
The Court does not find that Defendant has demonstrated that the fifth
cause of action fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action. Thus, the Court overrules Defendant’s demurrer to the fifth cause of
action. 
Conclusion
Based
on the foregoing, the Court sustains Defendant’s demurrer to the first, second,
and third causes of action of the Complaint, with leave to amend. The Court
overrules Defendant’s demurrer to the fourth and fifth causes of action of the
Complaint.The Court orders Plaintiff to file and serve an amended complaint, if
any, within 20 days of this Order. If no amended complaint is filed within 20
days of this Order, Defendant is ordered to file and serve its answer within 30
days of this Order. Defendant
is ordered to give notice of this Order.
 
DATED:  May 20, 2024                                                                                 
________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court