  Case Number:  20STCV21561    Hearing Date:   May 20, 2024    Dept:  50 Superior Court of
California
County of Los Angeles
Department 50
 



 
ELBA
  ROMO,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
JONI
  E. SALOMON,  et al,
  
                        Defendant(s).
 


 
  Case No.:  20STCV21561
   
   
[TENTATIVE AND PROPOSED] STATEMENT OF DECISION BY THE COURT AFTER TRIAL 
 



 
 
[TENTATIVE
AND PROPOSED] STATEMENT OF DECISION BY
THE COURT AFTER TRIAL      
This
matter came on for trial on March 15-16, 2023, May 3-4, 2023 and July 18, 2023,
in Department 50 of the above-entitled Court before the Hon. Teresa A. Beaudet,
sitting without a jury. The Court, having considered the evidence and read the
arguments of counsel, issues this tentative and proposed Statement of Decision.
This tentative and proposed Statement of Decision will become the Statement of
Decision unless, within 15 days hereafter, a party serves and files objections
to the proposed Statement of Decision. 
 
 
I.               
STIPULATED FACTS 
On
April 28, 2022, the parties filed a Second Revised Joint List of Stipulated
Facts 
(TAB
B). Pursuant thereto, the parties agreed to the following:
1.       
On
January 6, 2006, before marriage, Plaintiff contributed $208,000 to the
purchase of real property in Cherry Valley, California. The purchase price of
the Cherry Valley Property was $769,000. 
2.      
On
January 6, 2006, Mariano Aguirre closed escrow for the Cherry Valley Property
and title was placed in his name alone. 
3.      
Mariano
Aguirre was the sole borrower with regard to the purchase money mortgage used
to purchase the Cherry Valley Property. 
4.      
On
August 19, 2006, Plaintiff married Mariano Aguirre. 
5.      
During
the marriage, Plaintiff and Mariano Aguirre, resided on and operated a farm on
the Cherry Valley Property. 
6.      
On or
about December 9, 2015, Plaintiff retained family law attorney, Casey Olsen, to
represent her interests regarding a potential dissolution action. 
7.      
On
December 29, 2015, Plaintiff and Mariano Aguirre separated. 
8.      
On
January 11, 2016, Casey Olsen filed a dissolution action in the Superior Court
for the County of Los Angeles on behalf of Plaintiff to dissolve her marriage
with Mariano Aguirre (the “Dissolution Action”). 
9.      
During
the Dissolution Action, Mariano Aguirre was represented by Gerard A. Fierro. 
10.   
On
January 20, 2017, Elba Romo hired Joni Salomon as her attorney in the
Dissolution Action in the place of Casey Olsen.
11.    
Joni
Salomon is a member of the California Bar and licensed to practice law in all
of the courts of the State of California and is a Certified Family Law
Specialist. 
12.   
On
October 15, 2017, Capital Realty Analysts appraised the value of the Cherry
Valley Property at $480,000.
13.   
On
December 2, 2017, Quality Appraisal Service appraised the value of the Cherry
Valley Property at $285,000. 
14.   
During
the Dissolution Action, Mariano Aguirre contended that the $208,000 Plaintiff
contributed towards the purchase of the Cherry Valley Property was a gift while
Plaintiff contended that there was an agreement that her name would be placed
on title after marriage. 
15.    
On
April 17, 2019, a mediation was conducted before a retired family law judge
with regard to the settlement of issues between Plaintiff and Mariano Aguirre
including those in the Dissolution Action. 
16.   
On
April 17, 2019, the parties signed a written settlement agreement which
provides in part as follows, “...D. Cherry Valley: As set forth herein, the
real property located at Cherry Valley is confirmed to Respondent as his sole
and separate property. In the event, Cherry Valley is lost to foreclosure or
sold by short sale or it is offered to be sold to a third party or transferred,
Petitioner shall have the right of first refusal to purchase Cherry Valley
prior to sale, transfer, foreclosure, and/or short sale. Respondent shall
provide to Petitioner 30-day notice and the right to buy said property prior to
any listing for sale, transfer, short sale listing, or foreclosure notice and
listing for sale. 
If
Cherry Valley appreciates over the amount owed on the mortgage at the time
husband offers the property for sale on the open market, Petitioner has the
right of first refusal to purchase said property from him with a credit for up
to $208,000 over and over the amount owning on the mortgage...”
17.    
On
August 22, 2019, Joni Salomon ceased representing Plaintiff in the Dissolution
Action. 
18.   
At no
time did Joni Salomon file the Civil Complaint.
THE MATERIAL ISSUE TO BE
DETERMINED
On February 15, 2023, the court ordered in
part as follows:   “…The Court will
decide the legal issue of whether the Civil Court or
the Family Law Court had jurisdiction regarding the $208,000 transaction…” The
trial was bifurcated and the parties presented their evidence and briefs on
this sole legal issue. 
 
II.           
Did
the Civil Court or the Family Law Court have jurisdiction regarding the
$208,000 transaction?
 
The Court finds that, under the facts of this case, the Family Law Court, and
not the Civil Court, had jurisdiction regarding the $208,000 transaction. The
trial evidence establishes that Romo and her then-spouse, Mariano Aguirre
(“Aguirre”) consented to the
family court’s jurisdiction by (1) voluntarily submitting the issue for
decision by way of their submissions in the dissolution action; (2) resolving “all issues” between them (including
issues from “prior to the marriage”) in the family law proceeding pursuant to a
comprehensive settlement whose terms included a negotiated division of all
property, with Romo receiving a right of first refusal to purchase the Cherry
Valley Property, which demonstrated the parties’ purposeful consideration of
how to address the $208,000 payment; and (3) the parties then converting
the settlement to a binding and enforceable judgment (which the parties made
enforceable by the family law judge under Code of Civil
Procedure section 664.6).
A.  The
Family Court Has a Broad Jurisdictional Mandate Which Includes Determining Any
Issues the Parties Submit in a Dissolution Proceeding
The “Family Law Division” (the “family
court”) of the superior court is not a court of “special” or “limited”
jurisdiction, but rather “the superior court performing one of its general
duties” (i.e., handling litigation under family law).  (See In
re Chantal S. (1996) 13 Cal.4th 196, 200-201
[distinguishing family courts from “special” juvenile courts with specially-defined jurisdictional
limits.  When parties to a
dissolution proceeding voluntarily submit an issue to a family court, the court
has the same jurisdiction over the issue as in any superior court.   (In Re
Marriage of Saslow (1985) 40 Cal.3d 848 [disapproved
on other grounds].)
The issue in Saslow was whether the family court had jurisdiction regarding
pre-marital loans from the wife to the husband. 
In finding that jurisdiction did exist in that case, the Saslow court stated:                                                  
Normally
the jurisdiction of the trial court in a dissolution proceeding is limited to
division of community property.… However, since both parties have apparently
“voluntarily submitted the matter to a court having general jurisdiction to
pass upon the question…under pleadings which properly raise[] [the] issue”… it
was permissible for the trial court to render judgment on the issue.
 
(Id.
at 865-866 [citations omitted].)
            In the case of In re Marriage of Gagne (1990)
225 Cal.App.3d 277, the Court affirmed the
family court’s jurisdiction over matters voluntarily submitted by the
parties.  In Gagne, the Court of Appeal upheld the trial court’s jurisdiction to
decide issues regarding a premarital loan on the ground that the parties
submitted the issue to the court.  
In that case, the husband (James) argued that the family
court lacked jurisdiction to decide issues concerning a premarital loan
involved in the disposition of a house. During trial, James objected that the
California Rules of Court prohibited introduction of evidence of the loan.  (Id. at 287.)  The court
held that James waived any jurisdictional objection by failing to
object before trial. 
 
On October 14, 1986, when [wife] Alexandria filed her
response, James became aware Alexandria wanted the issue of her premarital loan
resolved in the dissolution hearing. Almost two years
elapsed before the case came to trial, and James never objected by filing a
motion to sever or by filing a motion to strike under the California
Rules of Court, rule 1229, Family Law Rules. 
Thus,
the trial court could properly find the pleadings raised the issue of the
premarital loan and that both parties “apparently voluntarily submitted the
matter” for its decision. Not until James's attorney made his first objection
to testimony at trial did the court become aware James wanted to reserve the
issue for a separate civil trial.
(Id. at 286-288.)
At trial, the experts on both sides
acknowledged that divorcing spouses may submit any property issues they wish to
a family court.  According to Mr. Levin,
Romo’s expert, “the parties can always stipulate to have a family court hear a
particular issue as long as it’s based upon informed consent.”[1]
(RT, 3/15/23, at 30:7-14.) Ms. Tour-Sarkissian, Salomon’s expert, testified
that divorcing parties can submit any property issues they wish to a family law
court that they choose, citing Saslow.  (RT, 7/18/23, at 34:14-24.)
 
B. The Parties Voluntarily Submitted the
$208,000 Payment to the Jurisdiction of the Family Court 
1.    
The
Parties Submitted the Issue in Their Pleadings 
            Similar to the circumstances in Saslow, Romo and Aguirre voluntarily submitted the $208,000
payment issue to the family court by way of their pleadings and disclosures in
the Dissolution Action.  Specifically,
Romo and Aguirre listed the Cherry Valley Property in their respective
Schedules of Assets and Debts. (Exh. 511-001 [Aguirre’s FL-142 Amended Schedule
of Assets and Debts]; Exh. 547-001 [Romo’s FL-142 Schedule of Assets and Debts].)  Romo designated the Cherry Valley Property as
community property while Aguirre classified it as his separate property.  (Ibid.)  Neither party
annotated or supplemented their respective schedules to indicate that the
Cherry Valley Property was outside the family court’s jurisdiction. 
            Romo
in her disclosures went further than simply designating the Cherry Valley
Property as community property.  She
proposed a division of the property that would give her $130,000, which is the
amount she identified as the net fair market value of the property.  (Exh. 506-001 [Romo’s FL-160 Community
Property Declaration].)  Romo also
annotated the FL-160 with a double asterisked reference to her “$208,000” claim,
followed by a citation to “P’s FC 2640” – a reference to Family
Code 2640. Regarding the significance of Romo’s FL-160 to her
opinion, Ms. Tour-Sarkissian testified, “the importance of this
document is that she's putting the issue of the Cherry Valley Property at issue
before the family court. That is the $208,000 that has to be decided, as well
as her reimbursement claims under 2640.” (RT, 7/18/23, at 32:4-33:2.)  
Regarding Romo’s claimed community interest in the Cherry
Valley Property, Mr. Levin acknowledged as a general matter that “if community
income is used to pay a separate property debt, the community could acquire an
interest in the separate property or seek reimbursement for that debt.”  (RT, 5/03/23, at 57:12-19.)  He further acknowledged that these
circumstances were present in this matter. 
Specifically, Mr. Levin acknowledged that proceeds from the operation of
the couple’s farm were used to pay down indebtedness on the Cherry Valley
Property, that Romo asserted a claimed community interest based on those
payments, and that the family court had jurisdiction over Romo’s resultant
community property claim.  (RT, 5/03/23,
at 56:22-59:24.)
When considering whether a party has reserved
a pre-marital issue for a separate civil trial, courts will consider the
party’s lack of timely objection to the family court’s exercise of
jurisdiction. (See In re Marriage
of Gagne (1990) 225 Cal.App.3d 277, 287 discussed above.) Here, no evidence was presented at
trial that either party objected to the family court exercising jurisdiction
over all issues involving the Cherry Valley Property.  This is a further indication of the parties’
mutual consent to place the $208,000 payment before the family court.                                  Consistent
with controlling case law, Ms. Tour-Sarkissian expressed her view that
                        
the
family law court had jurisdiction -- total jurisdiction not only to divide the
marital assets, characterize what is separate, what is community, determine the
reimbursement rights and divide the community estate, but also to make
decisions on the separate asset, in this case the Cherry Valley property, for
all of the reasons that we mentioned earlier in terms of the fact that the
schedule of assets and debts had been put at issue before the family law court.
And there was no necessity to file a separate action.
(RT, 7/18/23 at 54:6-17.)
Ms. Tour-Sarkissian testified that, as a matter of custom
and practice, there are no documents or forms used in family law matters by
which the parties could have communicated the giving or withholding of consent
over certain issues to family court jurisdiction.  (RT, 7/18/23, at 74:12-75:25, 42:24-43:7.)
 
2.    
The Parties Affirmed
Their Consent to Family Court Jurisdiction by Settling “All Issues” Between
Them and Stipulating to Entry of Judgment
The settlement negotiated by Romo and Aguirre and then their
conversion thereof into a consent judgment demonstrates their assent to resolve
all issues between them in a single family law proceeding.  The settlement, which included a negotiated
division of real and personal property and resolved all other issues between
the parties, was documented in a detailed settlement agreement executed by
Romo, Aguirre and each of their counsel (and initialed on each page by Romo).  (Exh. 501 [Settlement Agreement].)
The parties expressly demonstrated their intent to resolve
all issues through expansive settlement language and releases.   The breadth of the settlement is stated in
the first section, “Settlement of All Issues,” which provides, in part:
 
a.      The
following agreement is intended to be a settlement of all of the issues in this
matter, as a result of the party’s [sic] marriage and relating to their
marriage including issues relating to the parties’ cohabitation both prior to
the marriage and after the date of separation.  The terms of this agreement shall be
incorporated into a Judgment “(JUDGMENT”) to be filed in this matter.  
 
(Exh. 501, p. 1, sec. 1.a.,
emphasis added.) 
  Citing the language
in section 1.a. of the settlement agreement, Ms.
Tour-Sarkissian testified that, “So my opinion is, when Ms. Romo enters into
the settlement, she's knowingly putting this issue of the [$208,000 payment] or
more, precisely the Cherry Valley property, at issue before the Court. The same
thing happened with Mr. Aguirre.”  (RT,
7/18/23, 43:8-45:8.)
Significantly, the settlement agreement contains explicit
terms that addressed the $208,000 payment. 
Specifically, the parties agreed that the Cherry Valley Property would
be confirmed to Aguirre as his sole property with Romo to receive the right of
first refusal (ROFR) if Aguirre ever decided to sell it, as well as a $208,000
credit to be applied to Romo’s future purchase if the property were to
appreciate over the mortgage value.  
The relevant provision provides:
 
D.        CHERRY
VALLEY
 
As
set forth herein, the real property located at Cherry Valley is confirmed to
Respondent as his sole and separate property. 
In the event Cherry Valley is lost to foreclosure or sold by short sale
or it is offered to be sold to a third party or transferred, Petitioner shall
have the right of first refusal to purchase Cherry Valley prior to sale,
transfer, foreclosure, and/or short sale. 
Respondent shall provide to Petitioner 30-day notice and the right to
buy said property prior to any listing for sale, transfer, short sale listing,
or foreclosure notice and listing for sale.
 
If
Cherry Valley appreciates over the amount owed on the mortgage at the time
husband offers the property for sale on the open market, Petitioner has the
right of first refusal to purchase said property from him with a credit for up
to $208,000 over and above the amount owing on the mortgage.
(Exh. 501-007.)
Ms. Tour-Sarkissian opined that the ROFR provision reflects
that the parties considered and addressed the $208,000 payment as part of their
decision to resolve the issue in the matter then-pending family law proceeding.
(RT, 7/18/23, at 46:5-46:26.)
As part of the settlement, the parties expressly reserved
the right to claim omitted assets, but reserved no other rights or interests,
including with respect to the $208,000 payment. 
(Exh. 501-009, section 6.e. and Exh. 501 in passim.)  The parties also agreed to submit to the
family court’s jurisdiction to enforce the settlement under Code of Civil Procedure section 664.6. (Exh.
501-013.)  Mr. Levin acknowledged that
the parties agreed to submit the issues of the Cherry Valley Property to the
family court by way of enforcement. (RT, 5/03/23, at 51:1-25.)  The comprehensiveness of the settlement,
which resolved “all issues” between the parties (arising both before and after
marriage), left nothing to be adjudicated relative to the $208,000
payment.  
As noted above, the parties then converted the settlement
into a consent judgment during the pendency of this legal malpractice
case.  The stipulation attached to the
judgment incorporates the material terms of the settlement as recited above.
(Exh. 542-003 to 542-016.)  It also
includes the following provision affirming the finality of the judgment with
respect to “all rights” to any property in which Romo or Aguirre claimed
interest:
 
4.    
This Stipulated Judgment covers all issues in dispute in
the Action and is intended to be an all-inclusive expression of the parties’
agreement and settlement.  The purpose of
this Stipulated Judgment is to make a full, final and complete settlement and
adjustment of all rights in and to all property owned by Husband and/or Wife,
or in which either or both of them have an interest of any kind, nature and/or
extent; all of the parties’ reciprocal rights relating to spousal support and
maintenance; all rights, and any and all claims and demands of whatever kind or
nature that either party may have against the other, including rights as to
property hereafter acquired.
(Exh. 542-003.)
No evidence was presented at trial to show that Romo or
Aguirre sought relief from the settlement or judgment.
In Norgart
v. Upjohn Co. (1999) 21 Cal.4th 383, 400, the court explained that courts refer to a “consent
judgment” as “a judgment entered by a court under the authority of, and in
accordance with, the contractual agreement of the parties [citation], intended
to settle their dispute fully and finally [citation].” The Norgart court
further notes that “by consenting to the judgment or order the party expressly
waives all objection to it, and cannot be allowed afterwards, on appeal, to
question its propriety, because by consenting to it he has abandoned all
opposition or exception to it.” 
Here, the parties’ settlement and judgment
are dispositive of the issue of consent. As discussed, there is no dispute that
California law allows divorcing spouses to voluntarily submit a property issue
to the family court irrespective of whether the issue would otherwise fall
within its jurisdiction.  The issue of
the $208,000 payment was plainly raised in the settlement and resulted in the
consent judgment. Given that the parties were empowered to submit the $208,000
payment to the family court, and they negotiated a settlement addressing the
same issue without reservation and within the confines of a then-pending family
law proceeding (while also making the settlement enforceable by the family law
judge under Code of Civil Procedure section 664.6), Romo cannot now complain that the family court lacked
jurisdiction over that issue.
 
III.          
CONCLUSION
            As discussed above, the Court finds in favor of Salomon
on the sole legal issue of whether the Civil Court or the Family Law Court had
jurisdiction regarding the $208,000 transaction. More specifically, the Court
finds that, under the facts of this case, the Family Law Court and not the
Civil Court had jurisdiction regarding the $208,000 transaction.  
Within
ten days after this Statement of Decision becomes final, Salomon is ordered to
file and serve a proposed judgment in accordance with these findings (with a
courtesy copy delivered to Dept. 50). The Court hereby dismisses the Doe
defendants.
            Salomon is ordered to give notice of this tentative and
proposed Statement of Decision.
 
DATED:  May 20, 2024
                                                                                    ___________________________
                                                                        Honorable Teresa A. Beaudet
                                                                        Judge, Los Angeles Superior Court
 


