 Case Number:  BC453870    Hearing Date:   May 20, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department
50
 



ROHAYENT GOMEZ ERIZA, a
  minor, by and through his Guardian Ad Litem, Maria de Jesus Eriza Duque, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
CITY OF LOS ANGELES, et
  al.,
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


 BC453870




Hearing Date:


May 20, 2024




Hearing
  Time:   10:00 a.m. 
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
 
SPECIAL MOTION
  TO REOPEN MATTER AND ENFORCE DEPARTMENT’S RIGHT TO LIEN INCLUDING INTEREST,
  COSTS AND ATTORNEY FEES



            
 
Background
On January 27, 2011, Plaintiff Rohayent Gomez Eriza, a minor, by and
through his Guardian Ad Litem, Maria de Jesus Eriza Duque (“Plaintiff”) filed
this action against Defendants City of Los Angeles and Victor Abarca. The
Complaint alleges causes of action for (1) assault and battery, (2) violation
of Civil Code section 52.1, and (3) negligence. 
In the Complaint, Plaintiff alleges that on December 16, 2010,
Plaintiff was present at or/near 2011 N. Verdugo Road, Los Angeles. (Compl., ¶
11.) He was playing in front of his house with two other children from the
neighborhood. (Compl., ¶ 11.) At the same time, LAPD officer Victor Abarca was
traveling south-bound on Verdugo Road in a police car. (Compl., ¶ 12.)
Plaintiff alleges that he “stood on the sidewalk on the west side of Verdugo
Road as defendant ABARCA ran up to him. Defendant ABARCA got to within a few
feet of PLAINTIFF and then discharged his firearm once at PLAINTIFF as
PLAINTIFF stood on the sidewalk.” (Compl., ¶ 12.) “PLAINTIFF suffered a gunshot
injury to his upper torso which damaged Plaintiff’s left lung, and which
required PLAINTIFF to undergo surgery for the removal of a portion of the lung.
The bullet also caused damage to PLAINTIFF’s spinal cord, permanently rendering
him a paraplegic at approximately T5.” (Compl., ¶ 13.) 
On January 16, 2013, a Judgment on Special Verdict After Trial by Jury
was entered in this action. The Judgment provides, inter alia, that
“[t]his action came on regularly for trial on November 26, 2012 in Department
50 of the Los Angeles Superior Court, Central District of California before the
Honorable Joseph Kalin.” The January 16, 2013 Judgment further provides, inter
alia, that “IT IS THEREFORE ORDERED, ADJUDED AND DECREED that judgment be,
and hereby is, entered in favor of Plaintiff ROHAYENT GOMEZ ERIZA and against
Defendants, CITY OF LOS ANGELES and VICTOR ABARCA in the amount of $22,000,000
with interest at the rate of seven (7) percent per annum from the date of
judgment until paid. Additionally, Plaintiff may recover his costs of suit
herein.” 
Third-Party Michelle Baass, as Director of the Department of Health
Care Services (the “Department”) now moves “for an order re-opening this matter
and compelling plaintiff Rohayent Gomez Eriza, Maria de Jesus Eriza Duque,
counsel Arnoldo Casillas, Esq., and the City of Los Angeles to pay the
Department’s $206,503.71 lien with interest thereon as well as the costs and
attorney’s fees involved to recover this lien.” Arnoldo Casillas filed a
“Declaration of Arnoldo Casillas in Opposition to Special Motion to Reopen
Matter and Enforce Lien.”[1] 
Discussion
As set forth above, the Department
moves “for an order re-opening this matter and compelling plaintiff
Rohayent Gomez Eriza, Maria de Jesus Eriza Duque, counsel Arnoldo Casillas,
Esq., and the City of Los Angeles to pay the Department’s $206,503.71 lien with
interest thereon as well as the costs and attorney’s fees involved to recover
this lien.” (Notice of Motion at p. 2:1-4.) 
In support of the instant motion, the Department cites to Welfare and Institutions Code section 14124.76, subdivision
(a), which
provides as follows: 
 
“No
settlement, judgment, or award in any action or claim by a beneficiary to
recover damages for injuries, where the director has an interest, shall be
deemed final or satisfied without first giving the director notice and a
reasonable opportunity to perfect and to satisfy the director’s lien. Recovery
of the director’s lien from an injured beneficiary’s action or claim is limited
to that portion of a settlement, judgment, or award that represents payment for
medical expenses, or medical care, provided on behalf of the beneficiary. All
reasonable efforts shall be made to obtain the director’s advance agreement to
a determination as to what portion of a settlement, judgment, or award that
represents payment for medical expenses, or medical care, provided of behalf on
the beneficiary. Absent the director’s advance agreement as to what portion
of a settlement, judgment, or award represents payment for medical expenses, or
medical care, provided on behalf of the beneficiary, the matter shall be
submitted to a court for decision. Either the director or the beneficiary may
seek resolution of the dispute by filing a motion, which shall be subject to
regular law and motion procedures. In determining what portion of a
settlement, judgment, or award represents payment for medical expenses, or
medical care, provided on behalf of the beneficiary and as to what the
appropriate reimbursement amount to the director should be, the court shall be
guided by the United States Supreme Court decision in Arkansas
Department of Health and Human Services v. Ahlborn (2006) 547 U.S. 268 and
other relevant statutory and case law.” (Emphasis added.) 
Pursuant to Welfare
and Institutions Code section 14124.76, subdivision (b), “[i]f the beneficiary has filed a third-party action or claim, the
court where the action or claim was filed shall have jurisdiction over a
dispute between the director and the beneficiary regarding the amount of a lien
asserted pursuant to this section that is based upon an allocation of damages
contained in a settlement or compromise of the third-party action or claim. If
no third-party action or claim has been filed, any superior court in California
where venue would have been proper had a claim or action been filed shall have
jurisdiction over the motion. The motion may be filed as a special motion and
treated as an ordinary law and motion proceeding and subject to regular motion
fees. The reimbursement determination motion shall be treated as a special
proceeding of a civil nature pursuant to Part 3 (commencing with Section 1063) of the Code of Civil Procedure.”
In addition, pursuant Welfare and Institutions
Code section 14124.76, subdivision (c), “[t]he court shall issue its findings,
decision, or order, which shall be considered the final determination of the
parties’ rights and obligations with respect to the director’s lien, unless the
settlement is contingent on an acceptable allocation of the settlement
proceeds, in which case, the court’s findings, decision, or order shall be
considered a tentative determination. If the beneficiary does not serve notice
of a rejection of the tentative determination, which shall be based solely upon
a rejection of the contingent settlement, within 30 days of the notice of entry
of the court’s tentative determination, subject to further consideration by the
court pursuant to subdivision (d), the tentative determination shall become
final. Notwithstanding Section 1064 of the Code of
Civil Procedure, either the beneficiary or the director may appeal the
final findings, decision, or order.” 
The Department asserts that
here, its lien has not been satisfied. The Department submits the Declaration of Rhonda
Wyatt, who has been employed by the California Department of Health Care
Services (the “Department”) since February 2004. (Wyatt Decl., ¶ 1.) Ms. Wyatt
indicates that on September 6, 2012, the Department sent a notice to
Plaintiff’s counsel, Mr. Casillas, stating, inter alia, that “YOU ARE
HEREBY NOTIFIED that your client is a Medi-Cal program beneficiary and has
received health care benefits,” and that “PURSUANT TO SECTION
14124.70 et. seq. of the W&I Code, the Department of Health Care
Services claims a lien upon the proceeds or satisfaction of any judgment, or
any settlements negotiated with or without suit, in favor of the beneficiary.”
(Wyatt Decl., ¶ 5, Ex. 2.) 
In addition, on June 4, 2013, the Department sent a letter to Mr.
Casillas with the “DHCS Case Name” “ROHAYENT GOMEZ.” (Wyatt Decl., ¶ 7, Ex.
11.) The June 4, 2013 letter stated, inter alia, that “[t]he Medi-Cal
program has advanced the sum of $275,338.28 for medical services. This person
has been a Medi-Cal recipient and the State has the right of reimbursement
pursuant to Welfare and Institutions Code, Sections
14124.70 through 14124.795, or Section 14024.
Reimbursement in the amount of $206,503.71 will satisfy our lien.” (Wyatt
Decl., ¶ 7, Ex. 11.) Ms. Wyatt states that “[t]he Department reduced the lien
amount of $275,338.28 to $206.503.71 to account for its reasonable share of
attorney’s fees pursuant to Welfare and Institutions
Code, section 14124.72, subdivision (d).” (Wyatt Decl., ¶ 7.)[2]
Ms. Wyatt states that “[o]n June 4, 2013, Mr. Casillas notified the
Department that plaintiff received a significant award, but the case was on
appeal and would likely resolve in 16 to 18 months.” (Wyatt Decl., ¶ 6.) Ms.
Wyatt states that “[b]etween January 21, 2014, and July 30, 2021, the Department
sent multiple letters and made numerous calls to Mr. Casillas’ office
requesting status of the appeal, the signed settlement release, and status of
payment with no response…On July 30, 2021, the Department learned of the
settlement through a telephone conversation with a secretary in Mr. Casillas’s
office, who stated ‘[t]he case has been settled for a while now.’” (Wyatt
Decl., ¶¶ 10-11.) In addition, Exhibit “7” to the Department’s counsel’s
declaration is a document titled “Report Re: Status of Liability Accounts as of
March 31, 2016,” which the Department states is a public record of the City of
Los Angeles. (Schreiber Decl., ¶ 6, Ex. 7.) The document provides, inter
alia, that “[a]n additional $56.1 million was added to the account to cover
payouts associated with these four extraordinary cases:…Eriza Rohayent Gomez -
$15 million (LAPD/wrongful shooting)…” (Schreiber Decl., ¶ 6, Ex. 7.)
Ms. Wyatt states that “[b]etween August 30, 2021, and April 6, 2022,
the Department sent multiple letters and made numerous calls to Mr. Casillas’s
office requesting status of the appeal, the signed settlement release, and
status of payment but did not receive any response…On April 6, 2022, the
Department spoke with Mr. Casillas’s co-counsel, Gerald Peters, who stated he
only represented the plaintiff on the appeal, and it had been dropped…Between
June 3, 2022, and February 15, 2023, the Department sent multiple letters and
made numerous calls to Mr. Casillas’s office requesting for the signed
settlement release and status of payment but did not receive any response.”
(Wyatt Decl., ¶¶ 12-14.) 
Ms. Wyatt states that on March 6, 2023, the Department sent an email
to Mr. Casillas stating that the Department had not received payment for
Plaintiff’s lien. (Wyatt Decl., ¶ 15.) Ms. Wyatt states that “[t]o date, the
Department has not received any payments towards satisfying its Medi-Cal lien
in this matter.” (Wyatt Decl., ¶ 15.) 
The Department asserts it has a “statutory right to recover its lien
from Plaintiff and his Guardian Ad Litem.” (Mot. at p. 11:13-14.) The
Department also asserts that it “has a statutory right to recovery [sic] its
lien from the City of Los Angeles.” (Mot. at p. 14:7-8.) Pursuant to Welfare and Institutions Code section 14124.71, subdivision (a), “[w]hen benefits are provided or will be provided to a
beneficiary under this chapter because of an injury for which another party is
liable, or for which a carrier is liable in accordance with the provisions of
any policy of insurance issued pursuant to Section
11580.2 of the Insurance Code, the director shall have a right to recover
from such a party or carrier the reasonable value of benefits so provided. The
Attorney General, or counsel for the fiscal intermediary under the Medi-Cal
program with the permission of the Attorney General, or a contractor pursuant
to Section 14124.80, or a county through its civil
legal adviser, may, to enforce such right, institute and prosecute legal
proceedings against the third a party or carrier who may be liable for the
injury in an appropriate court, either in the name of the director or in the
name of the injured person, his guardian, conservator, personal representative,
estate, or survivors.” 
In Kain v. State Dep't of Health Servs. (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th
325, 329, cited by the
Department, the Court of Appeal noted that “California has enacted several
statutes allowing DHS to recover Medi-Cal funds from responsible third
parties. Welfare and Institutions Code section
14124.71 authorizes DHS to bring an action for the reasonable value of
Medi-Cal benefits paid ‘because of an injury for which another person [or
entity] is liable…Welfare and
Institutions Code section 14124.74 allows DHS a
first lien against a ‘judgment or award in a suit or claim’ obtained by a
Medi-Cal beneficiary ‘against a third party or [insurance] carrier.’ By
operation of law, the recipient of Medi-Cal services assigns to DHS the right
to recover medical expenses from a third party who is liable to pay for those
expenses. (Welf. & Inst. Code, § 14008.6, subd. (a).).”

As set forth above, Arnoldo Casillas filed a “Declaration of Arnoldo
Casillas in Opposition to Special Motion to Reopen Matter and Enforce Lien.” In
his declaration, Mr. Casillas states that “[t]he verdict in the matter does not
include an amount for past medical costs related to the amounts paid by the
State of California.” (Casillas Decl., ¶ 3.) As set forth above, on January 16,
2023, the Court entered a Judgment on Special Verdict After Trial by Jury.
Question No. 9 of the Special Verdict indicates that Plaintiff was awarded $0
in past economic loss, 14 million in future economic loss, $0 in past
noneconomic loss, and 10 million in future noneconomic loss. (See January
16, 2023 Judgment on Special Verdict After Trial by Jury, Question No. 9.) 
In his declaration in opposition to the motion, Mr. Casillas states
that “I subpoenaed a representative from the Department of Health Care Services
to testify as to the amounts paid by the State for the treatment received by
Plaintiff…I scheduled the individual for testimony and the individual appeared
as subpoenaed but refused to testify as to the amount paid by the State…Because
the State’s representative refused to testify as to the amounts paid by the
State for the medical services received, I did not ask the jury to include an
amount for past medical costs because I did not have the medical services costs
in evidence. As reflected in the special verdict, no amount was awarded for
past medical services.” (Casillas Decl., ¶ 3.) 
Mr. Casillas asserts that “[c]ontrary to the State’s arguments in the
present petition, Plaintiff has not received any money as reimbursement for
medical care that was paid for by the Medi-Cal program. To the contrary,
Plaintiff attempted to secure compensation for such costs but was prevented
from doing so due to the unwillingness of the representative of the Department
of Health Care Services to testify as to the amount that was paid.” (Casillas
Decl., ¶ 4.) Mr. Casillas further asserts that “Plaintiff has not kept the
Department’s share of the settlement money…Again, the settlement of the matter
was based on the amount secured by the verdict. The verdict amount did not
include any amount for past medical expenses. (Casillas Decl., ¶ 5.)
However, as noted by the Department, Mr. Casillas’s declaration “is
silent with regard to the terms of settlement agreement and any provision for
the Department’s lien. A copy has not been provided to the court.” (Reply at p.
3:8-10.) In addition, the Department asserts that “[t]he witness’s testimony notwithstanding,
there is no dispute that the Department’s lien is statutory, and the duty to
satisfy that lien is statutory.” (Reply at p. 5:3-4.) As set forth above, Welfare and Institutions Code section 14124.71, subdivision (a) provides, inter alia,
that “[w]hen benefits are provided or
will be provided to a beneficiary under this chapter because of an injury for
which another party is liable, or for which a carrier is liable in accordance
with the provisions of any policy of insurance issued pursuant to Section 11580.2 of the Insurance Code, the director shall
have a right to recover from such a party or carrier the reasonable value of
benefits so provided.” (Emphasis added.) The Department also cites to Neil D. Reid,
Inc. v. Department of Health Care Services (1976) 55 Cal.App.3d 418, 420, where the Court of Appeal
noted that “[w]hen the state Medi-Cal
program pays for medical services rendered to an injured person who has a claim
for damages for the injury for which he is treated, the state is granted a lien
upon the injured person's recovery, whether by judgment or settlement, to the
extent of the Medi-Cal benefits it has provided.” 
The Department also asserts that “[e]ven if the settlement agreement
made no allocation of the settlement proceeds to past medical expenses, section 14124.76, subdivision (a) provides that the
court shall made [sic] that determination.” (Reply at p. 3:10-12.) Indeed, as
set forth above, “[a]bsent the director’s advance
agreement as to what portion of a settlement, judgment, or award represents
payment for medical expenses, or medical care, provided on behalf of the
beneficiary, the matter shall be submitted to a court for decision.” (Welf. &
Inst. Code, § 14124.76, subd. (a).) The Department also cites to Aguilera v.
Loma Linda University Medical Center (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 821,
827-828, where the Court
of Appeal noted that “[s]ettlements, however, are often not allocated between past
medical expenses and other damages. This was the situation in Ahlborn. Thus, the parties in Ahlborn
stipulated to the use of a formula (the Ahlborn formula) as an allocation method. Numerous courts have since
accepted the Ahlborn formula as an acceptable
method of approximating the amount of medical expenses. The Ahlborn formula is the ratio of
the settlement to the total claim, when applied to the benefits provided by the
Department. Expressed
mathematically, the Ahlborn formula
calculates the reimbursement due as the total settlement divided by the full
value of the claim, which is then multiplied by the value of benefits provided.
(Reimbursement Due = [Total Settlement ÷ Full Value of Claim] x Value of
Benefits Provided.) The parties’ dispute focuses on the
variable addressing the full value of Ashlynn’s claim; specifically, whether
future attendant care and medical care should be included in this variable.”
(Internal citations omitted.) As noted by the Department, Mr. Casillas
does not appear to dispute the amount of the Department’s lien here
($206,503.71). 
In addition, as noted by the Department, no opposition to the motion
appears to have been filed by the City of Los Angeles, Rohayent Gomez Eriza, or
Maria De Jesus Eriza Duque.
Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that the Department has
demonstrated that it provided benefits “to a
beneficiary under this chapter because of an injury for which another party is
liable,” such that “the director shall have a right to recover from such a
party…the reasonable value of benefits so provided.” (Welf. & Inst. Code,
§ 14124.71, subd. (a).) 
The Court notes that Mr. Casillas asserts that the motion should be
denied, but that “[a]lternatively, should the court find merit to the State’s
arguments, the matter should be referred to arbitration or mediation to resolve
the matter fairly and justly such that the underlying circumstances can be
taken into account to arrive at a lien amount that takes into account the
equities of the present circumstances.” (Casillas Decl., ¶ 7.) The Court notes
that Mr. Casillas does not provide any legal authority or evidence to support
his assertion that the matter should be referred to arbitration or mediation.
Thus, the Court denies such request. 
The Department also asserts that “the Court should award the
Department its attorney fees and costs incurred in the collection of its
statutory lien.” (Mot. at p. 16:5-6.) In support of this assertion, the
Department cites to Government Code section 12513.1, which provides that “[a]ny person who fails to pay on a timely basis any
liability or penalty imposed by or on behalf of any state agency or official,
the People of the State of California, the State of California, or any
liability or penalty otherwise imposed in any matter prosecuted by the Attorney
General, shall be required to pay, in addition to that liability or penalty,
interest, reasonable attorneys’ fees, and costs for any collection proceedings
to enforce payment.” 
However, the Court notes that the Department does not appear to
provide any evidence of its attorney’s fees or costs purportedly incurred in
the collection of its statutory lien. Rather, the Department states that it
seeks “attorney’s fees after motion brought pursuant to California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1702.” (Mot. at p. 16:17-18.) Thus, the Court denies
any request by the Department in the instant motion for attorney’s fees. The
Court notes that the Department may file a regularly noticed motion concerning
its request for attorney’s fees.
Lastly, the Department also requests that the Court award “interest at
the lawful rate from the date of approval of payment by City of Los Angeles of
the $15 million settlement on August 12, 2015, through the date the lien is
ultimately paid…” (Mot. at p. 16:15-17.) The Court notes that the Department
does not appear to provide any evidence that the City of Los Angeles paid the
$15 million settlement on August 12, 2015. This date does not appear to be
otherwise mentioned in the Department’s motion or supporting declarations.
Thus, the Court denies the Department’s request that the Court award interest
from the date of August 12, 2015. 
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, the
Court grants the Department’s motion in part. The Court grants the Department’s
motion to re-open this matter and hereby issues this order “compelling
plaintiff Rohayent Gomez Eriza, Maria de Jesus Eriza Duque, counsel Arnoldo
Casillas, Esq., and the City of Los Angeles to pay the Department’s $206,503.71
lien with interest thereron…” The motion is otherwise denied.
///
///
The Department is
ordered to give notice of this order. 
 
DATED:  May 20, 2024                                 ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court
 


