 Case Number:  21STCV34189    Hearing Date:   February 14, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Order
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger,
Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     February 14, 2024                             TRIAL DATE:  Not set
                                                           
CASE: 
                       Hermelinda Alvarez v. Kia America, Inc.,
et al.
 
CASE
NO.:                 21STCV34189
 





















 
MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION 



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant Kia America, Inc.
 
RESPONDING PARTY:
    Plaintiff Hermelinda Alvarez                                      
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
            This is a lemon law case. 
On September 15, 2021, Plaintiff Hermelinda Alvarez, filed a complaint
against Defendant Kia America, Inc. (“Kia”). 
Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint (FAC) on May 5, 2022, for (1)
Violation of Song-Beverly Act, Breach of Express Warranty; (2) Violation of the
Song-Beverly Act, Breach of Implied Warranty; (3) Fraudulent Inducement –
Concealment; and (4) Fraudulent Inducement – Misrepresentation.  
 
Plaintiff purchased a new 2017 Kia Sportage from Allstar
Kia on September 17, 2016.  Plaintiff
alleges the vehicle was defective. 
Plaintiff asserts statutory claims under the Song-Beverly Act as well as
common law claims for fraudulent concealment and misrepresentation.   
 
            Kia timely filed this motion for
summary adjudication of the Third and Fourth Causes of Action and claim for
punitive damages.  Plaintiff filed an opposition.  Kia replied.       
 
            The court heard argument on January
12, 2024.  After argument, the court took
the matter under submission.  Shortly
thereafter, the court ordered further briefing on the issue of fraudulent inducement
– concealment.  
 
            On February 5, 2024, the parties
submitted supplemental briefs. 
 
            The court now rules as follows:
 
II.        LEGAL
STANDARD
In reviewing a motion for summary judgment, courts must
apply a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues framed by the pleadings;
(2) determine whether the moving party has negated the opponent’s claims; and
(3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated the existence of a
triable, material factual issue.”  (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center
(2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) 
“[T]he initial burden is always on the moving party to
make a prima facia showing that there are no triable issues of material
fact.”  (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th
1510, 1519.)  A defendant moving for summary judgment or summary
adjudication “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has
no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of
action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to the
cause of action.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)  A moving
defendant need not conclusively negate an element of plaintiff’s cause of
action.  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826,
854.) 
To meet this burden of showing a cause of action cannot
be established, a defendant must show not only “that the plaintiff does not
possess needed evidence” but also that “the plaintiff cannot reasonably
obtain needed evidence.”  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at
p. 854.)  It is insufficient for the defendant to merely point out the
absence of evidence.  (Gaggero v. Yura (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 884,
891.)  The defendant “must also produce evidence that the plaintiff cannot
reasonably obtain evidence to support his or her claim.”  (Ibid.)¿
The supporting evidence can be in the form of affidavits, declarations,
admissions, depositions, answers to interrogatories, and matters of which
judicial notice may be taken.  (Aguilar, 25 Cal.4th at p.
855.) 
“Once the defendant … has met that burden, the burden
shifts to the plaintiff … to show that a triable issue
of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense
thereto.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c,
subd. (p)(2).)  The plaintiff may not merely rely on allegations or
denials of its pleadings to show that a triable issue of material fact exists,
but instead, “shall set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue
of material fact exists as to the cause of action.”  (Ibid.) 
“If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.”  (Avivi
v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463,
467.) 
The court must “liberally construe the evidence in
support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve all doubts
concerning the evidence in favor of that party,” including “all inferences
reasonably drawn therefrom.”  (Yanowitz v. L’Oreal USA, Inc. (2005)
36 Cal.4th 1028, 1037; Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at pp.
844-45.)  “On a summary judgment motion, the court must therefore consider
what inferences favoring the opposing party a factfinder could reasonably draw
from the evidence.  While viewing the evidence in this manner, the court
must bear in mind that its primary function is to identify issues rather than
to determine issues.  [Citation.]  Only when the inferences are
indisputable may the court decide the issues as a matter of law.  If the
evidence is in conflict, the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” (Binder
v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839.)  “Put another
way, have defendants conclusively negated a necessary element of the
[plaintiff’s] case or demonstrated that under no hypothesis is there a material
issue of fact that requires the process of trial?”  (Jeld-Wen, Inc. v. Superior Court
(2005) 131 Cal.App.4th 853, 860 [cleaned up].)  Further, “the trial court may not weigh the
evidence in the manner of a factfinder to determine whose version is more
likely true.  [Citation.]  Nor may the trial court grant summary
judgment based on the court’s evaluation of credibility. 
[Citation.]”  (Id. at p. 840; see also Weiss v. People ex rel.
Department of Transportation (2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding
motions for summary judgment or summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence
but must instead view it in the light most favorable to the opposing party and
draw all reasonable inferences in favor of that party”].)   
III.      EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
 
            In its
Reply, Kia submits 9 objections to the Declaration of Jeffery Mukai.  The Court need not rule on these objections because
they are not material to the disposition of the motion.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (q).)
 
IV.       DISCUSSION
 
Analysis 
 
Kia argues the Third and Fourth Causes of Action fail
because (1) Kia did not withhold any information from Plaintiff or make any
misrepresentations to Plaintiff, (2) there were no direct dealings between the
parties giving rise to a duty to disclose, and (3) the causes of action are
barred by the economic loss rule.[1]
 Kia also argues the requests for punitive
damages fails because without the underlying fraud claims, there is no basis for
punitive damages. 
 
A.  Third Cause of
Action for Fraudulent Inducement – Concealment 
 
Fraud based on concealment requires that “(1) the
defendant must have concealed or suppressed a material fact, (2) the defendant
must have been under a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff, (3) the
defendant must have intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact with the
intent to defraud the plaintiff, (4) the plaintiff must have been unaware of
the fact and would not have acted as he did if he had known of the concealed or
suppressed fact, and (5) as a result of the concealment or suppression of the
fact, the plaintiff must have sustained damage.”  (Bigler-Engler v.
Breg, Inc. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 276, 310-311 (Bigler-Engler); CACI No.
1901.)  An essential element of intentional concealment includes the duty
to disclose, which must be based upon a transaction, or a special relationship,
between plaintiff and defendant.  (Id. at p. 314.) “[T]o establish
fraud through nondisclosure or concealment of facts, it is necessary to show
the defendant¿‘was under a legal duty to disclose them.’”  (OCM
Principal Opportunities Fund v. CIBC World Markets Corp.¿(2007) 157
Cal.App.4th 835, 845 (OCM Principal).) 
 
Kia argues the second element, duty to disclose, is
absent because there was no transactional relationship between Plaintiff and
Kia.  Defendant argues Plaintiff’s
transaction was with the independent dealership – Allstar Kia.  The parties wrestle over the application of Bigler-Engler.  Defendant wins this argument.  Bigler-Engler applies.  
 
In Bigler-Engler, the plaintiff, Engler, injured
her knee and had surgery.  After the
surgery, the doctor recommended use of an “ice” machine.  The doctor prescribed the Polar Care 500 ice
machine which was manufactured by defendant Breg, Inc (Breg).  The ice machine made things worse and caused
additional injuries.  Engler sued Breg
for intentional concealment.  The jury
returned a verdict in plaintiff’s favor. 
The Court of Appeal reversed finding that Breg did not owe Engler a duty
of care. The Bigler-Engler Court described the circumstances that give
rise to a duty of care as follows:  
 
“There are¿four circumstances in which
nondisclosure or concealment may constitute actionable fraud: (1) when the
defendant is in a fiduciary relationship with the plaintiff; (2) when the
defendant had exclusive knowledge of material facts not known to the plaintiff;
(3) when the defendant actively conceals a material fact from the plaintiff;
and (4) when the defendant makes partial representations but also suppresses
some material facts. [Citation.] Where, as
here, a fiduciary relationship does not exist between the parties, only the latter
three circumstances may apply. These three circumstances, however, presuppose
the existence of some other relationship between the plaintiff and defendant in
which a duty to disclose can arise. [Citation.] A duty to disclose facts arises
only when the parties are in a relationship that gives rise to the duty, such
as seller and buyer, employer and prospective employee, doctor and patient, or
parties entering into any kind of contractual arrangement.  [Citation.]” 
 
(Bigler-Engler, supra,¿at p. 311 [cleaned
up].) “Such a transaction must necessarily arise from direct dealings between
the plaintiff and the defendant; it cannot arise between the defendant and the
public at large.”  (Id. at p. 312.) 
 
Trying to avoid application of the transaction-relationship
test, Plaintiff argues that other doctrines, such as product liability law, “impose
liability even without evidence of a transaction between the plaintiff and the
defendant.”  The Bigler-Engler
Court rejected the argument because “[product liability law involves a set of
circumstances, elements and doctrines that are independent from and not
directly applicable to, fraud.  The duties
underlying each cannot simply be applied to the other.”  (Bigler-Engler, supra, at p. 312.)  The court went on to hold that “where, as
here, a sufficient relationship does not exist, no duty to disclose arises even
when the defendant speaks.”  (Ibid.)    
 
Relying on Bigler-Engler, Kia argues it did not owe Plaintiff a duty to disclose material facts
regarding the Subject Vehicle because Plaintiff bought the Subject Vehicle from
an independent third-party dealer, Allstar Kia.  (Kia’s Undisputed
Material Facts (UMF) 1, 2.)  Kia argues “that no court has held the
existence of an express warranty gives rise to a duty to disclose.”  (Kia Supp. Pg. 1.)  Without a purchase from an authorized dealer,
Kia maintains that the express warranty does not create a duty under Bigler-Engler
because there were no “direct dealings” between the plaintiff and the defendant.  (Bigler-Engler, supra, at p. 312.)  Kia presents sufficient evidence that the
relationship necessary to create a duty to disclose is absent. The burden shifts
to Plaintiff to offer evidence that Kia had a duty to disclose.
¿ 
Plaintiff argues Kia had a duty to disclose because Plaintiff
purchased the Subject Vehicle with a warranty from an authorized dealership.  Based upon these two points, Plaintiff argues
Plaintiff entered a transactional relationship with Kia. Plaintiff cites Dhital
v. Nissan North America, Inc. (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 828 (Dhital) in
support of its argument.  In Dhital,
the trial court sustained a demurrer to plaintiffs’ claim for fraudulent
inducement by concealment.  The Court of
Appeal reversed, stating “Plaintiffs alleged that they bought the car from a Nissan
dealership, that Nissan backed the car with an express warranty, and
that Nissan's authorized dealerships are its agents for purposes
of the sale of Nissan vehicles to consumers.  In light of these allegations, we decline to
hold plaintiffs’ claim is barred on the ground there was no relationship
requiring Nissan to disclose known defects.” 
(Dhital at p. 844, emphasis added.) 
 
Dhital does not help Plaintiff’s cause.  Dhital
concerned the sufficiency of allegations at the pleading stage.  By contrast, summary adjudication concerns whether
there are triable issues of material fact based on evidence.  Here, Plaintiff has not provided any evidence
to support its allegations that Allstar Kia is an authorized dealership or
that a principal-agent relationship existed between Kia and Allstar Kia. 
The undisputed evidence before the court is that Allstar Kia is an independent third-party
dealer, not owned by Kia.  (UMF 2,7).  Moreover, even if Allstar Kia were an authorized
dealer, that does not automatically make Allstar Kia an agent for the purpose
of selling vehicles.  (See, e.g.,¿Avalon
Painting Co. v. Alert Lumber Co. (1965) 234 Cal.App.2d 178, 184 [noting
that whether an agency relationship exists depends on the facts of each case
and holding the facts pled in the instant amended complaint and prior
complaints established a probability that the relationship between paint
manufacturer and dealer was one of buyer and seller as opposed to principal and
agent and whether an agency relationship existed can only be determined after
taking evidence, not on demurrer].)  
 
Two of the critical points noted in Dhital are
missing here: (1) that Allstar Kia is an authorized Kia dealership and (2) that
Allstar Kia is authorized agent of Kia for purposes of the sale of Kia
vehicles.  In fact, the only evidence
before the court is that Allstar Kia is an independent third-party dealer.  (UMF 2, 7.) 
Plaintiff does not dispute this fact.  
 
            Gilead
Tenofovir Cases
addressed the issue of fraudulent concealment in the development and sale of
medications to treat HIV/AIDS.  (Gilead Tenofovir Cases (2024) 98 Cal.App.5th 911.) 
But the Gilead
Court skipped over the analysis and “assumed that plaintiffs’ use of Gilead’s
product, TDF, created the relationship necessary to invoke the law of
concealment.” (Id.)  While the Gilead
Court pointed to Dhital in support of its assumption, the court did not offer
any analysis, and none was needed because the Court of Appeal found Gilead did
not have a duty to disclose information about TAF for an independent reason – the
information at issue was not material to the transaction that created the
disclosure relationship. Gilead does not assist Plaintiff’s
argument.  
 
In short, Plaintiff argues an express warranty satisfies
the Bigler-Engler’s transactional relationship test.  But no case cited by Plaintiff supports this
broad reading of Bigler-Engler’s test.[2]      
 
In a similar move to the plaintiff in Bigler-Engler,
Plaintiff tries to avoid the application of the transaction-relationship test
by pointing to a different doctrine of law – the indirect communication
doctrine.  Plaintiff argues that “a
vendor has a duty to disclose material facts not only to immediate purchasers,
but also to subsequent purchasers when the vendor has reason to expect that the
item will be resold.”  (Opposition, pp. 4:27-5:2.)  Just as the court
did not apply product liability law in Bigler-Engler, the indirect
communication doctrine does not apply here. 
Plaintiff refers to four cases to invoke the doctrine.[3]  Plaintiff does not discuss these cases nor
the application of the doctrine.  Plaintiff’s
undeveloped argument is unavailing.  The
indirect communication doctrine rests upon Restatement Second of Torts section
533.[4]  The doctrine does not apply here because Plaintiff
fails to present any evidence that Kia made a misrepresentation about the car
to a third party (Allstar Kia), who then communicated the misrepresentation to
Plaintiff, let alone that Plaintiff relied on that indirect communication.  Plaintiff fails to present evidence that she
was actually aware of, or reassured by, and relied upon, the misrepresentation
when purchasing the vehicle.  Plaintiff
admitted at her deposition she was not aware of any false statements that were
made to her in connection with her purchase of her Subject Vehicle; and she was
not aware of any information that Kia or its dealers withheld from her in
connection with her purchase of the Subject Vehicle.  (Plaintiff’s Depo., pp. 24:20-26:7.)  There is no evidence that Kia, the
manufacturer, committed fraud upon the dealer (Allstar Kia) as an initial
purchaser of the vehicle.  
 
Based upon the foregoing, Plaintiff does not have the
required relationship with the manufacturer to support Plaintiff’s claim for
fraudulent concealment.  In short,
Plaintiff has not established there were any “direct dealings between the
plaintiff and the defendant.” (Bigler-Engler,
supra, at p. 312.)  Plaintiff’s supplemental briefing does not offer
any new argument directing a different result.
¿ 
Kia’s Motion for Summary Adjudication of the Third Cause
of Action is GRANTED. 
 
B.  Fourth Cause of
Action for Fraudulent Inducement – Intentional Misrepresentation
 
            To
establish a claim for deceit based on intentional misrepresentation, the
plaintiff must prove seven¿essential elements: (1) the defendant represented to
the plaintiff that an important fact was true; (2) that representation was
false; (3) the defendant knew that the representation was false when the
defendant made it, or the defendant made the representation recklessly and
without regard for its truth; (4) the defendant intended that the plaintiff
rely on the representation; (5) the plaintiff¿reasonably relied on
the¿representation;¿(6) the plaintiff was harmed; and (7) the plaintiff's
reliance on the defendant's representation was a substantial factor in causing
that harm to the plaintiff.¿ (Manderville¿v. PCG & S Group, Inc.¿(2007)
146 Cal.App.4th 1486, 1498; CACI No. 1900.)¿ 
 
            Here, Kia
challenges elements (1), (4), (5), and (7).  Kia provides evidence that it did not make an
intentional misrepresentation regarding the Subject Vehicle to Plaintiff.  First, it is undisputed that Allstar Kia is
not Kia’s agent.  (UMF 7.)  As such, the parties did not have any direct
dealings.  Second, Kia points out that Plaintiff
could not identify what misrepresentations were made to induce her purchase of
the Subject Vehicle.  (UMF No. 10.)  Kia presents sufficient evidence that¿it did
not make an intentional misrepresentation to Plaintiff or that Plaintiff relied
upon any affirmative misrepresentation made by Kia to her.   
 
            The
burden shifts.  Plaintiff is unable to
rebut this shifted burden.  Plaintiff
argues that the existence of a warranty constitutes an intentional
misrepresentation about the vehicle. 
However, as noted in Santana v. FCA US, LLC (2020) 56 Cal.App.5th
334, 345, “The very existence of a warranty presupposes that some defects may
occur.”  The existence of a warranty is
insufficient to establish intentional misrepresentation.  And, as discussed above, there is no evidence
of any statements, false or otherwise, that Kia made to induce Plaintiff’s
purchase of the Vehicle or that Plaintiff relied upon Kia’s affirmative
misrepresentations.   
 
            Kia’s
Motion for Summary Adjudication of the Fourth Cause of Action is GRANTED. 
 
            C.  Punitive Damages
 
            Punitive
damages may be imposed where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that
the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. (Civ. Code, §
3294, subd. (a).)  “Malice” is conduct intended by the defendant to cause
injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct, which is carried on with a
willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.  (Civ.
Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1).)  Despicable conduct is “conduct which is so
vile, base, contemptible, miserable, wretched or loathsome that it would be
looked down upon and despised by ordinary decent people.  Such conduct has
been described as ‘having the character of outrage frequently associated with
crime.’” (Tomaselli v. Transamerica Ins. Co. (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 1269,
1287.) “Fraud” means an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment
of a material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the
defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or
otherwise causing injury.  (Civ. Code, §
3294, subd. (c).)  “‘Punitive damages are
proper only when the tortious conduct rises to levels of extreme indifference
to the plaintiff’s rights, a level which decent citizens should not have to
tolerate.’ [Citation.]”  (Lackner v.
North (2006) 135 Cal.App.4th 1188, 1210.)  
 
            Plaintiff’s
prayer for punitive damages is premised solely on her Third and Fourth Causes
of Action for fraud.  Given the Court’s ruling as to the fraud
claims, summary adjudication is also proper to the punitive damages claim.[5]
 
V.        CONCLUSION
 
            Accordingly, the Motion for Summary Adjudication
of the Third and Fourth Causes of Action and the claim for punitive damages is
GRANTED.
            
Moving party to give notice.  
 
 
Dated:   February 14, 2024                              




¿ 


¿¿¿ 




¿ 


¿ Kerry
  Bensinger¿¿ 
¿ Judge of
  the Superior Court¿ 




 
 
 
 
            
 
 
 


