  Case Number:  21NWCV00720    Hearing Date:   December 4, 2024    Dept:  SEC DOMINGUEZ ET AL. V. ESTES EXPRESS LINES, INC., ET
AL.
CASE NO.: 21NWCV00720 
HEARING: 12/04/2024
 
#1
TENTATIVE ORDER
 
I.            
Defendants Estes Express Lines and G.I.
Trucking Company’s motion to strike the first and second causes of action in the
third amended complaint is DENIED.
 
II.           
Defendants’ motion to strike “back
income,” “back pay,” and “compensation” is DENIED. 
 
III.         
Defendants’ motion to strike “funeral
costs” and “emotional distress” damages is GRANTED.
 
Moving party to give notice. 
 
Estes Express Lines and G.I. Trucking Company (Defendants)
move this Court for an order striking portions of the third amended complaint
(TAC) brought by Claudia Dominguez on behalf of the Estate of Gilbert Dominguez
(Plaintiff).
 
Background
 
On November 6, 2024, Plaintiff filed a TAC against Defendant
alleging six causes of action: (1) wrongful discharge, (2) disability discrimination,
(3) failure to prevent/remedy discrimination, (4) negligent supervision, (5)
failure to accommodate, and (6) failure to engage in the good faith interactive
process. 
 
Gilbert Dominguez (Decedent) was employed by Defendants.
Plaintiff alleges that on December 4, 2017, Decedent suffered life-threatening
injuries while working for Defendants when a tractor operated by another
employee backed into him. (TAC, ¶ 2.) Defendants and third parties had removed
the tractor’s back-up safety alarm prior to this accident. (TAC, ¶ 4.)
Following Decedent’s death on October 28, 2019, Defendants’ told Decedent’s
family that he had been terminated and they would not pay any funeral costs. (TAC,
¶ 4.) Decedent had been unaware about the termination. (TAC, ¶ 8.) Plaintiffs allege
he was wrongfully terminated based on his inability to return from leave and
his disability. (TAC, ¶ 8.)
 
In the instant action, Defendants seek to strike Plaintiff’s
first and second causes of action and Plaintiff’s requests for back income,
back pay, compensation, funeral costs, and emotional distress.
 
Procedural History
 
On October 27, 2021, Estate of Gilbert Domingues, Claudia
Dominguez, Angelica Hernandez, and Gisell Escalera filed a complaint against
Estes Express Lines, Inc., Tony Talley, Ashley Hening, Life Insurance Company
of North America, Inc., Cigna, Inc., Cigna Health and Life Insurance Company,
Inc., Cigna Holding Company, Inc., Guardian Life Insurance Company Inc., and
Does 1-200 for (1) wrongful discharge, (2) disability discrimination; (3)
failure to prevent/remedy discrimination; (4) negligent supervision; (5)
failure to accommodate; (6) failure to engage in the good faith interactive
process; (7) declaratory relief; (8) breach of contract; (9) breach of implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing; and (10) intentional infliction of
emotional distress.
 
On March 2, 2022, Estate of Gilbert Dominguez, Claudia
Dominguez, Angelica Hernandez, and Gisell Escalera amended the complaint,
substituting G.I. Trucking Company dba Estes West for DOE 1.
 
On September 7, 2022, Life Insurance Company of North
America, Inc. removed the case to federal court based on federal question
jurisdiction due to ERISA preemption of Plaintiffs’ state law claims for
recovery of certain benefits provided under an employee benefit plan.
 
On October 21, 2022, Estate of Gilbert Dominguez, Claudia Dominguez,
Angelica Hernandez, and Gisell Escalera filed a first amended complaint.
 
On January 26, 2023, the Estate of Gilbert Dominguez,
Claudia Dominguez, Angelica Hernandez, and Gisell Escalera filed a second
amended complaint (SAC) against Estes Express Lines, Inc., Tony Talley, Ashley
Hening, Life Insurance Company of North America, Inc., Cigna, Inc., Cigna
Health and Life Insurance Company, Inc., Cigna Holding Company, Inc., Guardian
Life Insurance Company Inc., and DOES 1 to 200, inclusive. The SAC alleges
causes of action for (1) wrongful discharge, (2) disability discrimination (3)
failure to prevent/remedy discrimination, (4) negligent supervision, (5) Failure
to accommodate, and (6) failure to engage in the good faith interactive
process.
 
On March 8, 2023, the federal court remanded the case. 
 
On April 26, 2023, Estate of Gilbert Dominguez, Claudia
Dominguez, Angelica Hernandez, and Gisell Escalera dismissed Claudia Dominguez
individually.
 
On October 17, 2023, the Court sustained Defendant Estes
Express Lines and G.I. Trucking company’s demurrer to the SAC with leave to
amend in part, and overruled it, in part. The Court sustained the demurrer as
to the SAC’s wrongful discharge and disability discrimination causes of action.
The Court declined to rule on Defendants’ demurrer as to damages.
 
Request for Judicial Notice
 
Defendants request the Court take judicial notice of (1) the
original complaint for damages, (2) the first amended complaint, (3) the second
amended complaint, (4) the Court’s order on Defendants’ demurrer to the second
amended complaint, (5) the third amended complaint, and (6) Plaintiff Claudia
Dominguez’s voluntary dismissal of her individual capacity claims.
 
The Court GRANTS Defendants’ request for judicial notice
pursuant to Evidence Code section 452 subd. (d). Where a pleading contradicts,
or omits facts pled in, prior complaints, judges have discretion to take
judicial notice of the earlier allegations and disregard inconsistent ones,
absent the pleader’s satisfactory explanation. (State of Cal. ex rel. Metz v. CCC Information Services, Inc. (2007)
149 Cal.App.4th 402, 412; Holland v.
Morse Diesel Internat. (2001) 86 Cal.App.4th 1443, 1447; Berman v. Bromberg (1997) 56 Cal.App.4th
936, 946 (perceiving no inconsistency or sham pleading.).)
 
Legal Standard
 
The Court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its
discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or
improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc. § 436, subd. (a).)
The Court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 436, subd. (b).) The grounds for a motion to strike are that
the pleading has irrelevant, false or improper matter, or has not been drawn or
filed in conformity with laws. (Code Civ. Proc. § 436.) The grounds for moving
to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 437.)
 
Discussion
 
Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s wrongful discharge and
physical discrimination causes of action fail as a matter of law and under the
sham pleading doctrine.
 
          First
Cause of Action – Wrongful Discharge
 
Defendants argue Plaintiff’s first cause of action fails as
a matter of law because it is not tethered to a fundamental public policy
“delineated in a statutory or constitutional provision.” (Green v. Ralee
Eng’g Co., 19 Cal. 4th 66, 74 (1998).) The TAC alleges that Decedent was
wrongfully discharged pursuant to Government Code section 12940, Labor Code section
132a, and Labor Code section 1102.5. (TAC, ¶¶ 28-29.)
 
The Court finds that Plaintiff’s
first cause of action is related to the statutory allegation of disability
discrimination in violation of Government Code section 12940 subd. (a). To the
extent Defendants argue that the TAC does not plead sufficient facts to
constitute the statutory violation, the Court cannot decide that on the instant
motion to strike. A motion to strike cannot be based upon the grounds that a
complaint fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action, but
instead is properly based on grounds of superfluous or abusive allegations, or
improprieties in form or procedure. (Ferraro
v. Camarlinghi (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 509, 528-529.) Accordingly, the Court
declines to strike the TAC’s first cause of action.
 
          Second
Cause of Action – Disability Discrimination
 
Plaintiff’s second cause of action alleges physical
disability discrimination in violation of Government Code section 12940 subd.
(a). 
 
Defendants argue Plaintiff’s second cause of action fails as
a matter of law and advance the same argument as in their demurrer to the SAC.
Defendants argue Plaintiff has improperly amended allegations in the TAC that
contradict the allegations from the complaint, FAC, and SAC. Specifically,
paragraph 6 of Plaintiff’s TAC states:
 
Mr. DOMINGUEZ could not immediately
return to work as a result of his life-altering, life changing injuries and
remained paralyzed up through his death on October 28, 2019. Although he was
paralyzed following the accident, there was an expectation that Mr. DOMINGUEZ
would live and that he could return to work in some capacity in a wheelchair
prior to being unlawfully terminated and prior to his death on October 28,
2019.
 
Defendants argue this contradicts Plaintiff’s allegations in
the complaint, FAC, and SAC, which state:
 
Mr. DOMINGUEZ could not physically
return to work as a result of his life-altering, life changing injuries and
remained paralyzed and unable to work up through his death on October 28, 2019.
 
"Under the sham pleading
doctrine, allegations in an original pleading that rendered it vulnerable to
demurrer or other attack cannot simply be omitted without explanation…The
purpose of the doctrine is to enable the courts to prevent an abuse of process…The
doctrine is not intended to prevent honest complainants from correcting
erroneous allegations or to prevent the correction of ambiguous facts." (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th
740, 751 (citing Deveny v. Entropin, Inc.
(2006) 139 Cal.App.4th 408, 425-426).) “A trial court has authority to strike
sham pleadings, or those not filed in conformity with its prior ruling.” (Ricard
v. Grobstein, Goldman, Stevenson, Siegel, LeVine & Mangel (1992) 6
Cal.App.4th 157, 162.)
 
Here, the Court recognizes
Plaintiff’s amendment to allege there was an expectation Decedent could return
to work in some capacity rather than that he remained physically unable to work
for the rest of his life. The Court does not agree that the TAC contradicts the
prior complaints. Rather, the TAC adds allegations about an expectation
Decedent could live to work again in some capacity. The TAC does not omit the
facts that Decedent was paralyzed for the remainder of his life and remained
unable to work until his death. Therefore, the Court declines to strike
Plaintiff’s second cause of action. The Court cannot rule on whether these
facts are sufficient to sustain a cause of action based on a motion to strike.
 
          Damages
 
Lastly, Defendants move to strike
Plaintiff’s requests for “back income,” “back pay,” “compensation,” “funeral
costs,” and “emotional distress” damages. Defendants argue these damages are
not supported by law. 
 
Based on the foregoing, the Court
declines to strike Plaintiff’s complaint for compensatory damages in the form
of “back income,” “back pay,” and “compensation.” 
 
Next, the Court finds there are
no grounds for funeral costs damages. Plaintiff does not provide, and the Court
does not find, case law authority supporting funeral costs as damages. 
 
The Court also finds there are no grounds for emotional
distress damages. Pursuant to Claudia Dominguez’s voluntary dismissal of all
her individual capacity claims on May 8, 2024, the only Plaintiff is the Estate
of Gilbert Dominguez. The TAC does not allege facts supporting Plaintiff’s claim
for emotional distress damages. 
 
Accordingly, the Court DENIES Defendants’ motion to strike
“back income,” “back pay,” and “compensation.” The Court GRANTS Defendant’s
motion to strike “funeral costs” and “emotional distress” damages.