 Case Number:  22NWCV00332    Hearing Date:   December 4, 2024    Dept:  SEC ADRIANA CORTES
TECUANHUEHUE V. H-T GENERAL ENGINEERING, INC. ET AL.
CASE NO.: 22NWCV00332 
HEARING: 12-04-2024
 
#7
TENTATIVE ORDER
 
Plaintiff Adriana Cortes Tecanhuehue’s motion for summary
adjudication is GRANTED.
 
Moving party to give notice. 
 
Adriana Cortes Tecanhuehue (Plaintiff) moves the Court for
summary adjudication as to her second cause of action for disgorgement.
 
Background
 
On August 19, 2022, Plaintiff filed a first amended
complaint (FAC) against H-T General Engineering, Inc., Felix Madariaga, Jesus
Blanquel, Miguel Aguirre, Daniel Molgaard, and Optima Asset Management
Services, Inc. (Defendants). The FAC alleges five causes of action (1) breach
of written contract, (2) disgorgement, (3) negligence, (4) fraud, and (5)
declaratory relief. 
 
Plaintiff owns the real property known as 13019 Cornuta
Avenue, Downey, California 90242 (Property). (FAC, ¶ 1.) Plaintiff entered into
a written contract with Defendant H-T Engineering to construct a single-family
residence on the Property. (FAC ¶ 12.) Plaintiff alleges Defendants attempted
to deceive Plaintiff by having Defendant Molgaard sign the contract using
Defendant Optima’s Class B contractor license number. (FAC, ¶ 15.) Plaintiff
alleges Defendants left the Property construction defective and incomplete.
(FAC, ¶ 28.) Plaintiff has paid Defendants $694,578, to date. (FAC, ¶ 25.)
 
Undisputed Material Facts
 
Plaintiff entered into a written contract with Defendant H-T
Engineering to construct a single-family residence on the Property. (UMF, ¶ 1.)
Defendants Madriaga and H-T Engineering held class A contracting licenses.
(UMF, ¶¶ 3, 4.) Defendant H-T Engineering’s Class A license expired on May 31,
2022. (UMF, ¶ 6.) Defendants Madriaga and H-T Engineering tried to pull permits
for construction on the Property under their Class A licenses but the
Department did not permit it. (UMF, ¶ 9.) No invoices were sent to Plaintiff by
a licensed general contractor. (UMF, ¶ 18.) Plaintiff has paid Defendants H-T
Engineering and Madariaga $694,578, to date. (UMF, ¶ 19.)
 
Request for Judicial Notice
 
Plaintiff requests judicial notice of contractor license
personnel details for Felix Madariaga, H-T General Engineering, Inc., Rushmore
Construction Company, Inc., and Optima Asset Management Services, Inc. accessed
through the California Contractor’s State License Board.
 
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s requests for judicial notice pursuant
to Evidence Code section 452 subd. (c).
 
Evidentiary Objections
 
Defendants put forth the following evidentiary objections: 
 
Objection no. 1. Cortes Declaration, para 3: overruled.
Objection no. 2. Cortes Declaration, para 4: sustained in
part “illegally,” overruled as to the rest (opinion testimony).
Objection no. 3. Cortes Declaration, para 6: sustained in
part “illegally,” overruled as to the rest (opinion testimony).
Objection no. 4. Cortes
Declaration, para 7: overruled.
Objection no. 5. Cortes
Declaration, para 18: overruled.
 
Legal Standard
 
The function of a motion for summary judgment or
adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing party cannot
show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an order of
summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield
Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Code of Civil Procedure section 437c subd.
(c) “requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence
submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted
by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any
material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of
law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)
“The function of the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to delimit
the scope of the issues; the function of the affidavits or declarations is to
disclose whether there is any triable issue of fact within the issues delimited
by the pleadings.” (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th
59, 67, citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d
367, 381-382.)
 
The moving party’s initial burden of proof, in moving for
summary judgment, does not include disproving affirmative defenses, but instead
involves proving each element of a cause of action. (Oldcastle Precast, Inc.
v. Lumbermens Mutual Casualty Co. (2009) 170 Cal.App.4th 554, 564.)
 
Once a moving party has satisfied the initial burden of
proof, the burden “shifts to the opposing party to show, by responsive separate
statement and admissible evidence, that triable issues of fact exist.” (Ostayan
v. Serrano Reconveyance Co. (2000) 77 Cal.App.4th 1411, 1418, disapproved
on other grounds by Black Sky Cap., LLC v. Cobb (2019) 7 Cal.5th 156,
165. To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party opposing the
motion must produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau
(1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)
 
An issue of damages must dispose
of an entire cause of action. (DeCastro
West Chodorow & Burns, Inc. v. Superior Court (1996) 47 Cal.App.4th
410, 422.) Summary adjudication as to punitive damages is proper only if a
reasonable jury could not find clear and convincing proof of malice, fraud or
oppression. (Johnson & Johnson v.
Superior Court (2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 757, 762.)
 
Discussion
 
Plaintiff contends there are no triable issues of material
fact as to her second cause of action for disgorgement because Defendants were
unlicensed contractors. 
 
“[A] person who utilizes the services of an unlicensed
contractor may bring an action in any court of competent jurisdiction in this
state to recover all compensation paid to the unlicensed contractor for
performance of any act or contract.” (Bus. Prof. Code § 7031 subd. (b).)  “Disgorgement
is permitted even when the project owner knows that the contractor is
unlicensed, the contractor is only unlicensed for part of the time it performed
work requiring a license, or when the work performed by the unlicensed
contractor is free of defects.” (San Francisco CDC LLC v. Webcor
Construction, L.P. (2021) 62 Cal.App.5th 266, 277.) General engineering
contractors hold class A licenses and principally work on “fixed works
requiring specialized engineering knowing and skill, including … irrigation,
drainage, water power, water supply” and more. (Bus. Prof. Code § 7056.)
General building contractors hold class B licenses and “may take a prime
contract or a subcontract for a framing or carpentry project.” (Bus. Prof. Code
§ 7057 subd. (b).)
 
Plaintiff has established Defendants worked on construction
on the Property without a class B license. On May 3, 2021, Plaintiff contracted
with Defendant H-T General Engineering to build her home on the Property.
(Cortes Decl., ¶ 2.) Plaintiff includes the contract signed by Defendants
Madriaga, Blanquel, and Aguirre who were listed as “Class ‘A’ License
Contractors” and Defendant Molgaard listed as “Class ‘B’ License Contractor.”
(Cortes Decl., Exh. 1, p. 12.) On April 29, 2021, Defendant Madariaga texted
Plaintiff identifying himself as the prime contractor. (Cortes Decl., ¶ 5, Exh.
6.) The Court notes that the evidence Plaintiff includes regarding this
identification is inadmissible. “Exhibits written in a foreign language must be
accompanied by an English translation, certified under oath by a qualified
interpreter.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1110 (g).) Plaintiff does not
include a certified English translation. However, this evidence is not
necessary to fulfill the elements of this cause of action. Next, over the
course of the construction, Defendant Madriaga sent invoices to Plaintiff on
H-T General letterhead. (Cortes Decl., ¶¶ 8, 9.) Plaintiff paid a total of
$694,578 to Defendant H-T General Engineering and Defendant Madriaga. (Cortes
Decl., ¶ 11, Exh. 7.) 
 
Thus, Plaintiff has met her burden of proving her claim of
disgorgement.
 
Defendants argue a triable material fact exists as to
whether Defendants improperly performed tasks outside of the scope of their
license. Defendant Molgaard, who held a Class B license, is also a signatory of
the contract. Defendants contend Defendant Molgaard worked on the framing
portions of the construction as a subcontractor pursuant to a framing contract
with Defendant H-T General Engineering. (Molgaard Decl., ¶¶ 4, 6.) Defendants
provide the framing contract entered into between H-T Engineering and Optima
Construction and signed by Defendants Blanquel, Aguirre, Madariaga, and
Molgaard. (Compendium of Evidence, Exh. 9.) Defendants further state Defendant
Madariaga and his employees did not work on framing. (Molgaard Decl., ¶ 7;
Blanquel Decl., ¶ 7.) 
 
In reply, Plaintiff argues that she was not party to the
framing contract and that Defendant Molgaard was therefore an illegal framing
sub-contractor. However, Plaintiff does not provide, and the Court does not
find, authority which requires a Plaintiff to be party to a subcontract. Additionally,
it is undisputed that Defendant Molgaard was a party to the original contract
entered into between Defendant H-T General Engineering and Plaintiff. (Cortes
Decl., Exh. 1, p. 12.) 
 
Next, Plaintiff argues that both Defendant Madariaga’s and
Defendant Optima’s license had expired. However, in opposition, Defendants
point out Defendant Madariaga’s license expired on May 31, 2022, which is after
the contract between the parties had terminated in March of 2022. (Compendium
of Evidence, Exh. 7.) As for Defendant Optima, it is undisputed that its workers’
compensation insurance lapsed during the period of construction. (UMF, ¶.)
However, Plaintiff’s evidence reflects the license expired on January 31, 2023,
after the termination of the contract. (Plaintiff’s RJN, Exh. 5.) Plaintiff
cites to Business and Professions Code § 7125 subd. (a) to argue that a lapse
in workers’ compensation renders the license void. The statute is subject to
exceptions and alternatives such as providing a certification of
self-insurance. (Bus. Prof. Code §§ 7125 subd. (a)-(b).) Defendants do not
provide evidence that the license was not rendered void and instead argue that
Defendant Molgaard’s license was active when Defendant Molgaard entered the
contract. However, disgorgement is permitted even when a contractor is unlicensed
for a portion of the duration of a project. (See San Francisco CDC LLC v.
Webcor Construction, L.P. (2021) 62 Cal.App.5th 266, 277.) Defendants,
therefore, do not provide evidence sufficient to meet their burden of
production.
 
Finally, in reply, Plaintiff argues that her payments
directly to Defendants H-T General Engineering and Madariaga, and the lack of
payments reflecting transactions between Defendants Madriaga and Molgaard
establish that Defendant Molgaard did not exclusively perform the framing work.
The Court agrees. Defendants’ opposition does not address the invoices or
explain how Plaintiff’s payments were later distributed pursuant to the
subcontract. Accordingly, Defendants do not provide substantial responsive
evidence that a triable issue of material facts exists.    
 
Accordingly, the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion for summary
adjudication as to the disgorgement cause of action.