 Case Number:  23NWCV03289    Hearing Date:   December 4, 2024    Dept:  SEC FLORES, ET AL. V. SAFECO INSURANCE, A LIBERTY MUTUAL COMPANYCASE NO.: 23NWCV03289HEARING: 12-04-2024#5TENTATIVE ORDERI. Plaintiff Tonia Flores’s motion to compel further responses to form interrogatory set three, no. 17.1 is GRANTED.II. Plaintiff’s request for sanctions is GRANTED in the reduced amount of $1,810.Moving party to give notice.Tonia Flores (Plaintiff) moves the Court for an order compelling Safeco Insurance Company of America (Defendant) to serve further responses to form interrogatories, set 3, no. 17.1.BackgroundThis action arises out of a motor vehicle incident. On October 12, 2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint against Defendant alleging a personal injury cause of action. Plaintiffs Tonia Flores and her husband, Allen Flores, maintained an uninsured/underinsured motorist policy (Policy) with Defendant. (Complaint, ¶ 8.) On or about September 28, 2022, Doe defendants 1-25 collided with Plaintiff’s vehicle resulting in bodily injuries. (Complaint, ¶ 6.) Doe defendants allegedly failed to stop to identify themselves. (Complaint, ¶ 6.) Plaintiff alleges after reporting the incident to Defendant pursuant to the Policy, Defendant tendered an improperly low settlement offer. (Complaint, ¶ 10.)On January 12, 2024, Plaintiff served Defendant with request for admissions, set two, and form interrogatories, set three. (Koontz Decl., ¶¶ 6, 8; Exhs. 5, 7.) On January 31, 2024, Defendant provided responses and objections. (Koontz Decl., ¶¶ 7, 9; Exhs. 6, 8.) Defendant served supplemental responses on March 15, 2024. (Koontz Decl., ¶ 10; Exh. 9.)Plaintiff brings the instant motion to compel Defendant’s further responses to form interrogatories, set 3, no. 17.1 which correspond with Plaintiff’s requests for admission, set two, nos. 1, 9, 10, and 11. This motion is unopposed.Legal StandardWhere responses to interrogatories have been served but the requesting party believes that they are deficient because the answers are evasive or incomplete, or, because an objection is without merit, that party may move for an order compelling a further response. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.300 subd. (a).) The motion must be made within 45 days after service of verified responses in question, or any verified supplemental responses. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.300 subd. (c).)“If a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response…the party to whom the interrogatories are directed waives any right to exercise the option to produce writings under Section 2030.230, as well as any objection to the interrogatories, including one based on privilege or on the production for work product.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.290 subd. (a)(1).) The court may relieve the party from this waiver if (1) the party has subsequently served code complaint responses and (2) the failure was a result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.300 subd. (a).)“The court may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney's fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.030 subd. (a).)Meet and ConferA motion to compel further response to interrogatories must be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.300 subd. (b).) The declaration must state facts showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented in the motion.¿ (Code Civ. Proc. § 2016.040.)¿Here, Defendant has evaded its meet and confer obligations. Plaintiff’s counsel attempted to meet and confer with Defendant on multiple occasions. (Koontz Decl., ¶ 1.) Defendant responded to only one meet and confer email regarding extending the deadline to bring this motion. (Koontz Decl., ¶ 1; Exh. 1.) Given Plaintiff’s attempts to engage in a meaningful meet and confer process, and Defendant’s refusal to respond after multiple attempts, the Court will rule on the merits of this motion.DiscussionPlaintiff’s form integratory set 3, no. 17.1 requests additional information based on Plaintiff’s requests for admission, set two, served on the same day. Form interrogatory, set 3, no. 17.1 is as follows:INTERROGATORY NO. 17.1: Is your response to each request for admission served with these interrogatories an unqualified admission? If not, for each response that is not an unqualified admission:(a) state the number of the request;(b) state all facts upon which you base your response;(c) state the names, ADDRESSES, and telephone numbers of all PERSONS who have knowledge of those facts; and(d) identify all DOCUMENTS and other tangible things that support your response and state the name, ADDRESS, and telephone number of the PERSON who has each (Flores Form Interrogatory 17.1, Request No. 1, Exhibit 4).At issue are Defendant’s form interrogatory 17.1, set three, responses to requests for admission, set two, nos. 1, 9, 10, and 11.Request for Admission, Set Two, No. 1Defendant’s response was as follows:RESPONSE TO INTERROGATORY NO. 17.1:(a) 1;(b) This request calls for a legal conclusion and/or expert opinions of a layperson and invades the province of a jury, which is the ultimate trier of fact. This objection is based on personal knowledge and information. See Chodos v. Superior Court (Lowe) (1963), 215 Cal.App.2d 318. Further, this request is misleading, argumentative and presumes facts not in evidence. This request for admission seeks a legal conclusion of an ultimate fact rather than a conclusion of an evidentiary fact which invades the domain of the trier of fact;(c) Responding Party, Liberty Mutual, and defense counsel.(d) Expert report.Plaintiff argues Defendant’s response is incomplete and nonresponsive. As for response to form interrogatory no 17.1(b), Defendant objects to providing the facts that form the basis of its denial of request for admission, no. 1. A party may obtain discovery of “any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending … if the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.010.) The Court finds that Defendant’s objection is without merit given Defendant’s response to the corresponding request for admission.As for the response to form interrogatory no 17.1(d), Defendant’s response is incomplete. This response fails to identify any individuals with knowledge of the report nor explain any justification for failing to identify any individuals with knowledge of the report. Therefore, this response is not responsive to the interrogatory.Request for Admission, Set Two, No. 9 and 10Defendant’s responses to form interrogatory 17.1(b) for requests for admissions no. 9 and no. 10 are as follows:RESPONSE TO INTERROGATORY NO. 17.1: 9,10;The request is overly broad and remote and as such is not calculated to lead neither to the discovery of information relevant to the subject matter of this action nor to the discovery of admissible evidence. Columbia Broadcasting System, Inc. v. Superior Court (1968), 263 Cal. App. 2d 12.;This objection is the exact same response as Defendant’s response to requests for admission nos. 9 and 10. Pursuant to the Court’s ruling in the December 3, 2024, hearing on the requests for admission, the Court finds this objection meritless. Repeating the same boilerplate objection in response to an interrogatory requesting facts underpinning the request for admission objection is evasive.Request for Admission, Set Two, No. 11Defendant’s response to form interrogatory 17.1(b) for request for admission no. 11 is as follows:RESPONSE TO INTERROGATORY NO. 17.1: 11This request is vague, ambiguous, unintelligible, and unduly prejudicial. This request is also overly broad and remote and as such is not calculated to lead neither to the discovery of information relevant to the subject matter of this action nor to the discovery of admissible evidence. Columbia Broadcasting System, Inc. v. Superior Court (1968), 263 Cal. App. 2d 12.;Defendant’s response to form interrogatory no. 17.1(b), in connection with its response to request for admission no. 11, is evasive. This response provides boilerplate objections instead of facts. This objection does not provide any facts as to why Defendant objects to request for admission, no. 11. An objection to aninterrogatory may not be “without merit or too general.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.010 subd. (a)(3).) This objection is both too general, because it is not particular to the interrogatory, and without merit, because it does not explain how the request is vague, ambiguous, or unintelligible.Accordingly, Plaintiff’s unopposed motion to compel further responses to form interrogatory set three, no. 17.1 is GRANTED.Request for SanctionsPlaintiff requests sanctions pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.010 subds. (e), (f), and (h). Plaintiff’s counsel requests $2,442.50 “and a like sum for its corresponding Motion being heard separately.” (Koontz Decl., p. 5.) Plaintiff’s counsel states he spent 6.75 hours on this motion and has an hourly billing rate of $350. (Koontz Decl., p. 5.) Additionally, Plaintiff’s counsel spent $60 to file this motion.The Court agrees sanctions are warranted pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.010 because of Defendant’s willful refusal to meet and confer and evasive objections. Given the similarities in the instant motion with Plaintiff’s motion for requests for admission, and the fact that Plaintiff’s declaration applies to both motions, the Court reduces the hours to 5 hours. Accordingly, the Court awards Plaintiff sanctions in the reduced amount of $1,810.