 Case Number:  22STCV41098    Hearing Date:   December 7, 2023    Dept:  76 Pursuant to California Rule of Court
3.1308(a)(1), the Court does not desire oral argument on the motion addressed
herein.  Counsel must contact the staff
in Department 76 to inform the Court whether they wish to submit on the
tentative, or to argue the matter.  As
required by Rule 3.1308(a), any party seeking oral argument must notify ALL
OTHER PARTIES and the staff of Department 76 of their intent to appear and
argue. 
Notice to Department 76 may be sent by email to
smcdept76@lacourt.org or telephonically at 213-830-0776. 
Per Rule of Court 3.1308, if notice of intention
to appear is not given, the Court may adopt the tentative ruling as the final
ruling.            Plaintiff
alleges that a grant deed was forged conveying Plaintiff’s properties, which
was then encumbered, all without Plaintiff’s authorization. Plaintiff brings a
quiet title action.
            Defendants
Wilshire Quinn Income Fund REIT, LLC and Wilshire Quinn Income Fund, LLC demur to
the First Amended Complaint and move to strike portions thereof.
TENTATIVE RULING
Defendants
Wilshire Quinn Income Fund REIT, LLC and Wilshire Quinn Income Fund, LLC’s
demurrer to the First Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED with leave to amend as to
the fifth cause of action and without leave to amend as to the seventh
cause of action.
Defendants’
motion to strike is GRANTED with leave to amend as to punitive damages
allegations at ¶ 37,  page 10:18-20; ¶
43, page 11:17-20; Prayer, Item No. 5, page 16:6-7; Prayer Item No. 7, page
16:9-12; and as to the request for loss of use damages at Prayer Item No. 10,
page 16:18-20.
Plaintiff
is given 30 days’ leave to amend.
ANALYSIS
Demurrer
Meet and Confer
            The
Declaration of Mhare Mouradian reflects that Plaintiff’s counsel did not
respond to meet and confer efforts. This satisfies Civ. Proc. Code, §
430.41(a)(3)(B).
Discussion
Defendants
Wilshire Quinn Income Fund REIT, LLC and Wilshire Quinn Income Fund, LLC demur
to the First Amended Complaint as follows:
1.         Fifth Cause of Action (Violation of
California Identity Theft Law, Civ. Code, § 1798.92, et seq.)
Here, the
fifth cause of action only alleges a violation of Civil Code, § 1798.92 et seq.
However, Plaintiff must specify the statutory sections which Defendants
allegedly violated and how they committed such violations.
            “[S]tatutory
causes of action must be pleaded with particularity.” (Covenant Care, Inc. v. Superior
Court (2004) 32 Cal.4th 771, 790.)
The
demurrer to the fifth cause of action is SUSTAINED with leave to amend.
2.         Seventh Cause of Action (Loss of use
of Real Property Civ. Code, § 3334.)
            Civ.
Code, § 3334 provides the measure of damages for wrongful occupation of real
property (such as by trespass), but does not set forth a cause of action.
(a) The detriment caused by the wrongful occupation of real property,
in cases not embraced in Section 3335 of this code, the Eminent Domain Law
(Title 7 (commencing with Section 1230.010) of Part 3 of the Code of Civil Procedure), or Section 1174 of the Code
of Civil Procedure, is deemed to include the
value of the use of the property for the time of that wrongful occupation, not
exceeding five years next preceding the commencement of the action or
proceeding to enforce the right to damages, the reasonable cost of repair or
restoration of the property to its original condition, and the costs, if any,
of recovering the possession.
 
(b)
 
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), for purposes of subdivision
(a), the value of the use of the property shall be the greater of the
reasonable rental value of that property or the benefits obtained by the person
wrongfully occupying the property by reason of that wrongful occupation.
(2) If a wrongful occupation of real property subject to this section
is the result of a mistake of fact of the wrongful occupier, the value of the
use of the property, for purposes of subdivision (a), shall be the reasonable
rental value of the property.

     (Civ
Code § 3334.)[1] 
            The demurrer to the seventh cause of
action is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.
Motion To
Strike
Meet and Confer
            The
Declaration of Mhare Mouradian reflects that Plaintiff’s counsel did not
respond to meet and confer efforts. This satisfies Civ. Proc. Code, § 435.5(a)(3)(B).
Discussion
Defendants
Wilshire Quinn Income Fund REIT, LLC and Wilshire Quinn Income Fund, LLC move
to strike the following portions from the First Amended Complaint:
 
1. Paragraph
37, page 10, lines 18-20: “In doing the things herein alleged, Defendants have
acted with malice, implied or actual, and/or with malice, oppression or fraud
so as to entitle Plaintiff Beck to punitive damages in an amount to be proven
at trial.” 
 
GRANTED with
leave to amend. Plaintiff must factually allege why moving Defendants acted
with malice, oppression or fraud toward Plaintiff. 
 
Civil Code § 3294(a) provides:
In an action for the breach of an obligation not arising from
contract, where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that the
defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff, in
addition to the actual damages, may recover damages for the sake of example and
by way of punishing the defendant.”
(Civil Code, § 3294(a).)
 
                              Civil Code § 3294(c) defines malice,
oppression and fraud:
(1) ‘Malice’ means
conduct which is intended by the
defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a
willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.
(2) ‘Oppression’ means despicable
conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious
disregard of that person's rights.
(3) ‘Fraud’ means an intentional misrepresentation, desceit,
or concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the intention on
the part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal
rights or otherwise causing injury.
     (Civil Code, §
3294(c)(1)-(3) [bold emphasis added].)
 
            To
withstand a motion to strike punitive damages allegations, the complaint must
set forth facts supporting a claim for punitive damages:
 
The mere allegation an intentional
tort was committed is not sufficient to warrant an award of punitive
damages.  (Citation omitted.)  Not only must there be circumstances of oppression,
fraud or malice, but facts must be alleged in the pleading to support
such a claim.  
 
     (Grieves
v. Superior Court (Fox) (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 166 [emphasis added].)
 
(See also Clauson v. Superior Court (Pedus Services, Inc.) (1998) 67
Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255 [“[T]o survive a motion to strike an
allegation of punitive damages, the ultimate facts showing an entitlement to
such relief must be pled by a plaintiff.”])
 
2. Paragraph
43, page 11, lines 17-20: “In doing the things herein alleged, Defendants have
acted with malice, implied or actual, and/or with malice, oppression or fraud
so as to entitle Plaintiff Beck to punitive damages in an amount to be proven
at trial.” 
 
GRANTED with
leave to amend. See above at 1.
 
3. Prayer
Item No. 5, page 16, lines 6-7: “For punitive damages on the second and third
cause of action in an amount to be proven at trial, but sufficient to punish
Defendants and to make an example of them, and each of them.” 
 
GRANTED with
leave to amend. See above at 1.
 
 
4. Prayer
Item No. 7, page 16, lines 9-12: “For damages arising out of violations of the
CITL as alleged in the Fifth Cause of action including actual damages,
statutory damages of up to $30,000, costs, and attorneys fees all as provided
for by statute;” 
 
GRANTED with
leave to amend. The demurrer to the fifth cause of action was sustained with
leave to amend, so it cannot support his request for punitive damages.
 
5. Prayer
Item No. 10, page 16, lines 18-20: “The reasonable cost to rent similar
properties for the time Plaintiff was deprived of the use of her Properties.;”
 
GRANTED with
leave to amend. Plaintiff must plead facts giving rise to a cause of action
whereby Plaintiff may recover loss of use damages against moving Defendants.
 
Plaintiff
is given 30 days’ leave to amend.
 


