 Case Number:  22STCV39419    Hearing Date:   December 7, 2023    Dept:  76 Pursuant to California Rule of Court
3.1308(a)(1), the Court does not desire oral argument on the motion addressed
herein.  Counsel must contact the staff
in Department 76 to inform the Court whether they wish to submit on the
tentative, or to argue the matter.  As
required by Rule 3.1308(a), any party seeking oral argument must notify ALL
OTHER PARTIES and the staff of Department 76 of their intent to appear and
argue. 
Notice to Department 76 may be sent by email to
smcdept76@lacourt.org or telephonically at 213-830-0776. 
Per Rule of Court 3.1308, if notice of intention
to appear is not given, the Court may adopt the tentative ruling as the final
ruling.            Plaintiff sues Defendants for
failure to bring the subject vehicle into compliance with applicable warranties.
 
            Defendants Hyundai Motor America and
Downey Hyundai move to compel arbitration and stay this action.
TENTATIVE RULING
The motion
to compel arbitration is GRANTED as to Defendant Downey Hyundai only and DENIED
as to  Defendant Hyundai Motor America. The
Court severs the fourth cause of action asserted solely against Defendant Downey
Hyundai i.e., the fourth cause of action. The litigation will proceed as to the
claims asserted solely against Defendant Hyundai Motor America, i.e., the
first, second and third causes of action.
The
Court sets a scheduling conference re:
arbitration completion date for March 6, 2024 at 8:30 a.m.
ANALYSIS
Motion To Compel Arbitration and Stay Action
Request For Judicial Notice
            Defendants’
request that the Court take judicial notice of the Complaint filed in this
action is GRANTED per Evid. Code, § 452(d)(court records).
Discussion           
Defendants
Hyundai Motor America and Downey Hyundai move to compel arbitration and stay this
action.
Existence
of Agreement To Arbitrate
            Under
California law, arbitration agreements are valid, irrevocable, and enforceable,
save upon such grounds as exist at law or in equity for the revocation of any
contract. (Blake v. Ecker (2001) 93
Cal.App.4th 728, 741 overruled on other grounds by Le Francois v. Goel (2005) 35 Cal.4th
1094.) A party petitioning to compel
arbitration has the burden of establishing the existence of a valid agreement
to arbitrate and the party opposing the petition has the burden of proving, by
a preponderance of the evidence, any fact necessary to its defense. (Banner Entertainment, Inc. v. Superior Court
(1998) 62 Cal.App.4th 348, 356-57.)
            On
November 22, 2020, Plaintiff entered into a Retail Installment Sale Contact with
defendant Downey Hyundai to purchase a used Hyundai Tuscon. (Declaration of Ali
Ameripour, Exh. 2) Plaintiff’s signature and initials appear throughout the
agreement. Plaintiff has not filed an opposition challenging the fact that he
signed this document.
            The
Contract includes the following arbitration clause which states in pertinent part
as follows:
ARBITRATION
PROVISION
PLEASE
REVIEW – IMPORTANT – AFFECTS YOUR LEGAL RIGHTS
1. EITHER YOU OR WE MAY CHOOSE TO HAVE ANY
DISPUTE BETWEEN US DECIDED BY ARBITRATION AND NOT IN COURT OR BY JURY TRIAL. 
.  .  .
Any claim or dispute, whether in contract, tort,
statute or otherwise (including the interpretation and scope of this Arbitration
Provision, and the arbitrability of the claim or dispute), between you and
us or our employees, agents, successors or assigns, which arises out of or
relates to your credit application, purchase or condition of this
vehicle, this contract or any resulting transaction or relationship
(including any such relationship with third parties who do not sign this contract)
shall, at your or our election, be resolved by neutral, binding arbitration and
not by a court action. If federal law provides that a claim or dispute is not
subject to binding arbitration, this Arbitration Clause shall not apply to such
claim or dispute. Any claim or dispute is to be arbitrated by a single
arbitrator on an individual basis and not as a class action. You expressly
waive any right you may have to arbitrate a class action. You may choose
the American Arbitration Association, 1633 Broadway, 10th Floor, New
York, New York 10119 (www.adr.org), or any
other organization subject to our approval. You may get a copy of the rules of
an arbitration organization by contacting the organization or visiting its
website. . .  .
      (Declaration
of Ali Ameripour, Exh. 2 [bold emphasis added].)
            On
the first page of the Contract, there is a provision that provides:
Agreement
to Arbitrate: By signing below, you agree
that, pursuant to the Arbitration Provision on the reverse side of this
contract, you or we may elect to resolve any dispute by neutral, binding arbitration
and not by a court action. See the Arbitration Provision for additional information
concerning the agreement to arbitrate.
            Plaintiff’s
signature appears directly below this language.
            The
Agreement also provides on the signature page:
YOU AGREE
TO THE TERMS OF THIS CONTRACT. YOU CONFIRM THAT BEFORE YOU SIGNED THIS
CONTRACT, WE GAVE IT TO YOU, AND YOU WERE FREE TO TAKE IT AND REVIEW IT. YOU
ACKNOWLEDGE THAT YOU HAVE READ ALL PAGES OF THIS CONTRACT, INCLUDING THE ARBITRATION
PROVISION ON THIS PAGE, BEFORE SIGNING BELOW. YOU CONFIRM THAT YOU RECEIVED A
COMPLETELY FILLED-IN COPY WHEN YOU SIGNED IT.
            Plaintiff’s
signature appears below this notice.
            The
Court finds that Plaintiff agreed to arbitrate the Song-Beverly Act (“statutory”)
claims asserted in the Complaint, as well as the negligent repair claims (“tort
. . . aris[ing] out of . . . purchase or condition . . of this vehicle”).
            The
Court addresses Defendant’s argument as to whether the question of arbitrability
has been delegated to the arbitrator.
Courts have
held that “‘[t]here are two prerequisites for a delegation clause to be
effective. First, the language of the clause must be clear and unmistakable.
[Citation.] Second, the delegation must not be revocable under state contract
defenses such as fraud, duress, or unconscionability.’” (Aanderud, supra, 13 Cal.App.5th
at p. 892.)
(Mendoza v. Trans Valley Transp. (2022) 75 Cal.App.5th 748, 773.
          First,
the arbitration clause does not incorporate a specific arbitration forum’s rules
by reference. While the clause mentions the American Arbitration Association,
it also leaves open the possibility that some other organization may conduct
the arbitration. As such, there is no incorporation of any specific arbitration
forum’s rules that may constitute a clear delegation, which courts have found
to be possible. (See, e.g., Aanderud v. Superior Court (2017) 13 Cal.App.5th
880, 892-93.)
          The purported
delegation clause in the subject arbitration provision reads as follows:
Any claim or
dispute whether in contract, tort, statute or otherwise (including
the interpretation and scope of this Arbitration Provision, and the arbitrability
of the claim or dispute), between you and us or our employees, agents, successors
or assigns, which arises out of or relates to your credit application, purchase
or condition of this vehicle, this contract or any resulting transaction or relationship
(including any such relationship with third parties who do not sign this contract)
shall, at your or our election, be resolved by neutral, binding arbitration and
not by a court action.
   
    (Salas Decl., Exh. 4 [bold emphasis added].)
            Aanderud v. Superior Court (2017) 13 Cal.App.5th 880, 892 addressed the language
in the subject arbitration clause that:
 [The parties]  “agree to arbitrate all disputes, claims and
controversies arising out of or relating to … (iv) the interpretation,
validity, or enforceability of this Agreement, including the determination
of the scope or applicability of this Section 5 [the
“Arbitration of Disputes” section]. …” This language delegates to the
arbitrator questions of arbitrability and is clear and
unmistakable evidence that the parties intended to arbitrate arbitrability.
(See, e.g., Malone v. Superior Court (2014)
226 Cal.App.4th 1551, 1560 [173 Cal. Rptr. 3d 241] [noting delegation
clause that provided “ ‘[t]he arbitrator has exclusive authority to resolve any
dispute relating to the interpretation, applicability, or enforceability of
this binding arbitration agreement’” was clear and unmistakable]; Momot v. Mastro (9th Cir. 2011) 652 F.3d 982,
988 [language that delegated authority to arbitrator to determine “‘the
validity or application of any of the provisions of’” the arbitration clause
was a clear and unmistakable agreement to arbitrate the question of arbitrability].)

(Aanderud v. Superior Court (2017) 13 Cal.App.5th 880, 892 [bold emphasis and underlining
added].)
            The
Aanderud court used the term “arbitrability” to refer to questions of
“interpretation, validity or enforceability” and “scope or applicability.” (Id.
at 892.) Based upon this holding, the reference in the subject arbitration
clause that the parties delegate any claim or dispute including “the
interpretation and scope” of the arbitration provision, and “the arbitrability
of this claim or dispute,” is a clear and unmistakable delegation of the issues
of validity and enforceability, i.e., as to the defense of unconscionability,
which affects validity or enforceability. “The doctrine
of unconscionability is a defense to the enforcement of a contract or a term
thereof. (Civ. Code, § 1670.5; California
Grocers Assn. v. Bank of America (1994) 22 Cal. App. 4th
205, 213 [27 Cal. Rptr. 2d 396].)” (Marin Storage & Trucking,
Inc. v. Benco Contracting & Eng'g, Inc. (2001) 89 Cal. App. 4th
1042, 1049.)
            The Court finds that the delegation
of the question of “arbitrability” delegates issues of scope, applicability, interpretation,
validity and enforceability, including the question of unconscionability, to the
arbitrator. 
            However, absent a clear delegation of
the question of whether third persons are entitled to enforce the arbitration
agreement, the Court will decide whether moving Defendant
Hyundai Motor America—which is not a party to the arbitration agreement—may
enforce the arbitration agreement. The Court must decide issues of contract formation,
i.e., whether the parties agreed to arbitrate at all.
[W]e conclude
that although the delegation clause provides that the arbitrator “shall have
exclusive authority to resolve any dispute relating to … formation of the
arbitration policy,” as a matter of law, the question whether the parties
entered into an agreement to arbitrate anything at all is for a court to decide.
(Mendoza v. Trans Valley Transp. (2022) 75 Cal.App.5th 748, 776.)
            Defendant
Hyundai Motor America, which is not a signatory to the arbitration agreement, argues
that it is a third-party beneficiary of the arbitration clause in the Sales
Contract. This argument is not persuasive, as there is no language whereby the
parties expressly made a third party the beneficiary of the arbitration clause.
To invoke the third party beneficiary exception, Tweed and
TFI had to show that the arbitration clause of the account
agreement was “made expressly for [their] benefit.” (Civ. Code, § 1559.) It is
“not necessary that the  [*839]  beneficiary be named and identified
as an individual. A third party may enforce a contract where he shows that he
is a member of a class of persons for whose benefit it was made.” (Garratt v. Baker (1936) 5 Cal.2d 745,
748 [56 P.2d 225]; accord, Cargill, Inc. v. Souza (2011) 201 Cal.App.4th
962, 967 [134 Cal. Rptr. 3d 39].) 
(Ronay Family Limited Partnership v. Tweed
(2013) 216 Cal.App.4th 830, 838-39.)
            Defendant
Hyundai Motor America does not fall within the class of “our employees, agents,
successors or assigns.” There is no intent to benefit a class of persons other
than these. Notably, Felisilda, discussed below, did not rely upon a
third party beneficiary theory. Moreover, in both Ochoa[1]
and Montemayor[2],
discussed below, the Second District rejected a third party beneficiary claim
on the part of the manufacturer, based on identical language.  
            As
for equitable estoppel, the Court has duly considered the Second District’s decision
in (Ford Motor Warranty Cases (Ochoa) (2023) 89 Cal.App.5th 1324 (hereinafter, “Ochoa”)
and, to the extent it departs with the Third District’s decision in Felisilda v. FCA US LLC (2020) 53 Cal.App.5th 486,
this Court will choose to follow Ochoa. “[W]here there is more than one appellate court decision, and such
appellate decisions are in conflict. . . . the court exercising inferior
jurisdiction can and must make a choice between the conflicting decisions.” (Auto Equity Sales, Inc. v. Superior Court (1962) 57
Cal.2d 450, 456.) Indeed, with the recent decision in Montemayor v. Ford
Motor Co. (2023) 92 Cal.App.5th 958, the Second District Court of
Appeal has made it clear that it will not follow Felisilda.
            In
accordance with Ochoa and Montemayor, this Court finds that Plaintiff
is not equitably estopped from denying that Hyundai Motor America may enforce
the arbitration agreement against Plaintiff. Plaintiff’s claims are not based
upon the terms of the sale in the contract. In this regard, the Court adopts
the reasoning set forth in Ochoa, which was based on the same
arbitration language:
That the Felisilda plaintiffs and the dealer agreed
in their sale contract to arbitrate disputes between them about the condition
of the vehicle does not equitably estop the plaintiffs from asserting FCA has
no right to demand arbitration. Equitable estoppel would apply if the plaintiffs
had sued FCA based on the terms of the sale contract yet denied FCA could
enforce the arbitration clause in that contract. (Felisilda, supra, 53
Cal.App.5th at pp. 495–496.) That is not what the plaintiffs did in Felisilda.
 
The plaintiffs' breach of warranty claims against FCA in Felisilda were
not based on their sale contracts with the dealers. We disagree with Felisilda that “the sales contract was the source of [FCA's]
warranties at the heart of this case.” (Felisilda, supra, 53 Cal.App.5th at p. 496.) As we discuss further below,
manufacturer vehicle warranties that accompany the sale of motor vehicles
without regard to the terms of the sale contract between the purchaser and the
dealer are independent of the sale contract.
 
We also disagree with the Felisilda court's
interpretation of the sale contract as broadly calling for arbitration of
claims “against third party nonsignatories.” (Felisilda, supra, 53
Cal.App.5th at p. 497.) The Felisilda court relied on the following italicized language to conclude that
third parties could enforce the arbitration provision: “‘Any claim or dispute,
whether in contract, tort, statute or otherwise … , between you and us or our
employees, agents, successors or assigns, which arises out of or relates to …
purchase or condition of this vehicle, the cont[r]act or any resulting
transaction or relationship (including any such relationship
with third parties who do not sign this contract) shall, at your or
our election, be resolved by neutral, binding arbitration … .’” (Id. at p. 498.)
We do not read this italicized language as consent by the
purchaser to arbitrate claims with third party nonsignatories. Rather, we read
it as a further [*1335]  delineation of the subject
matter of claims the purchasers and dealers agreed to arbitrate. They
agreed to arbitrate disputes “between” themselves —“‘you and
us’”—arising out of or relating to “relationship[s],” including
“‘relationship[s] with third parties who [did] not sign th[e] [sale]
contract[s],’” resulting from the “‘purchase, or condition of th[e] vehicle,
[or] th[e] [sale] contract.’” (Felisilda, supra, 53 Cal.App.5th at p.
496, italics omitted.)
 
Purchasers, like plaintiff Mathew Davidson-Codjoe, whose
sale contract we described above, can elect to buy insurance, theft protection,
extended warranties and the like from third parties, and they can finance their
transactions with those third parties under the sale contracts. The “third
party” language in the arbitration clause means that if a purchaser asserts a
claim against the dealer (or its employees, agents, successors or assigns) that
relates to one of these third party transactions, the dealer can elect to
arbitrate that claim. It says nothing of binding the purchaser to arbitrate
with the universe of unnamed third parties.

ii. Plaintiffs' claims are not
founded in the sale contracts.
 
Most of the plaintiffs attached their sale contracts as an
exhibit to their complaints. Some did so in support of general allegations
about when they bought their vehicles and to identify their vehicles by make
and model. Others attached their sale contracts in support of allegations
the sale contracts were accompanied by implied warranties under
the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act. But no plaintiffs alleged
violations of the sale contracts' express terms. Rather, plaintiffs' claims are
based on FMC's statutory obligations to reimburse consumers or replace their
vehicles when unable to repair in accordance with its warranty. Certain
plaintiffs also sued on theories of breach of implied warranty of
merchantability and fraudulent inducement. Not one of the plaintiffs sued on
any express contractual language in the sale contracts. The sale contracts
include no warranty, nor any assurance regarding the quality of the vehicle
sold, nor any promise of repairs or other remedies in the event problems arise.
To the contrary, the sale contracts disclaim any warranty on the part of the
dealers, while acknowledging no effect on “any warranties covering the vehicle
that the vehicle manufacturer may provide.” In short, the substantive terms of
the sale contracts relate to sale and financing and nothing more.
 
FMC's argument that plaintiffs' manufacturer warranty
claims are founded in the sale contracts because California law treats all
warranty claims as contract claims is not supported by California law. California law does not treat
manufacturer warranties imposed outside the four corners of a retail sale
contract as part of the sale contract. In [*1336]  Greenman
v. Yuba Power Products, Inc. (1963) 59 Cal.2d 57 [27 Cal. Rptr. 697,
377 P.2d 897] (Greenman), our Supreme Court distinguished between, on
the one hand, warranty obligations flowing from the seller to the buyer by
contract, and, on the other hand, manufacturer warranties “that arise[] independently
of a contract of sale between the parties.” (Id. at p. 61,
italics added; see also Corporation of Presiding Bishop of Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints v. Cavanaugh (1963) 217 Cal.App.2d
492, 514 [32 Cal. Rptr. 144] (Cavanaugh) [manufacturer's express
warranty “was not part of a contract of sale between the
manufacturer and the plaintiff” (italics added)].)
 
. . .
 
Again, the “‘“fundamental point”’” of using equitable
estoppel to compel arbitration is to prevent a party from taking advantage of a
contract's substantive terms while avoiding those terms requiring arbitration.
(Felisilda, supra, 53 Cal.App.5th at p. 496.) Plaintiffs' claims in no
way rely on the sale contracts. Equitable
estoppel does not apply.
(Ford Motor Warranty Cases (Ochoa) (2023) 89 Cal.App.5th 1324, 1334-36 [bold
emphasis added].)
We disagree with the decision of our colleagues in the Third District in Felisilda v. FCA US LLC (2020) 53 Cal.App.5th 486, 495 [266
Cal. Rptr. 3d 640] (Felisilda) that estoppel applies to enable the
nonsignatory manufacturer to enforce the arbitration provision in a similar
sales contract. We conclude Ford cannot enforce the arbitration provision in
the sales contract because the Montemayors' claims against Ford are founded on
Ford's express warranty for the vehicle, not any obligation imposed on Ford by
the sales contract, and thus, the Montemayors‘ claims are not inextricably
intertwined with any obligations under the sales contract. Nor was the sales
contract between the Montemayors and AutoNation intended to benefit Ford. We
affirm.
(Montemayor v. Ford Motor Co. (2023) 92 Cal. App. 5th 958, 961.)
Accordingly,
moving Defendant Hyundai Motor America is not entitled to enforce the
arbitration agreement against Plaintiff.
However,
moving Defendant Downey Hyundai is entitled to enforce the arbitration
agreement against Plaintiff, as Downey Hyundai is a signatory to the
arbitration agreement. As discussed above, all claims asserted against Downy Hyundai
come within the scope of the arbitration clause.
            In
this regard, the Court severs all issues in the causes of action asserted
against Downey Hyundai, i.e., the fourth cause of action, to the extent such claims
are factually based on Downey Hyundai’s conduct and obligations, and orders this
severed issues to arbitration. The litigation will proceed as to the claims
asserted solely against Defendant Hyundai Motor America, i.e., the first,
second and third causes of action.
The motion
to compel arbitration is GRANTED as to Defendant Downey Hyundai only and DENIED
as to  Defendant Hyundai Motor America. The
Court severs the fourth cause of action asserted solely against Defendant Downey
Hyundai i.e., the fourth cause of action. The litigation will proceed as to the
claims asserted solely against Defendant Hyundai Motor America, i.e., the
first, second and third causes of action.
Moving party has not requested that the Court set a deadline for
the completion of arbitration. In cases where the parties have not agreed
to an arbitration completion deadline, Code of Civil Procedure section 1283.8
gives the Court authority to set a deadline by which the arbitration must be
completed and the award rendered. Although parties may bring a petition to
set a completion deadline after arbitration has been ordered, the “better
practice” is to set the deadline when a case is first ordered to arbitration. 
(Bosworth v. Whitmore (2006) 135 Cal.App.4th 536, 550.)
 
The Court sets a scheduling conference re: arbitration completion
date for March 6, 2024 at 8:30 a.m.  Before the status conference, the
parties must meet and confer regarding the setting of a reasonable arbitration
completion deadline. If an agreement is reached, the parties may file a
stipulation agreeing to a completion date no later than five days before the
scheduling conference, and the Court will take the scheduling conference off
calendar and set a date for a post-arbitration status conference that is
consistent with the parties’ schedule. If the parties do not reach an
agreement on the completion date, any party seeking to have the Court set a
deadline should file a motion to set a completion date, to be heard at the
scheduling conference. 


