 Case Number:  20STCV41226    Hearing Date:   December 7, 2023    Dept:  76 Pursuant to California Rule of Court
3.1308(a)(1), the Court does not desire oral argument on the motion addressed
herein.  Counsel must contact the staff
in Department 76 to inform the Court whether they wish to submit on the
tentative, or to argue the matter.  As
required by Rule 3.1308(a), any party seeking oral argument must notify ALL
OTHER PARTIES and the staff of Department 76 of their intent to appear and
argue. 
Notice to Department 76 may be sent by email to
smcdept76@lacourt.org or telephonically at 213-830-0776. 
Per Rule of Court 3.1308, if notice of intention
to appear is not given, the Court may adopt the tentative ruling as the final
ruling.Plaintiffs allege that there was a
known transmission defect in the 2018 Honda Odyssey they leased, and that
Defendant could not repair the vehicle to conform to warranties.
Defendant American Honda Motor Co.,
Inc. moves for summary adjudication as to the Second Amended Complaint.
TENTATIVE RULING    
            Defendant
American Honda Motor Co., Inc.’s motion for summary adjudication is GRANTED as
to Issue No. 1.B re: the fourth cause of action. The motion for summary
adjudication is MOOT as to Issues Nos. 1.A, C and D.
ANALYSIS
Motion For Summary Adjudication
ISSUE NO. 1: PLAINTIFFS’ FOURTH CAUSE OF ACTION FOR
FRAUDULENT INDUCEMENT – CONCEALMENT FAILS AS A MATTER OF LAW BECAUSE PLAINTIFFS
CANNOT ESTABLISH A SPECIAL OR TRANSACTIONAL RELATIONSHIP WITH AHM, ACTIVE
CONCEALMENT BY AHM, OR FRAUD DAMAGES; AND THE CAUSE OF ACTION IS BARRED BY THE
ECONOMIC LOSS DOCTRINE.
            A.        Re:
Plaintiffs Cannot Establish A Special or Transactional Relationship with
Defendant American Honda Motor Co.
 
            Given the below ruling as to Issue No.
1.B, Issue No. 1.A. is MOOT.
 
            B.        Re:
Plaintiffs Cannot Establish Active Concealment By American Honda Motor Co.
 
            Here, ¶ 60 of
the 2AC alleges:
 
60. AMERICAN HONDA drafted, produced,
and distributed marketing materials to the public containing factual
representations about the Subject Vehicle. Prior to leasing the Subject
Vehicle, Plaintiffs reviewed marketing brochures, viewed television commercials
and/or heard radio commercials about the qualities of the 2018 Honda Odyssey.
Plaintiffs further relied on the statements made during the lease process by
AMERICAN HONDA’s agents and within the marketing materials written by AMERICAN
HONDA. However, AMERICAN HONDA and its authorized agents did not disclose to
Plaintiffs any information about the Transmission Defect. These omissions were
material to Plaintiffs’ decision to lease the Subject Vehicle. Had AMERICAN HONDA
and/or its authorized agents disclosed the Transmission Defect before
Plaintiffs leased the Subject Vehicle, Plaintiffs would have been aware of such
defects and would not have leased the 
Subject Vehicle.
 
 
At ¶¶ 61 and 62, the 2AC alleges as
follows:
 
61. Specifically, on the date of the
Subject Vehicle’s lease to Plaintiffs, Ruben Trinidad, a  salesperson at Culver City Honda, showed
Plaintiffs information from AMERICAN HONDA’s website, www.Hondainfocenter.com,
which AMERICAN HONDA’s authorized dealerships use to convey information from
AMERICAN HONDA to consumers about vehicles, including the Subject Vehicle. 
 
62. On the date of the Subject
Vehicle’s lease to Plaintiffs, Plaintiffs, with the assistance of Ruben
Trinidad, were shown information regarding the Subject Vehicle’s transmission,
which states, “Odyssey’s 9-speed automatic helps deliver smooth, responsive
acceleration while contributing to excellent efficiency. The Odyssey 9-speed
automatic works in close concert with its powerplant to provide exceptional
performance. Response is enhanced by a shift-management program that allows
multiple-gear downshifts when powerful thrust is called for.”  
 
     (2AC, ¶¶ 61-62 [bold emphasis added].)
 
 
[T]he elements of a cause of action for fraud
based on concealment are: “ ‘(1) the defendant must have concealed or
suppressed a material fact, (2) the defendant must have been under a duty to
disclose the fact to the plaintiff, (3) the defendant must have intentionally
concealed or suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the plaintiff, (4)
the plaintiff must have been unaware of the fact and would not have acted as he
did if he had known of the concealed or suppressed fact, and (5) as a result of
the concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff must have sustained
damage. [Citation.]’ [Citation.]” (Citation omitted.) 
 
(Kaldenbach v. Mutual of Omaha Life
Ins. Co. (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 830, 850.)
 
 “There
are ‘four circumstances in which nondisclosure or concealment may constitute
actionable fraud: (1) when the defendant is in a fiduciary relationship with
the plaintiff; (2) when the defendant
had exclusive knowledge of material facts not known to the plaintiff; (3) when the defendant actively conceals a
material fact from the plaintiff; and (4) when the defendant makes partial
representations but also suppresses some material facts. [Citation.]’ ”
(Citations omitted.) Where, as here, there is no fiduciary relationship, the
duty to disclose generally presupposes a relationship grounded in “some sort of
transaction between the parties. [Citations.] Thus, a duty to disclose may
arise from the relationship between seller and buyer, employer and prospective
employee, doctor and patient, or parties entering into any kind of contractual
agreement. [Citation.]” (Citation omitted.)
 
(OCM Principal Opportunities Fund, L.P. v.
CIBC World Markets Corp. (2007) 157 Cal.App.4th 835, 859 [bold emphasis
added].)
 
Civil Code § 1710(3)(deceit is
defined to include “[t]he suppression of
a fact, by one who is bound to disclose it, or who gives information of other facts which are likely to mislead
for want of communication of that fact. . . .”)(bold emphasis added). In a
misleading half-truth situation, where the defendant undertakes to provide some
information, the defendant is “obliged to disclose all other facts which
‘materially qualify’ the limited facts disclosed. (Citations omitted.)” (Randi W. v. Muroc Joint Unified School Dist.
(1997) 14 Cal.4th 1066, 1082.)
 
            Defendant’s
evidence is as follows:
 
Before they
leased the Subject Vehicle, Plaintiffs did not review any sales  literature for the 2018 Honda Odyssey (UMF ¶
8; see Pozos Dep. at 38:1-4, attached as Exhibit 2 to the Dorenkamp Decl.;
Lopez Dep. at 17:21-24, attached as Exhibit 5 to the Dorenkamp Decl.)); did not
observe any television advertisements for the 2018 Honda Odyssey (UMF ¶ 9; see
Pozos Dep. at 38:5-8, attached as Exhibit 2 to the Dorenkamp Decl.; Lopez Dep.
at 17:25 – 18:3, attached as Exhibit 5 to the Dorenkamp Decl.)); did not hear
any radio advertisements for the 2018 Honda Odyssey (UMF ¶ 10; see Pozos Dep.
at 38:9-12, attached as Exhibit 2 to the Dorenkamp Decl.; Lopez Dep. at 18:4-7,
attached as Exhibit 5 to the Dorenkamp Decl.)); did not review any American
Honda web pages for the 2018 Honda Odyssey (UMF ¶ 11; see Pozos Dep. at
38:13-16, attached as Exhibit 2 to the Dorenkamp Decl.; Lopez Dep. at 38:6-10,
attached as Exhibit 5 to the Dorenkamp Decl.)); did not have any discussions
with anybody from AHM about the 2018 Honda Odyssey (UMF ¶ 12; see Pozos Dep. at
38:17-20, attached as Exhibit 2 to the Dorenkamp Decl.; Lopez Dep. at 18:8-12,
attached as Exhibit 5 to the Dorenkamp Decl.)); and did not have any
discussions with anyone from Culver City Honda about the 2018 Honda Odyssey
engine or transmission specifications (UMF ¶ 13; see Pozos Dep. at 38:21-24, attached
as Exhibit 2 to the Dorenkamp Decl.; Lopez Dep. at 21:21 – 22:2, attached as
Exhibit 5 to the Dorenkamp Decl.)). 
 
Plaintiffs leased
the Subject Vehicle because they had six children (now seven) and needed space
for Plaintiff Liliana Lopez and the children. (UMF ¶ 6; see Pozos Dep. at 12:25
– 13:6, 22:14 – 23:5, attached as Exhibit 2 to the Dorenkamp Decl.; Videotaped 
Deposition via Zoom of Liliana
Lopez, Mar. 29, 2022 (“Lopez Dep.”) at 33:20 – 34:2, 
attached as Exhibit 5 to the
Dorenkamp Decl.).) While Plaintiff Liliana Lopez liked the interior and body
style of the Subject Vehicle, the space was the most important factor in the
decision to lease the Subject Vehicle. (UMF ¶ 6.) 
 
            This
evidence is sufficient to demonstrate that Plaintiffs did not rely upon any
representation for which Defendant American Honda Motor Co. is responsible.
Absent evidence Plaintiffs were exposed to and relied upon a representation by Defendant
in making their purchase decision, there is no half-truth situation giving rise
to Defendant’s duty to disclose. The burden shifts to Plaintiffs to demonstrate
that a triable issue exists in this respect.
 
            In
their opposing separate statement, Plaintiffs do not cite any evidence to dispute
Defendant’s above evidence. Plaintiffs cite evidence regarding what happened
after they leased the vehicle, but that could not have induced them to lease
the vehicle in the first place.
 
            Plaintiffs
have failed to cite evidence sufficient to raise a triable issue of material
fact. As such, the motion for summary adjudication is GRANTED as to Issue No. 1.B,
which disposes of the fourth cause of action.
 
            C.        Re:
Plaintiffs Cannot Establish Fraud Damages.
 
            Given the above ruling as to Issue No.
1.B, Issue No. 1.C. is MOOT.
 
            D.        Re:
Economic Loss Doctrine.
 
            Given the above ruling as to Issue No.
1.B, Issue No. 1.D. is MOOT.