 Case Number:  23BBCV01892    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2024    Dept:  P [Tentative]
Order on Motion to ConsolidateI.        INTRODUCTION
          On August 8, 16, 2023, Plaintiff
Virgilio Fanlo Luna, Jr. (Plaintiff) filed suit against Defendants Shahin
Rostamlou (Rostamlou) and LA City Cab, LLC (Cab; collectively Defendants).
Plaintiff alleged two claims for motor vehicle negligence and general
negligence arising out of an incident on March 28, 2023, at the intersection of
the southbound I-5 freeway and Hollywood Way Burbank. Plaintiff alleged
Rostamlou negligently owned and operated the vehicle that collided with Plaintiff
and Cab negligently employed and trained Rostamlou as a driver. 
          On May 7, 2024, Cab filed a notice of
related cases regarding this case and the case Enrique Zamago Barajas, v.
Shahin Rostamlou et al. Case No. 24NNCV00667 (hereinafter Barajas Case).
Plaintiff now moves to consolidate the present action with Barajas Case. 
III.     LEGAL STANDARD
“When actions involving a common question of law or fact are
pending before the court, it may order a joint hearing or trial of any or all
the matters in issue in the actions; it may order all the actions consolidated
and it may make such orders concerning proceedings therein as may tend to avoid
unnecessary costs or delay.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1048, subd. (a).) The motion
to consolidate must list all the named parties in each case, contain the
captions of all cases sought to be consolidated, and be filed in each case.
(Rules of Ct., Rule 3.350, subd. (a).)
IV.     ANALYSIS
With respect to the
procedural requirements, Plaintiff’s notice of motion contains all the
necessary information, but Plaintiff does not appear to have filed the Notice
of Motion to Consolidate in the Barajas Case. (Rule of Ct., Rule 3.350, subd.
(a)(1)(C).) Plaintiff’s counsel, Lindsay Gavigan, declares that she filed the
notice of motion in each case. (Gavigan Decl., ¶5.) However, the court takes
judicial notice of the docket in the Barajas Case (also before this court) and finds
that a Notice of Motion to Consolidate does not appear in the electronic file. It
is unclear why this discrepancy exists, although the Court concedes that
properly filed documents do, for unknown reasons, fail to make their way into eCourt
from time to time.
While this Court prefers not
to exalt form over substance, compliance with this requirement is mandatory.  Failure to file a notice of consolidation in 24NNCV00667
would possibly result in parties to that litigation being unaware of the motion
currently before the Court and, thereby, being deprived of an opportunity to
oppose it.  Therefore, the Court intends
to continue the hearing so Plaintiff may file his Notice of Consolidation in 24NNCV00667
(which the Court invites Plaintiff to do in Department P at the hearing to
expedite matters).  
Had Plaintiff properly filed
the notice of motion in both cases, then consolidation would be appropriate. The
Barajas Case involves the same traffic collision, which took place on March 28,
2023. The collision at issue in this case included five vehicles. The Barajas
Case includes all the parties in this action, but adds four additional parties:
Katie Le Mason, Ae Young Lee, Kimberly Ashley Diaz, and Enrigue Zamago Baragas.
Considering the overlapping parties and issues of law and fact, consolidation
would serve judicial economy. 
V.      CONCLUSION AND ORDER
          The court continues the Motion
to Consolidate filed by Plaintiff Virgilio Fanlo Luna, Jr. to a date convenient to the Court
and parties, to be determined at the hearing. 
          Moving party is ordered to
give notice. 
          
Dated:  September 20, 2024
                                                 
 
                                                                                     JARED D. MOSES JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT
                                                                     