  Case Number:  23AHCV01963    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE]  ORDER GRANTING MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO FORM INTERROGATORIES and ORDER  GRANTING REQUEST TO DEEM REQUESTS FOR ADMISSION ADMITTED I.        INTRODUCTION This  action arises from an alleged fraudulent lease agreement. On August 25, 2023,  Plaintiff Helen Woo ("Plaintiff") filed a complaint against  Defendants Eon Walk, Sheila Elayne Linly Clark, and DOES 1 through 10,  asserting claims for (1) financial and elder abuse, (2) fraud, and (3) breach  of contract related to unpaid rent. Plaintiff alleges Defendants engaged in  deceptive conduct, causing her financial harm. Defendant  Walk filed an answer on November 1, 2023. Plaintiff now moves (1) to compel  Defendant Walk to respond to Form Interrogatories, Set One, seeking $2,560 in  sanctions, and (2) to deem Requests for Admissions (RFAs) admitted, requesting  an additional $3,810.00 in monetary sanctions for Defendant Walk’s failure to  comply with discovery obligations. On  August 7, 2024, Plaintiff filed the motion to compel responses to Form  Interrogatories, Set One, and on August 12, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion to  deem RFAs admitted, which were served alongside the Form Interrogatories set on  December 18, 2023. Defendant Walk failed to respond to both sets of discovery  requests, prompting Plaintiff to file these motions and seek sanctions for  noncompliance. Defendant Walk has not opposed these motions or served responses  to the requests for admission. On  August 2, 2024, the Court denied Plaintiff’s motion to deem RFAs admitted  without prejudice, citing improper electronic service under CCP § 1010.6(c)(2)  and failure to specify the hearing location as required by California Rules of  Court, Rule 3.1110(b)(1). Subsequently,  Plaintiff refiled a motion to deem RFAs admitted on August 12, 2024, and a  motion to compel answers to Form Interrogatories Set One on August 7, 2024. II.      MOTION  TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO FORM INTERROGATORIES If a  party fails to serve timely responses to interrogatories, the propounding party  may seek an order compelling responses without objections. (Code Civ. Proc., §§  2030.290(b), 2031.300(b)). Furthermore, the failure to serve responses on time  waives any objections, including those based on privilege. (Code Civ. Proc., §§  2030.290(a), 2031.300(a)). Here,  Plaintiff’s counsel, James A. Gallo ("Gallo"), declares that  Defendant Walk was properly served with Plaintiff’s First Set of Form  Interrogatories by mail on December 18, 2023 (Gallo Decl., ¶ 2, Exs. 1-2).  Gallo also alleges that, prior to March 21, 2024, Defendant Walk agreed to  accept future communications via email (Gallo Decl., ¶ 6, Ex. 7). Despite this,  Defendant Walk has failed to respond to the interrogatories and has raised no  objections, thereby waiving any objections under Code Civ. Proc., §  2030.290(a). Additionally,  under Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290(b), when a party fails to respond to  interrogatories, the propounding party is entitled to move for an order  compelling responses. Gallo’s declaration affirms that Form Interrogatories Set  One were properly served, and Defendant Walk has not provided responses. Accordingly,  the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to compel and directs Defendant Walk to  provide complete responses to Plaintiff’s Form Interrogatories Set One without  objections.           II.       MOTION TO DEEM REQUESTS FOR  ADMISSIONS ADMITTED “Any party may obtain discovery . . . by a written  request that any other party to the action admit the genuineness of specified  documents, or the truth of specified matters of fact, opinion relating to fact,  or application of law to fact. A request for admission may relate to a matter  that is in controversy between the parties.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.010.)¿  “Within 30 days after service of requests for admission, the party to whom the  requests are directed shall serve the original of the response to them on the  requesting party, and a copy of the response on all other parties who have  appeared . . . .”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.250(a).) If a party to whom requests for admissions are  served fails to provide a timely response, the party to whom the request was  directed waives any objections, including one based on privilege or on the work  product doctrine. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280(a).) The requesting party may  move for an order that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any  matters specified in the requests be deemed admitted, as well as for monetary  sanctions. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280(b).) The court shall issue this order  unless the party to whom the requests were directed has served a response in  substantial compliance prior to the hearing on the motion. (Code Civ. Proc., §  2033.280(c).) Plaintiff served the first set of Requests for  Admissions (RFAs) on Defendant Walk via mail on December 18, 2023. (Gallo  Decl., ¶ 2; Exs. 1-2). Since service was completed by mail, Code of Civil  Procedure section 1005(b) provides that Defendant Walk had an additional five  calendar days to respond, extending the deadline to 35 calendar days. Despite  this extended deadline, Defendant Walk has not provided any responses to the  RFA Set One to date. Accordingly, the Court GRANTS the motion and deems  the Requests for Admission Set One ADMITTED, unless Defendant Walk serves a  response in substantial compliance with the statutory requirements before the  hearing.    Sanctions for Motion to Compel The Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.290(c)  provides that the court impose monetary sanctions on any party, person, or  attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel responses to  interrogatories, unless there is substantial justification for the conduct or  circumstances that would make the imposition of sanctions unjust. (Code Civ.  Proc., § 2030.290(c).) Similarly, Code Civ. Proc., section 2031.300(c) provides  the same remedy for failure to respond to a demand for production of documents. Here, Plaintiff seeks $2,560 in sanctions for  Defendant Walk’s failure to respond to Form Interrogatories Set One, which  includes attorney’s fees and costs associated with bringing this motion.  Plaintiff’s counsel charges $500 per hour, which the Court finds to be on the  higher end for routine discovery motions. Counsel claims to have spent 3.5  hours preparing the motion and anticipates an additional 1.5 hours for hearing  attendance. The Court finds the 3.5 hours claimed for preparing  the motion to be excessive, given the straightforward nature of the issues  involved. While the motion is necessary, it addresses standard discovery  matters that could have been handled more efficiently. The Court concludes that  2 hours is a reasonable amount of time for preparing the motion, with 1 hour  for the hearing. At the rate of $500 per hour, this brings the total to $1,500.  Adding the $60 filing fee, the Court finds that the total reasonable sanction  amount is $1,560. Accordingly, the Court awards sanctions in the  amount of $1,560.   Sanctions for Motion to deem RFA’s admitted Sanctions are mandatory against the party, the  attorney, or both whose failure to serve a timely response to the request  necessitated the motion to deem requests for admission admitted. (Code Civ.  Proc., § 2033.280(c); see also Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348(a) [the court  can award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a party seeking to  compel discovery even though no opposition was filed, the opposition was  withdrawn, or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after  the motion was filed].) Here, Plaintiff requests $3,810 in sanctions for  Defendant Walk’s failure to respond to RFAs Set One. Sanctions are mandatory  due to Defendant Walk’s failure to comply with her discovery obligations.  Plaintiff’s counsel again charges $500 per hour, and the Court, as previously  noted, finds this rate to be on the higher end for a routine discovery motion.  Counsel claims to have spent 5.5 hours preparing the motion and anticipates  spending an additional 2 hours attending the hearing. Plaintiff also seeks $60 in  filing fees. The Court finds the 5.5 hours claimed for preparing  the motion to be excessive. While the RFAs are distinct from the Form  Interrogatories, much of the groundwork and exhibits used in the motion to  compel could also have been utilized here. Given that overlap, the Court  concludes that 2.5 hours is a reasonable amount of time for preparing this  motion. Additionally, because the hearing date will cover both motions, the  Court will not award additional time for hearing attendance, as it was already  accounted for in the first motion. Accordingly, the Court grants Plaintiff’s request  for sanctions in part, awarding $1,500 for 2.5 hours of preparation, plus $60  in filing fees, for a total of $1,560.   IV.     CONCLUSION  AND ORDER Motion  by Plaintiff for an Order to Deem Requests for Admission Admitted, Set One, is  GRANTED. Motion by Plaintiff for an order compelling sanctions is GRANTED in  part and DENIED in part. Sanctions to be awarded in the amount of $1,560.       Motion  by Plaintiff for an Order Compelling Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One,  is GRANTED. Motion by Plaintiff for an order compelling sanctions is GRANTED in  part, DENIED in part. Defendant to provide Plaintiff with code complaint  responses without objections within 30 days of this order. Sanctions to be  awarded in the amount of $1,560.  Total  amount for sanctions to be awarded: $3,120.   Defendant is ordered to pay sanctions to Plaintiff within 30 days of this order. Plaintiff  is ordered to give notice of this order.     Dated:  September 20, 2024                                                                                                                                             JARED D. MOSES   JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT                                                                     