 Case Number:  24STCV13323    Hearing Date:   September 12, 2024    Dept:  1 24STCV13323           ERNESTO
LUIS VARGAS, et al. vs LARRY L. KUSSIN
Defendant’s Motion to Transfer Action
TENTATIVE RULING: 
Defendant’s Motion to Transfer Action is DENIED.  Clerk to give notice.
This action arises from alleged uninhabitable living
conditions at a property located at 17951 Devonshire Street, Northridge, CA
91325 (the “Subject Property”). 
 
On May 28, 2024, Plaintiffs Ernesto Luis Vargas,
Oscar Luis, a conservatee by and through his guardian ad litem Maria
Paula Aguiluz Ruiz, Ernesto Jr. Luis, and Maria Paula Aguiluz Ruiz
(collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed a complaint against Defendant Larry L.
Kussin or his Successor, as Trustee of the “Declaration of Trust (Dr. and Mrs.
Kussin)” dated February 19, 1970 and as Subsequently Amended (“Defendant”),
alleging causes of action for: (1) violation of Civ. Code § 1942.4; (2)
tortious breach of the warranty of habitability; (3) private nuisance; (4)
Business and Professions Code § 17200 et seq.; (5) negligence; and (6)
violation of Los Angeles Municipal Code section 45.33. 
 
On June 28, 2024, the Court entered an order
appointing Plaintiff Maria Paula Aguiluz as guardian ad litem for
Plaintiff Oscar Luis. 
 
Motion 
 
On August 13, 2024, Defendant filed the instant
motion seeking to transfer this action from the Central District to the North
Valley District, on the grounds that the “Central District is not the proper
court for trial of this action because the Plaintiffs do not reside in this
District, Defendants do not reside in this District, the contractual
relationships between Defendants and Plaintiffs do not arise in this District,
the alleged wrongdoing did not occur in this District, and . . . convenience of
the witnesses and the ends of justice would be promoted by such transfer.”
(Not. of Mot. at p. 2:6-11.) 
 
Opposition
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs argue that the motion must
be denied. Specifically, Plaintiffs assert that they have properly filed their
action in the Central District pursuant to Local Rule 2.3(a)(1)(B), and that
the Central District is the proper venue for this action. (Opp’n at p. 4.) 
 
Plaintiffs also contend that Defendant has failed to
meet his burden of establishing inconvenience that would justify transferring
venue. (Opp’n at pp. 4-5.) Plaintiffs argue that Defendant alleges “extreme
inconvenience without explanation aside from Defendant’s old age.” (Opp’n at p.
5:8-9.) 
 
Reply
 
On reply, Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s choice
of venue is inconvenient to the witnesses. Defendant lists the names of
witnesses and their locations (Reply at p. 2:19-24), and argues that such
witnesses would be able to testify to Plaintiff’s allegations (Reply at p.
3:1-2). However, Defendant did not file a declaration in support of the reply
brief. 
 
Motion to Transfer Between Judicial Districts
 
Standard

 
“Even
though a superior court is divided into branches or departments, pursuant to
California Constitution, article VI, section 4, there is only one superior
court in a county and jurisdiction is vested in that court, not in any
particular judge or department. Whether sitting separately or together, the
judges hold but one and the same court.” (Glade v. Glade (1995) 38
Cal.App.4th 1441, 1449.) The Local Rules of the Los Angeles Superior Court
govern the assignment of cases between its districts and departments. (Code
Civ. Proc. § 402.) LASC Local Rule 2.3(b)(2) authorizes Department 1 to
transfer civil cases from one judicial district to another via a noticed motion
on three enumerated grounds: (1) when the case was filed in an improper
district; (2) for the convenience of witnesses; or (3) to promote
the ends of justice. (LASC Local Rule 2.3(b)(2).) A transfer under the
Local Rules is discretionary. 
 
Given
that the same language appears in both LASC Local Rule 2.3(b)(2) and Code of
Civil Procedure section 397(c), Department 1 applies the case authority related
to Section 397. Accordingly, a party acting under the authority of Los Angeles
Superior Court Local Rule 2.3(b)(2) bears the same burden of proof if it seeks
a district transfer. (See Lieberman v.
Superior Court (1987) 194 Cal.App.3d 396, 401.) That burden of proof calls
for affidavits that contain more than generalities and conclusions. (See Hamilton
v Superior Court (1974) 37 Cal. App.3d 418, 424.) Such affidavits or
declarations, like those for change of venue under Code Civ. Proc. section
397(c), should show the name of each witness, the expected testimony of each
witness, and facts showing why the attendance of said witnesses at trial would
be inconvenient or why the ends of justice would be served by a transfer. (See Stute
v. Burinda (1981) 123 Cal. App. 3d Supp. 11, 17.) Convenience to non-party
witnesses alone is the key to the success of the motion, and not the
convenience of parties or employees of parties. (Ibid.) 
 
Defendant
Failed to Demonstrate a Transfer is Warranted 
 
Defendant
seeks to transfer this action to the Chatsworth Courthouse in the North Valley
District. The case is currently assigned to Department 38 of the Stanley Mosk
Courthouse, which sits in the Central District of the Los Angeles Superior
Court. (LASC Local Rule 2.2(b).) 
 
Local
Rule 2.3(a)(1)(A) contains mandatory filing rules which have no application to
Plaintiffs’ complaint, as the case does not fall within any of the enumerated
case types: personal injury, asbestos, class action, probate, Labor Code
section 98.2, writ of prohibition or mandate, emancipation, or adoption. If
none of the mandatory provisions apply, an unlimited civil case may be filed in
the Central District at a plaintiff’s election.  (LASC Local Rule
2.3(a)(1)(B) (“Except as set forth in subsection (A) above, [Mandatory Filing],
. . .  an unlimited civil or Family Code action may be filed in the Central
District . . .”).) An unlimited civil complaint asserting breach of contract
claims may be filed either in the Central District or “where performance is
required by an express provision or where the defendant resides.” (LASC Local
Rule 2.3(a)(1)(B).) Plaintiffs allege the existence of uninhabitable conditions
at the Subject Property, which is located at 17951 Devonshire Street,
Northridge, CA 91325, (Compl. ¶ 1), which is within the North Valley District.
Here, the civil case cover sheet identifies this action as a breach of
contract/warranty case and as an unlimited civil case. The Court notes that “Step
5” of the Certification of Assignment on the Civil Case Cover Sheet Addendum is
incomplete as counsel did not identify the chosen venue. The lack of a complete
certification, however, does not warrant a finding that this action was
improperly filed in the Central District. Plaintiffs did indicate on the Civil Case
Cover Sheet Addendum, in “Step 4” therein, that this action was filed in the
Central District under permissive filing. LASC Local Rule 2.3(a)(1)(B) allows a
party to file a contract action in the Central District. As such, the Court
finds that Plaintiffs’ action was properly filed in the Central District. 
 
Next,
Defendant argues that the convenience of the witnesses and the ends of justice
would be promoted by transferring this action to the Chatsworth Courthouse.
Defendant’s counsel, Nicholas A. McNally (“McNally”), declares that Subject
Property is located in the County of Riverside. (McNally Decl. ¶ 4.) The
contractual relationships between the parties arose in Northridge, CA. (McNally
Decl. ¶ 5.) According to Mr. McNally, “[i]t would be extremely inconvenient for
witnesses to appear and give their testimony in [the] . . . Central District .
. . from the City of Northridge due to [the] cost of travel, loss of time,
[and] personal and work obligations.” (McNally Decl. ¶ 6.) The ends of justice
would be promoted by transferring this action for trial to the Chatsworth
Courthouse where the alleged causes of action arose. (McNally Decl., ¶ 7.) 
 
In
opposition to the motion, Plaintiffs’ counsel, Paola Leon (“Leon”), attests
that the statement of Defendant’s counsel that the Subject Property is located
in the County of Riverside is incorrect. (Leon Decl. ¶ 4.) The Subject Property
is located within the County of Los Angeles. (Leon Decl. ¶ 4.) Ms. Leon
indicates that Plaintiffs’ choice to lay venue in the Central District is
correct and that “Defendants fail to offer any adequate basis to disturb
Plaintiffs’ proper choice of forum . . . .” (Leon Decl. ¶ 6.) 
 
The
Court finds that Defendant has not met his burden in showing that witness
convenience or the ends of justice would be served by a transfer. Here, the
declaration of Mr. McNally in support of the motion is conclusory and too
general. As to the inconvenience of witnesses, Mr. McNally does not state the
name of each witness, their expected testimony, or facts showing why their
attendance would be inconvenient. Moreover, as to the ends of justice being
served by a transfer, Mr. McNally only sets forth in a conclusory manner that
the ends of justice would be served by a transfer because the North District is
“where the alleged causes of action arose.” (McNally Decl. ¶ 7.) 
 
Defendant’s
attempt to make a showing on reply is insufficient as no declaration or
affidavit was filed with the reply brief. Based on the sole declaration of Mr.
McNally submitted with the moving papers, Defendant has not met his burden as
Defendant has only presented mere generalities and conclusions. 
 
Defendant’s
motion is DENIED. 
 