  Case Number:  21STCV42748    Hearing Date:   January 24, 2024    Dept:  57 Horton Law Firm, APC and Laura L.
Horton (collectively, “Horton”) sued Helen Kim Law, APC and Helen U. Kim
(collectively, “Kim”) for breach of an alleged oral agreement to share on a
50-50 basis costs advanced in litigation, Gonzalez v. Whittier College (the
“Gonzalez Case”), in which Horton and Kim were co-counsel for the
plaintiff.  Horton also has sued Kim for
fraud in connection with the alleged oral cost-sharing agreement in the
Gonzalez Case.Pending before the Court is Horton’s
motion to quash and/or for a protective order (“the Motion”) related to
deposition subpoenas issued by Kim that seek business records from third
parties, attorneys Bruce Traney and Pejman Ben-Cohen collectively, “the Subpoenaed
Attorneys”).  The records that Kim seeks
from the Subpoenaed Attorneys are (1) all documents referring to the sharing of
costs advanced in cases in which the Subpoenaed Attorneys and Horton were co-counsel
of record; and (2) all documents reflecting the costs incurred in such cases. It
is undisputed that Horton and the Subpoenaed Attorneys were co-counsel of
record in past cases that ended many years ago. 
The Court is denying the Motion. The cost-sharing documents that Kim
seeks from the Subpoenaed Attorneys are relevant to Horton’s claims against Kim
arising from the alleged oral agreement share costs advanced in the Gonzalez Case,
or reasonably calculated to lead the discovery of admissible evidence bearing
on those claims.  That is because Horton
has contended in this case, through submissions to the Court and in
discovery/depositions, that its custom in other cases in which it has a
co-counsel is to share costs with the co-counsel.  The cost-sharing documents that Kim seeks
from the Subpoenaed Attorneys are designed to test the validity of that
contention.In support of the Motion, Horton
argues that the cost-sharing documents that Kim seeks from the Subpoenaed
Attorneys reflect irrelevant character evidence that contravenes Evidence Code
Section 1101’s proscription on proving the conduct of a party to a lawsuit
through the party’s conduct on prior occasions. 
The Court disagrees.  Horton
opened the door to Kim’s request for cost-sharing documents from the Subpoenaed
Attorneys by placing its custom in co-counseling arrangements at issue through
its submissions to the Court and discovery responses/depositions regarding
cost-sharing with co-counsel in other cases. The Court also disagrees with
Horton’s argument in support of the Motion that Kim intends to use the
cost-sharing documents sought from the Subpoenaed Attorneys for improper
impeachment of Horton witnesses on a collateral matter.   If the
documents show that Horton did not have a 50-50 cost sharing agreement with the
Subpoenaed Attorneys, the documents arguably would impeach Horton’s contention
that the alleged oral agreement with Kim on cost-sharing in the Gonzalez Case is
consistent with Horton’s custom. That would not be impeachment of Horton on a
collateral matter. It would be
impeachment on a central matter. Next, Horton argues in support of
the Motion that the records that the subpoenas for cost-sharing records invade
the attorney-client privilege and work-product doctrine that protect the confidentiality
of communications between Horton, the Subpoenaed Attorneys, and their
respective clients in the cases in which Horton and the Subpoenaed Attorneys
served as co-counsel.   Horton is incorrect.  Neither the attorney-client privilege nor the
work product doctrine precludes discovery of cost-sharing documents in
litigation that ended long ago.That proposition finds support in Los
Angeles County Bd. of Supervisors v. Superior Court (2016) 2 Cal.5th 282.   The
Supreme Court’s opinion in that case held that the attorney-client privilege
and work product doctrine did not shield requests under the Public Records Act
for invoices and billing records in old, terminated cases.  The cost-sharing documents at issue here from
old, terminated cases in which Horton and the Subpoenaed Attorneys served as
co-counsel are analogous to the invoices and billing records at issue in Los
Angeles County Bd. of Supervisors.   That the question of the applicability of the
attorney-client privilege and work product doctrine in Los Angeles County
Bd. of Supervisors came to the Supreme Court in the context of a Public
Records Act case is irrelevant. This
Court sees no reason why the Supreme Court’s teachings in that case would not
extend to civil litigation over allegations of breach of contract and fraud,
like this case. Finally, in its reply brief in
support of the Motion, Horton argued that disclosure of the cost-sharing
arrangements in the cases in which Horton served as co-counsel with the Subpoenaed
Attorneys would violate confidentiality clauses in settlement agreements that
resolved those cases.  Because Horton
advanced this argument for the first time on reply, the argument is waived.  In any event, Horton’s reply brief does not demonstrate
that the confidentiality provisions in the settlement agreements would prevent
disclosure of documents pursuant to valid subpoenas that this Court has
declined to quash. In its
opposition to the Motion, Kim urged the Court to sanction Horton for filing the
Motion.  The Court is declining to impose
sanctions on Horton.  In the Court’s
view, Horton’s position in the Motion was substantially justified.  Thus, sanctions are unwarranted.