 Case Number:  23STCV11470    Hearing Date:   April 3, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



GREEN COMMUTER, INC., a California Corporation,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
GREENPOWER MOTOR COMPANY, INC., a Delaware Corporation; SAN
  JOAQUIN VALLEY EQUIPMENT LEASING, INC., a Utah Corporation and DOES 1 through
  100, inclusive,
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          23STCV11470
 Hearing Date:   4/3/24
 Trial Date:        2/18/25
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Plaintiff Green Commuter, Inc.’s Motion to Compel Further
  Responses to Plaintiff’s Requests for Production of Documents, Set One, and
  for Sanctions in the Amount of $4,896.64.



 
I. Background
A. Pleadings
Plaintiff Green Commuter, Inc. (Green
Commuter) sues Defendant GreenPower Motor Company, Inc. (GreenPower Motor), San
Joaquin Valley Equipment Leasing, Inc. (San Joaquin), and Does 1 through 100
pursuant to an August 17, 2023, First Amended Complaint alleging claims of (1)
Breach of Contract, (2) Breach of Contract, (3) Breach of Contract, (4) Breach
of Contract, (5) Conversion, (6) Unjust Enrichment, (7) Intentional Interference
with Contractual Relations, and (8) Violation of California’s Unfair Competition
Law § 17200, et seq.
The claims arise from the following
allegations, as summarized by the FAC. “Beginning in early 2019 Green Commuter
began dealings with Green Power acquiring Electric vehicles (EV)s for rental to
Green Commuter’s customers and in some cases provided EV service contracts and
other services to Greenpower and Greenpower’s customers. The dealings between
Green Commuter and Greenpower were often complex and multi-faceted. As of 2022,
the parties had four ongoing contracts with one another, each related to the
sale, lease or service of various electric vehicles. Ultimately, Greenpower and
its wholly owned or otherwise related finance arm San Joaquin Leasing, breached
each of the agreements and unlawfully failed to deliver 10 EVs, repossessed 18
EVs, refused orders and denied the right to provide vehicle service for 21 EVs
and refused to deliver another 29 EVs to customers of Green Commuter. These
actions constitute breach of 4 written contract agreements. Defendants also
committed various intentional torts, including but not limited to, conversion,
interference with contractual relations, unfair competition and were unjustly
enriched by their actions, among other things.”
On January 11, 2024, the Court
overruled an opposed September 20, 2023, demurrer by GreenPower and San Joaquin
as to the Complaint’s eighth cause of action for unfair competition but
sustained that demurrer without leave to amend as to the Complaint’s sixth
cause of action for unjust enrichment. The Court otherwise ruled that a motion
to strike component of the demurrer was procedurally defective.
B. Relevant Procedural History
On or about September 21, 2023,
Green Commuter served various discovery requests on San Joaquin, including
Requests for Production of Documents (RPDs) Set One, Requests for Form
Interrogatories (FROGs), Set One, and Requests for Special Interrogatories
(SROGs), Set One.
On November 13, 2023, San Joaquin
served unverified responses to RPDs, Set One.
On November 16, 2023, Green
Commuter’s counsel sent a meet and confer letter to San Joaquin’s counsel
requesting verifications and a complete set of production.
San Joaquin did not respond to that
communication.
On November 27, 2023, Green
Commuter’s counsel again followed up, seeking to meet and confer regarding
verifications and document production.
San Joaquin did not respond to that
communication.
On November 30, 2023, San Joaquin
served verifications and some document production.
On December 1, 2023, counsel for
the parties met and conferred regarding further production, with counsel for
San Joaquin promising further production by December 8 and 15, 2023.
San Joaquin did not produce
documents according to the December 1st promise.
C. Motion Before the Court and Protective
Orders
On January 4, 2024, Green Commuter
filed a motion to compel further responses to RPDs, Set One, Nos. 1-40.
On January 30, 2024, Green Commuter
filed a stipulation and proposed protective order concerning discovery and
confidentiality, which remains unsigned.
On February 13, 2024, Green
Commuter filed a stipulation and protective order executed that same day by the
parties to this action.
On February 14, 2024, the Court
signed the February 13, 2024, proposed protective order.
On March 20, 2024, San Joaquin
filed an opposition to Green Commuter’s motion.
On March 26, 2024, Green Commuter
filed a reply to San Joaquin’s opposition.
Green Commuter’s motion is now
before the Court.
The Court notes that while the
parties had disputes as to whether RPDs, Set One, also involved GreenPower
Motor, the moving papers note at page 2 that the motion does not involve
GreenPower.
            
II. Motion to Compel Further Production and Responses and
for Sanctions
A. Meet and Confer: SATISFIED.
A motion to compel further
production must be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Code of
Civil Procedure section 2016.040. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (b)(1).) A
meet and confer declaration in support of a motion shall state facts showing a
reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue
presented by the motion. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2016.040.)
San Joaquin’s opposition challenges
the meet and confer efforts preceding Green Commuter filing its motion, which
Green Commuter disputes. (Opp’n, pp. 3-4; Reply, p. 3.)
Here, the Court determines that
sufficient evidence of meet and confer efforts exists, as shown by counsel’s
declaration and email exhibits. (Mot., Cohen Decl., ¶ 12, Ex. G; see Mot.,
Cohen Decl., ¶¶ 5-11.)
B. Motion to Compel Further
Production and Responses: GRANTED.
1. Legal
Standard
A motion to compel a further
response is used when a party gives unsatisfactory answers or makes untenable
objections to interrogatories, demands to produce, or requests for admission.
(See Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (a); Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting,
Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 403.)
To request further production, a
movant must establish: (1) good cause for the production (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.310, subd. (b)(1); Sinaiko, supra, at p. 403); and (2) that
a further response is needed because (a) the responding party’s statement of
compliance with the demand to produce is incomplete Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.310, subd. (a)(1)), (b) the responding party’s representation that it is unable
to comply is inadequate, complete, or evasive (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310,
subd. (a)(2)), (c) the responding party’s objection in the response is without
merit or is too general (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (a)(3); Catalina
Island Yacht Club v. Superior Court (2015) 242 Cal.App.4th 1116, 1127), or
(d) if the responding party objected to the production of ESI on the ground
that it is not reasonably accessible the movant can show that the (i) ESI is
reasonably accessible or (ii) there is good cause for production of the ESI
regardless of its accessibility (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (e)).
2. Analysis
a. Production
Requests at Issue
The production requests at issue
are RPD, Set One, Nos. 1-40. (Mot., Separate Statement, pp. 2-34.)
b. San
Joaquin’s Nov. 13, 2023, Initial Objections and/or Responses to RPDs, Set One
i. Responses
with Substantive Content to RPDs, Set One
San Joaquin provided substantive
initial responses to 38 requests in RPDs, Set One, as follows. (Mot., Separate
Statement, RPDs, Set One, Nos. 1-27, 30-40.)
(1) Subject to various objections, statements
of compliance—the sufficiency of which is challenged by the opposition—promising
to produce the documents requested. (Mot., Separate Statement, RPDs, Set One,
Nos. 1-2, 4, 6-15-17, 24-26, 31, 33, 35-38.)
(2) Subject to various objections,
a response indicating there was no repossession of the “Ten Electric Vehicles,”
where the subject of the request does not always involve simply ten electric
vehicles, e.g., at RPDs, Set One, No. 18. (Mot., Separate Statement, RPDs, Set
One, Nos. 18-20, 27, 31.)
(3) Subject to various objections,
a response indicating that San Joaquin had not filed any civil action against
the State of California based on Green Commuter’s conduct. (Mot., Separate
Statement, RPDs, Set One, Nos. 30.)
(4) Subject to various objections,
a response indicating that San Joaquin did not manufacture duplicate Vehicle
Identification Numbers (VINs). (Mot., Separate Statement, RPDs, Set One, Nos.
32-34.)
(5) Technically an objection, a response
indicating that San Joaquin is unable to respond based on a lack of specificity
as to a specifically referenced written aGreenent in the request. (Mot.,
Separate Statement, RPDs, Set One, Nos. 3, 5, 21-23, 39-40.)
Only San Joaquin’s responses to
RPDs, Set One, Nos. 28-29 were objection-only responses. (Mot., Separate
Statement, RPDs, Set One, Nos. 28-29.)
ii. Objections
to RPDs, Set One
San Joaquin provided various
objections to RPDs, Set One, Nos. 1-40, as follows.
(1) The failure to define the term
at issue renders the request vague, ambiguous, and confusing. (Mot., Separate
Statement, RPDs, Set One, Nos. 1-15, 18-40.)
(2) The request seeks information
protected by the attorney client privilege or work product doctrine or are
protected as confidential mediation communications between Responding Party and
the State of California. (Mot., Separate Statement, RPDs, Set One, No. 1-10,
12-27, 29-40.)
(3) The request seeks information
that can be obtained by Plaintiff from public sources as readily as by
Responding Party, for which reason this information will not be provided.
(Mot., Separate Statement, RPDs, Set One, Nos. 1-40.)
(4) The capitalized term “Electric
Vehicles” in certain requests causes confusion with the terms actually defined
in RPDs, Set One, for “Ten Electric Vehicles.” (Mot., Separate Statement, RPDs,
Set One, Nos. 5, 22, 40.)
(5) San Joaquin is unable to
respond based on a lack of specificity as to a specifically referenced written
aGreenent in the request. (Mot., Separate Statement, RPDs, Set One, Nos. 3, 5,
21-23, 39-40.)
The responses include a privilege
log for the attorney client, work production, and mediation objections raised in
response to RPDs, Set One. (Opp’n, Johnson Decl., Ex. D, p. 26; see Mot.,
Separate Statement, RPDs, Set One, No. 1-10, 12-27, 29-40.)
iii. Verifications
San Joaquin served verifications
for the above initial responses to RPDs, Set One, on November 30, 2023. (Mot.,
Cohen Decl., ¶ 9, Ex. E.)
The Court notes that the responses
to RPDs, Set One, Nos. 1-27 and 31-40, were not operative until November 30,
2023, when verifications were provided, because unverified responses are
tantamount to no responses at all. (See Appleton v. Superior Court
(1988) 206 Cal.App.3d 632, 636 [rule stated in relation to admission requests];
see Food 4 Less Supermarkets, Inc. v. Superior Court (1995) 40
Cal.App.4th 651, 654-658 [“The only situation in which lack of verification
could both render the response untimely and result in a waiver of
objections under [now § 2031.290, subd. (a), former section 2031,] subdivision
(k) is when the initial unverified response contains no objections[,] [a]nd in
a different factual vein, subdivision (k) could result in a waiver of
objections if the party fails to file any response within the statutory
time period”].)
The objections were properly stated
as of service because counsel signed the objections. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.250, subds. (a), (c); Opp’n, Johnson Decl., Ex. D, p. 25 [responses];
Mot., Cohen Decl., ¶ 6 [confirming service but attaching incorrect exhibit as
Exhibit B, i.e., not San Joaquin’s responses, but production requests from
Defendants to Green Commuter].) 
Though a motion to compel further
responses is required whenever timely objections without responses are asserted
(Golf & Tennis Pro Shop, Inc. v. Superior Court (2022) 84
Cal.App.5th 127, 136), whether any such motion to compel further responses
should be subject to time limitations is not clear (id. at p. 136, fn. 5
[deferring the discussion regarding the possibility of an “absurd result” if
there is no time limit on a motion to compel involving objections]), though
such a limitation does not appear applicable on the plain language of the
statute. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (c) [“Unless notice of this motion
is given within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any
supplemental verified response, or on or before any specific later date
to which the demanding party and the responding party have agreed in writing,
the demanding party waives any right to compel a further response to the demand,”
emphasis added]; cf. Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2031.250, subd. (a), (c) [no verified
response required for objections, which only require attorney signature].)
As a result, statutorily, a 45-day
timeframe to compel further responses to RPDs, Set One, Nos. 1-27 and 31-40 was
triggered on November 30, 2023, and no such timeframe is applicable to compel
further responses to RPDs, Set One, Nos. 28-29.
However, the parties ultimately
agreed to set the deadline for this motion to January 4, 2024. (Mot., Cohen
Decl., ¶ 12, Ex. G.)
iv. Nov. 30,
2023, Production
On November 30, 2023, San Joaquin
served some supplemental production in relation to RPDs, Set One, but this
production is not attached to the moving papers. (Mot., Cohen Decl., ¶ 9, Ex. E.)
The relevant communications show
San Joaquin represented that it was “working on getting [Green Commuter’s
counsel] two sets of additional documents: (1) ‘external’ documents, such as
the vouchers from HVIP, VIN records from NHTSA, and title records from DMV,
which we are targeting to produce by next Friday [Dec. 8, 2023]; and (2)
‘internal’ documents such as emails, which we are targeting to produce by the
following Friday [Dec. 15, 2023].” (Mot., Cohen Decl., ¶ 10, Ex. F.)
v. Parties’
Arguments
In its motion, Green Commuter
argues that the vagueness, ambiguity, confusion, and equal access objections
are without merit because the production requests are clear and because San
Joaquin does not point Green Commuter to the public information source that is
equally available. Green Commuter also argues that the responses to RPDs, Set
One, are not narrowly tailored to the requests at issue, showing, for example,
the inconsistency between the subject matter in RPDs, Set One, No. 18, and San
Joaquin’s response to it. Last, Green Commuter argues that the “statements of
compliance” served by San Joaquin in response to certain of the requests in
RPDs, Set One, do not properly comply with the form required of statements of
compliance in Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.220. (Mot., pp. 6-9.)
Green Commuter’s separate statement
addresses only some of the stated objections in the November 13, 2023,
responses (relevance, vagueness, ambiguity, and confusion), while failing to
address others (privileges). (Mot., Separate Statement, pp. 2-34 at Statements
of Insufficiency.)
In opposition, San Joaquin first
notes that the moving papers incorrectly attach the wrong document as
representing San Joaquin’s November 13, 2023, responses to RPDs, Set One, i.e.,
attach a discovery request from Defendants to Green Commuter, not the reverse. San
Joaquin then argues the merit of its objections, attempting to highlight
vagueness and lack of clarity in the production requests. San Joaquin adds that
it has not refused to comply with discovery inasmuch as it is simply directing
Green Commuter to search public sources for the public records sought by RPDs,
Set One. Next, San Joaquin argues in essence that the statement of compliance
argument puts form over substance where the responses are sufficiently clear
and agree to produce documents subject to stated objections. Last, San Joaquin notes
its good faith efforts at production while simultaneously noting that it has
located over 20 thousand responsive documents but has not produced those
documents because while they are responsive to RPDs, Set One, such discovery is
vaguely stated, and, where this objection is raised, production should not
occur until RPDs, Set One, are clarified to lack ambiguity. (Opp’n, pp. 3-7.)
San Joaquin’s separate statement briefly
elaborates the stated objections. (Opp’n, Separate Statement, pp. 1-37 at
Statements of Sufficiency.)
In reply, Green Commuter argues the
relevance of the sought-after discovery. Green Commuter also argues that undue
burden has not been established as to San Joaquin and that the statements of
sufficiency in the opposition separate statement exhibit a lack of good faith,
which focus on demurrer style arguments against RPDs, Set One—vagueness—rather
than discovery merit. Green Commuter next argues that it is not clear to Green
Commuter to what extent San Joaquin has produced relevant discovery because the
statements of compliance here do not state “whether the documents exist, [San
Joaquin] produced them fully or partially and what objections … [San Joaquin]
actually stand[s] on.” In support, Green Commuter cites the Code’s provision
establishing that objections must be stated with particularity in identifying
documents to which objections are raised and explaining the grounds for those
objections. Last, Green Commuter argues reasons against the opposition position
that San Joaquin has done its best to produce documents in this action, noting
that a protective order is in place in this action to protect unwarranted
disclosure. (Reply, pp. 1-6.)
vi. Court’s
Determination
The Court finds in favor of Green
Commuter.
I. Objections
The Court notes that there is no
vagueness, ambiguity, or confusion in RPDs, Set One. Even the use of the
undefined term “eighteen Electric Vehicles” is clarified to mean vehicles
repossessed by San Joaquin. (See Mot., Separate Statement, RPDs, Set One, No.
31.) From this context, the clarity of the references to eighteen electric
vehicles becomes clear. The requests for agreements or documents related to agreements
are sufficiently clear as to whether the requests involve all or specific contracts
between identified parties. (See, e.g., Mot., Separate Statement, RPDs, Set
One, Nos. 1-3, 15, 21-23, 39-40.) This objection thus fails.
The attorney-client, work product,
and mediation privileges raised by San Joaquin were not properly challenged in
the moving papers, separate statement, or reply, nor was the privilege log in
the November 13, 2023, responses, for which reason this objection has merit
that has not been overcome by Green Commuter.
The Court does not credit the
objection of equal access, i.e., documents being equally available to
Plaintiff. The opposition and its separate statement do not sufficiently
elaborate on an undue burden in relation to this equal access (see Code Civ.
Proc., § 2019.030, subds. (a)-(a)(2)), and the scope of discovery does not have
an equal access limitation. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2017.010.)
II. Substantive
Arguments
Here, though the Court is not clear
on the extent of production on December 1, 2023, this motion was nevertheless
brought on January 4, 2024, indicating that the production was not, to Green
Commuter, sufficiently responsive to any of RPDs, Set One, Nos. 1-40.
Moving to the merits, the Court
notes that the information sought here is discoverable based on its relevance
to the allegations in the FAC. As summarized by the reply: “The responses and
documents at issue in the present motion are important, discoverable,
non-privileged documents including communications with the State of California,
records of vouchers and other obviously relevant and discoverable documents.
Further, [San Joaquin] does not dispute the relevancy and importance of the
documents to this matter as [San Joaquin] promised on December 1, 2023[,] that
it would produce its internal emails and records with NHTSA. Not once prior to
the filing of this motion did [San Joaquin] raise a point regarding specificity
of VIN numbers, and any burdensome arguments. [San Joaquin] now states, without
verification or declaration, that a search returned 20,000 emails relating to
Electric Vehicles; however, any objection on that basis was waived since no
burdensome objection was ever raised prior to [Green Commuter]’s filing of the
motion on January 4, 2024. To the contrary, [San Joaquin] willingly agreed to
produce the documents when [San Joaquin]’s responses to Green Commuter’s RFPs
state in part that [San Joaquin] ‘will produce’ emails, documents related to
payment vouchers from California’s Hybrid and Zero-Emission Truck and Bus
Voucher Incentive Project (‘HVIP’), VIN records from National Highway Traffic
Safety Administration (‘NHTSA’), and registration and title records from the
Department of Motor Vehicles (‘DMV’).” (Reply, p. 2.)
The reply’s position that San
Joaquin itself has represented that it has tens of thousands of relevant
documents to RPDs, Set One, as stated, is clear on the face of the opposition
and is not followed by sufficient arguments of undue burden. (See Opp’n, pp.
6-7.)
Given that the information sought
here is relevant and given that the dispositive objections stated by San
Joaquin are insufficient, the Court finds that further production is
appropriate.
Plaintiff Green Commuter’s motion
is thus GRANTED as to compelling further production to RPDs, Set One, No. 1-40.
The Court notes that any further
production responses that involve either statements of compliance or denials
and similar representation must comply with Code of Civil Procedure sections
2031.220 and 2031.230.
The Court also notes that there has
been no attorney-client, work product, or mediation privilege waiver, and that
these objections were properly raised. (Mot., Separate Statement, RPDs, Set
One, No. 1-10, 12-27, 29-40 [privileges raised]; Opp’n, Johnson Decl., Ex. D,
p. 26 [privilege log].)
C. Sanctions: GRANTED, in
part.
1. Legal
Standard
Except in certain circumstances
involving electronic stored information, the court must impose a monetary
sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party,
person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel
further response to a demand, unless it finds that the one subject to the
sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make
the imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd.
(h).)
The court may award sanctions under the
Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even
though no opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was
withdrawn, or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after
the motion was filed. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348, subd. (a).)
2. Analysis
Here, the Court finds that monetary
sanctions are warranted based on the above discussed failure by San Joaquin to
provide valid responses to an authorized method of discovery: RPDs, Set One.
(Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2023.010, subd. (d).)
The Court also determines that
sanctions are proper in the amount of $3,331.64, comprised of a reasonable fee
rate of $690 per hour for Jeffrey Cohen and $390 per hour for an associate, four
hours reasonably spent by the associate drafting this motion, half an hour
reasonably spent by Jeffrey Cohen reviewing that work, two hours to draft a
reply and 1.5 hours to prepare for and attend the hearing at a rate of $390,
not $430 per hour, plus a filing fee of $61.64. (Mot., Cohen Decl., ¶ 14
[providing basis for this discussion and seeking $4,896.64].)
The Court notes that sanctions are
only sought against San Joaquin, not counsel. (Mot., p. 2, ¶ 3.)
Sanctions are thus GRANTED, in
part, in the amount of $3,331.64.
 
III. Conclusion
A. Further Production
Plaintiff Green Commuter, Inc.’s
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Plaintiff’s Requests for Production of
Documents, Set One, is GRANTED.
Defendant San Joaquin Valley
Equipment Leasing, Inc. is ORDERED to serve Code-compliant responses, which may
raise valid attorney-client, work product, or mediation privilege objections, if
applicable, in relation to Requests for Production of Documents, Set One, Nos.
1-40, within 21 calendar days of this order.
B. Sanctions
Plaintiff Green Commuter, Inc.’s
Motion for Sanctions in the Amount of $4,896.64 is GRANTED, in part, in the
amount of $3,331.64.
Defendant San Joaquin Valley
Equipment Leasing, Inc. is ORDERED remit payment to Plaintiff
Green Commuter, Inc. within 21 calendar days of this order.