  Case Number:  20STCV27665    Hearing Date:   April 3, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



SANDRA NORLUND, an individual, and SANDRA NORLUND, Trustee of
  the Norlund Family Trust Dated September 15, 2000,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
RICHARD L. NORLUND; SHARON K. BACON-NORLUND; RICHARD L. NORLUND
  as Successor Trustee of “Trust A” of the “Norlund Family Trust dated March
  16, 1987”; RICHARD L. NORLUND as Successor Trustee of “Trust B” of the
  “Norlund Family Trust dated March 16, 1987”; RICHARD L. NORLUND as Trustee of
  “Richard L. Norlund Separate Property Trust dated December 11, 1997”; RICHARD
  L. NORLUND and SHARON K. BACONNORLUND, as Trustees of the “Norlund Family
  Trust dated May 13, 2019”, RICK EDWARDS, ESQ. (DOES 4); RICK EDWARDS, INC.
  (DOES 5); and DOES 6 through 100, inclusive,
                        Defendants.
NANCY HYMAS, as Trustee for Trust A FBO Nancy Hymas and Trust B
  FBO Nancy Hymas,
                        Intervenors. 
______________________________________
NANCY HYMAS, NANCY HYMAS, Trustee of Trust A FBO Nancy Hymas and
  Trust B FBO Nancy Hymas, and NANCY HYMAS, Beneficiary of Trust A FBO Nancy Hymas
  and Trust B FBO Nancy Hymas,
                        Plaintiff-Intervenors,
            v.
RICHARD L. NORLUND; SHARON K. BACON-NORLUND; RICHARD L. NORLUND
  as Successor Trustee of “Trust A” of the “Norlund Family Trust dated March 16,
  1987”; RICHARD L. NORLUND as Successor Trustee of “Trust B” of the “Norlund
  Family Trust dated March 16, 1987”; RICHARD L. NORLUND as Trustee of “Richard
  L. Norlund Separate Property Trust dated December 11, 1997”; RICHARD L.
  NORLUND and SHARON K. BACON-NORLUND, as Trustees of the “Norlund Family Trust
  dated May 13, 2019” and DOES 1 through 100, inclusive,
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          20STCV27665
  [Lead Case]
[Related
  to LASC. No. 23STCV19070]
 Hearing Date:   4/3/24
 Trial Date:        8/20/24
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Rick Edwards,
  Esq.’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel [Lead Case]; and
Rick Edwards,
  Esq.’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel [Butte Case].



 
Court Order
 
I. Background
A. Pleadings in Lead Case
(23STCV27665)
On July 22, 2020, Plaintiffs Sandra
Norlund—individually and as a trustee—filed a Complaint suing Defendants
Richard L. Norlund and Sharon K. Norlund in various capacities (the Norlund
Defendants) and Nominal Defendant Nancy Hymas as Trustee for Trust A FBO Nancy
Hymas and Trust B FBO Nancy Hymas (Nancy Hymas)—pursuant to claims of (1)
Judicial Foreclosure, (2) Fraud, and (3) Interference with Prospective Economic
Advantage.
On July 29, 2020, Sandra Norlund
filed a First Amended Complaint (FAC) stating the same claims against the same
Defendants and Nominal Defendant.
The fraud and interference claims
were stricken by Department 40 on April 13, 2021, based on a representation by
Plaintiffs that only the Judicial Foreclosure cause of action remained, i.e.,
an election of remedies.
On October 20, 2023, Nancy Hymas
filed a Complaint in Intervention alleging claims of (1) Judicial Foreclosure,
(2) Fraud, and (3) Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage against the
Norlund Defendants.
The Complaint in Intervention’s
claims arise largely from the same allegations as Sandra Norlund’s pleading but
framed around Nancy Hymas’s resulting injuries.
On March 8, 2024, the Court took a
motion by Nancy Hymas for leave to amend the Cross-Complaint in Intervention
under submission, which remains under submission.
On March 20, 2024, the Court
granted a December 15, 2023, motion filed by Sandra Norlund for leave to amend
her FAC.
That same day, Sandra Norlund filed
her Second Amended Complaint (SAC), which alleges claims of (1) Judicial
Foreclosure, (2) Quiet Title, (3) Reformation of Contract, (4) Declaratory
Relief, and (5) Elder Abuse against the Norlund Defendants and Does 6 through
100.
This action (the Lead Case) was originally
assigned and remains assigned to Department 40 at the Stanley Mosk Courthouse
(the Court).
B. Pleadings in Butte Case
(23STCV19070), Now Before Department 40
On September 8, 2021, Sandra
Norlund—in her individual and representative capacities—filed a Complaint
naming Richard Norlund in his various capacities, Tittle & Company LLP
(Tittle & Co.), Chandese Meghadi, CPA (Meghadi, CPA), Old Republic Title
Company (Old Republic), and Does 1 through 100 as Defendants and alleging
claims of (1) Breach of Contract against Richard Norlund and Does 1 through 70,
(2) Actual Fraud, (3) Constructive Fraud, and (4) Conversion against all
Defendants, and (5) Professional Negligence against Tittle & Co., Megdhadi,
CPA, and Old Republic.
On February 1, 2022, Sandra Norlund
filed a First Amended Complaint (FAC) naming Richard Norlund in his various
capacities, Tittle & Co., Meghadi, CPA, Old Republic, and Does 1 through
100 as Defendants and alleging claims of (1) Breach of Contract against Richard
Norlund and Does 1 through 70, (2) Actual Fraud and (3) Constructive Fraud
against all Defendants, and (4) Professional Negligence and (5) Aiding and
Abetting against Old Republic.
On November 30, 2022, Sandra
Norlund filed an amendment to complaint naming John C. Schaller as Doe 1.
On January 18, 2023, Nancy Hymas
filed a Complaint in Intervention in the Butte case naming Richard Norlund in
his various capacities, Tittle & Co., Meghadi, CPA, Old Republic, and Does
1 through 100 as Defendants and alleging claims of (1) Breach of Contract
against Richard Norlund and Does 1 through 70, (2) Actual Fraud and (3)
Constructive Fraud against all Defendants, and (4) Professional Negligence and
(5) Aiding and Abetting against Old Republic.
On August 10, 2023, the Butte
County Superior Court—where this later-filed action was filed—transferred the
action to the Los Angeles Superior Court, which was assigned to Department 72
at the Stanley Mosk Courthouse as 23STCV19070 (hereafter, the Butte case).
On August 28, 2023, the Court
related the Lead Case and Butte cases, transferred the Butte Case to Department
40 with the Lead Case as the lead case, and advanced and vacated all hearings
in the Butte Case.
On March 8, 2024, the Court took a
motion by Nancy Hymas for leave to amend the Cross-Complaint in Intervention
under submission, which remains under submission.
C. Motion Before the Court
On February 27, 2024, Rick Edwards,
Esq.—counsel for the Norlund Defendants—filed motions to be relieved as counsel
in the Lead Case and in the Butte Case.
On February 28, 2024, Rick Edwards
filed ex parte applications in the Lead Case and the Butte Case for an order
advancing the hearing date on Rick Edwards motions from May 14, 2014, and June
14, 2024.
That same day, Sandra Norlund and
Sharon Norlund filed oppositions to the ex parte application in the Lead Case,
and Richard Norlund filed oppositions to the ex parte applications in the Lead
Case and the Butte Case.
On March 1, 2024, the Court granted
the ex parte applications and advanced and continued the hearings to April 3,
2024.
On March 20, 2024, the Norlund
Defendants filed an opposition to Rick Edwards’ motions to be relieved as
counsel in the Lead Case and the Butte Case.
On March 26, 2024, Rick Edwards
filed a combined reply to the nearly identical March 20, 2024, oppositions.
Rick Edwards’ motions are now
before the Court.
 
II. Guidelines for Civility
A. Relevant Law
“Neither written submissions nor
oral presentations should disparage the intelligence, ethics, morals, integrity
or personal behavior of one’s adversaries, unless such things are directly and
necessarily in issue.” (Super. Ct. L.A. County, Local Rules, appen. 3.A., subd.
(c)(2).)
B. Admonishment
of the Norlund Defendants for Improper Statements Made in Opposition Papers
Here, Sections I.B., VIII, and IX
of the opposition points and authorities, as well as, for example, footnote
nine on page 11 of that memo, show a long list of statements disparaging Nancy
Hymas, her counsel, Ronald V. Larson, Esq. and Andrew Micaraset, Esq., Sandra
Norlund, and her counsel, Mark B. Plummer, Esq., e.g., accusing these
individuals of being “liars” and accusing some of perjury. Such conduct is unreasonable
and impermissible in this Court where these topics are not directly and
necessarily at issue vis-à-vis whether Rick Edwards should be permitted to
withdraw based on, for example, prejudice to the Norlund Defendants. Although the
Norlund Defendants submitted these papers in pro per as they are opposing their
counsel’s request to withdraw, the rules still apply to them, and thus they are
ORDERED to comply with the guidelines for civility, and admonished that further
failure to comply with the guidelines of civility may result in sanctions or
other orders by the Court against the Norlund Defendants.
 
III. Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel: GRANTED.
A. Preliminary Note on Structure
of Ruling
The Court notes that because (1)
the motions to relieve counsel in the Lead Case and the Butte case are based on
the same grounds, (2) the oppositions are virtually identical, and (3) the
issues relating to representation are equally applicable to the Lead Case and
Butte Case, the motions are analyzed jointly. 
B. Legal Standard
1. Procedural
Requirements
To be relieved as counsel, an
attorney must meet certain procedural requirements set forth in the California
Rules of Court, which provide that:
(1) A notice of motion and motion
to be relieved as counsel under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(2) must be
directed to the client and must be made on the Notice of Motion and Motion to
Be Relieved as Counsel-Civil (form MC-051);
(2) The motion to be relieved as
counsel must be accompanied by a declaration on the Declaration in Support of
Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel-Civil (form MC-052), with the
declaration needing to state in general terms and without compromising the
confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship why a motion under Code of
Civil Procedure section 284(2) is brought instead of filing a consent under
Code of Civil Procedure section 284(1);
(3) The proposed order relieving
counsel must be prepared on the Order Granting Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved
as Counsel-Civil (form MC-053), must be lodged with the court with the moving
papers, and must specify all hearing dates scheduled in the action or
proceeding, including the date of trial, if known; and
(4) The notice of motion and
motion, the declaration, and the proposed order must be served on the client
and on all other parties who have appeared in the case, where service may be
made by personal service, electronic service, or mail, subject to certain
conditions for service by mail, overnight delivery, or fax, as well as for
service by email.
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362,
subds. (a), (c)-(e).)
After an order relieving counsel of
representation order is signed, a copy of the signed order must be served on
the client and on all parties that have appeared in the case. The court may
delay the effective date of the order relieving counsel until proof of service
of a copy of the signed order on the client has been filed with the court.
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, subd. (e).)
2. Substantive
Considerations 
“The question of granting or
denying an application of an attorney to withdraw as counsel ([without client
consent pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure, section] 284, subd. (2)) is one
which lies within the sound discretion of the trial court ‘having in mind
whether such withdrawal might work an injustice in the handling of the case.’”
(People v. Prince (1968) 268 Cal.App.2d 398, 406 [internal quotations
omitted].)
The grant or denial of an attorney’s
motion to withdraw is always discretionary; an attorney does not have an
absolute right to withdraw. (See Rules Prof. Conduct, rule 1.16(c) & cmt.
4; Flake v. Neumiller & Beardslee (2017) 9 Cal.App.5th 223, 230; Linn
v. Superior Court (1926) 79 Cal.App. 721, 725-726 (Linn).) Although
Rule of Professional Conduct 1.16, subdivision (a) lists circumstances in which
an attorney “shall” withdraw, a court does not lose its discretion to deny a
motion in these circumstances. (See Rules Prof. Conduct, rule 1.16 cmt. 4 [attorney
cannot withdraw if court denies motion, even if withdrawal is based on conflict
of interest].)
If the attorney’s “withdrawal can
be accomplished without undue prejudice to the client’s interests,” however,
the court should grant the motion rather than force an unwilling attorney to
work for a client. (Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th 904, 915
(Ramirez); accord Linn, supra, at p. 725 [in great
majority of instances, attorney should be permitted to withdraw unless
prejudice is found]; see, e.g., Rus, Miliband & Smith v. Conkle &
Olesten (2003) 113 Cal.App.4th 656, 673 [no reason to force unwilling
attorney-client relationship]; Ramirez, supra, at p. 915 [no
reason for court to deny motion when no prejudice is found].)
A court may deny a motion to be
relieved as counsel where withdrawal will cause undue delay in the proceeding
or cause injustice. (Mandell v. Superior Court (1977) 67 Cal.App.3d 1,
4.)
C. Analysis
1. Compliance
with Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362
The Court determines that Rick Edwards
has complied with California Rules of Court, rule 3.1342.
This is because Rick Edwards has
filed completely and appropriately filled out motions to be relieved as counsel
in the Lead Case and the Butte Case, declarations in support of the motion to
be relieved as counsel, and proposed orders related to his motions. (See
2/27/24 Forms MC-051, MC-052, MC-053, and Proofs of Service.)
2. Proper
Reason for Withdrawal
a. Rules of
Prof. Conduct, rule 1.16(a)
The Court determines that an
appropriate reason for withdrawal has been provided by Rick Edwards.
A declaration in support of a
motion to be relieved as counsel must state, in general terms, why a motion to
withdraw was brought instead of filing a consensual withdrawal under Code of
Civil Procedure section 284, subdivision (1). (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1362(c); see Judicial Council Forms, form MC-052; see also Cal. State Bar
Formal Opn. No. 2015-192 [it is ordinarily sufficient to state words to effect
that ethical considerations require withdrawal or that there has been
irreconcilable breakdown in attorney-client relationship].)
If the reason for withdrawal is
based on confidential information, the declaration should state, in general
terms, the basis for the withdrawal without compromising the confidentiality of
the attorney-client relationship. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362(c).)
When the duty of confidentiality
prevents the attorney from disclosing the underlying basis for the withdrawal,
the court cannot force the attorney to disclose the protected information. (Aceves
v. Superior Court (1996) 51 Cal.App.4th 584, 596 (Aceves); cf. Evid.
Code, § 915, subd. (a) [court may not require disclosure of privileged
information to rule on claim of attorney-client privilege]; Costco Wholesale
Corp. v. Superior Court (2009) 47 Cal.4th 725, 736-737 [same].)
But this does not mean that the
court is obligated to accept a blanket statement that confidential information
requires the attorney’s withdrawal. (See, e.g., Manfredi & Levine v.
Superior Court (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 1128, 1134 (Manfredi) [court
did not abuse its discretion by denying motion to withdraw when court asked
attorney to explain conflict and attorney replied that he could not and would
not explain it].) The court has a duty to explore the basis for the withdrawal,
and the attorney has a corresponding duty to respond and describe the general
nature of the conflict as fully as possible within the confines of the duty of
confidentiality. (Ibid.; Aceves, supra, 51 Cal.App.4th at pp.
592-593.)
For example, if an attorney claims
that she has a conflict of interest but the attorney-client privilege prevents
her from disclosing the basis of the withdrawal, the attorney should (1) give
meaningful information about the general nature of the conflict, (2) make clear
that the attorney evaluated exceptions to the privilege, and (3) state whether
a conflict is likely to occur if a new attorney is hired. (See Manfredi,
supra, at pp. 1135-1136.)
If there is no question about the
attorney’s good faith or sincerity, the court should accept the attorney’s
explanation. (Leversen v. Superior Court (1983) 34 Cal.3d 530, 539; see Aceves,
supra, at pp. 593-594 [it is proper for court to rely solely on attorney’s
explanation because attorney is in best position to determine if conflict would
affect quality of representation]; see, e.g., Manfredi, supra, at
pp. 1133-1134 [court questioned attorney’s good faith and sincerity because
attorney used several delay tactics and refused to give general description of
conflict].)
Here, the Edwards’ declarations
attached to both motions explain: “The attorney-client relationship has become
one in which withdrawal is appropriate. The need to withdraw here involves
privileged communications, and professional considerations require termination
of the representation. Although I do believe that California Rule of
Professional Conduct 1.16 (a) permits or requires my withdrawal, no inference
should be made that my clients have engaged in any criminal or fraudulent
course of conduct. I include the previous sentence in this declaration only
because of the ferocious attacks the opposing parties have made against Richard
Norlund’s character, primarily. After some research, my understanding is that
this declaration should state nothing further on the subjects this paragraph
contains.” (See Forms MC-052, Edwards Decls., ¶ 5.)
Based on this representation, and
based on the Court’s familiarity with the proceedings—e.g., the addition and
later removal of Rick Edwards from the pleadings as a Defendant, issues of
representation that arose from those changes to the pleadings, and recordation
of instruments or execution of agreements relating to priority of liens on the
Property generally and with respect to Rick Edwards more specifically—the Court
accepts that here, Rick Edwards has shown a sufficient basis for withdrawal.
 
b. Notes on Opposition
Arguments
The Court briefly notes that while
the opposition repeatedly raises arguments relating to monies owed to Rick
Edwards as a consideration for granting or denying these motions (see, e.g.,
Oppositions (Opp’ns), p. 8 at § II.C & pp. 9-10 at § IV & pp. 11-14 at
§§ VI-VIII), failure to pay fees is not explicitly raised as the basis for Rick
Edwards’ motions. (See Forms MC-052, Edwards Decls., ¶ 5.)
3. Prejudice
Here, in support of their position
that the Court should deny this motion, the Norlund Defendants argue various
points regarding prejudice. (Opp’ns, pp. 7-14.)
After review, the Court finds that
while some prejudice arises from the below issues, the individual prejudices
and collective prejudice arising from these points do not rise to undue
prejudice for the purposes of denying Rick Edwards’ motions. (Ramirez, supra,
21 Cal.App.4th at p. 915.)
a. Risk of
Self-Representation to Trustee Norlund Defendants
First, the Court determines that
the argument that withdrawal of representation will leave the trustee Norlund
Defendants without representation is insufficiently availing as to prejudice. (See
Opp’ns, pp. 7-8 at §§ I.C.-II.A.)
The court can grant a motion to
withdraw even if granting the motion would result in a violation of the rule
against self-representation. (See Ferruzzo v. Superior Court (1980) 104
Cal.App.3d 501, 504.) In that case, the court should inform the client of its
need to find a substitute attorney, or it will face the possibility of a
dismissal for lack of representation. (See Gamet v. Blanchard (2001) 91
Cal.App.4th 1276, 1284, fn. 5 [court has duty to inform corporate client of
need for representation]; Torres v. Friedman (1985) 169 Cal.App.3d 880,
888 [court should inform guardian ad litem of need to find replacement counsel].)
b. Need
to Determine Self-Representation Issue Prior to Withdrawal
Second, the Court determines that
the argument that the issue of representation for the trustee Norlund
Defendants must be decided prior to withdrawal based on irreparable harm is not
availing as to prejudice specifically or even generally. (See Opp’ns, pp. 8 at
§ II.B.)
The irreparable harm argument is
not more than cursorily addressed in this section (Opp’ns, pp. 8 at § II.B), the
risk that the trustee Defendants may not be able to self-represent is not a
basis for denying this motion (Section III.C.3.a. discussion supra), and the
Court otherwise addresses the remainder of the grounds for the oppositions
below.
c. Risk of
Appeal
Third, the Cout determines that the
risk that the Norlund Defendants may appeal a grant of Rick Edwards’ motions is
unavailing. (See Opp’ns, p. 8 at § I.B.; Mot., p. 11 at § V.)
No authority in the opposition
supports a position that the risk of appeal based on irreparable harm should
foreclose the grant of a motion to relieve counsel. (See Opp’ns, p. 8 at §
I.B.; Mot., p. 11 at § V.)
d. Sums of
Money Owed to Rick Edwards
Fourth, the Court determines that
the fact that a large amount of money is owed by the Norlund Defendants to Rick
Edwards is unavailing. (See Opp’ns, pp. 9-10 at §§ III-IV [$1.6 million owed].)
The cited authorities do not relate
to the amount owed to counsel that seeks to withdraw so much as outstanding
fees as a basis for withdrawal (the quoted portion of Linn) and the
Court’s discretion to grant or deny motions to relieve counsel of
representation (Linn, Comden, Acevez). (Opp’ns, pp. 9-10
at §§ III-IV.) Here, the monies owed to Rick Edwards have been incurred by
counsel and can be disputed as to reasonability, but, as a matter of common
sense, already exist. Whether or not withdrawal occurs does not affect the fact
that Rick Edwards incurred fees in this action.
Some prejudice undoubtedly arises
from the loss of knowledge and contest of counsel. Moreover, prejudice may
arise from potential new counsel realizing that more than $1.5 million dollars
are owed to Rick Edwards by the Norlund Defendants, thus disincentivizing the
prospect of assuming representation of the Norlund Defendants.
However, such considerations do not
directly relate to the fact these monies are already owed and are not raised in
this particular section of the oppositions.
e. Rick
Edwards’ Encumbrance of Norlund Defendants’ Property Prevents Security for
Substitute Counsel
Fifth, the Court determines that
Rick Edwards’ encumbrance of real property belonging to the Norlund Defendants
is not sufficiently availing as to prejudice. (See Opp’ns, p. 8 at § II.C;
Mot., pp. 11-14 at §§ VI-VIII.)
There is undoubtedly prejudice in
having what the Norlund Defendants characterize as “95% to 98/99%” of all their
assets subject to encumbrances. (Opp’n, p. 13 at § VII.) Potential counsel may
refuse a client who has properties encumbered by past counsel.
However, the argument that the
properties here at issue are overly encumbered by Rick Edwards, thus leaving
the Norlund Defendants “virtually nothing to use to hired attorney to defend
the cases, with which a new attorney could fee reasonably sure of payment were
this Court to grant Rick Edwards’” motions, is flawed. (Opp’n, p. 13 at ¶ 46.) The
Norlund Defendants do not refute their ability to pay off a hypothetical fees
judgment in favor of Rick Edwards or their ability to maintain multiple liens
on the properties at issue. Indeed, the Rick Edwards liens would simply be
senior to the more junior liens of hypothetical subsequent counsel. And the
Richard Norlund declaration establishes that the fees owed here are around
“$1,600,000+” (Opp’ns, Norlund Decls., ¶ 82) while the oppositions characterize
the equity in the real property assets owned by the Norlund Defendants as
involving $4,650,000 to $6,250,000, with the figure comprising “more than
95%-98/99% of [the Norlund Defendants’] wealth” (Opp’n, pp. 12-13 at ¶ 46 &
fn. 13.) 
f. Money
Owed to Rick Edward is Properly Secured and Other Monies Are Being Earned by
the Norlund Defendants, Mooting the Need for Withdrawal
Sixth, the Court determines that
the fact that the Norlund Defendants can pay off Rick Edwards fees through the
encumbrances or otherwise is unavailing as to prejudice. (Opp’ns, pp. 11-14 at
§§ VI-VIII.)
This issue is irrelevant to
prejudice here. As discussed above, the motion to be relieved of representation
here is not based on unpaid fees, but rather, involves considerations of
mandatory withdrawal. (See Section III.C.2.a-b. discussions supra.) And as
further discussed above, the Norlund Defendants appear to have sufficient
assets to obtain substitute counsel. (See Section III.C.3.e. discussion supra.)
g. Equity
Seventh, the Court determines that
equity is unavailing as an argument for denying Rick Edwards’ motions. (See Opp’ns,
pp. 10-11 at § V.)
No authority is cited for this
proposition. (See Opp’ns, pp. 10-11 at § V.)
Moreover, this argument is
derivative of the above discussed arguments relating to (1) encumbrances of the
Norlund Defendants properties and the resulting difficulties that will arise in
finding substitute counsel and (2) the need for a hearing on how the trustees
will represent themselves if Rick Edwards’ motions are granted, and thus also
fails on that ground. (See Section III.C.3.a-b. & e. discussion supra.)
Insofar as this section argues that
the Norlund Defendants will suffer prejudice from the need to soon answer
Sandra Norlund’s SAC in this action, which requires counsel with specialized
knowledge of this case (Opp’ns, ¶ 41), the Court notes that it can make orders
to continue certain proceedings to mitigate any prejudice.
h. Final Notes
Undoubtedly, losing counsel at this
stage of the proceedings, and all the specialized knowledge that comes of this
case with counsel, is prejudicial. However, such prejudice arises to varying
degrees whenever counsel seeks to withdraw and is permitted to do so at a
developed stage of the proceedings, such as here.
However, the Court is satisfied
that a sufficient reason for withdrawal exists, and that insufficient undue
prejudice has been presented by the Norlund Defendants.
Moreover, the Court notes that
prejudice arising from responsive pleading deadlines or trial can be mitigated
by continuances to be discussed with the parties. 
Thus, the Court, on the above
grounds, GRANTS Rick Edwards’ motions. 
IV. Conclusion
A. Motion to Be Relieved as
Counsel, Lead Case
Rick Edwards, Esq.’s Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel [Lead Case] is GRANTED.
B. Motion to Be Relieved as
Counsel, Butte Case
Rick Edwards, Esq.’s Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel [Butte Case] is GRANTED.
C. Effective Date
A copy of the signed order must be
served on the Norlund Defendants and on all parties that have appeared in the
case, and the effective date of this order is delayed until proof of service of
a copy of the signed order on the Norlund Defendants and all other parties has
been filed with the Court. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, subd. (e).)