  Case Number:  20STCV15107    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2023    Dept:  20 Tentative Ruling Judge Kevin C. Brazile Department 20  Hearing Date:                         Tuesday, October 24, 2023Case Name:                             Danise Marler v. Los Angeles Unified School DistrictCase No.:                                20STCV15107Motion:                                  Motion for Sanctions  Moving Party:                        Defendants LAUSD and Keller. Responding Party:                  Plaintiff Danise MarlerNotice:                                     OK   Ruling:                                  The Motion for Sanctions is DENIED, without prejudice. Defendants to give notice.  If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic.   _____________________________________________________________________________ BACKGROUND  On April 20, 2020, Plaintiff Danise Marler (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendant Los Angeles Unified School District (“Defendant.”) alleging two causes of action for failure to accommodate disability and failure to engage in interactive dialogue. These claims arise out of Plaintiff’s employment with Los Angeles Unified School District (“LAUSD”) as a special education teacher from 2014 through 2018.On September 28, 2020, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint.On January 13, 2021, Plaintiff filed a Second Amended Complaint against Defendants LAUSD, Michelle Brownridge Keller, and Does 1 through 50, stating causes of action under FEHA for harassment, retaliation, failure to accommodate, failure to engage in the interactive process, and failure to prevent discrimination.On February 5, 2021, Defendants LAUSD and Keller filed a Demurrer to the SAC, which was SUSTAINED, with leave to amend.On June 21, 2021, Plaintiff filed a Third Amended Complaint.On July 23, 2021, Defendants LAUSD and Keller filed an Answer.On August 23, 2023, Defendants LAUSD and Keller filed a Motion for Sanctions.On October 13, 2023, Plaintiff filed an untimely Opposition.On October 17, 2023, Defendants filed a Reply. DISCUSSION Applicable Law              Under California Code of Civil Procedure § 2023.030, the court may impose sanctions on anyone “engaging in conduct that is a misuse of the discovery process.” These include monetary sanctions, issue sanctions, evidentiary sanctions, and terminating sanctions. (CCP § 2023.030 (a-d).)            Additionally, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 2025.410(b) a party may object to a deposition notice. However, under subsection (b), “if an objection is made three calendar days before the deposition date, the objecting party shall make personal service of that objection pursuant to Section 1011 on the party who gave notice of the deposition. Any deposition taken after the service of a written objection shall not be used against the objecting party under Section 2025.620 if the party did not attend the deposition and if the court determines that the objection was a valid one. Procedural Issue            Plaintiff’s opposition was filed late. According to CCP § 1005(b), all opposition papers must be filed with the court and served on the party at least nine court days before the hearing. Here, the hearing is set for October 24, 2023, and thus, nine court days prior is October 11. Here, Plaintiff’s filed their opposition on October 13th.            However, under Rule 3.1300(d), “No paper may be rejected for filing on the ground that it was untimely submitted for filing. If the court, in its discretion, refuses to consider a late filed paper, the minutes or order must so indicate.” Under the Court’s discretion, it will consider the late filed paper. Application to Facts  Defendants move for evidentiary sanctions, striking the deposition testimony that was taken outside the presence of Defendants’ counsel.Plaintiff served deposition notices for Jenny Parada, with a scheduled deposition set for July 10, 2023. Defendants objected on grounds of unavailability. However, despite these objections, Plaintiff proceeded with Ms. Parada’s deposition, without Defendants’ counsel present. (Motion 5: 25 – 6: 2.) The same circumstances occurred as to Mr. Kaloostian: a noticed deposition was objected to, yet the deposition still took place without defense counsel. (Id. at 6: 3-9.)Defendants argue that Plaintiff misused the discovery process pursuant to CC § 2030.010(a), by “persisting, over objection and without substantial justification, in an attempt to obtain information or materials that are outside the scope of permissible discovery.” Additionally, Defendants argue that Plaintiffs failed to meet and confer and continued with the deposition, in violation of CCP § 2030.010(b) and (c). Therefore, under CCP § 2023.030(c), a court may impose evidentiary sanctions “by an order prohibiting any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process from introducing designated matters in evidence.” Defendants seek to have the deposition testimony that was obtained outside the presence of counsel excluded from being used. (Motion 7: 14-20.)Plaintiff, in response, argues that Plaintiff complied with valid discovery rules. Moreover, under CCP § 2025.410(b), a deposition “usability” can be determined by a court if a raised objection was valid. Defendants had the opportunity to file a motion to quash or move for protective order if “they believed the deposition was improper or burdensome.” Plaintiff further argues that Defendants’ motion is procedurally defective as it did not comply with Rule 3.1345(a)(7), as it failed to include a separate statement. (Opp. 1-4.) Additionally, Department 20 requires an Informal Discovery Conference for discovery disputes, and parties are to participate in an IDC prior to filing any discovery motions, aside from a motion to compel initial responses. Lastly, Plaintiff argues that the Defendant’s order “does not specify the provision of information that the defendants already possess, nor does it grant them the right to request such sanctions.” (Opp. 9: 1-2.)The Court finds that Defendants have failed to comply with Rule 3.1345. When a party is seeking issue or evidentiary sanctions, that party must file a separate statement. “Except as provided in (b), any motion involving the content of a discovery request or the response to such a request must be accompanied by a separate statement.” (Rule 3.1345(a).) While Defendants request in their Reply that a separate statement is not necessary, and the Court determined that one should have been filed, Defendants request “this Court grant an exemption to the filing of a Separate Statement pursuant to C.R.C. Rule 3.345(b). However, subsection (b) sates that a separate statement is not required when a response have not been provided to a discovery request or “when a court has allowed the moving party to submit--in place of a separate statement--a concise outline of the discovery request and each response in dispute.” The Court finds that neither of these circumstances have been met; subdivision (a) does not apply, and the Court has not allowed the moving party to submit an outline of the discovery request in lieu of a separate statement. The Court finds Mills v. U.S. Bank instructive. There, plaintiffs filed a separate statement, but it was not code compliant as they grouped responses together. The Court of Appeal found that because plaintiffs failed to comply with former rule 335[1], the trial court was well within its discretion to deny the motion to compel discovery on that basis.” (Mills v. U.S. Bank (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 871, 893.) Here, unlike in Mills where plaintiffs filed a separate statement but failed to comply with the requirements, Defendants failed to file an initial separate statement. Thus, the Court is within its sound discretion to deny the Motion for Sanctions on the basis that Defendants failed to comply with Rule 3.1345.              CONCLUSION  The Motion for Sanctions is DENIED, without prejudice.  Defendants to give notice.  If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic.  