 Case Number:  23STCV06398    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2023    Dept:  20 Tentative Ruling Judge Kevin C. Brazile Department 20  Hearing Date:                         Tuesday, October 24, 2023Case Name:                             Manuel Gomez, Jr. v. MFrost, Inc., et al.Case No.:                                23STCV06398Motion:                                  Special Motion to Strike under CCP § 425.16 (Anti-SLAPP) Moving Party:                         Cross-Defendant Manuel Gomez, Jr. Responding Party:                  Cross-Complainant Michelle Chen FrostNotice:                                     OK   Ruling:                                    The Special Motion to Strike under CCP § 425.16 is GRANTED.  Cross-Defendant to give notice.  If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic.   _____________________________________________________________________________ BACKGROUND  On March 22, 2023, Plaintiff Manuel Gomez, Jr., (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants MFrost, Inc., dba Madeline Garden; Michelle Chen Frost dba Madeline Garden; Ray Frost, dba Madeline Garden, and Does 1-20 (“Defendants”) arising out of wage and hour violations, personal injury and illegal eviction. The complaint alleged 14 causes of action: unpaid overtime, unpaid minimum wages, non-compliant wage statements, wages not timely paid during and upon separation of employment, illegal tip collection, unpaid meal period premiums, unpaid rest period premiums, violation of California Business & Professions Code §§ 17200, et seq., failure to provide employment records in violation of Labor Code §§ 1198.5 & 432.7, wrongful eviction, conversion, uninhabitable conditions, negligence, and premises liability. On May 30, 2023, Cross-Complainant Michelle Frost filed a Cross-Complaint.On September 19, 2023, Cross-Defendant Manuel Gomez, Jr., filed the operative Special Motion to Strike under CCP § 425.16.On October 11, 2023, Cross-Complainant filed an Amended Cross-Complaint, which was REJECTED.On October 17, 2023, Cross-Defendant filed a Reply. DISCUSSION Applicable Law “The anti-SLAPP procedures are designed to shield a defendant’s constitutionally protected conduct from the undue burden of frivolous litigation.”  (Baral v. Schnitt (2016) 1 Cal.5th 376, 393.)  “The anti-SLAPP statute does not insulate defendants from any liability for claims arising from the protected rights of petition or speech.  It only provides a procedure for weeding out, at an early stage, meritless claims arising from protected activity.”  (Id. at p. 384.)  “Resolution of an anti-SLAPP motion involves two steps.  First, the defendant must establish that the challenged claim arises from activity protected by section 425.16.  If the defendant makes the required showing, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to demonstrate the merit of the claim by establishing a probability of success.”  (Baral v. Schnitt, supra, 1 Cal.5th at p. 384 [citation omitted].)  The California Supreme Court has “described this second step as a ‘summary-judgment-like procedure.’  The court does not weigh evidence or resolve conflicting factual claims.  Its inquiry is limited to whether the plaintiff has stated a legally sufficient claim and made a prima facie factual showing sufficient to sustain a favorable judgment.  It accepts the plaintiff’s evidence as true, and evaluates the defendant’s showing only to determine if it defeats the plaintiff’s claim as a matter of law.  ‘[C]laims with the requisite minimal merit may proceed.’”  (Id. at pp. 384-385 [citations omitted].)  Application to Facts Cross-Defendant argues that the Cross-Complaint is subject to the anti-SLAPP statute. As stated above, there are two prongs to determine if an anti-SLAPP motion should prevail. First Prong: Arising from Protected ActivityCross-Defendant argues that the first prong is satisfied. The only cause of action in the Cross-Complaint is for defamation. The allegations raised in the Cross-Complaint are related to Plaintiff’s initial lawsuit for labor violations. Cross-Complainant contends that the Michelle Frost “tried to help Plaintiff in rehabilitating his life back into society, and instead of thanking her, Plaintiff filed a lawsuit to enforce his rights to be paid appropriately under the California Labor Code and other various related claims.” (Motion 10: 4-8.)Cross-Complainant Frost did not file an opposition, but rather filed an Amended Cross-Complaint. However, this was REJECTED, as leave of court is required. The Amended Cross-Complaint does not include the defamation cause of action, but raises five new causes of action for conversion, private nuisance, trespass, assault, and intentional infliction of emotional distress.The first prong of the anti-SLAPP analysis requires the defendant to make “a threshold showing that the challenged cause of action is one arising from protected activity.”  (Equilon Enterprises v. Consumer Cause, Inc. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 53, 67 (Equilon); § 425.16, subd. (b)(1).)  “[T]he statutory phrase ‘cause of action . . .  arising from’ means simply that the defendant’s act underlying the plaintiff’s cause of action must itself have been an act in furtherance of the right of petition or free speech.  [Citation.]  In the anti-SLAPP context, the critical point is whether the plaintiff’s cause of action itself was based on an act in furtherance of the defendant’s right of petition or free speech.”  (City of Cotati v. Cashman (2002) 29 Cal.4th 69, 78 (City of Cotati).) As such, a trial court must examine the elements of a claim and determine what actions supply those elements and consequently form the basis for the defendant’s alleged liability.  (Park, supra, 2 Cal.5th at p. 1063.) Allegations of protected activity that are “ ‘merely incidental’ or ‘collateral’ ” or that “merely provide context, without supporting a claim for recovery, cannot be stricken under the anti-SLAPP statute.”  (Baral v. Schnitt (2016) 1 Cal.5th 376, 394 (Baral).)  “In deciding whether the ‘arising from’ requirement is met, a court considers ‘the pleadings, and supporting and opposing affidavits stating the facts upon which the liability or defense is based.’ ”  (City of Cotati, at p. 79, quoting § 425.16, subd. (b).)California Code of Civil Procedure § 425.16(e) states, “act in furtherance of a person's right of petition or free speech under the United States or California Constitution in connection with a public issue” includes: (1) any written or oral statement or writing made before a legislative, executive, or judicial proceeding, or any other official proceeding authorized by law…”The Court finds that the Cross-Complaint filed by Cross-Complainant Frost falls within the four categories of the anti-SLAPP statute. As the Court of Appeal stated in Cordoba Corp., “activity protected by section 425.16 includes “any written or oral statement or writing made before a legislative, executive, or judicial proceeding.” (§ 425.16, subd. (e)(1).) This right of petition encompasses the act of filing a lawsuit.” (Cordoba Corp. v. City of Industry (2023) 87 Cal.App.5th 145, 151.)The Cross-Complaint specifically states that the allegations in the original complaint are baseless “and intended to damage my reputation as well as the reputations of It’s All Family.org and Madeline Garden.” (Cross-Complaint 3: 1-3.) The Cross-Complaint further states that the “plaintiff’s action are an attempt to harm my reputation,” and that the evidence “presented in this cross-complaint counters the plaintiff’s allegations and highlights the true nature of our relationship…” (Cross-Complaint 3: 20-22.)Thus, Cross-Defendant has met its initial burden, and the first prong of the Anti-SLAPP statute has been satisfied. Thus, the burden shifts to Cross-Complainant.2.     Second Prong: “Probability of prevailing on the claims”When Defendants carry their initial burden to make a prima facie showing that the claims are subject to CCP § 425.16, the burden shifts to Plaintiff to establish a probability that it will prevail at trial on that claim by making a prima facie showing on that claim.  (Roberts v. Los Angeles County Bar Assoc. (2003) 105 Cal.App.4th 604, 613.)  “Put another way, the plaintiffs ‘must demonstrate that the complaint is both legally sufficient and supported by a sufficient prima facie showing of facts to sustain a favorable judgment if the evidence submitted by the plaintiff is credited.’ [Citations.]”  (Feldman v. 1100 Park Lane Associates (2008) 160 Cal.App.4th 1467, 1477-78).  “Thus, plaintiffs' burden as to the second prong of the anti-SLAPP test is akin to that of a party opposing a motion for summary judgment.”  (Id.)  While the Court does not weigh the evidence, “the trial court must consider facts so as to make a determination whether [Cross-Complainants] can establish a prima facie probability of prevailing on [their] claims.”  (Blanchard v. DIRECTV, Inc. (2004) 123 Cal.App.4th 903, 921.) Cross-Complainant has failed to file an opposition to present any evidence that they had a probability of prevailing on the claims. Moreover, Cross-Complainant filed an Amended Cross-Complaint, which struck the defamation cause of action, and raised five new causes of action.[1] However, as Defendant argues in his reply, and the Court of Appeal in Contreras stated, ‘‘A plaintiff ... may not seek to subvert or avoid a ruling on an anti-SLAPP motion by amending the challenged complaint ... in response to the motion.’” (Contreras v. Dowling (2016) 5 Cal.App.5th 394, 411.) Therefore, Plaintiff has failed to their burden of establishing that there was a probability of prevailing on the merits. Plaintiff not only failed to provide any evidence, but struck the defamation cause of action; therefore, the Court finds this act dispositive that the cause of action was improper.Thus, Cross-Complainant has failed to establish its burden as to the second prong.              Therefore, the first prong has been met by Cross-Defendants, establishing that the basis for the suit is a protected activity, i.e., the cross-complaint was based on the initial filing of a lawsuit, and the second prong has not been met, as Cross-Complaint failed to provide any evidence that the matter would prevail on the merits. Fee Request:Cross-Defendant also requests to recover fees and costs, to be determined in a later noticed motion. The Court finds that the fee request is proper and will be determined in a later filed fee motion. As the Court in Sandlin stated, “because a defendant who has been sued in violation of his or her free speech rights is entitled to an award of attorney fees, the trial court must, upon defendant's motion for a fee award, rule on the merits of the SLAPP motion even if the matter has been dismissed prior to the hearing on that motion.” (Sandlin v. McLaughlin (2020) 50 Cal.App.5th 805, 821.)CONCLUSION  The Special Motion to Strike under CCP § 425.16 is GRANTED.Cross-Defendant to give notice. If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear byLACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic.  