 Case Number:  BC623542    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2023    Dept:  20
Tentative Ruling
Judge Kevin C. Brazile

Department 20

Hearing Date:                        Tuesday, October 24,
2023
Case Name:                           Running et al v.
Covina Irrigating Company et al
Case No.:                      BC623542
Motion:                        Motion for Judgment
Notwithstanding the Verdict
Moving Party:                         Defendant Covina
Irrigating Company
Responding Party:                 Plaintiff Praxedes E. Running,
Praxedes E. Running Trust
Notice:                                   OK

 

 
Ruling:                                    The Motion
for Judgment Notwithstanding the Verdict is DENIED.
 
Moving Party to
give notice.
 
If counsel do not
submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by
LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic.

 

 
BACKGROUND
         On March 20, 2017, Plaintiffs Praxedes
E. Running and the Praxedes E. Running Trust filed the operative Third Amended
Complaint against Covina Irrigating Company (“CICO”), City of Azusa (“City”),
Azusa Valley Water Company (“AVWC”), San Gabriel River Water Committee (“SGRWC”),
George Morrow, Fran Delach, Chet Anderson, William McIntyre, Andrew McIntyre,
and Canyon Water Company arising
         On September 13, 2023, CICO filed the
instant motion for judgment notwithstanding the verdict. On September 25, 2023,
Plaintiffs opposed. On October 17, 2023, CICO replied.
DISCUSSION
Applicable
Law
         The party against whom a verdict has
been rendered may move the court for judgment notwithstanding the verdict, and
the court shall grant the motion “whenever a motion for directed verdict for
the aggrieved party should have been granted had a previous motion been made.” (Code
Civ. Proc. 629(a).) The purpose of such a motion is to challenge whether the
opposing party's evidence was sufficient to prove the claims or defenses
asserted and embodied by the jury's verdict. (Hauter v. Zogarts (1975)
14 Cal.3d 104, 110.)
In ruling on a motion for judgment
notwithstanding the verdict, the court does not weigh the evidence or determine
the credibility of witnesses. (Hauter, supra, 14 Cal.3d at p.
110.) In other words, the party in whose favor the verdict was rendered is “entitled
to the benefit of every favorable inference which may reasonably be drawn from
the evidence and to have all conflicts in the evidence resolved in his favor.”
(Castro v. State of California (1981) 114 Cal.App.3d 503, 507.) “A
motion for judgment notwithstanding the verdict may be granted only if it
appears from the evidence, viewed in the light most favorable to the party
securing the verdict, that there is no substantial evidence in support.” (Sweatman
v. Department of Veterans Affairs (2001) 25 Cal.4th
62,
68.)
Application
to Facts 
         CICO’s argument that Plaintiffs’ entire
cause of action for negligence against CICO should have been barred by the
applicable three-year statute of limitations is without merit. The Court
already granted a directed verdict limiting the jury’s deliberations for the
three-year statute of limitations for Plaintiffs’ negligence claims to a period
within the statute of limitations. The Court ruled that negligence claims and
any other related claims or damages that accrued, occurred, or were caused
before June 13, 2013, were barred. Further, the Court discussed that triable
issue of fact exists as to when the statute of limitations began to run on
Plaintiff’s causes of action when ruling on Defendants’ motion for summary
judgment. The Court found as follows:
With regard to the argument
concerning Steve Running, Plaintiff disputes that any alleged knowledge on the
part of Steve Running regarding the status of water in the canal can be imputed
to Plaintiff. Although it is undisputed that on September 27, 2010, Steve
Running signed a letter petition to CICO acknowledging that water was no longer
flowing through the canal, Steve Running testified at deposition that he did
not read what he signed. (Joint Revised Separate Statement of Undisputed
Material Facts in Support of Motion for Summary Judgment or, in the
Alternative, Summary Adjudication of Third Amended Complaint, and Plaintiff’s
Responses (“MF”) 9, 10.) This raises a triable issue of fact as to whether
Steve Running did, in fact, have knowledge that water was no longer flowing
through the canal. There is also no evidence that Steve Running otherwise had
knowledge that water was no longer flowing through the canal in 2010. Moreover,
Plaintiff submits evidence that Plaintiff’s daughter, Patricia Beecham, who held
a General Power of Attorney to act for Plaintiff, did not know that the canal
was dry until she received a nuisance notice in October 2015. (Beecham Decl., ¶
14; MF 11.) Lastly, the Court finds that a triable issue of fact exists as to
whether the visibility of the canal from the house would have placed Plaintiff
(through her children) on notice that the canal was out of service, as
Plaintiff’s daughters testified to various reasons why the canal would have
been dry other than the canal being taken out of service. (Beecham Decl., ¶ 2;
Bowers Decl., ¶ 2.) Accordingly, the Court finds that a triable issue of fact
exists as to when the statute of limitations began to run on Plaintiff’s causes
of action, and summary judgment is denied on that basis.  
 
(Nov.
30, 2018, Amended Order MSJ.)
         With respect to the damages for
Plaintiffs’ negligence claims against CICO, sufficient evidence was presented
for the jury to find in favor of Plaintiffs and award damages in the amount of
$81,000.00. The Court finds that the jury properly relied on testimony and
exhibits that supported that Plaintiffs cleaned and cleared the canal, a job
that CICO routinely previously did. (Opp. p. 6-12.) Plaintiffs submitted
evidence of receipts for costs and expenses which they incurred in doing the
cleanup work. CICO points out that Plaintiffs fail to identify any trial
transcript evidencing any testimony actually given at the trial. However, CICO
fails to explain why that particular evidence is necessary to support the
verdict. Indeed, the Court sees no basis upon which to disturb the jury’s
findings. It appears CICO merely wishes the Court to view the evidence in the
light most favorable to it, which is not the standard for the instant Motion.
For these reasons, the motion for judgment
notwithstanding the verdict is DENIED.
Request for Judicial Notice
         The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s requests
for judicial notice in full.
Request to Strike
The
Court declines to rule on Plaintiffs’ request to strike as it is procedurally
improper. Government Code section 70617 (a) states: “Except as provided in
subdivisions (d) and (e), the uniform fee for filing a motion, application, or
any other paper requiring a hearing subsequent to the first paper, is forty
dollars ($40).  Papers for which this fee
shall be charged include the following: (1) A motion listed in paragraphs (1)
to (12), inclusive, of subdivision (a) of Section 1005 of the Code of Civil
Procedure.”  Government Code section
70617 (f) states: “Regardless of whether each motion or matter is heard at a
single hearing or at separate hearings, the filing fees required by
subdivisions (a), (c), (d), and (e) apply separately to each motion or other
paper filed. The Judicial Council may publish rules to give uniform guidance to
courts in applying fees under this section.” Plaintiff has essentially filed
two motions but only one filing fee. 
CONCLUSION
         The Motion for Judgment Notwithstanding
the Verdict is DENIED.
         Moving party to give notice.
         If counsel do not submit on the
tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than
in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
