


[1] Although the Court separately addresses Plaintiff’s
motion for leave, the Court notes that the parties have conflated the demurrer
arguments with the motion for leave arguments in the briefing on the two
motions.  Thus, the Court addresses these
arguments here.
 


[2] The hearing concerned Defendant’s motion for judgment
on the pleadings, not a demurrer.


[3] The Court denies leave to amend in connection with
this order, but separately addresses Plaintiff’s motion for leave to amend in
the concurrent tentative ruling.  

TENTATIVE RULING NO. 2
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


April 17, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV03707




MOTION


Motion for Leave to Amend Complaint




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiff Joseph Robert Giannini




OPPOSING PARTY


Defendant Gold’s Gym California, LLC



 
BACKGROUND
 
            This case arises over a dispute concerning
an increase in membership fees Defendant Gold’s Gym California, LLC
(“Defendant”) began charging Plaintiff Joseph Robert Giannini (“Plaintiff”) to
access the Gold’s Gym in Venice, California. 

 
            On August 10, 2023, Plaintiff filed
the original complaint in this action. 
Four days later, on August 14, 2023, Plaintiff voluntarily filed the
first amended complaint, alleging three causes of action for (1) breach of
Business & Professions Code section 17200; (2) breach of the Unruh Act; and
(3) bad faith denial of the existence of a contract against Defendant and
against Gold’s Gym Club Holding, LLC.  At
Plaintiff’s request, the Court dismissed Gold’s Gym Club Holding, LLC on
November 9, 2023.
 
            On December 14, 2023, the Court
granted Defendant’s motion for judgment on the pleadings as to the first and
third causes of action, and granted Plaintiff leave to amend the first cause of
action only on or before January 11, 2024. 
(See Minute Order, December 14, 2023.)
 
            On January 16, 2024, Plaintiff filed
a Second Amended Complaint, alleging seven causes of action for (1) breach of
contractual covenant of good faith and fair dealing; (2) breach of Business
& Professions Code section 17200; (3) breach of the Unruh Act; (4) breach
of Civil Code section 3345; (5) breach of Corporate Code section 1507; (6) bad
faith denial of insurance contract benefits; and (7) request for declaration
that the Defendants are a single enterprise “Gold’s Gym.”  The Second Amended Complaint also adds
Defendants RSG Group USA, Inc.; Gold’s Gym Club California, LLC; Sebastian
Schoepe; Jeff Suender; and Tivity Health Inc. (dba Silver Sneakers).  The first five causes of action are alleged
against all defendants except Silver Sneakers, the sixth cause of action is
alleged against Silver Sneakers only, and the seventh cause of action appears
to request declaratory relief and does not indicate against whom it is alleged.
 
            Defendant Gold’s Gym California, LLC
(“Defendant”) demurred to all new causes of action on the basis that they
exceed the scope of the Court’s December 14, 2023 ruling.
 
            After Defendant filed the demurrer,
Plaintiff filed the instant motion for leave to deem the second amended
complaint filed.[1]
 
            Defendant opposes the motion and
Plaintiff replies.[2]
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Amendments
to Pleadings: General Provisions
 
            Under Code of Civil Procedure
section 473, subdivision (a)(1), “The court may, in furtherance of justice, and
on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or
proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a
mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may,
upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or demurrer. The court may
likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any
terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other
particulars; and may upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time
limited by this code.”
 
            To wit, without notice to the other
party the Court has wide discretion to allow either party (i) to add or strike
the name of a party or (ii) to correct a mistake in the name of a party or a
mistake in any other respect “in furtherance of justice” and “on any terms as
may be proper.” (See Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a)(1); see also Marriage
of Liss (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1426, 1429.) Alternatively, after notice to
the other party, the Court has wide discretion to allow either party to amend
pleadings “upon any terms as may be just.” (See Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd.
(a)(1). Similarly, Code of Civil Procedure section 576 states “Any judge, at
any time before or after commencement of trial, in the furtherance of justice,
and upon such terms as may be proper, may allow the amendment of any pleading
or pretrial conference order.”
 
            Judicial policy favors resolution of
all disputed matters between the parties and, therefore, leave to amend is
liberally granted. (Berman vs. Bromberg (1986) 56 Cal.App.4th 936, 945; Hirsa
v. Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486, 488-489 [this has been an
established policy in California since 1901] (citing Frost v. Whitter
(1901) 132 Cal. 421, 424; Thomas v. Bruza (1957) 151 Cal.App.2d 150,
155).) The Court of Appeal in Morgan v. Superior Court held “If the
motion to amend is timely made and the granting of the motion will not
prejudice the opposing party, it is error to refuse permission to amend and
where the refusal also results in a party being deprived of the right to assert
a meritorious cause of action or a meritorious defense, it is not only error
but an abuse of discretion.” (Morgan v. Superior Court (1959) 172
Cal.App.2d 527, 530, citations omitted.) Moreover, “it is an abuse of
discretion for the court to deny leave to amend where the opposing party was
not misled or prejudiced by the amendment.” (Kittredge Sports Co. v.
Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048 [opposing party did not
establish harm by the delay in moving to amend the complaint].)
 
            “The court may grant leave to amend
the pleadings at any stage of the action.” (Weil & Brown, Cal. Practice
Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2023) ¶ 6:636 (hereafter
Weil & Brown).) Denial of a motion to amend is rarely justified if the
motion is timely made and granting the motion will not prejudice the opposing
party. (Id. at ¶ 6:639, citations omitted.) However, if the party
seeking the amendment has been dilatory, and the delay has prejudiced the
opposing party, the judge has discretion to deny leave to amend. (Id. at
¶ 6:655, citations omitted. Absent prejudice, any claimed delay alone is not
grounds for denial. “If the delay in seeking the amendment has not misled or
prejudiced the other side, the liberal policy of allowing amendments prevails.
Indeed, it is an abuse of discretion to deny leave in such a case even if
sought as late as the time of trial. (Id. at ¶ 6:653 (citing Higgins
v. Del Faro (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 558, 564-565).) “Prejudice exists where
the amendment would result in a delay of trial, along with loss of critical
evidence, added costs of preparation, increased burden of discovery, etc. . . .
But the fact that the amendment involves a change in legal theory which would
make admissible evidence damaging to the opposing party is not the kind of
prejudice the court will consider.” (Weil & Brown, supra, at
¶ 6:656, citations omitted.)
 
            “Even if some prejudice is shown,
the judge may still permit the amendment but impose conditions, as the Court is
authorized to grant leave ‘on such terms as may be proper.’” (Weil &
Brown, supra, at ¶ 6:663, citation omitted.) For example, the court
may cause the party seeking the amendment to pay the costs and fees incurred in
preparing for trial. (Id. at ¶ 6:664 (citing Fuller v. Vista Del
Arroyo Hotel, 42 Cal.App.2d 400, 404).)
 
California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1324: Procedural Requirements
 
            Pursuant to California Rules of
Court, rule 3.1324(a), a motion to amend a pleading before trial must:
 
“(1) Include a copy of the proposed amendment or
amended pleadings, which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from
previous pleadings or amendments;
(2) state what allegations in the previous
pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and
line number, the deleted allegations are located; and
(3) State what allegations are proposed to be
added to the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line
number, the additional allegations are located.”
 
            In addition, under Rule 3.1324(b), a
motion to amend a pleading before trial must be accompanied by a separate
declaration that specifies the following:
 
“(1) the effect of the amendment;
(2) why the amendment is necessary and proper;
(3) when the facts giving rise to the amended
allegations were discovered; and
(4) the reasons why the request for amendment was
not made earlier.”
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Because Plaintiff essentially filed
the motion for leave to amend in opposition to Defendant’s demurrer to the
Second Amended Complaint, the parties have largely reiterated their demurrer
arguments in connection with the motion for leave, instead of addressing whether
leave to amend is or is not proper.  Courts
will generally not consider the merits of the proposed amendment in determining
whether to grant leave to amend.  (See
Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court, supra, 213 Cal.App.3d at p.
1048; see also Weil & Brown, supra, at ¶ 6:656, citations omitted  [“But the fact that the amendment involves a
change in legal theory which would make admissible evidence damaging to the
opposing party is not the kind of prejudice the court will consider”].)
 
            Notwithstanding the state of the
parties’ briefing, the Court analyzes whether Plaintiff has satisfied the
procedural and substantive requirements for requesting leave to amend.
 
Although Plaintiff has filed a copy of the second amended complaint,
Plaintiff does not state what allegations are proposed to be deleted from or
added to the previous pleading “by page, paragraph, and line number.”[3]            
 
            Moreover, the accompanying
declaration does not state the effect of the amendment, state why all proposed
amendments are necessary and proper, or explain when all the facts giving rise
to the amended allegations were discovered or why the request for amendment was
not made earlier.
 
            Paragraphs 1 and 2 of the
declaration indicate:
 
1.     I
have recently obtained new evidence and confirmed the newly named defendant RSG
GROUP USA Inc. has not filed an appearance in this lawsuit, it is and
unlawfully transacting intrastate and interstate business in California, and it
is the employer of newly named defendant JEFF SUENDER, and all the employees at
the Venice gym. It is thus categorically barred from defending itself in this
action because it does not have a certificate of good standing issued by the
Secretary of State.
 
2.     Enclosed
is a redacted copy of a Gold’s Gym employee at the Venice facility. This
redacted W2 copy is necessary to maintain the confidentiality of the Venice
facility employee. These individual fears retaliation if his or her name is
disclosed.
 
(Giannini
Decl. ¶¶ 1-2.)  But Plaintiff does not
indicate when (other than “recently”) Defendant obtained the unnamed employee’s
W2, indicating that RSG Group USA Inc. is the employer of the employees at the
Venice gym.  
 
            Paragraph 3 of the declaration
indicates:
 
3. Defense counsel Mr. Alesio filed in this
proceeding excerpts of the Chapter 11 Order. I became suspicious that he only
filed excerpts. Then, defense counsel Ms. Shiff stated at hearing something
about the Chapter 11 filing which I immediately knew was absurd based on prior experience,
not unlike Donald Trump saying people might be able to ingest some form of
bleach to combat COVID19. Beginning on or about December 29, 2023 I downloaded
official PACER documents from the Chapter 11. I spent about 40 hours reviewing
them. I thus learned what I had not known previously.   
 
(Giannini
Decl. ¶ 3.)  But Plaintiff does not
specify what new information he discovered upon reviewing the PACER documents
from the Chapter 11 case in late December 2023, or how this new information supports
the proposed amendments.  
 
            Plaintiff has also not provided any
information about new facts discovered that support adding defendants Gold’s
Gym Club California, LLC; Sebastian Schoepe; or Tivity Health Inc. (dba Silver
Sneakers).
 
            And although the body of the motion
indicates that Plaintiff’s prior counsel inadvertently omitted certain causes
of action, which Plaintiff seeks to correct by adding them now, this
information does not appear in Plaintiff’s supporting declaration.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
            Therefore, the Court denies without
prejudice, Plaintiff’s motion for failure to comply with the procedural
requirements of Rule 3.1324(b).  Because
the denial is made on procedural grounds and without prejudice, Plaintiff may
file a motion (or the parties may stipulate) for leave to file a Second Amended
Complaint.  (See footnote 1.)  Any such motion must either include a redline
or otherwise state all changes made between the First Amended Complaint and the
proposed Second Amended Complaint “by page, paragraph, and line number,” and the
proposed changes must supported by a separate declaration, as required by Rule
3.1324.  
 
            The Court orders Plaintiff to provide
notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof of service of such.
 
 
 
 
DATED:  April 17, 2024                                ___________________________
                                                            Michael E. Whitaker
                                                            Judge of the Superior Court
 


