 Case Number:  23SMCV03707    Hearing Date:   April 17, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING - NO. 1
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


April 17, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV03707




MOTIONS


Demurrer to Second Amended Complaint




MOVING PARTY


Defendant Gold’s Gym California, LLC




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Joseph Robert Giannini



 
BACKGROUND
 
            This case arises over a dispute concerning
an increase in membership fees Defendant Gold’s Gym California, LLC
(“Defendant”) began charging Plaintiff Joseph Robert Giannini (“Plaintiff”) to
access the Gold’s Gym in Venice, California. 

 
            On August 10, 2023, Plaintiff filed
the original complaint in this action. 
Four days later, on August 14, 2023, Plaintiff voluntarily filed the
first amended complaint, alleging three causes of action for (1) breach of
Business & Professions Code section 17200; (2) breach of the Unruh Act; and
(3) bad faith denial of the existence of a contract against Defendant and
against Gold’s Gym Club Holding, LLC.  At
Plaintiff’s request, the Court dismissed Gold’s Gym Club Holding, LLC on
November 9, 2023.
 
            On December 14, 2023, the Court
granted Defendant’s motion for judgment on the pleadings as to the first and
third causes of action, and granted Plaintiff leave to amend the first cause of
action only on or before January 11, 2024. 
(See Minute Order, December 14, 2023.)
 
            On January 16, 2024, Plaintiff filed
a Second Amended Complaint, alleging seven causes of action for (1) breach of
contractual covenant of good faith and fair dealing; (2) breach of Business
& Professions Code section 17200; (3) breach of the Unruh Act; (4) breach
of Civil Code section 3345; (5) breach of Corporate Code section 1507; (6) bad
faith denial of insurance contract benefits; and (7) request for declaration
that the Defendants are a single enterprise “Gold’s Gym.”  The Second Amended Complaint also adds
Defendants RSG Group USA, Inc.; Gold’s Gym Club California, LLC; Sebastian
Schoepe; Jeff Suender; and Tivity Health Inc. (dba Silver Sneakers).  The first five causes of action are alleged
against all defendants except Silver Sneakers, the sixth cause of action is
alleged against Silver Sneakers only, and the seventh cause of action appears
to request declaratory relief and does not indicate against whom it is alleged.
 
            Original defendant Gold’s Gym
California, LLC (“Defendant”) now demurs to all causes of action except the
sixth (which is alleged only as to Silver Sneakers) on the grounds that they
fail to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action, pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (e).  Plaintiff opposes the demurrer and Defendant
replies.
 
            After Defendant filed the demurrer,
Plaintiff also moved for leave to deem the second amended complaint filed.  The Court has issued a separate tentative
ruling regarding Plaintiff’s concurrent motion for leave.  
 
MEET
AND CONFER REQUIREMENT
 
            Code of Civil Procedure section
430.41, subdivision (a) requires that “Before filing a demurrer pursuant to
this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by
telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for
the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would
resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.”  
 
The statute further requires “As part of the meet and confer process,
the demurring party shall identify all of the specific causes of action that it
believes are subject to demurrer and identify with legal support the basis of
the deficiencies.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41, subd. (a)(1).)  “The party who
filed the complaint, cross-complaint, or answer shall provide legal support for
its position that the pleading is legally sufficient or, in the alternative,
how the complaint, cross-complaint, or answer could be amended to cure any
legal insufficiency.”  (Ibid.)
 
“The parties shall meet and confer at least five days before the date
the responsive pleading is due.  (Code
Civ. Proc. § 430.41, subd. (a)(2).)  “The
demurring party shall file and serve with the demurrer a declaration stating
either” the means by which the parties met and conferred, or that the party who
filed the pleading subject to demurrer failed to respond to the meet and confer
request.  (Id., subd.
(a)(3).)  
 
Here, Plaintiff contends:
 
On February 1, 2024, Defense counsel sent
Plaintiff a six page meet and confer letter explaining "our intent is to
identify the specific causes of action that we believe are subject to demurrer
and/or motion to strike and direct you to the legal support for our
position." The next day Plaintiff sent an email acknowledging receipt and
requesting ten days to research counsel's claims.
 
A meet and confer conference was scheduled for
Monday February 12, 2024 at 11:00 a.m. Plaintiff’s cell phone did not ring.
Plaintiff called defense counsel around noon. A conference was held where both
defense counsel attended. Plaintiff agreed with defense counsels’ contention.
Plaintiff countered that in Patrick v. Alacer Corp. (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 995,
1015 [84 Cal.Rptr.3d 642] [acknowledging rule but finding it inapplicable where
new cause of action "directly responds" to trial court's reason for
sustaining the demurrer was applicable. Plaintiff further argued leave to amend
is liberally granted, he had directly asked the Court as the hearing for leave
to amend the Complaint, and that he would file a Motion for Leave to file the
Second Amended Complaint, and requested Defendant’s cooperation so that motions
could be filed and held concurrently.
 
(Opposition
at pp. 1:25-2:10.)
 
            However, the declaration filed in
connection with Defendant’s demurrer indicates:
 
3. On January 27, 2024, January 31, 2024 and
February 1, 2024, my colleague Wendy Shiff emailed Plaintiff requesting a date
upon which to telephonically meet and confer with respect to the proposed
demurrer. On February 1, 2024, to initiate the meet and confer process, Ms.
Shiff emailed Plaintiff a detailed, six-page letter outlining the defects of
the specific causes of actions contained in the Second Amended Complaint and
the legal authority supporting Defendant’s arguments regarding this demurrer. A
true and correct copy of Ms. Shiff’s February 1, 2024 letter is attached hereto
as Exhibit A. 
 
4. On February 2, 2024, Plaintiff finally agreed
to meet and confer by telephone, stating he required ten (10) days to consider
Ms. Shiff’s February 1, 2024 letter. Ms. Shiff and I agreed, therefore, to meet
and confer with Plaintiff by telephone at 11:00 a.m. on February 12, 2024. 
 
5. At 10:05 a.m. Monday, February 12, 2024,
Plaintiff emailed Ms. Shiff and me acknowledging the 11:00 a.m. meet and confer
telephone conference scheduled for that day. At 10:07 a.m. Ms. Shiff replied to
Plaintiff by email that we would call him at 11:00 a.m., which we did. At 11:00
a.m., however, Plaintiff did not answer his phone. Not knowing when or whether Plaintiff
would in fact meet and confer, we filed a declaration to obtain the automatic
30-day extension of time within which to meet and confer prior to filing a
demurrer provided by California Code of Civil Procedure § 430.41(a)(2). 
 
6. Later on Monday February 12, 2024, Plaintiff
telephoned Ms. Shiff, stating he had missed the telephone call because his
phone had been turned off. Ms. Shiff conferenced me in and Plaintiff, Ms. Shiff
and I then fully met and conferred about the issues raised in the February 1,
2024 letter. 
 
7. During the meet and confer telephone call,
Plaintiff told Ms. Shiff and me that he understood the arguments raised in the
February 1, 2023 letter but disagreed with our position. Plaintiff’s position
was that he had authority to amend all three original causes of action and to
add four new causes of action and four new defendants because he had requested
leave to amend during the hearing on the motion for judgment on the pleadings.
Plaintiff also said he believed his new causes of action were related to the
original causes of action and, therefore, the Court would definitely have
granted him leave, if he had in fact moved for leave, which he acknowledged he
had not. 
 
8. Plaintiff disagreed that any of his causes of
action were not valid causes of action, but offered to dismiss purported newly
named defendants Sebastian Schoepe and Tivity Health, Inc. if Defendant would
forego a demurrer. Plaintiff sent a follow up email to this effect and Ms.
Shiff replied that same day explaining the reasons Defendant could not agree to
the proposal. A true and correct copy of this email exchange between Plaintiff
and Ms. Shiff is attached hereto as Exhibit B. 
 
(Alexis
Decl. ¶¶ 3-8.) 
 
Therefore, the evidence demonstrates the reason Plaintiff’s “phone did
not ring” at 11 a.m. on February 12, 2024 (Opp. at p. 2:2), was because “his
phone had been turned off.”  (Alexis
Decl. ¶ 6.)  
 
Moreover, the declaration indicates the parties discussed the merits
of Defendant’s proposed demurrer at length during a telephone conversation Plaintiff
initiated around noon on February 12, which was preceded by a “detailed,
six-page letter” outlining Defendant’s position.  The demurrer was filed more than five days
later, on February 26.
 
Thus, the Court finds that the parties have satisfied the meet and
confer requirement.
 
NOTICE OF HEARING & TIMELINESS OF OPPOSITION
 
            Code
of Civil Procedure section 1005, subdivision (b) provides, “all moving and
supporting papers shall be served and filed at least 16 court days before the
hearing” but if such service is made electronically, that 16-day notice period
“shall be increased by two calendar days.” 
“All papers opposing a motion […] shall be filed with the court and a
copy served on each party at least nine court days, and all reply papers at
least five court days before the hearing.” 
The court has discretion whether to consider late-filed papers.  (California Rules of Court, rule 3.1300(d).)   
 
Plaintiff argues, “counsel
filed its demurrer without providing advance notice for a hearing set for
hearing on March 20, 2024.”  (Opp. at p.
2:10-12.)
 
Defendant’s proof of service
indicates the notice of hearing on demurrer and related papers were
electronically served on both Plaintiff’s former counsel of record and on
Plaintiff on February 23, 2024, with the hearing originally noticed for March
20, 2024.  Sixteen court days after
February 23 is March 18, plus two calendar days to account for electronic
service is March 20, 2024.  Therefore,
the Court finds Defendant’s notice timely.
 
On March 12, 2024, Defendant
filed a notice non-opposition, indicating that Plaintiff’s opposition deadline
was March 7, and Defendant had not yet received Plaintiff’s opposition.  The next morning, Plaintiff filed his
opposition to Defendant’s demurrer.
 
The Court continued the
hearing to April 17, 2024, and Defendant filed its reply on March 25.
 
In light of the confusion that
may have arisen regarding the multiple pending motions and continuances, and the
fact that the parties have now had ample time to file their responsive
briefings by virtue of the continuance, the Court finds there has been no
prejudice and exercises its discretion to consider all filed briefs.  
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.     DEMURRER
 
“It is black letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of
the allegations in a complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015)
235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In testing the sufficiency of a cause of
action, a court accepts “[a]s true all material facts properly pled and matters
which may be judicially noticed but disregard contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.  [A court
also gives] the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole
and its parts in their context.”  (290
Division (EAT), LLC v. City & County of San Francisco (2022) 86
Cal.App.5th 439, 450 [cleaned up]; Hacker v. Homeward Residential, Inc.
(2018) 26 Cal.App.5th 270, 280 [“in considering the merits of a demurrer,
however, “the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however
improbable they may be”].)
 
Further, in ruling on a demurrer, a court must “liberally construe”
the allegations of the complaint “with a view to substantial justice between
the parties.”  (See Code Civ. Proc., §
452.)  “This rule of liberal construction
means that the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not
the defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)   
 
In summary, “[d]etermining whether the complaint is sufficient as
against the demurrer on the ground that it does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action, the rule is that if one consideration of all the
facts stated it appears the plaintiff is entitled to any relief at the hands of
the court against the defendants the complaint will be held good although the
facts may not be clearly stated, or may be intermingled with a statement of
other facts irrelevant to the cause of action shown, or although the plaintiff
may demand relief to which he is not entitled under the facts alleged.”  (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193
Cal.App.2d 636, 639.)
 
A.   
Scope of
Leave
 
 
In addition to raising specific arguments as to each cause of action, Defendant
demurs to all causes of action on the basis that the Second Amended Complaint
exceeds the scope of leave granted by virtue of the Court’s December 14, 2023 ruling
on Defendant’s Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings.  
 
The Court agrees that the Second Amended Complaint was not drawn or
filed in conformity with the Court’s December 14 ruling in several respects.
 
First, the Order indicated, “Plaintiff shall file and serve a second
amended complaint in conformity with the Court’s ruling on or before January
11, 2024.”  (December 14, 2023 Minute
Order.)  Yet, Plaintiff did not file the
Second Amended Complaint until January 16, 2024.
 
Second, the Order indicated, “The Court grants Defendant’s motion for
judgment on the pleadings with respect to the first and third causes of action
and denies Defendant’s motion for judgment on the pleadings as to the second
cause of action.  Further, the Court
grants Plaintiff leave to amend the first cause of action only.”  (Ibid.)
 
Yet, as discussed above, Plaintiff’s Second Amended Complaint added five
new defendants and expanded the causes of action from three (one of which was
dismissed with prejudice) to seven without a stipulation or additional leave of
Court.
 
Apparently conceding that the Second Amended Complaint may not have
been drawn in conformity with the Court’s ruling of December 14, or other
applicable law, Plaintiff requested leave to amend in opposition to Defendant’s
demurrer.  However, Plaintiff also argues
that the Second Amended Complaint is “within the general ambit” of the leave
granted by the Court at the December 14, 2023 hearing.  (Opposition at pp. 1:26-4.)
 
Plaintiff clarifies and expands upon this argument in the reply
briefing filed in connection with the motion for leave to amend:[1]
 
At the first demurrer [sic[2]] hearing,
plaintiff expressly requested the Court to grant leave to amend the complaint.
See Transcript of Hearing p. 10: 
 
MR. GIANNINI: FINALLY, YOUR HONOR, IF I MAY BE
HEARD? 
 
6 THE COURT: YES. 
 
7 MR. GIANNINI: IF THIS COURT DOES NOT OVERRULE
ITS 
 
8 RULING TO DISMISS – 
 
9 THE COURT: I'M NOT DISMISSING ANYTHING, SIR.
I'M NOT 
 
10 DISMISSING ANYTHING. 
 
11 MR. GIANNINI: WELL, MY POINT IS I REQUEST
LEAVE TO 
 
12 AMEND THE COMPLAINT. I'M SURE I CAN AMEND THE
COMPLAINT. 
 
13 I HAVE ADDITIONAL EVIDENCE, I'VE SUBPOENAED
DOCUMENTS, AND 
 
14 I REQUEST LEAVE TO AMEND THE COMPLAINT.
(Emphasis added) 
 
15 THE COURT: ALL RIGHT. MS SCHIFF. 
 
In its minute Order, the Court did not directly
address plaintiff’s request at oral argument to amend the complaint considering
the new evidence. The transcript shows the Court explicitly gave Plaintiff
leave to amend.: See Transcript page 13. 
 
THE COURT IS GOING TO ADOPT ITS TENTATIVE RULING
ONLY WITH THE SLIGHT MODIFICATION. I WILL PROVIDE MR. GIANNINI WITH LEAVE TO
AMEND. (Emphasis added) 
 
This Court’s Order does not state plaintiff is
now and forever barred from amending his complaint or adding new parties.  
 
(March
13, 2024 Reply in support of Motion for Leave to Amend at p. 2:1-23.)
 
            The Court is not persuaded by
Plaintiff’s hearing transcript excerpts. 

 
First, Plaintiff’s excerpts conveniently omit the dialog immediately
following the quoted portion, where Defendant asks the Court if the leave to
amend will be granted as to “both” claims, and the Court responds that it still
needs to make that determination.  Thus,
Plaintiff was clearly aware at the hearing that the Court was only deciding
whether to grant leave to amend as to one or both of the causes of action for
which it was granting Defendant’s Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings.
 
Second, at no point during the hearing did the Court entertain any
oral motion by Plaintiff seeking leave to amend the complaint beyond the causes
of action that were subject to the Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings.  California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324
requires that a motion to amend a pleading “must” include a copy of the
proposed amendment or amended pleading and a separate declaration.  Thus, an oral motion to amend the complaint
beyond the scope of the Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings would not have been
procedurally proper in any event.
 
Third, for the avoidance of doubt, the Minute Order issued by the
Court clearly delineates the scope of leave granted – Plaintiff was only
granted leave to amend the unfair business practices cause of action to add
allegations of economic damages, on or before January 11, 2024.
 
B.   
Appropriate
Remedy
 
In support of its contention that the proper remedy for exceeding the
scope of leave granted is a demurrer, Defendant cites to Harris v. Wachovia
Mortgage, FSB (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1018, 1022-1023 [affirming trial
court’s sustaining of demurrer on the basis that the newly-alleged cause of
action exceeded the scope of leave granted].)
 
Although Defendant has provided legal support for its position that it
can properly demur to specific causes of action in the complaint on the basis
that the amendments exceed the scope of leave granted, given the complexity of
the Second Amended Complaint, the Court finds striking the Second Amended
Complaint to be a more appropriate remedy here.
 
“The court may […] at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it
deems proper […] [s]trike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of
the court.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
436.)   
 
Because the Second Amended Complaint was not drawn or filed in
conformity with the Court’s December 14, 2023 ruling as to either timing or
scope, or with Code of Civil Procedure section 472, California Rules of Court,
rule 3.1324, or any other law or rule governing amendments to pleadings, the
Court on its own motion and strikes the Second Amended Complaint in its
entirety.
 
2.    
LEAVE TO AMEND
 
A plaintiff has the burden of showing in what
manner the complaint could be amended and how the amendment would change the
legal effect of the complaint, i.e., state a cause of action. (See The
Inland Oversight Committee v. City of San Bernardino (2018) 27 Cal.App.5th
771, 779; PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v. Hulven Int'l, Inc. (2017)
14 Cal.App.5th 156, 189.) A plaintiff must not only state the legal basis for
the amendment, but also the factual allegations sufficient to state a cause of
action or claim. (See PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v. Hulven Int'l, Inc.,
supra, 14 Cal.App.5th at p. 189.) Moreover, a plaintiff does not meet his
or her burden by merely stating in the opposition to a demurrer or motion to
strike that “if the Court finds the operative complaint deficient, plaintiff
respectfully requests leave to amend.” (See Major Clients Agency v. Diemer
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1116, 1133; Graham v. Bank of America (2014) 226
Cal.App.4th 594, 618 [asserting an abstract right to amend does not satisfy the
burden].)
 
Because Plaintiff seeks amendments that exceed the scope of Defendant’s
Motion For Judgment on the Pleadings to the First Amended Complaint, the
appropriate procedure for evaluating Plaintiff’s proposed amendments is through
Plaintiff’s concurrently filed motion for leave to amend.  Thus, the Court denies Plaintiff leave to
amend in connection with the Demurrer, and separately addresses Plaintiff’s motion
for leave to amend in the concurrent tentative ruling.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the reasons stated, the Court, on its own motion, strikes the
Second Amended Complaint in its entirety without leave to amend.[3]  Whether Plaintiff may properly file the
proposed amendments shall be determined in connection with Plaintiff’s
concurrent Motion for Leave.  
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service regarding the same.  
 
 
DATED:  April 17, 2024                                                        ___________________________
                                                                                    Michael E. Whitaker
                                                                                    Judge of the Superior Court


