 Case Number:  23STCV03727    Hearing Date:   February 28, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
71
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



ALI
  TAMIMI,  
  
         vs.
 
STEVEN
  F. STANLEY.


 Case No.: 
  23STCV03727
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  February 28, 2024



 
Defendant
Steven F. Stanley’s unopposed demurrer to pro
per Plaintiff Ali Tamimi’s second amended complaint in the lead case, 23STCV03727,
is sustained as to the 1st cause of action for breach of warranty with
20 days leave to amend.
Defendant
Steven F. Stanley’s unopposed motion to strike pro per Plaintiff
Ali Tamimi’s second amended complaint in the lead case, 23STCV03727, is denied
as moot.
Defendant
Steven F. Stanley’s unopposed demurrer to pro per Plaintiff Ali
Tamimi’s second amended complaint in the related case, 23STCV03734, is
overruled as to the 1st cause of action for breach of contract and 2nd cause of
action for fraud; and sustained as to the 3rd cause of action for intentional
misrepresentation without leave to amend.
Defendant
Steven F. Stanley’s unopposed motion to strike from pro per
Plaintiff Ali Tamimi’s second amended complaint in the related case, 23STCV03734,
request for punitive damages is granted with 20 days leave to amend; and
Stanley’s motion to strike Plaintiff’s request for attorneys’ fees is granted without
leave to amend.
Defendant
Associated Dental Laboratory, Inc.’s unopposed motion to strike
Plaintiff’s second amended complaint in the lead case, 23STCV03727, is granted with
20 days leave to amend.
 
Defendant Steven F. Stanley (“Stanley”)
(“Defendant”) demurs unopposed to pro per Plaintiff Ali Tamimi’s
(“Tamimi”) (“Plaintiff”) second amended complaint in the lead case, 23STCV03727
(“SAC Lead”), on the grounds that the SAC Lead fails to state allegations
sufficient to constitute a cause of action against Stanley for Breach of
Warranty, and the cause of action is uncertain. 
(Notice Demurrer Lead, pg. 2; C.C.P. §§430.10(e), (f).)  Stanley also moves to strike portions of the
SAC Lead.  (Notice MTS Lead, pgs. 1-2.)
Stanley demurs unopposed to Plaintiff’s second
amended complaint in the related case, 23STCV03734 (“SAC Related”), on the
grounds that the SAC Related fails to state allegations sufficient to
constitute a cause of action against Stanley for Breach of Contract, Fraud or
Fraudulent Misrepresentation, and the causes of action are uncertain.  (Notice Demurrer Related, pg. 2; C.C.P.
§§430.10(e), (f).)  Stanley also moves to
strike portions of the SAC Related. 
(Notice MTS Related, pgs. 1-2.)
Defendant Associated Dental Laboratory, Inc. (“Dental
Lab”) (“Defendant”) moves to strike portions of Plaintiff’s SAC on the grounds such
matter is irrelevant, false or improper, and not drawn in conformity with
California law. (Notice MTS Dental Lab, pgs. 1-2; C.C.P §§436(a), (b).)[1]
 
Background
Plaintiff filed his initial complaints in the
Lead case as well as in the Related case on February 21, 2023.  Plaintiff filed his first amended complaints
(“FAC”) in the Lead case as well as in the Related case on April 28, 2023.  Plaintiff filed the operative SACs in the
Lead and Related cases on August 25, 2023, against Stanley and Dental Lab
(collectively, “Defendants”).  The SAC
Lead alleges two causes of action: (1) breach of warranty; and (2) negligence.[2]  The SAC
Related alleges three causes of action: (1) breach of contract; (2) fraud; and
(3) fraudulent misrepresentation.
Stanley filed his demurrer to and motion to
strike Plaintiff’s SAC Lead on October 6, 2023. 
Stanley filed his demurrer to and motion to strike Plaintiff’s SAC
Related on October 11, 2023.  Dental Lab
filed its motion to strike Plaintiff’s SAC Lead on October 9, 2023.  As of the date of this hearing no oppositions
have been filed.
 
A.  
Stanley’s
Demurrer to SAC Lead
Meet and Confer
Before filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the demurring
party shall meet and confer in person, by telephone, or by video conference
with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the
purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve
the objections to be raised in the demurrer. 
(C.C.P. §430.41(a), emphasis added.) 
A declaration must be filed with a demurrer regarding the results of the
meet and confer process.  (C.C.P.
§430.41(a)(3).)
Stanley’s counsel declares on September 25,
2023, after having reviewed Plaintiff’s SAC, she drafted and sent a letter via
email to Plaintiff outlining the insufficiencies in the Plaintiff’s SAC in an
attempt to meet and confer regarding Defendant’s potential Demurrer specifically
as to Cause of Action against this demurring Defendant for Breach of
Warranty.  (Decl. of Bridwell ¶3, Exh.
A.)  Stanley’s counsel declares that in
the letter she asked Plaintiff to call her office.  (Decl. of Bridwell ¶3.)  Stanley’s counsel declares she attempted to
call/set up a telephone call with Plaintiff to discuss the issues set forth in
this demurrer, however, Plaintiff responded back that he addressed all issues
brought up in Stanley’s meet and confer letter via his letter dated October 3,
2023.  (Decl. of Bridwell ¶4, Exh. C.)  Stanley’s counsel declares the parties were
not able to resolve the issues now before this Court via the subject demurrer.  (Decl. of Bridwell ¶4.)  Stanley’s counsel’s declaration is sufficient
under C.C.P. §430.41(a).  Therefore, the Court will consider the
instant demurrer.
 
Legal Standard
“[A] demurrer tests the legal
sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc.
(2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  A
demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the
pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially
noticeable.  (See Donabedian v.
Mercury Insurance Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 [in ruling on a
demurrer, a court may not consider declarations, matters not subject to
judicial notice, or documents not accepted for the truth of their
contents].)  For purposes of ruling on a
demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed to be true, but the
reviewing court does not assume the truth of conclusions of law.  (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital District
(1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)
 
Discussion
Failure to State a Claim
Breach of
Warranty (1st COA)
An express warranty “is a contractual promise from the seller that
the goods conform to the promise. If they do not, the buyer is entitled to
recover the difference between the value of the goods accepted by the buyer and
the value of the goods had they been as warranted.”  (Daugherty v. American Honda Motor Co.,
Inc. (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 824, 830; Com. Code §2313.)
“The essential elements of a cause of action
under the California Uniform Commercial Code for breach of an express warranty
to repair defects are (1) an express warranty to repair defects given in
connection with the sale of goods; (2) the existence of a defect covered by the
warranty; (3) the buyer’s notice to the seller of such a defect within a
reasonable time after its discovery; (4) the seller’s failure to repair the
defect in compliance with the warranty; and (5) resulting damages.”  (Orichian v. BMW of North America, LLC (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 1322, 1333-1334,
internal citations omitted.)
“Unlike express warranties, which are basically contractual in
nature, the implied warranty of merchantability arises by operation of law. It
does not ‘impose a general requirement that goods precisely fulfill the
expectation of the buyer. Instead, it provides for a minimum level of
quality.’”  (American Suzuki Motor
Corp. v. Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1291, 1295-1296, internal
citations omitted.). “[I]n cases involving personal injuries resulting from
defective products, the theory of strict liability in tort has virtually
superseded the concept of implied warranties.”  (Grinnell v. Charles Pfizer & Co.
(1969) 274 Cal.App.2d 424, 432.)
“Vertical privity is a prerequisite in California for recovery on
a theory of breach of the implied warranties of fitness and merchantability.” (United
States Roofing, Inc. v. Credit Alliance Corp. (1991) 228 Cal.App.3d 1431,
1441, internal citations omitted.)
Plaintiff alleges on October 15, 2021, he went to Stanley’s dental
office and placed himself in charge of Stanley for the purpose of having cosmetic
dental work including ordering and fitting Plaintiff with Genuine Valplast
Partial Denture.  (SAC Lead, pg.
23:10-13.)  Plaintiff alleges Stanley
agreed to provide the Genuine Valplast Partial Denture for a total compensation
of $450.  (SAC Lead, pg. 23:14-15.)  Plaintiff alleges on October 15, 2022, Stanley
subjected Plaintiff to 24 unnecessary X-Rays of which 18 are on file, so he can
get paid by Denti-Cal for the denture. 
(SAC Lead, pg. 23:16-18.)  
Plaintiff alleges Denti-Cal paid Stanley $350 for the denture
instead of $250 as Stanley had told Plaintiff that Denti-Cal will pay him, and Stanley’s
and Plaintiff’s agreement was that Plaintiff would pay him the balance on
delivery day of the Genuine Valplast Partial Denture after Stanley fits the denture
properly on Plaintiff and delivers it with Valplast Certificate of Authenticity
and Valplast Serial Number.  (SAC Lead,
pg. 23:19-24.)  
Plaintiff alleges Stanley failed to follow the proper procedures
for ordering Genuine Valplast Partial Denture. 
(SAC Lead, pg. 24:3-4.)  Plaintiff
alleges Stanley failed to order the denture from Certified Valplast Laboratory
or from dental laboratory that makes Genuine Valplast Partial Denture.  (SAC Lead, pg. 24:5-7.)  Plaintiff alleges during all the times
Stanley was treating Plaintiff, Stanley both expressly and impliedly warranted to
Plaintiff that everything necessary and proper was being done for Plaintiff to
perform and take proper impressions, use of proper materials, use of proper
tooth shade, proper instructions for ordering the denture, and use of proper
dental laboratory to order from the Genuine Valplast Partial Denture, however
Stanley breached those warranties.  (SAC
Lead, pg. 25:11-17.)   
Plaintiff alleges as a direct and proximate result of Stanley’s
negligence, and breach of warranty, Plaintiff sustained the following injuries
and damages: Plaintiff was subjected to 24 X-Rays of which at least 18
unnecessary X-Rays, Plaintiff was subjected to the inability to have the
denture done with another dentist; Plaintiff remains up to this time without
Genuine Valplast Partial Denture; Plaintiff remains up to this time without a
denture; past dental expenses; and future dental and medical expenses.  (SAC Lead, pg. 25:18-24.)
Plaintiff fails to allege a cause of action for express warranty
because, first, Plaintiff fails to allege the denture at issue had a
manufacturing defect. Second, there are no allegations that Stanley
manufactured the denture or expressly guaranteed the quality of the denture.  The gravamen of Plaintiff’s cause of action
is that Stanley ordered a different denture than the one he agreed to order,
the Genuine Valplast Partial Denture.
Plaintiff fails to allege a cause of action for breach of implied
warranty of merchantability because he does not allege the Genuine Valplast
Partial Denture does not “provide[] for a minimum level of quality.’”  (American Suzuki Motor Corp., 37
Cal.App.4th 1291, 1295-1296, internal citations omitted.)
Stanley’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s cause of action for breach of
warranty is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.
 
Conclusion
Stanley’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s cause of
action for breach of warranty is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.
Moving Party to give notice.
 
B.   
Stanley’s
Motion to Strike Plaintiff’s Lead SAC
In light
of the Court’s ruling on Stanley’s unopposed demurrer to Plaintiff’s
Lead SAC, Stanley’s motion to strike portions of Plaintiff’s Lead SAC is denied
as moot.
 
C.   
Stanley’s
Demurrer to Plaintiff’s Related SAC
Meet
and Confer
Stanley’s counsel declares on September 25,
2023, after having reviewed Plaintiff’s SAC, she drafted and sent a letter via
email to Plaintiff outlining the insufficiencies in the Plaintiff’s SAC in an
attempt to meet and confer regarding Defendant’s potential Demurrer
specifically as to Cause of Action against this demurring Defendant for Breach
of Contract, Fraud and Fraudulent Misrepresentation.  (Decl. of Bridwell ¶3, Exh. A.)  Stanley’s counsel declares that in the letter
she asked Plaintiff to call her office. 
(Decl. of Bridwell ¶3.)  Stanley’s
counsel declares she attempted to call/set up a telephone call with Plaintiff
to discuss the issues set forth in this demurrer, however, Plaintiff responded
back that he addressed all issues brought up in Stanley’s meet and confer
letter via his letter dated October 3, 2023. 
(Decl. of Bridwell ¶4, Exh. C.) 
Stanley’s counsel declares the parties were not able to resolve the
issues now before this Court via the subject demurrer.  (Decl. of Bridwell ¶4.)  Stanley’s counsel’s declaration is sufficient
under C.C.P. §430.41(a).  Therefore, the Court will consider the
instant demurrer.
 
Discussion
Failure to State a Claim
Breach of
Contract (1st COA)
“To
prevail on a cause of action for breach of contract, the plaintiff must prove
(1) the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance of the contract or excuse for
nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) resulting damage to the
plaintiff.” (Richman v. Hartley (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186.)  
Although
a written contract is usually pleaded by alleging its making and attaching a
copy which is incorporated by reference, a written contract can also be pleaded
by alleging the making and the substance of the relevant terms. (Construction
Protective Services, Inc. v. TIG Specialty Insurance Co. (2002) 29 Cal.4th
189, 198-199; Perry v. Robertson (1988) 201 Cal.App.3d 333, 341.)  “An oral contract may be pleaded generally as
to its effect, because it is rarely possible to allege the exact words.
[Citation.] A demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a
complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified
under modern discovery procedures. [Citations.]”  (Khoury v. Maly’s of California, Inc.
(1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)  That
plaintiff could not allege with specificity the exact terms of the contract
does not preclude statement of a cause of action.  (Id.)
Plaintiff
alleges on October 15, 2021, and November 15, 2021, Plaintiff and Stanley, and
on or about mid-December 2021, and mid-January 2022, Plaintiff and Stanley and Dental
Lab owner and leading dental technician Gary Gordon, entered into an oral
agreement, according to the terms of which defendants promised and agreed to
deliver Genuine Valplast Partial Denture with Valplast Certificate of
Authenticity and Valplast Serial Number, in exchange for valuable consideration.  (Related SAC, pg. 20 at ¶2.)  Plaintiff alleges Stanley promised to deliver
the Genuine Valplast Partial Denture prior to Christmas 2021 holiday, then
Defendants Stanley and Dental Lab delayed delivery to February 21, 2022.  (Related SAC, pg. 20 at ¶2.)  Plaintiff alleges on February 21, 2022, Defendants
breached their promise and agreement by failing to deliver as agreed instead delivered
Generic Resin Partial Denture that Plaintiff told them at the time they
promised and agreed he does not want. 
(Related SAC, pg. 20 at ¶2.)  
Plaintiff
alleges Stanley told Plaintiff that X-Rays are not necessary for any of the
dental services he will be performing on Plaintiff, but Denti-Cal will not pay
him for any dental service except Tooth Cleaning unless he takes X-Rays.  (Related SAC, pg. 20 at ¶3.)  Plaintiff alleges Stanley told Plaintiff Denti-Cal
requires him to take Full Mouth 24 X-Rays to pay him for the denture.  (Related SAC, pg. 20 at ¶3.)  Plaintiff alleges he told Stanley his
Radiologist advised him not to take any X-Rays unless it is necessary and
demanded from Stanley his assurance and guarantee that if he consents to
unnecessary X-Rays, he will deliver Genuine Valplast Partial Denture with
Valplace Certificate of Authenticity and Valplast Serial Number and not Generic
Resin Partial Denture.  (Related SAC,
pgs. 20-21 at ¶3.)  Plaintiff alleges Stanley
agreed and assured Plaintiff telling him, “If Valplast Denture is what you
want, you will get it.”  (Related SAC,
pg. 21 at ¶3.)  Plaintiff alleges in
reliance on the promise made by defendant Stanley that he will deliver a
Genuine Valplast Partial Denture with Valplace Certificate of Authenticity and
Valplast Serial Number and not a Generic Resin Partial Denture,  Plaintiff consented to Stanley taking X-Rays, and
Stanley took 24 unnecessary X-Rays of which 18 are on file.  (Related SAC, pg. 21 at ¶3.)
Plaintiff
alleges in reliance on the promise made by Gary Gordon owner and the leading dental
technician of Dental Lab that he will make a Genuine Valplast Partial Denture
and not Generic Resin Partial Denture and deliver it to Stanley with Valplast
Certificate of Authenticity and Valplast Serial Number, and, in reliance on
Stanley telling Plaintiff to be patient to wait until Dental Lab reopens in
mid-January 2022 to make the the Genuine Valplast Partial Denture, Plaintiff
waited.  (Related SAC, pg. 21 at ¶4.)
Plaintiff
alleges he performed all of his obligations under the terms of the agreement.  (Related SAC, pg. 21 at ¶5.)  Plaintiff alleges on February 21, 2022, Defendants
materially breached their oral contract with Plaintiff in that, among other things,
Defendants failed to perform as promised by not delivering Genuine Valplast
Partial Denture with Valplast Certificate of Authenticity and Valplast Serial
Number, instead Defendants presented Plaintiff with Generic Resin Partial
Denture.  (Related SAC, pg. 21 at ¶5.)
Plaintiff
alleges as a result of the material breach of contract by Stanley, Plaintiff
has sustained the following injuries and damages: Plaintiff was subjected to 24
unnecessary X-Rays of which 18 are on file, plaintiff was subjected to the
inability to have the denture done with another dentist; and as a direct result
of the material breach of contract by Stanley and Dental Lab owner and leading
technician Gary Gordon, Plaintiff remains up to this time without Genuine
Valplast Partial Denture, and without a denture, past dental expenses, and
future dental and medical expenses. 
(Related SAC, pgs. 21-22 at ¶5.)
Plaintiff
sufficiently alleges a cause of action for breach of oral contract.  (Related SAC, pgs. 20-22 at ¶¶1-5.)
Accordingly,
Stanley’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s Related SAC is overruled as to the cause of
action for breach of contract.
 
Fraud
(2nd COA)
“The
elements of fraud that will give rise to a tort action for deceit are: ‘(a)
misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b)
knowledge of falsity (or ‘scienter’); (c) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce
reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.’”  (Engalla v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc.
(1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 974, internal quotation marks omitted.)
Fraud
actions are subject to strict requirements of particularity in pleading.  (Committee on Children’s Television, Inc.
v. General Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197, 216.)  Fraud must be pleaded with specificity rather
than with general and conclusory allegations.  (Small v. Fritz Companies, Inc. (2003)
30 Cal.4th 167, 184.)  The specificity
requirement means a plaintiff must allege facts showing how, when, where, to
whom, and by what means the representations were made, and, in the case of a
corporate defendant, the plaintiff must allege the names of the persons who
made the representations, their authority to speak on behalf of the
corporation, to whom they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when the
representation was made.  (Lazar v.
Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645; West v. JPMorgan Chase Bank,
N.A. (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 780, 793.)
Plaintiff
alleges on October 15, 2021, Plaintiff employed Stanley and retained him for
compensation to provide him with Genuine Valplast Partial Denture delivered
with Valplast Certificate of Authenticity and Valplast Unique Serial Number.  (SAC Related, pg. 22 at ¶2.)  Plaintiff alleges Stanley agreed in return
for a total compensation of $450 for the denture.  (SAC Related, pgs. 22-23 at ¶2.)  
Plaintiff
alleges on October 15, 2021, on November 15, 2021, and in mid-December 2021
Stanley misrepresented to Plaintiff that Dental Lab in Brentwood that he does business
with for many years makes Genuine Valplast Partial Dentures, and Stanley
misrepresented to Plaintiff that Dental dental technician George Seeber that he
does business with for many years told him that he will be doing the Genuine
Valplast Partial Dentures himself.  (SAC
Related, pgs. 23 at ¶3.)   Plaintiff alleges the information Stanley told
Plaintiff turned out to be false.  (SAC
Related, pgs. 23 at ¶3.)   
Plaintiff
alleges on information and belief that Stanley deliberately made the
misrepresentation to Plaintiff when he knew or should have known that Dental
Lab in Brentwood does not make Genuine Valplast Partial Dentures, and Stanley
deliberately made the misrepresentation to Plaintiff that Dental Lab dental
technician George Seeber told him that he will be doing the Genuine Valplast
Partial Denture when he knew or should have known that Dental Lab dental
technician George Seeber does not make Genuine Valplast Partial Denture.  (SAC Related, pgs. 23 at ¶4.)
Plaintiff
alleges Stanley made such misrepresentation to gain financial benefit to get
the consent of Plaintiff to file a claim for denture with Denti-Cal to get paid
$250 and thereby delivers Generic Resin Partial Denture and to attempt to defraud
Plaintiff that it is Genuine Valplast Partial Denture and demands that
Plaintiff to pay him additional $250, $50 more than was agreed on for the total
compensation of $450 for Genuine Valplast Partial Denture.  (SAC Related, pgs. 23 at ¶5.)
Plaintiff
alleges on February 21, 2022, Stanley attempted to defraud Plaintiff to get paid
an additional $250 by misrepresenting to Plaintiff that the Generic Resin Partial
Denture he presented that Denti-Cal had paid him its full cost and even $100
more, is Genuine Valplast Partial Denture.  (SAC Related, pgs. 23 at ¶6.)  Plaintiff alleges Stanley knew or should have
known it is a Generic Resin Partial Denture.  (SAC Related, pgs. 23 at ¶6.)  Plaintiff alleges Stanley attempted to induce
Plaintiff to believe him telling him, “I pride myself of having 30 years’
experience as dentist to back me up” to pay him the additional $250 he demanded,
which is $50 more than was agreed on for the total compensation of $450 for
Genuine Valplast Partial Denture delivered with Valplast Certificate of
Authenticity and Valplast Serial Number which Stanley did not deliver.  (SAC Related, pgs. 23-24 at ¶6.)
Plaintiff
alleges Stanley intended to induce Plaintiff’s reliance on his
misrepresentation.  (SAC Related, pg. 24
at ¶8.)  Plaintiff alleges he did rely on
Stanley’s misrepresentation in that Plaintiff would have neither allowed
Stanley to subject him to 24 unnecessary X-Rays of which 18 on file, nor to
file a claim for the denture with Denti-Cal to get paid.  (SAC Related, pg. 24 at ¶8.)  
Plaintiff
alleges his reliance on Stanley’s misrepresentations was justifiable because he
had a complete dependence on and trust in Dr. Stanley for the information
regarding Dental Lab because he said he does business with it for many years,
and his assurance that Dental Lab in Brentwood makes Genuine Valplast Partial
Denture, and his assurance that Dental Lab dental technician George Seeber told
him he will be doing the Genuine Valplast Partial Denture.  (SAC Related, pg. 25 at ¶12.)
Plaintiff
alleges as a direct result of the fraudulent misrepresentations of Stanley, Plaintiff
has sustained the following injuries and damages: Plaintiff was subjected to 24
unnecessary X-Rays of which 18 are on file, plaintiff was subjected to the
inability to have the denture done with another dentist; and as a direct result
of the fraudulent misrepresentation of Dr. Stanley and Dental Lab owner and
leading technician Gary Gordon plaintiff remains up to this time without
Genuine Valplast Partial Denture, and plaintiff remains up to this time without
a denture, past dental expenses, and future dental and medical expenses.  (SAC Related, pg. 25 at ¶13.)
Plaintiff
sufficiently alleges a cause of action for fraud.
Accordingly,
Stanley’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s 2nd cause of action for fraud is overruled.
 
Fraudulent
Misrepresentation (3rd COA)
“The
elements of fraud that will give rise to a tort action for deceit are: ‘(a)
misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b)
knowledge of falsity (or ‘scienter’); (c) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce
reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.’”  (Engalla, 15 Cal.4th at pg. 974,
internal quotation marks omitted.)
Plaintiff’s
allegations in his cause of action for fraudulent misrepresentation duplicate
his cause of action for fraud.  Claims
which merely duplicate other claims in a pleading are subject to demurrer.  (Shoemaker v. Myers (1990) 52 Cal.3d 1,
14.)  Moreover, a demurrer is properly
sustained without leave to amend as to a cause of action which adds nothing to a
complaint by way of fact or theory of recovery.  (Rodrigues v. Campbell Industries
(1978) 87 Cal.App.3d 494, 501; Palm Springs Villas II Homeowners
Association, Inc. v. Parth (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 268, 290.)
Accordingly,
Stanley’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s 3rd cause of action is sustained without
leave to amend.
 
Conclusion
Stanley’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s 1st cause of
action for breach of contract and 2nd cause of action fraud are overruled.
Stanley’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s 3rd cause of
action for intentional misrepresentation sustained with 20 days leave to
amend.
Moving Party to give notice.
 
D.  
Stanley’s
Motion to Strike Plaintiff’s Related SAC
Stanley
moves to strike the following portions from Plaintiff’s Related SAC: (1) Page
20, Prayer at paragraph 5, stating “For cost of legal counsel”; (2) Page 20,
Prayer at paragraph 7, stating “For exemplary damages and leave of court for punitive
damages”; (3) Page 22, Prayer at paragraph 5, stating “For cost of legal
counsel”; (4) Page 22, Prayer at paragraph 7, stating “For exemplary damages
and leave of court for punitive damages”; (5) Page 26, Prayer at paragraph 5,
stating “For cost of legal counsel”; (6) Page 26, Prayer at paragraph 7,
stating “For exemplary damages and leave of court for punitive damages”; (7)
Page 28, Prayer at paragraph 5, stating “For cost of legal counsel”; and (8) Page
28, Prayer at paragraph 7, stating “For exemplary damages and leave of court
for punitive damages.”  (Notice MTS
Related SAC, pg. 2.)
 
Legal
Standard
C.C.P. §436 provides that the Court
may, upon a motion made pursuant to C.C.P. §435, or at any time within its
discretion and upon terms it deems proper, “strike out any irrelevant, false,
or improper matter inserted in any pleading,” or any pleading or part thereof
“not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or
an order of the court.”  (C.C.P. §436.)
 
Punitive
Damages
C.C.P.
§425.13 provides, “(a) In any action for damages arising out of the
professional negligence of a health care provider, no claim for punitive
damages shall be included in a complaint or other pleading unless the court
enters an order allowing an amended pleading that includes a claim for punitive
damages to be filed.”
Plaintiff
has not obtained leave of court to include punitive damages in his
pleading.  Therefore, Plaintiff’s request
for punitive damages is subject to a motion to strike.
Accordingly,
Stanley’s motion to strike Plaintiff’s requests for punitive damages is granted
with 20 days leave to amend.
 
Attorneys’
Fees
C.C.P. §1021
provides, “[e]xcept as attorney’s fees are specifically provided for by
statute, the measure and mode of compensation of attorneys and counselors at
law is left to the agreement, express or implied, of the parties; but parties
to actions or proceedings are entitled to their costs, as hereinafter
provided.”
Here,
there are no facts pleaded showing that Plaintiff is entitled to attorney’s
fees under any contract, statute nor law.
Accordingly,
Stanley’s motion to strike Plaintiff’s requests for attorneys’ fees is granted without
leave to amend.
 
Conclusion
Stanley’s
motion to strike Plaintiff’s request for punitive damages is granted with 20
days leave to amend.
Stanley’s
motion to strike Plaintiff’s request for attorneys’ fees is granted without
leave to amend.
Moving
Party to give notice.
 
E.   
Dental
Lab’s Motion to Strike Plaintiff’s Lead SAC
Meet and Confer
Dental
Lab’s counsel declares on October 4, 2023, he telephoned the number on
Plaintiff Ali Tamimi’s SAC (424) 465-4100), and a man answered his call and
told me I have the wrong number and that no one named Ali Tamimi was at that
number.  (Decl. of Warden ¶5.)  Dental Lab’s counsel declares on October 4,
2023, he emailed Plaintiff and informed him of the meet-and-confer requirement
under the Code and invited him to further amend his complaint striking the
punitive or “exemplary” damages prayer. 
(Decl. of Warden ¶6, Exh. B.)  Dental
Lab’s counsel declares on October 5, 2023, he sent Plaintiff a copy of this
motion via email and again requested they discuss the merits of the motion
telephonically.  (Decl. of Warden
¶7.)  Dental Lab’s counsel declares on
October 5, 2023, he received an email from Plaintiff informing him that Plaintiff’s
“pleadings are sufficient to sustain a claim for punitive damages against
Defendants including Defendant Associated Dental Laboratory.”  (Decl. of Warden ¶8, Exh. C.)  Dental Lab’s counsel declares that upon
receiving Plaintiff’s email, he again telephoned Plaintiff at (424) 465-4100)
to discuss the matter and no one answered his call.  (Decl. of Warden ¶9.)  Dental Lab’s counsel’s declaration is
sufficient to demonstrate a good faith effort to meet and confer with
Plaintiff.  Therefore, the Court will
consider Dental Lab’s motion.
 
Punitive
Damages
A
plaintiff must demonstrate the defendant is guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice to obtain punitive damages in an action for the breach of an obligation
not rising from contract.  (Civ. Code
§3294(a).)  Plaintiff has the burden of
proving he is entitled to punitive damages by “clear and convincing evidence.”  (Id.)  Since California law disfavors awarding
punitive damages, such claims are to be granted “with the greatest of caution
and are only allowed in the clearest of cases.” 
(Henderson v. Security National Bank (1977) 72 Cal.App.3d 764,
771.)  “The mere allegation an intentional
tort was committed is not sufficient to warrant an award of punitive damages.
Not only must there be circumstances of oppression, fraud, or malice, but facts
must be alleged in the pleading to support such a claim.”  (Grieves v. Superior Court (1984) 157
Cal.App.3d 159, 166, citations omitted.)
Civil
Code §3294(c)(3) defines fraud as “an intentional misrepresentation, deceit or concealment
of a material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the
defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or
otherwise causing injury.”  Malice is
defined as “conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff
or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.”  (Civ. Code §3294(c)(1).)  Oppression is defined as “despicable conduct
that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of
that person’s rights.”  (Civ. Code
§3294(c)(2).)
Plaintiff
fails to allege that Dental Lab made any “intentional misrepresentation, deceit
or concealment of a material fact.” 
Further, Plaintiff fails to allege Dental Lab intended to cause
Plaintiff injury or that Dental Lab engaged in despicable conduct.
Accordingly,
Dental Lab’s motion to strike Plaintiff’s request for punitive damages against
Dental Lab is granted with 20 days leave to amend.
 
Conclusion
Dental
Lab’s motion to strike Plaintiff’s request for punitive damages against Dental
Lab is granted with 20 days leave to amend.
Moving
Party to give notice.
 
Dated: 
February _____, 2024
                                                                             





  