  Case Number:  22STCV19201    Hearing Date:   October 6, 2023    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



MAHMUD REZA SIAMIZADE 
 
        
  vs.
 
STVEN MEIER, et al.

 


 Case
  No.:  22STCV19201  
 
 
 
 Hearing Date: October 6, 2023



 
Defendant’s
demurrer is SUSTAINED, WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND. Accordingly, the motion to
strike is MOOT.
 
On 6/13/2022,
Plaintiff Mahmud Reza Siamizade (Plaintiff) filed suit against Steven Meier, LA
Peer Surgery Center, Gholamreza Siamizade, and Masoumeh Siamizade. On 6/20/023,
Plaintiff filed a third amended complaint (TAC) alleging: (1) professional
negligence—wrongful death; and (2) fraud. 
 
Now,
Defendant LA Peer Surgery Center (Defendant) demurs to Plaintiff’s TAC. 
 
Discussion 
 
Defendant
argues that Plaintiff has not alleged sufficient facts to state a claim for
either cause of action. 
 
            After
review, the Court agrees. 
 
            As
for the first cause of action, Plaintiff’s claim is not procedurally or
substantively well-pled. 
 
As for
procedure, CCP section 377.32 requires the person who seeks to commence an
action or proceeding or to continue a pending action or proceeding as the
decedent’s successor in interest to execute and file an affidavit or
declaration under penalty of perjury which sets forth specific information.
Plaintiff submitted a declaration that states “The affiant or declarant is
authorized to act on behalf of the decedent’s successor in interest (as defined
in Section 377.11 of the California Code of Civil Procedure) with respect to
the decedent’s interest in the action or proceeding.” This does not comply with
the specific requirements of CCP section 377.32.
 
As for the
substance of the claim, a plaintiff “must set forth factual allegations that
sufficiently state all required elements that cause of action. Allegations must
be factual and specific, not vague or conclusory.” (Rakestraw v. Cal.
Physicians’ Service (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 39, 43-44.)
 
Here, there
is uncertainty as to what acts by Defendant that Plaintiff alleges were
negligent and/or caused his mother’s death. Plaintiff alleges that Defendant
Meier performed a “therapy or procedure” that would help his mother’s “knee and
lower back pain,” and that Defendant Meier misled him about his mother’s need
to go under general anesthesia for the procedure. However, beyond LA Peer
Surgery Center being the location at which the surgery was performed, Plaintiff
does not allege any additional facts against Defendant. Moreover, Plaintiff
does not allege that there were any complications from anesthesia or during her
stay at Defendant’s center. (See Complaint.) Rather, Plaintiff alleges
that “…16 months later in January 2021, she felt abdominal pain. Her blood work
and lab results pointed at some positive tumor markers. I suspected Dr. Meier’s
therapy and started my own research.” (See Complaint). Plaintiff does
not allege any facts which could show a causal connection between the knee
therapy Plaintiff’s mother received at Defendant’s location, and the appearance
of tumor markers 16 months later. Plaintiff must allege facts which could show
that Defendant was negligent, that Plaintiff was armed by this negligence, and
that Defendant’s negligence was a substantial factor in causing that harm.
(CACI No.400.) 
 
As for fraud,
“[f]raud is never presumed – facts constituting fraud must be specially
pleaded. The court must be able to determine from the Complaint that a prima
facie case is alleged.” (Cooper v. Leslie Salt Company (1969) 70 Cal.2d
627, 641.) Here, Plaintiff bases his claims on information and belief to allege
that “I believe, Dr. Steven Meier and his staff at Meier Orthopedic Sports
Medicine and the staff at La Peer Surgery Center, knowingly misrepresented a
therapy deemed dangerous by the FDA and used deceptive marketing strategies to
influence our judgement in choosing his therapy and allured us to pay for their
service. I believe they were fully aware of the dangerous nature of this
therapy which jeopardized my elderly mother’s life, and they used her as a
clinical subject for clinical trials and monetary gain. On information and
belief, Defendants’ treatment of my mother fell below the applicable standard
care and constituted fraud, deceptive marketing strategies and elderly abuse.
They also committed fraud in getting us to go forward with the
surgery/procedure by concealing that they were not going to require general
anesthesia to be conducted and representing that the procedure was approved by
the FDA, completely safe and 100% effective.” (See TAC.) However, Plaintiff
himself concedes that he was advised by an anesthesiologist that general
anesthesia was going to be used for the procedure before it began and decedent
still  underwent the surgery. Moreover,
Plaintiff’s Complaint does not allege facts which could show a causal
connection between the use of anesthesia and/or the therapy and the appearance
of cancer markers 16 months later.
 
Given that
this is Plaintiff’s third amended complaint, the Court has no reason to
believe that these deficiencies could be resolved through further amendment.
Indeed, during oral argument of co-Defendants’ demurrers, Plaintiff could not
identify any additional facts which he could allege to resolve these
deficiencies. 
 
Based on the
foregoing, Defendants’ demurrer is sustained, without leave to amend.
Accordingly, the motion to strike is moot. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  October   
, 2023
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 
 
 
 