  Case Number:  23STCV27439    Hearing Date:   October 16, 2024    Dept:  45 Superior Court of California
County
 of Los Angeles
 



 
BAIRD
  A. BROWN, an individual and as
sole
  owner of BAIRD BROWN, A PROF.
LAW
  CORP, ANN BROWN, 
 
                             Plaintiff,
 
                              vs.
 
DONALD
  G. NORRIS, an individual;
DONALD
  G. NORRIS, a Law Corp.;
MICHELLE
  PAK, an individual;
TAURIN
  ROBINSON, an individual;
and
  DOES 1 through 10, inclusive, 
 
                              Defendants.
 


Case No.: 23STCV27439  
DEPARTMENT
  45
 
 
 
[TENTATIVE] RULING
 
 
 
Action
  Filed: 11/08/2024
Trial
  Date: 01/13/2025
 
 



 
Hearing date:              10/16/2024                  
Moving Party:             DONALD G. NORRIS, an individual
(Defendant); DONALD G. NORRIS, a Law Corp. (Defendant); TAURIN ROBINSON, an
individual (Defendant)
Responding Party:      BAIRD
A. BROWN, an individual (Plaintiff); Baird A. Brown, as sole owner of BAIRD
BROWN, A PROF. LAW CORP, ANN BROWN (Plaintiff); Ann Brown (Plaintiff)
 
 
Demurrer without Motion to Strike
The court has
considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply.  
The demurrer is
overruled. 
Background
On November 8,
2023,  Plaintiffs Baird A. Brown (Baird);
Baird Brown, a Prof. Law Corp. (Brown Law), and Ann Brown (Ann; collectively
plaintiffs) filed suit against defendant Donald G. Norris (Norris); Donald G.
Norris, a Law Corp. (Norris Law); Michelle Pak (Pak) and Taurin Robinson
(Robinson). On August 22, 2024, Plaintiffs filed the operative First Amended
Complaint against the same parties. 
In the FAC, Plaintiffs
alleged that both Ann and Baird are over 75 years old. Baird operated a
successful law practice for many years after his legal career began in 1973.
From 2017 through 2022, Baird’s health deteriorated. He was diagnosed with
Parkinsons Disease and hospitalized with a severe case of Covid-19 requiring an
ICU stay and intubation. Plaintiffs alleged Pak worked for Brown Law for
approximately twenty years. Baird relied heavily on Pak to handle non-legal
affairs for the firm. During Pak’s tenure at Brown Law, Plaintiffs’ hired Pak’s
son-in-law, Robinson, intermittently. Robinson worked as a legal assistant from
2007 until 2015. Then, Robinson returned in 2017 to work at Brown Law while he
simultaneously attended law school. During that year Pak and Robinson also began
an illegal and unethical scheme to siphon Brown Law’s clients to Norris and
Norris Law. 
Plaintiffs
allege sometime in 2017 or 2018, Pak failed to send two of Plaintiffs’ clients
their settlement funds. When Brown learned of the failure, he instructed Pak to
send the funds to the clients immediately with interest. The State Bar took
action based on the failure and Brown’s law license was suspended from April
through June of 2020. During the suspension, Defendants substituted in as
counsel of record of Plaintiffs’ clients. Further, contrary to Brown’s
instructions, Pak declined to send the clients letters informing them of the three-month
suspension and instead sent them letters stating Brown had retired and Norris
Law would take over Brown’s practice. 
Plaintiffs
allege Robinson officially left Brown Law in January 2021 and went to work for
Norris Law. Then, after her termination, In October 2023, Pak went to work for
Norris Law. 
Plaintiffs filed
claims for financial elder abuse (COA 1), theft (COA 2), unfair competition
(COA 3), interference with contract (COA 4), breach of fiduciary duty (COA 5), aiding
and abetting breach of fiduciary duty (COA 6), and conspiracy (COA 7). 
Norris, Norris
Law, and Robinson (collectively Defendants) demurrer to the entire complaint on
the grounds that each of Plaintiffs’ claim hinges on the allegation that
Defendants stole Plaintiffs’ clients, but they could not have stolen
Plaintiffs’ clients as a matter of law. 
Evidentiary Issues
            Defendants’
request for judicial notice of the Supreme Court of California Suspension order
dated March 2, 2020 (Exhibit 3), is granted. The request for judicial notice of
the court’s prior minute order (Exhibit 1), of the certain stipulated facts at
the State Bar Hearing regarding Brown’s suspension (Exhibit 2) and Plaintiffs’
responses to various Requests for Admission served upon Plaintiffs (Exhibits )
is denied as unnecessary and/or as not judicially noticeable evidence.  
Legal Standard 
A demurrer for
sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747 (Hahn).) At the pleading stage, a
plaintiff need only allege ultimate facts sufficient to apprise the defendant
of the factual basis for the claim against them. (Semole v. Sansoucie
(1972) 28 Cal.App.3d 714, 721.)  When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context.
(See Schultz v. Harney (1994) 27 Cal.App.4th 1611, 1622 (Schultz), as
modified on denial of reh’g (Sept. 29, 1994).) The court “take[s] as true all
properly pleaded material facts, but not conclusions of fact or law asserted in
the complaint.” (Sheen v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2022) 12 Cal.5th 905,
916.) “The allegations of the pleading demurred to must be regarded as true.” (South
Shore Land Co. v. Peterson (1964) 266 Cal.App.2d 725, 732.) A “demurrer
does not, however, admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law
alleged in the pleading, or the construction of instruments pleaded, or facts
impossible in law.” (Ibid. [internal citations omitted].)
Discussion
             Meet and Confer
Before filing a demurrer, the moving party
must meet and confer in person, by video conference, or by telephone with the
party who filed the pleading to attempt to reach an agreement that would
resolve the objections to the pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.41.) “Any
determination by the court that the meet and confer process was insufficient
shall not be grounds to overrule or sustain a demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41, subd. (a)(4).)
Here, Defendants’ Counsel, Seungjai Oh,
declares that defendants sent a meet and confer letter which was followed by a
phone conversation with Plaintiffs’ counsel on September 6, 2024. (Oh Decl., ¶¶
2, 3.) This is sufficient under the code. 
Allegation of Stealing Clients During
Suspension
For the sake of argument, the court
assumes without deciding—as Defendants assert—that each cause of action turns
on whether Defendants could have stolen Plaintiffs’ clients while Brown was suspended
from the practice of law. 
“No person shall practice law in
California unless the person is an active licensee of the State Bar.” (Bus.
& Prof. Code, §6125.) When an attorney is suspended they must “[n]otify all clients being represented in
pending matters and any co-counsel of his or her disbarment, suspension, or
resignation and his or her consequent disqualification to act as an attorney
after the effective date of the disbarment, suspension, or resignation, and, in
the absence of co-counsel, also notify the clients to seek legal advice
elsewhere, calling attention to any urgency in seeking the substitution of
another attorney or attorneys. . .” (Rules of Court Rule 9.20.) With respect to
a Law Corporation, “[t]he shares of a shareholder who is
ineligible to practice law or legally disqualified to render professional
services to the law corporation must be sold or transferred to a qualified
shareholder within ninety days after the date of the ineligibility or
disqualification.” (State Bar Rules, Rule 3.157, subd. (E).)
Defendants argue that because during the
ninety-day suspension Brown could not practice law and hold clients,
Defendants’ alleged theft during the suspension cannot constitute theft as a
legal matter. 
Here, there are several issues with
Defendants argument. First, neither party disputes that an attorney who does
not have a valid law license cannot represent clients. Instead, at issue is the
logical jump that because the State Bar placed Brown on a three
month-suspension then Brown and Brown Law’s clients were no longer an asset of Brown
Law. Defendants make no effort to distinguish between Brown Law and Brown, who
sit in different positions. While Brown was disbarred Brown Law continued to
exist. Brown could made intervening plans to ensure the clients remained
represented during his three-month suspension such as hiring temporary
co-counsel for Brown Law, referring the clients to other appropriate counsel
during the interlude, or selling Brown Law only to repurchase it at the
conclusion of his suspension. (See State Bar Rules, Rule 3.157, subd. (F)
[permitting the sale].) There are no allegations that Brown took those steps[1],
but the court cannot conclude from an absence of allegations that Brown Law’s
clients were effectively released or cancelled their representation agreements
upon Brown’s suspension. 
Second, Defendants’ argument narrows the
interpretation of Plaintiffs’ allegations in a manner that is inconsistent with
the complaint. Plaintiffs allege that Defendants entered into a conspiracy in
2017 to take Plaintiffs’ clients. In 2019, Defendants began telling Plaintiffs’
clients that he was retiring and that he recommended Norris Law to replace him.
Then in 2020, Defendants’ sent letters—purportedly from Brown—to Brown’s
clients claiming he was referring his clients to Norris Law; this took place in
early 2020 prior to his suspension. (FAC, ¶20.) At that time, even assuming
Brown had no interest during the suspension period, Brown still had an interest
in his clients.  Nor is it clear that
every substitution of attorney took place during the suspension period,
assuming that was the moment of the theft. To the extent any took place outside
of the suspension period, Defendants’ argument would is inapplicable. 
Accordingly, the demurrer on this theory
is overruled. 
Separately, Defendants argue that an April
26, 2020, text message between Pak and Brown demonstrates that Norris Law did
not steal the clients and that Plaintiffs’ claims are untimely. This is
evidence which is not judicially noticeable and which the court will not
consider on a demurrer. Defendants’ citations to this discovery on a demurrer
demonstrates a misunderstanding of the court’s role. A demurrer tests the
sufficiency of the allegations, not the sufficiency of the proof.  
Defendants also make arguments with
respect to Pak, but Pak has not demurred to the complaint and based on the
captioning it does not appear that defense counsel has any right to make
arguments on Pak’s behalf. (See Mtn., at pp. 8:20-9:18.)
It is so
ordered.
 
Dated:
October 16, 2024
 
_______________________
MEL RED RECANAJudge of the Super

