 Case Number:  22STCV12531    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2024    Dept:  T Motion to StrikeMoving Party: Cross-Defendants Hector P Estrada; Adriana EstradaResponding Party: Cross-Complainant Orion Transit, Inc.Tentative Ruling: Granted in PartBACKGROUNDThis is a car accident case arising from a November 5, 2021 incident in which liability is disputed and each adverse party claims the other ran a red light. Plaintiff Victor Pulido was a passenger in a vehicle driven for Defendant/Cross-Complainant Orion Transit, Inc. (“Orion”.) On April 14, 2022, Plaintiff filed his complaint against Orion for personal injuries. Orion, in turn, filed a Cross-Complaint for equitable indemnity, contribution, and declaratory relief, against Cross-Defendants on August 10, 2023. In the Cross-Complaint, Orion seeks an award of attorney’s fees from Cross-Defendants.MOVING PARTY POSITIONCross-Defendants argue the Court should strike Orion’s request for attorney’s fees, as no statutory basis to award of attorney’s fees to Orion applies to the circumstances presented and no contract exists between the parties to provide a basis for Orion to recover attorney’s fees. (Motion to Strike p. 7.)The portions of text of Cross-Defendants seek to strike from the Cross-Complaint include:1. Paragraph 9, page 3, line 25: “all legal costs and fees, including attorneys’ fees, incurred”;2. Paragraph 14, page 4, lines 19-21: “Additionally, Cross-Complainant has incurred and will continue to incur attorneys' fees and costs in defending such claims and is entitled to be reimbursed for these attorneys' fees and costs.”; 3. Paragraph 20, page 5, lines 19 -20: “reasonable attorneys' fees incurred and expended by Cross-Complainant in defending the action”; 4. Paragraph 21, page 5, lines 27- 28: “to reimburse Cross-Complainant for reasonable attorneys' fees and costs”; 5. Paragraph 5, page 6, lines 19-20: “For attorneys' fees incurred by Cross-Complainant in the defense of this action”. (Id. at 4.)OPPOSITIONOrion argues Cross-Defendants’ Motion seeks to strike allowable costs other than attorney fees including “all legal costs and fees, including attorneys' fees, incurred.” (Motion to Strike p. 4.) Cross-Defendants thus seeks to strike items that are recoverable, without justification. (Opposition p. 3.)REPLYCross-Defendants argue the motion only seeks to strike portions of the Cross-Complaint that purport entitlement to compensation for attorneys’ fees, and that the motion identifies these passages with sufficient specificity.ANALYSISA court may strike from the complaint any irrelevant, false, or improper matter. Under CCP § 435, “[a]ny party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof.” Under CCP § 436(a), “[t]he court may, upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper . . . [s]trike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.” Under CCP § 436(b), the court may “[s]trike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.” Attorney fees are not recoverable unless a fee award is expressly authorized by either statute or the parties' contract. (Real Property Services Corp. v. City of Pasadena (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 375, 379, 30 Cal.Rptr.2d 536.)Here, Cross-Complainant fails to allege a statutory or contractual basis to request attorney fees in this action.  The Court thus finds Cross-Defendants’ motion to strike is appropriate as to attorney fees.  However, prevailing party costs are recoverable.RULINGCross-Defendant’s motion to strike is GRANTED IN PART. The Court strikes references to “attorneys’ fees” included in Paragraph 9 at page 3, line 25; Paragraph 14 at page 4, lines 19-21; Paragraph 20 at page 5, lines 19 -20; Paragraph 21 at page 5, lines 27- 28; and Paragraph 5 at page 6, lines 19-20 of the Cross-Complaint. 