 Case Number:  22SMCV02434    Hearing Date:   April 17, 2024    Dept:  I The application to continue the trial is DENIED.  Plaintiff brings this motion after this court
denied a proposed stipulation to continue the trial.  In support of this motion, plaintiff states:
(1) counsel has a conflict because counsel has an arbitration set for 5/7/24
(the day after the trial is supposed to start); (2) mediation is set for July;
and (3) discovery is not complete. 
Plaintiff states that the case is not ready for trial and that plaintiff
will be prejudiced by having to go to trial unready and unprepared and given
the conflict with the arbitration.
 
A prior stipulation to continue the trial was denied.  The court will try again.
 
First, as to the conflict, the court simply does not
understand the point.  The trial in this
case was set long ago.  If counsel had a
conflict, counsel should have pointed it out to the court and the court would
have picked a different date.  The
failure to do so cannot be cured at this point. 
If there was no conflict at the time, then counsel should not have
agreed to a conflicting arbitration date. 
Counsel will need to explain to the other party in that case and the
arbitrator that counsel double-booked. 
That is not this court’s concern unless there was something unusual and
unique about that case.  Even then,
plaintiff’s counsel should have brought the conflict to this court’s attention
immediately—not a month before the trial date. 
In short, the conflict was something plaintiff’s counsel created
knowingly.  It is not cause for this
court to change its schedule.
 
Second, on May 5, 2023—eleven months before the stipulation
was filed—the court directed that mediation be completed on or before August
31, 2023.  That date was set with counsel
present and agreeing.  No party moved to
continue the mediation date.  For reasons
still not explained, both parties chose to ignore the court’s order.  The order was designed to allow mediation to
occur—and even leave time for a second day—well in advance of trial.  And it was done with the consent of all
parties.  The court hardly sees a choice
by the parties not to follow the court’s order as good cause to continue the
trial.
 
Finally, plaintiff’s counsel contends it just has not
finished its work.  In the order
rejecting the earlier stipulation, the court stated that the parties could try
again if they could “make a compelling showing of diligence.”  No showing has been made here.  Plaintiff’s counsel submitted a bare bones
declaration simply stating that more needed to be done.  There is no explanation of diligence, no
explanation as to why it is that things were not done earlier, no explanation
of unforeseen circumstances.  Merely
saying that a year is not enough time to do the work because the case is
complicated is not a showing of diligence. 
That is even more the case because the trial date was set with the
parties’ agreement and with the court specifically advising them to build some
time for things to go wrong into the schedule. 
(That was part of the court’s stock speech at the time.)  The fact that the parties were not diligent
is not good cause.  Relatedly,
plaintiff’s counsel states that it is awaiting a lien.  The court does not know why the lien has not
yet been received, nor is the court of the view that the lien is so unknown
that it precludes trial.  While the exact
dollar figure might not be known, it is hardly the sort of thing that is beyond
even estimation.  It seems more of a
makeweight argument than real cause.
 
In short, there is no cause to continue the trial.  Any prejudice is of the parties’ own making.
 
Lest the parties think the court is being unreasonable, the
court will take a moment to explain.  The
court has about 1000 cases on its docket. 
Each of them wants a trial date. 
The court assumes that 11 of 12 will settle or resolve without trial,
and that seems to the court to be realistic. 
But it does not leave a lot of wiggle room for the court.  In short, the court’s trial calendar is
severely congested.  Right now, the court
is setting initial trial dates out 18 months from the CMC—which is itself often
6 months after filing.  And that is
assuming 11 of 12 settle.  Worse, each
week, trials are set out even farther. 
In other words, if a CMC is delayed a week later, the trial is likely to
be set two weeks later.
 
When the court had 400-500 cases on its docket, it would
give initial unopposed continuances for a few months as a matter of
course.  But the court just no longer has
that luxury.  If the court continues this
case for four months, it means that another case—where the parties worked
diligently and are ready for trial—will be bumped.  The court could put this matter out until
October 2025, but even then it would simply add to the court’s trial
congestion.  In short, it is not fair to
the court or to other more diligent litigants to continue the trial.  If the court had the flexibility to grant the
request—even absent a showing of diligence—it would do so.  The court simply lacks that ability given the
trial docket.
 
The court reminds the parties that the FSC and trial dates
remain on the calendar.  They are to
submit all FSC documents on time. 
Failure to do so will result in sanctions.
 
All of that said, if there are other cases ready for trial
on 4/29/24, the court will allow them to take priority over this one and will
continue the trial on this case.  Right
now, there are three cases (including this one) set for trial on 4/29/24 and
one case that is set for trial on 4/22/24. 
If the 4/22/24 case goes, it will likely not be done on 4/29/24.  However, the court will not know if that case
is going or not until Friday.