


[1]
The supplemental Wafaa declaration states:
 
2. When an employee is hired, he provides his personal
email address to AGS. AGS then sends an email to the provided personal email
address to register that email address and a corresponding password in the
system to create a unique employee account in the dashboard system. Once the
employee account is created by the new employee in the dashboard system, no one
other than the employee (with his confidential password) can access this
employee's account. Furthermore, until and unless the employee creates an account
as described above, the dashboard system does not allow anyone to access the
system and execute any documents.  
 
3. An electronic signature in the name of "Carlos
Martinez Jr." could only have been placed on the April 13, 2022
Arbitration Agreement by a person using a unique login ID and his self-
assigned password. The date and time printed next to the electronic signature
indicated the date and time the electronic signature was made. All AGS
applicants are required to create and use their unique login ID and
self-assigned password known only to them and not communicated by an applicant
to AGS when they log into the Dashboard HR system and sign electronic forms and
agreements. 
 
4. AGS personnel do not use the link sent to an
applicant's personal email address to create a unique password for an applicant
or to access the Dashboard to in tum gain access to onboarding documents
requiring electronic signatures. AGS does not create unique passwords to access
the Dashboard system to place applicant electronic signatures on documents. The
electronic signature on the April 13, 2022 Arbitration Agreement was made by
Martinez on April 13, 2022 at 2:27 p.m. Martinez's unique password was used to
access the Agreement at the time on the timestamp.
 
(Supp.
Wafaa Decl., ¶¶ 2-4.)
 
Defendants
submitted the supplemental Wafaa declaration in reply.  If requested, Plaintiff should receive an
opportunity to respond.


[2]
Initially, Plaintiff brought his individual and representative PAGA claims in a
separate action (case number 23STCV07368), but the Court granted consolidation
on April 22, 2024, so the PAGA claims are at issue here.

