 Case Number:  22STCV07721    Hearing Date:   December 7, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


December
  , 2023




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV07721




MOTIONS:  


Compel
  Further Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One and Special
  Interrogatories, Set One




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Ricka Neider




OPPOSING PARTY:


None



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiff Ricka Neider (Plaintiff) moves to compel further responses
from Defendant CVS Pharmacy, Inc. (Defendant) to Requests for Form
Interrogatories, Set One and Special Interrogatories, Set One. Plaintiff also
seeks monetary sanctions. No opposition has been filed.
 
ANALYSIS
 
The
Court’s Eighth Amended Standing Order for Procedures in the Personal Injury Hub
requires counsel to participate in an Informal Discovery Conference (“IDC”)
before the Court will hear any motion to compel further responses to discovery.
There is no indication that Plaintiff filed an IDC statement with the Court. In
his motion, Plaintiff states that he scheduled an IDC for November 7, 2023.
(Motion, 5.) There is no indication this IDC took place. In addition, neither
motion is accompanied by a separate statement. (Cal. R. Ct. 3.1345(c).)
 
The
Court therefore denies the motions as procedurally defective. Accordingly, the
Court also denies Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court denies the motion to compel further discovery
responses and denies the requests for sanctions. 
 
Plaintiff is ordered to provide notice of the Court’s orders and file
a proof of service of such.