  Case Number:  19STCV07464    Hearing Date:   December 7, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


December
  7, 2023




CASE NUMBER:


19STCV07464




MOTIONS:  


Compel
  Supplemental Requests for Production and Interrogatories




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Mayank Jog 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            Defendant Mayank Jog (Defendant)
moves to compel Plaintiff Jean Colombelli’s (Plaintiff) responses to Supplemental
Request for Production of Documents, Set One and Supplemental Interrogatories,
Set One. No opposition has been filed.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Demand
for Production
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure Section 2031.300, if a party fails to
serve a timely response to a demand for inspection, the party making the demand
may move for an order compelling response to the demand. (Code Civ. Pro §
2031.300 (b).) The party who fails to serve a timely response to a demand for
inspection waives any objection to the demand unless the court finds that the
party has subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance or
party’s failure was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300 (a)(1)- (2).) 
 
Supplemental
Demand for Production
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.050 provides:
 
“(b) A party may propound a supplemental demand for inspection,
copying, testing, or sampling twice before the initial setting of a trial date,
and, subject to the time limits on discovery proceedings and motions provided
in Chapter 8 (commencing with Section 2024.010), once after the initial setting
of a trial date.
 
(Code
Civ. Proc. § 2031.050(b).)
 
Interrogatories
 
If a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a
timely response, the propounding party may move for an order compelling
responses. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.290 (b).) Failure to timely respond waives
all objections, including privilege and work product, unless “[t]he party has
subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance” and “[t]he
party’s failure to serve a timely response was the result of mistake,
inadvertence, or excusable neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290 (a)(1),
(a)(2).) The statute contains no time limit for a motion to compel where no
responses have been served and no meet and confer is required when a party does
not respond to discovery requests. All that need be shown in the moving papers
is that a set of interrogatories was properly served on the opposing party,
that the time to respond has expired, and that no response of any kind has been
served. (Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902, 905-906.) 
 
If a motion to compel responses is filed, the Court shall impose a
monetary sanction against the losing party “unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., §§
2030.290 (c).) Further, “[t]he court may award sanctions under the Discovery
Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no
opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn,
or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion
was filed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348(a).)
 
Supplemental
Interrogatories
 
            Code of Civil Procedure section
2030.070 provides:
 
            “(b) A party may propound a
supplemental interrogatory twice before the initial setting of a trial date,
and, subject to the time limits on discovery proceedings and motions provided
in Chapter 8 (commencing with Section 2024.010), once after the initial setting
of a trial date.”
 
(Code
Civ. Proc. § 2030.070(b).)
             
DISCUSSION
 
Defendant asserts that on May 26, 2023, Defendant served Plaintiff
with Defendant’s Supplemental Request for Production of Documents, Set One and
Supplemental Interrogatories, Set One. (Tsymbaloff Decl. ¶ 3.) No responses
have been served. (Tsymbaloff Decl. ¶ 5.) 
 
As an initial matter, Defendant appears to have filed the same motions
twice. Accordingly, the Court addresses one motion to compel Supplemental
Request for Production of Documents, Set One and one motion to compel
Supplemental Interrogatories, Set One. The Court grants the motions to compel.
 
Defendant requests sanctions in the amount of $410 for each motion (2
hours of attorney time at $175 plus the $60 filing fee). The Court finds the
amounts to be reasonable for two, rather than four motions. Accordingly, the
Court awards monetary sanctions in the amount of $820 total.
 
CONCLUSION
 
            The Court GRANTS Defendant’s motion to compel
Supplemental Request for Production of Documents, Set One, and motion to compel
Supplemental Interrogatories, Set One. Plaintiff shall serve verified
responses, without objection, within 20 days.
 
            The hearing set for December 11, 2023 is advanced and
vacated.
 
            Plaintiff and counsel for Plaintiff, jointly and
severally, shall pay $820 in monetary sanctions to counsel for Defendant.
 
            Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s order and
file a proof of service of such.