 Case Number:  23STCV03549    Hearing Date:   December 7, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


December
  7, 2023




CASE NUMBER:


23STCV03549




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Compel Arbitration




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Uber Technologies, Inc.




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed
  



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On February 17, 2023, Plaintiffs Melissa Dematos and Consuelo Clarence
Gouveia (Plaintiffs) filed a complaint against Defendants Uber Technologies
(“Uber”), Filmon Ayansa, and Does 1 to 20, alleging injuries from a motor
vehicle accident. Plaintiffs allege that on December 11, 2022, they were
passengers in Ayansa’s vehicle, who was driving for Uber. (Complaint, 5.) 
 
Uber now moves to compel arbitration and to stay the proceedings pending
completion of arbitration. No opposition has been filed.   
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
The Federal
Arbitration Act (FAA) governs a motion to compel arbitration when an agreement
provides its ‘enforcement’ shall be governed by the FAA. (Victrola
89, LLC v. Jamon Properties 8 LLC (2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 337, 346.) 
 
Parties may be compelled to arbitrate a
dispute upon the court finding that: (1) there was a valid agreement to
arbitrate between the parties; and (2) said agreement covers the controversy or
controversies in the parties’ dispute.¿(9 U.S.C., § 4;¿Chiron Corp. v. Ortho
Diagnostics Systems, Inc.¿(9th Cir. 2000) 207 F.3d 1126, 1130.) If the
finding is affirmative on both counts, the FAA requires the Court to enforce
the arbitration agreement in accordance with its terms. (Simula, Inc.
v. Autoliv, Inc.¿(9th Cir. 1999) 175 F.3d 716, 719–720.) ¿
 
“The petitioner
bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by
the preponderance of the evidence, and a party opposing the petition bears the
burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence any fact necessary to its
defense. In these summary proceedings, the trial court sits as a trier of fact,
weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other documentary evidence, as
well as oral testimony received at the court's discretion, to reach a final
determination.” (Giuliano v. Inland Empire Personnel, Inc. (2007) 149
Cal.App.4th 1276, 1284.) 
 
“If a court
of competent jurisdiction, whether in this State or not, has ordered
arbitration of a controversy which is an issue involved in an action or
proceeding pending before a court of this State, the court in which such action
or proceeding is pending shall, upon motion of a party to such action or
proceeding, stay the action or proceeding until an arbitration is had in
accordance with the order to arbitrate or until such earlier time as the court
specifies.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.4.)
 
DISCUSSION
 
Uber moves to
compel arbitration on the grounds that Plaintiffs agreed to arbitrate by
agreeing to its Terms of Service. The agreements read in pertinent part:
 
“(a)
Agreement to Binding Arbitration Between You and Uber.
Except as
expressly provided below in Section 2(b), you and Uber agree that any dispute,
claim or controversy in any way arising out of or relating to (i) these Terms
and prior versions of these Terms, or the existence, breach, termination,
enforcement, interpretation, scope, waiver, or validity thereof, (ii) your
access to or use of the Services at any time, (iii) incidents or accidents
resulting in personal injury that you allege occurred in connection with your
use of the Services, whether the dispute, claim or controversy occurred or
accrued before or after the date you agreed to the Terms, or (iv) your
relationship with Uber, will be settled by binding arbitration between you and
Uber, and not in a court of law. This Agreement survives after your relationship
with Uber ends. …
(c) …Notwithstanding
any choice of law or other provision in the Terms, the parties agree and
acknowledge that this Arbitration Agreement evidences a transaction involving
interstate commerce and that the Federal Arbitration Act, 9 U.S.C. § 1 et. Seq.
(‘FAA’), will govern its interpretation and enforcement and proceedings
pursuant thereto. It is the intent of the parties to be bound by the provisions
of the FAA for all purposes, including, but not limited to, interpretation,
implementation, enforcement, and administration of this Arbitration Agreement,
and that the FAA and AAA Rules shall preempt all state laws to the fullest
extent permitted by law. …”
(Gaddis Dec. Ex. D and K, at
Section 2.)
 
First, the
FAA governs the agreement according to the explicit terms. (Gaddis Dec. Ex. D
and K, at Section 2.) Uber presents evidence that Plaintiff Gouveia registered
for an Uber account on June 8, 2019 and accepted Uber’s Terms of Use, which
included an arbitration agreement. Gouveia then agreed to Uber’s updated terms
on April 10, 2021, September 10, 2022, and March 28, 2023. (Gaddis Dec. ¶¶ 7-12;
Ex. A-D.) Uber further presents evidence that Plaintiff Dematos registered for
an Uber account on May 17, 2016 and accepted Uber’s Terms of Use, which
included an arbitration agreement. Dematos then agreed to Uber’s updated terms
on March 14, 2021 and January 1, 2022. (Gaddis Dec. ¶¶ 14-23, Ex. H-L.)
 
Second, the
agreement provides that all disputes and claims between Uber and Plaintiffs
involving any accidents resulting in personal injury will be resolved by
binding arbitration. Therefore, because Uber maintains Plaintiffs were using
its services when the accident occurred, Uber has met its burden that the
agreement covers the present controversy. 
 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Therefore, Defendant Uber Technologies, Inc.’s motion to compel
arbitration and stay all judicial proceedings against Uber pending the
completion of arbitration is GRANTED.
 
The Court sets the matter for an
Order to Show Cause Re Dismissal due to Completion of Arbitration Proceedings
for June 7, 2024 at 8:30 a.m. in Department 32 of the Spring Street Courthouse.
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service of such. 
 