  Case Number:  23AHCV00455    Hearing Date:   October 26, 2023    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:      October 26, 2023                                            TRIAL
DATE: No date set. 
                                                           
CASE:                         AGUSTIN LOPEZ, an
individual, v. AMERICAN HONDA MOTOR CO., INC. a California Corporation, and
DOES 1 through 10, inclusive.  
 
CASE NO.:                 23AHCV00455
 
            
 
MOTION
TO COMPEL ARBITRATION

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant American Honda Motor Co.,
Inc. 
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      Plaintiff
Agustin Lopez
 
SERVICE:                              Filed July 28, 2023
 
OPPOSITION:                       Filed October 13, 2023
 
REPLY:                                   Filed October 19, 2023 
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
             Defendant American Honda Motor
Co., Inc. (“Defendant”) moves for an order compelling Plaintiff Agustin Lopez
(“Plaintiff”) to submit this case to binding arbitration. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
             This case arises out of Plaintiff’s lemon law
claim for the purchase of a 2019 Acura MDX, Vehicle Identification Number
5J8YD3H54KL003110 (“Subject Vehicle”). Plaintiff allegedly purchased the
Subject Vehicle on July 18, 2022. Plaintiff filed this complaint on March 2,
2023. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Defendant’s
motion to compel arbitration is DENIED.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
“California
and federal law both favor enforcement of valid arbitration agreements.” (Aanderud
v. Superior Court (2017) 13 Cal.App.5th 880, 889.) “A party who files
a motion to compel arbitration ‘bears the burden of proving the existence of a
valid arbitration agreement by the preponderance of the evidence, and a party
opposing the petition bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence
any fact necessary to its defense.’’ (Cisnero Alverez v. Altamed Health
Services Corporation (2021) 60 Cal.App.5th 572, 580.) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Arbitration Provision 
 
            Defendant moves for an order compelling Plaintiff to submit this claim to
binding arbitration based on the provision contained in the purchase agreement.
 
            The
arbitration agreement at issue here provides, in part: “Any claim or dispute,
whether in contract, tort, statute or otherwise (including the interpretation
and scope of this Arbitration Provision, and the arbitrability of the
claim  or dispute), between you and us or
our employees, agents, successors or assigns, which arises out of or relates to
your credit application, purchase or condition of this vehicle, this contract
or any resulting transaction or relationship (including any such relationship
with third parties who do not sign this contract) shall, at your or our
election, be resolved by neutral, binding arbitration and not by court action.”
(Miner Decl. ¶ 9, Exhibit 1 at p. 16.) 
 
            As a
preliminary matter, Defendant argues that the warranty for the Subject Vehicle
is part of the purchase agreement as a matter of law. However, “California law
does not treat manufacturer warranties imposed outside the four corners of a
retail sale contract as part of the sale contract.” (Ford Motor Warranty Cases (2023)
89 Cal.App.5th 1324, 1335 “Ochoa”.) The court recognizes that this issue is
pending before the California Supreme Court. (Ford Motor Warranty Cases (2023)
532 P.3d 270.) California courts, with review of this issue pending, have
chosen to agree with the reasoning stated in Ochoa. (See Kielar v. Superior Court (2023) 94 Cal.App.5th 614, 620.) This court
agrees with Ochoa. 
 
            Equitable Estoppel
 
            Defendant
argues that equitable estoppel should apply to allow it to enforce the contract
as a nonsignatory.
 
            “As a general
rule, only a party to an arbitration agreement may enforce the agreement.”
(Felisilda
v. FCA US LLC (2020) 53 Cal.App.5th 486, 495 (“Felisilda”.)
However, “a nonsignatory defendant may invoke an
arbitration clause to compel a signatory plaintiff to arbitrate its claims when
the causes of action against the nonsignatory are ‘intimately founded in and
intertwined’ with the underlying contract obligations.” (JSM Tuscany,
LLC v. Superior Court (2011) 193 Cal.App.4th 1222, 1237.) “By relying on
contract terms in a claim against a nonsignatory defendant, even if not
exclusively, a plaintiff may be equitably estopped from repudiating the
arbitration clause contained in that agreement.” (Boucher v. Alliance Title
Co., Inc (2005) 127 Cal.App.4th 262, 272.)
 
            Defendant
argues that this court should follow the reasoning in Felisilda and that
equitable estoppel applies because it is an assignee of the dealership.
Although Defendant claims it was assigned the purchase agreement, it fails to
demonstrate that is the case. Defendant’s attached declaration does not provide
it was assigned the purchase agreement nor does the evidence cited in the
motion at page two line nine demonstrate assignment. Further, even if Defendant
were to demonstrate it was an assignee of the dealership, its argument that
equitable estoppel applies fails.
 
            In
Felisilda, supra, 53 Cal.App.5th at p. 490, the Court’s analysis of
whether the plaintiff’s claims were intertwined with the sales agreement began
with an evaluation of the language of the arbitration clause at issue. The
arbitration clause in Felisilda encompassed “[a]ny claim or dispute . .
. which arises out of or relates to . . . condition of this vehicle, this
contract or any resulting transaction or relationship (including any such
relationship with third parties who do not sign this contract . . ..” (Id.
at p. 490.) The Court held that because the plaintiffs “expressly agreed
to arbitrate claims arising out of the condition of the vehicle – even against
third party nonsignatories to the sales contract – they are estopped from
refusing to arbitrate their claim against [the defendant].” (Id. at p.
497.) 
 
            However,
another California Court of Appeals, in Ochoa, supra, 89 Cal.App.5th
1324 disagreed with the reasoning and conclusion in Felsilda. The Court
in Ochoa concluded that the plaintiffs’ warranty claims were not based
on their sales contract. (Id. at p. 1334.) As previously stated, the
Court in Ochoa specifically ruled that “California
law does not treat manufacturer warranties imposed outside the four corners of
a retail sale contract as part of the sale contract.” (Id. at p. 1335.) Additionally, the Court also stated that
the language of the arbitration provision did not provide that the plaintiffs
had consent to arbitrate claims with third party nonsignatories. (Id. at
p. 1334.) Rather, the court interpreted the language as listing the subject
matter of claims the plaintiffs agreed to arbitrate with the dealers. (Id.
at p. 1335.) 
 
Defendant argues that the sales contract with
the arbitration provision directly supply the basis for Plaintiff’s warranty
claims. The Court in Ochoa rejected a similar argument. The Court
stated: “[O]ur Supreme Court distinguished
between, on the one hand, warranty obligations flowing from the seller to the
buyer by contract, and, on the other hand, manufacturer warranties ‘that arise[
] independently of a contract of sale between the
parties.’ ” (Ochoa, supra, 89 Cal.App.5th at p. 1336.) The Court held that
“independent manufacturer warranties are not part of, but are independent from,
retail sale contracts.” (Ibid.)
 
            Here, the
court opts to follow the decision in Ochoa and holds that Plaintiff’s
warranty claims are not intimately founded in and intertwined with the sales
contract. 
 
            Third
Part Beneficiary
 
            Defendant also argues that it may enforce the arbitration
provision as third-party beneficiaries. 
 
Civil Code
section 1559 provides: “A contract, made expressly for the benefit of a
third person, may be enforced by him at any time before the parties thereto
rescind it.” The California Supreme Court in Goonewardene v. ADP, LLC (2019)
6 Cal.5th 817, 830 stated that the following elements must be present for a
third-party to move forward with a claim: “(1) whether the third party would in
fact benefit from the contract, but also (2) whether a motivating purpose of
the contracting parties was to provide a benefit to the third party, and (3)
whether permitting a third party to bring its own breach of contract action
against a contracting party is consistent with the objectives of the contract
and the reasonable expectations of the contracting parties.”
 
However, “ ‘the “mere fact that a
contract results in benefits to a third party does not render that party a
‘third party beneficiary.’ ” ’ [Citation.] Nor does knowledge that the third
party may benefit from the contract suffice.” (Ochoa, supra, 89
Cal.App.5th at p., 1336.)  
 
            Defendant argues
that it is a third-party beneficiary because the provision contemplates types
of disputes such as the one that gives rise to the current case. Even if true,
Defendant’s argument fails to address the other requirements to enforce the
arbitration provision as a third-party beneficiary. Defendant’s arguments that
it is a third-party beneficiary are unavailing.
 
CONCLUSION
 
            Defendant’s
motion to compel arbitration is DENIED.
 
            Moving
Party to give notice. 
 
 
 
            
Dated:   October 26,
2023                                           ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court


Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the court
indicating their 
intention to submit.  alhdeptx@lacourt.org
