..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the summary in YAML format:

```yaml
Case Number: 24STCV17242
Plaintiff's Name: Raffi Sadejyan
Defendant's Name: Dreamstyle Remodeling of California, LLC
People-Names: Raffi Sadejyan, Michelle C. Kim
Company-Names: Dreamstyle Remodeling of California, LLC, AAA (Arbitration Association)
Places: Los Angeles, California
Dates: May 9, 2022, August 9, 2023, August 2, 2023, September 16, 2024, October 3, 2024, October 10, 2024, October 17, 2024, October 18, 2024
Events: Employment, Termination, Arbitration, Motion to Compel Arbitration, Opposition, Reply
Money: $20,000 (commissions)
Intentions: Plaintiff seeks to compel arbitration, Defendant seeks to compel arbitration and stay proceedings
Facts: Plaintiff was employed by Defendant as a Design/Sales Representative from May 9, 2022 to August 9, 2023, Plaintiff complained about lack of payment and misclassification, and Plaintiff was terminated from his employment.
Disputes: Breach of Contract, Promissory Estoppel, Retaliation, Unfair Business Practices, Wrongful Termination, Failure to Pay Minimum, Regular, And Overtime Wages, Failure to Pay Waiting Time (Wage Continuation) Penalties, Failure to Provide Accurate, Itemized Wage Statements, Failure to Produce Personnel File and Payroll Records
Acts: Defendant filed the instant petition to compel the matter to arbitration, Plaintiff filed an opposition, and Defendant filed a reply.
Agreements: Arbitration Policy, Code of Civil Procedure sections 1281.2 and 1281.4, California Rules of Court, rule 3.1330
Laws: Federal Arbitration Act, California Civil Code sections 1636, 1654, 1368, Code of Civil Procedure sections 1281.2, 1281.4
Case Citations: Winter v. Window Fashions Professions, Inc. (2008), Avery v. Integrated Healthcare Holdings, Inc. (2013), Engalla v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997), Pinnacle Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012), Hyundai Amco America, Inc. v. S3H, Inc. (2014), Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare Servs. (2000), Crippen v. Central Valley RV Outlet. Inc. (2004)
Statutes: California Civil Code, California Code of Civil Procedure
Roles: Judge, Plaintiff, Defendant, Arbitrator
Significant Statements:
- The party moving to compel arbitration must establish the existence of a written arbitration agreement between the parties.
- A petition to compel arbitration or to stay proceedings pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure sections 1281.2 and 1281.4 must state, in addition to other required allegations, the provisions of the written agreement and the paragraph that provides for arbitration.
- The moving party must also establish the other party’s refusal to arbitrate the controversy.
- The court’s first task is to determine whether the parties have in fact agreed to arbitrate the dispute.
- An arbitration agreement “must be so interpreted as to give effect to the mutual intention of the parties as it existed at the time of contracting, so far as the same is ascertainable and lawful.”
- The language of the contract governs its interpretation if it is clear and explicit.
- If uncertainty exists, “the language of a contract should be interpreted most strongly against the party who caused the uncertainty to exist.”
- The party seeking to compel arbitration bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by the preponderance of the evidence.
- The burden shifts to Plaintiff to establish any defense, such as unconscionability.
- In summary proceedings, the trial court sits as a trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other documentary evidence, as well as oral testimony received at the court’s discretion, to reach a final determination.
```

And here is a summary of the judge's tentative ruling in English text:

The court has issued a tentative ruling granting Defendant's motion to compel arbitration. The court finds that Defendant has met its burden of demonstrating the existence of an arbitration agreement between the parties and that the subject claims are within the scope of the arbitration agreement. The court also finds that Plaintiff's opposition to the motion lacks merit, as Plaintiff has not shown any procedural or substantive unconscionability. As a result, the court grants Defendant's motion to compel arbitration and stays the proceedings pending arbitration.
