  Case Number:  24STCV14488    Hearing Date:   October 18, 2024    Dept:  78  Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles Department 78 ¿ HISHAM HARAKE, Plaintiff(s), vs. HOCHIKI AMERICA CORPORATION, et al., Defendant(s). Case No.: 24STCV14488 Hearing Date: October 18, 2024   [TENTATIVE] ORDER (1) GRANTING MOTION TO TRANSFER VENUE, (2) DENYING MOTION TO QUASH SERVICE OF SUMMONS  I. BACKGROUND Plaintiff Hisham Harake (“Plaintiff”) filed this employment action against defendants Hochiki America Corporation (“HAC”), Hochiki Corporation (“HC”), and Does 1 through 10 alleging that Plaintiff was unlawfully terminated from his employment based on discriminatory practices favoring Japanese employees over non-Japanese employees, age, and Plaintiff’s protected complaints of illegal activities. (Compl. ¶ 15.) On August 1, 2024, HAC filed a motion to transfer venue to Orange County, in addition to seeking monetary sanctions. Plaintiff opposes the motion, and HAC filed a reply. On August 15, 2024, HC filed a motion to quash service of summons on the grounds that the Court lacks personal jurisdiction over it. Plaintiff opposes the motion and HC filed a reply and objection to Plaintiff’s evidence. HAC’s motion to transfer venue was initially heard on October 9, 2024, wherein the hearing was continued to October 18, 2024 to the same day as HC’s motion to quash service of summons.  II. MOTION TO TRANSFER VENUE Legal Standard “[I]n the absence of an affirmative showing to the contrary, the presumption is that the county in which the title of the action shows that it is brought is, prima facie, the proper county for the commencement and trial of the action. [Citations.]” (Smith v. Stanford Research Institute¿(1963) 212 Cal.App.2d 750, 753.) However, Code of Civil Procedure section 395, subdivisions (a) provide: “Except as otherwise provided by law and subject to the power of the court to transfer actions or proceedings as provided in this title, the superior court in the county where the defendants or some of them reside at the commencement of the action is the proper court for the trial of the action.” Discussion The FEHA's exemption provision regarding venue provides:¿“[A FEHA] action may be brought in any county in the state in which the unlawful practice is alleged to have been committed, in the county in which the records relevant to the practice are maintained and administered, or in the county in which the aggrieved person would have worked or would have had access to the public accommodation but for the alleged unlawful practice, but if the defendant is not found within any of these counties, an action may be brought within the county of the defendant's residence or principal office.”¿(Cal. Gov’t Code § 12965(b).) The plain language of the statute indicates that “[i]f none of the three enumerated criteria are satisfied, then venue rests in the county of the defendant's principal office or residence.” (Ford Motor Credit Co. v. Sup. Ct. (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 306, 310.)¿This provision regarding venue applies to actions that are solely based on FEHA claims and those that involve FEHA claims, among causes of action that contain “the same factual allegations and were based on the same allegedly discriminatory practices.” (Brown v. Sup. Ct. (1984) 37 Cal.3d 477, 487.)¿¿ Here, a review of the complaint does not demonstrate that any injury or liability arose in Los Angeles County. The complaint omits any specific reference to where any of the alleged unlawful practices were committed. Additionally, there is no supporting evidence offered to indicate the obligation or liability arose in Los Angeles County. Plaintiff argues that Los Angeles County is an appropriate venue because of the time he spent working remotely in Los Angeles, particularly due to his romantic relationships in Los Angeles, and cites to Malloy v. Superior Ct. (2022) 83 Cal. App. 5th 543. The Court finds Malloy be inapplicable to the facts of this matter. In Malloy, the plaintiff alleged in her complaint that she was working with her employer’s consent from her home in Los Angeles due to the COVID-10 pandemic, and that she was told she could continue to work in her home during and after her pregnancy. However, as alleged in the complaint, she was told that she had to return to work in-person at her employer’s Orange County office, which was inconsistent with the prior assurance that plaintiff could work from home, and that her refusal to return led to her termination. Based on those allegations, venue was proper in Los Angeles County as “the county in which the aggrieved person would have worked ... but for the alleged unlawful practice.” (Id. at 556.) In contrast, here Plaintiff simply argues that the main office in Buena Park is on the border of Orange and Los Angeles Counties, such that he was able to spend considerable time in Los Angeles and still get to the office. There is no nexus between Plaintiff’s ability to also work remotely in Los Angeles and the alleged wrongful acts, nor are there any allegations in the complaint tying the wrongful acts to Los Angeles County. In contrast, HAC proffers the declaration of its Human Resources Manager, who attests that HAC maintains all personnel records for its employees in Buena Park, no employment records related to Plaintiff are in Los Angeles County, that HAC hired Plaintiff on August 3, 1990 to work at HAC’s office in Orange County, HAC’s business records indicate Plaintiff lived in Orange County for the entire duration of his employment and that he worked at HAC’s office in Orange County, Plaintiff oversaw HAC’s operations as President/Chief Executive Officer from Buena Park, and that Plaintiff would have continued working in an reporting to HAC in Buena Park. (Well Decl. ¶¶ 4-10.) Additionally, most Plaintiff’s opposing arguments focus on non-moving party HC, not HAC, which the Court finds unavailing for a few reasons: (1) the arguments concerning HC are contrary to the complaint’s allegations (Compl. ¶3) and not particularly relevant to rebut HAC’s contentions, (2) Plaintiff acknowledges that HAC’s main office is in Orange County, and (3) there is no evidence or allegations tying any of the causes of action to Los Angeles County. Plaintiff’s conclusion that “strong policy” allows plaintiffs to assert a wide choice for FEHA actions is not persuasive. There is no public policy exception in the FEHA statute – there are factors a plaintiff must still meet to ensure an equitable and fair case for all involved. (See Gov’t Code § 12965).) Given all the above, Plaintiff has provided the Court with no ground to maintain the action in Los Angeles County under FEHA, and HAC has sufficiently demonstrated that the action should be maintained in Orange County because venue in Los Angeles County is improper under Gov’t Code § 12965(b). Conclusion & Order HAC’s motion to transfer venue is GRANTED.¿ This matter is ordered transferred to Orange County with Plaintiff to pay any transfer fees.¿ HAC’s request for sanctions is DENIED as Plaintiff provides he had reason to believe Los Angeles was a proper venue, even though he did not ultimately prevail in opposing the motion.  III. MOTION TO QUASH SERVICE OF SUMMONS Legal Standard California’s long-arm statute permits a court to exercise personal jurisdiction on any basis consistent with state or federal constitutional principles. (C.C.P. §410.10.) “Personal jurisdiction may be either general or specific. A nonresident defendant may be subject to the general jurisdiction of the forum if his or her contacts in the forum state are ‘substantial . . . continuous and systematic.’ In such a case, ‘it is not necessary that the specific cause of action alleged be connected with the defendant’s business relationship to the forum.’ Such a defendant’s contacts with the forum are so wide-ranging that they take the place of physical presence in the forum as a basis for jurisdiction.” (Vons Companies, Inc. v. Seabest Foods, Inc. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 434, 445-446 (citations omitted).) “If the nonresident defendant does not have substantial and systematic contacts in the forum sufficient to establish general jurisdiction, he or she still may be subject to the specific jurisdiction of the forum, if the defendant has purposefully availed himself or herself of forum benefits, and the ‘controversy is related to or ‘arises out of’ a defendant’s contacts with the forum.’” (Id. at pg. 446, citations omitted.) The purposeful availment test is only satisfied if the defendant purposefully and voluntarily directs its activities toward California so that the defendant should expect, because of the benefits it receives, to be subject to jurisdiction here based on its contacts with California. (Snowney v. Harrah’s Entertainment, Inc. (2005) 35 Cal.4th 1054, 1062.) Purposeful availment occurs when a nonresident defendant purposefully directs its activities at California residents, deliberately engages in significant activities here, or creates “continuing obligations” between itself and California residents.¿ (Id. at 1063.) Although the defendant is the moving party, the burden of proof is on the plaintiff to demonstrate sufficient minimum contacts exist. (Milhon v. Superior Court (1985) 169 Cal.App.3d 703, 710 [“[W]hen jurisdiction is challenged by a nonresident defendant, the burden of proof is upon the plaintiff to demonstrate that ‘minimum contacts’ exists between defendant and the forum state to justify imposition of personal jurisdiction.”]; see also Floveyor International, Ltd. V. Superior Court (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 789, 793.) If the plaintiff is able to meet this burden, the burden shifts to the defendant to demonstrate the exercise of jurisdiction would be unreasonable. (Buchanan v. Soto (2015) 241 Cal.App.4th 1353, 1362.) Request for Judicial Notice & Evidentiary Objections HC requests the Court to take judicial notice of the 2024 Statement of Information filed with the California Secretary of State by HAC. The request is granted. (Cal. Evid. Code § 452(h).) HC objects to Plaintiff’s declaration primarily on the grounds of relevance and lacking foundation. The Court finds that Plaintiff has sufficiently laid foundation for his personal knowledge due to his three decades of employment and his high-level position as President and CEO of HAC. (Harake Decl. ¶ 2.) As such, the objections are not material to the disposition of this motion but are preserved. (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(q).) Discussion Propriety of Personal Jurisdiction As discussed above, although HC is the moving party, Plaintiff bears the burden to prove sufficient minimum contacts with this forum exist that justify exercising personal jurisdiction over the non-resident Defendant. (Milhon, supra, 169 Cal.App.3d at 710.) Plaintiff must meet his initial burden by a preponderance of competent and relevant evidence, as shown in affidavits and documentary evidence. (See Ziller Electronics Lab GmbH v. Superior Court (1988) 206 Cal.App.3d 1222, 1232-1233.) Plaintiff submits his own affidavit and documents arguing that he was jointly employed by HAC and HC, because HC was directly involved in directing his employment. For example, Plaintiff regularly reported to and took instruction from senior management at HC in Japan (Harake Decl. ¶ 2), and that every major decision regarding his employment, from promotion to termination, was made by HC. (Id. ¶ 3.) Plaintiff argues that for over a decade, he communicated with HC executives regarding all critical aspects of HAC’s operations, and had weekly business operation meetings with HC management without input from HAC’s local management. (Id. ¶ 6.) Plaintiff contends HC’s direct involvement made HAC an extension of HC’s operational arm, and that HC’s considerable influence over HAC’s operations and external relationships underscores that real control over HAC always resided in Japan. (Id. ¶ 7.) Plaintiff proceeds to detail in his declaration HC’s direct involvement with HAC, from business operations, shared branding and marketing, financial and budgetary control, influence over employment benefits, control over HAC’s board and leadership, and proffers documents supporting HC’s involvement in Plaintiff’s employment and termination (Harake Decl. Exhs. 1-5). General jurisdiction arises out continuous contacts with a state that are so substantial and of such a nature as to justify suit against the party on causes of action arising from dealings entirely distinct from those activities. (Daimler AG v. Bauman (2014) 571 U.S. 117, 126-127.)¿General jurisdiction is an “exacting standard”, and the Court finds none here due to the lack of evidence of pervasive contact with California. (Calvert v. Huckins (1995) 875 F. Supp. 674, 677.)  By contrast, specific jurisdiction has “become the centerpiece of modern jurisdiction theory, while general jurisdiction [has played] a reduced role.”¿(Goodyear Dunlop Tires Operations, S.A. v. Brown (2011) 564 U.S. 915, 925.)¿“Specific jurisdiction is determined under a three-part test: (1) the nonresident defendant must do some act or consummate some transaction with the forum or perform some act by which he purposefully avails himself of the privilege of conducting activities in the forum, thereby invoking the benefits and protections of its laws; (2) the claim must be one which arises out of or results from the defendant’s forum-related activities; and (3) exercise of jurisdiction must be reasonable.” (Jewish Defense Organization, Inc. v. Superior Court (1999) 72 Cal.App.4th 1045, 1054.)¿Here, the Court finds that Plaintiff has demonstrated by a preponderance of evidence that HC purposely availed itself to California by asserting control over HAC’s activities beyond a mere supervisory or executive function, that Plaintiff’s employment claims arises from HC’s business related activities, and that the exercise of jurisdiction is reasonable since haling HC into this jurisdiction does not appear to be the result of “random,” “fortuitous,” or “attenuated contacts” (Burger King Corp. v. Rudzewicz (1985) 471 U.S. 462, 472.) Because Plaintiff has met his initial burden, the burden shifts to HC to demonstrate that the exercise of jurisdiction would be unreasonable. (See Vons, supra, 14 Cal.4th 434 at 449 [ “Once facts showing minimum contacts with the forum state are established, however, it becomes the defendant’s burden to demonstrate that the exercise of jurisdiction would be unreasonable.” (citations omitted).].) HC asserts that its sole connection in this lawsuit is that it is the sole shareholder of HAC, and that its actions were nothing more than normal shareholder functions, such that it would be unreasonable and unfair to exercise specific jurisdiction. In support thereof, HC proffers the translated declaration of its Representative Director/President/Chief Executive Officer Hajime Hosoi (“Mr. Hosoi”), in addition to the declaration of HAC’s Director/President/Chief Executive Office Jun Tamura (“Mr. Tamura”). Mr. Tamura declares that the final paycheck to Plaintiff was paid by HAC and that the COBRA notice given to Plaintiff states his health coverage was provided by HAC. (Id. ¶¶ 6-7.) Mr. Hosoi’s declaration, which appears to be unsigned (the original), declares HC has never done business in California, that HC’s accounting firm is in Japan whereas HAC’s is in California, that the entities have separate board of directors, and that HC does not handle HAC’s routine employment and human resources issues. (Hosoi Decl.) HC relies primarily on F. Hoffman-La Roche, Inc. v. Superior Court (2005) 130 Cal.App.4th 782 (F. Hoffman) in support of its position that it only had general executive control over HAC for there to be any purposeful availment with California. Indeed, it is the “rare occasion” where a court is willing to treat a parent and subsidiary as one entity for jurisdictional purposes. (Id. at 797; Calvert v. Huckins (1995) 875 F. Supp. 674, 678.) “The control exercised must be “over and above that to be expected as an incident of the parent's ownership of the subsidiary and must reflect the parent's purposeful disregard of the subsidiary's independent corporate existence.” [Citations].” (F. Hoffman, 130 Cal. App. 4th at 798.) “As a practical matter, the parent must be shown to have moved beyond the establishment of general policy and direction for the subsidiary and in effect taken over performance of the subsidiary's day-to-day operations in carrying out that policy. [Citations.]”. (Ibid.). Thus, the Court must assess whether “The doctrine supports the exercise of jurisdiction when the local subsidiary performs a function that is compatible with, and assists the parent in the pursuit of, the parent's own business, but the doctrine does not support jurisdiction where the parent is merely a holding company whose only business pursuit is the investment in the subsidiary.” (Sonora Diamond Corp. v. Superior Ct. (2000) 83 Cal. App. 4th 523, 543 (Sonora Diamond) (emphasis original).)  Based on Plaintiff’s declaration, the Court cannot say that HC was merely a passive parent holding company. Plaintiff attests that for over a decade, he had weekly meetings directly with HC management regarding business operations without input from HAC’s local management (Plaintiff Decl. ¶ 6), which would indicate that there were no arm’s length dealings between HC and HAC such that the two companies should be treated separately. The Court finds Hc’s reliance on F. Hoffman to be distinguishable from the instant matter. F. Hoffman involved a lawsuit against six “Roche Group” pharmaceutical companies, including Swiss defendants Roche Holding and F. Hoffman, and two U.S. Roche companies domiciled in New Jersey. Roche Holding argued it was simply a passive parent holding company that invests in pharmaceutical companies, and the allegations of plaintiffs themselves cast Roche Holding as a mere parent holding company. The F. Hoffman court found the exercise of jurisdiction over the Swiss defendants based solely on the global exchange and management of medical and scientific information relative to drug safety and regulatory compliance offends constitutional due process considerations to be improper. There, the court found no evidence of the Swiss defendant’s own direct minimum contacts or purposeful availment of the forum, and “there was nothing to suggest that either Swiss defendant was even involved in these managerial operations or that the U.S. Roche defendants did not actually function as independent entities.” (F. Hoffman, supra, 130 Cal. App. 4th at 800.) In contrast, Plaintiff’s detailed declaration suggests that HC was directly involved in managerial operations, and that despite the two companies having separate accounts and having separate board of directors, that HC exercised control over the internal affairs of the subsidiary. (Sonora Diamond, supra, 83 Cal.App.4th at p. 543 [“‘[I]f a parent uses a subsidiary to do what it otherwise would have done itself, it has purposely availed itself of the privilege of doing business in the forum.’”.].) Under the circumstances of this particular case, the Court cannot say that the exercise of jurisdiction would be unreasonable based on the foregoing. Service of Process HC’s last argument is that Plaintiff failed to follow the Hague Treaty for service of process, and therefore California courts do not have jurisdiction over it. Plaintiff asserts that HC previously did not challenge the propriety of service on HC via Mr. Tabuki, and therefore have admitted that jurisdiction is proper. In reply, HC argues that Plaintiff has provided no authority that its counsel waived the right to challenge the method of service.  Neither HC nor Plaintiff develop their respective arguments by providing any relevant authority. Nonetheless, the Court will briefly address the issue. The Court finds Yamaha Motor Co., Ltd. v. Superior Court (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 264 to be relevant here. In Yamaha, the question was “whether a Japanese manufacturer can be served under California law simply by serving the Japanese manufacturer's American subsidiary.” (Id. at 267.) The Court of Appeal’s answer was, “yes, it really is that easy.” There is no need to serve papers on a foreign manufacturer in accord with the Hague Service Convention, where service of process on the foreign manufacturer was validly performed under California law by serving papers on its American subsidiary; the California procedure does not necessarily require transmission of documents for service abroad. (Id. at 269.) According to Plaintiff, HC appointed Mr. Tabuki as a director of HAC. (Harake Decl. ¶ 16.) It is also undisputed that Mr. Tabuki is the registered agent for HAC, and that HAC is HC’s California/U.S.A. based subsidiary. As a director of HAC, it is reasonably certain that Mr. Tabuki would apprise the “foreign” company (i.e. HC) of any service in California, which was apparently done considering HC’s prior counsel James Ebert confirmed receipt of the complaint on behalf of both HC and HAC to Plaintiff’s counsel and received an extension to file a responsive pleading. (See Cosper v. Smith & Wesson Arms Co. (1959) 53 Cal. 2d 77, 83.) The Hague Convention is thus not implicated here, and the Court finds service to be proper. Conclusion HC’s motion to quash service of summons is DENIED.  IV. CONCLUSION HC’s motion to quash service of summons is DENIED. HAC’s motion to transfer venue is GRANTED.¿ This matter is ordered transferred to Orange County with Plaintiff to pay any transfer fees.  Moving Party is ordered to give notice.  DATED: October 17, 2024 __________________________ Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court  PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: • Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. • If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the court at SMCDEPT78@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number. The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting. • Unless all parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument. You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue. • If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court. After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave. 