 Case Number:  21STCV25794    Hearing Date:   June 5, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  JACK SHULKEY, Plaintiff(s), vs.  JANE LOREG, ET AL., Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) Case No.: 21STCV25794  [TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING MOTION TO COMPEL COMPLIANCE WITH DEPOSITION SUBPOENA OF NON-PARTY  Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  June 5, 2024  I.  MOTION TO COMPEL COMPLIANCE WITH DEPOSITION SUBPOENA Plaintiff Jack Shulkey (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendant Jane Loreg (“Defendant”) for damages arising from a motor vehicle incident. Defendant seeks the production of business records from VA Long Beach Healthcare System (“VA Long Beach”). Plaintiff testified he received treatment at VA Long Beach for injuries arising from the incident. Defendant served VA Long Beach through Defendant’s subpoena vendor, seeking:  “[Any and all documents and medical records pertaining to the examination, care, diagnosis, and treatment of the patient, including but not limited to all office, emergency room, inpatient and outpatient charts and records, nurses' and doctors' notes, radiological reports, color photographs or laser colored copies of photographs, physical therapy and rehabilitation records including all descriptions of exercises prescribed; any and all records regarding prescriptions, including the type of medication, date prescription was filled, doctor who wrote the prescription, instructions on taking the medication, and dosage; and any other information available regarding the prescription(s); sign-in sheets, and documentation which indicate date(s) and time(s) of patients' appointments. Records from 2006 - Present.” (Mot. Exh. B.)  Defendant contends its subpoena vendor advised defense counsel that the custodian of records for VA Long Beach refused to comply with the subpoena without an authorization form signed by Plaintiff. Plaintiff’s counsel did not respond to defense counsel’s request for the signed authorization. Therefore, Defendant seeks an order compelling VA Long Beach to comply with the deposition subpoena for Plaintiff’s medical records and for VA Long Beach to pay monetary sanctions.  The motion was initially filed on December 7, 2023, and denied without prejudice on March 1, 2024 on the grounds that Defendant failed to personally serve the moving papers to the non-party in which she seeks compliance. (Min. Order, March 1, 2024.)  On May 8, 2024, the motion was denied once more due to the failure to provide proper statutory notice in compliance with CCP §1005. (Min. Order, May 8, 2024.) The motion was therefore continued to June 5, 2024 to provide Defendant the opportunity to cure the defect. (Ibid.) Defendant has now cured the defect by filing proof of service that VA Long Beach was personally served, through its records supervisor Sharon Reed, with the moving papers on May 10, 2024. (Proof of Service, May 13, 2024.)   II. CONCLUSION Accordingly, Defendant’s motion to compel compliance with deposition subpoena for production of business records is GRANTED. Non-party VA Long Beach is ordered to produce documents responsive to the Defendant’s subpoena.   The request for monetary sanctions was not provided in the Notice to the motion, and is therefore denied.   Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 4th day of June 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   