 Case Number:  20STCV49057    Hearing Date:   June 5, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  ROCIO FOLEY, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  CITY OF COMPTON, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 20STCV49057  [TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING MOTION FOR C.C.P. § 128.7 SANCTIONS  Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  June 5, 2024  I. BACKGROUND  Plaintiff Rocio Foley (“Plaintiff”) moves for sanctions to strike the motion for summary judgment filed by the County of Los Angeles (“Defendant”) on the grounds that its motion was untimely. Defendant opposes the motion, and Plaintiff filed a reply.   II. CODE OF CIVIL PROCEDURE § 128.7 Code of Civil Procedure § 128.7 states that a court may impose sanctions on a party or attorney that presents a pleading, petition, motion, or other similar papers if the Court finds the following have been violated:    the document is presented primarily for an improper purpose, such as to harass or to cause unnecessary delay or needless increase in the cost of litigation.    the claims, defenses, and other legal contentions therein are not warranted by existing law or by a nonfrivolous argument for the extension, modification, or reversal of existing law or the establishment of new law.    the allegations and other factual contentions have no evidentiary support;    the denials of factual contentions are not warranted on the evidence.    A court may impose sanctions if it concludes a pleading was filed for an improper purpose or was indisputably without merit, either legally or factually. (Bucur v. Ahmad (2016) 244 Cal.App.4th 175, 189–190.)  Here, Plaintiff argues that Defendant’s motion is untimely because it is set to be heard more than thirty days beyond the previous trial date of February 15, 2024. Plaintiff’s contention is without merit. Aside from whether or not the basis for this motion is even proper for it to be considered under section 128.7, the ex parte application that was the basis for the trial continuance clearly contemplated the filing of the MSJ. The current trial date is set for August 21, 2024. Defendant’s motion for summary judgment is set to be heard on July 19, 2024, which is 32 days before trial. Therefore, the motion is not untimely.   III. CONCLUSION  Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion for sanctions is DENIED.  Moving party is ordered to give notice.  PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 4th day of June 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court  