 Case Number:  22STCV05894    Hearing Date:   June 5, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  CARLOS ALBERTO PEREZ and THELMA RAMIREZ, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  ALVAUGHN WILDER JACKSON, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 22STCV05894  [TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT  Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  June 5, 2024  I. BACKGROUND Plaintiffs Carlos Alberto Perez (“Perez”) and Thelma Ramirez (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed this action against defendants Alvaughn Wilder Jackson (“Jackson”), County of Los Angeles, and County of Los Angeles Sheriff’s Department for damages arising out of a motor vehicle incident. The complaint alleges that a high-speed police chase occurred on May 6, 2021, in which deputies pursued Jackson in a fully marked patrol vehicle southbound on Atlantic Avenue towards Compton Blvd. During the pursuit, a collision occurred between the vehicle driven by Jackson and the vehicle driven by Plaintiff Perez. Defendant County of Los Angeles, erroneously sued separately as County of Los Angeles Sheriff’s Department, (“the County”) moves for summary judgment on the grounds that it is immune pursuant to the vehicle pursuit immunity Vehicle Code section 17004.7.  The motion was initially heard on April 29, 2024. After conferring with the parties, the Court continued the motion to June 5, 2024. (Min. Order, April 29, 2024.) Any opposition or reply would be based on the new hearing date. (Ibid.)  Plaintiffs filed their opposition, and the County filed its reply  II. REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE The County requests the Court take judicial notice of: (1) The docket of the criminal case against Jackson styled the People of the State of California v. Alvaughn Wilder Jackson, Los Angeles Superior Court case number TA154409; (2) the felony complaint filed on May 10, 2021, in the criminal case against Jackson, People v. Jackson, Los Angeles Superior Court case number TA154409, (3) he court reporter’s transcript of the August 6, 2021 proceedings in the criminal case against Jackson, People v. Jackson, Los Angeles Superior Court case number TA154409, (4) The felony abstract of judgment filed on August 31, 2021, in the criminal case against Jackson, People v. Jackson, Los Angeles Superior Court case number TA154409, and (5) Plaintiffs’ complaint filed on February 16, 2022, in this case, Carlos Alberto Perez, et al. v. Alvaughn Wilder Jackson, et al., Los Angeles Superior Court case number 22STCV05894.  The unopposed requests are GRANTED. (Evid. Code §452(d).)  III.  MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT  Burdens on Summary Judgment A party may move for summary judgment “if it is contended that the action has no merit or that there is no defense to the action or proceeding.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (a).) “[I]f all the evidence submitted, and all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law,” the moving party will be entitled to summary judgment. (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) A motion for summary adjudication may be made by itself or as an alternative to a motion for summary judgment and shall proceed in all procedural respects as a motion for summary judgment. (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (f)(2).)     The moving party bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact, and if the party does so, the burden shifts to the opposing party to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of material fact. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850; accord Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) “Once the defendant . . . has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Ibid.) “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Med. Ctr. (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)  “When deciding whether to grant summary judgment, the court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers (except evidence to which the court has sustained an objection), as well as all reasonable inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light most favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.” (Avivi, supra, 159 Cal.App.4th at p. 467; see also Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(c).) Analysis Vehicle Code § 17004.7 provides, “The immunity provided by this section is in addition to any other immunity provided by law. The adoption of a vehicle pursuit policy by a public agency pursuant to this section is discretionary.”  A public agency employing peace officers that adopts and promulgates a written policy on, and provides regular and periodic training on an annual basis for, vehicular pursuits complying with subdivisions (c) and (d) is immune from liability for civil damages for personal injury to or death of any person or damage to property resulting from the collision of a vehicle being operated by an actual or suspected violator of the law who is being, has been, or believes he or she is being or has been, pursued in a motor vehicle by a peace officer employed by the public entity.” (Vehicle Code § 17004.7(b)(1).)  “Promulgation of the written policy…shall include, but is not limited to, a requirement that all peace officers of the public agency certify in writing that they have received, read, and understand the policy. The failure of an individual officer to sign a certification shall not be used to impose liability on an individual officer or a public entity.” (Vehicle Code § 17004.7(b)(2).)  “Regular and periodic training” shall mean annual training that includes coverage of the subjects and elements set forth in subdivision (c).  Vehicle Code § 17004.7(d).   The undisputed material facts are as follows. On May 6, 2021, Plaintiffs’ vehicle collided with a vehicle driven by defendant Jackson. Plaintiffs’ vehicle did not collide with any vehicle owned by the County of Los Angeles’ Sheriff’s Department or any vehicle operated by a Sheriff’s Department employee. Prior to the collision, Deputy Joseph Welch (“Deputy Welch”), with Deputy Zachary Davis (“Deputy Davis”) in the passenger seat, pursued Jackson in a marked Sheriff’s Department patrol vehicle after Jackson was observed driving erratically and unsafely. Jackson was driving a vehicle that was reported stolen. He was determined to be under the influence of methamphetamine and cannabis.  Here, the County avers that the Sheriff’s Department complied fully with Vehicle Code § 17004.7 to be immune as a matter of law. The County contends the Sheriff’s Department’s policy, effective May 2021, contained standards pursuant to section 17004.7, subdivision (c). Further, pursuant to section 17004.7, subdivision (d), the Sheriff’s Department provided its annual pursuit policy training prior to and in the year of the incident, in 2020 and 2021. Sergeant Donald Moore (“Seargeant Moore”) of the County of Los Angeles Sheriff’s Department attests that the Sheriff’s department provides annual recurring training on its vehicle pursuit policy identified as “Pursuit Policy Training, SB 719.” (Moore Decl. ¶ 6.) Based upon the Sheriff’s Department’s records, Seargeant Moore generated spreadsheet records showing all employees who completed SB 719 vehicle pursuit policy training from July 1, 2021 through December 31, 2021. (Id. at ¶ 7.) Seargeant David V. Neill (“Seargeant Neill”) further provides an affidavit attesting to the five-part training video and mandatory test regarding the Sheriff’s Department’s SB 719 online/web-based vehicle pursuit policy training in 2020 and 2021, which provided training on: key pursuit policy issues; tactics used during a pursuit; factors to consider when initiating or terminating a pursuit; communications; responsibilities of assisting units; inter-agency pursuits; suspect capture; and post-evaluation. (Neill Decl. ¶¶ 9-23.) A 100% score is required to pass the test and complete the training. (Id. at ¶ 23.)  Further, Deputy Welch testified that there is a yearly online training program specific to the pursuit policy. (Yap Decl; Exh. C, Depo. Welch, 7:6-15.) He testified there was a test at the end with a certificate of completion upon passing the test, and that it is printed for the department’s record. (Ibid.) Jim Johnson (“Johnson”), the principal analysist of the County of Los Angeles’ Department of Human Resources (“DHR”) declares that 2,922 sworn personnel of the Sheriff’s department received and completed the Pursuit Policy Training SB 719 from January 1, 2020 through December 31, 2020, and that 2,481 sworn personnel received and completed the training from January 1, 2021 through June 30, 2021. Although no direct evidence was provided to demonstrate that Deputy Walsh and Deputy Davis had received electronic certification for the vehicle pursuit training, Neill’s affidavit provides that the Sheriff’s Department provides SB 719 vehicle pursuit policy annually to all personnel with a rank of deputy, sergeant, and lieutenant including in 2020 and 2021, and that it was the Sheriff’s Department’s practice and procedure to send an email to all sworn personnel instructing them to complete the SB 719 vehicle pursuit policy training within that calendar year. (Decl. Neill, ¶¶ 7-8.) “Section 17004.7, subdivision (b)(2), does not say that, for the public agency to obtain immunity, all of its peace officers must have made the certification. It says instead that “[p]romulgation” of the policy must include “a requirement that all peace officers of the public agency certify in writing that they have received, read, and understand the policy.” The plain meaning of this language is that the policy must contain the requirement, not that every peace officer must meet the requirement.” (Ramirez v. City of Gardena (2018) 5 Cal. 5th 995, 1000–01.) “[I]f the agency adopts a pursuit policy which meets the statutory requirements, then immunity results.” (Brumer v. City of Los Angeles (1994) 24 Cal.App.4th 983, 987.)   Therefore, the County has met its prima facie burden that it is entitled to immunity pursuant to Vehicle Code § 17004.7 as a matter of law. The burden shifts to Plaintiffs to provide a triable issue of material fact.  In opposition, Plaintiffs argue Officers Welch and Davis were travelling at speeds that created an unreasonable danger, and that the Sheriff’s Department Manual of Policy and Procedures necessitated termination of the pursuit. However, “The extent to which the policy was implemented in general and followed in the particular pursuit is irrelevant.” (McGee v. City of Laguna Beach (1997) 56 Cal.App.4th 537, 548.) The purpose of the statute “‘is intended to encourage agencies to adopt express guidelines which should reduce the frequency of accidents, while leaving to these agencies the fundamental law enforcement decisions about when to undertake a pursuit, free from threats of liability.’ [Citation].” (Colvin v. City of Gardena (1992) 11 Cal. App. 4th 1270, 1278.) Plaintiffs’ contention that pursuit should have been terminated under the situation is not relevant.  Plaintiffs additionally contend there is no immunity under section 17004.7 because Defendant did not comply with subdivision (c)(2). Plaintiffs assert there is no indication of the authorized number of supervisors who may be involved in a pursuit. In reply, the County refers to “5-09/210.10 - Control of a Pursuit” of its policy, which reads in pertinent part:   “The active pursuit shall normally consist of the primary vehicle unit and three back-up units. A field supervisor’s vehicle, if involved in the pursuit, is not counted toward the four unit limit. If additional assistance is specifically requested, the level will be determined by:  Nature of crime; Number of suspects; Whether participating units are one or two-person cars, and Other clear and articulated facts that would warrant the increased number of units. Only a field supervisor or watch commander may authorize more than four units to engage in a pursuit. All other units will remain aware of the direction and progress of the pursuit, but shall not actively participate and shall not respond Code 3 unless specifically authorized. No unit shall parallel the pursuit on adjacent streets, Code 3 or otherwise.” (Marquezin Decl. Exh. 1 at p. 18-19.) Further, the policy provides below that section: “NOTE: A field supervisor is expected and authorized to respond Code 3 toward the pursuit operation to enable the supervisor to be present for any post-pursuit tactical operation.” (Id. at p. 19.) Accordingly, the Court finds that the policy does account for the number of supervisors who may be involved in the pursuit by indicating that “a” (i.e. one) field supervisor is expected to be present. The County has met its burden that it is immune pursuant to Vehicle Code § 17004.7, and Plaintiffs have not demonstrated a triable issue of material fact in this regard.   IV. CONCLUSION  Based on the foregoing, the motion for summary judgment filed by the County against Plaintiffs’ complaint is GRANTED.  Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 4th day of June 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court    