  Case Number:  20SMCV01909    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2024    Dept:  I Court is confused. 
The motion was filed and served on 10/8/24 according to the docket and
DBH.  75 days after that is December 22,
2024, which is a Sunday, meaning that the matter could not have been calendared
for hearing on December 23, 2024, at the earliest.  That is 29 days before the hearing.  The court hears summary judgment motions on
Tuesdays and Thursdays.  Accordingly, the
next slot was a week later.
The court would be more sympathetic were defendant to place
the blame where it belongs: on itself. 
Defendant was brought into the case in June 2023—about 19 months before
the trial.  Yet the discovery was not
served until 13 months later, in July 2024. 
Responses were not timely served and a motion to compel was
brought.  The motion to compel was heard
32 calendar days later and granted. 
Responses were served pursuant to the order on September 23, 2024.
The real problem here is not the court’s “congested
calendar.”  That is indeed a problem in
the courts, where sometimes it takes a year between the time a summary judgment
motion is filed and when it is heard. 
This court, however, got the motion calendared 8 calendar days after the
statutory minimum time, or 83 days instead of 75.  The real problem is that defendant sat on its
hands for over a year before actually taking the discovery and then waiting
until after the last minute to file. 
The simple fact is that the motion is untimely because of when it was
filed, not the court’s docket.  Mistakes
happen, and it is a fair motion to request that a motion filed a day late ought
to be heard even so.  But it would be
better for counsel to frankly admit that it played a dangerous game by waiting
until what it thought was the last possible moment to bring the motion and then
finding out that the motion is too late because of a calendaring error by
counsel, not congestion by the court.
Because the motion was untimely, Sentry does not
apply.  That case holds that where a timely
motion for summary judgment or adjudication is filed, a party has the right to
have it heard notwithstanding the court’s busy calendar.  That case says nothing about the court
needing to rearrange its calendar due to an untimely motion, as is the
case here.
All of that said, it appears that the gist of the motion is
that DBH has nothing to do with anything. 
It was not the tenant of the lease underlying the complaint.  The tenant’s owner, Taite, later sold his
business to Discovery Practice Management (DPM).  That was in 2018.  The sale was for cash.  The moving party’s contention is that DPM and
DBH are separate entities, and even were that not the case, DPM is not the
tenant’s successor nor Taite’s successor. 
Indeed, DBH states that the tenant was not even an entity that was
purchased in the transaction.
That is not a weak motion. 
Of course, whether it will survive the opposition is another question
entirely, but this is not a motion that screams out “DENY ME.”  Given that, the court believes that it makes
sense to allow the motion to be heard. 
If there is merit to it, then there will likely be no trial (since this
might be the last defendant left in the case). 
If the motion is denied, then the trial goes forward.
The court is not inclined to continue the trial.  Given the court’s trial calendar (which is
congested) a continuance would likely be to May 2026.  The request that the court hear the motion on
less than 75 days’ notice is ill-taken and it was improper for defendant to
suggest it.  Doing so is per se reversable
error, and counsel ought to know as much. 
It is troubling if counsel does not know that, as the law is clear.  The court will therefore keep the current
hearing date and, in its discretion, allow the motion to be heard less than 30
days before trial.  The ex parte
application is therefore GRANTED.  But
defense counsel is admonished that its conduct in this matter leaves much to be
desired and is likely sanctionable, although the court will not impose
sanctions.  The only reason that
the application is granted is that if there is truly no question but that this
entity has nothing to do with anything, then a trial is a waste of time, not
only for the court, but for the fourteen or so jurors that will have to
volunteer their time to hear the matter. 
It is unfair to them, and denigrates the court system, to make them sit
through such a trial where there are no disputed facts (if, indeed, such is the
case).  The court warns the defense,
though, that if there is a triable issue of fact here of which the defense
ought to know, it will tell the court everything the court needs to know about
defense counsel and its ethics.
The court warns the parties that they ought to assume that
the motion will be denied when deciding whether to prepare FSC materials.  The denial of the motion will not be viewed
as good cause to fail to file FSC materials in a timely manner.