  Case Number:  23CHCV01879    Hearing Date:   August 16, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43
Date: 8-16-24
Case #23CHCV01879 , Laura
Medrano vs. Leandra Garcia, et al.
Trial Date: N/A
 
DEMURRER TO SECOND AMENDED COMPLAINT 
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendants Leandra Garcia, Daniel Sada III,
and Maria Miranda
RESPONDING PARTY: No response has been filed.
 
RELIEF REQUESTED
Demurrer to the Second Amended Complaint
·        
Entire Complaint
·        
1st Cause of Action for
Fraudulent/Intentional Misrepresentation
·        
2nd Cause of Action for Concealment
·        
3rd Cause of Action for Quiet Title
·        
4th Cause of Action for Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress
 
RULING: Defendant’s demurrer is sustained without
leave to amend.
 
SUMMARY OF ACTION 
This action arises from the alleged fraudulent transfer
of real property located at 1049 Hewitt Street, San Fernando, CA 91340. On June
27, 2023, Plaintiff Laura Medrano (Plaintiff) filed a Complaint against
Defendants Leandra Garcia (Garcia), individually and as Trustee of The Leandra
M. Garcia Living Trust, Daniel Sada III (Sada), and Maria Miranda (Miranda)
(collectively Defendants). 
 
On September 27, 2023, Plaintiff filed a First Amended
Complaint (FAC) against Defendants alleging four causes of action for
fraudulent/intentional misrepresentation, concealment, quiet title, and
intentional infliction of emotional distress. 
 
The FAC alleged that Plaintiff and Defendant Garcia were
co-owners of the Property. (FAC, ¶ 11.) The FAC alleged that in 2013, Defendant
Garcia took advantage of Plaintiff’s vulnerable state and defrauded her. (FAC,
¶ 12.) Plaintiff alleges that such fraud occurred when Plaintiff’s mother was
diagnosed with cancer and hospitalized, and Plaintiff was occupied with her
mother’s illness. (FAC, ¶ 12.) Defendant Garcia contacted Plaintiff, told
Plaintiff she needed to sign a document for tax purposes only, and defrauded
Plaintiff into signing a document which transferred all of Plaintiff’s interest
in the Property to Defendant Garcia. (FAC, ¶ 13.) Each time Plaintiff
questioned Defendant Garica about the purpose of the form she had to sign, she
was told it was related to the Property’s taxes and that she should not worry
about anything. (FAC, ¶ 14.) Unbeknownst to Plaintiff, she signed away her
rights to her portion of the Property and Defendant Garcia later transferred
all rights, title, and interest to the entire Property by way of a quitclaim
deed to The Leandra M. Garcia Living Trust, Dated May 3, 2013. (FAC, ¶ 16.)
Plaintiff alleges that in or about July 2020, Defendant Garcia granted the
entire Property to Defendants Sada and Miranda. (FAC, ¶ 18.) 
 
The FAC further alleges that at no time prior to January
2023 did Plaintiff know that any of the documents she was given by Defendant
Garcia to sign would in any way result in Plaintiff giving up her legal claims
and rights to her portion of the Property. (FAC, ¶ 17.) The FAC alleges that on
around January 2023, Plaintiff found out for the first time that she no longer
had any rights, title, and interest to the Property, and that Defendant Garica
had defrauded her into signing away her rights to the Property. (FAC, ¶ 19.) 
 
Defendants filed a demurrer to each cause of action in
the FAC on November 3, 2023. On March 14, 2024, a hearing was held on the
demurrer to the FAC and the Court determined that all the causes of action in
the FAC were barred by the statute of limitations because the alleged wrongful
actions of Defendant Garcia all occurred in 2013. The Court also found that the
FAC did not sufficiently invoke the delayed discovery rule because the FAC did
not specifically allege the manner of Plaintiff’s discovery of the alleged
wrongful action and did not allege Plaintiff’s inability to have made an
earlier discovery despite reasonable diligence. The FAC did not allege any
reasonable diligence. The Court sustained the demurrer to the FAC with leave to
amend based on the statute of limitations issue.
 
Plaintiff filed a Second Amended Complaint (SAC) on April
12, 2024. Rather than attempt to allege that there was delayed discovery,
Plaintiff instead changed all the dates in the complaint from 2013 to 2019 and
took out the references to Plaintiff’s mother being ill. For instance,
Plaintiff now alleges that in 2019, Defendant Garcia took advantage of
Plaintiff’s lack of ability to speak, read, and write English proficiently by
defrauding her into signing a legal document. (SAC, ¶ 12.) The SAC also alleges that Defendant Garcia
contacted Plaintiff in 2019 to sign a document for tax purposes only, when the
document was actually for the transfer of property. (SAC, ¶¶ 13-14.) It appears
that Plaintiff has completely changed the operative facts in order to get
around the statute of limitations issues. 
 
Defendants filed a demurrer to the SAC on June 20, 2024.
Defendants argue in their demurrer that the demurrer should be sustained for
the entire complaint because the omission of facts from the FAC and
inconsistencies with the FAC makes the SAC a sham pleading. Defendants also
demurrer on the basis that the causes of action are still barred by the statute
of limitations. Defendants also demurrer to the individual causes of action on
the basis that the are ambiguous and unintelligible.
 
Plaintiff has not filed an opposition to Defendants’
demurrer.
 
Defendants’ Request for Judicial Notice: Defendants
request that the Court take judicial notice of Plaintiff’s First Amended
Complaint. The Court takes judicial notice of this document.
 
ANALYSIS
A demurrer is an objection to a pleading, the grounds for
which are apparent from either the face of the complaint or a matter of which
the court may take judicial notice. (CCP § 430.30(a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the sufficiency of a pleading
“by raising questions of law.” (Postley
v. Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a
pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be
liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.” (CCP
§ 452.) The court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all material facts
properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law…”
’ ” (Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152
Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) In applying these standards, the court liberally
construes the complaint to determine whether a cause of action has been stated.
(Picton v. Anderson Union High School
Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 726, 733.)
 
            Entire
Complaint
Although a court generally must assume the truth of the
factual allegations of the complaint, an exception exists when a party files an
amended complaint and seeks to avoid the defects of a prior complaint either by
omitting the facts that rendered the complaint defective or by pleading facts
inconsistent with the allegations of the prior pleadings. (Owens v. Kings
Supermarket (1998) 198 Cal.App.3d 379, 384.) A court may examine the prior
complaint to ascertain whether the amended complaint is merely a sham pleading.
(Amid v. Hawthorne Community Medical Group, Inc. (1989) 212 Cal.App.3d
1383, 1387.)
 
If a plaintiff attempts to amend a complaint by omitting
harmful allegations or by adding facts inconsistent with previous pleadings
without a satisfactory explanation, the court may take judicial notice of the
prior pleadings and disregard the inconsistent or omitted allegations. (Owens,
198 Cal.App.3d at 384.) Furthermore, while plaintiffs are allowed to amend
complaints to correct honest mistakes or to clarify ambiguous facts, they
cannot simply remove allegations that reveal a defect in their case or add new
facts that are inconsistent with those previously pleaded without explaining
the reasons for such changes. (See McClain v. Octagon Plaza, LLC (2008)
159 Cal.App.4th 784.)
 
As discussed above, Plaintiff’s FAC alleged that she was
defrauded in 2013 when Defendant Garcia took advantage of her when she was
vulnerable because her mother was ill. Plaintiff’s SAC now alleges that
Plaintiff was defrauded in 2019 when Defendant Garcia took advantage of her
lack of proficiency with English. The two complaints are wholly inconsistent,
and the new allegations in Plaintiff’s SAC appear to be an attempt to get
around the Court’s determination that Plaintiff’s causes of action are barred
by the applicable statutes of limitations.
 
“‘Allegations in the original pleading that rendered it
vulnerable to demurrer or other attack cannot simply be omitted without
explanation in the amended pleading. The policy against sham pleadings requires
the pleader to explain satisfactorily any such omission.’ (Citation.)” (Deveny
v. Entropin, Inc. (2006) 139 Cal.App.4th 408, 425-426.) Plaintiff omitted
allegations from her FAC in her SAC without explanation. Because she did not
explain the omission, or even attempt to explain it through the filing of an
opposition, this makes Plaintiff’s SAC a sham pleading.
 
Because the SAC is sham pleading, the Court’s previous determination
that all four of Plaintiff’s causes of action are barred by the applicable
statutes of limitations stands. Because the causes of action are barred by the
statute of limitations, it is unnecessary for the Court to address the
substantive allegations of the causes of action. Plaintiff has not shown that
she can amend the complaint to cure the statute of limitations issue, so the
demurrer is sustained to Plaintiff’s entire complaint without leave to amend.
 
CONCLUSION
Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s entire SAC is sustained
without leave to amend.
 
Moving party to give notice to all parties.