 Case Number:  23SMCV05401    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2024    Dept:  I The motion to quash is CONTINUED to allow a meaningful meet
and confer effort.
 
This case is brought by a self-represented plaintiff (who is
an attorney).  He claims that defendants
botched a construction job and overcharged for the poor work that was
done.  Two defendants—Your Prime
Contractor (YPC) and David Abitan—have defaulted.  (David is out of the country.  The court uses first names because of the
similarities in the last names.)  Two
other defendants, Shlomi Abbitan and Oron Avitan, have answered, but they claim
that they had nothing to do with anything in that they are not owners of YPC
and did not do the work involved or participate in the alleged wrongdoing.  Plaintiff contends that Shlomi and Oron
actually are closely involved in YPC, and that they are therefore proper
parties.  Apparently frustrated in
attempts to get discovery directly from Shlomi and Oron, plaintiff served a
subpoena on Bank of America for all of its records pertaining to YPC, David,
Shlomi, and Oron.  This motion to quash
is based on the notion that the subpoena invades privacy rights.  
 
The court must agree that, at first blush, it does.  It does not seek bank records that relate
only to payments made to or from Shlomi or Oron by YPC; it would go to all bank
records.  Nor is there any mechanism to
protect unrelated but private information. 
Plaintiff is the deposition officer (which is itself not proper),
meaning that there is no screening that can be done.  One must assume that YPC did work for others,
and that David has various banking transactions having nothing to do with
anything.  The court is not sure that
plaintiff is entitled to see YPC’s bank records for contracts unrelated to this
one.  That is especially true because
those records involve the rights of third parties not present in this litigation.  And it is not hard to imagine that David’s
records include things that are private. 
A check David wrote for a gift for his wife is none of plaintiff’s
business, for example.  Indeed, Shlomi
and Oron may have accounts at Bank of America and this could seek all records
in those accounts.  Plaintiff has no
business knowing if Shlomi had a doctor’s appointment or made a charitable
donation.
 
As the court has previously stated, the better way to do
this is to serve a subpoena on YPC or David (or Shlomi or Oron) seeking any
records germane to this case, such as records in which YPC paid any money to
Shlomi or Oron.  That would allow a more
focused approach that does not give rise to an invasion of either David’s
privacy or that of third parties.  Of
course, if everyone stonewalls plaintiff, plaintiff might have no choice but to
go to the bank directly.  But if such is
the case, the court would have less concern at least for the moving parites—who
by definition would have refused a more narrow request.  And there might be other protocols that could
be put in place to protect third parties or legitimate privacy rights.  We just are not there yet because no one is
willing to try very hard.  The court also
notes that there seems to be no love lost as between counsel.  The court is going to demand (not ask) that
all communications be civil.  Accusing
the other side of criminal activity is not civil.  The court also notes that there is no
separate statement.  In the motion to
quash.  There is a footnote asking to be
relieved of that requirement, but such is not sufficient.
 
Plaintiff asserts that third party discovery is necessary
because it will show, for example, that Oron has been very involved in other
YPC projects, thereby making it more likely that Oron is involved here.  That might well be the case, and it could be
that discovery targeted at willing third parties would find some favor.  But the court does not see that the discovery
here in question is so limited.  
 
In short, the matter will be CONTINUED until a date that the
court will discuss with the parties for some Friday in January to allow the
parties to have some meaningful discussion. 
The parties would be well advised to resolve this without coming back to
court, or at least being able to show that the dispute is narrow and focused.
 
To aid the parties in that endeavor, the court appends
hereto its general guidelines on discovery, meet and confer, and IDC’s.  
 
 
DISCOVERY RELATED GUIDELINES FOR DEPARTMENT I
The guidelines below are not “rules” and they are not
universally applicable in all cases. 
Rather, they are guidelines as to the court’s general views.  Each case, of course, will be decided on its
own facts and circumstances, and some of the guidelines below may not apply to
particular circumstances.  That said, the
court does take these views seriously.
Discovery Responses
The court provides the following guidance concerning its
general views on some common issues regarding responses to written
objections.  The court has noticed that
many attorneys view objections and the manner of making them in a way different
than does the court.  To avoid these
common pitfalls, the court offers the following in addition to the provisions
of the Litigation Guidelines appended to the Los Angeles County Superior Court
Local Rules.
First, “General Objections” are not permitted.  The Code of Civil Procedure does not provide
for them, and therefore they are disregarded by the Court.  Any response that “incorporates” the “General
Objections” is improper by definition.  
Second, the 
court often views boilerplate objections as being in bad faith.  A bad faith response is no response at all in
the court’s view.  Therefore, making
boilerplate objections does not preserve those objections nor does it
constitute a good faith response to written discovery.  A bad faith response is viewed by the court
for what it is: bad faith.  The
objections will be stricken and deemed waived. 
In the context of a Request for Admission, such objections may lead to a
finding that the request is deemed admitted, although that will depend on the
facts of the particular case and the specific discovery at hand.
Objections should be tailored to each specific request.  If a request truly is overbroad, then an
objection to that effect is proper.  But
such an objection is best accompanied by some reasonable limitation by the
responding party that will narrow the request appropriately and (as narrowed)
provide a substantive response rather than a mere statement that the request is
overbroad.  The same is true as to an
objection that a request is unduly burdensome. 
The court also notes that the party asserting that a request is unduly
burdensome has the obligation at some point to provide an evidentiary basis for
the objection, including evidence as to what the burden of compliance would
be.  (West Pico Furniture Co. v.
Superior Court (1961) 56 Cal.2d 407.) 
Often such an objection will include a statement by the responding party
as to a narrower request that would not be unduly burdensome and provide
substantive responses as so limited. 
Objections that a request is “vague and ambiguous” should set forth the
vague and ambiguous term as well as the responding party’s reasonable
interpretation of that term as well as a statement that, so interpreted, the
response will provide the discovery requested. 
If there is no reasonable interpretation possible (which is a rare
situation), then the responding party should so state.  Objections as to privilege must set forth the
basis explaining why the information sought is in fact privileged.  Where a privilege is asserted in the context
of a document request, a privilege log should accompany the answer or be
provided within a short and reasonable time after the answer, and the log will
serve as the explanation.  Where the
objection is made in the context of an interrogatory, it must be clear from the
objection the scope of the information being withheld.  If there is no log, there should be no
privilege objection to a document request (meaning that a prophylactic
privilege objection is the equivalent of no objection; it preserves
nothing).  There are some rare
exceptions, such as where the entire point of the discovery is to get allegedly
privileged information or where compliance would require a log that is in
essence an index of counsel’s file.  In
that situation, the log is unnecessary, but the assertion should be made that
the request is in that rare context.
Third, if an objection is made to the discovery but a
response is being given, it must be clear whether information or documents are
in fact being withheld on the basis of the objections.  If the objections are clear and done in the
manner set forth above, with statements in the objection as to a narrowing that
will make the request proper, this is usually a simple task.  The objections themselves state the limit and
the response will be full and complete as limited.  But where the objections are not so clear,
the response must clearly state whether any information or document is being
withheld on the basis of the objection and, if so, the extent of the
withholding.  Accordingly, in those
situations, phrases like “Notwithstanding and subject to the foregoing
objections, responding party states as follows” are generally improper.  Those sorts of phrases make the verification
useless, as the verifier can always fall back on the ”objections” as the reason
why a document was not produced or information was not disclosed.  On the other hand, where the line of
demarcation is clear, the verification will still serve its purpose.
Fourth, for document requests, the substantive
response must conform to the Code of Civil Procedure.  There are relatively tight rules as to what
the response must say, and the response must say it.  For example, where a responding party is not
producing documents because they are not in the party’s possession, custody, or
control, the responding party must verify that a diligent search has been made
and must further provide the information set forth in the Code of Civil
Procedure section 2031.230 in such cases. 
In the case of interrogatories, the responses must also conform to the
Code of Civil Procedure and must be made after diligent inquiry.  It is not proper to refuse to respond because
the responding party has no personal knowledge. 
If the knowledge is hearsay, it must still be disclosed, although it can
be qualified to make it clear that it is not based on the verifier’s personal
knowledge.
Fifth, the court frowns on responses that do not
conform to the foregoing rules being served with the view that the responses
will moot themselves out in the meet and confer process.  That is not how the process works.  A good faith response is required before the
meet and confer process begins.  The meet
and confer process will (hopefully) bridge the gaps between the parties’
respective positions.  Further, where a
response to a request for documents is made and documents are to be produced
subject to certain objections (with the documents withheld properly
delineated), the documents should be turned over irrespective of the meet and
confer.  The documents are to be produced
with alacrity to the extent that there is no objection to them, but the court
recognizes that there is often a lag between the date responses are served and
the date that the documents are produced.
What this means is that the response to a discovery request
is not a trivial undertaking.  Nabbing
the response from the form file is a generally bad idea and can lead to all
objections being waived.  The point is
that the boilerplate often renders the remainder of the response useless.  The only exception is where it is clear that
the substantive response is not in any way limited by the objections.  In that case, the objections do no harm,
although they also do no good.
Meet and Confer
The Code of Civil
Procedure requires that before a motion to compel further responses or a motion
for a protective order is filed, the parties engage in a good faith attempt to
resolve their differences.  They are to
“meet and confer” for that purpose.  Only
if that effort fails can a motion be brought. 

Sadly, many
litigants view the meet and confer process as just another procedural hoop
through which they must jump in order to bring the motion, similar to the need
to include an actual demurrer with the demurrer papers.  The Code of Civil Procedure requires it, so
they do it, but no one’s heart is really in it. 
That is not sufficient.
Given that, the
court believes it appropriate to set forth how the court views the meet and
confer requirement.  Failure to abide by
the guidelines below may well justify denial of the motion or a continuance of
it to allow the process to take place. 
If one party but not the other refuses to participate as set forth, more
likely than not the party refusing to participate will find itself on the
losing end of the motion.  The following
quotation fairly sums up the court’s own view.
“[W]e feel compelled
to observe that resort to the courts easily could have been avoided here
had both parties actually taken to heart Justice Stone's
admonitions in Townsend that ‘the statute requires that there
be a serious effort at negotiation and informal resolution.’ (Townsend,
supra, 61 Cal.App.4th at p. 1438.) 
Perhaps after 11 years it is necessary to remind trial counsel and the
bar once again that ‘[a]rgument is not the
same as informal negotiation’ (id at p. 1437); that attempting
informal resolution means more than the mere attempt by the discovery proponent
‘to persuade the objector of the error of his ways’ (id. at p.
1435); and that ‘a reasonable and good faith attempt at informal resolution
entails something more than bickering with [opposing] counsel. . . .  Rather, the law requires that counsel attempt
to talk the matter over, compare their views, consult, and deliberate.’ (Id. at
p. 1439.)”  (Clement v. Alegre (2009)
177 Cal.App.4th 1277, 1294, emphasis in original, parallel citations omitted.) 
In practical terms, it means as
follows.  It is entirely appropriate to
begin the process with a letter or other correspondence.  The letter should not include a demand in the
form of an ultimatum, but it can certainly include the relief that is being
sought with an invitation to meet and confer. 
It is also entirely appropriate for the other party to respond with a
letter or other correspondence to set forth its position on the issues.  Such an initial exchange can often be helpful
to narrow the dispute or at least articulate plainly the boundaries.  Whether further exchanges make sense will
depend on each case and each dispute.
However, at some point before impasse is
reached the process must generally include an actual “meet.”  The letters might well suffice to “confer,”
but an exchange of correspondence is not a meeting.  In the COVID-19 era, the “meeting” can be
virtual or telephonic, but a meeting there should be.  The meeting must be attended by a person from
each side with the authority to agree to the other side’s position without
getting further permission from anyone, including the client.  If only the client can give the needed
authority, then the client must be available instantaneously at all times
during the meeting.  This does not mean
that one side or the other must concede, but it does mean that the people
meeting have the ability in real and practical terms to strike a deal.
The parties should approach the meet and
confer process as a problem-solving exercise. 
The purpose of the meet and confer is not to convince the other side of
the bankruptcy of its position; rather the purpose is to reach an agreement by
which the party seeking discovery is able to obtain the information that it
reasonably needs and the party providing discovery is not put to an undue
burden or forced to provide unnecessary information that might infringe on a
privacy interest or disclose a competitive trade secret or the like.
At the conclusion of the meet and confer,
the parties should have an agreed statement as to the outcome.  If the outcome is a total impasse, then they
should agree on that.  If they have
resolved some or all of their differences, then they should state—in
writing—what that agreement is so that there will be no confusion later.  Often, an agreement will be without prejudice
to a further request by the propounding party for more information after that
party receives the further responses.
If a motion is still required, the
declaration in support should describe with some detail the meet and confer
process.  While the court is not
interested in the back and forth (and indeed describing it can be counter-productive),
the court is interested in when the meeting took place, who was there, and how
long it lasted.
All communications—in writing or oral—must
be civil, polite, and professional. 
Name-calling and accusations are devices that undermine the process;
they do not further it.  A party engaging
in such activity generally is not acting in a good faith effort to reach an
agreement.

Informal Discovery Conferences
The court generally prefers an Informal Discovery Conference
(IDC) before any party files a motion to compel further responses, and the
failure to use this avenue of resolution can greatly affect the amount of
sanctions that might be awarded because sanctions are limited to fees that are
reasonable and necessary.  The goal of
the IDC is to “get to yes.”  To achieve
that goal, the court adopts the following.

Five court days before the IDC, the parties will
     submit a JOINT statement no more than eight pages total (on pleading
     paper, but excluding the caption page) setting forth their respective
     positions.  Where a similar issue is
     raised that will resolve many requests, it can be dealt with as a single
     issue.  
The IDC follows the good faith meet and
     confer.  It is not a substitute for
     the meet and confer.  The court’s
     time is to be spent only on issues after the parties have tried to narrow
     the dispute as much as possible.
As stated above, the goal is to “get to
     yes.”  This means a few things.  One is that each party must be
     represented by a person who has the authority to agree to the other side’s
     position without getting further permission.  It need not be lead counsel and that
     authority need not be exercised. 
     But the people at the conference must have that authority.  If only the client has that authority,
     then the client will be present physically with counsel in a adjacent room
     without distraction after initial introductions are made.
All IDC’s are “off the record.”  That means that whatever anyone says at
     the IDC will not be binding or quoted back at the party unless an
     agreement is struck.  It is very bad
     form to quote the court’s comments at an IDC during a later hearing unless
     the comments were part of a stipulated order.
All parties have the right to change
     position if no deal is reached.  The
     court, for example, might strongly indicate that it believes one side or
     the other has the better position but rule in a completely different way
     if there is a formal motion. 
     Partial agreements that are contingent upon a full resolution are
     not binding unless a full resolution is reached.  Partial resolutions that are not
     contingent on a full resolution are binding.  Parties who are suggesting a resolution
     should make it clear whether their proposal depends upon other
     resolutions.
Parties should be especially willing to give
     up sanctions at an IDC if it will resolve the dispute.  That is not a requirement, but the
     court’s experience is such that if a party is really going to insist on a
     sanction, the likelihood of a resolution is very low.
It is likely that no party will get
     everything that it wants.  The goal
     is to abide the Code of Civil Procedure, but at the same time make sure
     that the party seeking discovery is not creating busy-work or demanding a
     lot of work for no benefit (or virtually no benefit).  The responding party might well have the
     right (should it come to motion practice) to avoid some aspect of the
     discovery, but in order to get to a resolution it might be in the
     responding party’s interest to be willing to offer something.  Conversely, the propounding party might
     have the right (should it come to motion practice) to get some aspect of
     discovery, but in order to get to a resolution it might be in the
     propounding party’s interest to forego aspects of the discovery that are
     not really needed, perhaps reserving the right to seek that information at
     a later time should it prove necessary. 
     The point is not to have the court simply hammer away at the opponent.  That might happen at a motion, but it is
     not the goal of the IDC.
No orders will be made except on
     stipulation.  However, if there is
     an agreement, the court may well want to make an appropriate order or ask
     the parties to confirm it in writing.
Parties should take careful notes on any
     agreements.  Because there are no
     Court Reporters, it is hard to put an agreement on the record.  However, unless the agreement is confirmed
     quickly, people have a tendency to forget or to have “buyer’s
     remorse.”  Therefore, it is best to
     have one party send an immediate confirming email to the other and obtain
     an agreement.  The court would
     prefer not to get into the specific wording of the agreement during the
     IDC unless absolutely necessary.
The IDC process does not work if people view
     it as just a necessary step to filing a motion.  The court does not see it that way—if it
     did, then the court would abandon the IDC as a waste of time.  Rather, this is an off-ramp to avoid
     motion practice and the attendant costs and time.  Hopefully, it is also a way to get
     discovery more quickly than through formal motion practice.
At the IDC, no matter how hot tempers have run in
     the past, the court expects all counsel to be polite and civil in tone to
     one another.  The court will not
     tolerate rudeness or unnecessary accusations.  They do not move the ball forward and
     they make it nigh impossible to reach an agreement.

 