  Case Number:  23SMCV03744    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2024    Dept:  I The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.  This is a suit brought by a former owner of
an entity and there is a cross complaint. 
The cross complaint is at issue in this demurrer.  The cross complaint alleges essentially that
Baker has made defamatory statements about cross complainants and that doing so
has resulted in a breach of contract such that the contract is no more and also
caused damages.  Baker’s demurrer is
essentially based on res judicata.  There
was a prior action in which Baker was also accused of defamation.  That resulted in a judgment against Baker,
which is now final.  Baker asserts that
the prior judgment acts as claim preclusion as to any claims that were or
should have been brought.  Res judicata
comes in two flavors: claim preclusion and issue preclusion.  Issue preclusion, sometimes called collateral
estoppel, is not the flavor here.  That
doctrine states that when a factual issue has been finally adjudicated, it
cannot be re-litigated.  Instead, the
resolution of that dispute will be binding in future disputes.  Claim preclusion is different.  The goal of claim preclusion is to avoid
claim splitting.  Thus, when one sues,
the suit must include all causes of action involving the same primary right, no
matter how delineated.  Claims not
brought will either be deemed to have been merged into the judgment (to the
extent that there was a recovery) or barred by it.  Thus, to the extent that cross complainants
were suing over things that were or should have been brought in the prior suit,
they will be barred now.  That suit is
done and over, and cross complainants have recovered thereunder.
 
The problem is that the cross complaint here involves
conduct that allegedly occurred after the judgment.  While it might be the same defamatory
statements in terms of content, the allegation is that the statements were
uttered again after the prior judgment. 
Assuming that is the case (as the court must on demurrer), the court
does not see how res judicata applies. 
Cross complainants could not have sued to recover damages for defamatory
statements not yet spoken.  Cross
defendant suggests that they should have sought an injunction, and that their
failure to do so bars the instant case. 
The court disagrees.  While the
court will not venture as to whether an injunction could have been sought or
might have been granted, the court does not believe that seeking one was
mandatory.  An injunction against speech
is something courts are slow to do for obvious reasons involving the first
amendment.  Violating an injunction is a
criminal act, and the court is very reluctant to criminalize speech, even
defamatory speech.  While that is not to
say that there is not a time or place for it, it is to say that the failure to
seek such an injunction is not fatal here. 

 
That would end the matter except that the cross-complainants
do not sue for defamation.  The suit is
for “breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing.”  That might be code for defamation,
though.  First off, it is pled as a
tort.  Breach of the covenant of good
faith and fair dealing is not a tort; it is a form of breach of contract.  The doctrine exists to allow a cause of
action for breach of contract where one party to the contract has acted in a
way that does not breach the technical express terms of the contract, but
nonetheless deprives the other party of the consideration for which the bargain
was struck.  Where proven, the breach is
a breach of a covenant of a contract; it is not a tort (other than in certain
situations not at issue here, like the insurance context).  Second, the cause of action seeks damages
based on defamatory statements.  Whatever
it is captioned, it is a defamation cause of action in reality.  (And, of course, it is not the caption that
matters; it is the substance.)  But
having said that, cross complainants need to be explicit and express about
it.  The use of a contract cause of
action when the real gravamen is defamation will cause confusion and trouble
down the road.  If cross complainants
want to sue for defamation, they need to do so, and do so clearly and
expressly.
 
Cross defendant also contends that the declaratory relief
cause of action is barred by res judicata. 
The same analysis pertains.  To
the extent that the argument is that the prior agreement is invalid based on
prior acts, it would seem that the prior action did determine that, and res
judicata would apply (and perhaps collateral estoppel).  However, the court cannot tell whether the
cross complaint alleges that somehow the further statements make the contract
void or voidable.  Whether later
actions have the effect of undercutting the contract is not a question that
could have been decided in the earlier case. 
Because the cross complaint is ambiguous on that point, the court needs
more information.  If the voidability
alleged here flows from the same breach as was previously adjudicated, then res
judicata would apply; but if there was later conduct purportedly having that
effect, then the doctrine would not have application.  The court will need cross complainant to be
clearer in that regard.  
 
Accordingly, the demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH 30 DAYS’ LEAVE
TO AMEND.
 
The motion to strike is MOOT.