 Case Number:  24NWCV01148    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2024    Dept:  F LOLLETT v. LAKEWOOD
REGIONAL MEDICAL CENTER, INC. 
CASE
NO.:  24NWCV00320
HEARING:
09/20/24
 
#21
 
Plaintiff’s
motion for trial preference is DENIED
without prejudice. 
 
Opposing
Party to Give notice.  
 
No
Reply filed as of September 19, 2024. 
 
This
premises liability action was filed by Plaintiffs DORIS CHIRINOS DE LOLLETT
(“Doris”) and MIGUEL LOLLETT BRUZUAL (“Miguel”) (collectively “Plaintiffs”)
against Defendant LAKEWOOD REGIONAL MEDICAL CENTER, INC. (“Defendant” or
“Lakewood”) on April 12, 2024. 
 
Plaintiffs
allege that “Plaintiff [Doris] slipped on the wet steps while descending the
stairwell at the PREMISES and sustained serious and permanent injuries.”
(Complaint ¶9.) “On February 6, 2024, Plaintiff [Miguel] was walking with his
wife [Doris] and witnessed her slip and fall on the wet steps at the PREMISES.”
(Complaint ¶12.) 
 
Plaintiffs
now move for trial preference under CCP §36(a). 
 
“(a)
A party to a civil action who is over 70 years of age may petition the court
for a preference, which the court shall grant if the court makes both of the
following findings: (1) The party has a substantial interest in the action as a
whole. (2) The health of the party is such that a preference is necessary to
prevent prejudicing the party’s interest in the litigation.” (CCP §36(a).)  “At any time during the pendency of the
action, a party who reaches 70 years of age may file and serve a motion for
preference.” (CCP §36(c)(2).) 
 
“An
affidavit submitted in support of a motion for preference under subdivision (a)
of Section 36 may be signed by the attorney for the party seeking preference
based upon information and belief as to the medical diagnosis and prognosis of
any party.” (CCP §36.5.) 
 
Plaintiff
Doris was seventy-two (72) when the subject incident occurred. Her date of
birth is June 11, 1951. (Doris Decl., ¶2.) Plaintiff Miguel was sixty-nine (69)
when the subject incident occurred and is currently seventy (70) years old.
(Miguel Decl., ¶2.) Counsel for Plaintiffs declares, under penalty of perjury,
that Doris “sustained a subdural hematoma as well as multiple facial fractures
and continues to experience issues with word finding, balance and other
symptoms consistent with residual deficits of the trauma to her brain and
face[,]” and that Miguel “has cancer which he has been receiving treatment
for….” (Quattlebaum Decl., ¶¶3-4.) 
 
In
Opposition, Defendant argues that neither Plaintiff qualifies for a
preferential trial date because the declaration of their attorney is
insufficient under CCP §36.5. Defendant argues that Attorney Quattlebaum fails
to discuss either plaintiffs’ prognosis or otherwise explain why a preference
is necessary due to the health of either plaintiff. 
 
The
Motion is DENIED without prejudice. 
 
The
Court finds that Counsel’s declaration fails to set forth any assertion that
the health of either Doris or Miguel is such that not granting trial preference
would prejudice their interest in this litigation. While Counsel recites
Plaintiffs’ current diagnoses and ailments, Counsel’s Declaration does not
state facts showing the need for any expedience. Plaintiffs do not indicate
that their conditions are at risk of worsening before their case comes to
trial. 