  Case Number:  18STPB10454    Hearing Date:   February 29, 2024    Dept:  200 LOS ANGELES
SUPERIOR COURT 
WEST DISTRICT -
BEVERLY HILLS COURTHOUSE 
DEPT. 200
 
TENTATIVE RULING
ON MOTIONS TO EXTEND TIME FOR TRIAL AND TO BIFURCATE TRIAL 
 
In re: The Nuszer
Family Trust, dated November 26, 2002, Case No. 18STPB10454
Hearing Date:
February 29, 2024, 10:00 a.m. 
 
 
1.      
MOTION TO EXTEND TIME FOR TRIAL IN VIEW
OF FIVE-YEAR STATUTE OR PROCEED WITH TRIAL BEFORE THAT DATE 
 
          The statutory
five-year deadline (with the six-month extension under the Rules of Court) for
start of trial on the petition filed November 9, 2018 is May 9, 2024. Both
parties announced they were ready for trial when this case was last heard by
the previously assigned bench officer on December 13, 2023. Both parties again indicate
in their papers on this motion that they are ready to start trial before May 9,
2024. This courtroom is available to start trial (based on the settlement of
another case) before May 9, 2024. The Court proposes trial begin on March 18,
2024. The Court has other trials already scheduled in April. The court will
discuss with counsel at the status conference on February 29 their view as to
the estimated length of trial. The parties will be ordered to comply with this
Court’s requirements before start of trial, including filing joint witness and
exhibit lists and trial briefs on or before March 11, 2024. 
          In view of
the foregoing, the Court does not reach the contested issues related to tolling
and or extension of the five-year deadline. 
 
2.      
MOTION TO BIFURCATE TRIAL 
 
          Respondent Jim
Nuszer argues that the Court should bifurcate liability and damages. Respondent
Maria Jacobo joins in the motion. Petitioners Maya Rubin and Jason Rubin oppose
the motion. Nuszer argues that bifurcation will save time and expense because
he is not liable and therefore the Court will not need to address damages.
Petitioners argue Respondents are liable and moreover that the issues are
intertwined. The Court cannot determine before trial who will prevail. Both
sides present different stories. It also appears liability is highly contested
and will take some time to decide even if Nuszer’s case is short. The Court
cannot assume that one party will prevail for purposes of bifurcation. Moreover,
it appears the issues may be intertwined, including analysis of the financial picture
of NB Industries in and around when the IRS tax enforcement issues arose and in
connection with NB Industries’ alleged relationship with EMBE Industries. Further,
certain witnesses will likely have to testify about both liability and damages
– requiring that witnesses testify on two occasions. The Court is not convinced
that bifurcation will promote efficiency in handling of this trial. 
          That said, the
Court recognizes that Nuszer and likely all parties wish to avoid the costs
associated with bringing forensic accountants to trial. Nuszer argues this expense
might be avoided if he prevails. While the Court does not believe bifurcation
works here, as discussed above, the Court is open to hearing any proposals as
to the order of proof at trial whereby any forensic accountants who need to be
called would testify only after the other witnesses. Depending on the length of
trial, the Court might consider a short break in this bench trial before any
experts testify to allow counsel to then discuss informal resolution of this
case in view of developments at trial and or for expert depositions to be conducted
at that time rather than before trial. 
 
          For these
reasons, the Court intends to deny both motions. 
 
 
DATED:                                                                                    
_________________________________
                                                                                                      
DAVID J. COWAN
                                                                                                      
Judge of the Superior Court 
 