  Case Number:  24VECV01280    Hearing Date:   September 30, 2024    Dept:  O  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHWEST DISTRICT
 



JSL Real estate group,
  llc, a
  California limited liability company; and AMERICAS SERVICING GROUP LLC, a
  California limited liability company,
Plaintiffs,
          vs.
 
westcor land title insurance company, a South Carolina
  corporation; SOUTHWEST ESCROW CORPORATION, a California corporation; LATANYA
  J. TOWNSEND, an individual; ARUSYAK VERDIYAN, an individual; RONALD P. DAHL,
  an individual; and DOES 1 through 100, inclusive, 
 
                    Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
  )
)
)
)


     CASE
  NO.: 24VECV01280
 
ORDER SUSTAINING IN PART WITH
  LEAVE TO AMEND SOUTHWEST AND TOWNSEND’S DEMURRER
 
ORDER SUSTAINING WITHOUT
  LEAVE TO AMEND WESTCOR’S DEMURRER 
 
ORDER SUSTAINING IN PART WITH
  LEAVE TO AMEND DAHL’S DEMURRER
 
ORDER GRANTING IN PART WITH
  LEAVE TO AMEND SOUTHWEST AND TOWNSEND’S MOTION TO STRIKE 
 
ORDER DENYING WESTCOR’S
  MOTION TO STRIKE
 
ORDER DENYING DAHL’S
  MOTION TO STRIKE



 
 
 
I.        INTRODUCTION
On March 21, 2024, Plaintiff JSL Real Estate Group,
LLC (“Plaintiff”) and Americas Servicing Group, LLC (“ASG”) filed a Complaint
against Westcor Land Title Insurance Company (“Westcor”), Southwest Escrow
Corporation (“Southwest”), Latanya J. Townsend (“Townsend”), Arusyak Verdiyan
(“Verdiyan”), and Ronald P. Dahl (“Dahl”)(collectively, “Defendants”) regarding
alleged contractual fraud in connection with the transfer of 22159 Vanowen
Street, Canoga Park, CA 91303 (“the Property”).
This Court sustained Dahl’s Demurrer on June 18,
2024.
Plaintiff and ASG filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”)
on July 30, 2024. Plaintiff requested to dismiss ASG and its tenth cause of
action for quiet title on August 23, 2024. Plaintiff added Defendant Corinthian
Title Company, Inc. (“Corinthian”) on September 17, 2024. 
Southwest and Townsend now demurrer to Plaintiff’s
first, third, seventh, and ninth causes of action. Southwest and Townsend also
seek to strike portions of Plaintiff’s FAC. 
Westcor now demurrers to Plaintiff’s second, fifth,
and seventh causes of action. Westcor also seeks to strike portions of
Plaintiff’s FAC. 
Dahl now demurrers to Plaintiff’s fourth and tenth
causes of action. Dahl also moves to strike one of Plaintiff’s punitive damages
claims and its first and second causes of action.
II.      PROCEDURAL HISTORY
On March 21, 2024, Plaintiff and ASG filed their
Complaint, alleging (1) Fraud (against Westcor); (2) Fraud (against Townsend,
Southwest, Verdiyan, and Dahl); (3) Negligent Misrepresentation (against
Westcor); (4) Breach of Contract (against Westcor); (5) Breach of Contract (against
Dahl); (6) Breach of Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing (against Westcor
and Southwest); (7) Breach of Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing (against
Dahl); (8) Negligence (against Defendants); and (9) Quiet Title (against Dahl).
On June 3, 2024, Southwest and Townsend (“S&T”)
filed their Answer. 
On June 18, 2024, this Court sustained Dahl’s Demurrer
to Plaintiff and ASG’s second, eighth, and ninth causes of action. 
On July 30, 2024, Plaintiff and ASG filed their FAC,
alleging (1) Declaratory Relief (against Dahl, Townsend, Southwest, and Verdiyan);
(2) Declaratory Relief (against Westcor); (3) Fraud (against Townsend,
Southwest, and Verdiyan); (4) Fraud (against Dahl); (5) Breach of Contract (against
Westcor); (6) Breach of Contract (against Dahl); (7) Breach of Covenant of Good
Faith and Fair Dealing (against Westcor and Southwest); (8) Breach of Covenant of
Good Faith and Fair Dealing (against Dahl); (9) Negligence (against Townsend, Southwest,
and Verdiyan); and (10) Quiet Title (against Dahl).
On August 22, 2204, Dahl filed the instant Demurrer (“Dahl
Demurrer”) and Motion to Strike (“Dahl Motion”). 
On August 23, 2024, S&T filed the instant
Demurrer (“S&T Demurrer”) and Motion to Strike (“S&T Motion”). 
On August 29, 2024, this Court dismissed ASG from
the action at Plaintiff’s request. 
On August 29, 2024, this Court dismissed Plaintiff’s
tenth cause of action for quiet title at Plaintiff’s request. 
On September 4, 2024, Plaintiff substituted its
attorney. 
On September 6, 2024, Westcor filed the instant
Demurrer (“Westcor Demurrer”) and Motion to Strike (“Westcor Motion”). 
On September 16, 2024, Plaintiff filed its
Oppositions to S&T’s Demurrer and Motion.
On September 16, 2024, Plaintiff filed its
Oppositions to Dahl’s Demurrer (“Opposition Dahl Demurrer”) and to Dahl’s Motion
(“Opposition Dahl Motion”).
On September 17, 2024, Plaintiff amended its FAC, substituting
Defendant Corinthian for Doe 1.
On September 18, 2024, Plaintiff filed its
Oppositions to Westcor’s Demurrer and Motion.
On September 18, 2024, Dahl filed his Reply to
Plaintiff’s Opposition Dahl Demurrer. Dahl did not file a reply to Plaintiff’s
Opposition Dahl Motion.
On September 20, 2024, Southwest and Townsend filed
their Replies. 
On September 20, 2024, Westcor filed its Replies.
III.     LEGAL STANDARD
A.            
Demurrer
A
demurrer is a pleading used to test the legal sufficiency of other
pleadings. It raises issues of law, not fact, regarding the form or
content of the opposing party’s pleading (complaint, answer or
cross-complaint). (See Code Civ. Proc. §§ 422.10, 589; see Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)[1] It
is not the function of the demurrer to challenge the truthfulness of the
complaint; and for purposes of the ruling on the demurrer, all facts pleaded in
the complaint are assumed to be true. (See Donabedian, 116 Cal.App.4th
at 994.) 
“We
treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded but not
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law. We accept the factual
allegations of the complaint as true and also consider matters which may be
judicially noticed.” (Mitchell v. California Dept. of Pub. Health (2016)
1 Cal.App.5th 1000, 1007, citation omitted.) “[T]he facts alleged in the
pleading are deemed to be true, however improbable they may be. (Del E. Webb
Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604.)
Allegations are to be liberally construed. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 452.)
A demurrer may be brought if insufficient facts are stated to support the cause
of action asserted. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 430.10(e).)  
“A
demurrer tests the sufficiency of a complaint as a matter of law.” (Durell
v. Sharp Healthcare (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 1350, 1358.) “[T]he court
gives the complaint a reasonable interpretation, and treats the demurrer as
admitting all material facts properly pleaded.” (Id.) In testing
the sufficiency of the complaint, the court must assume the truth of (1) the
properly pleaded factual allegations; (2) facts that can be reasonably inferred
from those expressly pleaded; and (3) judicially noticed matters. (See Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) A demurrer tests the pleadings
alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. (See SKF Farms v.
Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) No other extrinsic evidence
can be considered. (See Ion Equip. Corp. v. Nelson (1980) 110
Cal.App.3d 868, 881 [error for court to consider facts asserted in memorandum
supporting demurrer]; see also Afuso v. United States Fid. &
Guar. Co. (1985) 169 Cal.App.3d 859, 862 [disapproved on other grounds in Moradi-Shalal
v. Fireman’s Fund Ins. Cos. (1988) 46 Cal.3d 287] [error to consider
contents of release not part of court record].) Accordingly, “[w]hether
the plaintiff will be able to prove the pleaded facts is irrelevant to ruling
upon the demurrer.” (Stevens v. Superior Court (1986) 180
Cal.App.3d 605, 609-10.) 
A
demurrer can only be sustained when it disposes of an entire cause of
action. (See Poizner v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148
Cal.App.4th 97, 119; Kong v. City of Hawaiian Gardens Redev. Agency
(2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1046.) Leave to amend must be allowed where
there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (See Goodman v.
Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is on the complainant to
show the Court a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.) However,
“[i]f there is any reasonable possibility that the plaintiff can state a good
cause of action, it is error to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend.” (Youngman
v. Nevada Irrigation Dist. (1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245).  
B.            
Motion to Strike
The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in
its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false,
or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (See Code Civ. Proc. §
436(a).) The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of
the court. (See id. at § 436(b).) The grounds for a motion to strike are
that the pleading has irrelevant, false or improper matter, or has not been
drawn or filed in conformity with laws. (See id. at § 436.) The grounds
for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of
judicial notice. (See id. at § 437.)
IV.     MEET AND CONFER 
Before filing a demurrer or motion to strike, the demurring or
moving party shall meet and confer in person, by telephone, or by video
conference with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to
demurrer or motion to strike for the purpose of determining whether an
agreement can be reached. (See Code Civ. Proc. §§ 430.41(a), 435.5(a)
(emphasis added).) A declaration must be filed with a demurrer or motion to
strike regarding the results of the meet and confer process. (See Code
Civ. Proc. §§ 430.41(a)(3), 435.5(a)(3).) 
Southwest and Townsend’s counsel Tracey Hom (“Hom”) filed a
declaration attesting to her meet and confer efforts. (See, e.g., Declaration
of Tracey Hom filed August 23, 2024 (“Hom Decl.”), ¶¶ 3-4, Exs. 1-2.) Hom
declared she sent a meet and confer letter and spoke to an attorney at
Plaintiff’s prior counsel’s firm, Mr. Oknyansky, but was never able to get in
contact with Plaintiff’s counsel, Marsha Berkowitz (“Berkowitz”). (See, e.g.,
Hom Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. 2.)  Because the
parties communicated via telephone, the Court finds Southwest and Townsend have
satisfied their meet and confer obligations. 
Westcor’s counsel Erika Prager (“Prager”) filed a declaration
attesting to her meet and confer efforts. (See, e.g., Declaration of
Erika Prager filed September 6, 2024 (“Prager Decl.”), ¶¶ 3-7, Ex. A-D.) Prager
declared she tried multiple times to get in touch with Berkowitz via email and
phone without success. (See id.) Prager further declared she was
eventually able to speak to Mr. Oknyansky but that the parties were unable to
come to an informal resolution. (See, e.g., Prager Decl., ¶ 5, Ex. C.)
The Court also finds Westcor has met its meet and confer obligations. 
Dahl’s counsel Morgan Halford (“Halford”) filed a declaration
attesting to her meet and confer efforts. (See, e.g., Declaration of
Morgan Halford filed August 22, 2024, ¶¶ 5-15.) Halford declares she tried to
reach Berkowitz multiple times via phone, email, and letter without success. (See
id.) The Court also finds Dahl has met its meet and confer obligations. 
V.       ANALYSIS
There are three Demurrers and three Motions to
Strike before this Court. The Court will address Southwest and Townsend’s
Demurrer and Motion to Strike first, then Westcor’s Demurrer and Motion to
Strike, then, finally, Dahl’s Demurrer and Motion to Strike. 
A.            
Southwest’s
and Townsend’s Demurrer is Sustained in Part and their Motion to Strike is Granted
in Part.
1.              
Southwest
and Townsend’s Demurrer is Sustained in Part and Overruled in Part With Leave
to Amend.
a.              
Sham
Pleading 
As a preliminary matter, S&T argue Plaintiff’s
FAC is a sham pleading because Plaintiff “failed to attach all of the exhibits
previously attached to the original complaint. [Plaintiff has] changed the
facts and [Plaintiff has] added additional causes of action without the
approval of the court.” (S&T Demurrer, pg. 6.) S&T do not highlight
specific portions of Plaintiff’s FAC that are contradictory, nor do they raise
their sham pleading argument in their Notice of Demurrer.[2] (See
id. at 2-3, 6-7.) The Court will therefore not address S&T’s sham
pleading argument further; however, the Court notes Plaintiff’s contradictory
allegations will be addressed in its analysis of Plaintiff’s causes of action,
below. 
b.             
Declaratory
Relief
A cause of action for declaratory relief requires
the following elements: (1) person interested under a written instrument or a
contract; or (2) a declaration of his or her rights or duties (a) with respect
to another or (b) in respect to, in, over or upon property; and (3) an actual
controversy. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 1060.) A general demurrer to a cause
of action for declaratory relief must be overruled as long as an actual
controversy is alleged; the pleader need not establish it is also entitled to a
favorable judgment. (See¿New Livable California v. Association of Bay Area
Governments¿(2020) 59 Cal.App.5th
709, 715-717.)
¿   Plaintiff has
failed to state a cause of action for declaratory relief as Plaintiff has
failed to allege any of the required elements. Plaintiff’s FAC has not streamlined
the logical inconsistencies the Court addressed in its ruling on Dahl’s prior
Demurrer. A plaintiff can plead in the alternative, but each version of the
facts or legal theory must be contained in the same cause of action and affirmative
allegations of inconsistent facts are not permitted. (See Campbell v.
Rayburn (1954) 129 Cal.App.2d 232, 235; see also Manti v. Gunari (1970)
5 Cal.App.3d 442, 449 (stating that alleging inconsistent facts in a verified
pleading “indicates perjury in the matter”.)
Plaintiff’s declaratory relief cause of action
states the deed it claims an interest in as a “bona fide purchaser” is valid.
Yet in the same sentence Plaintiff states it is fraudulent. (FAC, ¶ 50.)
Similarly, in one paragraph Plaintiff claims the deed was forged and that
S&T and Verdiyan collaborated with Doe 1 to transfer the Property from Dahl.
Yet in the very next paragraph, Plaintiff claims “Dahl, having sold his
property has attempted to steal it back from [Plaintiff]” and, as such, Doe 1 –
since substituted as Corinthian – does not exist and S&T “would not be liable
for damages.” (FAC, ¶¶ 42-43.) 
Plaintiff relies on these inconsistent factual
allegations to support its first cause of action and points to them as proof of
an actual controversy. But Plaintiff cannot plead alternative theories and
facts in the same cause of action. Plaintiff is simultaneously asking this
Court to determine “which of these defendants is responsible for Plaintiffs’
damages” and also allege “[a]n actual controversy and/or dispute has arisen and
now exists wherein DAHL claims that he never sold Subject Property to Plaintiffs,
indicating that [Corinthian], TOWNSEND, SOUTHWEST, VERDIYAN…conspired to record
a fraudulent deed.” (FAC, ¶¶ 47, 51.) Plaintiff simply cannot do this as a
matter of law.
Accordingly, because Plaintiff has consistently
failed to allege what interest it has in the Property or an actual controversy,
the Court SUSTAINS S&T’s Demurrer as to Plaintiff’s first cause of action
for declaratory relief as against S&T, Dahl, and Verdiyan WITH LEAVE TO
AMEND.
c.              
Fraud
“The elements for a fraudulent concealment claim
are: (1) the defendant must have concealed or suppressed a material fact, (2)
the defendant must have been under a duty to disclose the fact to the
plaintiff, (3) the defendant must have intentionally concealed or suppressed the
fact with the intent to defraud the plaintiff, (4) the plaintiff must have been
unaware of the fact and would not have acted as he did if he had known of the
concealed or suppressed fact, and (5) as a result of the concealment or
suppression of the fact, the plaintiff must have sustained damage.” (Nissan
Motor Acceptance Cases (2021) 63 Cal.App.5th 793, 826 (internal quotations
omitted).) “No liability for concealment exists unless there is a duty to
disclose.” (Id.)  
“[F]raud must be specifically pleaded. This means:
(1) general pleading of the legal conclusion of fraud is insufficient; and (2)
every element of the cause of action for fraud must be alleged in full,
factually and specifically, and the policy of liberal construction of pleading
will not usually be invoked to sustain a pleading that is defective in any
material respect.” (Wilhelm v. Pray, Price, Williams & Russell
(1986) 186 Cal.App.3d 1324, 1331.) 
However, this rule of particularity must be applied
differently in the case of non-disclosure because it is difficult to allege “who”
or “how” or “by what means” something was not disclosed or “when” or
"where" a statement was not made. (See Alfaro v. Community Housing
Improvement System & Planning Ass’n, Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1356,
1384.) Less particularity is required in these cases because the facts
supporting concealment are more likely to be known by a defendant. (See id.) 
Plaintiff’s third cause of action pleads fraud in
the alternative. (See FAC, ¶ 60.) Plaintiff once again advances its
earlier theory that “[Corinthian], TOWNSEND, SOUTHWEST, and VERDIYAN conspired
to sell the Subject Property to [Plaintiff].” (Id.) Plaintiff pleads
S&T “had multiple opportunities to discover that [Corinthian] was not
actually DAHL,” Southwest “failed to verify the grant deed,” and S&T
“failed to verify the bank account they wired the purchase price to”—all as evidence
of S&T’s participation in a scheme to defraud Plaintiff. (FAC, ¶¶ 69,
72-73.) 
Plaintiff has failed to state a cause of action for
fraud as against S&T. Plaintiff does not affirmatively plead that S&T even
knew of Corinthian’s true identity, much less that S&T knew and intentionally
concealed such a fact with the intent to defraud Plaintiff. Whether S&T
should have known but didn’t due to a failure to conduct due diligence is
an issue separate and apart from fraud; “should have known” is simply
not enough to meet fraud’s heightened specificity standards. 
Plaintiff has thus failed to plead the first or
second elements to sustain a cause of action for fraud. Accordingly, the Court
SUSTAINS S&T’s Demurrer as to Plaintiff’s third cause of action for fraud WITH
LEAVE TO AMEND. 
d.             
Breach
of Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
Every contract imposes upon each party a duty of
good faith and fair dealing in its performance and its enforcement.” (Hicks
v. E.T. Legg & Associates (2001) 89 Cal.App.4th 496, 508.) “[T]he scope
of conduct prohibited by the covenant of good faith is circumscribed by the
purposes and express terms of the contract.” (Id. at 509.) “The covenant
of good faith and fair dealing… exists… to prevent one contracting party from
unfairly frustrating the other party’s right to receive the benefits of the
agreement actually made.” (Guz v. Bechtel National Inc. (2000) 24
Cal.4th 317, 349.) “The covenant is read into contracts and functions ‘as a
supplement to the express contractual covenants, to prevent a contracting party
from engaging in conduct which (while not technically transgressing the express
covenants) frustrates the other party's rights to the benefits of the
contract.’” (Thrifty Payless, Inc. v. The Americana at Brand, LLC (2013)
218 Cal.App.4th 1230, 1244 (quoting Racine & Laramie, Ltd. v. Department
of Parks & Recreation (1992) 11 Cal.App.4th 1026, 1031-32).) The
implied covenant “is designed to effectuate the intentions and reasonable
expectations of parties reflected by mutual promises within the contract.” (Nein
v. HostPro, Inc. (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 833, 852.)¿¿ 
S&T argue Plaintiff’s seventh cause of action is
essentially alleging breach of contract, and breach of contract does not sound
in tort.[3] (See
S&T Demurrer, pp. 13-14.) S&T misunderstands Plaintiff’s seventh
cause of action. By its very nature, breach of the covenant of good faith and
fair dealing is predicated on the existence of a contractual relationship
between the parties. Thus, an alleged contractual relationship does not defeat such
a cause of action. (See Smith v. City & County of San Francisco (1990)
225 Cal.App.3d 38, 49 (“the covenant of good faith and fair dealing is, by
definition, an implied contract term”).) 
Here, Plaintiff appears to be alleging implied
contract terms in the Title Insurance such as Southwest’s obligation to verify
the seller’s identity, bank account, or other information. (See FAC, ¶¶ 18,
98, 99, & 121(a), Ex. 2.) By contrast, Plaintiff has failed to adequately
plead the existence of a contractual relationship with Southwest that would, in
turn, put Southwest on adequate notice as to how the covenant of good
faith and fair dealing was implicated by the terms of that contract. Instead, Plaintiff’s
seventh cause of action obliquely refers to the existence of an “escrow
relationship” with Southwest and nothing more. (FAC, ¶ 121.) No part of
Paragraphs 1 through 45, which are incorporated by reference into that cause of
action in Paragraph 115, add any more meat to the bone of this cause of action.
As a result, the Court finds Plaintiff has not adequately plead its seventh
cause of action for breach of covenant of good faith and fair dealing as
against S&T and SUSTAINS S&T’s Demurrer as to this cause of action WITH
LEAVE TO AMEND. 
e.              
Negligence
“The elements of any negligence cause of action are duty, breach of duty,
proximate cause, and damages.” (Peredia v. HR Mobile Services, Inc.
(2018) 25 Cal.App.5th 680, 687.) “Everyone is responsible, not only for the
result of his or her willful acts, but also for an injury occasioned to another
by his or her want of ordinary care or skill in the management of his or her
property or person, except so far as the latter has, willfully or by want of
ordinary care, brought the injury upon himself or herself.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
1714(a).) 
S&T argue “[t]he only obligations assumed by the
escrow holder are those set forth in the instructions, and it owes a party no
general duty of disclosure of facts connected with the transaction.” (S&T
Demurrer, pg. 14 (citations omitted).) 
The Court finds Plaintiff has stated sufficient
facts to state its ninth cause of action for negligence against S&T. Plaintiff
has alleged S&T’s duty, their breach, causation, and damages. (See FAC,
¶¶ 130-131, 134-135.) Plaintiff may not ultimately succeed on this claim if, as
S&T argue, S&T’s roles limit their duties and obligations. However, the
Court cannot evaluate the escrow instructions S&T references (which are not
before it) or S&T’s compliance with said instructions/fulfillment of their
duties because such an analysis is inappropriate at the pleading stage.
Accordingly, the Court OVERRULES S&T’s Demurrer
as to Plaintiff’s ninth cause of action for negligence.
f.               
Summary
of Rulings on S&T’s Demurrer 
In summary then, the Court SUSTAINS WITH LEAVE TO
AMEND S&T’s Demurrer as to Plaintiff’s first, third, and seventh causes of
action and OVERRULES S&T’s Demurrer as to Plaintiff’s ninth cause of
action.
2.              
Southwest
and Townsend’s Motion to Strike is Granted and Denied in Part
S&T seek to strike several portions of
Plaintiff’s FAC. (See S&T Motion, pp. 3-4.) The Court will address
each in turn. 
First, the Court DENIES S&T’s Motion as to Plaintiff’s
first cause of action for declaratory relief because the Court sustained
S&T’s Demurrer as to this cause of action, rendering the issue moot. 
Second, the Court DENIES S&T’s Motion as to
Plaintiff’s Paragraphs 79 and 81 within Plaintiff’s third cause of action for
fraud because the Court sustained S&T’s Demurrer as to that cause of action,
rendering the issue moot. 
Third, the Court DENIES S&T’s Motion as to
Paragraph 122 within Plaintiff’s seventh cause of action for breach of the
covenant of good faith and fair dealing because the Court sustained S&T’s
Demurrer as to that cause of action, rendering it moot.
Fourth, S&T argue the damages Plaintiff alleges
in Paragraph 135 in connection with its tenth cause of action is speculative
and unsupported. (See S&T Motion, pg. 11.) Such an analysis is
premature at the pleading stage. Accordingly, the Court DENIES S&T’s Motion
as to Paragraph 135. 
For the same reasons, the Court DENIES S&T’s
Motion as to Prayer 1. 
By contrast, the Court GRANTS S&T’s Motion as to
Prayer 2 for punitive damages WITH LEAVE TO AMEND because it finds Plaintiff
has failed to sufficiently allege facts that rise to the level of “malice,
fraud or oppression” required to support a punitive damages award. (See
Turman v. Turning Point of Central California, Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th
53, 63.)
Next, the Court GRANTS S&T’s Motion as to Prayer
3 seeking attorney’s fees WITH LEAVE TO AMEND because Plaintiff has not alleged
a statutory or contractual basis for attorney’s fees. 
In summary, the Court GRANTS WITH LEAVE TO AMEND
S&T’s Motion as to Prayer 2 for punitive damages and Prayer 3 for
attorney’s fees and DENIES S&T’s Motion as to Plaintiff’s first cause of
action, Paragraphs 79, 81, 122, and 135, and Prayer 1. 
B.            
The
Court Sustains Westcor’s Demurrer But Denies its Motion to Strike 
1.              
Westcor’s
Demurrer is Sustained
As an initial matter, Westcor briefly argues ASG
does not have standing and that it, as an assignee, is expressly excluded from
the Title Policy between Plaintiff and Westcor. (See Westcor Demurrer,
pg. 17.) In light of ASG’s dismissal from the action, the Court need not
address this argument. 
Westcor’s argument consists of two main points: (1)
Westcor argues the Title Policy does not state or represent that Westcor
guaranteed or promised to provide Plaintiff with a defect-free, clear title to
the Property; and (2) the Title Policy expressly excludes the loss of
anticipated future resale profits. [4], [5] (See
Westcor Demurrer, pp. 9-13.)
Because “[a]ll three causes of action alleged
against Westcor are premised on the false notions that Westcor, a title
insurance carrier, owed a duty to provide JSL with a clear, defect-free title
to the Subject Property, and that the Title Policy attached to the FAC insures
against the loss of anticipated future resale profits,” Westcor argues all
three causes of action fail. (Westcor Demurrer, pg. 13.) 
The Court agrees. On its face, the Title Policy insures
against “[a]ny defect in or lien or encumbrance on the title.” (FAC, ¶ 18, Ex.
2, pg. 1, (2).)[6] The Title Policy does not,
however, make any guarantees or representations about the condition of the Title.
(See FAC, ¶ 18, Ex. 2.) Such a reading of the Title Policy, even if it
could be squared with its plain reading, is inapposite. The very purpose of
title insurance is to “to indemnify against loss through defects in the title
or against liens or encumbrances that may affect title at the time when the
policy is issued.” (Elysian Invest. Group, LLC v. Stewart Title Guaranty Co.
(2002) 105 Cal.App.4th 315, 320 (internal quotes omitted).) “Title insurance,
as opposed to other types of insurance, does not insure against future events.
It is not forward looking. It insures against losses resulting from differences
between the actual title and the record title as of the date title is insured.
The policy does not guarantee the state of the title. Instead, it agrees to
indemnify the insured for losses incurred as a result of defects in or
encumbrances on the title.” (Quelimane Co. v. Stewart Title Guaranty Co.
(1998) 19 Cal.4th 26, 41 (citation omitted).) 
Plaintiff’s only allegations against Westcor concern
Westcor’s alleged failure to cover Plaintiff’s future lost profits from the
resale of the Property and Westcor’s alleged failure to properly investigate
the title to the Property. (See, e.g., FAC, ¶¶ 53-54.) Plaintiff’s
allegations, which form the basis of all three of its causes of action against
Westcor, fail based on the unambiguous terms of the Title Policy and as a
matter of law. The Court will briefly address each below. 
a.              
Declaratory
Relief
The Court incorporates by reference the declaratory
relief standard found in Section V.A.1.b., above. 
Plaintiff’s second cause of action for declaratory
relief is based on Westcor’s alleged “duty to cover reasonably foreseeable
consequential damages and in particular the lost profit from the failed sale of
the Subject Property” and Plaintiff’s reliance “on WESTCOR’s investigation of
title to the Subject Property.” (FAC, ¶¶ 53-54.) As discussed above, these
allegations fail. Therefore, Plaintiff has failed to allege an actual
controversy and its second cause of action for declaratory relief against
Westcor fails to state a cause of action. 
Accordingly, the Court SUSTAINS Westcor’s Demurrer
as to Plaintiff’s second cause of action for declaratory relief WITH LEAVE TO
AMEND.  
b.             
Breach
of Contract
The essential elements of a
contract are: “(1) Parties capable of contracting; (2) Their consent; (3) A
lawful object; and (4) A sufficient cause or consideration.” (Code of Civ.
Proc. § 1550.) “The standard elements of a claim for breach of contract are:
‘(1) the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance,
(3) defendant’s breach, and (4) damage to plaintiff therefrom.’” (Wall
Street Network, Ltd. v. New York Times Co. (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 1171,
1178.)  
Plaintiff has failed to state sufficient facts to
state a cause of action for breach of contract against Westcor for the reasons
discussed above. 
Accordingly, the Court SUSTAINS Westcor’s Demurrer
as to Plaintiff’s fifth cause of action for breach of contract WITH LEAVE TO
AMEND.  
c.              
Breach
of Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
To state a cause of action for breach of the
covenant of good faith and fair dealing against an insurer, a plaintiff must
allege (1) there is an insurer obligated under policy to first or third
party; (2) the insurer’s implied
duty; (3) an unreasonable breach
of that duty; and (4) causation
of at least economic damages. (See Love v. Fire Insurance Exchange (1990)
221 Cal.App.3d 1136, 1151.) “Thus, there are at least two separate requirements
to establish breach of the implied covenant: (1) benefits due under the policy
must have been withheld; and (2) the reason for withholding benefits must have
been unreasonable or without proper cause.” (Id. (citations omitted).)
          Plaintiff has
failed to state sufficient facts to state a cause of action for breach of the
covenant of good faith and fair dealing. As discussed above, Plaintiff cannot allege
there were benefits due to it under the Title Policy that have been withheld and,
by way of, cannot establish Westcor’s withholding of said benefits was
unreasonable. 
          Accordingly, the Court SUSTAINS Westcor’s Demurrer as to
Plaintiff’s seventh cause of action for breach of contract WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.

d.             
Summary
of Rulings on Westcor’s Demurrer
In summary, the Court SUSTAINS Westcor’s Demurrer as
to Plaintiff’s second cause of action for declaratory relief, fifth cause of
action for breach of contract, and seventh cause of action for breach of the
covenant of good faith and fair dealing WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.
2.              
Westcor’s
Motion to Strike is Denied as Moot. 
Westcor states “[t]o the extent the Court does not
sustain the demurrer, Westcor moves to strike” portions of Plaintiff’s FAC. (Westcor
Motion, pg. 2.) By sustaining Westcor’s Demurrer in its entirety, the Court has
rendered Westcor’s Motion moot. The Court therefore DENIES Westcor’s Motion in
its entirety. 
C.            
The
Court Sustains Dahl’s Demurrer in Part and Denies his Motion to Strike. 
1.              
Dahl’s
Demurrer is Sustained and Overruled in Part. 
a.              
Fraud
To establish fraud, a plaintiff must show (1) the
defendant represented a fact to be true; (2) the fact was false; (3) the
defendant knew it was false when they made it, or that they made the
representation recklessly without regard for its truth; (4) the defendant
intended for plaintiff to rely on the fact; (5) the plaintiff actually relied
on the fact; (6) the plaintiff was harmed; and (7) plaintiff’s reliance on the
representation was a substantial factor in causing the harm. (See Engalla v.
Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 974.) In addition, a
complaint must show, “how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the
representations were tendered.” (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th
631, 645.)
As an initial matter, Dahl argues Plaintiff has not
sufficiently alleged fraud as against ASG. (See Dahl Demurrer, pp. 7-8.)
The Court need not address this argument in light of ASG’s dismissal from the
action.[7] 
Dahl also argues Plaintiff has “alleged only
antagonistic ‘potential’ scenarios, each of which renders the other false,
rather than facts honestly believed by [Plaintiff] to be true” and Plaintiff’s
fraud claim against Dahl fails as a matter of law. (Dahl Demurrer, pg. 7.) 
As stated earlier, the Court agrees affirmative
allegations of inconsistent facts are not permitted within the same cause of
action. However, a plaintiff can otherwise plead in the alternative. (See Campbell
v. Rayburn (1954) 129 Cal.App.2d 232, 235; see also Manti v. Gunari (1970)
5 Cal.App.3d 442, 449.) Here, Plaintiff’s fourth cause of action for fraud is
predicated on one of Plaintiff’s alternative theories of fact and liability: the
theory that Dahl really did enter into the RPA with Plaintiff despite
never intending to actually sell the Property. (See FAC, ¶ 83.) While
the Court finds this method of alternate pleading unnecessarily confusing, such
pleading, so long as it is contained in distinct causes of action, is not
inherently incorrect. “For the bar on inconsistent fact pleading to apply, the
facts must be ‘antagonistic,’ which apparently means inherently
contradictory and incapable of being reconciled or explained away.” (Weil
& Brown, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter
Group) ¶ 6:247.1 (citing Steiner v. Rowley (1950) 35 Cal.2d 713,
718-719; O'Grady v. Merchant Exchange Productions, Inc. (2019) 41 Cal.App.5th
771, 777).) The Court therefore finds Plaintiff can plead his fourth cause of
action in the alternative. 
But just because Plaintiff can plead his
fourth cause of action in the alternative does not mean he has successfully
done so. Plaintiff has alleged Dahl made the misrepresentation that he wanted
to sell the Property to Plaintiff via phone on September 15, 2023, and
throughout the sale process. (See FAC, ¶¶ 84, 86.) Plaintiff alleges it
relied on that misrepresentation, that Dahl never intended to sell the Property
to Plaintiff, and that Plaintiff was harmed by its reliance. (See FAC,
¶¶
85, 89-94.) What Plaintiff has not alleged, however, is that Dahl intended for
Plaintiff to rely on his misrepresentation. “[T]he requisite intent in a cause
of fraud is an intent to induce action and not a specific intent to deceive.” (Ford
v. Cournale (1973) 36 Cal.App.3d 172, 183.) Merely alleging Dahl never
intended to go through with the sale is not the same as alleging Dahl wanted to
induce action and is therefore not enough to meet this element in accordance
with fraud’s heightened pleading standard. 
Accordingly,
the Court SUSTAINS Dahl’s Demurrer as to Plaintiff’s fourth cause of action for
fraud against Dahl WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.
b.             
Plaintiff
Dismissed Its Quiet Title Action Against Dahl. 
Plaintiff dismissed its tenth cause of action for
quiet title as against Dahl on August 23, 2024, the day after Dahl filed his
Demurrer. Therefore, Dahl’s demurrer as to this cause of action is no longer
before the Court. 
2.              
Dahl’s
Motion to Strike is Denied. 
Dahl moves to strike Plaintiff’s first and second
cause of action for declaratory relief, as well as Paragraph 96 (punitive
damages). (See Dahl Motion, pg. 2.) 
          The Court DENIES Dahl’s Motion as to Plaintiff’s
first cause of action because the Court sustained S&T’s Demurrer as to that
cause of action, rendering the issue moot. 
          Likewise, the Court DENIES Dahl’s
Motion as to Plaintiff’s second cause of action because the Court sustained
Westcor’s Demurrer as to that cause of action rendering this issue moot as well.

          Finally, the Court DENIES Dahl’s
Motion as to Paragraph 96 because the Court sustained Dahl’s Demurrer as to
Plaintiff’s fourth cause of action, rendering this issue moot. 
          The Court therefore DENIES Dahl’s
Motion in full. 
VI.     CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, the Court SUSTAINS WITH
LEAVE TO AMEND S&T’s Demurrer as to Plaintiff’s first, third, and seventh
causes of action and OVERRULES S&T’s Demurrer as to Plaintiff’s ninth cause
of action.
In addition, the Court GRANTS WITH LEAVE TO AMEND
S&T’s Motion as to Prayer 2 for punitive damages and Prayer 3 for
attorney’s fees but DENIES S&T’s Motion as to Plaintiff’s first cause of
action, Paragraphs 79, 81, 122, and 135, and Prayer 1. 
Next, the Court SUSTAINS WITH LEAVE TO AMEND Westcor’s
Demurrer as to Plaintiff’s second cause of action for declaratory relief, fifth
cause of action for breach of contract, and seventh cause of action for breach
of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing.
However, the Court DENIES Westcor’s Motion in its
entirety.
As for Dahl, the Court SUSTAINS WITH LEAVE TO AMEND
Dahl’s Demurrer as to Plaintiff’s fourth cause of action for fraud.
Finally, the Court DENIES Dahl’s Motion. 
Plaintiff has leave to file its amended complaint in
conformity with the Court’s rulings until October 21, 2024.
The Court notes it is granting leave to amend only
in accordance with its analysis. “[S]uch granting of leave to amend must be
construed as permission to the pleader to amend the cause of action which he
pleaded in the pleading to which the demurrer has been sustained.” (People
v. Clausen (1967) 248 Cal.App.2d 770, 785-786 (emphasis added).) Plaintiff
may not amend the complaint to add a new cause of action without having
obtained permission to do so. (See Harris v. Wachovia Mortg., FSB
(2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1018, 1023.)
IT IS SO ORDERED.
DATED:      September 30, 2024



Hon. Michael R. Amerian
Judge,
  Superior Court



 


