


[1]  
All statutory references are to California codes unless stated
otherwise.


[2] California Rules of Court, rule 3.1113(b)
requires a moving party file a “statement of facts, a concise statement of the
law, [and] evidence and arguments relied on.”
 


[3] Although both S&T demurrer to
this cause of action, Plaintiff only alleges it against Southwest (and Westcor,
discussed later).
 


[4] The Title Policy states: “[T]he following
matters are expressly excluded from coverage of this policy  and the Company will not pay loss or damage,
costs, attorneys' fees or  expenses which
arise by reason of:...(3) Defects, liens, encumbrances,  adverse claims or other  matters: (a) whether or not  recorded in the  public records at Date of Policy, but
created,  suffered, assumed or
agreed  to by the insured claimant; (b)
not known to the Company, not  recorded
in the public records at Date of Policy, but known  to the 
insured  claimant and not
discussed in writing to the Company by the insured  claimant prior to the date the insured  became an 
insured under this policy;  (c)
resulting in no loss or damage to the insured claimant; (d) attaching or  created subsequent to Date of Policy; or (e)
resulting in loss or damage  which would
not have been sustained if the insured claimant had paid value  for the insured mortgage or for the estate or
interest insured by this policy.” (FAC, ¶ 18, Ex. 2, Exclusion from Coverage
3(a) - (e).)  


[5] The Title Policy later states: “Any claim
of loss or damage, whether or not based on negligence, and which arises out of
the status of the lien of the insured mortgage or of the title to the estate or
interested covered hereby or by any action asserting such claim, shall be
restricted to this policy.” (FAC, ¶ 18, Ex. 2, Condition 14(b).)  


[6] Where the terms of the policy are
unambiguous, they will be enforced as written. (See J. H. Trisdale, Inc. v.
Shasta County Title Co. (1956) 146 Cal.App.2d 831, 835.)


[7] Although page 4 of Dahl’s Demurrer argues
all of Plaintiff’s causes of action against him have not sufficiently alleged
factual allegations to support them, his Notice of Demurrer and the substance
of his points and authorities only focus on the fraud and quiet title causes of
action. This Court will likewise limit its analysis to those causes of action properly
noticed as targets for Dahl’s Demurrer.
 

