 Case Number:  BC684287    Hearing Date:   June 21, 2024    Dept:  73 6/21/2024
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding 
 
BANK OF THE WEST v. MOSES GALIMBA (BC684287)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff/opposing party:  Shawn Olson
(Olson Law Firm)
Counsel for
Defendant/moving party: Matthew Loker (Loker Law, APC)
 
DEFENDANT’S motion to VACATE AND SET
ASIDE DEFAULT AND DEFAULT JUDGMENT (filed 05/08/2024)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Defendant’s
motion to set aside default and default judgment is DENIED. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
This action was filed on November 20, 2017. This
is an action to enforce a retail installment sale contract by Defendant Moses
Galimba.  Plaintiff Bank of the West is the owner and holder of the
contract by Defendant, assigned to Bank of the West by the seller of the 2017
Ford F-350 vehicle.  Plaintiff filed this lawsuit after Defendant failed
to make monthly payments when due. Plaintiff’s attempts
to obtain possession of its collateral have been ignored.  Per Commercial
Code §§ 9601 and 9609, Plaintiff seeks cumulative remedies for the possession
of its property as prayed for in its complaint, as well as the damages for the
unpaid balance due. 
 
On June 21, 2018, the court entered default
judgment against Defendant in the total amount of $96,705.77 plus possession of
the “2017, Ford F-350, vehicle identification number” ending in 8009 (the
“Subject Vehicle”). 
 
On
May 8, 2024, Defendant filed the instant Motion to Set Aside and Vacate
Dismissal, arguing:
·      
Defendant moves to set aside the entry of default and default
judgment pursuant to CCP §§ 473.5 and 473(d). Defendant argues that the motion
should be granted on statutory grounds, the motion should be granted on
equitable grounds, Plaintiff will not suffer prejudice if default is set aside,
public policy favors setting aside default, and the interests of justice
warrant setting aside default. Defendant asserts that he was the victim of
identity theft and his son, Bryan Galimba, fraudulently purchased the Vehicle at issue herein and then intercepted
all communications regarding this matter to hide his nefarious conduct. Defendant also
argues he was not served properly and this court never acquired personal
jurisdiction over Defendant, so a Motion to Quash Service of Summons is proper.
Defendant contends that he was not served with the summons and Complaint, but
his son Bryan was served, and Defendant did not have actual notice of this
action. Defendant attaches a proposed Answer to the instant motion. 
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff contends:
·       Defendant’s argument of lack of service is
without merit and Plaintiff complied with statutory requirements of service. 
o  
Defendant was properly served with the Summons and Complaint as
required by Code of Civil Procedure § 415.20(b). His Address has remained the
same throughout the entire judicial process. The Summons and Complaint were
served via substitute service at Defendant’s primary address. 
·       Plaintiff asserts that Defendant is not entitled
to relief, has not shown excusable neglect, has failed to state the extrinsic
mistake justifying relief, and has failed to demonstrate any meritorious
defense. 
·      
Plaintiff contends that public policy favors the finality of
judgments.
 
Defendant
filed a reply, arguing that the motion should be
granted to allow resolution on the merits. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
A.    
Legal Standard
“The court may set aside a void default judgment at
any time under section 473, subdivision (d).” (Rodriguez v. Cho (2015)
236 Cal.App.4th 742, 749.) “In addition, the court has inherent equitable power
to set aside a default judgment at any time for extrinsic fraud or mistake.” (Ibid.)
“The court may grant relief under its inherent equity power if, because of the
fraud of his opponent, the aggrieved party was prevented from presenting his
claim or defense to the court.” (Id. at p. 750, citations omitted.)
“Fraud is intrinsic and not a valid ground for setting aside a judgment when
the party has been given notice of the action and has had an opportunity to
present his case and to protect himself from any mistake or fraud of his
adversary, but has unreasonably neglected to do so.” (Ibid.) A party
seeking equitable relief on the grounds of extrinsic fraud or mistake must show
the following three elements: (1) a meritorious defense; (2) a satisfactory
excuse for not presenting the defense in the first place; and (3) diligence in
seeking to set aside the default judgment once discovered. (Ibid.)
Extrinsic mistake “is not so much the fraud or other misconduct of one of the
parties as it is the excusable neglect of the defaulting party to appear and
present his claim or defense. If that neglect results in an unjust judgment,
without a fair adversary hearing, the basis for equitable relief on the ground
of extrinsic mistake is present.” (Mechling v. Asbestos Defendants (2018)
29 Cal.App.5th 1241, 1246.) “When a default judgment has been obtained,
equitable relief may be given only in exceptional circumstances.” (Ibid.,
emphasis in original.)  
“When evaluating a motion to set aside a default
judgment on equitable grounds, the court must weigh the reasonableness of the
conduct of the moving party in light of the extent of the prejudice to the responding
party.” (Lasalle v. Vogel (2019) 36 Cal.App.5th 127, 139, internal
quotations omitted.) Where there is lack of prejudice to the opposing party,
such factor weighs in favor of setting aside default and default judgment. (Gray
v. Lawlor (1907) 151 Cal. 352, 357.)  
“When service of a summons has not resulted in actual
notice to a party in time to defend the action and a default or default
judgment has been entered against him or her in the action, he or she may file
a notice of motion to set aside the default or default judgment and for leave
to defend the action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473.5, subd. (a).) “The notice of
motion shall be served and filed within a reasonable time, but in no event
exceeding the earlier of: (i) two years after entry of a default judgment against
him or her; or (ii) 180 days after service on him or her of a written notice
that the default or default judgment has been entered.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
473.5, subd. (a).) “A defendant seeking to set aside a default or default
judgment under section 473.5 must show, by affidavit, that his or her lack of
actual notice in time to defend the action was not caused by his or her
avoidance of service or inexcusable neglect.” (Shapell Socal Rental
Properties, LLC v. Chico’s FAS, Inc. (2022) 85 Cal.App.5th 198, 212.)  
 “[T]he filing of a proof of service creates a
rebuttable presumption that . . . service was proper.” (Dill v. Berquist
Construction Co. (1994) 24 Cal.App.4th 1426, 1441.) “[A] registered process
server’s declaration establishes a presumption affecting the burden of
producing evidence of the facts stated in the declaration.” (American
Express Centurion Bank v. Zara (2011) 199 Cal.App.4th 383, 390.) “[A]
registered process server’s declaration of service establishes a presumption
that the facts stated in the declaration are true.” (Rodriguez v. Cho (2015)
236 Cal.App.4th 742, 750.)  
“It is well settled that appellate courts have always
been and are favorably disposed toward such action upon the part of the trial
courts as will permit, rather than prevent, the adjudication of legal
controversies upon their merits.” (Benjamin v. Dalmo Mfg. Co. (1948) 31
Cal.2d 523, 525.) “[T]he law strongly favors trial and disposition on the
merits, [and] any doubts in applying section 473 must be resolved in favor of
the party seeking relief from default.” (Shapell Socal Rental Properties,
LLC v. Chico’s FAS, Inc., supra, 85 Cal.App.5th 198, 212.)
“An order denying relief is therefore scrutinized more carefully than an order
granting relief and permitting trial on the merits.” (Id. at p. 213.)
“[T]he provisions of section 473 . . . are to be liberally construed and sound
policy favors the determination of actions on their merits.” (Id. at p.
212, citation and internal quotations omitted.)  
B.    
Appropriateness
of Setting Aside the Default and Default Judgment
 
Defendant
moves to set aside default and default judgment on the grounds that he received
no notice of this action and that service was defective. 
 
Relief under
Code Civ. Proc., section 473.5 is not available here because default was
entered against Defendant more than two years ago. However, equitable relief is
still available. Defendant
contends the default may be set aside on the grounds of extrinsic fraud or
mistake.
 
Defendant argues that his son
Bryan Galimba (“Bryan”) had fraudulently purchased the Subject Vehicle in
Defendant’s name without Defendant’s knowledge. (Moses Galimba Decl., ¶¶
2-10.) Defendant
further asserts that he did not have actual notice of this lawsuit until late
2023 because Bryan had intercepted documents regarding this matter, including
the summons and Complaint. (Moses Galimba Decl., ¶¶
11-24.)
 
Plaintiff’s proof of service filed shows that on
December 1, 2017, the summons and Complaint were served via substituted service
at Defendant’s address on a male,
approximately 30 years old, around 5’11” and 155 pounds with black hair and
brown eyes. (Moses Galimba Decl., ¶¶ 16-17.) Defendant
states in his declaration that the description matches Bryan, as Defendant is a
senior citizen. (Ibid.) Defendant states in his declaration that he did
not receive the summons and Complaint from Bryan, thus, Defendant was not aware
of this action. (Moses Galimba Decl., ¶¶ 18-25.) Defendant also
provides as evidence a Fraud Affidavit he filed with the Federal Trade
Commission asserting that he was the victim of identity theft by Bryan. (Moses Galimba Suppl. Decl., Ex. 2.)
 
Plaintiff
argues that Defendant had actual notice of the lawsuit because Defendant’s wife was served with the Application to Sell Dwelling on June 25,
2020; Defendant was personally served the Turnover Order in August 18, 2020;
and Defendant was personally served on September 30, 2020 with the Order for
Sale of Dwelling. (Oppos., Ex. 1.) Plaintiff argues Defendant cannot now claim
that he had no idea that he was a judgment debtor. In response, Defendant
argues that he assumed documents were sent to him as a mistake and that he did
not believe he was the subject of the lawsuit. (Moses Galimba Decl., ¶¶ 11-12.)
 
Here, the
Court finds Defendant has not presented a satisfactory excuse for not
presenting his defense in the first place. Defendant only provides his own
self-serving declaration in support that he did not receive the summons and
Complaint and was thus not aware of this lawsuit. However, Defendant does not
dispute that he was served at his primary address or that Bryan did not have
authority to accept service. Further, Defendant does not provide a satisfactory
explanation as to why he was not aware of this lawsuit after being personally
served with the Turnover
Order on August 18, 2020 and the Order for Sale of Dwelling on September 30,
2020. Additionally, Defendant does not provide how he
discovered the default judgment, but only states he discovered the default
judgment sometime in late 2023. Defendant did not file the instant motion until
May 8, 2024. Defendant does not explain why he was not diligent in seeking
default sooner. In sum, the Court does not find
Defendant qualifies for equitable relief from default.
 
Defendant’s motion to set aside default and
default judgment is denied. 
 
C.    
Appropriateness
of Quashing Service of the Summons and Complaint
 
The Court also notes
that Defendant’s request to quash service of the summons and complaint is procedurally
improper. Defendant filed a motion to set aside default and default
judgment, but in the body of the motion, he also included a request for an
order quashing service of the summons on the defendant.
 
However, because default
and default judgment were entered against Defendant, any request to quash
service of the summons and complaint is procedurally improper. (Bailey v.
City Bank, N.A. (2021) 66 Cal.App.5th 335, 347.) “The entry of a
defendant’s default cuts off the defendant’s right to file pleadings and
motions (other than a motion to set aside default under § 473), and it also
cuts off the defendant’s right to notices and the service of pleadings or
papers.” (Ibid.)
 
Thus, Defendant was only
entitled to file a motion to set aside default and did not have standing to
quash service of summons and complaint pursuant to Bailey, supra,
66 Cal.App.5th 335, 347.  
 
Further, by filing a
motion to set aside default, Defendant has made a general appearance. (Kallman
v. Henderson (1965) 234 Cal.App.2d 91, 96.) However, a motion to quash must
be made through a special appearance. (Stancil v. Superior Court (2021)
11 Cal.5th 381, 393.) Therefore, by generally appearing, Defendant is
improperly requesting to quash service of the summons and complaint.
 
As such, the Court denies
any request to quash service of the summons and complaint made in Defendant’s
motion.
 
DISPOSITION
 

Defendant’s
motion to set aside default and default judgment is DENIED.
 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice. 