 Case Number:  23STCV08523    Hearing Date:   June 21, 2024    Dept:  73 6/21/2024Dept. 73Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge presiding  DENNYS RENE RIVAS-WILLIAMS v. A & A GRANITE MARBLE, et al. (23STCV08523) Counsel for Plaintiff/opposing party:  Raphael Metzger (Metzger Law Group), Alan Brayton (Brayton Purcell LLP) Counsel for Defendant Caesarstone LTD/moving party: James Spratt (Lydecker) DEFENDANT CAESARSTONE LTD’S MOTION TO STRIKE PORTIONS OF PLAINTIFF’S FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT (filed 01/17/24) TENTATIVE RULING Defendant Caesarstone LTD’s motion to strike is DENIED. I. BACKGROUND On April 17, 2023, Plaintiff Dennys Rene Rivas-Williams (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendant Caesarstone LTD (“Caesarstone”) and 80 other named defendants. On December 15, 2023, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) alleging causes of action for (1) Negligence, (2) Strict Liability – Warning Defect, (3) Strict Liability – Design Defect, (4) Fraudulent Concealment and (5) Breach of Implied Warranties. The FAC alleges that from April 2015 to 2022, Plaintiff worked with stone products that were manufactured, distributed, and/or supplied by all named Defendants. (FAC, ¶¶ 118-120.) As a result of working with the stone products, Plaintiff alleges he developed silicosis and other related injuries. (FAC, ¶¶ 120-122.) On May 13, 2024, Defendant Caesarstone LTD filed a motion to strike portions of Plaintiff’s FAC.·       Caesarstone argues that punitive damages should be stricken because there are no specific allegations regarding Caesarstone. Thus, any allegations of punitive damages lack particularity.·       Caesarstone also asserts that allegations relating to other silica-containing stone products to be determined during discovery should be stricken. It argues that under the Bockrath standard for toxic tort cases, a plaintiff must specifically identify each product to which he was exposed for each defendant. In opposition to the motion to strike, Plaintiff argues:·       As to punitive damages, the allegations of fraud support the punitive damages allegations and Plaintiff’s allegations are sufficient under California appellate toxic injury cases involving dangerous products.  In reply, Caesarstone maintains that as to punitive damages, Plaintiff has failed to allege facts sufficient to support punitive damages. As to the other chemical products language, Plaintiff does not provide any argument in opposition. II. DISCUSSION A.     Legal Standard for Motion to Strike The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., (CCP) § 436(a).) The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Id., § 436(b).) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Id.¿§¿437.)¿¿ B.     Meet and Confer Requirement Prior to filing a motion to strike, the moving party is required to satisfy their meet and confer obligations and demonstrate that they so satisfied their meet and confer obligation by submitting a declaration. (CCP § 435.5.) Here, counsel for Caesarstone submitted a declaration stating she sent Plaintiff’s counsel a correspondence outlining the issues raised in the motion to strike. (Brice Decl., ¶ 3.) Caesarstone’s counsel states the parties were unable to reach an informal resolution. (Ibid.) While Caesarstone does not specify whether the parties met and conferred in-person or by telephone as required by CPP § 435.5, the Court finds the moving party’s attempts have satisfied their meet and confer obligations. C.     Reference to Other Silica-Containing Stone Products Caesarstone request the Court to strike allegations relating to other silica-containing stone products to be determined during discovery as follows:1.     Page 40, line 25: “And other silica-containing stone products to be identified in the course of discovery.” Caesarstone argues that this allegation violates the principles set forth in Bockrath v. Aldrich Chemical Co., Inc., where the court held that the plaintiff must allege “each product that caused the injury.” ((1999) 21 Cal. 4th 71.) The¿Bockrath¿¿court held that a plaintiff who alleged facts to support all of the following has sufficiently pled his complaint in toxic exposure matters: (1) Plaintiff was exposed to each toxic material claimed to cause a specific illness, (2)¿toxins entered Plaintiff’s body as a result of exposure to each defendants’ product, (3) Plaintiff suffers from a specific illness, and that each toxin which entered his body was a substantial factor in bringing about or aggravating the illness. (Id.¿at 79-80.) The¿Bockrath¿court further noted that the plaintiff may allege these facts in a conclusory fashion if their knowledge of the precise cause is¿limited, and¿may plead doe defendants if their knowledge of all defendants is limited. (Id.¿at 80-81.)¿  Therefore, it does not follow from¿Bockrath¿that the phrase “other silica-containing stone products to be identified in the course of discovery” must be stricken from the FAC. Instead,¿Bockrath,¿taken as a whole, appears¿to stand for the proposition that a toxic tort plaintiff must allege facts as succinctly as he knows how at case inception, and that alleging facts in a conclusory fashion by, for example, not specifying all alleged toxic products, is permissible if plaintiff does not have sufficient knowledge. Here, Plaintiff pleads the specific products manufactured by Caesarstone, including Caesarston Classico, Caesarstone Concetto, Caesarstone Motivo, Caesarstone Supernatural, Caesarstone Metropolitan, exposed Plaintiff to crystalline silica, metals, and other toxins. (FAC, p. 40; ¶¶ 118-120.) Plaintiff alleges he inhaled these toxins in the course of his work as a cutter, fabricator and installer of stone countertops. (FAC, ¶¶ 120-122.) As a result, Plaintiff further alleges he developed silicosis and other conditions that have required medical treatment and hospitalizations, and for which Plaintiff will need to receive a lung transplant. (Ibid.) Therefore, Plaintiff has complied with the pleading standards set forth in Bockrath. Accordingly, Caesarstone’s motion to strike the allegation relating to other silica-containing stone products to be determined during discovery is DENIED. D.     Punitive Damages Caesarstone requests the Court to strike all allegations of punitive damages as follows:1.     FAC ¿¿ 858, 874 and 9892.     FAC Prayer for Relief, ¿ 4 : “For punitive damages and according to proof.” The adequacy of a claim for punitive damages is properly tested by a motion to strike. (Grieves v. Superior Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 164.) Civil Code section 3294, subdivision (a) authorizes the recovery of punitive damages where the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice, express or implied. Malice means conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1).) Oppression is despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights. (Id., subd. (c)(2).) Fraud means an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the party of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury. (Id., subd. (c)(3).)  Caesarstone argues that Plaintiff has failed to plead punitive damages with the requisite specificity as to Caesarstone. Caesarstone asserts that Plaintiff’s FAC makes conclusory and overbroad allegations against all defendants, for example Plaintiff alleges that defendants “consciously decided to market their stone products with knowledge of their harmful effects and without remedying the toxic effects of their stone products, … and misrepresented the nature of their stone products, by withholding information from Plaintiff regarding toxic and fibrogenic chemicals released from their products.” (FAC, ¶ 857.) Caesarstone argues that Plaintiff does not allege any specific facts as to how defendants allegedly concealed the toxic hazards of its product or how they misrepresented the nature of their products. Caesarstone cites to G. D. Searle & Co. v. Superior Court (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 22 in support, in which the court found Plaintiff’s allegations too vague to support a claim for punitive damages. For example in G.D. Searle, the complaint alleged that : “defendants…. knew and implicitly represented by the defective products’ presence on the market that they could safely do the jobs for which they were developed; and that defendants . . . wrongfully, knowingly, and willfully acted in complete disregard of plaintiff’s implicit reliance upon defendants’ implicit representations of safety and for which plaintiff seeks punitive damages in the amount of $2,000,000.00.' (Id. at 27.) However, the Court finds that here, Plaintiff has pled sufficient allegations to support punitive damages. While Caesarstone argues that Plaintiff makes conclusory allegations as to all defendants, the FAC contains allegations specific to Caesarstone. (FAC, ¶¶ 256-367.) The FAC alleges that Caesarstone knew its product was causing workers to get sick because in 2023 Caesarstone submitted a formal “Opening Statement” to Australian regulators in response to questions that they posed to Caesarstone in determining whether importation of Caesarstone and other artificial stone products into Australia should be banned due to the dangers of the products. (FAC, ¶¶ 261-271.) Among the questions that Australian regulators posed to Caesarstone in 2023 was the following question: “When did Caesarstone first learn that people working with the product were getting sick as a result?” In its “Opening Statement,” Caesarstone answered the question: “2010.” (FAC, ¶¶ 261-271.) The FAC also alleges on February 16, 2012, Caesarstone filed its Form F-1 Registration Statement under the Securities and Exchange Commission and in the document, Caesarstone acknowledged that “Silicosis and related claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition” and Caesarstone went on to describe the hazards of tis product and the risks of silicosis from exposure to its product. (FAC, ¶¶ 280-281.) The FAC further alleges “Caesarstone also concealed the true nature and severity of the hazards of its Caesarstone product by stating in its March 26, 2012 Safety Data Sheet that “Quartz surfaces products are not hazardous as shipped,” although Caesarstone® is not a finished consumer product, but is rather than industrial product that must be sawed, ground, routed, drilled, sanded, and polished in fabricating and installing the product, thereby generating respirable crystalline silica dust that causes silicosis.” (FAC, ¶ 296.) Here, Plaintiff has pled facts as to what Caesarstone knew about the alleged acts that harmed Plaintiff, how Caesarstone knew and how Caesarstone disregarded the Plaintiff’s rights or safety despite this knowledge. The FAC also lists the specific products manufactured by Caesarstone, a description of how Plaintiff’s work as a cutter, fabricator and installer of stone countertops brought him into contact with the product, the health hazards of the product, allegations providing a detailed historical timeline of the Caesarstone’s knowledge of the hazards of the product, and allegations describing Plaintiff’s resulting silicosis and its alleged causal connection to Caesarstone’s products. Thus, Plaintiff’s allegations are specific as to Caesarstone and are not as vague as the allegations in G. D. Searle. Caesarstone further argues should the Plaintiff prevail on a claim for fraud against a corporation, Plaintiff must establish (1) the identity of the individuals who made misrepresentations to plaintiffs, (2) demonstrate that such individuals had authority to speak for the corporation, (3) identify what such individuals said or wrote and when, and (4) specially plead that their damages were proximately caused by the defendants' fraudulent conduct. (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.) However, as Plaintiff’s case is premised not on an affirmative statement, but on omissions, it is hard to imagine how an individual can be identified who made the omissions. (See Jones v. ConocoPhillips (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 1187 [requiring a relaxed pleading standard for fraudulent concealment causes of action].)  Thus, Caesarstone’s argument on this basis fails. Therefore, the Court finds Plaintiff has set forth allegations against Caesarstone that would warrant punitive damages. Accordingly, Caesarstone’s motion to strike is DENIED. III. DISPOSITION Defendant Caesarstone LTD’s motion to strike is DENIED.