  Case Number:  22STCV20750    Hearing Date:   June 21, 2024    Dept:  73 6/21/2024 
Dept. 73 
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding 
 
FULLER, et al. v. SKETCHBOX LLC, et
al. (22STCV20750)
 
Counsel for Plaintiffs/moving
party:  Virginia Ksadzhikyan (B B Law
Group LLP)
Counsel for
Defendants/ opposing party: Alton Burkhalter (Burkhalter Kessler Clement &
George LLP)
 
(1)   PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER
ANSWERS TO REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS, SET ONE PROPOUNDED ON DEFENDANT
JON GOUGEON (filed on 05/06/2024)
(2)   PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER
ANSWERS TO REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS, SET ONE PROPOUNDED ON DEFENDANT
SKETCHBOX LLC (filed on 05/07/2024)
(3)   PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO SPECIAL
INTERROGATORIES, SETS ONE AND TWO, PROPOUNDED OND DEFENDANT SKETCHBOX LLC (filed on 05/06/24)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Plaintiffs’ motion to compel further responses to request for production of documents nos. 14, 15, 21, 34, 36, 37, 39, 43, 44, 45, 46, 50, 51, 54, and 57 propounded on both Defendants Jon Gougeon and Sketchbox LLC is
GRANTED. 
 
Plaintiffs’ motion to compel further responses to
request for production of documents no. 38 propounded
on both Defendants Jon Gougeon and Sketchbox LLC is DENIED. 
 
Plaintiffs’ motion to compel further responses to Special Interrogatories Nos. 127-130 propounded on Defendant
Sketchbox LLC is GRANTED.  
 
Defendants shall serve supplemental responses within 30 days of
the Court’s order.
The Court DENIES the parties’ requests for sanctions. 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On June 24, 2022, Plaintiffs Torie Fuller (“Fuller”) and Shady
Peach Solutions, LLC brought this action against Defendants Sketchbox LLC
(“Sketchbox”) and Jon Gougeon (“Gougeon”). 
 
On July 13, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”)
asserting 7 causes of action for: (1) breach of oral contract; (2) breach of
implied contract; (3) breach of written contract; (4) breach of the implied
duty of good faith and fair dealing; (5) fraudulent inducement by
misrepresentation; (6) accounting and (7) declaratory relief. 
 
The SAC alleges the following. Defendant Gougeon formed Sketchbox
on or about May 2015, as a single member Limited Liability Company, with Gougeon
being its only member. Shortly after the company was formed, Fuller began
assisting Gougeon in operating and managing Sketchbox. On or around September
2015, Gougeon represented to Fuller that he intended to sell Sketchbox when it
reached 100,000 subscribes, and promised to pay Plaintiff 10% of the profits
from the sale in exchange for Plaintiff’s services, which included assisting
managing Sketchbox to make it operational and functional, including but not
limited, to assisting in customer services, billing, operations, and later
supervision of employees. On or about 2016, Gougen and Fuller modified their
oral agreement and agreed that Fuller would be given a 10% profit share
interest in Sketchbox, which she would receive through periodic profit share
distributions. However, Fuller alleges that Defendants made periodic profit
share distributions to Fuller, but they rarely included the full amount owed to
Plaintiffs. Plaintiffs allege that Defendants promised to pay the remainder of
Plaintiffs’ payments at a later time when additional funds came in. On or about
April 11, 2022, Defendants terminated Plaintiffs’ services with Defendants and
have refused to pay any of the debt owed to Plaintiff. 
 
A.     Motions to
Compel Further Responses to Request for Production of Documents, Set One,
Propounded on Defendant Jon Gougeon and Defendant Sketchbox
 
On March 20, 2024, Plaintiffs initially filed the Motion to Compel
Further Responses to Request for Production of Documents, Set One, Propounded on
Defendant Jon Gougeon and its Motion to Compel Further Responses to Request for
Production of Documents, Set One, Propounded on Defendant Sketchbox. On May 6,
2024, Plaintiffs filed an amended Motion to Compel Further Responses to Request
for Production of Documents, Set One, Propounded on Defendant Jon Gougeon. On
May 7, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an amended Motion to Compel Further Responses to
Request for Production of Documents, Set One, Propounded on Defendant Sketchbox.
In both motions, Plaintiffs argue:
·      
Plaintiffs seek further response to Request Nos. 14, 15, 21, 34, 36, 37, 38, 39,
43, 44, 45, 46, 50, 51, 54, 57 propounded on both Defendants. 
·      
Plaintiff initiated an Informal Discovery Conference (“IDC”) with
the Court. At the IDC, the Court conveyed that Defendants should provide
supplemental responses and Defendants agreed to do so. (Ksadzhikyan Decl., ¶ 11
& Exh. 6.) On March 8, 2024, Defendants produced supplemental verified
responses. Defendants did not, however, provide any further response and
refused to provide responsive documents. 
·      
Plaintiffs request that the court impose a monetary sanction in
the amount of $4,287.
Defendants filed oppositions to both
motions, arguing:
·      
The Disputed Discovery Requests Seek Information Neither Relevant
to the Cause of Action for Breach of Written Contract Nor Likely to Lead to the
Discovery of Admissible Evidence.
·      
Plaintiffs’ request for sanctions should
be denied and instead sanctions should be imposed against Plaintiffs in the
amount of $5,000. In the alternative, the Court should not impose sanctions
against Gougeon. 
 
Plaintiffs filed replies to both motions
maintaining that Defendants must provide further response and produce
responsive documents. 
 
B.     Motion to
Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories, Sets One and Two,
Propounded on Defendant Sketchbox
 
 
II. ANALYSIS
 
A.     Legal
Standard 
 
Under CCP §
2017.010, “any party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged,
that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending action..., if
the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.”  The Section
specifically provides that “[d]iscovery may relate to the claim or defense of
the party seeking discovery or of any other party to the action,” and that
discovery “may be obtained of the identity and location of persons having
knowledge of any discoverable matter, as well as of the existence, description,
nature, custody, condition and location of any document, electronically stored
information, tangible thing, or land or other property.” 
 
CCP § 2031.310(a) provides that a party demanding a document
inspection may move for an order compelling further responses to the demand if
the demanding party deems that: 
“(1)  
A statement of compliance with the demand is incomplete. 
 
(2)   A representation of inability to comply is inadequate,
incomplete, or evasive. 
 
(3)   An objection in the response is without merit or too
general.”   
 
Under CCP §
2031.310 (b)(1), “The motion shall set forth specific facts showing good cause
justifying the discovery sought by the demand.”   
 
“In the more
specific context of a demand for production of a tangible thing, the party who
asks the trial court to compel production must show “good cause” for the
request—but unless there is a legitimate privilege issue or claim of attorney
work product, that burden is met simply by a fact-specific showing of
relevance.” (TBG Ins. Services Corp. v. Superior Court (2002) 96
Cal.App.4th 443, 448.)
 
B.     Meet and
Confer
 
“The
Discovery Act requires that, prior to the initiation of a motion to compel, the
moving party declare that he or she has made a serious attempt to obtain an
informal resolution of each issue.” (Stewart v. Colonial Western Agency, Inc.
(2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 1006, 1016.) “A meet and confer declaration in support of
a motion shall state facts showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an
informal resolution of each issue presented by the motion.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
2016.040.) 
 
Plaintiffs’ counsel submitted a
declaration stated the parties met and conferred as to Defendants’ allegedly
deficient discovery responses. (Ksadzhikyan Decl., ¶¶ 6-14.) The parties were unable to resolve these
issues and the parties attended an Informal Discovery Conference with the Court
to address these issues. After the IDC, Defendants indicated they would provide
supplemental responses. On March 8, 2024, Defendants produced supplemental
responses. Plaintiffs state Defendants did not provide additional
responses to RFP Nos. 14, 15, 21, 34, 36, 37, 38, 39, 43, 44, 45, 46, 50, 51,
54, or 57 or Special Rogs 127-130. Thus, Plaintiffs filed the instant motions. (Ibid.)
 
The Court finds Plaintiffs’ failed
to meaningfully meet and confer after receiving Defendants’ supplemental
responses. However, the Court will analyze the motions on the merits despite
this deficiency because it recognizes that the parties previously met and
conferred on these issues and Defendants’ supplemental responses did not include any new responses to the discovery requests at
issue. 
 
 
C.     Discussion
                                                   
i.     Motions to
Compel Further Responses to Request for Production of Documents, Set One,
Propounded on Defendant Jon Gougeon and Defendant Sketchbox
 
Plaintiffs
move to compel Defendants Jon Gougeon and Sketchbox to provide further
responses to RFP Nos. 14, 15, 21, 34, 36, 37, 38, 39, 43, 44, 45, 46, 50, 51,
54, and 57.
 
As an initial
matter, to
the extent Defendants asserts a privacy privilege, they must submit a privilege
log identifying the documents and the grounds for establishing protection for
the determination of the applicability of such privilege. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2031.240(c)(1) [“If an objection is based on a claim of privilege or a claim
that the information sought is protected work product, the response shall
provide sufficient factual information for other parties to evaluate the merits
of that claim, including, if necessary, a privilege log.”].)
 
Further, the Court notes that to the extent
Defendants believe that no further documents exist or that the documents have
already been produced, Defendants are ordered to state that fact.  
 
1.     RFP Nos.
14-15
 
RFP No 14
seeks: Please produce all DOCUMENTS, COMMUNICATIONS, and ELECTRONIC DATA from
YOUR bank that RELATE TO payments YOU made to PLAINTIFF.
 
RFP No. 15
seeks: Please produce all DOCUMENTS, COMMUNICATIONS, and ELECTRONIC DATA from
YOUR bank that RELATES TO payments YOU made to Plaintiff Shady Peach.
 
The Court
finds there is good cause to compel discovery. The lawsuit pertains to whether
Defendants made all payments allegedly owed to Plaintiff. Thus, the requested
information is relevant and the request is reasonably calculated to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence. 
 
Accordingly, Plaintiffs’ motion to compel further
responses to request for production of documents nos. 14 and 15 is GRANTED.  
 
2.     RFP Nos. 21,
36, 37
 
RFP Nos. 21,
36 and 37 seek Defendants’ tax returns. 
 
The Court
finds there is good cause to compel discovery. Plaintiff is alleging that an
agreement was reached entitling Plaintiffs to 10% of Sketchbox, LLC’s profits.
In order to calculate damages – i.e., what 10% of the profits was – information
from Sketchbox, LLC’s tax returns would be relevant to show Sketchbox, LLC’s
income and expenses – i.e., its profit.
 
Accordingly, Plaintiffs’ motion to compel further
responses to request for production of documents nos. 21, 36 and 37 is
GRANTED.  
 
3.     RFP No. 34
 
RFP No. 34
seeks: Any and all DOCUMENTS related to YOUR termination, suspension, or
modification of any and all contracts entered into with PLAINTIFF.
 
The Court
finds there is good cause to compel discovery. The responsive documents would
likely contain evidence pertaining to Defendant’s reasons and justifications
for the termination, including whether it was done to avoid fulfilling
Defendants’ contractual obligations.
 
Accordingly, Plaintiffs’ motion to compel further
responses to request for production of documents no. 34 is GRANTED.  
 
4.     RFP Nos.
38-39
 
RFP No. 38 seeks:
Any and all DOCUMENTS, COMMUNICATIONS, and ELECTRONIC DATA that REFER, RELATE,
or pertain to all communications between YOU and Defendant Sketchbox, LLC’s
accountant.
 
RFP No. 39
seeks: Any and all DOCUMENTS, COMMUNICATIONS, and ELECTRONIC DATA that REFER,
RELATE, or pertain to all communications between YOU and Mark Dionne that REFER
or RELATE to PLAINTIFF.
 
The Court
finds Request No. 38 is overbroad as it pertains to “all” communications
between Defendants and its accountant. Plaintiff should limit the scope of the
request as to subject matter or time. 
 
The Court
finds Request No. 39 is sufficiently limited as to subject matter as it only
requests communications relating to Plaintiff. The Court finds there is good
cause to compel discovery. 
 
Accordingly, Plaintiffs’ motion to compel further
responses to request for production of documents no. 38 is DENIED. Plaintiffs’
motion to compel further responses to request for production of documents no.
39 is GRANTED.  
5.     RFP Nos.
43-46
 
RFP Nos.
43-46 seek communications between Defendant and Christopher Burke, an attorney
that worked for Sketchbox, relating to Plaintiff, Plaintiffs’ profit share
interest, Plaintiffs’ salary, and Plaintiffs’ employment.
 
The Court finds this information may lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence. The
requests seek communications or other documents that are likely to provide
evidence as to what Defendants knew Plaintiff was entitled to, whether and to
what extent Defendants acknowledged that they had an obligation to make profit
share distributions to Plaintiffs, what monies were owed to Plaintiffs, and
what was actually paid to Plaintiffs. To the extent Defendants asserts a privacy
privilege, they must submit a privilege log for the determination of the
applicability of such privilege. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.240(c)(1) [“If an
objection is based on a claim of privilege or a claim that the information
sought is protected work product, the response shall provide sufficient factual
information for other parties to evaluate the merits of that claim, including,
if necessary, a privilege log.”].) Defendants have not submitted a privilege
log to assist the Court in evaluating these claims. 
 
Accordingly, Plaintiffs’ motion to compel further
responses to request for production of documents nos. 43 to 46 is
GRANTED.  
 
6.     RFP Nos.
50-51
 
RFP No. 50 seeks:
Any and all DOCUMENTS, COMMUNICATIONS, and ELECTRONIC DATA that REFER, RELATE,
or pertain profit share distributions made to Defendant JON GOUGEON.
 
RFP No. 51
seeks: Any and all DOCUMENTS, COMMUNICATIONS, and ELECTRONIC DATA that REFER
to, RELATE to, or pertain salary payments made to Defendant JON GOUGEON.
 
The Court
finds there is good cause to compel discovery. Plaintiffs allege that payments
were made to Plaintiffs constituting partial payment of the profit share to
which Plaintiffs were entitled, but that Defendants did not make the whole
payments as required. The requested information is relevant to show the extent
to which Defendants obtained a profit. 
 
Accordingly, Plaintiffs’ motion to compel further
responses to request for production of documents nos. 50 and 51 is
GRANTED.  
 
7.     RFP Nos. 54,
57
 
RFP No. 54
seeks: Any and all DOCUMENTS, COMMUNICATIONS, and ELECTRONIC DATA that REFER,
RELATE, or pertain to all communications between YOU and MIKE BENDER that REFER
or RELATE to PLAINTIFF.
 
RFP No. 57
seeks: Any and all DOCUMENTS, COMMUNICATIONS, and ELECTRONIC DATA that REFER,
RELATE, or pertain to all communications between YOU and MIKE BENDER that REFER
or RELATE to PLAINTIFF’s employment.
 
The Court
finds there is good cause to compel discovery. Mark Bender is an employee that
worked for Defendants. These requests seek communications that are likely to
provide evidence as to what Defendants knew Plaintiff was entitled to, whether
and to what extent Defendants acknowledged that they had an obligation to make
profit share distributions to Plaintiff, what monies were owed to Plaintiff,
what work was performed by Plaintiff, and what was actually paid to Plaintiff. Accordingly,
Plaintiffs’ motion to compel further responses to request for production of
documents nos. 54 and 57 is GRANTED.  
 
                                                   
i.     Motion to
Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories, Sets One and Two,
Propounded on Defendant Sketchbox
 
Plaintiffs
move to compel Defendant Sketchbox to provide further responses to Special
Interrogatories Nos. 127-130.
 
Rog No. 127
requests: “IDENTIFY each date on which SKETCHBOX, LLC profit share
distributions were made to Defendant JON GOUGEON.” 
 
Rog No. 128
requests: “For every date on which SKETCHBOX, LLC profit share distributions
were made to Defendant JON GOUGEON, IDENTIFY the amount of each profit share
distribution received by Defendant JON GOUGEON.” 
 
Rog No. 129
requests: “IDENTIFY each date on which Defendant JON GOUGEON received a salary
from SKETCHBOX, LLC.” 
 
Rog No. 130
requests: “For every date on which Defendant JON GOUGEON received a salary from
SKETCHBOX, LLC., IDENTIFY the amount of each salary payment received by
Defendant JON GOUGEON.”
 
The Court
finds there is good cause to compel discovery. The Court does not find
Defendants’ overbroad, irrelevant, or vague objections persuasive. The
requested information is relevant to show the extent to which Defendants
obtained a profit. The requested information could also be relevant in
calculating damages owed to Plaintiff, to evaluate evidence as to Defendants’
claimed profits or to potentially impeach testimony that minimize or deny the
company’s profits. The Court also does not find Defendants’ privacy objection
persuasive and Defendants fail to seek a protective order. 
 
Accordingly, Plaintiffs’ motion to compel further
responses to Special
Interrogatories Nos. 127-130 is GRANTED.  
 
D.    
Sanctions
 
The court may impose sanctions against any party for engaging in conduct
constituting a “misuse of the discovery process.”¿(Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030
(a).)¿Misuse of the discovery process includes “failing to respond or submit to
an authorized method of discovery.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010 (d).) 
 
Defendants
request that the Court award monetary sanctions against Defendants and its
attorney of record in the total sum of $11,040. In opposition, Defendants requests sanctions of $5,000 on
grounds that Defendants brought this motion without substantial justification.¿ 
 
Here, Plaintiffs’ motion is granted and denied in part. The
Court does not grant either parties’ request to impose sanctions.
 
III. DISPOSITION

 
Plaintiffs’ motion to compel further responses to request for production of documents nos. 14, 15, 21,
34, 36, 37, 39, 43, 44, 45, 46, 50, 51, 54, and 57 propounded
on both Defendants Jon Gougeon and Sketchbox LLC is GRANTED. 
 
Plaintiffs’ motion to compel further responses to request for
production of documents no. 38 propounded
on both Defendants Jon Gougeon and Sketchbox LLC is DENIED. 
 
Plaintiffs’ motion to compel further responses to Special
Interrogatories Nos. 127-130 propounded on Defendant Sketchbox LLC is
GRANTED.  
 
Defendants
shall serve supplemental responses within 30 days of the Court’s order.
The
Court DENIES the parties’ requests for sanctions. 