 Case Number:  23AHCV01290    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE]  ORDER GRANTING SPECIALLY APPEARING DEFENDANT SCOTT CADWALLADER’S MOTION TO  DISMISSI.        INTRODUCTION            In this breach  of contact action, Plaintiff Ave Maria Centre of Peace, Inc. (Ave Maria) alleges  that Defendants Welcome Pacific, Inc. (Welcome Pacific), Premier Choix, Inc.  (Premier Choix), J&A Printing, Inc. (J&A), Scott Cadwallader  (Cadwallader), J&A’s owner, Cedar Graphics, Inc. (Cedar Graphics),  J&A’s successor, and Does 1 through 30 sent Ave Maria a printing press  missing key components.           The complaint contains three causes of action: (1)  Beach of Written Contract against Welcome Pacific and Premier Choix; (2) Fraud  and Rescission against all Defendants; and (3) Conversion against all  Defendants.  Cadwallader  filed this motion to dismiss for Lack of Personal Jurisdiction, Improper Venue,  or in the Alternative, Forum Non Convenience; Request for Attorneys’ Fees and  Costs in the Amount of $4,545.00 on July 15, 2024. Ave Maria filed an opposition  on September 23, 2024. Cadwallader filed a reply to Ave Maria’s opposition on  September 24, 2024.            Before the Court is Cadwallader’s challenges to Ave Maria’s  claims against him in his capacity as former owner of now defunct J&A. Cadwallader  moves to dismiss Ave Maria’s claims against him on the grounds of Lack of  Personal Jurisdiction and Improper Venue. In the alternative, Cadwallader challenges  on the grounds that Forum Non Conveniens and requests that the Court allow him  to transfer his case to an Iowa court. Cadwallader also requests relief for attorneys’  fees and costs in the amount of $4,545.00s            II.      SUMMARY  OF FACTS ALLEGED Ave  Maria alleges that Cadwallader is the owner and alter ego of J&A, an Iowa  corporation engaged in printing services with its principal place of business  in Hiawatha, Iowa. (Compl., ¶ 4.) Welcome Pacific purchased a Heidelberg  SM-102-4P (4 color) printing press (printing press) from J&A, and J&A  agreed to store the printer on its premises. (Id. at ¶ 9.) Welcome  Pacific retained Premier Choix to act as its agent and to solicit buyers for  the printing press. (Id. at ¶ 10.) Ave Maria responded to a solicitation  from Premier Choix and a time and date was set for Ave Maria to view a test run  of the printing press at J&A’s business premises in Hiawatha, Iowa. (Ibid.)  During February 2019, Ave Maria representatives visited J&A’s premises in  Hiawatha, Iowa and observed a test run of the printing press. (Compl., ¶  11-12.) During this visit J&A personnel were present and conducted the test  run. (Id. at ¶ 12.)   After  observing the successful test run, Ave Maria alleges that on February 28, 2019,  it entered into a written contract with Welcome Pacific and Premier Choix to  purchase the printing press for $127,000.00. (Id. at ¶ 13.) As part of  the agreement, J&A’s personnel were responsible for disassembling the  printing press and loading it on a transport truck for delivery to Ave Maria in  Toronto, Canada. (Ibid.) Ave Maria paid a deposit to Premier Choix and  the remaining balance to Welcome Pacific. (Id. at ¶ 14.) Ave  Maria alleges that after the printing press was delivered to its warehouse in  Toronto, Canada, Ave Maria hired a local company to reassemble the printing  press. (Id. at ¶ 15.) On June 7, 2019, Ave Maria discovered that the  printing press was missing several key components, without which the printing  press could not operate. (Ibid.) Ave Maria also discovered that J&A  improperly and unprofessionally disassembled the printing press, which caused  damages to other parts. (Id. at ¶ 16.)  On  June 7, 2019, Ave Marie immediately notified Welcome Pacific and Premier Choix  about the missing parts and the nonoperational printing press. (Id. at ¶  17.) Welcome Pacific and Premier Choix offered no solutions. (Ibid.)             II.      LEGAL STANDARD           Motion to dismiss A defendant,  on or before the last day to plead, may file a motion “to stay or dismiss the  action on the ground of inconvenient forum” on the ground of lack of  jurisdiction. (Code Civ. Proc. § 418.10, subd. (a)(2).)                   III.     ANALYSIS         Personal  Jurisdiction California’s  “long-arm” statute provides for jurisdiction “on any basis not inconsistent  with the Constitution of this state or of the United States.” (Code Civ. Proc.  §410.10.) “The Due Process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment constrains a  State’s authority to bind a nonresident defendant to a judgment of its courts.  [Citation.] [A] nonresident generally must have ‘certain minimum contacts . . .  such that the maintenance of the suit does not offend traditional notions of  fair play and substantial justice.’” (Walden v. Fiore (2014) 571 U.S.  277, 283.) Personal jurisdiction may be either general or  specific. For general jurisdiction, a defendant’s forum contacts must be  “so ‘continuous and systematic’ as to render [the defendant] essentially at  home in the forum State.” (Daimler AG v. Bauman (2014) 571 U.S. 117,  139.) The paradigm of general jurisdiction for a corporation its state of  incorporation or principal place of business. (Id. at p. 137.) Specific  jurisdiction “focuses on ‘the relationship among the defendant, the forum, and  the litigation.’” (Walden, supra, 571 U.S. at pp. 283-284.) In  particular, “the defendant’s suit-related conduct must create a substantial  connection [or minimum contacts] with the forum State.” (Id. at p.  284; International Shoe Co. v. State of Washington (1945) 326 U.S. 310,  316; Burger King v. Rudzewicz (1985) 471 U.S. 462, 475.)  Here,  the parties argue specific jurisdiction because J&A is an Iowa corporation  and its principal place of business in Iowa. (Declaration of Scott Cadwallader,  ¶ 1-2.) A  court may exercise specific jurisdiction over a nonresident defendant if (1)  the defendant “purposefully availed himself or herself of forum benefits or  purposefully directed activities at forum residents”; (2) the controversy  relates to or arises out of “the defendant’s forum-related activities”; and (3)  the exercise of jurisdiction comports with “traditional notions of fair play  and substantial justice.” (David L. v. Superior Court (2018) 29  Cal.App.5th 359, 366.)   When  a nonresident challenges personal jurisdiction, the plaintiff has the initial  burden to establish the first two requirements. Only after doing so does the  burden shift to the defendant to show that exercising jurisdiction would be  unreasonable. (Id. at p. 367.) The plaintiff must “present evidence  sufficient to justify a finding that California may properly exercise  jurisdiction over the defendant.” (Zehia v. Superior Court (2020) 45  Cal.App.5th 543, 552.)  “The  plaintiff has the right to conduct discovery with regard to the issue of  jurisdiction to develop the facts necessary to sustain this burden.” (Mihlon  v. Superior Court (1985) 169 Cal.App.3d 703, 711.) However, the court may  deny plaintiff’s request if there is no showing that discovery is likely to  produce evidence of additional “contacts.” (Beckman v. Thompson (1992)  4 Cal.App.4th 481, 486.) The plaintiff must properly identify the specific  discovery or provide a description of the discovery they intend to pursue if  granted a continuance. (Preciado v. Freightliner Custom Chassis Corp. (2023)  87 Cal.App.5th 964, 973.)   Ave  Maria fails to establish Cadwallader’s minimum contacts with California.  Purposeful  availment occurs when the nonresident defendant: (1) purposely directs its  “activities at residents of the forum”; (2) purposefully derives “benefits”  from its activities in the forum; (3) creates a “substantial connection” with  the forum; (4) has “deliberately” engaged in significant activities within the  forum; or (5) has created “continuing obligations” between itself and residents  of the forum. (HealthMarkets, Inc. v. Superior Court (2009) 171  Cal.App.4th 1160, 1168.) The purposeful availment requirement “ensures that a  defendant will not be haled into a jurisdiction solely as a result of ‘random,’  ‘fortuitous,’ or ‘attenuated’ contacts . . . .[Citation.]”  (Ibid.) The defendant will be subjected to personal jurisdiction only if  “‘it has clear notice that it is subject to suit there, and can act to  alleviate the risk of burdensome litigation by procuring insurance, passing the  expected costs on to customers, or, if the risks are too great, severing its  connection with the state.’[Citations.] ” (Ibid.)   Here,  Ave Maria alleges that J&A (and Cadwallader as J&A’s owner) purposely  availed itself of the benefits of California by engaging with a California  corporation. Welcome Pacific (a California corporation) purchased a printing  press from J&A (an Iowa corporation) and J&A stored the printing press  on its premises in Hiawatha, Iowa until Welcome Pacific resold the printer to  Ave Maria. (Compl, ¶ 9.) Ave Maria argues that by agreeing to act as the agent  for Welcome Pacific in connection with facilitating the testing of the printing  press at its Iowa facility and arranging shipping of the printing press from  Iowa to Ave Maria, Cadwallader has established minimum contacts with  California. (Pl.’s Opposition, pg. 5:5-9.) Cadwallader claims that J&A’s  sole contact with California was selling the printing press to Welcome Pacific.  (Def.’s Mtn. to Dismiss, pg. 6:6.) Ave Maria provides no evidentiary support  for its arguments. The Court  finds that J&A (and Cadwallader as J&A’s owner) does not have the  requisite minimum contacts with California to show purposeful availment because  Ave Maria only alleges one contact with the forum: Welcome Pacific purchasing a  printing press from J&A. Although Welcome Pacific is a California  corporation, the printing press was stored at J&A’s facility in Iowa, and  the alleged misconduct giving rise to this suit (the “improper dissembling” of  the printing press) primarily occurred in Iowa rather than in California. (See  World-Wide Volkswagen Corp. v. Woodson (1980) 444 U.S. 286, 287.) Ave Maria  has not met its burden of showing purposeful availment.    Ave  Maria’s cause of action against Cadwallader does not arise out of or relate to Cadwallader’s  contacts with California. In Walden  v. Fiore, the U.S. Supreme Court emphasized two important principles  underlying the jurisdictional inquiry: “First, the relationship must arise out  of contacts that the ‘defendant himself’ creates with the forum State.  [Citation.] Due process limits on the State’s adjudicative authority  principally protect the liberty of the nonresident defendant–not the  convenience of plaintiffs or third parties.” (Walden, supra,  571 U.S. at p. 284.) “Second, our ‘minimum contacts’ analysis looks to the  defendant’s contacts with the forum State itself, not the defendant’s contacts  with persons who reside there.” (Id. at p. 285.) “[T]he plaintiff  cannot be the only link between the defendant and the forum. Rather, it is the  defendant’s conduct that must form the necessary connection with the forum  State that is the basis for its jurisdiction over him.” (Ibid.)  Therefore, “mere injury to a forum resident is not a sufficient connection to  the forum.” (Id. at p. 290.) “The proper question is not where  the plaintiff experienced a particular injury or effect but whether the  defendant’s conduct connects him to the forum in a meaningful way.” (Ibid.)  As  mentioned above, the basis of Ave Maria’s claim against J&A (and  Cadwallader as J&A’s owner) is that J&A’s personnel “improperly and  unprofessionally” disassembled the printing press in Iowa before shipping the  printing press to Ave Maria in Canada. (Compl., ¶ 16.) Cadwallader argues this  is his and J&A’s only connection to this action. (Id. pg. 6:13-15.)  J&A’s alleged actions stem from Ave Maria’s written contract with Welcome  Pacific, which Ave Maria alleges was formed in Iowa. Cadwallader argues that no  privity of contract exists between him and Ave Maria’s claims arise its  contract (which was formed in Iowa) with Welcome Pacific and Choix Premier.  (Def.’s Mtn. to Dimiss, pg. 6:6-8.) Ave Maria provides not evidence to support  its arguments. Considering  the Court found no “minimum contacts” between Cadwallader (and J&A) and  California, the Court also finds that Ave Maria fails to show that this action  arises out of or relates to Cadwallader’s and J&A’s contacts with  California.              Ave Maria is not entitled to seek jurisdictional discovery  because Ave Maria provides no clarity on the type of evidence it seeks to  determine Cadwallader’s contacts with California.  A  plaintiff attempting to assert jurisdiction over a nonresident defendant is  entitled to an opportunity to conduct discovery of the jurisdictional facts  necessary to sustain its burden of proof. (Magnecomp Corp. v. Athene Co.  (1989) 209 Cal.App.3d 526, 533.) However, “to prevail on a motion for a  continuance for jurisdictional discovery, the plaintiff should demonstrate that  discovery is likely to lead to the production of evidence of facts establishing  jurisdiction.” (In re Automobile Antitrust Cases I & II (2005) 135  Cal.App.4th 100, 127 [citing Beckman v. Thompson (1992) 4 Cal.App.4th  481, 486–487].)   Here,  Ave Maria argues it is entitled to conduct discovery regarding Cadwallader’s  “contacts” with California because Ave Maria opposes this motion. (Pl.’s Opp.,  pg. 5:13-17.) Ave Maria does not articulate what type of discovery it seeks in  order to prove Cadwallader’s contacts. (Pl.’s Opp., pg. 5:13-16.) Ave Maria  also provides no evidence to support its request for a continuance. This is not  enough to warrant a continuance. The Court  finds that Ave Maria’s opposition has failed to show that further discovery is  likely to lead to production of evidence establishing jurisdiction over  Cadwallader or J&A. Rather, Ave Maria’s request for discovery is entirely  speculative. The Court denies Ave Marie’s request for a continuance to seek  jurisdictional discovery. Because  Ave Maria failed to meet its burden of establishing the first two requirements  for specific jurisdiction, the Court need not address whether an exercise of  jurisdiction would be fair and reasonable. Accordingly, the Court GRANTS  Cadwallader’s motion to dismiss for lack of personal jurisdiction.  The  Court finds that there is no need to address other arguments on venue and forum  non conveniens.  As the Court did not  reach the venue issue, the Court declines to award attorney’s fees and costs.   IV.     CONCLUSION The Court  GRANTS Cadwallader’s motion to dismiss for lack of personal jurisdiction. The Court  DENIES Cadwallader’s request for reasonable attorney’s fees and costs.           Cadwallader is ordered to  give notice of this ruling.                        Dated: October 2, 2024                                                                                                                          JARED D. MOSES JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT[TENTATIVE] ORDER SUSTAINING IN PART AND OVERRULING
IN PART THE DEMURRER TO THE COMPLAINT WITH LEAVE TO AMEND; DENYING MOTION TO STRIKEI.        INTRODUCTION         In this breach of contact action, Plaintiff Ave Maria
Centre of Peace, Inc. (Ave Maria) alleges that Defendants Welcome Pacific, Inc.
(Welcome Pacific), Premier Choix, Inc. (Premier Choix), J&A Printing, Inc.
(J&A), Scott Cadwallader (Cadwallader), J&A’s owner, Cedar Graphics,
Inc. (Cedar Graphics), J&A’s successor, and Does 1 through 30 sent Ave
Maria a printing press missing key components.          The complaint contains three causes of action: (1) Beach of
Written Contract against Welcome Pacific and Premier Choix; (2) Fraud and
Rescission against all Defendants; and (3) Conversion against all Defendants. Welcome
Pacific filed this demurrer and motion to strike on July 11, 2024. Premier
Choix joined Welcome Pacific’s demurrer and motion to strike on July 12, 2024.
Welcome Pacific filed oppositions on September 23, 2024. Welcome Pacific and
Premier Choix filed replies on September 24, 2024.          Before the Court are Welcome Pacific and Premier Choix’s
challenges to the complaint. Welcome Pacific and Premier Choix allege that all
causes of action fail to state sufficient facts and that the conversion cause
of action is barred by the applicable statute of limitations. Welcome Pacific
and Premier Choix also move to strike punitive damages and attorney fees          II.      SUMMARY
OF FACTS ALLEGEDAve
Maria alleges that Welcome Pacific purchased a Heidelberg SM-102-4P (4 color)
printing press (printing press) from J&A. (Compl., ¶ 9.) Welcome Pacific
retained Premier Choix to act as its agent and to solicit buyers for the
printing press. (Id. at ¶ 10.) Ave Maria responded to a solicitation
from Premier Choix and the parties set a time and date for Ave Maria to view a
test run of the printing press at J&A’s business premises in Hiawatha, Iowa.
(Ibid.) During February 2019, Ave Maria representatives visited
J&A’s premises in Iowa and watched a test run of the printing press.
(Compl., ¶ 11-12.) During this visit, J&A personnel conducted the test run.
(Id. at ¶ 12.)  After
observing the successful test run, Ave Maria alleges that on February 28, 2019,
Ave Maria entered into a written contract with Welcome Pacific and Premier
Choix to purchase the printing press for $127,000.00. (Id. at ¶ 13.) As
part of the agreement, J&A’s personnel were responsible for disassembling printing
press and loading it on a transport truck for delivery to Ave Maria in Toronto,
Canada. (Ibid.) Ave Maria paid a deposit to Premier Choix and the
remaining balance to Welcome Pacific. (Id. at ¶ 14.)Ave
Maria alleges that after the printing press was delivered to its warehouse in
Toronto, Canada, Ave Maria hired a local company to reassemble the printing
press. (Id. at ¶ 15.) On June 7, 2019, Ave Maria discovered that the
printing press was missing several key components, which the printing press
could not operate without. (Ibid.) Ave Maria also discovered that
J&A improperly and unprofessionally disassembled the printing press, which
caused damages to other parts. (Id. at ¶ 16.) On
June 7, 2019, Ave Marie immediately notified Welcome Pacific and Premier Choix
about the missing parts and the nonoperational printing press. (Id. at ¶
17.) Welcome Pacific and Premier Choix offered no solutions. (Ibid.) III.     DEMURRERA. Legal StandardA
party may demur on the basis that a complaint fails to state a cause of action.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 430.10, subd. (e).) A demurrer tests the legal sufficiency
of a complaint. (Donabedian v. Mercury
Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) A demurrer is treated as
“admitting all material facts properly pleaded,” but not the truth of
“contentions, deductions or conclusions of law.” (Tindell v. Murphy (2018) 22 Cal.App.5th 1239, 1247; Aubry v.
Tri-Defendants Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) Questions of
plaintiff’s ability to prove unlikely allegations are of no concern. (Committee
on Children’s Television, Inc. v. General Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197,
213-214.) Because
a demurrer tests only the legal sufficiency of the pleading, the Court accepts
as true even the most improbable alleged facts, and the Court does not concern
itself with the plaintiff’s ability to prove its factual allegations. (Align
Technology, Inc. v. Tran (2009) 179 Cal.App.4th 949, 958.) “‘Facts
appearing in exhibits attached to the first amended complaint also are accepted
as true and are given precedence, to the extent they contradict the
allegations.’” (Paul v. Patton (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 1088, 1091.)
Although a demurrer does not ordinarily reach affirmative defenses, it ‘“will
lie where the complaint ‘has included allegations that clearly disclose some
defense or bar to recovery.’”’ (Casterson v. Superior Court (2002) 101
Cal.App.4th 177, 183, Nolte v. Cedars-Sinai Medical Center (2015) 236
Cal.App.4th 1401, 1406.¿) Allegations need not be accepted as true if they
are contradicted by judicially noticeable facts. (Cansino v. Bank of America
(2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1462, 1474.)¿  C.
Meet and Confer Requirement MetThe
party planning to file a demurrer or motion to strike a complaint must meet and
confer in person or by telephone conference with the opposing party at least
five (5) days prior to deadline for responding to Complaint. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§§ 430.41, 435.5.)Here,
Welcome Pacific offers the Declaration of An Thien Tran, Welcome Pacific’s
counsel, to show compliance with section 430.41. (Declaration of An Thien Tran
[Tran Decl. 6].) Tran states the parties met and conferred “telephonically” on
July 3, 2024 to discuss “the sufficiency of Plaintiff’s allegations in its
Complaint.” (Id. at ¶ 6.) After the meet and confer, Tran sent Ave
Maria’s counsel an email outlining the specific issues with the complaint. (Ibid.;
Exh. “B” Email correspondence dated July 3, 2024.) Tran also states the parties
were unable to reach a resolution. (Id. at ¶ 7; Exh. “C” Emails between
July 1, 2024 and July 8, 2024.)The Court
finds that the meet-and-confer requirement has been met.            C. Demurrer to First Cause of Action – Breach of
Contract          “To prevail on a cause of action for breach of contract,
the plaintiff must prove (1) the contract, (2) the plaintiff’s performance of
the contract or excuse for nonperformance, (3) the defendant’s breach, and (4)
the resulting damage to the plaintiff.” (Richman v. Hartley (2014) 224
Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186.) “[T]he complaint must [also] indicate on its face
whether the contract is written, oral, or implied by conduct.” (Otworth v.
Southern Pacific Transportation Co. (1985) 166 Cal.App.3d 452, 458-459.)“[W]here
a written instrument is the foundation of a cause of action, it may be
pleaded in haec verba by attaching a copy as an exhibit and
incorporating it by proper reference.” (Wise v. Southern Pacific Co.
(1963) 223 Cal.App.2d 50, 59 (citing Holly Sugar Corp. v. Johnson (1941)
18 Cal.2d 218, 225); Byrne v. Harvey (1962) 211 Cal.App.2d 92, 103 (emphasis
added).) “To prove performance, plaintiffs may allege that they have ‘duly
performed all the conditions on his part.’” (Ibid. (quoting Code Civ. Proc.
§ 457).) A plaintiff is not entitled to relief where he fails to plead or prove
facts which demonstrate a causal nexus between breach of contract and resulting
damage. (See Hahn v. Diaz-Barba (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 1177, 1197.)Here,
Welcome Pacific argues the factual allegations are insufficient because Ave
Maria did not attach the written contract to the complaint or quote any
specific terms that would have legal effect under such an agreement. (Def.’s
Demurrer, pg. 6:23-28.) Next, Welcome Pacific argues that Ave Maria fails to
adequately allege breaches that “correspond to any promises within the disputed
contract” because Ave Maria does not reference specific language in a contract requiring
“certain components” to be included with the printing press. (Id. at pg.
7:3-10.) Ave
Maria’s responds that it entered into a written contract with Welcome Pacific
and Premier Choix on February 28, 2019 under which Ave Maria purchased the
printing press from Welcome Pacific for $127,000. (Compl., ¶ 20.) Ave Maria further
alleges that under the agreement, J&A, acting as Welcome Pacific’s agent,
would disassemble the printing press in Iowa, load it on a truck, and send it
to Ave Maria’s warehouse in Toronto, Canada. (Id. at ¶ 13.) Ave Maria
also alleges that it paid a deposit to Premier Choix and the remaining balance
to Welcome Pacific. (Id. at ¶ 14.) Ave Maria claims after the printing
press was delivered, Ave Maria discovered the printing press was
non-operational due to several key components missing. (Id. at ¶ 21.)
Finally, Ave Maria claims when it made Welcome Pacific aware of the issues, Welcome
Pacific “failed and refused” to “perform their obligations under the contract.”
(Id. at ¶ 22.)The Court
finds that Ave Maria pleads sufficient allegations to support a claim for
breach of contract. Ave Maria alleges specific terms of a contract: Ave Maria
agreed to pay Welcome Pacific and Premier Choix $127,000 for the purchase,
disassembling, and delivery of a specific printing press to Ave Maria’s
warehouse in Toronto, Canada. Ave Maria’s alleges their performance under the
contract in that Ave Maria paid a deposit to Premier Choix and the remaining
balance to Welcome Pacific. Ave Maria alleges partial performance by Welcome
Pacific and Premier Choix’s Performance by having J&A disassemble the printing
press, load it on a truck, and send it to Ave Maria’s warehouse. Ave Maria
alleges breach in that Welcome Pacific and Premier Choix, and their agent
J&A, did not send all components of the printing press to Ave Maria,
resulting in a non-operational printing. Although it is helpful to attach a
written instrument to a complaint if the basis of the complaint is the written
instrument, this is not required, and Ave Maria has plead sufficient factual
allegations to survive the demurrer stage.          The Court OVERRULES Welcome Pacific’s demurrer as to this
cause of action.           D. Demurrer to Second Cause of Action – Fraud &
RescissionThe elements
of fraud are “(a) misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or
nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity (or ‘scienter’); (c) intent to
defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting
damage. [Citations.]” (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th
631, 638.) To establish a cause of action for fraud, a plaintiff must allege
each element with particularity rather than general allegations or conclusory
statements. (Conrad v. Bank of America (1996) 45 Cal.App.4th 133, 156.) Plaintiffs
must plead “facts which show how, when,
where, to whom, and by what means the representations were tendered.” (Lazar,
supra, 12 Cal.4th at p. 645.)Fraud
actions against corporations require plaintiffs to allege “names of the persons
who made the allegedly fraudulent representations, their authority to speak, to
whom they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when it was said or
written.” (Tarmann v. State Farm Mutual Auto. Ins. Co. (1991)
2 Cal.App.4th 153, 1571.)Here,
Welcome Pacific argues that Ave Maria’s fraud claim falls short of the
“particularity” requirement because Ave Maria generally pleads all allegations
to all defendants without distinguishing among the “alleged conduct of each
defendant.” (Def.’s Demurrer, pgs. 7:23-28, 8:1-5.) First, Welcome Pacific
argues that Ave Maria does not allege what was said or identify any speakers. (Id.,
pg. 8:6-9.) Next, Welcome Pacific argues that Ave Marie fails to allege facts
showing “justifiable reliance” on any specific actions or any facts showing it
was Welcome Pacific’s intention to engage in fraudulent conduct when the
alleged contract was signed. (Id., pg. 8:10-16.) Finally, Welcome
Pacific notes that Ave Maria has duplicated the same allegations from the breach
of contract cause of action and that Ave Maria’s merely alleges nonperformance
of a contract which is insufficient for fraud causes of action. (Id.,
pg. 8:11-18.)Ave
Maria replies it has met the particularity requirement for fraud because Ave
Maria identifies specific defendants and agents of the defendants who made the
following misrepresentations:  “. . . that the printing press
observed during the successful test run in February 2019 would be delivered to
plaintiff, that it would not be stripped of any parts before delivery, and that
it would be properly and professionally disassembled for delivery; that the allegations
were false; that defendants intended to induce reliance; that plaintiff justifiably
relied; and that plaintiff was damaged.” (Pl.’s Opp., pg. 5:17-21.) Ave Maria also replies that it
is entitled to conduct discovery to determine which specific individuals to
attribute any misrepresentations made to Ave Maria. (Id. pgs. 5:23-27,
6:1-2; (citing Charpentier v. L.A. Rams Football Co. (1999) 75
Cal.App.4th 301, 312).) Finally, Ave Maria argues it adequately pleads reliance
on Welcome Pacific’s misrepresentations because it believes the
misrepresentations were material, and that materiality is a question for a jury
to decide. The Court
finds that Ave Maria has not plead sufficient factual allegations to support a
cause of action for fraud and rescission. The standard for pleading fraud is
much higher and requires more specificity. Ave Maria brings this cause of
action against all defendants without specifying actions or statements by each
defendant indicating misrepresentations on which Ave Maria relied. Although Ave
Maria alleges sufficient allegations to show a contract existed and breach
occurred, Ave Maria does not provide particular or specific factual allegations
showing an intent by any Defendants to mislead Ave Maria. However, the Court
will grant Ave Maria the opportunity to amend its complaint to remedy the
issues with this cause of action.The
Court sustains Welcome Pacific’s demurrer as to this cause of action and the
Court grants Ave Maria leave to amend.  E.
Demurrer to Third Cause of Action - Conversion“Conversion
is the wrongful exercise of dominion over the property of another. The elements
of a conversion claim are: (1) the plaintiff’s ownership or right to possession
of the property; (2) the defendant’s conversion by a wrongful act or
disposition of property rights; and (3) damages.” (Burlesci v. Petersen (1998)
68 Cal.App.4th 1062, 1066.) The party alleging conversion need only show “an
assumption of control or ownership over the property, or that the alleged
converter has applied the property to his own use.” (Enterprise Leasing
Corp. v. Shugart Corp. (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 737,747.)The
statute of limitations on conversion claims is three years. (Code Civ. Proc. § 338,
subd. (c)(1).) “Under California law, the
general rule is well established: ‘[T]he statute of limitations for conversion
is triggered by the act of wrongfully taking property.’” (AmerUS Life
Insurance Co. v. Bank of America, N.A. (2006) 143 Cal.App.4th 632,639
(citing Bono v. Clark (2002) 103 Cal.App.4th 1409, 1433).) Courts also
recognize the “discovery rule” exception to tolling the statute when “the defendant in
a conversion action fraudulently conceals the relevant facts or where
the defendant fails to disclose such facts in violation of his or her fiduciary
duty to the plaintiff.” (Ibid.) When courts apply this exception, the
statute begins to toll when “the aggrieved party discovers or should have
discovered the existence of a cause of action for conversion.” (Ibid.)Here,
Welcome Pacific argues the statute of limitations began to run on June 7, 2019,
when Ave Maria discovered the alleged wrongful conduct meaning Ave Maria had
until June 7, 2022 to file a claim for conversion. (Def.’s Demurrer, pg.
9:8-11.) They also argue Ave Maria’s conversion claim is derivative of and
built on its breach of contract claim and that Ave Maria has alleged no facts
showing Welcome Pacific actually interfered with Ave Maria’s right to possess
the printing press or ordered others to do so. (Id. pg. 9:12-24.)Ave
Maria opposes, claiming Welcome Pacific “committed conversion of several key
components of the printing press by intentionally and wrongfully stripping
parts from the printing press before delivery . . . .”
(Compl., ¶31.) Ave Maria claims when it agreed to purchase the printing press,
it become owner of the printing press and that J&A committed conversion of
the “several key [missing] components” by intentionally “stripping parts from
the press before delivery” and “by not delivering the same printing press that
was observed during the successful test run in February 2019.” (Pl.’s Opp., pg.
6:18-22.) Ave Maria also alleges that all defendants’ acts proximately caused
Ave Maria to suffer damages and substantial costs for labor, replacing the
missing parts, lost income, loss of printing for customers, and increased costs
to hire out for printing jobs. (Id. pg. 6:23-24.)The
Court finds that although Ave Maria has plead sufficient factual allegations to
support a cause of action for conversion, the statute of limitations has
expired under both section 338 and the discovery rule. Ave Maria discovered the
alleged wrongful conduct on June 7, 2019. Three years from this date is June 7,
2022. Under the discovery rule, Ave Marie should have filed its conversion
claim by June 7, 2022. Any alleged wrongful conduct that occurred before June
7, 2019 (i.e. defendants allegedly removing key components) would cause the
statute’s expiration to occur even earlier than June 7, 2022, which does not
help Ave Maria’s clause. Because
Ave Maria did not meet this deadline, the Court sustains Welcome Pacific’s
demurrer as this cause of action. The
demurrer is OVERRULED in part as to the First Cause of Action.The
demurrer is SUSTAINED as to the Second Cause of Action, with leave to amend.The
demurrer is SUSTAINED as to the Third Cause of Action, without leave to amend.  IV.     MOTION
TO STRIKE          A. Legal Standard                    1.
Motions to Strike“The
court may, upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its
discretion, and upon terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading [or] (b) Strike out all or
any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this
state, a court rule, or an order of the court.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 436.)“A
material allegation in a pleading is one essential to the claim or defense and
which could not be stricken from the pleading without leaving it insufficient
as to that claim or defense.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 431.10, subd. (a).) An
immaterial allegation is: “(1) An allegation that is not essential to the
statement of a claim or defense; (2) An allegation that is neither pertinent to
nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense; (3) A demand for
judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the complaint or
cross-complaint.” (Id. subd. (b)(1)-(3).) “Immaterial allegation” also
means “irrelevant matter.” (Id. subd. (c).)          Where
it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that a defendant has been guilty
of oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff may recover punitive
damages. (Code Civ. Proc. § 3294, subd. (a).)Attorney
fees are only available if provided for by statute or contract. (Code Civ.
Proc. §§ 1021, 1035(a)(10).) Here,
Welcome Pacific moves to strike the following portions of Ave Maria’s
complaint: 1)
Compl., ¶ 7 [“ratification”]; 2)
Compl., ¶ 29 in its entirety; 3)
Compl., ¶ 33 in its entirety; 4)
Compl., Prayer [“exemplary and punitive damages”]. The
Court denies Welcome Pacific’s motion to strike the word “ratification” from paragraph
7 because Welcome Pacific provides no basis or explanation for doing so. Because
the Court sustained Welcome Pacific’s demurrer to both the second and third causes
of action, Welcome Pacific’s motion to strike paragraphs 29 and 33 is moot.
Additionally, because the Court sustained the demurrer on the Conversion claim,
Welcome Pacific’s motion to strike Ave Maria’s prayer for “exemplary and
punitive damages” is moot because punitive damages are not available in breach
of contract cases.The
Court DENIES Welcome Pacific’s motion to strike.  V.       CONCLUSION
AND ORDERWelcome
Pacific’s demurrer is SUSTAINED in part and OVERRULED in part with leave to
amend. The
demurrer is OVERRULED in part as to the First Cause of Action.The
demurrer is SUSTAINED as to the Second Cause of Action, with leave to amend.The
demurrer is SUSTAINED as to the Third Cause of Action, without leave to amend. Welcome
Pacific’s motion to strike is DENIED. Ave
Maria is given 20 days to file its first amended complaint.            Counsel for Plaintiff Ave Maria to give notice of this
order.          Dated: October 2, 2024                                                                                                                              JARED D. MOSES JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT



































































































































































                                                                                                                                               