  Case Number:  20GDCV00593    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING
PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION TO COMPEL THE DEPOSITION OF DEFENDANT FRANCISCO MOLINA AND DEFENDANT WEST COAST PAVINGSTONE, INC'S., PERSON MOST KNOWLEDGEABLE and MONETARY
SANCTIONSI.         INTRODUCTION
            This case
arises from a contractual dispute between Plaintiffs Sevan Keshishian and
Rozalin Keshishian (“Plaintiffs”) and Defendant West Coast Pavingstone, Inc.
(“WCP”) and its representatives, Pedro Pioquinto, Francisco Molina, Allan
Mungai Kamenwa, and Robert Steven Perkins (collectively, “Defendants”).
Plaintiffs entered into a written
contract with Defendants on March 12, 2019, for home improvement services at
their residence. The contract required Defendants to complete various
renovations by August 12, 2019, for a total contract price of $164,100. Despite
paying the full contract price, Plaintiffs allege that Defendants failed to
complete the work and left the property in disrepair.
Plaintiffs filed their complaint on
July 22, 2020, asserting multiple causes of action, including (1) breach of
written contract, (2) breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair
dealing, (3) unjust enrichment, (4) fraud and intentional deceit, (5)
conspiracy to defraud, (6) negligent misrepresentation, (7) conversion, (8)
negligence, (9) violation of the Business and Professions Code section 7031,
(10) breach of implied warranty, (11) violation of Business and Professions
Code section 17200, and (12) violation of the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt
Organizations Act.
In response, Defendants filed a
cross-complaint on April 11, 2022, and a First Amended cross-complaint on July
7, 2022, against Plaintiffs for (1) goods and services rendered, (2) money had
and received, and (3) declaratory relief, claiming they are owed payment for
goods and services provided to Plaintiffs.
The present motion focuses on
compelling the deposition of Defendant Francisco Molina and the deposition of
the Person Most Knowledgeable for Defendant West Coast Pavingstone, Inc., who
Plaintiffs believe is also Francisco Molina.
Moving Party’s Argument
            Plaintiffs
move to compel the deposition attendance and testimony of Defendant Francisco
Molina and the Person Most Knowledgeable for Defendant West Coast Pavingstone,
Inc., who Plaintiffs believe is also Francisco Molina. Plaintiffs assert that
despite numerous attempts to obtain deposition dates, defense counsel has been
unresponsive to repeated requests. As a result, Plaintiffs have been unable to
secure the necessary depositions. Plaintiffs seek the Court’s intervention to
compel these depositions, citing defense counsel’s ongoing failure to cooperate
in scheduling.
Opposition
No opposition has been filed by
Defendants.
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD
            Code Civ.
Proc. §2025.450 provides relief where a party fails to appear for deposition
without having served a valid objection. It provides as follows:
(a) If, after service of a
deposition notice, a party to the action or an officer, director, managing
agent, or employee of a party, or a person designated by an organization that
is a party under Section 2025.230, without having served a valid objection
under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it,
or to produce for inspection any document, electronically stored information,
or tangible thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the
notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance and
testimony, and the production for inspection of any document, electronically
stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.
(b) A motion under subdivision (a) shall comply with both of
the following:
(1) [omitted]
(2) The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to attend the
deposition and produce the documents, electronically stored information, or
things described in the deposition notice, by a declaration stating that the
petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.
. . .
            (g)(1) If a
motion under subdivision (a) is granted, the court shall impose a monetary
sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) in favor of the
party who noticed the deposition and against the deponent or the party with
whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to
the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances
make the imposition of the sanction unjust.
(2) On motion of any other party who, in person or by
attorney, attended at the time and place specified in the deposition notice in
the expectation that the deponent's testimony would be taken, the court shall
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010)
in favor of that party and against the deponent or the party with whom the
deponent is affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to the
sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make
the imposition of the sanction unjust..
III.      ANALYSIS
            Plaintiffs
move to compel Defendant Francisco Molina’s attendance at a deposition,
asserting that despite numerous attempts to obtain deposition dates, Defendant
has failed to provide alternative dates and has not appeared for properly
noticed depositions. (Keshishian Decl., ¶¶ 5-14; Exhs. 1-8.) Plaintiffs
initially requested deposition dates on August 13, 2024, but Defendant’s
counsel failed to provide any. (Keshishian Decl., ¶ 6; Exh. 1.) After following
up on August 14, 2024, without receiving a response, Plaintiffs unilaterally
scheduled depositions for September 4 and 5, 2024, one for Defendant Molina and
the other for the Person Most Knowledgeable for Defendant West Coast
Pavingstone. (Keshishian Decl., ¶ 9; Exh. 4.) In response, Defendant’s counsel
filed a notice of unavailability on August 22, 2024, but still failed to
provide alternative dates. (Keshishian Decl., ¶ 10; Exh. 5.) Despite further
attempts to reschedule, including emails on September 10 and 16, 2024,
Defendant’s counsel did not respond. (Keshishian Decl., ¶¶ 13-14; Exhs. 7-8.)
Plaintiffs also move to compel the
attendance and testimony of the Person Most Knowledgeable for Defendant West
Coast Pavingstone, Inc., who Plaintiffs believe is also Francisco Molina.
Plaintiffs made efforts to secure deposition dates for both Defendant Molina
and the Person Most Knowledgeable, but after defense counsel’s notice of
unavailability, no alternative dates were provided. Despite further emails and
attempts to resolve the scheduling, Defendant’s counsel remained unresponsive.
(Keshishian Decl., ¶¶ 10, 13-14.)
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 2025.450, subdivision (a), a party who fails to appear at a duly
noticed deposition may be compelled to do so by court order. Here, Plaintiffs
have satisfied the statutory requirements by filing the instant motion,
providing specific facts showing good cause, and submitting a meet-and-confer
declaration. (Keshishian Decl., ¶¶ 5-14.) Despite repeated informal attempts to
resolve this matter, Defendants’ non-cooperation has necessitated this motion.
The Court finds that Defendants’
non-appearance was unjustified. Plaintiffs properly served deposition notices
and made multiple meet-and-confer attempts. Defendants failed to attend and did
not offer a substantial justification for non-compliance. Accordingly,
Plaintiffs’ motion to compel Defendant Francisco Molina’s attendance, and
Plaintiffs’ motion to compel attendance and testimony of Person Most
Knowledgeable at a deposition is GRANTED.
 
Sanctions
Code of Civil Procedure section
2023.030, subdivision (a), authorizes the Court to impose a monetary sanction
for misuse of the discovery process, requiring the offending party, or their
attorney, to pay the reasonable expenses incurred by the opposing party,
including attorney’s fees. If a monetary sanction is authorized by any
provision of this title, the Court must impose that sanction unless it finds
that the offending party acted with substantial justification or that the
imposition of the sanction would be unjust.
When a motion to compel under
Section 2025.450(a) is granted, the Court is required to impose monetary
sanctions in favor of the party who noticed the deposition and against the
deponent or the party with whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the Court
finds that the subject of the sanction acted with substantial justification or
that the circumstances render the imposition of the sanction unjust. (C.C.P. §
2025.450(c)(1)). The purpose of discovery sanctions is to prevent abuse of the
discovery process and to correct the problem presented. Do v. Superior Court
(2003) 109 Cal. App. 4th 1210, 1213.
 
In this instance, Defendants failed
to comply with the authorized method of discovery absent a court order and the
imposition of sanctions. Defendants’ refusal to comply with the properly
noticed deposition, including their failure to schedule, attend, and produce
documents at the deposition, constitutes misuse of the discovery process under
C.C.P. § 2023.010, warranting the imposition of monetary sanctions.
Plaintiffs seek monetary sanctions
in the amount of $6,642.50, which includes $5,685.00 in attorney’s fees and
$957.50 in costs, associated with court reporter fees and the preparation of
this motion. (Keshishian Decl., ¶ 15.) Plaintiffs contend that Defendants’
failure to appear at the properly noticed depositions was not in good faith,
particularly since the deposition dates were scheduled in advance, and
Defendants’ counsel failed to provide alternative dates despite multiple
attempts to reschedule. Plaintiffs’ counsel charges $625.00 an hour, which the
Court finds to be reasonable.
However, the Court finds the
requested amount of $6,642.50 to be excessive. The billing records reflect
hours spent on “meet and confer” efforts that the Court deems excessive given
the nature of the communications. Plaintiffs also assert that 3 hours were
spent preparing the notice of motion to compel, which the Court finds excessive
for a discovery motion of this type. The Court determines that 3 hours total is
a reasonable amount of time for all of Plaintiffs’ counsel’s work in connection
with these motions.
Accordingly, the Court awards
sanctions for 3 hours of work at the hourly rate of $625.00, along with the
$60.00 filing fee, for a total of $1,935.00 in monetary sanctions.
 
IV.       CONCLUSION AND ORDER
              Motion to
compel deposition of Defendant Francisco Molina is GRANTED.
Motion to compel deposition of
Person Most Knowledgeable for Defendant West Coast Pavingstone, Inc. is
GRANTED.
Defendants must make deponents
available for deposition within 30 days of this order.
Plaintiffs’ request for monetary
sanctions is GRANTED in the amount of $1,935.00.
Plaintiffs to give notice of this
ruling.Dated: October 2, 2024 JARED D. MOSES JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT
 
 
 
 
 
          
 
          
