 Case Number:  BC550144    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2024    Dept:  E Case No: BC550144
Hearing Date: 10/30/2024 – 8:30am
Trial Date: UNSET
Case Name: ARMAN YEGIYANTS v. HAGOP BARDAKJIAN ET AL.
 
[TENTATIVE RULING]
RELIEF REQUESTED
“Plaintiffs Arman Yegiyants and 10415 Commerce, LLC (together, “Plaintiffs”),
will, and hereby do, move for an order
(A)
compelling Defendant Hagop Bardakjian (“Hagop” ) to sit for his continued
deposition, live and in person, for not less than four hours, and answer
Plaintiffs’ questions, including but not limited to about the foreclosures and
pre-foreclosure transactions, and for any handwriting exemplars,
notwithstanding any relevance objection; and 
(B)
entering a monetary sanction of $13,670.29 against Hagop, payable to Plaintiffs
(this “Motion”). 
Plaintiffs
make this Motion on the grounds that: 
(A)
on July 30, 2024, Hagop sat for his deposition in these consolidated actions; 
(B)
during that deposition, Plaintiffs only had the opportunity to question Hagop
for less than one hour; 
(C)
during that deposition, Hagop refused to answer any if Plaintiffs’ questions
regarding certain transactions, based on and standing on a relevance objection;

(D)
during that deposition, Hagop refused to provide Plaintiffs with a live
handwriting sample; 
(E)
in their Notice of Deposition, Plaintiffs demanded that Hagop produce documents
at the deposition, but Hagop did not do so (although he, through counsel, has
since agreed to produce some of the requested documents); and
(F)
Hagop's refusal to answer questions and produce documents is without
substantial justification.
Plaintiffs
further base this Motion on this Notice of Motion, the concurrently filed
Memorandum of Points and Authorities, the concurrently filed Declaration of
Hayim M. Gamzo, the concurrently filed Request for Judicial Notice, the
concurrently filed Separate Statement, the concurrently lodged Proposed Order,
the transcript of Hagop's deposition that Plaintiffs will lodge with the Court,
and the papers filed in this action.
Prior
to filing this Motion, Plaintiffs and Hagop met and conferred through counsel,
but could not resolve the issues addressed in this Motion. (Prior to filing
this Motion, Plaintiffs also requested that Hagop submit to an informal
discovery conference, as this Court's Practices and Procedures requests, but Hagop
would not so agree.)”
(Notice,
p. 2-3.)
PROCEDURAL ANALYSIS
Moving Party: 
Plaintiffs, Arman Yegiyants and 10415 Commerce, LLC (Plaintiffs)
Responding Party: Defendants,
Hagop Bardakjian, 703 E. Angeleno, LLC, 707 E. Angeleno LLC, Commercial Funding
LLC, Jamal Dawood, and Hratchia Bardakjian
Moving
Papers: Notice; Memorandum; Separate
Statement; Request for Judicial Notice; Hayim M. Gamzo Declaration; Proposed
Order; Proof of Service
Opposition
Papers: Hagop Bardakjian
Opposition; Proof of Service; Joshua P. Friedman Declaration
Opposition
Papers: Hratchia Bardakjian
Joinder in Hagop’s Opposition; Proof of Service; Brandon C. Fernald
Declaration; Request for Judicial Notice
Opposition
Papers: Defendants, 703 E.
Angeleno, LLC, 707 E. Angeleno LLC, and Commercial Funding LLC (collectively
Dawood related entities);  Defendant
Jamal Dawood’s, Opposition 
Reply
Papers: Reply; Objections to
Fernald Declaration; Reply declaration of Hayim M. Gamzo; Objections to Joshua
P. Friedman Declaration; Proof of Service
Proof of
Service Timely Filed (CRC Rule 3.1300): Ok
16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP 1005(b)): Ok
Proper Address (CCP § 1013, § 1013a, § 1013b): Ok
TENTATIVE
RULING
Plaintiffs, Arman Yegiyants and 10415 Commerce
LLC, move for an order to compel Defendant Hagop Bardakjian to sit for his
continued deposition, live and in person, for not less than four hours, and
answer Plaintiffs’ questions, including but not limited to about the
foreclosures and pre-foreclosure transactions, and for any handwriting
exemplars, notwithstanding any relevance objection; and entering a monetary
sanction of $13,670.29.
Here, as a preliminary
matter the Court notes that Plaintiffs’ and opposing parties’ papers are less
than a model of clarity. 
Despite the fact that
Plaintiffs appear to be seeking to compel answers that were not answered at a
deposition, Plaintiffs cite no legal authority as to what is the standard that
Plaintiffs must meet in order to do this. Plaintiffs simply cite to a
non-binding secondary source that Defendant Hagop has the burden to justify his
refusal to answer questions and produce documents.
Plaintiffs also seek
to compel a handwriting sample at the deposition and inspection demands.
Despite Plaintiffs
failing to explain how they are satisfying the relevant legal standards,
whatever those may be, the crux of Plaintiffs’ argument seems to be that the
foreclosures and pre-foreclosure transactions are still relevant,
notwithstanding Plaintiffs’ concession that the Court dismissed their causes of
action to set aside the fraudulent foreclosure sales for failure to prosecute
pursuant to CCP § 583.360 (Min. Order 4/23/2021.)
Or to phrase it
differently, Plaintiffs appear to argue that all the discovery they seek is
discoverable because it is still relevant. 
That said, Plaintiffs
fail to explain how the information sought is relevant. 
In Opposition, Hagop
argues that none of the information that Plaintiffs seek is relevant because
this Court dismissed Plaintiffs’ causes of action that attacked the validity of
the trust deeds recorded against the subject properties because of Plaintiffs’
failure to bring suit to trial within five years.
Unfortunately, both
parties’ arguments are less than clear. 
Neither side explains what
complaints/cross-complaints are the operative pleadings, nor what the remaining
causes of action and defenses are in those pleadings. 
Even if the only
legally relevant analysis for this motion were relevance, the parties’ various arguments
as to relevance are, respectfully, somewhat incomprehensible. 
Both parties discuss events
ranging back 20 years and prior cases not before this Court, making it almost impossible
for the Court to determine whether what the parties are discussing is relevant.
Since moving
Plaintiffs failed to cite to legal authority in support of the relief they seek,
and further failed to explain how they met the appropriate legal standard,
whatever that may be, Plaintiffs’ motion is denied. 
Further, Plaintiffs’
separate statement is not compliant with CRC, rule 3.1345(c). The separate
statement doesn’t indicate which questions that Plaintiffs seek answers to from
the deposition.  
Plaintiffs’ motion and
request for sanctions is DENIED.
The Court grants
Plaintiffs’ requests for judicial notice.
The Court grants
Hratchia’s requests for judicial notice.
Motion for
Stay of Proceedings
On eCourt there are two hearings titled
“Hearing on Motion for Stay of Proceedings.” 
The one on calendar
for 10/30/2024 does not appear to have an accompanying motion filed for this
hearing date. Further, eCourt does not indicate that there is a CRS# for this
hearing. Further, the scheduling status of this motion indicates “reserved” as
opposed to “scheduled.”
However, the one on
calendar for 12/11/2024 does have a CRS # and there appears to be an
accompanying motion. Further, the scheduling status for this hearing indicates
“scheduled,” unlike the 10/30/2024 hearing that only indicates “reserved.”
Therefore, there does
not appear to be a Hearing on Motion for Stay of Proceedings on calendar for
10/30/2024.
 