 Case Number:  21STCV37974    Hearing Date:   November 9, 2023    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



WEST CASITAS, LLC, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
SWING HOUSE STAGES, INC.; et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  21STCV37974 
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  November 9, 2023
 Calendar Number:  2



 
 
 
Plaintiff and cross-defendant West Casitas, LLC (“Landlord”)
and cross-defendant Avedis Tavitian (collectively, the “Landlord Parties”) move
to compel further responses to discovery requests served on Defendant and
cross-plaintiff Swing House Stages, Inc. (“Tenant”) and cross-plaintiff
Genoveva Winsen (collectively, the “Tenant Parties”). 
 
The Landlord parties seek to compel further responses to the
following discovery served on Tenant:
 
Landlord’s Requests for Production (“RFP”), Set One, Nos. 1,
2, 4, 5, 7-14, 16-19; 
Landlord’s RFPs Set Two, Nos. 20-26, 57, 65; 
Tavitian’s RFPs, Set One, Nos. 1-6, 12.
 
The Landlord parties seek to compel further responses to the
following discovery served on Winsen:
 
Landlord’s RFPs, Set One, Nos. 1-7, 28, 29, 37;
Tavitian’s RFPs, Set One, Nos. 1, 2, 5-7, 9, 12, 18.
 
The Court GRANTS the Landlord Parties’ motion to compel
further responses from Tenant as described more fully below.  Tenant shall provide further written
responses and responsive documents within 30 days of today’s order.  Moreover, Tenant shall within 30 days provide
a privilege log for all documents withheld on the basis of privilege as set
forth in Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.240.  In addition, Tenant shall pay attorney’s fees
of $5,835 directly to Landlord’s counsel within 30 days of the date of the
order.
 
The Court DENIES the motion to compel with respect to Tavitian’s
requests to Tenant, Landlord’s requests to Winsen and Tavitian’s request to
Winsen.  The Court denies the request for
discovery sanctions against Winsen.
 
Background
 
Landlord filed this action against Tenant on October 14,
2021, alleging breach of a commercial lease and seeking unpaid rent. 
 
On March 28, 2022, the Tenant Parties filed a
cross-complaint against the landlord parties, stating claims for (1) breach of
contract; (2) breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing; (3)
intentional misrepresentation; (4) negligent misrepresentation; (5)
concealment; (6) discrimination in violation of Civil Code section 51; (7) sexual
harassment in violation of Civil Code section 51.9; (8) violation of Business
& Professions Code section 17200; (9) declaratory relief; (10) violation of
Civil Code section 3273.10; and (11) intentional violation of the Los Angeles
County eviction moratorium.
 
The Landlord parties filed a motion for summary judgment as
to the cross-claims. The Court granted summary judgment on the cross-claims on
June 7, 2023.
 
The Landlord Parties filed this motion, as amended from a
previous filing, on January 17, 2023. No opposition was filed.    
 
Legal Standard
 
CCP § 2017.010 
 
Unless otherwise limited by order of the court in accordance
with this title, any party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not
privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending
action or to the determination of any motion made in that action, if the matter
either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to
lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. Discovery may relate to the claim
or defense of the party seeking discovery or of any other party to the action.
 
CCP § 2031.220
 
A statement that the party to whom a demand for inspection,
copying, testing, or sampling has been directed will comply with the particular
demand shall state that the production, inspection, copying, testing, or
sampling, and related activity demanded, will be allowed either in whole or in
part, and that all documents or things in the demanded category that are in the
possession, custody, or control of that party and to which no objection is
being made will be included in the production.
 
CCP § 2031.230
 
A representation of inability to comply with the particular
demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling shall affirm that a
diligent search and a reasonable inquiry has been made in an effort to comply
with that demand. This statement shall also specify whether the inability to
comply is because the particular item or category has never existed, has been
destroyed, has been lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has never been, or is no
longer, in the possession, custody, or control of the responding party. The
statement shall set forth the name and address of any natural person or
organization known or believed by that party to have possession, custody, or
control of that item or category of item.
 
CCP § 2031.310
 
(a) On receipt of a
response to a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, the
demanding party may move for an order compelling further response to the demand
if the demanding party deems that any of the following apply:
          (1) A
statement of compliance with the demand is incomplete.
(2) A
representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive.
          (3) An
objection in the response is without merit or too general.
 
(b) A motion under subdivision (a) shall comply with each of
the following:
(1) The motion
shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the discovery
sought by the demand.
(2) The motion
shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.
(3) In lieu of a
separate statement required under the California Rules of Court, the court may
allow the moving party to submit a concise outline of the discovery request and
each response in dispute.
 
(c) Unless notice
of this motion is given within 45 days of the service of the verified response,
or any supplemental verified response, or on or before any specific later date
to which the demanding party and the responding party have agreed in writing,
the demanding party waives any right to compel a further response to the
demand.
 
… (h) Except as
provided in subdivision (j), the court shall impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or
attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further
response to a demand, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction
acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the
imposition of the sanction unjust.
 
          The
burden is on the moving party to show both relevance to the subject matter and
specific facts justifying discovery. (Glenfed Develop. Corp. v. Superior
Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 1113, 1117.) 
Once good cause is established by the moving party, the burden then
shifts to the responding party to justify any objections made to document
disclosure. (Hartbrodt v. Burke (1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 168, 172-174.)     
 
“Relevant evidence is defined in Evidence Code section 210
as evidence ‘having any tendency in reason to prove or disprove any disputed
fact that is of consequence to the determination of the action.’ The test of
relevance is whether the evidence tends logically, naturally, and by reasonable
inference to establish material facts. The trial court has broad discretion in
determining the relevance of evidence, but lacks discretion to admit irrelevant
evidence.”  (Donlen v. Ford Motor Co. (2013)
217 Cal.App.4th 138, 148 (evidence of post-warranty repairs relevant to action
based on warranty repairs because they could demonstrate that vehicle was not
repaired to conform to warranty during warranty period).) 
           
 
Discussion
 
The Landlord Parties’ positions can be found in their brief
and separate statement. The Tenant Parties have not filed an opposition. The
Court rules on each request as set forth below. 
In addition to producing all responsive documents, Tenant shall produce within
30 days further written responses as to the requests for production, as well as
a privilege log for any withheld documents. 

 
Landlord’s requests to Tenant
 
Request for Production Set One,
No. 1: Tenant shall produce all responsive documents.
 
Request for Production Set One,
No. 2: Tenant shall produce all responsive documents.
 
Request for Production Set One,
No. 4: Tenant shall produce all responsive documents.
 
Request for Production Set One,
No. 5: The request is denied because summary judgment has been granted on
the cross-claims that make it relevant.
 
Request for Production Set One,
No. 7: Tenant shall produce all responsive documents.
 
Request for Production Set One,
No. 8: Tenant shall produce all responsive documents.
 
Request for Production Set One,
No. 9: Tenant shall produce all responsive documents, but shall not be
required to produce documents as to use of the premises by any of tenant’s
employees, agents, or contractors.
 
Request for Production Set One,
No. 10: Tenant shall produce all responsive documents.
 
Request for Production Set One,
No. 12: Tenant shall produce all responsive documents related to payment of
rent but shall not be required to produce documents related to settlement
discussions.
 
Request for Production Set One,
No. 13: Tenant shall produce all responsive documents.
 
Request for Production Set One,
No. 14: Tenant shall produce all responsive documents.
 
Request for Production Set One,
No. 16: Tenant shall produce all responsive documents.
 
Request for Production Set One,
No. 17: Tenant shall produce all responsive documents.
 
Request for Production Set One,
No. 18: Tenant shall produce all responsive documents.
 
Request for Production Set One,
No. 19: Tenant shall produce all responsive documents.
 
Request for Production Set Two,
No. 20: This request is denied because summary judgment has been granted on
the cross-claims that made it relevant.
 
Request for Production Set Two,
No. 21: This request is denied because summary judgment has been granted on
the cross-claims that made it relevant.
 
Request for Production Set Two,
No. 22: This request is denied because summary judgment has been granted on
the cross-claims that made it relevant.
 
Request for Production Set Two,
No. 23: Tenant shall produce all responsive documents.
 
Request for Production Set Two,
No. 24: Tenant shall produce all responsive documents.
 
Request for Production Set Two,
No. 25: Tenant shall produce all responsive documents.
 
Request for Production Set Two,
No. 26: Tenant shall produce all responsive documents.
 
Request for Production Set Two,
No. 57: This request is denied because summary judgment has been granted on
the cross-claims that made it relevant.
 
Request for Production Set Two,
No. 65: This request is denied because summary judgment has been granted on
the cross-claims that made it relevant.
 
 
Tavitian’s requests to Tenant
 
          The Court denies the motion to compel
further responses to Tavitian’s RFPs served on Tenant as moot, because summary
judgment has been granted as to the cross-claims to which Tavitian is a party.
 
Landlord’s requests to Winsen
 
          The Court denies the motion to compel
further responses to Landlord’s RFPs served on Winsen as moot, because summary
judgment has been granted as to the cross-claims to which Winsen is a party.
 
 
Tavitian’s requests to Winsen
 

          The
Court denies the motion to compel further responses to Tavitian’s RFPs served
on Winsen as moot, because summary judgment has been granted as to the
cross-claims to which Tavitian and Winsen are parties.
 
 
Sanctions
 
          Sanctions
are appropriate when a party improperly opposes a motion to compel unless the
party acted with substantial justification or sanctions would otherwise be
unjust. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (h).)
 
Further, the court “shall impose a monetary sanction”
against any party that failed to meet and confer as required, regardless of the
outcome of the motion to compel. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.020.)
 
The Court will award attorney’s fees against Tenant, as
Tenant’s failure to respond has no substantial justification.
 
Landlord requests an hourly rate of $425 for Daniel E.
French in 2022 and an hourly rate of $500 in 2023. (French Decl. ¶ 38.) French
is a third-year associate. The Court finds French’s hourly rate reasonable.
 
However, the Court finds the hours spent on this matter
to be excessive. The Court therefore awards a total of $5,835 in attorney’s
fees, payable from Tenant directly to Landlord’s counsel within 30 days.
 
The Court declines to impose sanctions on Winsen.
Because summary judgment has been granted as to all of the cross-claims to
which Winsen is a party, it would be unjust to sanction Winsen for failing to
respond to RFPs that were only relevant due to those cross-claims.  
 