 Case Number:  22STCV24047    Hearing Date:   November 9, 2023    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



BRENT FOSTER BEARDMORE,
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
CITY OF EL SEGUNDO et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No:  22STCV24047
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  November 9, 2023
 Calendar
  Number:  9



 
          Defendants
City of El Segundo (the “City”), Darrell George, and Jaime Bemudez
(collectively, the “Individual Defendants”) demur to the operative second
amended complaint (“SAC”) filed by plaintiff Brent Foster Beardmore
(“Plaintiff”).  Defendants the City and
the Individual Defendants (collectively, “Defendants”) also move to strike certain
allegations from the SAC.
 
          The Court (a)
SUSTAINS Defendants’ demurrer to the Third Cause of Action with 20 days’ leave
to amend; (b) OVERRULES Defendants’ demurrer to the Fourth Cause of Action; and
(c) DENIES Defendants’ motion to strike. 
Defendants shall give notice.
 
Background
 
Plaintiff filed his original complaint on July 26, 2022
alleging four causes of action:  (1) age
discrimination, (2) failure to prevent discrimination, (3) harassment due to
age; and (4) hostile work environment.
 
Defendants demurred to the original complaint.  On December 20, 2022, the Court dismissed the
first and second causes of action with prejudice against the Individual
Defendants, and the fourth cause of action with prejudice against the City and
the Individual Defendants.  The Court
also sustained the demurrer as to the third cause of action and granted
Plaintiff 15 days’ leave to amend.
 
Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint on January 4,
2023.  Defendants demurred and, on August
22, 2023, the Court dismissed the third cause of action with prejudice against
the Individual Defendants.  The Court
also sustained the demurrer as to the new cause of action (alleging
“Retaliation/Violation of First Amendment Rights – 42 U.S.C. § 1983) with 30
days’ leave to amend.
 
          Plaintiff
filed the operative SAC on September 6, 2023.
 
Discussion
 
Request for Judicial Notice
 
The Court takes judicial notice of the El Segundo Municipal
Code attached as Exhibit A to the request for judicial notice.  The Court declines to take judicial notice of
the El Segundo Police Department Policy Manual attached as Exhibit B to the
request for judicial notice.
 
Demurrer to the Third Cause of Action – Failure to Prevent
Discrimination
 
Defendants and Plaintiff agree that the Third Cause of
Action is not asserted against the Individual Defendants.  However, Defendants demur to the third cause
of action, and move to strike certain allegations in the third cause of action,
because the terms of the Third Cause of Action, taken literally, still includes
the Individual Defendants.
 
Defendants are correct. 
Paragraph 7 of the SAC states that “Defendants [the City], George,
Bermudez and Does 1 through 100 are sometimes collectively referred to as
“Defendants.”  Then, throughout the Third
Cause of Action, there are references to “Defendants” and their actionable
misconduct.
 
There is an easy fix to this problem.  The Court will grant Defendants’ demurrer to
the Third Cause of Action with 20 days leave to amend.  Plaintiff is directed to clarify in the Third
Cause of Action that the allegations are against “Defendant City” and if
Plaintiff views it as appropriate “Does 1 through 100.”  Thus, for example, Plaintiff can change the
first sentence of paragraph 37 to “Plaintiff was continuously harassed and
subjected to a hostile work environment by the actions, conduct and comment of
the City’s employees . . . . ”  Plaintiff
must find a pleading convention that excludes the Individual Defendants from
the allegations of the Third Cause of Action.
 
Demurrer to the Fourth Cause of Action – Retaliation/Violation
of First Amendment Rights-42 U.S.C. § 1983
 
Plaintiff’s Fourth Cause of Action alleges a violation of 42
U.S.C. § 1983, which provides:  “Every
person who, under color of any statute, ordinance, regulation custom, or usage,
of any State or Territory or the District of Columbia, subjects, or causes to
be subjected, any citizen of the United States or other person within the
jurisdiction thereof to the deprivation of any rights, privileges, or
immunities secured by the Constitution and laws, shall be liable to the party
injured in an action at law, suit in equity, or other proper proceeding for
redress. . . . ”  
 
Plaintiff asserts that the Individual Defendants “have
implemented and maintained a policy, custom and practice” have discriminated
against employees age 50 and over and retaliated against employees who complain
about age discrimination.  (FAC ¶
49.)  
 
Defendants first argues that this claim is uncertain.  The Court disagrees.  The cause of action states straightforwardly
what it claims.
 
Defendants next argue that the Section 1983 Claim must be
dismissed with prejudice as to the City, as no practice or policy is alleged
under Monell v. Department of Social Services (1978) 436 U.S. 658,
691.  The Court disagrees.  The Fourth Cause of Action asserts the
existence of such a policy in paragraph 49. 
Whether the policy is real or invented by Plaintiff is a matter to be
determined on the factual record.  It is
not ripe for decision at the demurrer stage. 
The SAC also alleges that Darrell George is the final decision and
policy maker for the City and delegated authority to Jaime Bermudez.  (SAC ¶ 5.) 
Calling these allegations “conclusory,” and attempting to argue
inferences from various city documents, is not a ground for litigating these
ultimate issues at the pleading stage.  
 
Defendants finally argue that the Section 1983 Claim must be
dismissed against the Individual Defendants. 
For similar reasons, the Court disagrees.  The Court is unwilling at the demurrer stage
to make complex inferences from, for example, the “ESPD Policy Manual Policy
1002.3” that Defendants attempt to rely upon, among others.  These are largely merits-based arguments that
are inappropriate at the pleading stage. 
Defendants may yet prevail on these arguments, but they must do so on a
developed record.  
 
For all these reasons, the Court overrules Defendants’
demurrer to the Fourth Cause of Action
 
Defendants’ Motion To Strike
 
The Court denies Defendants’ motion to strike.  As noted above, the Court declines to strike
discrete facts alleged on the basis that they purportedly contradict other
facts.  Moreover, the requests to strike certain
allegations in the Third Cause of Action are moot because the Court has
sustained the demurrer to the Third Cause of Action with leave to amend.
 