  Case Number:  21STCV23353    Hearing Date:   November 9, 2023    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



MICHAEL TREIMAN, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
HAYMAN HOLDINGS, LLC; et al.,
 
                                  Defendant.
 


 Case No: 
  21STCV23353
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  November 9, 2023
 Calendar Number:  1



 
 
 
Defendant Hayman Holdings, LLC (“Defendant”) moves to
dismiss the third amended complaint (the “TAC”) filed by Plaintiff Michael
Treiman (“Plaintiff”). Defendant also moves for sanctions and moves to strike
the TAC’s request for punitive damages.
 
Defendant’s demurrer is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.
Defendant’s motion for sanctions is GRANTED. 
Plaintiff shall pay directly to Defendant’s counsel $15,000 in
attorney’s fees within 30 days of this order. 

 
Background
 
          In
2019, Plaintiff suffered an adverse ruling in an arbitration against Defendant
and Defendant’s owner, Robert Hayman (“Hayman”). Defendant was ordered to pay
$539,491 to Hayman for his attorney’s fees. 
 
In the proceedings to confirm the arbitration award,
Plaintiff took the position that the arbitration award had been satisfied by
using Plaintiff’s share of the proceeds from the sale of a property that
Plaintiff was invested in (“the Lehi Funds”). 
(Defendant’s Request for Judicial Notice, Exh. B at p. 3 [“Specifically,
the Final Award was satisfied by using the proceeds of the sale of a property
in which  [Plaintiff] had invested.”)
That use of funds, which Plaintiff
contends that he did not authorize, forms the gravamen of Plaintiff’s claims
here. 
 
The arbitration award was confirmed by the Los Angeles
Superior Court on July 6, 2021 in Robert Hayman v. Michael Treiman, Case
No. 21STCP01359. (Defendant’s Request for Judicial Notice, Exh. A.) 
 
          On
March 31, 2023, Plaintiff served on Hayman a demand for acknowledgment of
satisfaction of judgment. (Defendant’s Request for Judicial Notice, Exh. C.) On
April 10, 2023, Hayman filed an acknowledgment of satisfaction of judgment with
the Los Angeles Superior Court. (Defendant’s Request for Judicial Notice, Exh.
D.)
 
Plaintiff filed the TAC, the operative complaint, on August
31, 2023. The TAC alleges (1) conversion; (2) breach of fiduciary duty; (3)
aiding and abetting breach of fiduciary duty; (4) intentional interference with
contractual relations; and (5) violation of Business & Professions Code
section 17200. Plaintiff seeks the return of the Lehi funds, in addition to treble,
punitive, and exemplary damages.
 
 
Requests for Judicial Notice
 
Judicial notice may be taken of “[f]acts and propositions
that are not reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of immediate and
accurate determination by resort to sources of reasonably indisputable
accuracy.” (Evid. Code § 452, subd. (d); see also Evid. Code § 452, subd. (h).)
 
“In taking judicial notice of an official document, a court
may take notice not only of the fact of the document but also facts that can be
deduced, and/or clearly derived from, its legal effect, such as the names and
dates contained in the document, and the legal consequences of the document.” (Julian
Volunteer Fire Co. Assn. v. Julian-Cuyamaca Fire Prot. Dist. (2021) 62 Cal.
App. 5th 583, 600.)
 
Defendant’s requests for judicial notice are GRANTED.
Plaintiff’s request for judicial notice is GRANTED. The Court takes judicial
notice of the requested documents only for their existence and the facts that
can be clearly derived from their legal effects.
 
 
Legal Standard
 
“[A] demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations
in a complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc.
(2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.) A demurrer can be used only to challenge
defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters
outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (See Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 [in
ruling on a demurrer, a court may not consider declarations, matters not
subject to judicial notice, or documents not accepted for the truth of their
contents].) For purposes of ruling on a demurrer, all facts pleaded in a
complaint are assumed to be true, but the reviewing court does not assume the
truth of conclusions of law. (Aubry v.
Tri-City Hosp. Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)
 
Further, the court may, upon motion, or at any time in its discretion,
and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper
matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a).) The court
may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (b).) The grounds for a motion to strike are
that the pleading has irrelevant, false, or improper matter, or has not been
drawn or filed in conformity with laws. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436.) The grounds
for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of
judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)
 
Where a demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be
allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335,
348.) The burden is on the plaintiff to show the court that a pleading can be
amended successfully. (Id.;
Lewis v. YouTube, LLC (2015) 244 Cal.App.4th 118, 226.) However, “[i]f
there is any reasonable possibility that the plaintiff can state a good cause
of action, it is error to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend.” (Youngman v. Nevada Irrigation Dist.
(1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245). 
 
           
 
Discussion
 
Demurrer
 
Judicial Estoppel
 
Judicial
estoppel
applies “when: (1) the same party has taken two positions; (2) the positions
were taken in judicial or quasi-judicial administrative proceedings; (3) the
party was successful in asserting the first position (i.e., the tribunal
adopted the position or accepted it as true); (4) the two positions are totally
inconsistent; and (5) the first position was not taken as a result of
ignorance, fraud, or mistake.” (State Water Resources Control Bd. Cases
(2006) 136 Cal.App.4th 674, 826–827.)
 
“Because of its harsh consequences,
the [judicial
estoppel]
doctrine should be applied with caution and limited to egregious
circumstances.” (Blix Street Records, Inc. v. Cassidy (2010) 191
Cal.App.4th 39, 47; see also Minish v. Hanuman Fellowship (2013) 214
Cal. App. 4th 437, 449 [“because judicial estoppel is an extraordinary and
equitable remedy that can impinge on the truth-seeking function of the court
and produce harsh consequences, it must be ‘applied with caution and limited to
egregious circumstances’….”].)
 
Defendant
argues that Plaintiff is judicially estopped from seeking return of the Lehi
Funds on the basis that they were wrongfully taken because Plaintiff previously
took the position that the Lehi funds were used to satisfy the judgment.  The Court agrees.
 
The
legal effect of Plaintiff’s demand for acknowledgment of satisfaction of
judgment was to assert that the judgment was satisfied. This fact is properly
judicially noticeable from the document. One legal effect of Plaintiff’s
response to the petition to confirm the arbitration award was Plaintiff’s
assertion of the position that the arbitration award was satisfied by use of
the Lehi Proceeds. (Defendant’s Request for Judicial Notice, Exh. B at p. 3.)
These facts indicate that Plaintiff initially took the foregoing position in a
court proceeding. Furthermore, because Hayman filed an
acknowledgment of satisfaction of judgment and the Court deemed the judgment
satisfied, Plaintiff was successful in asserting this position and received a
benefit from it. The legal effect of having a party file an acknowledgment of satisfaction
of judgment is that the judgment creditor can no longer take any actions to
collect from the judgment debtor. (Brochier v. Brochier (1941) 17 Cal.2d
822, 825.)
 
Plaintiff argues that because the demand for acknowledgment
was not submitted to a court, it is not a position taken in a judicial
proceeding. The Court does not need to reach this argument, because Plaintiff’s
position that the award was satisfied through the Lehi Funds was unambiguously
taken in a confirmation proceeding in this Court. Moreover, the demand for
acknowledgement was a legally operative document containing the statutory
language mandated by CCP § 724.050 in connection with a lawsuit.  Plaintiff does not deny that Defendant filed
with the Court the Acknowledgement of Satisfaction of Judgment on April 4, 2023
in response to the demand.
 
Plaintiff’s position in this action, that the Lehi funds
must be returned because their use in satisfaction of the previous judgment was
illegal, is clearly inconsistent. Plaintiff’s previous position was that he had
paid what he had owed using the Lehi Funds; the TAC alleges here that Plaintiff
is actually entitled to their return.
 
There are no facts showing that Plaintiff took the first
position as the result of ignorance, fraud, or mistake.
 
Although
Plaintiff argues that the demand for acknowledgment operated only as to the
costs and fees ordered in the confirmation proceeding, the demand’s own
language, stating that “this document constitutes a demand for acknowledgment
of full satisfaction of the judgment in the above-entitled cause,” belies this
assertion.
 
This
case presents exactly the type of circumstances in which judicial estoppel is
appropriate – when one party, having already secured proof of satisfaction of
judgment, attempts to have the money he paid in satisfaction of that judgment
returned to him. The Court therefore finds that Plaintiff is judicially
estopped from asserting that the Lehi Funds were wrongfully taken from him. 
 
Because
the judicially noticeable facts conclusively foreclose Plaintiff’s causes of
action, amendment would be futile. The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO
AMEND.
 
Motion for Sanctions
 
An attorney or party who presents a pleading, motion or
similar paper to the court makes an implied "certification" as to its
legal and factual merit and is subject to sanctions for violation of this
certification. (Code Civ. Proc., § 128.7; Murphy v. Yale Materials Handling
Corp. (1997) 54 Cal.App.4th 619, 623.)  Section 128.7 has a “safe harbor” provision
allowing the offending party to withdraw the offensive pleading within 21 days
and thus be immune to sanctions.  Here,
Plaintiff was afforded the ability to withdraw the Third Amended Complaint when
the motion was served but not filed on or about September 14, 2023.  Plaintiff chose not to withdraw the
complaint.
 
“If, after notice and a reasonable opportunity to respond,
the court determines that subdivision (b) has been violated, the court may,
subject to the conditions stated below, impose an appropriate sanction upon the
attorneys, law firms, or parties that have violated subdivision (b) or are
responsible for the violation. In determining what sanctions, if any, should be
ordered, the court shall consider whether a party seeking sanctions has
exercised due diligence.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 128.7, subd. (c).)
 
A trial court may impose sanctions if it concludes a
pleading was filed for an improper purpose or was indisputably without merit,
either legally or factually. (Bucur v. Ahmad (2016) 244 Cal.App.4th 175,
189.) A claim is factually frivolous if it is “not well grounded in fact” and
it is legally frivolous if it is “not warranted by existing law or a good faith
argument for the extension, modification, or reversal of existing law.” (Peake
v. Underwood (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 428, 440.)
 
Here, Plaintiff took advantage of his right to demand an
acknowledgment of satisfaction of judgment, preventing Hayman from collecting
any further funds from him. His TAC, which asserts that those funds must now be
returned, is frivolous. The Court therefore awards attorney’s fees to
Defendant.
 
          Defendant
has provided of its attorneys’ rates and their reasonableness.  Defendant did not, however, break down the
amount of work done by each of the attorneys or paralegals, whose rates vary
widely from $890 to $500 to $200 an hour. 
(Valle Decl. ¶ 20.)  The Court
therefore will conservatively use the middle rate of $500 per hour for 30 (not
40) hours for a total of $15,000.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 