 Case Number:  23STCV04909    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


October
  31, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


23STCV04909




MOTIONS:  


(1)
  Motion to Compel Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One
(2)
  Motion to Compel Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Rocio Honorato Herrera




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed 



 
BACKGROUND
 
 Plaintiff Rocio Honorato Herrera (“Plaintiff”)
now moves for an order to compel verified responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One and Special Interrogatories,
Set One from Defendant 1151 Maple-1-AHPP LLC (“Defendant”). Plaintiff
seeks monetary sanctions. No opposition has been filed. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
If a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to
serve a timely response, the propounding party may move for an order compelling
responses. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.290 (b).) Failure to timely respond waives
all objections, including privilege and work product, unless “[t]he party has
subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance” and “[t]he
party’s failure to serve a timely response was the result of mistake,
inadvertence, or excusable neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290 (a)(1),
(a)(2).) The statute contains no time limit for a motion to compel where no
responses have been served and no meet and confer is required when a party does
not respond to discovery requests. All that need be shown in the moving papers
is that a set of interrogatories was properly served on the opposing party,
that the time to respond has expired, and that no response of any kind has been
served. (Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902,
905-906.)  
 
If a motion to
compel responses is filed, the Court shall impose a monetary sanction against
the losing party “unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290 (c).) Further, “[t]he
court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files
a motion to compel discovery, even though no opposition to the motion was
filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or the requested discovery
was provided to the moving party after the motion was filed.” (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1348(a). 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Here, Plaintiff asserts that he served Form Interrogatories,
Set One and Special Interrogatories, Set One, on
Defendant on June 25, 2024. (Rodriguez Decl. ¶ 3, Exh. A.) The responses were
due July 26, 2024. (Id. ¶ 4.) On August 23, 2024, Plaintiff granted an
extension for responses without objections to September 13, 2024. Since then,
Defendant has not responded and has not filed an opposition to this motion. (Id.
¶ 8.) Therefore, the motions to compel are granted.   
 
Plaintiff requests $952.91 in monetary
sanctions for each motion, against Defendant and its counsel of record,
representing an hourly rate of $350, the $60.00 filing fee, and “additional
fees” for $17.91. (Rodriguez Decl. ¶ 9.) The Court finds sanctions are
warranted because Defendant has failed to respond. However, the amount
requested is excessive due to the type of motions at issue, the lack of
opposition, and the fact counsel can appear at the hearing remotely.
Additionally, Plaintiff’s counsel sets forth no other evidence justifying the $17.91
in additional fees. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.040 [a request for a sanction
shall be “accompanied by a declaration setting forth facts supporting the
amount of any monetary sanction sought”].) Therefore, the Court awards
sanctions in the amount of $1,170 (1.5 hours of attorney time to file and
appear at the hearing, plus the $60 filing fee, for each of the two motions).
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motions to Compel Form
Interrogatories, Set One and Special Interrogatories, Set One, are GRANTED. Defendant 1151
Maple-1-AHPP LLC shall serve verified responses without objections within 30
days. 
 
The Court further
GRANTS Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions against Defendant and its
attorney of record, jointly and severally, in the reduced amount of $1,170.00. Said monetary sanctions are to be paid to
counsel for Plaintiff within 30 days of the date of this order. 
 
Plaintiff shall
provide notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of service of such.  
 