 Case Number:  23STCV25750    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


October
  31, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


23STCV25750




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Dismiss the Complaint of Plaintiff Ok Hee Yang for Violation of the
  Court’s Orders




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Los Angeles County Metropolitan
  Transportation Authority




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiff



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
Defendant Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (“LACMTA”)
moves for an order dismissing the First Amended Complaint (“FAC”), and imposing
sanctions of $2,360 against Plaintiff Ok Hee Yang (“Plaintiff”) and/or her
attorneys of record, arguing that those sanctions are warranted because Plaintiff
disobeyed the Court’s discovery orders. Plaintiff filed a belated opposition
the day of the hearing.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“Misuses of the discovery process include, but are not limited to, the
following: ¶ …. ¶
…. ¶ …. ¶ (d) Failing to respond
or to submit to an authorized method of discovery. ¶ …. ¶ ….  ¶ (g)
Disobeying a court order to provide discovery.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010, subd. (a)(1).)
 
“To
the extent authorized by the chapter governing any particular discovery method
or any other provision of this title, the court, after notice to any affected
party, person, or attorney, and after opportunity for hearing, may
impose…sanctions against anyone engaging in conduct that is a misuse of the
discovery process.” (Code Civ. Proc. section 2023.030.) The court may impose a
terminating sanction for misuse of the discovery process by any of the
following: “(1) An order striking out the pleadings or parts of the pleadings
of any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process; (2) An order
staying further proceedings by that party until an order for discovery is
obeyed; (3) An order dismissing the action, or any part of the action, of that
party; (4) An order rendering a judgment by default against that party.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2023.030(d).)  Failing to
respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery, or
disobeying
a court order to provide discovery, constitutes a
misuse of the discovery process. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010, subd. (d), (g).)

 
“The trial court may order a terminating sanction for discovery abuse
‘after considering the totality of the circumstances: [the] conduct of the
party to determine if the actions were willful; the detriment to the
propounding party; and the number of formal and informal attempts to obtain the
discovery.’” (Los Defensores, Inc. v. Gomez (2014) 223 Cal. App. 4th 377, 390,
quoting Lang v. Hochman (2000) 77 Cal. App. 4th 1225, 1246.)   
 
“Generally, ‘[a] decision to order terminating sanctions should not be
made lightly.  But where a violation is
willful, preceded by a history of abuse, and the evidence shows that less
severe sanctions would not produce compliance with the discovery rules, the
trial court is justified in imposing the ultimate sanction.’” (Los Defensores,
supra, 223 Cal. App. 4th at p. 390 [citation omitted].)    
 
“Under this standard, trial courts have properly imposed terminating
sanctions when parties have willfully disobeyed one or more discovery orders.”
(Los Defensores, supra, 223 Cal.App.4th at p. 390 citing Lang, supra, 77
Cal.App.4th at pp. 1244-1246 [discussing cases]; see, e.g., Collisson &
Kaplan v. Hartunian (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th 1611, 1617-1622 [terminating
sanctions imposed (by striking the defendant’s Answer and subsequently granting
default judgment) after defendants failed to comply with one court order to
produce discovery]; Laguna Auto Body v. Farmers Ins. Exchange (1991) 231
Cal.App.3d 481, 491, disapproved on other grounds in Garcia v. McCutchen (1997)
16 Cal.4th 469, 478, n. 4 [terminating sanctions imposed against the plaintiff
for failing to comply with a discovery order and for violating various
discovery statutes].)  
 
DISCUSSION
 
After Plaintiff filed this personal injury action on October 20, 2023,
and before any defendant made an appearance, Plaintiff filed the FAC on
December 20, 2023, against County of Los Angeles, LACMTA, Bernard Allen
Clarence (“Clarence”), Santiago Mendez Casiano (“Casiano”), and Does 1 to 50,
inclusive, asserting one cause of action for negligence. 
 
On June 25, 2024, LACMTA filed motions to compel Plaintiff to serve her
initial responses to the defendant’s Request for Production of Documents, Set
One, and Form Interrogatories, Set One. Plaintiff did not oppose those motions
and did not appear for their hearing on July 25, 2024. 
 
The Court granted LACMTA’s motions to compel, ordering Plaintiff to
serve verified responses, without objections, to the discovery, and pay LACMTA
sanctions of $900, all within 30 days of the ruling. (Minute Order dated July
25, 2024 (“July 25 Order”), p. 3.) The Court ordered LACMTA to provide notice
of the order and file proof of service of such. LACMTA filed a Notice of Ruling
on July 25, 2024. 
 
LACMTA now moves to dismiss the FAC, arguing that Plaintiff failed to
comply with the July 25 Order because Plaintiff did not serve any responses and
did not pay any sanctions. (Motion, Declaration of Allen L. Thomas (“Thomas
Decl.”), ¶ 7.) According to defense counsel, “[d]ue to plaintiff's failure to
respond to the discovery, [LACMTA] is unable to adequately defend itself
against plaintiff’s claims. [The] discovery covers the issues of liability,
plaintiff’s claimed injuries and damages, and any investigation known to plaintiff
or anyone acting on her behalf.” (Thomas Decl., ¶ 8.) “The failure to provide
responses materially affects the [defendant’s] … ability to accurately evaluate
plaintiff’s claims, as well as to adequately prepare to defend … against
plaintiff’s claims.” (Thomas Decl., ¶ 9.) “No excuse has been provided for the
plaintiff's refusal to respond to discovery in this action.” (Thomas Decl., ¶ 10.)
“Plaintiff’s attorneys have not filed a motion to withdraw as plaintiff’s
attorneys.” (Thomas Decl., ¶ 11.) 
 
On the date of the hearing, Plaintiff’s counsel filed a belated
opposition including a declaration of counsel that the reason for the failure
to comply with the Court’s orders and respond to discovery requests is due to
counsel’s physical and mental health issues. The Court notes that the motion
itself was served on Plaintiff but not defendant Santiago Mendez Casiano.
Notices of motion must be served on all parties who have appeared in the action.
(Code of Civ. Proc. Section 1014.)
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, the Court continues the motion to November 18, 2024 at
1:30 p.m. in Department 32 of the Spring Street Courthouse. Defendant shall
give notice of the motion to all parties. To the extent Plaintiff serves
belated discovery responses, Plaintiff may file an updated opposition. Any such
opposition must be filed and served by November 7, 2024. Any reply brief must
be filed and served by November 13, 2024.
 
Defendant shall give notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of
service of such.  