  Case Number:  19STCV20094    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


October
  31, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


19STCV20094




MOTIONS:  


Petition
  for Minors Compromise 




MOVING PARTY:


Petitioner Nora Meza




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed
  



 
The Court
has reviewed the Petition to Approve Compromise of Pending Action of a Minor, filed October 10, 2024 by
Petitioner Nora Meza (Petitioner) on behalf of Claimant David Meza, age 13. The
Court does not approve and DENIES the petition based on the following reasons:
 
Petitioner must provide attachment 11b(3) stating the
effect, if any, that Petitioner’s claim has the Claimant’s compromise. As
stated before, attachment 11b(6) must also be included which describes the
reasons for the apportionment of the settlement payments between Claimant and
the other plaintiffs. (Min. Order, 9/25/24.) 
 
 
Moving party is ordered to give
notice.
 