 Case Number:  23STCV28170    Hearing Date:   March 26, 2024    Dept:  51 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Upinder S.
Kalra, Department 51
 
HEARING DATE:   March
26, 2024                                               
 
CASE NAME:           David
Kagan, et al. v. Gavin Newsom, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                23STCV28170

 
DEMURRER
TO FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT
 
MOVING PARTY:  Defendants
Gavin Newsom and Gustavo Velasquez
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiffs David Kagan, Judith
Kagan, Frank Revere, and Rachel K. Revere
 
REQUESTED RELIEF: 
 
1.      Demurrer
to the entire First Amended Complaint for failure to state sufficient facts
constituting a cause of action.
TENTATIVE RULING: 
 
1.      The
court SUSTAINS Defendants’ demurrer in its entirety.
STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: 
 
On November 16, 2023, Plaintiffs David Kagan, Judith Kagan,
Frank Revere, and Rachel K. Revere (Plaintiffs) filed a Complaint against
Defendants Gavin Newsom in his official capacity as the Governor of the State
of California (Newsom); State of California[1];
and Gustavo Velasquez  in his official
capacity as the head of the Department of Housing and Community Development of
the State of California (Velasquez) (collectively Defendants) with three causes
of action for: (1) Declaratory Relief, (2) Restitution, and (3) Conversion.
 
On December 26, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a First Amended
Complaint (FAC) with five causes of action for: (1) Declaratory Relief, (2)
Restitution, (3) Conversion, (4) Quantum Meruit (Money Had and Received), and
(5) Breach of Contract (Promissory Estoppel).
 
According to the FAC, Plaintiffs own a duplex located at 103
North Orange Drive, Los Angeles, California 90036 that is subject to rent
control under the Los Angeles Municipal Code (the Property). Plaintiffs allege
that their tenant obtained funds from Defendants under ERAP that should have
been disbursed to Plaintiffs.
 
On February 5, 2024, Defendants Newsom and Velasquez filed
the instant Demurrer to the FAC. On March 12, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an
opposition. On March 19, 2024, Defendants filed a reply.
 
LEGAL STANDARD: 
 
Meet and Confer¿ 
¿¿ 
Prior to filing a demurrer, the demurring party is required
to satisfy their meet and confer obligations pursuant to Code of Civ. Proc.
§430.41, and demonstrate that they so satisfied their meet and confer
obligation by submitting a declaration pursuant to Code of Civ. Proc.
§430.41(a)(2) & (3). The parties met and conferred telephonically on
January 25, 2024. (Wood Decl. ¶ 4.) Accordingly, the meet and confer
requirement is met.
 
Demurrer¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint
states a cause of action.¿(Hahn v. Mirda¿(2007)
147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the
allegations liberally and in context.¿In a demurrer proceeding, the defects
must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice.¿(Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004)
116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)¿“A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the
evidence or other extrinsic matters. …. The only issue involved in a demurrer
hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous
matters, states a cause of action.”¿(Hahn¿147
Cal.App.4th at 747.)¿¿ 
¿ 
When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations
liberally and in context, accepting the alleged facts as true. (Nolte v. Cedars-Sinai Medical Center
(2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 1401, 1406.) Courts also consider exhibits attached to
the complaint and incorporated by reference. (See Frantz v. Blackwell (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 91, 94 (Frantz).)¿ 
 
Request
for Judicial Notice
 
The court grants Defendants’ request for judicial notice as
to Exhibit A attached to the Declaration of the Custodian of Record and Plaintiffs’
request for judicial notice as to Exhibit 1 and 2. (Evid. Code § 452(c), (d), (h);
See Kalnoki v. First American Trustee
Servicing Solutions, LLC (2017) 8 Cal.App.5th 23, 37.) However, the court
only takes judicial notice of the foregoing documents only as to “the
existence, content and authenticity of public records and other specified
documents”; it does not take judicial notice of the truth of the factual
matters asserted in those documents. (Dominguez
v. Bonta (2022) 87 Cal. App. 5th 389, 400.)¿¿The court declines to take judicial notice
of Plaintiffs’ Exhibits 3, 4, 5, and 6.
 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
Erroneous
Interpretation of Health & Safety Code § 50897.1 – Failure to State a Claim
 
Defendants contend that Plaintiffs based their FAC on a
mistaken interpretation of Health & Safety Code § 50897.1. Plaintiffs argue
that Defendants did not have discretion to disburse the funds to the tenant
because tenant was still in possession of the Property at the time of
disbursement. 
 
It is well established that if statutory language is
unambiguous, the court presumes the Legislature meant what it said, and the
plain meaning of the statute governs. (People
v. Toney (2004) 32 Cal.4th 228, 232.) Courts look at the statute in context.
(Ibid.) 
 
The pertinent portions of Health & Safety Code § 50897.1
state:
 
(d) Assistance for rental arrears may be provided as a payment
directly to a landlord on behalf of an eligible household by entering into an
agreement with the landlord, subject to both of the following:
 
(1) Assistance for rental arrears shall
be set at compensation of 100 percent of an eligible household's unpaid rental
debt accumulated on or after April 1, 2020.
 
(2)(A) Acceptance of a payment made
pursuant to this subdivision shall be conditioned on the landlord's agreement
to accept the payment as payment in full of the rental debt owed by any tenant
within the eligible household for whom rental assistance is being provided for
the specified time period. The landlord's release of claims pursuant to this
subparagraph shall take effect only upon payment being made to the landlord
pursuant to this subdivision.
 
(e)(1) A member of an eligible
household may directly
apply for rental arrears assistance from the grantee.
 
(2)(A) Upon receipt of assistance, the eligible household shall provide
the full amount of rental arrears to the landlord within 15 days, excluding
Saturdays, Sundays, and judicial holidays, of receipt of the funds.
 
(B)(i) If the household does not comply
with subparagraph (A), the landlord may charge a late fee not to exceed the
amount that the landlord may charge a tenant for one late rental payment under
the terms of the lease or rental agreement.
 
(C) A member of an eligible household
described by this paragraph shall attest under penalty of perjury that the
household will comply with the requirements of this paragraph.
 
(h)(1) Assistance provided under this
chapter shall be provided to eligible households or, if applicable, to landlords on behalf of eligible
households that are currently housed and occupying the residential unit for
which the assistance is requested at the time of the application.
 
(B)(i) Subject to clause (ii),
assistance provided pursuant to this paragraph shall be prioritized to
participating landlords.
 
(ii) If the landlord does not
participate, payments may be provided directly to the eligible household if the
eligible household provides any amount received for rental assistance to the
landlord. A member of the eligible household shall attest under penalty of
perjury that the household will comply with the requirements of this clause.
(emphasis added.)
 
Reviewing the FAC in its entirety, including the emails
included in the factual allegations, Plaintiffs have not stated a violation of
Health & Safety Code § 50897.1.[2]
First, Plaintiffs claim Defendants were obligated to distribute $76,141.30 in
rental arrears to them, not to their tenant. (See generally, FAC.) However,
Plaintiffs acknowledge, as the statute provides, that a tenant may apply for
funds and that a landlord may separately initiate an application for funds.
(FAC ¶¶ 15, 16, 17, and 22.) As noted in the excerpts above, the ordinary
language of Health & Safety Code § 50897.1 allows for either the tenant, as
the eligible household, OR the landlord on behalf of the eligible household to
apply for and receive assistance. The inclusion of “or” undercuts Plaintiffs’
argument that Defendants “must” provide payments to them in lieu of the tenant.
Indeed, the mandatory provision of Health & Safety Code § 50897.1 provides
that the tenant “shall provide” to their landlord any funds they receive within
15 days of receipt. (Health & Saf. Code § 50897.1((e)(2)(A).) Based on the
FAC, briefing, and documents submitted with the parties’ requests for judicial
notice, it is undisputed that the tenant did not do so. The statute even
anticipates such situations by allowing landlords to tack on a penalty for
their tenants’ failure to timely remit. (Health & Saf. Code § 50897.1(e)(2)(B)(i).)
As such, Plaintiffs failed to state a cause of action against Defendants.
 
Accordingly, the court SUSTAINS Defendants’ demurrer to
the FAC in its entirety.[3]
 
Leave to Amend
 
Leave to amend should be liberally
granted if there is a reasonable possibility an amendment could cure the
defect.¿ (County of Santa Clara v.
Superior Court (2022) 77 Cal.App.5th 1018,1035.)¿ The Plaintiff has the
burden of demonstrating that leave to amend should be granted, and that the
defects can be cured by amendment. (“Plaintiff must show in what manner he can
amend his complaint and how that amendment will change the legal effect of his
pleading.” (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976)
18 Cal.3d 335, 349).
 
Here, the court is skeptical that
Plaintiffs can show amendment could cure the defects discussed above.
Additionally, Plaintiffs briefly mentioned they would seek leave to add
additional claims but did not request leave to amend any of the defects
identified by Defendants. In an exercise of caution, the court will allow
Plaintiffs to present oral argument at the hearing. However, the court is
inclined to deny leave to amend.
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            For
the foregoing reasons, the Court decides the pending motion as follows: 
 
1.      Demurrer
to the First Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED.
Moving party is to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
Dated:              March 26, 2024                       __________________________________                                                                                                                Upinder
S. Kalra
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 


