 Case Number:  BC655801    Hearing Date:   November 19, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                 
                Tuesday,
November 19, 2024
Department M                                                                                                              Calendar No. 9
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Jason
Nicholson, et al. v. Southern California Edison, et al.  
BC655801
1.     
Jason Nicholson,
et al.’s Motion for Protective Order  
 
COURT RULING
 
            Jason Nicholson, et al.’s Motion for
Protective Order is denied, in part, and granted, in part. 
 
Background
 
Plaintiffs filed the Complaint on March 29, 2017. The
Third Amended Complaint was filed on April 16, 2018. Plaintiffs allege the
following facts. On April 15, 2015, Plaintiffs were working on an electrical
maintenance project near Ridgecove Court and Ridgegate Drive when they were
caught in an electrical discharge from equipment at the inspection site. Plaintiffs
allege that Defendants failed to de-energize the cables, conductors and the
equipment being worked on by Plaintiffs. The Third Amended Complaint alleges
the following causes of action:1. Injury Caused by Violation – Public Utilities
Code section 2106; 2. Negligence – Breach of a Non-Delegable Duty; 3. Negligence
– Retained Control; 4. Negligence – Failure to Warn; 5. Loss of Consortium. 
 
            Motion for Protective Order
 
            The Court is authorized to limit discovery through a protective
order.  The order may be granted on the
motion of any party or other person affected by the discovery sought.  CCP §§ 2017.020(a), 2019.020(b),
2019.030(a).  A protective order may be
obtained to limit the frequency or extent of use of any discovery method on any
of the following grounds:  (1)  “The discovery sought is unreasonably
cumulative or duplicative …;  (2)  “(The information) is obtainable from some
other source that is more convenient, less burdensome or less expensive;  (3) 
“The selected method of discovery is unduly burdensome or expensive,
taking into account the needs of the case, the amount in controversy, and the
importance of the issues at stake in the litigation.”  CCP § 2019.030(a)(1)-(2). 
 
Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.420
states:
“(a) Before, during, or after a deposition, any
party, any deponent, or any other affected natural person or organization may
promptly move for a protective order. The motion shall be accompanied by a meet
and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.
(b) The court, for good cause shown, may make any
order that justice requires to protect any party, deponent, or other natural
person or organization from unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or
oppression, or undue burden and expense. This protective order may include, but
is not limited to, one or more of the following directions:
(1) That the deposition not be taken at all.
(2) That the deposition be taken at a different
time.
(3) That a video recording of the deposition
testimony of a treating or consulting physician or of any expert witness,
intended for possible use at trial under subdivision (d) of Section 2025.620,
be postponed until the moving party has had an adequate opportunity to prepare,
by discovery deposition of the deponent, or other means, for cross-examination.
(4) That the deposition be taken at a place other
than that specified in the deposition notice, if it is within a distance
permitted by Sections 2025.250 and 2025.260.
(5) That the deposition be taken only on certain
specified terms and conditions.
(6) That the deponent's testimony be taken by
written, instead of oral, examination.
(7) That the method of discovery be interrogatories
to a party instead of an oral deposition.
(8) That the testimony be recorded in a manner
different from that specified in the deposition notice.
(9) That certain matters not be inquired into.
(10) That the scope of the examination be limited
to certain matters.
(11) That all or certain of the writings or
tangible things designated in the deposition notice not be produced, inspected,
copied, tested, or sampled, or that conditions be set for the production of
electronically stored information designated in the deposition notice.
(12) That designated persons, other than the
parties to the action and their officers and counsel, be excluded from
attending the deposition.
(13) That a trade secret or other confidential
research, development, or commercial information not be disclosed or be
disclosed only to specified persons or only in a specified way.
(14) That the parties simultaneously file specified
documents enclosed in sealed envelopes to be opened as directed by the court.
(15) That the deposition be sealed and thereafter
opened only on order of the court.
(16) That examination of the deponent be
terminated. If an order terminates the examination, the deposition shall not
thereafter be resumed, except on order of the court.”
 
Meet and
Confer
 
Defendant set forth a meet
and confer declaration in substantial compliance with CCP § 2025.420(a).  (Declaration, Jonathan Douglass, ¶¶ 5-6.)
 
Motion for
Protective Order
 
Plaintiffs move for a
protective order to prevent or limit the depositions of Dr. Ronald Boutelle and
Katherine Hack, MFT. Apparently, these individuals provided marriage counseling
to Plaintiffs. Plaintiffs move based on the following grounds. “Mrs. Hafiz’s
loss of consortium claim has settled, and now only Plaintiffs’ personal injury
claims remain. Therefore, testimony from physicians about marriage counseling
is no longer relevant. Furthermore, it is protected by the psychotherapist
privilege and the right to privacy. Accordingly, there is no longer a relevant basis
to take these depositions over the existing privileges. To the extent some
relevant basis may continue to exist, Plaintiffs ask for an order limiting the
substance of deposition questions and testimony to those relevant matters.”
(Notice of Motion, page 1, lines 9-15.)  Thus,
Plaintiffs argue that the depositions violate the psychotherapist-patient
privilege and Plaintiffs’ constitutional right to privacy. 
 
The state Constitution
expressly grants Californians a right of privacy.  (Cal. Const., art. I, §1.)  The constitutional right of privacy applies
to a party’s medical records.  See,
John B. v. Superior Court (2006) 38 Cal.4th 1177, 1198.  Protection of informational privacy is the
provision’s central concern.”  Williams
v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 552.  “[W]hen a discovery request seeks information
implicating the constitutional right of privacy, to order discovery simply upon
a showing that the Code of Civil Procedure section 2017.010 test for relevance
has been met is an abuse of discretion.” 
Williams v. Superior Court, supra, 3 Cal.5th at 556
(citations omitted).
 
In Hill v. National
Collegiate Athletic Assn. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 1, 35-37, the
California Supreme Court “established a framework for evaluating potential
invasions of privacy.  The party
asserting a privacy right must establish a legally protected privacy interest,
an objectively reasonable expectation of privacy in the given circumstances,
and a threatened intrusion that is serious. . . . .  The party seeking information may raise in
response whatever legitimate and important countervailing interests disclosure
serves, while the party seeking protection may identify feasible alternatives
that serve the same interests or protective measures that would diminish the
loss of privacy.  A court must then
balance these competing considerations.” 
Williams v. Superior Court, supra, 3 Cal.5th at 552
(citations omitted).  In Hill, the
Court “explained that not ‘every assertion of a privacy interest under article
I, section 1 must be overcome by a “compelling interest.” . . . .  A ‘“compelling interest”’ is still required
to justify ‘an obvious invasion of an interest fundamental to personal
autonomy.’”  Id. at 556.  
 
A party has a privilege to
refuse to disclose confidential communications between a patient and
psychotherapist.  Evid. Code § 1014.  However, a Plaintiff who has tendered her
mental condition in controversy may be deemed to have waived the
privilege.  Evid. Code § 1016.   Disclosure depends upon balancing the need
for discovery against the need for confidentiality.  Discovery of relevant medical history may be
allowed because defendant may have no other methods to obtain this type of
information.  See Palay v. Superior
Court (1993) 18 Cal.App.4th 919, 933-34 disapproved of on other grounds by Williams
v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.4th 531, 557, n. 8.  However, the lifetime of plaintiff’s medical
history may not be discoverable. 
Plaintiff's right of privacy is protected as to physical and mental
conditions unrelated to the claim or injury sued upon. See Britt v. Superior
Court (1978) 20 Cal.3d. 844, 864.  
 
Plaintiffs contend that the
depositions are no longer relevant or necessary because Plaintiff Carlin Hafiz
settled her loss of consortium claim.  Here,
however, Plaintiff Alim Hafiz has placed his mental condition at issue by
making claims for mental injuries, emotional distress, and pain and suffering.
At his deposition, Plaintiff testified regarding treating with both Dr.
Boutelle and Ms. Hack for matters such as traumatic injury and on-going PTSD.  From the deposition testimony of Plaintiff, it
appears that Plaintiff discussed more than simply marriage counseling issues
with Dr. Boutelle.  Thus, Plaintiff Hafiz
has directly put his emotional injuries and resulting treatment for those
injuries at issue. Defendant is entitled to conduct discovery related to those
emotional injuries. While Plaintiff did not completely specify what specific
matters he may have discussed with Ms. Hack, if the discussions centered around
his emotional injuries suffered from the incident, then, clearly Defendant is
entitled to conduct discovery into those matters.
 
 Thus, Plaintiffs’ motion for protective order to
prevent the depositions is denied, in part. Plaintiffs fail to establish good
cause for the granting of this type of protective order. The Court does,
however, grant Plaintiffs’ request to limit the scope of the depositions to
questions related to Plaintiff Alim Hafiz’s injuries sustained due to the
incident which forms the basis for Plaintiff’s claims in this action.
 
Plaintiffs are ordered to
give notice of this ruling.
 
 