  Case Number:  23TRCV03894    Hearing Date:   November 19, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                  Tuesday, November 19, 2024
Department M                                                                                                              Calendar
No. 7
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Rhonda Phillips, et al. v. Ralphs
Grocery Company, et al.
            23TRCV03894
1.      Ralphs Grocery Company, et al.’s Motion to Compel
Arbitration and to Stay Action 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Ralphs Grocery Company, et al.’s Motion
to Compel Arbitration and to Stay Action is granted.
 
Background 
            
            Plaintiff filed the Complaint on November
21, 2023, and the First Amended Complaint on May 23, 2024.  Plaintiff alleges the following facts. Plaintiff
is a former employee of Defendant. Defendant failed to provide proper break and
rest periods. Defendant failed to compensate Plaintiff at the required rate for
all the hours worked. Defendant failed to provide accurate payroll records. In
the FAC, Plaintiff now purports to abandon all her individual claims and only
seeks redress for similarly situated individuals as a PAGA representative.
Plaintiff alleges the following cause of action: 1. Violation of California
Labor Code § 2698, et seq. 
 
            Requests for Judicial Notice
 
            Plaintiff’s request for judicial notice is granted pursuant to Evidence
Code § 452(d). The Court takes judicial notice of the existence of these
documents only and acknowledges that these orders do not have precedential
value.
 
            Defendant’s request for judicial notice is denied. The request was
filed on November 12, 2024, with the Reply. Thus, the request would constitute
new evidence submitted with the Reply to which Plaintiff has not been given a
proper opportunity to respond.
 
            Motion to Compel Arbitration
 
            “California law reflects a strong
public policy in favor of arbitration as a relatively quick and inexpensive
method for resolving disputes. 
[Citation.]  To further that policy, [Code of Civil Procedure]
section 1281.2 requires a trial court to enforce a written arbitration
agreement unless one of three limited exceptions applies.  [Citation.] 
Those statutory exceptions arise where (1) a party waives the right to
arbitration; (2) grounds exist for revoking the arbitration agreement; and (3)
pending litigation with a third party creates the possibility of conflicting
rulings on common factual or legal issues. 
(§ 1281.2, subds. (a)–(c).)”  Acquire
II, Ltd. v. Colton Real Estate Group (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 959, 967. 
 
“The petitioner bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid
arbitration agreement by the preponderance of the evidence, and a party
opposing the petition bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the
evidence any fact necessary to its defense.  In these summary proceedings, the trial court
sits as a trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other
documentary evidence, as well as oral testimony received at the court’s
discretion, to reach a final determination.”  Giuliano v. Inland Empire Personnel, Inc.
(2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1276, 1284.
 
“The party opposing arbitration has the burden of demonstrating that an
arbitration clause cannot be interpreted to require arbitration of the dispute.  Nonetheless, this policy does not override
ordinary principles of contract interpretation.  [T]he contractual terms themselves must be
carefully examined before the parties to the contract can be ordered to
arbitration:  Although [t]he law favors
contracts for arbitration of disputes between parties, there is no policy
compelling persons to accept arbitration of controversies which they have not
agreed to arbitrate.”  Rice v. Downs
(2016) 247 Cal.App.4th 1213, 1223 (internal citations and quotations omitted). 
 
In Rowe v. Exline (2007) 153
Cal.App.4th 1276, 1286, the Court of Appeal found that “a nonsignatory sued as
an agent of a signatory may enforce an arbitration agreement.”  Id.
at 1286.  In addition, “a nonsignatory
who is the agent of a signatory can even be compelled to arbitrate claims
against his will.”  Id. at 1285, citing Harris v. Superior Court (1986) 188
Cal.App.3d 475, 477–78.  Further, “in
many cases, nonparties to arbitration agreements are allowed to enforce those
agreements where there is sufficient identity of parties.”  Valley
Casework, Inc. v. Comfort Construction, Inc. (1999) 76 Cal.App.4th 1013,
1021.  This includes nonparties as agents
of a party as well as “a third party beneficiary of an arbitration
agreement.”  Ibid.  
 
Defendant moves for an order “(1) compelling plaintiff Rhonda Phillips to
arbitrate the dispute over whether she is an “aggrieved employee” who suffered
any of the Labor Code violations she alleges in this action, and (2) staying
this representative action brought under the Labor Code Private Attorneys
General Act of 2004 (PAGA) pending completion of the individual arbitration.”
(Notice of Motion, page 1, lines 6-9.)  The
motion is made pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 1281 et seq. and the FAA, on
the grounds that Plaintiff is bound by a written agreement to arbitrate the
subject matter of the FAC. Defendant argues that a valid arbitration agreement
exists between the parties that requires arbitration of the dispute and that
authority compels a stay of Plaintiff’s representative PAGA claims. 
 
Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2 states, in relevant part: “On petition of a
party to an arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement
to arbitrate a controversy and that a party to the agreement refuses to
arbitrate that controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the
respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to
arbitrate the controversy exists[. . .]” “Generally, an arbitration agreement
must be memorialized in writing. A party's acceptance of an agreement to
arbitrate may be express, as where a party signs the agreement. A signed
agreement is not necessary, however, and a party's acceptance may be implied in
fact or be effectuated by delegated consent. An arbitration clause within a
contract may be binding on a party even if the party never actually read the
clause.” Pinnacle Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Development (US),
LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223, 236 (internal citations omitted).
 
            The burden of production of evidence
in the context of a motion to compel arbitration was cogently articulated by the
following case. “First, the moving party bears the burden of producing prima
facie evidence of a written agreement to arbitrate the controversy. The moving
party can meet its initial burden by attaching to the [motion or] petition a
copy of the arbitration agreement purporting to bear the [opposing party's]
signature. Alternatively, the moving party can meet its burden by setting forth
the agreement's provisions in the motion. For this step, it is not necessary to
follow the normal procedures of document authentication. If the moving party
meets its initial prima facie burden and the opposing party does not dispute
the existence of the arbitration agreement, then nothing more is required for
the moving party to meet its burden of persuasion. [¶] If the moving party
meets its initial prima facie burden and the opposing party disputes the
agreement, then in the second step, the opposing party bears the burden of
producing evidence to challenge the authenticity of the agreement. The opposing
party can do this in several ways. For example, the opposing party may testify
under oath or declare under penalty of perjury that the party never saw or does
not remember seeing the agreement, or that the party never signed or does not
remember signing the agreement. [¶] If the opposing party meets its burden of
producing evidence, then in the third step, the moving party must establish
with admissible evidence a valid arbitration agreement between the parties. The
burden of proving the agreement by a preponderance of the evidence remains with
the moving party.” Gamboa v. Northeast Community Clinic (2021) 72
Cal.App.5th 158, 165–166 (internal citations and quotations omitted).
 
Defendant has met its initial burden of producing prima facie evidence of
a written agreement to arbitrate. (Decl., Annabelle Capulong, ¶¶ 3-8, Ex. A.)
The arbitration agreement requires that the parties agree to submit any dispute arising out of Plaintiff’s
employment with Defendant to binding arbitration.  As noted above, at this stage, Defendant need
only show prima facie evidence of the existence of the agreement which it has
properly done.
 
Thus, the burden shifts to Plaintiff to produce evidence to challenge the
authenticity of the agreement, by, for example, challenging that he ever signed
the agreement. The Court notes that Plaintiff produced no competent evidence to
challenge the agreement. Thus, the burden does not shift to the third step
where the moving party must establish with admissible evidence a valid
arbitration agreement between the parties. 
 
            Because the moving party met its
initial burden to show the existence of a valid arbitration clause with respect
to the claims of the Plaintiff, the burden shifts to Plaintiff to show that the
arbitration clause should not be enforced as to these claims. Rice, supra,
247 Cal.App.4th at 1223.
 
On June 15, 2022, the United States Supreme Court issued its opinion in Viking
River Cruises, Inc, v. Moriana, 142 S.Ct. 1906 (2022). The Supreme Court
held that employees who sign valid arbitration agreements are subject to
arbitration of PAGA actions on an individual basis. Thus, Viking River
Cruises overruled the lines of cases led by Iskanian v. CLS
Transportation Los Angeles, LLC (2014) 59 Cal.4th 348. 
 
An argument could be made that Viking River Cruises only
invalidated Iskanian “insofar as it precludes division of PAGA actions
into individual and non-individual claims through an agreement to arbitrate.” Viking
River Cruises, Inc, v. Moriana, 142 S.Ct. 1906, 1924 (2022). Thus, Viking
River Cruises left open the question of whether a Plaintiff’s
representative PAGA claim is subject to arbitration. 
 
On July 17, 2023, the California Supreme Court issued its opinion in Adolph
v. Uber Technologies, Inc. (2023) 14 Cal.5th 1104 resolving this question.
In Adolph, the Supreme Court held that a plaintiff whose individual
claims are compelled to arbitration retains standing to pursue representative
PAGA claims in court. Id. at 1123-24. “Under the [PAGA] statute, a
plaintiff who files a PAGA action with individual and non-individual claims
does not lose standing to litigate the non-individual claims in court simply
because the individual claims have been ordered to arbitration.” Adolph v.
Uber Technologies, Inc. (2023) 14 Cal.5th 1104, 1128. The Supreme Court did
not mandate a stay of the civil action but stated that the Court has discretion
to enter a stay. “When an action includes arbitrable and nonarbitrable
components, the resulting bifurcated proceedings are not severed from one
another; rather, the court may ‘stay the trial of the action until such
arbitration has been had in accordance with the terms of the agreement.’ (9
U.S.C. § 3; see Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.4.) In McGill v Citibank,
N.A. (2017) 2 Cal.5th 945, 966 [216 Cal. Rptr. 3d 627, 393 P.3d 85],
we explained that this principle extends to “piecemeal litigation of
‘arbitrable and inarbitrable remedies derived from the same statutory claim.’” Adolph
v. Uber Technologies, Inc. (2023) 14 Cal.5th 1104, 1125. 
 
Plaintiff argues that the First Amended Complaint has no individual
claims and that she has only asserted non-individual representative claims.
Thus, according to Plaintiff, there are no claims that must be mandated to arbitration
as requested by Defendant. 
 
While not directly analogous, Plaintiff relies heavily upon Balderas
v. Fresh Start Harvesting, Inc. (2024) 101 Cal.App.5th 533. In Balderas, the Court of Appeal reversed
the trial court’s decision to strike the plaintiff’s representative PAGA claim
because she did not bring an individual claim. The case did not involve a
motion to compel arbitration.
 
The Balderas Court stated as follows: 
“The Adolph court concluded that the Viking River
requirement of having to file an individual PAGA cause of action to achieve
standing to file a representative PAGA suit was incorrect. There are only two
requirements for PAGA standing. “The plaintiff must allege that he or she is
(1) ‘someone “who was employed by the alleged violator”’ and (2) someone ‘
“against  whom one or more of the alleged
violations was committed.” ’ ” (Adolph, supra, 14 Cal.5th at p.
1120, 310 Cal.Rptr.3d 668, 532 P.3d 682.) [¶] Balderas met the standing
requirements. She alleged that she 1) was an “aggrieved” employee of Fresh
Start, and 2) was subject to one or more Fresh Start violations. She alleged,
“[W]hen Employees including Ms. Balderas started work for Fresh Start at around
6:00 a.m. or 7:00 a.m., they regularly were not provided a meal period until
after 5 hours of work for shifts longer than 5 hours.” This delay in providing
timely meal periods for her and other employees violated their right to have “a
meal period within the first five (5) hours of work.” [¶] Fresh Start claims
more is required for standing than what Balderas alleged. But our Supreme Court
rejected this claim in Adolph. The court declined “to impose additional
requirements not found in the statute.” (Adolph, supra, 14
Cal.5th at p. 1120, 310 Cal.Rptr.3d 668, 532 P.3d 682.) “A narrower
construction of PAGA standing would ‘thwart the Legislature's clear intent to
deputize employees to pursue sanctions on the state's behalf.’ ” (Id. at
p. 1122, 310 Cal.Rptr.3d 668, 532 P.3d 682; see also Johnson v. Maxim
Healthcare Services, Inc. (2021) 66 Cal.App.5th 924, 281 Cal.Rptr.3d 478
[employee need not bring an individual claim against her employer to have
standing to pursue a PAGA claim; it is sufficient to allege the employee
suffered a Labor Code violation].) Balderas v. Fresh Start Harvesting, Inc.
(2024) 101 Cal.App.5th 533, 538–539.
 
Relying heavily upon Balderas, Plaintiff argues that, based on the
manner in which she has now pled her First Amended Complaint, there is no individual
claim to send to arbitration. 
 
First, there is an important factual distinction in Balderas. In Balderas,
“Lizbeth Balderas appeal[ed] an order striking her complaint for civil
penalties for violations of PAGA on behalf of herself and 500 other
current and former employees of defendant Fresh Start Harvesting, Inc.” Balderas
v. Fresh Start Harvesting, Inc. (2024) 101 Cal.App.5th 533, 536 (emphasis
added).  In the instant action, while Plaintiff
does acknowledge that she was a former employee who allegedly suffered Labor
Code violations, she, in fact, renounces any individual claim. (FAC, ¶¶ 9, 20.)
 In any event, certainly, Balderas
decided Plaintiff’s right to bring an action as a representative only and not
as an individual. However, Balderas did not decide whether the Plaintiff
is compelled to arbitrate a dispute with respect to her employment.
 
The arbitration agreement specifically provides that arbitration is
required to “any dispute arising out of or related to” Plaintiff’s employment.
(Decl., Capulong, Ex. A, ¶ 1.)  Here, a
dispute has arisen relating to Plaintiff’s employment, specifically as to
whether the Plaintiff is an aggrieved employee under PAGA which is a
requirement under the PAGA statute to maintain standing to assert
representative claims.  
 
“To have PAGA standing, a plaintiff must be an aggrieved employee — that
is, (1) someone who was employed by the alleged violator and (2) against whom
one or more of the alleged violations was committed. Where a plaintiff has
brought a PAGA action comprising individual and non-individual claims, an order
compelling arbitration of the individual claims does not strip the plaintiff of
standing as an aggrieved employee to litigate claims on behalf of other employees
under PAGA.” Adolph v. Uber Technologies, Inc. (2023) 14 Cal.5th 1104,
1114 (internal citations and quotations omitted). Thus, Plaintiff’s employment
and the existence of violations are facts that must exist to establish standing
as an aggrieved employee to litigate claims on behalf of other employees. This
is certainly a dispute that arises out of Plaintiff’s employment. 
 
The decision in Adolph relies upon the presentation of both
individual and non-individual claims.  Adolph
specifically stated that the representative claim would not be subject to arbitration,
but only in that context. Similarly, Balderas only held that the Court
erred in striking the entire Complaint, but, again, as noted, the case did not
hold whether arbitration can be compelled to decide this fundamental issue with
respect to a dispute arising out of Plaintiff’s employment which is
specifically within the scope of the arbitration clause.
 
In any event, while Adolph involved both individual and
representative claims, it does provide the following guidance:
 
“First, the trial court may exercise its discretion to stay the
non-individual claims pending the outcome of the arbitration pursuant to
section 1281.4 of the Code of Civil Procedure. Following the arbitrator's
decision, any party may petition the court to confirm or vacate the arbitration
award under section 1285 of the Code of Civil Procedure. If the arbitrator
determines that Adolph is an aggrieved employee in the process of adjudicating
his individual PAGA claim, that determination, if confirmed and reduced to a
final judgment (Code Civ. Proc., § 1287.4), would be binding on the court, and
Adolph would continue to have standing to litigate his nonindividual claims. If
the arbitrator determines that Adolph is not an aggrieved employee and the
court confirms that determination and reduces it to a final judgment, the court
would give effect to that finding, and Adolph could no longer prosecute his
non-individual claims due to lack of standing.” Adolph v. Uber Technologies,
Inc. (2023) 14 Cal.5th 1104, 1123–1124 (internal citations and quotations
omitted). As noted above, a finding that the Plaintiff is an aggrieved employee
is required to prosecute non-individual claims. This is a matter that is
subject to arbitration pursuant to the plain language of the arbitration
clause.
 
Plaintiff also argues that the arbitration clause is both procedurally
and substantively unconscionable.  A
court can invalidate an arbitration agreement when it is unconscionable or
against public policy.  See, Armendariz v. Foundation Health
Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 99.  Unconscionability contains two elements:  procedural unconscionability and substantive
unconscionability.  
 
[U]nconscionability has both a procedural and a substantive' element, the
former focusing on ‘oppression' or 'surprise' due to unequal bargaining power,
the latter on 'overly harsh' or 'one-sided' results.  The prevailing view is that [procedural and
substantive unconscionability] must both be present in order for a court to
exercise its discretion to refuse to enforce a contract or clause under the
doctrine of unconscionability." But they need not be present in the same
degree. Essentially a sliding scale is invoked which disregards the regularity
of the procedural process of the contract formation, that creates the terms, in
proportion to the greater harshness or unreasonableness of the substantive
terms themselves.  In other words, the
more substantively oppressive the contract term, the less evidence of
procedural unconscionability is required to come to the conclusion that the
term is unenforceable, and vice versa.”  See Armendariz, 24 Cal.4th at
114.      
 
“The traditional standard of unconscionability . . . is that the
inequality amounting to fraud must be so strong and manifest as to shock the
conscience and confound the judgment of any man of common sense.   Subsequent decisions have defined an
unconscionable contract in varying but similar terms, such as a contract that
no man in his senses and not under delusion would make on the one hand, and as
no honest and fair man would accept on the other.”  See
California Grocers Assn. v. Bank of America (1994) 22 Cal.App.4th
205, 214-15 (internal citations omitted). 
 
Procedural unconscionability may be established by showing oppression and
surprise.  Oppression occurs where the
parties have unequal bargaining power, and the contract is not the result of
meaningful negotiations.  Surprise
recognizes the extent to which the agreed upon terms were hidden. 
 
“In many cases of adhesion contracts, the weaker party lacks not only the
opportunity to bargain but also any realistic opportunity to look elsewhere for
a more favorable contract; he must either adhere to the standardized agreement
or forego the needed service.”  Madden
v. Kaiser Foundation Hospitals (1976) 17 Cal.3d 699, 711. Simply because a
contract may have elements of an adhesion contract does not render the
agreement procedurally unconscionable. 
“The ultimate issue in every case is whether the terms of the contract
are sufficiently unfair, in view of all relevant circumstances, that a court
should withhold enforcement.”  Sanchez v. Valencia Holding (2015) 61
Cal.4th 899, 912.  
 
“[C]ourts, including ours, have used various nonexclusive formulations to
capture the notion that unconscionability requires a substantial degree of
unfairness beyond a simple old-fashioned bad bargain. This
latter qualification is important. Commerce depends on the enforceability, in
most instances, of a duly executed written contract. A party cannot avoid a
contractual obligation merely by complaining that the deal, in retrospect, was
unfair or a bad bargain. Not all one-sided contract provisions are unconscionable;
hence the various intensifiers in our formulations: ‘overly harsh,’
‘unduly oppressive,’ ‘unreasonably favorable.’ The
ultimate issue in every case is whether the terms of the contract are
sufficiently unfair, in view of all relevant circumstances, that a court should
withhold enforcement.” Baltazar v. Forever 21, Inc. (2016) 62
Cal.4th 1237, 1245 (internal citations and quotations omitted; emphasis in
original). 
 
To support her procedural unconscionability argument, Plaintiff states
that the arbitration clause was presented to her to simply sign, and that Plaintiff
was not given an opportunity to negotiate. (Decl., Rhonda Phillips, ¶ 3.)
However, Defendant has no obligation to highlight, explain, or discuss the
terms of the arbitration agreement as any such requirement would be contrary to
the FAA. Sanchez v. Valencia Holding Co., LLC (2015) 61 Cal. 4th 899,
914-15. Plaintiff has not established that the agreement is procedurally
unconscionable.
 
            As noted above, both procedural and
substantive unconscionability must exist for the Court to exercise its
discretion to refuse to enforce the arbitration provision. However, Plaintiff’s
argument stating that the agreement is substantively unconscionable based on
confusing or one-sided terms is also not well taken. In addition, had there
been any reason to fully analyze the substantive unconscionability argument,
any offending terms could easily have been severed such as the term regarding waiver
of representative actions. 
 
            Therefore, Defendant’s Motion to
Compel Arbitration is granted. Pursuant to CCP § 1281.4, the Court enters a
stay of the instant action pending completion of arbitration with respect to whether
Plaintiff is an aggrieved employee under PAGA. 
 
The Court sets an OSC re: status of arbitration for _____________.
 
Defendant is ordered to give notice of this ruling.