 Case Number:  24TRCV01749    Hearing Date:   November 19, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                       Tuesday, November 19, 2024 
Department M                                                                                                   Calendar No. 8
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Fuji Merchandise Corp., et al. v. Cha
Hee Nagashima Lee, et al.     
24TRCV01749
1.      James J. Berdelle’s Application to Appear as Counsel
Pro Hac Vice for Plaintiffs        

TENTATIVE RULING
 
            James
J. Berdelle’s Application to Appear as Counsel Pro Hac Vice for Plaintiffs is
denied without prejudice.  
 
             Background
 
            Plaintiffs filed the Complaint on May 22,
2024. Plaintiffs allege the following facts. This action arises out of alleged legal malpractice and breach of
fiduciary duty related to an underlying misappropriation and unfair competition
action.   
 
            Application
to Appear Pro Hac Vice
 
            Cal.
Rules of Court, Rule 9.40 states, in relevant part:
            “(d)
The application must state:
            (1)
The applicant's residence and office address;
            (2)
The courts to which the applicant has been admitted to practice and the dates
of admission;
            (3)
That the applicant is a licensee in good standing in those courts;
            (4)
That the applicant is not currently suspended or disbarred in any court;
            (5)
The title of each court and cause in which the applicant has filed an
application to appear as counsel pro hac vice in this state in the preceding
two years, the date of each application, and whether or not it was granted; and
            (6)
The name, address, and telephone number of the active licensee of the State Bar
of California who is attorney of record.
            (e)
An applicant for permission to appear as counsel pro hac vice under this rule
must pay a reasonable fee not exceeding $50 to the State Bar of California with
the copy of the application and the notice of hearing that is served on the
State Bar.”
 
            The
applicant failed to demonstrate that proper notice of this hearing was provided
to all parties including the State Bar. The notice of motion fails to provide
any facts regarding the date, time, and department of the hearing. In addition,
the Court continued the original hearing date and ordered Plaintiffs’ counsel
to give notice. Plaintiffs’ counsel failed to give notice of this new hearing
date, as well.
 
            Thus,
the application to appear pro hac vice is denied without prejudice.
 
            Plaintiffs
are ordered to give notice of this ruling. 