 Case Number:  24PSCV02525    Hearing Date:   December 19, 2024    Dept:  H Becerra
v. Daniels, et al., Case No. 24PSCV02525
 
ORDER ON PETITION TO APPROVE MINOR’S COMPROMISE
Petitioner Dolca Becerra’s Petition to
Approve Minor’s Compromise of Pending Action [i.e., as to Brian
Becerra] is GRANTED, contingent upon Petitioner’s resolution of notice and
jurisdiction issues identified herein by the time of the hearing. 
I.        Background 
Plaintiff Brian Becerra, a minor by
and through his Guardian Ad Litem Dolca Becerra (“Plaintiff”), sustained
injuries and damages in an August 30, 2023 motor vehicle accident. 
 
On August 6, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
complaint, asserting a cause of action against Elizabeth Daniels (“Daniels”),
U-Haul Co. of Arizona (“U-Haul”), and Does 1-100 for (1) motor vehicle and (2)
general negligence.

Pending
before the Court is Plaintiff’s petition to approve a minor’s compromise.
 
II.      Legal Standard
Court
approval is required for all settlements of a minor’s claim.  (Prob. Code
§§ 3500, 3600, et seq.; Code Civ. Proc., § 372.) 
California
Rules of Court, rule 7.950 provides that a petition “must be verified by the
petitioner and must contain a full disclosure of all information that has any
bearing upon the reasonableness of the compromise . . .”  (See
Cal. Rules of Court, rule 7.950.)  Rule 7.950 states that the Petition must be filed on a completed Petition
for Approval of Compromise of Claim or Action or Disposition of Proceeds of
Judgment for Minor or Person With a Disability (form MC-350).

 
III.     Discussion
Petitioner
Dolca Becerra (“Petitioner”) seeks court approval of a settlement between minor
claimant Brian Becerra (“Claimant”) and Daniels. (Petition, ¶¶ 2 and 10.)
Petitioner is Claimant’s parent and guardian ad litem. (Id., ¶ 1.)
A.       Notice and
Jurisdiction Issues 
At
the outset, the Court observes notice and jurisdiction issues that need to be
resolved at or before the time of the hearing. 
The
petition was filed on October 25, 2024. On November 13, 2024, the Court issued
a “Notice of Hearing on Petition” (“Notice”) wherein the petition was set for
hearing on December 19, 2024; said Notice ordered Petitioner “to give notice of
this hearing by serving a copy of this notice on all parties to this action,
and file proof of service thereof.” Petitioner has not filed a proof of service,
which reflects that notice was given. 
Petitioner,
in fact, has not filed any proofs of service of the summons and complaint for
either defendant, as of the aforesaid date/time. There is thus no indication that
the Court currently has jurisdiction over either defendant. 
In
the next section, the Court proceeds to the merits of the petition. However, the
analysis contained therein is contingent upon Petitioner’s resolution of the
foregoing notice and jurisdiction issues at or before the time of the hearing. 
 
B.       Merits 
The
petition is executed by Petitioner. The petition explains that Claimant
sustained injuries in an August 30, 2023 motor vehicle accident; more
specifically, the vehicle Claimant was riding in was rear-ended by a U-Haul
rental truck operated by Daniels. (Petition, ¶ 5.) 
Claimant
strained his neck and lower back and sustained a concussion without loss of
consciousness, shoulder pain, and anxiety as a result of the accident. (Id.,
¶ 6.) Claimant was examined at the LAC/USC Hospital Emergency Room on August
30, 2023 and underwent CT Scans of his cervical spine and head, both of which
were read as negative with no findings. (Id., ¶ 7.) On September 5,
2023, Claimant was examined at UNMC Nebraska Medicine. (Id.) Claimant
received physical therapy for his neck, back and shoulders, which concluded on
November 13, 2023. (Id.) Claimant also had four sessions with a licensed
independent mental health practitioner for anxiety and was released on December
28, 2023. (Id.) 
Claimant
has recovered completely from the effects of his injuries and there are no
permanent injuries. (Id., ¶ 8.) Claimant has attached August 19, 2024
clinical notes from Ralph Hauke, MD (“Hauke”), wherein Hauke opines that
Claimant “does not require any further medical intervention or treatment at
this time.” (Attachment 8, p. 5.) 
Daniels
has offered to pay Claimant $42,250.00 as settlement. (Id., ¶ 10.)
Daniels previously settled and paid Petitioner’s and Santiago Becerra’s bodily
injury claims on July 30, 2024 in the amounts of $42,750.00 and $45,750.00,
respectively. (Id., ¶ 11.) 
Claimant
incurred $10,718.69 in medical expenses before any reductions, $3,334.48 of
which was paid by an ERISA self-funded plan. (Id., ¶ 12.) The plan is to
be reimbursed in the amount of $2,500.86 from the settlement proceeds, in full
satisfaction of its lien rights. (Id.) Notice of this action has not
been given to the Director of Health Care Services, because Claimant and his
parents never applied for, nor requested that, Medi-Cal benefits be utilized to
pay any of Claimant’s medical expenses. (Id.; Attachment 12b(4)(b).)
There are no statutory or contractual liens for payment of Claimant’s medical
expenses. (Id., ¶ 12.) 
Petitioner
also seeks court approval of attorney’s fees totaling $8,500.00. (Id., ¶
13; Attachment 13a). Petitioner has provided the Court with a declaration from
counsel Mitch McKay and a copy of the attorney-client contingent fee contract.
(Id., Attachments 13a and 17a).
In
the absence of a fee agreement previously approved by the Court, “the court
must use a reasonable fee standard when approving and allowing the amount of
attorney’s fees payable from money or property paid
or to be paid for the benefit of a minor or a person with a disability.” (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 7.955(a)(1).) “The court
must give consideration to the terms of any representation agreement made
between the attorney and the representative of the minor . . . and must
evaluate the agreement based on the facts and circumstances existing at the
time the agreement was made . . .” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
7.955(a)(2).) 
The
Court is satisfied that the amount of attorney’s fees for which court approval
is requested is reasonable pursuant to the factors enumerated in California
Rules of Court, rule 7.955(b).[FN] McKay
explains that he represented Petitioner and Santiago Becerra in connection with
the accident and that their attorneys’ fees were paid separately to him from
their respective settlements. ((Id., ¶ 17, Attachment 17e.) McKay
further explains that this representation has no effect on Claimant’s
settlement since there is insurance coverage to cover each of the aforesaid
individuals’ full damages. (Id.) 
The
net balance of proceeds for Claimant after payment of all requested fees and
expenses (i.e., $31,249.14) is proposed to be deposited in an insured account
at Bank of America, subject to withdrawal only on court authorization. (Id.,
¶¶ 15-16 and 18, Attachment 18a(3)(a).) 
The
petition is granted, again contingent upon resolution of notice and
jurisdiction issues at or before the time of the hearing.
   

