 Case Number:  24STCV04219    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los
Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



VALSOFT CORPORATION, INC. 
  
        
  vs.
 
FLEET LOGIC LLC dba VELOCITY TRUCK RENTAL
  AND LEASING 
  


 Case
  No.:  24STCV04219    
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  October 30, 2024




 
Defendant’s
demurrer is OVERRULED. 
 
On 2/20/2024,
Plaintiff Valsoft Corporation, Inc. (Plaintiff) filed suit against Fleet Logic
LLC dba Velocity Truck Rental and Leasing (Defendant). On 6/21/2024, Plaintiff
filed a first amended complaint, alleging: (1) misappropriation of trade
secrets; (2) breach of contract; (3) breach of the implied covenant of good
faith and fair dealing; and (4) unauthorized computer access. 
 
On 7/24/2024,
Defendant demurred to Plaintiff’s fourth cause of action. 
 
Factual Background 
 
            Plaintiff
alleges that Defendant stole unspecified trade secrets within database software
Valsoft owns. 
 
Discussion 
 
            Defendant
argues that Plaintiff has failed to allege sufficient facts which could show
that Plaintiff’s computer systems were accessed “redolent of ‘hacking’” by an
“outsider,” as is required to state a civil claim in California. (Chrisman
v. City of Los Angeles (2007) 155 Cal.App.4th 29, 34.) Defendant further
argues that Plaintiff has failed to plead requisite damages to the computer
system at issue, as is required under Penal Code section 502, subdivision (e).
 
            In
its 6/7/2024 ruling, the Court held that Plaintiff had failed to allege
sufficient facts to support its contention that Defendant had accessed the
subject Software without permission. Put another way, Plaintiff failed to
allege that Defendant’s access was unauthorized, but rather alleged
unauthorized use of the Software with admitted authorization and/or access
under the Agreement. Secondly, the Court held that Plaintiff’s damages
allegations were insufficient because it had only alleged an entitlement to
compensation for “any expenditure reasonably and necessarily incurred to verify
that a computer system, computer network, computer program, or data was or was
not altered, damaged, or deleted by Velocity’s actions.” (Id. at 5
[citing Complaint, ¶ 71].)
 
            Now,
Plaintiff alleges in the FAC that Defendant’s agents were not authorized to
access the Software under the “usage terms” of the parties’ Agreement because
they borrowed login credentials from a different authorized Fleet Logic user.
(FAC, ¶¶ 24, 58.) Defendant argues that these contentions are fabricated and
conflict with the actual terms of the parties’ Agreement. 
 
As to the
first point, the Court accepts well-pled allegations as true at the pleading
stage and will not engage in a factual determination as to whether or not these
allegations are, in fact, true. As to the second point, Defendant argues that,
per the Agreement, Defendant was authorized to use the Software and connect to
the related computer databases. Defendant further argues that nothing in the
Agreement prohibits Fleet Logic from utilizing the Software to download its
dataset. However, Plaintiff argues that Defendant’s access was a violation of
Velocity’s usage terms, which mandates that accounts should be used only by the
individual to whom it is registered and bars general usage of a single account
by multiple individuals.” (Id.) The Court determines that the proper
construction of the Agreement is not properly determined at the pleading stage
as it involves factual determinations involving intent and purpose. 
 
            As
for damages, Defendant argues that Plaintiff still fails to allege the
requisite “damage or loss” to computer componentry. The Court disagrees. Per
the statute, “[c]ompensatory damages shall include any expenditure reasonably
and necessarily incurred by the owner or lessee to verify that a computer
system, computer network, computer program, or data was or was not altered,
damaged, or deleted by the access.” (Section 502, subd. (e).) Here, contrary to
Defendant’s contention that Plaintiff did not add any new allegations,
Plaintiff’s FAC now alleges that “Valsoft incurred substantial time, effort,
and expense to investigate Velocity’s and its agents’ access and use of the
Enrich Software and the underlying database; to verify that Valsoft’s
computers, systems, and networks were not altered, damaged, or deleted; and to
secure its computers, systems, and network from further intrusions and/or
unauthorized access.” (FAC ¶ 62.) Accepted as true at the pleading stage, this
is sufficient.
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Defendant’s demurrer is overruled. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  October   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 