 Case Number:  21STCV22987    Hearing Date:   August 15, 2024    Dept:  29 Martinez v. Thomas
21STCV22987
Plaintiffs’ Motion to Set Aside Dismissal
Tentative
The motion is granted.
Background
On June 21, 2021, Plaintiffs Severino Martinez, Luisa
Martinez, Jesus Martinez (a minor), Luisa Martinez (a minor), and David
Martinez (a minor) filed a complaint against Defendants Jemahlton Thomas (“Thomas”),
Lawanda Broussard (“Broussard”), and Does 1 through 50, asserting causes of
action for negligence, negligence per se, negligence – vicarious liability, and
negligence arising out of an accident on July 13, 2019 at or near the
intersection of Broadway Place and South Main Street in Los Angeles.
Thomas and Broussard filed an answer on December 9, 2022.
On June 30, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a notice of settlement of
entire case.
On January 22, 2024, there was no appearance at the hearing on
an Order to Show Cause re Dismissal.  The
Court dismissed the action without prejudice.
On May 13, 2024, Plaintiffs filed this motion to set aside the
dismissal.  The hearing was initially set
for June 4 and was continued to August 15.
Legal Standard
Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b) provides
for both discretionary and mandatory relief from dismissal. 
As to discretionary relief, the statute states: “The court
may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal
representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken
against him through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable
neglect.”  (Code of Civil Procedure § 473,
subd. (b).) Where such an application for discretionary relief is made, the
motion must be accompanied by a copy of the answer or pleading proposed to be
filed; “otherwise the application shall not be granted.”  (Ibid.)  The application for relief must be made within
a reasonable time, and in no case exceeding six months after the judgment. (Ibid.)
The statute also provides for mandatory relief from dismissal,
default, or default judgment:
“whenever an application for relief is made no more than six
months after entry of judgment, is in proper form, and is accompanied by an
attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect … unless the court finds that the default or dismissal was
not in fact caused by the attorney’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
neglect.”  
(Ibid.)
 
Discussion
 
Plaintiffs seek to set aside the dismissal entered on January
22, 2024.  Plaintiff’s counsel states in
a sworn declaration that there was no appearance in court on January 22, 2024
due to the inadvertence and mistake of counsel in failing to calendar the
hearing.  (Farokhzad Decl., ¶¶ 5-6.)
 
Plaintiffs have shown sufficient cause for relief under
Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b).
 
Accordingly, the motion to set aside the dismissal is
granted.
 
Conclusion
 
The Court GRANTS Plaintiffs’ motion to set aside the dismissal.
 
The Court SETS ASIDE the dismissal entered on January 22,
2024.
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 473,
subdivision (c)(1)(B), the Court ORDERS counsel Angella S. Farokhzad to pay $100
to the State Bar Client Security Fund, and to file proof of payment with the
Court by no later than October 14, 2024.
 
The Court SETS an Order to Show Cause re Dismissal for
October __, 2024, at 8:30 a.m., in Department 29 of the Spring Street Courthouse.
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice.
 