  Case Number:  23CHCV02954    Hearing Date:   June 26, 2024    Dept:  F49 


Dept.
  F49




Date:
  6/26/24




Case
  Name: Mathew Anthony Reinoso v. Hyundai Motor America, Creekside Imports,
  Inc., d/b/a AutoNation Hyundai Valencia, and Does 1-10




Case No.
  23CHCV02954



 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH VALLEY DISTRICT
DEPARTMENT F49
 

JUNE 26, 2024
 

MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION

Los Angeles Superior
Court Case No. 23CHCV02954

 
Motion
filed: 5/7/24
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant Hyundai Motor America (“HMA”
or the “Moving Defendant”)
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Mathew Anthony Reinoso (“Reinoso”
or “Plaintiff”)
NOTICE: OK.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED: An
order from this Court (1) compelling Plaintiff to submit to arbitration as
stated in the Owner’s Handbook and Warranty Information, and (2) staying proceedings
pending the resolution of the arbitration.
 
TENTATIVE
RULING: The
motion is DENIED.
 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiff filed this Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act
(“SBA”) lawsuit over alleged defects in his 2022 Hyundai Palisade (the “Subject
Vehicle”), which was manufactured by Defendant HMA. Plaintiff purchased the
Subject Vehicle in new condition on February 15, 2022, from a non-party
authorized HMA dealership. (Comp. ¶ 9.)
 
On October 2, 2023, Plaintiff filed his Complaint alleging
the following causes of action: (1) Violation of SBA – Breach of Express Warranty
(against HMA), (2) Violation of SBA – Breach of Implied Warranty (against HMA),
(3) Violation of SBA Section 1793.2 (against HMA), and (4) Negligent Repair
(against Defendant AutoNation Hyundai Valencia (“AutoNation”)). Subsequently, HMA
and AutoNation filed their respective Answers to the Complaint on November 2, 2023.
 
On May 7, 2024, HMA filed the instant Motion to Compel
Arbitration (the “Motion”). Subsequently, on June 12, 2024, Plaintiff filed his
Opposition, and HMA replied on June 18, 2024.
 
ANALYSIS
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure
section 1281.2, “On petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging
the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy ... the court
shall order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if
it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists,” unless
the court finds that the right to compel arbitration has been “waived by the
petitioner,” or that “grounds exist for rescission” of the arbitration
agreement. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2, subds. (a) & (b).)
 
When seeking to compel arbitration of a plaintiff’s claims,
the defendant must allege the existence of an agreement to arbitrate.  (Condee v. Longwood Management Corp.
(2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 219 (Condee).)  The burden then shifts to the plaintiff to
prove the falsity of the agreement.  (Ibid.)  After the Court determines that an agreement
to arbitrate exists, it then considers objections to its enforceability.  (Ibid.)  The Court must grant a motion to compel
arbitration unless the defendant has waived the right to compel arbitration or
if there are grounds to revoke the arbitration agreement.  (Ibid.; Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.)
 
A.   
Request for
Judicial Notice
 
Plaintiff requests the Court
take judicial notice of one Appellate Court’s Opinion, in Mark Kielar v.
Hyundai Motor American (Case No. C096773; Superior Court No. S-CV-0048230)
Certified for Publication dated August 16, 2023. (Pl.’s Request for Judicial
Notice, Ex. “1.”) Plaintiff claims this request is made pursuant to California
Evidence Code sections 452 and 453.
 
“Judicial notice may be
taken of the following matter ...: (a) The decisional, constitutional,
and statutory law of any state of the United States and the resolutions and
private acts of the Congress of the United States and of the Legislature of
this state....(d) Records of (1) any court of this state or (2) any court of
record of the United States or of any state of the United States.” (Evid. Code,
§ 452, subds. (a), (d).)
 
            Accordingly,
the Court GRANTS the request for judicial notice.
 
B.    
Applicability
of Federal Arbitration Act (FAA)
 
The Federal Arbitration Act (“FAA”)
applies to agreements to arbitrate disputes arising from a contract involving interstate commerce
and it preempts all state laws and rules that conflict with its provisions or
its objective of enforcing arbitration agreements.” (Acquire
II, supra, 213 Cal.App.4th at p. 968; see 9 U.S.C. § 2 [FAA applies
to a “contract evidencing a transaction involving commerce”].)
 
The United States Supreme Court has
interpreted “involving commerce” as the functional equivalent of “affecting commerce,” even where the parties did not
contemplate an interstate commerce
connection. (Allied-Bruce Terminix Companies, Inc. v. Dobson (1995)
513 U.S. 265, 281.) The commerce clause power
could be exercised to preempt state law without showing any effect upon
interstate commerce if, in the aggregate, the economic activity represents “‘a
general practice ... subject to federal control.’” (Citizens Bank v. Alafabco, Inc. (2003) 539 U.S. 52,
56-57.) “Only that general practice need bear on interstate
commerce in a substantial way.” (Ibid.)
 
Here, HMA asserts that Plaintiff’s claims
are subject to arbitration under the FAA because (1) the warranty explicitly
states, “This Binding Arbitration Agreement shall be governed by and
interpreted under the Federal Arbitration Act, 9 U.S.C. sections 1-16,” and (2)
automotive sales necessarily involve interstate commerce. (Mot. at pp. 4-5.)
 
Plaintiff does not contest the
applicability of the FAA but instead challenges the validity and enforceability
of the arbitration agreement. 
 
The Court notes that although
the arbitration agreement at issue is included in the Owner’s Handbook and
Warranty Information (“Warranty Handbook”), as opposed to the Retail
Installment Sales Contract (“RISC”) that Plaintiff entered into for the
purchase of the Subject Vehicle, which directly involves interstate commerce.
The Court nonetheless finds that warranties for consumer products distributed
in interstate commerce implicate the FAA, provided HMA successfully meets its
burden to demonstrate the existence of an arbitration agreement.
 
The Court will therefore continue to evaluate the
validity of the arbitration agreement, contained within the Owner’s Handbook
and Warranty Information, under the FAA framework.
 
C.   
Existence of
An Arbitration Agreement
 
It is a cardinal principle that arbitration
under the FAA “is a matter of consent, not coercion.” (Volt Info. Sciences v. Leland Stanford Jr. U. (1989)
489 U.S. 468, 479 (Volt)) The party seeking arbitration bears the burden of proving
the existence of an arbitration agreement by the preponderance of the
evidence. (Pinnacle
Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC
(2012) 55 Cal.4th 223, 236 (Pinnacle).) “‘[A] party cannot be
required to submit to arbitration any dispute which he has not agreed so to
submit.’” (AT & T Technologies v. Communications Workers
(1986) 475 U.S. 643, 648; see Cronus Investments, Inc. v.
Concierge Services (2005) 35 Cal.4th 376, 384–385.)
 
In determining the rights of
parties to enforce an arbitration agreement within the FAA's scope, courts
apply state contract law while giving due regard to the federal policy favoring
arbitration.
(Volt, supra, 489 U.S. at p. 474.)
 
In California, “‘[g]eneral
principles of contract law determine whether the parties have entered a binding
agreement to arbitrate.’”
(Craig v. Brown & Root, Inc. (2000) 84 Cal.App.4th
416, 420 (Craig).) Generally, an arbitration agreement must be memorialized in
writing. [Citation.] A party's acceptance of an agreement to arbitrate may be
express, as where a party signs the agreement. A signed agreement is not
necessary, however, and a party's acceptance may be implied in fact.” (Pinnacle,
supra, 55 Cal.4th at pp. 234-236.) An essential element of any
contract is the consent of the parties, or mutual assent, which must be
communicated by each party to the other. (Donovan v. RRL Corp.
(2001) 26 Cal.4th 261, 270.)
 
            In Romo v. Y-3 Holdings
(2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 1153 (Romo), the appellate court examined whether
the language of an arbitration provision in an employee handbook, combined with
other documents, created a binding agreement to arbitrate claims arising from a
separately signed employment contract. In Romo, the employer sought to
compel arbitration based on a three-page arbitration agreement found with a
44-page employee handbook. Despite the employee’s acknowledgment of receiving
the handbook and agreeing to its policies, neither party had signed the arbitration
agreement itself. (Romo, supra, at pp. 1156-1159.) The Romo
court concluded that the arbitration was not agreed upon, which lacked mutual
consent due to the absence of signatures. (Id. at pp. 1159-1160.)
 
            Here, HMA presents the three-page
Arbitration Agreement verbatim, attached to the Motion. The agreement states,
in pertinent part, “If you purchased or leased your Hyundai vehicle in the
State of California, you and we, Hyundai Motor America, each agree that any
claim or disputes between us (including between you and any of our affiliated
companies) related to or arising out of your vehicle purchase, advertising for
the vehicle, use of your vehicle, the performance of the vehicle, and service
relating to the vehicle, the vehicle warranty, representations in the warranty,
or duties contemplated under the warranty… shall be resolved by binding
arbitration at either your or our election, even if the claim is initially
filed in a court of law.” (Mot. at p. 1, Willette Decl. ¶ 3, Ex. “B.”)
 
            In a situation analogous to Romo,
the three-page Arbitration Agreement is contained in a 48-page Warranty
Handbook. Moreover, HMA provides no contention to Plaintiff’s claims that he
received the Warranty Handbook after the vehicle purchase (signing the RISC)
and did not sign the Arbitration Agreement within it. (Opp’n. at pp. 6, 9.) 
 
Thus, the Court determines that the Arbitration Agreement
within the Warranty Handbook is deemed as a distinct and separate agreement
from the RISC. The absence of Plaintiff’s separate signature does not support
HMA’s claim that Plaintiff agreed to arbitrate.
 
Furthermore, HMA has not provided any evidence that the RISC,
which Plaintiff signed with the nonparty dealership, contains references to its
purported Arbitration Agreement, or any indication of Plaintiff’s consent to
abide by it. This omission notably contrasts with the case in Romo,
where there was an explicit acknowledgment from the employee about receiving
the handbook and agreeing to its policies. (Romo, supra, 87 Cal.App.4th at p.
1156.) This comparison further weakens HMA’s position, highlighting its failure
to meet the burden of demonstrating the existence of an agreement that
Plaintiff assented to.
 
            Therefore, the Court concludes that
Plaintiff did not agree to arbitrate or consent to the Arbitration Agreement contained
within the Warranty Handbook. Consequently, Plaintiff cannot
be compelled to submit to arbitration for any dispute to which he has not agreed
to submit.
 
D.   
HMA’s
Equitable Estoppel Argument 
 
It is established law that a plaintiff may be equitably
estopped from repudiating the arbitration clause contained in a contract if his
or her claims against a non-signatory defendant are “intimately founded in and
intertwined” with the underlying contract obligations” that are subject to the
arbitration clause. (Boucher v. Alliance Title Co, Inc. (2005) 127
Cal.App.4th 262, 271 (Boucher); Goldman v. KPMG, LLP (2009) 173
Cal.App.4th 209, 217-218.) Notably, this theory is premised on the existence of
an underlying contract containing an arbitration clause to which the plaintiff
agreed. 
 
            Here, HMA argues that Plaintiff’s
claims of breach of express warranty are based on the specific contractual
obligations outlined in the Warranty Handbook. Thus, HMA argues that Plaintiff,
having voluntarily accepted the benefit under HMA’s express warranty, should be
estopped from repudiating the Arbitration Agreement contained in the same
document. (Reply, at pp. 7-8.) HMA cites precedents where plaintiffs were
estopped from repudiating the arbitration clause against a non-signatory
defendant. (Reply, at p. 8.) However, the Court finds HMA’s application of the
equitable estoppel doctrine to this argument unpersuasive. 
 
            The Court notes that HMA
mischaracterized the equitable estoppel doctrine by asserting that “the lack of
a signature ... does not preclude enforcement of arbitration[.]” (Reply, at p.
8.) When applying the equitable estoppel, HMA’s status as a “nonsignatory” is relevant
only within the context of a valid arbitration agreement to which Plaintiff is
a signatory. HMA has failed to provide legal authority to support the
application of equitable estoppel in the absence of a valid arbitration
agreement.
 
Here, HMA fails to demonstrate the existence of any
arbitration agreement to which Plaintiff agreed. 
 
First, as previously discussed, HMA has offered no evidence
that Plaintiff accepted the Arbitration Agreement contained within the Warranty
Handbook. 
 
Second, HMA has not established the presence of any
arbitration clauses within the RISC. Without a demonstration of any valid
underlying arbitration agreement, the doctrine of Equitable Estoppel is
inapplicable. 
 
Third, HMA’s argument is refuted in Romo, where an
agreement to abide by the employer’s policy was found not to constitute consent
to the arbitration clause contained in the same employee handbook. (Romo,
supra, 87 Cal.App.4th at pp. 1159-1160.) To conclude otherwise would also
directly conflict with the established legal principle that “[an] arbitration
clause is viewed as separate from the underlying contract.” (Nielsen
Contracting, Inc. V. Applied Underwriters, Inc. (2018) 22 Cal.App.5th 1096,
1107-1108, [holding that allegations of the validity of the main contract do
not affect the enforceability of the arbitration clause.]) 
 
Lastly, even if HMA has established the existence of an
underlying arbitration agreement, such as in the RISC, it would still bear the
burden of demonstrating the scope of that agreement and establishing that
Plaintiff’s claims against it are “intimately founded in and intertwined” with
the contract obligations subject to arbitration. (Boucher, supra,
127 Cal.App.4th at p. 271.) HMA has not met this burden.
 
            Accordingly, the Court finds HMA’s
assertion of equitable estoppel lacks merit.
 
Based on the foregoing, the Court concludes that HMA
has failed to fulfill its threshold burden to show the existence of an
arbitration agreement to which Plaintiff agreed. Consequently, the Court does
not need to examine the remainder of the argument, including Plaintiff’s
contention of unconscionability.
 
Therefore,
the Court DENIES the Motion to Compel Arbitration.
 
CONCLUSION
 
HMA’s
Motion to Compel Arbitration is DENIED.
 
Moving
party to provide notice.
 