  Case Number:  22STCV06315    Hearing Date:   January 4, 2024    Dept:  68 West Coast Add It Up Ad
Agency vs. Los Angeles Metropolitan Transportation Authority.; 22STCV06315
MOVING PARTIES: Defendants Los Angeles County
Metropolitan Transportation Authority, Alvin Kusumoto, Evan Rosenberg, and
Stephanie Wiggins
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff West Coast Add It
Up Ad Agency
Demurrer to Third Amended Complaint
Motion to Enforce Settlement
I.
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff West Coast Add It Up Ad Agency (Plaintiff) appears to be
alleging that it entered into some type of agreement with Defendant Los Angeles
County MTA (Defendant) for the usage of the Tap App in 2014. Plaintiff’s Third
Amended Complaint (TAC) does not include the specific terms of the agreement or
have the agreement attached to the TAC. In Plaintiff’s TAC, Plaintiff has sued Defendant
along with Defendant’s employees: Alvin Kusumoto, Evan Rosenberg, and Stephanie
Wiggins.
The TAC seems to include just one cause of action for due process
violation.
Defendant filed its demurrer Plaintiff’s TAC on November 20, 2023.
Plaintiff opposes the demurer.
Plaintiff also filed a motion to enforce settlement to be heard on the
same day as the demurrer. However, Plaintiff has not provided any indication
that such a settlement agreement exists. Additionally, Plaintiff filed the
motion on December 22, a mere 13 days before the hearing. That is not proper
notice.  CCP § 1005. It is unknown
whether the motion has been served on Defendants as there is no proof of
service.
II. ANALYSIS 
A. The Demurrer
As a
general matter, in a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the
face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,
994.) “A demurrer tests the pleading alone, and not the evidence or facts
alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153
Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes the truth of the
complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Id.) The only issue a demurrer is
concerned with is whether the complaint, as it stands, states a cause of
action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)
Where a
demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be allowed where there is a
reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is on the
plaintiff to show the court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.; Lewis v. YouTube, LLC
(2015) 244 Cal.App.4th 118, 226.) However, “[i]f there is any reasonable
possibility that the plaintiff can state a good cause of action, it is error to
sustain a demurrer without leave to amend.” (Youngman v. Nevada Irrigation Dist. (1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245). 
1. Entire
First Amended Complaint
            Defendants
demur to Plaintiff’s entire TAC on the basis that the complaint fails to state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against Defendants, fails to
comply with basic pleading rules, is barred by the applicable statute of
limitations, fails to plead whether Plaintiff complied with the Government Tort
Claims Act, fails to plead a statutory basis for Defendants’ liability, and
fails to allege a constitutionally protected liberty or property interest in
its due process claims against Defendants.
            As
with the previous iteration of Plaintiff’s complaint, there is no Civil Cover
Sheet Addendum and Statement of Location. (L.A. Sup. Ct. Rule 2.3(a).)
            Next,
as it appears that Plaintiff is basically alleging a breach of contract claim,
that would be barred by the statute of limitations. Breach of contract claims
have a four-year statute of limitations. (CCP § 337(a).) The alleged breach of
contract took place in 2014, and Plaintiff did not file this action until
February 18, 2022.
            Defendant is a public agency created
by state law. There is no indication that Plaintiff complied with the
Government Tort Claims Act before filing this action against Defendant. (Gov.
Code § 911.2.) Plaintiff would need to provide allegations that a claim has
been presented to the public entity and has been acted on or rejected by the
public entity. (Gov. Code § 910 et seq.)
            Based on the foregoing, the Court
sustains Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s entire TAC without leave to amend.
Plaintiff has been given several chances to amend its complaint to comply with the
court rules and code requirements, but it has failed to do so.
            B. Motion to Enforce Settlement
            Plaintiff
has filed a motion to enforce settlement, apparently pursuant to CCP § 664.6.
However, Plaintiff has not indicated the terms of the settlement agreement, or
provided any other evidence that such a settlement agreement exists. Plaintiff
appears to be alleging that Defendant agreed to the settlement agreement by its
silence, but its arguments are unclear in the matter, and the authority that
Plaintiff cites is from the New York Appellate Division.
            Plaintiff’s
motion to enforce settlement is denied.
III. ORDER
1.   
Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s entire TAC
is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.
2.   
Plaintiff’s motion to enforce settlement is DENIED.