  Case Number:  21STCV34102    Hearing Date:   January 26, 2024    Dept:  52 Plaintiff Perry Lazar’s Motion to Deem Matters
Admitted
Plaintiff Perry Lazar moves for an
order deeming the truth of matters specified in request for admissions, set
one, to cross-defendant Michelle Pascual. 

If a party fails to timely respond to requests for admission,
“[t]he requesting party may move for an order that the genuineness of any
documents and the truth of any matters specified in the requests be deemed
admitted, as well as for a monetary sanction.” 
(CCP § 2033.280(b).)  “The court
shall make this order, unless it finds that the party to whom the requests for
admission have been directed has served, before the hearing on the motion, a
proposed response to the requests for admission that is in substantial
compliance with Section 2033.220.”  (CCP
§ 2033.280(c).)
Pascual concedes she did not timely respond to request for
admissions, set one.  After Lazar filed
this motion, Pascual served responses.  (Lauber
Decl., Ex. 2.)  Those responses are in
substantial compliance with Code of Civil Procedure section 2033.220.  The court therefore cannot deem the truth of
those matters admitted.  The only
remaining issue is whether the court should impose monetary sanctions against
Pascual or her counsel.
The court exercises its discretion not to impose
sanctions.  Pascual’s counsel presents
evidence he never received the request for admissions (Lauber Decl., ¶¶ 9-10),
which Lazar disputes.  The attorneys for
both parties corresponded numerous times after the responses were due, but
Lazar’s counsel did not notify Pascual’s counsel about the overdue responses or
warn him that he would file a motion to deem the matters admitted.  (Id., ¶¶ 11-13.)  
Though meeting and conferring is not required before moving
to deem matters admitted (compare CCP § 2033.280 with § 2033.290(b)(1)), doing
so would have avoided this motion.  This
court’s guidelines for civility in litigation state, “Before filing a motion,
counsel should engage in more than a mere pro forma discussion of its purpose
in an effort to resolve the issue.” 
(Local Rules, appendix 3.A(h)(1).) 
Moreover, the Court of Appeal has held attorneys have “both an ethical
and statutory obligation to warn opposing counsel, if counsel’s identity is
known, of an intent to seek a default and to give counsel a reasonable
opportunity to file a responsive pleading.” 
(Shapell Socal Rental Properties, LLC v. Chico's FAS, Inc. (2022)
85 Cal.App.5th 198, 203.)  Moving to deem
the truth of matters admitted is analogous to requesting entry of a defendant’s
default.  An equivalent ethical
obligation applies here.  
Considering both plaintiff’s counsel’s failure to warn
Pascual’s counsel of his intent to file this motion and the evidence that
Pascual did not receive the request for admissions, the court finds Pascual’s failure
to timely respond did not “necessitate[] this motion” (CCP § 2033.280(c)).  The court therefore will not impose any
sanctions.
Plaintiff Perry Lazar’s motion to deem matters admitted is denied.  