 Case Number:  23STCP03007    Hearing Date:   January 26, 2024    Dept:  52 Petitioner
Clare | Matrix’s Petition to Vacate Contractual Arbitration Award; Respondent
2644 SM Partners LP’s Cross-Petition to Confirm Arbitration Award
Petitioner
Clare | Matrix (Clare) petitions
to vacate the arbitration award against it. 
Respondent 2644 SM Partners LP (2644) petitions to confirm the
arbitration award.  “If a petition or response under this chapter
is duly served and filed, the court shall confirm the award as made, whether
rendered in this state or another state, unless in accordance with this chapter
it corrects the award and confirms it as corrected, vacates the award or
dismisses the proceedings.”  (CCP §
1286.)  
Real Party in Interest
            Petitioner
Clare contends respondent 2644 fails to show it is the real party in interest
and therefore lacks capacity to respond to the petition or file a
cross-petition.  Clare’s argument relies
on the premise that 2644’s partnership has expired.  This argument conflates two issues: whether respondent
has the capacity to act in this proceeding, as opposed to whether it is the
real party in interest.  2644 is the real
party in interest.  Clare filed this
petition against it.  The arbitration
award is in 2644’s favor.  This
proceeding directly affects its rights.  
            Respondent
2644’s response and cross-petition are proper. 
“Any person named as a respondent in a petition may file a response
thereto.”  (§ 1290.)  “A response to a petition under this chapter
may request the court to dismiss the petition or to confirm, correct or vacate
the award.”  (§ 1285.2.)  2644 was named as a respondent in the
petition.  It was therefore permitted to
respond, including by requesting to confirm the award.  Moreover, assuming respondent’s partnership
has expired, a dissolved partnership still exists for the purpose of winding
up, which permits a partner “to prosecute and defend actions and proceedings,
whether civil, criminal, or administrative” and to “settle disputes by
mediation or arbitration, and perform other necessary acts.”  (Corp. Code, § 16803(c).)  
Grounds for Vacating Award
Courts have limited authority to vacate an
arbitration award.  “A court’s power to correct or vacate an erroneous
arbitration award is closely circumscribed.” 
(Heimlich v. Shivji (2019) 7 Cal.5th 350, 367 (Heimlich).)  “An arbitrator’s legal or factual error in
determining which party prevailed may not be reversed.”  (Ibid.)  “It is within the power of the arbitrator to
make a mistake either legally or factually. 
When parties opt for the forum of arbitration they agree to be
bound by the decision of that forum knowing that arbitrators, like judges, are
fallible.”  (Id. at p. 370,
internal quotes and alterations omitted.) 
“The party seeking to vacate an arbitration award bears the burden of
establishing that one of the six grounds listed in section 1286.2 applies and
that the party was prejudiced by the arbitrator’s
error.”  (Royal Alliance Associates, Inc. v. Liebhaber (2016) 2 Cal.App.5th 1092, 1106.)
Clare argues the award against it was
procured by undue means (§ 1286.2(a)(1)), the arbitrator exceeded her authority
(id., subd. (a)(4)), the arbitrator committed misconduct that
substantially prejudiced petitioner’s rights (id., subd. (a)(3)), and
the arbitrator refused to hear evidence material to the controversy (id.,
subd. (a)(5)).  Clare makes three
arguments in support of these grounds, without fully delineating which
arguments concern which basis for vacatur.
1. Refusal to
Continue Hearing
First, Clare argues
the arbitrator refused to continue the arbitration hearing.  Section 1286.2(a)(5)
provides that “the court shall vacate the award if … “[t]he rights of the party
were substantially prejudiced by the refusal of the arbitrators to postpone the
hearing upon sufficient cause being shown therefor or by the refusal of the arbitrators to hear evidence
material to the controversy.”  (CCP §
1286.2(a)(5).)  
Clare requested to
continue the arbitration hearing by 90 days for three reasons: (1) 2644
purportedly failed to comply with the scheduling order regarding discovery, (2)
Clare’s lead counsel had a serious eye injury and surgery, and (3) Clare “is
under significant financial stress and needs time to be able to pay the
arbitration fees.”  (Petition, Ex. C.)  After the final status conference, the
arbitrator found that Clare had not paid its share of fees as required and
therefore entered its default.  (Id.,
Ex. F, p. 2.)  The arbitrator then denied
Clare’s request for a continuance as moot. 
(Ibid.)
The arbitrator did not refuse to hear
material evidence.  Assuming she did so,
that refusal did not substantially prejudice Clare.  No material evidence could have affected the
arbitrator’s decision to enter Clare’s default. 
Evidence on the substantive dispute was irrelevant to the arbitrator’s
order.  The arbitrator properly relied solely
on the undisputed procedural fact that Clare had not paid its share of
arbitration costs.  (Petition, Ex. F, p.
2.)   
Assuming Clare showed good cause to
continue the hearing, the arbitrator’s refusal to postpone the hearing did not
substantially prejudice Clare.  “Courts
will not intervene in an arbitrator’s decision not to postpone a hearing if any
reasonable basis for it exists.”  (El
Dorado School Dist. No. 15 v. Continental Cas. Co. (8th Cir. 2001) 247 F.3d
843, 848 [applying analogous provision in FAA for vacatur when “arbitrators
were guilty of misconduct in refusing to postpone the hearing, upon sufficient
cause shown”].)    
The arbitrator’s order entering default
was unrelated to the date of the hearing—which never occurred.  Clare requested to continue the deadline to
pay fees, not just to continue the hearing. 
(Petition, Ex. C.)  Those two
things are different.  The arbitrator’s
order entering the default states, “The parties do not dispute that [Clare] did
not pay its share of fees and that Claimant advanced the sum of $19,350 on
behalf of [Clare].”  (Petition, Ex. F.)  Section 1286.2(a)(5) applies if the
arbitrator refuses “to postpone the hearing upon sufficient cause being shown
therefor.”  It does not apply if the
arbitrator refuses to extend a party’s deadline to pay.  Once Clare failed to pay the fees, it
defaulted.  As the arbitrator concluded,
there was no longer any need for a hearing. 
2.  JAMS
Rule 31(b)
            Second,
Clare argues entering its default was improper under JAMS Rule 31(b).  That rule provides, “JAMS requires that the
Parties deposit the fees and expenses for the Arbitration from time to time
during the course of the proceedings and prior to the Hearing.  The Arbitrator may preclude a Party that has
failed to deposit its pro rata or agreed-upon-share of the fees and expenses
from offering evidence of any affirmative claim at the Hearing.”  Clare contends the arbitrator erred by
precluding it not only from offering evidence of affirmative claims, but also
from defending itself against 2644’s claims. 

            Assuming
the arbitrator applied this rule incorrectly, Clare does not establish that doing
so is a basis for vacating the award under any provision of section
1286.2.  At most, the arbitrator erred in
interpreting the JAMS rules.  It was
“within the power of the arbitrator to make a mistake either legally or
factually” and does not constitute grounds for vacatur.  (Heimlich, supra, 7 Cal.5th at p.
370.)
            Moreover, the parties’ arbitration
agreement includes a separate provision for default (discussed below).  “The contract between the parties is the
source of the arbitrator’s authority.”  (Bonshire
v. Thompson (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 803, 809.)  JAMS Rule 31(b) does not exclusively govern a
defaulting party’s rights.
            3.
Lease Provision for Default
            Finally,
Clare argues entering its default was improper under the parties’ lease
agreement.  That agreement provides, “The
Arbitrator’s fees and costs shall be paid by the non-prevailing party as
determined by the Arbitrator in his discretion. 
…  The failure of either party to
advance their portion of the arbitration costs or to proceed promptly with the
arbitration or to answer the arbitration claim shall result in their default
and waiver of the right to further contest or prosecute the arbitration, and the
award (including legal fees) shall be awarded to the other party by the
Arbitrator.”  (Petition, Attachment 4(b),
Lease, § 29.34.3.6.)  Clare contends this
provision only permits entering default when a party fails to pay “the
arbitration costs,” which does not include “[t]he Arbitrator’s fees.”
The court rejects this argument for three
reasons.  First, as with the prior
argument, Clare does not establish that misinterpreting this provision constitutes
grounds for vacating the award under any provision of section 1286.2.  At most, the arbitrator erred in interpreting
the contract.  It was “within the power
of the arbitrator to make a mistake either legally or factually” and does not
constitute grounds for vacatur.  (Heimlich,
supra, 7 Cal.5th at p. 370.)
Second, Clare forfeited or waived this
argument by not raising it with the arbitrator. 
“In order to challenge an award in court, a litigant
must have raised the point before the arbitrator.”  (Comerica
Bank v. Howsam (2012) 208 Cal.App.4th
790, 829; accord Mossman
v. City of Oakdale (2009) 170
Cal.App.4th 83, 93.)  
The record does not show petitioner ever
presented this argument to the arbitrator. 
Neither petitioner’s request to continue (Petition, Ex. C), its reply to
respondent’s opposition to that request (id., Ex. D), its objection to
the order of default (id., Ex. G), nor its objection to respondent’s
request for prejudgment interest (id., Ex. H) raises this argument about
the distinction between “[t]he Arbitrator’s fees and costs” and “the
arbitration costs.”  Moreover, the
arbitrator’s order entering the default states, “The parties do not dispute that
Respondent did not pay its share of fees and that Claimant advanced the sum of
$19,350 on behalf of Respondent.” 
(Petition, Ex. F.)  
Third, the court rejects this argument on
the merits.  There is no substantive
distinction between “Arbitration costs and fees” and “the arbitration costs.”  “Fees” of all kinds are generally an element
of costs in civil proceedings.  (See CCP
§ 1033.5, subds. (a)(1), (a)(3)(B), (a)(5), (a)(7), & (a)(10)-(a)(15).)  Section 1033.5, subdivision (c)(5)(A) also
provides, “If a statute of this state refers to the award of ‘costs and
attorney’s fees,’ attorney’s fees are an item and component of the costs to be
awarded.”  
In arbitration, the arbitrator’s fees are
analogous to various other fees as an element of costs in civil proceedings.  The reasonable interpretation of “the
arbitration costs” is that it includes the arbitrator’s fees—which are generally
the lion’s share of any arbitration provider’s bill.
Purported Error in Amount
            Clare
also argues 2644 admits the award is erroneous because its cross-petition
states the award should be reduced. 
Respondent’s cross-petition states, “Since [the final award], JAMS has
refunded to 2644 SM Partners the amount of $31,549.73, such that the Final
Arbitration Award should be reduced by this amount.”  (Cross-Petition, ¶ 44.)  Clare does not show (or argue) that any such
error in the amount constitutes grounds for vacating the award under section
1286.2.  
Clare makes the self-defeating argument that 2644
did not petition to correct the award to reduce it by the above amount.  Respondent indeed petitioned to confirm the
award, not to correct it.  But confirming
the award instead of correcting it will result in judgment against Clare for
more money than 2644 seeks.
Moreover, the refund from JAMS is substantively a
credit toward the judgment.  If
respondent seeks to enforce the full amount of the judgment despite receiving a
refund, petitioner has a remedy under the Enforcement of Judgments Law.  (CCP § 724.110.)  
Disposition
            Petitioner
Clare | Matrix’s petition to vacate arbitration award is denied.  Respondent 2644 SM Partners
LP’s cross-petition to confirm arbitration award is granted.  The
final award issued by arbitrator Hon. Elizabeth A. White (Ret.) is hereby confirmed.  
Respondent
2644 SM Partners LP shall submit a proposed judgment for the court’s signature
forthwith.  The court hereby sets an
order to show cause re: entry of judgment for February 28, 2024, at 8:30 a.m.