  Case Number:  19STCV41520    Hearing Date:   January 5, 2024    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Motion for
Reconsideration of Court’s Order of November 28, 2023
 
Moving Party: Judgment
Debtor Dr. Leevil SPE LLC
Resp. Party:    Judgment Creditor Westlake Village Property,
L.P.
 
SUBJECT:        Motion to Quash
Service of Order for Appearance of Non-Party, Dr. Leevil SPE LLC
 
Moving Party: Judgment
Debtor Dr. Leevil SPE LLC 
Resp. Party:    Judgment Creditor Westlake Village Property,
L.P.
 
SUBJECT:        Objection to
Proposed Amended Judgment
 
Moving Party: Judgment
Debtor Dr. Leevil SPE LLC 
Resp. Party:    None
 
SUBJECT:        Objection to
Proposed Judgment, Request for a Hearing if the Objection is not Sustained
 
Moving Party: Judgment
Debtor Dr. Leevil, LLC 
Resp. Party:    None
 
 
The Motion for Reconsideration is DENIED. 
 
The Motion to Quash is GRANTED. The Order for Appearance and Examination
on Michael Schlesinger is QUASHED. 
 
Dr. Leevil SPE LLC’s Objection and
Dr. Leevil, LLC’s Objection are OVERRULED. 
 
The Order for Appearance and
Examination on Ronald Richards remains, and Mr. Richards shall appear on
January 5, 2024 for examination. 
 
BACKGROUND:
 
        On February 15,
2019, Plaintiff filed its Complaint against Defendants Dr. Leevil, LLC and
D-Day Capital, LLC on causes of action for breach of written contract,
accounting, and money had and received. 
 
        On November 19,
2019, this case was transferred from the Superior Court of California, County
of Ventura to the Superior Court of California, County of Los Angeles. 
 
        On September
29, 2021, pursuant to an oral request made by Plaintiff, the Court dismissed
with prejudice Plaintiff’s Complaint. The Court retained jurisdiction to make
orders to enforce any and all terms of the settlement, including judgment,
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 664.6. 
 
        On January 2,
2023, the Court entered Judgment in this matter in favor of Plaintiff (now
“Judgment Creditor”) and against Defendants (now “Judgment Debtors”). 
 
        On October 16,
2023, the Court denied without prejudice Judgment Creditor’s Motion to Amend
Judgment to Add Alter Ego Defendant as Judgment Debtor, and Identify Alter Ego
(“First Motion to Amend”). 
 
        On October 25,
2023, by separate applications, the Court ordered Ronald Richards and Michael
Schlesinger to appear on November 28, 2023 for examination. 
 
        On November 20,
2023, then-Non-Party Dr. Leevil SPE LLC filed its Motion to Quash Service of
Order for Appearance of Non-Party, Dr. Leevil SPE LLC (“Motion to Quash”). 
 
        On November 27,
2023, the Court continued the examination of Michael Schlesinger from November
28, 2023 to January 5, 2024. 
 
        On November 27,
2023, then-Non-Party Dr. Leevil SPE LLC filed its Notice of Errata regarding
the Motion to Quash. 
 
        On November 28,
2023, the Court granted in part Judgment Creditor’s Motion to Amend Judgment to
Add Alter Ego Defendant as Judgment Debtor, and Identify Alter Ego (“Second
Motion to Amend”). The Court granted Judgment Creditor’s request that the Court
amend the Judgment to add Dr. Leevil SPE LLC to the Judgment as an alter ego of
Judgment Debtor Dr. Leevil, LLC. 
 
        On November 28,
2023, the Court continued the examination of Ronald Richards from November 28,
2023 to January 5, 2024. 
 
        On November 29,
2023, Judgment Creditor filed its proposed Amended Judgment. 
 
        On November 30,
2023, Judgment Creditor filed two copies of Judicial Council Form
AT-138/EJ-125, Application for Order for Appearance and Examination for
Enforcement of Judgment Against Third Person, one for Ronald Richards and one
for Michael Schlesinger. 
 
        On December 1,
2023, Judgment Debtor Dr. Leevil SPE LLC filed its Objection to Proposed
Amended Judgment (“Dr. Leevil SPE LLC’s Objection”). 
 
        On December 4,
2023, Judgment Debtor Dr. Leevil, LLC filed its Objection to Proposed Judgment,
Request for a Hearing if the Objection is not Sustained (“Dr. Leevil, LLC’s
Objection”).
 
        On December 6,
2023, Judgment Debtor Dr. Leevil SPE LLC filed its Motion for Reconsideration
of Court’s Order of November 28, 2023 (“Motion for Reconsideration”). 
 
        On December 11,
2023, the Court issued a minute order that stated, among other things, that the
Court will consider objections prior to the Amended Judgment being signed and
set a hearing if necessary. 
 
        On December 21,
2023, Judgment Creditor filed: (1) Opposition to Motion to Quash; and (2)
Opposition to Motion for Reconsideration. Judgment Creditor concurrently filed:
(1) Declaration of James Passmore in support of Opposition to Motion to Quash;
and (2) Declaration of Matthew W. Rosene in support of Opposition to Motion for
Reconsideration. 
 
        On December 26,
2023, Judgment Debtor Dr. Leevil SPE LLC filed: (1) Reply regarding Motion to
Quash; and (2) Reply regarding Motion for Reconsideration.  
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.         
Motion for Reconsideration
 
A.      Legal
Standard
 
“When an
application for an order has been made to a judge, or to a court, and refused
in whole or in part, or granted, or granted conditionally, or on terms, any
party affected by the order may, within 10 days after service upon the party of
written notice of entry of the order and based upon new or different facts,
circumstances, or law, make application to the same judge or court that made
the order, to reconsider the matter and modify, amend, or revoke the prior
order. The party making the application shall state by affidavit what
application was made before, when and to what judge, what order or decisions
were made, and what new or different facts, circumstances, or law are claimed
to be shown.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1008, subd. (a).)
 
“Courts have construed section 1008
to require a party filing an application for reconsideration or a renewed
application to show diligence with a satisfactory explanation for not having
presented the new or different information earlier.” (Even Zohar Constr.
& Remodeling, Inc. v. Bellaire Townhouses, LLC (2015) 61 Cal.4th 830,
839, citations omitted; see also Cal. Corr. Peace Officers Ass’n v. Virga (2010)
181 Cal.App.4th 30, 46, fn. 15.)
 
B.      The
Parties’ Arguments
 
On November 28, 2023, the Court determined:
 
“that
Non-Party Dr. Leevil SPE LLC and Judgment Debtor Dr. Leevil, LLC have such a
unity of interest and ownership that the separate personalities of the entities
and their owners no longer exist. Accordingly, as Judgment Debtor Dr. Leevil,
LLC had control of the underlying litigation and was represented in the
proceeding, Non-Party Dr. Leevil SPE LLC also had such control and
representation. An inequitable result will follow if Judgment Debtor Dr.
Leevil, LLC’s acts are treated as those of that entity alone.”
 
(Minute Order dated
November 28, 2023, p. 13.)
 
Judgment Debtor Dr. Leevil SPE LLC moves the Court to reconsider this
determination. (Motion for Reconsideration, pp. 6:21–28, 7:1–2.)
 
Judgment Debtor Dr. Leevil SPE LLC argues: (1) that any party affected by
an order may, within ten days, make an application to the same judge to
reconsider the matter; (2) that the payment to Judgment Creditor of the full
amount of the Judgment defeats any claim of an inequitable result if Judgment
Debtor Dr. Leevil SPE LLC is not found to be the “alter ego” of Judgment Debtor
Dr. Leevil, LLC; and (3) since the Judgment has been paid in full, it would be
an idle act for the Court to grant the Second Motion to Amend. (Motion for
Reconsideration, pp. 3:20–21, 4:17–19, 6:2–4.)
 
Judgment Creditor disagrees, arguing: (1) that the Judgment has not been
satisfied; (2) that Judgment Debtors cannot deprive Judgment Creditor of its
opportunity to recover attorneys’ fees and costs; (3) that the alter ego
factors are still present, and it would be inequitable to consider amending the
Judgment as an “idle act”; and (4) that the Motion for Reconsideration was
premature because it was filed before the notice of ruling was served or filed.
(Opposition to Motion for Reconsideration, pp. 2:1–3, 4:24–25, 5:5–6.)
 
In its Reply, Judgment Debtor Dr. Leevil SPE LLC argues: (1) that the
payment of the outstanding Judgment is a new fact that warrants reconsideration
of the matter; (2) that it will not be inequitable if Judgment Debtor Dr.
Leevil SPE LLC is not the alter ego of Judgment Debtor Dr. Leevil, LLC,
regardless of whether Judgment Creditor is entitled to recover attorney’s fees
and costs; and (3) that the Motion for Reconsideration should not be denied
just because it was filed on December 6, 2023. (Reply regarding Motion for
Reconsideration, pp. 4:6–7, 4:16–18, 5:18–19.)
 
C.      Discussion
 
Judgment Creditor has the better arguments. 
 
First, Judgment Debtor Dr. Leevil SPE LLC claims that there is a “new
fact” that warrants reconsideration — that the existing Judgment was satisfied
on November 30, 2023. (Motion for Reconsideration, p. 3:10–11.) This alleged
satisfaction of the Judgment purportedly occurred two days after the Court made
a determination regarding whether Dr. Leevil SPE LLC is an alter ego of Dr.
Leevil, LLC. (Minute Order dated November 28, 2023, p. 13.) 
 
But Judgment Debtor Dr. Leevil SPE LLC has not shown diligence with a
satisfactory explanation for not having presented the new information earlier.
Nowhere in its Memorandum of Points and Authorities, Declaration of Dale E.
Motley, or Declaration of Ronald Richards is there any explanation for why the
Judgment was not purportedly satisfied prior to the November 28, 2023 ruling on
Judgment Creditor’s Second Motion to Amend. Without such an explanation, to the
extent that the Judgment was actually satisfied two days after the Court’s
ruling, it appears to the Court that the Judgment was only satisfied because of
the Court’s ruling, which would make reconsideration entirely inappropriate. It
would be inequitable to allow reconsideration to benefit Judgment Debtors when
it appears they only satisfied the Judgment after the Court ruled against them.

 
Because Judgment Debtor Dr. Leevil SPE LLC has not shown diligence or
presented the Court with a satisfactory explanation for why the Judgment was
not satisfied prior to its determination on November 28, 2023, the Motion for
Reconsideration must be denied for this reason alone.  
 
Second, even if the Court were to reconsider its November 28, 2023
determination, the Court has not been presented with a sufficient reason why a
later satisfaction of the Judgment should impact a prior determination that a
non-party should be added to the existing Judgment as a judgment debtor. The
Court’s determination on the merits of this issue should stand, even if for
some reason the Judgment was not subsequently amended. 
 
Finally, Judgment Creditor is the prevailing party on the application to
enforce settlement agreement. (See Minute Order dated December 5, 2022; see
also Judgment dated January 2, 2023.) Thus, Judgment Creditor is entitled to
its costs. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1032, subd. (b) [“Except as otherwise expressly
provided by statute, a prevailing party is entitled as a matter of right to
recover costs in any action or proceeding.”].) Further, although the Court is
not deciding at this time the Motion for Award of Attorney’s Fees and Costs
(filed on December 18, 2023), the Court notes that the purported settlement
agreement submitted in connection with that motion contains a provision for a
prevailing party “to recover its attorneys’ fees and costs” in any action to
enforce the purported settlement agreement. Because the Judgment may still be
amended to reflect Judgment Creditor’s costs and fees, it is not a moot issue
or an idle act for the Court to also amend the Judgment to reflect the fact
that Dr. Leevil SPE LLC is now a judgment debtor because it is an alter ego of
Judgment Debtor Dr. Leevil, LLC. 
 
D.      Conclusion
 
The Motion for Reconsideration is DENIED. 
 
II.      
Motion to Quash
 
A.      Legal
Standard
 
“The judgment creditor may apply to
the proper court for an order requiring the judgment debtor to appear before
the court, or before a referee appointed by the court, at a time and place
specified in the order, to furnish information to aid in enforcement of the
money judgment.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 708.11, subd. (a).)
 
“The judgment creditor shall
personally serve a copy of the order on the judgment debtor not less than 30
days before the date set for the examination. Service shall be made in the
manner specified in Section 415.10. Service of the order creates a lien on the
personal property of the judgment debtor for a period of one year from the date
of the order unless extended or sooner terminated by the court.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 708.110, subd. (d).)
 
“Upon ex parte application by a
judgment creditor who has a money judgment and proof by the judgment creditor
by affidavit or otherwise to the satisfaction of the proper court that a third
person has possession or control of property in which the judgment debtor has
an interest or is indebted to the judgment debtor in an amount exceeding two
hundred fifty dollars ($250), the court shall make an order directing the third
person to appear before the court, or before a referee appointed by the court,
at a time and place specified in the order, to answer concerning such property
or debt. The affidavit in support of the judgment creditor’s application may be
based on the affiant’s information and belief.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 708.120,
subd. (a).)
 
“Not less than 10
days prior to the date set for the examination, a copy of the order shall be:
(1) Served personally on the third person. (2) Served personally or by mail on
the judgment debtor.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 708.120, subd. (b).)
 
“An
order made pursuant to subdivision (a) is not effective unless, at the time it
is served on the third person, the person serving the order tenders to the
third person fees for the mileage necessary to be traveled from the third
person’s residence to the place of examination. The mileage fees shall be in
the same amount generally provided for witnesses when legally required to
attend civil proceedings in the court where the examination proceeding is to be
conducted.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 708.120, subd. (f).)
 
“If the person ordered to appear
denies service of the order for appearance, the court shall conduct a hearing
solely to determine if proper service was made. The court may continue the
examination to permit any person to present evidence in support or in
opposition to the claim of non-service. If the court determines that service
was not made, it may dismiss the proceeding without costs awarded to the
applicant.” (Super. Ct. of Cal., Cnty. of Los Angeles, Civ. Div. Rules, rule
3.221(f).)
 
B.      The
Parties’ Arguments
 
Judgment Debtor Dr. Leevil SPE LLC moves the Court to quash the Order for
Appearance and Examination of Michael Schlesinger, who was ordered on October
25, 2023 to appear for examination on November 28, 2023. (Motion to Quash, p.
6:9–11.) (The examination of Mr. Schlesinger was continued on November 27, 2023
to January 5, 2024.)
 
        Judgment Debtor Dr. Leevil SPE LLC
argues that this would be appropriate because: (1) Judgment Creditor did not
serve the Order for Appearance and Examination on Mr. Schlesinger; and (2) any
service would be ineffective because Judgment Creditor did not pay or offer to
pay witness fees. (Motion to Quash, pp. 4:6–7, 5:5–6.)
 
        Judgment Creditor disagrees, arguing:
(1) that Mr. Schlesinger was served with the Order for Appearance and
Examination; and (2) that the Order for Appearance and Examination should be
continued to February 28, 2024 “to provide [Judgment Creditor] with the
opportunity to serve Mr. Schlesinger.” (Opposition to Motion to Quash, pp. 2:5,
3:3.)
 
        In its Reply, Judgment Debtor Dr. Leevil
SPE LLC argues: (1) that Judgment Creditor admitted there was no payment or
offer to pay witness fees; and (2) that the video evidence establishes that Mr.
Schlesinger was never served with the Order for Appearance and Examination.
(Reply, p. 3:5–6, 3:16–17.)
 
C.      Discussion
 
        For this motion, Judgment Debtor Dr.
Leevil SPE LLC has the better arguments. 
 
        First, it appears that Judgment Creditor
has admitted that Mr. Schlesinger has not yet been served, even though the
examination is scheduled to occur in three days. Even without this admission,
the evidence submitted does not demonstrate that Mr. Schlesinger has in fact
been served. 
 
        Second, the Court has not been presented
with any evidence that would indicate Mr. Schlesinger was paid or offered to be
paid the fees for third party witnesses, much less at the time of service. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 708.120, subd. (f).) Failure to do so makes the Order for Appearance and
Examination ineffective, as that is a requirement for such an order on third
parties. (Ibid.)
 
        Finally, the
Court notes that Dr. Leevil SPE LLC has been determined to be a judgment debtor
(and thus not a third party) subsequent to the time the Order for Appearance
and Examination was signed. Therefore, the Order for Appearance and Examination
is ineffective for the further and independent reason that the Application and
Order for Appearance and Examination was requested for a third person, not for
a judgment debtor. 
 
D.      Conclusion
 
The Motion to Quash is GRANTED. The Order for Appearance and Examination
on Michael Schlesinger is QUASHED. 
 
III.    
The Objections and the Remaining Application
for Order for Appearance and Examination on Ronald Richards
 
Two remaining items are noteworthy: first, consideration of Dr.
Leevil SPE LLC’s Objection and Dr. Leevil, LLC’s Objection; and second, the
Order for Appearance and Examination on Ronald Richards.
 
The objections made by Judgment
Debtors are identical to the issues considered in the Motion for
Reconsideration. For the same reason, Dr. Leevil SPE LLC’s Objection and Dr.
Leevil, LLC’s Objection are OVERRULED. 
 
As to the second item, the existing
Order for Appearance and Examination on Ronald Richards has not been objected
to. Thus, Mr. Richards shall appear on January 5, 2024 for examination.
Notably, the Application and Order for Appearance and Examination filed on
November 30, 2023 regarding Ronald Richards is superfluous since Mr. Richards
has already been ordered to appear for examination. 
 
 