  Case Number:  23VECV01364    Hearing Date:   May 20, 2024    Dept:  W JOHN
WHITESELL V. LEILA HAKIMELAHI
 
MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE AMENDED
ANSWER TO PLAINTIFF’S COMPLAINT
 
Date
of Hearing:        May 20, 2024                                     Trial Date:       September 9, 2024 
Department:
             W                                                        Case No.:        23VECV01364
 
Moving
Party:            Defendant Leila Hakimelahi

Responding
Party:     No opposition. 
            
BACKGROUND
 
This action arises out of motor vehicle versus
motorcycle accident that occurred on
November 12, 2022, between Plaintiff John Whitesell and
Defendant Leila Hakimelahi. On March 28, 2024, Plaintiff filed a complaint
against Defendant for motor vehicle and general negligence. 
 
[TENTATIVE]
RULING:
 
Defendant’s Motion for Leave to File Amended Answer
to Plaintiff’s Complaint is GRANTED. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Defendant
Leila Hakimelahi moves for an order granting Defendant leave to amend her Answer
to Plaintiff’s Complaint pursuant to recently discovered information. 
 
This
court is authorized, in its discretion, to “allow, upon any terms as may be
just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars . . .”
(CCP § 473(a)(1).) Code of Civil Procedure section 576, likewise, provides that
“any judge, at any time before or after commencement of trial, in the
furtherance of justice, and upon such terms as may be proper, may allow the
amendment to any pleading . . .” (CCP § 576.) The determination of whether to
grant leave to file an amended pleading rests in the court’s sound
discretion. 
 
California
law generally calls for great liberality in allowing amendments to answers
because “a defendant denied leave to amend is permanently deprived of a
defense.” (Hulsey v. Koehler (1990) 218 Cal.App.3d 1150, 1159.) “If the
motion to amend is timely made and the granting of the motion will not
prejudice the opposing party, it is error to refuse permission to amend and
where the refusal also results in a party being deprived of the right to assert
a meritorious cause of action or a meritorious defense, it is not only error
but an abuse of discretion.” (Morgan v. Superior Court (1959) 172
Cal.App.2d 527, 530.) 
 
In this motion, Defendant seeks to add a tenth
affirmative defense for violation of Civil Code §3333.4(a) subd. (1), (2) based
on Defense counsel’s recent discovery during Plaintiff’s deposition that
Plaintiff did not have motorcycle rider’s insurance on the date of the
accident. (See Reese Decl., Exh. A.) Defendant contends Plaintiff will not
suffer any prejudice by the amendment as the proposed Amended Answer adds an
affirmative defense that would have originally been included in Defendant’s
Answer had Defendant known of Plaintiff’s uninsured status. Moreover, Defendant
sought leave to amend promptly. The information was first disclosed during
Plaintiff’s deposition on January 29, 2024. After an unsuccessful attempt at
mediating the case about one month later, Defendant counsel sought a
stipulation to permit this necessary amendment. To date, counsel has not
received a response to their request for a stipulation. (Reese Decl. ¶10.) 
 
The motion is unopposed. Defendant has substantially
complied with California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324 by submitting a proposed
copy of the proposed amended answer. Defendant has also submitted a separate
declaration. 
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s Motion for Leave to Amend
Answer is GRANTED.