 Case Number:  24TRCV02175    Hearing Date:   November 5, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
DIANE
  MA,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
24TRCV02175




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
LUXE
  DEVELOPMENT, INC., et al., 


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          November 5,
2024
 
Moving Parties:                      Plaintiff Diane Ma
Responding
Party:                  Defendant Business Alliance Insurance Company
Motion
for an Order Compelling Responses and the Production of Documents to Request
for Production of Documents
 
            The Court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
 RULING
The motion is MOOT. 
The Court orders that defendant
Business Alliance Corporation and its attorney of record, David K. Dorenfeld
(SBN 145056) pay a monetary sanction to plaintiff in the amount of $1,560 within
30 days.
BACKGROUND
On June 28, 2024, plaintiff Diane
Ma filed a complaint against Luxe Development, Inc., Oren Levy, Luxe Home
Solutions, Inc., Tariq Hassan Hill, and Business Alliance Insurance Company for
(1) breach of contract, (2) breach of the implied covenant of good faith and
fair dealing, (3) recovery on surety bond, (4) breach of the implied covenant
of good faith and fair dealing (insurance bad faith), (5) intentional
misrepresentation, (6), (7) statutory violation of Bus. & Prof. Code
7025-7034 and 7125.2, (8) conversion, and (9) unfair business practices.  
On July 10, 2024, defendant Tariq
Hassan Hill filed a notice of stay of proceedings based on his Ch. 7 bankruptcy
filing.
On August 15, 2024, a default was
entered against Luxe Home Solutions, Inc.
On August 20, 2024, defaults were
entered against Luxe Development, Inc. and Oren Levy.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
Where there has been no timely
response to a CCP §2031.010 demand, the demanding party must seek an order
compelling a response.  CCP
§2031.300.  Failure to timely respond
waives all objections, including privilege and work product.  So, unless the party to whom the demand was
directed obtains relief from waiver, he or she cannot raise objections to the
documents demanded.  There is no deadline
for a motion to compel responses. 
Likewise, for failure to respond, the moving party need not attempt to
resolve the matter outside court before filing the motion.  Where the motion seeks only a response to the
inspection demand, no showing of "good cause" is required.  Weil & Brown, Civil Procedure Before
Trial, 8:1487.  
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiff
Diane Ma requests that the Court compel defendant Business Alliance Insurance
Company to respond to plaintiff’s Request for Production of Documents, Set One.
            Plaintiff
explains that she served the written discovery requests on defendant on July
23, 2024.  Responses were due by August
26, 2024.  On August 29, 2024,
plaintiff’s counsel sent an email to defense counsel that the responses were
past due and objections were waived and requested responses by September
4.  Defense counsel claimed that the
requests were propounded prematurely. 
Plaintiff contends that counsel resolved the dispute regarding the
timeliness of the discovery and the parties agreed the response and document
production would be due on September 13, 2024. 
When no responses were received, on September 16, 17, 25, 30 and October
2, plaintiff’s counsel sent numerous emails to defense counsel and discussed
the issue on two or three telephone calls requesting that defendant provide the
responses and produce responsive documents. 
As of the date of the motion, plaintiff’s counsel had not received
responses.
            In
opposition, defendant argues that the motion is moot because it has served
responses and produced documents. 
Defendant also asserts that after receiving the case assignment, defense
counsel began settlement discussions with plaintiff’s counsel which, if
successful, would have obviated the need to respond to the outstanding
discovery requests.  As to the untimely
opposition, defendant explains that the day before the opposition was due, defense
counsel underwent a “simple medical procedure but resulted” in his being out of
the office and unable to work for several days.
            In
reply, plaintiff argues that the opposition “completely fails to address
Defendant’s refusal and failure to provide timely responses.”  Plaintiff contends that the discussions
taking place were not really settlement discussions, and that those discussions
“fizzled out in late September and officially terminated on October 1,
2024.”  Plaintiff reiterated that
throughout September and as late as October 2, plaintiff’s counsel “made
several demands for the discovery responses and documents and warned that a
motion to compel would be filed no less than three times, yet Defendant ignored
all such requests and warnings.” 
Plaintiff disputes that defendant provided substantive responses and
produced all responsive documents because defendant responded to seven of the
eight requests that no documents exist but plaintiff has several documents in
her possession, “which would clearly be kept in the file related to the claim
Plaintiff made on the bond.” 
            The Court finds that plaintiff properly
served written discovery and defendant failed to timely serve responses, and
thus has waived objections.  Based on
defendant’s representation and plaintiff’s acknowledgment that defendant served
responses and documents, the motion is MOOT. 
The Court declines to review the sufficiency of defendant’s responses as
it is beyond the scope of the motion. 
The parties are, however, ordered to meet and confer regarding the
assertion of the insufficiency of the late responses.
            Accordingly, the motion is MOOT.
            Sanctions
Under CCP
§ 2023.030(a), “[t]he court may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one
engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that
conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees,
incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct. . . . If a monetary sanction is
authorized by any provision of this title, the court shall impose that sanction
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.”  Under CCP § 2023.010, an
example of the misuse of the discovery process is “(d) Failing to respond or to
submit to an authorized method of discovery.” 
Sanctions are mandatory in
connection with motions to compel responses to interrogatories and requests for
production of documents against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel unless the court “finds that
the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that
other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  CCP §§ 2030.290(c), 2031.300(c).
Cal.
Rules of Court, Rule 3.1348(a) states: 
“The court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a
party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no opposition to the
motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or the requested
discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion was filed.”
            Plaintiff
requests $3240 ($795/hr.) in sanctions against defendant Business Alliance
Corporation and its counsel of record, David Dorenfeld, Esq.  The Court finds that sanctions are warranted
as the responses were served after the due date and after the motion date and
defendant has not provided substantial justification for doing so.  The Court finds that $1,560 is a reasonable
amount to be imposed against defendant and its attorney of record.
 
ORDER
The motion is MOOT.
The parties are ordered to meet and
confer regarding the claimed insufficiency of the late responses.
The Court orders that defendant
Business Alliance Corporation and its attorney of record, David K. Dorenfeld
(SBN 145056) pay a monetary sanction to plaintiff in the amount of $1,560 within
30 days.
Defendant
is ordered to give notice of this ruling.