  Case Number:  23TRCV03440    Hearing Date:   November 5, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
KIG
  PROPERTIES, LLC,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV03440




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




ROSALBA
  QUIROZ,


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          November 5,
2024
 
Moving Parties:                      Plaintiff KIG Properties,
LLC
Responding
Party:                  None
Motion for Terminating
Sanction to Strike Answer and Enter Default
 
            The Court considered the moving papers.  No opposition was filed.  

RULING
The motion is GRANTED.  The Court orders that the answer filed on
November 17, 2023 be STRICKEN and a default entered against defendant Rosalba
Quiroz.
BACKGROUND
On October 17, 2023, plaintiff KIG
Properties, LLC filed a complaint against Rosalba Quiroz for (1) nuisance, (2)
negligence, and (3) preliminary and permanent injunction.
Plaintiff alleges that plaintiff
and defendant’s properties are separated by a wall located on the western
boundary of the Quiroz property. In 2012, defendant constructed or made
alterations to the wall between the properties and thereafter KIG began experiencing
water intrusion issues as a result of the wall preventing adequate drainage of
rainwater from the building’s foundation. At the time the problem first
occurred, KIG paid defendant’s son $15,000 to repair, re-stucco, and waterproof
the wall. The repair failed and KIG has continued to experience water
intrusion, which has resulted in damage to its property. KIG desired to fix the
issue and was willing to do so at its expense. Defendant refused to cooperate
with KIG and refused KIG’s requests for access to defendant’s property. In June
2023, communications began between KIG and defendant’s son. In mid-August 2023,
they discussed an indemnification agreement, which defendant’s son agreed to
sign and to allow access. In September 2023, plaintiff contacted defendant’s
son to coordinate and schedule the repair work but he failed to respond and to
sign the agreement.
On November 17, 2023, defendant
(self-represented) filed an answer.
On August 1, 2024, the Court
granted plaintiff’s motions to compel and to deem admissions.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
If a party fails to comply with a
court order compelling discovery responses or attendance at a deposition, the
court may impose monetary, issue, evidence, or terminating sanctions.  CCP § 2025.450(h) (depositions); §
2030.290(c) (interrogatories); § 2031.300(c) (demands for production of
documents).  CCP § 2023.030 provides
that, “[t]o the extent authorized by the chapter governing any particular
discovery method . . . , the court, after notice to any affected party, person,
or attorney, and after opportunity for hearing, may impose . . .  [monetary, issue, evidence, or terminating]
sanctions against anyone engaging in conduct that is a misuse of the discovery
process . . . .”  CCP § 2023.010 provides
that “[m]isuses of the discovery process include, but are not limited to, the
following: . . . (d) Failing to respond or to submit to an authorized method of
discovery. . . . (g) Disobeying a court order to provide discovery. . . .”
“The discovery statutes evince an
incremental approach to discovery sanctions, starting with monetary sanctions
and ending with the ultimate sanction of termination.  ‘Discovery sanctions should be appropriate to
the dereliction, and should not exceed that which is required to protect the
interests of the party entitled to but denied discovery.’ . . . [C]ontinuing
misuses of the discovery process warrant incrementally harsher sanctions until
the sanction is reached that will curb the abuse.”  Doppes v. Bentley Motors, Inc. (2009)
174 Cal. App. 4th 967, 992 (citation omitted). 

“The trial court may order a
terminating sanction for discovery abuse ‘after considering the totality of the
circumstances:  [the] conduct of the
party to determine if the actions were willful; the detriment to the propounding
party; and the number of formal and informal attempts to obtain the
discovery.’”  Los Defensores, Inc. v. Gomez (2014) 223 Cal. App. 4th 377, 390 (citation
omitted).  “Generally, ‘[a] decision to
order terminating sanctions should not be made lightly.  But where a violation is willful, preceded by
a history of abuse, and the evidence shows that less severe sanctions would not
produce compliance with the discovery rules, the trial court is justified in
imposing the ultimate sanction.’”  Id.
(citation omitted).
“A trial court has broad discretion
to impose discovery sanctions, but two facts are generally a prerequisite to
the imposition of nonmonetary sanctions . . . : 
(1) . . . there must be a failure to comply with a court order, and (2)
the failure must be willful.”  Biles
v. Exxon Mobil Corp. (2004) 124 Cal. App. 4th 1315, 1327 (citation
omitted).  
A trial court’s order to impose
terminating sanctions will be reversed only if it “was arbitrary, capricious,
or whimsical.”  Creed-21 v. City of
Wildomar (2017) 18 Cal. App. 5th 690, 702 (citation omitted). 
DISCUSSION
Plaintiff KIG Properties, LLC requests
an order for terminating sanctions against defendant Rosalba Quiroz and for
monetary sanctions in the amount of $2,602.50.
On August 1, 2024, the Court
granted plaintiff’s motions to compel defendant to serve responses without
objections to plaintiff’s form and special interrogatories and requests for
production of documents within twenty days. 
The Court also granted plaintiff’s motion to deem admitted the truth of
the matters in plaintiff’s requests for admissions.  The Court further ordered defendant to pay
sanctions in the amount of $1,440 by September 2, 2024.  Plaintiff gave notice of the ruling to
defendant on August 8, 2024.
The Court notes that defendant did
not file an opposition to the discovery motions or appear at the hearing.
Plaintiff asserts that defendant’s
responses and documents were due by September 3 and the sanction payment was
due by September 12, 2024.  Plaintiff
contends that defendant has failed to serve the discovery responses or pay the
sanctions.
The Court notes that a court may
not issue a terminating sanction for failure to pay a monetary discovery
sanction.  Newland v. Superior Court
(1995) 40 Cal. App. 4th 608, 610, 615.
The Court rules as follows:  The Court finds that defendant has engaged in
conduct that is a misuse of the discovery process because defendant has
willfully failed to comply with the Court’s August 1, 2024 order to serve
responses without objections to plaintiff’s written discovery requests.  Defendant failed to oppose this motion or to
provide an explanation as to the failure to provide the court-ordered responses.  See also Deyo v. Kilbourne (1978) 84
Cal. App. 3d 771, 787 (“Lack of diligence may be deemed willful in the sense
that the party understood his obligation, had the ability to comply, and failed
to comply.”).  The Court notes that it
had also imposed monetary sanctions against defendant for the failure to
provide initial responses.  Neither the
Order itself requiring responses to the discovery nor the imposition of
monetary sanctions has been effective to produce defendant’s compliance with
the discovery orders.  Further, defendant’s
failure to comply is detrimental to plaintiff’s ability to prepare for trial.
The Court is mindful of the
obligation to provide the defendant an opportunity to comply with her
obligations and to participate in these proceedings.  The Court shall not ignore the preference to
allow parties to have cases resolved on the merits.  But, this preference to “go slowly” toward
terminating sanctions also recognizes that when the recalcitrant party makes it
clear that he/she or it had no intention of complying with their obligations to
the court and the other parties, terminating sanctions may be in order.  Such is the case here.
The motion is thus GRANTED.  The Court orders that the defendant’s answer
be stricken and a default issued.  The
Court denies plaintiff’s request for additional monetary sanctions as the
terminating sanctions is sufficient.
 

ORDER
The motion is GRANTED.  The Court orders that the answer filed on November
17, 2023 be STRICKEN and a default entered.  No monetary sanctions are awarded in light of
the tact that the terminating sanction is granted.  Had the Court ordered a lesser sanction, it
would have also awarded monetary sanctions.
Plaintiff is ordered to give notice
of the ruling.