 Case Number:  24TRCV02155    Hearing Date:   November 5, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
FIRST
  CLASS VENDING, INC., 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
24TRCV02155




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
BOUNTY
  ISLAND CORPORATION DBA SPARTAN COLLEGE OF AERONAUTICS AND TECHNOLOGY,


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          November
5, 2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Defendant Bounty Island Corporation
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiff First Class Vending, Inc.
Demurrer
to Complaint
 
            The Court considered the moving and opposition
papers.
RULING
            The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH
TWENTY DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND as to the first and second causes of action in the
complaint.
BACKGROUND
            On June 27, 2024, First Class
Vending, Inc. filed a complaint against Bounty Island Corporation dba Spartan
College of Aeronautics and Technology for (1) breach of contract and (2) breach
of covenant of good faith and fair dealing.
LEGAL
AUTHORITY
When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context. 
Taylor v. City of Los Angeles
Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters. 
Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the
pleading or are judicially noticed.”  SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153
Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.  “The only issue
involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.
DISCUSSION
            Defendant demurs to the first and
second causes of action in the complaint on the grounds that they fail to state
sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action and are uncertain.
            Under the first cause of action for
breach of contract, the complaint alleges the parties entered into a written
contract whereby plaintiff agreed to provide vending services to
defendant.  Complaint, ¶7.  Defendant agreed that the contract would
renew unless canceled via written notice, via registered mail, provided to
plaintiff at least ninety days, but not more than 120 days before the
expiration of the agreement.  Id., ¶8.  Defendant did not notify plaintiff of its
intent to cancel the contract within the time period specified. The contract
then renewed for a five-year term on April 19, 2024.  Id., ¶9. 
Plaintiff performed all obligations required of it under the parties’
written agreement, except those obligations excused by the action or inaction
of defendant.  Id., ¶10.  Defendant has breached the contract by
failing to provide timely written notice of cancellation of the contract and
stating that it would have its personnel unplug and move plaintiff’s machines
so that they cannot be used by customers if the machines were not removed.  Id., ¶11. 
On June 21, 2024, under protest, plaintiff removed its machines from the
premise of defendant and declared defendant in breach of its contract with
plaintiff.  Id., ¶12.  As a result of defendant’s breach of
contract, plaintiff has incurred damages of which the exact amount is not
known, but which plaintiff believes is more than $100,000.  Id., ¶13.
            Under the second cause of action for
breach of covenant of good faith and fair dealing, the complaint alleges that
defendant breached the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing by
threatening to move plaintiff’s machines so that said machines cannot be used
by customers thereby terminating the contract prior to the expiration of the
term without good cause.  Id., ¶20.  Defendant took such actions for the unlawful,
unfair, and improper purpose of terminating the contract prior to the
completion of the contract’s term.  Id., ¶21.  
            Defendant argues that the complaint
fails to allege the existence of an enforceable agreement because the alleged
agreement was signed by a different entity and that it is not enforceable
against a new party.  Defendant asserts
that the purported contract identifies “Spartan College of Aviation and
Technology” as the “client,” and that defendant is not a signatory to the
contract and the complaint does not allege how or why Bounty Island should be
involved in this matter.  Defendant
further argues that the contract lacks consideration because under the
agreement, plaintiff has the exclusive “privilege” to sell its merchandise
onside in its vending machines, and Bounty Island gets nothing in exchange for
granting plaintiff this “privilege.”
            Defendant also argues that the
second cause of action is duplicative of the first cause of action and is
deficient as it fails to plead any predicate “agreement” with Bounty Island or
damages distinct from a breach of contract claim.
            In opposition, plaintiff argues that
the allegations are sufficient as plaintiff has alleged the existence of a
contract between the parties.  Plaintiff
asserts that the parties to the contract are readily identifiable, including
defendant’s address and the signing authority for defendant.  Plaintiff also contends that defendant’s
former president is “presumed to have read the document and see the error in
the name” and that “[g]iven that there was no correction, he viewed the error
as harmless and signed the Contract.” 
Plaintiff argues that defendant’s “complicated DBA should not relieve it
from its obligations under contract.”  Plaintiff
also asserts that as to consideration, adequate consideration is a factual
issue.  As for the second cause of
action, plaintiff argues that the “facts go beyond a simple breach of contract”
as defendant “deliberately interfered with the operation of” the vending
machines by terminating the contract early, without cause, and interfering with
plaintiff’s ability to continue to service customers by forcing plaintiff to
pick up its machines far in advance of the expiration of the contract.  Plaintiff also argues that the demurrer is
defective as it does not comply with Cal. Rules of Court Rule 3.1320(a).
            The Court finds that the allegations
are insufficient as to the existence of an enforceable contract between the
parties.  Both parties acknowledge that
the “client” in the contract is a different name from defendant, and whether it
is a scrivener’s error or otherwise is not alleged.  As for consideration, “[a] written instrument
is presumptive evidence of a consideration.” 
Civil Code §1614.  Thus, at the
demurrer stage, the allegations meet the element of consideration.
            As for the second cause of action,
whether it is duplicative is not a ground for demurrer.  As to whether there is an underlying
contract, the allegations are insufficient because the contract attached
identifies a different name other than plaintiff.
            As for whether the demurrer failed
to comply with Cal. Rules of Court Rule 3.1320, it substantially complied and
provided notice of the grounds.
            The demurrer is thus SUSTAINED WITH
LEAVE TO AMEND as to the first and second cause of action.
 
ORDER
            The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH TWENTY
DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND as to the first and second causes of action.
            Defendant is ordered to give notice.