 Case Number:  23VECV03197    Hearing Date:   March 6, 2024    Dept:  W WEST REGIONAL
CARDIO THORACIC VASCULAR SURGEONS, et al. v. HANY MALEK, et al.
 
Demurrer to the first amended
cross-complaint 
 
Date of Hearing:        March
6, 2024                                   Trial
Date:       None Set.
Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        23VECV03197
 
BACKGROUND
 
On July 24, 2023, Plaintiffs West
Regional Cardio Thoracic and Vascular Surgeons, West Regional Vein Center, West
Regional Physicians Network, Inc. ("WRPN"), Lorena Medical Group,
Inc. ("Lorena Medical Group"), Angelus Medical Clinic Multispecialty Group,
Inc. ("Angelus Medical Group"), and Atlantic Surgical Center, LLC
("Atlantic") filed a complaint against Defendants Haney Malek, Bridgette
Morales, James Gouda, Chelsea Malek, Joseph Marquis, Rola Moukaddem, Hanan
Botros, Reda Hanna, Scandin Medical Management Enterprises, Inc., Scantlin
Medical Solutions, Inc., Care Concepts, Inc., True Vine Concepts, LLC, Best
Ride, Inc., Cura Hospice Care, Inc., and Trinity Healthcare Management, Inc.
for trespass, conversion, intentional interference with contractual relations,
and conspiracy. 
 
On November 30, 2023, Hany S. Malek,
D.C. filed a First Amended Cross-Complaint against Cross-Defendants Harold A.
Tabaie, D.O., Ph.D., West Regional Cardio Thoracic and Vascular Surgeons, West Regional
Vein Center, West Regional Physicians Network, Inc., Angelus Medical Clinic
Multi Specialty Group, Inc., Lorena Medical Group, Inc., Selective Investments
Channel, LLC, and West Regional Physicians IPA for 1) Breach of Written
Contracts; 2) Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; 3)
Breach of Fiduciary Duty; 4) Anticipatory Breach of Contract; 5) Conversion; 6)
Money Had and Received; 7) Unjust Enrichment; 8) Unfair Competition; 9)
Constructive Trust and Accounting; 10) Declaratory Relief; 11) Accounting; 12) Preliminary
and Permanent Injunctive Relief; 13) Malicious Prosecution; 14) Abuse of
Process; 15) California Penal Code § 502; 16) Intentional Infliction of Emotional
Distress. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendant Harold
A. Tabaie, D.O. Ph.D’s Demurrer to the First Amended Cross-Complaint is
SUSTAINED, in part. 
 
Nominal
Cross-Defendant’s Demurrer to the First Amended Cross-Complaint is SUSTAINED,
in part. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
I.                   
DEMURRER OF CROSS-DEFENDANT HAROLD A.
TABAIE, D.O., PH.D, TO FIRST AMENDED CROSS-COMPLAINT
 
Cross-Defendant Harold A. Tabaie, D.O.,
Ph.D (“Dr. Tabaie”) demurs to Hany S. Malek, D.C.’s (“Dr. Malek”) first,
second, third, thirteenth, fourteenth, fifteenth, and sixteenth causes of
action.[1]
[2]

 
Contract Terms
 
Dr. Tabaie demurs to the
cross-complaint on the grounds Dr. Malek seeks to enforce contract terms that
are illegal or void. 
 
i.                   
Illegal Contracts
 
Dr. Tabaie first argues the FAXC’s
allegations that Dr. Tabaie violated certain contract terms fails as these
terms are illegal and unenforceable since they give Dr. Malek, a non-physician,
veto power over Dr. Tabaie’s operation of the medical practice.
 
Section 13401.5 lists the permitted
shareholders in various professional medical corporations. It provides in
pertinent part as follows: “Notwithstanding subdivision (d) of Section 13401
and any other provision of law, the following licensed persons may be
shareholders, officers, directors, or professional employees of the
professional corporations designated in this section so long as the sum of
all shares owned by those licensed persons does not exceed 49 percent of the
total number of shares of the professional corporation so designated herein,
and so long as the number of those licensed persons owning shares in the
professional corporation so designated herein does not exceed the number of
persons licensed by the governmental agency regulating the designated
professional corporation[.]” 
 
The complaint essentially alleges the
parties entered several shareholder agreements whereby the parties agreed to
amongst other things: Dr. Malek and Dr. Tabaie will have a single, equal vote
on any matter; employees could not be hired or fired without agreement by both Dr.
Malek and Dr. Tabaie; Dr. Malek is an additional
accountholder, authorized user, and signor on company bank accounts; unanimous consent is required to fire any employee; neither Dr.
Malek nor Dr. Tabaie may do any act that would make it impossible to carry out
the ordinary business of the companies; unanimous consent is required to modify
the Shareholder Agreements; and unanimous consent is required to assign any
check writing authority. (FAXC ¶71.) Dr. Malek alleges Dr. Tabaie breached
these terms when terminating other employees of the companies deemed
sympathetic to Dr. Malek without Dr. Malek’s approval or consent; unilaterally
removing Dr. Malek from his co-owned certain shareholder agreements (WRP IPA contracts);
converting no less than $930,000.00 from the corporate bank accounts without explanation
or approval of Dr. Malek; and closing company bank accounts, removing all
funds, transferring said funds to reassigned accounts in the name of Dr.
Tabaie. (FAXC ¶72.) 
 
Dr. Malek argues these terms do not
violate the Corporate Practice of Medicine Doctrine because under California
law, a licensed chiropractor, like Dr. Malek, may have ownership in a
professional corporation. (Bus. & Prof. Code §3600, et. seq.) The only
restriction imposed on Dr. Malek pursuant to Section 13401.5 is “the sum of all
shares owned by those licensed persons does not exceed 49 percent of the total
number of shares of the professional corporation so designated herein.” Here, Dr.
Malek’s 49 percent ownership interest in West Regional, Angelus, Lorena and the
IPA is not in dispute, nor is the propriety of such an ownership structure. Regardless,
Dr. Malek contends, the court should not look at the factual findings of the
Evidentiary Hearing regarding two of the contracts on demurrer. 
 
The court agrees that Dr. Malek cannot
enforce certain terms of the agreement that violate the Corporate Practice of
Medicine Doctrine. First, the court notes a general demurrer may lie where the
terms of the contract alleged are illegal and thus, void. (See Beck v.
American Health Group Int'l, Inc. (1989) 211 Cal.App.3d 1555, 1563 [superseded
by statute on other grounds].) Accordingly, the court may look at the legal
effect of the shareholder agreements Dr. Malek relies on. By alleging that the
shareholder agreements provided that “the unanimous consent of the two
shareholders [Tabaie and Malek] is required in the hiring or firing of
employees” and “neither shareholder may do any act which would make it
impossible to carry on the ordinary business of [the company]”, the court
agrees such terms violate California’s ban on the Corporate Practice of Medicine
as they allow Dr. Malek to exercise undue control over the practice. However,
the court disagrees that the shareholder agreements are therefore automatically
illegal and void. In California Physicians' Service v. Aoki Diabetes
Research Institute (2008) 163 Cal.App.4th 1506, the court found although
the nonprofit violated the statutory ban on the corporate practice of medicine,
Blue Shield also failed to demonstrate that the violation made the contract
unenforceable. The court stated “[t]he ban on the corporate practice of
medicine is meant to protect patients, not health care service plans; a
contract for the provision of medical services by licensed professionals is
plainly not malum in se; Blue Shield would be unjustly enriched if it were
allowed to retain the benefit of services bestowed on its subscribers without
compensating ADRI.” (California Physicians' Service v. Aoki Diabetes
Research Institute (2008) 163 Cal.App.4th 1506, 1517.) Similarly here, the
court finds allegations including converting no less than $920,000.00 from the
corporate bank accounts and transferring said funds to accounts Dr. Malek
cannot access would unjustly enrich Dr. Tabaie if Dr. Malek is entitled to a
portion of the funds. 
 
Accordingly, the demurrer is SUSTAINED
WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. The cross-complaint should be limited to breaches of the
shareholder agreements that are not in violation of the Corporate Practice of
Medicine Doctrine.  
 
ii.                 
Void Contracts
 
Next, Dr. Tabaie argues the contracts
for West Regional PC and Angelus PC are void as a matter of law and/or conflict
with new admissions in the FAXC and the contracts for Lorena PC and West
Regional IPA have neither been produced nor their terms alleged in haec verba.
The court notes that  none of the
exhibits of the contracts are provided. They are not attached to the FAXC filed
with the court (although it seems like they must have been attached to the copy
served on Dr. Tabaie). Despite requesting that the parties provide the court
with copies of the exhibits, they were not provided as of the date of the
hearing.  
 
Dr. Tabaie contends West Regional PC’s
“Operating Agreement” and Angelus PC’s “Shareholder Operating Agreement” is a
document designed to govern a limited liability company. However, in
California, professional medical services can only be rendered through a
“professional corporation” – not a limited liability company. The court agrees.
California permits licensed professionals to form professional corporations,
but not limited liability companies, for the delivery of medical and certain
other professional services. (Corps. Code § 13401.5.)  The court agrees that Dr. Malek cannot proceed
to enforce a void agreement.   
 
As for Lorena PC and West Regional IPA,
the court finds the allegations sufficient for the purposes of a demurrer. As
noted by Dr. Tabaie, Dr. Malek need not attach the contracts but either then
must set out the terms verbatim in the body of the complaint or allege the
legal effect. (See McKell v. Washington Mutual, Inc. (2006) 142
Cal.App.4th 1457, 1489.) “In order to plead a contract by its legal effect,
plaintiff must allege the substance of its relevant terms.” (Id.) The
court finds the FAXC does allege the substance of the relevant terms and if Dr.
Malek is unable to produce the agreements by the time of trial, then that is a
consideration for the jury. 
 
iii.               
Selective Investments
 
Dr. Tabaie also demurs to the
cross-complaint on the grounds the contract for Selective Investments does not
contain the terms Dr. Malek alleges. Dr. Tabaie argues Malek fails to allege
facts sufficient to show how Selective Investments – an alleged holding company
of parcels of land – has been harmed. Dr. Tabaie further argues the Selective
Investments Channel, LLC “Amended and Restated Limited Liability Company
Agreement” does not contain the terms Dr. Malek seeks to enforce.
  
In opposition, Dr. Malek contends Dr.
Tabaie does not set forth the cause or causes of action to which he takes issue
and therefore believes there is nothing for him to oppose.  Because the court is allowing leave to amend,
the court will sustain the demurrer as it relates to allegations pertaining to
Selective Investments.  Dr. Malek is to
set forth how Selective Investments has been harmed, as well as the terms of
the parties’ agreement that he seeks to enforce.   
 
Thirteenth Cause of Action
 
Dr. Tabaie demurs to the thirteenth
cause of action for malicious prosecution on the grounds Dr. Malek does not
state facts of essential elements sufficient to constitute a cause of action. 
 
To establish the tort of malicious
prosecution, a plaintiff must plead three elements: that a lawsuit “(1) was
commenced by or at the direction of the defendant and was pursued to a legal
termination favorable to the plaintiff; (2) was brought without probable cause;
and (3) was initiated with malice. [Citation.]” (Nunez v. Pennisi (2015)
241 Cal.App.4th 861, 872-873.) 
 
Dr. Tabaie argues the basis of Malek’s
malicious prosecution claim is the Elder Abuse Temporary Restraining Order
(“TRO”) matter entitled Tabaie v. Malek (Case No. 23VERO0110), which was
filed and adjudicated in the Family Law Division; however, it is longstanding
precedent in California that Family Law proceedings cannot serve as the basis
for a malicious prosecution claim. (Bidna v. Rosen (1993) 19 Cal.App.4th
27, 35; Robert J. v. Catherine D. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1500, 1525.) Dr.
Tabaie further argues even if the Elder Abuse TRO was not a Family Law
proceeding, Dr. Malek’s malicious prosecution claim still fails as a matter of
law because Malek did not prevail in that action. Dr. Tabaie states a vital
element of a claim for malicious prosecution is that the prior action “resulted
in a termination of the action in plaintiff's favor.” (Lanz v. Goldstone
(2015) 243 Cal.App.4th 441, 458.)
 
In opposition, Dr. Malek argues there
is not an absolute bar of malicious prosecution claims based on any kind of
family law motion or order to show cause. In Nicholson v. Fazeli (2003)
113 Cal.App.4th 1091, the court concluded “that it would be improper to apply
its absolute bar on malicious prosecution actions to ordinary civil actions, such as
this one, that originate in a family law proceeding.” (Nicholson v. Fazeli
(2003) 113 Cal.App.4th 1091, 1099.) In Nicholson,
the cross-complaint did not raise any family law issues nor did it involve marital
status, child custody or spousal support. (Id.) The court noted “[t]hough
the characterization of the property in question as Trust property might have
had some impact on the division of community property, the Trust did not seek
to characterize the property as community or separate property but rather as
Trust property. The Trust's action was simply a civil action for possession of
property alleged to be trust property and damages for the loss of trust
property. Had this same pleading been separately filed in the superior court,
there would be no question that it could support a malicious prosecution action[].”

 
Here, the court finds Nicholson controlling.  The Elder Abuse Act restraining order sought
by Dr. Tabai arose in an ordinary business dispute.  The parties are not family members.  The fact that the case was heard in a family
law court is merely an assignment decision by the Los Angeles Superior
Court.  The Act itself is ordinarily
enforced through civil litigation in civil courts.  As such, the court finds allowing malicious
prosecution actions based on successful or unsuccessful civil harassment suits
is not barred merely because the matter was heard in a court that is part of
the family law division.  
 
But even if the court found that this
action aligns with Nicholson, the court agrees that the elder abuse TRO
did not result in Dr. Malek’s favor. Dr. Malek cites to Maleti v. Wickers
(2022) 82 Cal.App.5th 181 and Sycamore Ridge Apartments LLC v. Naumann
(2007) 157 Cal. App. 4th 1385, to support his position. However, in Maleti,
the court stated “[a] voluntary dismissal of the prior suit by the
plaintiff—not resulting from a settlement—will, in general, constitute a
favorable termination.” (Maleti v. Wickers (2022) 82 Cal.App.5th 181,
205.) Here, the Judge in the Family Law proceeding reinstated the TRO in Dr.
Tabaie’s favor and then Dr. Tabaie voluntarily dismissed the action after the
parties entered a mutual settlement agreement. (RJN, Exhs. L-N.) Although the
court in Sycamore noted the malice element of malicious prosecution included
proceedings are initiated for purpose of forcing settlement which has no
relation to merits of the claim, there is no indication of such in the instant
action. JSJ Limited Partnership v. Mehrban (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 1512, 1524.  As noted by the court in JSJ  Limited Partnership v. Mehrban (2012) 205
Cal.App.4th 1512, 1524: “[W]hen a dismissal results from
negotiation, settlement, or consent, a favorable termination is normally not
recognized” because “the dismissal reflects ambiguously on the merits of the
action.” 
 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the
thirteenth cause of action is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.
Fourteenth Cause of Action
 
Dr. Tabaie demurs to the fourteenth
cause of action for abuse of process on the grounds Dr. Malek has failed to
allege facts sufficient to support a claim for abuse of process. 
 
The tort of abuse of process has two
elements: (1) an “ulterior purpose,” and (2) “a willful act in the use of the
process not proper in the regular conduct of the proceeding.” (Siam v.
Kizilbash (2005) 130 Cal.App.4th 1563, 1579.) “Process is action taken
pursuant to judicial authority . . . . [¶] Merely obtaining or seeking process
is not enough; there must be subsequent abuse, by a misuse of the judicial
process for a purpose other than that which it was intended to serve.
[Citations.] The gist of the tort is the improper use of the process¿after
it is issued.” (Adams v. Superior Court (1992) 2 Cal.App.4th 521,
530-531.) 
 
Dr. Tabaie contends Dr. Malek’s claim
fails because the mere “naming and serving [Malek] in” the Elder Abuse TRO
matter, “caus[ing] the complaint [in that matter] to be filed against and
served on [Malek],” “caus[ing] the [Elder Abuse TRO] to be issued and served
against [Malek]” and “voluntarily dismiss[ing]” that action after it was
settled does not constitute an “abuse of process.” Moreover, Dr. Malek’s claim
that Dr. Tabaie’s appeal of Judge Cotton’s order appointing receivership “knowing
they had no intention of pursuing it” also cannot form the basis for an abuse
of process claim.
 
In opposition, Dr. Malek argues his
allegations set forth myriad improprieties, all of which were done to obtain,
and obtained, unjustifiable collateral advantage, and certainly “extraneous to
or of a result not within its legitimate scope.” (Ion Equipment Corp. v.
Nelson (1980) 110 Cal. App. 3d 868, 876.) According to Dr. Malek, this
includes the Elder Abuse Action in its entirety; seeking a TRO in the way in
which it was done; dismissing the Elder Abuse Action right before trial; filing
an appeal of the Receivership Order in this case; and filing an ex parte
application for an undertaking that would never be needed. 
 
The court finds Dr. Malek has not
stated grounds for an abuse of process cause of action. “The California Supreme
Court stated: ‘[T]he mere filing or maintenance of a lawsuit—even for an
improper purpose—is not a proper basis for an abuse of process action.’
[Citations.]” (S.A. v. Maiden (2014) 229 Cal.App.4th 27, 42.) Here, Dr.
Malek’s claim is based entirely on the filing of the Elder Abuse TRO as well as
the Receivership Order Appeal and ex parte Application. Dr. Malek’s
allegations do not actually allege any misuse of process in the course of
maintaining the allegedly meritless Elder Abuse TRO proceedings or the instant
matter as Dr. Malek has not alleged how the appointment of a receivership entertained
an ulterior motive in using the process. 
 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the
fourteenth cause of action is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
Fifteenth Cause of Action
 
Dr. Tabaie demurs to the fifteenth
cause of action for California Penal Code § 502 on the grounds Dr. Malek has
not alleged facts sufficient to support a cause of action. 
 
The Comprehensive Computer Data Access
and Fraud Act (“CDAFA”) codified in California Penal Code §502 provides that
any person who commits the following acts is guilty of a public offence: “(1)
Knowingly accesses and without permission… uses any data, computer, computer
system, or computer network in order to… wrongfully control or obtain money,
property, or data; [or] (2) Knowingly accesses and without permission takes,
copies, or makes use of any data from a computer, computer system, or computer
network, or takes or copies any supporting documentation, whether existing or
residing internal or external to a computer, computer system, or computer
network.”  (Penal Code §§502(c)(1)(B), 502(c)(2).) 
 
Dr. Tabaie argues Dr. Malek does not
allege Dr. Tabaie “hacked” the companies’ systems and moreover, by Dr. Malek’s
own allegations, at a minimum Dr. Tabaie is majority 51% owner and CEO of all
the clinics and the only licensed physician, which entitles him access his own
business and patient records. Additionally, “[s]tanding to bring a CDAFA[/Penal
Code § 502] claim requires a showing of economic harm or loss,” which Malek
does not allege.
 
Dr. Malek does not address this
argument. The court finds Dr. Malek has failed to allege facts sufficient to
support a claim for violation of Penal Code section 502. The fifteenth cause of
action alleges Dr. Tabaie acted outside the scope of his position as
shareholder/member of the MT Enterprise as set forth in Section 502(h)(1) and Dr.
Tabaie knowingly accessed and used computers and computer systems of the MT Enterprise
and the data contained therein. (FAXC ¶¶137, 138.) The court notes the FAXC
also alleges Dr. Tabaie changed passwords and blocked Dr. Malek’s computer
access. (See FAXC ¶72(h).) However, it is unclear from the allegations how Dr.
Tabaie acted outside the scope of his employment or how Dr. Malek was harmed by
Dr. Tabaie’s conduct.
 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the fifteenth
cause of action is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
Sixteenth Cause of Action
 
Dr. Tabaie demurs to the sixteenth
cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress on the grounds
Dr. Malek fails to allege facts sufficient to support a cause of action. 
 
The elements of an intentional
infliction of emotional distress cause of action are: (1) extreme and
outrageous conduct by the defendant; (2) intention to cause or reckless
disregard of the probability of causing emotional distress; (3) severe
emotional suffering; and (4) actual and proximate causation of the emotional
distress. (See Moncada v. West Coast Quartz Corp. (2013) 221 Cal.App.4th
768, 780; Wilson v. Hynek (2012) 207 Cal.App.4th 999, 1009.) To satisfy
the element of extreme and outrageous conduct, defendant’s conduct “‘must be so
extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized
society.’” (Moncada, supra, 221 Cal.App.4th at 780 (quoting Trerice
v. Blue Cross of California (1989) 209 Cal.App.3d 878, 883).)  
 
Dr. Tabaie argues the FAXC does not
directly allege what that conduct is and Dr. Tabaie can only surmise Dr. Malek’s
claim rests on the alleged conduct related to the Elder Abuse TRO and the
filings in this lawsuit. The court agrees it is unclear what the outrageous
conduct includes. The cross-complaint simply alleges “Tabaie’s conduct as set
forth in this First Amended Cross-Complaint was extreme and outrageous.” (FAXC
¶144.) Even if the court were to assume that the allegations then include Dr.
Tabaie filing the Elder Abuse TRO or violating Penal Code section 502, Dr.
Malek does not allege any severe emotional suffering. The cross-complaint
simply alleges he “suffered extreme emotional distress”. (FAXC ¶145.)  
 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the
sixteenth cause of action is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
II.                 
DEMURRER OF NOMINAL CROSSDEFENDANTS TO
FIRST AMENDED CROSS-COMPLAINT
 
Nominal Cross-Defendants West Regional
Cardio Thoracic and Vascular Surgeons, West Regional Vein Center, West Regional
Physicians Network, Inc., And Angelus Medical Clinic Multispecialty Group, Inc.
(collectively, “Nominal Cross-Defendants”) demur to the Third, Fifth, Sixth, Seventh,
Eighth, Ninth, Tenth, Eleventh, and Twelfth Causes of Action for Shareholder
Derivative Claims contained in Dr. Malek’s First Amended Cross-Complaint.[3]

 
Corporations Code §800
 
Nominal Cross-Defendants first demur to
the FAXC on the grounds Corporations Code section 800 requires notice and
demand by a registered shareholder before bringing a derivative action. 
 
Pursuant to Corporations Code section
800, subdivision (b)(2), a plaintiff shareholder must allege with particularity
(1) the demand it made on the board for action, or, alternatively, why such
demand would have been futile; and (2) allege further that it informed the
board in writing of the ultimate facts of each cause of action against each
defendant or delivered to the corporation or board a true copy of the complaint
which plaintiff proposes to file. 
 
In Shields v. Singleton (1993)
15 Cal.App.4th 1611, the court held that the plaintiff was required to give the
board of directors the opportunity to consider and act upon the proposed
litigation by presenting to the board the “ultimate facts of each cause of
action” and the action that plaintiff wished the board to take to remedy the
alleged wrongdoing. (Shields, supra, 15 Cal.App.4th at p. 1619.)
Alternatively, a plaintiff may demonstrate that such a demand on the board
would have been futile. (Ibid.) 
 
Dr. Tabaie argues every derivative
claim asserted by Dr. Malek fails as a matter of law because he failed to provide
the companies statutory notice and demand pursuant to Section 800(b)(2). Dr.
Tabaie further argues the derivative claims Dr. Malek asserts on behalf of West
Regional PC fail as a matter of law for the separate reason that Dr. Malek is
not a record shareholder and has not obtained court approval after noticed motion
and hearing to assert a derivative claim on that company’s behalf pursuant to
Section 800(b)(1).
 
In opposition, Dr. Malek argues contrary
to Nominal Cross-Defendants’ argument, Dr. Malek has set forth the necessary
and appropriate allegations, contending the futility in notice and demand upon
Dr. Tabaie. The court finds the allegations insufficient for the purposes of a
demurrer. The FAXC alleges “a demand would have been futile because it would
have required Tabaie to assert and pursue claims against himself or against entities
solely controlled by him.” (FAXC ¶40.) However, the FAXC fails to allege Dr.
Malek gave Nominal Cross-Defendants proper notice of the ultimate facts of each
cause of action. 
 
The court also notes Nominal
Defendants’ contention Dr. Malek is not a record shareholder of West Regional
PC. The cross-complaint and the judicially noticed documents do not support Dr.
Malek’s contention he is a record shareholder. As to claims regarding West
Regional PC, the court agrees Dr. Malek does not have standing. 
 
Accordingly, the demurrer is SUSTAINED
WITH LEAVE TO AMEND if Dr. Malek can sufficiently demonstrate he informed the
board in writing of the ultimate facts of each cause of action against each
defendant or delivered to the corporation or board a true copy of the complaint
he proposed to file. 
 
Fifth, Sixth, Seventh, Eighth, Ninth,
Tenth, and Eleventh Causes of Action
 
Nominal Defendants demur to the fifth,
sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth, tenth, and eleventh causes of action on the
grounds the harm alleged in the FACC is direct in nature – not derivative. 
 
Nominal Defendants argue each cause of
action involves traditional direct shareholder claims – not derivative –
because the alleged harm relates to Dr. Malek’s individual interests and
purported rights as a shareholder. Nominal Defendants contend Dr. Malek does
not seek to recover any monies for the benefit of West Regional PC, West Regional
IPA, and Angelus PC.
 
“[A] derivative suit is one in which
the shareholder seeks ‘redress of the wrong to the corporation. [Citations.]’ [Citation.]
Thus, an action ‘ “is derivative, i.e., in the corporate right, if the gravamen
of the complaint is injury to the corporation, or to the whole body of its
stock and property without any severance or distribution among individual
holders, or it seeks to recover assets for the corporation or to prevent the
dissipation of its assets.” [Citations.]’ [Citation.] On the other hand, a direct
or individual suit by a stockholder ‘ “is a suit to enforce a[ ]right against
the corporation which the stockholder possesses as an individual.” [Citation.]’
[Citation.] A direct (as opposed to a derivative) action is maintainable ‘only
if the damages [are] not incidental to an injury to the corporation.
[Citation.]’ [Citation.]  And ‘ “the two
actions are mutually exclusive: i.e., the right of action and recovery belongs
to either the shareholders (direct action) or to the corporation (derivative
action).”’ [Citation.]” (Bader v. Anderson (2009) 179 Cal.App.4th 775,
793.) 
 
The court agrees Dr. Malek has not
alleged facts seeking redress of the wrong to the corporation. Each cause of
action alleges damages incidental to the corporations. 
 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the fifth,
sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth, tenth, and eleventh causes of action are
SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
Third and Twelfth Causes of Action 
 
Nominal Defendants demur to the third
and Twelfth causes of action on the grounds Dr. Malek does not specify the
alleged harm per Nominal Cross-Defendant. Nominal Defendants argue without
facts linking the “bank accounts” and “patients” to the corresponding nominal cross-defendant,
it is uncertain what harm Dr. Malek seeks to recover on behalf of West Regional
PC, West Regional IPA, and Angelus PC versus Lorena PC or Selective Investments
LLC as well as uncertain which of those Nominal Cross-Defendants, or combination
thereof, allegedly lost the “300 patients” amongst other things. The court
finds that the allegations are sufficient for the purposes of a demurrer. “A
demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint is in
some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified under modern
discovery procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993) 14
Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) 
 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the third
and twelfth causes of action is OVERRULED on the grounds of uncertainty. 
