  Case Number:  23VECV02741    Hearing Date:   March 6, 2024    Dept:  W LONNI LZ INC. vs GENERAL MOTORS, LLC
 
PLAINTIFF LONNI LZ INC’S MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION
RESPONSES FROM DEFENDANT GENERAL MOTORS, LLC, AND REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS
 
Date of Hearing:          March 6, 2024                                     Trial Date:       None
set.  
Department:               W                                                         Case No.:         23VECV02741
 
Moving Party:             Plaintiff
Lonni LZ Inc. 
Responding Party:       Defendant
General Motors LLC   
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a lemon law action. Plaintiff Lonni LZ Inc. filed a complaint against
Defendant General Motors LLC on June 23, 2023 for Violation of the Song-Beverly
Consumer Warranty Act. Plaintiff alleges on October 16, 2022, Plaintiff
purchased a 2023 Chevrolet Suburban. However, the subject vehicle has suffered
from nonconformities to warranty, including, but not limited to, the engine,
pistons, check engine light, faulty valve cover gasket, and other defects.
 
[TENTATIVE]
RULING:
 
Plaintiff Lonni LZ Inc.’s Motion to Compel Further
Request for Production Responses from Defendant General Motors, LLC is GRANTED.

 
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
 
Plaintiff submits
evidentiary objections to the Declaration of Cameron Major submitted by Defendant
General Motors, LLC in support of its Opposition to Plaintiff’s Motion to
Compel Further Request for Production Responses. The court OVERRULES the
objections. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff
Lonni LZ Inc. moves the court for an order compelling Defendant GM to
produce further responses to Plaintiff’s Request for Production, Set One Nos.
27, 28, and 36 within ten calendar days; an order compelling the production of
documents identified in GM’s responses to Plaintiff’s Requests for Production,
Set One; and sanctions against GM and/or its counsel of record in the amount of
$3,000.00.

A party may move to compel further written response to a request for
production if the responding party’s statement of compliance is incomplete, a
representation of inability to comply is inadequate, or an objection is without
merit. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (a).) To prevail, the party moving
for the order must first offer specific facts demonstrating “good cause
justifying the discovery sought by the demand.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310,
subd. (b)(1).) This burden “is met simply by a fact-specific showing of
relevance.” (TBG Ins. Servs. Corp. v. Superior Court (2002) 96
Cal.App.4th 443, 448.) If “good cause” is shown by the moving party, the burden
shifts to the responding party to justify any objections made to document
disclosure. (Kirkland v. Superior Court (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 92,
98.) 
 
Plaintiff argues GM served inapplicable objections that are without
merit to Plaintiff’s request for production of documents nos. 27, 28, and 36.
Specifically, GM failed to provide any factual information for Plaintiff to
work off of to determine why a privilege objection was lodged. GM also failed
to provide a privilege log. Plaintiff further argues the requests and the
documents sought are relevant to Plaintiff’s lemon law and civil penalty
claims. Plaintiff contends GM’s policies and procedures are relevant to its
compliance with the Act as these documents shed light on how Defendant
purportedly repurchases vehicles promptly and in accordance with its
affirmative obligation to do so. Moreover, Plaintiff’s requests are also
relevant on the issue of whether GM committed a willful violation under Civil
Code Section 1794(c). 
 
In opposition, GM first argues Plaintiff failed to sufficiently meet
and confer with GM in good faith as its emails made no effort to substantively
discuss GM’s responses and objections to Plaintiff’s discovery requests.  The court disagrees. As noted at the previous
hearing, Plaintiff has presented evidence of their attempts to meet and confer
with Defendant regarding the issues around discovery including the instant
motion. 
 
Next, GM argues the objections are well founded as the requests are
overbroad in scope, seeking “WRITINGS,” without limitations, regarding highly
proprietary and sensitive information regarding how GM runs its operations.
Moreover, the requests also repeatedly demand production of confidential,
proprietary, and commercially sensitive trade secrets. 
 
The court finds good cause for further responses and production of
documents to Plaintiff’s request for production of documents, nos. 27, 28, and
36. As noted by Plaintiff, GM’s policies and procedures are relevant to whether
GM made a good faith effort to comply with the Song-Beverly Act. Defendant GM
has not shown such requests are overbroad in scope. If GM believes the
production is privileged, it must produce a privilege log. The parties may also
agree to a protective order as noted by Defendant GM in opposition. 
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff Lonni LZ Inc’s Motion to Compel Further Request
for Production Responses from Defendant General Motors, LLC is GRANTED. 
 
Sanctions
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310(h) provides for mandatory
monetary sanctions “against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully
makes or opposes a motion to compel further response to a demand, unless it
finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification
or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (CCP § 2031.310(h).)   
 
Plaintiff requests $3,000.00 in sanctions against GM and/or its
counsel for GM’s failure to provide compliant responses to Plaintiff’s Requests.
Plaintiff contends GM cannot show that its actions are justifiable. Defendant
provided a litany of boilerplate objections that are non-compliant under the
Code. It also provided non-responsive answers and refused to produce a single
responsive document to the requests previously specified.
 
In opposition, Defendant GM argues Plaintiff served facially overbroad
requests that exceed the scope of the parties’ claims and defenses for the sole
purpose of manufacturing a discovery dispute, yet GM (i) served Code-compliant
responses, and (ii) produced hundreds of pages of responsive documents concerning
Plaintiff’s Suburban. 
 
The court has previously sanctioned defendant for failure to
adequately meet and confer.  The court
declines to award redundant sanction against defendant for the same
conduct.  The court otherwise finds the
defendant’s position substantially justified, as the requests were quite broad,
even if the court ultimately overruled them. 
The request for sanctions is denied.
 