 Case Number:  23STCV07020    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2024    Dept:  32      LYNWOOD SANTA FE, LLC,                         Plaintiff,             v.   ADVANCED LABS, INC., et    al.,                          Defendants.           Case No.:  23STCV07020   Hearing Date:  September 25, 2024        [TENTATIVE]    order RE: defendants’ motion to quash subpoena    (CRS# 5358)                BACKGROUND             On March 30, 2023, Plaintiff Lynwood  Santa Fe, LLC (Lynwood) filed this action against Defendants Advanced Labs,  Inc. and Advanced Nutrients Ltd. for breach of lease and breach of guaranty  arising from unpaid rent.                On May 23, 2024, Defendants filed a  cross-complaint against Lynwood and Shaoul Levy, alleging fraud and unjust  enrichment. Defendants allege that they were fraudulently induced into signing  the commercial lease agreement by Lynwood and Lynwood’s manager (Levy), who  conspired with Defendants’ then-counsel, David Welch.              On August 21, 2024, Defendants filed  the instant motion to quash a subpoena issued to Welch. Lynwood filed its  opposition on September 12, 2024. Defendants filed their reply on September 18,  2024.   LEGAL STANDARD “If a subpoena requires the attendance of  a witness or the production of books, documents, electronically stored  information, or other things …, the court, upon motion reasonably made by [a  party, witness, or consumer] . . . may make an order quashing the subpoena  entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those terms or  conditions as the court shall declare, including protective orders.” (Code Civ.  Proc., § 1987.1(a), (b).)   DISCUSSION  I. Attorney-Client Privilege  The attorney-client privilege covers “information  transmitted between a client and his or her lawyer in the course of that  relationship and in confidence.” (Evid. Code, § 952.) “The privilege is  absolute and precludes disclosure of confidential communications even though  they may be highly relevant to a dispute.” (City of Petaluma v. Superior  Court (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 1023, 1032.) The subpoena to Welsh seeks  communications between Welsh and Defendants, thus it facially seeks privileged  information.  II.  Issue of Breach             However, the attorney-client  privilege does not apply “to a communication relevant to an issue of breach, by  the lawyer or by the client, of a duty arising out of the lawyer-client  relationship.” (Evid. Code, § 958.) This is because the privilege “may not be  used both as a sword and a shield.” (Dietz v. Meisenheimer & Herron  (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 771, 793.)  Defendants’ cross-complaint is premised on  the allegation that Welch breached his duties to Defendants by conspiring with  Lynwood and Levy and failing to disclose his conflicts. Thus, the subpoena to  Welch seeks communications relevant to an issue of breach arising out of the  attorney-client relationship. Defendants cannot use Welch’s alleged advice as a  basis for its cross-claims and simultaneously prevent disclosure of related  communications. Section 958 was intended precisely to prevent this usage of attorney-client  communications as both a sword and a shield. (See Dietz, supra, 177  Cal.App.4th at p. 793.) Defendants argue that section 958 does not  apply to this case, citing Glade v. Superior Court (1978) 76 Cal.App.3d  738. In that case, plaintiffs suing for legal malpractice were barred from  seeking “communications between their attorney and other clients of  his not privy to the relationship between defendant and plaintiffs.” (Id.  at pp. 746-47.) The court reasoned that “[i]f section 958 were construed to  extend to this situation, a litigant who tendered an issue of breach relative  to his own representation by an attorney would be able unilaterally to waive  the attorney-client privilege held by other clients of the same attorney.” (Id.  at p. 747.)  Glade is distinguishable because Lynwood  is not suing Welch for malpractice and then using that as a reason to obtain  communications with Welch’s other clients, including Defendants. Rather, it is Defendants  that have raised the issue of breach, thereby waiving the privilege over their  own communications with Welch. Under Glade, a party to one  attorney-client relationship cannot waive the privilege over communications in  another attorney-client relationship. But that is not the case here. Here,  Defendants waived the privilege over communications in their own relationship  with Welch by filing a cross-complaint premised on Welch’s breach of duty. This  falls directly within Glade’s definition of when section 958 applies, i.e.,  “when either the attorney or client charges the other with a breach of duty  arising from their professional relationship.” (Glade, supra, 76  Cal.App.3d at p. 746.)   Defendant additionally cites Anten v.  Superior Court (2015) 233 Cal.App.4th 1254, which also supports disclosure  in this case. The court in Anten stated that section 958 “is limited to  communications between the lawyer charging or charged with a breach of duty, on  the one hand, and the client charging or charged with a breach of duty, on the  other.” (Id. at p. 1259.) That is precisely what Lynwood’s subpoena  seeks: communications between Welch, the lawyer charged with a breach of duty,  and Defendants, the clients charging the breach of duty.  Neither Glade nor Anten held  that only the client or attorney in the attorney-client relationship may seek  disclosure of communications under section 958. While Welch is not a party to  this action and is not the one seeking disclosure of the communications, Welch’s  alleged breach of duty is the basis of Defendants’ cross-claims against  Lynwood. Thus, the communications sought by Lynwood are “relevant to an issue  of breach, by the lawyer or by the client, of a duty arising out of the  lawyer-client relationship,” falling squarely within section 958. The  disclosure being sought is also limited to communications between the lawyer  being accused of a breach of duty and the client alleging the breach of duty, thus  falling within the limitations set forth in Anten and Glade. Defendants  cannot prevent disclosure of relevant communications by simply not naming Welch  as a cross-defendant. That would amount to using the privilege as both a sword  and a shield. Therefore, the attorney-client privilege does not apply.     III.  Implied Waiver             “The privilege may also be impliedly  waived where a party to a lawsuit places into issue a matter that is normally  privileged.” (Transamerica Title Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1987) 188  Cal.App.3d 1047, 1052.) “[T]he deliberate injection of the advice of counsel  into a case waives the attorney-client privilege as to communications and  documents relating to the advice.” (Id. at p. 1053.) “[T]he person or  entity seeking to discover privileged information can show waiver by  demonstrating that the client has put the otherwise privileged communication  directly at issue and that disclosure is essential for a fair adjudication of  the action.” (S. Cal. Gas Co. v. Public Utils. Com (1990) 50 Cal.3d 31,  40.)              Implied waiver applies here because  Defendants allege that Welch conspired with Lynwood and advised Defendants to  enter into the subject lease agreement. This directly places Welch’s “advice or  state of mind” at issue. (See S. Cal. Gas Co., supra, 50 Cal.3d at p.  42.) Disclosure is also essential to a fair adjudication because the cross-complaint  is centered on Welch’s advice and what he did or did not disclose regarding his  alleged conflicts. Having based their theory of liability on such allegations,  Defendants cannot preclude Lynwood and Levy from obtaining evidence to disprove  them.                In sum, the attorney-client  privilege either does not apply or was waived.    CONCLUSION             Defendants’ motion to quash is  DENIED. David Welch shall produce the documents requested in the subpoena  within 20 days of this order. Sanctions are denied as the parties acted with  substantial justification.  


 
LYNWOOD SANTA FE, LLC,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
ADVANCED LABS, INC., et
  al., 
                        Defendants.



 
  Case No.:  23STCV07020
  Hearing Date:  September 25, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendant advanced labs, inc.’s motion
  to compel further responses to requests for production (CRS# 5922)  




 


 




BACKGROUND

            On March 30, 2023, Plaintiff Lynwood
Santa Fe, LLC (Lynwood) filed this action against Defendants Advanced Labs,
Inc. and Advanced Nutrients Ltd. for breach of lease and breach of guaranty
arising from unpaid rent.   

             On May 23, 2024, Defendants filed a
cross-complaint against Lynwood and Shaoul Levy, alleging fraud and unjust
enrichment. Defendants allege that they were fraudulently induced into signing
the commercial lease agreement by Lynwood and Lynwood’s manager (Levy), who
conspired with Defendants’ then-counsel, David Welch. 

            On August 20, 2024, Defendant
Advanced Labs, Inc. (Advanced Labs) filed the instant motion to compel Lynwood
to produce further responses to Requests for Production. Lynwood filed its
opposition on September 12, 2024. Advanced Labs filed its reply on September
18, 2024.   

 

 

LEGAL STANDARD

Upon receiving responses to its discovery
requests, the propounding party may move for an order compelling further
responses if the responses are incomplete or evasive, or objections are without
merit or too general. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300(a), 2031.310(a),
2033.290(a).) A moving party must demonstrate good cause to compel further
responses to inspection demands. (Id., § 2031.310(b)(1).)  

MEET AND CONFER

A motion to compel further must be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration demonstrating an attempt to
resolve the matter informally. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300(b)(1),
2031.310(b), 2033.290(b).) The Court finds that Defendant has satisfied the
meet and confer requirement. (See Lee Decl.)

DISCUSSION

            The RFPs at issue seek documents
related to Maywood Avenue, LLC (Maywood), an entity formed by Levy which owned
certain commercial real property in Maywood, California. Welch allegedly
partnered with Levy on the Maywood venture and did not disclose this
preexisting relationship to Advanced Labs before advising Advanced Labs to
enter into the lease with Lynwood for the Lynwood property. Welch also
allegedly failed to disclose that he obtained a financial interest in Lynwood
in exchange for advising Advanced Labs to enter the lease. Advanced Labs seeks
the Maywood documents to ascertain whether Welch similarly defrauded the tenant
of the Maywood property, i.e., advising the tenant to lease the Maywood
unit without disclosing his financial stake in Maywood and relationship with
Levy. 

            Advanced Labs argues that the
requested information is relevant because evidence of other transactions is
admissible to show motive, intent, knowledge, plan, and absence of mistake. (See
Kirkland v. Superior Court (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 92, 98.) However, there
is no indication that Welch defrauded any tenant of Maywood. The information on
Maywood does not become relevant simply because Welch partnered with Levy on
Maywood. Advanced Labs is not entitled to information on every real estate
venture involving Welch and Levy just because this case concerns one such
venture. Moreover, the requests on their face seek practically every document
on Maywood, not limited to information related to the partnership between Welch
and Levy. Advanced Labs has not articulated good cause for all documents on
Maywood’s formation, members, distributions, etc.   

            The RFPs also seek information
intruding on the privacy interests of Maywood and its members. (See Williams
v. Sup. Ct. (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 552.) Advanced Labs has not articulated
the direct relevance of the information such that its need for the information
outweighs the privacy interests. (Ibid.) 

            Only two of the RFPs at issue could
be considered relevant. RFP No. 222 seeks all lease agreements for the Maywood
property from January 1, 2016 to present. RFP No. 223 seeks all documents
identifying the attorney(s) who represented any tenant of the Maywood property
from January 1, 2016 to present. These RFPs are relevant to determining whether
Welch represented and/or defrauded any Maywood tenant. However, RFP No. 222 is
limited to lease agreements involving Welch, and RFP No. 223 is limited to
documents identifying Welch as the attorney of a Maywood tenant.  

Lynwood has not demonstrated that the
disclosure of the identities of Maywood tenants represented by Welch
constitutes an invasion of privacy in this particular case. (See Tien v.
Superior Court (2006) 139 Cal.App.4th 528, 541 [“the degree to which the
identity of a client entails sensitive personal information may vary depending
on the context”].) Additionally, Advanced Labs’ need for this information
outweighs the interest in privacy, and a protective order sufficiently
addresses the privacy concern. (See Williams, supra, 3 Cal.5th at p. 552;
Hill v. National Collegiate Athletic Assn. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 1, 38.) 

 

CONCLUSION

            Advanced
Labs’ motion to compel further responses is GRANTED as to RFP Nos. 222-223,
subject to the limitations described above. The motion is DENIED in all other
respects.
Lynwood shall provide further responses
within 15 days of this order. Production shall be subject to the protective
order. 

Sanctions are
denied as the parties acted with substantial justification.   