 Case Number:  24STCV01615    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
FERNANDO
  BARAJAS-SALOMON,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
101 GRANITE COUNTERTOP
  LLC, et al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  24STCV01615
  Hearing Date:  September 25, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendant prestwick management
  corporation’s demurrer and motion to strike (CRS# 2834)




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On January 19, 2024, Plaintiff
Fernando Barajas-Salomon filed this product liability action against various
defendants. Plaintiff filed the operative Second Amended Complaint on July 30,
2024, asserting (1) negligence, (2) products liability – failure to warn, (3)
products liability – design defect, (4) fraudulent concealment, (5) breach of
implied warranties, and (6) loss of consortium. 
            According to the complaint, from
2005 to 2023, Plaintiff worked as a cutter, fabricator and/or installer of
Defendants’ stone products. (SAC ¶¶ 166-170.) As a result of this work,
Plaintiff came into contact with “inherently hazardous stone products
manufactured, imported, supplied, distributed, contracted, and/or brokered, by
the named Defendants and Does 1-100.” (Id., ¶ 171.) Specifically,
Plaintiff was “exposed to and inhaled stone dust containing silica and other
toxins and carcinogens.” (Ibid.) Plaintiff allegedly developed lung
disease and is at increased risk of developing other silica-related diseases. (Id.,
¶ 172.) Plaintiff alleges that he “has had to receive substantial medical
treatment, including hospitalizations and surgeries, and will require lung
transplantation.” (Id., ¶ 173.) 
            On August 29, 2024, Defendant
Prestwick Management Corporation filed the instant demurrer and motion to
strike. Plaintiff filed his opposition on September 12, 2024. Defendant filed
its reply on September 18, 2024.  
LEGAL STANDARD
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether
the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in
context. (Taylor v. City of Los
Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.)
In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the
pleading or by proper judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd.
(a).) A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other
extrinsic matters. (SKF Farms v. Superior
Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) Therefore, it lies only where the
defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (Ibid.) The only issue involved in a
demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with
extraneous matters, states a cause of action. (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.)
Any party, within the time allowed to
respond to a pleading, may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the
whole or any part of that pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b).) The
court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it
deems proper, strike (1) any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in
any pleading and (2) all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.
(Id., § 436.) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face
of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Id., § 437.)
 
 
MEET AND CONFER
Before filing a demurrer or a motion to
strike, the demurring or moving party is required to meet and confer with the
party who filed the pleading demurred to or the pleading that is subject to the
motion to strike for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be
reached through a filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the
objections to be raised in the demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.41, 435.5.)
The Court notes that Defendant has complied with the meet and confer
requirement. (See O’Herin Decl.)
DISCUSSION
I.
Demurrer

a.
Bockrath Standard
In order for a complaint to properly plead
causation in a toxic exposure case, the plaintiff must allege the
following:  
 
(1) he was exposed
to each of the toxic materials claimed to have caused a specific illness;
 
(2) he must
identify each product that allegedly caused the injury;
 
(3) he must allege
that as a result of the exposure, the toxins entered his body;
 
(4) he must allege
that he suffers from a specific illness, and that each toxin that entered his
body was a substantial factor in bringing about, prolonging, or aggravating
that illness; and
 
(5) he
must allege that each toxin he absorbed was manufactured or supplied by a named
defendant. 
(Bockrath
v. Aldrich Chemical Co. (1999) 21 Cal.4th 71, 80.) These facts must be pled
“in ordinary and concise language” and may be pled “in a conclusory fashion if [the
plaintiff’s] knowledge of the precise cause of injury is limited.” (Ibid.)
            Here, the complaint identifies the
offending products attributable to Defendant and alleges that Plaintiff was
exposed to toxic silica within those products. (SAC ¶¶ 165, 171.) Plaintiff
alleges that the exposure caused the toxins to enter his body, specifically
through inhalation. (Id., ¶ 171.) Plaintiff alleges that the toxins were
a substantial factor in causing his silicosis. (Id., ¶¶ 1174-75.)
Plaintiff alleges that each hazardous stone product was “manufactured,
imported, supplied, distributed, contracted, and/or brokered, by the named
Defendants,” which necessarily includes Defendant Prestwick. (Id., ¶ 171.)     
            Defendant argues that the second
requirement is not met because the complaint references generic categories of
products rather than specific names. (See SAC ¶ 165 [attributing “Basalt,
Granite, Limestone, Marble, Natural Stone, Onyx, Quartz, Quartzite” to
Prestwick].) The Court agrees. Without the specific product names, Defendant is
not on sufficient notice to respond to the claims. Defendant may produce or
distribute any number of basalt, granite, limestone, marble, natural stone,
onyx, quartz, or quartzite products. Therefore, the SAC fails to satisfy the
specificity standard of Bockrath. 
            However, the Court is not persuaded
by Defendant’s argument that the fifth requirement is not met. Plaintiff
alleges that Defendant “manufactured, imported, supplied, distributed,
contracted, and/or brokered” the offending products. (SAC ¶ 171.) This
satisfies Bockrath’s requirement that the toxic product be “manufactured
or supplied” by the defendant. Plaintiff’s inclusion of additional verbs such
as “import,” “distribute,” “contract,” and “broker” do not render the complaint
vague as Defendant contends. These acts sufficiently fall within the realm of
“manufactured or supplied.”  
            In sum, the SAC fails to satisfy the
Bockrath standard because it does not identify the specific products
attributable to Defendant. 
            b. Fraudulent Concealment
“The elements of fraud that will give rise
to a tort action for deceit are: ‘(a) misrepresentation (false representation,
concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity (or ‘scienter’); (c)
intent to defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e)
resulting damage.’” (Engalla v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15
Cal.4th 951, 974, quoting Lazar v.
Superior Court (1996) 12
Cal.4th 631, 638.) 
Defendant argues that Plaintiff has failed
to plead fraud with the requisite specificity. However, the rule of specificity
“is intended to apply to affirmative
misrepresentations.” (Alfaro v. Community Housing Improvement System &
Planning Assn., Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1356, 1384.) “[I]t is harder to
apply this rule to a case of simple nondisclosure. How does one show ‘how’ and
‘by what means’ something didn't happen, or ‘when’ it never happened, or
‘where’ it never happened?” (Ibid.) Plaintiff cannot provide specific
details on nonexistent statements. For pleading purposes, Plaintiff has
sufficiently alleged that Defendant knew of the hazardous nature of its stone
products, yet failed to disclose this to Plaintiff, thereby inducing Plaintiff
to purchase or use the products, leading to his injuries. (SAC ¶¶ 1227-1233.) This
sufficiently demonstrates fraudulent concealment for pleading purposes. The
only defect, as discussed above, is Plaintiff’s failure to specify the products
at issue.  
c.
Uncertainty
A demurrer for uncertainty is disfavored
and is only granted “if the pleading is so incomprehensible that a defendant
cannot reasonably respond.” (A.J. Fistes Corp. v. GDL Best Contractors, Inc.
(2019) 38 Cal.App.5th 677, 695.) A complaint does not need to be a “model of
clarity” to survive a demurrer because most ambiguities can be clarified
through discovery. (Ibid.)
            Defendant Prestwick argues that the
complaint is vague and unintelligible because it attributes the same misconduct
to 150+ defendants with few specific mentions of Prestwick. Defendant takes
issue with the complaint’s lack of detail regarding the specific products it
supposedly supplied to each of Plaintiff’s employers, and the specific dates of
each delivery. Defendant contends that the complaint fails to specify its
precise role, such as manufacturer, distributor, importer, etc.
            However, these are facts that may be
ascertained in discovery. That Plaintiff attributes the same misconduct to 150+
defendants does not mean he has failed to apprise Defendant Prestwick of the
nature of the claims. A demurrer is not concerned with the plausibility of the
allegations. So long as sufficient facts exist to state a claim, the complaint
survives. As discussed above, save for Plaintiff’s failure to identify the
specific products at issue, the SAC meets the heightened pleading requirements
of Bockrath. Thus, the complaint is not uncertain.        
II.
Motion to Strike
            a. Punitive Damages
            “In an action for the breach of an
obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and
convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages
for the sake of example and by way of punishing the defendant.” (Civ. Code, §
3294, subd. (a).) “‘Malice’ means conduct which is intended by the
defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is
carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others.” (Id., subd. (c)(1).) “‘Oppression’ means
despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” (Id., subd. (c)(2).) Fraud
is “intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact
known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of
thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing
injury.” (Id., subd. (c)(3).)
As discussed above, Plaintiff has failed
to allege facts satisfying the second requirement of Bockrath. Without
any underlying liability, Defendant has no liability for punitive damages.
Assuming, however, that Plaintiff remedies this defect, the complaint otherwise
alleges sufficient facts to support punitive damages. In particular, Plaintiff
alleges that Defendant knew of the hazardous nature of its products yet
concealed the nature and extent of such hazards. (SAC ¶¶ 1227-1233.) This
constitutes fraud and a conscious disregard for Plaintiff’s rights and safety. 
            b. History of Silicosis
            Defendant moves to strike paragraphs
185 to 266, which describe the history of artificial stone and silicosis. These
allegations are sufficiently related to the issues raised in the complaint and
need not be stricken.  
CONCLUSION
            Defendant Prestwick Management
Corporation’s demurrer is SUSTAINED with leave to amend to allege the specific
products as required by Bockrath. The motion to strike is GRANTED as to
punitive damages with leave to amend and DENIED as to the historical facts. 
 