 Case Number:  24STCV03726    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
JOSEPH KIRIKIAN,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
BACON FAMILY TRUST, et
  al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  24STCV03726
  Hearing Date:  September 25, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendants bacon family trust’s and
  kevin bacon’s demurrer to first amended complaint 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On February 13, 2024, Plaintiff
Joseph Kirikian filed this action against Defendants Bacon Family Trust, Kevin
Bacon, Dirt Beauty, and Patricia Foulkrod. Plaintiff filed the operative First
Amended Complaint on May 31, 2024, asserting causes of action for (1)
negligence and (2) premises liability. 
            The complaint stems from injuries
Plaintiff sustained from a fall while working at a home located in Los Angeles.
Defendants allegedly owned, managed, or maintained the premises and retained
control over the safety conditions of the worksite. 
            On August 2, 2024, Defendants Bacon
Family Trust and Kevin Bacon filed the instant demurrer to the FAC. Plaintiff
filed his opposition on September 12, 2024. Defendants filed their reply on
September 18, 2024. 
LEGAL STANDARD
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether a
pleading states a cause of action or defense. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in
context. (Taylor v. City of Los
Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.)
In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the
pleading or by proper judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd.
(a).) A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other
extrinsic matters. (SKF Farms v. Superior
Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) Therefore, it lies only where the
defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (Ibid.) The only issue involved in a
demurrer hearing is whether the pleading, as it stands, unconnected with
extraneous matters, states a cause of action or defense. (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.)
MEET AND CONFER
Before filing a demurrer or a motion to
strike, the demurring or moving party is required to meet and confer with the
party who filed the pleading demurred to or the pleading that is subject to the
motion to strike for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be
reached through a filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the
objections to be raised in the demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.41, 435.5.)
The Court notes that Defendants have complied with the meet and confer
requirement. (See Hernandez Decl.)
DISCUSSION
            Defendants’ demurrer is structured
as follows: (i) the entire complaint is barred by Privette v. Superior Court
(1993) 5 Cal.4th 689; (ii) the control exception in Hooker v. Department of
Transportation (2002) 27 Cal.4th 198 does not apply; and (iii) the
concealed hazard exception in Kinsman v. Unocal Corp. (2005) 37 Cal.4th
659 does not apply. 
I.
The General Rule
            The court in Privette acknowledged
that “[a]t common law, a person who hired an independent contractor generally
was not liable to third parties for injuries caused by the contractor's
negligence in performing the work.” (Privette, supra, 5 Cal.4th at p.
693.) “The reasoning was that the work performed was the enterprise of the
contractor, who, as a matter of business convenience, would be better able than
the person employing the contractor to absorb accident losses incurred in the
course of the contracted work.” (Ibid.) However, Privette also
acknowledged that “[o]ver time, the courts have, for policy reasons, created so
many exceptions to this general rule of nonliability that the rule is now
primarily important as a preamble to the catalog of its exceptions.” (Ibid.,
internal citations omitted.) 
            Privette analyzed whether the
peculiar risk exception could be applied to the employees of an independent
contractor. (Privette, supra, 5 Cal.4th at p. 691.) The court held that
the exception did not extend to a contractor’s employees injured by the
contractor’s negligence, because worker’s compensation was available to provide
the remedy. (Id. at pp. 692, 702.) In such a case, there is no reason to
impose liability on the innocent person who hired the contractor. (Ibid.)

            The court in Sandoval v. Qualcomm
Incorporated (2021) 12 Cal.5th 256, 269 reaffirmed the general rule by
stating that “[w]hen a person or organization hires an independent contractor,
the hirer presumptively delegates to the contractor the responsibility to do
the work safely.” The court in Sandoval agreed with the principles
expressed in Privette: “first, that independent contractors by
definition ordinarily control the manner of their own work; and second, that
hirers typically hire independent contractors precisely for their greater
ability to perform the contracted work safely and successfully.” (Ibid.)

The court in Sandoval held that
liability did not attach to a company that hired the contractor, owned the
premises, and even operated the electrical equipment that injured the
contractor’s employee. (Sandoval, supra, 12 Cal.5th at p. 264.) The
court also rejected the concealed hazard and control exceptions when it
found that the defendant “neither failed to sufficiently disclose that hazard
under Kinsman nor affirmatively contributed to the injury
under Hooker.” (Id. at p. 265.)    
            In this case, Plaintiff does not
dispute being an independent contractor. (See Def.’s RJN, Ex. 1, 2.) Thus, the
general rule of hirer immunity enumerated in Privette and Sandoval
applies. Plaintiff argues that Privette does not apply because he is
exempt from worker’s compensation as a sole proprietor. (See FAC ¶ 12.)
However, Privette discussed worker’s compensation in the context of
determining the applicability of the peculiar risk exception. That exception is
not at issue here. Privette does not stand for the proposition that hirer
immunity only applies when worker’s compensation is available.  
            The absence of worker’s compensation
does not detract from the principles underlying hirer immunity, i.e., a
contractor controls their own work and is better positioned to ensure the
safety of the work. Thus, Sandoval clarified that “[o]ver time, we've
recast our primary rationale for the Privette doctrine in
terms of delegation rather than workers' compensation. Because we typically
expect contractors to perform the contracted work more safely than hirers, we
have endorsed a ‘strong policy’ of presuming that a hirer delegates all control
over the contracted work, and with it all concomitant tort duties, by
entrusting work to a contractor.” (Sandoval, supra, 12 Cal.5th at p.
270.) The court then concluded that “even where workers' compensation is not
available, we have refused to let an independent contractor personally sue a
hirer under a vicarious liability theory, reasoning that society can readily
expect a competent contractor to have both good reason and knowledge to
exercise responsibility over the contractor's own personal safety.” (Id.
at pp. 270-71, citing Tverberg v. Fillner Construction, Inc. (2010) 49
Cal.4th 518, 521.) 
In sum, the rule of Privette
applies even if Plaintiff lacks worker’s compensation. The viability of the
claims therefore hinges on the exceptions.  

II.
Control Exception
            “[A] hirer of an independent
contractor is not liable to an employee of the contractor merely because the
hirer retained control over safety conditions at a worksite, but . . . a hirer
is liable to an employee of a contractor insofar as a hirer's exercise of
retained control affirmatively contributed to the employee's injuries.” (Hooker
v. Department of Transportation (2002) 27 Cal.4th 198, 202, emphasis in
original.) “A hirer ‘retains control’ where it retains a sufficient degree of
authority over the manner of performance of the work entrusted to the
contractor.” (Sandoval, supra, 12 Cal.5th at p. 274.) This means that “the
hirer's exercise of that authority would sufficiently limit the contractor's
freedom to perform the contracted work in the contractor's own manner.” (Id.
at p. 275.) “‘Affirmative contribution’ means that the hirer's exercise of
retained control contributes to the injury in a way that isn't merely
derivative of the contractor's contribution to the injury.” (Id. at p.
277.) 
            This analysis involves factual
inquiries unsuited for a demurrer. Indeed, both Hooker and Sandoval
were decided on summary judgment. For pleading purposes, Plaintiff has
sufficiently alleged that “Defendants, each of them[1],
retained control over the safety conditions of the worksite as each of them
directly instructed Plaintiff to use a ladder, placed by Defendants, to access
and remain in the area above the retaining wall, including the wooden platform
– affirmatively controlling the means and methods of completing his
landscaping/irrigation work.” (FAC ¶ 25.) 
            It cannot be determined from the
pleadings alone whether Defendants exercised the requisite degree of control by
instructing Plaintiff to use the ladder to access the retaining wall and wooden
platform. The fact that Defendant Bacon was not present at the premises at the
time of injury does not mean he did not exercise control as a matter of law.
First, Bacon’s location at the time of the incident is an extrinsic fact beyond
the pleadings. Second, Defendants cite no authority for the proposition that
control can only be exercised if the hirer/owner is physically present at the
time of injury. For pleading purposes, a specific instruction to use the ladder
to climb the retaining wall may be considered an exercise of authority which
limited Plaintiff’s ability to perform the work in his own manner.     
Lastly, Defendants argue that the
instruction to use the ladder did not affirmatively contribute to Plaintiff’s
injury because Plaintiff did not fall off the ladder. However, Plaintiff was
not only instructed to use the ladder; he was instructed to use the ladder to
access a retaining wall with a wooden platform that had no guardrails, and he
slipped on the wooden platform and fell. (FAC ¶¶ 15, 18-19.) This supports a
reasonable inference that Defendants affirmatively contributed to Plaintiff’s
injury. The issue cannot to be decided on the pleadings. 
In sum, Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged
facts to support the control exception, thus taking the case out of the Privette
rule, at least for pleading purposes. 
III.
Concealed Hazard Exception
            “[T]he hirer as landowner may be
independently liable to the contractor's employee, even if it does not retain
control over the work, if: (1) it knows or reasonably should know of a
concealed, preexisting hazardous condition on its premises; (2) the contractor
does not know and could not reasonably ascertain the condition; and (3) the
landowner fails to warn the contractor.” (Kinsman v. Unocal Corp. (2005)
37 Cal.4th 659, 675.) 
            Here, Plaintiff alleges that “Defendants,
including the landowner, knew or should have known that the recent rain would
penetrate the soil on the hillside, creating the potential for water run-off
and mud to cover the small wooden platform which was allowed to exist with no
temporary protective railings, creating a concealed hazard for plaintiff or
anyone else accessing the platform and took no action to warn of the hidden
condition.” (FAC ¶ 20.) Plaintiff alleges that the mud was not visible to him
and that he was not given any warnings about the hazard. (Id., ¶¶ 18,
21.) 
            Defendants argue that: (i) if the
mud was concealed from Plaintiff, it must have been concealed from Defendants
as well, or if the mud was visible to Defendants, then it would have been
visible to Plaintiff as well; (ii) the lack of guardrails was clearly visible;
(iii) Defendant Bacon could not have known of the hazards; and (iv) Plaintiff
was required to inspect the worksite, which would have revealed the dangerous
condition. 
These are all factual contentions unsuited
for a demurrer. Plaintiff has alleged that Defendants knew of the dangerous
condition, which consisted not only of mud on the platform or a lack of
guardrails, but the fact that rain would penetrate the soil and create runoff.
Plaintiff has alleged that Defendants, including Defendant Bacon, were aware of
this dangerous condition but Plaintiff was not. For pleading purposes, these
are allegations of ultimate fact which must be assumed true. Whether the
hazards were sufficiently concealed or whether a reasonable inspection by
Plaintiff would have revealed the dangerous conditions are factual questions
not properly resolved on a demurrer.   
            In sum, Plaintiff has pled
sufficient facts to establish the concealed hazard exception. Because Plaintiff
has adequately pled at least one exception to the Privette rule, the
claims survive demurrer. 
CONCLUSION
            Defendant Bacon Family Trust’s and
Kevin Bacon’s demurrer is OVERRULED. 
 
 


