  Case Number:  20STCP01747    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
FRANKLIN ARMORY, INC.,
  et al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE, et
  al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  20STCP01747
  Hearing Date:  September 25, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
plaintiff’s motion to tax costs  




 


 



BACKGROUND
            This action was initially filed on
May 27, 2020. The case was initially assigned to Judge James Chalfant in
Department 85. The operative Second Amended Complaint (SAC) was filed on
February 17, 2021. The SAC is filed by Plaintiffs Franklin Armory, Inc. (FAI)
and California Rifle & Pistol Association (CPRA) against Defendants
California Department of Justice (DOJ) and Xavier Becerra (Becerra). 
            FAI is a federally-licensed firearms
manufacturer that manufactures a series of firearms which are neither “rifles,”
“pistols,” nor “shotguns” as defined by California law. (SAC ¶ 2.) FAI
designates these firearms as “Title I” firearms. (Ibid.) Licensed
firearm dealers in California are required to submit all background checks to
DOJ through the Dealer Record of Sale Entry System (DES). (Id., ¶ 49.)
The online DES submission form requires the user to input several pieces of
information, among which is the type of firearm being exchanged. (Id., ¶
58.) The DES form only allows the user to select “long gun” or “handgun,” and
within the “long gun” category, the only options are “rifle,” “rifle/shotgun,”
or “shotgun.” (Ibid.) However, FAI’s Title I firearms are neither
rifles, pistols, nor shotguns. (Id., ¶ 2.) The dropdown menu does not
provide a catchall option for “other” types of firearms. (Id., ¶ 58.)
Plaintiffs allege that this prevents firearms dealers from submitting the
required information for the transfer of certain types of firearms and thereby
acts as a technological barrier to the lawful sale of firearms. (Id., ¶¶
6, 58.) This has resulted in lost profits from the sale of Title I guns. (Id.,
¶¶ 138, 147, 150, 159, 161.) CPRA is a nonprofit organization of members who
wish to purchase firearms with undefined subtypes, such as Title Is, but could
not because of the restrictions in the DES system. (Id., ¶ 6.)  
            Defendants allegedly carried out
this scheme to delay the lawful transfer of Title I firearms until the
Legislature could pass a law that made Title I firearms illegal. (SAC ¶ 109.)
Indeed, SB 118 was passed on August 6, 2020, designating the Title I centerfire
firearm as a banned “assault weapon.” (Id., ¶ 112.) SB 118 allows
individuals already in possession of a banned assault weapon prior to September
1, 2020 to keep the firearm, under the condition that the firearm is properly
registered. (Id., ¶ 113.) However, Defendants’ actions prevented those
who placed deposits prior to September 1, 2020 from ever acquiring Title I
centerfire firearms, thus allegedly depriving those individuals of their due
process, Second Amendment, and property rights. (Id. at ¶¶
113-114.)       
            The SAC asserts the following causes
of action: (1) declaratory and injunctive relief; (2) petition for writ of
mandate; (3) tortious inference with contractual relations; (4) tortious
interference with prospective economic advantage; (5) negligent interference
with prospective economic advantage; (6) violation of procedural due process;
(7) violation of substantive due process; (8) declaratory and injunctive
relief; and (9) violation of public policy.
            The DES system was overhauled in
October 2021, resulting in the addition of a “other” category. Accordingly, on
January 27, 2022, Judge Chalfant granted Defendants’ motion to dismiss the
first, second, and eighth causes of action. Judge Chalfant subsequently ordered
the case transferred to Department 1 for reassignment, whereafter the case was
assigned to this department. 
On September 7, 2023, this Court granted
Defendants’ motion for judgment on the pleadings as to the sixth, seventh, and
ninth causes of action. On July 11, 2024, the Court granted Defendants’ motion
for summary judgment as to the remaining causes of action. Judgment was entered
on July 12, 2024, wherein Plaintiff was to take nothing against Defendants, and
Defendants were awarded costs under Code of Civil Procedure sections 1032 and
1033.5.   
On July 24, 2024, Defendants filed a
memorandum of costs totaling $12,137.59. 
On August 20, 2024, FAI filed the instant
motion to tax costs. Defendants filed their opposition on September 12, 2024. FAI
filed its reply on September 18, 2024.
LEGAL STANDARD
“Except as otherwise expressly provided by
statute, a prevailing party is entitled as a matter of right to recover costs
in any action or proceeding.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1032(b).) “[U]nless the
context clearly requires otherwise . . . ‘[p]revailing party’ includes the
party with a net monetary recovery, a defendant in whose favor a dismissal is
entered, a defendant where neither plaintiff nor defendant obtains any relief,
and a defendant as against those plaintiffs who do not recover any relief
against that defendant.” (Id., § 1032(a)(4).)   
            One context providing otherwise is
where “the lawsuit was the catalyst motivating the defendants to modify their
behavior or the plaintiff achieved the primary relief sought.” (Donald v.
Cafe Royale, Inc. (1990) 218 Cal.App.3d 168, 185.) “[T]he catalyst theory
pertains to whether a party prevailed in a manner outside the specific
definitions in Code of Civil Procedure section 1032, subdivision (a)(4).” (Mundy
v. Neal (2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 256, 260.) Thus, “a plaintiff need not
obtain a judgment in its favor to be a ‘successful party.’” (Hogar Dulce
Hogar v. Community Development Com. of City of Escondido (2007) 157
Cal.App.4th 1358, 1365.) 
            To prevail under the catalyst
theory, “a plaintiff must establish that (1) the lawsuit was a catalyst
motivating the defendants to provide the primary relief sought; (2) that the
lawsuit had merit and achieved its catalytic effect by threat of victory, not
by dint of nuisance and threat of expense . . .; and (3) that the plaintiffs
reasonably attempted to settle the litigation prior to filing the lawsuit.” (Tipton-Whittingham
v. City of Los Angeles (2004) 34 Cal.4th 604, 608.) 
However, a lawsuit is not a catalyst for
government action if it “merely caus[es] the acceleration of the issuance of
government regulations or remedial measures, when the process of issuing those
regulations or undertaking those measures was ongoing at the time the
litigation was filed.” (Tipton-Whittingham, supra, 34 Cal.4th at p.
609.) “When a government agency is given discretion as to the timing of
performing some action, the fact that a lawsuit may accelerate that performance
does not by itself establish eligibility for” recovery under the catalyst
theory. (Ibid.) “[W]hen a government agency is clearly given discretion
to choose among a number of courses of action, the fact that it chooses to
exercise its discretion in a manner favorable to a plaintiff in a lawsuit filed
against it does not mean that its actions were required by law.” (Ibid.)

DISCUSSION
I.
Prevailing Party
Defendants are the prevailing parties
under the traditional definitions set forth in Code of Civil Procedure section
1032(a)(4). Namely, judgment was entered in Defendants’ favor whereby FAI was
to take nothing from Defendants. However, the catalyst theory presents an
exception to the general rule, whereby a plaintiff may be considered the
prevailing party outside the statutory definitions. (Mundy, supra, 186
Cal.App.4th at p. 260.)  
FAI moves to strike Defendants’ memorandum
of costs on the grounds that Defendants are not the prevailing parties. FAI
argues that it prevailed under the catalyst theory because Defendants added a
“other” option to the DES after the lawsuit was filed. However, FAI fails to
show that “the lawsuit had merit,” as required to prevail under the catalyst
theory. (See Tipton-Whittingham, supra, 34 Cal.4th at p. 608.) To the
contrary, the Court found on summary judgment that Defendants were immune from
liability under the Government Code.[1] In
particular, the Court found that there was no mandatory duty to amend the DES
and that operating the DES was a discretionary function. A lawsuit is not a
catalyst for government action if “a government agency is given discretion as
to the timing of performing some action” or “a government agency is clearly
given discretion to choose among a number of courses of action.” (Id. at
p. 609.) This was precisely the case here. Under these circumstances, the fact
that Defendants took an action favorable to FAI after the lawsuit was filed is
not sufficient to trigger the catalyst theory. (Ibid.) 
Graham v. DaimlerChrysler Corp. (2004) 34 Cal.4th
553 is distinguishable because in that case, the trial court had substantial
evidence “to conclude that the lawsuit was in fact a substantial causal factor
in DaimlerChrysler's change in policy.” (Id. at p. 577.) Here, the
record shows the opposite, i.e., that Defendants had discretion in
operating the DES and were not obligated to make a particular change within a
particular timeframe. Graham involved a private actor defendant and does
not detract from the holding in Tipton-Whittingham that a lawsuit cannot
be the catalyst for a discretionary government action not mandated by law. 
As FAI acknowledges, the catalyst theory
addresses situations where a plaintiff’s lawsuit is mooted because the
defendant voluntarily changed its behavior in response to the lawsuit. In such
situations, the plaintiff may be considered the prevailing party because it
achieved its litigation objectives despite not obtaining a judgment in its
favor. But that is not what occurred here. Instead, this case was litigated to
conclusion, resulting in a dispositive motion involving adverse findings
against FAI. That, in turn, led to a judgment for Defendants against FAI. On
this record, FAI cannot establish that its claims had merit or that its lawsuit
was a catalyst for Defendants’ actions. 
Because FAI fails to establish that its
lawsuit had merit, and because the lawsuit did not compel Defendants to take
any action mandated by law, the lawsuit cannot be considered the catalyst for
Defendants’ changes to the DES. Thus, FAI is not the prevailing party under the
catalyst theory. Moreover, the judgment in this case already found Defendants
to be the prevailing parties and awarded them costs. (See July 12, 2024
Judgment [“IT IS ORDERED, ADJUDGED AND DECREED that plaintiff take nothing as
against defendants. Defendants shall recover from plaintiff costs of suit,
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure sections 1032 and 1033.5”].) FAI has
appealed this judgment, but under the judgment currently on record, Defendants
are the prevailing parties. Thus, there is no basis to strike Defendants’
costs. 
II.
Stay
            FAI alternatively requests a stay of
the Court’s judgment pending the appeal. However, the proceedings, including
enforcement of the judgment, are automatically stayed upon the perfecting of an
appeal. (Code Civ. Proc., § 916(a).) An undertaking is not required to stay a
judgment solely for costs awarded under section 1021 et seq. (Id.,
§ 917.1(d).) Because the judgment is automatically stayed without the need for
an undertaking, FAI’s request for a stay is moot.
CONCLUSION
            Plaintiff FAI’s motion to tax costs
is DENIED. 


