 Case Number:  24STCV11549    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
PEDRO HUINAC,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
HYUNDAI MOTOR AMERICA, 
                        Defendant.
  


 
  Case No.:  24STCV11549
  Hearing Date:  September 25, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendant’s motion to disqualify
  plaintiff’s counsel 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On May 8, 2024, Plaintiff Pedro
Huinac filed this action against Defendant Hyundai Motor America (HMA),
alleging breach of express and implied warranties under the Song-Beverly Act. 
            On August 20, 2024, Defendant filed
the instant motion to disqualify Logan Hensley, an associate attorney with
Plaintiff’s counsel, Drake Law Firm. Plaintiff filed his opposition on
September 12, 2024. Defendant filed its reply on September 18, 2024.
LEGAL STANDARD
“A trial court's authority to disqualify
an attorney derives from its inherent power to ‘control in furtherance of
justice, the conduct of its ministerial officers, and of all other persons in
any manner connected with a judicial proceeding before it, in every matter
pertaining thereto.’” (Clark v. Superior Court (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th
37, 47, quoting Code Civ. Proc., § 128(a)(5).) “An attorney is required to
avoid the representation of adverse interests and cannot, without the informed
written consent of the client or former client, accept employment adverse to
the client or former client where, by reason of the representation of the
client or former client, the member has obtained confidential information
material to the employment. (Rules Prof. Conduct, rule 3-310(E).)” (Jessen
v. Hartford Casualty Ins. Co. (2003) 111 Cal.App.4th 698, 705.) 
“[W]hether an attorney should be
disqualified in a successive representation case turns on two variables: (1)
the relationship between the legal problem involved in the former
representation and the legal problem involved in the current
representation, and (2) the relationship between the attorney and the former
client with respect to the legal problem involved in the former representation.”
(Jessen, supra, 111 Cal.App.4th at p. 709.) 
DISCUSSION
I.
Substantial Relationship 
            “The substantial relationship test
requires comparison not only of the legal issues involved in successive
representations, but also of evidence bearing on the materiality of the
information the attorney received during the earlier representation.” (Khani
v. Ford Motor Co. (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 916, 921.) “The attorney's
acquisition of general information about the former client's overall structure
and practices would not of itself require disqualification unless it were found
to be material—i.e., directly in issue or of critical importance—in the second
representation. The same is true about information such as the first
client's litigation philosophy or key decision makers.” (Ibid.,
citing Farris v. Fireman's Fund Ins. Co. (2004) 119 Cal.App.4th 671,
680.) 
            Logan Hensley represented Defendant
HMA in Song-Beverly cases while working for RoseWaldorf LLP from December 2022
to May 2024. (Yasuzawa Decl. ¶¶ 3-5.) According to RoseWaldorf, Mr. Hensley was
exposed to “HMA’s defenses and strategies of various cases” and “received
extensive and almost constant training regarding HMA’s litigation strategies
and the manner in which those litigation strategies were developed and
implemented.” (Id., ¶¶ 7-9.) “Mr. Hensley was also responsible for
drafting responses to discovery and reviewing and determining which HMA
documents were responsive and discoverable such that they should be produced at
a particular Person Most Knowledgeable deposition or in response to discovery.”
(Id., ¶ 10.) 
            Khani is informative on
whether this is sufficient to warrant disqualification. In Khani, Ford
similarly moved to disqualify the plaintiff’s counsel, Payam Shahian, due to
Shahian’s prior representation of Ford in lemon law cases. (Khani, supra,
215 Cal.App.4th at p. 919.) Ford similarly argued that Shahian “was ‘privy to
confidential client communications and information relating to the defense of’
such cases, as well as to ‘pre-litigation strategies, tactics, and case
handling procedures.’” (Ibid.) The Court of Appeal rejected Ford’s
argument because “[w]hile Ford presented evidence that Shahian represented it
in California lemon law cases, it did not establish that any confidential
information about the defense in those cases would be at issue in this case.” (Id.
at p. 922.) “The trial court abused its discretion in concluding that the prior
cases were substantially related to the current case just because they involved
claims under the same statute.” (Ibid.) “The court also incorrectly
assumed that Shahian's exposure to playbook information in prior lemon law
cases was sufficient to disqualify him in this case without any showing of its
materiality.” (Ibid.)          
Here, HMA has similarly failed to show
that Mr. Hensley gained confidential information from his prior participation
in HMA cases that is material to the current representation of Plaintiff
Huinac. RoseWaldorf’s vague reference to “litigation strategies” is
insufficient to warrant disqualification under Khani. (See Khani,
supra, 215 Cal.App.4th at p. 922 [“Ford's bare-bones evidence in this case
is insufficient to establish that Shahian's previous representation of Ford in
California lemon law cases exposed him to confidential information that would
be material to his current representation of Khani”].) As in Khani,
there is no indication that the subject vehicle in this case or its repair
history were the subject of any prior action in which Mr. Hensley represented
HMA. (Ibid.) 
Because HMA has failed to demonstrate a
substantial relationship between the prior and current representations under
the standards set forth in Jessen and Khani, there is no basis
for disqualification. 
II.
Screening
            In any event, proper screening of
Mr. Hensley would allow Drake Law Firm to represent Plaintiff even if Mr.
Hensley were found to have a conflict. (See Cal. Rules of Prof’l Conduct, Rule
1.10(a)(2).) Mr. Hensley has been blocked from accessing any casefiles
involving HMA, cannot receive communications discussing HMA, and other
employees have been instructed not to discuss cases involving HMA with Mr.
Hensley. (Serrano Decl. ¶¶ 9-11.) HMA’s counsel has been notified of these
screening procedures. (Id., Ex. A, B.) 
The Court finds that Drake Law Firm has
satisfied the requirements of Rule 1.10(a)(2). Because Mr. Hensley has been
properly screened from cases involving HMA, the conflict (if it exists) is not
imputed to Drake Law Firm. Accordingly, Drake Law Firm may continue to
represent Plaintiff even if Mr. Hensley cannot. 
CONCLUSION
            Defendant’s motion to disqualify
counsel is DENIED. 