 Case Number:  23NWCV03474    Hearing Date:   November 7, 2024    Dept:  C ESCALANTE v. RIVERA SANATARIUM, INC. 
CASE NO.:  23NWCV03474
HEARING:  11/07/24 

 
#6
 
Defendants’ RIVERA
SANATARIUM, INC. and KENT STEPHENS’ Motion to Compel Arbitration and Motion for
Stay are DENIED. 
 
Opposing Party to
give notice. 
 
This elder
abuse/wrongful death action was filed by Plaintiff TERESA ESCALANTE, by and
through her Successor in Interest, Maria Torres; and Plaintiff MARIA TORRESS,
individually against Defendants RIVERA SANATARIUM dba Colonial Gardens Nursing
Home; KENT STEPHENS; JOSE ESCALANTE; and RAYMUNDO ESCALANTE on October 27,
2023. 
 
The operative
Complaint alleges that “ESCALANTE was, at all relevant times, over the age of
65, and thus was an elder pursuant to Welfare and Institutions Code section
15610.27. ESCALANTE passed away as a result of her injuries caused by the abuse
and neglect alleged more fully herein on July 25, 2023. Accordingly, ESCALANTE
brings this action by and through her Successor in Interest, Maria Torres.”
(Complaint ¶1.) 
 
The Complaint
asserts the following causes of action:
 
(1)
Elder
Abuse and Neglect; 
(2)
Violation
of Residents’ Bill of Rights; 
(3)
Negligence;

(4)
Wrongful
Death 
 
On June 7, 2024,
Defendants RIVERA SANATARIUM and KENT STEPHENS (collectively “Moving
Defendants”) filed the subject Motion to Compel Arbitration and Motion for Stay
on the following grounds: (1) there is a written agreement between Decedent and
Colonial Gardens providing for arbitration of all disputes arising out of or
relating to Decedent’s Colonial Gardens admission; and (2) Colonial Gardens
requested Plaintiffs comply with the Arbitration Agreement, but they declined
to do so. 
 
In Opposition,
Plaintiffs argue: (1) Defendants waived their right to arbitration by
unreasonably delaying their demand for arbitration and engaging in conduct
inconsistent with the right to arbitrate; (2) Maria Torres cannot be bound to
arbitrate her wrongful death claim because she is not clearly identified as a
party to the arbitration agreement, and she did not sign the Agreement in her
individual capacity; (3) the Arbitration Agreement is substantively and
procedurally unconscionable; and (4) because Plaintiffs’ second cause of action
cannot be arbitrated, there is a significant risk of conflicting rulings, and
therefore, Defendants’ Motion should be denied. 
 
Whether
Defendants Acted Inconsistently with the Right to Arbitrate
 
In Opposition,
Plaintiffs argue that Defendants waived their right to arbitration by delaying
their Demand for Arbitrational and engaging in conduct inconsistent with the
right to arbitrate because Defendants waited seven months after the Complaint
was filed to file their Motion to Compel Arbitration and propounded discovery. 
 
“Although participation in
litigation of an arbitrable claim does not itself waive a party's right later
to seek arbitration, at some point, litigation of the issues in dispute
justifies a finding of waiver. [Citation.] The relevant factors establishing waiver
include whether the  party's actions are
inconsistent with the right to arbitrate; whether the litigation machinery has
been substantially invoked and the parties were well into preparation of a
lawsuit before the party notified the opposing party of an intent to arbitrate;
whether a party delayed for a long period before seeking a stay; whether
important intervening steps (e.g., taking advantage of judicial discovery
procedures not available in arbitration) had taken place; and whether the delay
affected, misled, or prejudiced the opposing party. (St. Agnes
Medical Center (2003) 31 Cal.4th 1187, 1196; Wagner Construction
Co. v. Pacific Mechanical Corp. (2007) 41 Cal.4th 19, 30–31; Zamora v.
Lehman (2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 1, 13–15; Roberts v. El Cajon Motors,
Inc. (2011) 200 Cal.App.4th 832, 841.)” (Hoover v. American Income Life
Ins. Co. (2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 1193, 1204.)
 
The Court does not find that
Defendants waived their right to arbitration or that they “substantially invoked”
the “litigation machinery” before the Motion to Compel Arbitration was filed.
Defendants Answer, filed on January 5, 2024, includes Defendants thirty-second
affirmative defense of “Lack of Subject Matter Jurisdiction pursuant to
Existence of a Valid Arbitration Agreement”. (Answer p. 7:26-8:2.) Moreover,
this Court does not find that Defendants delayed for a “long period” before
seeking a stay.  The Court does not
consider seven months to be an unreasonably long period of time. Lastly,
propounding one set of discovery and the deposition subpoena of the custodian
of records does not qualify as substantially participating in this litigation. 
 
The Court finds that Defendants
did not act inconsistently with the right to arbitrate. 
 
 
Existence of
Agreement to Arbitrate
 
The petitioner bears
the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by the
preponderance of the evidence, and a party opposing the petition bears the
burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence any fact necessary to its
defense. In these summary proceedings, the trial court sits as a trier of fact,
weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other documentary evidence, as
well as oral testimony received at the court’s discretion, to reach a final
determination. (Engalia v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15
Cal.4th 951.) 
 
“The FAA…preempts
any state rule discriminating on its face against arbitration… [and] also
displaces any rule that covertly accomplishes the same objective by disfavoring
contracts that (oh so coincidentally) have the defining features of arbitration
agreements.” (Kindred Nursing Centers Ltd. Partnership v. Clark (2017)
137 S.Ct. 1421, 1426.) “But a court may ‘invalidate an arbitration agreement
based on ‘generally applicable contract defenses’ without violating the FAA, so
long as it does not apply a generally applicable defense ‘in a fashion that
disfavors arbitration.’ [Citation Omitted.]” (Garcia v. KND Development 52,
LLC (2020) 58 Cal.App.5th 736, 744.) “[T]he Supreme Court has recognized
that the FAA does not preempt generally applicable state law conditioning the
validity of an arbitration agreement executed by a purported agent—like any
other contract executed by a purported agent—on an adequate evidentiary showing
that the agreement falls within the scope of authority, if any, conferred by
the principal.” (Id. at 476.) 
 
In support of the instant Motion, Defendants
have submitted an Agreement to arbitrate the disputes at issue in this action. (Defendants’
Ex. 1.) The Agreement was executed by Plaintiff Maria Torres, as the
representative and agent of her mother, Plaintiff Teresa Escalante (“Decedent”).
It is undisputed that the Decedent executed a valid general power of attorney
(“POA”). (Defendants’ Ex. 2.) The POA appointed Maria Torres to act as the
Decedent’s agent with respect to matters including: maintaining and closing
bank accounts; providing support and protection for Decedent, her spouse, and
any minor children; property transactions; debts; entering into binding
contracts on Decedent’s behalf; maintaining businesses Decedents might own;
employing professional and business assistance; preparing, signing, and filing
documents with governmental bodies and agencies; making gifts; transferring
assets; funding trusts; creating, signing, modifying, or revoking trust
agreements; exercising fiduciary responsibilities; disclaiming interests; and
having access to healthcare and medical records and statements in regards to
billing insurance and payments. . (Defendants’ Ex. 2.) 
 
The Court declines
to enforce the Arbitration Agreement. In support of the Motion, Defendants
submit Plaintiffs’ General Power of Attorney, which gives Maria Torres “the
powers to manage, dispose of, sell and convey… real and personal property, and
to use… property as security if [agent] borrows money on [Decedent’s] behalf….”
(Defendants Ex. 2.) It does authorize Maria Torres to “[p]rovide for the
support and protection of myself … including, without limitation, provision for
food, lodging, housing, medical services, recreation and travel”
(italics added). However, the General Power of Attorney did not confer upon
Maria Torres the power to make healthcare decisions for the Decedent. 
 
In cases discussing
whether a power of attorney was sufficient to confer the power to enter an
arbitration agreement in connection with admission to a health care facility,
the power of attorney was a health care power of attorney. (See Garrison v.
Sup. Ct. (2005) 132 Cal.App.4th 253, 266; Hogan v. Country Villa Health
Services (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 259, 268.) In Garrison and Hogan,
the execution of an arbitration agreement in connection with admission to a
health care facility was determined to be a part of the health care decision
making process, for which there was a health care power of attorney. Here, Section 5 of the POA states that Maria Torres has the authority
to “[e]nter into binding contracts on [Decedent’s] behalf.” (Defendants’ Ex.
2.) Section 18 gives Maria Torres “access to [Decedent’s] healthcare and
medical records and statements in regards to billing insurance and payments.”
(Id.)  However, the General Power of
Attorney at issue does not confer upon Maria Torres the power to make health
care decisions—only the power to make financial management decisions.  The Court notes Exhibit 2 includes a “Notice
to Person Accepting the Appointment as Attorney-in-Fact” which describes the
responsibilities of an attorney-in-fact. 
One such responsibility is to “[t]o cooperate with the principal’s Agent
for health care decisions, should the principal appoint such an agent, in
making decisions in accordance with the principal’s desires or in the best
interest of the principle [sic] if the principal’s wishes are not known.” Thus,
the documents attached to the General Power of Attorney draw a distinction
between the General Power of Attorney and an Agent for health care
decisions.  
 
Maria Torres executed the Arbitration
Agreement while making health care decisions on behalf of the Decedent.  However, the General Power of Attorney did
not confer Maria Torres with the authority to make health care decisions on
behalf of her mother, which includes admission to the subject facility and
entering into the Arbitration Agreement at issue. 
 
The Motion to Compel
Arbitration is DENIED. Defendants fail to meet their burden of proving the
existence of a valid arbitration agreement. 
 