 Case Number:  22NWCV01649    Hearing Date:   November 7, 2024    Dept:  C SANTOS v. SPRINGER
CASE
NO.:  22NWCV01649
HEARING: 
11/07/24
 
#1
 
    
I.       
Defendants’
unopposed Motion to Compel Plaintiff GABRIEL HERRARTE’s Responses to Form Interrogatories
(set one) is GRANTED.

   
II.       
Defendants’
unopposed Motion to Compel Plaintiff GABRIEL HERRARTE’s Responses to Request
for Production of Documents (set one) is GRANTED.
 
III.       
Defendants’
unopposed Motion to Compel Plaintiff RAIDER MUNIZ’s Responses to Form
Interrogatories (set one) is GRANTED.
 IV.       
Defendants’
unopposed Motion to Compel Plaintiff RAYLEENA MUNIZ’s Responses to Request for
Production of Documents (set one) is GRANTED.
  
V.       
Defendants’
unopposed Motion to Compel Plaintiff RAIDER MUNIZ’s Responses to Request for
Production of Documents (set one) is GRANTED.
 VI.       
Defendants’
unopposed Motion to Compel Plaintiff RAYLEENA MUNIZ’s Responses to Form
Interrogatories (set one) is GRANTED.
VII.       
Defendants’
unopposed Motion to Compel the Deposition of Plaintiff FARIBA SANTOS is GRANTED.

 
 
Moving
Party to give Notice. 
 
No
Oppositions filed as of November 5, 2024.  
 
Motions to
Compel Responses to Form Interrogatories and Request for Production of
Documents 
 
If a party
to whom interrogatories and document demands are directed fails to respond at
all, the propounding party’s remedy is to seek a court order compelling answers
thereto. (CCP §§ 2030.290, 2031.300.) All that needs to be shown is that the
discovery was properly served on the opposing party, that the time to respond
has expired, and that no response of any kind has been served. The moving party
is not required to show a reasonable and good faith attempt to resolve the
matter informally before filing this motion. A motion to compel initial
discovery responses need not show good cause, meeting and conferring, or timely
filing, and need not be accompanied by a separate statement. (See Sinaiko
Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pac. Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148
Cal.App.4th 390, 404.) The failure to timely respond also waives all
objections. 
 
Here, Defendants
have shown that Form Interrogatories (set one) and Request for Production of
Documents (set one) were properly served onto Plaintiffs on November 1, 2023. The
deadlines to respond have expired, and no responses of any kind have been
provided.  These Motions were filed April
11, 2024—about five months after service of the discovery. As of November 5,
2024, no Oppositions have been filed to the subject Motions. 
 
The unopposed
Motions to Compel are GRANTED.  Plaintiffs GABRIEL
HERRARTE; RAIDER MUNIZ; and RAYLEENA MUNIZ are ORDERED to provide verified responses and documents, without
objection by no later than 30 days from date of the Court’s issuance of this
Order. This date may be extended by stipulation of the parties. If any
objections are asserted, it will be tantamount to no response at all and will
be deemed a violation of this Court’s order. 
 
Reasonable
sanctions are GRANTED in the total amount of $1,200.00. ($200/hr. x 6 hrs.). Plaintiffs
GABRIEL HERRARTE; RAIDER MUNIZ; and RAYLEENA MUNIZ and their counsel of record
are jointly and severally ORDERED to pay Defendant and their counsel of record
sanctions in the total amount of $1,200.00, payable within 30 days from the
date of the Court’s issuance of this Order. 
 
Motion
to Compel Deposition 
 
Defendants
move to compel the deposition of Plaintiff FARIBA SANTOS. 
 
A party may
obtain discovery by taking oral depositions. (CCP §2025.010.) CCP §2025.450,
which governs motions to compel deposition, provides that “[i]f, after service
of a deposition notice, a party to the action…without having served a valid
objection under §2025.410, fails to appear for examination…the party giving the
notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance and
testimony.” (CCP §2025.450(a).) 
 
This Motion
is unopposed. 
 
The Court
finds that Defendants adequately complied with the meet and confer requirement.

 
The motion
is GRANTED. Defendants are entitled to take Plaintiff’s deposition, and
Plaintiff does not oppose being deposed. 
 
If [the]
motion is granted, the court shall impose a monetary sanction…in favor of the
party who noticed the deposition and against the deponent or the party with
whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to
the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances
make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (CCP §2025.450(g)(2).) 
 
Reasonable
sanctions are GRANTED in the total amount of $400.00. ($200/hr. x 2 hrs.). Plaintiff
FARIBA SANTOS and their counsel of record are jointly and severally ORDERED to
pay Defendant and their counsel of record sanctions in the total amount of
$400.00, payable within 30 days from the date of the Court’s issuance of this
Order. 
 