 Case Number:  22STCV04221    Hearing Date:   December 7, 2023    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows.  
BACKGROUND 
On
February 3, 2022, Plaintiff Juan Manzo (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against
Defendants Kenneth Josue Stepter (“Stepter”), Fair Financial Corp. (“Fair”),
and Does 1-60 for negligence. 
On
July 13, 2022, Fair filed an answer. On July 14, 2022, the Court dismissed Fair
without prejudice at Plaintiff’s request. 
On
September 29, 2022, Stepter filed an answer. 
On April
13, 2023, Plaintiff amended the complaint to include Defendant Viola Matthews (“Matthews”)
as Doe 1. 
On
October 11, 2023, Stepter filed a motion for determination of good faith settlement
to be heard on December 7, 2023.  No
opposition or motion to contest has been filed. 
On
November 3, 2023, the Court dismissed Matthews without prejudice at Plaintiff’s
request. 
No
trial date is currently scheduled. 
PARTY’S REQUEST 
Stepter
requests that the Court find the settlement was made in good faith. 
LEGAL STANDARD  
Code
of Civil Procedure section 877.6, subdivision (a)(2), states that “a settling
party may give notice of settlement to all parties and to the court, together
with an application for determination of good faith settlement and a proposed
order. The application shall indicate the settling parties, and the basis,
terms, and amount of the settlement. The notice, application, and proposed
order shall be given by certified mail, return receipt requested, or by
personal service. Proof of service shall be filed with the court. Within 25 days
of the mailing of the notice, application, and proposed order, or within 20
days of personal service, a nonsettling party may file a notice of motion to
contest the good faith of the settlement. If none of the nonsettling parties
files a motion within 25 days of mailing of the notice, application, and
proposed order, or within 20 days of personal service, the court may approve the
settlement. . . .” 
“The
issue of the good faith of a settlement may be determined by the court on the
basis of affidavits served with the notice of hearing, and any
counteraffidavits filed in response, or the court may, in its discretion,
receive other evidence at the hearing.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (b).)  
“The
party asserting the lack of good faith shall have the burden of proof on that
issue.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd.
(d).) 
          In Tech-Bilt, Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde &
Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, 499 (Tech-Bilt), the
California Supreme Court identified the following nonexclusive factors courts
must consider in determining if a settlement is in good faith under section
877.6: “a rough approximation of plaintiffs' total recovery and the settlor's
proportionate liability, the amount paid in settlement, the allocation of
settlement proceeds among plaintiffs, and a recognition that a settlor should
pay less in settlement than he would if he were found liable after a trial.
Other relevant considerations include the financial conditions and insurance
policy limits of settling defendants, as well as the existence of collusion,
fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to injure the interests of nonsettling
defendants.” 
The
evaluation of a settlement is “made on the basis of information available at
the time of settlement.”  (Tech-Bilt,
supra, 38 Cal.3d at p. 499.) 
DISCUSSION  
A.   The complaint 
“On
or about February 21, 2020, at or near the hours of 11:11 A.M., southbound on
Western Ave. at or near the vicinity of Washington Blvd. in the City of Los
Angeles, State of California, Defendants, and each of them, so carelessly,
negligently, and unlawfully owned, operated, entrusted, controlled, managed,
maintained the 2015 Mercedes Benz C300 vehicle in a reckless, careless, and
harmful manner so as to cause it to strike the rear corner of Plaintiff’s
vehicle; thereby proximately causing personal injuries and damages to Plaintiff
hereinafter described.”  (Complaint ¶
10.) 
B.   Plaintiff’s total recovery and settlor’s proportionate
liability  
Plaintiff
and Stepter have agreed to settle the case for $50,000.00.  Plaintiff has asserted $47,559.50 in special
damages, consisting of $45,959.50 in medical damages, $600.00 in loss of use
and $1,000.00 as a deductible. Plaintiff confirmed that he has not suffered
from lost wages or lost earning capacity. 
The
proposed settlement exceeds the special damages of which the parties were aware
when they agreed to the settlement.  This factor weighs in favor of a finding of good
faith. 
C.   Allocation of settlement  
 Plaintiff
will receive the entire settlement. This factor weighs in favor of a finding of
good faith. 
D.   Financial considerations  
Stepter
has agreed to pay $50,000.00 in settlement, which is half of his auto policy
limit. Stepter does not have any other applicable insurance policies. Stepter
did not provide information on his assets. 
This factor is neutral. 
E.   Collusion or fraud  
The
Court has seen no evidence of fraud or collusion. This factor weighs in favor
of a finding of good faith. 
F.    Weighing the Tech-Bilt factors 
Based
on the Tech-Bilt factors discussed above, and in the absence of any
motion to contest the good faith of the settlement, the Court finds the
proposed settlement was made in good faith. 
The Court grants the motion. 
CONCLUSION  
The Court
GRANTS the motion for a determination that the settlement between Plaintiff Juan
Manzo and Defendant Kenneth Josue Stepter was made
in good faith. The Court dismisses all pending and future claims against Defendant
Kenneth Josue Stepter by the parties served with this motion (to the extent
those claims arise from the facts giving rise to this case), including
cross-complaints for equitable indemnity. 
          Moving party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.