 Case Number:  22STCV15991    Hearing Date:   December 7, 2023    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposing and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows.  
BACKGROUND 
On
May 13, 2022, Plaintiffs Cuauhtemoc Perez (“Perez”), Primia Hernandez, Miguel Perez, and
Erica Perez filed this action against Defendants City of Los
Angeles, City of Malibu, County of Los Angeles (“County”),
and Does 1-20 for general negligence and premises liability. 
On
August 10, 2022, the County filed an answer. 
On
August 17, 2022, the Court dismissed the City of Los Angeles without prejudice
at Plaintiffs’ request. On September 8, 2022, the Court dismissed the City of
Malibu without prejudice at Plaintiffs’ request. 
On
June 16, 2023, the Court granted the County’s motion for judgment on the
pleadings with 30 days leave to amend. 
On
July 10, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a first amended complaint against the County
and Does 1-20 for premises liability, willful failure to warn, maintenance of a
nuisance, and loss of consortium. 
On August
30, 2023, the Court sustained the County’s demurrer to the first amended
complaint with leave to amend. 
On
October 13, 2023, Plaintiff filed a second amended complaint against the County
and Does 1-20 alleging premises liability, willful failure to warn, and loss of
consortium. 
On November
13, 2023, the County filed a demurrer to the second amended complaint.  On November 27, 2023, Plaintiff filed an
opposition.  On November 30, 2023, the County
filed a reply. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for March 29, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
The
County requests that the Court sustain the demurrer without leave to amend. 
Plaintiff
requests that the Court overrule the demurrer. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.   Demurrer 
“The party against whom a complaint or cross-complaint
has been filed may object, by demurrer or answer as provided in Section 430.30,
to the pleading on any one or more of the following grounds: 
* * * 
“(e) The pleading does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action. 
“(f) The pleading is uncertain. As used in this
subdivision, ‘uncertain’ includes ambiguous and unintelligible. . . .” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10,
subds. (e), (f).) 
In a
demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading
or by judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a) [“When any ground
for objection to a complaint, cross-complaint, or answer appears on the face
thereof, or from any matter of which the court is required to or may take judicial
notice, the objection on that ground may be taken by a demurrer to the
pleading”].) 
“For
the purpose of testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer
admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded (i.e., all ultimate
facts alleged, but not conclusions, deductions, or conclusions of facts or
law).”  (L. Edmon
and C. Karnow, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2023)
¶ 7:43, p. 7(l)-25, emphasis omitted (Cal. Practice Guide).) 
The general rule is that the plaintiff need only
allege ultimate facts, not evidentiary facts. (Doe v. City of Los Angeles
(2007) 42 Cal.4th 531, 550 (Doe).) “All that is required of a plaintiff,
as a matter of pleading, even as against a special demurrer, is that his
complaint set forth the essential facts of the case with reasonable precision
and with sufficient particularity to acquaint the defendant with the nature,
source and extent of his cause of action.” (Rannard v. Lockheed Aircraft
Corp. (1945) 26 Cal.2d 149, 156-157.) “[D]emurrers for uncertainty are
disfavored, and are granted only if the pleading is so incomprehensible that a
defendant cannot reasonably respond.” (Mahan v. Charles W. Chan Ins. Agency,
Inc. (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 841, 848, fn. 3, citing Lickiss v. Fin.
Indus. Regulatory Auth. (2012) 208 Cal.App.4th 1125, 1135 (Lickiss).)
In addition, even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, courts
strictly construe a demurrer for uncertainty “because ambiguities can be
clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Lickiss, supra,
208 Cal.App.4th at p. 1135, citing Khoury v. Maly’s of California, Inc.
(1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) 
B.
Public entity liability for injury caused by dangerous condition of property 
Government
Code section 835 provides: 
“Except as provided by statute, a public entity is
liable for injury caused by a dangerous condition of its property if the
plaintiff establishes that the property was in a dangerous condition at the
time of the injury, that the injury was proximately caused by the dangerous
condition, that the dangerous condition created a reasonably foreseeable risk
of the kind of injury which was incurred, and that either: 
“(a) A negligent or wrongful act or omission of an
employee of the public entity within the scope of his employment created the
dangerous condition; or 
“(b) The public entity had actual or constructive
notice of the dangerous condition under Section 835.2 a sufficient time prior
to the injury to have taken measures to protect against the dangerous
condition.” 
(Gov. Code, § 835.) 
Government
Code section 835.2 provides: 
“(a) A public entity had actual notice of a dangerous
condition within the meaning of subdivision (b) of Section 835 if it had actual
knowledge of the existence of the condition and knew or should have known of
its dangerous character. 
“(b) A public entity had constructive notice of a
dangerous condition within the meaning of subdivision (b) of Section 835 only
if the plaintiff establishes that the condition had existed for such a period
of time and was of such an obvious nature that the public entity, in the
exercise of due care, should have discovered the condition and its dangerous
character. On the issue of due care, admissible evidence includes but is not
limited to evidence as to: 
“(1) Whether the existence of the condition and its
dangerous character would have been discovered by an inspection system that was
reasonably adequate (considering the practicability and cost of inspection
weighed against the likelihood and magnitude of the potential danger to which
failure to inspect would give rise) to inform the public entity whether the
property was safe for the use or uses for which the public entity used or
intended others to use the public property and for uses that the public entity
actually knew others were making of the public property or adjacent property. 
“(2) Whether the public entity maintained and operated
such an inspection system with due care and did not discover the condition.” 
(Gov. Code, § 835.2.) 
          Government Code section 830.2 provides: 
“‘Dangerous condition’ means a condition of property
that creates a substantial (as distinguished from a minor, trivial or
insignificant) risk of injury when such property . . . is used with due care in
a manner in which it is reasonably foreseeable that it will be used.” (Gov.
Code, § 830, subd. (a).) “A condition is not a dangerous condition within the
meaning of this chapter if the trial or appellate court, viewing the evidence
most favorably to the plaintiff, determines as a matter of law that the risk created
by the condition was of such a minor, trivial or insignificant nature in view
of the surrounding circumstances that no reasonable person would conclude that
the condition created a substantial risk of injury when such property . . . was
used with due care in a manner in which it was reasonably foreseeable that it
would be used.” 
(Gov. Code, § 830.2.)  
DISCUSSION 
A.   The second amended complaint 
The second
amended complaint alleges the following:         
On
August 29, 2021, Perez and his children Miguel Perez and Erica Perez were at
the County’s beach when Richard Joshua Franck (“Franck”) attacked them while
they were walking along the path from the public restrooms to the beach.  For more than two years prior to March 2021, Franck
had lived in an illegal encampment at the beach, where he stored a lethal
weapon. The encampment was hidden within the brush directly adjacent to the
well-worn path to the restroom facilities. 
The
County knew about the illegal encampment but allowed it to remain at the beach
without posting warnings or signs to alert the public. The County knew that the
placement of the encampment adjacent to the well-worn path constituted a dangerous
condition.  Nonetheless, the County
allowed the encampment and its occupants to remain on the beach. 
  The County had dozens of encounters with
Franck and Franck’s co-occupant before August 29, 2021.  Five months before the incident, the County
had determined that Franck’s residence at the beach was illegal and told Franck
he needed to leave the encampment.  One
month later, when a Sheriff’s deputy again asked Franck to leave, Franck pulled
a knife on the deputy.  A month after that,
the County again told Franck to leave because his residence at the beach was
illegal.  The following month, the County
served a warrant for Franck’s arrest because the County knew that he was a danger
to beach-goers. 
On
August 18 and 26, 2021, Sheriff’s deputies again told Franck to leave.  On August 27, 2023, the Sheriff’s Department
received a report that Franck was still living in his encampment. 
The first
cause of action for “Premises Liability—Negligence” alleges that Defendants “so negligently
owned, controlled, supervised, managed, maintained, and operated the Beach so
as to allow the existence of the dangerous condition described above that was
not apparent to those using the Beach in reasonably foreseeable manner with due
care.” (SAC ¶ 39.)  “Specifically, the
well-worn path to the restroom facilities was rendered dangerous by the
negligence of the County of permitting a known violent and dangerous
individual, armed with weapons stored on the Beach, to establish his residence
in dangerous proximity to the well-worn path regularly traversed by beach-goers
to access to the Beach’s restroom facilities.”  (SAC ¶ 40.) 
The second
cause of action for “Premises Liability—Willful Failure to Warn” alleges that Defendants
“had a duty to warn of the dangerous condition described hereinabove because of
the County’s negligent allowance of, and failure to remove, the hidden homeless
encampment created, the weapon(s) stored in the encampment, and the dangerous
individuals who illegally established their residence on the Beach, and created
and/or exacerbated the degree of danger normally associated with walking the
well-worn path to use the Beach’s restroom.” (SAC ¶ 48.) Defendants “had actual
and constructive notice of the dangerous condition in a sufficient time prior
to the incident to have taken measures to warn or protect against the dangerous
condition” but “willfully failed to give warnings or to provide adequate
safeguards against the dangerous condition described above that was not
apparent to those using the Beach in reasonably foreseeable manner with due
care.” (SAC ¶¶49-50.) 
The third
cause of action for “Loss of Consortium” incorporates the preceding
allegations of the complaint. 
B.   Analysis 
          “The existence of a dangerous condition ordinarily is a
question of fact, but the issue may be resolved as a matter of law if
reasonable minds can come to only one conclusion.” (Zelig v. County of Los
Angeles (2002) 27 Cal.4th 1112, 1133 (Zelig).) 
“A
public entity is not, without more, liable under [Government Code] section 835
for the harmful conduct of third parties on its property.” (Cordova v. City
of Los Angeles (2015) 61 Cal.4th 1099, 1104 (Cordova), citing Hayes
v. State of California (1974) 11 Cal.3d 469, 472 (Hayes); see Zelig, supra,
27 Cal.4th at p. 1134 [“‘third party
conduct by itself, unrelated to the condition of the property, does not
constitute a ‘dangerous condition’ for which a public entity may be held liable’
”].) “But if a condition of public property ‘creates a substantial risk of
injury even when the property is used with due care’ [citation], a public
entity ‘gains no immunity from liability simply because, in a particular case,
the dangerous condition of its property combines with a third party's negligent
conduct to inflict injury.’” (Ibid., citing and quoting Ducey v. Argo
Sales Co. (1979) 25 Cal.3d 707, 718-719; see Avedon v. State of
California (2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 1336, 1342–1344 (Avedon) [where
plaintiffs whose homes were burnt after individuals built fire inside cave
located in state park claimed that State created dangerous condition by
allowing public parking within quarter mile of cave and keeping entrance to
cave open, court found no defect in cave or vehicular access to support claim].) 
However,
“[i]n appropriate circumstances, a public entity may owe members of the public
a . . . duty not to maintain public premises in a dangerous condition and,
specifically, not to maintain its premises in a condition that will increase
the reasonably foreseeable risk that criminal activity will injure such
individuals. [Citations.]” (Avedon, supra, 186 Cal.App.4th at p. 1342,
quoting Zelig, supra, 27 Cal.4th at p. 1133.)  “For example,
[the Supreme Court] held in [Peterson v. San Francisco Community College
Dist. (1984) 36 Cal.3d 799] that the condition of a community college
campus may be dangerous if the presence of trees with thick foliage near a
parking lot and stairway facilitated criminal activity against students. The
risk of crime was reasonably foreseeable in that case because the district was
aware of prior assaults.”  (Zelig,
supra, 27 Cal.4th at p. 1135.) 
“In
other cases, too, courts have concluded that plaintiffs could establish that a
public entity maintained property in a dangerous condition within the meaning
of Government Code section 835 although the injury to the plaintiff was caused
by the criminal activity of third persons. Such a dangerous condition may
exist, for example, when an entity with notice of criminal activity provides
inadequate lighting in an airport parking lot, thereby foreseeably increasing
the risk that members of the public will be attacked.”  (Zelig, supra, 27 Cal.4th at p.
1135, citing Slapin v. Los Angeles International Airport (1976) 65
Cal.App.3d 484, 488; Zuniga v. Housing Authority (1995) 41 Cal.App.4th
82.) 
The
Supreme Court “emphasize[d], however, that liability is imposed only when there
is some defect in the property itself and a causal connection is established
between the defect and the injury.  In
many cases, courts have rejected the claim that an injury caused by the
criminal activity of a third person was attributable to a dangerous condition
of the property within the meaning of Government Code section 835, because the
claims lacked an adequate showing that the property itself was in a defective
condition.”  (Zelig, supra,
27 Cal.4th at p. 1135; see Hayes, supra, 11 Cal.3d at p. 472 [“courts have consistently refused to characterize harmful third party
conduct as a dangerous condition—absent some concurrent contributing defect in
the property itself”].) 
Like
Plaintiffs’ first amended complaint, the second amended complaint alleges that Franck’s
hidden encampment was a dangerous condition of public property.  (SAC ¶ 36.)  The second amended complaint also alleges that
the placement of the encampment adjacent to the well-worn path and the path
itself constituted dangerous conditions. 
(SAC ¶¶ 11, 40.)  However, the
only danger resulting from the encampment, its placement, or the path which the
complaint identifies was the potential for bringing members of the public into
contact with Franck. Plaintiffs do not allege that a defect in the
encampment, its placement, or the path caused Plaintiffs’ injuries. 
In
short, Plaintiffs have not pleaded facts which demonstrate that “a condition of
public property ‘create[d] a substantial risk of injury even when the property
[was] used with due care . . . .’”  (See Cordova,
supra, 61 Cal.4th at p. 1104.)  It
was only because a third party – Franck – carried out harmful conduct on the
property by attacking Perez and his children that Plaintiffs suffered injuries.
Therefore, the County cannot be liable under Government Code section 835 for
Franck’s harmful conduct on the County’s property.  (See ibid.) 
The
Court sustains the County’s demurrer to the first cause of action for premises
liability— negligence and the second cause of action for premises
liability—willful failure to warn because Plaintiff has failed to allege facts
establishing the existence of a dangerous condition of public property.  The Court sustains the demurrer to the third
cause of action for loss of consortium because it depends on the first two
claims. 
Plaintiffs
have not shown that they can amend their complaint to state a claim for
relief.  Therefore, the Court denies
leave to amend. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court SUSTAINS Defendant County
of Los Angeles’s demurrer to the second amended complaint of Plaintiffs
Cuauhtemoc Perez, Primia Hernandez, Miguel Perez, and Erica Perez
without leave to amend. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days of the date of the hearing. 