 Case Number:  23STCV24851    Hearing Date:   February 29, 2024    Dept:  52 Defendants
Baldwin Apartment LLC and Fachoy LLC dba Management Rental Group’s Motion to
Strike
            Defendants
Baldwin Apartment LLC and Fachoy LLC dba Management Rental Group move to strike
10 portions of the first amended complaint by plaintiffs Marlene Barton,
Latisha Todd, Linda Craig, Robert Craig, Joleiyauh Burnett, Oleiyauh Burnett,
Briana Segovia, Logan Pledger, Kendyll Pledger, Steven Mullins, Brenda
Arrington, Marilyn Bagby, and Sonya Bagby.
            Defendants
move to strike portions of the complaint related to punitive damages.  Courts
may strike a “demand for judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations
of the complaint.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
431.10, subd. (b)(3).)  Courts may strike
allegations regarding punitive damages where the facts alleged “do not rise to
the level of malice, oppression or fraud necessary” to recover punitive damages
under Civil Code section 3294.  (Turman
v. Turning Point of Central California, Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th
53, 64.)  
Plaintiffs allege
sufficient facts for malice or oppression. 
“ ‘Malice’ means conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury
to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant
with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.”  (Civ. Code, § 3294(c)(1).)  “ ‘Oppression’ means despicable conduct that
subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that
person's rights.” (Civ. Code, § 3294(c)(2).) 
“To support an award of punitive damages on the basis of conscious
disregard of the safety of others, a plaintiff ‘must establish that the
defendant was aware of the probable dangerous consequences of his conduct, and
that he willfully and deliberately failed to avoid those consequences.’ ”  (Penner v. Falk (1984) 153
Cal.App.3d 858, 867.)  Knowing of and failing to correct “long
existing physical conditions of the premises which portend danger for the
tenants” may constitute malice.  (Ibid.; accord Nolin
v. National Convenience Stores, Inc. (1979) 95 Cal.App.3d 279, 288
[sufficient evidence of malice where defendant’s “inattention to the danger
showed a complete lack of concern regarding the harmful potential—the probability
and likelihood of injury” resulting from dangerous conditions on its premises].)
Plaintiffs allege,
“Throughout the entirety of Plaintiffs’ tenancy, the Subject Property was rife with
pervasive, serious, and uninhabitable conditions, including but not limited to
ceiling collapses, water intrusions, cracking/peeling paint and water deposits
on and inside of the walls, broken and unrepaired fixtures, pest and vermin
infestations, plumbing/sewage issues, unsanitary and worn flooring.”  (FAC, ¶ 19.) 
The insects and pests allegedly “crawl onto Plaintiffs’ bodies when they
are asleep, deposit their excrement throughout the Subject Property, and cause
rashes, skin eruptions, and other ailments among Plaintiffs.”  (¶ 22.) 

The first amended
complaint alleges defendants knew about and failed to correct these dangerous
conditions.  “Despite Plaintiffs’
persistent complaints over multiple years concerning each of their respective
units, said complaints fell on deaf ears and Defendants either failed to repair[]
or only provided ‘Band-Aid’ repairs that were inadequate to fully and finally
address each issue.”  (¶ 21.)  Regarding ceiling collapses and water
intrusions, plaintiffs allege, “Instead of attempting to determine the cause of
said intrusions and repair the issues, Defendants have only provided Band-Aid
repairs, if any, of simply painting over the unsightly discoloration.”  (¶ 23.) 

Plaintiffs further
allege, “Plaintiffs have complained to Defendants about the severe and
detrimental impact that the conditions at the Subject Property have on
Plaintiffs in their daily lives.  Defendants
failed to comply with local ordinances, laws, and standards in spite of
Plaintiffs’ complaints.  Defendants, at all
times, had the power to make changes to their actions, including employment of
abatement measures, but refused to take corrective and/or curative measures in
spite of actual knowledge of the substandard conditions with a conscious disregard
for Plaintiffs’ rights, health and/or safety.” 
(¶ 26.)  
These factual
allegations can reasonably be characterized as despicable conduct carried on
with a willful and conscious disregard of plaintiffs’ rights or safety.
Defendants also
argue plaintiffs do not specifically allege which defendant did what.  Most of the first amended complaint’s
allegations refer to the plural “Defendants” without differentiating between
them.  When liberally construed, however,
the first amended complaint alleges all defendants did everything it
alleges.  On a motion to strike, the
court must accept those allegations as true.
Disposition
Defendants Baldwin Apartment LLC and Fachoy
LLC dba Management Rental Group’s motion to strike is denied.  Defendants shall answer the first amended
complaint within 20 days.