  Case Number:  22STCV13106    Hearing Date:   February 29, 2024    Dept:  52 Plaintiff Maureen
Martinez’s Motion to Quash Subpoenas for Private Records or in the Alternative
for Protective Order
            Plaintiff Maureen Martinez moves to
quash a deposition subpoena for production of business records issued to
Sotheby’s International Realty (Sotheby’s). 

            Upon a party’s motion, a court “may
make an order quashing [a] subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing
compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare,
including protective orders.  In
addition, the court may make any other order as may be appropriate to protect
the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable
violations of the right of privacy of the person.”  (CCP § 1987.1(a).)  
            Plaintiff contends the subpoena to Sotheby’s
International Realty infringes on “multiple privacy rights.”  (Motion, p. 2.)  “The
party asserting a privacy right must establish a legally protected privacy
interest, an objectively reasonable expectation of privacy in the given
circumstances, and a threatened intrusion that is serious.”  (Williams v. Superior Court (2017)
3 Cal.5th 531, 552.)  If the objecting party shows all three
elements, then the court must balance the need for disclosure against the right
to privacy.  (Ibid.) 
            Plaintiff
does not meet her burden of showing these three elements.  Plaintiff does not articulate any privacy
right relevant to category Nos. 1 and 2, which concern communications between
plaintiff and Sotheby’s.  Any intrusion
is minimal.    
For category No. 3, “Any and all listings by
Maureen Martinez … since the date of her affiliation with Sotheby’s
International Realty,” plaintiff argues the subpoena seeks private information
including “non-party’s name[s] and their home prices.”  (Motion, p. 4.)  Those are not private.  Real estate listings are publicly
disseminated.  Even if plaintiff had established
the first two elements, any threatened intrusion is not serious.  
For category No. 4, “documents showing sales and
commissions earned by Maureen Martinez … from Sotheby’s International Realty,”
plaintiff argues it “would implicate information regarding the financial
condition of Sotheby’s, a non-party.”  Though corporations have a right to privacy,
it “is a lesser right than that held by human beings and is not considered a
fundamental right.”  (SCC
Acquisitions, Inc. v. Superior Court (2015) 243 Cal.App.4th 741, 756.)  Any intrusion is not serious.  Commissions earned by a single person
affiliated with Sotheby’s do not represent meaningful information about
Sotheby’s “financial condition.”  
Plaintiff also does not show good cause for a
protective order as an alternative to quashing the subpoena.  “[T]he
burden is on the party seeking the protective order to show good cause for
whatever order is sought.”  (Fairmont
Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255.)  Plaintiff does not do so. 
Sanctions
            In their opposition, defendants seek
sanctions against plaintiff.  “[I]n
making an order pursuant to motion made under subdivision (c) of Section 1987
or under Section 1987.1, the court may in its discretion award the amount of
the reasonable expenses incurred in making or opposing the motion, including
reasonable attorney’s fees, if the court finds the motion was made or opposed
in bad faith or without substantial justification or that one or more of the
requirements of the subpoena was oppressive.” 
(CCP § 1987.2(a).)  
The
court exercises its discretion not to award any sanctions.  The court finds plaintiff’s motion was not
made in bad faith or without substantial justification.  
Disposition
            Plaintiff Maureen Martinez’s motion
to quash subpoenas for private records or in the alternative for a protective order
to limit the subpoenas is denied.