 Case Number:  23STCV23861    Hearing Date:   February 29, 2024    Dept:  52 (1)
Defendants Randolf L. Turrow and Feature Pro Inc.’s Demurrer; 
(2) Defendants Jason Schoener and Ten
Key Films, Inc.’s Demurrer and Motion to Strike 
(1) Demurrer by Turrow and Feature Pro Inc.
            Defendants
Randolf L. Turrow and Feature Pro Inc. demur to plaintiffs George Gamble and
Nancy Gamble’s first through third, fifth, and ninth causes of action.
            Turrow
cannot demur because the clerk has entered his default.  On November 16, 2023, the clerk entered
Turrow’s default pursuant to plaintiffs’ request.  “The entry of a default cuts off the right to
file pleadings and motions, and the right to notices and the service of
pleadings.”  (Steven M. Garber &
Associates v. Eskandarian (2007) 150 Cal.App.4th 813, 823.)  “After a default, a defendant is ‘ “out of
court” ’ and cannot take any further steps in the cause affecting the plaintiff’s
right of action until the default is set aside in a proper proceeding.”  (Rios v. Singh (2021) 65 Cal.App.5th
871, 887.)  
Turrow filed this demurrer after the clerk entered
his default.  He has not moved for relief
from his default.  The court will
therefore strike Turrow’s demurrer.  
            The
clerk has not, however, entered Feature Pro Inc.’s default.  Plaintiff requested entry of its default on
January 12—a week after it filed this demurrer. 
The court will therefore consider Feature Pro Inc.’s demurrer.  
Alleged Contract
Feature Pro argues plaintiffs’ first through third,
fifth, and ninth causes of action fail because they “are based on alleged
contract(s) that are not attached nor are they set forth ad hoc verba.”  (Demurrer, p. 5.)  A defendant may demur when, “In an action
founded upon a contract, it cannot be ascertained from the pleading whether the
contract is written, is oral, or is implied by conduct.”  (CCP § 430.10(g).)  This action is not “founded upon a contract.”  Plaintiffs’ complaint includes references to
contracts (¶¶ 19-21, 28, 37-40) but does not assert any cause of action for
breach of contract.  It alleges only tort
claims.  
Fraud
            Plaintiffs
do not allege sufficient facts for the first three causes of action against
Feature Pro Inc.  Fraud generally
requires: (1) a misrepresentation; (2) knowledge of falsity; (3) an intent to
defraud; (4) justifiable reliance; and (5) damages.  (Ryder v. Lightstorm Entertainment, Inc.
(2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 1064, 1079.)  The
first cause of action for promissory fraud requires
“(1) the defendant made a representation of intent to perform some future
action, i.e., the defendant made a promise, and (2) the defendant did not
really have that intent at the time that the promise was made, i.e., the
promise was false.”  (Beckwith v. Dahl
(2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 1039, 1060.)  The
second cause of action for fraudulent concealment requires that, instead of
making a false representation, the defendant concealed or suppressed a material
fact that it had a duty to disclose to the plaintiff.  (Boschma v. Home Loan Center, Inc.
(2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 230, 248.)  
            Plaintiffs do not allege their first
through third causes of action with specificity as required.  “[F]raud must be pled specifically.” 
(Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.)  “ ‘This particularity requirement
necessitates pleading facts which show how, when, where, to
whom, and by what means the representations were tendered.’ ”  (Ibid.)  
            The
complaint does not specifically allege how, when, where, and by what means the
representations were tendered.  It makes
vague allegations that Turrow and Feature Pro made various representations or
concealed facts “[w]hile discussing Plaintiffs’ potential investment” (¶ 14)
and “during these initial discussions” (¶¶ 15, 17).  These allegations do not meet the heightened
requirement for pleading fraud.
            The
complaint also does not specifically allege the intentional misrepresentations
by Turrow and Feature Pro.  It alleges
they “represented to Plaintiffs that certain facts relating to the market prospects
for the Film were true” (¶ 55) and “that certain facts relating to Plaintiffs’
ability to recoup the amount Defendant Turrow requested that Plaintiffs invest
in the Film were true” (¶ 56).  The
complaint thus uses the phrase “certain facts” instead of identifying those
facts.  
Disposition
            Defendant
Randolf L. Turrow’s demurrer is hereby stricken.              
Defendant Feature
Pro Inc.’s demurrers to plaintiffs’ first, second, and third causes of action
are sustained with 20 days’ leave to amend.  Defendant Feature Pro Inc.’s
demurrers to plaintiffs’ fifth and ninth causes of action are overruled.
(2) Demurrer and Motion to Strike by Schoener and
Ten Key Films, Inc.
            Defendants
Jason Schoener and Ten Key Films, Inc. demur to plaintiffs’ sixth and ninth
causes of action.
6th Cause of Action: Aiding and Abetting Conversion
            Plaintiffs
do not allege sufficient facts for this cause of action.  “ ‘ “Liability may ... be imposed on one who
aids and abets the commission of an intentional tort if the person (a) knows
the other’s conduct constitutes a breach of duty and gives substantial
assistance or encouragement to the other to so act or (b) gives substantial
assistance to the other in accomplishing a tortious result and the person’s own
conduct, separately considered, constitutes a breach of duty to the third
person.” ’ ”  (IIG Wireless, Inc. v.
Yi (2018) 22 Cal.App.5th 630, 653–654.) 
Plaintiffs’ complaint makes few allegations
concerning Schoener and Ten Key Films. 
The only relevant allegations are: “With substantial, knowing assistance
from Defendants Schoener, Ten Key and Roven, Defendant Turrow appropriated a
portion of the petty cash funds.”  (¶
30.)  “By exercising control over the
Film’s production accounting processes and procedures, Defendants Schoener and
Ten Key gave substantial assistance and encouragement to Defendants Turrow and
Featurepro in their conversion against Plaintiffs.”  (¶ 86.) 
“Defendants Schoener and Ten Key subsequently agreed with Defendants
Turrow and Featurepro and intended that the conversion against Plaintiffs be
committed.”  (¶ 112.)
The complaint does not allege what Schoener and Ten
Key Films did to give substantial assistance and encouragement to the purported
conversion.  It repeats those words as
conclusions of fact and law.  The only
factual allegation of what Schoener and Ten Key Films did is that they
“exercis[ed] control over the Film’s production and accounting processes and
procedures.”  (¶ 86.)  That is insufficient.  “ ‘Mere knowledge that a tort is being
committed and the failure to prevent it does not constitute aiding and
abetting.’ ”  (Austin B. v. Escondido
Union School Dist. (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 860, 879.)  
The case of Nasrawi v. Buck Consultants LLC
(2014) 231 Cal.App.4th 328 is instructive. 
There, the court held plaintiffs alleged sufficient facts for aiding and
abetting a tort where they “alleged that Buck and Loeb gave ‘substantial
encouragement and assistance’ to the Association’s breach by (1) failing to
disclose and warn about the consequences of the Association’s practices, (2)
verifying the actuarial soundness of those practices, (3) and knowingly and
falsely representing to trust fund beneficiaries at public meetings between
2005 and 2009 that the Association’s practices were actuarially sound.”  (Id. at p. 344.)  Here, plaintiffs make only the conclusory
allegation of “substantial encouragement and assistance” without alleging any underlying
facts that constitute encouragement and assistance.  
9th Cause of Action: Civil Conspiracy
Plaintiffs do not allege sufficient facts for this
cause of action against Schoener and Ten Key Films.  “The
elements of a civil conspiracy are (1) the formation of a group of two or more
persons who agreed to a common plan or design to commit a tortious act; (2) a
wrongful act committed pursuant to the agreement; and (3) resulting damages.”  (City of Industry v. City of Fillmore (2011)
198 Cal.App.4th 191, 212.)
Plaintiffs allege
Schoener and Ten Key “were aware” of Turrow and Feature Pro’s “plan[] to commit
a conversion” (¶ 111) and “agreed … and intended that the conversion against
Plaintiffs be committed” (¶ 112).  But
they allege no act by Schoener and Ten Key to do anything pursuant to the
alleged agreement.  As with aiding and
abetting conversion, that they “exercise[ed] control over the Film’s production
accounting processes and procedures” (¶ 86) is not a sufficient allegation of an
act committed pursuant to an agreement to commit a tort.  
Motion to Strike
            Defendants
Jason Schoener and Ten Key Films, Inc. move to strike five portions of
plaintiffs’ complaint.  Schoener and Ten
Key Films have successfully demurred to both causes of action alleged against
them.  Their motion to strike is
therefore moot.
Disposition
            Defendants
Jason Schoener and Ten Key Films, Inc.’s demurrers to plaintiffs’ sixth and
ninth causes of action are sustained with 20 days’ leave to amend.  
Defendants Jason Schoener and Ten Key Films, Inc.’s
motion to strike portions of plaintiffs’ complaint is moot. 