  Case Number:  22STCV10906    Hearing Date:   January 14, 2025    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
March 30, 2022, Plaintiff Ida Kirby (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against
Defendants City of Cerritos (“Defendant”) and Does 1-50 for dangerous condition
of public property. 
On
November 17, 2022, Defendant filed an answer. 
On
November 21, 2024, Defendant filed a motion for summary judgment or,
alternatively, for summary adjudication. 
The motion was set for hearing on May 15, 2024.  On April 26, 2024, the Court denied Plaintiff’s
ex parte application to continue the hearing on the motion under Code of Civil
Procedure section 437c, subdivision (h). 
On May 1, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition.  On May 10, 2024, Defendant filed a reply.  The Court continued the hearing to January
14, 2025. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for April 14, 2025. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Defendant
asks the Court to grant summary judgment or, in the alternative, summary adjudication. 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to deny the motion. 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL
NOTICE  Granted.
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.   Summary judgment and summary adjudication 
“‘[F]rom
commencement to conclusion, the party moving for summary judgment bears the
burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue of material fact and that
he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.’”  (LAOSD Asbestos Cases (2023) 87
Cal.App.5th 949, 945, quoting Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001)
25 Cal.4th 826, 850 (Aguilar).) “[T]he party moving for summary judgment
bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the
nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of
production, he causes a shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a
burden of production of his own to make a prima facie showing of the existence
of a triable issue of material fact.”  (Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 850.)  
          When the moving party is a
defendant, it must show that the plaintiff cannot establish at least one
element of the cause of action.  (Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 853.) “The defendant has shown that the
plaintiff cannot establish at least one element of the cause of action by
showing that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,
needed evidence.”  (Id. at p.
854.) The defendant must “present evidence, and not simply point out that the
plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed
evidence.”  (Ibid.) Thus, “the
defendant must ‘support[ ]’ the ‘motion’ with evidence including ‘affidavits,
declarations, admissions, answers to interrogatories, depositions, and matters
of which judicial notice’ must or may ‘be taken.’ [Citation.] The defendant
may, but need not, present evidence that conclusively negates an element of the
plaintiff’s cause of action. The defendant may also present evidence that the
plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence—as
through admissions by the plaintiff following extensive discovery to the effect
that he has discovered nothing.”  (Id.
at p. 855, original emphasis.)  
          “Supporting and opposing affidavits or declarations . . .
shall set forth admissible evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (d).)
“Matters which would be excluded under the rules of evidence if proffered by a
witness in a trial as hearsay, conclusions or impermissible opinions, must be
disregarded in supporting affidavits.”  (Hayman
v. Block (1986) 176 Cal.App.3d 629, 639.)  
          In ruling on the motion, the court
must consider all of the evidence and all of the inferences reasonably drawn
from it and must view such evidence and inferences in the light most favorable
to the opposing party.  (Aguilar, supra,
25 Cal.4th at p. 843.)
B.   Claim presentation requirement 
“The
Government Claims Act ‘established a standardized procedure’ for bringing
personal injury claims against local governmental entities.”  (Hernandez v. City of Stockton (2023)
90 Cal.App.5th 1222, 1230 (Hernandez).) “As a general rule, no suit for
money or damages may be brought against a public entity until a written claim,
known as a government claim, is presented to and rejected by that entity.”  (Ibid.)  “The required contents of a government claim
are set forth in section 910 of the Government Claims Act.”  (Ibid.)  “Among other mandatory contents, [Government Code] section 910
specifies that a claim ‘shall’ include ‘[t]he date, place and other
circumstances of the occurrence or transaction which gave rise to the claim
asserted,’ ‘[a] general description of the ... injury, damage or loss incurred
so far as it may be known at the time of presentation of the claim,’ and ‘[t]he
name or names of the public employee or employees causing the injury, damage,
or loss, if known.’ ”  (Id. at pp.
1230-1231.)  “The failure to timely file a proper
government claim is fatal to the maintenance of a civil action against a public
entity.”  (Id. at p. 1231.) 
“The
purpose of the Government Claims Act is ‘ “to provide the public entity
sufficient information to enable it to adequately investigate claims and to
settle them, if appropriate, without the expense of litigation.” ’ ” (Hernandez, supra, 90 Cal.App.5th at p.
1231.) 
“Although
a government claim need not contain the detail and specificity required of a
pleading in a civil action, it nevertheless must ‘ “fairly describe what [the]
entity is alleged to have done.” ’ ” (Hernandez, supra, 90
Cal.App.5th at p. 1231.)  “When a civil
action is filed following the rejection of a government claim, it is acceptable
for the complaint to elaborate or add further details to a government claim,
but the complaint may not completely ‘shift [the] allegations’ and premise
liability on facts that fundamentally differ from those specified in the
government claim.” (Ibid.) “In other words, the factual basis for
recovery in the complaint must be ‘fairly reflected’ in the government claim.”  (Ibid.; see Gong v. City of
Rosemead (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 363, 376 [“In order to comply with the
claim presentation requirement, the facts alleged in a complaint ... must be
consistent with the facts contained within the government claim”]; Castaneda
v. Department of Corrections & Rehabilitation (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th
1051, 1060 [“the factual circumstances set forth in the [government] claim must
correspond with the facts alleged in the complaint”].) 
“A
complaint is subject to dismissal if it alleges a factual basis for recovery
which is not ‘fairly reflected’ in the government claim.” (Hernandez, supra,
90 Cal.App.5th at p. 1231.)  
DISCUSSION 
A.   The complaint 
The
complaint alleges the following: 
On
April 4, 2020, Plaintiff was walking her dogs on the sidewalk at Defendants’
premises located on the corner of Bos Street and Roseton Avenue, Cerritos,
California 90703 (“premises”) when she tripped over a section of raised/broken
sidewalk concrete, fell, and was injured. Plaintiff contends that the
raised/broken sidewalk at the premises constituted a dangerous condition due to
lack of maintenance, repair, inspection, training and/or supervision that
injured Plaintiff. 
B.   Undisputed facts 
Plaintiff’s
Governmental Claim for Damages states that on April 4, 2020, the following
occurred: “Claimant was walking on Bos Street with her two dogs on two separate
leashes on a west direction on the sidewalk when her dog to the left goes to
the grass parkway area to relieve himself. Claimant then walks a couple of
steps into the grass area to pick up after her dog, as she then turns and
begins to walk back to the sidewalk, she trips over the substantial raised and
uprooted sidewalk adjacent to the parkway, causing Claimant to fall forward onto
the sidewalk.” 
Plaintiff’s
presented Governmental Claim for Damages further states that “(t)he dangerous
offset on City property between the sidewalk and the adjacent parkway was
greater than 4 inches.” 
Of
the photographs attached by Plaintiff to Exhibit “E,” Plaintiff’s presented
governmental Claim for Damages, the first is of the referenced 4-inch height
differential between the grass parkway and the sidewalk. The second attached
photograph is of the same area, with a red circle and arrow added between the
grass parkway and the sidewalk. The third attached photograph is a close-up
including a measuring tape of the 4-inch height differential between the grass
parkway and the sidewalk edge. 
Plaintiff’s
operative form complaint does not plead or make any reference to Plaintiff
stepping into and/or back from the grass parkway adjacent to the sidewalk. 
Plaintiff’s
Supplemental Responses to the Defendant’s Form Interrogatories, Set One, No.
17.1, verified by Plaintiff on May 5, 2023, allege that the dangerous condition
at the accident location was the sidewalk. These verified responses state: “A
slab of the sidewalk was raised above the adjoining slab by over 1½ inches, [sic]” 
Plaintiff’s
Supplemental Responses to the City’s Form Interrogatories, Set One, No. 17.1,
verified by Plaintiff on May 5, 2023, state as follows: “The CITY employees
knew or should have known that due to growing tree roots and other causes the
sidewalk slabs may become raised above the level of the adjoining slabs and
create a dangerous condition, [sic]” 
Plaintiff
testified at her deposition conducted on June 27, 2023, that the accident
occurred on the sidewalk between the two sidewalk panels, not between the grass
parkway and the sidewalk. 
At
her deposition conducted on June 27, 2023, Plaintiff used a blue pen on
photographs marked as Deposition Exhibits “A: 1 – 3,” testifying and confirming
that her accident occurred on the sidewalk between the two sidewalk panels, not
between the grass parkway and the sidewalk. 
At
her deposition conducted on June 27, 2023, Plaintiff used a blue pen on photographs
marked as Deposition Exhibit “B:2 - 10,” testifying and confirming that her
accident occurred on the sidewalk between the two sidewalk panels, not between
the grass parkway and the sidewalk. 
At
the second session of her deposition conducted on August 9, 2023, Plaintiff testified
that she no longer knew which height differential she fell on. 
On
the date of loss, nothing obstructed Plaintiff’s view of the alleged dangerous
height differential. 
C.   Defendant has carried its initial burden on summary
judgment 
Defendant
has presented evidence showing that Plaintiff’s governmental tort claim did not
give Defendant notice of the allegedly defective condition of public property
which Plaintiff now alleges caused her injuries.  In her governmental tort claim, Plaintiff
asserted that the defective condition was a height differential measuring more
than four inches between the sidewalk and the adjacent parkway.  In her complaint, however, Plaintiff alleged
that the dangerous condition was raised/broken sidewalk concrete. 
Defendant
has carried its initial burden on summary judgment of showing “the factual
basis for recovery is not ‘fairly reflected’ in plaintiff's government claim.”  (See Hernandez, supra, 90
Cal.App.5th at p. 1226 [affirming summary judgment where plaintiff’s government
claim stated that he fell on an uplifted sidewalk but plaintiff later disclosed
that he fell when he stepped into an empty hole].)  The burden shifts to Plaintiff. 
D.   Plaintiff has not raised a triable issue of fact 
Plaintiff
argues that her government claim and complaint are “based on the same factual
foundation.” But Plaintiff has presented no evidence that contradicts Defendant’s
showing that Plaintiff’s government claim directed Defendant to investigate a
purported four-inch height differential between the parkway and the adjacent
sidewalk.  In contrast, Plaintiff now alleges
she was injured because “[a] slab of the sidewalk was raised above the
adjoining slab by over 1½ inches.”  
Plaintiff
has not raised a triable issue of fact. 
The Court grants the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS Defendant City of Cerritos’s motion for summary judgment of
Plaintiff Ida Kirby’s complaint. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.