 Case Number:  22STCV30200    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2023    Dept:  I The motions to compel further are GRANTED IN PART AND DENIED
IN PART.
This is a suit by the plaintiffs (Owen Fertal and Ashleigh
Harrington) against the Alvarado defendants. 
The motions are brought against Jesus and Rosa Alvarado, but not against
Arturo, to whom the discovery at issue was not propounded.  Although there are six motions, there are
really two sets of three—that is, there are form interrogatories, special
interrogatories, and requests for admission propounded to each of the two Alvarado
defendants.  Having gone though the
discovery and the responses, the motions are GRANTED as to SI 7, 17, 18, and
23.  The request to bar defendants from
producing documents in lieu of a response in certain circumstances is
DENIED.  The remainder of the SI motion
is DENIED.  The RFA motion is MOOT as to
1, 3, 7, 30 (29 for Rosa), and 33 (32 for Rosa).  The motion is GRANTED as to RFA 17.  It is DENIED as to the remainder.  The motion as to the FI is GRANTED as to
2.12, 12.6, 14.1, 14.2, 15.1, and 17.1. 
It is DENIED as to the remainder.
Plaintiffs contend that Arturo Alvarado is a menace.  They allege that he set fire to their home
and engaged in other tortious conduct during the time he lived with his
parents.  Arturo was eventually arrested
and went through the criminal justice system. 
Plaintiffs believe he may soon be released and they do not want him to
return to live with his parents because he is a danger to plaintiffs (and the
community).  The Alvarados may (or may
not) want Arturo to be able to live with them. 
Plaintiffs’ goal is to keep Arturo out of the neighborhood, and, to that
end, they propounded discovery.
The problem with much of their discovery is that they load
up questions with hot button terms. 
Asking defendants about when they say Arturo “vandalize” something
pre-supposes that they agree that his conduct constitutes criminal
vandalism.  It might; it might not; it
might be debatable.  But asking the
defense to agree with it is a bridge too far and leads to the predictable
answer that defendants have not seen such conduct.  Another example is to ask defendants for the
dates they inspected the “illegal ADU.” 
Unless defendants are prepared to concede the illegality, they will say
there is no “illegal ADU.”  If one is
looking for information rather than admissions, one has to strip the requests
of loaded terms.
These problems, coupled with the court’s reading of the
actual responses, suggest that in most cases, the responses (or the responses
as supplemented) are satisfactory.  In
some cases, that is because the responses provide the needed information.  In some cases it is because the term is
loaded up and the defense does not agree with the characterization implicit in
the question.  And in other cases, such
as SI 5, the objections are well taken. 
That SI asks for every date that defendants entered the “illegal
ADU.”  Even putting to one side the
adjective “illegal,” it is unduly burdensome. 
Asking defendants to recite every date over a two year period they
entered the ADU is unduly burdensome on its face.  The court will not go through the many, many
discovery requests where the motion is denied. 
But it will discuss briefly below the ones where the motion is granted.
As to SI 7, defendants state that they do not remember which
hearings in the civil and criminal cases brought against Arturo they attended
between December 14, 2018 and June 30, 2023. 
It is not the recollection that is the problem—if they do not recall,
they do not recall, assuming that they did a reasonable investigation to
learn.  It is that they added a relevance
objection, and that objection was waived because it was not in the original
response.  A similar problem exists to SI
17.  SI 18 seeks information regarding a
conversation with David Johnson regarding an arson episode.  After some objections, defendants state that
they do not have a recollection of the conversation.  The opposition does not support the
objection, and it is waived.  If, even
putting objections aside, defendants have no recollection at all as to the
content, well and good.  But they must so
swear.  If they have a recollection, they
need to state it.  SI 23 seems
evasive.  The request is for the ways
that defendants “helped manage” Arturo’s life and affairs.  The response is that he managed his own
life.  But that does not mean that
defendants did not help.  If they did not
help, they need to say so directly. 
The responses to the RFA’s were generally acceptable.  The problem is (again) the way the requests
are framed.  Defendants are being asked
to admit a legal conclusion, for example, in RFA 5.  But the motion is granted as to RFA 17.  That RFA asks defendants to admit that they
received the letter dated 7/9/20.  The defendants
object because the letter is not attached. 
That is a good objection if the RFA were one to admit genuineness, where
it must be attached.  But they are being
asked only to admit they got such a letter. 
True, the better practice would be to attach it, but if defendants got a
letter that date, they can admit it. 
This, however, is a good example of how a meet and confer would have
helped.  If there were some confusion
over what letter plaintiffs meant, then they could have attached the letter
and, as revised, defendants could have responded.  Motion practice was not needed for this.
On the FI, 2.12 asks whether defendants or someone else had
a physical, emotional, or mental disability that contributed to the
incident.  Defendants responded
“No.”  There is some ambiguity as to
whether defendants meant to answer as to Arturo as well.  They should clarify that.  FI 12.6 asks if there was a report regarding
the incident.  Defendants state that they
do not know.  If they want to stand on
that answer, that’s fine, but given that there are ongoing criminal proceedings
that defendants have followed, it is not clear to the court that they mean
it.  If they do and it turns out to be
false, there are consequences.  FI 14.1
and 14.2 ask if anyone involved in the incident violated some law and whether
the person was cited or charged. 
Defendants object to the word “incident.”  But here, given the other interrogatories, it
would appear that incident is clear enough. 
FI 15.1 asks defendants to identify each allegation in their answer or
defenses and provide information about them. 
Defendants contend that discovery is ongoing and they cannot
respond.  As to the general denial, that
might be fine.  But as to the affirmative
defenses, defendants must provide whatever information they have.  True, discovery is ongoing and more may be
discovered later.  But that does not
absolve defendants from telling what they know now.  Finally, FI 17.1 is granted to the extent
that defendants supplemented the RFA responses. 
Any of the supplements that is not an unqualified admission will be
subject to this FI.
The sanctions requests are DENIED.  Defendants did not engage in a good faith
meet and confer and some of their responses were not sufficient.  Plaintiffs, also, could have done better in
the meet and confer, and they did not fully prevail either.
To assist the parties going forward (the court sees four
more motions coming down the pike), the court provides its guidelines on
discovery and the meet and confer process. 
The court expects the parties to work together to minimize discovery
conflicts.
 
DISCOVERY RELATED GUIDELINES FOR DEPARTMENT I
The guidelines below are not “rules” and they are not
universally applicable in all cases. 
Rather, they are guidelines as to the court’s general views.  Each case, of course, will be decided on its
own facts and circumstances, and some of the guidelines below may not apply to
particular circumstances.  That said, the
court does take these views seriously.
Discovery Responses
The Court provides the following guidance concerning its
general views on some common issues regarding responses to written
objections.  The Court has noticed that
many attorneys view objections and the manner of making them in a way different
than does the Court.  To avoid these
common pitfalls, the Court offers the following in addition to the provisions
of the Litigation Guidelines appended to the Los Angeles County Superior Court
Local Rules.
First, “General Objections” are not permitted.  The Code of Civil Procedure does not provide
for them, and therefore they are disregarded by the Court.  Any response that “incorporates” the “General
Objections” is improper by definition.  
Second, the Court often views boilerplate objections
as being in bad faith.  A bad faith
response is no response at all in the Court’s view.  Therefore, making boilerplate objections does
not preserve those objections nor does it constitute a good faith response to
written discovery.  A bad faith response
is viewed by the Court for what it is: bad faith.  The objections will be stricken and deemed
waived.  In the context of a Request for
Admission, such objections may lead to a finding that the request is deemed
admitted, although that will depend on the facts of the particular case and the
specific discovery at hand.
Objections should be tailored to each specific request.  If a request truly is overbroad, then an
objection to that effect is proper.  But
such an objection is best accompanied by some reasonable limitation by the
responding party that will narrow the request appropriately and (as narrowed)
provide a substantive response rather than a mere statement that the request is
overbroad.  The same is true as to an
objection that a request is unduly burdensome. 
The Court also notes that the party asserting that a request is unduly
burdensome has the obligation at some point to provide an evidentiary basis for
the objection, including evidence as to what the burden of compliance would
be.  (West Pico Furniture Co. v.
Superior Court (1961) 56 Cal.2d 407.) 
Often such an objection will include a statement by the responding party
as to a narrower request that would not be unduly burdensome and provide
substantive responses as so limited. 
Objections that a request is “vague and ambiguous” must set forth the
vague and ambiguous term as well as the responding party’s reasonable
interpretation of that term as well as a statement that, so interpreted, the
response will provide the discovery requested. 
If there is no reasonable interpretation possible (which is a rare
situation), then the responding party must so state.  Objections as to privilege must set forth the
basis explaining why the information sought is in fact privileged.  Where a privilege is asserted in the context
of a document request, a privilege log must accompany the answer or be provided
within a short and reasonable time after the answer.  Where the objection is made in the context of
an interrogatory, it must be clear from the objection the scope of the
information being withheld.  If there is
no log, there should be no privilege objection to a document request (meaning
that a prophylactic privilege objection is the equivalent of no objection; it
preserves nothing).  There are some rare
exceptions, such as where the entire point of the discovery is to get allegedly
privileged information or where compliance would require a log that is in
essence an index of counsel’s file.  In
that situation, the log is unnecessary, but the assertion should be made that
the request is in that rare context.
Third, if an objection is made to the discovery but a
response is being given, it must be clear whether information or documents are
in fact being withheld on the basis of the objections.  If the objections are clear and done in the
manner set forth above, with statements in the objection as to a narrowing that
will make the request proper, this is usually a simple task.  The objections themselves state the limit and
the response will be full and complete as limited.  But where the objections are not so clear,
the response must clearly state whether any information or document is being
withheld on the basis of the objection and, if so, the extent of the
withholding.  Accordingly, in those
situations, phrases like “Notwithstanding and subject to the foregoing
objections, responding party states as follows” are improper.  Those sorts of phrases make the verification
useless, as the verifier can always fall back on the ”objections” as the reason
why a document was not produced or information was not disclosed.  On the other hand, where the line of
demarcation is clear, the verification will still serve its purpose.
Fourth, for document requests, the substantive
response must conform to the Code.  There
are relatively tight rules as to what the response must say, and the response
must say it.  For example, where a
responding party is not producing documents because they are not in the party’s
possession, custody, or control, the responding party must verify that a
diligent search has been made and must further provide the information set
forth in the Code of Civil Procedure in such cases.  In the case of interrogatories, the responses
must also conform to the Code of Civil Procedure and must be made after
diligent inquiry.  It is not proper to
refuse to respond because the responding party has no personal knowledge.  If the knowledge is hearsay, it must still be
disclosed, although it can be qualified to make it clear that it is not based
on the verifier’s personal knowledge.
Fifth, the Court frowns on responses that do not
conform to the foregoing rules being served with the view that the responses
will moot themselves out in the meet and confer process.  That is not how the process works.  A good faith response is required before the
meet and confer process begins.  The meet
and confer process will (hopefully) bridge the gaps between the parties’
respective positions.  Further, where a
response to a request for documents is made and documents are to be produced
subject to certain objections (with the documents withheld properly
delineated), the documents should be turned over irrespective of the meet and
confer.  The documents are to be produced
with alacrity to the extent that there is no objection to them.
What this means is that the response to a discovery request
is not a trivial undertaking.  Nabbing
the response from the form file is a generally bad idea and can lead to all
objections being waived.  The point is
that the boilerplate often renders the remainder of the response useless.  The only exception is where it is clear that
the substantive response is not in any way limited by the objections.  In that case, the objections do no harm,
although they also do no good.
Meet and Confer
The Code of Civil
Procedure requires that before a motion to compel further responses or a motion
for a protective order is filed, the parties engage in a good faith attempt to
resolve their differences.  They are to
“meet and confer” for that purpose.  Only
if that effort fails can a motion be brought. 

Sadly, many
litigants view the meet and confer process as just another procedural hoop
through which they must jump in order to bring the motion, similar to the need
to include an actual demurrer with the demurrer papers.  The Code requires it, so they do it, but no
one’s heart is really in it.  That is not
sufficient.
Given that, the
Court believes it appropriate to set forth how the Court views the meet and
confer requirement.  Failure to abide by
the guidelines below may well justify denial of the motion or a continuance of
it to allow the process to take place. 
If one party but not the other refuses to participate as set forth, more
likely than not the party refusing to participate will find itself on the
losing end of the motion.  The following
quotation fairly sums up the Court’s own view.
“[W]e feel compelled
to observe that resort to the courts easily could have been avoided here
had both parties actually taken to heart Justice Stone's
admonitions in Townsend that ‘the statute requires that there
be a serious effort at negotiation and informal resolution.’ (Townsend,
supra, 61 Cal.App.4th at p. 1438.) Perhaps after 11 years it is
necessary to remind trial counsel and the bar once again that ‘[a]rgument is not the
same as informal negotiation’ (id at p. 1437); that attempting
informal resolution means more than the mere attempt by the discovery proponent
‘to persuade the objector of the error of his ways’ (id. at p.
1435); and that ‘a reasonable and good faith attempt at informal resolution
entails something more than bickering with [opposing] counsel....  Rather, the law requires that counsel attempt
to talk the matter over, compare their views, consult, and deliberate.’ (Id. at
p. 1439.)” (Clement v. Alegre (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th
1277, 1294, emphasis in original, parallel citations omitted.) 
In practical terms, it means as
follows.  It is entirely appropriate to
begin the process with a letter or other correspondence.  The letter should not include a demand in the
form of an ultimatum, but it can certainly include the relief that is being
sought with an invitation to meet and confer. 
It is also entirely appropriate for the other party to respond with a
letter or other correspondence to set forth its position on the issues.  Such an initial exchange can often be helpful
to narrow the dispute.  Whether further
exchanges make sense will depend on each case and each dispute.
However, at some point, before impasse is
reached the process must include an actual “meet.”  The letters might well suffice to “confer,”
but an exchange of correspondence is not a meeting.  In the COVID-19 era, the “meeting” can be
virtual or telephonic, but a meeting there must be.  The meeting must be attended by a person from
each side with the authority to agree to the other side’s position without
getting further permission from anyone, including the client.  If only the client can give the needed authority,
then the client must be available instantaneously at all times during the
meeting.  This does not mean that one
side or the other must concede, but it does mean that the people meeting have
the ability in real and practical terms to strike a deal then and there.
The parties should approach the meet and
confer process as a problem-solving exercise. 
The purpose of the meet and confer is not to convince the other side of
the bankruptcy of its position; rather the purpose is to reach an agreement by
which the party seeking discovery is able to obtain the information that it
reasonably needs and the party providing discovery is not put to an undue
burden or forced to provide unnecessary information that might infringe on a
privacy interest or disclose a competitive trade secret or the like.
At the conclusion of the meet and confer,
the parties should have an agreed statement as to the outcome.  If the outcome is a total impasse, then they
should agree on that.  If they have
resolved some or all of their differences, then they should state—in
writing—what that agreement is so that there will be no confusion later.  Often, an agreement will be without prejudice
to a further request by the propounding party for more information after that
party receives the responses.
If a motion is still required, the
declaration in support should describe with some detail the meet and confer
process.  While the Court is not
interested in the back and forth, the Court is interested in when the meeting
took place, who was there, and how long it lasted.
All communications—in writing or oral—must
be civil, polite, and professional. 
Name-calling and accusations are devices that undermine the process;
they do not further it.  A party engaging
in such activity generally is not acting in a good faith effort to reach an
agreement.
 