  Case Number:  21STCV37575    Hearing Date:   January 3, 2025    Dept:  37 HEARING DATE:                 Friday, January 3, 2025
CASE NUMBER:                   21STCV37575
CASE NAME:                        Wendy Padilla Moreno, et al, v. Esther Sang, et al. 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendants Esther Sang and
Charles Awng Simm
OPPOSING PARTY:             Plaintiffs Sergio Vargas Cardenas,
Norma Sarai Escobar, and their son Sergio Emmanuel Varga
TRIAL DATE:                         21 January 2025
PROOF OF SERVICE:           OK

                                                                                                                                                            

PROCEEDING:                      Motion for Summary
Adjudication as to the Issue of Attorney’s Fees
OPPOSITION:                        23 December 2024
REPLY:                                  27
December 2024
 
TENTATIVE:                         The court declines to rule on Defendant’s
Motion because it is based on issues not raised in the pleadings. On its own
motion, the court strikes references to attorney’s fees in the Complaint
without leave to amend.

                                                                                                                                                            

 
Background
 
On October 13, 2021 Wendy Padilla Morena,
Maria Rivas, Melvin Eduardo Moreno, Neris Velazquez, Marta Estela Soriano,
Genesis Velazques, Sergio Vargas Cardenas (“Sergio”); Norma Sarai Escobar, and
Sergio Emmanuel Vargas (“Plaintiffs”) filed a Complaint against Defendants
Esther Sang, Chales Awng Sim, Ara Petrosyan as an individual and trustee of the
Dergena Trust, and Does 1 to 10. 
 
The Complaint alleges seven causes of
action: (1) breach of implied warranty of habitability, (2) breach of statutory
warranty of habitability, (3) breach of covenant of quiet enjoyment, (4)
negligence, (5) violation of Civ. Code § 1942.4; (6) private nuisance, and (7)
unjust enrichment. 
 
Plaintiffs have settled with Defendant
Ara Petrosyan. Plaintiffs Maria Rivas and her children, Wendy Padilla
Moreno and Melvin Eduardo Moreno have accepted Defendants Esther Sang
and Chales Awng Sim’s CCP § 998 Offers. 
Defendants Esther Sang and Chales Awng
(collectively “Defendants”) now move for summary adjudication as to Plaintiffs’
Prayer for Attorney Fees. Plaintiffs oppose the Motion. The matter is now
before the court. 
 
motion for
summary adjudication
 
I.         Legal Standard
 
The purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary
adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’
pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in
fact necessary to resolve their dispute.”¿(Aguilar v. Atl. Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal. 4th 826, 843.) “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c,
subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the
evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’
and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) Summary adjudication may be granted as to one or more
causes of action within an action, or one or more claims for damages. (CCP, §
437c(f).)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
A defendant moving for summary judgment bears two burdens:
(1) the burden of production – presenting admissible evidence, through material
facts, sufficient to satisfy a directed verdict standard; and (2) the burden of
persuasion – the material facts presented must persuade the court that the
plaintiff cannot establish one or more elements of a cause of action, or a
complete defense vitiates the cause of action. (CCP, § 437c(p)(2);¿Aguilar,¿supra,
25 Cal.4th at p. 850-851.) A defendant may satisfy this burden by showing that
the claim “cannot be established” because of the lack of evidence on some
essential element of the claim.¿¿(Union Bank v. Superior Court (1995) 31
Cal.App.4th 574, 590.)¿¿Once the defendant meets this burden, the burden shifts
to the plaintiff to show that a “triable issue of one or more material facts
exists as to that cause of action or defense thereto.”¿(Ibid.)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
“On ruling on a motion for summary judgment, the court is
to ‘liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary
judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.’” (Cheal
v. El Camino Hospital¿(2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 736, 760.) On a summary
judgment motion, the court must therefore consider what inferences favoring the
opposing party a factfinder could reasonably draw from the evidence. While
viewing the evidence in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its
primary function is to identify issues rather than to determine issues.
[Citation.]” (Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co.¿(1999) 75
Cal.App.4th¿832, 839.)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
Defeating summary judgment requires only a single disputed
material fact. (See CCP, § 437c(c) [a motion for summary judgment “shall be
granted if all the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any
material fact and that the moving party is entitled to a judgment as a
matter of law”] [italics added].) Thus, any disputed material fact means the
court must deny the motion – the court has no discretion to grant summary
judgment. (Zavala v. Arce (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 915, 925, fn. 8; Saldana
v. Globe-Weis Systems Co. (1991) 233 Cal.App.3d 1505, 1511-1512.)¿¿¿¿¿ 
 
II.        Request for Judicial Notice
 
Plaintiffs  request judicial notice of the following
exhibits:
 
1)    
Judgment filed with the Court on
December 23, 2024 in favor of Plaintiff Maria Rivas against the moving
Defendants Esther Sang and Charles Dim-Awng pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
§ 998 attached as Exhibit 5 to the Declaration of Lanetta Rinehart.
 
2)     Judgment
filed with the Court on December 23, 2024 in favor of Plaintiff Wendy Padilla
Moreno against the moving Defendants Esther Sang and Charles Dim-Awng pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure § 998 attached as Exhibit 6 to the Declaration of
Lanetta Rinehart. 
 
3)     Judgment
filed with the Court on December 23, 2024 in favor of Plaintiff Melvin Eduardo
Moreno against the moving Defendants Esther Sang and Charles Dim-Awng pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure § 998 attached as Exhibit 7 to the Declaration of
Lanetta Rinehart. 
 
4)     Plaintiffs’
Request for Dismissal of the Fifth Cause of Action for Violation of Civil Code
§ 1942.4 as attached as Exhibit 8 to the Declaration of Lanetta Rinehart. 
 
5)     Article
14.6 of Chapter IV of the Los Angeles Municipal Code § 49.99.4 enacted
March 27, 2020 attached as Exhibit 9 to the Declaration of Lanetta Rinehart.
 
6)     Article
14.6 of Chapter IV of the Los Angeles Municipal Code § 49.99.4 enacted
May 12, 2020 attached as Exhibit 10 to the Declaration of Lanetta Rinehart. 
 
7)     Los
Angeles Municipal Code § 151.09 and 151.30 attached as Exhibit 11 to
the Declaration of Lanetta Rinehart. 
 
8)     That
Van Nuys is a neighborhood within the City of Los Angeles, State of California.

 
Plaintiffs’
request for judicial notice is granted as to Exhibits 1 to 7 but denied as to
Exhibit 8 because Plaintiffs offer no evidence that Van Nuys is a neighborhood
within the city limit of the City of Los Angles. 
 
III.      Evidentiary Objections
 
Plaintiffs’
Evidentiary Objections: 
 
Objection
No. 1 is sustained due to lack of authentication. Objection Nos. 2 and 3 are
overruled as the court is only required to rule on relevant objections. 
 
Defendants’
Evidentiary Objections: 
 
Defendants’
objection to the Declaration of Sergio Cardenas is sustained as the declaration
is not certified by a qualified interpreter. 
IV.       Discussion
 
Defendants move for summary adjudication as to the issue of
attorney’s fees. Defendants assert that attorney’s fees are not recoverable
under the rental contract nor under Civ. Code §§ 1942.4 and 1942.5. 
 
Attorney’s fees and costs are recoverable by a party who prevails
in any action on a contract, “where the contract specifically provides that
attorney's fees and costs[.]” (Civ. Code, § 1717.) Attorney’s fees may be
recovered as costs when authorized by contract, statute, or law. (CCP, § 1033.5(a)(10).)
 
            A.        Contractual Right to Attorney’s Fees
 
Defendants maintain that the Parties’ contract purportedly signed
on July 1, 2021, does not contain an attorney’s fee provision. (Defendants’
Compendium of Evidence (“DCOE”) Ex. A.) Defendants assert that the contract
Plaintiff’s previously signed with the former owner Ara Petrosyan was the only
contract that provided for attorney’s fees. 
 
Exhibit A is not properly authenticated as the Defendants fail lay
the foundation for its admission. Defendants failed to provide a declaration or
deposition transcript that would allow the court to discern when the contract
was drafted and signed by Plaintiff Sergio. Exhibit A is authenticated by
defense counsel who fails to provide facts to permit the court to find he has
personal knowledge about Exhibit A and its execution. 
 
While
affidavits and declarations may be filed in support of a motion for summary
judgment, such affidavits or declarations “shall be made by a person on
personal knowledge, shall set forth admissible evidence, and shall show
affirmatively that the affiant is competent to testify to the matters stated in
the affidavits or declarations.” (CCP, § 437c(d) [italics
added].)  
 
The counteraffidavit concludes with the
allegation that the ‘facts stated herein are within the personal knowledge of
the affiant, and the affiant, if sworn as a witness, can testify competently
thereto.’ Where the facts stated do not themselves show it, such bare statement
of the affiant has no redeeming value and should be ignored.  
 
(Snider v. Snider
(1962) 200 Cal.App.2d 741, 754, see also Gamboa v. Northeast Community
Clinic¿(2021) 72 Cal.App.5th 158, 169.) 
 
As Defendants failed to properly authenticate Exhibit A,
Defendants failed to meet their initial burden of showing Plaintiffs are not
entitled to attorney’s fees pursuant to a contractual rental agreement.
However, Plaintiff’s Complaint does not include a breach of contract claim,
entitling Plaintiffs to attorney’s fees. 
 
Moreover, in opposition to Defendants’ Motion, Plaintiff Sergio
submitted a declaration asserting that he has not seen Exhibit A nor signed it.
(Sergio Decl. , ¶ 3, Ex. A.) However, the Sergio’s declaration is not
admissible as it contains statements in Spanish that have not been translated
and certified under oath by a qualified interpreter as required by Cal. Rules
of Court rule 3.1110(g). 
 
“Summary judgment cannot be granted on a ground not raised by the
pleadings.” (Bostrom v. County of San Bernardino (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th
1654, 1663 (Bostrom). As Defendants fail to show that Plaintiffs are
seeking attorney’s fees pursuant to a contract, the court cannot grant
Defendant’s request to attorney’s fees on this issue. 
 
            B.        Right to Attorney’s Fees Pursuant to
Civ. Code § 1942.4 
 
Civil Code § 1942.4 states in relevant part:
 
(a)¿A landlord of a
dwelling may not demand rent, collect rent, issue a notice of a rent increase,
or issue a three-day notice to pay rent or quit pursuant to subdivision (2) of
Section 1161 of the Code of Civil Procedure, if all of the following
conditions exist prior to the landlord’s demand or notice: 
 
[ . . . ] 
 
(2)¿A public officer
or employee who is responsible for the enforcement of any housing law, after
inspecting the premises, has notified the landlord or the landlord’s agent in
writing of his or her obligations to abate the nuisance or repair the
substandard conditions. 
 
(3)¿The conditions
have existed and have not been abated 35 days beyond the date of service of the
notice specified in paragraph (2) and the delay is without good cause. For
purposes of this subdivision, service shall be complete at the time of deposit
in the United States mail. 
 
[ . . . ]
 
(b)(1) A landlord who
violates this section is liable to the tenant or lessee for the actual damages
sustained by the tenant or lessee and special damages of not less than one
hundred dollars ($100) and not more than five thousand dollars ($5,000).
 
(2) The prevailing
party shall be entitled to recovery of reasonable attorney's fees and costs of
the suit in an amount fixed by the court.
 
(Civ.
Code, § 1942.4 [emphasis added].) 
 
Defendants
assert they are not liable under § 1942.4 because they were never mailed or
provide notice by LAHD. 
 
(Undisputed
Material Fact (UMF) No. 5.) Plaintiffs do not dispute that Defendants were not
served with notice and Plaintiffs moved to dismiss the firth cause of action
for violation of  Civil Code § 1942.4.
(Rinehart Decl., ¶ 7, Ex. 8.) 
 
As
the fifth cause of action is dismissed, the court cannot grant summary on this
issue as it is moot.
 
            C.        Right to Attorney’s Fees Pursuant to
Civ. Code § 1942.5
 
CCP § 1942.5 states: 
 
(h) Any lessor or agent of a
lessor who violates this section shall be liable to the lessee in a civil
action for all of the following:
 
[ . . . ]
 
(i) In any action brought for
damages for retaliatory eviction, the court shall award reasonable attorney's
fees to the prevailing party if either party requests attorney's fees upon the
initiation of the action.
 
Defendants assert that Plaintiffs are not entitled to attorney’s
fees under § 1942.5 because Plaintiffs did not plead an action for retaliatory
eviction. The court agrees. “Generally, the pleadings determine the relevant
issues on a summary judgment motion, and the motion may not be granted or
denied on issues not raised by the pleadings.” (Runnymede Holdings, LLC v.
Foster (2023) 96 Cal.App.5th Supp. 1 [315 Cal.Rptr.3d 1, 7–8, 96
Cal.App.5th Supp. 1, 8].) “Summary judgment cannot be granted on a ground not
raised by the pleadings.” (Bostrom, supra, 35 Cal.App.4th at p.
1663.) “Conversely, summary judgment cannot be denied on a ground not
raised by the pleadings.” (Ibid.)
 
The court cannot find that Plaintiffs are entitled to attorney’s
fees for retaliatory eviction when the Complaint does not plead a cause of
action for retaliatory eviction under § 1942.5. Similarly, the court cannot
grant summary adjudication on an issue not pled in the Complaint. 
 
Plaintiffs further assert that Plaintiffs Maria Rivas and her
children, Wendy Padilla Moreno and Melvin Eduardo Moreno now have a judgment
against the moving Defendants, which renders the instant motion moot. (Rinehart
Decl. Ex.  5 to 7.) Plaintiffs Exhibits 5
to 7 are CCP § 998 Offers wherein Defendants allowed judgment to be taken
against them in favor of Plaintiffs, with each side agreed to bear their own
costs. (Id.) As the fifth cause of action was dismissed, Plaintiffs fail
to show that there is a statutory or contractual basis that would entitle
Plaintiffs to attorney’s fees. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs assert that triable issue of fact
regarding attorney’s fees exists under Los Angeles Municipal Code §
151.30(I)(1) and Article 14.6 of Chapter IV of the Los Angeles Municipal Code §
49.99.7.  However, facts not alleged in a
complaint are not presumed to exists. (Schick v. Lerner (1987) 193
Cal.App.3d 1321, 1327.) “The burden of a defendant moving for summary judgment
only requires that he or she negate plaintiff's theories of liability as
alleged in the complaint.” (Tsemetzin v. Coast Federal Savings &
Loan Assn. (1997) 57 Cal.App.4th 1334, 1342 [italics original].) “‘The
[papers] filed in response to a defendant's motion for summary judgment may not
create issues outside the pleadings and are not a substitute for an amendment
to the pleading.’ [Citations.]” (Id.) 
 
Moreover, Plaintiffs assert that when attorney’s fees are
authorized by statute, they are an element of costs and not damages.
Accordingly, Defendants cannot move for summary adjudication on such an issue.
(CCP, § 473c(f)(1) [“A party may move for summary adjudication as to . . .one
or more claims for damages . . .”].) However, with the fifth cause of action
dismissed, and with no other statutory claim for attorney’s fees stated in the
Complaint, the court cannot find that Plaintiffs have adequately pled a claim
for attorney’s fees, thus permitting the court to find in favor of Defendants
as a matter of law.[1]
 
Conversely, because the Complaint contains no viable claim for
attorney’s fees, the court cannot rule on an issue not presented in the
pleadings. “‘[S]ummary judgment cannot be denied on a ground not raised by the
pleadings. [Citation.]’” (Kendall v. Walker (2009) 181 Cal.App.4th 584,
598 citing Bostrom, supra, 35 Cal.App.4th at p. 1663.) 
 
Accordingly, the court declines to rule on Defendant’s Motion
because it is not based on issues raised in the pleadings. On its own motion,
the court strikes references to attorney’s fees in the Complaint without leave
to amend. (CCP § 436.)
 
Conclusion
 
The court declines to rule on Defendant’s
Motion because it is based on issues not raised in the pleadings. On its own
motion, the court strikes references to attorney’s fees in the Complaint
without leave to amend.


