 Case Number:  23SMCV01370    Hearing Date:   July 19, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative
Ruling 
Steiger v. Nine Eighteen Twenty-First Street
Homeowners Association, et al., Case No. 23SMCV01370 
Hearing date July 19, 2024
Plaintiff’s Motion for Summary Adjudication

 
Plaintiff Steiger alleges
defendants improperly restricted his ability to renovate his condominium unit
by adding hardwood floors and a washer/dryer. Plaintiff sued Nine Eighteen
Twenty-First Street Homeowners Association, Mortazavi, Allstate Investment
Group and Allstate HOA Management for declaratory relief, breach of governing
documents, breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing,
breach of fiduciary duties, violation of Civil Code section 5200 and negligent
misrepresentation.
 
Plaintiff moves
for summary adjudication on three issues of duty. The motion asserts the HOA is
(1) to provide a fair, reasonable, and expeditious procedure for the
installation of hardwood floors and a washer/dryer in his property, (2) to
decide on Steiger’s request or application to install hardwood floors and a
washer/dryer in the Property in good faith and in a manner that is not
unreasonable, arbitrary or capricious (3) to exercise due care in processing
Steiger’s request or application to install hardwood floors and a washer/dryer
in the Property. Defendants Mehrnaz and HOA oppose. 
 
Evidentiary
Objections
Objections 1-2
OVERRULED.
 
Motion for Summary
Adjudication
“A party may move
for summary adjudication as to one or more causes of action within an action,
one or more affirmative defenses, one or more claims for damages, or one or
more issues of duty...” Code Civ. Proc., §437c(f)(1). Summary adjudication is
available on either a tort or contractual issue of duty. Linden Partners v.
Wilshire Linden Assoc. (1998) 62 Cal.App.4th 508, 518. In the context of summary
adjudication, “an issue of duty” is an inquiry into whether the duty exists –
not whether defendant breached the duty. This distinction was highlighted
in Paramount Petroleum Corp. v. Superior Court (2014) 227
Cal.App.4th 226, 238, in which plaintiff obtained an order granting summary
adjudication of defendant’s liability for breach of contract. The Court of
Appeal reversed, finding this was an improper summary adjudication order under
section 437c(f)(1).
 
The court cannot
summarily adjudicate an issue of breach of duty under section 437(f)(1), unless
the issue disposes of an entire cause of action. Plaintiff’s motion did not
request the court to determine breach, but the court will not address whether
the HOA breached any duties. 
 
Plaintiff sought
approval from the HOA to install hardwood floors and a washer/dryer and
requested HOA approval per Sections 4.30 and 4.31 of the CC&Rs. CC&R
Section 4.30 reads:
 
Hard surface floor materials, including, but not
limited to, marble, tile, and hardwood floors, may not be used if the floor
surface is directly above the ceiling of a Unit below unless, either a): a
majority of the Association has approved the installation and use of the floor
materials according to the criteria set forth in this section; or , b): the
floor materials were previously installed in a Unit before the first sale of
that Unit. In all other cases, floor materials may be installed only if the Owner
has taken all reasonable measures at his/her own expense to deaden, insulate
and otherwise decrease the level of such noise or sounds to the minimum level
reasonably possible. The noise reduction plans must be approved by a majority
of the Association before the installation of the floor materials.
 
UMF 11; Karayan
Decl. ¶2, Exh. A. CC&R Section 4.31 reads:
 
No noise producing equipment including, but not
limited to, washing machines, dryers, exercise machines, or Jacuzzis, may be
used unless, either a): a majority vote of the Association has approved the
installation and use according to the criteria set forth in this section; or
b): the noise producing equipment was previously installed in a Unit before the
first sale of that Unit. The Association may approve the installation of such
noise producing equipment only if the Owner has taken all reasonable measures
at his/her own expense to deaden, insulate and otherwise decrease the level of
such noise or sounds to the minimum level reasonably possible. The noise
reduction plans must be approved by a majority of the Association before the
installation. The Association shall have the right to make reasonable
regulations concerning the hours at which such equipment may be used.

UMF 12; Karayan Decl. ¶2, Exh. A.
 
Duties owed by the
HOA under the Davis-Stirling Act
For the first two
issues of duty, plaintiff argues the HOA owed a duty under the Davis-Stirling
Act at Civil Code §4765(a)(1)-(2) to (1) provide a fair, reasonable, and
expeditious procedure for the approval of and (2) decide in a good faith and in
a manner that is not unreasonable, arbitrary, or capricious the request to install
hardwood floors and a washer/dryer. 
 
The opposition
argues the court cannot summarily adjudicate the issue of duty, and plaintiff
cannot move to adjudicate issues of duty under the Civil Code. However, Code of
Civil Procedure section 437(f)(1) explicitly allows adjudication on the issue
of duty. HOAs owe duties under the Davis-Stirling Act. See Martin v.
Bridgeport Community Assoc., Inc. (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 1024, 1037 (a duty
to maintain common grounds “arises out of the Davis–Stirling Act and the CC
& Rs, not out of common law principles of negligence.”) The opposition
admits “there is little doubt that the duties owed by both the HOA and
Plaintiff are governed by the Davis-Sterling Act and the HOA’s own governing
documents.” Opp., p. 1.
 
Common interest
developments are subject to Davis-Sterling, and defendant HOA owed duties under
the Act. Civ. Code §1350 et seq.; Nahrstedt v. Lakeside Village Condominium
Ass’n. (1994) 8 Cal.4th 361, 377-378. As to the issues of duty owed by the
HOA under Davis-Stirling—to provide a fair, reasonable and expeditious
procedure, and to decide in good faith and in a manner that is not
unreasonable, arbitrary, or capricious—summary adjudication is GRANTED.
 
Duty to Exercise
Due Care in Processing Requests or Applications
Plaintiff argues the
HOA owed and continues to owe fiduciary duties to exercise due care in
processing Steiger’s request or application to install hardwood floors and a
washer/dryer. Plaintiff argues homeowner associations owe fiduciary duties to
their members. A homeowners association has a fiduciary relationship with the
membership as a whole and not to individual member's interests. Frances T.
v. Village Green Owners Assn. (1986) 42 Cal.3d 490, 513. 
 
The opposition
argues plaintiff cannot seek to adjudicate issues of duty under the CC&Rs,
but this is incorrect. Summary adjudication is allowed on the issue of duty.
And HOAs owe duties under their CC&Rs. See Martin, supra, at 1037. 
 
HOAs owe fiduciary
duties to members, but this does not necessarily extend to processing a
request/application. Plaintiff cites no California case law that an HOA must
exercise due care when processing a request/application. Under the plain
language of CC&R Sections 4.30 and 4.31, it is not clear the HOA owed its
members a specific duty to process requests/applications in a particular manner.
 
Plaintiff has not
demonstrated there is no triable issue of defendant’s duty with regard to
processing requests and applications. Whether the HOA had a duty to process his
requests and applications to install hardwood floors and a washer/dryer in his
property is a triable issue of material fact. DENIED.