  Case Number:  22AHCV00928    Hearing Date:   June 4, 2024    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:     June
4, 2024                                        TRIAL DATE: September 10, 2024 
                                                           
CASE:                         Gary Livingston v.
Scott Brown, et al. 
 
CASE NO.:                 22AHCV00928
 
 
 
MOTION
TO DISQUALIFY COUNSEL

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff Gary Livingston
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      Defendant
Scott Brown
 
SERVICE:                              Filed February 23, 2024
 
OPPOSITION:                       Filed May 15, 2024
 
REPLY:                                   Filed May 20, 2024
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
 Plaintiff Gary Livingston
("Plaintiff') moves for an order to disqualify the attorneys of record for
Defendant Scott Brown ("Defendant"), Henderson & Borgeson and
Royce Borgeson and Jeremy L.A. Hill Edwards ( collectively "Henderson"),
from representing Defendant in this action.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This case arises out of Plaintiff Gary Livingston’s
(“Plaintiff”) claim that Defendant Scott Brown (“Brown”) used violence against
Plaintiff during a hockey game. Plaintiff filed a form complaint on October 27,
2022, alleging two causes of action for (1) general negligence and (2)
intentional tort against Defendant Scott Brown, Pasadena Center Operating
Company, and Pasadena Ice Skating Center.  
 
On
April 28, 2023, Plaintiff filed his First Amended Complaint alleging the same
causes of action. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s Motion for an Order to
Disqualify Attorney. 
 
Therefore, the Court on its own motion, finds sanctions are
warranted. Plaintiff is ordered to pay  
the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred
by Defendant in opposing this Motion.     
 
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
“‘A trial court’s authority to disqualify an attorney
derives from the power inherent in every court ‘[t]o control in furtherance of
justice, the conduct of its ministerial officers, and of all other persons in
any manner connected with a judicial proceeding before it, in every matter
pertaining thereto.’’” (Ontiveros v. Constable (2016) 245 Cal.App.4th
686, 694 (quoting People ex rel. Dept. of Corporations v. SpeeDee Oil Change
Systems, Inc. (1999) 20 Cal.4th 1135, 1145 (quoting Code Civ. Proc., §
128(a)(5))).) “‘[D]isqualification motions involve a conflict between the
clients’ right to counsel of their choice and the need to maintain ethical
standards of professional responsibility.’” (Id. at 694-95.) “‘The
paramount concern must be to preserve public trust in the scrupulous
administration of justice and the integrity of the bar.’” (Id. at 695.)
¿
 
In ruling on a motion to disqualify, the court should weigh:
(1) the party's right to counsel of choice; (2) the attorney's interest in
representing a client; (3) the financial burden on a client of change of
counsel; (4) any tactical abuse underlying a disqualification motion; and (5)
the principal that the fair resolution of disputes requires vigorous
representation of parties by independent counsel. (Mills Land & Water
Co. v. Golden West Refining Co. (1986) 186 Cal.App.3d 116, 126.) 
 
Rules of Professional Conduct, Rule 4.4 states,
"[w]here it is reasonably apparent to a lawyer who receives a writing
relating to a lawyer's representation of a client that the writing was  inadvertently sent or produced, and the
lawyer knows or reasonably should know that the writing is privileged or
subject to the work product doctrine, the lawyer shall: (a) refrain from
examining the writing any more than is necessary to determine that it is
privileged or subject to the work product doctrine, and (b) promptly notify the
sender.”
 
DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff argues
that Henderson is subject to disqualification based on his violation of the
Rules of Professional Conduct, Rule 4.4 because Henderson examined an email
that was a communication between Plaintiff and an attorney. (Mot. at p.5.) 
 
In Opposition,
Defendant Brown argues that Plaintiff failed to meet his burden to show that
the email was privileged. (Opp’n at p. 8.) Defendant further argues that an
unsolicited email to an attorney is not a “consultation” within the
meaning of evidence code section 951’s definition of a “client” for purposes of
privilege. (Id. at p.10.) Moreover, counsel did not violate Rule 4.4 as
it was reasonably necessary for defense counsel to examine the e-mail in full
to determine whether the e-mail is privileged. (Id. at p. 13.) Additionally,
Defense Counsel’s use of the e-mail as an exhibit was justified because
Plaintiff’s counsel precluded defense counsel from using the “underlying
factual information” learned from the e-mail. (Id. at p.14.) 
 
In Reply, Plaintiff reiterates the previous arguments.
(Reply at pp. 1-4.) Plaintiff also argues that the Defendant’s analysis as to
whether there is or was an attorney client relationship between Plaintiff,
Goldstein, and Pearce is immaterial to the instant motion. (Id. at p.4.)
Moreover, Defense counsel came into possession of an attorney client
communication and used it against Plaintiff which is sufficient prejudice to
disqualify Defense counsel. (Id. at p.5.) 
 
The Court finds that Plaintiff failed to meet his burden and
therefore, this Motion to Disqualify will be denied. Whether an attorney should
be disqualified is a matter addressed to the sound discretion of the trial
court. (Henriksen v. Great American Savings & Loan (1992) 11
Cal.App.4th 109, 113.) “‘The important right to counsel of one’s choice must
yield to ethical considerations that affect the fundamental principles of our
judicial process.’” (Id.) In exercising its discretion to disqualify an
attorney, the Court is required to make a reasoned judgment which complies with
the legal principles and policies applicable to the issue at hand. ¿(Henriksen
v. Great Am. Sav. & Loan (1992) 11 Cal.App.4th 109, 113.) Here, Plaintiff
only provides speculative and conclusory allegations. Moreover, Plaintiff’s
arguments are meritless.
 
Therefore, the Court DENIES the Motion to Disqualify. 
 
Sanctions 
 
The Court on its own motion finds that sanctions are
warranted pursuant to CCP §128.5.
 
Under section 128.5, “[a] trial court may order a party, the
party’s attorney, or both, to pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s
fees, incurred by another party as a result of actions or tactics, made in bad
faith, that are frivolous or solely intended to cause unnecessary delay.”
Actions or tactics include “making or opposing of motions.” (Civ. Code Proc., §
128.5, subd. (b)(1).) “Whether sanctions are warranted [under section 128.5]
depends on an evaluation of all the circumstances surrounding the questioned
action. [Citation.]’ [Citation.]” (Wallis v. PHL Associates, Inc. (2008)
168 Cal.App.4th 882, 893.) 
 
Plaintiff’s arguments are meritless because although he
asserts that the email accidentally sent to Defendant’s counsel was privileged,
he fails to provide any evidence for his claims. “Frivolous’ means totally and completely
without merit or for the sole purpose of harassing an opposing party.” (Civ.
Code Proc., § 128.5, subd. (b)(2).)For instance, Plaintiff’s
argument for privilege rests entirely on the assertion most of the content of
the subject E-mail is verbatim to a different e-mail Plaintiff sent to
Plaintiff’s counsel. Further, Plaintiff presents no evidence to show to whom
Plaintiff sent the original e-mail, other than Plaintiff’s counsel. Plaintiff
does not know how many people ultimately received his e-mail, but he estimates
he directly e-mailed five (5) attorneys, including Mr. Goldstein, Mr. Pearce,
and Plaintiff’s counsel. (Depo Trans. vol. III at 352:18-21.) Moreover,
Plaintiff’s e-mail to Mr. Goldstein and Mr. Pearce opens with a recitation of
Plaintiff’s version of the facts. (Plaintiff’s Exhibit 2 ¶ 2.) It is not until
the last paragraph of the E-mail that Plaintiff requests, “Please let me know
if this fits your expertise and if this is a case you would be willing to pursue.
I would greatly appreciate a referral to a suitable lawyer if not.”
(Plaintiff’s Exhibit 2 ¶ 11.) 
 
The Court notes that the only way for Defense counsel to
determine whether the email is privileged or not was to read the entirety of
the email to look for evidence of solicitation. “The attorney-client privilege
is a shield against deliberate intrusion; it is not an insurer against
inadvertent disclosure.” (Aerojet-General Corp. v. Transport Indemnity
Insurance (1993) 18 Cal.App.4th at p. 1004.) “Consequently, whether the
existence [of] nonprivileged information is revealed through formal discovery
or [inadvertent disclosure of privileged documents], the end result is the
same: the opposing party is entitled to the use of that [ ] information.” (Ibid.)
The “underlying factual information” contained in an attorney-client privileged
communication is not protected, only the communication itself. (Id., at
p. 1005, citing Triple A Machine Shop, Inc. v. State of California
(1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 131, 143; Benge v. Superior Court (1992) 131
Cal.App.3d 336, 349.) Moreover, “Plaintiff has not noticed Mr. Perkins or Mr.
McGowan’s depositions to better establish the chain of custody; and has
repeatedly postponed the taking of Defendant’s deposition six (6) times.
Moreover, instead of pursuing the discovery necessary to determine whether the
E-mail is privileged or not, Plaintiff noticed the deposition of Defense
counsels, only to withdraw the notices when Defendant moved for a protective
order.” (Edwards Decl. at ¶ 6.)
 
“The award of sanctions for a frivolous action [or tactic]
under Code of Civil Procedure section 128.5 is within the sound discretion of
the trial court. [Citation.]’” (Wallis v. PHL Associates, Inc., supra,
168 Cal.App.4th at p. 893.) 
 
Therefore, the Court on its own motion, finds sanctions are
warranted. Plaintiff is ordered to pay  
the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred
by Defendant in opposing this Motion. 
 
CONCLUSION
 
Therefore, the Court denies the Motion to Disqualify. 
 
Therefore, the Court on its own motion, finds sanctions are
warranted. Plaintiff is ordered to pay  
the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred
by Defendant in opposing this Motion. 
 
 
 
 
            
Dated:  June 4, 2024                                       ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court



