 Case Number:  23GDCV02153    Hearing Date:   June 4, 2024    Dept:  X Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:     June
4, 2024                                        TRIAL DATE:  No date set.
                                                           
CASE:                         Sandra Miranda v. Kia America, Inc. 
 
CASE NO.:                 23GDCV02153
 
 
 
MOTION
TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES

 
MOVING PARTY:              Plaintiff Sandra Miranda
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Defendant Kia America, Inc
 
SERVICE:                             Filed
March 5, 2024
 
OPPOSITION:                      Filed
May 21, 2024
 
REPLY:                                  Filed May 28, 2024
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
 
            Plaintiff requests an
order compelling Defendant to produce further responses to requests for
production of documents, set one.  
 
BACKGROUND
 
On May 17, 2020, Plaintiff
purchased a 2020 Kia Forte, bearing VIN: 3KPF24AD8LE242706 (“Subject Vehicle”).
The causes of action in the Complaint arise out of warranty and repair
obligations of KIA AMERICA, INC. in connection with the Subject Vehicle for
which Defendant issued a written warranty.
 
On October 12, 2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint against Defendant Kia
America, Inc. alleging 3 causes of action for (1) Violation of Song-Beverly Act
– Breach of Express Warranty, (2) Violation of Song-Beverly Act – Breach of
Implied of Implied Warranty, and (3)Violation of the Song-Beverly Act Section
1793.2. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Plaintiff’s motion to compel
further responses to its request for production of documents, set one is
granted in part. To
the extent that any request would require Defendant to produce privileged material,
Defendant is not required produce the material.
 
            Defendant is ordered to provide
responsive documents, to the extent it has not already done so, to request for
production of documents numbers 1-14.  
 
            Defendant is ordered to provide
responsive documents to request for production of documents numbers 15-22 and 23-29
within 30 days of this order. However, the Court limits the requests from 2017
to 2020 (year of purchase).
 
            Defendant is ordered to provide
responsive documents to request for production of documents numbers 30-31
within 30 days of this order. However, the Court further limits the scope to only similar vehicle
complaints of the same year, make, and model as the subject vehicle sold within
California. 
 
DEFENDANT’S
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS 
 
            Declaration of Gregory Sogoyan ¶¶ 3-
15                  OVERRULED            
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
The propounding party may bring a motion¿to compel further
responses to a¿demand for production if the propounding party deems that
production is deficient, incomplete, or contains meritless objections.¿(CCP¿§
2031.310(a)).¿ The legal burden to justify refusing or failing to
provide¿discovery lies with the objecting party.¿(Coy v. Superior Court¿(1962)
58 Cal.2d 210, 220).¿A motion to compel further response to requests for
production “shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the
discovery sought by the inspection demand.”¿(Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.310, subd.
(b)(1).)¿ 
 
The motion must be accompanied by a good-faith
meet-and-confer declaration. (CCP § 2031.310(b)).¿“A determination of whether
an attempt at informal resolution is adequate . . . involves the exercise of
discretion.”¿(Stewart v. Colonial W. Agency¿(2001) 87¿Cal.App.4th 1006,
1016).¿ “The history of the litigation, the nature of the interaction between
counsel, the nature of the issues, the type and scope of discovery requested,
the prospects for success and other similar factors can be relevant.¿ Judges
have broad powers and responsibility to determine what measure and procedures
are appropriate in varying circumstances.”¿(Id.)
 
On receipt of a response to discovery requests, the party requesting may
move for an order compelling further responses for interrogatories (Code Civ.
Proc. 2030.300), requests for admission (Cod. Civ. Proc. section 2033.290), and
request for production (Code Civ. Proc. section 2031.310). “Unless notice of
this motion is given within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or
any supplemental verified response, or any specific later date to which the
requesting party and the responding party have agreed in writing, the
requesting party waives any right to compel further response to the requests
for admission.” (Code Civ. Proc. section 2033.290, subd. (c).)
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Plaintiff asserts that Defendant provided inadequate responses to her Request
for Production of Documents, Set One.
 
Meet and Confer
            Here, on
February 5, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel sent Defendant’s counsel a letter
attempting to meet and confer in good faith regarding Defendant’s deficient
responses to Plaintiff’s Request for Production of Documents, Set One. (Sogoyan
Decl. ¶ 20.) On February 12, 2024, Defendant’s counsel responded to Plaintiff’s
counsel’s Meet and Confer Letter, claiming that Defendant’s responses are
satisfactory. (Id. at ¶ 21.) On February 13, 2024, Plaintiff´s counsel
sent Defendant a further meet and confer letter. (Id. at ¶ 22.)
Defendant argues that the meet and confer efforts were not in good faith. Nevertheless,
Defendant fails to provide any evidence of bad faith. Thus, the meet and confer
requirements were satisfied. 
 
Separate Statement

 
Under Rule 3.1345, a Separate
Statement must include the request, the response, and reason that a further
response is needed. Here, the Plaintiff’s Separate Statement has the required
information. (Plaintiff’s Separate Statement p. 2-49.) 
 
Timeliness of the
Motions
 
            “Unless notice of this
motion is given within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any
supplemental verified response, or on or before any specific later date to
which the propounding party and the responding party have agreed in writing, the
propounding party waives any right to compel a further response to the
interrogatories.” (Code Civ. Proc. section 2030.300, subd. (c).) The same
applies for request for production of documents. (Code Civ. Proc. section
2031.310, subd. (c).)
 
            On or about on
November 29, 2023, Plaintiff propounded Request for Production of Documents,
Set One, on Defendant seeking documents relating to: (1) Plaintiff’s own
vehicle; (2) Defendant’s warranty and replacement/repurchase policies,
procedures, and practices; and (3) Defendant’s knowledge of the same or similar
defects in other vehicles of the same year, make, and model as the Subject
Vehicle. (Sogoyan Decl. ¶ 17.) On January 17, 2024, Defendant responded to
Plaintiff’s written discovery. (Id. at ¶ 18.) On March 5, 2024,
Plaintiff filed the instant motion. Thus, this motion is timely.
            
            Request
for Production of Documents
 
A. Requests Relating to the Subject Vehicle
            
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 1: All DOCUMENTS regarding the
SUBJECT VEHICLE that are within YOUR Customer Relations Center. “SUBJECT
VEHICLE” shall mean the vehicle which is the subject of this lawsuit and
identified as the 2020 Kia Forte, bearing VIN 3KPF24AD8LE242706. 
 
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 2: All DOCUMENTS which evidence,
support, refer, or relate to each of the affirmative defenses as set forth in
YOUR Answer to Plaintiff’s Complaint. 
 
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 3: All DOCUMENTS which evidence,
describe, refer, or relate to any inspection of the SUBJECT VEHICLE.
 
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 4: Produce all DOCUMENTS that
refer or relate to all repair orders pertaining to the SUBJECT VEHICLE in YOUR
possession, custody or control. [This request will be interpreted to include
any and all DOCUMENTS maintained by YOUR authorized repair facilities (s) in
the regular course of business, including all versions of such repair orders
(accounting/invoice copies, customer copies, dealer copies, warranty copies,
etc). 
 
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 5: Produce all DOCUMENTS,
including manuals, and express warranty booklets provided to consumers with
respect to the purchase or lease of the SUBJECT VEHICLE. 
 
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 6: All DOCUMENTS which evidence,
describe, refer, or relate to any Retail Installment Sale Contracts and/or
Lease Agreements, including any associated documents reflecting OEM or
aftermarket installed parts, service contracts, and any other writings signed
by the Plaintiff, in connection with the SUBJECT VEHICLE. 
 
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 7: Produce all DOCUMENTS that
refer or relate to all diagnostic trouble codes that are electronically stored
by YOU or YOUR authorized repair facility as result of any inspections or
repairs conducted on the SUBJECT VEHICLE.
 
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 8: Produce all DOCUMENTS,
including recalls, technical service bulletins, and dealer advisories that were
issued for the SUBJECT VEHICLE. [This request requires that the responding
party produce the entire document. A production that only lists the name,
number, and/or title of the document will not be responsive to this request]. 
 
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 9: Produce all DOCUMENTS that
refer to or relate to any CONTACT or COMMUNICATIONS between YOU and YOUR
authorized repair facility regarding the SUBJECT VEHICLE
 
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 10: Produce all DOCUMENTS that
refer to or relate to any summaries of all warranty repairs performed on the
SUBJECT VEHICLE. 
 
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 11: Produce all DOCUMENTS that
refer to or relate to any summaries of all amounts paid by YOU for warranty
repairs performed on the SUBJECT VEHICLE. 
 
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 12: All photographs or videotapes
of the SUBJECT VEHICLE taken by YOU or YOUR authorized repair facility. 
 
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 13: All DOCUMENTS which evidence,
describe, refer, or relate to any CONTACT or COMMUNICATIONS between YOU and the
Plaintiff. 
 
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 14: All DOCUMENTS which evidence,
describe, refer, or relate to any CONTACT or COMMUNICATIONS with any third
parties relating to the SUBJECT VEHICLE. B. Defendant’s Policies and Procedures
for Handling Song-Beverly Cases 
 
 
B. Defendant’s Policies and Procedures for Handling
Song-Beverly Cases
 
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 15: All DOCUMENTS which evidence,
describe, refer, or relate to YOUR rules, policies, or procedures since 2017
concerning the issuance of refunds to buyers or providing replacement vehicles
to buyers in the State of California under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty
Act. 
 
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 16: All DOCUMENTS which evidence,
describe, refer, or relate to YOUR Call Center Policies and Procedures for
escalating customer complaints relating to any defects present in their vehicle
 
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 17: All DOCUMENTS which evidence,
describe, refer, or relate to YOUR Call Center Policies and Procedures for
creating a Service Activity in response to customer complaints relating to any
defects present in their vehicle.
 
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 18: All DOCUMENTS which evidence,
describe, refer, or relate to YOUR Policies and Procedures for determining
whether a vehicle should be repurchased or replaced under the Song Beverly Act.

 
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 19: All DOCUMENTS which evidence,
describe, refer, or relate to any flow charts used by YOU for the purpose of
escalating customer complaints. 
 
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 20: All DOCUMENTS which evidence,
describe, refer, or relate to any flow charts used by YOU for the purpose of
evaluating whether a vehicle qualifies for repurchase or replacement under the
Song-Beverly Act. 
 
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 21: All DOCUMENTS evidencing
and/or describing YOUR training materials related to YOUR policy regarding how
to calculate a repurchase. 
 
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 22: All DOCUMENTS referencing,
evidencing, and/or relating to any policies or procedures followed by YOUR
Customer Relation Center to advise customers to deliver their vehicles to YOUR
authorized repair facilities for further diagnosis or repair instead of
offering a repurchase or replacement of the vehicle under the Song-Beverly Act.
 
C. Defendant’s Warranty Policy and Procedure for Handling

 
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 23: Any DOCUMENT which refers or
relate to YOUR Warranty Policy and Procedure Manuals provided to YOUR
authorized repair facilities with respect to how to determine whether repairs
should be covered under warranty from 2017 to the present.
 
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 24: Any DOCUMENT which refers or
relate to YOUR Warranty Policy and Procedure Manuals provided to YOUR
authorized repair facilities with respect to whether repairs should be covered
under warranty as “goodwill” from 2017 to the present.
 
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 25: Any DOCUMENT which refers or
relate to YOUR Warranty Policy and Procedure Manuals provided to YOUR
authorized repair facilities with respect to repeated repair visits for similar
complaints by the consumer from 2017 to the present. 
 
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 26: Any DOCUMENT which refers or
relate to YOUR Warranty Policy and Procedure Manuals provided to YOUR
authorized repair facilities on what type of repairs require approval by YOU in
order to cover the repair under warranty from 2017 to the present. 
 
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 27: Any DOCUMENT which refers or
relate to YOUR Warranty Policy and Procedure Manuals provided to YOUR
authorized repair facilities on the length for test drives on certain customer
complaints to be covered under warranty from 2017 to the present. 
 
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 28: Any DOCUMENT which refers or
relate to YOUR Warranty Policy and Procedure Manuals provided to YOUR
authorized repair facilities on what type of repairs will not be reimbursed by
YOU as warranty repairs from 2017 to the present. 
 
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 29: Any DOCUMENT which refers or relate
to YOUR Warranty Policy and Procedure Manuals provided to YOUR authorized
repair facilities on how to handle customer concerns that are not duplicated at
the time of the repair visit from 2017 to the present.
 
D. Similar Customer Complaints 
 
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 30: All DOCUMENTS, in the form of
a list or compilation, of other Customer Complaints in YOUR electronically
stored information of database(s) that are SUBSTANTIALLY SIMILAR to complaints
made by Plaintiff with respect to the SUBJECT VEHICLE in other 2020 Kia Forte
vehicles. “SUBSTANTIALLY SIMILAR” shall mean similar customer complaint that
would be the same nature of the reported system, malfunction, trouble code,
Technical Service Bulletin Recommendation, dashboard indicator light, or other
manifestation of a repair problem, as description listed in any warranty
summary or repair order for the SUBJECT VEHICLE. [The customer complaints in
this matter can be found in Defendant’s warranty history/summary and within the
line items of the repair orders created at Defendant’s authorized repair
facility. If YOU are having issues determining Plaintiff’s Complaints,
Plaintiff is willing to meet and confer and list out the specific complaints
and the language used to describe them. This should not include any routine or
scheduled maintenance items.] 
 
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 31: All DOCUMENTS that refer to,
reflect, or relate to any Field Service Action issued, or in the process of
being issued, in response to complaints experienced by Plaintiff as described
in Defendant’s warranty history/summary and within the line items of the repair
orders created at Defendant’s authorized repair facility.
 
              
            Plaintiff asserts that Defendant has
failed to produce or identify responsive documents. Defendant argues that its
initial responses were full and complete, the requests pertaining to vehicles
other than the subject vehicle should be denied, Plaintiff failed to set forth
specific facts to support good cause, and Defendant’s objections are based on
ambiguous, overboard, undue burden and relevance are valid. 
 
            The Code of Civil Procedure contemplates
three forms of proper responses to a request for production: a statement of
compliance in full or in part (CCP § 2031.220); a statement of
inability to comply (CCP § 2031.230); and a partial objection coupled
with a statement of compliance or representation of inability to comply (CCP §
2031.240).¿ 
 
Requests
1-14
 
            Here, Defendant states, “KA
gave a code-compliant response and already produced all responsive documents.
KA has complied with the code by including objections to the documents
requested. It is unclear what further response Plaintiff is requesting in
response to this request that has not already been received. . ..” (Defendant’s
Separate Statement at p. 3.) Defendant further states that it has supplemented
responses to requests number 7, 17, 21, 26, 27, 28, 30, 31. (Gohari Decl. ¶10.)
Although Defendant argues
that the requests seek trade secret or privileged work, it does not appear that
the requests seek trade secret material or privileged work. Additionally,
Defendant failed to provide a privilege log. To the extent that any request
would require Defendant to produce privileged material, Defendant is not
required to produce the material.¿
 
            Defendant is ordered to provide
responsive documents to request for production of documents numbers 1-14 within
30 days of this order.  
 
Requests 15-22
 
            Here, Defendant states provides
conclusory statements as to why these requests should be denied. For instance,
Defendant argues that the requests are overly broad, vague, and ambiguous, the
requests are irrelevant, and the interrogatory seeks propriety, commercially
sensitive, and confidential information. The Court finds that Defendant did not
meet its burden, however, Plaintiff showed good cause. Therefore, the Court
grants the requests to compel further as to Requests 15-22. Although Defendant argues that
the requests seek trade secret or privileged work, it does not appear that the
requests seek trade secret material or privileged work. Additionally, Defendant
failed to provide a privilege log. To the extent that any request would require
Defendant to produce privileged material, Defendant is not required to produce
the material.¿
 
            Defendant is ordered to provide
responsive documents to request for production of documents numbers 15-22
within 30 days of this order. However, the Court limits the requests from 2017
to 2020 (year of purchase) for Defendant’s Policies and Procedures for
Handling Song-Beverly Cases.
 
 
 
Requests 23-29
            
            For the same reasons mentioned
above, these requests are granted. However, the Court limits the requests from
2017 to 2020 (year of purchase). Defendant
is ordered to provide responsive documents to request for production of
documents numbers 23-29 within 30 days of this order.  
 
Requests 30-31
 
            Here, Defendant failed to provide
any facts or evidence as to how it would be unduly burdened by the requests.
Further, Plaintiffs have shown that there is good cause to compel a further
response to Request Nos. 30-31. Therefore, the Court further limits the scope
to only similar vehicle complaints of the same year, make, and model as the
subject vehicle sold within California. Although Defendant argues that the
requests seek trade secret or privileged work, it does not appear that the
requests seek trade secret material or privileged work. Additionally, Defendant
failed to provide a privilege log. To the extent that any request would require
Defendant to produce privileged material, Defendant is not required produce the
material.
 
            Defendant is ordered to provide
responsive documents to request for production of documents numbers 30-31
within 30 days of this order. However, the Court further limits the scope to only similar vehicle
complaints of the same year, make, and model as the subject vehicle sold within
California.
 
CONCLUSION
 
            Plaintiff’s
motion to compel further responses to its request for production of documents,
set one is granted in part. To the extent that any request would require Defendant to produce
privileged material, Defendant is not required produce the material.
 
            Defendant is ordered to provide
responsive documents, to the extent it has not already done so, to request for
production of documents numbers 1-14.  
 
            Defendant is ordered to provide
responsive documents to request for production of documents numbers 15-22 and 23-29
within 30 days of this order. However, the Court limits the requests from 2017
to 2020 (year of purchase).
 
            Defendant is ordered to provide
responsive documents to request for production of documents numbers 30-31
within 30 days of this order. However, the Court further limits the scope to only similar vehicle
complaints of the same year, make, and model as the subject vehicle sold within
California. 
 
            Moving party to provide notice. 
 
 
 
 
 
            
Dated:   June 4, 2024                                      ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the court indicating their 
intention to submit.  alhdeptx@lacourt.org
