 Case Number:  20BBCV00421    Hearing Date:   February 9, 2024    Dept:  A LOS ANGELES
SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH CENTRAL
DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
February
9, 2023

MOTION TO ENFORCE
SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT
BMBG Investments,
LLC v HF-11 NOHO LLC, Et al.

Los
Angeles Superior Court Case # 20BBCV00421

 
MP:     Art &
Sone construction, Inc. (Defendant)
RP:      BMBG
Investments, LLC
 
 
The Court is not requesting oral argument on this
matter.  Pursuant to California Rules of
Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) notice of intent to appear is required.  Unless the Court directs argument in the
Tentative Ruling, no argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies all
other parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of
the party’s intention to appear and argue. 
“The tentative ruling will become the ruling of the court if no notice
of intent to appear is received.”   
 
Notice may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org
or by telephone at (818) 260-8412 
 
Summary of the Motion
Defendant, Art & Son Construction, Inc. (“A&SC”)
brought an ex parte application to enforce settlement.  On February 5, 2024, the Court, on its own
motion, continued the matter to February 9, 2024.   
A&SC argues that the case was mediated with Hon. Lisa
Cole (ret.) who issued a mediator’s proposal.  
Plaintiff directly contacted the mediator to advise that she was going
to accept the $300,000 offer to settle the case.  A settlement agreement was circulated, but
Plaintiff declined to sign the agreement. 
A&SC argues that CCP §664.6 permits a party to enforce a settlement
agreement that is signed by a party or an attorney representing a party.
Nora Boardman, counsel for A&SC included a declaration
to which was attached relevant email communications.  Exhibit C to the attachment expressly states
that the Plaintiff through its representative, Maya Kadosh, stated, 
“My attorney had to leave town
early this afternoon and is traveling and cannot respond to the settlement
offer deadline and I am responding instead.  
I am going to accept the settlement offer of $300,000 to settle my
case and the reason that I am accepting the $300,000 offer is because
of my health and my high blood pressure and not because I agree with what
happened in the mediation. (emphasis added)”
This email was sent directly to Judge Cole with a copy to
Plaintiff’s attorney on December 18, 2023, prior to the expiration of the
mediator’s proposal.
Subsequent to Ms. Kadosh’s email, John Haushalter, the
Plaintiff’s attorney, sent a letter to defense counsel for co-defendant Focus
Builders, Inc. thanking counsel for drafting the settlement agreement and
confirming that a settlement check should be made out to BMBG Investments,
LLC.  Furthermore, Mr. Haushalter attests
that the Plaintiff, “requires no changes to the agreement.”
Plaintiff filed an opposition to enforcing the settlement
agreement arguing that the writing contemplated by CCP §664.6 does not include
an email acceptance of a mediator’s proposal. 
Plaintiff further argues that the mediator’s proposal includes a caveat
that a written settlement agreement would be prepared and circulated for review
and approval.  Effectively, Plaintiff
argues that the approval of the written settlement agreement is a condition
precedent to having an enforceable agreement. 

Attached to the opposition is a copy of Judge Cole’s
mediator proposal.  The proposal
expressly states that the “long form settlement agreement” is not intended to
change any substantive terms, but rather to “include additional customary
terms.  However, if there are any terms,
other than the monetary term, that you deem critical to a resolution to these
claims, please let me [Judge Cole] know at your earliest opportunity.”   There is no evidence that any critical terms
were omitted.  
The mediator’s proposal included the following General
Terms:
1.      Defendants
Focus Builders and Art and Son agreed to collectively pay BMBG the total sum of
$300,000 for a complete settlement of all claims, between and among each other.
2.      Defendant
11 NoHo agrees to dismiss its claim for encroachment in exchange for a waiver
of costs.
3.      All
sides to bear their own fees and costs.
4.      All
parties agree to a full general release of all claims, known, unknown, 1542,
between and among each other.
5.      Defense
to prepare a longform settlement agreement.
6.      Payment
to be made within 30 days of fully executed settlement agreement.
7.      Dismissal
of all claims with prejudice
8.      Settlement
enforceable pursuant to 664.6
Law and Analysis
“California C.C.P. §664.6 permits
the trial court judge to enter judgment on a settlement agreement without the
need for a new lawsuit.” Weddington Productions, Inc. v. Flick (1998) 60
Cal.App.4th 793, 809-810.  The trial
court must first determine whether the parties entered into an enforceable
settlement. In making that determination, the trial court acts as the trier of
fact, determining whether the parties entered into a binding and valid
settlement. Trial judges may consider oral testimony or may determine the
motion based upon declarations alone. Elyaoudayan v. Hoffman (2003) 103
Cal.App.4th 1421, 1428-1429.
An email may constitute an
electronic signature to a writing.  Civil
Code §1633.7 provides that a "a record or signature may not be denied
legal effect or enforceability solely because it is in electronic form"
and that "electronic and handwritten signatures have the same legal effect
and are equally enforceable." Civ. Code, § 1633.7, subds. (a), (b).  The issue of electronic signatures as
referenced in Section 1633.7 was addressed in the decision of J.B.B. Inv.
Partners, Ltd. v. Fair (2014) 232 Cal. App. 4th 974, where, after the court
specifically noted that a printed name or symbol can constitute a signature
under UETA and "might even satisfy the more rigorous requirements under
Code of Civil Procedure section 664.6," the court confirmed that under
section 1633.2, an " [electronic signature' means an electronic sound,
symbol, or process attached to or logically associated with an electronic
record and executed or adopted by a person with the intent to sign the
electronic record." (J.B.B., supra, 232 Cal.App.4th at 989, citing
CACI No. 380 [party suing to enforce an agreement formalized by electronic
means must prove "based on the context and surrounding circumstances,
including the conduct of the parties, that the parties agreed to use [e.g.,
e-mail] to formalize their agreement" (italics omitted.)
It is clear to the Court that the
Plaintiff intended the email and her typed name to be affirmation of the
Plaintiff’s acceptance of the mediator’s proposal.   In addition, the follow up communication by
Plaintiff’s counsel affirmed that the intent of the email was to accept the
settlement agreement, and that there were no material terms that needed to be
corrected in the proposed longform settlement agreement.  Furthermore, in reviewing the mediator’s
proposal, email responses were what was expressly requested, which is precisely
what the Plaintiff did.   The subsequent
email from Judge Cole that a deal had been reached confirms that all the
parties to the mediator’s proposal agreed to the terms.
Plaintiff’s argument that the
settlement was contingent on drafting of a longform settlement agreement
acceptable to both sides is unpersuasive.  
The Court of Appeal has opined that a trial court may enforce a CCP §664.6
motion, and if necessary may receive evidence to determine disputed facts and
enter the terms of a settlement agreement as a judgment.  However, the trial court may not create
material terms of a settlement as opposed to deciding what terms the parties
themselves agree upon.  Wedding Productions,
Inc. v. Flick (1998) 60 Cal. App. 4th 793.
In this instance, the material
terms were set forth in the mediator’s proposal.   Judge Cole invited the parties to advise of
any additional material terms that were required.  No party has provided any evidence that any
additional material terms were required. 
Likewise, the email from Plaintiff’s counsel confirmed that Plaintiff
did not have any other material terms that needed to be included in the
settlement agreement.   As such, the
Court believes it has sufficient evidence to determine the terms of the
agreement.
Conclusion
A&SC has shown that a mutual
settlement agreement had been reached in this matter that was subject to CCP
§664.6.   Plaintiff had accepted the mediator’s
proposal, and the Court finds that the agreement is enforceable as accepted.
RULING:
 
In the event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a
party requests a signed order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a
formal order, the following form will be either electronically signed or signed
in hard copy and entered into the court’s records. 
 
 
ORDER 
 
Defendant
Art & Son Construction, Inc.’s Motion to Enforce Settlement Agreement came on ex parte for hearing on February 9, 2024.   On February 9, 2024, with
appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the
court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as
follows: 
 
ART & SON CONSTRUCTION,
INC.’S MOTION TO ENFORCE THE SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT AGAINST PLAINTIFF IS GRANTED. 
 
UNLESS ALL
PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, ART & SON CONSTRUCTION, INC. TO GIVE NOTICE.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
DATE:  February 9, 2023                             _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M. TAVELMAN,
Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of Los Angeles 
 
 
 