 Case Number:  22BBCV00202    Hearing Date:   February 9, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
FEBURARY 9,
2023

DEMURRER


Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 22BBCV00202

 



MP:


Diana Dolmayan (Defendant) 




RP:


None



 
ALLEGATIONS:
 
Synan Johnson (Plaintiff), in pro per, brings this action against Diana
Dolmayan (Defendant) and Ascentia Beauty Spa seeking seeks economic,
non-economic, special past and future damages, general past and future damages,
exemplary or punitive damages, and cost of suit. Plaintiff and Defendant were
partners in a business venture known as DS Medi Spa in 2021, however their
relationship soured, and the business ceased to exist soon thereafter.
Plaintiff alleges, among other things, that Defendant conspired to offer
medical services without the proper licensing, interfered with Plaintiff’s
business, and generally tarnished Plaintiff’s reputation. 
 
Settlement was reached in a
separate unlawful detainer matter which dismissed Detox Shop LLC, a business
owned by Plaintiff, from this action. However, the claims of Plaintiff and DS
Medi Spa remain. Defendant now demurs to the Fourth Amended Complaint (4AC) on
grounds that several of the causes of action are pleaded insufficiently.
Plaintiff has rendered no opposition. 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.           
LEGAL STANDARD
 
The grounds for a demurrer must appear on the
face of the pleading or from judicially noticeable matters. (C.C.P. §
430.30(a); Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) A demurrer for
sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) The only issue involved in a
demurrer hearing is whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Id.)
 
A demurrer assumes the truth of all factual,
material allegations properly pled in the challenged pleading. (Blank v.
Kirwan, supra, 39 Cal. 3d at 318.) No matter how unlikely or improbable,
the plaintiff’s allegations must be accepted as true for the purpose of ruling
on the demurrer. (Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981)
123 Cal.  App. 3d 593, 604.) But this does not include contentions;
deductions; conclusions of fact or law alleged in the complaint; facts
impossible in law; or allegations contrary to facts of which a court may take
judicial notice.  (Blank, supra, 39 Cal. 3d at 318.)
 
Pursuant to C.C.P. §§ 430.10(e) and (f), the
party against whom a complaint has been filed may demur to the pleading on the
grounds that the pleading does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause
of action, or that the pleading is uncertain, ambiguous and/or unintelligible.
It is an abuse of discretion to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if
there is a reasonable probability that the defect can be cured by amendment. (Schifando
v. City of Los Angeles (2003) 31 Cal. 4th 1074, 1082.)
 
II.           
MEET AND CONFER
 
C.C.P. §§ 430.41(a) and 435.5(a) requires that
the moving party meet and confer with the party who filed the pleading that is
subject to the demurrer and/or motion to strike. Upon review the Court finds
the meet and confer requirements were met. (Euredjian Decl.) 
 
III.           
MERITS
 
DS Medi Spa 
 
To the extent that any of the
causes of action in the 4AC are stated for plaintiff DS Medi Spa, they are not
considered in this demurrer. Plaintiff represents herself in pro per, but she
cannot represent a corporate entity in the same manner. It has long been held
that in California a corporation cannot represent itself, either in propria
persona or through an officer or agent who is not an attorney. (Merco
Constr. Engineers, Inc. v. Municipal Court (1978) 21 Cal.3d 724, 729.) Accordingly,
the Court’s ruling will address the demurrer only as it relates to claims which
are brought directly by Plaintiff. 
 
First Cause of Action –
Sustained Without Leave to Amend 
 
Just as before, Plaintiff’s
breach of contract cause of action in the 4AC is based on the Operating
Agreement between Plaintiff and Defendant which created DS Medi Spa. In the
previous demurrer, the Court found Plaintiff’s cause of action for breach of
contract was ultimately insufficient because it failed to identify any portion
of the operating agreement which created an obligation that Defendant had
breached.  The Court explicitly stated
that, “if Plaintiff claims that Defendant breached the contract in providing
unauthorized medical services, she must identify some term of the contract
which prohibits this behavior.” (See September 19 Ruling on Submitted Matter.)
 
It does not appear that Plaintiff
has altered her first cause of action in any substantive way from the Third
Amended Complaint (3AC) to her 4AC. Plaintiff’s factual allegations remain
identical between the two pleadings. Plaintiff’s allegations under the heading
of the first cause of action for breach of contract remain unchanged save for
the addition of a few words. Plaintiff has only added the phrase “and engaged
in unlawful acts and activities” to two paragraphs alleging Defendant’s breach.
(See 4AC ¶¶ 153, 154.) These additions do nothing to identify a positive
obligation created by Operating Agreement which could serve as the basis for
Plaintiff’s cause of action. 
 
Plaintiff has now had four
opportunities to identify some meaningful provision of a contract and state how
Defendant’s alleged behavior breached such a provision. Plaintiff’s repeated
failure to successfully amend indicates there exists no reasonable probability
the defect in this cause of action will be cured. Accordingly, the demurrer to
the first cause of action for breach of contract is SUSTAINED without leave to
amend. 
 
Fourth Cause of Action –
Overruled 
 
A cause of action for breach of
fiduciary duty requires the following elements: (1) fiduciary duty; (2) breach
of the duty; and (3) damage caused by the breach. (Charnay v. Cobert
(2006) 145 Cal.App.4th 170, 182.)
 
The Court previously sustained
demurrer to this cause of action, finding Plaintiff’s 3AC failed to allege
sufficient facts as to the damages element of the claim. The Court reasoned
that the 3AC adequately alleged the existence of a duty as per California
Corporations Code § 17704.09(a), which states that members of an LLC owe a
fiduciary duty to both the LLC and the other members. The Court also found the
3AC adequately alleged a breach under California Corporations Code §
17704.09(c), which states officers have a duty to refrain from “engaging in
grossly negligent or reckless conduct, intentional misconduct, or a knowing
violation of law.”
 
The Court found the 3AC did not
sufficiently allege damages speaking to Plaintiff personally, instead the 3AC
only included claims of damages to DS Medi Spa. It appears Plaintiff has
addressed this issue in paragraph 199 of her 4AC. Plaintiff alleges, among
other things, that she: (1) lost her personal investment in DS Medi Spa, (2)
lost wages for time spent working on the creation of DS Medi Spa, and (3)
turned down other business ventures in favor of pursuing DS Medi Spa. Further,
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant’s behavior in illegally prescribing
medications and operating without a license served to sabotage DS Medi Spa from
its very inception such that these injuries came to pass. (4AC ¶¶ 195,
199.) 
 
Defendant’s argument that
Plaintiff’s 4AC does not specify what her out of pocket losses were does not
speak to the standard of a demurrer. Whether Plaintiff will be able to evidence
the causal link between Defendant’s alleged behavior and her personal losses
does not concern the sufficiency of the pleading. The Court finds Plaintiff has
pled sufficient facts to place Defendant on notice of the cause of action for
breach of fiduciary duty. 
 
Defendant’s argument that some of
the personal damages claimed overlap with the damage claimed in other cause of
action is also unpersuasive. A plaintiff is permitted to plead alternative
theories of liability such that their complaint would survive demurrer. (Adams
v. Paul (1995) 11 Cal.4th 583, 593 [“a party may plead in the alternative
and may make inconsistent allegations”]; see also Gebert v. Yank (1985)
172 Cal.App.3d 544, 554 [“Pleading of alternative theories of relief on the
same set of facts is, of course, quite proper…”].) While Plaintiff may
ultimately be barred from recovering damages pursuant to multiplate causes of
action, she is within her rights to plead these damages under various theories
in her complaint. 
 
Lastly, Defendant’s argument that
the Court has already ruled some of these claimed damages to be insufficient is
similarly unpersuasive. It is true that Plaintiff’s 3AC incorporated the
allegations of all previous paragraphs into her cause of action for breach of fiduciary
duty. Defendant argues because of this incorporation, personal damages were
already pled in 3AC and determined by the Court to be insufficient. 
 
The Court disagrees with this
interpretation. The Court found the cause of action was insufficient because it
did not explicitly allege personal damages from the breach of fiduciary duty.
To the extent that Plaintiff incorporated the previous paragraphs in her 3AC,
her allegations regarding personal damages were still derived from causes of
action which were not breach of fiduciary duty. The Court’s holding required
Plaintiff to directly allege personal damages as to this cause of action.
Plaintiff’s 4AC has done so.
 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the
fourth cause of action is OVERRULED. 
 
--
 
RULING:
 
In the event the parties request a signed order or the
court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the following form will
be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and entered into the
court’s records. 
 
ORDER
 
Diana Dolmayan’s Demurrer came on
regularly for hearing on February 9, 2024 with
appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the Court,
being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE DEMURRER TO THE FIRST CAUSE OF ACTION IS SUSTAINED
WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
THE DEMURRER TO THE FOURTH CAUSE OF ACTION IS
OVERRULED. 
 
A CASE MANAGEMENT CONFERENCE IS SCHEDULED FOR MAY
21, 2024 AT 9:00 A.M.
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, DEFENDANT TO
GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATE:  February
9, 2024                                
_______________________________
                                                                   
    F.M. TAVELMAN, Judge
                                                                        Superior
Court of California
County of Los Angeles