 Case Number:  23BBCV01687    Hearing Date:   February 9, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
FEBRUARY 9,
2024

MOTION
TO DISMISS REPRESENTATIVE PAGA CLAIMS

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV01687

 



MP:  


Lincoln Training Center
  and Rehabilitation Workshop (Defendant)




RP:  


None



 
NOTICE:
 
The
Court is not requesting oral argument on this matter.  Pursuant to
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) notice of intent to appear is
required.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling, no
argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies all other parties and the
court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the party’s intention
to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become the ruling of the
court if no notice of intent to appear is received.”   
 
Notice
may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818)
260-8412.
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
On July
25, 2023, a Complaint was filed against Lincoln Training Center and
Rehabilitation Workshop (Defendant). The Complaint contained a single cause of
action for representative PAGA claims, with Ellis Cooper (Cooper) as the
representative for the Labor & Workforce Development Agency (LWDA). The
Complaint was filed on Cooper’s behalf by Lawyers for Justice PC (Lawyers for
Justice). On December 1, 2023, the Court heard and granted a motion filed by
Lawyers for Justice to be relieved as counsel in this case. 
 
Now
Defendant moves to dismiss this action on grounds that Cooper no longer wishes
to pursue representative PAGA claims. Defendant submits a declaration from
Cooper stating that he retained Abramson Labor Group to represent him in
employment law matters in December of 2022. (Cooper Decl. ¶ 2.) Cooper
states that while he at some point granted Lawyers for Justice permission to
request his personnel file from Defendant, he never authorized them to file a
representative PAGA action on his behalf. (Cooper Decl. ¶ 3.) Cooper further
states that he has terminated any relationship with Lawyers for Justice and
does not wish these claims to be pursued. (Cooper Decl. ¶ 4.) Lastly,
Cooper states that he has reached a resolution on his individual claims against
Defendant and wishes to move on from the matter. (Cooper Decl. ¶¶ 5-6.)
 
Defendants
also submit the declaration of counsel Lawya Rangel, who confirms that Cooper
has settled with Defendant on his individual claims. (Rangel Decl. ¶ 10.)
Rangel further confirms that Cooper has no desire to pursue representative
claims. (Rangel Decl. ¶ 9.) The agreement settling Cooper’s individual
claims is attached to the declaration as Exhibit 3. 
 
Lincoln
’s motion is essentially one made on behalf of Ellis Cooper to dismiss his
representative PAGA claims. Defendant brings this action pursuant to California
Rule of Court (C.R.C.) Rule 3.770. C.R.C. Rule 3.770 governs motions to dismiss
Class Action matters, and Defendant states these grounds because there is no
equivalent statutory scheme governing the dismissal of PAGA actions. Upon
review the Court agrees that no language governing the voluntary dismissal of
PAGA actions exists in the California Labor Code. While a great deal of case
law addresses motions to dismiss PAGA claims in circumstances where the claims
are arbitrated, the Court is unaware of any authority that governs voluntary
dismissal. As such, the Court finds it would be prudent to apply the principles
of C.R.C. Rule 3.770 to this motion. 
 
“A
dismissal of an entire class action, or of any party or cause of action in a
class action, requires court approval.” (C.R.C. Rule 3.770 (a).) A request for
dismissal in a class action requires the submission of a supporting declaration
setting forth the facts on which the party relies. (Id.) The declaration
must state whether consideration, direct or indirect, is being given for the
dismissal. (Id.) Where the court has not ruled on class certification,
the action may be dismissed without notice to the potential class members if
the court finds that the dismissal will not prejudice them. (Id.) 
 
Here, the
Court finds the declarations submitted by Defendant stratify the requirements
of C.R.C. Rule 3.770 (a). However, the Court notes that because this is a
representative PAGA action, the LWDA is technically a party to the action.
Cooper’s presence in the case is to serve as the representative of the LWDA.
While Cooper may no longer wish to pursue these claims, if he ever did, the
Court finds that notice to the LWDA would still be appropriate. 
 
Accordingly,
the Court is inclined to continue this motion for a period of two months.
Defendant is ordered to serve this motion and the Court’s tentative ruling on
LWDA. Should LWDA take no action in response to this notice, the Court is
inclined to grant the motion and dismiss the action. 
 
Defendant’s
demurrer to the Complaint is similarly continued, as granting of the motion to
dismiss would render it moot. 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Lincoln
Training Center and Rehabilitation Workshop’s
Motion to Dismiss came on regularly for hearing on February
9, 2024, with appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said
hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there
rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION TO DISMISS IS CONTINUED TO APRIL 12,
2024. AT 9:00 A.M.
 
DEFENDANT’S DEMURRER IS ALSO CONTINUED TO APRIL
12, 2024 AT 9:00 A.M.
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, DEFENDANT TO
GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
February 9, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 