 Case Number:  22BBCV00619    Hearing Date:   February 9, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
FEBRUARY 9,
2024

MOTION
TO COMPEL COMPLIANCE

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 22BBCV00619

 



MP:  


Abimelec
  Burgos (Plaintiff)  




RP:  


General Motors, LLC (Defendant)



 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
On August 29, 2022, Plaintiff Abimelec Burgos (Plaintiff)
filed a complaint against General Motors, LLC (GM) for GM’s alleged violation
of the Song Beverly Act. The Complaint alleges five causes of action for (1) violation
of Civil Code § 1793.2(d), (2) violation of Civil Code § 1793.2(b), (3)
violation of Civil Code § 1793.2(a)(3), (4) breach of express written warranty,
and (5) breach of the implied warranty of merchantability. 
 
On April 21, 2023, the Court granted Plaintiff’s motion to
compel further responses to discovery demands. Plaintiff now moves to compel GM’s
compliance with that order. GM opposes the motion and Plaintiff replies. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“If a
party filing a response to a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or
sampling under Sections 2031.210, 2031.220, 2031.230, 2031.240, and 2031.280
thereafter fails to permit the inspection, copying, testing, or sampling in
accordance with that party’s statement of compliance, the demanding party may
move for an order compelling compliance.” (C.C.P. § 2031.320(a).) 
 
“[I]f a
party then fails to obey an order compelling inspection, copying, testing, or
sampling, the court may make those orders that are just, including the
imposition of an issue sanction, an evidence sanction, or a terminating
sanction under Chapter 7.” (C.C.P. § 2031.320(c).) 
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
GM’s
Supplemental Production 
 
On June
16, 2023, GM served is supplemental responses and document production. (Manno
Decl. ¶ 6.) These responses consisted of a number of additional documents
and an identification of responsive documents by their Bates number. (Manno
Decl. Exh. 2.) The Court disagrees with Plaintiff’s argument that the reference
to the Bates number is somehow GM’s attempt to limit document production to
just those documents. It is clear that GM is identifying the responsive
documents by their Bates number in an effort to direct Plaintiff to the
appropriate responses, not to limit their production. GM’s production contains
the statement that they have produced all documents responsive to Plaintiff’s
request and stated they have complied in whole with each request. (Id.) 
 
It
appears Plaintiff is primarily concerned that GM has not produced any “engineering
email, root cause analysis memo, engineering memo, or failure rate chart” which
led to the creation of the Technical Service Bulletin GM produced for the
Subject Vehicle. (Manno Decl. Exh. 3, p. 2.) In opposition, GM states that its
supplemental production included numerous internal investigation documents
including the following: 
 
(1) the CAC and TAC spreadsheets containing a
listing of customer complaints in 2021 Chevrolet Tahoe vehicles; (2) a list of
not in suit matters (“NISM) and repurchases; (3) PRTS reports for the 2021
Chevrolet Tahoe vehicles (which contain customer complaint, root cause and
corrective action information); (4) lists of EWOs and TWOs for the 2021
Chevrolet Tahoe; (5) all available versions of specific TSBs applicable to the
Subject Vehicle and related investigation reports, if any; (6) bulletins for
field actions, including recalls, for the 2021 Chevrolet Tahoe; (7) DFMEA
reports for the 2021 Chevrolet Tahoe; and (8) Safety Investigation Listings
 
(Kay
Decl. ¶ 3.) 
 
GM
further argues that these documents include multi-page, highly detailed
spreadsheets and other technical documents detailing GM’s investigation into
the alleged defects. (Oppo. p 3.) Lastly, GM states that these documents are
the extent of the responsive documents in their possession. Essentially GM
argues they cannot produce what they do not have. 
 
Analysis 
 
The Court
does not find that GM failed to permit the inspection of documents in
accordance with a statement of compliance as per C.C.P. § 2031.320. The Court
finds Plaintiff’s arguments do not speak to the grounds on which it claims to
have brought the motion.
 
Plaintiff’s
primary argument in their motion is that GM has not fully complied with the
Court’s April 21, 2023 order compelling further discovery responses. Plaintiff
argues the subsequent production pursuant to the Court’s April 21, 2023 order
was insufficient. These arguments do not assert that GM has failed to comply
with a statement that it would produce documents, rather they suggest GM has
produced documents which Plaintiff believes are not completely responsive. Such
situations as more appropriately addressed via a motion to compel further
responses pursuant to C.C.P. § 2031.310. 
 
The Court
notes that motions to compel further responses must be served within 45 days
after service of a verified response. Plaintiff filed and served this motion on
December 1, 2023, well after the time limit for a motion to compel further
responses. Even were the Court to treat this motion as one to compel further
responses, the Court does not find Plaintiff has shown good cause for further
production. Plaintiff has not demonstrated that there exist further responsive
documents in GM’s possession which it is refusing to produce. 
 
In short,
the Court finds that GM’s supplemental production does not constitute a failure
to permit inspection of the documents which were the subject of the Court’s
April 21 order. GM has provided supplemental production accompanied by the
statement that such production comprises all responsive documents in their
possession. Plaintiff’s arguments speak more to a motion to compel further
responses than a motion to compel compliance under C.C.P. § 2031.300.
 
Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s motion is DENIED. 
 
Discovery
Referee
 
There
have been approximately two discovery motions filed in this action to date.
Based on the Court’s prior experience with lemon law actions, the Court
anticipates that multiple additional discovery motions will be filed in this
action. The Court anticipates that there will be multiple issues to be
resolved, motions to be heard, the present motion is only one in a continuum of
many and that the number of documents to be reviewed, with assertions of
privilege etc., will make the inquiry inordinately time-consuming. (C.C.P. §
639(e).)
 
Therefore,
the parties are strongly encouraged to stipulate to the appointment of a
discovery referee who can more quickly and efficiently address the parties’
needs. If they agree to having someone act as discovery referee, the parties
may prepare and submit a stipulation and proposed order pursuant to C.C.P. §
638. The parties are advised that if they are unable to agree on a referee, the
Court may in the future appoint one on its own motion pursuant to C.C.P. § 639.
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Abimelec Burgos’ Motion
to Compel Compliance came on regularly for hearing on February 9, 2024 with
appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the
court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as
follows: 
 
THE MOTION TO COMPEL COMPLIANCE IS DENIED.
 
A TRIAL PREPARATION ORDER IS ISSUED FOR THE
UPCOMING TRIAL. 
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, PLAINTIFF TO
GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: February,
9, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M. TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 