 Case Number:  EC063446    Hearing Date:   February 9, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
FEBURARY 9,
2024

MOTION FOR
ATTORNEY’S FEES

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # EC063446

 



MP:  


Reon Roski (Judgment Creditor)




RP:  


R&R Construction and CJ
  Rudolph (Judgment Debtors) 



 
NOTICE:
 
The Court is not requesting oral argument on this
matter.  Pursuant to California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) notice
of intent to appear is required.  Unless the Court directs argument in the
Tentative Ruling, no argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies all
other parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of
the party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will
become the ruling of the court if no notice of intent to appear is received.”  

 
Notice may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org
or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS:

 
On
November 30, 2023, the Court issued a ruling on the motion of Reon Roski
(Roski) to amend her judgment against R&R Construction (R&R) in this
matter to include additional judgment debtors. Roski sought to amend the
judgment, obtained in 2018, to add CJ Rudolph alongside a number of business
entities owned by Rudolph. The Court granted the motion in part, finding enough
evidence had been presented that Rudolph was the alter-ego of R&R
Construction. The Court denied the motion as to the other business entities. 
 
After the
ruling amending the judgment, Roski filed a Memorandum of Costs and a
Memorandum of Costs After Judgment, (hereinafter MOCs) both of which include
attorney’s fees. These memorandum were both filed on December 5, 2023. On the
same day, Roski filed a Motion for Attorney’s Fees. This motion was accompanied
by a memorandum of points and authorities and declarations of attorneys Anthony
J. Oliva (Oliva) and Marshall C. Wallace (Wallace). A review of the Motion for Attorney’s
Fees shows that the motion seeks to recover the same attorney’s fees as those
included in the MOCs. 
 
The Court
includes this procedural background because it relates to one of Roski’s points
in reply. Roski’s argues R&R’s failed to file a motion to tax costs
challenging the MOCs pursuant to C.C.P. § 685.070. Roski argues this failure
leads to the automatic inclusion of the attorney’s fees in the memorandum of
costs in the judgment, essentially resulting in a windfall for Roski of twice
the attorney’s fees incurred. 
 
The Court
agrees that had Roski only filed the MOCs and R&R failed to tax them via
motion, the result would be the automatic addition to the judgment. However,
Roski filed a motion to recover the same attorney’s fees included in the MOCs
at the same time they filed the MOCs. This indicates either that (1) Roski
filed a motion accompanied by substantial declarations under the impression
that they would likely be moot, (2) Roski is seeking to recover attorney’s fees
twice, or (3) Roski filed the MOCs and the Motion for Attorney’s fees
simultaneously hoping that R&R would not file a motion to tax costs and a
windfall would result for Roski. 
 
No matter
Roski’s motivations for this procedure, the Court finds that the assertion that
attorney’s fees must be automatically added to the judgment unpersuasive. Regardless
of the mechanism, R&R has objected to certain attorney’s fees and the Court
will render its decision on the merits. 
 
The
Court’s willingness to address the attorney’s fees issue does not extend to the
non-attorney’s fee related costs.  The
Court notes that R&R’s opposition presents no argument as to the costs,
instead focusing solely on the attorney’s fees issue.  As to those latter costs, the Court agrees
that the failure to file a motion to tax those costs results in their automatic
addition. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD:
 
The Court
begins the attorney fee inquiry “with the ‘lodestar,’ i.e., the number
of hours reasonably expended multiplied by the reasonable hourly rate.” (PLCM
Group v. Drexler (2000) 22 Cal.4th 1084, 1095.) From there, the “lodestar
figure may then be adjusted [according to a multiplier enhancement] based on
consideration of factors specific to the case, in order to fix the fee at the
fair market value for the legal services provided.” (Id.) Relevant
multiplier factors include “(1) the novelty and difficulty of the questions
involved, (2) the skill displayed in presenting them, (3) the extent to which
the nature of the litigation precluded other employment by the attorneys, [and]
(4) the contingent nature of the fee award.” (Ketchum v. Moses (2001) 24
Cal.4th 1122, 1132.)
 
No
specific findings reflecting the court’s calculations for attorney’s fees are
required; the record need only show that the attorney’s fees were awarded
according to the “lodestar” or “touchstone” approach. (Rebney v. Wells Fargo
Bank (1991) 232 Cal.App.3d 1344, 1349.) A trial court has broad discretion
to award attorney fees in an amount that is less than the lodestar amount and,
to discourage claimants from making an unreasonable demand, may deny altogether
a fee request that appears unreasonably inflated. (Id. at 1321-1322; see
Serrano v. Unruh (1982) 32 Cal.3d 621, 635.)
 
“The
basis for the trial court's calculation must be the actual hours counsel has
devoted to the case, less those that result from inefficient or duplicative use
of time.” (Horsford v. Board Of Trustees Of California State University
(2005) 132 Cal.App.4th 359, 395.) “The law is clear, however, that an award of
attorney fees may be based on counsel's declarations, without production of
detailed time records.” (Raining Data Corp. v. Barrenechea (2009) 175
Cal.App.4th 1363, 1375.) “[T]he verified time statements of the attorneys, as
officers of the court, are entitled to credence in the absence of a clear
indication the records are erroneous.” (Horsford, supra at 396; City
of Colton v. Singletary (2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 751, 785.)
 
“In
challenging attorney fees as excessive because too many hours of work are
claimed, it is the burden of the challenging party to point to the specific
items challenged, with a sufficient argument and citations to the evidence.
General arguments that fees claimed are excessive, duplicative, or unrelated do
not suffice. Failure to raise specific challenges in the trial court forfeits
the claim on appeal.” (Lunada Biomedical v. Nunez (2014) 230 Cal.App.4th
459, 488.)
 
MERITS: 
 
Fees
Requested 
 
The fees
requested by Roski are split between the Oliva and Wallace Declaration. 
 
The Oliva
declaration includes the number of hours billed in connection with the general
enforcement of the judgment, totaling fees of $276,933.00.
(Olive Decl. Exh. 7, pgs. 71-81.) The Oliva declaration also includes the
number of hours billed for Roski’s participation in R&R’s bankruptcy
action, totaling fees of $61,513.50. (Id. at
pgs. 8-84.)
 
The
Wallace declaration includes the number of hours billed for Roski’s
participation in an action filed by R&R’s insurer, Preferred Contractors
Insurance Company Risk Retention Group, LLC (PCIC). (Wallace Decl. ¶ 2,
Exh. 2.) In late 2020, PCIC filed an action in San Diego Superior Court seeking
to disclaim coverage for R&R. (Id.) Roski notes that the court in
the PCIC action ruled that PCIC’s insurance coverage of R&R did not cover
the attorney’s fees component of Roski’s judgment. (Id. ¶ 7.) Ultimately
the action settled, resulting in partial satisfaction of the judgment by PCIC
for $500,000.00. (Id. ¶ 8.) Roski is asserting $223,027.00 in fees incurred in connection with the
PCIC action. (Id. ¶ 11.) 
 
The
Wallace Declaration also includes the number of hours billed for Roski’s motion
to amend the judgment to add Rudolph as a debtor (hereinafter the alter-ego
motion). (Wallace Decl. ¶ 10, Exh. 3.) The total amount of fees claimed is
$23,938.00. (Id.) 
 
In total,
Roski seeks $585,411.50 in attorney’s fees. 
 
Highland
Springs Decision 
 
Both the
moving papers and the opposition cite Highland Springs Conference &
Training Center v. City of Banning (2019) 42 Cal.App.5th 416. Highland
Springs held that attorney’s fees incurred in bringing a motion to amend
a judgment to add judgment debtors qualify as attorney’s fees incurred
pre-judgment. (Id. at 422.) The Highland Springs court held that
such requests for attorney’s fees were governed by C.R.C. Rule 3.1702(b) and
not C.C.P. §§ 685.040 & 685.080. (Id.) 
 
It
appears that Roski and R&R agree on the holding of Highland Springs
but disagree as to its effect on this motion. R&R argues that Highland
Springs bars Roski from seeking any costs associated with the alter-ego
motion because C.R.C. Rule 3.1702(b) requires a noticed motion for pre-judgment
attorney’s fees. The Court finds Roski adequately noticed this motion and
included facts speaking to its intent to recover attorney’s fees in connection
with the alter-ego motion. The Court finds adequate notice was given to R&R
that Roski would try to recover attorney’s fees pursuant to the alter-ego
motion such that R&R presented substantial argument to the contrary. As
such, the holding in Highland Springs does not affect the Court’s ruling
in this matter. 
 
Reasonable
Rate
 
R&R
argues that the rates claimed by Roski’s counsel are inflated and beyond
reasonable bounds. R&R cites to PCLM Group v. Drexler for the
contention that a reasonable hourly rate is one that is prevailing in the
community where the case is litigated for similar work. (PLCM supra, at
1095.) R&R argues that Roski has produced no evidence of the complexity of
the case and whether the litigation was unduly time consuming. 
 
It is
true that Roski bears the burden of showing entitlement to a reward and
documenting the appropriate hours expended and hourly rates. (See Christian
Research Institute v. Alnor (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 1315, 1321.) However,
the Court is not aware of any case law which states a moving party is required
to produce evidence of industry practice in order to justify their rates. As
previously stated, the Court is vested with large discretion in determining the
reasonable nature of attorney’s fees. Part of this discretion is the Court’s knowledge
of rates associated with the legal work required to litigate a case. While the
Court’s understanding can be bolstered by showings from the moving party, there
is no requirement that the moving party provide industry standard rates to show
that their own rates are reasonable. 
 
Here,
Roski has provided the billed hours for all staff that engaged with the file
from which the rates for partners, associates, paralegals, and e-Discovery
clerks can be gleaned. R&R’s only argument that these rates are
unreasonable is that Roski has provided no evidence of industry standard rates.
Yet, R&R submits no evidence of industry standard rates in contravention,
instead suggesting an alternative rate for each staff member which is
apparently based purely on R&R’s conception of what constitutes reasonable.
R&R provides no support for the Court to consider Roski’s requests
unreasonable outside of the fact that R&R thinks the rates are too high.
The combination of Roski’s submissions along with the Court’s in evaluating the
reasonable value of the effort expended in this case leads the Court to
conclude that the rates are reasonable. 
 
Amended
Judgment and Collection Costs 
 
R&R
concedes that some of the hours billed in connection with the general
collection efforts, PCIC matter, and alter-ego motion were reasonably
necessary. However, R&R asserts that many of the billable entries were not
reasonably necessary and should be stricken. The Court will address each of
these items in turn. 
 
Two Year
Time Limit 
 
R&R
argues that Exhibit 2 of the Wallace Declaration, which contains the billable
hours for the PCIC case, impermissibly contains entries prior to December 5,
2021. (Bassirian Decl. ¶ 24, Ex. J.) 
These hours account for $108,026 in fees.  provides that a motion for postjudgment
fees or costs must be made no later than two years after the costs have been
incurred. By the plain language of the statute, the entries dated before
December 5, 2021 cannot properly be included in Roski’s claim for fees. As
such, the Court finds the fees should be reduced in the amount of $108,026.
 
Overstaffing

 
R&R
argues that Roski’s counsel improperly overstaffed the bankruptcy, PCIC, and
alter-ego matters. The Court agrees that the use of five partners and two
associates across these matters is unnecessary on its face. While Roski has
submitted declarations from partners Wallace and Oliva attesting to the necessity
of their work on the file, Roski has submitted no declarations from partners
Marissa Dennis (Dennis) or Jared Kassan (Kassan). The Court notes that partner
Michael Greger’s involvement is justified by his identification as the firm’s
bankruptcy specialist. (Olvia Decl. ¶ 13.) neither the Wallace nor the
Oliva declaration contain statements as to why Dennis and Kassan were required
to work on the file. 
 
Without
declarations attesting to the necessity of the additional work by partners
Dennis and Kassan, the Court considers the time entries billed in their names to
be insufficient to have those fees incurred by Roski.  As such, those entries by Dennis and Kassan
will be stricken from Roski’s request. 
 
From the
billed hours, the Court determines that a total of $10,996 is attributable to
Dennis and $330 is attributable to Kassan. $3,573 of
the fees attributable to Dennis were billed for the alter-ego motion. As will
be discussed in a later section, the entire alter-ego motion is subject to
another reduction which will be calculated after Dennis’ fees are subtracted.
$2,570.50 of the fees attributable to Dennis are already stricken as a result
of being billed more than two years prior to the judgment. The remaining $4,852.5 is billed in relation to the PCIC case and
will be subtracted from that total. The Kassan fees are attributable to the
general post judgment collection efforts and will be subtracted from that total.

 
Communication

 
R&R
argues that 101 hours and $94,731.58 in fees were incurred by four partners and
one associate to communicate with each other. (Bassirian Decl. ¶ 7, Ex. B.)
R&R argues these fees should be removed from any award.  R&R makes a similar argument regarding
the PCIC billing, which includes 20 hours and $14,890.50 of communication
(Bassirian Decl. ¶ 25, Ex. K.) 
 
The Court
notes that R&R does not make any substantive argument that this
communication was not reasonably necessary to the conducting of this
litigation. R&R simply asserts that these should be removed. Without any
argument to the contrary, the Court does not see how communication between
members of the law firm handling the case is not reasonably necessary.
Accordingly, these hours are reasonable. 
 
Amendment 
 
R&R
argues that when Roski’s counsel filed their alter-ego motion, they wrongfully
filed unredacted copies of private financial information which included tax
returns and social security numbers (Bassirian Decl. ¶ 9.) R&R argues that
$12,802.50 of the fees claimed in connection with the motion were to correct
Roski’s own errors. Roski provides no response to this argument in her reply
papers. 
 
The Court
agrees that fees incurred by fixing a mistake in filing a motion are not
reasonably necessary to the litigation. R&R should not bear the burden for
Roski’s failure to properly redact the information in its alter-ego motion.
Accordingly, $12,802.50 should be stricken from Roski’s request. 
 
Block
Billing 
 
R&R
argues that $8,513.50 be stricken from the requested fees because Roski billed
certain entries as a block. (Bassirian Decl., ¶ 11, Exh. D; ¶ 27, Exh. L.)
R&R cites to In re Marriage of Nassimi (2016) 3 Cal.App.5th 667 for
the concept that trial courts may penalize block billing when the practice
prevents them from distinguishing compensable tasks from ones that are not. The
Court finds the entries which R&R argues are block billing are not
constructed in a way that prevents distinguishing which practices are billable.
Each block entry includes the component tasks performed. Further, R&R does
not point to any of the tasks in the block which are objectionable. The simple
consolidation of many tasks into one entry is not per se unreasonable. 
 
Exhibit E
 
R&R
points to a number of entries in their Exhibit E which they claim are just
generally unreasonable. The only one of these entries for which R&R
presents substantial argument is an August 8, 2023 entry for attorney Stacey
Villagomez. This entry is for 1.7 hours and reflects a total of $1,096.50 of
attorney time. R&R argues this entry is unreasonable because an attorney is
not required to attend service of motion to amend (Bassirian Decl. ¶ 13.)
R&R neglects to include the second half of the billing entry which reads
draft stipulation re: hearing date, which certainly appears as an activity
requiring an attorney to complete. Having reviewed these entries, the Court
does not find them unreasonable. 
 
Repetitive
Entries
 
R&R
argues that the Court should strike $4,979.5 from paralegal and eDiscovery
clerk for “doing the same task” (Bassirian Decl. ¶ 15, Ex. F; ¶ 30, Ex. N.)
R&R does not substantially argue how these tasks are duplicative. Doing the
same task is not the equivalent of duplicative action. Where the billable hours
show three entries for “analysis and determination of deposition materials in
preparation for attorney review”, the Court does not presume the paralegal did
the exact same task all three times. A showing of duplicative action to pad
attorney’s fees requires evidence that such action was taken, which R&R has
not provided. Accordingly, these fees are reasonable. 
 
Alter-Ego
Motion 
 
R&R
argues that the fees associated with the alter-ego motion should be reduced by
80% because the motion was only 20% successful. R&R makes this argument
without citation to case law or other authority. While true that Roski’s motion
was only partially successful in that only Rudolph was added as judgment
debtor, the Court finds R&R’s argument to be an extreme oversimplification
of the motion process. R&R presumes the addition of Rudolph as a judgment
debtor and the other business entities as judgment debtors are equivalent in
significance. Given the lion share of the documentation in support of Roski’s
motion spoke to the addition of Rudolph, the Court is inclined to believe that
Rosi’s motion was more than 20% successful. 
Likewise, the quantum of work needed for one debtor can be extensive,
with less work needed to add additional debtors.  However, the Court does agree that that the
one debtor should not bear the cost for an unsuccessful attempt to add other
debtors.   Ultimately, the Court will
reduce the fees associated with the alter-ego motion by 35% to reflect the
value of the successful motion relative to the unsuccessful portion. 
 
The Court
notes that the amount of fees requested in connection with the alter-ego motion
was $23,938.00. Given the Court has found the hours billed by Dennis to be without
sufficient support and some of these hours were incurred on the alter-ego
motion, the total of reasonable fees sought before the 35% reduction would be
$20,365. The total fees after the 35% reduction would be $13,237.25.

 
Mediation

 
R&R
requests that $23,160 fees associated with an August 2023 mediation be stricken
(Bassirian Decl., ¶ 19, Ex. H.) The extent of R&R’s argument on this point
is as follows: “All parties participated in mediation and should bear the brunt
of that effort attempting to resolve this matter” (Oppo. p. 15.).  The Court agrees.   While mediation can be an efficient means to
resolve cases, each party should bear the cost of mediation.  The Court will strike the $23,160 for
mediation.  From a public policy perspective,
imposing mediation costs may discourage parties from seeking mediation as the
cost of an unsuccessful mediation would be imposed in addition to costs for
trial.  Such a result could have
significant impact on a party’s willingness to mediate.  If the agreement included a mandatory
mediation provision, the Court may view the matter differently, but that does
not appear to be the case.
 
Travel 
 
Lastly,
R&R argues that $14,877.50 for travel to Los Angeles by Mr. Wallace be
stricken. (Bassirian Decl., ¶ 31, Ex. O.) 
R&R argues that it was unnecessary for Wallace to conduct
depositions when other attorneys in the firm were available in Los Angeles
already. 
 
The Court
finds this request suffers from the same generalization as the request to
strike block billing. The entries included in Exhibit O indicate that Wallace
was billing for work in preparing the deposition while enroute to Los Angeles
from Oakland. The Court notes the entries did not bill for travel back to
Oakland because Wallace did not work on the case during return travel. The
entries appear to relate to the conduct of the deposition and not the travel
itself and the Court finds these fees reasonable. Where time appears
appropriately billed, the Court declines to police a firm’s decision on which
attorneys handle depositions. 
 
Conclusion

 
In
conclusion, the Court finds the vast majority of Roski’s attorney’s fees were
reasonably necessary to her pre and post judgment efforts. 
 
For
clarity the fees originally sought by Roski’s motion are as follows: 
 
·        
$276,933.00
in general post judgment enforcement efforts
·        
$61,513.50
for bankruptcy action representation 
·        
$223,027.00
for the PCIC action 
·        
$23,938.00
for the alter-ego motion 
 
·        
Total Fees Requested = $585,411.50 
The Court
now awards attorney’s fees as to each of these categories as follows: 
 
·        
$253,443
in general post judgment enforcement efforts
o  
Reduced
by $330, attributable to partner Kassan
o  
Reduced
by $23,160 attributable to August 2023 mediation 
·        
$61,513.50
for bankruptcy action representation 
o  
No
reduction
·        
$110,148.5
for the PCIC action 
o  
Reduced
by $108,026 for entries which are barred by C.C.P. § 685.080
o  
Reduced
By $4,852.50 for entries attributable to partner Dennis
·        
$13,237.25
for the alter-ego motion 
o  
Reduced
by $3,573, attributable to partner Dennis 
o  
Reduced
by $7,127.75, reflecting a 35% reduction as the motion was only partially
successful. 
 
·        
Total Fees Awarded = $438,342.25
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Reon Roski’s Motion for
Attorney’s Fees came on regularly for hearing on February
9, 2024, with appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said
hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there
rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION IS GRANTED. 
 
ATTORNEY’S FEES ARE AWARDED IN THE AMOUNT OF $438,342.25
 
UNLESS
ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, REON ROSKI TO GIVE NOTICE.
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: February
9, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 