 Case Number:  23STLC04235    Hearing Date:   December 15, 2023    Dept:  86 ALLY BANK v. TILLMAN
Case Number: 23STLC04235
Hearing Date: December 15, 2023
 
[Tentative]       ORDER
GRANTING APPLICATION FOR WRIT OF POSSESSION 
 
 
Plaintiff, Ally Bank, moves for a writ of
possession against Defendant, Jamarr C. Tillman, with respect to the following motor
vehicle: 2014 Honda Crosstour with a vehicle identification number of 5J6TF3H5XEL001539
(Vehicle).
 
RELEVANT PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
On July 6, 2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint
against Defendant for claim and delivery and money due on a contract.
 
On August 30, 2023, Plaintiff filed this application
for writ of possession.  
 
On October 2, 2023, Plaintiff filed a proof of
service of the complaint, summons, application for writ of possession, notice
of hearing, and other papers on Defendant, by personal service, on September 11,
2023. The proof of service, which is signed by a process server under penalty
of perjury, states the papers were personally delivered on Defendant at 2711½  W. 42nd Street in Los Angeles.   
 
On December 11, 2023, the court entered
Defendant’s default.
 
Defendant has not opposed the application.
 
SUMMARY OF
APPLICABLE LAW 
 
“Upon the
filing of the complaint or at any time thereafter, the plaintiff may apply
pursuant to this chapter for a writ of possession by filing a written
application for the writ with the court in which the action is brought.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 512.010, subd. (a).)
              
Pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure section 512.010, subdivision (b), the application must
be submitted under oath and include:
 
(1) A showing of the basis of the
plaintiff's claim and that the plaintiff is entitled to possession of the
property claimed. If the basis of the plaintiff's claim is a written
instrument, a copy of the instrument shall be attached.
 
(2) A showing that the property is
wrongfully detained by the defendant, of the manner in which the defendant came
into possession of the property, and, according to the best knowledge,
information, and belief of the plaintiff, of the reason for the detention.
 
(3) A particular description of the
property and a statement of its value.
 
(4) A statement, according to the best
knowledge, information, and belief of the plaintiff, of the location of the
property and, if the property, or some part of it, is within a private place
which may have to be entered to take possession, a showing that there is
probable cause to believe that such property is located there.
 
(5) A statement that the property has not
been taken for a tax, assessment, or fine, pursuant to a statute; or seized
under an execution against the property of the plaintiff; or, if so seized,
that it is by statute exempt from such seizure.
 
“The writ
will be issued if the court finds that the plaintiff's claim is probably valid
and the other requirements for issuing the writ are established.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 512.040, subd. (b).) “A claim has ‘probable validity’ where it is more likely
than not that the plaintiff will obtain a judgment against the defendant on
that claim.” (Id. at § 511.090.)  
 
Prior to the
issuance of a writ of possession, the Plaintiff must file an undertaking “in an
amount not less than twice the value of the defendant's interest in the
property or in a greater amount.” (Id. at § 515.010, subd. (a).)  
 
ANALYSIS 
 
Probable
Validity of Plaintiff’s Claim
 
Plaintiff
submits evidence Defendant entered a contract to purchase the Vehicle; the
agreement was assigned to Plaintiff; Defendant defaulted on the payment terms; Plaintiff
has made demand to surrender possession; Defendant has failed to surrender the
Vehicle upon demand; and Defendant owes $12,558.39 on the contract. (Singleton
Decl. ¶¶ 2-9.) As noted, there is no opposition.
 
Based
on Plaintiff’s evidence, Plaintiff has demonstrated it has a probably valid
claim.
 
Wrongful Detention
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 512.010, subdivision (b)(2), the application must include “a showing
that the property is wrongfully detained by the defendant, of the manner in
which the defendant came into possession of the property, and, according to the
best knowledge, information, and belief of the plaintiff, of the reason for the
detention.”
 
Under the contract, Plaintiff has the
right to repossess the Vehicle in the event of default.  (Singleton Decl.
Exh. A.) Plaintiff has demanded Defendant surrender the Vehicle. (Id. ¶¶
7, 9.)  Plaintiff has shown Defendant wrongfully detained the Vehicle
after defaulting on the contract by failing to make required monthly payments.
 
Description and Value of Property
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 512.010, subdivision (b)(3), the application must include a particular
description of the property and a statement of its value.
 
Plaintiff has provided a particular
description of the property, by make, and vehicle identification number. Plaintiff
has also provide a statement of the Vehicle’s value. Plaintiff therefore
satisfies Code of Civil Procedure section 512.010, subdivision (b)(3).
 
Statutory Statements
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 512.010, subdivision (b)(4) through (5), the application must include: 
 
(4) A statement, according to the best knowledge, information, and
belief of the plaintiff, of the location of the property and, if the property,
or some part of it, is within a private place which may have to be entered to
take possession, a showing that there is probable cause to believe that such
property is located there.
 
(5) A statement that the property has not been taken for a tax,
assessment, or fine, pursuant to a statute; or seized under an execution
against the property of the plaintiff; or, if so seized, that it is by statute
exempt from such seizure.
 
Plaintiff has provided a statement
that the property has not been taken for a tax, assessment, or fine, pursuant
to statute and has not been seized under an execution against the Plaintiff’s
property.   
 
Because the application asks for an
order permitting a levying officer to enter private property and take
possession of the Vehicle, Plaintiff must establish “probable cause” to believe
that the Vehicle is located at the Property. (See Code Civ. Proc., §§ 512.010,
subd. (b)(4), 512.080.)   
 
Plaintiff’s
representative, James Singleton, declares “the file of Plaintiff reflects that defendant Jamarr Tillman resides at 2711½
W. 42nd St, Los Angeles, CA 90008.”  (Singleton Decl. ¶ 11.)  The certificate of title for the Vehicle and
also the proof of service of the summons and complaint corroborate this
statement. Specifically, the certificate of title lists Defendant’s address as 2711
 W. 42nd St., Los Angeles, CA
90008. (Id. Exh. B.) The proof of service, which is signed by a process
server under penalty of perjury, states that the summons, complaint, and other
papers were personally delivered to Defendant at 2711½ W. 42nd St.,
Los Angeles, CA 90008 on September 11, 2023. 
The court infers from this evidence that Defendant resides at 2711½  W. 42nd St., Los Angeles, CA 90008 and stores the Vehicle at that
location.
 
The court finds probable cause to
believe that the Vehicle is located at 2711½ W. 42nd
St., Los Angeles, CA 90008.  Accordingly, the court grants the writ of
possession with respect to that location. 

 
Undertaking
 
Code of Civil Procedure section
515.010 requires an undertaking to be filed before the writ issues in the
amount of “not less than twice the value of the defendant’s interest in the
property.” Plaintiff provides evidence that the amount
owing on the Vehicle exceeds its market value. (See Singleton Decl. ¶¶ 6, 8.)[1] Accordingly,
no undertaking from Plaintiff is required.  

 
Turnover Order
 
Plaintiff
appears to request a turn-over order. (See Memorandum 2:16-21.) Code of Civil
Procedure section 512.070
states: “If a writ of possession is issued, the court may also
issue an order directing the defendant to transfer possession of the property
to the plaintiff. Such order shall contain a notice to the defendant that
failure to turn over possession of such property to plaintiff may subject the
defendant to being held in contempt of court.” (Emphasis added.) “Thus a
‘turnover’ order, issued pursuant to section 512.070, is not a separate remedy but rather an alternative means of
enforcing a writ of possession.” (Edwards
v. Superior Court (1991) 230 Cal.App.3d 173, 178.)
 
Plaintiff is entitled to a turnover order
based on its showing on the application.
 
CONCLUSION 
 
The application for writ of possession and request
for a turnover order are GRANTED.
 
No undertaking is required.  
 
 IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
December 15, 2023                                                              _______________________________ 
Hon. Mitchell Beckloff  
Judge of the Superior Court 
 


