 Case Number:  BC715755    Hearing Date:   January 31, 2024    Dept:  31 DEPT:  31 HEARING DATE: 01/31/2024 CASE NAME/NUMBER: BC715755 BENJAMIN JOSEPH TRUITT ET AL VS SEA SPRITE MOTEL ET AL PETITION TO APPROVE COMPROMISE OF PENDING ACTION OF A MINOR Macy Truitt, Age 15 RECOMMENDATION: DENY  TENTATIVE  The Court excuses the personal appearance of Claimant and the guardian ad litem. Counsel may appear by telephone or video conference call.  Plaintiffs have agreed to settle their claims against Defendants for the total amount of $125,000.   The petition filed on January 25, 2024 is denied for the following reasons:  There are numerous deficiencies with the petition evidencing minimal effort expended on the part of Petitioner’s counsel to file a proper petition for approval.   First, Petitioner improperly uses an expedited petition (MC-350EX) which is reserved for the total settlement amount payable to the minor and all other parties to be $50,000 or less. (CRC, rule 7.950.5(a)(8).) Plaintiffs settled for $125,000. Unless Petitioner can demonstrate or make clear that the amount settled for represents the insurance policy limit covering all proposed contributing parties, in order for it to fall under the exception provided in CRC, rule 7.950.5(a)(8)(A), Petitioner must otherwise use the regular petition on MC-350 [Rev. January 1, 2021].   Second, it is unclear as to the amount meant to be apportioned to Macy Truitt (“Claimant”). Item 11 is intended for the amount paid to Claimant, which Petitioner puts as $125,000. However, Item 12, which provides the apportionment/distribution, states that Claimant is receiving $5,000. Further confusing the matter, Item 1(a), which requests the gross amount of proceeds to Petitioner is put as $3,000. Petitioner must be consistent in the gross amount to be apportioned to Claimant, which is different from the net balance (i.e. the amount after deducting any fees and expenses).  Third, if assuming Claimant’s apportionment is $5,000, Petitioner is requesting 40% of Claimant’s proceeds to be used for attorney’s fees. The Court is not inclined to award attorney fees here in excess of 30% absent actual evidence of extraordinary efforts on the part of counsel.   Fourth, the disposition of Claimant’s net settlement is not indicated. Petitioner marks Item 19(b), but fails to necessarily checkmark any of the applicable subpart(s).    Lastly, Petitioner’s counsel is requested to carefully read the requirements once Petitioner either re-files using MC-350, or re-files using MC-350EX if the total settlement value represents the policy limit. Certain items require an Attachment with information. No attachments were provided with the petition, such as Claimant’s medical records, the attorney declaration explaining the basis for the attorney’s fee request (including a discussion of applicable factors listed in rule 7. 955(b) of the Cal. Rules of Court), and a copy of the written fee agreement, the reason for the apportionment between Claimant and all other plaintiffs.  Petitioner must reserve a new date and file a new petition curing the above-noted defects at least 9 court days before the continued hearing date.  Moving party is ordered to give notice. DEPT:  31 HEARING DATE: 01/31/2024 CASE NAME/NUMBER: BC715755 BENJAMIN JOSEPH TRUITT ET AL VS SEA SPRITE MOTEL ET AL MOTION TO ENFORCE SETTLEMENTMacy Truitt, Age 15 ORDER RE: MOTION TO ENFORCE SETTLEMENT TENTATIVE Plaintiffs Benjamin Joseph Truitt, Jessica Truitt, and Macy Truitt (“Plaintiffs”) filed this action against Defendants Sea Sprite Motel and James Graham for damages arising from a motor vehicle incident.At this time, Defendants Sea Sprite Limited Partnership (Doe 1), erroneously sued as Sea Sprite Motel, and James Graham (“Defendants”) move to enforce the Settlement Agreement (“Agreement”) pursuant to CCP § 664.6 on the grounds that the settlement is contingent upon Plaintiffs filing a minor’s compromise, and Plaintiffs’ counsel has yet to pursue the minor’s compromise.On September 25, 2023, Plaintiffs’ counsel filed a declaration declaring his office “is in the middle of preparing the minor’s compromise for this honorable Court to review.” (Janfaza Decl. ¶ 6.) Plaintiff’s counsel acknowledges that, “Since the minor’s compromise has not been finalized and granted by this court, our office has yet to receive the settlement check from defense counsel.”Defendants’ motion was initially set to be heard on December 5, 2023. However, because the filing of the petition would render the motion moot upon Plaintiffs filing the minor’s compromise, the Court continued the hearing to January 25, 2024. Additionally, the Court set an OSC Re: Status of Minor’s Compromise and Why Plaintiffs’ Counsel Should Not Be Sanctioned $1000 For Failure To File Minor’s Compromise and Failure to Proceed with Reasonable Diligence pursuant to CCP section 583.130 for the same day. However, despite Plaintiffs’ counsel’s representation that their office was preparing a minor’s compromise petition, no such petition had been filed to date. At the January 25 hearing, Plaintiff’s counsel represented that an expedited petition had been filed. As the Court had yet to receive the filing, the Court once again continued the hearing to today’s date. The Court has reviewed the petition, which is severely deficient. Additionally, Plaintiffs failed to oppose the motion.Based on the foregoing, Defendants’ unopposed motion is GRANTED. Plaintiffs are ordered to file a Petition for Approval of Compromise of Claim no later than February 23, 2024. Failure to do so may result in the imposition of sanctions, including monetary sanctions and/or dismissal. The Court sets an OSC: Re Dismissal for Failure to File Petition for Minor’s Compromise (Settlement).Lastly, because Plaintiffs have still failed to take a meaningful step towards the final resolution of this case despite awareness of the issue, the Court hereby imposes against Plaintiff’s counsel monetary sanctions of $250 payable to the Superior Court of California, County of Los Angeles within 30 days.Moving party is ordered to give notice.