 Case Number:  24STCP01494    Hearing Date:   December 11, 2024    Dept:  26 Sierra MHP Associates, LP v. Christman, et al., TENTATIVE RULING:Petitioner Sierra MHP Associates, LP’s Petition to Declare Mobilehome Abandoned is DISMISSED WITH RESPECT TO RESPONDENT SHARI CHRISTMAN AND GRANTED WITH RESPECT TO RESPONDENT DENNIS KELLINGSWORTH. PETITIONER IS TO FILE A PROPOSED JUDGMENT IN ACCORDANCE WITH THIS ORDER WITHIN 20 DAYS.ANALYSIS:On May 8, 2024, Petitioner Sierra MHP Associates, LP (“Petitioner”) filed the instant Petition to Declare Mobilehome Abandoned against Respondents Sheri Christman (“Respondent Christman”) and Dennis Kellingsworth (“Respondent Kellingsworth”). On July 10, 2024, the Court entered Petitioner’s request for entry of default against Respondents.The Petition initially came for hearing on September 11, 2024, at which time the Court noted that Petitioner’s evidence showed Respondent Christman, the registered owner of record of the Mobilehome, is deceased. (Minute Order, 09/11/24, p. 2.) The Court cited Code of Civil Procedure section 377.40, for the proposition that “a cause of action against a decedent that survives may be asserted against the decedent’s personal representative or, to the extent provided by statute, against the decedent’s successor in interest.” (Ibid.) The Court ordered Petitioner to “address the manner in which this Petition may be asserted against Respondent Christman’s personal representative or successor in interest.” (Ibid.)Petitioner filed a notice of continuance of hearing on September 12, 2024. On October 25, 2024, Petitioner filed a supplemental declaration regarding Respondent Christman from its on-site manager, Vanessa Torres.DiscussionPursuant to Civil Code section 798.61, Petitioner seeks a court order deeming Respondents’ mobilehome, (“the Mobilehome”) located at 18204 Soledad Canyon Road, Space 13, Santa Clarita, California (“the Space”), to be abandoned, and awarding Petitioner rent due on the Mobilehome site from November 1, 2023 to the present, accruing at $680.31 per month, attorney’s fees, and court costs. (Pet., ¶26 and Prayer ¶¶1-6.)As an initial matter, the supplemental declaration does not provide the Court with sufficient information to find that this Petition can continue to be pursued against Respondent Christman. The supplemental declaration states Petitioner has no information as to whether Respondents have any children, heirs, or personal representatives. (Supp. Torres Decl., ¶6.) It does not demonstrate that an action to declare a mobile home abandoned even survives against a decedent’s personal representative. The Court will consider the Petition only with respect to Respondent Kellingsworth.A. Determination of “Abandoned Mobilehome”—Civ. Code § 798.61(a)(1)Pursuant to Civil Code, section 798.61, subdivision (a)(1), an “abandoned mobilehome” means a mobilehome about which all of the following are true:(A) It is located in a mobilehome park on a site for which no rent has been paid to the management for the preceding 60 days.(B) It is unoccupied.(C) A reasonable person would believe it to be abandoned.(D) It is not permanently affixed to the land.(Civ. Code, § 798.61, subd. (a)(1).) As set forth in the supporting declaration, no rent has been paid for the Premises and the Mobilehome has been unoccupied since November 2023. (Pet., Torres Decl., ¶7.)B. Notice of Belief of Abandonment—Civ. Code § 798.61(b)Civil Code, section 798.61, subdivision (b) requires:“After determining a mobilehome in a mobilehome park to be an abandoned mobilehome, the management shall post a notice of belief of abandonment on the mobilehome for not less than 30 days, and shall deposit copies of the notice in the United States mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the homeowner at the last known address and to any known registered owner, if different from the homeowner, and to any known holder of a security interest in the abandoned mobilehome. This notice shall be mailed by registered or certified mail with a return receipt requested.”(Civ. Code, § 798.61, subd. (b).) Petitioner attached a Notice of Abandonment to the Petition, which indicates that it was served on Respondents by posting and certified mail on March 28, 2024. (Torres Decl., ¶¶10-13 and Exhs. 3-4; Proof of Service, filed 07/10/24.) Therefore, Petitioner has satisfied the requirements of Civil Code, section 798.61, subdivision (b).C. Petition for Judicial Declaration—Civ. Code § 798.61(c)Civil Code, section 798.61(c)(1) states:“Thirty or more days following posting pursuant to subdivision (b), the management may file a petition in the superior court in the county in which the mobilehome park is located, for a judicial declaration of abandonment of the mobilehome. A proceeding under this subdivision is a limited civil case. Copies of the petition shall be served upon the homeowner, any known registered owner, and any known person having a lien or security interest of record in the mobilehome by posting a copy on the mobilehome and mailing copies to those persons at their last known addresses by registered or certified mail with a return receipt requested in the United States mail, postage prepaid.” (Emphasis added.)(Civ. Code, § 798.61, subd. (c)(1).) Santa Clarita is located within the County of Los Angeles, which is within this Court’s jurisdiction. The instant Petition was filed more than 30 days after the Notice of Abandonment was posted. Petitioner has shown proper service of the Petition, initial Notice of Hearing, and notice of continuance on Respondent Kellingsworth. (Proof of Service by Posting, filed 07/03/24; Notice of Continuance, filed 09/12/24.)D. Charges, Attorneys’ Fees, and Costs“If, at the hearing, the petitioner shows by a preponderance of the evidence that the criteria for an abandoned mobilehome has been satisfied and no party establishes an interest therein at the hearing and tenders all past due rent and other charges, the court shall enter a judgment of abandonment, determine the amount of charges to which the petitioner is entitled, and award attorney's fees and costs to the petitioner.” (Civ. Code, § 798.61, subd. (d)(2).) Petitioner, however, does not seek an award of charges, attorney’s fees or costs with this Petition. (Torres Decl., ¶18.)ConclusionPetitioner Sierra MHP Associates, LP’s Petition to Declare Mobilehome Abandoned is DISMISSED WITH RESPECT TO RESPONDENT SHARI CHRISTMAN AND GRANTED WITH RESPECT TO RESPONDENT DENNIS KELLINGSWORTH. PETITIONER IS TO FILE A PROPOSED JUDGMENT IN ACCORDANCE WITH THIS ORDER WITHIN 20 DAYS.Moving party to gieMoving party to give notice.