

Hearing
Date:             April 11, 2024
Case
Name:                Cail v. Simplified Driver Staffing, LLC 
Case
No.:                    23STCV27254
Matter:                        Motion to Compel
Arbitration 
Moving Party:             Defendant Simplified Driver Staffing,
LLC, Simplified Transport, LLC, Simplified Labor Staffing Solutions, Inc., And
Al Dedicated Transport, LLC

Responding
Party:      Plaintiff Frederick Cail

Tentative
Ruling:      The Motion to Compel
Arbitration is granted; the matter is stayed pending resolution of arbitration.


 
In this
employment action, Plaintiff Frederick Cail (Plaintiff) filed a Complaint on November
6, 2023, alleging FEHA
claims for discrimination, failure to prevent discrimination, retaliation,
harassment, and retaliation pursuant to Labor Code section 1102.5 against his former
employer, Defendants Simplified
Transport, LLC, Simplified Staffing Solutions, Inc., Simplified Driver
Staffing, LLC, A1 Dedicated Transport, LLC (Defendants).
 
            On
December 27, 2023, Defendants filed a motion to compel arbitration pursuant to the
parties’ arbitration agreement.[1]
In opposition, Plaintiff argues the arbitration agreement is unenforceable because
Plaintiff is an exempt transportation worker and the agreement is unconscionable.

 
            The motion to compel
arbitration is granted. The matter is stayed pending the outcome of
arbitration. 
 
Legal
Standard 
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure
section 1281.2, a court may order arbitration of a controversy if it finds that
the parties have agreed to arbitrate that dispute. Because the obligation to
arbitrate arises from contract, the court may compel arbitration only if the
dispute in question is one in which the parties have agreed to arbitrate. (Weeks
v. Crow (1980) 113 Cal.App.3d 350, 352.) Because arbitration is a favored
method of dispute resolution, arbitration agreements should be liberally
interpreted, and arbitration should be ordered unless the agreement clearly
does not apply to the dispute in question. (Id. at p. 353; Segal v.
Silberstein (2007) 156 Cal.App.4th 627, 633.)
 
Analysis
 
            Defendants
move to compel arbitration of Plaintiff’s claims and stay the matter while the
arbitration is pending.
 
Existence of Arbitration Agreement:
 
As a preliminary matter, Defendants argue that issues
of scope, validity, and enforceability have been delegated to the arbitrator.
However, Defendants do not rely on a specific provision of the Arbitration
Agreement but, instead, reference the unattached AAA Rules, which state that
the “[t]he arbitrator shall have the power to rule on his
or her own jurisdiction, including any objections with respect to the
existence, scope or validity of the arbitration agreement.” (Mot., Ex. 2, p. 12
(AAA Rule 6).) 
 
“There
are two prerequisites for a delegation clause to be effective. First, the
language of the clause must be clear and unmistakable. [Citation.] Second, the
delegation must not be revocable under state contract defenses such as fraud,
duress, or unconscionability.” (Tiri
v. Lucky Chances, Inc. (2014) 226
Cal.App.4th 231, 242; see Rent-A-Center, West, Inc. v. Jackson (2010) 561 U.S. 63, 68,
69, fn. 1.) The “clear and unmistakable” test reflects a “heightened standard
of proof” that reverses the typical presumption in favor of the arbitration of
disputes. (Ajamian v. CantorCO2e, L.P. (2012) 203 Cal.App.4th 771, 787.)
 
Only
one of the cases cited by Defendants found an enforceable delegation clause
through incorporation by reference to general arbitrations rules. (Rodriguez
v. American Tech., Inc. (2006) 136 Cal. App. 4th 1110, 1123.) However,
other courts have looked unfavorably on this holding; thus, the Court declines
to find that such incorporation meets the “clear
and unmistakable” standard regarding the parties’ intent here. (Ajamian v.
CantorCO2e, L.P. (2012) 203 Cal.App.4th 771, 790 [“In our view, while the
incorporation of AAA rules into an agreement might be sufficient indication of
the parties' intent in other contexts, we seriously question how it provides clear
and unmistakable evidence that an employer and an employee intended to
submit the issue of the unconscionability of the arbitration provision to the
arbitrator, as opposed to the court.”].) 
 
            Thus,
the Court first determines whether Defendants have met their burden of
demonstrating the existence of a valid arbitration agreement. 
 
Defendants
seek to compel arbitration based on an arbitration agreement between the
parties. In support of the existence of an arbitration agreement, Defendants
submit evidence that Plaintiff was employed by Defendants
as a truck driver from January 2022 to June 2023. As a part of this employment,
Plaintiff signed an arbitration agreement, dated April 11, 2023. (Escobedo
Decl., ¶ 11, Ex. 1.) 
 
            The Arbitration Agreement states
that it applies to “any and all claims and disputes related in any way to [Plaintiff’s]
employment or termination of [Plaintiff’s] employment.” (Escobedo Decl., ¶ 11, Ex.
1 [Agreement, p. 5].) 
 
            In opposition, Plaintiff does not dispute
the existence of the arbitration agreement, his signature on the agreement, or
the scope of the Agreement. Thus,
Defendants have carried their burden of demonstrating the existence of a valid
arbitration agreement between the parties. 
 
Enforceability of the Arbitration Agreement:
 
            In opposition,
Plaintiff first argues that, as a truck driver, he is exempt under the Federal
Arbitration Act. Based on this exemption, Plaintiff argues the Agreement is
unenforceable. 
 
            Section 2 of
the FAA, which acts as the basic coverage provision of the FAA, makes the law
applicable to contracts evidencing a transaction “involving commerce.” (9
U.S.C. § 2.) However, Section 1 of the FAA provides a limited exemption from
the law’s coverage to “contracts of employment of seamen, railroad employees,
or any other class of workers engaged in foreign or interstate commerce.” (9
U.S.C. § 1.) 
 
The United
States Supreme Court defined the catchall phrase “ ‘any other class of workers
engaged in ... interstate commerce’ ” to mean “transportation workers,” which
the court understood as “those workers ‘ “actually engaged in the movement of
goods in interstate commerce.” ’ ” (Circuit City Stores, Inc. v. Adams
(2001) 532 U.S. 105, 112, 119.) “Truck drivers who cross interstate lines usually are
considered transportation workers.” (Performance Team Freight Systems, Inc.
v. Aleman (2015) 241 Cal.App.4th 1233, 1240.) A party claiming the section
1 exemption bears the burden of proving it applies. (Id. at p. 1241.)
 
Even if Plaintiff
is correct that the FAA does not apply to the arbitration agreement with Defendants
because he is an exempt employee, this does not render the Agreement unenforceable.

 
Plaintiff argues
that by its terms, the arbitration agreement is “governed solely by the FAA,”
such that it cannot be enforced under the California Arbitration Act (CAA; Code
Civ. Proc., § 1280, et seq.). But a contract to arbitrate does not require the
FAA to be enforceable. Rather, the FAA only preempts certain state laws that
would otherwise prohibit arbitration. 
 
Exemption
under the FAA does not prohibit application of the CAA. “Nothing in the CAA,
however, requires that an arbitration agreement explicitly reference the CAA to
be enforceable under California law.” (Garrido v. Air Liquide Industrial
U.S. LP (2015) 241 Cal.App.4th 833, 841; see also Lagatree v. Luce,
Forward, Hamilton & Scripps (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 1105, 1121 [“Assuming
arguendo that the FAA does not apply, we would assess the validity of the
parties' arbitration agreements under the California Arbitration Act.”].)
 
Thus, Plaintiff’s
purported status as exempt from the FAA has no consequence here. 
 
Plaintiff also argues that the
Agreement is both procedurally and substantively unconscionable. 
 
            If a court
finds as a matter of law that a contract or any clause of a contract is
unconscionable, the court may refuse to enforce the contract or clause, or it
may limit the application of any unconscionable clause so as to avoid any
unconscionable result. (Civ. Code, § 1670.5, subd. (a).) “An agreement to
arbitrate, like any other contract, is subject to revocation if the agreement
is unconscionable.” (Carmona v. Lincoln Millennium Car Wash, Inc. (2014)
226 Cal.App.4th 74, 83 [citing Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare
Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 98].)
 
            “The
general principles of unconscionability are well established. A contract is
unconscionable if one of the parties lacked a meaningful choice in deciding
whether to agree and the contract contains terms that are unreasonably
favorable to the other party. [Citation.] Under this standard, the
unconscionability doctrine ‘ “has both a procedural and a substantive element.”
’ [Citation.] ‘The procedural element addresses the circumstances of contract
negotiation and formation, focusing on oppression or surprise due to unequal
bargaining power. [Citations.] Substantive unconscionability pertains to the
fairness of an agreement's actual terms and to assessments of whether they are
overly harsh or one-sided.’ [Citation.] [¶] Both procedural and substantive unconscionability
must be shown for the defense to be established, but ‘they need not be present
in the same degree.’ [Citation.] Instead, they are evaluated on ‘ “sliding
scale.” ’ [Citation.] ‘[T]he more substantively oppressive the contract term,
the less evidence of procedural unconscionability is required to’ conclude that
the term is unenforceable. [Citation.] Conversely, the more deceptive or
coercive the bargaining tactics employed, the less substantive unfairness is
required. [Citations.] A contract's substantive fairness ‘must be considered in
light of any procedural unconscionability’ in its making. [Citation.] ‘The
ultimate issue in every case is whether the terms of the contract are
sufficiently unfair, in view of all relevant circumstances, that a court should
withhold enforcement.’ ” (OTO, L.L.C. v. Kho (2019) 8 Cal.5th 111,
125–126.) “The burden of proving unconscionability rests upon the party
asserting it.” (Id. at p. 126.)
 
            Plaintiff first
argues the Agreement is procedurally unconscionable because the Agreement was a
condition of employment and offered on a take-it-or leave it basis. That is, Plaintiff had no ability to
negotiate the terms of the Agreement, and Defendants made no effort to provide
an explanation of its terms to Plaintiff. (Cali Decl., ¶¶ 10-15.)
 
            Plaintiff also
argues that Defendants failed to attach the applicable AAA rules and failed to
designate which rules apply.
 
            In opposition, Defendants
argue that mandatory
arbitration policies in employment are not per se procedurally
unconscionable. 
 
            Courts regularly uphold arbitration
agreements even where they are presented to employees on a “take it or leave it
basis.” (See e.g., Little v. Auto Stiegler, Inc. (2003) 29 Cal.4th 1064,
1071; Lagatree v. Luce, Forward, Hamilton & Scripps (1999) 74
Cal.App.4th 1105, 1123.) Moreover, for the reasons discussed below, even
assuming the Agreement may contain some degree of procedural unconscionability
as a contract of adhesion, this does not invalidate the arbitration agreement. 
 
            Plaintiff
next argues that the Agreement is substantively unconscionable. 
 
            Plaintiff
identifies only one basis for asserting that the agreement is substantively unconscionable.[2] Specifically,
Plaintiff points to the language in the Arbitration Agreement where employees agree to “forego and waive
any right to aggregate, join or consolidate claims in arbitration with any
others or to bring non-individual, class or collective claims in arbitration.” (Escobedo
Decl., ¶ 11, Ex. 1 [Arbitration Agreement, p. 2].) Plaintiff
argues that this
provision constitutes a collective PAGA Waiver, which is substantively
unconscionable as it deprives employees of standing to bring PAGA claims. Plaintiff
further argues that this provision cannot be severed because doing so would “change
the entirety of the Agreement and the clear intent of the drafting party, and
would render the Agreement different as a whole.” (Opp., 12:21-22.) 
 
            To the extent that the Arbitration Agreement
prohibits Plaintiff from exercising certain
un-waivable statutory rights, such as the right to bring actions pursuant to
the Private Attorneys General Act of 2004 (PAGA), the provision is unenforceable
and against public policy.[3]
(See Armendariz, supra, 24 Cal.4th at p. 103, fn. 8 [courts must ensure
that employment-related arbitration agreements “are not used as a means of
effectively curtailing an employee's [statutory] rights”].) As
such, a PAGA waiver provision is substantively unconscionable. (See Brown v. Ralphs Grocery Co. (2011) 197
Cal.App.4th 489, 498-503, 128 Cal.Rptr.3d 854 (Brown ) [upholding the
trial court's determination a PAGA waiver was unconscionable, and that the PAGA
waiver and class action waiver together rendered the entire arbitration
agreement unenforceable]; see also Brown v. Ralphs Grocery Co. (2018) 28
Cal.App.5th 824, 831, 239 Cal.Rptr.3d 519 [in Brown, “we affirmed the
ruling that the PAGA waiver was substantively unconscionable ....”].)
 
            However, as noted above, Plaintiff
has identified only a single provision. “Generally speaking, when an
arbitration agreement contains a single term in violation of public policy,
that term will be severed and the rest of the agreement enforced. [Citation.]”
(Gentry v. Superior Court (2007) 42 Cal.4th 443, 466 abrogation
recognized on other grounds in OTO, L.L.C. v. Kho (2019) 8 Cal.5th 111, 129,
fn. 10.) The Arbitration Agreement itself also states that “if any provision of
the [Agreement] is deemed to be unenforceable, that provision shall be limited
or severed without affecting the obligation to arbitrate . . ..” (Escobedo
Decl., ¶ 11, Ex. 1 [Agreement, p. 4].) 
 
             Thus, the Court severs the waiver provision to
the extent it requires waiver of a representative PAGA claim. With
that, Plaintiff has not demonstrated any substantive unconscionability.
Therefore, even if the Agreement contains some degree of procedural
unconscionability, the absence of substantive unconscionability is fatal
Plaintiff’s unconscionability argument.
 
            Lastly, Plaintiff argues he was
fraudulently induced into signing the Agreement because he was given the Arbitration
Agreement while he was on medical leave and told he had to sign it to return to
work. (Cali Decl., ¶¶ 12-15.) 
 
            A
claim for fraud in the inducement requires a misrepresentation involving a
contract in which the promisor knows what he or she is signing but his or her
consent is induced by fraud. (Duffens v. Valenti (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th
434, 449.) 
 
Plaintiff’s
fraud in the inducement argument and supporting evidence is woefully vague. This
argument is not well-taken. 
 
Defendants have met their burden of
demonstrating the existence of a valid, enforceable Arbitration Agreement. 
 
CONCLUSION
 
            Accordingly,
the Court grants Defendants’ motion to compel arbitration; the matter will be stayed
pending the outcome of arbitration. 
 
            The
Court will set the date for a post-arbitration status conference.
 


