

Hearing Date:             April
11, 2024
Case Name:                McMillan v. Charter Spectrum
Case No.:                    23STCV08510
Matter:                        Application
to be Admitted Pro Hac Vice
Moving Parties:          Defendant Charter
Communications, LLC

Responding Party:      Unopposed

Tentative Ruling:      The
Court grants the Application to be admitted pro hac vice. 
 

 
            Defendant Charter
Communications, LLC moves for an order granting the admission of Amanda
Hettinger to appear on its behalf pro hac vice. The Court grants the application.

 
Legal
Standard
 
            An
attorney in good standing in another jurisdiction may apply to appear as
counsel pro hac vice in the State of California by filing a verified
application together with proof of service by mail of a copy of the application
and notice of hearing on all parties who have appeared in the case and on the
State Bar of California at its San Francisco office, with payment of a $50.00
fee.  The attorney cannot be a resident
of California, employed in the state, or regularly engage in substantial
business, professional, or other activities in the state. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 9.40(a)(1)-(3), (c)(1).) 
 
            The
written application must state: (1) the applicant’s residence and office
address; (2) the courts to which the applicant has been admitted to practice
and the dates of admission; (3) that the applicant is a member in good standing
in those courts; (4) that the applicant is not currently suspended or disbarred
in any court; (5) the title of each court and cause in which the applicant has
filed an application to appear as counsel pro hac vice in this state in
the preceding two years, the date of each application, and whether or not it
was granted; and (6) the name, address, and telephone number of the active
member of the State Bar of California who is attorney of record in the local
action. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 9.40(d)(1)-(6).) 
 
Discussion
 
            The
provided declaration complies with the California Rule of Court 9.40(d)(1)-(6).
 
Amanda Hettinger represents that she
has not regularly engaged in substantial business, professional, or other
activities in California. (Hettinger Decl., ¶ 2(a).) Further, Hettinger resides
in Missouri. (Hettinger Decl., ¶ 2(b).) Finally, she has never been suspended
or disbarred in any court and has not appeared pro hac vice in any other
California-based lawsuits in the preceding three years, except for a single
case (Gil Melili v. Charter Communications Operating, LLC d/b/a/
Spectrum, 2:23-cv00282-SPG-JPR). (Hettinger Decl., ¶ 2(d), (f).)
 
            Attorney
Hettinger submits a copy of the receipt for the $50.00 check submitted to the
State Bar of California for the pro hac vice fee. (Hettinger Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. 1.)  
 
            It is not
clear that the State Bar of California had notice of this hearing; the State
Bar is not included on any of the proofs of service.  Attorney Hettinger is directed to notify the
State Bar of the ruling on her application.
 
            Accordingly,
the Court grants the Application of counsel, Amanda Hettinger, to appear on
behalf of Defendant pro hac vice. 