  Case Number:  23STCV11618    Hearing Date:   May 22, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
MICHAEL BOYD,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
MEGAN MICHELLE ST.
  CLAIR, et al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  23STCV11618
  Hearing Date:  May 22, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendants’ demurrers and motion to
  strike 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On May 23, 2023, Plaintiff Michael
Boyd filed this action against Defendants Megan St. Clair, Peter Burra, HALO
Behavioral Health, Inc., Brandon St. Clair, and Paul Meyers. Plaintiff filed
the operative First Amended Complaint on November 15, 2023, asserting 14 causes
of action arising from the following facts. 
            Plaintiff alleges that he was
engaged to Kathleen St. Clair (Kathleen) until her death in May 2022.
Kathleen’s two children, Defendants Megan St. Clair (Megan) and Brandon St.
Clair (Brandon), were allegedly hostile towards Kathleen and resentful of the relationship
between Plaintiff and Kathleen. When Kathleen was hospitalized for a heart
attack, Megan allegedly used a California Advanced Health Care Directive
(CAHCD) to place Kathleen in hospice, exclude Plaintiff from visiting, and
prohibit Kathleen’s healthcare providers from communicating with Plaintiff. 
The complaint alleges that Megan and her
husband, Defendant Bryan Burra (Burra), falsely accused Plaintiff of having a
criminal record as a pretext to exclude him from Kathleen’s care. Megan and
Burra allegedly embarked on a scheme to investigate Plaintiff and fabricate and
disseminate false information on Plaintiff. This scheme allegedly involved
resources and employees of their business, Defendant HALO Behavioral Health,
Inc. (HALO). Megan allegedly filed for a temporary restraining order (TRO)
against Plaintiff based on false information. 
In November 2022, Plaintiff was
hospitalized. Defendant Paul Meyers (Meyers), Kathleen’s brother, allegedly
discovered this by calling the hospital and then informed Brandon. Brandon then
allegedly took the opportunity to break into Plaintiff’s home, taking furniture
and other property. Plaintiff alleges that Megan, Burra, and Meyers were either
present at or assisted in the burglary and that Megan and Burra took possession
of the stolen property. Plaintiff alleges that Megan and Burra burglarized his
home again in January 2023. 
On March 11, HALO filed a demurrer and
motion to strike against the FAC. On April 9, 2024, Brandon, Burra, and Meyers
filed separate demurrers and a joint motion to strike. Plaintiff has not filed
an opposition. 
LEGAL STANDARD
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether
the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in
context. (Taylor v. City of Los
Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.)
In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the
pleading or by proper judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd.
(a).) A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other
extrinsic matters. (SKF Farms v. Superior
Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) Therefore, it lies only where the
defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (Ibid.) The only issue involved in a
demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with
extraneous matters, states a cause of action. (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.)
Any party, within the time allowed to
respond to a pleading, may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the
whole or any part of that pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b).) The
court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it
deems proper, strike (1) any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in
any pleading and (2) all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.
(Id., § 436.) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face
of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Id., § 437.)
DISCUSSION
I.
HALO’s Liability
            Plaintiff includes HALO as a
defendant because Megan and Burra allegedly own or operate HALO. (FAC ¶ 5.)
However, Plaintiff alleges no theory by which HALO could be liable for the
other Defendants’ conduct. Therefore, the claims against HALO fail as a matter
of law. The demurrer is SUSTAINED without leave to amend as to the claims
against HALO.   
II.
Defamation and False Light
            The elements of a defamation claim
are: (1) publication that is (2) false, (3) defamatory, (4) unprivileged, and
(5) has a natural tendency to injure or cause special damage. (Wong v. Jing
(2010) 189 Cal.App.4th 1354, 1369.) False statements charging the commission of
crime, or tending directly to injure a plaintiff in respect to his or her
profession by imputing dishonesty or questionable professional conduct are
defamatory
per se. (Burrill v. Nair (2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 357, 383.) Plaintiff
alleges that Defendants falsely accused him of making threats and committing crimes,
and spread false rumors about him having a criminal record (See, e.g., FAC
¶¶ 35-37, 46, 104.) These alleged statements are sufficiently defamatory for
pleading purposes.  
Defendants argue that the claim “may” be
time-barred because most of the alleged statements occurred in May 2022, and
Plaintiff filed this action on May 23, 2023. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 340(c)
[one-year limitations period for defamation].) However, a statute of
limitations defense must appear clearly on the face of the complaint; it is not
enough that the claim might be time-barred. (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants,
Inc. Services (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1316.) Plaintiff alleges that
the statements occurred in May 2022, and he filed the complaint in May 2023,
which is potentially within one year. All reasonable inferences must be drawn
in Plaintiff’s favor. Therefore, without specific dates, it must be assumed
that the claim is timely.
            Defendants also argue that the
statements made by Megan during the TRO proceeding are nonactionable under the
litigation privilege. (See Civ. Code, § 47.) However, that does not address the
remaining defamatory statements that were made outside of litigation, such as Burra’s
proclamations in the hospital lobby, or spreading false rumors to Plaintiff’s
neighbors and Burra’s associates. (See FAC ¶¶ 35-37, 46, 104.) The defamation
claim survives because Plaintiff has alleged at least one actionable statement.
Defendants cannot partially demur to a cause of action.  
            “When a false light claim is coupled
with a defamation claim, the false light claim is essentially superfluous, and
stands or falls on whether it meets the same requirements as the defamation
cause of action.” (Jackson v. Mayweather (2017) 10 Cal.App.5th 1240,
1264.) Because the defamation claim survives, so does the derivative false
light claim. The demurrer is OVERRULED as to the first and ninth causes of
action. 
III.
Trespass and Theft

Defendants argue that Plaintiff has not
alleged ownership of the personal property that was taken or the property that
was burglarized because he admits that most of the stolen property belonged to
Kathleen and that he lived with Kathleen at a home owned by Kathleen. (FAC ¶¶
20, 77.) 
However, trespass to land requires “the
plaintiff’s ownership or control of the property.” (Ralphs Grocery
Co. v. Victory Consultants, Inc. (2017) 17 Cal.App.5th 245, 262.) Plaintiff
alleges that Defendants entered his “residence,” without specifying whether
that residence is the home he shared with Kathleen or a separate residence.
(FAC ¶ 77.) Even if it was the house that Kathleen owned, there is no
indication from the face of the complaint that Plaintiff lacked control over
the residence. For pleading purposes, it may be reasonably inferred that
Plaintiff either owned or controlled the property that was broken into. 
Furthermore, Plaintiff does allege that
his personal property was taken, specifically several computer drives. (FAC ¶
77.) This constitutes Plaintiff’s own property that is subject to conversion
and trespass to chattel. Plaintiff alleges that Megan and Burra received the
stolen property. (FAC ¶ 78.) Therefore, the FAC adequately pleads trespass,
conversion, and theft. The demurrer is OVERRULED as to the third through sixth
causes of action.  
IV.
Invasion of Privacy
            The essential elements of an
invasion of privacy cause of action are (1) a legally protected privacy
interest; (2) a reasonable expectation of privacy in the circumstances; and (3)
conduct by defendant constituting a serious invasion of privacy. (Folgelstrom
v. Lamps Plus, Inc. (2011) 195 Cal.App.4th 986, 990.) 
            Plaintiff alleges that Defendants
broke into his residence, stole his computer drives containing personal data,
exposed his hospitalization status, and surveilled him using electronic
communication devices. (FAC ¶¶ 77, 230.) For pleading purposes, Plaintiff has a
reasonable expectation of privacy in his home, personal data, and medical
information. Defendants’ alleged actions constitute an invasion of that privacy
interest. 
            Defendants argue that the reference
to “electronic communication devices” is vague. However, that is not the only
basis for the invasion of privacy claim, and the ambiguities may be clarified
through discovery. Therefore, the invasion of privacy claim is adequately pled.
The demurrer is OVERRULED as to the eighth cause of action.  
 
 
V.
Vandalism
            A duplicative pleading may be
properly stricken if it “adds nothing to the complaint by way of fact or
theory.” (Award Metals, Inc. v. Superior Court (1991) 228 Cal.App.3d
1128, 1135.) Plaintiff’s seventh cause of action for “vandalism” reiterates the
allegations that Defendants entered his residence and stole his property. (FAC
¶¶ 219-220.) Plaintiff alleges that the vandalism “interfered with plaintiff's
right to use and enjoy the property” and “involved the damaging and destroying
of the property.” (FAC ¶¶ 224-225.) However, Plaintiff already asserts
causes of action for trespass and conversion, all of which cover unlawful
entry, destruction, or interference with property. Therefore, the vandalism
claim adds nothing to the complaint by way of fact or theory. The demurrer is
SUSTAINED without leave to amend as to the seventh cause of action. 
VI.
Harassment
            Plaintiff’s tenth cause of action
for “harassment” merely incorporates all prior allegations. Defendants’ alleged
misconduct is already covered by the other causes of action in the complaint.
Therefore, the harassment claim adds nothing by way of fact or theory and is
stricken as duplicative. The demurrer is SUSTAINED without leave to amend as to
the tenth cause of action.   
VII.
Stalking
            Civil Code section 1708.7(a) defines
the tort of stalking. Defendants argue that constitutionally protected conduct
cannot be considered stalking. However, Plaintiff alleges that Defendants broke
into his residence, stole his personal data, surveilled him using electronic
communication devices, and watched his vehicle and home. (FAC ¶¶ 68, 77, 230.) For
pleading purposes, it may be reasonably inferred that this conduct was not
constitutionally protected. The demurrer is OVERRULED as to the eleventh cause
of action.
 
VIII.
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress
To state a cause
of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress, a plaintiff must
establish: (1) outrageous conduct by the defendant; (2) the defendant’s
intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of causing,
emotional distress; (3) the plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme emotional
distress; and (4) actual and proximate causation of the emotional distress by
the defendant’s outrageous conduct. (Vasquez v. Franklin Management Real
Estate Fund, Inc. (2013) 222 Cal.App.4th 819, 832.) “For conduct to be
outrageous, it must be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually
tolerated by a civilized community.” (Faunce v. Cate (2013) 222
Cal.App.4th 166, 172.) “Severe
emotional distress [is] emotional distress of such substantial quantity or
enduring quality that no reasonable man in a civilized society should be
expected to endure it.” (Fletcher v. Western Life Insurance Co. (1970)
10 Cal.App.3d 376, 397.) 
While
Defendants’ alleged conduct may be considered outrageous, Plaintiff fails to
allege severe emotional distress. “[D]iscomfort, worry, anxiety, upset
stomach, concern, and agitation” do not satisfy the severity standard. (Hughes
v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035, 1051.) Plaintiff makes generic allegations
such as “humiliation, embarrassment, mental anguish, emotional distress and
physical injury.” (See, e.g., FAC ¶ 138.) This does not sufficiently
demonstrate severe emotional distress. Therefore, the demurrer is SUSTAINED
with leave to amend as to the twelfth cause of action. 
IX.
Civil Conspiracy 
            “The elements of an action for civil
conspiracy are (1) formation and operation of the conspiracy and (2) damage
resulting to plaintiff (3) from a wrongful act done in furtherance of the
common design.” (Prakashpalan v. Engstrom, Lipscomb & Lack (2014)
223 Cal.App.4th 1105, 1136.) When the complaint is read as a whole and
interpreted liberally, it may be reasonably inferred that Defendants
participated in a common plan with knowledge of the wrongful acts. Therefore,
the FAC adequately pleads civil conspiracy. 
For this reason, Defendants’ arguments
that they did not directly engage in certain wrongful acts does not absolve
them of liability at this stage. “The significance of a conspiracy theory of
liability is that each member may be held jointly liable as a tortfeasor, even
though he or she may not have participated directly in the underlying tort.” (Ibid.)
The demurrer is OVERRULED as to civil conspiracy. 
X.
Punitive Damages
“In an action for the breach of an
obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and
convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages
for the sake of example and by way of punishing the defendant.” (Civ. Code, §
3294, subd. (a).) “‘Malice’ means conduct which is intended by the
defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is
carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others.” (Id., subd. (c)(1).) “‘Oppression’ means
despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” (Id., subd. (c)(2).) Fraud
is “intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact
known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of
thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing
injury.” (Id., subd. (c)(3).) 
The conduct discussed above is
sufficiently despicable, cruel, or unjust for pleading purposes. Additionally,
Plaintiff alleges that Defendants acted out of personal resentment against
Plaintiff due to his relationship with Kathleen. (FAC ¶ 21.) Therefore, it may
be reasonably inferred that Defendants acted out of malice. The motion to
strike is DENIED as to punitive damages. 

 
XI.
Attorney’s Fees
“Except as attorney’s fees are
specifically provided for by statute, the measure and mode of compensation of
attorneys and counselors at law is left to the agreement, express or implied,
of the parties . . . .” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1021.) Therefore, a plaintiff must
allege either a statutory or contractual basis for attorneys’ fees. 
            “[A] pro se attorney litigant does
not incur attorney's fees, because the attorney litigant is not liable to pay
consideration for the legal representation.” (Argaman v. Ratan (1999) 73
Cal.App.4th 1173, 1179.) Plaintiff is a pro se litigant and therefore incurs no
attorney’s fees. Therefore, the motion to strike is GRANTED as to attorney’s
fees. 
CONCLUSION
            HALO’s demurrer is SUSTAINED without
leave to amend. HALO’s motion to strike is moot.
            The demurrers filed by Brandon St.
Clair, Peter Burra, and Paul Meyers are SUSTAINED in part as set forth above
without leave to amend. The joint motion to strike is GRANTED in part as set
forth above.  
            Brandon St. Clair, Peter Burra, and
Paul Meyers shall file their answer to the first amended complaint within 20
days.