 Case Number:  23CHCV03799    Hearing Date:   October 18, 2024    Dept:  F47 Dept. F47
Date: 10/18/24
Case #23CHCV03799
 
MOTION TO BE
RELIEVED AS COUNSEL
 
Motion filed on 9/11/24.
 
MOVING ATTORNEY: Brett Yorke
CLIENT: Plaintiff Billy Jean Goulette
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: An order relieving Brett Yorke
as counsel for Plaintiff Billy Jean Goulette in this action.
 
RULING: The motion is denied without
prejudice.  
 
On 9/11/24, attorney Brett Yorke filed the instant motion
seeking an order relieving him as counsel for Plaintiff Billy Jean Goulette
(Plaintiff) in this action.  The proof of
service for the motion indicates that the motion documents were served on 9/11/24
by U.S. mail and by electronic mail on Plaintiff and by electronic mail, only,
on counsel for Defendant Extended Stay (Defendant).  
 
The declaration of attorney Yorke indicates that he has
been unable to confirm that Plaintiff’s address is current after mailing the
motion papers to Plaintiff’s last known address, return receipt requested;
calling Plaintiff’s last known telephone number(s); conducting a search through
LexisNexis Smartlinx Comprehensive Person Report and sending letters and moving
papers to Plaintiff’s last known email addresses.  Attorney Yorke states that he cannot comply
with the  court’s requirements for future
hearings without the client’s cooperation. 

 
The proof of service indicates that motion documents were
mailed to Plaintiff at: 609 W. Terrylynn Lane, Long Beach, CA 90807 and that is
the address listed for Plaintiff in the notice of motion.  (See Notice of Motion, p.1, No.1).  However, the proposed Order lists Plaintiff’s
current address as 19325 Londelius Street, Unit 113, Northridge, California
91324 which is the address attorney Yorke claimed was Plaintiff’s address in
the motion to be relieved as counsel filed on 8/1/24.  (See proposed Order, No.6; Notice of
Motion filed on 8/1/24).  As such, it is
not clear which address attorney Yorke is claiming is Plaintiff’s most current
address, which address attorney Yorke attempted to confirm and/or whether the
motion documents were mailed to Plaintiff’s last known address.  Additionally, Plaintiff’s telephone number is
not included in the proposed order as required. 
(See proposed Order, no.6). 

 
Plaintiff has not filed any response to the motion to
cure any defect in notice.    
 
 