 Case Number:  23PSCV01175    Hearing Date:   October 9, 2023    Dept:  6 CASE NAME: S. Mandilawi, M.D., Medical Corporation, et al. v. May Medical Management Corporation, et al. TENTATIVE RULING The Court GRANTS the motion to compel arbitration. This action is STAYED pending arbitration. The Court will set a Status Conference re Arbitration at or following the hearing on this motion. Defendants are ordered to give notice of the Court's ruling within five calendar days of this order.BACKGROUND This is a business dispute. On April  20, 2023, Plaintiffs S. Mandilawi, M.D., Medical Corporation and Sadiq  Mandilawi (Mandilawi) (collectively, Plaintiffs) filed this action against  Defendants Asif Siddiq (Siddiq), Basima Latif (Latif) (collectively,  Defendants)[1] and Does 1 through 50, alleging causes of action for fraudulent inducement into  contract, intentional misrepresentation, negligent misrepresentation, breach of  fiduciary duty, intentional interference with prospective economic advantage, negligent  interference with prospective economic advantage, and financial elder abuse.[2] On August 24, 2023, Defendants filed the instant motion to  compel arbitration. On September 26, 2023, Plaintiffs opposed. On October 2,  2023, Defendants replied.LEGAL STANDARD Parties may be compelled  to arbitrate a dispute upon the court finding that: (1) there was a valid  agreement to arbitrate between the parties; and (2) said agreement covers the  controversy or controversies in the parties’ dispute.(Omar v. Ralphs  Grocery Co. (2004)118 Cal.App.4th 955, 961.) A party moving to compel  arbitration has the burden of establishing the existence of a valid agreement  to arbitrate and the party opposing the petition has the burden of proving, by  a preponderance of the evidence, any fact necessary to its defense. (Banner  Entertainment, Inc. v. Superior Court (1998) 62 Cal.App.4th 348, 356-357.)  A party seeking to compel arbitration meets their initial burden of  establishing the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by attaching a copy  of the agreement to the motion or petition to compel arbitration. (Espejo v.  Southern California Permanente Medical Group (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 1047,  1060.) “California  has a strong public policy in favor of arbitration and any doubts regarding the  arbitrability of a dispute are resolved in favor of arbitration.” (Coast Plaza Doctors Hospital v. Blue Cross of California (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th  677, 686.) “This strong policy has resulted in the general rule that  arbitration should be upheld unless it can be said with assurance that an  arbitration clause is not susceptible to an interpretation covering the  asserted dispute.” (Ibid. [internal quotations omitted].) This  is in accord with the liberal federal policy favoring arbitration agreements  under the Federal Arbitration Act (FAA), which governs all agreements to  arbitrate in contracts involving interstate commerce. (9 U.S.C. § 2, et seq.; Higgins v. Superior Court (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 1238, 1247.)DISCUSSION FAA v. CAA "[T]he FAA's procedural provisions (9 U.S.C. §§ 3, 4, 10, 11) do not  apply unless the contract contains a choice-of-law clause expressly  incorporating them.” (Id. at 174, 110 Cal.Rptr.3d 180.)  “[T]he question is not whether the parties adopted the CAA’s procedural provisions: The state's procedural  statutes (§§ 1281.2, 1290.2) apply by default because Congress intended the  comparable FAA sections (9 U.S.C. §§ 3, 4, 10, 11) to apply in federal court.  The question, therefore, is whether the parties expressly incorporated the FAA’s procedural provisions into their agreements.” (Victrola 89, LLC v. Jaman Properties 8 LLC (2020) 46  Cal.App.5th 337, 345) [internal citations and quotation marks omitted]. "[P]revious cases have held that when an arbitration agreement provides that its 'enforcement' shall be governed by California law, the California Arbitration Act (CAA) governs a party's motion to compel arbitration. It follows that when an agreement provides that its' enforcement' shall be governed by the FAA, the FAA governs a party's motion to compel arbitration."(Victrola 89, LLC v. Jaman  Properties 8 LLC (2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 337, 346.) While Defendants’ moving papers  cite to the FAA, the Court finds that the FAA does not apply here because the Arbitration  Agreements (as defined below) do not provide that their enforcement is governed  by the FAA. (Motion, Ex. 1, Art. X, ¶ 17; Id., Ex. 2, Art. VI, § 6.07;  see Victrola 89, supra, 46 Cal.App.5th at p. 346.) Defendants also have  not cited to any evidence of the contracts at issue involving interstate  commerce. (See 9 U.S.C. § 2, et seq.; Higgins,  supra, 140 Cal.App.4th at p. 1247.) Accordingly,  the CAA governs this motion. Analysis “[T]he petitioner  bears the burden of proving its existence by a preponderance of the evidence.”  (Rosenthal v. Great Western Fin. Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413.) “If  the party opposing the petition raises a defense to enforcement—either fraud in  the execution voiding the agreement, or a statutory defense of waiver or  revocation [citation]—that party bears the burden of producing evidence of, and  proving by a preponderance of the evidence, any fact necessary to the defense.”  (Ibid.) The moving party meets their initial burden of proving the  existence of a valid arbitration agreement by attaching a copy to the motion. (Espejo,  supra, 246 Cal.App.4th at p. 1060.) Defendants have attached copies of  two contracts to their motion, namely a Physician Independent Contractor  Agreement (Contractor Agreement) and a Partnership Agreement, both of which  contain arbitration clauses (collectively, the Arbitration Agreements).  (Motion, Exs. 1, 2.) Accordingly, Defendants have met their initial burden. The  burden now shifts to Plaintiffs to challenge the validity of the arbitration  agreements. The Court notes that Plaintiffs do  not dispute the existence or validity of the Arbitration Agreements. Instead,  Plaintiffs contend the Arbitration Agreements do not apply here because  Defendants are not parties to the Contractor Agreement or the Partnership  Agreement. Plaintiffs also contend that the claims against Defendants are  outside the scope of the Arbitration Agreements and there is a risk of  inconsistent rulings under Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2, subdivision  (c). Plaintiffs further contend the First, Second, Third, and Seventh causes of  action are outside the scope of the Arbitration Agreements, and that public  policy favors the dispute being tried as one action. The Court finds these  arguments unavailing. First, although not raised by the  parties in their respective briefs, the Court notes that both Arbitration  Agreements provide the question of arbitrability is determined by the  arbitrator. An arbitration clause that “clearly and  unmistakably” empowers the arbitrator to decide issues of arbitrability is  enforceable. (B.D. v. Blizzard Entertainment, Inc. (2022) 76 Cal.App.5th  931, 957.) “There  are two prerequisites for a delegation clause to be effective. First, the  language of the clause must be clear and unmistakable. [Citation.] Second, the  delegation must not be revocable under state contract defenses such as fraud,  duress, or unconscionability.’ [Citations.] The ‘clear and unmistakable’ test  reflects a ‘heightened  standard of proof’ that reverses the typical presumption in favor of the  arbitration of disputes.’ [Citation.]” (Id., at p. 957, italics in  original.) Here,  the Contractor Agreement expressly provides that, “[a]ny dispute or controversy  arising between Contractor and/or Physician on the one hand, and Company, on  the other hand (‘Claims’) relating to the validity, enforcement, performance,  or interpretation of this Agreement, including a dispute relating to the enforceability of this provision (including any claims by Physician against Company's officers, directors, shareholders, partners, contractors including a dispute relating to the enforceability  of this provision (including any claims by Physician against Company’s  officers, directors, shareholders, or agents) as  long as such Claims would otherwise be subject to a lawsuit in court, will be  settled by binding arbitration…” (Motion, Ex. 1, Art. X, ¶ 17, italics added].  The arbitration provision from the Partnership Agreement similarly provides  that, “[a]ny dispute or controversy arising between or among Partners and/or  Partnership (‘Claims’) relating to the validity, enforcement, performance, or  interpretation of this Agreement, including a dispute relating to the enforceability of this provision, as long as such Claims would otherwise be  subject to a lawsuit in court, will be settled by binding arbitration…” (Id.,  Ex. 2, Art. VI, § 6.07, italics added.) The Court finds these terms to be clear  and unmistakable expressions of intent to submit issues of arbitrability to the  arbitrator. Neither party has presented evidence or argued that this delegation  provision is unenforceable on grounds of fraud, duress, or unconscionability.  Accordingly, whether Plaintiffs’ claims are arbitrable must first be determined  by the arbitrator, and the Court declines to address the parties’ respective  arguments about the scope of Plaintiffs’ claims. Second, the contention that Siddiq  is not a party to the Contractor Agreement is demonstrably false, as he signed  that particular agreement both on behalf of his corporation, ASA Healthcare  Consulting, Inc., and individually as Asif Siddiq, M.D. (Motion, Ex. 1, p. 12.)  Plaintiffs’ claims against Defendants are also predicated on those contracts.  (See, e.g., Compl., ¶¶ 47, 61, 76.) All of the facts, circumstances and  transactions arise out of the Contractor Agreement and/or Partnership  Agreement. Third, as to the public policy argument, public policy also strongly  favors arbitration. (Gordon v. Atria Management Co., LLC (2021) 70 Cal.App.5th 1020, 1026.) Finally, with respect to the risk of inconsistent  rulings, that is not for the Court to decide at this time given the issue of  arbitrability is to be determined by the arbitrator as discussed above. If the  arbitrator finds that any of Plaintiffs’ claims are outside the scope of the  Arbitration Agreements, those issues can be revisited later with the Court. Based on the foregoing, the Court  will GRANT the motion to compel arbitration. The Court will further stay this  action pending arbitration, and set a Status Conference re Arbitration.CONCLUSION The Court GRANTS the motion to compel arbitration. This action is STAYED pending arbitration. The Court will set a Status Conference re Arbitration at or following the hearing on this motion. Defendants are ordered to give notice of the Court's ruling within five calendar days of this order.    