  Case Number:  22PSCV00716    Hearing Date:   October 9, 2023    Dept:  6 Enbozhia Boudoin v. Mercedes-Benz USA, LLCPlaintiff’s  Motion for Reconsideration of the Court’s Order Granting Defendant  Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC’s Motion to Compel Arbitration  TENTATIVE RULING             The Court GRANTS  the motion for reconsideration. On reconsideration, the Court DENIES Defendant’s  motion to compel arbitration, and hereby VACATES its November 21, 2022 order  regarding the same.             Plaintiff is ordered to give notice  of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order. BACKGROUND This  is a lemon law action. On July 14, 2022, Plaintiff Enbozhia Boudoin (Plaintiff)  filed this action against Defendant Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC (Defendant) and Does  1 through 10, alleging causes of action for violation of Song-Beverly Act – Breach  of Express Warranty, violation of Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Implied  Warranty, and violation of the Song-Beverly Act section 1793.2, subdivision  (b). On April 13, 2023, Plaintiff filed  the instant motion for reconsideration. On August 7, 2023, Defendant opposed.  On August 14, 2023, Plaintiff replied. LEGAL  STANDARD             “When an application for an order has been made to a  judge, or to a court, and refused in whole or in part, or granted, or granted  conditionally, or on terms, any party affected by the order may, within 10 days  after service upon the party of written notice of entry of the order and based  upon new or different facts, circumstances, or law, make application to the  same judge or court that made the order, to reconsider the matter and modify,  amend, or revoke the prior order. The party making the application shall state  by affidavit what application was made before, when and to what judge, what  order or decisions were made, and what new or different facts, circumstances,  or law are claimed to be shown.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1008, subd. (a).)  “If a court at any time determines that there has been  a change of law that warrants it to reconsider a prior order it entered, it may  do so on its own motion and enter a different order.” (Id., subd. (c).) DISCUSSION             On November 21, 2022, the Court  granted  Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration. In that order, the Court  relied on Felisilda v. FCA US LLC (2020) 53 Cal.App.5th 486, and  determined that Plaintiff was equitably estopped from refusing to arbitrate her  warrant disputes with Defendant by way of her agreement to arbitrate disputes  with the dealer who sold the subject vehicle. (Order Tentative Ruling  (11/21/2022).)  In Felisilda, the Court of  Appeal held that a vehicle buyer who signed an arbitration provision as  part of her vehicle sales contract with the dealer may be compelled to  arbitrate her claim against an automobile manufacturer, even though the  manufacturer was a nonsignatory to the sales contract containing the relevant  arbitration provision. (Felisilda, supra, 53 Cal.App.5th at pp.  496-497). The Court of Appeal reasoned that where the buyer expressly agreed to  arbitrate claims arising out of the condition of the vehicle, even against  third party non-signatories to the sales contract, and where the buyer's claim  against the manufacturer relates to the condition of the vehicle that allegedly  violated the contract's warranty, the buyer is estopped from refusing to  arbitrate. (Id.) On April 4, 2023, approximately  four months after the Court issued its November 21, 2022 order, the Second  District of the California Court of Appeal reached a decision contrary to Felisilda  in Ochoa v. Ford Motor Company (Ford Motor Warranty Cases) (2023) 89  Cal. App. 5th 1324.  In Ochoa, the Second  District of the Court of Appeal expressly declined to follow Felisilda,  finding that equitable estoppel should not apply to compel arbitration in  such circumstances because "manufacturer vehicle warranties that accompany  the sale of a motor vehicle without regard to the terms of the sale contract  between the purchaser and the dealer are independent of the sale  contract." (Ochoa, supra, 89 Cal.App.5th at p. 1334.) Ochoa  held that because the plaintiffs alleged breaches of warranties in violation of  the Song-Beverly Act, rather than violations of the sales contracts' express  terms, the agreement to arbitrate contained in the sales contract did not estop  the plaintiffs from refusing to arbitrate breach of warranty claims against the  manufacturer, who was not a party to the sales contract. (Id. at p.  1335-1336 ("California law does not treat manufacturer warranties  imposed outside the four corners of a retail sale contract as part of the sale  contract").  In light of Ochoa,  Plaintiff now moves for the Court's reconsideration of its order  dated November 21, 2022, in which the Court granted Defendant’s motion to  compel arbitration based on Felisilda. For the reasons set forth below, pursuant  to its inherent authority, the Court GRANTS the motion for reconsideration, and  on reconsideration, DENIES the motion to compel arbitration.  “Although section 1008 limits the  circumstances in which a party may seek reconsideration, it ‘do[es] not limit  the court's ability, on its own motion, to reconsider its prior interim orders  so it may correct its own errors.’ (See Coastline JX Holdings LLC v. Bennett  (2022) 80 Cal.App.5th 985, 1000-1001 quoting Le Francois v. Goel (2005)  35 Cal.4th 1094, 1107.) “[A] trial court has inherent power to reconsider an  interim ruling on its own motion. [Citation.] This authority derives from the  judiciary's fundamental, constitutionally mandated function to resolve specific  controversies between parties.” (Coastline, supra, 80 Cal.App.5th at p. 1001  (citations omitted).)  Thus, "[i]f a court at any  time determines that there has been a change of law that warrants it to  reconsider a prior order it entered, it may do so on its own motion and  enter a different order." (Code Civ. Proc., § 1008, subd. (c).)  Additionally, and without a change of law, a trial court may exercise its  inherent jurisdiction to reconsider an interim ruling. (Le Francois,  supra, 35 Cal.4th at pp. 1096-1097.) The trial court is specifically  authorized to exercise such inherent jurisdiction to reconsider orders  compelling arbitration. (Malek v. Blue Cross of California (2004) 121  Cal.App.4th 44, 59-60.)  Here, the Court finds it has  jurisdiction under either subdivision (c) of Code of Civil Procedure section  1008 or under the Court’s inherent authority to reconsider its prior interim  rulings, which would include the Court’s November 21, 2022 order. (See Le  Francois, supra, 35 Cal.4th at pp. 1096-1097.) “[I]t is immaterial what may  have triggered a trial court's insight that its interim order might be  erroneous: ‘We cannot prevent a party from communicating the view to a court  that it should reconsider a prior ruling (although any such communication  should never be ex parte). We agree that it should not matter whether the  “judge has an unprovoked flash of understanding in the middle of the night”  [citation] or acts in response to a party's suggestion. If a court believes one  of its prior interim orders was erroneous, it should be able to correct that  error no matter how it came to acquire that belief.’” (Coastline, supra,  80 Cal.App.5th at p. 1001 quoting Le Francois, supra, 35 Cal.4th  at p. 1108.)  On reconsideration, the Court  finds good cause to follow the holding in Ochoa, including because it is  in harmony with federal authority on the same question. (See Ngo v. BMW of  N. Am., LLC (9th Cir. 2022) 23 F.4th 942, 946.) Additionally, on June 26,  2023, the Second District of the Court of Appeal decided the case Montemayor  v. Ford Motor Co. (2023) 92 Cal.App.5th 958, in which the Court of Appeal also  rejected the holding in Felisilda that equitable estoppel applies to  enable a non-signatory manufacturer to enforce an arbitration provision in a  sales contract like the contract at issue in this case. The Court further notes  that more opinions from the Court of Appeal have been issued since Ochoa  and Montemayor, such as Kielar v. Superior Court (2023) 94  Cal.App.5th 614 and Jaclyn Yeh v. Superior Court of Contra Costa County (2023)  94 Cal.App.5th 264, both of which have rejected Felisilda and followed Ochoa.  Defendant does not contend that  they are a party to the Sales Contract (as defined in the original motion to  compel arbitration), but instead relies on the equitable estoppel theory from Felisilda.[1] The Sales Contract contains the following language, which is identical to the  language at issue in Ochoa:  ARBITRATION PROVISION [¶] ... [¶] 1. EITHER YOU OR WE MAY CHOOSE TO HAVE ANY DISPUTE BETWEEN US  DECIDED BY ARBITRATION AND NOT IN COURT OR BY JURY TRIAL. . . . Any claim or dispute, whether in contract, tort, statute or  otherwise (including the interpretation and scope of this Arbitration  Provision, and the arbitrability of the claim or dispute), between you and us  or our employees, agents, successors or assigns, which arises out of or  relates to ... condition of this vehicle, this contract or  any resulting transaction or relationship (including any such relationship  with third parties who do not sign this contract) shall, at your or our  election, be resolved by neutral, binding arbitration and not by a court  action. . . .  (Daghighian Decl., Ex. B, italics added; see Ochoa, supra,  89 Cal.App.5th at p. 1330.)  The  Second District in Ochoa found that this language was insufficient to  support the manufacturer’s equitable estoppel argument, stating that the breach  of warranty claims were not based on the sales contracts with the dealers but  are completely independent from the terms of the sales contract. (Ochoa, supra, 89 Cal.App.5th at p. 1334.) The  Court of Appeal held that this language in the arbitration clause referring to arbitration  of claims “against third party non signatories” cannot mandate arbitration of  the warranty claims. Rather, such language agreed to arbitrate claims  against third parties whose service, etc., are financed under the sales  contract. (Id.)  The  Second District also found that the warranty claims are not founded in the  sales contracts. The warranty claims arise out of statutory obligations to  reimburse consumers or replace their vehicles when unable to repair in  accordance with the warranty, or related claims. They do not arise out of  any express contractual language in the sales contracts, which themselves do  not include any warranties, or assurance regarding the vehicle’s performance,  or any promise of repairs or remedies if contracts arise. “To the  contrary, the sale contracts disclaim any warranty on the part of the dealers,  while acknowledging no effect on ‘any warranties covering the vehicle that the  vehicle manufacturer may provide.” (Id. at p. 1335.) In short, “the  substantive terms of the sale contracts relate to sale and financing and  nothing more.” (Ibid.)  With  respect to the issue of third-party beneficiaries, the Court notes that  Defendant did not respond in its opposition to this issue as raised in the  moving papers for Plaintiff’s motion for reconsideration. Nevertheless, just to  be clear on this point as well, the Court of Appeal in Ochoa also  rejected the third-party beneficiary argument.  Analyzing  the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeal's recent decision in Ngo, supra, 23  F.4th 942, the Second District agreed that the sales contracts reflect no  intention to benefit a vehicle manufacturer under Goonewardene – nothing  in the sales contracts or their arbitration provision offers any direct  “benefit” to the manufacturer, there was no indication that a benefit to the  manufacturer was a motivating purpose of the contract, and allowing the  manufacturer to enforce the arbitration would be inconsistent with the  reasonable expectations of the contracting parties. (Ochoa, supra, 89 Cal.App.5th at pp. 1337-1338,)  Applying  this reasoning, there is insufficient evidence to show whether a motivating  purpose of the contracting parties was to provide a benefit to Defendant. Civil  Code section 1559 requires that a contract benefiting a third party must be  made expressly for the benefit of a third person before that third party can  enforce it. (Civ. Code § 1559.) The Court finds no language in the Sales  Contract indicating an express intent to benefit the Defendant, nor does the  Court find that allowing Defendant to compel arbitration would be consistent  with the reasonable expectations of the contracting parties.  Based  on the foregoing, the Court DENIES Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration.  CONCLUSION            The Court GRANTS the motion for reconsideration. On reconsideration, the Court DENIES Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration, and hereby VACATES its November 21, 2022 order regarding the same.            Plaintiff is ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.     