  Case Number:  23STCV07389    Hearing Date:   July 19, 2024    Dept:  40                                                                                                                                       
  
Superior Court of California
 
County of Los Angeles
 
Department 40
 



Calima Electric, Inc.,
Plaintiff,
v.
The Hatch Group, Inc., et al.,
Defendants.
  
_____________________________________
The Hatch Group, Inc., 
Cross-Complainant,
v.
Rolling Greens Nursery, Inc.,
Cross-Defendants.
  
_____________________________________
Rolling Greens Nursery, Inc., et al.,
Cross-Complainants,
v.
The Hatch Group, Inc., et al.,
Cross-Defendants.


 Case No.: 23STCV07389
 Hearing Date: July 19, 2024
 Trial Date:
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE: MOTION FOR LEAVE TO
  FILE AMENDED CROSS-COMPLAINT
 



 
I. Background
A. Facts
Calima Electric
(“Calima”) and The Hatch Group, Inc. (“THG”) entered into a contract for Calima
to perform electrical work on the Rolling Greens Home & Garden project at
12833 Ventura Boulevard, Studio City, California. Calima signed the contract on
April 5, 2022, and Hatch signed it on May 11, 2022. In March 2024, THG
discovered that Calima's license was inactive from May 2, 2022, to June 8,
2022, according to the California Contractors State License Board (CSLB).
Calima performed work during this period with an inactive license, which the
CSLB equates to being unlicensed. THG intends to argue that Calima, being
unlicensed, is barred from bringing its complaint. THG’s counsel contacted
Calima’s counsel multiple times to stipulate to the amended Cross-Complaint but
received no response. Mediation efforts on April 18, 2024, between THG and
Rolling Greens were unsuccessful, leading THG to proceed with its defense and
allegations against Calima.
The above summary is
derived from the moving papers and is not disputed in substance in the
opposition before the Court.
B. Motion Before the
Court
On May 17, 2024, THG
filed a motion for leave to file amended cross-complaint.
On July 8, 2024,
Plaintiff opposed.
On July 12, 2024, THG
replied.
Cross-Complainant THG’s
motion is now before the Court.
 
II. Evidentiary Objections
A.
Reply Evidentiary Objections to Opposition’s Cate Declaration
Objections to ¶¶ 3,
5, Exs. B, D: OVERRULED.
 
III. Motion for
Leave to Amend: GRANTED.
A.
Legal Standard
California
Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (a)(1) provides, in relevant
part:
“The
court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow
a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name
of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake
in any other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or
demurrer. The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the
adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any
pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an
answer to be made after the time limited by this code.”
Under
California Rules of Court Rule, rule 3.1324, subdivision (a), a motion to amend
a pleading shall:
(1)
Include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must be
serially numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments;
(2)
State what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if
any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the deleted allegations
are located; and
(3)
State what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if
any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations
are located.
Under
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, subdivision (b), a separate declaration
must accompany the motion and must specify:
(1) The effect of the amendment;
(2) Why the amendment is necessary and
proper;
(3) When the facts giving rise to the
amended allegations were discovered; and
(4) The reasons why the request for
amendment was not made earlier.
“This
discretion should be exercised liberally in favor of amendments, for judicial
policy favors resolution of all disputed matters in the same lawsuit.” (Kittredge
Sports Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1047 (Kittredge
Sports).)
Although
California courts will not ordinarily consider the validity of a proposed
amended pleading in ruling on a motion for leave to amend given that any
grounds for a demurrer or a motion to strike will be premature at that time,
courts do have discretion to deny leave to amend when “the insufficiency of the
proposed amendment is established by controlling precedent and … [can] not be
cured by further appropriate amendment.” (See California Casualty General
Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1985) 173 Cal.App.3d 274, 280-281 (California
Casualty), citations omitted, overruled on other grounds by Kransco v.
American Empire Surplus Lines Ins. Co. (2000) 23 Cal.4th 390, 403-406; see,
e.g., Foxborough v. Van Atta (1994) 26 Cal.App.4th 217, 231 [not an
abuse of discretion to deny leave to amend when “proposed amendment would have
been futile because it was barred by the statute of limitations” with no
indication of relating back to the original complaint].) However, where “the
proposed legal theory [at issue] is a novel one, ‘the preferable practice would
be to permit the amendment and allow the parties to test its legal sufficiency
by demurrer, motion for judgment on the pleadings or other appropriate
proceedings.’” (Kittredge Sports, supra, 213 Cal.App.3d at p.
1048, quoting California Casualty, supra, at p. 280.)
Alternately,
even if a proposed amendment is filed in proper form, a long, unwarranted, and
unexcused delay in presenting the amendment may nevertheless serve as grounds
for a court to deny leave to amend. (Roemer v. Retail Credit Co. (1975)
44 Cal.App.3d 926, 939-940.) In most cases, the factors for timeliness are: (1)
lack of diligence in discovering the facts or in offering the amendment after
knowledge of them; and (2) the effect of the delay on the adverse party. (Id.
at p. 940.) If the party seeking the amendment has been dilatory, and the delay
has prejudiced the opposing party, the judge has discretion to deny leave to
amend. (Hirsa v. Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486, 490.)
Prejudice exists where the amendment would require delaying the trial,
resulting in loss of critical evidence, or added costs of preparation such as
an increased burden of discovery. (Magpali v. Farmers Group, Inc. (1996)
48 Cal.App.4th 471, 486-488.)
B.
Analysis
1. Procedural Requirements

First, THG’s motion satisfies
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, subdivision (a)(1) because clean and
redline copies of the proposed FAC are attached to the moving papers. (Mot., Cate
Decl., Exs. E-F.)
Second, THG’s motion satisfies
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, subdivision (a)(2)-(3) by clearly
establishing the differences between the Complaint and proposed FAC through the
points and authorities (see Mot., p. 1, § I) and through the attachment of a
redline copy of the proposed FAC showing its differences from the Cross-Complaint.
(Mot., Cate Decl., Ex. F.)
THG seeks leave to amend its
Cross-Complaint to add Calima as a cross-defendant and to add causes of action
related to Calima being an unlicensed contractor during the Project. THG states
it only recently discovered that Calima was unlicensed, and waited to bring
this motion until after the mediation session on April 18, 2024, making the
Motion necessary. 
In opposition, Calima argues that
THG’s motion is defective and should be denied because it seeks to amend its
Cross-Complaint nearly ten months after filing it to add Calima as a
Cross-Defendant. THG claims that the need for this amendment arose when it
discovered in March 2024 that Calima was unlicensed for a portion of the work
on the Rolling Greens project. However, Calima contends that THG’s Motion lacks
admissible evidence to support this claim, and that the Motion relies solely on
the declaration of Defendant’s counsel, Neda Cate, which lacks specific details
about when, by whom, or how the licensure issue was discovered. The declaration
only mentions that the issue was “recently” discovered, failing to demonstrate
the motion’s timeliness.
Thus, Calima argues that even if
Cate’s declaration is considered admissible, it does not specify the exact date
of discovery of Calima’s licensure issue, making it impossible for the Court to
determine if the motion is timely. Calimaalso highlights that there has been a
long, unwarranted, and unexcused delay in presenting the amendment. 
In reply, THG argues that Calima
will not suffer prejudice if the motion to amend is granted. THG cites Code of
Civil Procedure section 473(a)(1), which allows courts to amend pleadings in
furtherance of justice, noting that courts must exercise this discretion
liberally. THG states that the brief delay from March 2024 to May 2024 is
justified due to efforts to resolve the licensing issue and potential
settlement. It emphasizes that Calima has not provided case law demonstrating
that this short delay would cause prejudice. Furthermore, THG asserts that
there is a policy of great liberality in permitting amendments at any stage of
proceedings, as long as there is no shown prejudice to the opposing party. It
argues that Calima has not shown how the delay would prejudice them, especially
since the case is still in the discovery phase, and there is ample time to
address THG’s new claims. THG also notes that the Court recently allowed Calima
to amend its complaint against THG and its shareholder, demonstrating that
amendments are permissible without prejudice. Thus, THG concludes that Calima
cannot legitimately claim prejudice from the court granting THG’s motion to
amend.
Ultimately the Court finds that the
information as to when the facts giving rise to the amendment were discovered
is a bit sparse, but that Calima has not indicated any showing of prejudice if
the motion is granted especially given the policy toward liberally granting
such motions.
Accordingly, the Court GRANTS THG’s
motion. 
IV. Conclusion
 The Hatch
Group, Inc.’s Motion Seeking Leave to Amend Cross-Complaint is GRANTED. 