 Case Number:  23STCV22472    Hearing Date:   September 12, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     September 12, 2024               TRIAL DATE: NOT
SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Silver Streak v. Wonderland Studios,
LLC, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV22472            
 
DEMURRER
TO FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant Castaic Studios, LLC
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Silver
Streak
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
09/18/23: Complaint filed.
·        
01/10/24: First Amended Complaint filed. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for breach of contract and fraud regarding the lease of
commercial real property. Plaintiff entered into a rental agreement with
Defendants for office space, sound stages, and recording studios for production
of a television series. Plaintiff alleges that Defendants misrepresented the
condition of the premises, which were not fit for the purpose. 
 
Defendant Castaic Studios, LLC,
demurs to the ninth cause of action for foreclosure of mechanic’s lien in the
First Amended Complaint. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendant Castaic Studios, LLC’s
Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint is OVERRULED. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Defendant Castaic Studios, LLC,
demurs to the ninth cause of action for foreclosure of mechanic’s lien in the
First Amended Complaint. 
 
//
Legal Standard
 
A demurrer tests whether the
complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations
liberally and in context. (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and
Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.) In a demurrer proceeding, the
defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,
994.) “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other
extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face
of the pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court
(1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing
is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,
states a cause of action.” (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p. 747.) The
ultimate facts alleged in the complaint must be deemed true, as well as all
facts that may be implied or inferred from those expressly alleged. (Marshall
v. Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1397, 1403; see also Shields
v. County of San Diego (1984) 155 Cal.App.3d 103, 133 [stating, “[o]n
demurrer, pleadings are read liberally and allegations contained therein are
assumed to be true”].) “This rule of liberal construction means that the
reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not the
defendant.” (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th
1228, 1238.) 
 
Meet and Confer
 
Before filing a demurrer, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who has filed the pleading subject to the demurrer and file a declaration
detailing their meet and confer efforts.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41(a).)
However, an insufficient meet-and-confer process is not grounds
to overrule or sustain a demurrer.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41(a)(4).)
 
The Declaration of Farah Faramarzi
attached to the demurrer states that Defendant’s counsel emailed Plaintiff’s
counsel requesting dismissal of the action against Castaic for the reasons set
forth in the demurrer on February 6, 2024. (Declaration of Farah Faramarzi ISO
Demurrer ¶ 4.) Attorney Faramarzi states that Plaintiff’s counsel responded
with a flat disagreement regarding the merits of the complaint, without
providing supporting reasons. (Id. ¶ 5.) A single exchange of emails
does not constitute a proper meet-and-confer process as described by section
430.41. Nevertheless, the Court will address the merits of this demurrer in the
interest of an expeditious resolution of the challenge to the pleadings.
 
Ninth Cause of Action: Foreclosure of Mechanics’ Lien
 
            Defendant
Castaic Studios, LLC demurs to the ninth cause of action for foreclosure of a
mechanics’ lien for failure to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action. 
 
            Civil Code
section 8400 states that a mechanics’ lien may be recorded by “[a] person that
provides work authorized for a work of improvement,” and that such persons
“includ[e], but [are] not limited to . . . (a) Direct contractor; (b)
Subcontractor; (c) Material supplier; (d) Equipment lessor; (e) Laborer; and
(f) Design professional.” (Civ. Code § 8400.) Before recording a lien claim, a
claimant generally “shall give preliminary notice to. . . (1) the owner or
reputed owner; (2) the direct contractor or reputed direct contractor to which
the claimant provides work, either directly or through one or more
subcontractors; [and] (3) the construction lender or reputed construction
lender, if any.” (Civ. Code § 8200(a).) However, a claimant with a direct
contractual relationship with an owner or reputed owner is required to give
preliminary notice only to the construction lender or reputed construction
lender, if any. (Civ. Code § 8200(e)(2).) If preliminary notice is required, it
must be given “not later than 20 days after the claimant has first furnished
work on the work of improvement.” (Civ. Code § 8204(a).) 
 
            Defendant
contends that Plaintiff’s ninth cause of action is deficient because, first, Plaintiff
does not have standing under section 8400. Defendant asserts that because
Plaintiff is a production company and hired contractors to make improvements to
the subject property, it does not have standing to record a mechanics’ lien. Defendant
fails to justify this assertion and fails to cite any authority standing for
the position that a corporate entity lacks standing under section 8400 because
it is described as a “production company.” The Court finds this argument entirely
unpersuasive.  The Complaint includes an
allegation that Plaintiff provided service, labor and/or materials that were
used to remodel the premises.  (FAC, ¶
88.)  This allegation, which must be
taken as true on a demurrer, is sufficient to establish standing to file and
pursue payment on a mechanic’s lien.
 
            Defendant
also argues that Plaintiff is not entitled to record a mechanics’ lien or
foreclose upon it because Plaintiff did not allege that preliminary notice was
timely given pursuant to Civil Code section 8200. In opposition, Plaintiff
concedes that preliminary notice is not alleged in the First Amended Complaint,
but argues that preliminary notice was not required because the First Amended
Complaint alleges a direct contractual relationship between Plaintiff and the
reputed owner of the premises, Wonderland Studios. (FAC ¶ 15.) Thus, Plaintiff
contends, subdivision (e)(2) of Civil Code section 8200 applies and exempts
Plaintiff from the preliminary notice requirements. In reply, Defendant asserts
that section 8200(e)(2) is not applicable because the First Amended Complaint
admits that Plaintiff is now aware that it was not in a direct
contractual relationship with the actual owner. This contention is specious:
whether Plaintiff is now, at present, aware of the true ownership of the
subject property does not bear on whether Wonderland Studios was the reputed
owner at the time of the improvements. The Court is therefore not persuaded
that the ninth cause of action is deficient in this respect. 
 
            Accordingly,
for the reasons stated above, Defendant’s demurrer to the ninth cause of action
is OVERRULED. 
 
//
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Defendant Castaic Studios, LLC’s Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint is
OVERRULED. 
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  September 12,
2024                           ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 