  Case Number:  20STCV04609    Hearing Date:   September 12, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     September 12, 2024               TRIAL DATE: October
29, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         Diane Reed v. Gansen Law Group, et al. 
 
CASE NO.:                 20STCV04609            
 
MOTION FOR LEAVE TO AUGMENT EXPERT WITNESS LIST

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff Diane Reed
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Defendants Chris
Gansen and Gansen Law Group
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
06/03/19: Complaint filed.
·        
04/06/20: First Amended Complaint filed. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
Plaintiff alleges that Defendants were
negligent in representing her in an underlying action for medical negligence
based on a failed Lasik procedure. Plaintiff alleges that she was forced to
settle for $103,000 despite actual damages between $400,000 and $700,000.
 
            Plaintiff
moves for leave to augment her expert witness list. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Plaintiff’s motion for leave to augment her expert witness list is
GRANTED IN PART and DENIED IN PART, as more fully described herein. 
 
DISCUSSION: 
 
Plaintiff
moves for leave to augment her expert witness list.
 
Legal Standard
 
            A
party which has engaged in a timely exchange of expert witness information may
move to (1) augment that party’s expert witness list by adding the name and
address of a subsequently retained expert witness, or (2) amend that party’s
expert witness declaration as to the general substance of the testimony a
previously designated expert witness is expected to give. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2034.610(a).) The Court shall grant the motion only after (a) taking into
account the extent to which the opposing party has relied on the list of expert
witnesses; (b) determining that any party opposing the motion will not be
prejudiced in maintaining that party’s action or defense on the merits; and (c)
determining either (1) that the moving party would not, in the exercise of
reasonable diligence, have called that witness or decided to offer different or
additional testimony; or (2) that the moving party failed to call the expert or
offer different or additional testimony as a result of mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or excusable neglect, and has promptly sought leave to augment or
amend after deciding to call the new witness or offer different or additional
testimony, and has promptly served a copy of the proposed expert witness
information or testimony on all parties. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2034.620(a)-(c).) 
 
Meet and Confer
 
            A
party seeking leave to augment or amend an expert witness list or declaration
must file a declaration stating facts showing a reasonable and good faith
attempt at an informal resolution of the issues described in this motion. (Code
Civ. Proc. §§ 2016.040; 2034.610(c). 
 
            Plaintiff’s
motion included a declaration from her counsel stating that he telephoned
defense counsel and left messages to be contacted to discuss or resolve the
matter, but received no response. (Declaration of Jance M. Weberman ISO Mot. ¶
4.) That declaration contains no details about when the calls were made or if
any other efforts were made to contact Defendants’ counsel before proceeding
with this motion. Concerningly, Defendants’ counsel states under penalty of
perjury that Attorney Weberman left a voice message on his telephone on August
14, 2024, at 2:41 p.m., despite Attorney Weberman’s declaration being dated
August 12, 2024. (Declaration of John T. Lupton ISO Opp. ¶ 15.) In reply,
Attorney Weberman repeats his nonspecific claim that he attempted to contact
Defendants’ counsel “several times.” (Supplemental Declaration of Jance M.
Weberman ISO Mot. ¶ 4.) In light of the specific evidence provided by
Defendants’ counsel and the vagueness of Attorney Weberman’s declarations, the
Court does not consider Attorney Weberman’s statements to be credible evidence
that Plaintiff satisfied her statutory meet-and-confer obligations. Nevertheless,
the Court will address the motion on its merits in the interest of an
expeditious resolution of this dispute. 
 
Timing of Motion
 
            A
motion to augment an expert witness list or amend an expert witness declaration
must be made “at a sufficient time in advance of the time limit for the
completion of discovery . . . to permit the deposition of any expert to whom
the motion relates to be taken within that time limit.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
2034.610(b).) Under exceptional circumstances, however, the motion may be made
at a later time. (Id.) 
 
            Pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 2024.020, “any party shall be entitled as a
matter of right to complete discovery proceedings on or before the 30th day . .
. before the date initially set for the trial of the action.” (Code Civ. Proc.
§ 2024.020(a).) A continuance or postponement of the trial date does not
operate to reopen discovery proceedings, except pursuant to a motion to reopen
discovery under section 2024.050. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2024.020(b).) Trial in
this action was originally scheduled for July 12, 2021, and was continued, by
stipulation, first to November 8, 2021, then to May 9, 2022, and then to
November 28, 2022. The Court held a final status conference on November 15,
2022, which continued on November 23, 2022. At that November 23 Final Status
Conference, trial was continued to May 23, 2023, with discovery to remain
closed “except for discovery regarding any newly formed opinions by any party’s
experts and any further discovery that remains to be done with respect to
Plaintiff’s loss of earning claim.” (November 23, 2022 Minute Order.) A further
Final Status Conference was held on May 8, 2023, and the Court vacated the
trial date based on the representations of Plaintiff’s former counsel, Attorney
Ken Sisco, regarding his medical condition. (May 8, 2023 Minute Order.)
Following Plaintiff’s retention of new counsel, the Court held a Trial Setting
Conference on November 17, 2023, setting trial for the current date of October
29, 2024 and ruling that all discovery remained closed. (November 17, 2023
Minute Order.) 
 
As
discovery has been entirely closed for more than nine months, Plaintiff bears
the burden of demonstrating “exceptional circumstances” that would warrant relief
after the close of discovery. As to the late designation of Edwond A. Provder,
Plaintiff’s moving papers do not attempt to outline any exceptional
circumstances that would warrant relief at this late juncture. While the motion
papers state that “[d]ue to the passage of time and the other commitments of
the designated experts, they are no longer available for the current trial”
(Weberman Decl. ¶ 3), the unavailability of previously designated experts is
irrelevant to the effort to offer Mr. Provder’s testimony at trial.  He is billed as a life care planner and
vocational expert, but there was no such expert timely designated by
Plaintiff.  It is clear then that Mr.
Provder is not a replacement for an expert who has already been named, but
rather a new addition to Plaintiff’s list of trial witnesses whose is being
raised less than two months before trial and after the discovery cut-off
without any justification, much less a showing of exceptional
circumstances.  
 
The
request to add Lawrence H. Jacobson, Esq., as an expert on the legal standard
of care presents a very different situation. 
As to this issue, Plaintiff did designate a legal standard of care
expert, Gregory Fayard, who was timely deposed by Defendants.  While the reply declaration of Plaintiff’s
counsel states broadly that Mr. Fayard, is no longer available to testify as an
expert on legal malpractice “due to a commitment to a conference in Tennessee
at the same time as trial” (Weberman Supp. Decl. ¶ 4), this is corroborated by
an attached email from the expert to Plaintiff’s counsel, dated September 3,
2024, and explaining that Mr. Fayard will be attending out-of-town conferences
from October 28 to November 1 and November 6-11, 2024, thus rendering him
unavailable to attend the trial scheduled to start on October 29, 2024.  Although Defendants protest that they will be
prejudiced by the replacement of a new expert, the prejudice Plaintiff will
suffer is much more severe, as she will be unable to prosecute her legal
malpractice and fiduciary breach claims without the support of an expert’s
testimony. (O'Shea v. Lindenberg (2021) 64 Cal. App. 5th 228,
236-237.)  Further, the unavailability of
Mr. Fayard was apparently revealed to Plaintiff’s counsel very recently, and
well after the close of discovery.  That
said, Plaintiff is seeking relief promptly and at a time that is more than six
weeks before trial.  Based on this
record, the Court finds there are “exceptional
circumstances” that warrant relief as to Mr. Fayard’s unavailability and grants
Plaintiff’s request to augment her expert witness list to add Mr. Jacobson but
not Mr. Provder.  
 
CONCLUSION:
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s motion for leave to augment her expert witness
list is GRANTED IN PART and DENIED IN PART, as more fully described herein. 
 
            Moving party to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated: September 12, 2024                            ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 