  Case Number:  23STCP00049    Hearing Date:   January 17, 2025    Dept:  82 Paul W. Harrison,                                                    Case No. 23STCP00049
 
v.
                                                                    
                                                                        Hearing:
January 17, 2025
Benevolent
and Protective Order of                       Location:
Stanley Mosk Courthouse    
Elks
of the United States of America—                  Department: 82         
Grand
Lodge, et al.                                                   Judge: Stephen
I. Goorvitch            
            
                        
[Tentative] Order Sustaining in Part and
Overruling in Part Demurrer 
 
[Tentative] Order Granting in Part and
Denying in Part Motion to Strike
 
 
INTRODUCTION  
            
            Petitioner Paul W. Harrison
(“Petitioner”) filed a second amended petition and complaint against Respondents
Benevolent
and Protective Order of Elks of the United States of America-Grand Lodge (the “BPOE”)
and Pasadena
Lodge Number 672 Benevolent and Protective Order of Elks of the United States
of America (the “Lodge” or “Pasadena Lodge”). 
Petitioner also named a series of individual respondents: Louis J. Grillo,
Robert L. Duitsman, Hugh H. Scanlon, Ronald J. Celeste, Donna Leiby, Robert
Hollis-Brau, Aron P. Andersen, John D. McEntire, Jr., Joanna C. Rentschler,
Robyn Sembenini, Robert E. Scott, Denise J. Ryan, Teresa Skobba, Neil F.
Yeager, Rene Flores, and Bruce Hidley (collectively, “the individual respondents”).  Petitioner raises four claims: (1) Petitioner
seeks a petition for writ of mandate, arguing that his expulsion from the BPOE
and the Pasadena Lodge did not comply with principles of due process; (2)
Petitioner seeks a declaratory judgment concerning the BPOE and the Pasadena
Lodge’s bylaws, arguing that certain provisions do not comply with principles
of due process; (3) Petitioner alleges that the BPOE and the Pasadena Lodge
breached a settlement agreement; and (4) Petitioner alleges that the BPOE and
the Pasadena Lodge’s due process violations constitute unfair competition under
Business and Professions Code section 17200. 
Now, every respondent except for Bruce Hidley demur to the causes of
action and move to strike certain prayers for relief.  The court overrules the demurrer to the first
and second causes of action as they relate to the BPOE, the Pasadena Lodge, and
Hidley but sustains the second cause of action as it relates to every other
individual respondent.  The court stays
the third and fourth causes of action pending resolution of the first and
second causes of action.  The motion to
strike is granted in part and denied in part. 
  
 
BACKGROUND 
 
Until his recent expulsion, Petitioner
was a member in good standing of the Pasadena Lodge for 35 years.  (SAP ¶ 1.) 
The Pasadena Lodge is one of many local lodges of the BPOE, which “is a national
fraternal benefit organization chartered in 1868.”  (Id. ¶ 2.)  “Petitioner
is informed and believes and, based upon such information and belief, alleges
Respondent Pasadena Lodge 672 is a California Nonprofit Mutual Benefit
Corporation # C0405219 pursuant to California Corporations Code § 7110; with
its principal place of business located at 400 West Colorado Blvd. Pasadena, CA
91105.”  (Id. ¶ 3.)
 
On or about November 5, 2020,
Pasadena Lodge received Executive Order No. 20-065 from the BPOE appointing
Special Representative Donna Leiby to oversee, manage, and control the
day-to-day operations of Pasadena Lodge. 
The executive order was based on the Pasadena Lodge’s failure “to
maintain a sound financial footing in that during the last three (3) years the
club operation lost the sum $262,847.00 in 2017-2018, the sum of $289,986 in
2018-2019, and the sum of $310,059 in 2019-2020.”  (Id. ¶ 32 & Exh. 2.)
 
According to the petition,
Petitioner has conducted his own investigation into alleged financial
improprieties at the Pasadena Lodge.  Pursuant
to Corporations Code section 8333, Petitioner made a written request to Lodge
to inspect its bylaws, accounting books, records, minutes, and financial
statements.  (SAP ¶ 38 & Exh. 5.)  On March 30, 2022, Petitioner filed a
petition for writ of mandate in Los Angeles Superior Court (Case No.
22STCP01148) seeking to enforce his inspection demand.  (Id. ¶ 38 & Exh. 5.)  On or about June 7, 2022, Petitioner and
Pasadena Lodge executed a “Confidential Settlement Agreement” related to the
writ petition and Petitioner’s inspection demand.   (Id. ¶¶ 38-40, 100; Exh. 5.)  Petitioner alleges that that “[i]t quickly
became apparent that Lodge 672 had not negotiated in good faith and had no
intention of providing access to accurate books and records of the corporation
as agreed upon in the Settlement Agreement.” 
(Id. ¶ 42.)  Petitioner
alleges that “[d]uring [his] efforts to gain access to the books and records of
Pasadena Lodge 672, Petitioner has been continuously harassed and given false information.”  (Id. ¶ 35; see also id. ¶¶ 51-53.)
 
Petitioner alleges that, on a date
not specified in the SAP, he was duly elected as a trustee of the Pasadena
Lodge.  (Id. ¶ 88.)[1]  Petitioner alleges that, after he “continued
to speak out vociferously” about “unlawful behavior” at the Pasadena Lodge, he
was served on January 24, 2023, with Emergency Executive Order No. 22-110E,
which recommended Petitioner’s expulsion from BPOE.  (Id. ¶ 54, Exh. 9.)  On that same date, Pasadena Lodge received Executive
Order No. 22-109E placing Pasadena Lodge on probation and confirming the
appointment of a Probation Committee which would have full and complete
authority over the operation and finances of Pasadena Lodge.  (Id. ¶ 55.)  On or about February 13, 2023, Petitioner
received Executive Order No. 22- 110F and Pasadena Lodge 672 received Executive
Order No. 22-109F confirming Petitioner’s expulsion from the BPOE and Pasadena
Lodge’s indefinite probation.  (Id. ¶
56, Exh. 11.)  
 
Petitioner alleges that his
expulsion was based on “hearsay statements” and that “Respondents did not give
Petitioner any notice of the adverse actions being contemplated and/or to be
taken against him, nor did Respondents give Petitioner any opportunity for a
hearing or to otherwise defend himself or contest the charges against him,
prior to the imposition of expulsion.”  (Id.
¶ 57.)  Petitioner further alleges
that the expulsion was “arbitrary” and “constitute[s] an invasion of, infringement
upon, or interference with Petitioner’s fair procedure rights.”  (Id. ¶¶ 63,
66.)  Petitioner further alleges that his
expulsion failed to comply with Corporations Code section 7341 and is therefore
“void.”  (Id. ¶ 25.)
 
            On
August 9, 2023, the court (Beckloff, J.) sustained Respondents’ demurrer to the
first amended petition on the grounds that Petitioner had failed to allege
exhaustion of administrative remedies with respect to his own expulsion or allege
standing to challenge the indefinite probation imposed by BPOE on the Lodge or
other actions taken against Lodge members generally.  The court ruled, however, that Petitioner had
alleged standing to challenge his own expulsion should he exhaust
administrative remedies.  (Court Order,
filed August 9, 2023 at 9.)
 
            On
August 30, 2023, Petitioner filed the operative SAP.  On September 29, 2023, Respondents filed the
instant demurrer and motion to strike.  The
hearing on the demurrer and motion to strike was continued several times
pursuant to stipulations submitted by the parties and entered by the court.  One such stipulation states:
 
Whereas, the decision on Petitioner’s appeal of his
expulsion order to the Benevolent and Protective Order of the Elks Grand Forum
heard on June 1-2, 2024 has not yet issued but is expected shortly; 
 
Whereas, the decision on Petitioner’s appeal is expected to
narrow the issues in dispute by Petitioner’s Second Amended Petition for Writ
of Mandate;
 
(Stipulation filed September 11,
2024.)
 
On October 9, 2024, the Elks Grand
Forum issued a 14-page opinion after a two-day hearing affirming Petitioner’s
expulsion.  Respondents acknowledge that “Petitioner’s
internal appeal of his expulsion from the Elks has now concluded.”  (Reply
to Demurrer 1 and Respondents’ Request for Judicial Notice, Exh. A.) 
 
Petitioner asserts the following
claims against the following Respondents:
 
First Cause of Action – Writ of mandate
against the BPOE, the Pasadena Lodge, Grillo, Duitsman, and Hidley 
 
Second Cause of Action – Declaratory
relief against the BPOE, the Pasadena Lodge, “and their Constituent Leadership,
Inclusive of All Other Respondents.”
 
Third Cause of Action – Breach of contract
against the BPOE and the Pasadena Lodge
 
Fourth Cause of Action – Unfair
competition under Business and Professions Code section 17200 against the BPOE
and the Pasadena Lodge.  
 


 
LEGAL STANDARD 
 
A.        Demurrer 
 
A demurrer tests the sufficiency of a pleading, and the
grounds for a demurrer must appear on the face of the pleading or from
judicially noticeable matters. (Code Civil Proc. § 430.30, subd. (a); Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) “We assume the truth of the
allegations in the complaint, but do not assume the truth of contentions,
deductions, or conclusions of law.”  (California Logistics, Inc. v.
State (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 242, 247.)  The allegations in the petition must be
liberally construed in favor of Petitioner on demurrer.  (See Mobil Oil Corp. v Exxon Corp.
(1986) 177 Cal.App.3d 942, 947.)  “A demurrer
must dispose of an entire cause of action to be sustained.”  (Poizner
v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119.)  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters.” 
(Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)  
 
B.        Motion to
Strike 
 
Upon motion, the
court may “strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any
pleading” or “[s]trike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed
in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.  (CCP § 436.) 
As with a demurrer, “[t]he grounds for a motion to strike shall appear
on the face of the challenged pleading or from any matter of which the court is
required to take judicial notice.”  (CCP
§ 437.)  
 
Courts take a
“cautious” approach to motions to strike. 
“We have no intention of creating a procedural ‘line item veto’ for the civil
defendant.”  (PH II, Inc. v. Superior
Court (1995) 33 Cal. App. 4th 1680, 1683.) 
“Judges read allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike as
a whole, all parts in their context, and assume their truth.”  (Clauson v. Sup. Ct. (1998) 67
Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.)
 
EVIDENTIARY ISSUES 
 
            Respondents seek judicial notice of the 14-page Findings
of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Order for Judgment issued on October 9, 2024
by the Elks Grand Forum in the matter entitled In the Grand Forum of the
Benevolent & Protective Order of Elks of the United States of America,
Grand Forum Case No. 1561, Appeal of Executive Orders No. 22- 110F.  Essentially, Respondents seem to argue the
merits of the petition, i.e., that Petitioner did receive due
process.  That issue must await
trial.  Therefore, the court declines to
take judicial notice of this document because it is not relevant to the issues
on demurrer.  
 
            Petitioner requests judicial notice
of three exhibits.  Two are orders relating
to the underlying proceedings, and the court denies the request for the same
reason it denies Respondents’ request for judicial notice.  The third is an email, which is not suitable
for judicial notice, so the request is denied. 

 
 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
A.        Exhaustion of
Administrative Remedies – Overruled 
 
In
the demurrer, Respondents argued that Petitioner “still has not exhausted his
administrative remedies” because his appeal before the BPOE Grand Forum was not
completed at the time the demurrer was filed in September 2023.  (Demurrer (“Dem.”) 7-8.)  Respondents challenge the first cause of
action for writ of mandate and second cause of action for declaratory relief on
this basis.  (Notice of Demurrer (“Notice”)
3-4.)  On
October 9, 2024, the Elks Grand Forum issued a 14-page opinion after a two-day
hearing affirming Petitioner’s expulsion (hereafter, “final expulsion
decision”).  (RJN Exh. A.)  Respondents acknowledge that “Petitioner’s
internal appeal of his expulsion from the Elks has now concluded” and they do
not argue that Petitioner has any other administrative appeal to exhaust.  (Reply
to Demurrer 1.) Since Petitioner has now exhausted his administrative remedies,
the demurrer for failure to exhaust administrative remedies is overruled.    
 
B.        First Cause of Action
 
            1.         The BPOE
and the Pasadena Lodge – Overruled 
 
There are two essential requirements to the issuance of an ordinary writ
of mandate under Code of Civil Procedure section 1085: (1) a clear, present,
and ministerial duty on the part of the respondent, and (2) a clear, present,
and beneficial right on the part of the petitioner to the performance of that
duty. (California Ass’n for Health
Services at Home v. Department of Health Services (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th
696, 704.)  Respondents argue that
Petitioner seeks a writ to compel a discretionary rather than a ministerial act: “[W]hether the
Elks should grant Petitioner’s appeal and reinstate Petitioner into the Elks is
an act requiring discretionary judgment by the Elks and is not a perfunctory
task unmixed with judgment.”  (Dem.
9:6-8.)  
 
Respondents misconstrue Petitioner’s claim.  Petitioner raises due process issues, which
are suitable for review in a petition for writ of mandate.  Petitioner alleges that the expulsion orders
“are based upon hearsay and third-party information” without notice and
opportunity be heard because “Petitioner was unaware that there was any
controversy or dispute regarding the matters alleged in the Orders.”  (SAP ¶ 57.) 
Petitioner alleges that: 
 
Respondents . . . had a
duty to provide Petitioner with due process and fair process, including without
limitation, notice of any potential disciplinary charges they were considering
and to provide a fair opportunity to be heard and defend himself prior to the
imposition of discipline, including expulsion. . . .  To impose punishment against Petitioner
without notice of even bothering to charge him with any specificity under the
GLS or California law and/or find him guilty is a per se violation of
these Respondents’ duties to provide due process and fair procedure to
Petitioner.
 
(Id. ¶¶ 75-76.)  Petitioner further alleges that the expulsion was
“arbitrary” and “constitute[s]
an invasion of, infringement upon, or interference with Petitioner’s fair
procedure rights.”  (Id. ¶¶ 63, 66.)  Petitioner further alleges that his expulsion
failed to comply with Corporations Code section 7341 and is therefore
“void.”  (Id. ¶ 25.)  Accordingly,
Petitioner seeks a writ requiring Respondents to “rescind the Orders and to
provide a fair hearing before an independent and impartial hearing offier prior
to any final determination of expulsion of Petitioner from the BPOE and
Pasadena Lodge 672.”  (SAP ¶ 90.)  These issues fall squarely within the court’s
authority under Code of Civil Procedure sections 1085 and 1094.5.
 
            In reply,
Respondents argue that “whether the Court should reverse the Elks considered
judgment after a two-day hearing and testimony from 19 witnesses and reinstate
Petitioner into the Elks is a substantive act requiring significant discretion,
not a perfunctory task devoid of judgment.”  
(Reply 4:2-5.)  While the court
lacks authority to compel a specific discretionary action, the court has
authority to review discretionary decisions to determine whether there was an
abuse of discretion.
 
Normally, mandate will not lie to control a [respondent’s]
discretion, that is to say, force the exercise of discretion in a particular
manner.  However, it will lie to correct
abuses of discretion.  In determining
whether a [respondent] has abused its discretion, the court may not substitute
its judgment for that of the agency, and if reasonable minds may disagree as to
the wisdom of the agency’s action, its determination must be upheld.  A court must ask whether the [respondent’s] action
was arbitrary, capricious, or entirely lacking in evidentiary support, or
whether the [respondent] failed to follow the procedure and give notices the
law requires.
 
(County of Los Angeles v. City of
Los Angeles (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 643, 654.)  Petitioner’s claim falls squarely within
these confines.  Therefore, the demurrer
to the first cause of action is overruled with respect to the BPOE and the
Pasadena Lodge.     
 
            2.         Grillo and Duitsman – Sustained 
 
It appears that Grillo and Duitsman were included in the
first cause of action because of their purported involvement in recommending Executive
Order No. 22-110E and Executive Order No. 22-110F, which were the expulsion
orders that Petitioner appealed to the Grand Forum.  (See SAP ¶¶ 54, 71 and Exh. 10-11 and
RJN Exh. A.)  On October 9, 2024, the
Elks Grand Forum issued a 14-page opinion after a two-day hearing affirming
Petitioner’s expulsion.  (RJN Exh. A.)  Respondents Grillo and Duitsman were not
members of the Grand Forum and did not decide the appeal.  (Ibid.)  Under these circumstances, Petitioner has not
alleged any basis in the SAP for Respondents Grillo and Duitsman to be included
as respondents in the first cause of action. 
Furthermore, in opposition, Petitioner does not address the argument
that the SAP does not allege any liability of Respondents Grillo and Duitsman
for the first cause of action.  (See Sehulster Tunnels/Pre-Con v. Traylor
Brothers, Inc. (2003) 111 Cal.App.4th 1328, 1345, fn. 16 [failure to
address point is “equivalent to a concession”].)  Therefore, the demurrer to the first cause of
action is sustained with respect to Grillo and Duitsman.  
 
            


 
3.         Hidley – No Action 
 
Bruce Hidley did not join in the demurrer.  Therefore, he remains a Respondent with
respect to the first cause of action. 
The court orders the parties to meet-and-confer to determine whether
Petitioner will stipulate to dismiss him from the first cause of action.  
 
            C.        Second Cause of Action 
 
                        1.         The BPOE and the Pasadena Lodge –
Overruled 
 
In the second cause of action, Petitioner seeks a judicial
declaration that the Grand Lodge Statutes (“GLS”) sections 9.005 and 9.013, “as
enacted in their current form and as interpreted by these Respondents in this
matter, violate and are contrary to settled California law requiring due
process and fair procedure prior to the deprivation of rights, and are
therefore illegal and unenforceable without modification.”  (SAP ¶ 94.) 
This issue is suitable for a declaratory judgment (though the claim may
be redundant if the court must interpret these provisions in resolving
Petitioner’s first cause of action).
 
Respondents argue that “a declaration seeking to void or otherwise
adjudicating the parties’ rights and obligations under those statutes is a
complex task involving significant judicial discretion, and is not a clear and
perfunctory task unmixed with judgment.” 
(Dem. 10:14-16.)  Respondents’
arguments are not persuasive.  Respondents’
counsel cites cases relating to petitions for writs of mandate, not claims for
declaratory relief.  (See Dem. 10:14-16,
citing Unnamed Physician v. Board of Trustees of Saint Agnes Medical Center (2001)
93 Cal.App.4th 607, 618; County of San Diego v. State of California (2008)
164 Cal.App.4th 580, 602; Morris v. Harper (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 52,
62.)  Moreover, Respondents misconstrue
these cases when they argue that a court cannot interpret the challenged
statutes if to do so would require a “complex task involving significant
judicial discretion.”  (Dem. 10:15-16.)  Code of Civil Procedure section 1060 gives
the court authority to interpret written instruments.  Therefore, the demurrer to the second cause
of action is overruled.  
            
                        2.         The Individual Respondents except for
Hidley – Sustained 
 
            As an initial matter,
it is unclear whether the individual respondents (except for Hidley)  are named with respect to the second cause of
action.  The second amended petition does
not specifically identify any individual respondent (except for Hidley); the
allegations are specific to the BPOE and the Pasadena Lodge; and the nature of
the claim—one for declaratory relief concerning the organization’s bylaws—does
not lie against individuals.  Therefore,
the court sustains the demurrer with respect to every individual respondent
except Hidley (to the extent Petitioner intended to name them as respondents.
 
3.         Hidley – No Action 
 
Bruce Hidley did not join in the demurrer.  Therefore, he remains a Respondent with
respect to the first cause of action. 
The court orders the parties to meet-and-confer to determine whether
Petitioner will stipulate to dismiss him from the first cause of action.  
D.        Third Cause of Action –
Stayed
 
Petitioner asserts a breach of contract claim against the BPOE and the
Pasadena Lodge.  Petitioner alleges that
Respondents breached the June 7, 2022, Settlement Agreement “[b]y denying
access to the books and records of Pasadena Lodge 672 in connection with its
business operations.”  (SAP ¶ 102.)  Petitioner alleges that “as a result of this
breach of the Settlement Agreement, Petitioner has sustained physical, mental
and monetary damages in an amount to be determined at trial.”  (Id. ¶ 103.)  In addition to damages, Petitioner also seeks
an injunction directing Respondents to comply with the Settlement
Agreement.  (See Id. ¶¶ 99-103;
Prayer ¶ d.; Civ. Code § 3422.) 
 
Pursuant to the
local rules which designate that Department 82 is a specialized writs and receivers
department and not a general civil department, only a cause of action for writ
of mandate and related special proceedings are properly assigned to this department.  (LASC Local Rules 2.8(d) and 2.9.)  Local Rules 2.8(d) and 2.9 do not include a
claim for breach of contract (settlement) as a special proceeding assigned to
the writs departments.  Moreover, this
claim may require a jury or bench trial involving live testimony.  Therefore, the court stays the third cause of
action pending resolution of the remaining causes of action.  
 
E.         Fourth Cause of Action 
 
            Petitioner asserts an
unfair competition claim against the BPOE and the Pasadena Lodge.  Petitioner alleges that the due process
violations alleged in the first cause of action constitute unfair competition,
necessitating an injunction.  In ruling on the
prior demurrer, the court (Beckloff, J.) stayed all proceedings on the fourth
cause of action pursuant to Local Rules 2.8(d) and 2.9 pending reassignment to
an independent calendar court.  (Court’s
Order filed August 9, 2023, at 9, 12.) 
That stay has not been lifted. 
Moreover, the resolution of the fourth cause of action may depend upon
the court’s ruling on the first cause of action.  Therefore, the court stays the fourth cause
of action pending resolution of the remaining causes of action.  
 
            F.         Motion to Strike 
 
            Respondents move to strike prayers (b), (d), and (f) of the second
amended petition.  The court rules as
follows:
 
            (b) – The
court denies the motion as this prayer relates to the second cause of
action.  The court declines to rule on the  motion as it relates to the fourth cause of
action, since that claim is stayed.
 
            (d) – The
court declines to rule on the motion. 
This prayer relates to the third cause of action which is stayed.
 
            (f) – The
court grants the motion as it relates to the first and second causes of action,
since monetary damages are not available. 
The court grants the motion as it relates to the fourth cause of action,
since “personal damages” are not available with respect to an unfair
competition claim.  The court declines to
rule on the motion to the extent this prayer relates to the third cause of
action, which is stayed.  
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Based
upon the foregoing, the court orders as follows:
 
1.         The demurrer to the first cause of
action is overruled with respect to the BPOE, the Pasadena Lodge, and
Hidley.  
 
2.         The demurrer to the first cause of
action is sustained with respect to Grillo and Duitsman.
 
3.         The demurrer to the second cause of
action is overruled with respect to the BPOE, the Pasadena Lodge, and Hidley.
 
4.         The demurrer to the second cause of
action is sustained with respect to the remaining individual respondents. 
 
5.         The third and fourth causes of action
are stayed pending the court’s resolution of the first and second causes of
action.
 
6.         The motion to strike is granted in part
and denied in part.  
 
7.         Petitioner articulates no basis upon
which he could amend the first and second causes of action.  Therefore, the court denies Petitioner’s ex
parte application for leave to amend.
 
8.         Respondents shall file an answer within
thirty (30) days.
 
9.         The court sets trial for
______________, 2025, at 9:30 a.m.
 
10.       The opening brief shall be filed and
served at least 60 days in advance of trial. 
The administrative record, if any, shall be lodged on a thumb drive at
least 60 days in advance of trial.
 
11.       The opposition brief shall be filed and
served at least 30 days in advance of trial.
 
12.       The reply brief shall be filed and served
at least 15 days in advance of trial.
 
13.       The court’s clerk shall provide
notice.  
 
 
Dated: January 17,
2025                                             ______________________

                                                                                    Stephen
I. Goorvitch
                                                                                    Superior
Court Judge 


