 Case Number:  23VECV02577    Hearing Date:   January 10, 2024    Dept:  T 23VECV02577 MAHTAB GHARACHEHDAGY vs IRINA GRINBLAT[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  The Demurrer against the Second Amended Cross-Complaint is SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND.IntroductionDefendant Irina Grinblat, as trustee for the Irina Grinblat Trust ("Defendant") demurs against the Complaint filed by Plaintiff Mahtab Gharachehdagy ("Plaintiff"). The demurrer places into issue the first cause of action ("COA") for declaratory relief, and the second COA for breach of covenant of quiet enjoyment. DiscussionAs to the action for declaratory relief, the Code of Civil Procedure section 1060 provides in part that "[a]ny person interested under a written instrument, … or under a contract, … may, in case of actual controversy relating to the legal rights and duties of the respective parties, bring an original action or cross-complaint in the superior court for a declaration of his or her rights and duties in the premises, including a determination of any question of construction or validity arising under the instrument or contract."  Such declaratory relief requires the existence of an actual, present controversy between the parties over a proper subject. (City of Cotati v. Cashman (2002) 29 Cal.4th 69, 79; Jenkins v. JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A. (2013) 216 Cal.App.4th 497, 513-514.) It is crucial to emphasize that a declaratory relief claim should not be used to determine issues that are already engaged by other causes of action. (Hood v. Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 319, 324.) Plaintiff claims of a justiciable controversy concerning parties' rights and obligations over a shared driveway. (Complaint,  14.) However, the Court finds this insufficient for establishing a proper subject and an actual controversy for declaratory relief. First, Plaintiff did not clearly identify the exact written instrument or contract from which these rights and obligations arise. The Court notes the insufficiency of requiring inferences about the disputed document for declaratory relief without identifying it. Second, the Court highlights the inadequacy of merely generalizing the issue without stating the specific controversy, especially when the controversy overlaps with the second cause of action. Consequently, the Court concludes that Plaintiff's pleading does not sufficiently demonstrate the existence of an actual controversy related to a specific written instrument. As to the second COA, Plaintiff alleges that Defendant's refusal to change the nature of the easement from an easement to a community driveway breaches the covenant of quiet enjoyment as implied in the creation of the easement. (Complaint  16.) However, the method in which the easement was created has not been shown by Plaintiff. Nevertheless, an implied covenant for quiet enjoyment is enforceable on the part of the grantor, rather than a grantee. (Civ. Code § 1463.) Here, there is no dispute over the fact that Defendant is the dominant owner (implicating grantee) and Plaintiff the servient owner (suggesting grantor) of the easement. Thus, Plaintiff is required to present more factual evidence, such as the written instrument of the easement deed, to establish Defendant as the covenantor, instead of the covenantee.Furthermore, Plaintiff significantly relies on Dolnikov v. Ekizian (2013) 222 Cal.App.4th 419 (Dolnikov), to argue that Defendant's refusal to sign the community driveway agreement unreasonably interferes with her rights and full enjoyment of the easement. The Court distinguishes Dolnikov from the present case. The Dolnikov court addressed an issue centered around the use of an easement and found that an intangible act could constitute interference with the use of easement. There, the court held that the servient owner's (defendant's) refusal to sign a retaining wall permit and a covenant for community driveway rendered the dominant owner's (plaintiff's) easement utterly useless for the purpose for which it was intended. (Dolnikov, supra, 222 Cal.App.4th 419, 431.) Here, in contrast, Plaintiff, who is the servient owner, seeks to "change the nature of the easement from an easement to a community driveway." (Complaint,  17.) In other words, Plaintiff is attempting to extinguish the easement rather than to enforce her rights to use it. This distinction leads to the conclusion that Defendant's refusal to terminate the easement as proposed by Plaintiff is not an offense, as Defendant is not under any obligation to agree to such a termination. Considering the evidence and arguments in Plaintiff's pleading, the Court finds that it is necessary for Plaintiff to provide additional factual evidence to support why Dolnikov is a comparable case or to cite other legal authorities to effectively state the second cause of action. The demurrer contends that Plaintiff fails to adequately identify and characterize the particular rights and the specific underlying written instrument involved. The demurrer further argues that Plaintiff fails to allege how Defendant's actions, if any, have injured her rights. These arguments are persuasive, and the Court concludes that both causes of action are insufficiently pleaded.Therefore, the Court sustains Defendant's demurrer with leave to amend.             IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE NOTICE. 