 Case Number:  24STCV04924    Hearing Date:   June 12, 2024    Dept:  52 Plaintiff Seong Ho Cho’s Motion to Stay Arbitration
Proceeding; Defendants Hilton & Hyland Real Estate, Inc. and Richad
Maslan’s Motion to Stay Action
Background
            This
action is a dispute over a real estate transaction.  Plaintiff Seong Ho Cho aka Eric Cho bought a
house at 9267 Thrush Way, Los Angeles, California 90069 from defendant Keith
Ferrazzi.  Plaintiff alleges the house
has various defects.  On February 22,
2024, plaintiff initiated an arbitration proceeding (ADRS Case No. 24-1083-AJG)
against Ferrazzi.  (Crawford Decl., ¶ 7, Ex.
3.)  On February 27, plaintiff filed this
action against numerous defendants: Ferrazzi, two groups of real estate brokers
who represented each party to the sale, a construction company that worked on
the house, and the person who inspected the roof on plaintiff’s behalf.  
On March 19, plaintiff moved to stay the
arbitration proceeding.  On April 23,
defendants Hilton & Hyland Real Estate, Inc. and Richard Maslan moved to
stay this action.
Plaintiff’s Motion to Stay Arbitration
Proceeding
            Plaintiff
Seong Ho Cho aka Eric Cho moves to stay the pending arbitration proceeding, ADRS
Case No. 24-1083-AJG, between himself and defendant Keith Ferrazzi.  Plaintiff provides no authority giving the
court power to do so.  
Plaintiff
relies on Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2, which provides: “On petition
of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written
agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party to the agreement refuses
to arbitrate that controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the
respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to
arbitrate the controversy exists, unless it determines that: [¶¶] (c) A party
to the arbitration agreement is also a party to a pending court action or
special proceeding with a third party, arising out of the same transaction or
series of related transactions and there is a possibility of conflicting
rulings on a common issue of law or fact.” 

Section
1281.2 further provides, “If the court determines that a party to the
arbitration is also a party to litigation in a pending court action or special
proceeding with a third party as set forth under subdivision (c), the court (1)
may refuse to enforce the arbitration agreement and may order intervention or
joinder of all parties in a single action or special proceeding; (2) may order
intervention or joinder as to all or only certain issues; (3) may order
arbitration among the parties who have agreed to arbitration and stay the
pending court action or special proceeding pending the outcome of the
arbitration proceeding; or (4) may stay arbitration pending the outcome of the
court action or special proceeding.”  Plaintiff
moves the court to apply option (4).
The court
has no power to do so under section 1281.2. 
This section only applies, “On petition of a party to an arbitration
agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a
controversy” seeking an order to compel arbitration when “another party to the
agreement refuses to arbitrate that controversy.”  No party has sought a court order compelling
arbitration.  Plaintiff initiated the
arbitration proceeding against Ferrazzi before filing this action.  
Nothing
in the California Arbitration Act (CAA) permits a court to stay a preexisting
arbitration proceeding when no party has moved to compel arbitration.  The CAA exhibits a preference to stay an
action pending arbitration instead of the other way around.  Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.4
provides that, upon motion by a party, the court “shall” stay an action when any
court “has ordered arbitration of a controversy which is an issue involved in”
the action and “shall” stay an action when a party has moved to compel
arbitration.  The only provision in the
CAA authorizing a court to stay an arbitration proceeding is the one in section
1281.2, which does not apply as discussed above.  The court therefore must deny plaintiff’s
motion to stay the arbitration proceeding.
Of the several cases plaintiff cites, only in Henry
v. Alcove Investment, Inc. (1991) 233 Cal.App.3d 94 did a party move to
stay an arbitration without any motion to compel arbitration.  (Id. at p. 98 [a defendant “did not
petition the trial court for an order to compel arbitration but it made clear
to Mr. Henry it intended to pursue the arbitration.  Therefore Mr. Henry brought a motion to stay
arbitration”].)  There, the Court of
Appeal considered whether the trial court properly exercised its discretion under
section 1281.2(c).  It did not consider
whether that subdivision applied in the first place.  “It is axiomatic that cases are not
authority for propositions not considered.” 
(People v. Ault (2004) 33 Cal.4th 1250, 1268, fn. 10.)  Henry is also distinguishable because
there, the plaintiff filed the civil action before the defendant initiated the arbitration
proceeding against the plaintiff.  (Henry,
supra, 233 Cal.App.3d at p. 98.) 
Here, plaintiff initiated the arbitration proceeding before filing the
civil action.  
Assuming
the court has the power to stay the arbitration proceeding under Code of Civil
Procedure section 1281.2, subdivision (4), it would instead exercise its
discretion to “stay the pending court action … pending the outcome of the
arbitration proceeding” under subdivision (3). 
Courts have “broad discretion” in choosing which of the four options to
take under section 1281.2(c).  (Birl
v. Heritage Care, LLC (2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 1313, 1322.)  The
California Arbitration Act “reflect[s] a 
‘ “strong public policy in favor of arbitration as a speedy and
relatively inexpensive means of dispute resolution.” ’ ”  (Wagner Construction Co. v. Pacific
Mechanical Corp. (2007) 41 Cal.4th 19, 25.)  Staying the arbitration pending the
resolution of this civil action undermines that policy.  
Defendants’ Motion to
Stay This Action
Defendants Hilton & Hyland Real Estate,
Inc. and Richard Maslan move to stay this action pending resolution of the
arbitration proceeding between plaintiff and Ferrazzi.  Assuming Code of Civil Procedure section
1281.2(c) applies, the court exercises its discretion to stay this action under
section 1281.2, subdivision (3).  
In the alternative, the court exercises its
inherent power to stay the action.  “
‘[A] court ordinarily has inherent power, in its discretion, to stay
proceedings when such a stay will accommodate the ends of justice.’ ”  (OTO, L.L.C. v. Kho (2019) 8 Cal.5th
111, 141.)  Staying this action pending
resolution of the arbitration proceeding will accommodate the ends of justice,
serve the interest in judicial efficiency, and give Ferrazzi the benefit of his
bargain in agreeing to arbitrate disputes with plaintiff.  
Disposition
            Plaintiff Seong Ho
Cho’s motion to stay arbitration proceeding is denied.
            Defendants Hilton & Hyland Real Estate, Inc. and
Richard Maslan’s motion to stay this action is granted.  The court hereby stays this entire
action pending resolution of the arbitration proceeding between plaintiff and
defendant Keith Ferrazzi, ADRS Case No. 24-1083-AJG.
 
 
 