 Case Number:  21STCV34739    Hearing Date:   June 12, 2024    Dept:  52 Plaintiff Abbas Torabian’s Motions
to: (1) Set Aside Ruling on Defendant’s Motion in Limine No. 20, (2) Reopen
Discovery and Compel Expert’s Deposition, and (3) Strike Defendant’s Answer
Motion
to Set Aside Ruling on Motion in Limine No. 20 
            Plaintiff Abbas Torabian moves the
court to reconsider its ruling on defendant American Honda Motor Co., Inc.’s
motion in limine No. 20.  Defendant moved
to exclude testimony by plaintiff’s expert Randall Bounds on the basis that
plaintiff unreasonably failed to make him available for a deposition.  The court granted the motion on April 24,
2024.  
            Plaintiff shows an adequate basis
for reconsideration of that ruling.  Plaintiff
now presents evidence that defendant deposed Bounds on April 17.  (Lunn Decl., ¶¶ 4-6, Ex. A.)  Plaintiff has not shown he filed any
opposition to defendant’s motion in limine No. 20 before the hearing or otherwise
submitted evidence that Bounds had already been deposed.  Nonetheless, the court finds good cause to
reconsider the ruling on motion in limine No. 20.  The court will grant plaintiff’s motion to
set aside the ruling and will deny defendant’s motion in limine No. 20. 
Motion
to Reopen Discovery and Compel Deposition
            Plaintiff moves to reopen discovery
and compel the deposition of defendant’s expert, James Jongkind.  
Code of Civil
Procedure section 2024.050, subdivision (b) provides: 
In exercising its discretion to grant or deny [a motion to reopen
discovery], the court shall take into consideration any matter relevant to the
leave requested, including, but not limited to, the following:
(1) The necessity and the reasons for the discovery.
(2) The diligence or lack of diligence of the party seeking the
discovery or the hearing of a discovery motion, and the reasons that the
discovery was not completed or that the discovery motion was not heard earlier.
(3) Any likelihood that permitting the discovery or hearing the
discovery motion will prevent the case from going to trial on the date set, or
otherwise interfere with the trial calendar, or result in prejudice to any
other party.
(4) The length of time that has elapsed between any date previously
set, and the date presently set, for the trial of the action.
First, deposing Jongkind is necessary.  The condition of plaintiff’s vehicle is the
central issue in this Song-Beverly Action. 
Deposing defendant’s expert is an important part of preparing for
trial.    
Second, plaintiff shows little diligence
in completing this discovery.  The
parties agreed Jongkind would testify at deposition on April 29.  (Lunn Decl., ¶ 3.)  Because of scheduling conflicts for two
attorneys and one other attorney’s departure from the firm, plaintiff’s counsel
had no one available to conduct the deposition that day.  (Id., ¶ 4.)  The morning of the deposition, plaintiff’s
counsel emailed defendant’s counsel saying they needed to reschedule.  (Zipser Decl., ¶ 8, Ex. E.)  Plaintiff’s firm has over 20 attorneys.  Plaintiff unreasonably failed to depose Jongkind
at the agreed upon time.
Third,
though the trial is set to begin on June 26, permitting one expert deposition
is not likely to prevent the case from going to trial as set or otherwise
prejudice defendant.
Fourth,
the trial was initially set for July 2023. 
The court has continued the trial by 11 months.  
After
considering all relevant factors, and despite plaintiff’s lack of diligence, the
court finds good cause to reopen discovery solely for the deposition of James
Jongkind.  This discovery is important
enough and limited enough to warrant reopening discovery.  The court further finds good cause to compel
Jongkind’s deposition.   
Motion
to Strike Answer
Plaintiff Abbas Torabian moves to strike defendant
American Honda Motor Co., Inc.’s answer to the fourth amended complaint and to
enter defendant’s default.  Courts may
strike an untimely answer.  (Ferraro
v. Camarlinghi (2008) 161
Cal.App.4th 509, 528.)  Defendant did not
timely answer after the court overruled defendant’s demurrer to the fourth
amended complaint.
Plaintiff does
not, however, show good cause to strike the operative answer.  Defendant’s delay in answering did not cause
any prejudice to plaintiff.  The
answer to the third amended complaint generally denies every allegation and
asserts 21 affirmative defenses.  The
answer to the fourth amended complaint generally denies every allegation again and
asserts 46 affirmative defenses.  Many of
those defenses overlap with the prior 21 defenses, but they are in a different
order.  
Nothing in the record shows defendant
intends to raise any new defense at trial.  The parties’ proposed jury instructions
include only one instruction for an affirmative defense: CACI No. 3220 regarding
“unauthorized or unreasonable use.”  The
prior answer adequately alleged that defense as “improper use.”  That answer’s ninth affirmative defense
alleged: “AHM is informed and believes and thereon alleges that Plaintiff is
barred in whole or in part by his negligence, improper use, fault, assumption
of risk or otherwise from any and/or all legal or equitable relief against AHM,
as requested in the TAC or otherwise.” 
(¶ 9.)  Striking the operative
answer would accomplish nothing.    
Moreover, even if the court struck defendant’s
answer, it could not enter defendant’s default. 
At most, the court could strike the affirmative defenses newly alleged
in the latest answer.  Generally, “ ‘ “when a complaint is amended
after answer, the defendant is not bound to answer de novo.  He may do so if he chooses; but, if he does
not elect to do so, his original answer stands as his answer to the amended
complaint; and in such case he will not be in default except as to the
additional facts set up in the amended complaint, and not put in issue by the
answer.” ’ ”  (Carrasco v. Craft
(1985) 164 Cal.App.3d 796, 809.) 
Plaintiff’s fourth amended complaint alleges the same six causes of
action as the third amended complaint. 
The only change was the addition of paragraph 23.  Failing to file a new answer therefore could
not result in defendant’s default.
Though the
court will not strike defendant’s operative answer, defendant may not assert
any affirmative defenses not included in the answer to the third amended
complaint.
Disposition
            Plaintiff Abbas Torabian’s motion to
set aside ruling on defendant’s motion in limine No. 20 is granted.  The court hereby denies defendant
American Honda Motor Co., Inc.’s motion in limine No. 20.
            Plaintiff Abbas Torabian’s motion to
reopen discovery and compel deposition of defendant’s expert is granted.  The court hereby reopens discovery
solely for plaintiff’s deposition of expert James Jongkind.  Plaintiff shall have one final opportunity to
depose Jongkind.  No later than 4:00 p.m.
on June 14, defendant shall select a date for Jongkind’s deposition between
June 17 and June 24.  
            Plaintiff Abbas Torabian’s motion to
strike defendant’s answer is denied.