  Case Number:  21TRCV00668    Hearing Date:   September 24, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                  Tuesday,
September 24, 2024 
Department M                                                                                               Calendar No. 11
  
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Imperial-Inglewood, LLC v. Maribel
Vasquez, et al.     
21TRCV00668
1.      MCT Group’s Motion for Leave to Amend Judgment        


TENTATIVE RULING
 
            MCT
Group’s Motion for Leave to Amend Judgment is granted, in part, and denied, in
part.  
 
Background
 
            Plaintiff filed the Complaint on September 15, 2021.
Plaintiff alleges the following facts. Plaintiff alleges a sole cause of action
for Unlawful Detainer with respect to residential property located at 11416
Inglewood Avenue, 101, Hawthorne, CA 90250. On March 25, 2022, a stipulated
judgment that was executed by Plaintiff Imperial-Inglewood LLC and Defendant
Maribel Vazquez was filed and entered by the Court. As moving party, MCT Group
correctly points out Defendant Edsel Rodas never signed the judgment, and,
thus, no judgment naming Edsel Rodas currently exists.
 
            Motion to Amend Judgment
 
            Purported assignee MCT Group moves for
leave to amend the judgment. MCT Group states that it wishes to amend the
judgment such that the amended judgment now includes money damages for unpaid
rent, holdover damages, and other damages. MCT Group also states that it seeks
to amend the judgment as to both Defendants including non-judgment debtor Edsel
Rodas. MCT Group also seeks to have this action converted from an unlawful
detainer to a regular civil unlimited action. 
 
            With
the current motion, MCT Group has provided a sufficient factual basis to
establish its standing to proceed as the assignee of Plaintiff. However, MCT
Group has still failed to provide legal authority for the order to amend the
judgment and still failed to provide any competent evidence to establish
grounds to amend the judgment to add Edsel Rodas as a judgment debtor. 
 
            However,
the Court finds that MCT Group has sufficiently set forth authority for the
alternative order that it seeks to set aside the judgment, to amend the
Complaint, and to convert the action from an unlawful detainer action to a
regular civil action.
 
            Thus,
the Court orders that the Stipulated Judgment is set aside so that Plaintiff’s
assignee MCT Group may file the proposed First Amended Complaint.
 
            MCT
Group is ordered to file the proposed First Amended Complaint and serve the FAC
upon Maribel Vasquez within ten days of this date.
 
            An
OSC re: dismissal for failure to file proof of service and case management conference
is set for ______________.
 
            MCT
Group’s request for a hearing date on damages is premature at this time.
 
            MCT
Group is ordered to serve notice of this ruling. 