 Case Number:  23IWUD01975    Hearing Date:   September 24, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                            Tuesday, September 24, 2024
Department M                                                                                                                     Calendar No. 12
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
712
W Florence LLC v. Nathan’s Towing LLC, et al. 

23IWUD01795
1.      Nathan's Towing LLC, Frank Fuentes, and Alondra Sulay
Yuriko Padilla’s Motion to Set Aside Default and Vacate Default Judgment  
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Nathan's Towing LLC, Frank Fuentes,
and Alondra Sulay Yuriko Padilla’s Motion to Set Aside Default and Vacate Default
Judgment is denied without prejudice. 
 
Background
 
Plaintiff filed the Complaint on August 24, 2023 and
the FAC was filed on April 15, 2024. This action was filed as a commercial
unlawful detainer action. Defaults were entered on June 10, 2024. No judgment
has been entered in this action.  
 
Motion to Set Aside Default
 
CCP § 473(b) states, in relevant part: “The court may,
upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal
representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken
against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall be accompanied by a copy
of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed therein, otherwise the
application shall not be granted, and shall be made within a reasonable time,
in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment, dismissal, order, or
proceeding was taken.  . . .  Notwithstanding any other requirements of
this section, the court shall, whenever an application for relief is made no
more than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper form, and is
accompanied by an attorney's sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1) resulting default entered by
the clerk against his or her client, and which will result in entry of a
default judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment or dismissal entered
against his or her client, unless the court finds that the default or dismissal
was not in fact caused by the attorney's mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
neglect. The court shall, whenever relief is granted based on an attorney's
affidavit of fault, direct the attorney to pay reasonable compensatory legal
fees and costs to opposing counsel or parties. . . .”
 
CCP § 473.5(a) states, in relevant part: “When service
of a summons has not resulted in actual notice to a party in time to defend the
action and a default or default judgment has been entered against him or her in
the action, he or she may serve and file a notice of motion to set aside the
default or default judgment and for leave to defend the action.  The notice of motion shall be served and
filed within a reasonable time, but in no event exceeding the earlier of: (i)
two years after entry of a default judgment against him or her; or (ii) 180
days after service on him or her of a written notice that the default or
default judgment has been entered.” 
 
CCP § 473.5(b) states: “A notice of motion to set
aside a default or default judgment and for leave to defend the action shall
designate as the time for making the motion a date prescribed by subdivision
(b) of Section 1005, and it shall be accompanied by an affidavit showing under
oath that the party's lack of actual notice in time to defend the action was
not caused by his or her avoidance of service or inexcusable neglect. The party
shall serve and file with the notice a copy of the answer, motion, or other
pleading proposed to be filed in the action.” The phrase “actual notice” means
“genuine knowledge of the party litigant” and does not include constructive or
imputed notice to the client. Tunis v. Barrow (1986) 184 Cal.App.3d
1069, 1077.
 
CCP § 473(d) empowers the Court to set aside any
judgment that is void as a matter of law, e.g., lack of subject matter
jurisdiction; lack of personal jurisdiction; lack of proper service of the
summons and complaint; or the judgment violated due process rights.  See
Dhawan v. Biring (2015) 241 Cal.App.4th 963, 973-74; See also Ellard v. Conway (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 540, 544; See also Heidary v. Yadollahi (2002) 99
Cal.App.4th 857, 862-64.  “It is well
settled that a judgment or order which is void on its face, and which requires
only an inspection of the judgment roll or record to show its invalidity, may
be set aside on motion, at any time after its entry, by the court which
rendered the judgment or made the order.” 
Hiroko Kawakita Hayashi v. Lorenz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 848, 851.  
 
“After six months from entry of default, a trial court
may still vacate a default on equitable grounds even if statutory relief is
unavailable.  . . . One ground for
equitable relief is extrinsic mistake—a term broadly applied when circumstances
extrinsic to the litigation have unfairly cost a party a hearing on the merits.
Extrinsic mistake is found when [among other things] ... a mistake led a court
to do what it never intended[.] When a default judgment has
been obtained, equitable relief may be given only in exceptional circumstances.
[W]hen relief under section 473 is available, there is a strong public
policy in favor of granting relief and allowing the requesting party his or her
day in court. Beyond this period there is a strong public policy in favor of
the finality of judgments and only in exceptional circumstances should relief
be granted.  . . . To set aside a judgment based
upon extrinsic mistake one must satisfy three elements. First, the defaulted
party must demonstrate that it has a meritorious case. Second[ ], the party
seeking to set aside the default must articulate a satisfactory excuse for not
presenting a defense to the original action. Last[ ], the moving party must
demonstrate diligence in seeking to set aside the default once ... discovered.”
Rappleyea v. Campbell (1994) 8 Cal.4th 975, 981–82 (internal
citations and quotations omitted; emphasis in original).
 
Defendants’ motion is based solely upon CCP § 473(d).
(Notice of Motion, page 2, line 3.) Apparently, Defendants seek to argue that
the entry of default is void on its face because Defendants were not served
with the First Amended Complaint. However, the motion is based solely on the
conclusory and self-serving declaration of Defendants’ counsel that he was not
served with the FAC. (Decl., Michael C. Smith, ¶ 7.)  However, nothing about the proof of service
attached to the FAC shows that the service was defective or void. Simply
denying service of a facially valid proof of service executed under penalty of
perjury does not constitute grounds for setting aside a default based on the
provisions of CCP § 473(d). 
 
Defendants’ motion to set aside entry of default and
vacate default judgment is denied without prejudice.
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 