 Case Number:  23TRCV02257    Hearing Date:   September 24, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                  
         Tuesday,
September 24, 2024
Department M                                                                                                                       Calendar No. 13
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
            Vickie Ford v. Bright A. Egwuatu, et al. 
            23TRCV02257
1.      Bright
A. Egwuatu’s Anti-SLAPP Motion to Strike Complaint 
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Bright A. Egwuatu’s Anti-SLAPP Motion to
Strike Complaint is granted, in part, and denied, in part.  
 
            Background
 
            Plaintiff
filed the Complaint on July 13, 2023. Plaintiff alleges the following facts. Plaintiff
leased property at 400 East Manchester Boulevard, Suite B, Inglewood, CA 90301
for her bail bond business. The property began to have a foul odor and flood.
There was also a broken window that Defendant refused to repair. Plaintiff
repaired it herself. In retaliation for Plaintiff deducting the expenses of the
repairs from the monthly rental amount, Defendant filed a small claims court
case against Plaintiff and made defamatory statements to the handling Judge as
well as the owners of the building. Plaintiff alleges the following causes of
action: 1. Libel Per Se; 2. Trade Libel;
3. Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage. 
 
            Anti-SLAPP
Motion to Strike
 
            Defendant
filed a special motion to strike the Complaint and each cause of action under
CCP § 425.16, also known as the anti-SLAPP (“strategic lawsuit against public
participation”) statute.  “The anti-SLAPP
procedures are designed to shield a defendant’s constitutionally protected conduct from the undue burden of
frivolous litigation.”  Baral v. Schnitt (2016) 1 Cal.5th
376, 393.  “The anti-SLAPP statute does
not insulate defendants from any
liability for claims arising from the protected rights of petition or
speech.  It only provides a procedure for
weeding out, at an early stage, meritless
claims arising from protected activity.” 
Id. at 384.  
 
            “Resolution
of an anti-SLAPP motion involves two steps. 
First, the defendant must establish that the challenged claim arises
from activity protected by section 425.16. 
If the defendant makes the required showing, the burden shifts to the
plaintiff to demonstrate the merit of the claim by establishing a probability
of success.”  Baral, 1 Cal.5th at 384 (citation omitted).  The California Supreme Court has “described
this second step as a ‘summary-judgment-like procedure.’  The court does not weigh evidence or resolve
conflicting factual claims.  Its inquiry
is limited to whether the plaintiff has stated a legally sufficient claim and
made a prima facie factual showing sufficient to sustain a favorable judgment.  It accepts the plaintiff’s evidence as true,
and evaluates the defendant’s showing only to determine if it defeats the
plaintiff’s claim as a matter of law. 
‘[C]laims with the requisite minimal merit may proceed.’”  Id.
at 384-385 (citations omitted).          
 
    
I. Conduct in Furtherance of Right of Petition or Free
Speech
 
            CCP §
425.16(e) states:  “As used in this
section, ‘act in furtherance of a person's right of petition or free speech
under the United States or California Constitution in connection with a public
issue’ includes: . . . (1) any written or oral statement or writing made before
a legislative, executive, or judicial proceeding, or any other official
proceeding authorized by law, (2) any written or oral statement or writing made
in connection with an issue under consideration or review by a legislative,
executive, or judicial body, or any other official proceeding authorized by
law, (3) any written or oral statement or writing made in a place open to the
public or a public forum in connection with an issue of public interest, or (4)
any other conduct in furtherance of the exercise of the constitutional right of
petition or the constitutional right of free speech in connection with a public
issue or an issue of public interest.” 
“In the anti-SLAPP context, the critical point is whether the
plaintiff's cause of action itself was based
on an act in furtherance of the defendant's right of petition or free
speech.”  City of Cotati v. Cashman (2002) 29 Cal.4th 69, 78.  The anti-SLAPP's statute focuses, not on the
form of cross-complainant’s cause of action but, rather, cross-defendants'
underlying activity that gives rise to the asserted liability and whether that
activity constitutes protected speech or petitioning.  See Navellier v. Sletten (2002) 29
Cal.4th 82, 92.
 
            In Baral v. Schnitt (2016) 1 Cal.5th
376, the court held that an anti-SLAPP motion may be utilized to strike
specific allegations of protected activity without eliminating the entire cause
of action or primary right.  “By
referring to a “cause of action against a person arising from any act of
that person in furtherance of” the protected rights of petition and speech, the
Legislature indicated that particular alleged acts giving rise to a
claim for relief may be the object of an anti-SLAPP motion. (§ 425.16(b)(1),
italics added.) Thus, in cases involving allegations of both protected and
unprotected activity, the plaintiff is required to establish a probability of
prevailing on any claim for relief based on allegations of protected activity.”  Id. at 395. 
 
            Defendant
argues that the gravamen of Plaintiff’s causes of action stem from Defendant’s
protected act of filing and pursuing a small claims court action against
Plaintiff. Causes of action arising from a Defendant’s litigation activity are
protected under the anti-SLAPP statute. Birkner v. Lam (2007) 156
Cal.App.4th 275, 281 (holding that serving a notice to quit prior to filing an
unlawful detainer action constituted protected activity.) “The constitutional
right to petition ... includes the basic act of filing litigation or otherwise
seeking administrative action.” Id. “[P]etitioning activity involves
lobbying the government, suing, [and] testifying.” Briggs v. Eden Council
for Hope & Opportunity (1999) 19 Cal.4th 1106, 1115.
 
            As to
the motion to strike the entirety of the Complaint and each cause of action in
the Complaint, the motion is denied. 
 
            However,
the Court identifies the following allegations that are subject to the
anti-SLAPP statute as protected activity: 
            “In
retaliation for Plaintiff, FORD deducting the expenses of the repairs from the
monthly rental amount, on or about December 16, 2022, Defendant, EGWUATU filed
a small court claim against Plaintiff, FORD. Defendant, EGWUATU made a
defamatory statement to the judge handling said claim per his letter to
Plaintiff, FORD, which reads as follows: “You are renting from me… Please note,
just like I told the judge, I know you are violent but I am not intimidated by
you. My only sin was to have rented to you. If you do not want to pay my rent,
you may move…” Exhibit A.” (Complaint, ¶ 13.)
 
            “Defendant,
EGWUATU filed a small court claim against Plaintiff, FORD. Defendant, EGWUATU
made a defamatory statement to the judge handling the small claim, per his
letter to Plaintiff, FORD, which reads as follows: “You are renting from me…
Please note, just like I told the judge, I know you are violent but I am not
intimidated by you. My only sin was to have rented to you. If you do not want
to pay my rent, you may move…” Exhibit A.” (Complaint, ¶ 16.)
 
            “… made
in court ….” (Complaint, ¶ 24.)
 
            These
allegations are specifically based on the protected activity of petitioning,
filing and maintaining litigation, and making statements in Court. However, the
causes of action are also premised upon Defendant’s statements to the owners of
the building as well as other alleged wrongful acts that are not encompassed
within the anti-SLAPP statute. The basis for alleged liability against moving
Defendant is not solely based on the statements made in court but can also
potentially be supported by these other acts.    
 
            Plaintiff
argues that Defendants were not engaged in protected activity because the
statements were not truthful, and, therefore, illegal.  However, “conduct that would otherwise come
within the scope of the anti-SLAPP statute does not lose its coverage . . .
simply because it is alleged to have been unlawful or unethical. If that
were the test, the statute (and the privilege) would be meaningless.” Kashian
v. Harriman (2002) 98 Cal.App.4th 892, 910–11.  In order to lose protected status, the
conduct must be illegal as a matter of law. 
See Flatley v. Mauro (2006) 39
Cal.4th 299, 316.
  
            Thus,
Defendant has met his burden to establish that the statements identified above
arise from protected activity under CCP § 425.16. The burden, therefore, shifts
to Plaintiff to establish a probability of prevailing on the allegations
identified above.
 
II.            
Probability of
Prevailing on the Merits
 
            “To
establish a probability of prevailing, the plaintiff must demonstrate that the
complaint is both legally sufficient and supported by a sufficient prima facie
showing of facts to sustain a favorable judgment if the evidence submitted by
the plaintiff is credited.  For purposes
of this inquiry, the trial court considers the pleadings and evidentiary
submissions of both the plaintiff and the defendant (§ 425.16, subd. (b)(2));
though the court does not weigh the credibility or comparative probative
strength of competing evidence, it should grant the motion if, as a matter of
law, the defendant's evidence supporting the motion defeats the plaintiff's
attempt to establish evidentiary support for the claim.”  Hawran v. Hixson (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 256, 273-74.  However, the
Court must accept as true the evidence favorable to Plaintiff. See Soukup
v. Law Offices of Herbert Hafif (2006) 39 Cal.4th 260, 291. 
 
            “[Plaintiff’s]
second-[prong] burden is a limited one. [He] need not prove [his] case to the
court [citation]; the bar sits lower at a demonstration of ‘minimal merit’
[citation]. At this stage, [t]he court does not weigh evidence or resolve
conflicting factual claims. Its inquiry is limited to whether the plaintiff has
stated a legally sufficient claim and made a prima facie factual showing
sufficient to sustain a favorable judgment. It accepts the plaintiff's evidence
as true, and evaluates the defendant's showing only to determine if it defeats
the plaintiff's claim as a matter of law. The plaintiff must demonstrate this
probability of success with admissible evidence. The plaintiff may not rely
solely on its complaint, even if verified; instead, its proof must be made upon
competent admissible evidence.” Kieu Hoang v. Phong Minh Tran (2021) 60
Cal.App.5th 513, 531 (internal citations and quotations omitted).
 
            Since
Defendant established the first prong, Plaintiff must establish a probability
of prevailing on the merits.  See, Hawran
v. Hixson (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 256, 273-74.  Plaintiff does not establish a probability of
prevailing on the merits.  “To establish
a probability of prevailing, the plaintiff must demonstrate that the complaint
is both legally sufficient and supported by a sufficient prima facie showing of
facts to sustain a favorable judgment if the evidence submitted by the
plaintiff is credited. For purposes of this inquiry, the trial court considers
the pleadings and evidentiary submissions of both the plaintiff and the
defendant (§ 425.16, subd. (b)(2)); though the court does not weigh the
credibility or comparative probative strength of competing evidence, it should
grant the motion if, as a matter of law, the defendant's evidence supporting
the motion defeats the plaintiff's attempt to establish evidentiary support for
the claim.”  See Id.  
 
             Plaintiff cannot establish a
probability of prevailing on the merits. 
Civ. Code § 47(b) provides an absolute privilege for a publication made
in a legislative, judicial, or official proceeding.  See,
Dove Audio, Inc. v. Rosenfeld, Meyer & Susman (1996) 47 Cal.App.4th
777, 780.  Therefore, as the alleged
statements are privileged under Civ. Code § 47(b), Plaintiff is unable to
establish a probability of prevailing on the claims based on these allegations.
 
            Thus,
the anti-SLAPP motion to strike the following allegations is granted.
 
            “In
retaliation for Plaintiff, FORD deducting the expenses of the repairs from the
monthly rental amount, on or about December 16, 2022, Defendant, EGWUATU filed
a small court claim against Plaintiff, FORD. Defendant, EGWUATU made a
defamatory statement to the judge handling said claim per his letter to
Plaintiff, FORD, which reads as follows: “You are renting from me… Please note,
just like I told the judge, I know you are violent but I am not intimidated by
you. My only sin was to have rented to you. If you do not want to pay my rent,
you may move…” Exhibit A.” (Complaint, ¶ 13).
 
            “Defendant,
EGWUATU filed a small court claim against Plaintiff, FORD. Defendant, EGWUATU
made a defamatory statement to the judge handling the small claim, per his
letter to Plaintiff, FORD, which reads as follows: “You are renting from me…
Please note, just like I told the judge, I know you are violent but I am not
intimidated by you. My only sin was to have rented to you. If you do not want
to pay my rent, you may move…” Exhibit A.” (Complaint, ¶ 16.)
 
            “… made
in court….” (Complaint, ¶ 24).
 
            Exhibit
A would also have been stricken from the Complaint but apparently it was not
attached.
 
            As to
the entirety of the Complaint and each cause of action, the anti-SLAPP motion
is denied as the Complaint and each cause of action do not arise exclusively
from protected activity.
 
            Defendants’
request for attorneys’ fees is denied without prejudice subject to the filing
of a noticed motion for attorneys’ fees should Defendants seek to attempt to
pursue such fees despite the ruling to this motion.
 
            Plaintiff
is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
 