 Case Number:  22STCV07880    Hearing Date:   September 24, 2024    Dept:  45 Superior Court of
California
County
of Los Angeles
 



A.B., a minor, C.D., a minor, E.F., a
  minor, G.H., a minor, by and through their guardian ERICKA ROSAL, and ERICKA
  ROSAL in her own capacity,
 
                             Plaintiff,
 
                              vs.
PATHWAYS
  LA, a California Non-Profit Corporation, EDUARDO PENA, BLANCA “NELLA” MEJIA,
  CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL SERVICES, COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES, AND DOES
  3-100,
 
                              Defendants.


Case No.:
  22STCV07880  
DEPARTMENT
  45
 
 
 
[TENTATIVE] RULING
 
 
 
Action
  Filed: 03/03/2022  
[1st
  Amended Complaint Filed: 06/30/2022]
Trial
  Date: 04/01/2025  



 
Hearing Date:            September
24, 2024
Moving Party:           Plaintiffs
A.B., a minor, C.D., a minor, E.F., a minor, G.H.,                                                 a
minor, by and through their guardian ERICKA ROSAL
Responding Party:    Defendants
Pathways LA; County of Los Angeles; and California Department of Social
Services.
Motion:
                     Motion for Leave to File Third Amended Complaint            
Tentative
Ruling: The
Court considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply. Plaintiffs’ Motion for
Leave to File Third Amended Complaint is DENIED. An amended
TAC may be filed in response to the Court’s April 17, 2024 Minute Order
sustaining the demurrer to the SAC, however, leave is denied as to the new
causes of action.

 

Background
Factual Background
            Ericka
Rosal (Rosal) enrolled her four children (A.B., C.D., E.F., and G.H.,
collectively, including Rosal, “Plaintiffs”) in the Pathways LA and Pathways
Child Care Subsidy Programs. (SAC ¶ 18.) Plaintiffs allege Defendant Pathways
LA (Pathways LA) was marketed by Defendant Los Angeles County (the County) as
an alternative means of care for economically disadvantaged families. (Ibid.)
Rosal subsequently completed a Certificate of Enrollment which provided Rosal
with referrals to local childcare sites that Plaintiffs allege the County was
responsible for licensing, funding, maintaining, and operating. (Ibid.) 
            Plaintiffs
allege that while Rosal’s children were enrolled and present at such childcare sites,
the children were considered wards of the County and the County served in loco
parentis roles for the children. (SAC ¶¶ 18, 27, 28.) Plaintiffs allege
that one such childcare site was operated under the supervision of Defendant Blanca
Mejia (Mejia) and her brother, Defendant Eduardo Pena (Pena) — the Mejia House.
Plaintiffs allege that from an unknown date through August of 2021, Defendant Pena
molested, assaulted, or inappropriately fondled A.B, C.D., E.F., and G.H. (SAC
¶ 19.) On or about January 5, 2022, child A.B. reported these acts to her
mother, Plaintiff Rosal. Subsequently, Plaintiff Rosal reported the incidents
and completed a police report. Since this date, Defendant Pena has no longer
been located at the Mejia House. 
 
Procedural History
            Plaintiffs
filed suit on March 3, 2022. A First Amended Complaint was filed on February
27, 2023, followed by a Second Amended Complaint (SAC) filed on June 5, 2023.
The SAC made allegations against several defendants: (1) Pathways LA, (2) Pena,
(3) Mejia, (4) the California Department of Social Services (DSS), and (5) the
County. The SAC alleged the following eleven causes of action:  
1.     
Negligence – Liability of Employees
2.     
Negligence – Liability of Public
Entity
3.     
Negligent Hiring, Retention, &
Supervision
4.     
Negligence – as to Pathways LA
5.     
Intentional Infliction of Emotional
Distress
6.     
Assault
7.     
Sexual Battery
8.     
Battery
9.     
Breach of Duty to Want, Educate,
& Train
10.  Violation
of Cal. Civ. Code § 1708.5
11.  Violation
of Cal. Civ. Code § 52.4
DSS demurred to the SAC and on April 17, 2024 the Court sustained the
demurrer and granted Plaintiffs 20 days leave to amend, with an amended
Complaint due on or before May 7, 2024. On May 7, 2024, Plaintiffs filed their
Third Amended Complaint (TAC) adding two new causes of action: negligent
misrepresentation and intentional misrepresentation. 
The Motion now before the Court is Plaintiffs’ Motion for Leave to File
Third Amended Complaint (the Motion). The Motion is opposed by Pathways LA, the
County, and DSS. Although Pathways LA files their opposition as a joinder to
their co-defendants, Defendants the County and DSS file their own oppositions.
Plaintiffs filed a reply addressing all three oppositions.  
Request for
Judicial Notice
            Concurrently filed with their
opposition papers, DSS files a request for judicial notice requesting the Court
notice the April 17, 2024 ruling sustaining DSS’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s SAC. Pursuant
to Evid. Code §452(d), judicial notice is granted.   
 
Discussion
Legal Standard
“Any judge, at
any time before or after commencement of trial, in the furtherance of justice,
and upon such terms as may be proper, may allow the amendment of any pleading
or pretrial conference order.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 576.) Following orders
sustaining demurrers, or granting motions for judgment on the pleadings, with
leave to amend, complainants may amend only as authorized by the court's order
and cannot add new parties or claims outside the scope of the order, unless
that would directly respond to reasons for sustaining the demurrer. (Harris v. Wachovia Mortg., FSB (2010)
185 Cal.App.4th 1018, 1023.) The right to amend under Code Civ. Proc. §472 is
limited to the original complaint; there is no right to amend (without leave of
court) an amended complaint. (Also see Hedwall v. PCMV, LLC (2018) 22
CA5th 564, 578-579.)
Analysis
            In
their moving papers, Plaintiffs contend that new legal theories may be
introduced in amendments, and it is an abuse of discretion to deny a timely
motion to amend when refusal deprives a party of the right to assert a
meritorious cause of action, if granting leave to amend will not prejudice an
opposing party. 
            Upon
opposition, the County argues the addition of two new causes of action not
previously mentioned causes the County prejudice because the County intends to
file a Motion for Summary Judgment. However, with a constantly changing
Complaint, the County is unable to do so. (The County’s Opp. Papers, 5:7-12.)
DSS and Pathways LA both cite the two-year delay as the initial Complaint was
filed on March 3, 2022. Additionally, DSS argues with regard to the
misrepresentation claims that either (1) Plaintiff Rosal relied on these
representations prior to the case when selecting a childcare provider and
delayed in bringing the causes of action or (2) discovered the claims during
discovery, and therefore could not have relied on a representation of which she
was not aware. (Pathway LA’s Opp Papers, 3:23-27.) 
            Upon
reply, Plaintiffs point to Barrows v. American Motors Corp. (1983) 144
Cal.App.3d 1 (Barrows), arguing that so long as an amended pleading
relates to the same general set of facts, a defendant sued by a fictitious name
can be later brought in by amendment. Plaintiffs further argue Defendants have
failed to show “specific prejudice”. The Court disagrees. 
            First,
the Barrows Court’s discussion surrounded whether a defendant could be
brought in after the statute of limitations ran, and whether the amendment
related back, not whether whole new causes of action could be brought in.
Therefore, Barrows is inapplicable here. Second, the County identified a
specific prejudice in that their attempts at filing a timely motion for summary
judgment could be thwarted by an ever-changing complaint. Finally, all three
Defendants will likely need to conduct additional discovery with regard to the
two additional causes of actions.
            Plaintiffs
additionally fail to explain the delay as to the misrepresentation actions. It
is unclear to the Court why, on Plaintiffs’ fourth attempt at pleadings, there
are now two new causes of action. DSS correctly points out that either
Plaintiff Rosal was aware of these alleged misrepresentations at the outset, or
newly discovered them during discovery and therefore could not have relied on
them when initially selecting a childcare provider. Here, although leave is
liberally granted, the delay is unexplained, and the Court finds it will cause
prejudice to defendants.                         
 
Conclusion
            Accordingly,
Plaintiffs’ Motion for Leave to File
Third Amended Complaint is DENIED. An amended TAC may be filed in response to
the Court’s April 17, 2024 Minute Order sustaining the demurrer to the SAC,
however, leave is denied as to the new causes of action. 
 
 
 
It is so ordered.
 
Dated: September 24, 2024 
 
_______________________
MEL RED RECANA
Judge of the
Superior Court
 