 Case Number:  23STCV19923    Hearing Date:   January 4, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



NATHANIEL HOWARD,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
KENNETH MELROSE; LAW OFFICES OF KEN J. MELROSE; LAW OFFICES OF KENNETH
  J. MELROSE, LLC; BMS LEGAL SERVICES LLC; STEPHEN SOLENDER; STEPHEN SOLENDER
  dba THE SOLENDER GROUP; THE SOLENDER GROUP, INC.; YANGKYOUNG LEE; MICHAEL MANAPOL;
  FIRST INDEMNITY INSURANCE AGENCY, INC., ERIC CANTON, AND DOES 1 THROUGH 400, INCLUSIVE,
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          23STCV19923
 Hearing Date:   1/4/24
 Trial Date:        N/A
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Specially
  Appearing Defendant Eric Canton’s Motion to Quash Service of Summons and
  Complaint for Improper Service and Dismissal and/or Sanctions.



 
 
Background
Pleadings
Plaintiff Nathaniel Howard sues
Defendants Kenneth Melrose (Melrose), Law Offices of Ken J. Melrose (Melrose
Law), Law Offices of Kenneth J. Melrose, LLC (Melrose LLC), BMS Legal Services
LLC (BMS Legal), Stephen Solender (Solender), Stephen Solender dba The Solender
Group (Solender Group), The Solender Group, Inc. (Solender Inc.), Yangkyoung
Lee (Lee), Michael Manapol (Manapol), First Indemnity Insurance Agency, Inc.
(First Indemnity), Eric Canton (Canton) (specially appearing in pro per), and
Does 1 through 400 inclusive.
The operative October 18, 2023
Complaint alleges claims of (1) Fraud, Conspiracy, Aiding and Abetting, (2)
Breach of Fiduciary Duty, Conspiracy, Aiding and Abetting, (3) Breach of
Fiduciary Duty, (4) Professional Negligence, (5) Statutory Violations, (6)
Conversion, (7) Fraud, Conspiracy, Aiding and Abetting, (8) Breach of Fiduciary
Duty, Conspiracy, Aiding and Abetting, (9) Breach of Contract, (10) Negligence,
(11) Breach of Third-Party Beneficiary Contract, and (12) Tortious Breach of
the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing (Bad Faith).
The claims arise from allegations
that Plaintiff Howard retained Brian Witzer (Witzer) and his corporation, Law
Offices of Brian D. Witzer (Witzer Law) (both in bankruptcy proceedings), to represent
Howard in a personal injury lawsuit arising from injuries sustained by
Plaintiff Howard as a result of a construction site incident, with the case
allegedly valued at $20 million (Underlying Action). The Complaint alleges that
while representing Plaintiff Howard, Witzer and Witzer Law misappropriated at
least “six-figures” of funds belonging to Plaintiff Howard, and that Witzer and
Witzer Law worked with other Defendants, including Defendant Canton, in
mishandling the Underlying Action.
Motion Before the Court
On October 30, 2023, Defendant
Canton filed a motion specially appearing for the purpose of requesting an
order quashing service of the summons and complaint against him.
On November 7, 2023, Plaintiff
filed a proof of service showing a September 20, 2023 service of the summons,
complaint, and other documents on Eric Canton. Service was effected by substituted
service on “Chris Menjivar - Employee- Person Apparently in Charge” at 811
Traction Ave Ste 2A, Los Angeles, California 90013-1861 (Traction Ave).
On December 20, 2023, Plaintiff
opposed Defendant Canton’s motion.
On December 27, 2023, Defendant
Canton replied to the opposition.
Specially appearing Defendant
Canton’s motion is now before the Court.
 
Motion to Quash Service of Summons and Complaint

Legal Standard
A motion to quash can be brought on
the ground that the court lacks personal jurisdiction over the defendant, e.g.,
because service was improper. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 418.10, subd. (a)(1);
see, e.g., Tresway Aero, Inc. v. Superior Court (1971) 5 Cal.3d 431, 433
[defendant filed motion to quash on ground that service on corporation was
defective because it did not comply with Code Civ. Proc., § 410, now § 412.30];
County of Riverside v. Superior Court (1997) 54 Cal.App.4th 443, 446 [defendant
filed motion to quash on ground that service was defective because summons did
not specify date for answering and appearing].)
The defendant should attach
evidence to support his or her motion. (See School Dist. of Okaloosa Cty. v.
Superior Court (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 1126, 1131 [defendant must present
some admissible evidence in form of affidavits or declarations to place issue
of lack of jurisdiction before court]; see, e.g., Aquila, Inc. v. Superior Court
(2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 556, 563 [defendant supported motion to quash with
declarations]; cf. Floveyor Int’l v. Superior Court (1997) 59
Cal.App.4th 789, 793-794 [“‘A defendant who takes the position that the service
of summons as made upon him did not bring him within the jurisdiction of the
court’[] may serve and file a notice of motion to quash the service,’” where
“‘the effect of such a notice is to place upon the plaintiff the burden of
proving the facts that did give the court jurisdiction … [or] the facts
requisite to a[] [showing of] effective service,’” citations omitted].)
Order Quashing Summons: DENIED.
Here, on September 20, 2023, a
registered process server served the Complaint, summons, and other documents on
Defendant Canton by substituted service on “Chris Menjivar - Employee- Person
Apparently in Charge” at the Traction Ave address. (See 11/7/23 Proof of
Service.)
If a copy of the summons and
complaint cannot with reasonable diligence be personally delivered to the
person to be served, a summons may be served by leaving a copy of the summons
and complaint at the person’s dwelling house, usual place of abode, usual place
of business, or usual mailing address other than a United States Postal Service
post office box, in the presence of a competent member of the household or a
person apparently in charge of his or her office, place of business, or usual
mailing address other than a United States Postal Service post office box, at
least 18 years of age, who shall be informed of the contents thereof, and by
thereafter mailing a copy of the summons and of the complaint by first-class
mail, postage prepaid to the person to be served at the place where a copy of
the summons and complaint were left. Service of a summons in this manner is
deemed complete on the 10th day after the mailing. (Code Civ. Proc., § 415.20,
subd. (b).) Ordinarily, two or three attempts at personal service at a proper
place should fully satisfy the requirement of reasonable diligence and allow
substituted service to be made. (Bein v. Brechtel-Jochim Group, Inc. (1992)
6 Cal.App.4th 1387, 1391, citations omitted (Bein).) 
Specially appearing Defendant
Canton seeks a court order quashing service of the Complaint, summons, and
other documents served on him by substituted service on September 20, 2023.
Canton argues that the docket is void of evidence to show that Plaintiff made
any effort to personally serve Canton prior to utilizing substituted service,
as required by Code. Canton also argues that the substituted service was itself
defective because it was made on an employee (Chris Menjivar, an intake
specialist) that was not the “managing agent” and was not a “competent member”
of Canton’s “household” as to be “apparently in charge” of the place where
service was made, and because that employee (Menjivar) was not informed of the
content of the documents being served, as required by Code. Canton adds that
service should be quashed because service was not made within 60 days after
filing the Complaint, as required by the California Rules of Court. (This last
argument presumes that substituted service was ineffective, and thus, no
service has been made, thus constituting failure to serve within 60 days of
filing the Complaint.) Canton last argues that any issues regarding service
should go against Plaintiff because the process server was under Howard’s
control. (Mot., pp. 1-5.)
In opposition, Plaintiff Howard
gives various reasons meriting a denial of Defendant Canton’s motion. Howard
argues that proper service via substituted service was effected, with the proof
of service showing that a registered process served attempted service at
Canton’s business on three occasions, with the third constituting the substituted
service. Howard also argues that there is no “managing agent” requirement for
substituted service, and that the “competent member of household” argument
applies only to personal service, not substituted service. Howard adds that the
“issues regarding service” arguments are inapplicable or unsupported by
evidence. Howard last argues that Defendant Canton cannot be dismissed because
he did not attach a proper notice for this motion, dismissal would violate
Plaintiff’s due process rights, and dismissal would only be proper under
circumstances which involve Code of Civil Procedure sections 583.210, 583.250,
and 583.420 and do not exist here. (Opp’n, pp. 3-5.)
In reply, Defendant Canton argues
that Plaintiff has failed to provide supporting documentation to show that the
process server made efforts to serve Defendant Canton personally and to show
why the process server thought Chris Menjivar was apparently in charge of the
place where service was made. Canton also challenges the proof of service’s due
diligence declaration by arguing that the process server could have made a
greater effort to enter the building where service was made on the first and
second failed attempts at service, or to somehow reach out to Defendant Canton
as to personally serve Canton. Canton last makes an argument related to service
within 60 days of filing the Complaint. (Reply, pp. 1-2.)
The Court finds in favor of
Plaintiff Howard.
The proof of service filed by
Plaintiff on November 7, 2023 shows a declaration of due diligence signed by a
registered process server, which shows two unsuccessful attempts to serve the
summons and complaint at Defendant Canton’s place of business, first on
September 15, 2023, and again on September 19, 2023, before successful substitute
service on September 2023. (11/7/23 Proof of Service.) While the proof of
service was not in the record until after Defendant Canton filed his motion,
Defendant Canton had an opportunity to address the proof of service in his
reply, in which Canton limits himself to arguing that the process server could
have done more to personally serve Defendant Canton or to enter the building
where service was made. (Reply, p. 1.) Defendant Canton does not argue that the
September 15, 2023 and September 19, 2023 attempts at service were not attempts
at personal service, and thus any substituted service on September 20, 2023 was
improper. (Bein, supra, 6 Cal.App.4th at p. 1391 [two or more
attempts at personal service must be made prior to substituted service].)
Moreover, there is a rebuttable presumption of service where service is
effected through a registered process server. (Evid. Code, § 647.) Based on the
current record, the Court accepts that the registered process server tried to
personally serve Defendant Canton twice at his place of business prior to
effecting substituted service on Chris Menjivar on September 20, 2023, thus
satisfying the principle discussed in Bein.
As to whether Chris Menjivar was
not a person “apparently in charge” of Defendant Canton’s place of business for
substituted service purposes, the Court finds that argument unavailing. Again,
there is a rebuttable presumption of service where service is effected through
a registered process server. (Evid. Code, § 647.) That presumption can only be
overcome by credible evidence. (Bonzer v. City of Huntington Park (1993)
20 Cal.App.4th 1474, 1481.) Here, Plaintiff filed a proof of service from a
registered process service showing substituted service on “Chris Menjivar -
Employee- Person Apparently in Charge.” (11/7/23 Proof of Service.) That
service, and its designation of Menjivar as the person apparently in charge,
are presumptively valid. The only evidence offered by Defendant Canton is his
declaration; no declaration from Chris Menjivar is attached. Thus, the Court is
asked to quash service based on Defendant Canton’s declaration alone, asserting
that Chris Menjivar cannot be a person who could appear “apparently in charge”
of Canton’s place of business. (Mot., Canton Decl., ¶¶ 3-6.) However, “[s]tatutes
governing substitute service shall be liberally construed to effectuate service
and uphold jurisdiction if actual notice has been received by the defendant ….”
(Ellard v. Conway (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 540, 544, internal quotations
omitted.) Defendant Canton acknowledges actual notice of this lawsuit. (Mot.,
Canton Decl., ¶ 3.) Thus, the court liberally construes the phrase “a person
apparently in charge” to include Chris Menjivar. Additionally, “[s]ervice [need
only] be made upon a person whose ‘relationship with the person to be served
makes it more likely than not that they will deliver process to the named
party.’” (Bein, supra, 6 Cal.App.4th at p. 1393.) Defendant
Canton’s declaration makes clear that Chris Menjivar immediately delivered the
service documents to Defendant Canton. (Mot., Canton Decl., ¶ 3.) Based on the record
and presumption of valid service, service on Chris Menjivar was proper. (See,
e.g., Bein, supra, pp. 1391-1394 [In action seeking to hold corporate
shareholders individually liable, substitute service on gate guard at gated
community in which shareholders resided was proper, as gate guard was “person
apparently in charge of the corporate office” and “competent member of the
household”; ¿shareholders authorized guard to control access to them and their
residence, and this relationship ensured delivery of process.].)
As to whether Chris Menjivar needed
to be informed of the contents of the service documents, the Court finds that
argument unavailing. There is no declaration from Chris Menjivar. Without that
declaration, the Court does not have proper evidence to show what that process
server did or did not say to Chris Menjivar. And while the points and
authorities argue that “the content contain[ed] within the set of documents
that the process server provided to [Chris Mejivar] were never explained to him”
(Mot., p. 4), that argument is nowhere supported by Defendant Canton’s
declaration or anyone else. (Mot., Canton Decl., ¶¶ 1-7.) On this record, the
liberal construction in the caselaw does not provide a basis to grant the motion
on this basis.
Last, the Court notes that the
“service must occur within 60 days of filing the Complaint” argument by
Defendant Canton is unavailing because that argument rests on the presumption
that the September 20, 2023 substituted service at his place of business was
invalid, which it was not.
Defendant Canton’s motion is thus
DENIED. 
Conclusion
Specially Appearing Defendant Eric
Canton’s Motion to Quash Service of Summons and Complaint for Improper Service
and Dismissal and/or Sanctions is DENIED.