  Case Number:  23TRCV01319    Hearing Date:   December 31, 2024    Dept:  B OSCAR SAUL ROJAS GUZMAN, et al. vs THOMAS WOO YOUNG CHUNG
Case No. 23TRCV01319
Motion for Order Compelling Plaintiff Karen Elizabeth
Santiago Aquino’s Attendance, and Testimony at Deposition and for an Order
Imposing Monetary Sanctions ($636.61)
Moving Party:  Defendant
Thomas Woo Young Chung
Opposing Pary:  Plaintiff
Karen Elizabeth Santiago Aquino
THE QUESTION
What question must this Court resolve by this Motion?  Is it:
“May a witness using an
interpreter suspend a deposition when opposing counsel states that if the
witness chooses to testify at trial without an interpreter, opposing counsel will
bring that fact to the attention of the court?
Or is it:
“Is a Defendant entitled to an
order compelling the Plaintiff to testify in deposition when the Plaintiff suspends
the deposition because of an argument about the language that may be used by the
witness in deposition and trial, and the suspending party thereafter fails to
seek any court intervention to address the issue which prompted the suspension
of the deposition?
The Court concludes that given the present Motion – seeking to
compel the Plaintiff to attend and testify at a duly noticed deposition – the
only question before the Court is the second question.  Absent the suspending party seeking a
protective order, the deponent must proceed with the deposition.  The suspending party may not simply suspend
the deposition and wait, and wait, and wait. 
Therefore the Court shall GRANT the motion and order the witness to proceed
with the deposition.
Since the deponent did not file a motion for a protective
order, the Court need not address the first question – whether or not it would
be proper to make argument based on the witness testifying with an interpreter
at deposition and at trial in English.
THE LAW
An analysis of the deposition statute leads the Court to the
conclusion that it must address the second question, not the first one.
Code of Civil
Procedure § 2025 et seq. sets forth in detail the process parties
must follow to properly conduct a deposition.
First, a notice
must be served.  (C.C.P. § 2025.210-2024.259.)  Defendant served such a Notice in this case.  That moved the ball into Plaintiff’s
court.  Then, if the Notice is perceived
as defective, any party may object.  The
party may move to stay the taking of the deposition.  (C.C.P. §
2025.410.)  Plaintiff did not serve any
objection, as the issue of the “interpreter use” argument was not known.  Hence, the ball remained in Plaintiff’s court.
Next, C.C.P. § 2025.420 allows for the issuance of protective
order.
“(a) Before, during, or after a deposition, any party, any deponent,
or any other affected natural person or organization may promptly
move for a protective order. The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration under Section 2016.040.
(b) The court, for good cause shown, may make any order that justice
requires to protect any party, deponent, or other natural person or
organization from unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue
burden and expense. This protective order may include, but is not limited to,…”  (Bold and underlining added.) 
Seeking such a protective
order would have placed the ball back in Defendant’s court, stopping the deposition
while the motion was resolved.  No such motion
was filed by Plaintiff.  Therefore the
ball remained in Plaintiff’s court.
Suspension of a deposition
is addressed in C.C.P. § 2025.470.
“The deposition officer may not suspend the taking of testimony without
the stipulation of all parties present unless any party attending the
deposition, including the deponent, demands that the deposition officer suspend
taking the testimony to enable that party or deponent to move for a protective
order under Section 2025.420 on the ground that the examination is being
conducted in bad faith or in a manner that unreasonably annoys, embarrasses, or
oppresses that deponent or party.”  (Bold
added.)
Plaintiff suspended
the deposition.  But Plaintiff never
sought a protective order under C.C.P. § 2025.420.  Therefore the ball still remained in Plaintiff’s
court.
The Right to Compel the Deposition
C.C.P. § 2025.450(a) provides: 
“(a) If, after service of a
deposition notice, a party to the action or an officer, director, managing
agent, or employee of a party, or a person designated by an organization that
is a party under Section 2025.230, without having served a valid objection
under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with
it, or to produce for inspection any document, electronically stored
information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice, the party
giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent's attendance
and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document,…”  (Bold added.)
C.C.P. § 2025.480 addresses the right
of a party to move to compel if the witness fails to answer any question.
THE FACTS
Defendant Thomas Woo Young Chung served Plaintiff with a
deposition notice (November 27, 2023) and subsequent notices of continuance (March
28 , 2024, August 5, 2024.)  A glitch
arose at the deposition.  Defendant states
that:
“Plaintiff refuses to testify at
deposition unless Defendant’s counsel agrees, in advance of the deposition
proceedings, to not raise the fact that Plaintiff requested the aid of a Spanish
interpreter and testified at deposition in Spanish, but may later decide to
testify at trial in English, without the aid of a Spanish interpreter. [Cox
Decl., ¶ 5; Exhs. D and E.]
Plaintiff’s pre-condition for
proceeding with her deposition on a hypothetically possibility is neither
proper nor appropriate. In the absence of agreement to her preconditions,
Plaintiff refuses to proceed with her deposition, absent a court order. [Cox
Decl., ¶ 6; Exhs. D and E.]
Yet, Plaintiff has failed and
refuses to bring a motion for protective order seeking to impose such
conditions and restrictions before proceeding with her deposition, undoubtedly
because Plaintiff and her counsel are aware that the conditions are neither
proper nor reasonable. [Cox Decl., ¶ 7; Exhs. D and E.]”  (Motion pg. 4:13-26.)
Defendant also seeks sanctions against Plaintiff Karen
Elizabeth Santiago Aquino and her attorney of record, Ashley Conlogue, of Conlogue
Law, LLP, jointly and severally, in the amount of $636.61 for 3.6 hours of work
at $160.17 per hour, plus the $60 motion filing fee.
Plaintiff noted in her Opposition:
“It is improper for Defendant to
force the Plaintiff to testify in English at deposition if she wishes to retain
her right to testify in English at the time of trial.  There is no statute or case law which supports
such a position, and Defendant has failed to provide any basis for such a
request.  Plaintiff should be allowed to
testify in the language of her choosing, based on her good faith belief as to
which would allow her to provide her best testimony.  Defendant does not have the right to restrict
her testimony by limiting her language selection.
Plaintiff has always remained ready
and able to testify at her deposition, so long as Defendant does not threaten
to improperly limit her trial testimony.  Accordingly, a motion to compel is unnecessary
and improper.”  (Opposition pg. 2:28-3:8.)
The Deposition Transcript 
In the aborted deposition transcript counsel for Defendant both
voiced their issues and concerns.  Defendant’s
counsel stated:
“MS. COX:  I just finished meeting and conferring with plaintiff
counsel off the record of my intent to raise the issue of plaintiff requesting
a Spanish interpreter for her deposition if she testifies at the time of trial fluently
in English.”  (Exhibit D pg. 4:12-16.)
“I brought up the fact that I
would be seeking a motion raising the issue of plaintiff testifying in a different
language at trial compared to her deposition. 
I indicated I would raise that with the judge, that I have no intent of
bringing a motion currently because it’s not necessary and there’s no prejudice
to plaintiff currently as we have a Spanish interpreter present.
Plaintiff counsel indicated that
she was suspending the deposition.  I
indicated I was not.  And in the face of
me stating I’m not going to bring a motion at this time, she is refusing to
proceed with the deposition.”  (Exhibit D
pg. 4:22-5:8.)  (Bold added.)
Defendant asked Plaintiff to bring a motion for a protective
order, as Defendant’s counsel believed that it was not incumbent upon her to
have to bring a motion in order to obtain the deposition.
Plaintiff’s counsel stated her position at the aborted deposition.
“MS. CONLOGUE:  So the witness, and the plaintiff, is
bilingual in both Spanish and English.  Spanish
is her first language, and she indicated a desire to testify in Spanish today
so that she could provide her very best testimony.
The defendant’s counsel has
indicated that if she proceeds with using a Spanish interpreter today at her
deposition, then the defense will move to require her to testify in Spanish at
the time of trial.
I believe that is improper and
restricts the plaintiff’s ability to testify in the language of her choosing.  She’s not making an election as to which language
she will be using at the time of trial at this point.
And if the defense insists on her
testifying at deposition in English in order to preserve her right to testify
in English at trial, I think that's also improper because the witness has
indicated that she would be more comfortable testifying today in Spanish.
I cannot allow the plaintiff to
proceed today with her selected language knowing that it may prejudice her
right to testify in English at the time of trial, should she choose to.
So, therefore, we need to have
this issue resolved as to Plaintiff's ability to testify in the  language of her choosing at the time of trial
before she has to proceed today with deposition with a separate language.”  (Exhibit D pg. 5:16-6:18.)  (Bold added.)
Defense Counsel responded:
“MS. COX:  I’m not prohibiting her using a Spanish interpreter
today.  We can proceed with the use of Spanish
interpreter either for her entire testimony or on the side to assist her with
her testimony.  So every non-prejudicial
piece has been provided to her to proceed as comfortably as she wants to today.
What ruling there may later be
as to whether a court finds that she’s not permitted to switch languages at the
time of trial should not preclude this deposition from moving forward.  I don’t have a crystal ball.  I don’t know how the court would rule on that
issue and it should not keep this deposition from moving forward here today.”  (Exhibit D pg. 7:8-20.)  (Bold added.)
The parties continued to debate the conditions for going
forward with the deposition, with Plaintiff’s counsel noting:
“MS. CONLOGUE:  I am going to continue to refuse to produce
her as long as there is some limitation in the defendant's mind as to how she
can testify at trial.
So I'm happy to reach an agreement
with you that you are not going to challenge her language selection at the time
of trial regardless of how she testifies today.  That’s fine.  Then she can be produced in deposition.
But as long as the defense is
taking the position that because she testifies in Spanish today that you are
going to bring a motion and she must testify in Spanish at trial, then, yes,
we need to get a court order clarifying that before she's going to testify.”  (Exhibit D pg. 8:7-20.)  (Bold added.)
The discussion continued.
“MS. COX:  And that issue is not at issue today.  I am not the judge.  We don’t -- neither one of us know how a judge
would rule on that.  So I’m not going to forego
a potential right that I have on a ruling that I don’t know and don’t get to
make.  So that’s not a reasonable request
on your part.
MS. CONLOGUE:  Well, I think that because we don’t know the
ruling, that’s exactly what the prejudice is.  I don’t know whether, by allowing her to
testify in Spanish today, which is her chosen language, that I am going to risk
limiting her testimony at trial.  I don’t
know the outcome, just as you said.  So
we need to get clarity on that point before so the -- so that the witness can
make an informed election.”  (Exhibit D
pg. 8:21-9:9.)
“So, again, I'm not going to be
producing her until this issue has been resolved, and I don't think there's
anything further to say on it.”  (Exhibit
D pg. 10:13-15.)  (Bold added.)
After making it clear that Plaintiff needed a resolution of the
question debated, Plaintiff has not filed a motion for a protective order under
C.C.P. §
2025.420.  Therefore, notwithstanding the
vigorous debate, the issue before the Court is NOT the question that led to the
suspension of the deposition.  Rather the
question is simply the right of the noticing party to compel the attendance of
the witness and the obligation of the Plaintiff to appear and testify at the
duly noticed deposition.
That question has an easy answer.  Defendant is entitled to the order of this Court
that Plaintiff attend her duly noticed deposition, be sworn, and answer questions.  (C.C.P. § 2025.450 and 2025.480.)  Plaintiff is not entitled to refuse to participate
simply because of the unanswered question debated at length above.
(The Court has its view on the testimony
language issue so hotly debated at the aborted deposition, but since no motion
for a protective order was filed, the Court does not see a need to provide its
guidance at this time.)
The Motion to Compel the attendance of Plaintiff at her deposition
on January 15, 2025 is GRANTED.
Said deposition will be conducted by remote electronic means.
 The deposition will continue from day to
day, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and holidays, until completed.  If an interpreter is required to translate
testimony, notice of same must be given at least five (5) days before the
deposition date, including the special language and/or dialect needed.
SANCTIONS
Plaintiff suspended the deposition.  (C.C.P. § 2025.420, 2025.470.)  But Plaintiff thereafter failed to promptly
seek a protective order to have the language issue resolved.  Plaintiff was obligated to promptly bring such
a motion after having suspended the deposition.
Defendant was required to file this Motion in order to
obtain the properly noticed deposition of Plaintiff.  Therefore the Court finds that the position
of Plaintiff is not substantially justified, and sanctions should be awarded to
Defendant.  The Court finds that it is appropriate
to order Plaintiff’s counsel to pay the sanctions, not Plaintiff.  The Court orders Plaintiff’s counsel to pay
to Defendant’s counsel the sum of $636.61 within 30 days of the service of this
Order on Plaintiff’s counsel (unless notice is waived at the hearing, in which
event the payment is due within 30 days of the date of the hearing).
ORDER:
1.     
The Motion to Compel the attendance of Plaintiff
at her deposition on January 15, 2025 at 10:00 a.m. is GRANTED on the terms set
forth in the Notice of Motion page 2:3-21.
2.     
The Request for Sanctions against Plaintiff’s
counsel is GRANTED.  Plaintiff’s counsel
shall pay to Defendant’s counsel the sum of $636.61 within 30 days of the service
of this Order on Plaintiff’s counsel (unless notice is waived at the hearing,
in which event the payment is due within 30 days of the date of the hearing).
3.     
Defendant shall serve a notice of ruling.