 Case Number:  24STCV08477    Hearing Date:   August 1, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



MIGUEL A. LICEA, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
EXPERTVOICE, INC.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  24STCV08477
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  August 1, 2024
 Calendar Number:  5



 
 
 
Defendant ExpertVoice, Inc. (“Defendant”) moves for an order
compelling Plaintiff Miguel A. Licea (“Plaintiff”) to arbitrate his claims
against Defendant and dismissing this action or staying it pending the outcome
of arbitration.
 
The Court DENIES Defendant’s motion.
 
Background
 
Defendant operates an e-commerce website with a chat feature
that consumers can use to contact customer service. Plaintiff alleges that
Defendant engages a third party to automatically record the contents of
consumer chats. Plaintiff used Defendant’s consumer chat service and alleges
that Defendant recorded Plaintiff’s communications with Defendant’s website.
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant aided and abetted the third party in
eavesdropping on Plaintiff’s conversations with Defendant’s website in real
time.
 
Plaintiff filed this case on April 3, 2024, raising one
claim for violation of the California Invasion of Privacy Act (“CIPA”).
 
On July 3, 2024, Defendant filed this motion to compel
arbitration. Plaintiff filed an opposition and Defendant filed a reply.
 
Request for Judicial Notice
 
The Court grants Plaintiff’s request for judicial notice.
 
Legal Standard
 
Under both the
Federal Arbitration Act (“FAA”) and California law, arbitration agreements are
valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, except on such grounds that exist at law
or equity for voiding a contract. (Winter
v. Window Fashions Professions, Inc. (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 943, 947.) 
 
The party moving to
compel arbitration must establish the existence of a written arbitration
agreement between the parties. (Code of Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.) In ruling on a
motion to compel arbitration, the court must first determine whether the
parties actually agreed to arbitrate the dispute, and general principles of
California contract law help guide the court in making this determination. (Mendez v. Mid-Wilshire Health Care Center
(2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 534, 541.) 
 
“A petition to
compel arbitration or to stay proceedings pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
sections 1281.2 and 1281.4 must state, in addition to other required
allegations, the provisions of the written agreement and the paragraph that
provides for arbitration. The provisions must be stated verbatim or a copy must
be physically or electronically attached to the petition and incorporated by
reference” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1330.) “With respect to the moving
party's burden to provide evidence of the existence of an
agreement to arbitrate, it is generally sufficient for that party to present a
copy of the contract to the court. Once such a document is presented to the
court, the burden shifts to the party opposing the motion to compel, who may
present any challenges to the enforcement of the agreement and evidence in
support of those challenges.” (Baker v.
Italian Maple Holdings, LLC (2017) 13 Cal.App.5th 1152, 1160 [internal
citations omitted].) 
 
Discussion
 
The Arbitration Agreement
 
Defendant’s website contains links to its Privacy Policy and
Terms of Service at the bottom of each page. (Llewellyn Decl. ¶ 5, Ex. 4.)
Users visit the home page are shown a page which includes buttons that say
“Join Now” and “Join for Free Today.” (Llewellyn Decl. ¶ 4, Ex. 3.) If a user
clicks the “Join for Free Today” button, they will be shown a screen prompting
to enter their first name, last name, email, and password. (Llewellyn Decl. ¶
4, Ex. 3.) Below those fields, just above another button that says “Join Now,”
is text in a smaller font size that says “[b]y joining you agree to the Privacy
Policy & Terms of Service”, which links to each. (Llewellyn Decl. ¶ 4, Ex.
3.)
 
At the beginning of the Terms of Use page is text that reads
as follows:
 
“These
Terms of Use contain an arbitration clause and class action waiver. By agreeing
to these Terms, you agree (a) to resolve all disputes with us related to the
ExpertVoice Services through binding individual arbitration, which means that
you waive any right to have those disputes decided by a judge or jury, and (b)
to waive your right to participate in class actions, class arbitrations, or
representative actions in connection with your use of the ExpertVoice Services.
You have the right to opt-out of arbitration as explained below.”
 
(Llewellyn Decl. ¶ 6, Ex. 5.)
 
Further down in the Terms of Use is the full arbitration
agreement (the “Arbitration Agreement”, which states, in relevant part:
 
“Arbitration
and Class Action Waiver
 
You
agree that in the event of any dispute between you and ExpertVoice or any
ExpertVoice entity, you will first contact ExpertVoice and make a good faith
sustained effort to resolve the dispute before resorting to more formal means
of resolution, including without limitation, any court action. After the
informal dispute resolution process, any remaining dispute, controversy, or
claim (collectively, “Claim”) relating in any way to your use of the
ExpertVoice Services, will be resolved by arbitration, including threshold
questions of arbitrability of the Claim, except as permitted herein. You and
the Company agree that any Claim will be settled by final and binding
arbitration, using the English language, administered by JAMS [….]
 
You
and Company agree that each party may bring Claims against the other party only
in an individual capacity, and not as a plaintiff or class member in any
purported class or representative proceeding, including without limitation
federal or state class actions, or class arbitrations. [….]
 
You
have the right to opt-out and not be bound by the arbitration and waiver of
class provisions set forth in these Terms of Use by sending written notice of
your decision to opt-out at
https://expertsupport.expertvoice.com/hc/en-us/requests/new. The notice must be
sent to the Company within thirty (30) days of your registering to use the
ExpertVoice Services or agreeing to these Terms of Use (or if this Section is
amended hereafter, within 30 days of such amendment being effective), otherwise
you shall be bound to arbitrate disputes in accordance with these Terms of Use,
and the notice must specify your name and mailing address. If you opt-out of
these arbitration provisions, ExpertVoice also will not be bound by them. 
 
Notwithstanding
anything in these Terms of Use to the contrary, you may instead assert your
Claim in “small claims” court, but only if your Claim qualifies, your Claim
remains only in such court, and your Claim remains on an individual,
non-representative and non-class basis. Further, you and ExpertVoice will have
the right to bring an action in a court of proper jurisdiction for injunctive
or other equitable or conservatory relief, or if the Claim relates to
intellectual property infringement or misappropriation.”
 
(Llewellyn Decl. ¶ 6, Ex. 5.)
 
Mutual Assent
 
“Contracts formed on the Internet come primarily in two
flavors: ‘clickwrap’ (or ‘click-through’) agreements, in which website users
are required to click on an ‘I agree’ box after being presented with a list of
terms and conditions of use; and ‘browsewrap’ agreements, where a website's
terms and conditions of use are generally posted on the website via a hyperlink
at the bottom of the screen.” (Nguyen v.
Barnes & Noble Inc. (9th Cir. 2014) 763 F.3d 1171, 1175–1176.)
 
Neither party presents evidence that Plaintiff created an
account on Defendant’s website. Thus, Plaintiff appears not to have accepted
the Terms of Service in their capacity as a clickwrap agreement, as Defendant
specified that it was the creation of an account on the website that would
manifest assent to the Terms of Service. Furthermore, Plaintiff did not see the
Terms of Service when he used the website and did not anticipate that he would
enter into a contract with Defendant. (Licea Decl. ¶ 3.) Thus, Plaintiff did
not have actual notice of the Arbitration Agreement’s terms, and did not assent
to a clickwrap agreement.
 
“Unlike a clickwrap agreement, a browsewrap agreement does
not require the user to manifest assent to the terms and conditions expressly
... [a] party instead gives his assent simply by using the website.” (Long
v. Provide Commerce, Inc. (2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 855, 862 [quotation marks
omitted], citing Nguyen v. Barnes & Noble Inc. (9th Cir. 2014) 763
F.3d 1171, 1176.) “The defining feature of browsewrap agreements is that the
user can continue to use the website or its services without visiting the page
hosting the browsewrap agreement or even knowing that such a webpage exists.” (Ibid
[quotation marks omitted].) 
 
“Because no affirmative action is required by the website
user to agree to the terms of a contract other than his or her use of the
website, the determination of the validity of the browsewrap contract depends
on whether the user has actual or constructive knowledge of a website's terms
and conditions.” (Long, supra, 245 Cal.App.4th at pp. 862-863
[quotation marks omitted], citing Nguyen, supra, 763 F.3d at p.
1176.) “The validity of [a] browsewrap agreement turns on whether the website
puts a reasonably prudent user on inquiry notice of the terms of the contract.”
(Id. at p. 763, citing Nguyen at p. 1176.)
 
Defendant contends that Plaintiff had constructive knowledge
of the Terms of Service.
 
“Federal courts relying on Long and Nguyen
have generally considered similar criteria when determining whether a textual
notice is sufficiently conspicuous under California law. These criteria
include: (1) the size of the text; (2) the color of the text as compared to the
background it appears against; (3) the location of the text and, specifically,
its proximity to any box or button the user must click to continue use of the
website; (4) the obviousness of any associated hyperlink; and (5) whether other
elements on the screen clutter or otherwise obscure the textual notice.” (Sellers
v. JustAnswer LLC (2021) 73 Cal.App.5th 444, 473.) This analysis is “a fact
intensive inquiry” and “the criteria are largely subjective[.]” (Ibid.)
 
The text containing the link to the Terms of Service on the
signup page is smaller than all of the other text on the page. (Llewellyn
Decl., Ex. 3.) The text is moderately light grey, on a lighter grey backdrop.
(Llewellyn Decl., Ex. 3.) The text on the signup page is at the bottom of the
signup box, a significant distance away from the fields where a customer would
enter their information to make an account. (Llewellyn Decl., Ex. 3.) The
signup box is arranged in a way that a user’s eyes are naturally drawn to the
fields that they must fill out and to the bright orange “Join Now” button at
the bottom, making it easy to skip over the text warning the user of the Terms
of Service. (Llewellyn Decl., Ex. 3.)
 
The text containing the Terms of Service link at the bottom
of the other website pages is even more difficult to spot. It is significantly
smaller than all other text on the page, and is the lightest shade of grey of
all of the text on the page. (Llewellyn Decl., Ex. 4.) Although the hyperlinked
words “Terms of Service” in the signup page are underlined, indicating a
hyperlink, the text on the other pages is not even underlined, and is presented
in the same font as the nearby copyright notice. (Llewellyn Decl., Ex. 4.) 
 
Defendant argues that, as a seasoned consumer privacy
advocate, Plaintiff would have read the website’s Terms and Conditions and seen
the Arbitration Agreement. There are two problems with this argument. First,
the standard is that a browsewrap agreement must put a reasonably prudent
person on inquiry notice – not a consumer rights advocate. (Long, supra,
245 Cal.App.4th at pp. 862-863.) Second, Defendant’s argument that Plaintiff
would necessarily have read the Terms and Conditions is speculative and lacks
evidentiary support.
 
            The
Court therefore finds that the website would not put a reasonably prudent
person on inquiry notice as to the Terms of Service. It therefore did not
create a valid browsewrap agreement.
 
            Because
Defendant has not carried its burden to show the formation of an agreement to
arbitrate this dispute, the Court denies Defendant’s motion. 