 Case Number:  21GDCV01055    Hearing Date:   March 22, 2024    Dept:  E Case No: 21GDCV01055
Hearing Date:  03/22/2024 – 9:00am
Trial Date: 04/29/2024
Case Name: MARK GERAGOS, et al. v. ROBERT
FRIEDLAND, et al.
 
TENTATIVE RULING ON
MOTION TO STRIKE
RELIEF REQUESTED
Cross-Defendants, Mark
Geragos and Paulette Geragos (Movants), move the Court for an order striking
the following paragraphs from the Cross-Complainants’ First Amended
Cross-Complaint:
 
¶19, 24, 24, 25, 27, 28, 29, ¶3 in the Prayer
for Relief, and ¶5 in the Prayer for Relief.
 
This motion is made pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure §§ 435 and 436 and California Rules of Court 3.1320(i) on the grounds
the Cross-Complaint includes irrelevant, false or improper matters that should
be stricken. Specifically, the Complaint improperly requests punitive damages
without any facts or law to support such relief. In addition, the
Cross-Complaint includes allegations and references that are irrelevant, false,
or improper, and thereby subject to be stricken.
 
[The Court notes that Movants request to strike
¶25, but the language that Movants reference to in ¶25 that they want stricken
is actually from ¶26.] 
 
Procedural
 
Moving Party: Cross-Defendants, Mark Geragos and Paulette Geragos (Movants)
Responding Party: Cross-Complainants,
Robert Friedland and Careen A. Friedland
Proof of Service
Timely Filed (CRC Rule 3.1300): Ok
16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP 1005(b)): Ok
Proper Address: Ok
Moving Papers: Notice/Motion
Opposition Papers: Opposition
Reply Papers: Reply

Meet
and Confer
Before filing a motion to strike pursuant to
this chapter, the moving party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone
with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to the motion to strike
for the purpose of determining if an agreement can be reached that resolves the
objections to be raised in the motion to strike. If an amended pleading is
filed, the responding party shall meet and confer again with the party who
filed the amended pleading before filing a motion to strike the amended
pleading. (CCP §435.5(a).)
Counsel for Movants met
and conferred but an agreement could not be reached.
BACKGROUND
The
instant action pertains to a property dispute between neighbors.
Legal Standard Motion to Strike
The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in
its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false,
or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc. § 436(a).) The
court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 436(b).)  A motion to strike cannot be based upon the
grounds that a complaint fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause
of action, but instead is properly based on grounds of superfluous or abusive
allegations, or improprieties in form or procedure. (Ferraro
v. Camarlinghi (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 509, 528-29.)  
The grounds for moving
to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial
notice.  (Code. Civ. Proc. § 437; Turman v. Turning Point of
Central California, Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63 [“judges read
allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts
in their context, and assume their truth”].)   
Further, CCP § 431.10(a)-(c)
states as follows:
(a) A material allegation in a pleading is one essential
to the claim or defense and which could not be stricken from the pleading
without leaving it insufficient as to that claim or defense.
(b) An immaterial allegation in a pleading is any of the
following:
(1) An allegation that is not essential to the statement
of a claim or defense.
(2) An allegation that is neither pertinent to nor
supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense.
(3) A demand for judgment requesting relief not
supported by the allegations of the complaint or cross-complaint.
(c) An “immaterial allegation” means “irrelevant matter”
as that term is used in Section 436.
 
(CCP § 431.10(a)-(c).)
 
ANALYSIS
Punitive
Damages
In an action for the breach of an
obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and
convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages
for the sake of example by way of punishing the defendant. (Cal. Civ. Code § 3294(a).)

“‘Malice’ means conduct which is
intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (CCP § 3294(c)(1).) 
“‘Oppression’ means despicable conduct
that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of
that person’s rights. (CCP § 3294(c)(2).) 
“‘Fraud’ means an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury. (CCP § 3294(c)(3).)
“In order to survive a motion to strike
an allegation of punitive damages, the ultimate facts showing an entitlement to
such relief must be pled by a plaintiff.” (Clauson v. Superior Court
(1998) 67 Cal. App. 4th 1253, 1255.) Conclusory allegations, devoid of any
factual assertions, are insufficient to support a conclusion that parties acted
with oppression, fraud or malice. (Smith v. Sup. Ct. (1992) 10 Cal. App.
4th 1033, 1042.) “Further, even though certain language pleads ultimate
facts or conclusions of law, such language when read in context with the facts
alleged as to defendants' conduct may adequately plead the evil motive
requisite to recovery of punitive damages. (Monge v. Superior Court
(1986) 176 Cal.App.3d 503, 510 citing Perkins v. Superior Court (1981)
117 Cal.App.3d 1, 6–7.)
Movants argue that the paragraphs requesting
punitive and exemplary damages should be stricken because there are no specific
factual allegations set forth in the FACC against Cross-Defendants that could
justify an award of punitive damages. 
The Court tends to agree.  
As a more general matter, this lawsuit
between neighbors, which appears to center on a claimed prescriptive easement involving
dogs walking on a disputed portion or property is going into its third year of
active litigation, with numerous motions continuously being filed as the case
takes on a life of its own.
An examination of paragraphs 1-19 of the
FACC is instructive.  Among the facts
supposedly supporting a claim for punitive damages are the following:
On or about
the years 2020 and 2021, the Geragoses substantially interfered with the
private use and enjoyment by the Friedlands of the Friedland Property. . . .
The Geragoses interfered with the Friedlands' daughter's peaceful occupancy by
causing and allowing the Geragoses' dogs to enter upon the Friedland Property
without permission and there run, bark and defecate, and approach, frighten and
harass the Friedlands' daughter and her pets. Cross-defendant Paulette Geragos
came without permission onto the Friedland Property and there disturbed the
peace, accosted and yelled at the Friedlands' daughter. Paulette Geragos also accosted
and yelled at the Friedlands' daughter while she was walking her dog in a
nearby street. . . .
Cross-defendants
interfered with the fence installers as they were being guided by the
surveyor's work, accosting and yelling at them, and preventing them from
completing their work. After the work crew left the scene, the survey marks
were removed from the ground at the Friedland Property without the Friedlands'
permission. Cross-complainants are informed and believe, and therefore allege,
based on the behavior of the Cross-defendants described above, that the survey
marks were removed by Cross-defendants.
  (FACC at ¶¶ 12-14.)
That these are the allegations at the
core of an unlimited civil case that is going on three years of life in
litigation is frankly, to this Court, incredible.
The allegations in the FACC do not support
the claims for punitive damages, in the Court’s view.
Movants’ other arguments as to striking
various portions of the FACC that are unrelated to punitive damages are
confusing and ultimately unavailing.  The
Court will hear from Plaintiffs, but the Court is currently disinclined to
grant the motion as to the other portions of the FACC unrelated to punitive
damages. 
TENTATIVE RULING
The
Court’s tentative is to GRANT the Cross-Defendants’ motion to strike in part
and DENY the motion in part.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 